Digitized by the Internet Archive in 2015 https://archive.org/details/b21939202_0001Miscellanea Medico-Chirurgica. CASES IN PRACTICE, REPORTS, LETTERS, AND OCCASIONAL PAPERS. BY EDWARD L. HUSSEY, Fellow of the Royal College of Surgeons of England; Member of the Royal College of Physiciajis, Edinburgh; Consulting Surgeon to the Warneford Asylum, aitd to the County Lunatic Asylum; Surgeon and Hott. Suigeon-Major, Oxfordshire Rifle Volunteers; Coroner of the City of Oxford; Hon. Surgeon to the Radcliffe hifirmary; Fellow of the Royal Medical and Chirurgical Society of London ; Hon. Member of the Ashmolean Society, Oxford, and of the Abernethian Society, St. Bartholomew's Hospital; formerly Surgeon-Accoucheur to the Finsbury Dispensary, Stationary Vacci7iator of the National Vaccine Establishment, atid House-Surgeon to the General Lying-in Hospital. BY E. PICKARD HALL, M.A., AND J. H. STACY, PRINTERS TO THE UNIVERSITY. 1882.TO THE DUKE OF MARLBOROUGH, K.G., Lord Lieutenant of the County of Oxford, President of the Radcliffe Infirmary. My Lord Duke,— To you, from whom I received the only honor that has come to me unsought, I venture to offer this collection of papers, — some Professional, some of a nature bordering on it. Many of them have been at different times submitted to criticism in the Professional Journals. Of the papers concerning the affairs of the Radcliffe Infirmary, many have been, at one time or other, in the hands of the Governors. None, I trust, are unworthy the attention of the President, — none unbecoming the position of an Officer. Of the large number of persons who were Governors of the Infirmary at the time, — now, more than thirty years ago, — that I was elected Surgeon to the Institution^ very few beside your Grace are now on the List of Subscribers. But, there are some still among them able to judge how far faithfully the duties I undertook were discharged, and able also to form an opinion whether the promise I then gave has been kept, — that they should never have cause to regret on the part of the Institution the appointment they then made. There are none among the supporters of the Institution whose approval I shall value more than your own. I have the honor to be. My Lord Duke, Your obliged and faithful Servant, E. L. HUSSEY. St. Aldate's, Oxford. January 1882. a 2PAGE Wound of the calf of the Leg. Hemorrhage — Ligature of vessels. i Contusion of the Leg. Puncture — Hemorrhage — Amputation . 6 Aneurism in the Gluteal Region. Ligature 7 Wound in the Gluteal Region. Case by Mr. Briscoe . . -13 Hemorrhage from the Urethra. Aneurism of the External Iliac Artery. Note by Mr. Welbank 14 Hemorrhage from the Palm of the Hand. Pressure ... 14 Aneurism of the Popliteal Artery. Pressure 20 Aneurism of the Popliteal Artery. Ligature by Sir W. Lawrence . 25 Aneurism in the Chest. Spontaneous Cure 29 Aneurism of the Subclavian Artery. Ligature. By Mr. Skey . . 32 Fracture of the Leg. Abscess — Hemorrhage — Amputation. . 33 Scirrhous Breast. Amputation — Hemorrhage after Operation . 35 Compound Fracture of the Leg. Secondary Hemorrhage . . 37 Hemorrhage from Abscesses 38 Disease of Hip. Abscess — Hemorrhage 41 Hemorrhage after Extraction of a Tooth 42 Hemorrhage from a Cyst in the Jaw 43 Gunshot Wounds 44 Contusion of Foot. Swelling — Puncture — Repeated Hemorrhage 51 Case, by Mr. Sarjeant . . . 53 Gross's System of Surgery 53 Letter to B. E. Brodhurst, Esq 64 Holmes's System of Surgery 65 Lithotomy 107 Hydrocele 120 Note by Mr. Welbank . . .139 Enlargement of Testis. Abscess — Cholera 139 Retention of Urine ,vi PACE Cleaning Catheters 155 Obstruction in the Urethra 155 Letter from Sir W. Lawrence 158 Sinus in the Perineum. Operation 159 Calculus Extracted from the Female Bladder 160 Destruction of the Urethra in a Woman. Operation . . . 164 Enlargement of the Ovary 168 Secondary Amputation of the Leg 171 Fracture in advanced Life 179 Injury of the Arm in an Epileptic. Amputation . . . .186 Compound Fracture of the Fore-arm. Gangrene .... 190 Dislocation of the Humerus. Fracture of Coracoid Process . -193 Dislocation of the Patella 194 Protrusion of the Eye. Symptoms of Aneurism .... 195 Case by Mr. Ley 198 Disease of the Ankle. Excision — Amputation .... 198 Pendulous Tumor from the Cheek. Operation .... 202 Vaccination and Small-Pox . . 209 Paralysis in Children 228 Operations on Children for Diseases of Joints 229 Excision of the Knee • .229 India-rubber Bandages 230 Killing Animals for food 231 Prescriptions out of date 232 Abuse of Medical Charities 232 Misuse of Hospitals 233 Administration of Chloroform during sleep 233 The safe Anesthetic 234 Post-Mortem Examinations in Prisons 235 The Radcliffe Infirmary 235 The Warneford Asylum . 385 Medical Education . . . • 389 The Election at the College of Surgeons 4oo The Medical Association 403Physicians and Doctors Volunteer Medical Officers Mr. Cleoburey Mr. W. Ley' Mr. Welbank Mr. S. Murchison Mr. J. L. WhiteMiscellanea Medico-Chirurgica. Deep penetrating Wound of the Calf of the Leg ; Profuse hemorrhage. Division of Posterior Tibial nerve and artery, with wound of vein : Ligature of artery and vein. Death from exhaustion. A laboring man, 66 years of age, five feet four inches in height, and of general feeble appearance, was admitted into the Radcliffe Infirmary, on Monday, la August, 1850, with an incised wound recently inflicted on the middle of the back part of the left leg, extending in a transverse direction about two inches, and penetrating deeply into the muscular sub- stance. He was at work reaping in a field about 3 miles distant, and the man next to him accidentally inflicted the wound with his ' fagging hook.' Very great loss of blood followed immediately. The bystanders made ineff'ectual attempts to stop it by tying handkerchiefs round the limb. With some delay, they put the man into a cart, and brought him to the Infirmary. The House-Surgeon, (Mr. Briscoe,) removed the handker- chiefs, when a large amount of clots was discharged from the wound, followed by a gush of arterial blood. He passed his finger into the wound, and found that it extended upwards, farther than the finger could reach, on the tibia and interos- seous membrane, under the deep muscles. As I was present in the Infirmary I went to his assistance. The man was evidently suffering from great loss of blood ; he was gaping and throwing his arms about, restless, and quite unmanageable. It was clear that some deep-seated vessel of magnitude was wounded, which it was imperatively necessary to secure ; and as it did not seem prudent to wait, I proceeded to search for B2 it without sending to Mr. Hitchings, whose week of attend- ance it was. A tourniquet being thrown round the thigh, and the man placed on his side, with the limb partly flexed, I made an incision about 4 inches long through the skin upon the inner edge of the Gastrocnemius muscle, over the course of the Posterior Tibial vessels, meeting the tibial extremity of the transverse wound at about a right angle. Then, cutting through the other tissues interposed, the divided extremities of the Posterior Tibial artery were seen : both ends were seized with forceps, and tied without difficulty: the distal extremity, though easily recognized, was not bleeding. The artery, as well as the nerve, was completely divided by the original injury. The clots in the wound were then turned out, and some muscular branches were tied. Profuse hemorrhage still continued, but of a dark venous character, welling up from the bottom of the wound; this, however, became lessened on removing the tourniquet. To get at the source of it, I enlarged the wound upwards toward the knee; and some bleeding points were tied upon a tenaculum, — an operation of great difficulty, from the patient's i-estlessness and the depth of the wound. One vein, larger than the rest, and apparently in close connection with some tendinous structure, seemed to be wounded at more than one point. Ultimately, the hemorrhage was stopped by passing three ligatures, at intervals of about half an inch, under this vessel and the surrounding tissues by means of a needle in a firm handle. The wound was drawn together with strips of plaster, a compress of lint placed on it, and the whole secured, and even pressure maintained by a bandage round the leg; and the patient, cold and pulseless, replaced in a blanket in bed. Wine and brandy were administered freely during the operation, and on his return to bed he was supplied well with hot brandy and water. About 9 o'clock at night Mr. Hitchings saw him. He was then warm ; the pulse was weak, but perceptible at the wrist. The finger placed on the dorsum of the foot, recognized, for the first time, the anterior Tibial artery; the Posterior could not be felt. He was still restless, throwing himself about,3 and with difficulty kept in bed : he had twice torn the bandage ofif the leg, without, however, any return of hemorrhage. The muscles could be seen acting spasmodically under the bandage. A dram of Spiritus Etheris Sulph. Comp., with 40 minims of Vinum Opii, was administered in Mist. Camph. It was speedily vomited ; when a grain and a half of Opium in sub- stance was given, and retained. He continued very restless till toward 3 o'clock in the morning, when he went off to sleep. Next day he seemed on the whole in a favorable state, and he had rallied from the first effects of the injury and the subsequent operation. The pulse was still very weak and quick. The bowels had not acted; and he had not passed any urine. The dressings being saturated with blood, and smelling offensively, I removed them, and applied fresh. There was a slight watery discharge from the wound scarcely tinged with blood. During the day he took beef tea with a relish, and brandy and water. In the evening the House- Surgeon drew off about half a pint of urine with the catheter. He passed a quiet night; but in the morning (Wednesday, 14th) it became clear that he was sinking; he became weaker rapidly, and died quietly about 11 o'clock, 48 hours after receiving the wound. The body was examined next day. The transverse wound inflicted by the reaping-hook was % inches in length; the incision I had made was ^\ inches, the upper extremity of it being on a level with the tubercle of the tibia. The ligatures were correctly placed on the divided extremities of the Pos- terior Tibial artery. The vein round which the three addi- tional ligatures had been placed was one of the venae comites. The tendon of the Plantaris muscle lay immediately over this, and thus appeared to have caused the chief difficulty in applying the ligatures; division of it would no doubt have rendered the operation more easy of performance. The viscera of the abdomen seemed healthy ; on the left side was the sac of a femoral hernia, for which he had undergone operation in the Infirmary in January 1849. The head and chest were not examined. Remarks.—The man's death arose from the great loss of B %4 blood he had sustained before admission into the Infirmary. A man of his age and constitution could not rally from sg severe an injury. After making the necessary dissection to expose the artery, it was secured with ease. The deep muscles, having been divided by the reaping-hook in its passage to the interosseous membrane, had retracted somewhat, carrying with them the extremities of the divided artery, which were nearly an inch distant from each other. This retraction probably,—aided by the man's flagging circulation after the hemorrhage,— saved him from immediate death. The hemorrhage which continued was chiefly venous. The interosseous membrane had turned the point of the reaping-hook upwards toward the knee, and thus protected the Anterior Tibial vessels from injury. The chief point of interest in the case is, that it shows with what ease the Posterior Tibial artery may be exposed in the upper part of its course, by cutting through the muscles covering it. The operation, I venture to suggest, may be done by cutting upon the edge of the Gastrocnemius muscle, and then through the substance of the Soleus, with less difficulty, — as it seems more directly in the course of the vessel, which there lies at less depth, — than by cutting through the belly of the Gastrocnemius as well as the Soleus; though that operation seems more practicable than the older mode of cutting upon the edge of the tibia, and reflecting the muscles attached to it. This mode of operating Was sug- gested to me some years ago by Mr. Coote. On the dead subject it appeared undoubtedly to be preferable; but I had not till now had an opportunity of putting it in practise on the living. In July 1845, a boy 14 years of age was admitted into the Radcliffe Infirmary, under the care of Mi'. Cleoburey, with a wound in some respects similar, which had been inflicted with a scythe. Hemorrhage was effectually restrained by a compress and bandage, and did not return till 2 or 3 days after his admission. Mr. Cleoburey then made an incision about 6 inches long in the middle of the calf, and cut through5 the substance of the Gastrocnemius and Soleus muscles. The wound seemed too confined to enable him to reach the Artery ; and he enlarged it in a transverse direction toward the tibial side of the limb, dividing the muscular substance. The Artery was found to be completely divided ; both ends were secured without difficulty. The boy recovered rapidly; the wound uniting well with very little suppuration. I heard of him many years afterwards among his neighbors : that he seemed to be all right, and ' not to go lame.' [Medical Gazette, January, 1851.] Remarks. — An operation for ligature of the Posterior Tibial artery in the upper part of its course is hardly ever required, unless for a wound, or an aneurism the result of an injury. In one mode of operating, an incision is made along the inner edge of the tibia, and the fascia and muscles are freely separated from the bone. The deep fascia covering the vessels is then exposed, and divided with proper precautions to search for the artery under it. This mode of reaching the vessel is easily enough done on the dead body. It has been condemned by Mr. Guthrie as ' difficult, bloody, tedious, and dangerous, — dangerous from the chance of failure,' in the living subject. It is the older mode proposed, and although, as Mr. Guthrie says, ' not very easily accomplished,' has been many times adopted with success. Dr. Harrison, of Dublin (The Surgical Anatomy of the Arteries, 1839), mentions that he was present when the operation was performed many years ago by. Mr. Travers, in St. Thomas's Hospital. Mr. Welbank, who was also present, told me that the ope- ration certainly was ' difficult, bloody, and tedious ;' though not, I believe, in that instance followed by a fatal result. An other mode of securing the artery is by an incision through the muscles of the calf, in the mesial line of the leg. Mr. Guthrie, in his published Lectures (1846), advises that the incision should be made in the mesial line, for an injury or aneurism, when it is not known which of the two arteries, —the Posterior Tibial or the Peroneal, — is wounded; and6 when it is possible that both may be injured. Such an in- cision, he remarks, will ' enable the operator to place a liga- ture on either or on both/ In other cases he says it should be made a little to the side, or ' directly over the artery supposed to be wounded.' In the case related by Mr. Arnott (Med. Chir. Trans., Vol. 29), as in this case, it was clear from the circumstances, from the situation and direction of the wound, and the quan- tity of scarlet blood flowing from it, that the Posterior Tibial artery was the vessel injured. Contusion of the Calf of the Leg ; Swelling: Puncture : hemorrhage. Amputation. The posterior Tibial artery wounded in two places. A farmer, 36 years of age, while occupied on the 6th of July, 1861, in disengaging part of the machinery in a mill on his farm from the steam engine which he thought was at rest, received an injury to his leg. The calf of the leg was squeezed between the end of the horizontal piston and the brickwork, in which the rod worked when in action, and scalded at the same time by an escape of steam. A large and hard swelling formed in the part, and was observed on the 17th of August. On the 25th the swelling was punctured in two places by a Medical Practitioner, with a trocar. On the 30th the two openings were united by an incision, and an attempt made with a probe to ascertain the nature of the swelling. On the 3rd of September a sudden gush of blood came from the wound; and a large amount was lost before any professional assistance was obtained. The patient became delirious. In the emergency I was summoned. The late Dr. Morris, of Deddington, was present when I arrived. The case seemed to be one of false aneurism,—most prob- ably of the Posterior Tibial artery. At the desire of those who were in attendance, who wished (not unnaturally,) that some- thing should be attempted less severe than the amputation of7 the limb, which I proposed, I cut through the calf of the leg lengthwise, rather to the tibial side of the mesial line, and as well as I could judge, directly over the course of the Pos- terior Tibial vessels. Turning out a large mass of coagula, I endeavored to clear the parts, and trace the artery. The hemorrhage from the various vessels seemed uncontrollable. Rather than run more risk fi'om such a cause, in the ex- hausted state in which the patient lay, I proceeded, with Dr. Morris's assistance, to amputate the leg below the knee. The patient recovered favorably. The parts in the amputated limb were much disorganized ; and the different tissues were not easily recognised in the dissection. There were two large openings in the Posterior Tibial artery in the upper part of its course, about Z inches from each other. Aneurism in the Gluteal Region after A punctured Wound. A man, aged 53 years, a clerk and warehouseman in a large china shop, in fairly good health, but not of strictly tem- perate habits, was admitted into the Radcliffe Infirmary, under my care, on the 37th of April, 1877, with a large aneurismal swelling in the left Gluteal region, about the size of two doubled fists, the result of a wound received on the loth of January \ On the evening of the 10th of January, during some alter- cation about drink, his Wife,—a woman of violent temper, a confirrned drunkard, and then under the influence of drink,— struck him in the left Gluteal region with a short broad dagger. He was on his feet at the moment, trying to avoid the blow as she was pursuing him. He ran out of the house, ^ In the Register of In-Patients at the Infirmary, the day of this man's admission is entered by the House-Surgeon as being the 25th of April,— Wednesday, the regular Admission-day. He entered it on the card in the ward correctly, as the 27th,—the day on which the man was brought to the Infirmary. The Consultation of the Surgeons, required by the orders of the House, was held next day, Saturday : and the operation was performed on Monday.8 to a friend's about fifty yards off, with the blood flowing freely from the wound. He fell down in the street, ' in a pool of blood,' and was at first supposed to be dead. He was brought home by the neighbors; and the nearest Medical Practitioner, Mr. Druce, was called to him. Upon Mr. Druce's arrival, the bleeding had ceased ; and there was not any swelling to be felt underneath the skin. Without resting at home, as directed, the man went to his work the next day. The outer wound soon healed. He felt little inconvenience from the injury, and did not make any complaint. Some 3 or 4 weeks afterwards, on rising from his chair, he felt a pain at the part, and on putting his hand there, he found a small substance deep under the skin, —' like a small core,' he described it. He afterwards applied to Mr. Weaving. On the 18th of March I saw him with Mr. Weaving. Behind the trochanter major there was a swelling about the size of a small orange, deep under the skin and muscle, with a cicatrix wide and spread out, rather more than an inch in length, prominent, and almost pointing in the middle of the swelling. The swelling was tense and elastic; it could not be emptied or lessened in size by pressure. The thrill or whiz of an aneurism was clearly detected by the ear applied to the part: there was not any distinct impulse communi- cated to the hand. There could be no doubt that the swell- ing was a false aneurism, the result of an injury; and that there had been a wound of the Gluteal artery, or one of its chief branches. The nature of the case was pointed out to the patient, and the necessity for an operation. Rest in bed was advised, with moderate diet. Notwithstanding the advice so given, he continued at his business ; and walked backwards and forwards to his home, —a distance of a mile and half,—twice a day. Increasing pain and the inconvenience of moving the limb compelled him at length to keep at home and to take to his bed. At the time of his admission into the Infirmary, April 27, the swelling had increased much in size, — it was fully three times as large. The enlargement was most visible at the sides. The shape was oval; and the cicatrix was not so9 prominent and pointing. The long axis of the swelling was in the transverse direction. The outline was not so clearly- defined. In other respects the character of the swelling was not altered. On the 30th of April the patient was put under chloroform, and Lister's large clamp or tourniquet placed on the aorta below the umbilicus. An incision about 8 inches long was made through the integument over the swelling, in a line from the anterior part of the crest of the ilia toward the middle of the sacrum, and passing through the cicatrix. A thin, but tough, membrane covering a cyst was then exposed in the middle of the line of incision, bulging forwards in a globular form. In attempting to deepen the incision the cyst was punctured^ and a great mass of arterial blood, — fluid and in clots,—was immediately ejected with great force. The opening in the cyst was enlarged, and my left hand thrust to the bottom, making pressure with the fore and middle fingers upon the spot from which the blood issued, against what seemed to be a strong fascia or ligament. The flow of blood was stopped by the pressure. The original incision through the integument was then lengthened toward the front by about 3 inches ; the clotted blood was cleared from the cyst, and the wound wiped out with a sponge. At the bottom of the cavity an opening or slit about a quarter of an inch long was seen, from which arterial blood was ejected in a full stream with a strong impulse, upon slackening the pressure made with my fingers. The cavity was evidently the sac of an aneurism; and the slit or opening was a wound in a large artery. The edges of the slit were rather thickened, and were not so clearly defined as in a recent wound of a large artery made with a sharp instrument. The wounded vessel, and the part of the sac immediately around it and connected with it, was raised with two pair of forceps; the tough mem- branous lining was a little cleared or scratched away with the point of the scalpel, and an aneurism needle, armed with a double thread of strong twine, was passed underneath^ using some degree of force in passing it. The two threads were theii tied separately, one on each side of the opening. The one toward the sacrum, — the proximal in the course of thelO circulation, — was tied first, and the end left long: a feeble pulsation was observed to be communicated to this ligature. The hemorrhage continued, though without arterial jet or impulse, until the other ligature,— that toward the trochanter, the distal in the course of the circulation, — was drawn tight; it then ceased. The knot of this ligature was cut off short, and left in the wound. One muscular branch continued to bleed after the man had recovered from chloroform, and was tied with a fine thread. The edges of the wound were brought together, and fixed with interrupted sutures and strips of plaster. A compress of lint with cerate was laid over it, and a flannel roller bound round the pelvis. During the operation the man lay on his right side, with his knees partly bent; and the tourniquet slipped from the posi- tion in which it had been placed. It seemed to me, however, that the bleeding was to some extent checked when the instrument was properly in position. The blood which escaped from the sac, fluid and in clot, was about a pound and a half in quantity. In the further steps of the operation very little more was lost. Some of the outer part of the clot from the cyst was in layers re- sembling the 'laminated coagula' in the sac of an ordinary aneurism, though not so tough in consistence. The man recovered quickly from the effects of the operation, and was carried at once to the ward. On the morning of the 6th of May, the ligature applied on the sacral side of the wounded arteiy was seen to be lying loose between the edges of the wound, and by the side of it a thin piece of sloughing tissue about an inch long. The outer dressing was changed without anything unusual being observed. About two hours afterwards, — between ii and 12 o'clock,— the Patient called the attention of the Nurse to some blood which he found was flowing from the wound. Before the House-Surgeon reached the ward, several ounces had escaped. The patient was put under chloroform. The sutures were divided, and the edges of the wound separated. Some clots were cleared away, and a small vessel was found to be bleed- ing. A ligature applied to the bleeding point did not hold, and the hemorrhage continued. An other ligature was applied,II including within the hgature some of the surrounding tissue ; the hemorrhage then ceased. The wound was then drawn together with strips of plaster, and a roller was applied round the pelvis as at first. The next day,—the 7th,—about an hour after the dress- ings were changed, and before I had left the house after seeing the Patient, the Nurse observed blood flowing freely from the lower part of the wound. The wound was again opened, and arterial blood was seen flowing from the part where the ligatures had been applied. The bleeding seemed to come from the knot of the distal or trochanteric ligature, which still held fast. A sharp-pointed needle, armed with a thread of strong twine, was thrust in, about an inch nearer to the trochanter, so as to pass under the line in which I sup- posed the trunk of the wounded artery lay. On withdrawing the needle, arterial blood issued freely from the puncture made by the needle. The needle, armed again in the same way, was then thrust through at a point about half an inch further off, toward the trochanteric side, and the thread tied. After this the bleeding ceased. The wound was left open,—being merely covered with a piece of linen rag, spread with cerate. On the 9th, between 4 and 5 o'clock in the afternoon, hemorrhage again returned. Upon separating the edges of the wound, the House-Physician observed arterial blood flowing from the point at which the proximal or sacral ligature had been placed. He seized the point with forceps and twisted it. Altogether, about 4 or 5 ounces of blood had escaped. About 6 o'clock I saw him ; and I passed an aneurism needle, with a thread of strong twine, deep under the point from which the blood had been observed to flow, and tied the thread. The patient was too low in general power for me to have any reasonable hope from a further operation, such as ligature of the Iliac artery within the pelvis. On the nth, about half-past 7 in the morning, the House- Surgeon was again called, on account of a fresh loss of blood, to the extent of about 4 or 5 ounces. The bleeding stopped upon a compress of lint being applied, and held for a short time with the finger at the part.12 The progress 'of the patient and the appearance of the wound were not satisfactory. There was not any healthy secretion from the wound. After the first few days the odor from it was more Hke that from mortification than from a large open wound or suppurating surface. Under the fre- quent returns of hemorrhage the patient's strength began to fail. From the first he showed little of the strength and resolution which best show the power a patient has to recover after a surgical operation. On the evening of the 15th some slight bleeding was ob- served : it was easily stopped by pressure. A little after midnight the bleeding returned more freely. Upon clearing the bottom of the wound from the threads and the sloughing mass in which they were entangled, the open mouth of a large arteiy was observed situated deep at the bottom. This was transfixed with a tenaculum and tied. No further bleeding took place. The man, whose strength had been failing during the last few days, slowly sank, and died, exhausted, about 3 o''clock the following morning, the i6th. The body was examined next day. The internal Iliac vein of the left side, with several of the tributary branches, was of a uniform dusky red color ; as were also the External and Common Iliac veins of the same side, and the lower part of the ascending Vena Cava. No pus or lymph was observed within them. On the right side, the Iliac veins and their branches were natural in color and appearance, and did not exhibit any morbid signs. The arteries within the pelvis were uninjured. The trunk of the Gluteal arteiy was traced through its course to the point where it divides. The main artery and the ascending branch were not injured. The arteiy which had been wounded was found to be the large descending branch. The various small vessels could not be traced in the mass of sloughing tissue surrounding the site of the aneurism. Remarks.—The operation of securing the wounded artery by opening the aneurismal sac was not found to be of so for- midable a character as I supposed it would be, from having read the cases which have been recorded.13 The wound in the vessel was exposed without difficulty by- laying the sac open. By passing the hand at once to the bottom of the sac, in the line in which the stream of warm blood was felt by the fingers, the further hemorrhage was checked by pressure, and the flow of blood was under com- mand. The amount of blood lost at the time of operation was not greater than I have seen in some cases where a large artery has been wounded, or an aneurismal sac opened. In the cases recorded by Mr. John Bell (Principles of Surgery, vol. i. 1801), and by Mr. Syme (Observations on Clinical Surgery, 1861), the patients recovered. There was not, therefore, an opportunity of learning by dissection whether it was, as they supposed, the trunk of the Gluteal artery itself that was wounded, or one of the primary branches, as in this case. Some of the difficulties mentioned by other Surgeons may perhaps have arisen from that circumstance, if the main artery was wounded. The shorter trunk of the main artery outside the pelvis allows less space for compression with the fingers during the operation undertaken for securing it, and less space, of course, for placing a ligature round it. In the case mentioned by Mr. Guthrie (On the Diseases and Injuries of Arteries, &c., 1830), the particulars are not given with sufficient clearness to show what vessel was injured, or whether the wound was that of a single branch; and the short note of the examination after death does not afford information upon either of these points. Mr. Briscoe has told me of the following case, which was under treatment in the Infirmary when he was the House- Surgeon :— A woodman, 41 years of age, was admitted on the 9th of July 1846, under the care of the late Mr. Fisher, with a large and deep incised wound in the right gluteal region, behind the trochanter, received five days before admission. The man was at work with other men felling timber in a wood about twelve miles from Oxford. As he was stooping down, he received a blow upon the buttock with the axe from one of the other mqn. The wound bled profusely; but the bleeding soon stopped. With very little delay the edges of the wound were brought together with strips of plaster by a neighboring practitioner, who was quickly in attend-H ance. The hemorrhage, however, returned more than once, though not to the same alarming extent, and the man was brought to the Infirmary. There was not any bleeding at the time of admission, but at different times afterwards, in the course of the next three or four days, the bleed- ing returned to an extent to make it clear that a large artery had been wounded. After about a week, the late Mr. Cleoburey took charge of the patient during Mr. Fisher's illness. The wound was opened. The spot from which the House-Surgeon had observed that the bleeding issued was where the gluteal artery comes out from the pelvis, and turns forward. This was examined carefully, and search made for an open vessel; but none could be detected. As a matter of precaution and security, a curved needle armed with a strong thread was passed deeply through all the tis- sues, and the ligature drawn firmly round the needle ; the needle was then left in the wound. No fiirther hemoiThage took place. The wound healed slowly ; and the man left the Infirmary on the i6th of September, in no way the worse for the injury. [Si. Bartholomew's Hospital Reports, Vol. 13.] In a MS. book of 'Cases/ left by Mr. Welbank, is the following short note:— In May, 1820, a man was admitted into St. Bartholomew's Hospital with repeated hemorrhage from the urethra. He had been in an other hospital for Venereal affection,—perhaps gonorrhea. The bleedings could not be controlled in their recurrence; and the man died. On examination, the External Iliac artery was found ulcerated. A diffused aneurism had taken place evidently, and partly relieved itself by the blood flowing out of an ulcer in the urethra. There was also a pouch like a false passage, and a caruncle. ' Caruncles' are described by the older Surgeons as loose flesh arising in the urethra. They were thought to be one of the frequent causes of stricture. Hemorrhage from the Palm of the Hand. Pressure. A farm laborer, 48 years of age, living at Warborough, about 9 miles from Oxford, was admitted into the Radcliffe Infirmary under my care on the iith of September, 1868, on account of sudden and profuse loss of blood from a swelling in the palm of the left hand.15 The man is left-handed. About seven years ago, after some hard work, he found a swelling in the palm of his left hand. As it continued to increase in size, he showed it at different times to Mr. Byass, of Dorchester, and his assistants. They informed him of the serious nature of the case, and of the necessity for treatment; telling him that he might some day bleed to death from it. About twelve months ago the swel- ling was punctured by a Practitioner in the neighborhood ; some slight flow of blqod followed the puncture. The wound healed ; but the swelling grew more rapidly in size afterwards. The Patient described it as becoming raised, and even pendu- lous ; the apex of the. swelling became softer. His fingers were permanently flexed ; and he had a difficulty in opening the hand enough to hold his tools for work in the fields. On the morning of admission, after fomenting the hand with flannel and warm water, he tried to straighten the fingers forcibly. The swelling burst, and before he could obtain help, he lost, by his own estimate, about 3 quarts of bright florid blood. The friends about him tied a cord round his arm, and sent for Mr. Byass. Mr. Harris, Mr. Byass's Assistant, who was acquainted with the nature of the case, attended at once. A thick compress of lint was placed in the palm, and a bandage applied round the hand and wrist; and a tourniquet was buckled on the arm above the elbow, with the pad over the brachial artery. The Patient was then sent in a cart to the Infirmary. Upon admission he was sent to bed, with his hand and arm raised on a pillow. Next day I saw him. Upon examining the Patient, and hearing the history, I formed the opinion that the swelling was an aneurism of the Palmar arch ; and I determined to try the effect of pressure. The bandage, which had become hard and dry, was cut away, leaving the compress adherent to the palm. The thumb and fingers were bandaged separately with narrow strips of calico, carried evenly from their extremities upwards toward the hand. These were fixed, with the fingers flexed upon the hand, and firm pressure made by carrying several turns of a calico roller over the compress and round the hand. Compresses of lint about four inches in length, were laid along the line of the Radial and Ulnari6 arteries, and secured by a roller bound firmly round the-wrist and fore-arm, as far as the bend of the elbow. The hand was placed across the chest, and the limb confined in a sling,—the forearm being flexed somewhat beyond a right angle. The man was ordered to remain in bed ; and directions were given to the Nurse that he was not to be raised from the horizontal position; that the arm was not to be moved, nor the forearm straightened. On the 17th some slight amount of blood escaped from under the dressings; but not enough to make me think it necessary to remove them for the purpose of examining the wound. The dressings were all removed on the axst. A compress of lint was again laid on the opening in the palm, and fresh bandages applied to the fingers, hand, and forearm, making firm and uniform pressure as before. These were allowed to remain for about 10 days. The discharge became purulent, and was for some time mixed with clots of putrid blood. The bandages were all removed, and a piece of linen rag with simple cerate was left on the wound. The pressure was dis- continued, and the man was allowed to move about the ward with his arm in a sling. By degrees the suppuration ceased, and the man left the Infirmary on the 38th of October with the wound nearly healed. On the 3oth of July, 1872,1 saw him. A small scar, not so large as a split pea, can be seen in the palm of the hand. The skin moves easily over the palmar fascia, and the tendons play freely. The power of flexion and extension is perfect. The man says the arm is stronger than the other. Both arteries can be felt at the wrist, but the Radial is fuller than the Ulnar. A shoemaker, 50 years of age, was admitted into the Radclifife Infirmary under my care on the 37th of February, 1872, having lost a large quantity of blood from a deep wound recently inflicted in the palm of his left hand. I was in the ward at the time, and saw the man immediately on admission. The wound was in the middle of the palm, about half an17 inch in length, in the line of the metacarpal bones, passing Ob- liquely through the skin and palmar fascia. It was caused by his accidentally sticking his knife into it when seated at his work. A profuse loss of blood followed immediately,—to the amount, he said, of two quarts, A fellow-workman tied some handkerchiefs round the hand, and the man came to the Infirmary,—a distance of about two miles. Having laid the man down in the horizontal position, the cloths, which were saturated with blood, were removed, so that I could examine the wound. I had no doubt that the injury was a puncture or division of the Palmar arch, and I deter- mined to make use of pressure, which had been so successful in the former case. A compress of lint was placed on the wound in the palm; narrow bandages were wound round the thumb and fingers separately, and also round the hand. Compresses were laid along the line of the Radial and Ulnar arteries, and a bandage carried round the wrist and fore-arm up to the bend of the elbow; firm and uniform pressure being made over the fingers, hand, and fore-arm. The fore-arm was flexed upon the arm to rather more than a right angle, and confined in a sling across the chest. The Patient was placed in bed, with directions that he should not be raised, nor the arm moved from the position in which it was placed. March 4, the bandages having become slack were removed, and the compress taken from the wound without any loss of blood. A fresh compress of lint was placed upon the wound in the palm, and others along the Radial and Ulnar arteries, and the bandages reapplied, in the same manner as before, over the fingers, hand, and fore-arm. The fore-arm, flexed to a right angle, was replaced in a sling, with the same directions for keeping the arm at rest. The wound healed without suppuration. The man left the Infirmary March 13, and soon afterwards returned to his regular work as a shoe- maker. In June, 1874, Dr. Spencer, the Medical Officer of the Sick Club of which the Patient is a member, saw him. He tells me that both arteries can be felt at the wrist; the Ulnar, he thinks, beats more forcibly than the Radial. The man has continued at his work, with the free use of his hand. Ci8 A man, 35 years of age, marked with variola, a tailor by trade, was admitted into the RadclifFe Infirmary, under my care, in the night of the 36th of June, 1875, with a deep wound recently inflicted in the palm of the left hand. He was tiying to shut a window, when he put his hand through it, and a piece of the broken glass entered the hand. The wound bled profusely. The man and his wife tried to stop the bleeding by tying the hand up in a handkerchief; and he came straight to the Infirmary, which was not far from his home, where the accident happened. The wound was irregular in shape, about 3 quarters of an inch long, in the line of the metacarpal bones, passing deep under the skin. The House-Surgeon removed the handker- chief, which was saturated with blood, and applied a compress of lint upon the wound, and bound the hand and fingers firmly upon the compress with several turns of a roller. The man was placed in bed, with the fore-arm flexed, and the limb raised on a pillow. The next morning I saw him. The outer roller had become loose: it was removed and narrow bandages were wound round the thumb and fingers separately, and firm and uniform pressure was made upon the compress, over the hand and round the wrist, and along the fore-arm, as in the other two cases: and the same precautions were taken to secure rest. The compress of lint was left as it had been placed. A draught of Liq. Amnion. Acet., with 15 minims of Vinum Antimonii, 2$ of Vinum Opii, and 30 of Spir. Etheris nitr., was ordered, to be taken at bedtime, and repeated the next night. On the 2nd of July the bandages had become loose. They were removed, and fresh bandages applied, with the same care to maintain the pressure. The compress of lint was left adherent. On the 8th the bandages were changed. The compress of lint was removed, and an other applied in the same place. The wound was observed to be healing by granulation. There was not any purulent discharge from it. The dressings were changed on the loth, on the 15th, and again on the 19th. After which the Patient went home. He came to me on the 6th of October. The cicatrix was19 scarcely visible in the palm of the hand. The skin moved freely over the fascia. The use of the hand was perfect. The Radial and Ulnar arteries were both beating at the wrist: but the Radial more powerfully than the Ulnar. Remarks. In the first of these cases, in the absence of accurate knowlege of the exact nature of the aneurismal swelling and its anatomical relations, an attempt to reach the source of hemorrhage by operation in the palm was not one hkely to be attended with success. In the other cases, where the patient came under notice at an earlier period after the injury, a less unfavorable case presented itself for an attempt to tie the wounded vessel at the seat of injury. It can not be said that wounds of the Palmar arch form an exception to the known rule that in a case of hemorrhage from an artery of sufficient size to require a ligature, both ends of the divided vessel should, in all cases where possible, be tied at the seat of injury. But it is an almost insuperable objection to an operation for such a purpose, even in a healthy condition of the palm, that it involves a tedious and difficult dissection among parts which can not be divided or separated without risk of permanent injury. The cases which have been reported by former observers, show that stopping the current of blood by ligature of the trunks supplying the Palmar arches,—whether the Radial and Ulnar at the wrist, or the Brachial at a greater distance, —has not secured the Patient from a return of hemorrhage. These cases are instances of the success of pressure care- fully and efficiently applied. The object of the pressure is to check the force of the whole circulation in the limb ; not only the current through the larger arterial trunks,—the Radial, Ulnar, and Interosseous, in the fore-arm and at the wrist,—but a?lso through the smaller vessels and capillaries in the hand and fingers, until the injury is repaired. This is not done effectually unless the pressure is made equally on the distal side of the Palmar arches^ beyond the aneurism or other seat of injury. {Medical Times mid Gazette, August, 1874.] C %20 Aneurism of the Popliteal Artery.—Pressure. A man of middle size, with pale complexion and light hair, 31 years of age, a plate-layer on a Railway, was ad- mitted into the Radcliffe Infirmary, under my care, on the 30th of July, 1873, with an Aneurismal Swelling of the Popliteal artery of the Right leg, about the size of a common billiard ball. The pulsation can be controlled by making firm pressure upon the Femoral artery in the upper part of the thigh; but it is more readily controlled by making pressure in the groin, upon the External Iliac artery, as it passes over the ramus of the pubes. It is not controlled by bending the limb at the knee. The swelling can not be emptied by direct pressure. The man has formerly had an attack of rheumatic fever; but has generally enjoyed good health. In the last winter he found that his right foot was often numb and cold, and he would sit at the fire in the Station-house to warm it. About three weeks before admission he suffered from pains about the knee, which he thought rheumatic. After some few days he found the swelling at the back of the joint. On the 38th of July he gave up work, and applied to Mr. Drink- water, of Bicester. Mr. Drinkwater detected the nature of his case, and recommended the man to apply without delay for admission into the Infirmary. The Patient was ordered to rest in bed, with the limb in an easy position, partly flexed at the knee, and supported on its outer side upon a pillow. He was taught how to stop the pulsation by making pressure in the groin; but his hand became tired, and he could not continue the pressure for any great length of time. Pressure by weights and by different tourniquets was tried; but the skin became too tender to allow the continued application. A relay of Assistants having been provided for the purpose of making pressure with the fingers, the treatment was begun on Thursday, August 14. A little after 12 o'clock the fingers were placed upon the Femoral artery above the upper edge of the Sartorius muscle. The circulation in the limb was effectually21 controlled, and the pressure was continued without inter- mission. Soon after 5 o'clock the Patient complained sud- denly of heat in the tumor, then of cold, and in a few minutes of intense pain in the calf of the leg. He became restless, and could scarcely be kept quiet in bed. It appeared that all pulsation in the limb had ceased ; the pressure was therefore omitted. Some Morphia in solution was injected under the skin of the thigh, and at night a draught of Liq. Ammon. Acet., with Morphia, Antimony, and Sp. Etheris nitr. was given, and repeated the 4 or 5 following nights. No pulsation could be felt in the tumor or in the trunk of the Femoral artery for about 48 hours. After that period, a feeble pulsation could be felt in the line of the artery. This increased, and by the following Tuesday the circulation through the Popliteal artery was completely re-established, and the aneurismal swelling was beating as fully as at the time of admission. Though the pulsation could be checked by making pressure on the Femoral artery in the thigh, it could not be fully controlled except by pressure on the artery as it passes over the pubes. On Thursday, the aist, pressure was again made. A narrow bag of canvas, loaded with shot, having the pointed end filled with sand,—the whole weighing 8 pounds,—was suspended over a pulley, fastened to the iron rod which supported the curtains above the head of the bed. A piece of wash-leather was laid loosely over the groin, and the Patient was en- trusted to make the pressure himself, without the help of any Assistant. At 12 o'clock the weight was placed upon the External Iliac artery, where it passes over the ramus of the pubes, and the Patient himself kept it steady with his finger and thumb. At 5 o'clock he complained of severe burning pain in the back of the leg, similar to what he had felt under the former pressure. Upon examination it was found that all pulsation had ceased. No swelling of the leg followed, or other inconvenience, except that the knee remained stiff, and the Patient was not able to straighten the limb completely, so as to put the foot flat.to the ground. He left the Infirmary on September 10, walking with the help of crutches.22 October 33 I saw him. The limb was then all but straight; he had nearly recovered his power over it. The Posterior Tibial artery could be felt behind the inner malleolus, but not the anterior. He complained that there was pain at times in the calf of the leg, and numbness in the foot. Soon afterwards he returned to his work. 18 April 1874 I saw him again. He could straighten the limb fully. He had complete power over it; he was able to walk and to do his work. The calf of the leg is not so full and muscular as the other. A soft swelling can be felt, about the size of a small marble, upon the Popliteal artery. The Posterior Tibial artery can be felt behind the inner malleolus. A feeble pulsation can be felt between the meta- tarsal bones of the first and second toes, but not on the dorsum of the foot. He was readmitted into the Infirmary, 14 March, 1877, under my care, with an Aneurismalj swelling or enlargement of the Popliteal artery of the Left leg, about the size of a common hen's egg. It was hard, and could not be emptied by direct pressure. The deep parts around it in the Popliteal space were somewhat thickened, and rather served to obscure the extent and character of the enlargement of the vessel. The pulsation can be stopped by making firm pressure over the Femoral artery in the middle of the thigh; it is more, easily stopped by making pressure in the groin. It is checked by bending the leg at the knee, but not completely controlled. Upon examination made of the chest by Dr. Acland, a strong double blowing sound is heard over the region of the heart, extending along the course of the Aorta and the Innominata ; but not any ordinary aneurismal whiz. In other respects the Patient, seems to be in good general health. In the summer of last year, without previous symptoms to attract his attention, he was passing his hand down the back of his Left leg, and found a small swelling under the knee. On making pressure with his fingers he found that it beat or throbbed in the same manner as the former swelling in the other leg. During the winter the foot was much swollen, and he suffered at times from pain in the back of the leg.23 The throbbing in the tumor was not continuous; it sometimes intermitted for several days. The swelHng did not increase much in size, or did not seem to him to be so large as the former aneurism in the other leg. He did not suffer from cold in the left foot, as he had in the right. Toward the end of February he became unable to continue at his work, and he applied to Mr. Drinkwater. On Saturday morning, March 3, Mr. Drinkwater applied a tourniquet over the Femoral artery in the middle of the thigh, and left the management of it to the Patient himself. The tourniquet was kept on the thigh during the whole of the night; but the throbbing in the tumor was not completely stopped at any time by the pressure. Next morning the Patient removed the tourniquet. During the two or three following days it was re-applied at different times, and for varying periods. On Monday, March 12, a, bag filled with sand and pieces of iron, weighing 5 pounds and 3 quarters, was placed in the groin over the artery, and kept in position, under the super- intendence of Mr. Drinkwater, by a relay of Assistants, and at times by the Patient himself. This was contmued without intermission for 8 hours. The pressure was attended with great pain in the leg and foot. The throbbing was not effectually stopped during the pressure. The pulsation con- tinued after the weight was removed. Under Mr. Drink- water's advice, the Patient came to the Infirmary for farther treatment. At the time of admission the skin of the thigh and groin seemed to be too tender to bear farther pressure ; the Patient was therefore ordered to remain in bed, with the limb bent at ^ the knee and resting on a pillow. By degrees he became able to bend the leg fully, so as to bring the heel almost to the tuber ischii, and to keep it in that position for several hours at a time. The pulsation in the swelling was checked, but never completely stopped. March 19. A large compress of flannel was placed under the knee upon the Popliteal space, with the intention of making additional pressure upon the tumor; and the leg was bound, in the bent position, to the thigh by several turns of24 a flannel roller. The compress produced so much pain in and around the knee, that the Patient removed it in the course of the night. The large veins of the leg and thigh were observed next day to be distended; the i-oUer was therefore removed, and the Patient was trusted to keep the limb fully bent, the best way he could, by his own efforts. On the 26th, about 11 o'clock in the morning, a narrow bag of canvas, having the pointed end filled with sand, was loaded with shot (to the weight of 11 pounds and a half), and suspended from the rod which supported the curtains at the head of the bed. A piece of wash-leather was laid loosely over the groin, and the weight, placed upon the artery where it passes over the pubes, was trusted to the Patient, as on the former occasion. With the weight in position, the circulation was fully controlled. The pressure was continued with more or less efl^ciency during the day and in the night. The weight was not easily kept in place over the artery, nor was the pulsation in the tumor completely stopped, with the limb in the bent position. After a trial of 3 or 3 hours the bent position was abandoned, and the limb was allowed to rest in an easy position, lying rather on its outer aspect. About 3 o'clock in the following morning the Patient thought that the pulsation in the tumor had ceased, and he took the weight off the groin. After breakfast he found the beating had returned, and he replaced the weight. In the middle of the day the swelling was examined by the House- Surgeon. He found that the pulsation had ceased altogether, and he removed the weight. From this time there was not any return of it. Although the Patient was an intelligent man, taking an interest in the treatment, he became restless under a con- tinuance of pain and confinement. A pill with Morphia was given to him before the weight was put in position; it was repeated during the day, and again at night. During the treatment, Morphia in solution was also several times injected under the skin, ' On April 7 the Patient was allowed to get out of bed, and to lie on the settle in the ward. He found the left foot to25 be much colder than the other, and he put on two worsted stockings. He left the Infirmary on the i8th, able to walk well. The swelling in the Popliteal space was much smaller than at the time of admission, hard, and not compressible. The Anterior and Posterior Tibial arteries could not be felt at the ankle, or in the foot. Remarks. In the Right leg the aneurism was cured by- rapid pressure, under which the flow of blood through the Femoral and Popliteal arteries was completely stopped during the treatment. In the Left, a longer time was taken, and the exact period can not be stated with accuracy. The pressure applied before the man came to the Infirmary helped, no doubt, in the cure. On the 3rd of September, 1878, I saw him. The Posterior Tibial artery could be felt at the ankle, in the right leg, but not the Anterior. He said he had not felt it himself ' for a good while.' In the left leg, both the Anterior and the Posterior could be felt. Later in the autumn he became too weak to continue at his work. Symptoms of dilatation of the aorta became more strongly developed; and anasarca followed. He died sud- denly on the lath of January, 1879, while sitting in a chair. The body was not examined. [Medical Times and Gazette, May 1875, l^^Y 1877.] Aneurism of the Popliteal Artery. Ligature of the Femoral Artery, Cure—Hemoptysis, 12 months afterwards—Aneurism of the Abrta—Death. A man, 53 years of age, of middle stature, of strong and muscular build, and of plethoric appearance, was admitted into St. Bartholomew's Hospital, on the 4th of December, 1843, under the care of Sir William Lawrence. At that time I was the Dresser in attendance. The right Popliteal space is occupied by a large pulsating swelling, which fills it completely, and forms a considerable prominence on the outer side. The surface is tense and26 smooth; but more prominent at the back. The pulsation can be observed with the eye, over the whole extent: it is synchronous with the pulse at the wrist. It disappears on compressing the External Iliac artery over the pubes ; and reappears immediately when the artery is free. In the An- terior alid Posterior Tibial arteries pulsation can scarcely be felt. In the Left leg the pulsation is natural. An inch above the patella the circumference on the Right side is i8 inches : at the same part on the Left it is 15 inches. The veins of both legs are varicose : but those of the Right are the largest. The lower part of the limb is edematous. There is no discoloration from ecchymosis. He complains of the throbbing pain in the leg; but he can perform the movements of flexion and extension without inconvenience. His pulse is full and jerking: the tongue foul, and the bowels confined. No disease of the chest was recognised. The impulse of the heart was natural; and its action regular. The Patient was formerly a Coal-heaver; for several years working hard, and drinking freely,—frequently working in the wet all day. He suffered occasionally from rheumatic pains in his knees, and was at times troubled by varicose veins in the legs. With the exception of these ailments,—which he thought trifling,—he considered himself a healthy man. For the last year or two he has worked as a Gardener, using his Right leg much in digging. About three weeks ago he first became sensible of a dull continued pain, with throbbing, at the back of the Right knee,—where, at the same time, he felt a small tumor about the size of an egg. Although any exertion caused great pain, he did not give over work ; as he took it for a rheu- matic affection. The tumor continued gradually to increase: but on the 20th of November, when engaged in wheeling a heavy barrow up a steep plank, he suddenly felt something give way in his leg. From this time the tumor increased more rapidly: the pain became more severe, and the throbbing more evident. He became unable to work; and he applied to Sir William Lawrence, who sent him to the Hospital. There being no doubt that the swelling was a diffused Aneurism, the operation of tying the Femoral artery, below the origin of the Profunda, was performed by Sir W. Lawrence27 on the 6th of December. The Patient being very fat and muscular, the artery lay at some depth ; and the sheath of the vessels was overlapped to a greater extent than usual by the Sartorius muscle, which appeared of greater breadth than common. No other difficulty occurred. A ligature of strong silk thread was passed round the artery. Upon tying it, the pulsation in the tumor ceased immediately. One end of the thread was cut off close to the knot; and the sides of the wound were drawn together by strips of plaster. Though he proceeded on the whole favorably, it was slowly. A day or two after the operation, on sitting up in bed he fainted. Sir W. Lawrence ordered meat diet and Porter. Subsequently, on getting out of bed, he used the limb rather freely. Some heat and redness appeared around the wound,—disappearing, however, quickly by rest in bed for a time. The ligature came away on the 28th day: and the wound healed kindly. The tumor gradually subsided, so as to be felt only on deep pressure in the ham. The circumference of the Right leg above the knee did not exceed that of the Left, when he quitted the Hospital. On the 39th of October, 1844, he was re-admitted into the Hospital, under the care of Dr. Hue,—suffering from bron- chitis, with severe dyspnea. At that time I was acting as Clinical Clerk. His breathing was much hurried and laboring, attended with a loud blowing noise,—evidently from pressure on the trachea ; his lips were blue, his pulse small and weak, and his head and face bathed in perspiration. He was re- lieved by profuse expectoration. About 10 days ago, he found that his breathing had become difficult. He had not observed any want of strength in his Right leg. There did not seem to be any difference of size in the limbs. The superficial veins were still varicose, as before the operation. Pulsation could be felt at the ankle, in the Anterior and Posterior Tibial arteries. I could not feel the tumor in the Popliteal space, which existed when he left the Hospital. The paroxysms of dyspnea occurred subsequently 2 or 3 times. The expectoration was generally free, and latterly28 became mixed with bright florid blood. By degrees he lost flesh, and became too weak to leave his bed. On the evening of the 8th of January (1845) while talking, he brought up about half a pint of bright florid blood, — and immediately died. The body was examined 36 hours after death. The notes were taken by Mr. Reid, now of Canterbury, who was House- Surgeon at the time. The Lungs were generally emphysematous. In one a cir- cumscribed abscess was observed, about the size of a large marble. There was hypertrophy of the heart, with dilatation of the left ventricle. The whole arch of the Aorta was enlarged. In one or two parts the coats were protruded into small pouches filled with coagulated blood, forming true aneurisms. One, larger than the rest, projected from the posterior wall near the origin of the great vessels, pressing on the esophagus and trachea, and communicating with the trachea by four ulcerated openings, each large enough to admit a probe. There was coagulated blood in these, and in the bronchi, and also in the smaller ramifications. The aneurism was filled with dark laminated coagula. There was abundant yellow deposit between the coats of the aorta in its whole length. It was generally enlarged, down to the bifurcation. The Common Iliac arteries were irregularly en- larged and tortuous. The Right Femoral artery was enlarged to about an inch below the Profunda,—whence it became less to the situation of the ligature, inches below the Profunda; at which point it was not larger than a piece of whip-cord for about an inch, — increasing in size again, but less than the part above the ligature. Tracing it through the tendon of the Adductor muscle, it was lost in a firm tumor which occupied the whole space between the ham-strings. There was no trace of blood having been effused around. The branches above the situation of the ligature were enlarged. The artery itself was plugged by an organized coagulum for about an inch above the ligature. This ended abruptly at the origin of a large branch. The coagulum was intimately connected with the inner coat of the artery. The portion immediately below the ligature was impervious ; and29 on section presented no other character than the tissue of ordinary cicatrix. Below this, the vessel was plugged by a coagulum about 2 inches long, which was partially adherent. For a short space it was free,—and then again occupied by an other coagulum partially adherent, but not so completely filling it. Below the impervious portion, the artery was lined in its whole extent by a false membrane, which could be easily stripped off, leaving the inner coat distinct and natural in appearance. ■ The outer coat could be traced over the whole extent of the Aneurism ; the surface of which was even, except at one point toward the outer side, where it was irregular and rough. The Aneurism was completely filled by fleshy-looking coagula, not arranged in concentric lamellce, but in an oblique direction from below upwards. The opening in the artery was at the inner side of the tumor, and was full half an inch in extent: the edge was abrupt. The Vein passed over the inner side of the Aneurism, and was nearly obliterated by adhesion of its inner surface. The coats were much thickened for some distance above the swelling ; the inner coat presented one or two groups of white deposit similar to that found in diseased arteries. Aneurism in the Chest. Spontaneous Cure. Dyspnea — Fluid in Pleura—Puncture — Discharge of Blood—Death—Old Aneurismal Sac. A country gentleman, 76 years of age, of strong and mus- cular frame, and of gouty constitution, although suffering at times from difficulty of breathing under exertion, had led an active life without having been known among his friends and neighbors as a sufferer under any chronic ailment or general illness. Early in life he had served in the Navy. Among other perils, he had been at the battle of Trafalgar, and at a later period he had been taken prisoner by a French ship. At the end of November, 1866, during a morning's visit at his house for an other purpose, Mr. Cresswell (now of Wol- verhampton), who had attended him once or twice for ail- ments of a trifling character, observed in him, as he moved30 about the room, a difficulty of breathing which was not usual with him. Mr. Cresswell advised him to go to bed, and to remain in the recumbent position. Upon examination next day, Mr. Cresswell found that there was not any respiration in the right lung. From this, combined with dulness over the whole of the side, he con- cluded that that part of the chest was filled with fluid. The Patient was afterwards seen by Sir William Gull, who was a friend of the family. He agreed in the view taken by Mr. Cresswell, and he advised that the fluid should be removed by tapping; if relief was not obtained after the administra- tion of other remedies. On December 3, I was summoned by telegraph for the purpose of performing the operation. At the time of my visit the Patient was in bed. As he lay there at rest, I did not observe any remarkable difficulty of breathing, nor any urgent symptom requiring immediate relief. The right side of the chest was dull on percussion. He made no complaint, and he was able to converse freely. But I was not called for the purpose of diagnosis; I was required simply to perform the operation of tapping the chest. For the convenience of operation, the Patient moved from the bed, and walked without distress to a sofa in the room. After dividing the integument with a scalpel, I passed a trocar through the intercostal space below the sixth rib. Upon withdrawing the trocar, dark-colored fluid — either pure blood, or serum strongly mixed with blood — flowed through the cannula without impulse. After about an ounce and a half had escaped, I withdrew the cannula, and passed the trocar again into the chest through the space above the sixth rib. Fluid of the same character flowed through the cannula, rather more freely than from the opening first made. After about six ounces had been withdrawn, I removed the cannula, with the concurrence of Mr. Cresswell, who assisted me at the operation. No perceptible alteration in the general state of the Patient followed. At night, after he had been moved back to bed, the difficulty of breathing returned. It increased in severity as the night advanced. Under strong stimulants administered31 by Mr. Cresswell, he revived toward morning. His recovery seemed to be complete, and it continued through the day. He was cheerful, and took nourishment of different kinds in large quantities. The next night, the same urgent symptoms recurred, the dyspnea coming on suddenly about the same hour, attended with profuse sweating, and prostration so alarming that he seemed at the point of death. Mr. Cress- well administered between 3 and 4 ounces of Spin Etheris sulph. comp., giving it at intervals in teaspoons. Toward daylight he revived, and, improving by degrees, he remained free from uneasiness throughout the day, moving about in bed without help. The two following nights were passed with similar suffering. The ether was increased in quantity, 6 ounces being taken in one night. The Patient revived each morning, recovering suddenly about daylight. He passed the day without dis- comfort, but he became weaker in general power. The next night (December 7), the dyspnea was more severe ; and he died about 8 o'clock, sinking from exhaustion within an hour after the accession of the paroxysm. Permission was obtained to open the chest, on condition that it was done by Mr. Cresswell himself. A large amount of serum and blood had oozed from the wound in the chest: Mr. Cresswell estimated it at a pint in quantity. The right side was filled with fluid blood and serum. He removed the greater part, taking out four quarts by measure. The lung was collapsed, and the pleura partially adherent toward the spine. An aneurismal tumor, larger than a common hen's egg, was situated under the clavicle, where it was pressing upon the bronchus. He separated this from its connexions, and removed it. The left lung was goi'ged with blood, but there was no effusion into the cavity of the pleura, or into the pericardium. The substance of the heart was pale; the cavities were empty, and the valves thickened. The aneuris- mal tumor is thus described by Dr. Tuckwell, who examined it before it was placed in the Pathological Collection in the Museum at Oxford : —' The coats of the artery are distinct. The inner coat is marked in many parts with small patches of atheroma, to which some calcareous deposit adheres. Masses32 of old fibrine cling firmly to the interior everywhere. This, examined under the microscope, resembles disorganised fibrine. There is not any opening of communication with the artery.' Remarks.—The aneurismal sac offers, I think, an example of one of those cases in which an Aneurism has undergone a spontaneous cure, with obliteration of the opening of commu- nication with the trunk of the artery from which it arose. The quantity of fluid blood found in the chest must have come from an opening into a blood-vessel. No amount of inflammation could have produced it. The aneurismal tumor had closed spontaneously. The blood must have had an other source, — probably an undiscovered aneurism. It is most likely that the hemorrhage under which the Patient's strength failed came at different times in the last few days of life, rather than by one sudden flow from the bursting of an aneurism or a rupture of some part of the arterial system. A remarkable feature in the case is the severe dyspnea, recurring suddenly each night at the same period, with complete re- lief in the intervals during the day. For this it is difficult to suggest a satisfactory explanation. In part it may have been — as Dr. Tuckwell has suggested to me, — from pressure of the aneurismal tumor on the recurrent laryngeal nerve. [Medical Times and Gazette, ii January 1879.] In January 1841, Mr. Skey tied the Subclavian artery on the left side in a Clergyman, about 50 years of age, for Aneurism ; the symptoms of which had been observed about 2 months. The disease began, as the Patient thought, with a sudden pain in the shoulder or armpit, when upon one occa- sion, in play, he tossed his little boy up in the air, and caught him in his hands. (The Principles and Practice of Operative Surgery, and Edition, 1858.) He recovered completely after the operation ; and lived for many years in good health. In the latter years of his life I • saw him frequently. I attended him in several attacks of retention of urine, arising from enlarged prastate. He died in March 1866, under an attack of bi'onchitis, in33 which the action of the heart failed rather suddenly. Per- mission for an examination of the body was refused. The late Dr. Page, of St. George's Hospital, told me that being one day in attendance as the Examining Physician at an Insurance Office in London, this gentleman presented himself for examination, on a proposal for effecting an insur- ance upon his life. Dr. Page considered him to be in good general health, and reported in favor of his life being taken for insurance. About 6 weeks or so afterwards, he heard, — to his dismay, — of the performance of the operation. His pro- gnosis as a Physician was, however, justified. The Patient lived for more than a5 years. At the time of his death he was, I believe, in his 74th year. CASES IN PRACTICE. Fracture of Leg. Abscess—Hemorrhage—Secondary Amputation—Death from Exhaustion. A carpenter, 26 years of age, was admitted into the Rad- clifife Infirmary, under my care, 13th February, 1871, with a fracture of the bones of his right leg in the lower third. He was at work upon a new building, when one of the 'principal' timbers fell, and knocked him down against an iron column. He was released by his fellow-workmen ; and his leg was found to be broken just above the ankle. He was brought to the Infirmar)'^ at once. Nothing unusual presented itself in the course of the case until the morning of the 28th, when he was attacked with severe shivering. Matter formed soon afterwards in the lower part of the leg; this was discharged through an opening on the inner side. On March 8 it was necessary to make an other opening into a collection of matter over the outer mal- leolus. In the course of the following night there was some considerable bleeding" from the inner opening. On the 13th, at 2 o'clock in the morning, the Plouse-Surgeon was sum- moned on account of more severe hemorrhage; it was checked by a compress and bandage. The next day, upon a return of the hemorrhage, I enlarged the wound, but without D34 finding any bleeding vessel to which a Hgature could be applied. The bleeding seemed to be venous in character. I passed a tenaculum deeply through the structures on the inner side of the limb, at the spot from which the bleeding chiefly came, and tied a knot with a firm thi'ead. There was not any further hemoi'rhage. For some days the man continued low in general power, though without actually losing strength. His pulse was quick and weak, and his general temperature high. It was now observed that the ankle-joint was open, and that the bones generally were bare of cartilage and periosteum. There was little ground for hope of his recovering a useful limb. Ampu- tation being the only course which offered a reasonable chance of saving the man's life, I waited for some evidence of restora- tive power,— such as suppuration or healthy secretion,— before proceeding to the operation. The man's general state having somewhat improved, and his consent having been obtained, I amputated the leg below the knee on March 21. On the 37th an other collection of matter showed itself, on the inner side of the knee. This was punctured with a lancet, and about 6 ounces of matter removed. The disposition to hemorrhage now appeared in the stump. Considerable oozing took place, and the blood escaped through the dressings. The stump had been opened on the 36th to arrest the flow of blood; and it was opened again on the 27th. On the 30th, at 9 o'clock at night, the stump was opened for the third time. A large clot was cleared out, and a pad of lint soaked in Ruspini's styptic introduced : a compress of lint was laid over the femoral vessels, and the whole retained by a bandage up the thigh. A dose of Ruspini's styptic was also taken by the Patient. After this there was not any further loss of blood. The man became weaker by degrees, and died ex- hausted on April 17. Upon examination of the body, a large abscess was found at the back of the knee, extending round the inner side and to the front, as well as about half-way up the thigh among the muscles. In one or two places the thigh-bone was bare of periosteum. The articular' cartilages of the knee-joint had disappeared, and the cavity of the joint communicated with35 the abscess. The viscera generally were pale and bloodless, but did not present any morbid appearance. On the right side of the chest the pleura at the upper part was adherent by old adhesions. Remarks.—The man was patient in temper, but not of strong constitutional power. There was never any swelling around the injured parts, nor were the common local signs of inflammation present, which generally precede the formation of matter. No unusual symptom was observed until the sixteenth day after admission. From that time the Patient's strength began to fail. He was supported, as far as his power of taking food allowed ; and ale, wine, and brandy were administered. Quinine and cod-liver oil were also given. Scirrhous Breast. Amputation—Hemorrhage after Operation —Wound opened three times—No Bleeding Vessel observed. A married woman, aged 43 years, was admitted into the Radclifife Infirmary, under my care, i6th September, 1857, with a scirrhous tumor of the left breast, which had been observed for 6 months. She had borne several children,— the last in June, 1856, She was a low-spirited woman ; and she had been much depressed lately by trouble in her family. Her father died 'asthmatic'; her mother lived to between 80 and 90 years of age; some of her sisters died with phthisis. She had an abscess in the breast after her first confinement; and she did not suckle any of her children afterwards with that breast. She first felt a pain in the organ six months ago, and on examination found a 'lump' in it. This has continued to grow in size up to the present time. Lat- terly it has never been free from pain. The skin round the nipple is adherent to the tumor, and the nipple is re- tracted. The gland itself is not adherent to the pectoral muscle. An enlarged lymphatic gland can be felt deep in the axilla. The breast was amputated on October 2, and the enlarged lymphatic gland was removed from the axilla at the operation. The amount of blood lost was inconsiderable; only 3 or 4 D a36 ligatures were applied, none being wanted in the axilla. The edges of the wound were drawn together with strips of ad- hesive plaster. A compress of lint was applied on each side of the wound, and- a roller passed round the chest and over the shoulder. The woman was placed in bed, with the arm supported by a pillow. In the afternoon she complained of the tightness of the dressings, and of pain in the axilla and down the arm. The bandage was therefore cut through, when several clots escaped from under the dressings, and blood began to flow freely from the sternal end of the incision. About 6 o'clock I opened the wound and removed the clots. The bleeding came from the axilla; but no open vessel could be seen, nor any single spot to which a ligature could be applied. A compress of lint was placed in the axilla. The wound was drawn together with a single strip of plaster, and a piece of lint soaked in a strong solution of alum was laid upon it. A pill containing two grains of opium was given. Between 8 and 9 o'clock blood was again observed to be flowing freely. The wound was opened again, without finding any bleeding point. A com- press of lint soaked in a strong solution of gallic acid was inserted into the wound. About two hours afterwards blood was again observed to flow. The wound was opened a third time. The line of incision was extended upwards farther into the axilla ; the lint and the clots were cleared out, but no bleeding vessel could be seen. Two pieces of sponge, soaked in a strong solution of gallic acid, were introduced. A large compress of cotton-wool was placed in the axilla, under the spot, as well as I could judge, from which the hemorrhage came. A turn of a roller was applied round the chest, and a small pillow placed under the scapula. An other grain of opium was given, and cold beef-tea ordered for drink. Blood continued to flow, but not so freely, till about 3 o'clock in the morning. It seemed to be checked by dropping some of the solution of gallic acid into the open part of the wound on to the pieces of sponge. The Patient passed a fairly good night, and slept soundly at intervals. On the 7th one of the sponges was withdrawn from the wound, and on the loth the woman was moved into a fresh37 bed. The last ligature came away on the iith. She com- plained of uneasiness from constipation, and two pills of extract of colocynth were given to her. The bowels acted freely the next day (the I2th)—the first time since the operation. The remaining piece of sponge was removed on the 17th. She was discharged from the Infirmary on November ii, the wound having nearly healed. On December 20 I saw her. The cicatrix was firm and contracted ; the integument around it was puckered, thickened, and discolored. On April 27 following I saw her at her own home. A large ulcerated wound, with everted edges, occupied the site of the cicatrix, attended with profuse watery discharge, evidently of a cancerous nature. Her general strength failed rapidly, and she died 25 May 1858. Compound Fracture of Leg. Secondary Hemorrhage — Death from Exhaustion. A farm laborer, aged 32 years, rather given to drinking, and (as I learned after his death) subject to fits, was admitted into the Radcliffe Infirmary, under my care, 6th November, 1852, with a compound comminuted fracture of the bones of the right leg. Early in the morning, when under the influence of drink, he was riding on a heavily loaded waggon. In trying to get down, he fell; and one, or both, of the wheels went over the limb. The accident was not followed by any large amount of bleeding. The leg was put in splints without difficulty, in a good position. Both Tibial arteries could be felt at the ankle. Some days after admission, erysipelas appeared on the face and on the leg; and it spread upwards toward the nates. On the 18th free suppuration was established, and the erysi- pelas was subsiding favorably. In the night he was very restless. Toward morning he kicked the bed-clothes off. The Nurse thought he had a ' fit,' Some blood was observed upon the sheet under the splint, and some on the floor. It had ceased to flow when the House-Surgeon came to the ward. The man was evidently sinking. He died before noon.38 Several ounces of coagulated blood surrounded the broken pieces of bone, and passed deep among the muscles. The Posterior Tibial artery had given way by ulceration in two places, and the anterior in one place. The lower fragment of the shaft of the tibia was driven firmly into the medullary- cavity of the upper part, and the foot was thus held in a good relative position. Remarks.—At the time of admission both Tibial arteries were felt beating at the ankle. The coats of the vessels were not injured enough to hinder the free passage of the blood through them. The foot was in good position. In a man of the Patient's age there was good ground for hope of recovery. {Medical Times and Gazette, 15 March, 1879.] Hemorrhage from Abscesses. It is not often in the minor operations of surgery that a Practitioner sees much hemorrhage from a small wound, or a flow of blood which requires anything more than temporary pressure to restrain it. It has happened, however, to myself sometimes, as to others, to find it arise from a vessel in the common integument. In 1845, a young married woman, of strumous constitution, about 26 years of age, was admitted into St. Bartholomew's Hospital in a weak and sickly condition of general health. Her mother was one of the Sisters of the Hospital, and by her wish, privately expressed to the Matron, she was placed under the care of Dr. Hue, in a ward where I was acting as Clinical Clerk. Several small abscesses, arising from a cachectic dispo- sition— some of them superficial, and some deep — formed successively in different regions. In opening one of them, situated superficially at the inner side of the left arm, a little above the condyle, I observed a full stream of venous blood flowing from the puncture. Upon separating the edges, it appeared that the blood came from a slit in a large vein immediately under the skin. The side of the vein had been transfixed by the lancet as it passed into the sac of the abscess.39 She was not in a condition to bear an unnecessary loss of blood; I therefore stopped the flow at once with a compress and piece of sticking-plaster. The next day I removed these, and reopened the abscess with a probe. When I separated the edges of the puncture with the probe, and passed it on without feeling any obstacle to its passage, the Patient com- plained severely of pain in the upper part of the arm. Upon a more careful examination I found that the probe, instead of passing straight into the cavity of the abscess, had entered the wounded vein, and that' it passed upwards in contact with the inner membrane. Whether the pain was due to the sensitiveness of the membrane lining the vein, or to other circumstances, I am not prepared to say. I only record the fact that the passage of the instrument along the vessel was attended with acute suffering. This is the only opportunity I have had of observing such a phenomenon. In December, 1863, a young lady, about 12 years of age, had a small collection of matter in the temporal region. The skin over it was tense and unyielding. There was no pain, or other inconvenience, except the swelling. I thought the swelling would come forward to a ' point'; that if the opera- tion of opening it was delayed for a day or two, a very small puncture would be all that was wanted to let out the matter, and that the healing of such a minute opening would be followed by a scar that would not be visible. In compliance with the wish of Dr. Acland and Dr. Freeborn, who were in attendance, I made a puncture with a lancet. An artery was wounded, and it bled freely. In order to restrain the bleeding it was necessary to draw the edges of the wound together with a piece of sticking-plaster. Next day the edges were separated with a probe without further hemorrhage. A child of weakly constitution, about 6 years old, was under the care of Dr. Acland with enlargement of the leg arising from inflammation of the tibia or periosteum. The parents lived at a distance, and the child was brought into Oxford at intervals for the purpose of treatment. A large collection of matter formed in the middle of the leg over the front of the tibia. I made a puncture with a lancet, and let out two or40 three ounces of matter; blood of an arterial character escaped with the matter. It was evident, by the flow, that a vessel of some considerable size was wounded. The bleeding was checked by firm pressure with the finger; but it returned when the pressure was relaxed. I pressed the edges of the wound together with a piece of lint and a strip of sticking- plaster, and bound them on the limb by several turns of a roller. The child was then taken home by its mother. After some 3 or 4 days the child was brought to me again; I removed the compress and opened the wound with a probe. There was no further bleeding. The rest of the contents of the abscess were afterwards discharged in a poultice. In March, 1863, a widow lady, about 60 years of age, not of strong constitution, was under the care of Dr. Freeborn, with diffused swelling of the subcutaneous tissues in the region of the right clavicle, above the mammary gland. The gland itself was not involved in the general mass. Sloughing of cellular tissue followed, with much suppuration. One evening the lady was alarmed by a sudden and profuse loss of blood from the open surface. I saw her, with Dr. Freeborn, soon after the occurrence. The bleeding had ceased before my visit. The wounds healed slowly without further hemorrhage. The lady lived several years afterwards in good health. In June, 1864, a man between 50 and 60 years of age, of intemperate habits and of broken health, was under the care of Dr. Acland and Mr. Martin, with sloughing and suppuration of the parts on the side of the neck, after an attack of erysi- pelas. In the course of the complaint, bleeding came on from the wound of so profuse a character as to lead to the opinion that some large artery deep in the neck had given way. I saw the Patient in consultation with the above-named gentlemen. The bleeding had ceased of its own accord at the time of my visit, and it did not return. After some weeks the man died, exhausted by general constitutional disease rather than by the local complication. There was not any further hemorrhage. In June, 1878, a boy 4 years old, of weakly constitution,41 was SLififering under an attack of scarlatina anginosa. On Saturday afternoon (the 15th) the child was in the mother's lap, when a large abscess in the left orbit burst through the upper eyelid. On Monday morning, about a o'clock, he was restless and was taken out of bed by the mother. While he was in the mother's arms, leaning with his head against her shoulder, a sudden and profuse rush of blood burst from the opening, flowing over the mother's shoulder. Mr. Druce saw the child soon after 6 o'clock. The bleeding had ceased before he arrived. He estimated the loss of blood at a pint. He applied a compress of lint, and a roller round the head. After Mr. Druce's visit, the child tore off the bandage and compress. They were replaced by the mother without further hemorrhage. I saw the child with Mr. Druce about 12 o'clock. He never rallied from the effects of the loss of blood. He died early on Thursday morning (the 20th). Disease of Hip. Abscess—Hemorrhage. In January, 1854, a boy, 12 years old, was admitted into the Radclifife Infirmary, under my care, with disease of the left hip-joint. The head of the thigh-bone was on the dorsum of the ilia, and a large abscess was presenting in the posterior part of the thigh. This was afterwards opened. The boy was taken home in the beginning of May. In the course of- the summer an elder sister came to me in great alarm, begging my immediate attendance on account of sudden and profuse bleeding from the wound. This had ceased when I arrived. The boy had been taken out of bed; and he was standing, for the dressings to be changed. His nurses were his mother and sister. I advised them to change the dressings at an earlier hour in the day, and to do the necessary operations as the boy lay in bed. Some weeks afterwards the sister came to me again with a similar request for immediate attendance. Upon enquiry, I learned that the bleeding had come on, as before, while the boy was out of bed, standing up for the dress- ings to be changed. I told her to go home and lay the boy down in bed, and that the bleeding would stop. When she found that I would not go with her, she tossed up her head42 and went away. In January, 1862, I again saw the boy. The disease had ceased ; but the limb was shortened under the effects of the disease. Disease of Hip. Abscess—Hemorrhage—Death from Exhaustion. In October and November, 1866, a boy of weakly constitu- tion, 10 years old, was in the Radcliffe Infirmary, under my care, with disease of the hip-joint in an early stage. He was much relieved by rest, and was sent back to his friends. He was readmitted in September, 1868, with the disease much advanced and an abscess discharging freely. In January, 1869, an other abscess burst, close to the spine of the ilia ; and in April a third, on the posterior aspect of the limb, about midway between the trochanter and the knee. He was taken home in June. He had continued in the Infirmary rather longer than was bene- ficial, chiefly out of kindness toward his mother, who was much broken by recent trouble in her family, and was not at the time able to take charge of him. She afterwards gave me this account of his case. In the early part of the winter he lost some blood from one of the open wounds near the hip; and in the beginning of December, while straining in defeca- tion, he lost a much larger quantity,—a quart, she said. The attendance of a neighboring Practitioner (Dr. Spencer) was obtained. From him I learned that the boy's strength failed rapidly after this, and that he died exhausted in the beginning of Februaiy, 1870. [Medical Tiines and Gazette, June, 1879.] Hemorrhage from the Gum, after Extraction OF A Tooth. In 1854 the late Mr. Andrews, (Dentist,) summoned me one day to his house to see a gentleman with bleeding from the gum, after extraction of one of the molar teeth in the lower jaw. I suggested that the tooth should be replaced at once,—accord- ing to the practise often adopted by Dentists with success. He told me that the tooth had been drawn two days before, and thrown away; that the Patient lived in the country, and43 had walked home,—little or no notice being taken at the time of the hemorrhage which followed the extraction. As the bleed- ing had continued ever since, the Patient nowappHed for help, Mr. Andrews moulded a small piece of softened gutta percha with his fingers, and after clearing out the clots, thrust it into the opening in the gum. Pressure with the finger on this plug stopped the hemorrhage effectually. We then directed the Patient to keep his jaws firmly closed, as well as he could : he was going to walk home, and he did not wish to have a bandage round his head to support the pressure. Cyst in the Lower Maxilla. Puncture—Hemorrhage. A farmer, about 60 years of age, a man of intemperate habits, consulted me in 1851, on account of a bony growth from the lower jaw on the left side, near the symphysis. It had been some years in progress ; and it was about the size of a large marble. He declined any operation for its removal. During the following 4 years, the tumor increased slowly in size, — chiefly toward the angle of the jaw. One spot at the outer side of the molar teeth was soft, and contained fluid. He thought this was a ' gum-boil,' and wished me to open it; this was the only operation to which he would submit. Accordingly, I punctured it with a lancet, and let out about an ounce of serous fluid, tinged with blood which seemed to flow from the edges of the wound in the gum. He was a man of broken health, not likely to bear a large loss of blood. I therefore touched the bleeding surfaces freely with nitrate of silver : this stopped the hemorrhage. He walked home after- wards. In the evening, he called on Mr. Ley of Littlemore, who lived near him, telling him that the wound had been bleeding ever since he left Oxford. He was evidently suff"ering from loss of blood. Styptics of various kinds, and caustics were applied ; but without checking the hemorrhage. A compress of lint was applied outside the cheek, on the edge of the jaw, over the course of the vessels supplying the gum, and several turns of a roller were bound tightly over the head and under the chin, to keep the compress in place. The44 hemorrhage ceased after this. The Patient kept the bandage on till toward morning : when, finding his head hot and painful from the pressure, he took it off, — without any return of the hemorrhage. The Patient lived about lo years after this. There was not any further hemorrhage. Abscesses afterwards formed and burst, inside the mouth and under the chin ; and some small pieces of bone escaped. The sinuses continued to discharge until the Patient's death. GUNSHOT WOUNDS. Gunshot Wound of Thigh. Primary Amputation—Recovery, A chimney-sweeper, 30 years of age, Avas admitted into the Radcliffe Infirmary, under my care, on the morning of the a3rd of October, 1876, with a gunshot wound in the lower part of the left Thigh, received 15 miles from Oxford, about 4 hours before admission, by the accidental discharge of a fowling-piece loaded with No. i shot. He was getting over a wall with the gun in his hand, the muzzle being close to his thigh, when the charge exploded, and the contents passed into the limb. The accident was followed by a profuse loss of blood. This stopped of itself, and the man was brought to the Infirmary at once. The charge had entered the limb obliquely on its outer aspect, rather above the condyle. It passed through the knee-joint, and lodged in the head of the tibia. The shaft of the thigh-bone was fractured and the condyle comminuted. The man was cold and pulseless. In the depressed state in which he lay, the question of immediate amputation could not be entertained. Strong broth and beef-tea were given to him in small quantities at a time, and hot brandy and water in the intervals. In the afternoon, as he was unable to empty his bladder, the urine was drawn off with a catheter. A draught with Opium and Chloric Ether was given at night. Toward morning he rallied, and took his breakfast well. At 12 o'clock, about 30 hours after the accident, I ampu-45 tated the thigh in the middle third, by double circular incision. The stump healed well, and the man recovered without a bad symptom. The bowels acted for the first time on the 30th. The last ligature came away on the 12th of November, and the man left the Infirmary, by his own wish, some few days afterwards. Remarks.—The shock of the injury was great, and it was complicated with a large loss of blood,— a circumstance occurring almost always in gunshot wounds, and tending to lengthen the period of prostration. The patient was young, of sound constitution, and of calm temperament. In every point of view he was a favorable subject for treatment under a severe injury. For his safety, an early removal of the limb was desirable. The operation was delayed until he had rallied from the first effects of the shock and the loss of blood, and had thus far shown his power of recovery. This is the only case coming under my personal observation in which I have known a Patient recover after undergoing primary amputation for a compound fracture of the thigh- bone. In other cases, the injuries requiring primary amputa- tion have been such that the Patient has not recovered. One exception—and only one,—perhaps ought to be made. About 30 years ago, I saw a boy in St. Bartholomew's Hospital, under the care of Sir William Lawrence, in whom the thigh had been cut off clean in its middle by the action of a circular saw driven by machinery. The wound was dressed as in a case of an amputation by surgical operation. Sir W. Lawrence did not interfere with the wound left by the injury. The wound healed, and the boy left the Hospital with a useful stump. Gunshot Wound of Thigh. Hemorrhage—Gangrene—Death —Femoral Artery and Vein divided. A young man, 21 years of age, was admitted into the Rad- cliffe Infirmary, under my care, between 2 and 3 o'clock in the afternoon of the 29th of December, 1873, with a gunshot wound in the upper and back part of the right thigh, received 8 miles from Oxford, about 11 o'clock that morning. The wound was caused by the accidental discharge of a fowling-46 piece, loaded with No. 5 shot, held in the horizontal position with the muzzle close to him, as he was stooping down to alter a dog's chain. Profuse hemorrhage followed immedi- ately ; but it soon ceased. There was not any hemorrhage during the journey to the Infirmary, nor afterwards. He never rallied from the effects of the injury and the loss of blood. Gangrene followed, and he died at 5 o'clock on the morning of the 2nd of January, 4 days after the accident. The muscles were torn, leaving a wound in which a man could put his fist. The periosteum was torn from the bone, but the bone was not broken. The Femoral artery and vein were both torn across. The proximal end of the artery was drawn in, and contained a small clot, which was adherent to the coats of the vessel; the structure of that part was healthy. The distal portion was soft in structure and discolored. The sciatic nerve was gangrenous, but not divided. The formation of a line of demarcation had begun in the skin. Gunshot Wound of Thigh and Leg. Hemorrhage— Gangrene — Death on the Fifth Day. A carpenter, 19 years of age, was admitted into the Rad- cliffe Infirmary, under my care, on the evening of Sunday, the 18th of July, 1H58, with a gunshot wound of the right thigh and leg, received at a late hour the night before by the acci- dental discharge of a fowling-piece loaded with a wire cartridge of small shot. He was going home on Saturday, near midnight, with a friend, and carrying the gun on his right shoulder. As he was lowering it, and stooping to help a drunken man who was lying on the ground, he stumbled forwards, or was pushed by his companion over the man, and fell on his knee with the leg bent under him : the charge exploded when the muzzle was close to the thigh. The cartridge passed through the muscular substance of the outer side of the thigh, into the calf of the leg. He did not feel the infliction of the wound, but he found that his foot was ' numb,' and that he could not move the limb. Profuse hemorrhage followed immediately ; this stopped as he became faint. When seen^ about % hours after-47 wards, by Mr. Gillam of Witney, hemorrhage had ceased, and the man was in a state of syncope, with a pulse scarcely perceptible. I saw him about 3 hours after admission. He was evidently suffering from great loss of blood. The wound in the thigh was in the - lower third ; the upper opening was round, about an inch and a half in diameter, with the edges inverted ; the lower opening was larger, with the edges irregular and everted, and shreds of blackened fascia and muscle were visible in it. There was also a large irregular, contused, and lacerated wound in the lower part of the Popliteal region and the calf, exposing the upper part of the Gastrocnemius muscle, without laceration of its substance, and penetrating deeply between the 2 heads of the muscle. All three openings were much blackened. Both Tibial artei"ies could be felt pulsating at the ankle. The foot was benumbed, and without common sensa- tion on the outer side ; upon the great toe and inner side of the foot sensation was good. A piece of wet lint was applied to the wounds, and confined with a loose bandage. A draught with 20 minims of Vinum Opii was given : this was vomited. A second was given and retained. On Monday morning he did not show any signs of increased power. Simple dressing was applied to the wounds. Some reddish serum was exuding from that in the calf. The Opium was repeated at night. He passed a bad night, vomiting frequently. At 12 o'clock (Tuesday) the pulse was weak and too quick to be counted. Gangrene was visible in the skin at the back and inner side of the leg, between the wound in the calf and the inner malleolus. A pill containing a grain and a half of Opium was given. The vomiting continued with slight intermissions during the day. At night the gangrene was visible upon the inner side of the foot. He passed a restless night, disturbed by almost incessant vomiting. On Wednesday morning the whole of the foot was gan- grenous ; as was also the front of the leg as far as to its middle. Sensation was perfect in the calf of the leg. The large wound had a healthy appearance, and the discharge was becoming purulent. In the middle of the day the vomiting ceased for about three hours; and he had some quiet sleep.48 In the evening it returned. Gradually he became exhausted ; and he died between i and 3 o'clock on Thursday morning (the 22nd). Remarks.—The man never rallied from the effects of the great loss of blood. His death is to be attributed to that circumstance. The gangrene did not reach as far as the knee; and if his general symptoms would have justified the operation, amputation could have been performed in the thigh through healthy structures above the seat of injury. The appearance of the gangrene would not of itself have been against the operation. The case of the cartridge was found in the lower part of the leg by the side of the tendo Achillis. The greater part of the shot was scattered irregularly, and buried in the muscular sub- stance of the calf. Some few of the shots were merely under the skin. The state of the nerves and vessels was not traced in the examination which was made. Gunshot Wound of Popliteal Space. Wound of Vein— Hemorrhage—Death. A young man, 19 years of age, was admitted into the Rad- cliffe Infirmary, under my care, in the middle of the night, 17 January, 1851, exhausted by loss of blood from a large open wound in the right Popliteal space. The injury was received early in the day, 16 miles from Oxford, by the accidental discharge, within 2 or 3 feet of him, of a fowling-piece loaded with small shot. The assistance of a 'water-doctor,' much consulted by the ignorant people of the neighborhood, was obtained; but the man would not undertake the treatment of the case. Late in the evening he put the lad into a carriage and brought him to the Infirmary, 14 hours after the accident. He died 4 hours after admission. A portion of integument about the size of the palm of the hand was gone, and the muscles were much lacerated. A large opening was seen in the Popliteal vein. The artery was bruised, but not opened. Remarks.— If a Medical Practitioner had been called at49 once, a compress of lint, with a roller applied to the limb, would have stopped the loss of blood. Under such an amount of injury,—destruction of the vein and injury of the artery, attended with great destruction of the soft parts in the Popliteal region,— mortification of the leg might have been expected, if the Patient rallied from the first effects of the injury. The question of amputation through the thigh, above the seat of injury, would have arisen then. The operation would have offered a fair prospect of recovery. Gunshot Wound of Hand. Gangrene of Fingers—Erysipelas —Pyemia—Death. A laboring man, half-witted, 53 years of age, of temperate habits, not of sound constitution, was admitted into the Rad- clifife Infirmary, under my care, on Sunday morning, 16 March, 1851, with a gunshot wound of his left hand, received by the accidental discharge of a fowling-piece about an hour before admission. He was standing with his hand on the muzzle of the gun, which was loaded with powder only. This exploded, and the wadding, which was a piece of paper, was blown through his hand. There was a small wound in the palm, between the metacarpal bones of the fore and middle fingers, and a larger wound, of irregular shape, on the back of the hand, with the edges torn aside in different directions. The bones were not broken. Two large vessels which bled freely were tied, and the wound was dressed. 18. — He was tremulous, and in a low and depressed state. I ordered a pint of ale daily in addition to his regular diet, and a dose of Opium at night. This was continued for ten days, and he improved much in his general health. The index, middle, and ring fingers afterwards became gangrenous. On the 17th of April I removed them, with the heads of the three metacarpal bones. Much blood was lost at the operation from the granulating surfaces and the small vessels; but no vessel required a ligature. After a week's continuance of northerly and north-east winds, Erysipelas appeared on the head and face, on the 26th. E50 Quinine was administered, with port wine, eggs, and beef tea. The Erysipelas subsided favorably, and the wounds in the hand healed. 12 May.—He was attacked with diarrhea. By a continu- ance of this for several days his strength was much lowered. Toward the end of the month he recovered sufficiently to be able to get out of bed and to sit up during the day; but at night he passed his urine and feces under him as he lay. Very generous diet, with wine and brandy, was provided, and taken with an appetite ; but he became weaker by degrees, and died on the 17th of June. There was a large slough on the sacrum. In the left wrist- joint the articular cartilages had disappeared. The left shoulder- joint was full of stinking pus. This communicated with a large abscess under the pectoral muscles. The right shoulder-joint was also filled with stinking pus. The articular cartilage in both shoulders had disappeared, in parts, from the head of the bone. Remarks.—The collection of matter under the pectoral muscles had been observed; but the symptoms of a more serious nature had come on so insidiously that they almost escaped notice. The man made no complaint. When admitted, the injury did not present an unfavorable appearance. Although contraction was to be expected from sloughing of fascia and tendons, there remained good ground for hope that a useful extremity would be preserved. The hand and the fingers are seen so often to recover after more severe injuries, that recovery in this case might fairly be ex- pected. In a younger man, the hope might have been fulfilled by the more speedy healing of the original wound. Mr. Briscoe has told me of the following case, which was under treatmen*- in the Infirmary when he was the House- Surgeon:— A farm laborer, 28 years of age, admitted i November, 1846, was under the care of Mr. Cleoburey, with a gunshot wound of both hands, received eleven miles from Oxford, by the accidental discharge of a fowling-piece loaded with small shot. Both wrist-joints were laid open. The carpal and metacarpal bones of both hands were fractured and com-51 minuted. He was leaning, with his hands crossed, his wrists being one over the other, upon the muzzle, when the powder exploded, and the contents passed through the joints. Free suppuration followed, and pieces of bone were discharged from time to time. The man left the Infirmary on the 7th of April following, with the wounds nearly healed. Mr. Briscoe had the opportunity of seeing him some years afterwards. The hands were permanently extended. The ring finger and little finger were contracted on the palm. The wrist-joints were firmly anchylosed. There was no power of flexion, nor of pronation and supination ; but the man had considerable power of grasping objects by the lateral movement of the thumb and fingers. Gunshot Wound of Foot, Secondary Hemorrhage—Ligature of both Anterior and Posterior Tibial Arteries at the Ankle. A young man, 23 years of age, was admitted into the Rad- clifife Infirmary, under my care, % May, 1857, with a gunshot wound of the left foot. A fowling-piece, loaded with small shot, was accidentally discharged within very few inches of him; and the whole of the contents passed through the foot, at the junction of the tarsal with the metatarsal bones. On the 13th profuse hemorrhage of an arterial character occurred from the wounds. It was not stopped until I had tied the Anterior Tibial artery on the dorsum of the foot, and the Posterior Tibial at the heel, by means of incisions through the sound parts, as well as several small vessels in the wound. The ligature from the Posterior Tibial artery came away on the 2ist, and the last of the other ligatures on the 25th. He was discharged from the Infirmary on the ist of July. The upper wound was healed, and the lower one nearly so. I saw him 3 or 4 years afterwards. The foot was sound, but more susceptible than the other of the influence of cold. ■ Contusion of Foot. Swelling —Puncture —Hemorrhage — Ligature of Plantar Artery—Return of Hemorrhage—Ligature of Anterior Tibial Artery—Further Hemorrhage — Ligature of Posterior Tibial Artery. A young man, 20 years of age, a shoemaker, was admitted into the Radcliffe Infirmary, under my care, 12 May, 1868, E 252 having bruised his left foot by falling among some pieces of timber shortly before admission. After the first effects of the injury had passed off, and the general swelling of the foot and the ecchymosis had subsided, a small swelling was observed deep on the inner side of the sole under the tarsal bones. It was tense and elastic; it did not become smaller on pressure. There was no pulsation or throbbing in it; but it was attended with almost constant pain. The House-Surgeon punctured it with a narrow double-edged scalpel, and afterwards passed a probe into the opening. No matter of any kind escaped. The Patient expressed himself as being relieved by the puncture. A bread poultice was applied to the foot. On the 1st June the puncture had healed. The swelling was the same sis before. The Patient complained again of the pain in the foot. An incision was made into the swelling. This was followed by free hemorrhage of an arterial character. The flow of blood was not stopped by pressure. To get at the source of it, I enlarged the opening by making a transverse incision at the inner side, at right angles with that first made; and I tied an arteiy which I supposed to be one of the large Plantar branches of the Posterior Tibial artery. After this the hemorrhage ceased. A draught of Liq. Amnion. Acet., with 15 minims of Vinum Antimonii, 35 of Vinum Opii, and 30 of Sp. Etheris nitr., was given to him at bed-time. On the 7th the hemorrhage returned. I then made an in- cision on the dorsum of the foot, and tied the Anterior Tibial artery. This stopped the flow of blood. On the iith the bleeding returned again from the wound in the sole. I enlarged the wound in a direction toward the heel, and passed a needle threaded with some fine iron wire deeply through the soft parts, under the course of the Posterior Tibial vessels, and secured the artery by twisting the wire over the needle in form of a figure 8. No hemorrhage occurred after this last opera- tion. The wounds healed slowly. The twisted wire had become buried deeply under the soft parts, and I had some difficulty in removing it. The parts were not quite healed when the Patient left the Infirmary.53 About 3 years afterwards, he met with some accident in machinery; and the leg was afterwards amputated. The opportunity of making a dissection of the foot was lost. Remarks. — It may be thought that hemorrhage from the vessels of the foot can be restrained by treatment similar to that which is successful in wounds of the hand. In case of a gunshot wound through the foot, followed by sloughing, it would not be easy to maintain continuous and uniform pressure under the necessity for a frequent change of_ the dressings. I did not make the attempt in this case. In the other case, an attempt might have been made, upon the first occurrence of the hemorrhage, after the puncture of what seemed to be an aneurismal swelling. The Patient, how- ever, was not a favorable subject for treatment, which required rest in bed and watchfulness. He did not readily bear any pressure or confinement before the swelling was punctured. In a man of a different temperament, pressure might have been attempted with more hope of a successful result. [St. Bartholomew's Hospital Reports, Vol. 14.] Mr. Sarjeant, then of Chepstow, told me the following case as having happened within his own knowlege. A lad, about 16 years of age, got possession of a piece of gas-pipe. He filed a small hole near one end, for a touch-hole, plugged the end with a piece of wood, and mounted it as a gun-barrel on an other piece of wood, which he cut into shape for a ' stock.' Having loaded the piece with powder and shot, he went to shoot a bird. The plug at the breech was blown out by the explosion ; and it entered the left side of his chest, in the region of the heart. He called out to a man near him, who was driving a horse and cart,—' I am shot through the heart;' and dropped dead without a struggle. From the direction of the wound Mr. Sarjeant had no doubt that the heart was wounded. A System of Surgery; Pathological, Diagnostic, Therapeutic, and Operative. By s. D. gross, m.d.. Pro- fessor of Surgery in the Jefferson Medical College of Philadelphia. 1859. If a reader was in danger of forgetting that science is pro- gressive, and that Surgery,—as we understand it, of littlo54 more than a hundred years' growth,—has advanced in his own day with at least equal strides with other departments of human knowlege, the accumulating literature of the Profes- sion would recall him to a just sense of the position in which modern Surgery stands. For much of this we are indebted to those who have already passed away; some, to whom our obligations are not less, are still among us. The old Treatises on Surgery, the work of Authors too numerous to mention here, were good in their way; they were faithful records by the writers, of their own practise and observation. Often, no doubt, the writer of earlier times took from other sources, as modern Authors do, facts unsupported by authenticity; but a careful examination will show, that he distinguishes honestly between his own work and what he has acquired at second hand. What is practical and true holds good. These more laborious compilations of a past genera- tion have been superseded by monographs, and by abridge- ments and handbooks, which have been called into existence by the wants of the day. In them the Student finds what he wants; and the Practitioner consults the book he had in use as a Student. The monograph, the rival in popular favor, shows the class of experience of the individual who writes. Each artizan in his specialty accumulates experience, and the result is shown in many valuable works. Books, it must be acknowleged, are made in many different ways. Not many years ago we heard two members of the Profession discussing the merits of a volume lately published. ' Why;' said one of them, ' the man has written the book from two cases.' ' Most men," replied the Author's friend, 'write from a single case.' A ' System of Surgery' is necessarily to a certain extent a compilation. The Author of such a work, like a Lecturer, endeavors to collect all the scattered knowlege that has been obtained, and incorporating with it the additional information gained by his own observations, to arrange and display the whole in a clear and accessible form. For such a work Dr. Gross is eminently fitted. After being for several years Professor of Surgery in the University of Louisville, and Surgeon to the Hospital there, enjoying at the same time55 a high reputation, as a consulting and operating Surgeon throughout an area of many hundred miles, he has lately- been appointed to the chair of Surgery in Jefferson Medical College, in Philadelphia. He has published shorter treatises on different subjects of Surgery, and he has contributed some valuable papers to the periodical publications in America. This, his largest work, is founded upon the lectures he has delivered as Professor of Surgery; ' it should be regarded,' he says, ' as embodying the results of a large personal, if not a ripe experience, of extensive reading, and of much reflec- tion.' Upon subjects where his personal experience has been limited, he gives a clear account of what his predecessors have done ; and his criticisms upon new or unti'ied modes of practise are candid and satisfactory. In speaking of Hereditary Disease, he says : ' There are family diseases, just as there are family likenesses, manners, and peculiarities; and what is remarkable, they are more liable to be communicated by the Mother than the Father, as if it were her special prerogative to impress her vices, as well as her virtues, upon her descendants.'' Possibly, disease transmissible from either parent is more likely to be de- veloped in those of the children who partake most of the vis iiisita, as of the physiognomy, of that parent; but we do not know that the observation of our readers will be found to confirm this statement of the Author. While reading different parts of the work,—those relating to different diseases as he successively treats of them,—it has seemed to us that the Author maintains with too great favor the practise of abstracting blood, as a powerful means for removing the activity of disease. Former writers have often told us that the diseases affecting our brethren in North America are of a more inflammatory type, and require for their subjection a freer use of the lancet, and a more liberal use of leeches. The frequency with which allusion is made to taking away blood seems to show that this practise is more prevalent there than here. The habits of the people (to say nothing of the air they breathe, or of the cheapness of alcohol), must have had some influence upon the material of disease, and upon the frequency of it. We might think56 there was nothing moderate in American life. Taking root in a new soil, the human plant rapidly grows to maturity, and rapidly passes into decay. The Consulting Practitioner often retires upon a competence at a time of life when, in the old country, he has scarcely begun to fix himself firmly in the estimation of the public and his professional brethren, or to get a footing within the circle of remunerative practise; and the highest officers of a kindred profession are superannuated before the grand climacteric brings the evidence of a decay, which here we do not acknowlege as accompanying it. The juvantia and Icsdentia of treatment are pointed out with minuteness. He advises attention to the temperature of the room, and to ventilation; he insists strongly on cleanli- ness, a frequent change of bed-clothes and body-linen, and washing or sponging of the Patient's person, as means of subduing inflammation,— matters not receiving (he thinks) sufficient attention from Practitioners. ' Even the arrange- ment of the furniture should be attended to, on the principle that an agreeable impression, of whatever kind, is more con- ducive to comfort and recovery, than one of an opposite character.' If the wall-papers could be changed to colors and patterns more pleasing, with as little trouble as the bed- hangings and the chair-covers, it might cheer the sufferer onward in his progress to health. Who has not heard of a Patient complaining that he sees faces on the walls, or that the figures are starting from their places? 'No persons should be permitted to be about the Patient, except such as are absolutely necessary to nurse him. Many a Patient is killed by the kindness of his friends and relatives.' Indeed, un- reflecting, misjudging kindness is often in its effects far worse than the want of it. In the treatment he recommends for inflammation, and the fever attending it, his directions are minute; his practise in- clining rather to a polypharmacy, constitutionally as well as locally. His list of local applications is long, and the in- gredients are active; and we think he trenches too much on what would be thought the province of the Physician, in England. But perhaps practise is tending in the West to a single faculty as rapidly as it seems to be with us.57 The diagnosis of Chronic Abscess, however easy in theory, is not always established without mistake, as the experience of too many of the best Surgeons testifies. Indeed, we doubt whether there are many operators who would not acknowlege that once, or even more than once, they have found themselves doing something more than making a mere puncture for the evacuation of the contents. The history, if it could be always had, might aid the diagnosis. The Patient seldom has the amount of observation necessary to guide the Surgeon unerringly; and if the fluctuation of purulent matter could be always felt, there would be no need of a puncture with the exploring-needle,—an instrument, of which he tells us in an other place that ' a large volume might be filled, if one had time, with a rehearsal of the mischief that has been committed by it in the hands of careless and unscrupulous Practitioners.' ... A young man, aged 24 years, lately serving in a draper's shop, was confined to the sofa for relief of the pain attending a weakly condition of his feet, which were in an advanced stage of valgus. He called my attention to a large swelling, which he supposed to be of recent formation, in the lower part of his left thigh. It had not been preceded by rigors, or other usual symptoms of suppuration. It occupied the whole circumference of the limb, and was tightly bound down by the fascia. It was without distinct fluctuation. The swelling had the general appearance of a large collection of matter. This was not the Patient's opinion. He had been the subject of several deep abscesses; and he was familiar in his own person with the symptoms preceding the formation. I punctured the swelling with a scalpel, and let out a pint of thick purulent matter. The swelling was evidently a chronic abscess. The puncture healed; but afterwards reopened: and the abscess continued to discharge at intervals, to the time of his death \i months afterwards. His description of the Scroftilous Ulcer, the surface, the secretion, and the parts around, is a clear and accurate de- scription of an ulcer strongly marked, of frequent occurrence. Specimens are to be found in every ward of a Hospital; and, common as it is, worthy of study, being one with which the58 ulcers of other specific diseases are often confounded, and from which they are sometimes with difficulty distinguishable. The subject of metallic sutures comes under his considera- tion when treating of wounds. He says, in his own ex- perience, he has not realized from them the advantages which other Surgeons have been led to ascribe to them. ' The introduction of the wire is easy enough; but its withdrawal is often attended with great inconvenience, and even risk of tearing the imperfectly-united edges of the wound completely asunder. Nor am I satisfied that it is less irritating than the properly-prepared silk or linen thread.' The inconvenience we have ourselves found in withdrawing it has arisen from the less yielding character of the wire; and the removal, especi- ally in highly sensitive parts, as the lip, is often attended with very great pain to the Patients. The word Syphilis he applies, as other writers do, to all forms of disease,—penal diseases they might be called,— supposed to have their origin from impure sexual intercourse. He does not distinguish with more accuracy than many of his predecessors, the sequelae of the different primary sores which are followed by secondary affections;—the character- istic eruption, for instance, loss of hair, and noctui-nal pains of the hard primary sore, which does not produce pus, from the protean secondary symptoms of the phagedenic poison, less regular in their course, and more formidable in their ravages. A chapter on Venereal diseases in a comprehensive work on Surgery would not be complete without some reference to John Hunter. Accurate observer as he was. Hunter no doubt confounded together several primary sores of different specific character. A more accurate observation should endeavor to establish a separate diagnosis; and, before attempting a cure by a single remedy, or by a routine administration of remedies of acknowleged virtue, should be able to point out with accuracy the sequelae of each, the course of the original sore, and,—where there are such, — the appearances and order of the several sequelae. The different methods of Amputating the Extremities, and the mortality after the operation, occupy some space. The Author describes the different methods, on which so much59 discussion has taken place with so little approach to uni- formity of opinion, but makes no estimate of their compara- tive value as therapeutic agents. In his own practise he prefers the operation by flaps; he thinks it more easy of performance. The circular operation, as now performed by double in- cision, is that which for the longest period of time has re- ceived the general approbation of Surgeons. By it a smaller amount of injury is inflicted on the soft parts, and it makes a smaller wound. Generally it is attended with less flow of blood, the mouths of the divided vessels contract more per- fectly, and a smaller number of vessels require ligature. But it requires the exercise of a little more judgement on the part of the Surgeon,—a nicer calculation in admeasurement, to secure an efficient covering for the end of the bone. It certainly is not according to our experience, what some instrument - makers tell us, as quoted by Dr. Gross, that stumps made by the circular operation seldom answer well for the adaptation of an artificial substitute. If it was, we should be tempted, when the difficulty arose, to seek the aid of others who had the faculty of being able to fit an artificial substitute to the stump presented to them. The operation by flaps is done more readily; it takes some few seconds less in time, and there is less danger of the in- experienced operator failing to secure a sufficiency of soft parts for protection of the end of the bone,—the one thing above all others required for the future comfort of the Patient and the adaptation of an artificial limb. ' Many amputations have I seen villainously done,' said a late In- spector of Army Hospitals ; ' but they all turned out well, if only the bone was sawn high enough.'' Dr. Gross remarks:—' It has long been known that the danger of the operation is greater in proportion to its prox- imity to the trunk, and the size of the limb.' We are inclined to think that the danger to the Patient arises rather from the injury or disease, for which the operation is undertaken, having its seat so near the trunk. If it should ever become the fashion—and who shall say it will not.^—to amputate at the hip-joint for disease of the knee, we venture to say6o that the mortality following that operation will be much les3 than in the cases to which the operation is now for the most part restricted,—those, namely, in which the disease can not be removed by any operation through the thigh itself, and where the amputation is, often of necessity, done through unsound parts. In the great operations, where an opportunity is afforded by the publicity attending cases occurring in the public Hospitals, it might be worth while to institute an enquiry into the amount and causes of the mortality arising among cases in similar circumstances under the hands of different Surgeons of the same Institution, where there exists the same atmosphere, the same general routine of domestic ecpnomy, the same nurses, the same dressers and pupils, the same governors controlling, or may be helping, the adjiroantia. The field of enquiry has been too restricted. Fuller authentic reports from the larger Hospitals should be periodically laid before the Profession, We wish to see the causes of death after these operations investigated with the zeal and industry and the success with which the mortality in Hernia has been investigated, in the belief that it may equally lead to im- provements in practise. ... The 19th Vol. of the Transactions of the Provincial Medi- cal and Surgical Association (1853) contains a Report compiled by me of cases of Amputation, and other opei'ations, performed in the Radcliffe Infirmary,—with the cause of death in the cases which ended fatally. In Vol. 39 of the Medico- Chirurgical Transactions of London (1856), is a fuller Report, extending over a longer period, compiled from the Registers at the Infirmary, of cases of Amputation of the limbs. The cases are arranged in classes, according as the operation was performed for disease, or for injury,—in cases of disease, where it has been of different character, constitutional or local; and in cases of injury, whether the operation was immediate and primary, or secondary. In cases of disease of Joints, I have given the subsequent history of the Patients, after being dis- charged from the Infirmaiy, upon recovering from the operation. Reports of the cases of Amputation in some Hospitals,—6i as at Exeter and Glasgow,—had been published before these. Other reports, with a larger number of cases, and more exten- sive in the particulars given, have been published since ; and the various causes of the mortality after these and other capi- tal operations, have often been publicly discussed. To an American author one looks naturally for a full account of Anesthesia: it is due to American surgery that we should acknowlege our obligation for this great and wonderful inno- vation in practise. An interesting history is given of the unhappy originator, Dr. Wells, whose first experiment was made on himself with Nitrous oxide gas in 1844. The know- lege that inhaling the gas rendered the Patient insensible to the pain of a surgical operation had been publicly taught in one, at least, of the medical schools in London nearly 30 years before this. But we were told no more than that it had been ' tried,'—so had other means. . . . Dr. Hue told me that he mentioned the subject in his Lectures at St. Bartholomew's Hospital. He had learned the fact from Sir Humphry Davy. ... Large doses of Opium had been given by Practitioners,— rather, we suspect, with the view of overcoming the expected resistance of the Patient in a given case, than with the inten- tion of relieving the pain of the operation. Dr. Gross went beyond this. He was in the habit of employing it, either alone, or with antimony, for many years in almost every case that fell into his hands. ' I became very fond of the practise, and never, so far as I could determine, experienced any bad effects from it. On the contrary, I know that it was com- monly productive of great benefit, not only blunting sensibility, but preventing shock, and consequently severe reaction.' The effect of drunkenness in deadening pain had been observed. Many an amputation has been done during drunk- enness-, and the Patient has known nothing of it. But experi- ence testified that it was far from being universally so. In one of the Midland counties, a family of ' bone-setters,' who had great reputation in restoring contracted joints, used to make the Patient drunk before applying forcible extension to break down the adhesions: and it has been known that midwives have had recourse to the same practise to relieve the pains of labor. Drunkenness was too uncertain in its action as an62 anesthetic to be admissible as an agent of acknowleged efficacy. The apparent removal of consciousness by mesmeric 'passes' (whatever its success with the ' mild Hindoo,') failed, with us, to temper the sharpness of a serious operation: the single case brought publicly before the profession at a Meeting of the Medico-Chirurgical Society, having been afterwards acknow- leged to be an imposture. But that the imagination can be so far abstracted as to allow some degree of pain to be inflicted unfelt, the case of the late Lord Metcalfe will show. Besides, many of us, since the introduction of ether and chloroform, have seen a patient quieted during the latter part of an ope- ration, by breathing through the empty sponge of the inhaler. Tetanus has been found fatal under Dr. Gross's care. ' In an experience of 31 years I have seen but two cases where the Patient escaped with his life ; and then only after a pro- tracted and painful struggle.'. . . To this I can add, that in 35 years I have myself seen only two cases of recovery;—both of them in boys. In an acute disease so formidable and so fatal, when the anesthetic effects of ether and chloroform were fully established. Surgeons naturally looked to inhalation as the one remedy yet untried, and from which benefit might be hoped. The experience of each individual Surgeon is neces- sarily limited ; and none can have had many opportunities of watching its effects. It does not appear that Dr. Gross has himself used it. He says, notwithstanding the reports pub- lished by different observers, ' it is certain it has generally signally failed to cure.' Under my own observation, it has seemed to me that the violence of the spasm and the parox- ysms of pain have been lessened ; but the attacks returned at shorter intervals, and the Patient has become sooner exhausted by their repetition. The euthanasia was successful. The subject of Fractures, he regards as the most trying and difficult branch of Surgery to practise successfully. Perhaps his anxiety may arise in part from his knowlege of the fre- quency with which law-suits are waged about charges of mal- practise. Indeed, the whole of the long section is written with a caution, and an amount of closeness of observation, likely to be the result of long and extensive practise in con-63 sultation, in a country where we hear of Practitioners requiring a bond of indemnity from a Patient, before undertaking the treatment of his case. In the division of fractures, as in dislocations, he adopts the French distinction into simple and complicated, in preference to the two long adopted in England. We confess we prefer the terms so well known in England. To us it seems that the word complicated adds nothing definite to the term fracture, beyond saying that there is other mischief beside the ' solution of continuity in the osseous tissue.' It is not sufficiently de- scriptive, and it would seem objectionable, because ' it is easy to comprise under this denomination every form of accident that can possibly arise, either at the moment of the injury or during the progress of the treatment.' Trusses form an important article in the palliative treatment of reducible Hernia, in some cases leading, though slowly, to the permanent cure. Dr. Gross gives the preference to Chase's. We see the same objection to this as to most of the trusses for inguinal or femoral hernia which are formed of a spring encircling the pelvis. While great mechanical inge- nuity is applied to the construction of the pad, that it should fit itself exactly to the rings, and to the curve and the neck that it should rest exactly in the groin and bend of the thigh, it seems to us that the necessity for fitting the spring to the pelvis is overlooked. This object would be better attained if the posterior part of the spring were bent, so as to describe a transverse section of a cone rather than a section of a cylin- der, which is the form of most of the serpent trusses. The value of a truss as a preventive of the more serious evils of strangulation has been tested at one Hospital on a large scale. In a large town in an agricultural county, where the operation for strangulated hernia was not uncommon, the Governors resolved to supply trusses to every Patient applying, if recom- mended by the Surgeon in attendance. We have been told that the operation for strangulated hernia has very rarely been performed in the Hospital since this order has been carried into execution. The Author's style is easy in the reading; he seems to have a clear understanding of what he means, and his language is64 intelligible. His descriptions of diseases and their symptoms are good and practical; he deals in principles, in descriptions of disease, and approved modes of treatment. There is an absence of the hardness which disfigures much of the scientific writing of the day; and there is a notable absence — a pleasing one, — of the frequent appearance of the pronoun of the first person. [British and Foreign Medico-Chiriirgical Review, April, 1861.] To B. E. Brodhurst, Esq. My dear Sir,—Many thanks for your book, on Anchylosis : I have read it with great pleasure. Let me refer to one subject in it. Some years ago I wrote an article on Gross's System of Surgery in the British and Foreign Medico-Chirurgical Review. When Dr. Gross was in England, I called on him, and introduced myself. I told him I had abstained from referring to one part of his book, — the passage in which he expressed the astonishment of American Surgeons at the English doctrine of what is called ' Gonorrheal Rheumatism.' I told him the doctrine was too firmly held, to make it prudent for me to give an opinion so publicly against it. He was much amused. You have not accepted fully the popular teaching. You call the disease ' Urethral Rheumatism.' My Master, Mr. Welbank, called it rheumatic inflammation of the urethra. He pointed out to me, as a pupil, 40 years ago, that the discharge from the urethra was not necessarily the result of impure connection, as in gonorrhea virulenta ; that it did not appear at the same regular period after contagion, and did not follow the same course ; that it appeared after the affec- tion of the joints, as well as before it; and that in many cases it was independent of sexual intercourse. In a case he was attending with Sir Benjamin Brodie, of an old gentleman confined to bed with gout, the discharge appeared while he was so confined ; and he pointed it out to Sir B. Brodie, who in those days was inclined to sneer at it. Mr. Welbank said to me, ' A man with a clap is a jolly65 fellow : he goes on drinking and whoring still. But I'll be hanged if a man with a rheumatic inflammation of his urethra is so.' As his practise extended, Sir B. Brodie must have seen cases among the educated classes in society which puzzled him. I am far from meaning to say that all difficulties in the course of such a severe malady can be smoothed by getting rid of the disgusting assumption of a morbus Gallicus. Undoubtedlj^, it is a disease, as you say, 'of a peculiar character.' There is much of goutiness about it. This needs investigation. Moreover, is it not said of Gout, that it seldom occurs until after sexual intercourse, i. e. after the active exer- cise of the genito-urinary organs ? The female system seems, from some cause or other, to be less liable to gout, than the male. Less liable to such a con- stitutional malady, women are less liable, perhaps, to this form of arthritis^ and are less frequently charged (by the attending and consulting Practitioners) with such a questionable cause of it. 15 Jtme, 1881. A System of Surgery, Theoretical and Practical ; IN Treatises by various Authors, Edited by t. holmes, Surgeon to St. George's Hospital, i860, i, 2. The appearance of a new work, which is to comprize the whole range of Surgical practise as understood in the present day in England, naturally leads us to enquire how it happens that such a work is new, and how it is that the want of it is only now to be supplied. It had long been felt that however high the standard of Surgery had been raised in this country, it was not to the credit of the Professors and Practitioners of the science, that there was no modern work sufficiently com- prehensive in its pages to compare with the productions of other countries, which at once gave a view of the whole range of the science and practise of Surgery, and was at the same time the production of individual research and experience, rather than a compilation from the labors of other men. Con- tented to take their stand on ground they knew they could hold, it seemed as if the leaders and the teachers in the F66 English schools of Surgery were to be known by their well- earned title to safe and successful practical knowlege,— the pride, as it is thought, of the practical Englishman; rather than by any claims they could put forward to higher honors gained by toil in the more laborious fields of original investi- gation. At all events, there was no single work, as a written record of the results of such labors, by which their claim to pre- eminence could be tested, or from which it could be proved. "Where the possession of such a title was not known, it could safely be called in question ; and the claims of the English schools could be challenged by others who, perhaps, looked around them from .a lower standing on the slopes of the surgical Olympus. The projectors of the work, now before the profession, have undertaken to supply the deficiency ; and for this purpose they have formed into a ' System' a collection of essays or treatises by different writers on the numerous subjects comprized in the general term of ' Surgery.' The difficulty of obtaining qualified contributors to unite in the general plan of a work which should be a complete expression of the opinions and experience of many men ; and, still more, to act in concert in the execution of it, and to perform with punctuality their en- gagements with their common Editor and the professional public, has been an obstacle in the way of the completion of former undertakings of a similar nature, though the hope of it has often been conceived by active minds. Mr. Coote contributes two short essays,—one of them on Abscess. He gives the modern doctrine of the origin of pus ; in behalf of which it must be said, as of much other learning that we labor to accumulate, that it seems a weak part of the doctrine that a writer is forced to confess that some of what is most necessary to the support of it ' has yet to be proved.' The possibility of the absorption of pus, though now known to be of frequent occurrence, rather than an occasional and rare exception to a pathological law, is not yet universally admitted, if we may judge by the practise, still followed by some Surgeons, of incising every fluctuating swelling. Where there is room for a doubt, there will generally be found some ground to support it; and of a soft and fluctuating swelling.67 which has been allowed to disappear without active inter- ference, it will many times be a question after all, which can never be solved, whether it was indeed pus. The bleeding lancet, if made, as lancets are now usually- made for the pocket-case, sufficiently strong in the blade not to bend, and strong enough in the point not to break, we have generally found the most satisfactory instrument for opening the abscesses under the common integument; and these are the abscesses for which an opening is most fre- quently needed, or, perhaps we should say, is most frequently made. It is a less formidable instrument to produce in the sick-room ; and we think it may be commended as doing the work sufficiently well. For chronic suppuration, for the ab- scess under the deep fascia, ' a thin, yet broad-shouldered, sharp-cutting, double-edged knife, or scalpel,' recommended by Mr. Coote, will be found more serviceable,—greatly superior, according to our observation, to the curved cutting instrument, the bistoury, or the old-fashioned ' abscess lancet.' The rapid division of inflamed tissues, such as those generally lying over an abscess, of the integument especially, is attended with severe pain ; and a ' rapid and bold plunge' of the instrument will often be found to give unnecessary pain in the beginning of an operation, at the end of which Mr. Coote justly condemns all probing and squeezing, as ' a proceeding extremely painful' to the Patient. The poultice, after the first application, may well be dispensed with; for it tends to keep up the suppuration, and by weakening the vessels, so far interferes with the recommendation to ' leave the remainder of the cure to Nature.' Under the head of Gangrene, Mr. Coote includes the different terms which have been applied to mortification, or ' the doing to death,' of different textures of the body. Ulcer- ation and mortification are often mingled; the ulcerative and sloughing processes may go on, as it were, hand in hand. Still, surgically speaking, there is a wide difference between ulceration and gangrene, beyond the extent of the part involved in the spreading destructive disease, and the more intimate sympathy of the constitution with one than in the other; however difficult it may be to frame a definition68 which shall separate them by a broad line. The causes of gangrene are numerous ; the attempts to interpret them aright have been conflicting, and the interpretation not always satis- factory. The death of an inflamed part, it has been remarked, is a very complex matter. The rules for the treatment of mortification, Mr. Coote says, are simpler than in times gone by; but the means we possess of controlling it are few in number. Surgeons do not often witness death from the unchecked progress of traumatic gangrene, in a part destroyed by direct violence. The amount of local injury, of which it is thought that gangrene will be the certain termination, is too clear an indication for the immediate removal of the injured member, and it is seldom that the Patient is not himself sensible of the necessity for an operation, or that he refuses to be guided by the judgement of the Surgeon when he advises immediate amputation. Yet we do find now and then that he refuses; and we do find sometimes that gangrene in almost hopeless circumstances will stop short of the extinction of life; as we also find that the amputation of a limb, even at a distance from the injury, and far out of reach, as one would think, of all contaminating influences, does not always save life. The cases in which, in the absence of constitutional causes, predisposing or exciting, the gangrene is most frequently seen to run its course with rapidity, are those where the injury has been to a large nerve or primary bloodvessel, and where the indication for amputation was not sufficiently distinct. The secondary mortification following injury less severe in its character is less rapid in progress, and more frequently stops, or performs a spontaneous amputation. Mr. Coote gives a full and faithful description of Hospital Gangrene, — the 'good example' of the disease which forms the subject of his essay. Constitutional symptoms, he correctly says, may be generally observed; and where the disease attacks large wounds, such as stumps after amputation, it will often seem as if they were really the precursors of the local manifestation of the disease ; though we suspect a more careful observation of the wound and its secretion would have shown early enough that there, at least, all was not right.69 As might be inferred in a state sometimes resulting from atmospheric contagion, or inoculation, the local condition often precedes the sympathy of the system days, — aye, weeks. In the wards of the Hospital where Mr. Coote gained his chief experience of the disease, constitutional treatment, most carefully followed out, failed 40 years ago to cure a single cas.e of the disease, every one of which in its utmost fury was instantly and permanently checked by local treat- ment. Pure Nitric acid was ' generally preferred,' then, as now, for the reason that no known caustic has such an affinity for animal matter. This was the reason given, for the prefer- ence, by Mr, Welbank, at whose suggestion the first applica- tion of the acid was made in St. Bartholomew's Hospital. If applied in its full strength, it is found to be less painful than when diluted. To some extent this is the case with other caustics, and applied in other cases. Indeed, we have heard it suggested that a strong caustic might not inaptly be called an anodyne. The subject of Ulcers is treated by Sir James Paget,— limiting his essay to the consideration of those forms of ulcer which appear in the integuments,—as being of chief interest from the Surgeon's point of view. It simplifies a work to have some mode of arrangement and classification for purposes of description ; and Sir James Paget describes each of the chief varieties of ulcers, of which sufificiently numerous instances are seen to allow of such arrangement, according to their origin and character; and when not of specific origin, they are named from some prominent or distinctive characteristic. Many of these ulcers, so indicated as inflammatory, eczema- tous, &c., are also capable of classification as simple ulcers, without constitutional vice, to which accident has added some complication,—as local inflammation, eczema, &c. Among the Patients presenting themselves at public Institutions, such complications are often epidemic, if we may judge from the number of Patients in whom they are seen. An essay upon Erysipelas is by Mr. De Morgan. ' The term,' he observes, ' has been applied to a variety of forms of inflammation which probably have no true connexion with one an other.' Of the two chief varieties now universally70 distinguished, — simple and phlegmonous, — Mr. De Morgan thinks that there is no real boundary between them. The various modifications of these he regards as phases of one disease, which has its seat not merely in the part, but in the system : ' The form which the disease may take is determined by the state of the system, the temperament, habits, &c., of the individual, or the external causes which produce it.' There are, we think, some prominent points of distinction to be noted between the two more commonly observed forms, which tend to make a boundary between them less open to question. If we may believe the Practitioners, in the purer air of the country, and in the county Hospitals, Phlegmonous Erysipelas is rare, while simple Erysipelas is of frequent occurrence. The phlegmonous form, if contagious, must be slightly so in comparison with the simple. The phlegmonous species is not often seen at Hospitals in its early stages, at the period when local depletion, or a milder treatment than free incision, is likely to be beneficial and to arrest its progress. We think it may be open to question whether the phlegmonous form is not in reality an inflammation of the areolar and adipose tissues, of a specific character, spreading rapidly with gangrene inwards to the fascia and muscles, and outwardly to the common integument, rather than a disease of common origin with the simple form,—a disease ' not of itself a formidable complaint.' Putting full confidence in constitutional treatment, he gives in detail the many local applications recommended to relieve or cut short the attack ; but he has not found them realize the merits claimed for them. Indeed, it almost seems that the more nearly these approach to harmlessness, the greater is their merit as medicinal agents. A short essay on Delirium Tremens, by Dr. Barclay, con- tains a good description of the special characters of the disease in its most striking form. 'The moral management of the Patient' is recommended as 'the point of most im- portance in practise,' — coercive measures being justifiable only under unavoidable necessity. This necessity unfortunately too often exists in the circumstances in which the unhappy Patient is placed. Where quiet can be secured, and complete separation from all continuance of excitement, as in the71 Lunatic Asylums, (where cases often happen,) personal re- straint is not found to be necessary; the Patient, if violent, is put into a small ward by himself, from which the light can be excluded, with padded floor and padded walls, where he can not hurt himself; and it is found that he obtains rest, and the cure follows. Mr. H. Lee contributes a treatise on Syphilis. He canvasses the opinions which have been published by foreign Practitioners upon the subject of inoculation, and the conclusions which have been drawn from them. Much of this experimental inoculation has been made with matter taken from various sores, not all probably of the same specific character, or in the same stage of progress. It is an objection that the experiments have been made upon the diseased subject. In order to show the natural progress of the original disease, if a constitutional affection, an other subject should be taken, in good health,... an expedient which it is not likely will ever be adopted ex- tensively, — at least, in this country. Moreover, we think these experiments, even on the person of the Patient, are not so free from danger as is generally supposed. We have known the ulcer produced by inoculation continue to spread, and proceed unchecked, till the death of the unfortunate Patient put a period to farther observation. The scaly form of disease can perhaps be always introduced by inoculation from the secretion of the primary sore ; and it may proceed on its regular course, through known stages, little (if at all,) modified by peculiarity of constitution. Not so the phagedenic; this takes I'oot less readily, unless when engrafted on a fit stock. At all events, we seldom see it, either hereditary or acquired, in its full characteristic virulence, except in what may be called rotten constitutions, or if in young and (what might be thought,) healthy subjects, young rakes, fair people with thin skins and thin bloodvessels. It need not be a matter of surprize that some forms of known constitutional disease, or cachexia, can not be engrafted by inoculation; — Cancer, for instance; and experiments have been abundant on the persons of Surgeons engaged in operations. A pro- fessional friend told us many years ago that he an,d others of his acquaintance had tried in vain to inocujate measles72 .... Other Practitioners, I have since heard, have suc- ceeded. Mr. Lee's investigations confirm the observation of some former writers of the great numerical frequency of sores followed by irritation of the absorbents, and extensive sup- purating buboes, without constitutional infection, or' secondary' symptoms; and also that there are constitutional affections, slow in progress, and not in general preceded by visible contamination of glands. The irritation and enlargement of the lymphatics often escapes the Patient's observation ; as, we think, the original sore of the scaly form will sometimes. Mr. Lee's investigations also go to support the opinion long and publicly maintained, that there is a steadily progressive Ve- nereal disease, though of (pathologically speaking) a mild character, not tending to ulceration, — a disease which it has been too much a fashion in the present day to doubt and even to deny. We think the distinction proposed between a ' sup- purating sore,' and an ' infecting chancre,' is a good and practical one. ... That the appearance of adherent matter is not uniformly noted in real chancre was observed by Mr. Wclbank. (Practical Commentaries on the present knowlege and treatment of Syphilis, 1835.)... The'suppurating sores' require a further separation into those which are harmless, and those which are followed by phagedenic or other secondary affections.... If the Practitioner takes notes, for the purpose of investigating the progress of a case of Venereal disease, and the constitutional or other symptoms which arise, these are points to which he should give attention on the first visit ' of the Patient. His general constitution ; whether of scorbutic habit, or liable to eruptions of any kind ; the constitution of the Parents, and that 'of brothers and sisters: — the date of first appearance of the original disease, and how long after connection: — the form of first appearance, whether pustular, abrasion, fissure:—the progress of the original sore; and the treatment before the visit: — the present number and character of sores, if more than one; the situation, the size, form, base, edge, and secretion : for these will be found to vary, on the corona glandis, or fossa, on the prepuce, or the com- mon integument: — and whether the absorbents are affected.73 The proposal to cut short the progress of venereal diseases by excision of the primary sore does not find favor. Mr. Evans pointed out, many years ago, that the diseased action of the sore, 'which,' he says, 'is more frequently met with than all other ulcerations on the parts of generation put together,' extends in many instances a considerable distance beyond the seat of the sore, and that, if leeches be applied to the groin for the reduction of bubo, the wounds made by them often become sores of the same form. (Pathological and Prac- tical Remarks on Ulcerations of the Genital Organs, 1819.) But, in truth, the Patient generally applies too late for excision to give a fair chance of removal of the disease: the poison has taken effect by the time he discovers the sore which gives rise to his anxiety. We are not aware that the vaccine vesicle has ever been excised. Dr. Walker's experiment was the nearest approach to this; and he considered that the con- stitution was sufficiently infected, notwithstanding the strange proceeding. The subject of Poisoned Wounds is treated by Mr. Poland. The wounds frequently received in dissection are not ordinarily attended with any peculiar or specific disease, or, we may add, with any characters which should separate them from other incised or punctured wounds. It is otherwise with the wounds — the 'pricks' or 'scratches,' — received in the examination of bodies recently dead. More alarming symptoms follow these, — in rare cases, it is true; but still they do happen with sufficient frequency to receive, as they require, a large amount of attention, and the more so, as they do also sometimes lead to a fatal result. These alarming symptoms, we think, arise more frequently in cases of inflamed serous membranes, especially the peritoneum. Mr. Poland proceeds to consider the wounds received from healthy animals, the stings and bites of 'venomous beasts' and those from diseased animals, of which hydrophobia and glanders are the best known and most frequent, and, — we suppose we may add, with the general consent of our readers, — the most uniformly fatal in their results in the human subject, as well as in the brutes from which they are derived. In an essay by Mr. Moore, upon Wounds of Bloodvessels^ he74 urges the importance of clearing away the clots which have collected, and exposing the bleeding surface freely to the air. The effect of such treatment is sometimes exemplified in a remarkable degree when it becomes necessary to lay open the integument, and even the more deeply-seated parts. It seems as if the blood, being injected into the areolar tissue, hinders the vessels from retracting efficiently within their sheaths. Many years ago, a man was brought into St. Bartholomew's Hospital, shortly after receiving a kick in the groin from a horse. A large swelling arose at the part; and it was in- creasing rapidly in size. Upon consultation among the Sur- geons, it was resolved to lay the swelling open, and to search for any bleeding vessel. The swelling was opened by Sir William Lawrence, the clots were cleared out, the hemorrhage ceased, and no vessel required ligature. Free suppuration followed ; and the wound eventually healed well. The readiness with which arteries ' escape threatened injury' is generally attributed to their great elasticity, or to the firmness of their outer coats. We think that some share of this freedom from danger may be attributed to the twigs from the sympathetic system which abundantly surround the tubes. The large arteries have been known to escape injury when a bullet, or a piece of shell, has passed through a limb close to their natural course. A pitchfork has often been thrust through the neck immediately in front of the vertebree without any bad consequence. In the riots in Paris in 1848, a cavalry soldier thrust his sword through a man's neck in this part, inflicting an injury from which the man recovered after a few days' rest in hospital. Collapse, and the general effects of shock upon the system, are treated by Mr. Savory. To estimate the real effects, it seems to us that we must take 'shock' in a vastly different number of cases. The effect will be different in the shock from an operation and in that from an injury; for one the Patient is prepared, not so for the other. The effects will also be aggravated by loss of blood. Much obscurity still attends the cases of what are called ' Death from Shock.' Something more is required to be known beyond the facts, or absence of facts, discernible on a pathological examination, to enable us75 to say what was the real cause, physiologically speaking, of the fatal termination. The symptoms during life should be known, — the ' history of the case,' as we are in the habit of saying. The influence of respiration on disease, especially in its effects upon a severe surgical accident, has not been suffi- ciently noted. In the case of death from shock, what is the state of the lungs at the time of the injury? If slightly expanded, or, in common language, ' empty,' the little air is suddenly expelled by muscular contraction, and the Patient dies ; if full, emphysema follows. A carriage shall run away, and four ladies be thrown out as it is overturned; each will have her power of resistance to injury, in proportion as she has breath, or is without it. Cases of death from ' sudden and powerful emotions of the mind' are now and then reported in the Medical Journals. What happens when the Patient does not die ? Is recovery, as it is called, complete ? Are no permanent traces left upon the system ? A Serjeant in a Regiment of Dragoons, on re- tiring from service, was appointed Superintendant of a railway station. One day he attempted to pass his own child into the arms of the stoker of an engine which was passing the station; the child fell, and the truck following the engine went over it, causing immediate death. The father, up to that time a strong man, became so forgetful and inattentive as to be unfit for his duties. He was discharged, and removed to the Lunatic Asylum at Littlemore. In a few months he died, from the general paralysis of the insane. The cause of death was shown to be emphysema of the lungs, with conges- tion of the brain. An essay upon Gun-shot Wounds, is from the pen of Mr. Longmore. The special nature of injuries by fire-arms, though liable to arise, in common with other violence, in every region of the body, mark them out as a fit subject for a separate essay. In treating of these, Mr. Longmore re- stricts himself to the consideration of gun-shot wounds as they are met with in the operations of actual warfare. Although wounds possessing some of the leading charac- teristics of those inflicted by bodies projected by gunpowder, may result from objects driven by any sudden expansive76 force of sufificient power, there ai'e features in the wounds caused by the metallic projectiles used in war, which have been recognised from the time of the introduction of fire- arms, and which have marked out gunshot wounds as a subject of special interest. The educational requirements of modern times point them out also as a subject of additional study to the Student who proposes to qualify himself for the military branch of the public service. Injuries from pieces of stone set free in the process of blasting rocks, or by the accidental flying asunder of a faulty mill-wheel, will not present features materially different from the contused and lacerated wounds caused by fragments struck from a parapet or an exploded mine. The fragments of metallic vessels burst asunder by the expansive power of steam, may cause wounds presenting some of the characteristics of those caused by the explosion of a shell. But the military bullet, as an instrument of direct violence, in its passage through the trunk or extremities, causes a wound presenting features of its own, widely different from the accidents of civil life, though equally destructive of life or limb. The bolts of the archer, where they did not destroy life, have not been recorded by con- temporary historians as leaving wounds of a very formidable character: the crushing on a railway, and the destructive effects of modern machinery, in the factory or on the farm, are essentially different in many of their chief features from the lesions effected by the shot or shell of the military engineer. Mr. Longmore gives a short review of the history and literature of this branch of Surgery; and he points with V^fpride and satisfaction to the fact that, in leading the way to a more practical knowlege of the nature and proper treatment of these injuries, the older English military Surgeons stand forth conspicuously, though they have written less volu- minously than the Continental Surgeons. In considering the varieties of gun-shot wounds, as they come under the notice of the Army Surgeon, modified by the form and kind of missiles, the degree of force with which they are propelled, and by the seat of injury in the Patient, the part of his body struck, and its position relative to the pro- jectile at the time of injury, Mr. Longmore has instituted a77 comparison of the different effects caused by the bullet of the old smooth-bore musket, and those more serious wounds in- flicted by the modern arms of precision, — the Enfield, Mini6, and other rifles. In bullets of the same weight, the rate of velocity being similar,—as from 'Brown Bess' at 80 yards and the Enfield at 800,—the injury from the conical rifle ball will be far greater than that from the round ball, on account of its shape alone. ' The shape of the bullet,' Mr. Longmore says, ' combined with its momentum, seem sufficient to explain the severity of its effects above those of the round bullet:' and from these in a great measure it happens that the lodgement of balls is now so rare in comparison with the experience of former wars. Grape and canister shot, and penetrating fragments of shells, are frequently found to lodge. These last are often difficult to detect and to extract. The appearance of the wound .seldom indicates to the observer the true size of the body which caused the injury. Such fragments become firmly impacted among the fibres of the tissues in which they are lodged ; the effused blood fills up the inequalities, and rounds off" the edges which might otherwise show themselves promin- ently, and indicate the presence of the foreign body. With the old musket bullet, when it passed out, the open- ing of exit was usually easily distinguished from the wound of entrance ; it was generally larger, its edges more torn and somewhat everted, and with some protrusion of subcutaneous tissues. At the time of its infliction, as well as in its cicatrix after healing, the different appearances of the two openings of the wound were in general easily recognised. With the modern rifle-bullet — the 'elongated expanding cylindro- conoYdal projectile ' of the Schools of Musketry, — Mr. Long- more tells us it is often very difficult to distinguish between them. ' In medico-legal investigations/ he adds, ' it some- times is still a matter of great importance to decide this point; but to the military Surgeon, more especially from the circumstances connected with the new projectiles, it has become a subject of much less practical interest than it formerly was.' Drawing his experience from the field afforded by his service78 in the Crimea, Mr. Longmore gives excellent directions for the immediate treatment of wounds, and for the conveyance of the wounded,—often in a spot still exposed to danger,— to the Hospitals in the rear. He urges the importance of establishing the diagnosis as early as possible; the examina- tion of these, as of most other wounds, being made then more easily than at a later period. Of all instruments for conducting the examination, he gives a preference to the finger of the Surgeon, — long ago pronounced by John Hunter and John Bell the best of all probes. . . Of the fingers, said Ambrose Pare, their judgement is far more certain than the best made instruments. The essay is intended to convey the experience of the military Surgeon, and to be an exposition only of those leading peculiarities which constantly demand his considera- tion, and which spring either from the nature of gun-pro- jectiles, or the circumstances in which this branch of military practise has for the most part to be pursued. In the gun- shot wounds of civil life, inflicted most frequently with small shot or pistol bullets, or even with blank cartridge, severe hemorrhage, as an immediate attendant upon a wound, comes more frequently under notice than happens in military service. In the cases which have come under our own notice, the primary hemorrhage has generally been severe: we have known fatal hemorrhage arise from a trifling wound in a vein, professional help not having been called till too late. The contrast between civil and military experience is probably more apparent than real. Mr, Longmore remarks that we have no data to guide us in determining the proportionate frequency of fatal hemorrhage; nor can we have them until proper examination and classification of the particular causes of death on the field of battle are instituted. We have heard it said, indeed, that hemorrhage is one of the accidents feared by the Officers when going into action more even than death or mutilation ; and that they look with a pleasing confidence toward the medical Officer, as able to save them from what they look upon as a preventable accident. They must have had evidence, one would think, of the loss of blood upon the field.79 The gun-projectiles of civil life are not meant to be sent so far, nor to inflict wounds at a very great distance; and the severity of them generally arises from the proximity of the unlucky Patient at the time of their discharge. The smooth bullet or the slug may traverse the body or lodge in it. Yet the tightly-fitting bullet of the modern ' revolver' is, in its destructive effects, as much more powerful for mischief over the old pocket pistol as the Enfield rifle over Brown Bess ; and as these weapons become more frequently handled by the careless or the idle, and the mischievous, we must look for corresponding increase in frequency and severity of the gun-shot wounds of civil life, and the study of this branch of Surgery becomes of corresponding importance to the civil Pi-actitioner. Mr. Prescott Hewett, contributes an essay upon Injuries of the Head. Trifling as some injuries of the scalp may seem at first sight, they all demand watchful care on the part of the Practitioner. 'All injuries of the head,' Mr. Hewett remarks, ' of whatever kind, may lead to inflammation within the cranium.' In many instances—in most, we might say,— the wounds of the scalp heal readily; the great vascularity of the integument commonly saves the lacerated and con- tused flaps from sloughing. Though supplied so freely with bloodvessels, it is seldom, Mr. Hewett observes, that the hemorrhage in such wounds is troublesome. In the temporal fossa it has been found so, and the question of even tying the common carotid artery in such cases has been entertained. In the days of our pupilage, we remember a case of very troublesome hemorrhage in an other region of the head. A chimney-sweeper, half-drunk, in falling backwards received a deep wound behind the mastoid process, dividing the occipital artery, and causing considerable loss of blood. In this state, rendered more excitable by the loss of blood, he was brought into the accident ward of St. Bartholomew's Hospital. It was a very difficult matter at night, in such a subject, to secure the two branches of the divided artery; it was before the days of chloroform, and the lad could scarcely be kept still. The numerous difiiiculties in forming a diagnosis of the full8o extent of the injury — often more obscure, though not less serious, when the scalp is unbroken, or where, as sometimes happens in the bone, the violence has not been direct,—have received Mr. Hewett's attention, and the importance of the different classes of symptoms is estimated. In compound frac- tures, the danger is not to be estimated by the extent, or ap- parent severity, of the wound. Large wounds of the scalp, with extensive comminution of bone, where all the violence is spent upon the part, will often present less unfavorable results than the fractures of the inner table, and may not improbably be attended with favorable recovery. In the pimcttired fracture, in which sharp splinters of the inner table are driven inwards, inflammation within the cranium almost always arises sooner or later; and of all compound fractures, this is on that account the most dangerous, and the one which most im- peratively calls for the use of the trephine and the elevator— to raise, or remove altogether, the fragments which are driven down. The former teaching of some schools, — or perhaps we should say more correctly, the opinion of some former writers, — was that in death after injury of the head, in cases of simple concussion of the brain, there might be nothing found in the brain itself to prove that it had suffered any injury, the substance of the brain and its membranes appearing perfect, without any deviation from healthy structure. Mr. Hewett points out that these conclusions have been drawn from insufficient premises; that in the few cases recorded — for there are not many, — on which such an opinion has been made to rest for support, there has not been a sufficient examination made of other parts of the body, to show the real cause of death, and that modern investigation has cleared the way for more accurate conclusions in cases once doubtful or obscure. In all cases of sudden death from injury, he thinks the parts to be examined should be the upper poi'tion of the spinal marrow and the heart, — whether there is any indication or not of any injury having happened to the chest. In a case,'at St. George's Hospital, a rupture of the heart might have escaped detection but for the rule they have there of examining the various parts of the body in all the8i post-mortem examinations. . . . The following case occurred in the Asykmi at Littlemore at a time when I happened to be on a visit to the Superintendant,—Mr. Ley. One of the Patients, a heavy, fat man, 68 years of age, formerly a black- smith, in getting out of a window, fell to the gravel walk below, a height of 30 feet, striking the right side of his head, and tearing down a large piece of the scalp. He was im- mediately jpicked up, insensible, and died in very few minutes. A fracture of the bones of the skull extended through the right parietal and sphenoid bones into the middle fossa: there was no hemorrhage, no contusion or laceration, of the substance of the brain, or cerebral vessels. In the left pleura there were about two quarts of fluid blood,—the source of it being the aorta, which was torn across in its whole circumference about half an inch beyond the origin of the left subclavian artery. What is ' concussion' of the spinal cord ? The term is recognised in systematic works of Surgery; yet it is difficult to assign a definite signification to the word, excluding from consideration those cases where injury to the cord is combined with injury to the bony structures. A lad, of strumous constitution, in good health, one sum- mer's day, having stripped for bathing, jumped from a bridge, head foremost, into the stream below,—a height of about 12 feet. Finding himself immediately disabled, he managed somehow to get to the bank; and he recovered sufficiently to be able to walk home. Next day he was brought to the Radclifie Infirmary, paralysed in his lower limbs. He was admitted, under my care. The usual symptoms of injuiy to the spine followed ; and he sank, with ' bed-sores,' at the end of 3 months. The gentleman who examined the body in my unavoidable absence, reported that there was no injury to the bones of the spine ; nor any discernible lesion of the medulla or its membranes. Looking back to this case with the ex- perience of subsequent yearsj I think it an omission that the state of the chest was not made an object of special examination. An essay upon the Injuries of the Neck is the contribution of the late Mr. H. Gray. Of the wounds in this region, the ' cut throat' is the one most frequently brought to the notice G82 of the Surgeon, These wounds vary much in situation and extent, and the amount of danger varies in a corresponding degree. Wounds at the back of the neck are less frequently made with the intention of destroying life, and are generally far less dangerous than those at the ' throat,' and at the side. Yet now and then a suicide manages to accomplish his pur- pose from behind. Several years ago, a man in St. Bar- tholomew's Hospital, who had once tried to destroy himself by cutting his ' throat,^ succeeded in destroying his life with a penknife at the back of his neck. Other injuries in the neck from external violence, such as a blow or a violent squeeze upon the larynx or trachea, come in for a share of consideration. Some of these have been known to cause death. It is not every one who is so fortunate as to escape from such violence with benefit, to the same extent as was the case with the late Dr. Turner. In the serious and embarrassing cases of children who have scalded the fauces and glottis in trying to drink boiling water from the spout of a kettle, it has long been the practise of Surgeons to advise an artificial opening into the larynx or trachea upon the accession of well-marked symptoms of obstruction of the breathing, or upon urgent and increasing dyspnea. We confess to have been much struck by some remarks published in one of the Medical journals, (by Mr. Wright, of Nottingham, we think), in which he gives it as the result of his observation of many cases, that those in which tracheotomy was performed were almost always fatal, and that a different course of practise, leading generally to a favor- able result, consisted in the early administration of an emetic, applying a small number of leeches according to circumstances, and blisters to the sternum, with calomel and very small doses of antimony, repeated at short intervals. In some of these, as in those far more embarrassing cases where foreign bodies have passed the rima glottidis, and have lodged in some part of the air-passages, an artificial opening will be imperatively required. When to operate and where to make the opening, will often tax the Surgeon's powers to the utmost. On an emergency, no doubt an opening is made most speedily in the larynx through the crico-thyroidean membrane, the only83 membranous part through which an opening can be made below the chordae vocales ; and a penknife or a pair of scissors can serve for the occasion. In the large majority of cases of dyspnea,—in the greater number of emergencies,—the most eligible spot in the trachea, we have no doubt, is that pointed out by Mr. McWhinnie, above the thyroid gland, rather than below it. Mr. Poland contributes a short essay on Injuries of the Chest. Contusions of the parietes (the effects of different degrees of violence inflicted), if simple cases of contusion— i. e., without injury to the structures peculiar to this region —are seldom of a serious nature, requiring prolonged treat- ment. Complicated with fracture of the ribs, they are of very frequent occurrence, presenting themselves almost daily in the Hospitals in London. From the reported statistics of Guy's Hospital, Mr. Poland tells us they form a ninth or a tenth part of all the fractures admitted. For the treatment of these cases, often cases of great suffering to the Patient, as they disable him for the time from following an active life, we readily add the testimony of our own experience in favor of the plan which Mr. Poland terms ' by far the most preferable,' the application of long strips of adhesive plaster, extending from the spine to the sternum, applied to some distance both above and below the fracture—in fact, so as to embrace the greater part of the affected side. Strips of sticking plaster are retained more easily than any kind of bandage; and they have the advantage of restraining the motions of the injured side of the chest, without interfering with the free action of the other side in breathing. From the consideration of these, and the less frequent frac- tures of the cartilages or of the sternum, Mr. Poland passes to the injuries and wounds of the contents of the chest. Of the penetrating wounds,—those involving the pleura and lungs, with their attending complications,—it may be observed in general that, notwithstanding all the modern helps to aid the Surgeon in his investigations, and with the increased knowlege acquired in modern times of the diseased conditions of the thoracic viscera, the diagnosis is often most obscure. A foreign Student, meaning to kill himself, took a long G 384 amputating knife, and passed it slowly through the left side of his chest, with the intention of transfixing his heart. The blade was passed completely through the chest up to the handle; and it made a considerable wound where it passed out below the point of the scapula. He withdrew the knife, and was greatly surprised to find himself still living, and breathing. As he was feeling for the wound, in order to pass the knife again, and to transfix his heart effectually in a second attempt, he was disturbed by the servant coming into the room. Mr. Parish was summoned to his assistance. Under, his care, in conjunction with Mr. Stanley, the Student recovered, and returned to his own country. The chief treat- ment consisted in low diet and free bleeding. Was the lung transfixed ? It was thought not. Probably the air entered the chest as the pleura was opened by the point of the knife, and the lung collapsedj and escaped the direct passage of the blade through its substance. ... It was a remark, I have heard, among the soldiers in the Crimea, that a man would re- cover after a wound above the waist, but seldom after one below. . . Injuries of the Ahdomcn are treated by Mr. G. Pollock in an essay, in which he introduces them to the notice of the reader as ' accidents generally of a grave character, with the effects of which tjie Surgeon has frequently, but too often hopelessly, to combat.' In treating of contusions, Mr. Pollock gives a caution that in case of a blow or any violence received on the walls of the abdomen, even a slight contusion must not be regarded too lightly. Many circumstances must be fully enquired into in the first instance before we can decide on the probability, as well as on the extent, of deep-seated mischief. ... A lad, aged 19 years, was admitted into the Radcliffe Infirmary in December, 1855, under my care, shortly after being knocked down by a cart, the shaft of which hit him just under the liver. He complained of great pain in the abdomen. Symp- toms of peritonitis followed, and he died the fourth day. Upon examination, signs of severe peritonitis were seen. There were two lacerations of the peritoneal coat of the parietes of the abdomen, each about an inch long, in parallel85 directions and about half an inch apart. There was some slight ecchyniosis at the spot; and also in the mesentery. The frequency with which the Clavicle is broken^ and the loss of power generally following immediately on receiving the injury, give a claim to the attention received from Mr. Flower, Prominent as the bone is, and thinly covered at the seat of fracture, it is wonderful how many cases come under notice at various periods after the fracture, for which no treatment has been received, the injury not having been detected. In children it often happens that the injury is overlooked. The child has had a fall or a blow, and will not move its arm from its side. Union takes place readily. After two or three weeks, perhaps, an odd-looking lump is observed upon the clavicle, and medical advice is sought by the parents for removal of this deformity. In the adult, it is not so often that the fracture is overlooked. Inability to move the limb, following immediately on the accident, or the pain that attends the attempt to use it, drives the Patient at an early period to the Surgeon. Though this may be generally the case, it is not universally that ' the Patient is unable to lift the arm to the head, or to move it extensively forwards or backwards, at least without much suffering.' ... A gentleman, who had been engaged in business in the country, where he had been thrown from a horse, applied to us on his return, complaining of the Practitioner in the country, who told him he had broken his collar-bone, and put his arm in a bandage. Swinging his arm about freely,—over his head, among other motions,—he insisted on a condemnation of the opinion given. Upon examination, we found the fracture clear enough ; there could be no mistake about it. Having readjusted the bandage, we sent the Patient home, promising to pay him a visit before bed-time. We then found the Patient had stripped his clothes-off,—bandage, of course, included, which he thought of little use,—and had given himself a shower-bath, as the best means of recovering from the fatigues of his journey. . . At one of the Hospitals in London, a question arose in the Committee of Management about the real nature of an injury, in the case of a casual Patient, who had applied for treatment of a recent injury of the shoulder. This had been reported86 by the House-Surgeon to be a fracture of the clavicle,—a diagnosis which had been since disputed by one of the numerous tribe of ' bone-setters.' The Lecturer on Anatomy, sitting at the Board, gave it as his opinion that the House- Surgeon's diagnosis must be erroneous, because the Patient had been able to raise his hand above his head. The Lecturer on Surgery, when he heard of this—jealous for the reputation of his former pupil, the House-Surgeon, — mentioned the cir- cumstance to us, among others of his professional friends; adding his own opinion that the power to lift the hand above the head was not of itself convincing evidence that the clavicle was unbroken. In the cases which afterwards came under our observation we made the experiment; and it happened so rarely that the Patient was unable to make the disputed movement, that we ceased to take any note. The nature and the varieties of fractures involving the shoulder, the elbow, and the wrist joints, are described; and Mr. Flower has not overlooked the difficulty in the way of forming an accurate diagnosis during life, while he points out the necessity of it, as conducive to a satisfactory mode of treatment of these complicated cases. In the elbow-joint, more complicated than either of the others in its osseous relations, such remarkable varieties have been found upon dissection, and the symptoms during life seem so various, that we incline to doubt whether it often happens that any two are exactly alike in anatomical particulars. Common as Dislocations of the Humerus are, 'their patho- logy,' Mr. Flower remarks, 'is still imperfectly understood, and great discrepancies exist in the classification and descrip- tions given by various writers who have directed their attention to them.' With the view to greater precision in describing the different varieties, Mr. Flower proposes a more definite system of nomenclature,—a simplification of that of Mal- gaigne and the modern French Surgeons, — in which the names are derived from the relation of the head of the bone in its new situation to important contiguous osseous structures:— Sub-coracoid, forwards and slightly downwards; the most common form of the dislocation. Sub-glenoid downwards and forwards; a rare form, though often, under the name of87 ' dislocation into the axilla,' described as the most common. Sub-clavicular; very rare, the most difficult of reduction, sometimes resisting every attempt, even in the hands of the most experienced. Sub-spinous, backwards, on to the dorsum of the scapula; the rarest form of all, the most easy of reduc- tion, and though not likely to be confounded with any of the others, yet sometimes overlooked : though rare, opportunities in sufficient number have been found to study the effects of this accident in its anatomical relations. A Surgeon, now of large experience, once told us that, having started in life with the approved knowlege of this subject,—'the wide-spread error,' as Mr. Flower would say,— he was much puzzled with the first cases of dislocation of the shoulder he had to treat in private practise. He met with the sub-coracoid form again and again, many times in consul- tation, where the first attempts at reduction had failed. The sub-glenoid variety, he told us, he had seen but rarely; it is most frequently reduced without difficulty, we incline to think, in an early attempt. Some other varieties,—few in number, we think, when un- attended with fracture,—may now and then be seen, in the position of the head of the bone, which can not be arranged under these four heads. The particulars of the late Lord Langdale's accident, which happened when attending a meet- ing of the Trustees of the British Museum, have not, we believe, been laid before the profession. If we understood rightly the description given by the former President of the College of Physicians (Dr. Paris), who was the only person present (if we may except the noble Patient himself), with medical knowlege, the head of the bone was in the axilla, and the arm held immovable in an elevated position, with the elbow above the shoulder-joint. It seems to us an omission that the bending of bones has not been included among the injuries to which the upper extremity is obnoxious. Although the literature on the sub- ject is not extensive, there is no doubt of the occurrence of such a lesion. In Surgical writings the fact requires to be noted. It would seem uncertain at what age a cartilaginous bone exists that is liable to bend; and it is an interesting88 question to consider the ages, with the pecuHarities of consti- tution and other favoring circumstances, at which persons are liable to such an occurrence. Mr. Holthouse has contributed an essay upon the Injuries of the Lower Extremity, taking the fractures and dislocations for the chief subject of it. Since the general adoption among English Surgeons of the straight position of the limb in fractures of the thigh-bone, the difficulties formerly found in treatment have been much lessened; union takes place more favorably, and the resulting deformity is found to be less. In fractures of the shaft, it still remains a question hov/ to hinder the shortening of the limb which the observation of modern Surgeons shows to be all but universal when the accident happens to an adult. . . . The most frequent cause of the shortening seems to be from the contraction of the large muscles at the back of the thigh. The bone having for the time lost its firmness yields at the point where broken, and bends ; it does not offer its ac- customed resistance to the muscles: their attachments are brought nearer together, and the natural curvature forwards of the thigh-bone is increased, as in a bow when the string is tightened. The distance from the trochanter to the condyles becomes less; and when the splint is removed upon bony union being established, the limb is found to be shortened from the hip to the knee. The best way I have found of avoiding this, is to obtain the help of the Patient himself, and to make use of his natural powers to overcome the flexing action of the muscles at the back of the thigh. I am accustomed to direct the Patient to make extension frequently, and for as great a length of time as he can maintain it. I tell him to raise the toes and fore-part of the foot to a right angle, by the action of the extensors of the foot; and, with the foot so bent, to thrust the heel downwards as far as he can toward the foot of the bed,— in short, to try and make the injured limb longer than the other,... if he can. In about 3 weeks, i.e. after soft or partial union has taken place, this can be done without difficulty. The perineal band should be loosened ; in many cases it may89 be removed altogether: it is no longer wanted for the purpose of making counter-extension. The comparison of the two limbs has been made by Mr. Holthouse, as by other observers, by measuring 'from the anterior superior spinous process of the ilia, to the lower bor- der of the patella, to the extremity of the outer malleolus, and also to that of the inner malleolus.' We have been in the habit ourselves of taking the measures from the trochanter major to the centre of the knee-joint, at the point where the outer condyle is in contact with the tibia, where the articular surfaces of these bones meet, and to the centre of the outer malleolus. It wants, perhaps, a practised eye and hand to obtain a correct measurement, taking it from these points; but it seems to us to be the only way in which the length of the thigh-bone itself can be measured with accuracy. When a man breaks the patella, — if he knows it, for he does not find it out invariably,—he is not always wilhng to submit to the amount of rest which the Surgeon tells him is neces- sary ; he has not ' broken his leg,' and he soon thinks he has been confined long enough. Union by bone does not follow, and the fragments are widely separated. The resulting disa- bility of the limb, however, is not so great as might be ex- pected. Mr. Lonsdale observed that as long as the upper fragment of the bone remains within the trochlea of the femur, the Patient will have a comparatively useful limb. Mr. Verrall of Brighton, who had the medical charge of the servants at a large station on a railway, told me how he once treated a transverse fracture of the patella in one of the porters. He went to the engineer's workshop, and himself superintended the construction of the apparatus he wanted. The workpeople entered well into his views, and, with excellent mechanical skill, fitted a large wooden splint to the back of the limb, with an ample supply of leather straps well padded. He described it as being ' not a splint, but a piece of timber.' The machine answered its purpose ; and bony union followed. Among the dislocations of the lower extremity, those of the hip are the most important, not only from the frequency of their occurrence, but also from their liability to be confounded with other injuries,—such, for instance, as fracture about the90 head and neck of the thigh-bone, Mr. Holthouse adopts the generally accepted arrangement of those dislocations which happen in sufficient numbers to admit of a regular classifica- tion ; two backwards^ one where the head of the thigh-bone is thrown upwards and rests upon the iliac bone, above the margin of the ischiatic notch, and the other, where it rests in the notch, upon the muscles or ligaments which close the opening; and two forwards, one where the head of the bone rests upon the foramen ovale, and the other upwards, where it rests on the pubic bone. The question, discussed by several previous writers, whether these four species are more than varieties of two large and easily distinguished classes, — dislocations back- wards on the ilia, and forwards (or inwards) on the ischium and pubes, is considered by Mr. Holthouse; and he has given a full description of the symptoms and anatomical characters of each of these injuries, with their peculiarities, as well as the various methods of effecting reduction, not only in simple cases, but in those where the dislocation has been complicated with other injury to the neighboring structures. He refers with approbation to the modern method, or rather the old one revived, of reduction by manipulation, which has been prac- tised, he says, ' from the earliest times.' A treatise on the Diseases of the Eye and its Appendages, is from Mr. Dixon, As a matter of history, he refers to the severe antiphlogistic treatment once practised in London in diseases considered to be inflammatory, and recommended by writers of acknowleged authority, early in the day when the knowlege of diseases of the eye first began to be cultivated as a branch of professional study in England. When the fact became recognised that the severest form of purulent inflam- mation of the conjunctiva could be of local and not of consti- tutional origin, the treatment became simplified, and the local application of astringents superseded the bleedings, the mer- curials, the counter-irritants, and the thin dieting, under which success had scarcely ever been attained. This ' contra-stimu- lating ' system of treatment in other forms of disease, and pre- paratory and subsequent to operations, and the theories which gave countenance to the practise, did not so rapidly lose favor. Indeed, Mr. Dixon's observation tells him that the91 practise and the theory are still to be found lingering among us. Much of our existing knowlege of the pathology of the eye, and (as a necessary accompaniment) a large part of the im- provement in our practise in the treatment of its diseases, has arisen from the better acquaintance we have only lately ob- tained with the appearances of the living structures and of the progress of disease, or of reparative action. The ophthalmo- scope is an innovation for which the Patient has as much rea- son to be thankful as the Surgeon. Valuable as the help is, derived from such an instrument, it is not to be expected that it can clear up all previous difficulties in diagnosis, or that it can show every morbid change in all diseases of the eye, when so considerable a part of the sight-giving apparatus is within the cranium. An essay by Mr. T. Smith is upon subjects oi Minor Surgery. Of the many implements, — unimposing in appearance,—which the Surgeon has at hand in his consulting-room, or carries with him in his pocket in going his rounds, few are of more importance, from the frequency with which they are brought into use, than the ordinary calico roller,—' roller,' we presume, in the Surgeon's hand, the ' bandage' when applied upon the person of the Patient. Elastic materials are less generally useful as 'binders '; they fail in one of the chief purposes of a bandage,—that of making sufficient pressure for the purpose of keeping the muscles steady, or, as Mr. Smith describes it, that of ' maintaining uniform pressure on subjacent parts.' A sufficient amount of firmness is needed in the cloth from which the bandage is made, provided the texture is not too close to hinder the use of pin and needle to fix it when applied. In these days of labor-sparing machinery, we have often wondered to see in our Hospitals that the rollers, which are dispensed with no sparing hand in the wards and out-patient rooms, continue to be made by manually tearing the cloth into strips, and rolling these strips one by one into shape. A machine of very simple construction would do all the work. In Madrid we have understood that such a machine has long been in use. The spiral bandage, taking his example from its use upon92 the trunk as well as the extremities, receives due notice at Mr. Smith's hand, as being by far the most general in its application. The rules given in most manuals of Surgery for the application of it,—upon the leg, for instance, — are few and simple, and, with the aid of an illustrative engraving, are in- telligible enough to the Student. Yet they seem made chiefly for model legs, or for Patients who can be kept for a consider- able part of their day in the recumbent position, or under a limited allowance of bodily exercise, for the purpose of clinical demonstration. There is a rough and ready way of doing the job, not very easily reduced into a systematic treatise. The Nurse often manages to make the bandage hold on for a longer time than her master. One of the best practical lessons on the subject we remember to have received in our early practise was from a gouty Patient,—a large, powerful man, with a lower extremity of proportionate size. Neglecting the ortho- dox rule to reverse the roller, folding it upon itself in making each time the circumference of the limb, where it increases in size, he had learned on his own person, when the turn became necessary above the ankle, to carry the head of the roller by one spiral turn above the muscles of the calf, and to bring it spirally downwards from that part toward the ankle. From this reversal of our accustomed practise, he was not conscious of having found inconvenience from the distension of the veins. The practise may be adopted where we are able to allow the Patient his usual exercise. To give the requisite amount of support above the knee,— in the thigh, for instance, as in the trunk,—a towel, which is always at hand in a sick-room^ forms a very efficient bandage. It is easily applied, and with a few stitches from a needle and thread, the necessary variety of pressure can be always ob- tained. In the hypogastric region, the most urgent call for pressure is after parturition, for the purpose of securing con- traction of the uterus, when it is inclined to dilate with internal hemorrhage. The spiral bandage, in the form of a double figure of eight, passing round the groins, is here most useful in keeping the bandage and compress in place, and restraining the partially-contracted uterus within its proper pelvic resting- place.93 However skilfully applied, all these bandages sei-ve only a temporary purpose. The ^immovable apparatus,' which is required for chronic cases, should answer its purpose without needing frequent application or readjusting, and should not offer any obstacle to the Surgeon's examination, if he wish to make one. The ease with which the Surgeon can remove the apparatus, or can open it in part, is a circumstance requiring consideration in the choice of material, quite as much as the ease with which he can apply it in the first instance, or the efficiency of its purpose to keep the confined parts at rest and immovable. The materials mentioned by writers are as various as are the diseases or lesions to which they are applicable. . . . Mr. Dawson, of Bicester, a man of extensive experience, told me that it had long been his practise, when summoned to a simple case of fracture of the leg, to desire some paste to be made, and to ask for an old newspaper or two. With these materials he made a very efficient 'immovable apparatus'; and the Patient's progress was in every way satisfactory under the treatment. Vaccination is entitled to the prominent place it holds in professional estimation from the importance now given to the operation in the curriculum of the Examining Boards. It seems to be one of the numerous operations which each Practitioner performs most successfully in his own way. The attempts which have been made to prescribe a ' normal' mode of performing the operation, and of preserving the lymph, do not appear to be attended with uniformity of prac- tise more than attempts at one line of practise in the greater operation of amputation. Mr. Lister contributes an essay upon the operation of Amputation of the limbs. He traces the history of the operation and the different improvements in this department of Surgery. What always kept the old Surgeons back in this operation was, the fear of hemorrhage. It was not the want of the tourniquet only; for at an early period a bandage of some kind was used to check the flow of blood during the operation. It was the want of the modern ligature, or other means to seal effectually the open mouths of the divided vessels, after the part had been removed.94 The history of the tourniquet, the invention of it, the im- provements and the disuse of it, are matters as curious as the history of the operation of amputation itself. Louis, it seems, was the first operator who, after the general adoption of the tourniquet, avoided the use of it in muscular parts (in the thigh, for instance), and preferred compression made by the finger of an assistant at a point nearer to the trunk, where the flow of blood could be effectually checked, without (as he thought,) hindering the contraction of the divided muscles. Such a mode of controlling the hemorrhage has been thought to have the additional recommendation that it does not so much interfere with the return of the blood by the veins. The late Mr. Listen, to whom we are indebted for many im- provements in practical Surgery, was one of the most per- sistent advocates of this practise of digital compression. Before his death, we have been informed,—but after the publication of the latest editioji of his writings,—he aban- doned this practise, and adopted' the tourniquet. The objec- tions made to the use of the tourniquet apply, we think, with less force to the instrument itself, than to the mode in which it is adjusted at the time of operation,—often, it may be observed, with an evident want of appreciation of the ele- mentary principles of mechanics. If the strap is properly passed through the lower platform, so as to tighten easily by turning the screw, and if the pad is placed so as to make due counter-pressure against the screw, it will seldom be found that any considerable amount of blood is lost, or that the pressure required to hinder that from happening has inter- fered, to any appreciable extent, with the retraction of the divided muscles. When it became a matter of certainty that the Surgeon could control the hemorrhage during the performance of his operation, and that he could secure the Patient against the recurrence of the bleeding from the divided bloodvessels, the operation itself lost part of its terrors. It was an easy matter to cut the soft parts of a limb with a knife, and to divide the bone with a saw; but something more was required to secure one of the two great objects proposed in amputation —the usefulness of the stump. The earliest great improvement in95 the operation was that practised by Cheselden, of so making the necessary incisions that the soft parts, especially the integument, should be of a greater length than the bone. This was effected in the circular method by the ' double in- cision,' the skin and fat being turned back before the muscular substance was divided. Of the different modern modes of performing the operation (in all of which this important object is attained), Mr. Lister, following the teaching of the Scotch schools (if he will allow us to use such an expression), gives the preference decidedly — too decidedly, we think, — to that by flaps. The objections, however, that have been urged against this mode of perform- ing the operation are stated by Mr. Lister : and he tells us that Mr. Listen, ' the most strenuous' advocate of the flap operation, in the latter period of his practise changed that method, and adopted a mode by which ' the skin and fat are divided by two crescentic incisions, with the convexity down- wards^ so as to form short antero-posterior flaps of the inte- gument, which is then dissected up considerably higher than their angle of union ; after which the operation is completed as in the ordinary circular method. This modification of the circular operation,' he adds, ' was also suggested independ- ently by Mr. Syme, and was used by him for many years.' It is only a just tribute to' the memory of an excellent practical Surgeon that we should inform our readers that this mode of operating was commonly practised between 40 and 50 years ago in St. Bartholomew's Hospital by the late Mr. Vincent. The dressing of the stump—'a matter quite as important to the successful issue of amputation as the manner in which the limb is removed,''—receives attention. The principles to be borne in mind are, that, when the operation has been pro- perly performed, so that the soft parts may meet over the bone without any tension, the primary dressings should retain the parts in apposition, without opposing any obstacle to the discharge. This being done under the eye of a competent operator, I can hardly say I know better directions for the subsequent dressing than I once gave to a young Practitioner, whom I left in charge of a Patient at a distance :—' Keep the96 edges of the wound together with strapping; and don't give a purgative.' ' What of the hgatures ?' said he. ' Leave them alone; they will come away with the discharge,' Some observations of a general nature are added by Mr. Lister upon the instruments necessaiy for the performance of an amputation, and the mode of using them. These, we think, must depend much on the peculiarities of hand of the individual operator, and its special adaptation to his eye. With a light hand, with flexible fingers and wrist, with full power in every one of their many joints,—while it is certain that 'the knife must be held firmly in the hand,' as Mr. Lister remarks,— the true position of the amputating-knife in the hand of the Surgeon is, we should say rather, as the fencer holds fhe foil. In order to make sure of the vitality of the integument reflected in the circular operation, by retaining its proper supply of nourishment from the vessels in the fat, Mr. Stanley proposed to reflect the deep fascia of the limb, retaining its connexion with the skin, before dividing the muscles. It was a tedious dissection, it was an unsightly proceeding; and he abandoned it after making trial of it, as he did not think there was any commensurate benefit. A short essay on Anesthesia follows, also by Mr. Lister, restricting his subject exclusively to anesthesia produced by the inhalation of chloroform :—' The first really valuable sug- gestion,' Mr. Lister remarks, 'was made in the year 1800 by Sir Humphry Davy, who having himself experienced relief from pain when breathing nitrous oxide gas, threw out the hint that it might probably be employed with advantage to produce a similar effect in Surgical practise.' In the seventh edition of his ' Dictionary of Surgery' (1838,) Mr. Cooper refers to the subject. In the article on ' Amputa- tion,' he mentions ' the laudable attempts, made at different periods, to render the Patient less sensible of the agony pro- duced by the removal of a limb . . . The inhalation of stupe- fying gas has been tried, and so has magnetism.' Yet the knowlege of such a fact remained without being reduced to practise, till Dr. Horace Wells proved its correctness in ex- periments upon himself with sulphuric ether.97 In the seventh volume of the ' Medical Facts and Observa- tions' (1797), is a paper by Dr. R. Pearson, recommending the inhalation of sulphuric ether, alone or impregnated with cicuta, in cases of pertussis. He says that ' children, and even infants, can be made to inhale this by wetting a handkerchief with ether, and holding it near the nose and mouth , . . The only unpleasant circumstance,' he adds, ' attending the in- halation of this ethereal tincture of cicuta is a slight degree of sickness and giddiness, which, however, soon go off.' The mode of administration is here shadowed out, and some of the narcotic effects are noted. But the honor of the practical application of the anesthesia so obtained, to purposes of Surgery, remains with the American dentist, Dr. Wells. Great as are the benefits conferred by Chloroform, Mr. Lister regrets, with others, that it is many times either with- held altogether, or given so scantily as to be nearly useless. This arises from the fear inspired by several fatal cases that have happened. The thousands of cases in which it has been given with success, should teach us that it may be used so as to be practically free from risk. ' How, then,' asks Mr. Lister, ' are the fatal cases to be accounted for ?' The causes which have long been recognized by the Profession as leading to a fatal termination, or, at all events, accompanying it, and the cases, as related, in which fatal accidents have happened, are examined, in order to furnish an answer to the question. One cause, we can not help thinking, has not been made the subject of sufficient investigation. From the recorded cases where death has happened, it does not seem that anything which can be called an ' overdose,' is by any means of uni- form occurrence. One circumstance, however, strikes the reader, from the frequency with which it is found in the pub- lished reports. In the greater number of those cases, where the means by which the anesthetic was administered is noted, it was by a napkin, a towel, or some other material impervious to the atmospheric air, — an instrument, in short, which might be thought to pass under Mr. Lister's general condemnation of ' any apparatus which has the effect of preventing the free access of the atmosphere.' In the 'only death ever witnessed under chloroform," by Mr. Lister, it was given on a ' cloth.' We are II98 not told whether it happened, — as in an other case of danger (happily not fatal,) where the risk was observed by a bystander —' at a time when the administrator was gazing with interest upon the proceedings of the operator.' Whether ' watching the breathing carefully,' as directed by Mr. Lister, or the state of the circulation, as directed by others, are we sure that, in the cases of this unfortunate occurrence, the administrator was watching the Patient} Are we sure that he was not watching the operation ? The Boston Society for Medical Improvement, in condemn- ing chloroform as being in every way inferior to sulphuric ether, denounce everything in the shape of an inhaler. ' Ether should never be given from any inhaling apparatus;'—we are not told why. A towel is recommended instead. Yet fatal cases happen in the United States of America, as well as in Europe. Mr. Coote contributes an essay on Plastic Sw'gery, taking the chief examples for his subject from the operations per- formed on the face and neck. In discussing the treatment for the contracted cicatrices of burns, Mr. Coote urges the principle of gradual extension, which has been practised by Mr. Tamplin, as one of the greatest improvements in modern Surgery. The failure of every kind of cutting operation which has been suggested for the permanent cure of these unsightly deformities, has led to their being discarded in many of the large Hospitals in London. We are inclined to doubt whether these operations are necessary so often as is supposed. At all events, it is certain that in those regions of the body where flexion and extension are easily made, and where requisite muscular force is continually in active exercise, — as in the groin, the ham, and the elbow,—the cicatrix often disappears., or be- comes loosened, during the growth of the Patient. . . . Mr. Briscoe has made the remark to me that young subjects, active healthy children, who, after the healing of large sores, have been left with extensive bands of contraction, and have not received any Surgical treatment, will be found some years afterwards, when grown up, with little remains of these un- sightly bands beyond the scar, which, while it marks the99 spot where the deformity once existed, does not oppose any obstacle to the freedom of their limbs. The diseases of the Nose, as one of the organs of special sense, form the subject of an essay by Mr. Ure. The affec- tions of the special sense of smell, — which has been some- times lost without regret, and for the recovery of which a Sureeon is seldom consulted,—are not included. Belzoni the traveler thought it an advantage that he had not such a sense. But, among those whom I have known to have lost it after injury, I have more than once heard an expression of regret for the loss, and of longing for the recovery: the con- nection with the sense of taste must not be overlooked. The Surgical diseases of the air-passages are brought under notice in a short article by the late Mr. H. Gray, upon the diseases of the Larynx. Though generally falling under the care of the Physician, there are many circumstances con- nected with the mechanical obstructions of the upper part of the breathing apparatus which imperatively demand the atten- tion, and claim the experience and treatment, of the Surgeon, Mr. Moore contributes a short essay upon the diseases of the Absorbent System — the glands as well as the vessels, which, closely associated in disease, can not be conveniently or advantageously studied apart from one an other. Of the wounds of lymphatic vessels there is but little to be said ; they must be injured in every considerable wound, yet we take little notice of the circumstance. It does not seem to inter- fere with the healing process of the wound of the other tissues. The clear lymph coming from the injured tube is mixed with the flow of blood, or with the subsequent oozing of interstitial fluids, and escapes separate notice. Mr, Welbank told me that, being in attendance on a gentleman with extensive ecchymosis and discoloration about the foot and ankle after an injury, he made several small punctures with the point of a lancet. At his next visit to the Patient, he found a con- siderable discharge of yellow fluid staining the dressings. This came from one of the punctures on the dorsum of the foot, and continued to flow for several days. He considered that it must be from a wound of one of the lymphatics, which was thus emptied of some of the dark extravasated blood it H %roo had taken up. Whether the distinguishing feature of chylous urine arises from a rupture of a lacteal vessel^ and the conse- quent escape of some of its contents, concurring with a breach of surface in some part of the tract of the urinary organs, as suggested by Dr. H. V. Carter, must remain to be settled by further enquiry and pathological examination. The diseases of Veins form the subject of an essay by Mr. Callender. Historically speaking, these diseases seem to have received attention from an early period : they were suffi- ciently well known by their effects, at a time when the circu- lation of the blood was unknown. When it was not known that the veins, though containing blood, carried it only in one course, toward the heart, it is not a matter of wonder that little real knowlege should exist on the subject, or that what was observed should be explained only by vague theory. The diseases of Arteries form the subject of an essay by Mr. Moore, Mr. Holmes, and Mr. Hart. The part of the essay occupied by the subject of aneurism, is contributed by Mr. Holmes,—a chapter here and there being the work of Mr. Hart. Though from its etymology the aneurism might, perhaps, with propriety be restricted to a general dilatation of an artery, the word has long been ac- cepted as defining a tumor containing blood, and communi- cating with the cavity of an artery. Various classifications have been attempted. ' The most natural nomenclature ap- pears to me to be,' Mr. Holmes remarks (and we think the majority of practical Surgeons will agree with him), ' that which calls an aneurism formed by the coats (one or more) of the artery a true aneurism, and one formed by the surround- ing cellular tissue a false aneurism.' It is a matter of import- ance to know whether the blood is contained in a sac or not, and whether the aneurism is of spontaneous origin, or the result of injury: the minute anatomy of the sac can not be known before dissection. Dr. Little contributes an essay on Orthopedic Surgery. Though Scarpa first directed the attention of Surgeons to a better knowlege of this class of affections, the strictly Surgical treatment received its chief impulse by the publication of Stromeyer's labors in 1831. Grateful for services renderedlOI to him personally, and enthusiastic in spreading the benefits of the instruction derived from a master he loved, Dr. Little was the channel through which the knowlege of this new branch of Surgery came among us in England. That joints became stiff when the bones were not used, was a piece of practical knowlege soon obtained. It was a pathological fact receiving illustration during a fracture, when the limb was kept at rest; and it was remedied by passive motion. Ex- amples were furnished by the elbow and the knee, when the limb was kept for any length of time in the bent position ; the permanently flexed condition, or ' contraction,' was not so easily cured by the ordinary attempts to straighten the limb, even when aided by the Patient's own attempts at exer- cise, if at an age to give such aid. The permanent contrac- tion of muscles, accompanied in many cases with a paralytic state of the opponents,—was more than could be cured by the incomplete mechanical contrivances of the instrument- maker, to whose care, in default of the Surgeon, such cases were generally consigned. The common club-foot [Talipes varus) is the deformity which exhibits in the greatest degree the incidents of ortho- pedic experience. Dr. Little takes this as the example by which to illustrate best the principles on which the manage- ment of other deformities should be conducted. Many of the slighter cases of congenital varus may almost be left to the manipulations of the Nurse. The more severe cases need an amount of patience and persevering attention on the part of the Surgeon, in conjunction with skill and ingenuity on the part of the instrument-maker,—to say nothing of the co- operation of the Patient,—which can hardly be appreciated by Practitioners who are seldom called upon to treat a case. We refer now chiefly to cases where there is a very great increase of the lateral, or transverse, arch of the foot, in which the fifth metatarsal bone becomes approximated to that of the great toe, with a deep furrow between,—cases, 'in which no reasonable effort of the Surgeon's hands will temporarily extinguish the contraction and deformity.' These cases were, probably, never cured before Stromeyer's time. Among the plates in Sheldrake's £ssay on Distortion (t8i6), there is not102 one representing this severe degree of deformity. The near- est approach to it (Case XXX, PI. 8), though by no means representing the extreme degree which we now know to be curable, is that of a young lady aged 8 years, who passed from his care, and was not permanently cured. Perhaps he did not undertake such cases. It appears to have been his doctrine that ' if the cure is not attempted till the bones are completely ossified, it can not be effected.' The teaching of the present day is very different from this. Doubtless, the earlier the age at which the treatment is undertaken, the less difficult is the cure. But we do not find the complete ossi- fication of the bones a very serious difficulty : adult age is far from beiii'g an insuperable obstacle to the cure. With reference to the multiplicity of new and complicated apparatus so freely recommended by different writers, Dr. Little quotes with approbation the remark of Stromeyer, that ' every Practitioner will select that of which he best under- stands the action and mode of application.' In an essay on diseases of the Bones, Mr. Holmes makes a separate class of ' syphilitic affections of bone,' without speci- fying to which of the numerous forms of Venereal disease, — pustular, papular, scaly, &c. — he restricts the term syphilis. The ' chronic limited inflammation of the periosteum alone,' which he mentions as peculiar to syphilis, will be recognized by the character of the nocturnal pains, in the long bones chiefly, which accompany the constitutional symptoms of the scaly form, in regular sequence. These pains being aggravated by exposure to cold and wet are ordinarily attributed by the Patient,—and sometimes by the Practitioner, not always in- formed of the other attendant and more characteristic symp- toms of venereal infection, — to rheumatism. The' node,'as generally described, we venture to say is rarely seen in the scaly form of disease ; being most frequently seen in connection with papular or pustular eruptions. Whether a node is ever seen except in persons who have been the sub- jects of a free exhibition of mercury,—we mean to an extent materially disturbing the circulating system,—and, if so, in what constitutions, and in company with what other symp- toms, is a question worthy of more extended investigation.I03 Certainly, nodes may be seen where there can be no sus- - picion of venereal taint, and, as in the well-known case of Dr. Baillie's pupil, without sexual intercourse. The ' ulcerative or gangrenous affections' constitute caries and necrosis, some of the destructive effects of phagedena, and are seen among the constitutional symptoms, irregular in the order of their appearance, sometimes even coexisting with the primary symptoms, in company with the ' horse-shoe sore.' The complicated structure of Joints presents various tissues for examination as the subjects of diseased action : these are treated by Mr. Athol Johnson. It is only since the investi- gation of these diseases has been pursued in relation to their origin in each separate structure that any 'precision of dia- gnosis ' has been arrived at, and that any really physiological system of treatment has been adopted. In advanced stages of disease, all the structures become involved, and the distinc- tive symptoms of disease peculiar to the separate tissues can no longer be recognized. Almost from the time when the synovial membrane was recognized as a distinct structure, it has been found to be the tissue most prone to disease of all the structures in a joint, while presenting at the same time the most extensive surface for the spread of diseased action. After the consideration of the diseases of the synovial membrane, Mr. Johnson proceeds to those which originate in the articular extremities of the bones, — more frequently seen in young children, or in subjects under puberty, than in full- grown people. Although the prospect of a successful issue depends greatly on the treatment being commenced at a very early period, Mr. Johnson coincides in opinion with other observers of the schools of 'conservative Surgery,' as it has been called. He says that when disease is most advanced,—- ' when the joint has become implicated, and suppuration has taken place, care and perseverance on the part of the Surgeon and Patient will usually be rewarded ultimately by success.' This was the teaching many years ago of Mr. Abernethy: ' However complicated the disease of a joint may be, if the Patient's health continue good, we ought not to despair.' (Lectures on Surgery, 1830.) Though the prognosis in theI04 affluent classes is favorable, it is less so among the poor and needy. Among them, with the many drawbacks of poverty, ignorance, and inattention, the time required for recovery becomes considerably prolonged; we will not go so far as to say that the chance of it is hopeless. We are unwilling to believe that the people of this country, of the agricultural counties in particular, are become such an unhealthy race that they are no longer able to recover from strumous disease, when it affects a joint, except at the expense of an eradicating operation. Where the confidence of the Patient and his natural guardians is gained, as it may be by kindness and attention, combined with skill and professional knowlege,— the possession of which the poor and needy are as well able to discern as the rich,—the best means of ensuring observance of the Surgeon's directions are gained, and his services will not often be thrown away. It is seldom, very seldom we are inclined to think, that in young subjects the treatment, under the personal superintendance of a competent Surgeon, will fail of success, if he does not himself fail in his efforts. Yet we can not deny the truth of some remarks we once heard Mr. Skey make : ' He knew no disease that required more patience, more knowlege, more perseverance, more anxious watching day by day, before the end was accomplished, than joint- disease.' Mr. Johnson adds that, ' in early life, the limb may generally be preserved.' Mr. Hilton, in his ' Lectures' lately delivered at the College of Surgeons, told the assembled members of the College that they would be justified in be- lieving something more than this as the result of treatment. Mr. Tamplin has said that, ' out of the large number of cases of diseased joint in children, which had occurred at the Orthopedic Hospital, he had not seen one that failed to be cured by the most ordinary care and attention.' It is wonderful how little inconvenience the Patient some- times suffers during the long period through which the disease is in progress. We have seen a lad with bony anchylosis of the hip-joint, the result of disease, which had been about two years in progress, without having had any professional treat- ment, and without rest, except for a few weeks of the time after a slight injury. During the greater part of the period105 he had been employed on a farm looking after cattle. A boy, aged 14 years, was referred to me by Mr. Barrett of Kingston Bagpuize, to whom he had applied on account of a pain in the shoulder. Three years before, he had-received some sharp blows with a stick, about the shoulder, under punishment from his schoolmaster. Pain and stiffness followed, which received but little attention from his parents, and none from anybody else. The head of the humerus was firmly united by bony union to the scapula, without any sign of existing disease. On the subject of the painful startings, which so frequently harass the Patient, and deprive him of sleep^ when the posi- tion of the limb allows the action of the muscles of flexion and extension, where irregular pressure on the articular sur- faces is maintained by the muscles in a state of spasmodic contraction, Mr. Johnson says, that ' Dr. Bauer has proposed to divide the tendons of the contracting muscles, independent of any malposition, as a means of relieving the starting pains.' This operation was proposed, for the same reason, about 45 years ago, to Mr. Vincent, at St. Bartholomew's Hospital) by Mr. Welbank, then House-Surgeon. Worn out with suffering, without other known means of relief, the Patients gladly submitted to amputation. The division of the ham- string tendons could not, he said, put them in a worse position. Much discussion used to be held formerly upon questions of ' proper position ' in cases of anchylosis. Mr. Johnson has not entered much into these, beyond directing that the limb should be placed in the position in which i}: may be employed to the greatest advantage. In the elbow, it used to be said that the proper position was at about a right angle; at least, the test was that the Patient should be able to put his hand to his mouth. Some years ago, Mr. Welbank had under his care a gentle- man of education, who had the misfortune to suffer from anchylosis of longstanding in the right elbow-joint,—the limb being extended much beyond a right angle. Pitying his helpless state, — unable to put his hand to his mouth, Mr, Welbank enquired into the amount of disability which he suffered from the faulty position (as it was thought,) of theio6 limb. The Patient, long practised in tlie use of the limb, gave his opinion that, if the joint was fixed, his own was at the proper angle. He enumerated the advantages he enjoyed (Mr. Welbank begged him to put the list in writing): he could do this, that, and the other:—he could carve, he could write, he could drive a coach and four, — he could tie his neckcloth, (he showed how he did it). Many other things were within the compass of his power; ' and,' added he with a smile, taking his friend by the collar, ' I can give a fellow a good licking.' Not long since, a lad passed under my observation with his right elbow anchylosed at an obtuse angle. When a boy, he was well able to clean knives and shoes : he is now employed as teacher in a school. Next follows an essay by Mr. Holmes, upon Excision of Bones and Joints. The conclusions deduced from a number of cases, even numerically successful, would be more satisfactoiy if, instead of instituting comparison between the results of two kinds of severe operations (amputation and excision), the comparison was made between the cases which are the subjects of these operations on the one hand, and, on the other hand, those which are treated by position and constitutional treatment. The cases in which this last system of treatment fails, are those only in which either of the two operations in question can be justifiable. ' It may be laid down as a general rule,' observes Mr. Holmes, ' that a large or important joint ought not to be excised, while any reasonable prospect exists of a cure without operation.' Plow often is it that such a pro- spect fails, and what are the circumstances, when it fails, which encourage the hope of restoration to health, or usefulness of limb, from excision of a joint.? These are questions deserving farther investigation. When the question of excision of the knee-joint was before the Medico-Chirurgical Society, in 1858, Mr. Skey said, 'it was a striking fact that these remarkable cases of excision came from comparatively few quarters ; they were confined to a few persons, with whom the practise appeared to be the rule rather than the exception.' It would seem that while one Practitioner cures by ' rest,' an other cures by excision, and afriend in the country, with a request that I would sound him ; third finds a cure impossible,—or perhaps only improbable,— and removes the disease altogether by amputation of a limb. {British and Foreign Medico-Chirurgical Review, July 1861, April 1863, April 1864.] LITHOTOMY. A boy, 9 years old, was brought to the Radcliffe Infirmary, 20 June, 1855, to be treated as an Out-patient, for Strumous Ophthalmia, from which he had been suffering since the last autumn. In answer to general questions about his health, his Mother mentioned occasional pain or difficulty in passing urine. Farther enquiry left little room to doubt that he had a stone in his bladder. He had passed blood with his urine at times, especially after taking exercise. He was often seen to be pulling the prepuce, or pinching the penis. These symptoms had existed several months, without advice being sought. He was therefore admitted an In-patient. The calculus having been felt by sounding, the lateral operation for Lithotomy was performed on the 30th of July ; and a flat oval calculus, composed of lithic acid, was extracted, weighing 44 grains. In the evening of the ist of August, some urine passed freely by the urethra ; and in the night, that which passed by the urethra, and that which flowed by the wound, was, much stained with blood. The opening in the bladder was probably healed by the 5th ; for after that day it was doubtful whether any urine could be detected in the discharge from the wound. On the 7th, after a dose of Castor oil, the bowels were freely open,—the first time since the operation. The wound in the skin healed slowly. For this reason, and because of the disease in his eyes, he was not discharged till the 5th of September. With the exception of a return of the ophthalmia in the winter, he has continued in good health. A boy, 8 years old, of strumous, but not otherwise unhealthy aspect, of irritable temperament, was sent to me by a Medicalio8 as he thought the boy had a stone in his bladder. The boy- had suffered from disease of the urinary organs for about 8 montlis; he was also subject to diarrhea. Upon passing a lithotomy staff, I thought it struck a stone. He was admitted into the Infirmary, ii July, 1855. The lateral operation was performed on the 30th ; and a calculus, something in shape like an olive, was extracted, composed of triple phosphate, and weighing 41 grains. In passing the knife (a straight scalpel,} along the staff, it accidentally slipped out of the groove, and wounded the rectum ; and the forefinger of my left hand followed it within the gut. No fecal matter escaped, and the accident was not observed by the bystanders. Aug. I. The Nurse reports that, since the operation, the boy does not sleep soundly; he wakes suddenly, and in a fright. His pulse is very quick, generally between T30 and 130,—quickened perhaps by his timidity, and by the appear- ance of attention given to it. This morning he has diarrhea. A powder, consisting of Hydrarg. c. creta gr. iij, Pulv. Cretae comp. c. Opio gr. v, and Sodae sesquicarb, gr. v, was given, and repeated in four hours. In the evening, he passed some urine by the urethra. 2. The diarrhea returned to-day, some fecal matter being discharged by the wound. He passed a little urine by the urethra; and it continued to flow freely by the wound. The powder ordered yesterday was given again to-day. On the 6th, he passed the first solid motion since the operation. With the exception of slight return of diarrhea, and on one occasion (Aug. 20) some clotted blood passed per ajtum, he went on well till the end of the month, when the scrotum was obseived to be much swelled. The right testis and cord were slightly enlarged, and painful to the touch. He had been allowed to get up, and walk about the ward: he was now ordered to bed again. On the 5th of September, a small collection of matter was discharged through the scrotum; after which he recovered quickly. He left the Infirmary on the 19th of September, and he has continued in good health. A carpenter, 36 years of age, unmarried, living in the country, applied to me on account of irritability of theI09 bladder, and other symptoms indicating the existence of stone. He applied, as it seemed to me, chiefly because his Father had lately, at short intervals^ passed two or three small stones by the urethra. Under my advice, he was admitted into the Infirmary, 14 Nov. 1855. Upon more minute enquiry, it was learned that he had been suffering from disease of the urinary organs for more than three years. Latterly his sufferings had been so great that he often got out of bed in the night, and walked about the room, seeking relief by change of position. A large calculus was readily detected on passing a silver catheter; and on the 4th of December, the lateral operation was performed. The space between the tuberosities of the ischia seemed to be less than usual. The perineum was deep, and much loaded with fat. After cutting through the prostate, I guided the forceps along the staff into the bladder, and with some difficulty seized the calculus,—in the transverse diameter. In trying to withdraw it through the wound, the forceps slipped, and the calculus fell back into the bladder. After some farther delay, it was again seized (this time in its long axis,) and extracted. It was a large thick oval of Lithic acid, ^ij 3iv gr. xv in weight, two inches and three eighths in length, an inch and thirteen sixteenths in breadth, and an inch and three eighths in thickness. Its greatest circum- ference was 6 inches and three quarters ; its smallest, 5 inches. In the evening, and in the early part of the night, the urine flowed freely by the wound. At night, a pill (Opii gr. j) was given, and a draught with Vini Opii 111.xxv. Dec. 5. He complains of pain above the pubes, and in the left iliac region : he is much distressed by vomiting. Little or no urine passed. A pill, composed of Hydrarg. chlor. gr, ij, Opii gr. ij, and Antimon. p. tart. gr. J, was given. Foment- ation with hot flannel gave a little relief. The pain was removed by a hip-bath at night; and a draught with Vini Opii n\xxx was given. He passed a restless night; and I found him in the morning (Dec. 6) lying on his back, with an anxious countenance and a very weak pulse, complaining of pain extending into the right iliac region. In the afternoon, hiccup came on. During1 lO the day, he took some beef-tea and a little wine ; and also several small doses of Opium with Spin Etheris nitr. At night, he complained most severely of pain about the pubes. He had not passed any urine during the day; and as the bladder could be felt enlarged, though not distended, I passed a catheter by the urethra, and drew off about two or three ounces of urine. Some warm water was then injected, and withdrawn, slightly tinged with blood; some of it escaping by the wound. A pill (Opii gr. iij) was given. He passed a quiet night, apparently sleeping well. During the next day, he became weaker, and he suffered much from hiccup. He was scarcely sensible when I saw him at night; and he died quietly about 3 o'clock in the morning of the 8th. The body was examined 30 hours after death. The skin of the lower part of the abdomen, in the hypogastric region, presented an unusual appearance; in fact, it had been ob- served before he died. It was not the natural color of the rest of the body, but whiter; it seemed as if the cuticle was dry, and without the common secretion. This appearance extended on the left side into the Gluteal region. The peri- toneum was more vascular than usual; and in several places the convolutions of small intestines, where they touched, were slightly adherent by recent lymph. The kidnies were in an advanced stage of granular degeneration ; in the right, there was scarcely a spot in which the proper structure of the gland could be traced. The bladder was contracted, and much thickened ; the mucous membrane seemed healthy. At the fundus, a papilla projected, with a minute opening, in which a small oval calculus was embedded, composed of phosphates, and weighing 8 grains, three quarters of an inch in length, and half an inch in breadth. The wound in the bladder was small, and did not extend beyond the limits of the prostate. Some blood was effused about the base of the bladder, and along the course of the ureters, behind the peritoneum. Clinical Remarks. The symptoms of stone in the bladder were well marked in each of the cases. In the first,111 the parents, who were very poor people, had not regarded them : in fact, the boy had not received much care of any kind. His hair swarmed with lice. He had a large opaque patch on the cornea of each eye,— the result of old strumous disease ; and in the right, the cornea had given way by ulcera- tion, and the iris protruded. In the man, symptoms more strongly marked had not been heeded, and more severe suffering had not led him to seek medical advice, till alarmed by his Father passing some small stones; one of which, having been impacted in the urethra, was removed by a Medical man. Absorbed as the energies of the honest and hardworking portion of the laboring poor are by the necessity for earning their daily bread, no wonder that in this, as in other disease, the early stages often pass without notice; and that they seldom allow themselves any intermission of their daily labor till disabled by such an amount of bodily suffering as unfits them for earning their week's wages. In the class of Patients who come for treatment at a Hospital, it is more common to find stone in boys than in men ; in the middle of life, it is comparatively rare. In the last 40 years, there have only been, I believe, 4 cases in the Infirmary beside the present, in which a stone has been found in a man between 30 and 40 years of age. Of the usual constituents of a calculus, Lithic acid forms the least painful concretion, and is that most frequently found of a large size in a healthy bladder. Here it had been allowed to grow to an unusually large size. In cases where a stone exists in the bladder, if it is large enough to cause any suffering, — to give rise, in short, to any symptoms for which Medical advice is sought, — there is seldom any room for doubt about it. Before performing the operation of cutting into the bladder, with the intention of removing it, it is of course desirable to make sure of its exist- ence by feeling it with a metallic sound. In the second of these cases, the boy was brought from a distance, for the purpose of having the existence of a stone proved by sounding; and he was to be taken home afterwards. These were not circumstances to be preferred for the perform-I 12 ance of such an operation. The other two Patients were not sounded till they had been some days in the house. Although searching the bladder with a metallic rod is not generally thought an operation of a formidable character, it is one re- quiring more than an average amount of dexterity, and, in an unhealthy subject, it is not by any means free from danger. The passing of a catheter or a staff, if done with skill, does not give pain; and if it were not for the Patient's fear of pain, chloroform need not be given, — unless in young children, wlaose fears are not in general to be controlled by other means, and in whom quietness under a Surgical examination is not easily obtained. As the stone was not felt distinctly in the two boys the first time of sounding, a sound was passed a second time. In the Infirmary, they were in the same ward. Partly for this reason, lest either should be frightened by what he saw done to the other, and partly that they might not fear the repetition of the operation, they were both put under the influence of chloroform. The man was not put under chloro- form. He was rather of a timid nature; and, on seeing the catheter, cried out hastily that he would rather be cut at once than have such a thing passed. He was calmed by my assur- ing him that he would not be hurt; and, on my feeling the stone, was himself satisfied by the sound of the catheter striking it. The Patient is in the best position for passing an instru- ment into the bladder when he stands, leaning for support against the wall of the room: the Surgeon sits on a chair before him. In this position, less resistance is found from the contractile structures around the mucous canal of the urethra ; and where a stone is free in the bladder, it lies at the base, and is readily struck as the end of the sound passes over it in entering the bladder. It often happens, however, that a Patient becomes sick or faint the first time a catheter is passed. This is less likely to happen in the recumbent position. For this reason, and because the operation can be done with less appearance of formal, — or formidable,—preparation, I gene- rally in a new case like to pass the instrument as the Patient lies in bed, with his legs ' drawn up' a little toward the pelvis, —the position chosen in each of these cases.113 The existence of the stone being clear, the operation of cutiing was chosen in all three cases. In boys the operation is not one of much danger. Besides, the cutlers have not yet given us instruments for crushing a stone within the bladder strong enough for the purpose, yet small enough to pass the urethra in boys under puberty. In the man, the size of the stone presented one great objection to an attempt at crushing. But a greater, I think, existed in his peculiarity of constitu- tional temperament. He was a bad subject for any Surgical operation, especially for one which, by the necessity for fre- quent repetition, calls for so much patient endurance, and so much calmness of disposition, as lithotrity. Lithotomy was, therefore, proposed to him as the best way of getting rid of his enemy. After taking some days to think about it, he agreed to the proposal. The operation was done,—as all operations here are,—with the help of chloroform. A question is often asked about the danger of administering this new medicine — whether it is right to give it, or to advise the use of it in any case ? In Lithotomy, where the actual pain of the operation is not great, and not of very long continuance, there is a sufficient reason for us to give chloroform, when we know that the wish to be free from pain is natural with all sick persons. While people are not hindered from taking their meals by the fear that any mouthful they swallow may choke them, I do not know why a Surgeon should be stopped from administering chloroform by the fear that the Patient should be choked in trying to breathe it, or be poisoned by its effects afterwards. I do not know any morbid state of the heart, the lungs, or the system in general, which should constitute a valid objection to the use of chloroform in an operation which is advisable in such a state of health. More care in the use of it may be needed in one subject than in an other; but this may be said of almost eveiy medicinal agent of acknowleged power. The ' accidents,' as they are called, which have happened now and then, have arisen, in many cases, I think, — I hardly like to utter my fears,—from some want of care in the person giving it. If the administration of it is entrusted to you, take care that your attention, while Students, and hereafter as I114 Practitioners, does not wander from the Patient's chest, and your finger from his pulse, to the more interesting features of the case, lest you smother the Patient with the napkin on which you dropped some small dose of the drug. Remember, such a death must not be set down to the chloroform which was at first put on the napkin. The staff having been introduced, the hands and feet bound together in the usual manner, and the Patient brought under the influence of chloroform, the lateral operation was per- formed. If the Surgeon could rely on his Assistants to keep the Patient's thighs properly abducted and flexed on the abdo- men, so as to expose the perineum sufficiently, he might with advantage dispense with the customary formality of binding the hands and feet together,—a proceeding to which it may be objected that the forced position of the hand, and the garter round the wrist, hinder the Assistant giving chloroform from feeling the pulse, and that the Patient, when brought under chloroform, often looses his hold of his feet and slips from the exact position in which he was at first placed on the table, thus causing the Operator to pause before completing the incision into the bladder. To put the garters on well requires a great deal of care. At one time we had a Porter in the Infirmary who was very useful in holding a young Patient steady on the table at the time of operation. He was a tall, thin man, with long arms. He would sit astride the table, with the child's head in his ' lap.' In this position he could hold the knees of the child, with the legs well bent; he kept the thighs drawn up and flexed on the abdomen. No garters or bandages were wanted. The pelvis of the child rested on the edge of the table, or rather projected over it a little, and the perineum was well in view of the Operator. The child's hands were free; so that the pulse could be felt at the wrist, during the administration of chloroform. Such a practise succeeded well with children. But a man must be a giant indeed, who could hold a grown person of ordinary stature in the position. It is also of importance that the staff should be held properly. When it has been passed into the bladder, and115 the stone felt with it, when the garters are safely bound, and the Patient under the influence of chloroform, — you may stand at his right side or his left,—if the staff is entrusted to your care, hold it firmly by the handle, and take care that the beak is in the bladder. It will be a help to the operating Surgeon, in making the first incision, if you will with your other hand raise the scrotum and testes, and so make the skin of the perineum tense. In the boys the operation was done with the knife I have generally used,—a scalpel with the back rather straighter than the one known among cutlers as ' Key's knife.' In the man, after opening the urethra with this scalpel, the incision into the bladder was completed with an other having a blunt beak at the point. I did not wish to run the risk of doing harm by thrusting a sharp-pointed knife into the bladder through so deep a perineum. In the second boy, the rectum was wounded by the knife slipping from the staff after the urethra was opened. When such an accident happens, if the opening in the gut is not large, and if no other mischief is done, the wound generally heals well. Some urine finding its way into the rectum may irritate the mucous membrane (in this case it may have increased the tendency to diarrhea) ; and fecal matter passing through the wound may perhaps delay the healing. Where the groove in the staff is well polished, and the back of the knife well rounded, so as to slide easily within the groove, there is less risk of its starting out of its proper course. It is a safer practise, no doubt, in all cases, after laying bare the groove in the staff, to change the scalpel with which the incision has been made for a narrow straight bistoury, or a knife with a blunt point; this can be passed on to the stop at the end of the groove. But the change of instrument should be made, by one of the Assistants taking the scalpel from the Surgeon, and at the same time putting the other knife into his hand. The Operator will not then have to shift his eye from the deep part of the wound he has just made. In the man it might be said, as far as the mere operation is concerned, that it was successful. The stone was removed I 2ii6 withdut any mishap, and he did not suffer any ' shock' from the immediate effects of it. Yet after the first 34 hours it seemed pretty clear that he would sink. The old Surgeons on visiting a Patient after the operation of lithotomy, were in the habit of asking, ' Does he wet well ?' Their attention was directed to the secretion from the kidnies as one of the most important signs of a successful event. This mair did not ' wet well.' Very little urine was secreted after the first 13 or 14 hours,—a clear indication that what- ever inflammatory action was in progress in the kidnies was increased. In such a state of disease, any Surgical operation, —especially on the urinary organs,—is attended with great danger; a low form of erysipelatous inflammation, with peri- tonitis (of which an early stage was seen here), is particularly to be feared. It is not unlikely that the continued and in- creasing discomfort produced by this state of kidnies was (as much as the calculus) one great cause of his at length seek- ing advice; and much of his irritable temperament may have been dependent on such a state of health. If the kidnies had been sound, would the man have re- covered ? The question is suggested by the examination of the body. The small calculus encysted in the bladder would not have hindered recovery; though it might have rendered an other operation necessaiy at a future time. The question arises from the appearance of the cellular tissue, — the modern areolar and adipose tissues,—about the bladder, behind the peritoneum. The short time snatched for the examination, hindered us from making such a dissection of the perineum as would have shown whether that most important structure, the deep fascia of the pelvis, was opened. It was not wounded by the knife, but probably it was torn in drawing the stone through the prostate; thus allowing the effusion of blood, and possibly urine also, to pass freely into the surrounding cellular tissue. Profuse suppuration would be the certain result, and, perhaps, fatal peritonitis. It may, I think, be fairly doubted whether so large a stone, even if happily seized lengthwise, in its smallest diameter,— that diameter being increased by the thickness of the blades of forceps powerful enough to hold the stone in its chops,—it; could be drawn through the prostate without tearing open the deep pelvic fascia. You will not pass through life without having frequent occasion to administer chloroform, to pass a catheter, or to sound a Patient; and you may be called upon to assist at the operation of Lithotomy, to bind the garters, or to hold the staff. To these necessary adjuncts, therefore, requiring abundant Surgical skill, you should direct attention, rather than to the difficulties of the mere operation itself of Litho- tomy, which, in all likelihood, few of you will ever be called on to perform. The after-treatment of this, as of other great operations, may be left to you; and to that you must give attention in the wards. {Association Medical Journal, March, 1856.] One other case, in a man between 30 and 40 years of age, has since been under my care. The man was admitted in a stage of disease too late to be submitted to operation. It is not often that a stone is found in the bladder of so large a size as in these two cases. A man, 35 years of age, complained of symptoms which left no doubt that there was a calculus in the bladder. I told him my opinion to that effect; and I advised him to come without delay into the Infirmary for treatment. His Master recommended him to me as a steady man; and he readily made arrangements by which the man could leave off work, and come into the Infirmary. His courage, I suppose, failed him at the thought of an operation: for I did not see him again for 18 months or more. He was admitted into the Infirmary 3 June, 1863, with incontinence of urine, and symptoms of general failure of strength. He was too much out of health, for me to enter- tain the question of any operation. He was attacked with diarrhea; and he died on the 20th of July. A large mulberry calculus, thickly coated with phosphates, weighing ^ij gv gr.xxxiij, was found in the bladder. The coats of the bladder were thickened, and the mucous membrane superficially ulcerated in places. The ureters were dilated.ii8 The kidnies were double the natural size, with the pelvis and calyces much enlarged. The liver also was much enlarged, and pale in color, with the general appearance of fatty degener- ation. The pleura on both sides was adherent from old inflam- mation. There were also tubercles in parts of the Right Lung. In one Patient under my care in June 1854, a dehcate, strumous boy, between 5 and 6 years of age, the wound was very slow in healing. The boy had passed blood with his urine during an attack of Scarlet fever when about 18 months old. He had suffered from symptoms of disease of the urinary organs from that time; but Medical advice was not sought till shortly before his admission into the Infirmary. Upon sounding him, a calculus was readily detected, always resting in the same position, — that of the left sacro-iliac symphysis. At the operation, the calculus seemed to be held in a cyst of the bladder. I found difficulty in the attempt to dislodge it with forceps, and I removed it with the scoop. An abscess formed in the perineum, and discharged through the wound ; the left testis afterwards swelled, and discharged a small quantity of matter through the scrotum. The boy remained 3 months in the Infirmary after the operation. The wound having then closed, he was sent home. He was brought back in a fortnight; his Mother reporting that a full stream of urine passed through the perineum when he emptied the bladder. As he had been exposed to the contagion of smallpox, I vaccinated him in the arm. The vaccine vesicle rose slowly; the eruption of variola appeared, and the disease ran its course with some degree of severity. The only treat- ment, with a view to the closure of the wound in the perineum, consisted in seeing that the bladder was frequently emptied, night as well as day; the orders given for the purpose being well executed by the Nurse. He was discharged after a stay of rather more than 3 months, during which time I could not discover that a single drop of urine had passed through the perineum. He regained his health perfectly: and in 1878 I heard that he was a Serjeant in a Regiment of Foot. In the summer of 1871 a boy, 3 years old, was under the119 care of Dr. Acland in the RadclifFe Infirmary. The history given by his Parents was that he had had a fall about 2 months before admission, and that he had since passed some blood with his urine. At the request of Dr. Acland I ex- amined the bladder. Upon passing a silver catheter a small rough calculus was felt. On the 17th of August I proposed to perform the operation of Lithotomy. The boy was placed under chloroform, and a grooved staff passed into the bladder: but I could not detect the calculus : nor were the other Surgeons who were present able to feel it. Such being the case, I resolved to put off the operation to a future day; and the other Surgeons, who were prepared to assist at the operation, left the room. Before the child was removed from the table, I made an other attempt to find the calculus. Having passed the fore- finger of my left hand into the rectum, I took the staff in my right hand, and after much searching I succeeded in striking the stone with the staff: I heard it, and felt it distinctly. To make more sure, I struck it forcibly several times with the staff, hold- ing the calculus steady in position with my finger in the rectum. Two days afterwards the Nurse reported that small pieces of stone were observed in the bath after being used by the child, and also in the chamber-pot after passing urine. I examined some of these under the microscope. They had the appearance of being small square pieces of stone with rough edges. The child continued to pass similar pieces until he was taken home in the beginning of September,— relieved, if not cured. In October 1881 the Father told me that the boy had been in good health ever since he left the Infirmary, without any return of the former symptoms. A sickly undersized boy, 18 months old, suffering under symptoms of stone in the bladder, was admitted into the Radclifife Infirmary, under my care, in October 1853. The Father of the child died with general anasarca, some 3 or 4 months before he was born. I had an opportunity, with Mr. Briscoe, of examining his body. The kidnies were in an advanced stage of granular degeneration. There was fluid in the pericardium, and hypertrophy of the heart.I20 Upon sounding the child, a calculus was felt with the curve of the staff: but so far forward that it seemed as if the calculus was not in the bladder. The child was evidently in a dying state; and after passing a fortnight in the ward, he was taken home by his Mother ; and died some few days afterwards. Upon examination of the abdomen, the signs of recent effusion of urine were visible in the hypogastric region. The bladder was contracted, and the coats were thickened. A large soft calculus, composed of triple phosphate, a dram and a half in weight, was found* in a cyst in the membranous portion of the urethra. It was broken in the attempt to remove it. HYDROCELE. Hydrocele. Seton. A tradesman, between 40 and 50 years of age, came to me on the 3d of August, 18^7, with a Hydrocele of the left testis. The swelling was tightly constricted in the middle, and presented the appearance of an hour-glass. No cause was assigned for the complaint. The Patient had also an Inguinal Hernia on the same side. Under the advice of Dr. Leapingwell, he desired that an attempt should be made to effect a radical cure. I therefore punctured the swelling with a fine trocar, and let out about half a pint of clear fluid ; and I directed the Patient to come again upon a return of the swelling. The fluid having col- lected again, he came to me on the 23d of September. I passed a needle armed with a double thread of silk through the tunica vaginalis, and tied the ends of the thread together. The fluid was allowed to escape gradually. Next day one of the threads was withdrawn. On the 3d of October the Patient came to me with the testis rather enlarged and tender to the touch. The pain of it, though not severe, hindered him from sleeping at night. He told me that he had been attending to his business, and that he had moved the thread, drawing it backwards and fomards without pain, until last night. There was a slight discharge of serous fluid121 from one of the openings. I removed the thread altogether, and directed him to rest in bed, and to foment the scrotum with warm water. On the 37th he came to me with the testis still enlarged ; he did not make any complaint of pain or tenderness. He told me that the former enlargement had all but disappeared ; that after exercise yesterday it had returned. On the 24th of December he reported himself to me as being well. In July 1876 I saw him. He told me that there had not been any return of the swelling. Hydrocele. Seton. A laboring man, 44 years of age, was admitted into the Radcliffe Infirmary, 17 December, 1856, under the care of Mr. Hansard, with a Hydrocele of the left testis, which had followed a blow received seven years ago. In the absence of Mr. Hansard he came under my care. On the 29th I passed a needle with a single thread through it. The next day the testis was hot and tender : no fluid had escaped. I withdrew the thread. On the 31st the feverish symptoms had increased, attended with pain in the testis. I punctured the sac with a trocar, and drew off about 24 ounces of fluid, which was turbid and with flakes of lymph in it. The swelling subsided after this, and he left the Infirmary about the end of January to all appearance cured. He died six or seven years afterwards from the effects of a fall from a ladder. I have heard from his wife that he never suffered any further inconvenience from the complaint for which I had treated him. Hydrocele. Seton—Slough of Scrotum. A man, 57 years of age, was admitted into the Radcliffe Infirmary, 5 March, 1857, under my care, with symptoms of strangulated hernia. It was an Inguinal hernia on the left side, and it was reduced without operation. On the right122 side he had a Hydrocele, which had existed about la months. On the 9th I passed a needle with a silk thread through the tumor. The fluid continued to dribble all day. On the 12th I withdrew the thread. The scrotum was swollen, and there was much constitutional disturbance. On the i6th I passed a trocar into the tunica vaginalis and drew off some clear fluid. On removing the cannula, a small artery in the scrotum bled rather freelyA A circular piece of skin, about an inch in diameter, afterwards became gangrenous and sloughed off. On the 20th of April he was discharged. The sore left by the separation of the slough had healed. There remained some fluid in the tunica vaginalis. The man lived for some years; and from enquiry I made of members of his family, I satisfied myself that he did not suffer any further incon- venience from the local affection. Hydrocele. Seton—Return—Seton Repeated—Suppuration. A laboring man, about 30 years of age, in robust health, formerly a soldier, was admitted into the Radcliffe Infirmary, under my care, i July, 1857, with a Hydrocele of the left testis. On the 3d I passed a needle with a single thread through the sac. The thread was removed the next day. The fluid had all passed off by it. No pain or swelling followed. The man was discharged by his own wish on the 15th. He was i-eadmitted, 7 April, 1858, with the tunica vaginalis greatly distended, as before the former operation. On the 12th I passed a double thread through it in two places, thus making four punctures. On the 14th I withdrew one thread. On the 15th he complained of great pain in the iliac and lumbar regions. I withdrew the remaining thread ; after this, some clear fluid escaped from one of the openings, and continued to flow slowly for several hours. 16.—The size of the Hydrocele was very little lessened. The scrotum was much swollen. He complained of continued pain in the loins. I punctured the Hydrocele with a trocar,123 and let out 28 ounces of clear fluid. On removal of the fluid, I found that the testis was much swollen and tender to the touch. Two pills of Calomel and Jalap were ordered to be taken, and a draught of Liq. Ammon. acet., with some Antimony and Hyoscyamus, at bed-time. The draught was repeated for the next three nights ; and aperient medicine was also given. 21.—One of the punctures made by the needle for insertion of the thread had opened, and clear fluid was running from the tumor yesterday and to-day for several hours. The swell- ing and enlargement of the testis continues, but the pain is less. 24.—Clear fluid was again observed discharging itself. The swelHng of the scrotum is less. May 2.—Clear fluid is again running from one of the openings. The scrotum is smaller in size. A gland in the left groin is enlarged and hard. The puncture in the scrotum closed and reopened two or three times. At first the matter discharged was purulent; after- wards it became clear serum. 27.—All swelling of the testis and scrotum is gone. June I.—He is detained in the house by a return of the swelling of the scrotum. This subsided, and he was discharged on the 9th. Remarks.—From the slight symptoms which followed the insertion of a thread the first time, without permanent effect on the local disease, I was led to repeat the operation, and to pass two threads the second time. Whet|jer a permanent cure was the result, I am not able to say. The man died in the Workhouse in the winter of 1875 under an attack of inflam- mation of the lungs. The medical officers have no knowlege of his being affected with a Hydrocele during the part of his life under their observation. Hydrocele. Paracentesis—inflammation — Cure—Return in the other Testis. A gentleman, about 49 years of age, of active habits, rather a free liver, applied to me in September 1852 with a Hydro-124 cele of the right testis. He wished the swelling to be tapped ; he did not desire any other operation. He told me that many years ago, when bathing, he had jumped into the water and bruised the scrotum very con- siderably; he called the injury a 'severe concussion.' When he afterwards discovered the swelling of the testis, he consulted his brother, who was in practise as a Surgeon. His brother took him to Sir Benjai^in Brodie for the purpose of obtaining an opinion from him upon the question whether the swelling should be tapped from time to time as the fluid accumulated, or whether an attempt should be made to effect a radical cure. Sir B. Brodie gave his opinion that if a radical cure was obtained on the one side, the other testis would become affected with a similar disease. Under this opinion the swell- ing was tapped on several occasions. After the death of his brother, the Patient came to me. I punctured the swelling with a fine trocar. The wall of the cyst was unusually thick ; and I became sensible that the point of the instrument had pricked the gland. A day or two afterwards the Patient came to me, and complained of a pain in the testis, which had not followed any of the operations performed by his brother. The next day he was confined to bed with pain in the right loin, swelling of the testis, and general ecchymosis of the scrotum. These subsided under rest and moderate diet. In about a fortnight he was able to return to his usual habits of business. In the course of the following la months he told me that the fluid was collecting again. But he did not seek advice upon the subject at the time. I punctured the swelling again once, if I remember right, in November 1861. In the summer of 1863, and again in 1864, he came under my care for an injury to his foot. While under treatment for that complaintj I examined the scrotum at his request. The right testis, — the one first affected,—was free from disease; but on the left side there was a perceptible amount of fluid in the tunica vaginalis, though not enough to make him desire relief on that account. In January 1866 I punctured the swelling on the left side. The cyst was thin ; the fluid evacuated was clear and almost125 free from color. I punctured it again in December 1867; and again, I think, in February 1869 ; also in July 1870 and in August 1871. The right testis continued free from disease. The Patient died suddenly in December 1872 with disease of the heart. Hydrocele. Seton —Slough of Scrotum—Return of Disease on the other side—Seton. A farmer's boy, 15 years of age, the son of parents both of rheumatic constitution, was admitted into the Radcliffe In- firmary, under my care, 14 October, 1857, with Hydrocele of the right testis. It had been punctured once, about 3 months ago ; the boy said that no fluid followed the puncture. The day after admission I passed a single thread through it. Next day the boy complained of sickness and head- ache. I withdrew the thread. The inflammation which followed was rather severe. A portion of the skin of the scrotum sloughed, and the boy was rather lowered in general power. He was discharged on the 25th of November. He had been detained in the house by some rheumatic affection of the left ankle. On the 19th of June 1858 he came to me with Hydrocele of the left testis. I tapped it, and let out 10 ounces of straw-colored fluid. He was readmitted an In-patient on the 4th of August following. On the loth I passed a needle with a single thread through it. Next day little or no fluid had escaped: the testis was much swelled. I withdrew the thread. 14.—I tapped the sac, and let out 10 ounces of fluid, rather turbid in appearance. 16.—The swelling of the testis is less, but the scrotum is much swelled and thickened. Some purulent discharge afterwards came from one of the punctures made by the needle; it seemed as if it came from the scrotum, not from the tunica vaginalis. September 15.—He was discharged. The swelling of the testis had not quite subsided ; there remained some fluid in the tunica vaginalis.126 October 25.—I tapped the left side, and let out 8 ounces of fluid. November 28, I repeated the operation, and let out about the same quantity. He was readmitted 2 March, 1859. On the 7th I passed a single thread of fine iron wire through the sac. Some little enlargement of the testis fol- lowed, but the boy did not complain of pain. On the 12th I withdrew the threa'ti. April 11.—The fluid had increased in quantity. I again passed a thread of iron wire through it. A free discharge of clear fluid followed, and continued for some hours. The sac was not fully emptied next day. He complained of great pain in the groin and abdomen. I withdrew the thread. On the 23rd I tapped the sac, and let out 9 ounces of turbid fluid. He was discharged on the 27th. The left testis was rather larger than natural. The right seemed to be healthy. There was no fluid in the tunica vaginalis on either side. In October 1878 I heard through Mr. Drinkwater of Bicester that there had not been any return of the complaint. Hydrocele. Seton—Suppuration—Return on the other side. A lad, 19 years of age, a carpenter, of rheumatic constitu- tion, was admitted into the Radcliffe Infirmary, 22 February, 1865, under my care, with Hydrocele of the right testis. It had been tapped 5 months ago by Dr. Daly of Kingston Bagpuize. On the 27th I passed a needle with a double thread through the sac. Severe inflammation followed. Pus was afterwards discharged through the punctures made by the needle. He was discharged on the 5th of April. In September 1866 he come to me with a Hydrocele on the other side. I tapped it and let out about 8 ounces of clear fluid. The right side was well. On the 22nd of June 1878 I saw him. There was some fluid in the tunica vaginalis of the left testis. The right testis remained free from disease. He had not received any treatment for the complaint since he had been first under my care.127 Hydrocele on both Sides, Left, seton—Return—Paracentesis . —Right, stationary. A laboring man, 53 years of age, of rheumatic constitution, was admitted 33 March, 1859, into the RadcHffe Infirmary, under my care, with Hydrocele of both testes. The tumor on the right side was not large, and he did not find any incon- venience from it. That on the left side had existed for 20 years. It had been tapped at Whitsuntide 1858, and again at Christmas. On the 28th of March I passed a single thread of iron wire through it. The fluid passed off by this. The thread came out on the 30th. No swelling of the testis followed, nor any symptom of inflammation. The man was discharged on the 6th of April, The swelling was tapped frequently in the years which followed, Dr, Denton of Steeple Claydon afterwards tapped it on the 8th of May 1876 ; he repeated the operation three times between that day and the T5th of April 1877, when the Patient died under an attack of hemiplegia. The water col- lected very rapidly, requiring for the man's comfort to be drawn off about every 3 or 4 months. Each time there was between a pint and a pint and a half of fluid of a pale straw color. There was some slight effusion on the right side, but it did not give the man any annoyance. He told Dr, Denton that it had never been tapped. Hydrocele, with Disease of the Ankle-Joint, Seton — Recurrence—Injection. A laboring man, 28 years of age, was admitted into the Radclifife Infirmary, 25 May, 1859, under my care, on account of a recent injury to his left foot. He had suffered formerly under disease of the left ankle or the bones of the tarsus. Four months ago he fell off a ladder and hurt the foot.128 He had also a Hydrocele of the right testis. This had been punctured four times. On the a5th of July I passed a needle with thread through the sac. The coats were very tough. Next day I cut off the upper end of the thread ; and on the 28th the lower end came out. The man was discharged on the 31st of September. There was not then any fluid in the tunica vaginalis. The disease about the ankle improved during his stay in the Infirmary; but it was not perfectly well when he went home. In February 1878 Mr. Cheatle of Burford wrote to me that the Patient told him that the foot was then well; he had been to a 'bone-setter,' who made him ill for months by what he called ' reducing the dislocation.' The Hydrocele was after- wards cured at Guy's Hospital by injection with iodine. Remarks.—In a man of unsound or strumous constitution, laboring under disease of a joint of a constitutional character no inflammation was excited by the introduction of a seton through the tunica vaginalis of the testis. His constitutional power did not appear equal to the demand made upon it for recovery under two complaints at the same time. After the disease of the joint had ceased, the cure of the Hydrocele was effected without difficulty. Hydrocele burst by Accidental Violence. No Reproduction. A farm laborer, upwards of 60 years of age, presented him- self to me for examination with a Hydrocele of unusually large size. It had existed for several years. The scrotum was as large as his head. He used to show himself at public- houses as an object for wonder. He refused to submit to any treatment. At a subsequent visit in March 1860, he told me that about three years ago he was getting over a style, when he sud- denly felt a shock and heard a sound like the report of a gun : he looked round, but did not see any one near him who could have fired. He was not conscious of any sudden increase of129 size hi the scrotum, nor was he aware of any swelling of the penis. He observed that the penis and the inside of the thighs became afterwards black and blue. This discoloration passed off by degrees. The enlargement of the scrotum disappeared in about three days. In his own opinion, he was perfectly satisfied that the original swelling'was all wind;' and that it was not burst, as I suggested to him, by pressure in getting over the style. He died in November 1863, aged 77 years, without any return of the swelling. Remarks.—This was by far the largest Hydrocele I have seen. There can not, I think, be any doubt that the sac was burst during the man's exertion in getting over the style. He lived in good health for about seven years after the accident, without return of the disease. A Medical Practitioner, who was himself the subject of a Hydrocele on both sides, told me of a friend of his own, also a member of the Medical profession, in whom a Hydrocele burst as he was getting down from a stage-coach. The accident was followed by a permanent cure. Hydrocele burst by Accidental Violence. Return. A laboring man, 36 years of age, was admitted into the Radcliffe Infirmary, 12 December, 1865, under my care, with a fracture of the left thigh, received in a fall from a scaffold- ing four days before admission. The bone united favorably, and he was discharged from the Infirmary on the following 7th of February. He told me that he had a Hydrocele on the right side, which had been formerly tapped by Dr. Wise of Banbury : it had been burst in the fall. In March 1876 Dr. Wise wrote to me that the Hydrocele had slowly filled again, and that it had become inconveniently large. He was about to tap it again. Hydrocele burst by Accidental Violence. Return. A gentleman of rheumatic constitution, about 50 years of KI30 age, was referred to me by Mr. Druce, 27 July, 1876, with a Hydrocele of the left testis. It began 15 years ago without any cause he could assign ; after 3 or 4 years it was tapped. In succeeding years the operation was repeated on two occasions. Eight years ago, when he was abput to seek relief again by tapping, he was thrown out of a carriage. The Hydrocele disappeared; the scrotum became discolored ; the sac was evidently burst, and the fluid extravasated in the tissue of the scrotum. The Hydrocele had not filled again till lately. Hydrocele. Seton—Return—Burst by Accidental Violence—Return. A farm laborer, 67 years of age, of rheumatic constitution, and generally of confined habit of bowels, especially during the last summer, was admitted into the Radcliffe Infirmary, under my care, 16 September, 1863, with a Hydrocele of the left testis, which he had observed since April. On the 18th I passed a needle armed with a single thread through it. The next day the scrotum was red and swollen. The bowels had not been moved since admission. I with- drew the thread ; and ordered a dose of castor oil. There was very little discharge of fluid from the Hydrocele. On the 39th I again passed a needle with a single thread. On the ist of October I withdrew the thread. He left the Infirmary on the r5th. The testis was rather enlarged, and there still remained some fluid in the tunica vaginalis. On the 26th of December he came to me. I punctured the cyst with a trocar, and let out about 10 ounces of fluid of the usual pale straw color. This was repeated at intervals in the succeeding years. On the loth of September, 1870, I repeated the operation. He told me that in April last, when turning in bed, the swelling had burst. He heard it go off, 'like the bursting of a pig's bladder.' He found the swelling all gone. He had not observed whether the scrotum or groin was afterwards discolored. In May 1871 I tapped the cyst again, and let out abovit131 14 ounces of clear fluid. The operation was repeated at in- tei-vals in the following years. Upon one occasion, in July 1873, the fluid was dark in color, and, as I thought, mixed with blood. Upon all other occasions it was of the usual pale straw color. The last time the man came to me was in September 1877 ; he was then in his Sand year, and failing in general strength. He told me that he had never been to any other Practitioner for treatment of the Hydrocele since he first came under my care. Hydrocele, injection—Return on both sides—Seton—Suppuration. A laboring man, about 40 years of age, of rheumatic con- stitution and of general feeble appearance, was admitted into the Radcliff"e Infirmary, % November, 1853, under my care, with Hydrocele of the right testis, which he had observed between 4 and 5 years. He applied for admission on account of an abscess in the scrotum, attended with eczema, spreading to the groins and the perineum over the tubera ischii. The next day I punctured the Hydrocele, and let out 15 ounces of clear fluid; and I then injected the sac with Port wine. He complained much of the pain in the testis and groin, and he fainted under it. I withdrew the injected fluid immediately. Very slight swelling or inflammation of . any kind followed. He was discharged on the 23rd. In July 1857 he came to me with a return of the swelling. I tapped it, and let out ao ounces of fluid. In February i860 I tapped it again, and again drew off" 20 ounces of fluid. I observed that there was a small collection on the left side. In October 1861 I tapped the swellings on both sides, and let out lo ounces from that on the right, and about \% ounces from the left. He fainted before the operation was com- pleted. On the 18th of May, 1863, he was admitted into the In- firmary, under my care, with several contused wounds, after a squabble in an alehouse. The Hydroceles having again be- come inconveniently large, on the ist of June I passed a needle with a double thread through the tumor on each side. Next day the scrotum was red and swollen, and I withdrew the threads. K 2132 4- — Both testes were much swollen and painful; the right more so than the left; and the tunica vaginalis on the right , side was distended with fluid. 7- — On the right side I scratched off the small scab which closed the lower opening of the thread, and pus ran out of the opening freely. It was some days before the discharge ceased, and the opening healed. The swelling of the testes subsided by degrees. 13. — There being some fluid in the sac on the left side, I punctured it with a fine trocar, and let out some opaque fluid mixed with flakes. The man was weak, and much lowered in general health. I prescribed some Quinine for him, with Tinct. Camphorse comp., to be taken twice a day. Improvement in his health followed. July 9.—A small abscess formed in the scrotum on the left side. This was healed on the 20th. He was discharged on the 29th. The left testis was then of its natural size. On the right side there remained some thickening about the epididymis and spermatic cord. In July 1864 I saw the man. He told me that he was quite well, and had been so since he went out. In June 1878 I heard, through Mr. Sankey of Littlemore, that he had not had any return of the complaint. Hydrocele, injection — Return — Seton. A laboring man, 60 years of age, of rheumatic constitu- tion, was admitted into the Radcliffe Infirmary, 19 December, 1866, under my care, with Hydrocele of the right testis. It had been injected eleven years ago by Mr. Hester, with, I believe, iodine. On the 24th I passed a needle and double thread through it. Next day I withdrew one of the threads, and on the 29th the remaining one. Serum flowed freely from the opening. Very slight symptoms of inflammation followed. An abscess afterwards formed over the knuckle of the right hand. On the 18th of January following he went home. In November 1877 I heard that he had been well ever since.133 Hydrocele, injection—Return—Inflammation of Scrotum. In 1847 a laboring man, about 50 years of age, working at the Asylum at Littlemore, applied to Mr. Ley, the Medical Superintendant, for relief of a Hydrocele, under which he had suffered for several years. It had been twice injected with Port wine by Mr. Tuckwell. The scrotum was much swollen and anasarcous. Dr. Giles was on a visit at Mr, Ley's at the time. Several punctures were made with a grooved needle into the thickened tissues of the scrotum, for relief of the general swelling. Serum escaped freely; but the point of the needle was not passed within the tunica vaginalis. Severe inflammation followed. The Hydrocele disappeared. Dr. Giles saw the Patient some years afterwards ; and learned that there was not any recurrence of the disease. Hydrocele, Erysipelas. A farmer, 78 years of age, who had suffered many years with a Hydrocele, irritated the scrotum in riding on horseback in February 1847, Erysipelas followed, and spread over the abdomen and thighs. Dr. Giles attended him for this com- plaint. He was very low under the attack, but in the end he recovered. After his recovery he found that the Hydrocele had disappeared. He lived for 13 years afterwards in good health, without any return of the disease. He died in June i860, having reached the age of 91 years. Hydrocele, after Abscess in the Testis. Paracentesis. A Medical Practitioner, about 70 years of age, of gouty constitution, came to me in October 1857 with a Hydrocele of the left testis of some twenty years' standing. He con- sidered that it arose from an injury received when on horse- back, having been thrown violently on the pommel of the saddle, receiving an injury to the scrotum, under which he fainted. He had been in the habit of puncturing the sac134 himself with a needle, letting out the fluid about once every 3 months. I punctured the cyst with a fine trocar, and drew off about 9 or lo ounces of clear fluid. Upon examination, it appeared to me that there was also a smaller collection on the right side. The Patient was not aware of it. In August 1858 I let out the fluid from the left side,— about 13 or 14 ounces in quantity. He was now satisfied that there was a collection of fluid on the right side also. In February 1859 I punctured the cysts on both sides, letting out about 8 ounces from the right side. The operation was repeated in May i860, in the following November, in Sep- tember 1852, and in June 1863. About this time his general health began to fail, and he died in January 1864 with paraplegia. Some part of this gentleman's history I had learned from an other Practitioner, who had known him early in life. He never himself referred to it in his different communications with me. When a young man, he suffered from what was thought to be strumous disease of one testis. It ended in suppuration, and was followed by protrusion of fungus. This was freely excised, and the wound healed. He afterwards married a lady who had been left a widow without offspring by her former husband, and he became the father of several children. Upon the occasions on which I punctured the Hydrocele, I examined the scrotum, without drawing his attention to it, for the purpose of ascertaining whether there was a cicatrix, or other mark of former disease of the testis; but without observing any. The only diff'erence I could detect was that the tunica vaginalis on the left side was tougher, offered more resistance to the passage of the trocar than on the right, and that the cavity was of smaller capacity. The larger collection of fluid was on the right side, —the last afi"ected. It is not unlikely that the abscess of the testis was the result of the injury.'35 Hydrocele, without increase of size, A laboring man, 59 years of age, was admitted into the Radclifife Infirmary, under my care, 30 May, 1855, complain- ing of dimness of sight. He had cataract in the right eye, mature and fit for operation, except that I had much doubt whether the retina was sound. He had also Hydrocele of the right testis, and varicocele of the cord on the left side. For these'complaints he did not desire treatment. He was subject to fits of an epileptic character ; and he had undergone amputation of the right leg below the knee about three years and a half ago, after an accident in a thrashing-machine, which happened from his falling down in a fit when at work. On the 5th of June I punctured the capsule of the lens with a needle, and endeavored to drill a hole through the lens. The following night he had two ' fits.' He left the Infirmary on the 13th. I saw the man about twelve months afterwards; he did not desire any treatment for the Hydrocele. In March 1878 I heard from Dr. Atkinson, of Bampton, that he had not had any treatment since I saw him. Upon his return home he encountered the formidable opposition of his wife, who refused to allow him to be rid of his Hydrocele. It had not increased in size. The varicocele was much in the same state; it had not given him any trouble. He died in May 1879 from the effects of an accident with fire. Hydrocele. Broken Health—Diarrhea—Death. A pale, sickly man, 42 years of age, but much older in appearance, of rheumatic constitution, and not, I think, of temperate habits, was admitted into the Radcliffe Infirmary, 6 March, i86j, under my care, with a Hydrocele of the right testis, which he had observed about 12 months. On the nth I passed a needle with a double thread through it. Next day I withdrew one of the threads, and the remain- ing one the day following. No symptom of local irritation appeared, except that the scrotum was swollen and the testis was rather enlarged. These symptoms subsided by degrees.The man's general health, however, began to fail rapidly. He complained of a constant cough and diarrhea. He was removed from the Infirmary on the 17th April by his own desire, and he died at home three days afterwards. Remarks.—Under failing health, with a consciousness of the decline of strength, a poor person seeks in a Hospital the rest which he can not find at home. A disease which is not of itself of a serious nature is the complaint, or the excuse, under which he applies for admission, and death follows an operation which in other circumstances would not involve dangerous consequences. In many of the cases which have come under my observa- tion, the Hydrocele has been in persons of a gouty or rheumatic constitution, without any cause known for it. In a large number of the cases it has followed some local injury, and the disease has been attributed to that by the Patient. In some few cases, after the fluid has been removed by puncture of the sac, it has happened that there has not been any subsequent accumulation ; or, at least, none to an extent to be a source of inconvenience to the Patient. The late Mr. Murchison, of Bicester, told me early in his practise that he was in the habit of puncturing the tunica vaginalis at three or four points with a common needle, so that the fluid should escape slowly into the proper tissues of the scrotum, from which it was absorbed readily. He treated all cases alike. Later in life, after many years of experience, he told me that he had only known one case in which there was no return of the disease. In examining a case presented for treatment, it has seemed to me impossible to tell beforehand what amount of local irritation will be sufficient to effect such a change in the serous membrane lining the tunica vaginalis that it shall cease to secrete a larger amount of fluid than can be absorbed from the cavity. Nor is it possible to foresee what amount of local inflammation or constitutional disturbance will follow an operation in a given case. The symptoms are not uniform in their course, or regular in progress. I have not observed that there is a difference in cases where the disease was de-137 pendent, as I supposed, on constitutional causes, and those where it is attributed by the Patient to local injury. The same train of symptoms which in one case are followed by a cure, in an other are followed by a return of the disease. The treatment is not certain in its result. In cases of relapse the period of return is various. ... In some of the cases in which I treated the Hydrocele by passing a seton through the sac, I used at one time the silk thread in general use among Practitioners for ligatures and sutures. Although I do not remember accurately in which of the cases I used it, I know that I gave up the use of that material very early in practise ; and that I took for operation in Hydroceles, as in all other cases, the flax thread used by tailors, and known in the trade as No. 35. [Si. Bartholojnew's Hospital Reports^ Vol. 14.] Hydrocele, on Both Sides. Seton—Return of Disease— Seton — Suppuration. A laboring man, 55 years of age, of rheumatic constitution, was admitted 28 September, 1864, into the Radcliffe Infirmary, under my care, with Hydrocele on both sides. The sac on the right side had been tapped in February, when 10 ounces of fluid were let out. On the 30th I tapped the cyst on the left side, and let out 6 ounces of fluid. I then passed a double thread through the sac on the right side. No fluid passed off by the thread. I therefore withdrew it; and on 3rd of October I tapped the cyst, and let out 10 ounces of fluid slightly purulent in appearance. No swelling or other symptom of inflammation followed. The man was discharged on the 12th. He was readmitted 13 March, 1867, with the tunica vaginalis of the right side greatly distended. During the preceding summer, he had undergone some treatment by an other Prac- titioner for the Hydrocele on the left side; I do not know of what nature. On the 15th I passed a double thread through the sac on the right side. On the i8th I removed one of the threads. On the 22nd I allowed him to get out of bed, and move about138 the ward. On the i^th I withdrew the remaining thread. Severe inflammation followed. On the 27th I punctured the swelling with a grooved needle, and let out 6 ounces of serum slightly turbid. Fresh effusion took place, and on the 30th I punctured it with a trocar and let out 16 ounces of clear fluid. On the 7th of April I tapped it again, and let out 10 ounces of turbid fluid. On the 13th the sac was again distended. The upper opening made by the thread reopened, and a large quantity of purulent matter was discharged. After this the swelling subsided. The man left the Infirmary on the 24th of April. Remarks. On the first occasion, the symptoms following the introduction of the thread were so slight, that I had no reason to expect the severe attack of inflammation which followed on the next occasion. It is uncertain whether a cure followed. In May 1878 Dr. Atkinson of Bampton ascertained that the Patient had been dead 4 years. His Widow told him that she believed he was cured on one side,—she did not know which. Hydrocele. Paracentesis — Malignant Disease of Testis. A man, about 55 years of age, of gouty constitution, a carpenter by trade, was admitted into the Radcliffe Infirmary, under my care, 18 March, 1874, with a Hydrocele of the left testis, which he had observed to be slowly increasing since the Spring of last year. On the 21st I tapped it, and let out 6 ounces of dark straw-colored fluid. The man being re- lieved, left the Infirmary on the 25th. On the i6th of May he came to me; I tapped the sac again, and let out 7 ounces of dark yellow fluid. The testis appeared to be rather larger than the other. On the 25th of July, I tapped it again ; and let out 12 ounces of fluid; rather darker in color. The glands in the groin were enlarged: and the man complained of frequent pains in the back. The testis had increased in size. The man's health seemed to be failing;: he was unable to follow his work. In September the sac was punctured by an other Prac- titioner ; and 8 ounces of dark fluid were removed. The man afterwards consulted Dr. Giles, and from him I learned that139 he died in the following December; and that the testis ex- hibited clear signs of malignant disease. The following note is from a MS. book of' Cases' left by- Mr. Welbank. 'December, 1824.—I saw a Greek, about 25, who had had Hydrocele 13 months, coming on after the Plague. He told me it was a common disease at Alexandria and in Egypt. It had been once in his own case ruptured by accident; and the water absorbed from beneath the skin of scrotum. ' I tapped him with trocar, and threw in one third wine. It caused pain, slight at time. Skin in a day or two, tumified and like hydrocele in form. On fourth day, absorbed. Testis hard and enlarged as in Hernia humoralis : teguments lax, though thickened. January 27, still doughy teguments, and chronic sarcocele lessening very slowly.' [In different ink : without date.] ' The sarcocele has been and is in this case tedious and annoying.' Enlargement of Testis. Abscess.—Death from cholera. A young man, about 22 years of age, of strumous con- stitution, a clerk in a large retail shop, came to me 30 October, 1853, with an enlargement of the left testis, which he had observed about 8 or 10 days without any known cause. It was painful at night; and also after much standing. It was not tender to the touch. He complained also of pains in the loins. He suffered from piles: his bowels were generally loose; but lately they had been confined. His Father died with stricture of the rectum : and a Sister died with phthisis. I prescribed a dose of Rhubarb, Magnesia, and Hyoscyamus, to be taken immediately,—and Liq. Ammon. Acet., with Tinct. Camphorae comp., Spir. Etheris nitr., and a small dose of Antimony, twice a-day. I told him to have a warm bath, and to wear a suspensory bandage. On the 10th of July following (1854) the testis was in the same state; except that in one part it yielded to pressure, as if there was a collection of matter. There was also some fluid in the tunica vaginalis. He was wasted and much out of health. He told me he had relations at the sea-side in Devonshire; and he proposed to go into the country to them.140 On the iith of August he came to me, weaker and less able, as I thought, to be attending to business. The abscess in the testicle had burst, and it was discharging freely. The testis was smaller in size. On the 14th he told me he was then going into the country. On the morning of the 16th, the Landlord of the house where he lodged came to me, and reported that he had been delirious during the night, that he was too weak to leave his bed, and that, in his opinion, the Patient was dying. On my way to visit him, I met Dr. Giles; and we went together. We found the Patient sitting up in bed, scarcely conscious of the presence of a stranger, and ' picking and clawing' the bed- clothes. The only additional symptom in his case was that he had been suffering under a recent attack of diarrhea. He died while we were in a room downstairs, consulting upon his case. As we walked away from the house. Dr. Giles said, ' If Cholera was about, we should say he died of Cholera.' We learned afterwards that there had been two cases,—and one of them fatal, — in a distant part of the Town. RETENTION OF URINE. Retention of Urine in a Child. Adhesion of Prepuce —Division of Prepuce—Sudden Discharge of Urine—Symptoms of Collapse. A little boy, 2 years and a half old, was brought to me by his Father and Mother on Wednesday, 29 January, 1862, with his bladder greatly distended, and with general edema of the scrotum and perineum. The parents brought with them a letter from Mr. Barrett, of Kingston, giving this history of the case :—That the child had not passed any urine since 3 o'clock on Monday morning; that Mr. Barrett had attempted to pass an instrument, but had failed to make it enter the urethra. Two doses of castor oil had been taken by the child without any action of the bowels, and he refused all food. Upon examination, I found that the child suffered from congenital phimosis, that the orifice of the prepuce was com-141 pletely closed, and that the prepuce was adherent everywhere to the glans. Taking the penis between my finger and thumb to hold it steady, I made a slight incision with a bistoury through the extremity of the prepuce on each side, sufficiently to expose the meatus of the urethra. Upon relaxing the com- pression of the penis a large amount of clear urine was ejected forcibly, flowing over the table on to the floor. The bladder was completely and suddenly emptied. At the same time the bowels acted most freely as the child lay on the table. The child, upon this relief, fell into a state of collapse, from which he recovered slowly. He was then carried home by his parents. He did not suffer any further inconvenience. Retention of Urine. Stricture after injury to Perineum — ■ Puncture of Bladder. A travelling hawker, 49 years of age, a prisoner in the jail at Abingdon, had suffered with Stricture of the urethra for several years. The account he gave of the complaint was, that about 8 years ago he received a kick on the perineum. The injury was severe, and he was ill for some weeks after it. His urine at the time was mixed with blood, and it was drawn off several times with a catheter. He had found a difficulty in passing urine ever since. On 15 August, 1851, I saw him in the prison with the late Mr. Cowcher, the Medical Officer. The bladder was greatly distended, and the man was in much pain. Mr. Cowcher had made several attempts to pass catheters through the urethra, but had failed. Opium had been given, and the man had been put into a warm bath. The bowels had been emptied freely after castor oil; — all without relief. The efforts which I made to pass catheters of different sizes and curves were equally unsuccessful. I decided, therefore, to puncture the bladder. The man was put under chloroform, and an incision about an inch and a half in length was made with a scalpel through the skin and subjacent adipose tissues above the pubes. The distended bladder being felt with the finger^ a trocar was then142 thrust into it. The trocar was withdrawn, and an elastic catheter passed through the cannula. About two quarts of urine, clear in coloi', and healthy in appearance, were drawn off,—some of it escaping through the cannula by the side of the catheter; the catheter not being of a size to fill the cannula completely. The cannula was left in position, with the catheter through it in the bladder. A flannel cloth was placed in the hypogastric region, about the projecting end of the catheter, and the Patient was instructed to let the urine flow into the cloth, and to remove it when saturated,—taking care not to disturb the instrument. Upon our recommendation, a pardon was obtained for the man; and he was released from prison on the 31st, and admitted into the Radcliffe Infirmary, under my care. Before he left the prison Mr. Cowcher removed the catheter, cleaned it, and replaced it. A small quantity of urine had passed by the urethra. Next day (the 32nd) I removed the cannula, and inserted a large elastic catheter through the wound into the bladder. In the evening this escaped from the bladder. The House- Surgeon drew off a moderate quantity of urine, loaded with mucus, with a metal catheter, through the wound ; and after cleaning the elastic catheter, replaced it. Hydrarg. cum cretd, and Pulv. Ipecac, co., 5 grains of each, were given at bed-time, and some castor oil the next morning. When the bowels acted after this, he passed a considerable quantity of urine by the urethra. 35.—-The urine has less mucus in it. I ordered Hydrarg. c. cretcl, and Pulv. Ipecac, co., two grains and a half of each, at night, and Potassse bicarb., with Spiritus Etheris nitr., 3 times a day. 37. —About a pint of urine has been passed by the urethra since yesterday. I removed the catheter altogether; and dressed the wound with simple cerate. He was put into a warm bath. 38. —He was allowed to get up, and move about the ward. September i.—A little urine oozes at times through the wound above the pubes. I passed a small silver catheter into the urethra: it was stopped by a stricture about 5 inches143 from the meatus. About an hour afterwards he had a shiver- ing fit. At night he was put into a warm bath; and a dose of Opium was given. II _He tells me that the wound 'weeps' a little at times. I passed a wax bougie, No. 4, into the stricture ; it was held firmly, and I allowed it to remain for some minutes. 17—The wound is healed. The man does not desire any farther treatment for the stricture. He was discharged at his own request. About 2 years afterwards I met him at a distance from Oxford. He told me that for some months after he left the Infirmary the wound had occasionally discharged a little, but that it was then firmly healed. The difficulty in micturition continued. Retention of Urine, stricture after injury to Perineum — Puncture of Bladder—Permanent Opening. A Farmer, 63 years of age, rather a free liver, had long suf- fered with Stricture of the urethra. About 15 years ago, when riding on horseback, he was thrown violently on the pommel of the saddle. The injury was followed by partial retention of urine, and blood was passed with the urine. He had suffered ever since with difficulty of micturition. Late at night, 6 November, 1856, I was called to him, with Mr. C. A. Barrett, of Wallingford. The bladder was greatly distended. Mr. Barrett had failed in several attempts to pass a catheter. The efforts I made were also unsuccessful. No other course remained but to puncture the bladder. After making a small incision with a scalpel through the skin and superficial fat above the pubes, I passed a trocar into the distended viscus. Withdrawing the trocar, and leav- ing the cannula in position, I passed an elastic catheter through it into the bladder. The bladder was thus emptied. The use of the cannula and catheter thus introduced was continued several days. The cannula was afterwards removed by Mr. Barrett, and an elastic catheter left in its place. The general management of the instrument was left to the Patient, with an occasional visit from Mr. Barrett, who lived at a distance.144 In the beginning of January, 1857, he came into Oxford, where he took lodgings, for tjie purpose of undergoing treat- ment for relief of his stricture. His general state was not promising. The meatus of the urethra was contracted and scarcely visible. The prepuce was gone, from the effects of former disease. There was a large cicatrix on the glans, and the glans itself was so tender that it would hardly bear the small amount of compression necessary to hold it steady in attempting to pass a catheter. The urethra was very sensi- tive, and the canal much contracted. After some days of partial rest, and such moderation of diet as the Patient could be persuaded to follow, I succeeded in passing a small silver catheter into a rigid stricture about 5 inches from the meatus. Great constitutional irritation followed, with swelling and tenderness of both testes. The Patient declined farther attempts at dilatation of the canal, and soon afterwards returned to his home in the country. The urethra being thus closed, there was nothing left for him, but to allow the urine to escape through the opening above the pubes. I obtained for him a silver tube with a stopcock, to be worn permanently. He found this in some measure more convenient than the elastic catheter, which he had worn from the time of the operation; and he learned to relieve his bladder when necessary with this tube, or with an elastic catheter passed through the opening. He died under an attack of scarlatina about 13 months afterwards. Retention of Urine, after Injury to Perineum. Puncture of Bladder—Extravasation — Death. A laboring man, 42 years of age, unmarried, was admitted into the Radcliffe Infirmary, zi April, 1858, under my care, with retention of urine, the bladder being greatly distended. The history he gave of himself was, that on February 19, as he was about to get on horseback, having the bridle in his left hand and his left foot in the stirrup, he fell back a httle as the horse started, and, while the perineum was thus ex- posed, he received a kick from the horse ' behind the testicles,'145 as he described it. He fainted under the violence of the blow. Next day, as he had not passed any urine since the accident, a Medical Practitioner was summoned. He introduced a silver catheter, and drew off about three pints of urine, the first two pints being mixed with blood, and the last pint clear, according to the account given by the Patient. After this the urine dribbled away by the urethra without his being able to control it. At a subsequent visit, on April 19, the Practitioner made an unsuccessful attempt to pass a catheter. After this, the urine ceased to flow so freely; the bladder became distended, and the Patient was sent to the Infirmary. Upon his admission, I tried to pass catheters of different sizes; but without success. The man was then put into a warm bath and sent to bed. A powder, consisting of 2 grains of Calomel, 3 grains of Opium, and 5 grains of James's powder, was given to him. On visiting him at night, I found that about a pint and a half of urine had dribbled away. The distension of the bladder was less, and he expressed himself as being much relieved. A draught of Liq. Ammon. acet. with Vini Antimonii XV. and Vini Opii ii], xv. was given, and a dose of castor oil was ordei'ed to be taken in the morning. He passed a good night; but during the day (aand) very little urine flowed, and in the evening the bladder was dis- tended. His countenance was anxious, and he was restless under the pain. Having again failed in the attempt to pass a catheter through the urethra, I passed a straight lithotomy staff" along the urethra, and, having the forefinger of my left hand in the rectum, I made an incision with a scalpel in the mesial line in front of the anus, and, dissecting upwards, I endeavored to trace the injured part of the urethra, and to open the canal. I did not succeed in the attempt. I then determined to puncture the bladder above the pubes; and I proceeded as in former operations. An elastic catheter was left in the bladder, with the cannula, as in other cases. The urine drawn off" was dark in color, with a slight am- moniacal smell, and was about two pints in quantity. A dose of Opium was given. Much of the urine dribbled away by the urethra after the operation. L146 The Opium was repeated each night; and the man went on without unfavorable symptoms until about 4 o'clock in the morning of the 37th, when the catheter and cannula escaped from the wound. He made several unsuccessful attempts to replace one or other of the instruments, and failing, the House-Surgeon was afterwards summoned; he succeeded in putting them again in position. May 2.—Redness was observed over a large surface in the right Inguinal and Iliac regions; and the penis and scrotum were red and swollen. 3. —The redness is more defined, and at one part soft and prominent. An incision was made in the Iliac region, and it gave vent to serum smelling of ammoniacal urine. 4. —The urine flows almost wholly through the incision in the Iliac region. The elastic catheter was removed, and replaced by one of a larger size. 6.—Incisions were made in the scrotum, on the right side of the I'aphe, and over the spine of the right ilia. Fluid, smell- ing strongly of decomposed urine, flowed freely from all the incisions. The urine which passes through the catheter is all tinged with blood. The man became weaker, and died in the morning of the joth, remaining sensible till within a few minutes of his death. The body was removed from the Infirmary, without my having the opportunity of making an examination. Remarks.—It seems to me that the unfortunate termination of the case was due to the injury done by the Patient in his clumsy and persevering attempts to replace the cannula or the catheter, when they escaped from their position five days after the operation. This is the only case in which I have found it necessary to puncture the bladder in a Patient in the Radcliffe Infirmary. The late Mr. Cleoburey, a man of large experience and one of the Surgeons of the Infirmary for 37 years, told me that he had never performed such an operation.147 Retention of Urine, stricture after injury to Pelvis—Relief by Catheter—Relapse. A laboring man, between 50 and 60 years of age, of feeble appearance, and much out of health, was admitted into the Radclifife Infirmary, under my care, 20 August, 1857, with a distended bladder. Many years ago he had been knocked down by a waggon, and one of the wheels passed over the right side of his pelvis. He had suffered from difficulty in micturition from that time. He was put into a warm bath; and a draught of Liq. Ammon. acet. with Opium and Sp. Etheris. nitr. was given. During the night he passed urine in small quantities. The bladder was thus partly emptied, and the more urgent symp- toms were relieved. On examining the perineum, I discovered a fulness, with tenderness on pressure. I punctured this on the 22nd, and let out some matter smelling strongly of urine. The draught with Opium was repeated, and he was put into a hip-bath. The urine flowed continuously through the opening in the perineum ; more escaping in that direction than by the urethra, without his having the power of restraining it, and without his being conscious of its passing. September 8. — I introduced a small silver catheter into the urethra, and found two strictures — one about two inches from the meatus, and the other, more rigid, at the membranous portion. Catheters gradually increased in size were passed at regular intervals. Toward the end of September, he became able to retain his urine : a small quantity only escaping by the wound in the perineum, at the time of micturition. On December 3, I was able to introduce a full-sized wax bougie into the bladder ; and two days afterwards he was able to pass a full stream of urine by the urethra. His health improved. The sinus in the perineum healed. A large silver catheter could be passed into the bladder without difficulty. He was discharged 20 January, 1858, to all appearance cured. In the spring of i860 he again presented himself, with difficulty of micturition. The urethra was so contracted, that L 2148 it was only after several efforts at his different visits that I was able to pass a silver catheter, No. 8, into the bladder. He attended at intervals of a week or ten days. But he was relieved by the instruments being passed, and he ceased to attend. He was again admitted in January 1861 ; and he remained in the Infirmary for several months. Catheters of different sizes were passed ; and he left the house again, with the full power of passing his urine without difficulty in a full stream. In May 1863 he was again admitted, with a sinus in the perineum, through which the urine dribbled. He was more feeble in appearance. He had a large Inguinal hernia; and he walked with knock-knees. Catheters were passed at intervals. The sinus eventually healed; and he left the Infirmary in December, having again recovered the full power of retaining his urine and passing it in a full stream. On 8 June, 1866, he came to the Infirmary; and I passed a silver catheter. No. 7, into the bladder through a firm stric- ture. In his way home, he stopped at a public-house, where he had some beer. In the evening, he came with the bladder distended. He was admitted at once. A draught of Liq. Amnion, acet. with Opium was given, and repeated, — followed by a dose of castor oil. After this he passed urine freely. On the 14th I was able to pass a silver catheter, No. 9. He left the Infirmary on the 20th. In April 1867 he was again admitted. The prostate was much enlarged; and there were several openings in the perineum, through which the urine escaped in all attempts at micturition. Two days after admission I succeeded in passing a silver catheter, No. 6, into the bladder, and withdrew about twelve ounces of urine. On the 39th I passed No. 12. He was discharged on May 15. All the sinuses were healed, and he had full control over the flow of urine. On 3 May, 1869, he was again admitted, with the blad- der distended. He was put into a warm bath; a dose of castor oil was given ; followed by a draught of Liq. Amnion, acet., with Opium, some Vinum Antimonii, and Sp. Etheris nitr. The urine was afterwards passed in sufficient quantity149 for his immediate relief: but it was purulent and stringy. On the loth I passed a silver catheter, No. 6, into the bladder; and on June aa I passed No. 9. He went home on July 7, relieved of much of his suffering, but not able to pass urine freely. In the following winter his general health failed, and he became unable to follow his work. He was admitted into the Workhouse at Abingdon, and died there in July 1870,— thirteen years after he first came under my care. Remarks.—The history of this poor man, thus given through 13 years, is the history of many men in his humble station, having their daily bread to earn by their daily labor. They can not spare the time which is necessary for the visit to a Medical Practitioner, though it is to receive from him that attention without which they can not keep in health and con- tinue at work. It is a matter of common observation among Surgeons that where stricture of the urethra is established,— from whatever cause,—the disposition to contraction is also permanent; and it becomes necessary that a catheter should be passed at stated and regular periods. Without it, a con- tinuance in health is impossible. Many Patients may be trusted to perform the necessary operation themselves. With a person of education there is seldom a difficulty in giving such instruction as will enable the Patient to pass a bougie in his own person, if he is unable or unwilling to avail himself of the regular assistance of a Practitioner. With the Patients usually seen at a county Hospital, this is out of the question. They can not do it for themselves ; and, unhappily, it is only in rare and exceptional cases that they are able to avail them- selves of the help of the Surgeon with the regularity which is essential. Even a residence in a Hospital at irregular inter- vals, when driven to seek relief by temporary aggravation of their sufferings, is not enough to restore them to health for more than a short time. They obtain relief; they are not ' cured.' This poor man's health failed at length under a state of disease, for the relief of which the regular attendance of a Medical Practitioner is absolutely required.Retention of Urine. Rupture of Bladder—Death. A laboring man, 48 years of age, but older in appearance, thin, spare, and ' asthmatic,' was admitted into the Radcliffe Infirmary, under my care, a6 April, 1870, complaining of inability to empty his bladder by his own efforts, and of the necessity for frequent relief by catheter. At the time of admission, an elastic catheter was in the urethra, where it had been fixed with tapes by Mr. Hemingway, of Steeple Aston, two or three days before admission. Mr. Hemingway had been called to him ten days before admission; and he had been passing a full-sized catheter twice a day for about a week. He never found any difficulty in passing the instru- ment into the bladder. The Patient lived at a distance ; and as Mr. Hemingway was not able to pay him frequent visits, he tied an elastic catheter in the canal, for the man to relieve himself at will. The Patient had suffered from a difficulty in emptying his bladder for six years ; but he had never had a catheter passed, and he had not applied to any Medical Practitioner for assist- ance. In February 1837 he met with an accident, by which he had been run over by a cart. Both thighs were broken, and he was much injured about the body. He was taken to the Infirmary, and remained under treatment for 3 months. The day after admission I withdrew the elastic catheter, and passed a silver one. No. 9 in size, in place of it. The urine drawn off was thick and purulent. Upon examination per anum I did not find that the prostate was enlarged. A catheter of fvdl size was passed, by myself or the House- Surgeon, three times each day. But the Patient complained so much of the collection of even a small quantity, that an elastic catheter was afterwards (on the 38th) left in the urethra, and fastened with tapes, so that he might relieve himself by drawing the urine off at his own pleasure. The urine drawn oiif was thick, stringy, and purulent, and so offensive that the attendants in the ward removed it speedily. A little blood was observed in it once. This, when placed under the micro- scope, had the appearance of being mixed with cancer-cells.^51 The treatment was directed to relieve the pain under which he suffered ; and it consisted chiefly of small doses of opium frequently repeated. He became weaker by degrees; and died on May 12. Some days before death, a swelling was observed in the umbilical region, a little to one side of the mesial line. It was tender on pressure; the skin over it was slightly reddened; and in general appearance it was like a collection of matter in course of formation in the parietes. This subsided without suppuration. Upon opening the abdomen after death, there was an escape of thick and foul urine,—about a pint in quantity. It was contained in a sac formed in front by the parietes, and behind by the mass of intestines, which were matted together with lymph. This sac was lined throughout with a thick layer of false membrane, not unlike the cavity of an abscess. On examination, a round opening, large enough to admit the finger, was found, communicating with the fundus of the bladder. The bladder was contracted : on its inner surface were observed some projecting nodules; these, examined under the microscope, were thought to present the appearance of cancer-cells. No other deposit of cancer was observed. Remarks.—How the opening in the bladder, which led to the escape of the urine, was caused, and when it was made, are questions not easily settled. It is likely that it was made by the Patient himself in rudely handling the catheter, during the time he was allowed the use of it for his own relief. Retention of Urine. Enlarged Prostate—Relief by Catheter- Retention three years afterwards—Paralysis—Death. A laboring man, 63 years of age, was admitted into the Radcliffe Infirmary, under my care, 20 May, 1864, with retention of urine. The prostate gland was much enlarged.. The man had also cataract in his left eye, mature, and fit for operation. For this complaint he did not desire treatment. The bladder was emptied twice a day with a catheter. He was slow in recovering the power of emptying his bladder by152 his natural power. In fact, he had not completely regained it when he returned home on June aa. He was readmitted i6 May, 1867, with the bladder dis- tended ; and also with symptoms of paralysis of the right side of the body. He was brought in a cart from a village about 12 miles from Oxford. The persons who came with him re- ported that the symptoms of paralysis came on while he was riding in the cart. The bladder was relieved by the frequent introduction of the catheter. The symptoms of paralysis became more marked. He grew weaker by degrees, and died on the i^ih,— nine days after admission. Retention of Urine, inflamed Prostate —Puncture of Bladder. A man, 25 years of age, shepherd on a large farm, applied to Mr. Box, of Abingdon, for relief of a frequency and diffi- culty in passing urincj which had come on after an attack of gonorrhea six weeks ago. Mr. Box formed the opinion that the man was suffering from an inflamed prostate, and ad- vised him to apply at once for admission into the Radclifife Infirmary. Upon presenting himself at the Infirmary, he was refused admission by the House-Surgeon. He returned home ; and under the advice of a friend, who confidently promised him a cure, he took at intervals several doses of Epsom salts and nitre. Not obtaining relief, and his sufferings becoming known to his master, he requested Mr. Box to see him. Mr. Box found the bladder greatly distended. No urine had been passed during the last 24 hours. The bowels had not been moved for four days. He tried to pass catheters of different sizes, but without success. 7 April, 1858, I saw him in consultation with Mr. Box and Mr. Baker, and, failing in the attempts I made to pass a catheter, I resolved, with their concurrence, to puncture the bladder above the pubes. A small incision was made with a scalpel above the pubes; and, the distended bladder being felt with my finger, I passed a trocar into it. Then withdrawing the trocar, an elastic catheter was passed through the cannula, and the bladder153 emptied. A very large quantity of urine, healthy in appear- ance, was removed, and the catheter and cannula left in the bladder. The care of the Patient was then left to Mr. Box. Two days afterwards some urine was passed by the urethra; and the man recovered rapidly. I heard of him in 1878. He was still employed on the same farm, and in good health. Retention of Urine. Enlarged Prostate—Puncture of Bladder —Death. A gentleman, 76 years of age, formerly a farmer, had suffered for several years from an irritable state of the bladder ; but had never experienced any actual stoppage. In Decem- ber 1870 he complained of a difficulty in passing his urine, and an inability to empty his bladder completely. In order to relieve this, a catheter was passed by a Medical Practitioner ; but the instrument did not enter the bladder. The operation was followed by rather free bleeding. On the 26th I was called to see him by Mr. Byass, of Dorchester. I found the prostate much enlarged, and harder than natural. I attempted to introduce a silver catheter, No. 10 in size ; but the instrument entered a false passage in the urethra, without penetrating the bladder. I then tried an elastic catheter of a smaller size. This entered the prostate, but I was unable to push it through the gland. On the 31st I saw the Patient again. His sufferings from retention were relieved by his frequently passing urine in small quantities. The bladder, although full, was not dis- tended. I again introduced a silver catheter. No. 10 in size. This reached the bladder; and I drew off several ounces of urine, which was healthy in appearance. The urine was after- wards passed in small quantities ; and the urgency of his sufferings was relieved. On 7 January, 1871,1 saw him again. He complained that he was frequently called to pass urine, and that he passed it only in small quantities. The bladder was not distended. Next day I was summoned to him, in consultation with154 Mr. Briscoe, and also with Mr. Byass, and the late Mr. Harris, who were in attendance on him. He had not passed any urine since the previous night. The bladder was distended; and it could be felt above the pubes. Catheters of different sizes and curves were tried by Mr. Briscoe and myself, but we could not succeed in passing an instrument beyond the prostate. It was then resolved that the bladder should be punctured ; and I proceeded to perform the necessary operation. An incision about 2 inches long was made through the skin above the pubes. Passing my finger between the muscular fibres, the globular form of the enlarged bladder was felt distinctly. I then pushed a trocar into the substance of the tumor. On withdrawing the trocar, a small quantity of urine flowed through the cannula ; but before I could pass an elastic catheter through the cannula, the bladder contracted, and I could not find the opening I had made. All attempts failed to reach the cavity of the bladder. The urine continued to escape freely through the external wound above the pubes ; and the distress from the distended bladder was relieved. No urine passed by the urethra. The patient became weaker, and he died on the nth. There was not any appearance of gangrene or sloughing. The body was not examined. Remarks.—The cannula used in this case was 2 inches and five eighths in length. The escape of the urine through it, on withdrawing the trocar, showed that it was of suflficient length to reach through the substance of the bladder into the cavity after it was punctured. I have used instruments of the same size and description in former operations, and I have always found them perfectly efficient, — that is, of sufficient length to reach the interior of the bladder, and thus allow an elastic catheter to be introduced through the cannula into the cavity. But these cases were in younger subjects, or persons of middle age, in whom the bladder was not unhealthy in structure, or under the effects of old disease. In such cases there was not any difficulty in placing the' catheter in proper position. As the body was not examined, the degree of155 disease which existed in the urinary organs was not ascer- tained. [Medical Times and Gazette, December 1880, March and April 1881.] Cleaning Catheters. The plan proposed by Mr. Davy in the British Medical Journal, for cleaning catheters by drawing a bristle through them, has much to recommend it. But it is an objection to such a plan that it is not applicable to the catheters usually made, with openings or ' eyes' at the side, at a distance from the point. For many years I have found that I could clean catheters sufficiently by using the common wire stilet, having the end twisted into a small eye, through which a thread is passed, or a piece of string, according to the size of the catheter. The wire should be long enough to reach to the tip of the catheter. By moving this backwards and forwards as a piston, in a basin of warm water, the remains of the urine or other matters within the tube are effectually pumped out through the eyes at the side. About 35 years ago, I had a set of catheters made, with the wire stilet for each one having an eye at the point. With these, the catheters can be cleaned without much trouble. In some cases of retention of urine, I have found this kind of piston, or pumping action, useful in withdrawing the contents of the bladder when distended with blood, or in clearing the catheter when the tube is plugged by a clot. {British Medical Journal, March 1878.] Obstruction in the Urethra, a piece of bone impacted, after injury of the Pelvis. A laboring man from a country village, 30 years of age, was admitted into the Radcliffe Infirmary, lo November, 1850, complaining of constant pain in the urethra, hindering sleep at night, and attended with difficulty of micturition, which was156 caused, as he thought, by a piece of stone lodged in the passage. Without any previous symptom to attract his attention, he perceived, on passing urine a few days before admission, that a small light-colored substance, which he took for a stone, was ejected forcibly with the urine, the stream becoming almost immediately narrowed by an other piece, which stuck fast in the passage, and which he was not able to remove with his fingers. The day after admission, the orifice of the urethra was observed to be slightly contracted; and there was a slight puriform discharge. The urine passed on the morning after admission was made turbid by mucus. A metallic sound, No. 8 in size, was passed into the bladder, without detecting a calculus; but great pain was caused by the instrument stretching or twisting the urethra, about 3 inches from the meatus, where a foreign body was felt to be impacted. Several ineffectual attempts were made to extract the foreign body with forceps of different kinds. Though recog- nized easily as a solid rough substance, it could not be moved either forwards or backwards. Great pain was produced by every kind of manipulation. November 28. — The Patient having seated himself (with some difficulty,) on the edge of a table, in a convenient posture for operation, a straight staff was passed into the urethra, and an incision about half an inch long was made through the integument and corpus spongiosum into the urethra. Through the opening thus made, a rough spiculum of bone was, with some difficulty, extracted. It was about three quarters of an inch long, pointed at each end, and eaten away at the sides, where it varied in width, being about a fifth of an inch in its greatest diameter. In answer to farther enquiries, the following history was then obtained from him. Between 9 and 10 years ago, he was knocked down by a horse and cart; and as he lay on the ground, with his face downwards, one of the wheels passed over his pelvis. He rested from work, and remained in bed for about 3 weeks or a month, without receiving Medical treatment. He was then brought to the Radclifife Infirmary,157 complaining of lameness, with pains in the hip : these were attributed to rheumatism. He remained ] i weeks under the care of Dr. Wootten, and was discharged without deriving relief. A succession of abscesses afterwards formed about the left side of the perineum, and one in front of the left thigh, below the bend of the groin. He knew nothing of the escape of any pieces of bone. At the end of about 18 months from the time of the injury, he had recovered sufficiently to be able to return to his accustomed work as a laborer on a farm, without finding any hindrance, except from stiffness in his left hip. The cicatrices of several of the abscesses were visible, — all firmly healed. The left lower extremity was about an inch and a half shorter than the right; the muscles of the buttock, the thigh, and the leg, were much wasted ; and the hip-joint was firmly anchylosed by bony union, so that he could not sit in the usual position on a chair. The conclusion to be drawn from such a history was, that the two portions of bone—the only pieces which had been observed,—had been detached from the pelvis, as the result of the injury (probably fracture), and, instead of being dis- charged externally by means of the abscesses, had passed into the bladder. December 5,—The wound was healed. He was allowed to get up and walk about the ward. He had slept well since the operation ; which, he said, had not been the case for a long time. There was still a little pain in passing urine. He was discharged on the 9th. A small quantity of mucus was still observed in the urine. On 6 August, 1851, he was re-admitted, complaining that there was an other piece of bone, or something like it, near the seat of the former operation. The day he left the In- firmary, he passed some bloody urine; and he had been in more or less pain ever since. A full-sized bougie was passed with some difficulty, without finding any actual obstruction, and without producing pain. No foreign body could be felt by external manipulation. August 13. — He had continued to complain so severely, especially of the straining in passing urine, that to-day I passed a director into the urethra, and cut into the canal.158 through the cicatrix of the former operation. The tissue of the urethra seemed to be rather hard and cartilaginous; but I did not find any foreign body. He was completely relieved by the operation ; and left the Infirmary on the 27th. About 13 or 15 months afteinvards, he came under the observation of Mr. Dixon, of Watlington. A fresh succession of abscesses had formed about the perineum ; and he died exhausted under the profuse discharge. The body was not examined after death. In this man's case, the early symptoms had been in a great measure forgotten, the Patient being an uneducated laborer; his sufferings under a very severe injury not having made a very lasting impression on his memory. In the second operation—when the piece of bone which he expected to see removed was not found — it seemed to me that a tough cica- trix existed in the urethra at the seat of the first operation ; and that the relief he obtained was from the free division of the hardened tissues which was made by the incision from without. \British Medical Journal, March 1867.] From Sir William Lawrence. i8 Whitehall Place, April 5, 1867. Dear Mr. HusSEY,—Accept my best thanks for your obliging present. The case was interesting to me, as I have had some experience of in- stances in which long suffering by suppuration and fistulae resulting from necrosis of bone after external violence not accompanied by wounds, the original injury having been forgotten, and the source of mischief therefore overlooked. Several years ago I was consulted by an elderly lady for a fistula at the lower labium. She had met with a violent blow on the part men- tioned, and its immediate neighborhood, without external wound, more than 30 years previously, and had been for some time under the late Mr. Cline. She had more or less trouble from this affair from time to time, avoiding local examination as much as possible from motives of delicacy, being unmarried. There had been suppuration, from which the fistula was the result. This sometimes discharged ; at others dried up, and remained closed for weeks. This lady, who of course continued unmarried, was able to conduct a school. Being persuaded that there159 must be dead bone, though I could not ascertain its presence, I slit up the sinus, exposed and removed a piece of bone perfectly black. It was rather more than an inch long, and about half as wide ; m thickness equal to that of a crown-piece. The exposed surface healed rapidly ; and the annoyance of between 30 and 40 years' duration was at an end. Believe me always, yours very sincerely, Wm. Lawrence. E. L. HussEY, Esq. Large Sinus in the Perineum. Exposing the Urethra— Operation. A man, 55 years of age, formerly a farmer, reduced by debauchery and extravagance, was admitted into the RadcHffe Infirmary, under my care, 25 August, 185a, with a large open sinus in the perineum, communicating with the urethra. It was the result of sloughing; but whether this was connected with stricture and disease of the urinary organs, or whether it was, as I rather think, from the effects of injury, I did not obtain a very clear account; nor did I learn how long it had existed. The urine was constantly dribbling frorn the sinus; and when the Patient attempted to empty the bladder, the greater part of the urine escaped by this opening. Upon being placed on a table with the perineum exposed, a large funnel-shaped cavity between the scrotum and the anus was seen, having much the appearance of the female vulva. Upon separating the sides of this, a large opening was observed in the urethra, and the interior of the canal was bare to the extent of about an inch and a half. At first I thought that the chasm might be closed, and union of the opposed surfaces obtained, by stimulating the granulations. To this end I applied Acetum cantharidis freely several times ; but the treatment had no beneficial effect. I therefore proceeded to further operation. The man being placed in the usual position for lithotomy, the sides and edges of the opening were freely pared all round with a scalpel, and a new surface made by the removal of the whole of the granulating parts. A full-sized elastic catheter was then passed into the bladder through the jpenis, and the sides and edges of the wound were drawn together and closedi6o over the catheter by several sutures of strong silk thread carried deeply across the opening by strong curved needles. The catheter was left in position,^ and the urine was allowed to escape through it. So efifectively was the object attained, that no further discharge took place through the false channel. The whole of the wound united by first intention. At the end of a week the catheter was changed, and replaced by an other; and this other was allowed to remain for about an other week. On November 3 the man was discharged, with the opening completely closed. For some months he was unable to empty the bladder without the help of a catheter. But before he passed fi'om my observation, he had recovered the full power both of retaining the urine and of passing it at will. From en- quiry I have since made of members of his family, I believe that he had no return of his former complaint to the time of his death, which happened several years afterwards. {Medical Times and Gazette, 17 May, 1879.] Calculus Extracted from the Female Bladder. A young woman, of strumous aspect, 18 years of age, lately apprenticed to a dressmaker, was admitted, 13 May, 1858, into the Radcliffe Infirmary, under my care, with incon- tinence of urine, caused by a large calculus in the bladder. The calculus had been detected for the first time the day be- fore admission. She had been in the Infirmary in January and February 1855. I have been informed that the only symptoms of which she complained at that time, were a greater frequency of the call to empty her bladder. Lately it had become so painful for her to sit long at work, that she had been obliged to give up dressmaking. She applied to Dr. Freeborn. He introduced a silver catheter, and detected a large stone in the bladder. The catamenia appeared the day after her admission ; and treatment was delayed on that account. On the 18th she was placed under chloroform. A three- branched dilator was introduced into the urethra. Therei6i was not more than an ounce of urine in the bladder; and this escaped at once. The stone was struck with the point of the instrument as it entered the bladder. The blades were expanded, and on introducing my finger a large calculus was felt. It was seized with a strong pair of lithotomy- forceps, and brought almost to the orifice of the urethra, when it slipped from the grip of the forceps, and fell back into the bladder. By pressing firmly above the pubes, where the calculus could be felt, it was kept steady, and a firmer hold taken with the forceps. When brought again to the orifice of the urethra, so that its large size could be seen, and an opinion formed of the laceration Hkely to follow from per- severance in the attempt to drag it through, I made an incision less than half an inch in length, in the mucous membrane, dividing it directly upwards, towards the symphy- sis pubis in the mesial line. By continuing the dilatation gradually, moving the forceps from side to side, the parts yielded, and the stone was extracted. It was observed during the operation that the soft parts yielded more readily by raising the Patient's knees toward the abdomen, as in the position chosen for lithotomy in male subjects. The calculus weighed ^iij. 9ij., and was composed of lithic acid. It was a thick oval in shape, or rather in the form of a flattened heart. In its long axis it was two inches and six tenths, in its short axis one inch and eight tenths, and one inch and four tenths in thickness. Its greatest circumference was seven inches and a quarter; its short circumference was five inches and an eighth. There was rather free oozing of bright florid blood from the inside of the bladder during the operation and afterwards. A draught of Liq. Ammon. acet. with some Vinum Opii, some Antimony, and Sp. Etheris nitr. was given at bedtime. The girl slept all night. The urine escaped freely, without her being able to retain it. On the 25th I directed her to bathe the parts frequently with cold water. On the 29th she was able to retain the urine during the day ; but a little escaped at night. June 9.—The Nurse tells me that less of the urine escapes. Soon after this date she returned home by her own wish. Ml62 She was readmitted in July, and she remained a month in the ward. She was able to hold a teacupful of urine during the day. She can tell by her own feelings when it becomes necessary to empty the bladder, and she has a vessel ready for the purpose. It escapes at night during sleep. Her bowels were generally confined. The catamenia had not appeared since the opera- tion. I prescribed a shower-bath daily, and Ferrum tartaratum, with Dec. Aloes comp., twice a day. Dr. Freeborn has since informed me that she recovered perfectly, and that she regained the full control over the bladder. She afterwards married ; and she died in London in 1873 with some internal disease. A girl, 14 years of age, rather below middle height and size, complained that she was not able to hold more than a tea- spoon of urine in her bladder, and that she suffered much pain after passing the urine. She has suffered more or less from these or other symptoms of irritability for five years. She was admitted, 2 June, 1858, into the Radcliffe Infirmary, under my care. The existence of a calculus in the bladder having been ascertained by sounding, I proceeded to remove it on the 9th. The orifice of the urethra was too small to allow of the in- troduction of the same dilator which I had used in the former case. A pair of common forceps was therefore passed into the urethra, and, upon allowing the blades to expand, I passed the dilator into the bladder between the expanded blades of the forceps, and the forceps were then withdrawn. The branches of the dilator were opened ; and, on introducing my finger into the bladder, the calculus was felt. It was seized with a pair of lithotomy forceps, and extracted without difficulty. There was rather free oozing of blood, which ceased after she was put back in bed. The calculus weighed 3vss., and was composed of lithic acid, coated with phosphates, A draught of Liq. Ammon. acet. with Vini Opii 111.xv. was given at bedtime. She slept well all night. June 15. — She is able to retain the urine during the day, but it escapes at night.i63 She was discharged on the 30th. She was able to retain the urine completely during the day, but some escapes during sleep. I saw her again on July 24. She told me that less urine dribbled away at night. From members of her family I have since heard that she recovered completely from the effects of the operation, and that she died about ten years afterwards under some other complaint. A married lady, 46 years of age, had suffered for two years from irritability about the organs of the pelvis. She was much wasted, and depressed in spirits. She had been treated by different Medical Practitioners; and lately she had paid repeated visits by railway to a Practitioner at a distance. At each visit caustic was applied to the uterus, under the belief that that was the organ affected. She found after each visit that her sufferings were aggravated by the journey, rather than relieved by the treatment. Her father and her father's uncle had both been the subject of calculus. In November 1869, Mr. Cresswell, of Wolverhampton, then of Steeple Aston, was consulted upon her case. He gave the opinion that she was the subject of a large calculus in the bladder. At a subsequent visit he introduced a silver catheter, and assured himself of the fact. On the 18th I was summoned, in consultation with Mr. Cresswell, for the purpose of removing it. A three-branched dilator was introduced into the urethra, and the blades were opened sufficiently to allow me to pass my finger into the bladder ; but I could not at first feel the calculus. The bladder was then syringed with warm water. Upon introducing my finger a second time, the calculus was felt, and seized with a pair of lithotomy forceps. The urethra yielded slowly to the process of dilatation. When the calculus was brought to the orifice, I applied a second pair of forceps, so as to obtain a firmer hold of it. The calculus broke in the passage before it was completely withdrawn. It was 3iij. in weight, and was composed of phosphates. A glass of hot brandy and water, with spice and sugar, was administered by our direction, before we left the house. M 3164 The subsequent treatment of the case was left to Mr. Cresswell. The lady made a rapid and complete recovery, with perfect control over the bladder. She soon became stout and strong, and resumed her household duties. She was in the enjoy- ment of the best of health when Mr. Cresswell saw her, two years after the operation. Remarks.—In all these cases the dilatation was effected by the same instrument—the three-branched dilator made by Messrs. Weiss. No inconvenience followed from the use of it, or from the mode in which it was applied. An instrument in some respects like it is shewn in Dionis's ' Course of Chirurgical Operations,' 1710, Fig. xx., page 168 ; it is described in the text as a speculum matricis. [Medical Times arid Gazette^ December 1880.] Destruction of Urethra in a Woman, in conse- quence OF A Blow on the Perineum, incontinence of Urine—Operation. A married woman, 33 years of age, a prisoner in one of the large establishments for convicts in London, under sentence of transportation, in good health and of well-proportioned frame, gave the following account of her malady. About 3 years ago, in returning from a fair, half drunk, her husband suddenly ran behind her, and kicked her violently in the region of the perineum. The blow was sudden and severe, and she sank to the ground in a fainting fit. She subsequently walked home, a distance of some miles, but with great pain and difficulty. By the time she reached her house, the injured parts were painful and greatly swollen. She went to one of the large Hospitals ; but came out next morning, against the remonstrance of the Nurse, before the visit of any of the Medical Ofificers, being fearful that her husband would get into trouble upon her account. On returning home she went to bed, and lay there for a month, without having recourse to Medical aid ; although during the greater part of the time shei65 suffered severely. Within a day or two after leaving her bed, at the moment of rising from a chair, she felt a sensation of something having suddenly given way; and she found that her clothes, and the floor beneath, were deluged with a fluid of watery appearance. From that time she lost all power of retaining her urine. Mr. Crookes saw her 12 July, 1844. The vagina, as she lay in bed, was found to be full of urine ; the mucous mem- brane was superficially ulcerated in irregular patches, and encrusted generally with the salts of the urine. An inch, or rather more, from the ostium vaginae, and on the upper sur- face^ there was an opening through which the urine could be seen trickling, and escaping in little gushes whenever the abdominal muscles were suddenly called into action. A full- sized male catheter passed through this opening, with perfect ease. The margins of the opening were irregular and thick- ened ; the lower or posterior border was especially thick and fleshy, and presented on its under surface three irregularly triangular mamillary projections, which were excoriated and acutely sensitive. With a view of tracing the relation of this opening with the internal orifice of the urethra, Mr. Crookes proceeded to pass a catheter by the urethra into the bladder. The meatus urinarius, however, could not be found ; and, on closer inspection, it was evident that the whole tract of the urethra had disappeared — its ordinary course presenting nothing but a smooth uniform mucous surface. The opening in the vagina was, in fact, the natural opening into the bladder at its point of junction with the urethra ; and the irregular and fleshy margin was composed of the thickened fragments of that canal, or the neck of the bladder. July 16.—Under the sanction of Mr. Perry, Inspector of Prisons, and in the presence of Dr. Baly, Mr. W, A. Sumner, and myself, Mr. Crookes performed the following operation. The Patient was placed upon a table, and tied in the ordinary position for lithotomy; and Beaumont's speculum was in- troduced into the vagina. By this instrument a good view of the parts was obtained, and space procured for the necessary manipulation. The state of the vagina was found to be much improved since the former examination, the calcareous matteri66 having been almost wholly removed by the assiduous attention of a good Nurse. When the blades of the speculum were fully expanded, and the opening into the bladder fully exposed, it was seen to be transverse in direction, somewhat of a half- moon in shape, less defined in its lower or posterior border than in the anterior or upper, and rather more than an inch in transverse measurement. Through this opening, when fully distended by the speculum, the inner surface of the bladder was visible, and the orifices of both ureters could be clearly seen distilling the urine. By slow and cautious steps, the edges of the opening were pared away completely, and a thorough abrasion of the surface effected. This part of the proceeding proved to be extremely tedious and wearisome. More blood was lost than was an- ticipated ; and the necessity for constantly clearing the vagina from the accumulated clots and urine added much to the length of the operation. The edges being sufficiently pared, two double sutures, introduced without much difficulty by means of Beaumont's needle, enabled Mr. Crookes to bring the parts together, and they adapted themselves in the way desired most completely. A small-sized gum elastic catheter was then passed into the bladder, and the Patient laid upon her back in bed. The instrument was secured in its position by tapes; and, a folded draw-sheet having been placed be- neath the buttocks, the urine was allowed to dribble away as soon as it entered the bladder. The operation lasted altogether for about two hours; and, although tedious and irksome, the Patient did not appear to suff"er from pain. The bowels were subsequently kept in a free state by the use of castor oil, and no unfavorable symptoms occurred. On the third day the sutures were removed. The catheter was kept in the bladder till the tenth day. The vagina was cautiously syringed out with warm water several times daily ; and every attention was paid to keep the parts in a quiet and cleanly condition. Three weeks after the operation the surfaces were found to have united perfectly, and a thick and short portion of urethral canal was thus formed. The incontinence of urine, however, still continued. The use of a sponge pessary was now tried, in the hope that, by pressure on the newly formed portion ofi67 the urethra, the flow of urine might be in some measure con- trolled. The pressure of the pessary was completely efficacious. The bladder became capable of retaining urine until the Patient felt a desire to pass it; and a slight change in the position of the pessary enabled her to relieve the bladder of its contents at will. Her clothes, and the cell in which she was confined, lost their former urinous odor; and she was enabled to mix among the other prisoners, and take the usual exercise with comfort. After wearing the pessary for several weeks, she began to find that she could retain a portion of her urine without its use; and in a short time afterwards that she could dispense with it altogether. In accordance with the terms of her sentence, she was afterwards removed to one of the penal colonies; and at the time of her removal she was wholly free from any trace of her former loathsome affliction. Remarks. — Sudden local violence of an unusual character, — a single blow, as in this case, — though one of the possible causes of a fistulous communication between the bladder and vagina, has been less frequently so, than the pressure caused by delay of the child's head, — perhaps of unusual size, — in lingering labor. In this case the whole of the ure- thra had perished by sloughing as a consequence of the injury. The instruments used in the operation were obtained from Messrs. Ferguson of Giltspur Street. The speculum vaginae, as well as the needle, had been made under the direction of Mr. Beaumont of Toronto, when residing in London. The speculum consists of Several small blades, which can be fixed separately by screws at the distance required. One great advantage of the instrument is, that it can be kept in place without the help of an Assistant. A common scalpel and dissecting forceps were used for paring the edges of the wound; and the silk thread in general use for ligatures was taken for sutures. A large brass syringe was found the most convenient instrument for keeping the vagina clear during the operation. The Patient was not a very tractable subject; and she complained more than once of the length of time she wasi68 kept in a constrained position ; but she did not complain of the pain caused by any of the steps of the operation. {British Medical Journal, January 1868.] Enlargement of Ovary. Absorption of Fluid— Return of Disease. A woman, aged 35 years, was admitted 14 December, 1846, into St. Bartholomew's Hospital, under the care of Dr. Hue, with encysted dropsy of the abdomen. From the account she gave, it had existed for about 5 years. She had been in the Hospital in December 1845, under the care of Dr. Roupell, with the same complaint; she had been tapped at that time, and Dr. Roupell's opinion was that she was the subject of ovarian disease. She was in a low and very weak state, with aphthae on the inside of the lips and cheeks; she complained of severe pain in the abdomen, — and she seemed to be sinking from ex- haustion. Nutritious diet was ordered, with wine ; and Opium was prescribed freely, to allay the pain. Under this treatment, with rest in bed, the swelling of the abdomen disappeared completely; no tumor of any kind could be detected in the abdomen or pelvis, by external ex- amination. She left the Hospital, in comparatively good health, i February, 1847. She was re-admitted 22 April following, with a return of the dropsy, and discharged 12 July. She was again admitted 14 August (under the care of Sir George Burrows, I think). After being tapped, she died, with symptoms of peritonitis, 28 November, 1847. The abdomen was examined by Dr. Ormerod and myself. The usual appearances of acute peritonitis were present. A single ovarian cyst, with thick walls, contained several ounces of purulent matter, with the mark of recent puncture through the walls of the abdomen.i6g Enlargement of Ovary. Contents discharged through the Rectum. A woman, 40 years of age, mother of several children, the wife of the President's gardener in Kent, was admitted into St. Bartholomew's Hospital, 31 December, 1845, under the care of Dr. Hue, complaining of occasional attacks of obstruc- tion of the bowels, with great pain in passing solid feces. Before admission she had been under the care of Mr. Gould, of Wateringbury, who considered that she was suffering from disease of the uterus or ovary. The left ovary, much enlarged, and very tender on pressure, could be felt in the Iliac region as she lay in bed. It was nearly of the size of the fetal head at birth. Pills of calomel and colocynth, and afterwards calo- mel and jalap, were prescribed. These caused great pain in action ; as did also an enema of warm water administered by the Sister of the ward. On 26 January she was seen by Dr. Rigby in consultation with Dr. Hue. Upon examination per rectum and per vagi- nam, the left ovary was felt, enlarged and inflamed, pressing on the rectum, and pushing the fundus uteri into the right Iliac fossa. Small doses of sulphate of magnesia, with dilute sulphuric acid, were prescribed, to be taken twice a day, and some leeches were applied to the groin. Dr. Rigby wished the leeches to be applied within the rectum, by means of a tube; but from the difficulty in keeping the tube steadily pressed against the tumor, this could not be done effectually. The motions, being liquid, now passed without pain. A com- mon enema was also occasionally given without causing any pain. She improved in health, the pain ceased, and she thought herself well enough to return to her home in the country on 14 February. The tumor of the ovary, though no longer tender on pressure, was little, if anything, less in size. She continued in good health till the end of April; when Mr. Gould was summoned to attend her under a fresh and more severe attack of pain and constipation, attended with acute fever. This continued without relief for about a fort- night, when, after passing, per anum, what she described as170 some ' thick and stringy stuff,' she suddenly felt complete relief. As soon as she was able to bear the journey, she was brought to London, and re-admitted into the Hospital, under Dr. Hue's care, 36 May, 1846. Next day she was seen by Dr. Rigby, in consultation with Dr. Hue. Upon examination per vaginam and per rectum, the uterus was found to be slightly displaced, but free from disease. The left ovary could be felt, but neither so large nor so painful as formerly; it could also be felt, through the abdominal parietes, smaller in size, knotty, and rather tender on pressure. Small doses of sulphate of magnesia, with dilute sulphuric acid, were ordered to be taken freely, and 5 grains of extract of conium night and morning. An enema of warm water brought away much thick mucus and purulent matter. Six leeches were applied to the groin. Meat diet, with wine, was ordered. A slight attack of menorrhagia followed the examination. She recovered her health rapidly. The pain in the rectum was seldom felt, unless when in the erect position, and after taking much exercise; and she became able to pass a solid motion without pain. She was clischarged from the Hospital ai June. The remains of the enlarged ovary could scarcely be felt by external examination. She continued for some years in good health, without making any complaint, and without any return of the disease. Having removed to a distant part of the county, she passed from Mr. Gould's observation, and she died at Gravesend in the winter of 1861. Dr. Sanders, under whose care she was in her last illness, tells me that she died under an attack of fever, with congestion of the brain. She never complained of any pain upon making pressure over the abdomen or pelvis ; and he did not find any appearance of a tumor. Remarks.—These short notes were taken at the time the Patients were under treatment. In one case, the disappear- ance of the fluid for a time threw some doubt around the diagnosis; the return of the disease, and the examination of the body, showed the real nature of it. In the other case, in171 the absence of the proof which might, perhaps, have been obtained by a careful examination of the contents of the pelvis, the correctness of the diagnosis must rest mainly on the opinion held by Dr. Hue and Dr. Rigby, both of whom considered, throughout their attendance on the Patient, that it was the ovary which was the subject of morbid enlarge- ment. \Medical Times and Gazette, February 1863.] Secondary Amputation of the Leg. On Friday, i December, 1854, a miller, 32 years of age, was in the upper part of his mill, ' putting on more power' to the machinery. While so employed, one of the stones flew in pieces; and a large piece struck him in the middle of the right leg. On recovering from the effects of the blow, he managed to get down a ladder, to walk to his house, about 20 yards distant, and then to get up a flight of stairs to his bedroom. Although there was a large wound in the leg, with muscle and bone protruding, no Medical assistance was sought till Sunday. The Patient lay in bed, with the limb on a pillow. There was some oozing of blood, but not loss enough to alarm him or his family. On Sunday night, December 3, I saw him, in consultation with Mr. Mallam of Hook Norton and Mr. Pritchard of Sib- ford. Both bones of the leg were fractured and comminuted in the middle third, with extensive laceration of the integu- ment and muscle. The extremity of the fibula, with much of the muscular, substance, was protruding. There was an offensive watery discharge from the wounds. The pulse was quick and weak, and the skin hot. The Patient's consent was readily obtained to the ampu- tation proposed. He was put under chloroform, and the leg was amputated below the knee, — about 55 hours after the accident. The Patient recovered favorably. He is now living and in good health.172 A farmer, 36 years of age, while occupied, 6 July, 186r, in disengaging the machinery of a mill on his farm from the steam-engine, which he thought was at rest, had the calf of the leg pinched between the end of the horizontal piston and the brickwork in which the end of the rod worked. The limb was also scalded by an escape of steam. A large and hard swelling afterwards formed in the back of the leg. This was punctured on the 25th of August by a Medical Practitioner with a trocar in two places. On the 30th the two openings were united by an incision; and a probe was passed, to as- certain the nature of the swelling. On the 3rd of September a sudden and profuse rush of blood took place from the v/ound ; and a large amount was lost before any Professional assistance was obtained. The Patient became delirious under the loss. In the emergency I was summoned, in consult- ation with the late Dr. Morris of Deddington. I had no doubt that the swelling was a false aneurism, from rupture of one of the large arteries; and that the proper course was to amputate the limb. With Dr. Morris's assistance, I amputated the leg below the knee. The Patient was so much exhausted by the pre- vious loss of blood, that I did not think it prudent to put him under chloroform. On examination of the amputated limb, the soft parts appeared to be much disorganized, and the different tissues were not easily distinguished ; but I discovered two large openings in the Posterior Tibial artery. There was not any fracture of bone. The Patient recovered. He is now living and in good health, A married woman, 52 years of age, wife of a laboring man, was admitted, 19 January, ] 866, into the County Asylum at Littlemore with a recent attack of mania. She had suffered from an attack of fever about 12 months ago ; and after re- covery, it was observed that her right leg had become almost useless. On 6 January she went from home by railway to a village eight miles distant, on a visit to her sister. In the afternoonJ 73 she wandered from the house, not knowing, in fact, where she went. She tried to cross a brook. The water was be- tween 3 and 4 feet deep, and she could not get out on the other side. After a time, her cries for help were heard ; and help was obtained. She was then pulled out of the water, and taken back to her sister's in a wheelbarrow. She re- mained there without receiving any Medical attendance. On the 12th she was taken home to her husband's cottage, when the foot and ankle were observed to be much distorted, and the parts red and swollen. On the 13th she was seen by Dr. Hemming, the Medical Officer of the parish. He de- tected a fracture of the malleolus, and he placed the limb in splints. These were removed by the Patient. Under Dr. Hemming's advice she was afterwards removed to the Asylum. On the a 1st, I saw her in consultation with the Medical Superintendant, the late Mr. Ley. The right leg was partially paralytic. The foot was inverted, and had the general ap- pearance of talipes equino-varus. There was a large slough- ing ulcer on the dorsum and outer aspect, exposing the bones, and laying open the ankle-joint. Both malleoli were broken ofif. The astragalus was loose and almost separated from its connexions : the articular cartilage on the inner side was worn away by the pressure of the broken end of the tibia. There was a free discharge of thin pus. On the 36th, with the help of Mr. Ley and Mr. Sankey, the leg was amputated below the knee, the Patient being placed under chloroform. The stump healed favorably. The Patient's recovery was retarded by the formation of an unusually large slough on the sacrum and the back of the pelvis. This healed eventually. Her general health im- proved"; and she was sufficiently recovered to be discharged from the Asylum in May 1867. On 22 March, 1867, a gentleman, 50 years of age, was driving himself in a light carriage on four wheels. The horse became troublesome, and, escaping from control, ran away with the carriage. In the attempt to restrain the animal by forcibly pulling at the reins, with his feet pressed for sup-174 port against the footboard, the floor of the carriage gave way. To save himself from falling through, with the certainty of being dragged at the horse's heels, he jumped out. In alight- ing on the ground, he received a compound fracture of the right leg. A carrier's cart happened to be passing at the time. He was lifted into this, and taken to an Inn in the neighbor- hood. Mr. Marshall of Wallingford was here called to his assistance. He secured the limb in splints, for greater safety in making the journey home. A carriage was then obtained, and the Patient was taken to his own house, about ten miles distant. He then placed himself under the care of Mr. Stone of Abingdon. On April 3 I saw him, in consultation with Mr. Stone. There was a deep and extensive wound leading down to the fracture. The tibia was fractured in the middle third, and the broken extremities of the bone could be seen at the bottom of the wound without any appearance of repair. The course of the fibula could not be traced in the middle of the limb in consequence of the general swelling; but there was no doubt, from the relative position of the malleoli, that that bone was broken as well as the tibia. The foot was everted, and firmly fixed between the malleoli; and it was not pos- sible, by any efforts we made, to bring it to its proper posi- tion. There was a free purulent discharge, but not of a good consistency; and the Patient's general health was be- ginning to suffer. It was manifest that there was no other course to pursue but to remove the limb. This was done on the 26th, with the assistance of Mr. Briscoe, Mr. Stone, and Mr. P. Martin. Upon dissection it appeared that the fibula was broken in its middle third, and that the sharp point of the lower piece had been forced obliquely upwards into the shaft of the tibia, on its outer aspect, where it remained firmly fixed in the compact tissue about an inch above the spot where the tibia was broken. It required the exertion of a considerable degree of force to withdraw it. The Patient recovered. He is still living, and in good health. A married woman, 58 years of age, the mother of a large175 family, and a free drinker, was admitted into the Radcliffe Infirmary, under my care, 4 April, 1863, with a compound fracture of both bones of the left leg, extending into the ankle-joint, and with a large bruise on the sacrum. The injuries were received in a fall downstairs when in a state of drunkenness. The limb was adjusted, and placed in splints in a good position. Some time after admission she suffered from a troublesome attack of diarrhea ; but this subsided under the administration of Pulv. Cretse comp., with Opium and Kino. Erysipelas afterwards appeared on the limb. This was fol- lowed by suppuration in the deep-seated parts, with sloughing of fascia and tendons. All appearance of reparative process ceased. The bones of the ankle-joint and tarsus were exposed in the wound, and the cartilage had disappeared from the articular surfaces. Notwithstanding the allowance of a generous diet, with brandy, her strength began to decline; and, as there was no hope of a union of the bones, or even of a restorative action being established, the leg was amputated on 15 May. On the 24th she complained of sore throat, with difficulty of swallowing. Next day the jaw was fixed, and the general symptoms of Tetanus declared themselves. She died early in the morning of the 28th. A carpenter, 26 years of age, not a man of strong constitu- tional power, was admitted into the Radcliffe Infirmary, 13 February, 1871, under my care, with a fracture of both bones of his leg in the middle third. (A full report of the case is given at p. 33.) Abscesses formed in the leg, followed by several attacks of hemorrhage of a venous character. The ankle-joint became disorganized. The leg was amputated 21 March. An abscess formed in the thigh, followed by attacks of hemorrhage, for which it was necessary to remove the dressings and open the stump. The man became weaker, and died exhausted on 17 April. A carrier, 37 years of age, laboring under delirium tremens,176 was admitted into the Radcliffe Infirmary, under my care, 26 May, 1871, with a fracture of both bones of the left leg: the tibia was fractured in the middle third, and the fibula at a point rather higher. The injury was received on the 22nd, in a fall, when drunk, in a public-house at Bicester. The limb was placed in splints by Mr. Croft. The man was afterwards attacked with delirium tremens. He frequently jumped out of bed, and when in bed he was continually pulling the splints about. As the persons in attendance could not control him, he was brought to the Infirmary. For relief of the delirium Opium was administered in regu- lar doses. Meat diet was ordered, with two pints of ale daily. Wine, eggs, and beef-tea were afterwards added. At intervals he was quiet; but during periods of restlessness and excite- ment the limb was much disturbed. A large abscess formed, and burst in the upper and outer part of the leg, about the spot where the fibula was broken. On 17 June, at midnight, sudden and profuse hemorrhage of an arterial character came from the abscess. This could not be controlled ; and I was summoned. As the only course to save his life I amputated the leg immediately, separating it through the knee-joint. Little relief to his general symp- toms followed. On the 20th, early in the morning, there was some smart hemorrhage from the stump ; it was stopped, however, by moderate pressure. The tongue became dry, and the pulse weaker. He no longer had strength to throw off" the bed- clothes or other things within reach. He died exhausted on the morning of the 22nd. Remarks.—The amputation of a leg below the knee,—or, even, of both legs, — immediately after a severe injury, or soon after the Patient has rallied from the first eff"ects of the shock, is not generally, according to my experience, attended with a fatal result, in a person of sound constitution, and in cases where the effects of the injury are confined to the limb amputated. Three fatal cases only after the operation have come under my care. An engine-driver 27 years of age, a man of delicate con-177 stitution, subject to fainting fits, was admitted into the Radclifife Infirmary, under my care, 22 August, 1861, with his left kg crushed in its upper third, and with a large lacerated wound of the scalp. He had fallen from his engine in the night, without being observed, and the train had passed over him. He had lost much blood : and he did not rally sufficiently to warrant the performance of an operation till 14 hours after admission. I then amputated the leg below the knee. His progress was at no time satisfactory. About the end of the second week he had one or two slight shivering fits. He be- came slowly weaker, with difficulty of breathing. A slough formed on the sacrum ; and he died exhausted on October 7. The stump had healed some time before death. Both lungs were emphysematous. In the lower lobe of the right lung was a mass, half the size of the fist, hepatized ; and in the middle of it a small deposit of pus, about the size of a pea. The pleura contained two ounces of bloody fluid. The heart was pale in substance, with much fat about it. There were old adhesions of the liver to the diaphragm and to the parietes of the abdomen. In the left knee-joint was about an ounce of thin purulent fluid. The articular cartilages and synovial membrane were healthy. A railway-porter, 54 years of age, not a man of strong con- stitutional power, was admitted into the Radclifife Infirmary, under my care, early in the morning, 31 December, 1870, with his left leg completely shattered by a loaded truck, or 'goods-waggon,' weighing 8 tons, passing over the limb at Bletchley during the night. The night was unusually cold, and the thermometer fell to 10° Fahr. Both bones were much comminuted; and several large fragments were pro- truding tTirough the skin. The soft parts were extensively lacerated and contused. The Patient was much depressed, and he was slow in recovering from the shock. Steps were taken, as in similar cases, to hinder any further bleeding, and to supply warmth. Sustenance and stimulants were adminis- tered ; but he did not rally sufficiently to justify the perform- ance of an operation until late in the afternoon,—8 hours from the time of admission, and 14 hours from the receit of N178 the injury. I then amputated the leg, immediately below the knee-joint, by double circular incision. There was scarcely any hemorrhage during the operation. The chief arteries of the limb were ossified. A draught with Vinum Opii and Spin Etheris nitr. was administered afterwards. The man lingered on, without rallying further, although strong beef-tea, wine, and brandy were taken freely; and he died exhausted 36 hours after the operation. A laboring man, 67 years of age, of feeble constitution, with prominent sternum and contracted chest, was admitted into the Radclifife Infirmary, under my care, August, 1871, with his left leg crushed in the middle and lower third, by a log of timber falling on it, about 5 hours before admission. Much blood had been lost. He did not rally till next morn- ing; and I then amputated the leg — about 18 hours after the accident. The arteries of the limb were cartilaginous in structure, with atheromatous deposit. He became weaker by degrees, and died on the 39th. The operation of secondary amputation under my care has not been so successful. The only cases in which I have found it necessary to perform a secondary amputation in the leg are those now related,—seven in number. Of the first four cases, one was in a special Hospital; the others were in private practise. All of the Patients recovered. The last three cases were in the Radclifife Infirmary, and were all fatal. An other fatal case in the same institution might, perhaps, have been added, — if the Patient had given her consent to an operation. A married woman, 57 years of age, a large fat woman, of general unhealthy appearance, was admitted on Sunday, 4 February, 1877, under my care, with a compound fracture of both bones of the right leg, extending into the ankle-joint. The injury was received the morning before, by falling down in the street at Witney when drunk. She rose and tried to walk; but being unable to do so, she was taken home in a chair. Next day, when the nature of the injury was seen, and understood, the attendance of Mr. Hyde was obtained; and179 under his advice she was taken to the Infirmary. The Hmb was placed in splints, in a good position. Severe inflammation followed, with sloughing, and profuse discharge,—purulent at first, and afterwards thin and watery. There was no hope of saving the limb; and it became clear that amputation offered the only chance of saving life. This was dechned by the Patient. She became weaker, and died 9 March. [Medical Times and Gazette, March 1880.] FRACTURE IN ADVANCED LIFE. Fracture of Thigh, not Detected. Splint applied six weeks after Fracture—Bony Union. A maiden lady, 74 years of age, short in stature and slight in make, living at Leamington, had been observed in the spring of 1860 to be feeble and inclined to stumble in walk- ing. She fell down as she was moving about in her bed- room late one night in the end of May. Although in much pain she managed to raise herself without help and to get into bed. The lady herself and her sisters with whom she lived had great faith in Homeopathy, and sent next day for a Practi- tioner in that department of the art, who generally attended them in illness. Under his advice the Patient was ordered to lie quietly in bed; and such means as kindness could suggest were used to comfort her and soothe her sufferings. At his suggestion an other Practitioner, whom he recommended as being ' Homeopathic and a Surgeon,' was summoned from a distant town to consult on the case. As the result of the consultation, an explanation was given that the bone of the thigh was broken at the joint, that the broken parts would not unite, and that permanent lameness would follow. In the beginning of July—between 5 and 6 weeks after the accident, — the lady's nephew, a lawyer practising in London, came to pay her a visit. Not being satisfied with what he N 2i8o heard and saw of the case, he went to the late Dr. J. H. Lakin, of Kineton, and requested him to visit the Patient. Dr. Lakin found that the right femur was fractured in its upper third; that the fragment nearest the trochanter was prominent, with the skin tightly stretched over the projecting end of the bone : and that the limb itself was four inches and a half shorter than the other. On 7 July I saw the lady, in consultation with Dr. Lakin. There was nothing in the Patient's appearance and general state to make us think that bony union was impossible ; and we resolved to make an attempt to bring the parts into a more favorable position, with a view to obtain union. We were not able to bring the limb to its proper length by ex- tension. But, making extension and counter-extension as well as we could in so feeble a subject, we applied on the outside of the limb a long wooden splint, with joints at the hip and knee ; and we placed her on her back, with the limb well supported by pillows. A bedstead of a convenient form having been obtained, with support for the back, and a double inclined plane for the limbs, we placed the lady upon it on the 14th. Dr. Lakin then took charge of the case. In the middle of Septem- ber (ten weeks after the application of the splint,) the limb was rolled in bandages stiffened with a solution of gum and starch, and the Patient was moved from the bed on to a sofa. At the date of my last visit (24 September) firm bony union had taken place. The ends of the bone were firmly united by ossific matter, which was deposited in abundance around them. The limb was much shortened. After Dr. Lakin's attendance had ceased, I was informed that the lady was too much crippled to be able to walk with- out help. She was, in fact, discouraged by those about her from making the attempt. With the help of crutches she moved from one room to an other on the same floor, and in suitable weather she went out in a carriage or a Bath chair. She died in the spring of 1863, having lived without discomfort for nearly 3 years after the accident. No oppor- tunity was afforded for examining the limb after death.i8i Fracture of Thigh. Recovery without Deformity. A laboring man, 78 years of age, was admitted, 5 September, 1862, into the Radclifife Infirmary, under my care, with a fracture of the right thigh in its middle third, received by falling off a waggon when drunk. The ends of the broken bone having been adjusted, a long straight splint of wood, known as Liston's splint, reaching from the axilla to a distance of several inches beyond the foot, was applied and fixed by cotton bandages to the outer side of the limb, counter-extension being maintained by a thick bandage passing under the perineum, and fixed to the axillary end of the splint. The Patient thus confined was placed on his back. In consequence of some irritability of the skin of the peri- neum and the groin, I removed the bandage from the perineum on October 4. On the zgih the union of the fracture seemed to be firm, and I took away the splint. The Patient remained in bed for some days longer, as I did not think it was safe for him to bear his weight on the limb. The man had the usual meat diet of the House, being a portion of meat four days in the week. On September 15 I ordered a pint" of ale in addition: this was taken daily throughout his stay in the Infirmary. On the i8th, I ordered, in addition, a ounces of port wine at night: this was in- creased on the 20th to 4 ounces; and it was continued until November 3. In the beginning of November he was allowed to move about the ward with crutches, and he went home on the 12th. There was not any perceptible difference in the length of the two limbs. I have since been informed by a gentleman resident in the village where he lived, that he was not in the least lame, and that he frequently walked a distance of several miles. He died in May 1869,—nearly seven years after the accident. Fracture of Thigh. Limb shortened after Old Fracture of Leg. A farm laborer, 83 years of age, was admitted li March, 1873, into the Radcliffe Infirmary, under my care, with al82 fracture of the right thigh in its middle third, received in a fall from a tall horse on which he was riding. Upon recover- ing from the shock he tried to rise, and to walk with the sound limb; but, to use his own words, he 'found the other was left behind him.' The leg of the same side was shortened from the effects of a fracture received many years ago. The limb was put up, as in other cases under my directions, with a long splint on its outer side, and the Patient was placed on his back. The old man suffered much from a chronic cough : and the medicines administered for three weeks were directed to the relief of his sufferings from that complaint. The usual meat diet of the house was taken ; and on May 22 I ordered a pint of ale daily in addition. The fracture united favorably, and the man went home on June 4. The limb was shortened by about an inch and a half. He did but little work afterwards ; and he was removed to the Workhouse in the autumn. He employed himself merely in moving about with a stick and a crutch; and he died in March 1875, under an attack of senile bronchitis. Comminuted Fracture of Neck of Thigh-Bone. Inversion of Limb. An unmarried lady, 64 years of age, of thin and spare frame, rather above the middle height, formerly a governess, living in lodgings away from her relations in consequence of her inveterate habit of drinking, fell down a steep flight of stairs when going up to bed on Sunday night, 6 September, 1868. She was not perfectly sober at the time. With some difficulty she was raised, and taken to bed by the landlady and her servant. About an hour after midnight I saw her, with Dr. Freeborn, who generally attended her. The soft parts in the left Gluteal region were greatly swollen. The limb on that side was shortened, and it was lying on its inner aspect, with the knee and foot inverted, having the general appearance of disloca- tion of the head of the bone backwards. The shaft of the femur could be traced in its whole length. Upon makingi83 pressure on the trochanter and over the hip-joint, crepitus could be felt distinctly. The limb could be brought to its proper length by making extension with moderate power, and it could be rotated without difficulty. But when the extend- ing power was relaxed, the limb resumed its former appear- ance of retraction and inversion, falling by its own weight on to its inner aspect. We formed the opinion that the neck of the bone was fractured and comminuted, with much effusion of blood. In such a subject, with habits known to us, we had no reasonable hope of the recovery of a useful limb, with bony union ; nor had we much hope that our efforts for the pur- pose would receive corresponding attention on her part. We placed her in bed, with pillows under the limb to support it in an easy position. A draught of Liq. Ammon. acet, with some Morphia, was prescribed. Much fever with depression followed. She was greatly reduced, and at one period it seemed as if her strength would fail altogether. A superficial sore formed on the sacrum, and an other on the right trochanter. They seemed to be from the direct effects of the fall, and they healed favorably. An attempt was afterwards made to bring the limb per- manently into a better position by means of a weight attached to the foot with a pulley at the lower end of the bedstead. This was discontinued, in consequence of the determined re- sistance of the Patient. No other mechanical contrivance was used. The limb was supported by pillows, and every atten- tion was given in the way of nursing. A restricted^ but generous, diet was administered. The large quantity of blood effused at the seat of fracture became absorbed by degrees ; and several small pieces of bone made their way to the surface without suppuration, and without leaving an open wound. In the middle of December she was placed daily on;a sofa, and toward the end of the month she was able to move about her room, but without resting on her left foot. The limb was nearly two inches shorter than the other. The foot was in a middle position between inversion and eversion. With a thick sole to her boot, and with the help of crutches, she used184 to move about the house, going up and down stairs; but she seldom went out of doors except in a Bath chair. She continued in fairly good health to the time of her death, in February 1B75, when she sank from the gradual decay of a constitution naturally feeble. Fracture of Leg. Recovery. A laboring man, 85 years of age, over 6 feet in height, was admitted into the Radclifife Infirmary, 19 April, 1864, under my care, with a fracture of both bones of his left leg, received in a fall when drunk, as he was coming out of a public-house. The limb was placed on a back splint of iron, with a wooden splint on each side; and the Patient was put to lie on his back. He had lost his teeth so completely that he could not chew butcher's meat; it was therefore a matter of necessity that he should have the broth diet of the House instead of meat. On May 2 I ordered two eggs daily in addition. On April 21 I ordered 2 ounces of port wine daily, and I increased it to 4 ounces on the 23rd. On the 25th I ordered a pint of ale daily instead of the wine, and 2 ounces of brandy to be taken at night in water. I stopped the allowance of brandy on June 2. The broth, the ale, and the eggs were continued till he was discharged from the Infirmary, on June 8, with the bone firmly united. To the best of my memory he did not take a dose of any medicine during the treatment. He died at home in October 1868, within a month of com- pleting his 90th year, having lived between 4 and 5 years after the accident. Compound Fracture of Skull. Erysipelas—Recovery. A widow woman, 84 years of age, was admitted into the Radcliffe Infirmary, 23 July, 1872, under my care, with a compound fracture of the skull caused by a brick falling on her head. She was picking pieces of stick from among the185 rubbish of a house which was being pulled down, and con- tinued to do so, though warned to keep away from the danger. There was a transverse wound of the scalp an inch and a half long across the frontal bone, where it is thinly covered with hair, about an inch from the margin of the forehead. The outer plate of the bone was broken, but without being much depressed. The injury was attended with slight symptoms of concussion. She rallied soon after admission. On the 31st I ordered 4 ounces of port wine to be taken daily, and next day it was increased to 6 ounces. This was continued for 5 or 6 weeks; after which a pint of ale was given instead of the wine. On August 4, Erysipelas appeared on the head and face. Quinine with Tincture of Cardamoms was given ; and on the 8th, Sp. Chlorof. vix. added to each dose. This was taken twice a day till the 29th. The Erysipelas subsided favorably. During the month of August she sufTere.d much from con- stipation, for which repeated doses of castor oil were adminis- tered. In the beginning of September the bowels acted naturally, and apei-ient medicine was not wanted afterwards. In the middle of September several small pieces of bone, which were loose, were removed from the wound. She was taken home on October 25, the vy^ound being then nearly healed. I have since been informed by her daughter that she continued in good health for some years afterwards, and that she died in August 1878, having reached the age of 90 years. Remarks. — These Patients were some of the most aged of those who have been under my care in cases of similar in- jury. Notwithstanding the severity of the injury in these cases, recovery followed, with union of the bone in all of them, without unusual delay, and without anything remarkable being observed in the progress. In the course of the treat- ment I did not find it necessary to prescribe more animal food than is provided for the Patients in the ordinary diet of the Infirmary; nor in private practise did I see reason to advise any alteration of the usual meals, or to give anyi86 special directions on the subject of diet. In some of the Patients in the Infirmary, as in other aged persons, whether in local diseases or constitutional affections, it seemed to me that the addition of wine was beneficial during the period they were confined to bed ; and that recovery was promoted by an allowance of stronger beer at meals than is given with the diet as the ordinary drink of the Patients. If an opinion may be formed from the subsequent history of the Patients, it does not appear that life was shortened by the accident. It is a melancholy fact that among these aged persons, three of the number were not sober at the time of the accident. [Medical Times and Gazette, November 1879.] Severe Injury of Arm in an Epileptic Woman. Amputation at Shoulder-joint.—Maniacal exhaustion. — Death. A woman, aged 45 years, the wife of a laboring man, was admitted into the Radcliffe Infirmary, under my care, on the 24th of April, 1855, on account of a severe injury to the soft parts of the right arm and shoulder, caused apparently by fire, though said to be the eff'ect of boiling water, three days before admission. A large round patch of integument, in the subclavian region, extending upon the shoulder over half the breadth of the deltoid muscle, was blackened, hard and dry; on the inner aspect of the humerus, the integument was white and gangrenous ; around and below the elbow, the limb pre- sented the appearance of moist gangrene. The tendons at the wrist were all exposed, and the fingers were contracted upon the palm of the hand. The history given by the friends who brought the woman to the Infirmary (a distance of ao miles), was, that she had been found in this plight in her cottage, laughing and tearing the ragged skin from her hand. Afterwards, upon further enquiry, we learned that she was subject to ' fits,' which came on at irregular intervals, from various trifling causes of irrita- tion or excitement. During the attack, she was generally very violent, sometimes for 5 or 6 days together; and the fiti87 often ended in her rushing to the fire and raking the burning coals out with her hands, and cHnging to the hot bars of the grate when her neighbors tried to remove her. In some of these former fits she had burned her hand and fore-arm severely. It seemed as if great part of the true skin of the fore-arm and back of the hand had been destroyed; and as if the only covering before the present injury had been the cicatrix formed of the fascia and superficial layer of muscles. There was some feverishness about her, and the circulation was depressed. The usefulness of the limb seemed clearly to be lost beyond hope of recovery. From the appearance of the integument in the upper part of the arm, an effectual covering for a stump could not be ensured, unless by remov- ing the limb at the shoulder joint,—an operation I was not willing to urge in her state at the time. Good diet, with a little wine, was ordered, and Opium was given at night. The limb was wrapped in cotton wool, and a bandage applied round it. Her manner was odd, but without exciting any special attention, till between % and 3 o^clock in the morning of the 28th ; when, after tossing the bed-clothes about in a rest- less state, she jumped out of bed, frightening the other Patients in the ward, and broke the glass of the nearest window. After carrying her back to bed, the Nurse summoned the House- Surgeon. She continued her violence in his presence : she threw the injured arm about like a flail, and gave him several blows in the face with it, trying to scratch his face with her contracted fingers. At length she was subdued by the inhalation of chloroform, followed by Tincture of Opium, which, as she refused to take it by the mouth, was poured through a tube into one nostril, while the other was com- pressed : two doses (60 minims and 40 minims of Tinct. Opii) were thus swallowed. In the afternoon she was moved to a separate room. She was here watched without inter- mission by a man and his wife, who have been often engaged in that duty in the Infirmary, being relieved now and then by two other Nurses. She was supported with strong beef tea, wine and gin. She spent the next day without any other violence than refusing to take the Opium at night, which was therefore given through the nose as before.188 On the 30th, her pulse had more power, the tongue was clean and moist, and the edges of the slough were beginning to separate from the sound skin. She seemed altogether in a fitter state to undergo a severe operation; and I did not think that anything would be gained by longer delay, with the certainty that she would be lowered by the free suppura- tion which would arise from so large a surface of ulceration. She was laid upon the operating table in the recumbent position, with her head a little raised, and the right shoulder projecting over the edge. She was quickly brought under the influence of chloroform; and by a smaller dose than I have ever before seen efficient in a grown person,—10 minims dropped on the sponge of the inhaler in common use in the In- firmary. The fore-arm partly flexed was held by an Assistant across the abdomen. The subclavian artery was compressed by the House-Surgeon, standing at her head, thrusting his finger from above downwards upon the vessel where it passes from between the scaleni muscles over the first rib. She was a thin woman, and effectual compression was easily made. Standing rather behind her, and keeping the scapula steady with my left hand, I entered the point of a catling deep into the flesh near the acromion (as far forwards as the sound skin reached), and cutting inwards to the bone in a semilunar direction downwards toward the posterior border of the axilla, made a large flap from the sound skin at the back of the arm, including the posterior portion of the deltoid muscle and the triceps. The upper and posterior part of the fibrous capsule was freely opened by cutting upon the round head of the humerus, which was made more prominent, as the elbow was drawn forwards to facilitate the dislocation of the bone. Then passing the thumb of my left hand through the joint between the glenoid cavity and the head of the humerus, I held all the soft parts in the axilla between my thumb and fingers (carefully including the vessels in the grasp), and cutting through them, severed the limb from the trunk, carry- ing the catling in a direction downwards and forwards between my thuinb and the head and neck of the bone. The pos- terior flap was made large to allow for the contraction of the cicatrix which would follow the healing of the sloughstill existing in the subclavian region and inner flap. This slough, though partly detached, I left to be thrown off by- suppuration, instead of dissecting it away at the time of the amputation. The axillary and other vessels were then tied : they were all in a healthy state, and not plugged by any coagulum. There was not more than an ounce of blood lost during the operation, and none of it came from the axillary artery or vein. As the effect of the chloroform went off, the woman became very violent, but was easily subdued by the exhibition of more. The flaps were brought together, and held in place with compresses of lint, and long strips of adhesive plaster, and an elastic flannel bandage passed over the shoulder, and under the other axilla. After taking some wine she was carried back to bed, and the left hand was restrained by a strap confining the wrist to the side rail of the bedstead. She did not seem to have suffered any kind of shock from the operation. About 4 hours afterwards she became very violent, upon the Nurse offering her some beef-tea; she threw herself over in the bed on to her face, and displaced the dressings by jerking the muscles of the scapula violently, and rubbing the shoulder on the pillow. In the evening she took a small cup of beef-tea, and afterwards some gin and water. At night some Opium was given in toast and water, being poured into the nostril as before. She had about 5 hours quiet and continued sleep. On waking she still refused all food ; but her violence was cha- racterised by decreasing strength. About 11 o'clock she took some wine. Becoming weaker and weaker she died quietly between 4 and 5 o'clock in the afternoon,—about 28 hours after the operation. Remarks. At the time of the woman's admission into the Infirmary the period for primary amputation was passed, and the necessary operation for removal of the local cause of irritation was delayed in the hope of a more favorable opportunity than was afforded by the state in which she first came under observation. Yet, if the information which was afterwards obtained had been furnished by the friends whenthey brought her, or if I could have foreseen the rapid exhaustion which followed the operation, I would have ampu- tated the limb immediately on her admission: for in that state I should have had less fear of her sinking from ex- haustion, whatever other sources of danger might have been feared. The exhaustion, under which she sunk, seemed referable to her previous condition. The injury inflicted did not involve any vital part, and she had rallied from the first effects of it. The operation did not produce any ' shock,'' or any im- mediate appearance of depression: and the abstinence from food was not of suflficient length to shorten life. In a forensic enquiry it might be a matter of curious speculation whether the injury was a ' burn,' or a ' scald,' whether it was the eff"ect of fire or boiling water ; there is not any doubt that it was the effect of heat. The evidence given by the friends is of a scald, the appearance was that of a burn. No clew could be got from the Patient. The neigh- bors who saw her soon after the accident say that it was the consequence of overturning the kettle on the fire, and that her clothes were wet and were not burnt. To me it had the appearance of being the effect of fire; and as if the tightly drawn sleeve of her gown had saved the skin of the upper arm from some of the effects of the flame which had charred the shoulder and fore-arm. In that region only (on the inner aspect of the humerus), was there any resemblance to the more common appearances presented by the effects of boiling water. \The Asylum Journal, July 1855.] Compound Fracture of Fore-arm. Gangrene—Death. A man, aged 25 years, was admitted into the Radcliffe Infirmary, on the evening of Friday, 25 June, 1858, with a compound fracture of the left fore-arm, received about 2 hours before admission, from falling out of a dog-cart, as he was coming home from some races, where he had been with191 a party of friends. He was not perfectly sober at the time of admission. A dose of Opium (Tinct. Opii in.xxv.) was given at night. I saw the man next morning (Saturday). He then seemed as if scarcely recovered from the effects of his yesterday's drinking bout. The ulna was broken rather above the middle; the carpal end of the upper fragment was prominent, but did not protrude through the skin. The radius was broken in its lower third. The wound in the integument was on the dorsal aspect, near the prominent point of the fractured ulna ; it was not large, and very little blood had come from it. There was some swelling, but not excessive, about the thick part of the arm at the point of fracture, but none about the wrist, nor above the elbow. I applied two well-padded splints, reaching from the elbow to the distal extremity of the meta- carpal bones, as in ordinary cases of fracture of the fore-arm, adjusting them so as to allow for any increase of the swelling, and supported the limb on a pillow by the man's side. A draught with Vini Opii n^xxx. was given at night. Nothing worthy of note was observed on Sunday. The Opium was given again at night. On Monday, at 13 o'clock, the back of the hand was gangrenous, discolored, and moist; the fingers were flexed, and he was not able to move them. Sensation was lost in the hand and wrist. In answer to enquiry he said the hand was ' nummy'; but he did not make any other complaint. Pulsation could not be felt in the vessels at the wrist, or at the bend of the arm. The question of amputation in the upper part of the limb, at a distance from the seat of injury, presented itself for consideration. But the man was in a low and unsatisfactory state,—certainly not fit to bear such an operation'. He had been in service in a gentleman's family as butler; and having been dismissed for some offence, he was waiting to take his trial at the Sessions the next day. Since his dis''- missal, he had been drinking freely. I asked him whether he was not worrying himself about these affairs; he said he was. Upon my telling him that he must not think of such things now, and that he must remain in the House, and be kept quiet192 while his arm was bad, he seemed to be relieved immediately, and he thanked me for the assurance I gave him. In the afternoon he became very restless, and wandered much in his mind ; afterwards he had two distinct rigors. In the evening I saw him, when he had just recovered from the second; he was sweating profusely. Gangrene was clearly perceptible as high as the elbow ; and it seemed as if still spreading above that joint. Some mulled port wine was given to him ; and at night he had two doses of Opium. He passed a good night; and in the morning (Tuesday) his countenance was calnl and cheerful, the pulse (felt in the right arm,) with good power, and not too quick. He expressed a wish that the Doctors would take off his arm without delay; though the subject had not been mentioned to him. The gangrene was perceptible on the outer side of the arm about as high as the insertion of the deltoid muscle; and it extended in an irregular line on the inner side, across the axilla, and upon the lateral aspect of the chest. It was in the axilla and upon the ribs only that he felt pain. There was some soft swelling about the shoulder ; but it seemed as if the gangrene had stopped. In the evening his countenance was less animated, and becoming dusky in color; the pulse was very quick and weak ; he lay in a cold sweat, complaining of the heat. The gangrene had not visibly extended. He passed a restless night, vomiting frequently; but was sensible till within a few minutes of his death, which hap- pened about 9 o'clock in the morning (Wednesday),—about 46 hours from the time when symptoms of gangrene were first observed. Rapid decomposition took place; and the body could not be examined. Remarks. — The cause of the gangrene, and of its rapid progress, must remain in uncertainty. Some explanation may perhaps be found in the depressed state of the nervous system in a man under great distress of mind, and lowered by excesses. The man, though often asked, did not complain of any injury but in his arm. He fell on his left hand and fore-arm ;193 and no weight fell upon him. The day after admission he had the right feeling in his hand, and was able to move the fingers freely; there was not any hemorrhage externally, nor more swelling than might be expected in a young and plethoric subject; nor, subsequently, was there any appear- ance of a 'bruise.' It did not seem to be an injury of a very serious nature, nor such as to forbid a confident hope of recovery in the usual period. He was supported with nourishing diet,—broth and strong beef tea. Ale was given, and afterwards port wine freely; latterly he had brandy, which he refused when offered to him at first. Though he seemed relieved for the time by the stimulants, the treatment had not any effect in checking the progress of the gangrene. When I saw the body, about 3 hours after death, the in- tegument felt hot to the hand, rather than warm ; and before permission could be obtained for an examination, decomposi- tion had gone so far that an examination could not be made. [Medical Times and Gazette, September 1858.] Dislocation of Humerus. Comminuted Fracture of Coracoid Process. A mason's laborer, aged 22, slipped his footing on a scaf- folding in the early daylight of a winter's morning, i December, 1864, and fell from a great height on his left side among a pile of loose bricks. He was picked up insensible, and taken at once to the Radcliffe Infirmary. Among other injuries of very severe character (from which he did not rally), his left humerus was dislocated inwards and forwards, the head of the bone being below the clavicle. The dislocation was reduced immediately without difficulty by the House-Surgeon (Mr. Winkfield). From the report of his fellow-workmen and the appearance of the body, it seemed that the man had fallen on his left side, with the elbow drawn back and the fore-arm flexed on the humerus ; the elbow receiving the shock of the weight of his body as he fell. O194 Upon examination after death, it appeared that the coracoid process was broken completely off from the scapula. Two separate pieces were found, drawn apart by the muscular fibres attached to them,—one downwards on to the ribs, the other inwards toward the humerus, below the rent in the capsule. There was not time to allow of a careful dissec- tion, so as to see whether the muscular fibres attached to the fragments of bone were in truth, what I thought them to be, those of the pectoralis minor in one case, and the coraco- brachialis and biceps in the other. These two pieces of bone, when put together, do not form the complete process as it exists in the skeleton. A small piece of bone at the base and side is wanting. This escaped detection in the hasty examination, which was the only one I had the opportunity of making. [Medical Times and Gazette, January 1865.] Dislocation of the Patella. A lad, aged 17, was admitted into the Radcliffe Infirmary, 29 June, 1B58, with dislocation of the right patella outwards, from an injury received about an hour before admission. He was getting on a horse, when the horse slipped, and both of them fell, the man undermost, on his left side ; he received a severe blow on the knee as the horse fell upon him ; he says he was ' kicked on the knee' by the horse. When the horse jumped up the lad found himself unable to rise, that his right knee was immovably bent, and in great pain. He was brought at once to the Infirmary. The patella was driven off the outer condyle, and turned on its long axis, with its outer edge directly forwards, making a sharp projection under the skin; the inner edge, or rather its anterior surface, resting against the outer tuberosity of the femur. The bone was held firmly in its new position. The limb was slightly bent at the knee; the tendon of the rectus femoris muscle was tense at its attachment to the patella; the ligamentum patellae was flaccid. The Patient was laid on his left side, with the trunk bent195 forwards; and, while his attention was engaged in conversa- tion, the thigh was partly flexed on the abdomen, and the leg flexed upon the thigh. He complained that this movement gave great pain; but it was done without finding much re- sistance from the muscles. The patella, however, did not move. The House-Surgeon, then standing at the left side of the bed, slowly flexed the whole limb upon the abdomen, so that the muscles on the front of the thigh became fully relaxed. I, standing at the right side of the bed, behind the Patient (as he lay on his left side), pressed with my fingers on the anterior surface and projecting edge of the patella, and, using very little force, pulled it over outwardly, and it slipped suddenly into place. No swelHng of the joint, worth men- tioning, was observed before the reduction, or afterwards. The lad had a well-marked tendency, though not in a severe degree, to ' knock-knees'; the inversion of the knee being more strongly marked in the right, the one injured. The deformity had not been brought to his notice before the present time. He was discharged from the Infirmary on the 14th of July. About a month afterwards I heard that he had been again admitted, with dislocation of the patella of the left limb; and that it was necessary to give him chloroform before the reduction could be effected. [Medical Times and Gazette^ September 1858.] Protrusion of the Eye, with some Symptoms of Aneurism. A laboring man, below middle stature, 42 years of age, but much old-er in appearance, came to me on the 20th of May, i855> complaining of dimness of sight in his left eye, attended with pain deep at the back of the eye, and beating and throb- bing in the eye and over the eyebrow, extending to the temple and ear, and much increased on stooping. The globe was prominent, and protruded toward the temple ; the con- junctiva was vascular, chiefly over the rectus internus muscle. No tumor of any kind could be felt with the finger. The O 2196 appearance of the eyelids was natural. Upon making firm pressure over the trunk of the left carotid artery, the globe returned to its proper position ; the man smiled, and said that his sight was clear, and that all pain and throbbing had ceased. Upon relaxing pressure, the globe again protruded, and the other symptoms returned. The man said his father died ' in a decline.' His grand- father lived to the age of 70. He had never been ill himself. About 2 years ago, being much tired by hard work through 4 days and nights in driving a waggon and team of horses, as he lay on the waggon at night, ' between sleeping and waking,' he was suddenly alarmed by some of the team going wrong ; he jumped off the waggon on to his feet, and immediately felt pain deep at the bottom of the left eye, and singing in the ear. He afterwards passed some bloody urine, and spit some blood for 3 or 4 days. The pain in the orbit, and the noise in the ear, lasted without perceptible intermis- sion for about a month : since then, he had seldom been free from it for any length of time together. Latterly the pain had been more severe when it returned. The sight began to grow dim in the beginning of the last winter. It was afterwards learned that he had been rather a free drinker; and that he had been subject to 'fits' for many years. The belief of his family was that the accident he mentions, as the cause of his present suffering, happened during a fit. On the 3nd of June, he came to me again : the eye was less prominent. He had had several days rest, — the consequence of a recommendation I made to his Master, On the 4th of July he came to me with the globe prominent generally, — not outwardly, as before. He had returned to his work, and to his ordinary habits of life. On the 30th he came to me, alarmed by finding that the eye had become closed. He was admitted into the Radcliffe Infirmary on the 1st of August. He now complained of constant pain in the top of the head and the left temple. He could only raise the left upper eyelid a little, by the occipito-frontalis muscle : the levator palpebras did not act. On separating the lids with my finger, the pupil197 was seen to be moderately dilated, and motionless : he had no sight with the eye. Some feverish symptoms were present, unfavorable to the performance of any operation. I ordered that he should be kept quiet in bed. On the i8th he seemed better in general health. He com- plained that the pain in his head was now felt in the right side, as well as the left. Pressure over the right carotid artery relieved the pain on both sides of the head. But the left globe did not return to its proper position, on pressure either on the right side or the left. When he had been about three weeks in the ward, the Nurse, passing by his bed late at night, saw him in a fit: he was flat on his back, struggling violently. Upon making en- quiry among members of his family, I was informed that he was subject to fits : he himself denied ever having had one. On the 19th of September he was discharged from the Infirmary at his own request, with the intention of returning to his work as a farm laborer. His general health improved during his stay in the Infirmary: the local disease did not advance. As I inclined to the opinion that the disease within the skull was of a malignant nature, I did not urge any operation. On the 1st of December I saw the man again, — much altered in general appearance; and not able to follow his work. The left eyelid was closed ; the globe not more pro- minent than when he left the Infirmary. On raising the upper lid with my finger, he was able to see with a fair amount of distinctness. On the 5th he was readmitted into the Infirmary. His health continued to fail. His fits were more frequent. At times his temper was violent; and he became childish and unmanageable. On the 7th of February his right arm was observed to be wholly paralytic. A blister now and then to the back of the neck, when he complained more than usual of pain in the head, often gave relief: and purgative medicine was regularly administered with benefit. In the beginning of April he was removed to the Workhouse at Abingdon, under the care of Mr. Stone. The sight of the left eye was completely gone. There was rather a free serous198 discharge from the conjunctiva, tinged with blood ; the re- sult, as it seemed, of the irritation caused by continually poking his left fore-finger into it at the inner canthus. The eyelids were tightly stretched over the globe, which had become rather enlarged and hard. He was able to stand, but hardly able to walk without support ; and he had recovered some little power over his right arm. He died in the Workhouse, on the a5th of July (1856)—14 months from the time of his first visit to me. Mr. Stone tells me that for some time before death the globe had lost all its natural appearance, and protruded from between the eye- lids, a large, hard and raw substance. The skin of the upper eyelid was ulcerated superficially. A stream of blood flowed almost without intermission, over the cheek, from a depression in the middle of the globe, which seemed to be the site of the iris. Free bleeding also took place many times from the nose. The Patient's friends would not allow the body to be examined. [Ophthahnic Hospital Reports, Vol. 2.] Mr. Ley, of Littlemore, has given me the following notes of a case under his charge :— A man, aged 42 years, formerly a baker, many years insane, and subject to fits, was admitted into the County Asylum in October 1848, having, with other symptoms of impaired health, protrusion of the right globe. The man did not complain of the state of the eye ; he said that his sight was good. In 1857 his left arm, and in 1858, his left leg became paralyzed. He died in August 1859, in an apoplectic fit. The whole brain and cerebellum were soft. The right middle cerebral lobe was washed easily away, by a gentle stream of water flowing over it. About the middle of the right hemisphere, near the surface, was a hard spot of a deep reddish brown color, with the surrounding parts puckered over it. The optic thalami were dark green in the centre, —the color gradually merging to the surface. With the exception of some atheromatous deposit, no disease was observed in the vessels. Disease of Ankle. Excision—Amputation. A gardener, aged %6, of strumous aspect, but without any known history of phthisis in his family,—his Father living,199 but said to be 'ailing,' his Mother rheumatic,—was re-ad- mitted into the Radcliffe Infirmary, 6 January, 1858, under my care, with disease of his left ankle, beginning after a ' sprain' received at Michaelmas 1856. The foot is extended, the toes being pointed downwards; the muscles of the leg are generally wasted, the gastro-cnemius and tendo Achillis contracted. There is much swelling about and behind the malleoli, with a large ulcerated opening at each side, directly over the malleolus : a probe, passed in different directions into each of these openings, did not detect any exposed bone. The front of the joint and the dorsum of the foot do not present any appearance of disease. The tarsal bones seem healthy. He had been for 5 months under my care in the In- firmary in the summer and autumn. When first admitted (June 25), he complained of pain in the foot, which hindered him from his work. The ankle-joint was a little swollen, and rather hotter to the hand than the other. The treatment at first was a bread-poultice round the joint at nights; after- wards, strips of lint, spread with Ceratum Hydrargyri comp. and Ung. lodinii, were applied round the joint, the foot and leg being rolled with a starch bandage. His general health was supported by nourishing diet and quinine. During the latter part of his stay in the Infirmary he complained of greater and more constant pain, and of frequent starting of the limb at night; the swelling increased ; an abscess formed at each side of the joint, the discharge from which soon became watery ; he lost flesh, and was attacked with trouble- some diarrhea. After an absence of 3 weeks in the country he came back, rather better in general health, but without relief to the local' disease; and he asked to have the leg removed. In the hope of saving the limb, and restoring the usefulness of the foot, I determined to try the effect of opening the joint, and, if possible, removing the articular surfaces of the bones. The operation was performed on the 15th of January. A semilunar incision was made over the front of the joint, from behind and above the outer malleolus, to a point a little200 above the inner malleolus, dividing the skin and subcutaneous fat and areolar tissue only. The flap of skin was raised, the fascia opened on each side of the fibula, the peronei muscles separated from the fibula, and the bone divided with cutting pliers about 2 inches above its extremity. The fragment of the fibula was seized with strong forceps, and drawn forwards, the ligaments were divided, and the bone removed. After dividing the ligaments at the inner side of the joint, the foot could not be everted sufficiently to throw the inner malleolus out of the wound, so as to use the saw for its removal. I therefore applied the cutting pliers to the lower end of the tibia above the malleolus. The blades were not equal in length to the whole thickness of the bone: the gouge was, therefore, used in cutting away so much of the cancellous structure and articular surface as seemed necessary. With my finger in the joint, I felt the articular surface of the astragalus to be rough and bare of all cartilage, and I cut it away with the gouge. About 2 ounces of blood were lost. One artery, in the situation of the external malleolar, bled freely on being divided. No vessel wanted tying. The foot, which before the operation was in a state of permanent extension, could now be flexed without difficulty. The wound was brought together with sutures; and the man placed in bed on his back, with the limb supported on one of the back-splints, in common use in the Infirmary for fractures of the leg. About a week after the operation Erysipelas appeared upon the knee and lower part of the thigh : this subsided favorably. The wound in front of the joint healed within a fortnight. The discharge from those at the sides was healthy and moderate in quantity. In the middle of March the swelling about the foot and ankle, which subsided after the operation, had again slowly increased. Toward the end of April it was observed that he became weaker, and began to lose flesh; the swelling of the soft parts on the inside of the ankle and about the heel, was more firm and solid; the discharge in- creased in quantity, though it continued good in quality. Altogether his health was in a less satisfactory state than in the beginning of the month. In the middle of May it is20I noted that the line of incision in front of the joint has opened in several places, from which there is a free discharge. The whole leg is much swollen, the edema extending as far as the knee. He is much thinner and weaker; the pulse is generally about 140; his hands become hot in the evening, and his face flushed. He was moved to an other bed, and the quantity of wine given was increased. In a day or two the pulse had fallen under 130. On the 1st of June the leg was amputated in the upper third by double circular incision. The last ligature came away on the 14th, The man regained his health rapidly, and was discharged from the Infirmary on the 7th of July. Remarks. From the history and progress (it being thought that the disease affected the synovial membrane and cartilage, rather than the bones), this seemed a fit case for the operation of making a free opening into the joint, or for removal of the articulation, — if such an operation is admis- sible for the large joints of the lower extremity. However little hope there might be of saving the limb,—and there was not ground for much,—I was anxious to make the attempt, because I had not before found it necessary to amputate a limb for disease of any joint but the knee. The first incision was made in accordance with the pub- lished description of former operations: it was not found here to assist in rendering the other steps of the operation more easy of execution. In order to remove the malleoli, it was necessary to enlarge it at each side, so as to make it into the form of an H, with the transverse line curved, instead of straight. In a joint distended with fluid from chronic disease, the eversion might perhaps be more easily effected: the contents in this case were little more than the remains of the articular cartilages, and the pulpy and degenerated synovial membrane. The operation here failed to restore to the Patient any use of the limb, nor did it succeed in rendering a farther opera- tion unnecessary. It seemed as if the disease went on steadily from bad to worse, neither checked nor aggravated by operative interference, or by the other treatment adopted.202 On examining the parts after the amputation, it appeared that a great accumulation of new bone had taken place about the lower end of the tibia, and that a large irregular mass extended on the fibular side, nearly (if not wholly) surround- ing the lower end of the fibula. This, I think, existed at the time of the first operation; and the circumstance partly explains the difficulty found in the attempt to evert the foot. The opposing surfaces of the tibia and astragalus were rough, without any deposit of new bone, and without any appear- ance of commencing anchylosis. The bones of the tarsus were soft, and the articular cartilages were generally thin. There was not any carious bone. The muscles of the leg and foot were pale and bloodless ; the appearance was rather that of maceration than the degeneration commonly seen in the muscles of a limb when examined after having been ampu- tated for chronic disease of a joint. In June 1881 I was informed by Mr. Spackman that the man continued in good health; and that he was always in work. [Medical Times and Gazette, August 1858.] Large Pendulous Tumor from the Cheek, of many years growth, in a Gentleman advanced in years—Removed by Oper- ation. A Clergyman, 73 years of age, an unmarried man, of sound constitution, of temperate habits, and in good health, sought my opinion, in June 1876 upon his case, — that of a large Tumor on the right side of his cheek and neck, which had been growing for more than 50 years,—in fact ever since he was a boy. Upon recovering from an attack of Measles in childhood, a slight discharge was observed from the ear; and about the same time a small swelling was observed in front of the ear. This was considered to be a ' kernel,' or gland; and was not thought to be of much importance. The discharge from the ear has continued more or less ever since, — sometimes watery, sometimes purulent. At 13 years of age, when at play with203 other children, he fell out of a ' swing,' and in the fall received a blow upon the swelling, or some slight injury to the prominent part. About 40 years ago, when the Tumor had become large enough to attract his own attention and that of his friends, he consulted a Medical Practitioner. From him he learned that the swelling could not be dispersed ; and that the only means of removal was by a Surgical operation. He was alarmed by some undefined fear of the loss of blood attending an operation, and the length of time required for recovery: and he did not afterwards seek other advice. In 1846 I saw him for the first time, — meeting him in company at the house of a relation. At that time the Tumor was in front of the ear, upon the parotid gland, or a little below the zygoma. To the best of my recollection, it was about 3 inches long 'in a transverse direction, and in its thickest part it projected about an inch from the general surface of the cheek, being partly covered by the hair of the whisker. During the following 12 years the Tumor increased slowly in size, falling or gravitating downwards toward the angle of the jaw. His brother, who was a member of our Profession, observed with anxiety the steady increase in size, and often mentioned it, in conversation with me and other Professional friends; but the Patient himself never referred to the subject. In 1858 he left Oxford, where he had re- sided for about 35 years,—first as a Student, and afterwards as Fellow and Tutor of a College, and Incumbent of one of the largest parishes in the City,—and went to live in a village in the country, with the charge of a small church and parish. It seemed to me, and to his friends generally, that the Tumor increased in size more rapidly after this change of residence and new mode of life. In October 1868 he suffered from an attack of pain, with temporary increase of swelling, in the upper part of the Tumor, and slight fever. This was followed by suppuration in what was thought to be a cyst in the substance of the Tumor. Some weeks passed before the discharge ceased, and the skin became sound. On Sunday the 28th. of May (1876), in the afternoon, when sitting in his drawing-room, he held out his fingers with blood on them^ and made the remark,—'There; I have done it204 at last.' He had long been in the habit of pressing, or scratching, the Tumor with his fingers; and he had been warned that some day he would make it bleed. Blood was now observed to be flowing freely from the Tumor down his neck, and on to his shoulder. The blood continued to flow freely, notwithstanding the attempts made by himself and his servant to stop it. At night Mr. Forster of Daventry was called. He applied a compress of lint; and the flow of blood then ceased. On the ist of June I saw him, with Mr, Forster: and then for the first time I examined the Tumor,—or rather, handled it. The Patient was weak, and seemed to be suffering from the lowering effects of the loss of blood. The surface of the Tumor was uneven, with several pro- jecting knobs of different sizes. The skin over it was generally thin, and could be moved freely, except at one part, — the site of the former suppuration. Several large veins could be traced in the skin passing over it. The pedicle was thick and firm : it seemed to be formed by a prolongation of condensed tough fascia, in which two very large arteries could be felt pulsating. The lobe of the ear was spread out and lost in the skin on the surface. The Tumor hung down far below the ramus of the jaw ; and, as the Patient moved the position of his head and shoulder, it fell sometimes in front of the clavicle and sometimes behind it, resting now and then on the shoulder, as he sat in a chair for examination. There was not any fluctuation perceptible in it. That the Tumor could be removed, was perfectly clear : the only question being that of the loss of blood likely to attend an operation ; and this, in a man of the Patient's age, was a matter for the most serious consideration. As the Tumor was not a part of the proper system, but rather a foreign body causing irritation, I did not think the shock of an operation for the removal likely to be a source of danger, except as it arose from the loss of blood at the time of operation. To control this, it would be necessary to secure the vessels in the pedicle as they passed to supply the circulation in the Tumor, or its capsule, before proceeding to separate the Tumor from its coverings. This could be done205 by dividing the pedicle with the first incisions, and taking up the vessels separately,—trusting an Assistant to restrain the hemorrhage while the ligatures were being applied. A better way, I thought, would be by putting a ligature round the whole of the root, so as to include all the structures, after dividing the common integument to a sufficient extent to reach the parts. I thought that the pedicle could be laid bare sufficiently, without much dissection, and without any great loss of blood ; and that if I could get my finger under- neath, it would serve as a director on which a strong thread could be guided by means of a short probe : or, if the parts were too much matted together to be separated easily, that a thread could be carried round the vessels by an aneurism needle having a large curve. At all events, a strong needle could be thrust through ; and if the sharp point and cutting edge were ground off, the needle could be passed without danger to any important part. On the 28th of June Mr. Prescott Hewett saw the Patient, in consultation with Mr. Forster and me. At this visit, I observed that one of the projecting knobs on the upper surface of the Tumor had grown very much since my last visit, 4 weeks ago. Mr. Prescott Hewett agreed in the opinion already given; and as the Tumor was now growing rapidly, with an evident tendency to ulceration and sloughing, with the liability to constantly recurring hemorrhage, it was thought advisable that the operation should be performed with as little delay as might be. The operation was performed on the 13th of July, with the help of Mr. Forster, and Mr. Mallam of Oxford. Before the operation, these measures were taken; — round the neck of the Tumor, near the jaw, 11 inches, round the Tumor itself, in the middle, 18 inches, —lengthways, from the upper to the under surface, measuring from the line taken round the neck or root, 16 inches. While the Patient was being brought under chloroform, the lines of incision were marked in ink with a camel-hair pencil. The Tumor was raised, with the view of emptying the superficial vessels by allowing the blood to flow back to the cervical veins. The collar, or pedicle, before division of206 the skin, was found to be too tough to allow of the Tumor being rotated, or twisted, so as to check the circulation through it. The point of the scalpel, for the first incision, was entered behind the ear, about the middle of the mastoid process. Upon cutting through the integument, one of the superficial veins was divided, and bled freely from the upper end, — that nearest the cheek: this was compressed with the finger, and did not bleed again. The second incision was then made, so as to include between the lines a broad piece of skin, which was adherent by a firm cicatrix to the capsule or substance of the Tumor. The integument was reflected at the upper and back part; and with a little farther dissection, the root or pedicle was exposed. I then tried with the forefinger of my left hand to separate the skin, and pass the finger under the pedicle: but the parts were too tough, and too firmly ad- herent, to allow me to force the finger through. Nor could I pass a short iron probe I had provided. A.steel aneurism needle bent under the force used in the attempt to push it through : I feared it would break. After an ineffectual attempt to pass a silver probe, a large curved needle, 4 inches long, armed with a strong thread, was passed, — not without great difficulty, — internal to the skin, through the rigid parts. In the mean time arterial blood flowed profusely from the upper part of the wound: the countenance became pale, the pulse could not be felt at the wrist, and the breathing ceased ; the sphincter ani relaxed, and death seemed impending. Upon tightening the ligature the bleeding stopped at once, — except from the small vessels of the skin ; some of these bled freely, and required tying. The separation of the Tumor from the investing skin or capsule was made without difficulty, except at the under and back part of the original lump ; it was more adherent there than at other points. Some parts, or tuberosities toward the front and lower part were soft in structure, and loosely connected with the general mass ; they broke away in handling, and fell off in pieces: and some small pieces, or shreds of the capsule, were left adherent. A needle with double thread was afterwards passed through the middle of the pedicle, and each half tied separately. The former ligature round the whole was then cut away, with the207 stump of the Tumor. The mouths of three arteries could be recognized, each of them larger than the radial at the wrist. It seemed to me that their coats, though tough and cartila- ginous, were thinner and less elastic than is usual in arteries of the same size in younger subjects. After the oozing of blood had ceased, the edges of the wound were brought together, and fixed by interrupted sutures. The ligatures were cut short, and the ends left within the wound. A compress of lint was laid on the cheek, and moderate pres- sure made by two or three turns of a roller round the head. By this time the Patient had recovered sufficiently to be able to help himself in moving to his bed from the table on which he had been placed. He took chloroform without difficulty, and was well under the influence of it during the whole time of the operation. Rather less than 2 drams was used. The substance of the Tumor had the usual appearance of what is generally known as 'fibrous,' or 'fibro-cellular,' with some cysts here and there in it: one of these, about the size of a large marble, was filled with clotted blood of recent date. The older part of the Tumor, — that which had been nearest to the parotid gland, — was much firmer in texture than the rest, and of a pale cream color; it was easily distinguished from the parts which from their relative position were known to be of later growth. There was not any appearance of bone, or cartilage, nor of malignant de- generation ; nor any deposit of pus. When put together, the weight was a little short of 3 pounds avoirdupois. The Patient passed the afternoon and chief part of the night quietly, but without sleep. The skin felt hot to the hand and was without moisture. The pulse was quick and weak. He took fluid food, — beef tea and milk, — readily, as it was offered ; but without asking for it, and without complaint of thirst. He vomited once or twice, when it was first given; but retained it afterwards when given in smaller quantities. About 4 o'clock in the morning he asked for water; and I gave him a glass, fresh from a d^ep well and perfectly cold. Soon after this he went off to sleep, and continued asleep for208 about 3 hours. His skin was observed to be in a moderate perspiration. By the middle of the day he had rallied well. The pulse was about 80, soft and regular; and, except that his complexion was paler than usual, there was little in his general appearance to show that he had so lately undergone a serious operation, and one attended with a large loss of blood. During the very hot weather which followed, he had an attack of diarrhea with vomiting, under which he was much lowered in general strength. For about 10 days or a fortnight after the operation he complained of stiffness in the jaw and pain in the attempt to take bread or other solid food. A small soft swelling formed in front of the wound : this burst of itself; and through the opening so formed matter was discharged, and afterwards one of the ligatures. A clear watery fluid, having the general appearance of saliva, continued to flow from this opening for 6 or 7 weeks. It was observed in greater quantities when taking food, and shortly after it. The line of the wound healed quickly, except at the upper part, behind the ear. Through that opening I withdrew the double ligature round the pedicle, on the 12th of September. It was held firmly under the skin; and I found it necessary to divide, with the point of the scissors, the tissue, — whatever it was, — that held it within the wound. Six days after- wards, the last of the ligatures on the small vessels was discharged. The points in the case worthy of remark, are — the very large size of this Parotid Tumor, its thick, tough pedicle, with its large arteries, — the unusually long period during which a gentleman of education allowed a Tumor in such a situation to grow, without seeking the removal of it, and without taking the opinion of any Medical Practitioner, as the incumbrance and the deformity increased, — and the re- covery of a Patient at an advanced age from what was, indeed, a formidable Surgical operation. He continued in good health until the severe cold of January 1881. After that, his strength began to fail: and209 he died in the following April. There was not any repro- duction of the growth. In other regions of the body pendulous Tumors of a much larger size are now and then seen. Several of such cases are on record. Dr. Freeborn of Oxford told me of the following case, which he saw many years ago, with Mr. Hyde of Bloxham :— The Patient was a farm-laborer, 70 years of age, and then dying of exhaustion under the constant irritation. He gave the following history of his case. When his attention was first directed to the Tumor as a permanent source of discomfort, it was situated about the middle of his neck, a little behind and below the ear. Some 40 years before the visit, at a time when the Tumor was small, he consulted a Medical Practitioner ; and upon the assurance supposed to be given by him, that the Tumor ' would never trouble him,' he had allowed it to grow without interference. He had been for many years confined to the house. During the latter part of the period he had spent his time sitting day and night "in a chair, with the Tumor, partly suspended in a bag buckled round his neck, resting on a table in front of him. The table was hollow, to receive the Tumor, with a ball-and-socket joint, and a rack movement, by which the position could be shifted by the Patient himself. The skin was sound, without ulceration or discharge. The pedicle was small, — scarcely larger than 2 fingers in breadth and thickness : the fingers could easily be placed under it, between the Tumor and the neck. The Patient was too far exhausted for the question of an operation to be entertained. Since the Patient's death I have been informed that the Tumor was found to be of a ' fibro-cellular consistence'; and that it weighed between 20 and 30 pounds. VACCINATION, AND SMALL-POX. To Dr. Hue, Registrar of the National Vaccine Establishment. My Dear Sir,—On Wednesday, the 31st of May last, three children, named S., were brought to my Station from' a house in B. gardens, in which Small-pox was said to be then prevailing. I inoculated them with fresh vaccine lymph taken on the eighth day from a healthy child. On the eighth P2IO day the three children were brought again. The eldest of them (aged 4 years,) had 3 vaccine vesicles, with perfect areola, and, in addition, febrile symptoms, and an eruption so clearly resembling Variola, that I have no hesitation in expressing my opinion that it was such. The other two children had each 4 vaccine vesicles with areola perfect. 20 June, 1848. To THE Governors of the Radcliffe Infirmary. Gentlemen, — On Wednesday next a Motion will be sub- mitted to you that Small-pox and Cholera shall be added to the number of diseases which are excluded from sharing in the dispensations of your charity. At present—thanks to the munificence of the Founders and Benefactors of the Infirmary, —the number of inadmissible diseases is small. What reasons can be found for enlarging it will then perhaps be urged; and you will be told why it is desired that the channel should now be narrowed in which the streams of charity have hitherto flowed ' for the relief of the sick and lame poor from whatever county recommended.' You may ask what connection there is between the two diseases,—and why they are brought fonvard in one motion ? Can it be from a hope that the votes of those among you who are for excluding one of the diseases will thus be made available for excluding both ? That Small-pox should be excluded you may think reason- able enough when you are told that the original Rules of 1770 excluded it — when you know the disease is highly contagious — and when you have been alarmed by fearful pictures of the late invasion and mortality in this city and neighborhood. But the Small-pox of the present day is seldom seen as the disease of 1770 : modified by vaccination, it is less malignant in its effects than many other diseases which you daily see and hear of without any instinctive dread, and without wishing to debar the unhappy sufferers from the comforts and the blessings,—for Medical aid can be a blessing,—provided for the Patients within the walls of the Infirmary. On the revision of the Rules in 1848 this Rule was rescinded, — from the best motives it is to be hoped. The disease had ceased to be endemic, its visitations were rare, the mortality211 was slight, and the mischief done was small. It was hoped that the disease was wholly superseded by vaccination. It was not thought necessary to make any reference to the Medical Officers for their opinion whether the old restriction could be safely removed, and an unlimited number of cases admitted,—or whether any precautions should be taken in case of a future epidemic visitation, when it might be expected that an unusually large number of applications would be made for beds in the House. Until lately, only a very small number of Patients had been recommended as applicants for relief; and the disease did not spread within the walls by contagion. In the last winter, when the City of Oxford was visited to an unusual extent by the disease, several persons laboring under it were admitted, as was to be expected when it became known that the Rule was rescinded. There was frequent intercourse with infected districts, and free communication was allowed between the Patients in the House and their friends in the town. It can not be a matter of wonder,—however much a subject of regret, and however painful to the Medical Officers to witness, — that the disease made its appearance in every ward of the House. But it is a matter for which we ought to be thankful to the Providence that watches over the sick, that so little mischief followed in the train of the pestilence. When there is a protection against so virulent a disease, which there is not against any other, one obvious precaution suggests itself, namely, to make a Rule that no Patient shall be admitted unless he has had Small-pox, or has been pro- perly vaccinated. But on what ground can a proposal so distasteful to the poor be supported ? Before vaccination was known, when the Rules of 1770 were framed, and Patients with Small-pox were excluded, it was not required that those who were admitted should be protected by one of the only then known modes of protection,—the disease already taken by contagion or inoculation. We ought not to be too strict with the poor who seek our charity. In the days of inocula- tion—when it was thought scientific (such is the changeable nature of opinion) to check a disease by sowing it, — the rich protected themselves at the expense of the poor. The disease p 3212 in a mild form, — if it can ever be said to be mild in any phase,—was engrafted on the rich by inoculation; and it spread in a virulent form by contagion among those who were too poor to pay for the luxury of inoculation, and its accom- panying Houses of Separation. If the poor now neglect vaccination, it is little to the detriment of the rich. The mis- chievous effects of the disease are felt almost wholly among themselves and in their own families. The disease, in a virulent form, is seldom conveyed to their well-protected richer neigh- bors and visitors. Whatever can be done for spreading the benefits of vac- cination, for removing prejudices connected with it, and for extending among the poor the greatest blessing ever con- ferred through the office of Medicine, should be done by encouragement,—by acts which, done with kindness, will be received with thankfulness,—and not enforced by an appear- ance of compulsion. 'It is a poor sophistry to call that charity which has in it no kindness. That can be no charity which brings no blessing back from the receiver. Sullenly is it given, sullenly is it received.' It is also open to you to order that every Patient, not already protected, shall be vaccinated after admission. Is it likely that such an order would be executed.'' In 1840 it was ordered that vaccination should be made one of the charitable dispensations; it was to be performed frequently, at stated times, — lymph was to be furnished to Medical Practitioners requesting it, — and the number of the vac- cinated was to be published in the Annual Report;—an excellent order, and no more thought of it. Why Cholera should be forbidden, as a disease unfit to share your bounty, no reason has yet been urged. No clause in the Rules of 1770, or 1788, can produce a sentence of exclusion : there was none introduced on the last revision of 1848, though the disease had been then known in England for 17 years, and had once visited this county. That there is abundant accommodation, and that it can be provided (if desired,) apart from the other Patients in the House, is well known ; though this is a question of detail. Judging from the experience of the special Hospitals hastily prepared on the213 three past visitations of Cholera, there would be only a small number of Patients under treatment in Hospital at one time. There is no pretence that proper accommodation has been found or will be found elsewhere, for all who have the mis- fortune to be seized with it. That others, whose duty it may be equally with ours, to provide for ' the sick and lame poor,' are backward, is not a reason that we should cast off from our care those who, as fit objects, seek relief at our hands, —that we should add to the number of the sufferers without lending a hand to lighten the burden fallen on the community at large. The law of the land, assuming and enforcing the duty of Christian charity, provides for the destitute. For that large number who, though not destitute, yet have to seek foreign help under the infliction of sickness, there is some provision in the funds of which you are Trustees, — the gift of those who have felt they are not absolved from the duty of charity by the more urgent pressure of the obliga- tion of the national law. But the objection made is to the disease, and not to the number of the sick who would be brought to the Infirmary with it. An other important question should be considered, and some authoritative decision made. If Small-pox or Cholera appears in the House among the Patients admitted with other diseases, what is to be done with those who are attacked? Are they to be moved from the wards to any separate place which you will keep always ready for such cases, and for such only? If they are to be discharged, where are they to be sent, and how are they to be taken ? You have undertaken the care of them, and you are answerable for the proper exercise of the duty. Will you be content with requiring the Recommending Governor to remove them,—and leave the Patients in the wards till such Governor—not more charitably disposed perhaps towards the unhappy sufferers—moves them at his leisure, and finds a home for them ? Will you send them to their homes—the homes of the poor!—such places for the treatment of acute disease? That the admission of severe diseases, in giving an extended field for clinical observation, affords facilities for instruction in the science and practise of Physic and Surgery—that it214 enables the Medical Officers more fully to execute that other part of their office which you have declared to be as much the object contemplated by the Founders and Benefactors of the Infirmary as the treatment of the sick—has never been thought a reason that injury should be done to those suffering under milder ailments, — that their health should be injured, or their lives endangered. The history of our own Profession tells us that the Hospitals of this country were not built as Schools of Medicine. They were founded for a much higher purpose,—ad honorem Doinijti nostri. ' How rose the Building ? Piety first laid A strong foundation ; but she wanted aid ; To Wealth unwieldy was her prayer addressed, Who largely gave, and she the donor blessed : Unwieldy Wealth then to his couch withdrew, And took the sweetest sleep he ever knew. Then busy Vanity sustained her part,— " And much," she said, " it moved her tender heart ; To her all'kinds of man's distress were known, And all her heart adopted as its own." Then Science came, his talents he displayed, And Charity with joy the dome surveyed ; Skill, Wealth, and Vanity obtain the fame, And Piety the joy that makes no claim.' Will any harm be done if the settlement of the question is put off till unanimity prevails ? Time is not pressing : some years, we may hope, will pass before either disease appears again in an epidemic form. Many Governors are now absent who would wish to be present when the question is discussed. Perhaps, after all, it may be that proper accommodation can not be found, or there may be sound objections to the admission within the walls even of a single case of either disease; and, though ' the comforter's head never aches,' the Medical Officers may be unable, it is to be hoped they are not unwilling, to undertake the charge of the Patients. But these are all questions of detail — they have not been considered in consultation ; and it is not an individual Medical or Surgical opinion that should be taken as a guide in a matter of such importance. The Medical Officers can not, unasked, offer a recommendation that any disease should be excluded ; it is not for them to shut the door against the objects of your215 bounty. By waiting for a well-considered Report from the Medical Officers, you may avoid the mistake which some of you think was made in rescinding the Rule of 1770. Surely you are not unwilling to hear the opinion of those Officers whom you do not pay, and whom you have never thanked — your fellow-laborers in the same cause of charity, giving to the service the best years of the prime of their life. For my part, I should be glad to see the final decision referred to a subsequent Court. Still, if the motion in its present form is put to a vote on Wednesday, my vote, as an individual Governor, will be given against it; chiefly because I believe it is only the beginning of a system of exclusion, which is opposed to the intentions of the Founders and early Benefactors of the Infirmary, and because such a course is a denial of charity to those who are deserving objects, — a denial not required by existing circumstances of charitable offices, which should be extended rather than contracted. June 1855. Small-pox in Oxford in 1854-5. Before the epidemic Cholera appeared in Oxford in 1854, several cases of Small-pox had occurred; and while the Cholera was still raging, and after its ravages were at an end, Small-pox spread in the city and neighborhood more widely than on any former occasion,—at least of late years. Scar- latina, in a severe form, was also extensively prevalent at the same time, and there were many fatal cases. Fever of a low type was also prevalent, and in many cases fatal; measles and whooping-cough were also epidemic. Dr. Ogle wished that some record should be made of the prevalence and severity of the Small-pox, and of the circumstances incident to its occurrence; and he purposed to draw up a statistical report of the cases. Not being satisfied with his efforts, he gave over to me the few notes he had collected. The resident Medical Practitioners formed a general esti- mate, that more than 4,000 persons were attacked with the disease in different degrees of severity. The population at that2l6 time was probably more than 27,000, and it was thought that one person in every six was attacked. Of this large number of cases, it was hardly to be expected that accurate notes should have been kept, at a time when such a heavy demand was made upon the services of the Medical Profession during the prevalence of the other acute diseases then affecting the inhabitants. At the Medical Dispensary, 173 cases were entered on the books, upon recommendations of subscribers. But the Medical Officer, (Mr. Wood,) told me that in many houses where he was visiting he found other members of the family ill, and that he attended them without entering their names on the books of the Dispensary, On the whole, he thought he attended 300 cases. Two of the number had the disease for the second time ; Mr. Wood himself attended them in the former attack. Mr. Hansard kept accurate notes of 37 cases among the soldiers of the Militia and the recruiting parties stationed here. The greater part of these were admitted into one of the buildings in the yard of the Radcliffe Infirmary, which had been hastily fitted up to receive them. He adds ' There were about 30 other cases in the Regiment; but so mild that the febrile symptoms and a half a dozen spots were all the indications of the disease. No particular record was taken of them, because they were not sent to Hospital.' In the Radcliffe Infirmary, 63 cases came under observa- tion ; 27 Patients were admitted with the disease upon them, — 26 from the town, and i from Garsington, a village about 6 miles off; — all of these recovered. 31 Patients, admitted with other diseases, were attacked; 3 of the Nurses caught it, and one of the resident Officers. Of the Patients in the House, in whom the disease appeared after admission, 3 had not recovered from the Small-pox at the time of their death:— A married woman, aged 34, with fistulous ulcerations about the lower bowel, and other symptoms of unhealthy constitu- tion, was attacked with confluent Small-pox, and died after 7 days' illness. A butcher, aged 61, was admitted with mortification of the217 foot. The leg had rotted off nearly as high as the knee, when he was attacked with confluent Small-pox, and died on the 19th day. A married woman, aged 40, with some functional disease of the female system, was attacked with confluent Small-pox, and died in about 3 weeks. These 3 Patients all exhibited on the arm the cicatrix of former vaccination; it is believed they had not been re- vaccinated. One Medical Practitioner caught the disease, the wife of an other, and several children in the family of a third,—all in a mild form. The first case, of which I have any note, was in the parish of St. Ebbe's, in a girl 3 years old, the child of a stranger resting in the town,—admitted a Patient of the Dispensary, on the 17th of July, 1854. The last case, also in a Patient of the Dispensary, was in St. Thomas's parish, in a man, aged 25, admitted a Patient on the iith of April, 1855- In the Quarterly Returns published by the Registrar- General it is said that, among the deaths in Oxford, 80 cases of Small-pox had been registered in the last 5 months of 1854 {Qiiarterly Return^ ^854, No. 34, p. 37), and 25 in the first quarter of 1855 [Quarterly Retttrn, 1855, No. 25, p. 25). But this probably does not include the deaths in the whole district popularly known as forming ' Oxford.' For notes of 32 fatal cases, I am indebted to the Prac- titioners under whose care they fell. Of these 32 Patients, 24 had never been vaccinated ; 4 ' probably not,' at least there is not any reason to believe that they had been ; 4 presented marks of vaccination : — A young gentleman, aged 17, in St. Mary the Virgin's, died under a severe attack of confluent Small-pox. He had been vaccinated in childhood, but not revaccinated. A brewer's man, aged about 50, in Jericho^ was revaccinated; 4 days after the operation, he was attacked with confluent Small-pox, and died in 3 days. A girl, aged 21 months, the child of a tramp staying in Jericho, had a single cicatrix on the arm, — a doubtful sign at best of the previous vaccine disease. A baby, aged 2 months, one of a2l8 delicate and sickly family in St. Ebbe's. The attack is described as 'modified'; an elder sister had it at the same time. In the baby, the vaccine disease had not passed through the regular course, and the only vestige of it was one small mark. Late one evening Dr. Giles was summoned to a commercial traveler staying at an inn. The general symptoms of Small- pox were sufficiently clear, and the characteristic eruption was visible on some parts, though not on the face; his arm presented a good vaccine cicatrix. The Patient was in a state of great alarm, saying if it was Small-pox, he was sure he should die. The next morning he left the town, traveling by railway. It was afterwards learned that he went to his home in the neighborhood of London, and died there. No other particulars are known. The mortality was almost confined to the poor, and among them chiefly were observed the virulent after-effects of the pestilence. Generally speaking, the disease was mild in those who exhibited clear marks of former vaccination ; there were some few severe cases among such, but not many. It is not necessary to seek far for the exciting cause of a disease so highly contagious. Possibly, it did not arise from a single case only. A large town is seldom free for any great length of time from cases scattered here and there among the inhabitants and visitors; London is never free. To danger from such a source we are always liable ; but among a popu- lation protected by vaccination, or by a former attack of Small- pox, the imported contagion soon dies out. It only spreads when the mass of the unprotected swells to such an amount that the disease passes readily from one to an other, the unsecured population being ready to receive the infection. A predisposing cause of so severe a visitation may perhaps be found in the habitual neglect of vaccination among the poor, even more than in the imperfect manner in which the vaccination is thought to have been done. Dr. Ogle often ex- pressed his opinion among his Professional friends, that much of the vaccination formerly performed in the town had been done without proper care, and without due supervision of its effects.219 However few the facts which are here brought together, yet being of local interest, they are perhaps of sufficient value to be recorded by this Society. At the late period of the epi- demic at which the attempt was made to collect them, it was not found practicable to obtain materials for a complete account of the. visitation. Such as they are, they have been put into their present shape in the hope that they will not be thought unworthy the attention of members of the Society. For various notes of cases furnished to Dr. Ogle or to myself, my thanks are due to my colleagues, the Physicians and Surgeons of the Radchffe Infirmary, Dr. Jackson, Dr. Acland, Mr. Hester, Mr. Hansard, and Mr. Symonds, to Mr. Briscoe (then House-Surgeon to the Infirmary), Mr. Coar, Dr. Freeborn, Dr. Giles, Mr. Godfrey, Dr. Leapingwell, Mr. Owen, Mr. Rusher, Mr. Taunton, Mr. Vincent, and Mr. Wood. . . . This Paper was read before the Ashmolean Society of Oxford; and though perhaps it may be thought too imper- fect for Professional Literature, it is the only record, as far as I know, which has been kept of the visitation. [British Medical Journal, June i860.] To THE Medical Officer of the General Board OF Health, Whitehall. Sir,—In answer to your printed letter on the subject of Vaccination, I beg to send the following replies to the ques- tions contained in it:— I. I have not any doubt that Vaccination confers a very large exemption from attacks of Variola. In my own experience I have never known a death from Variola after Vaccination : nor have I known even a severe attack of that disease after Vaccination. During the epidemic Small-pox in 1854, I vaccinated a baby, a months old, under my care in the Infirmary, with club-feet; the mother being admitted with her. About 5 weeks afterwards, the mother, who had a clear vaccine cicatrix on the arm, was attacked with Variola in a mild form. She continued to suckle the baby during the whole time. The220 child throve well; and never had any symptoms of the disease then or since. II. I have not any reason to think that vaccinated persons become, after vaccination, more susceptible of any disease ; or that their health is in any way disadvantageously affected. On the other hand, I have observed that persons marked with Variola are slow in recovering from general disease. Whether it is that the attack of Variola has injured the powers of the constitution, or that those of bad constitution suffer most from the attack, and that in such subjects the marking, or ' pitting,' is most frequently seen, more extended observa- tion may be required to say. But, of the fact stated,—that those who are marked with Variola are slow in recovering from disease,— I am perfectly sure. III. I have not any reason to think that lymph from a true vaccine vesicle has ever been a vehicle of any infection but the vaccine disease. In 1854, a boy, 6 years old, on whom I had performed Lithotomy, was re-admitted on account of an abscess which formed in the perineum. As he had been exposed when at home to the contagion of Small-pox, and had never been vaccinated, I vaccinated him in the arm. W^hen the vaccine vesicle rose, lymph was (incautiously, I think,) taken from it, and inserted in the arm of one of the Nurses, who, although having a clear vaccine cicatrix, wished for a repetition of vaccination. The boy had rather a severe attack of Variola, which appeared about the eleventh day after the vaccination. A spurious pustule formed in the Nurse's arm: but she had no other symptom. The brother and sisters of the boy, who had Variola about the same time, and had never been vaccinated, are deeply scarred by it. The boy is not marked. Medical Practitioners are now, I think, so well acquainted with the vaccine vesicle in its different stages that they are not likely to take lymph from an impure source. I can be- lieve that the mistake may have happened formerly. Such a thing is mentioned in the Report of the Committee of the House of Commons in 1833. IV. In every case which has been before me professionally,22 1 ; I have recommended vaccination at" an early period. But if people are to be forced by process of law to submit their children to the operation, and to take them twice to the place of operation,—on one of those occasions on a day which can not be changed,—a longer time than 3 months from the . child's birth, ought, I think, to be allowed. 29 October, 1856. To THE Editor of the Oxford Chronicle. Sir, — My attention has been called to two letters in the Oxford Chronicle, one by Dr. R.,the other by Mr. W.,—both of them members of the Local Board of Public Health in •. this city. The letters have a subject in common—the neces- : sity for 'Government interference,' or some 'supervision' of . our local authorities in dealing with sanitary affairs. When a member of the Board publishes an opinion that the Mayor 1 (Mr. Alderman Carr) ' had upon several occasions exerted ; himself, and not always unsuccessfully, to thwart the efforts I of individual members of our own Local Board,' and professes ; to support it ' from the history of the late epidemic of Small- ; pox,' some of your readers may perhaps like to know more ' of the facts than is supplied by the two letters you have ; published. In the month of February 1871, at a time when Small-pox ■ was prevalent in Abingdon, Mr. Alderman Carr and I were : two members of the Board who visited and approved (and, ; as I thought, permanently secured), a site for a Hospital, I on the side of the town nearest to Abingdon. This was, after some discussion, set aside for an other; and that, in '■■ its turn, set aside in favor of a third,—the one which was afterwards used. At a later period,—no efficient means having been taken : in the meantime to prevent the spreading of the disease, in I case it should appear in Oxford in a more active form,— . Alderman Carr proposed to the Nuisance Removal Com- I mittee that the town should be divided into districts, with ^ Medical Practitioners allotted to each. Such a plan had been I followed in 1849 and 1854 upon the visitation of the Cholera;222 when % Medical Practitioners, and in some cases more, had been assigned to each district. The proposal was adopted unanimously; but, at my suggestion, it was left to the Prac- titioners to arrange among themselves for the supervision of the several districts. A meeting of the Medical Practitioners was hastily sum- moned ; and, with some difference of opinion upon the ques- tion referred to them by the Committee (the number of Practitioners to be assigned to the several districts), certain Resolutions prepared by Dr. R. were adopted by the majority of those present, namely, that there should be only two dis- tricts, and that each should have only one Medical Inspector. Such an arrangement seemed little likely to be sufficient for any real Medical supervision of a district so large as that of Oxford, under the visitation of epidemic disease. In the face, however, of the alarming reports which had been cir- culated,—the 'exaggerated rumors,' as they have since been publicly styled, — it was satisfactory to those members of the Board who had been steadily giving their time and attention to the general sanitary state of the town, to find from these resolutions how little ground the assembled Practitioners thought there was for so strict a Medical supervision as was contemplated by Aid. Carr's proposal. No recommendation came to the Board through Dr. R. to extend vaccination and re-vaccination, nor to ascertain how far the defects in the working of the laws for enforcing vaccination could be ascertained and remedied, nor any sug- gestion for the discovery of—what was, in truth, the real source of danger,—the existence among us, and the place of abode, of all who were not protected by vaccination. It seemed as if he and some others thought that little trust was to be placed in the protective power of vaccination and re- vaccination, as a safeguard. . . . The subject of vaccination and re-vaccination was not mentioned in the report made by the Meeting of Medical Practitioners. . . . The inhabitants were to be allowed to catch the disease,—if it should so happen, and ' remedial measures,' as they have been called, were to be applied to the treatment afterwards. Dr. R. refers to the motion made by me at the meeting223 of the Board when the recommendation of the Medical Practitioners came before them: though he does not quote correctly the terms of the motion. The object of it was that the Nuisance Removal Committee should be allowed to con- tinue their labors without the 'supervision' of injudicious advisers. The constant agitation and incomplete discussion weakened the authority of the Board, and lessened the power to do good. A month afterwards the Vice-Chancellor of the University published his view of the 'epidemic,' and he advised that precautions should be taken. ' There has been Small-pox in Oxford during the Long Vacation, not of a very serious character ; and the disease is now much abated.' . Still, for security, he required that the younger members of the Uni- versity, who had not been properly re-vaccinated, should undergo the operation before their return. The result, as far as I have been able to learn, was that only one case of Small- pox happened in an Undergraduate. 14 August, 1872. ' Note. — As far as I could learn from the reports received at the Nuisance Removal Committee, there was never at one time more than one case of Small-pox under treatment in each thousand of inhabitants within the district. Even this proportion might have been less, if the course advised by the Mayor had been followed, — for the division of the town into districts, with Medical Practitioners assigned to each. The first effect would have been the detection by visitation from house to house of all unvaccinated persons. These are the real source of danger; though, one that can be removed. Every case of the disease, and every person sickening with it, would have been detected, through the Medical Visitors. Immediate information would have been received, so as to ensure removal at once. The Patients would have been moved in an early stage of disease, before they became unfit for the journey,—with less danger of spread- ing the disease in being taken through the public streets. Often the only infected person removed was some one who had the external manifestations of the disease upon him too224 Strongly marked to be overlooked by his neighbors. They became alarmed, and sought for his removal from among them,—at a time, too, when the necessary removal was an additional source of danger to himself. All legislative measures for universal vaccination in England have failed. An opportunity ofifered for extending the benefits of vaccination among the poor and ignorant, under pressure of the alarm raised by the existence of an epidemic in London, and in Abingdon, and other towns. Vaccination and re-vaccination would have been done through the Medical Visitors of the Board without trouble. It would not have raised the feelings of prejudice and opposition, under which the poor are inclined to resent what they think the uncalled- for interference of ' the parish Doctor.' To THE Editor of the British Medical Journal. Sir,—My attention has been called to some remarks in the 'Journal,' referring to a report lately made by Dr. B., one of the Medical advisers in the Medical Department of the Privy Council. As I am a member of the Committee to whom this report is referred by the Local Board, I shall be glad to receive, through your columns, or otherwise, any evidence, bearing on the facts assumed by Dr. B. in his report; the facts as stated by him not being universally admitted in this city. lo May, 1871. To THE Mayor of Oxford. Dear Mr. Mayor,—The ' pamphlet' you mentioned to me lately in conversation, as the work of a Professor in the University, is, I find, a reprint of the report of a speech made at the Local Board, and now republished as ' Reasons for appointing a Medical Inspector,' or Ofiicer of Health, — for ' continuousness,' or, at least, while the works for the drainage are being carried out. At that time, the Professor says, ' we shall have a large number of laborers to look to,' —' a fresh population will come here to labor for us.' It will be the duty, we must conclude, of the proposed Medical Ofiicer to225 provide Professional attendance and medicines for them,— perhaps also for their wives and families, —of course at the expense of the rate-payers. It was a defect of former proposals (as it is of these ' Reasons') for the creation of a new office, that the duties to be discharged were not defined: we were not told what work was to be done by the new Officer in return for the public money he was to receive, —and that no opportunity was afforded, by 'enquiry and advertizement,' of learning what Candidates would come forward, and which would be eligible. It does not appear that the new Inspector is to be a Medical Engineer, with the power, — which he ought undoubtedly to possess, — of stopping any part of the works, if he thinks proper, during an unfavorable season, — such as unsuitable weather, — any unfavorable constitution of the atmosphere. The ' mournful probability' of an other panic is put before us. In the year just past we have had two: two more are now shadowed out. If the proposed Inspector can ' preserve' us, as we are told an Inspector ' has for many years preserved a certain other Town from ignominious panics and costly epidemics,' when he 'prevented the cholera, which slew 5000 persons in London in 1866, from ever attaining any great head there,' — how can the Board refuse to appoint one ? No pressure ab extra can be needed to compell them. In reciting this wonderful instance of mastery over epidemic influences which have generally baffled Professional skill in other places in past years, we are not told how the numerous Medical Officers of Health in London failed to 'prevent' the slaying of the ^000, in that fortunate district which possesses so many of them, — some half hundred or so. Were there too many ? With that ' spirit of contradictoriness which is usual,' did they antagonize each other, and let the manslayer in ? The Local Board of Oxford, — with four members of the Medical Profession at the Board, — 'prevented' any slaughter at all. To speak correctly, we had no case of cholera : we had no Medical Inspector. The Professor gives 'a financial statement of the cost, as measurable by money,' — an expenditure he had a large share Q226 in advising, — on account of the late cases of Small-pox ; ' our late epidemic,' he calls it: the latest 'panic' in fact. What a pity, before that expenditure was incurred, the opportunity offered was lost, of taking precautions against infection by the only disease which the science of Medicine has yet found the power of 'preventing'! Instead of doing so, measures, — in themselves useful and benevolent, — were directed to treat- ment aft-er infection. Thus ' those factors of the thing we call trouble got to the head they did do.' The principle had not been admitted, which experience has taught in some places, that, in the interest of the rate-payers, prevention is cheaper than treatment. The ' Reasons' may be worth investigation: they do not seem conclusive to, — Mr. Mayor, ONE OF THE RATEPAYERS. Deceinber 1871. To THE Revd. the Vice-Chancellor. Dear Sir, — If not an improper intrusion on my part, I beg the favor of your bringing before the Governing Body of the University a subject I had proposed to myself to bring in the first instance under the notice of the Local Board of Health,—the necessity of providing accommodation in cases of sickness for the younger Members of the University, especially in cases of infectious fevers and injuries from accidents. It has been suggested to me that, — although it might become the duty of the Local Board to provide a Hospital open to Members of the University, as to others, — it is not for that Board to entertain the question whether it is the duty of the University to make provision for the wants of their own Members in sickness or in health, or to admit any suggestion of the neglect of such a duty. It seems to be the more proper course to submit the question to yourself. It can hardly be necessary, I suppose, for me to repeat the opinion I expressed in 1871, at one of the first Meetings of the Local Board at which I was present, that few of the Colleges are in a state to meet the invasion of an epidemic.227 There are few, I take the liberty of adding, where it is con- venient to treat a case of severe injury. The young men are at an age peculiarly liable to the infection of fevers, and peculiarly liable to various severe injuries in the numerous exercises, or pastimes, in which they take part. Yet there is no proper place to which they , can be taken in such cases, where they can have the care, or e even the comfort, to which they have been accustomed at h home. 3 March, 1875.. To Dr. B. Dear Sir,—Thanks for your 'Oration,' — in a form and = style more easy to read than in the closely printed columns of the weekly Journals. It is well to keep these things before ; the eyes of Medical Practitioners :—so many now hold ofifice in Public Institutions. They are the best judges: they best kknow the defects of the Institutions in which they practise. I It is not the result of my observation that they are in general ugnorant, or unwilling to advise. What is wanted, — as it seems to me, — is, a Public Opinion t to hold the Governors responsible when they turn a deaf ear : to the suggestions of the Medical Officers. There are few : places, I suspect, out of London, where this exists. The ' skilled Observer' may trace the Government in the work J done by the Machine. You do not mention Vaccination and re-vaccination as a ) preventive of Small-pox. Perhaps you do not think it is (to be trusted. Much of it is done badly enough, no doubt. You refer to a question at the General Lying-in Hospital ' a quarter of a century ago.' I am not sure that you mean \ the one which I investigated on the spot, when I was House- • Surgeon 30 years ago. The new Hospital suffered under «repeated attacks of Fever. Many plans were tried for relief. \At last Dr. Rigby,—the most active of the Medical Officers, — persuaded the Committee to adopt Dr. Reid's system of >ventilation. A long time afterwards he referred to it as having nbeen a permanent cure. At the Hospital I learned this of it. 'That Fever came again; and worse than before. That the Q a228 drains were then examined : and it was found that the main drain was blocked by some pieces of timber, used in the work, which had fallen in, and had been overlooked. These were taken away, and the drain cleared : Fever did not return. Now and then there was a case: but it did not spread. It was no longer ' endemic': its home was broken up. ZoMay, 1875. To THE Editor of the Association Medical Journal. Sir,— Cases of sudden paralysis, such as Mr. T. has re- corded, are not uncommon in young children ; at least, I speak from my own, experience. Such cases often, come under my observation, both at the time of their first happening, and also, in after life, upon the resulting deformity and permanent loss of power, where a cure has not been obtained at first. In one case, the mother, an, intelligent woman, described the attack as having come on suddenly, actually under her own eye, as the child lay on her lap. It i^. often, attributed by parents to some supposed carelessness of a nurse, or to some imaginary fall. I have thought it is caused by irritation, — perhaps, in some cases, inflammation, — of the spinal cord ; but I have not had the opportunity of testing this by examination post mortem, or of tracing any effusion or deposit. Sickly or delicate children may need preparations of bark or iron; but with the robust and well-fed alterative doses of mercury, with small doses of antimony, are desirable. A stimulating liniment, along the whole course of the spine, is beneficial; and wherever there is suspicion of irritation about the teeth, the gums should be freely divided. The Medical attendant will not overlook the possibility of the attack being due to the presence of worms in the alimentary canal. Paralysis of this kind must be carefully distinguished from the sudden loss of power in an arm or leg, coming on from an injury which would be trifling in a grown person, such as a fall in running over uneven ground, or a sudden twist or jerk of the arm by dragging the child hastily. This generally gives little trouble in the treatment. Rest is all that is wanted. Xv, 1855.,229 To THE Same. Sir, In the Association Jotirnal of the nth inst., on the subject of ' Resection in Diseases of Joints,' you remark that, from the result of cases in the practise of certain operators, ' resections of the knee succeed best in children up to ten or twelve years of age.' Will you kindly extend your enquiries into the result of such cases treated without resection ? My own belief—founded .. on a pretty extensive experience,—is that such operations are : never necessary in children ; that those who recover their life, and regain their health after resection, would equally have ! recovered, and with more useful limbs, without the mutilation ; of this elegant operation, or the older one, for which it is I proposed as a substitute, — namely, amputation. October 1856. ■ I To THE Editor of the Medical Times and Gazette. Sir,—In the Lectures which Sir W. Fergusson has just (delivered at the Royal College of Surgeons, he has spoken I of the excellence and success of excision of the articulation i in diseases of the knee; and he talks of the great personal i interest he takes in the operation. Will you allow me, through } your columns, to enquire whether he thinks such an operation, as a mode of treatment,—is better than that recommended \ by his predecessor (Mr. Hilton), and in what respects he com- I mends it in preference ? With some considerable field of observation in public and . private practise, I can speak with confidence of the excellence of the treatment by rest and position. The principles of curative treatment which were long ago recommended by Mr. Abernethy and Sir Benjamin Brodie have been more lately enunciated with earnestness by Mr. Hilton ; and he has ' supplied, more efficiently and with more minuteness than any preceding writer, the particulars of every matter of detail necessary for conducting the Patient to recovery. In estimating the success of the operation he so strongly recommends, Sir W. Fergusson leaves out of sight altogether the Patients who are treated by rest and position and con-230 stitutional treatment, without undergoing any operation. ' It is a question of a totally different kind,' he says. In a well-managed Hospital the extirpation of a large arti- culation, such as the knee, may be, — perhaps is, — less fatal as an operation, and less unsightly in the resulting deformity, than the older operation of amputation through the thigh. But a large number of the Members of the College believe that neither of these operations is justifiable (Surgically speak- ing,) when the Patient can obtain a more useful limb without undergoing either of these questionable remedies for his disease, that a small number only of the cases which come before a Surgeon can with justice be classed as ' incurable,' and that the true mode of making a comparison, — 'the true parallel, the true value of excision of the knee,'—does not consist in leaving out of the question the very large class of Patients who regain a useful limb without the help of eradicating treatment. July 1864. To THE Same. Sir, — Cases have been lately reported with the experience of different Practitioners in the use of bandages of India- rubber as the best means of making even pressure, or of giving continued support, in cases of old ulceration or chronic swelling of the legs. Mr. Callender has mentioned a case of swelling of the knee after rheumatism, with effusion into the joint, treated in the same way. Allow me to suggest to your readers the use of the material in the treatment of the swellings of the fingers, which are often tedious and painful, in persons of rheumatic or gouty constitution. For two or three years past I have used a piece of an India- rubber finger-stall in fissures and slight cuts of the fingers; and for la months or more I have used it in cases of thickening or deposit around the joints of the fingers after injury, with great relief to the Patient. It has seemed to me that the brown finger-stalls of pure rubber are better than the black or vulcanised.23L A piece of tubing may be cut into lengths of about an inch or an inch and a half. One of these can be slipped over the joint by the Patient himself after he has been taught how to do it. It should be worn constantly day and night. The Patient will soon learn how to roll it off, and re-apply it after washing his hands. When it has become too loose to give the necessary support, an other length can be taken, November 1878. To THE Same. Sir,—With reference to the remarks of Dr. P., allow me to mention that some years ago a suggestion was made in one of the Magazines, that the animals we take for food, should be killed by puncturing the thorax on both sides at the same time. It was supposed that death would follow instantly upon the admission of air, and the collapse of the lungs. Can any of your readers tell whether the experiment has been made.? A butcher, to whom I spoke on the subject, gave his opinion that the meat would be darker in color than in animals which had been killed in the usual way by loss of blood, and that if exposed in the market, people would not buy it. October 1879. . . . The following ktter in reply appeared soon afterwards :— To THE Editor of the Medical Times and Gazette. Sir,—Many years ago, Dr. Carson, of Liverpool, took out a Patent for a particular method of killing animals for food . . . When Dr. Carson's Patent became extinct by lapse of time, an effort was made to renew it on the ground of its utility. To this end appeal was made to several London Physicians and scientific men, now at least twenty years ago. I recollect dining with Dr. L. in Savile Row, well-known for his pro- ficiency in natural science. The dinner was a good one, and the chief dish was an excellent haunch of mutton. When this had been removed, our host told us that this haunch had been killed in Liverpool by the Carson method, and had been sent to him in order that the opinion of London savans might be taken upon it. We all agreed that the mutton was tender, dark-colored, and very well flavored ; and our232 suffrages went in favor of the system, which claims humanity to the victim, and improved quality and quantity of food to the consumer, as its peculiar merits. I am, &c., Delta. To THE Same. Sir,—Referring to the remarks in the Medical Times and Gazette of this week, I venture, as a Prescribing Practitioner of 30 years' standing, to submit my opinion that a Practitioner can not be considered answerable for a mishap in the use of a prescription after the expiration of the period allowed by the prescription for taking the medicines prescribed. If, for instance, a prescription is given for a mixture, of which a sixth part is to be taken at bed-time, the responsibility of the Pre- scriber is sufficiently defined. At the end of a week the prescription is out of date ; it has expired from efflux of time, as the Lawyers say. Whatever latitude may be allowed to a Patient in the use of a prescription, without fresh directions from the Prescriber, it is obvious that the Prescriber is not answerable for the consequences of continuing the use of the medicine for an indefinite period, or for taking it in irregular doses. December 1879. To THE Same. Sir, — The Secretaries of the B. Medico-Ethical Society ask whether your readers can suggest any check in giving relief at general or special Hospitals to those who are able to pay for private advice : they are anxious to hear of a remedy. The remedy. Sir, is in the hands of the Medical Officers. As long as the Medical Officers of those Institutions find their own advantage in encouraging the visits of the well-to-do Patients, the attendance of those persons will continue. The Governors could not introduce such persons to the benefits, — or the abuses, — of the charity against the will of the Medical Officers. The same may be said of the Dispensaries, Provident Institutions, and Benefit Clubs, which are even to a greater extent infested by persons able to pay a Practitioner for their relief. January 1880.233 To TPiE Same. Sir. — It is not necessary to look beyond your pages this week to see what happens in a Hospital where some one or other of the Officers can curry favor, so to speak, with the Governors at the expense of his colleagues or Professional brethren. It is the same in all of them. Some 40 years ago,—before I ever thought of holding office myself in a Hospital or School,—I was requested by : some members of Committee at one of our County Hospitals : to call on a gentleman of property residing in the neighbor- ] hood, and to use whatever influence I had with him to increase i his subscription, at least to make it equal to that of other ; persons in his position. He was a friend of my father's ; and I he heard me with courtesy, pleading for a charitable Institu- I tion which I thought deserved his support. But he, civilly I enough, refused what I asked. He had lived much in the • world, and had resided in different parts of England, with . opportunities of seeing how Hospitals were often managed. He told me that he did not think the Hospitals did all the good t they were supposed to do, and especially he thought they did not do good to the members of the Medical Profession. ' Will your experience allow you to say that his opinion was ' wrong.? The Hospitals to which a School is attached may form an '. exception. There the Medical Officers have a bond of union ! in their common interest in the School, and the rivalry of e conflicting Practitioners does not become inconvenient; the ' Committee-room is not allowed to be the arena for their ■ jealousies. February 1880. To THE Same. Sir,—Is the administration of chloroform during sleep so : rare as might be supposed from reading the extract from the . Boston Medical Journal in the Medical Times and Gazette of this week} About 30 years ago the late Mr. Hester of this city, asked me to assist him in the operation of removing a small234 pendulous tumor from the inner side of the thigh in a boy. When we entered the bedroom the boy was in bed and asleep. We administered the chloroform at once without waking him ; and, when he was under the influence of it, we prepared a table, with the necessary instruments and appli- ances for the operation, and for dressing the wound afterwards. The boy was then lifted from his bed to the table; the tumor was removed, and the wound dressed. He was then put back to bed, and we left the room before he had recovered from the effects of the chloroform. When he afterwards awoke and found a bandage round his thigh, and that the tumor could not be felt under it, he was told by his parents that the tumor had fallen off in his sleep. 2 August, 1880. To THE Same. Sir, — In commenting on a case of death under ether in America, you refer to the opinion many persons in England hold, that ether is a perfectly safe anesthetic. I do not wish to raise a doubt of it, nor of the safety of any of the anesthetics recommended to public favor by enterprizing Practitioners. But I do wish to call attention to the death- dealing nature of the instrument by which the vapor is given. It is impossible to resist the conclusion that in many of the unfortunate cases which have been under public notice the Patient lost his life through carelessness : that, in fact, he was smothered with the apparatus in which the anesthetic was given. In this case from America, we have again the story of the towel. It is the same in almost all the fatal cases : a towel, a napkin, a fold or two of lint, is used; something, in short, which of itself is a bar to the natural process of respiration. The symptoms which precede the stoppage of the pulse and the breathing are not always reported completely ; perhaps they are not always observed. Artificial respiration fails to restore life. There are many inhalers well known, and occasionally in use, which are free from such a fatal objection. It is unjus-235 tifiable that they are laid aside, or not sufficiently regarded, in the experimental search after new anesthetics. December 1880. To THE Same, Sir,—In the last number of the Medical Times and Gazette, you refer to the recommendation made by the Jury at an Inquest on a prisoner at Clerkenwell, — that the examination of the bodies of prisoners should be made ' by an independent Medical man,' and that he should give the Medical evidence of the cause of death. It was clearly the duty of the Medical Officer of the prison, as the Practitioner in attendance, to make the post-mortem examination, and give the Medical evidence before the Coroner. The Coroner's bill of expenses is always taxed rigorously in Middlesex; and the Magistrates would hardly allow the payment of a fee to ' an independent Medical man' for the irregular purpose recommended by the Jury. Moreover, it would be casting a slur upon the Medical Officer of the Prison, who is answerable to them for the discharge of his duties, and believed to be competent; for a Practitioner who is not trusted to examine the bodies of Patients under his care, and give evidence of the cause of death, will not be regarded by Magistrates or the pubHc as a fit person to be trusted to treat them in sickness during life. October 1880. THE RADCLIFFE INFIRMARY. To R. H., Esq. Sir,—The copy of our Annual Report and Rules, already sent, furnish answers to a large proportion of the enquiries in J your printed list. There is not any House Committee separate from the y Committee of Management. This Committeee, with such « other Governors as choose to attend, meet as the ' Weekly ] Board' every Wednesday. The Medical Committee men-236 tioned in the Rules has not met since my connection with the Infirmary. There is a small endowment for the benefit of the Physicians, and a large one for the Professor of Clinical Medicine. The Dispenser resides in the House. The pre- sent Dispenser does not hold any Qualification. It is some years since there has been an Indoor pupil. The number of other pupils varies. Some of them are pupils of the Clinical Professor; others are the private pupils of the Surgeons. The advanced pupils do the duties generally discharged by Clerks and Dressers. There are 152 beds in the Infirmary, and 13 Nurses, who sit up at night in rotation. When the duty in the Wards has been unusually heavy, other women, selected by the Matron, have been employed. The duties discharged by the present Secretary are not very burdensome. They are described in the printed Rules. A small library is attached to the Clinical Professor. There is not any collection at the Infirmary which can be called a Museum ; but a valuable Museum is attached to the Reader in Anatomy in Christ Church; and there is a pro- spect of an other being formed in connection with the Lecture rooms about to be built by the University. The Chapel is within the House. A part of the salary of the Chaplains is paid from the General Fund. They have the control of all the books supplied to the Patients. 15 March, 1853. To THE Same. Sir, — A Rule has lately been made enabling Out-Pupils, upon the request of any of the Medical Officers, to be ap- prenticed to the House-Surgeon as ' Apothecaries.'' It was the custom at our Hospital till very lately, to choose as Surgeons those only who are what are known in London as Pure Surgeons. We were not able to qualify our private pupils to offer themselves for examination at Apothecaries Hall, if they should at the conclusion of their education desire it; and yet it was desirable that a young man, not knowing at the beginning of his career what branch he might hereafter follow, should be prepared for this.237 There is also a special provision of long standing for enabling Members of the University, intending to qualify themselves as Clergymen or Missionaries, to attend the prac- tise of the Officers and the Lectures of the Clinical Professor, with a view to obtain that kind of Medical knowlege which may be useful in their respective walks of life. The Nursing department was till lately in a very inefficient state. Old women were generally taken as Nurses, without (as far as I can learn,) any previous education to fit them •for it. We now prefer hiring women from about 25 to 35. ■ At that age we find they are willing to be taught, and to ■ obey orders. Some of our active Governors have wished for a >provision for teaching women to be Nurses. Desirable as this imay be, — if we could find women wishing to learn, — I think tit is in a great measure secured by the custom now adopted )of taking young women as Nurses ; they necessarily stay but ifew years, and then go out to ' settle' in life, with much . valuable knowlege, and it is to be hoped, in many cases, vwith some little purse, the savings of what are really high i\ wages. 8 ^^r//, 1853. To THE Secretary, Radcliffe Infirmary. Dear Mr. Secretary, — With reference to your letter ■ informing me of the Resolution passed at the Weekly Board, I beg you will have the kindness to communicate my opinion ion the subject to the Board. You will see that the recommendation by some of the ■ Medical Officers in November 1854, upon which the order for preparing a Pharmacopoeia was made, does not bear my name. That recommendation was drawn up without con- sultation with me, and had been signed by some of my colleagues before I saw it. It seemed to me that it would not then be of any use to say that I thought the preparation of the Pharmacopoeia was part of our duty, — and a part of it * which I, for one, was not disposed to request the Weekly JBoard to transfer to the House-Surgeon ; and that I did Nnot approve of the application to the Board for such a iipurpose.238 Supposing any Bill, containing regulations for the Medical Profession should be again brought into Parliament, — as has been the case in almost every Session for the last 14 years, — it is not to be expected that it should pass at an earlier period than August 1858. If such Bill should order the preparation of a General Pharmacopoeia for the United Kingdom, it is hardly to be expected that, with the many other new duties then thrown upon the Colleges, they would at once proceed to undertake that subject. The London Pharmacopoeia (1851) was, I believe, not less than 4 years under preparation before it was published : and it is not likely that a new Pharma- copoeia such as that contemplated, which must of necessity be the work of Members of the Colleges residing and practising in London, Edinburgh, and Dublin, will take less time. So that I would submit to the Board that they can not expect we should have such a work before the year 1863. If, after the publication, it is wished to print a Pharmacopoeia for the Infirmary, founded upon such new general Pharmacopoeia, the trouble of preparing it will be much lessened by the previous possession of printed copies of one already known and in use ; — which would also be a useful groundwork for a new one. In most Hospitals and Dispensaries many drugs and pre- parations are used which either are not contained in the London Pharmacopoeia, or are made after less costly formulae. The chief purpose of printing the Pharmacopoeia of such institutions is that the Medical Officers may know what preparations are kept in readiness, after what formulze they are made, and in what respect they differ from the London Pharmacopoeia, which is followed in private practise. If the Medical Officers are acquainted with these matters of detail, much of their time is saved, — as well as that of the Apo- thecary and Dispenser. The medicaments prescribed are dispensed without delay and without confusion^ and generally in a very short space of time; and the funds of the House are spared, by the Medical Oflficers prescribing the pre- parations kept by the House, which, — though less elegant as well as less costly, — are, or ought to be, equally efficient with those of the London Pharmacopoeia.239 In conclusion, I beg you will submit to the Board that I think it is advisable to print a Pharmacopoeia for the In- firmary without waiting for the appearance of any new General Pharmacopoeia. 21 April, 1857. To THE Rev. J. S. My dear Sir, — The entry in the Visitors' book was not meant as a complaint; but merely as a record, for the in- formation of the Governors, — if they care about such things, — of an other thing done by a Weekly Board in opposition to what has been the invariable practise since I have known the House, and that some fuller notes might be kept than appear in the Minutes furnished by those who control the Weekly Board. If Patients are rejected, and injustice is done, it is for the Governors to complain: it is enough, I think, for me to call attention to the circumstances. It is easy to find an excuse for what was done at the Board. No doubt it might have been desirable to ask questions which could only be a answered by the presence of the Patients. But the truth is that the Board was actually put in possession of more in- formation than it has often had on former occasions when a similar request has been granted, — one, indeed, which has never within my knowlege been refused. 21 August, 1856. Note, in the General Visitors' Book. The Minutes of the Weekly Board of Wednesday last, to which my attention was drawn yesterday by the Secretary,, state that I had discharged a Patient, and that I had been asked in vain some questions about her. The Patient in question was a little timid child, who always, I believe, behaved well during her stay in the House. If any mishap has come from her removal, I am sorry for it. If she went out without the knowlege of the Officers, I think it would be well that enquiry should be made. For I have ! always thought, and have approved the custom which I thought prevailed, that children, and others disabled by bodily or mental causes^ were restrained by the Nurses, the 1240 Matron, or the House-Surgeon, from leaving the House, till competent relations or friends come to take them. Beyond this, which, in my opinion, is an act of kindness, nobody can hinder a Patient from leaving the House at his own free will. Assuming that the child was taken by some relation, I am unable to say (for I forget the fact), whether my consent was given by myself personally before she was removed. If not given by me, it may have been given by the House-Surgeon. Long ago I begged the House-Surgeon, in every case where, in my absence, my consent was wanted to the admission or discharge of a Patient, that he would give it in my name; for I did not wish that any unkindness should be done under color of my name. Perhaps some mistake has happened through the House-Surgeon's place having been lately sup- plied by a Deputy, who, —competent to all his Professional duties, — may not have known what were my wishes, or those of the Board. My opinion is that the child was sufficiently recovered to be taken home: and I think that I told the Recommending Governor as much. My consent to the child's removal (if not already given by the House-Surgeon), may therefore be assumed. Since the Weekly Board assumed the power to admit and reject Patients without reference to the opinion of the Medical Officer, I have ceased to meddle in those matters: I have neither admitted nor discharged any Patient. In former years I did it often; believing that I acted for the best interests of the House, and in the true spirit of the Rules framed for our guidance: if there seemed anything unusual in any such case, I reported it to the House Visitors, if in attendance, — or at the next Meeting of the Weekly Board. Now that I have for some time ceased to attend the Meetings, and since new and more active Governors have taken the lead in managing the affairs of the House, I am no longer intimate with the many new forms, certificates, and such things expected from the Medical Officers. But when they are wanted, the nature of them, and the circumstances of the case in which they are desired, ought, I think, to be made clear to us. 16 October, 1857.241 To THE Revd. T. B. Dear Sir,—The weight allowed to any expressed opinion of a Board or Committee depends much upon its being known who were present when any given subject was brought forward, and who among them assented to what was done. This important piece of information your letter, telling me of the 'general feeling' of the Weekly Board of the 2ist inst. does not give. A still more important piece of information is omitted, — namely, what service it is expected I can render by attending the Quarterly Court on the occasion you mention ? As far as the entry in the General Visitors' Book goes, it may perhaps be well to spread the knowlege of the fact that the admission of Patients now depends on the will of the Weekly Board. Many Governors are, I believe, still under the delusion, (as I was myself formerly,) that it depends on the opinion of the Medical Officers. Beyond this, I do not see that any good can come from ' drawing the attention' of the Quarterly Court to the subject. Long attention and observation has taught me that our Quarterly Courts are not good places for deliberation ;—that, if it is desired to have their opinion on any subject, it is necessary to submit a regular ' motion/ prepared beforehand, in such a form that Governors can say clearly, yes, or no, to it But there is, I think, a stronger objection to the course proposed. The entry in the General Visitors' Book is in February 1857. The entries there, and in the House Visitors' Book are, or ought to be, read at each Meeting of the Weekly Board. Formerly they were, I believe, read at the Quarterly Courts.. If it was desired to bring this entry under the notice of a General Court, the Quarterly Court in April last was the proper Court for the purpose. This is a principle which I have always urged should be observed as a general rule. I do not see that the present subject should form an exception. 22 October:, 1857. To THE Same. Dear Sir, — Reporting to strangers a conversation (or an opinion expressed,) among Professional men engaged in an R242 act of Professional investigation, — such as a Pathological examination,—is an act generally considered 'unprofessional,' and exhibiting a want of courtesy. It is scarcely possible to carry away more than a part of such a conversation, often the part only which makes an impression on the person who carries it away, — possibly the part which it was least agree- able to himself to hear, as not being consonant with his own opinions; and such is seldom reported from goodwill toward those who took part in it. If in the instance to which you allude, it was done with the view of urging the Board to reconsider their opinion upon allowing instruments, it may have been from a good and honorable motive, T think. What- ever report has been made was without my authority : and I thank you for giving me the opportunity of saying so. You write to me yourself: so I send an answer at once. I know not what passed at the Boai'd : and I must leave it to you as the best judge of the propriety, or otherwise, of com- municating what I say to those who were present. 3 June, 1858. To THE Editor of the Medical Times and Gazette. Sir,—The Hospital at Liverpool is not the only one where the petticoat influence, of which your correspondent, the House-Surgeon, complains, is made to be felt. At the Hospital of which I am an Officer, one of the Pupils asked my permission to give some grapes to a Patient under my care. I saw the grapes, and told him to give them. He did so : they were taken away ; and he was reprimanded by the Matron for giving them. Upon saying he had my per- mission, he was told that I had no power to do such a thing. The following Board-day a written report of the circumstance was made by the Matron, in, which no mention was made of the Pupil's having said he had my permission, nor of my having told her (as I did when I heard of her interference) that she had no business to meddle in the matter ; and, with- out any enquiry being made of me or the Pupil, the Matron's conduct received the approbation of the Board. December i860.243 To THE REVD. J. S. My Dear Sir,—The Secretary this morning called my attention to a Minute made yesterday at the Weekly Board with reference to 2 Out-Patients admitted last Saturday with- out the Certificate of the Surgeon of the week, and to some casualties supplied with medicines from the shop, also without the Certificate of the Surgeon of the week. The papers for those Patients were signed by me under the impression that I was the Certifying Surgeon. If the Secretary, or the Dispenser, to whom the papers were taken in due course, had been mindful of their duty under the Rules of the House, this act of forgetfulness on my part would have been set right at once, without giving the Board the trouble of enquiring into the matter. When I discovered the mistake and told the House-Surgeon of it, it was too late to set it right. Perhaps you will have the kindness to submit this explana- tion of the oversight on my part to the Board at their next meeting. 26 1862.. To THE Chairman and; Members of the Committee OF Management. Gentlemen,—Referring to No. 44 of the printed Rules,— ' That all Patients shall be and continue under the care of the' Physician or Surgeon, (and in mixed cases of both,) whose turn it was to attend when they were admitted,' —I learn that in the week lately passed a Patient was admitted who has been subjected to a Surgical operation or examination by one of the other Surgeons,—not being the one ' whose turn it was to attend.'- I call attention to the irregularity. It appears that the Patient was not admitted on Wednesday, in the regular way, by the Committee. I do not know whether she came into the House with the authority of the Committee, or whether there was any urgency in her case rendering it neces- sary to dispense with it. I November, 1870. R 2244 To Dr. a. My dear a,—Do you remember that some few weeks ago you called my attention to one of the printed Rules : — 'That all Patients be and continue under the care of the Physician or Surgeon (and, in mixed cases, of both) whose turn it was to attend when they were admitted' ? Perhaps you were then thinking of some remarks—which I did not see till afterwards, — in one of the Medical Journals :—' So inuch of the comfort of the Staff of any Hospital depends upon the observance of Rules, and upon their being considered as contracts on which the tenure of office depends, that we can not do otherwise than call attention to the circumstances of this particular case.' \T]ie Lancet^ 29 October, 1870.] An Officer of a Public Institution is entitled to call upon his Colleagues to observe the Rules the Governors have laid down. The question came afterwards under the notice of the Members of the Committee of Management. The Secretary will show you the Minute made by the Committee, upon ascertaining, by enquiry, the breach of the rule to which you referred. I told him to show you, at the same time, the Minute made on a former occasion (z5 June, 1862,) when one of our Colleagues brought under notice what he thought was the disobedience of certain other Rules. The Board at once recorded their ' disapproval' of the irregularity. Notice is now given of a motion to be made at the next Quarterly Court for the repeal of the Rule to which you referred. It is proposed to rescind the Rule which requires the Physician and Surgeon of the week to act together as the Professional advisers of the House. An other question will come before the Court,—the con- firmation of the Order made in October,—' That no one shall be allowed to occupy more than 15 minutes in addressing the Court on any subject under discussion.' Is the proposer pre- pared to show how such an Order can be carried into practise, — and how disobedience can be treated?—Will he speak of what has been done in past years on occasions of disobedience of Rules,—and what he thinks should be done in future ? Surely it would tend more to the credit of a Public Institution, and to the harmonious working of its various parts,245 if attention was given to the observance of the existing Rules, rather than to futile attempts at new restrictions or evasions. January 1871. > Report. Application, has been made to the Weekly Board to acknowlege the right of Ladies subscribing as Governors to attend the Weekly Meetings, and to take part with other Governors in the general business of the House. The and Rule (1848), in defining the qualification of Go- vernors, declares that ' Benefactors of 40 guineas' shall be ' Governors during Life,' and that ' Subscribers of 3 guineas a- year' shall be ' Governors during payment.' It is contended that as there is not in this Rule any limitation of the right of Governorship to gentlemen, ladies who have qualified them- selves by Benefactions or Annual Subscriptions are necessarily Governors within the meaning of the Rule, and—as such,— are entitled to all privileges of Governors, especially that of attending and acting at all Meetings. The Committee appointed by the Weekly Board to enquire into the subject believe, from the result of the enquiry they have made, that ladies have never been admitted to attend and act at any of the Meetings. Their attention has been directed to the 7th Rule, which defines the constitution of the Weekly Board, or Committee of Management. They are of opinion that this Rule positively excludes Ladies from the Weekly Meetings, and that the last clause of the Rule, in reserving to other Governors, not being members of the Committee, the former right to attend, expressly limits the right according to the custom which existed before the date of the Rule. The Committee are of opinion that the whole tenor of the existing Rules is inconsistent with this newly suggested inter- pretation. The Committee are of opinion that Ladies subscribing as Governors have no rights or privileges, except recommending Patients, and voting by proxy at Elections and Special General Courts. January 1864.246 To Dr. a. My dear a,—Thanks for your printed letter (dated 20 January,) which, with Mr. Treasurer's of December last, has reached me this afternoon. The subject being, as I conclude, in the hands of a General Court, it would not probably be thought becoming in me to give an opinion till I am asked for it. As matters of fact, you will, I doubt not, let me remind you of two things not quite clearly stated in your letter. The ' present Matron' was, I think, elected about 6 months before I was elected Surgeon. Were the ' considerable improve- ments' made in that short period so extensive and final that neither I, nor Mr. Vincent ' remain of those who took active part in those changes' to which you refer ? Surely the subscription for a ' Convalescent Hospital' began with the fund which Mr. Dodd and Mr. Rigaud took so active a part in raising — rather than that offered for the improvement of the New Building, — the old ' Fever Ward,' I mean. 17 February, 1868. To THE Rev. J. S. My dear Sir, — Thinks for your letter, and for the copy enclosed. The part of it to which you refer me having been considered at the Board, and, they having acted, there can not be any need of my giving an ' official' answer. The more so, as the matter is not one on which I care to trouble them. I July, 1868. To THE Same. My dear Sir,—I should have thought that when I said I remembered nothing about the matter in question, you would hardly have expected an official answer. However, there shall be one to that effect addressed to the Chairman on Wednesday. Discussion will be ' reopening a question the Committee have dealt with.' 3 July, 1868.247 To THE Chairman of the Committee of Management. Sir,—The Treasurer has sent me a copy of a letter received at the last Meeting of the Board from the son of a Patient lately under my care, who, having been admitted after an accident of some days' standing, discharged himself irregularly. The letter, among other matters, has some remarks upon hasty conduct on my part. In the progress of the man's case un- favorable symptoms presented themselves. I was anxious about him, and visited him frequently. Judging from what has been reported to the Board, it is not impossible, I think, that in an unguarded moment, I may have said or done some- thing which might be made to bear the interpretation which has been given to it. I do not remember it; but I gladly take the opportunity of adding that I regret it deeply, if it was so. From the Treasurer's letter, it appears that the Committee dealt with the matter at once. 7 July, 1868. To THE Rev. J. S. My dear Sir,—Officially, I must decline to interfere in your proceedings ; at least in their present state. Privately, I do not mind giving you thus much of my reason, that the Committee have no authority in any matter concerning the Medical Officers. One thing more I will take the liberty of adding, — for your private consideration, as a personal friend of some years' standing, and from whom in former years I have received acts of kindness, not unmixed with Professional assistance, and that is, I warn you, for your own sake, once for allj if you are going to enter on an other series of personalities, to think well, before you begin, whether you will yourself come ofif scatheless.' 10 July, 1868. To THE Chairman of the Committee of Management. Sir, — I have to acknowlege the receit of your letter of the 17th inst., requesting an opinion on the subject of filling the office of Dispenser, and informing me of three plans under248 the consideration of the Committee. The" Committee, I pre- sume^ have had before them the recommendation made in November 1854 by some of the Medical Officers, that a Pharmacopoeia of the Infirmary should be drawn up. Such a measure, properly carried out, would do much to lessen the labor of the Dispenser. Not being acquainted with the qualifications of Druggists of the Pharmaceutical Society, I am unable to advise on that part of the first of the plans under consideration. Without knowing what arrangements are proposed for instruction and superintendance, I can not recommend that the dispensing should be done by Pupils; or that Pupils should be again admitted to reside in the House. An ' Assistant Apothecary,' properly qualified, if such a one can now be found, would be a proper person for the ofiice. If none of these plans should be adopted, I beg leave to submit a fourth. — Taking the House-Surgeon's duties from the printed Rules and Orders, I have to suggest for the consideration of the Committee whether the work now done by that Officer under those Rules is such as to hinder him from doing the necessary dispensing and compounding. With a continuance of the help which has for some time past been furnished in the shop, I think the necessary duties of Dis- penser can be discharged by the House-Surgeon; and I recommend that plan of replacing the present Dispenser. 24 February, 1869. In acknowlegement of the statement upon the general expenditure submitted to me as one of the Medical Officers, I have to ofifer the following remarks, — assuming that the Report is made upon a sufficient examination, and that there is not any suspicion of waste in the different articles con- sumed. The Committee desire to lower the expenditure, but they have not proposed any plan for the purpose. It is worthy of consideration whether the Committee have touched all the sources of expenditure, in which a saving is possible ; and whether any practical result will follow from taking the opinion of the Medical Officers separately, rather than in consultation.249 The chief heads of expenditure named by the Committee J are the Diet, — and the Drugs, — (or the Dispensary). It Is •not stated what is the consumption of expensive things (whether in diet, or drugs,) in each ward, or under each Medical Officer separately. Information on this point is wanted for the purpose of comparison. The Committee : may perhaps be of opinion that it is for the Governors to . consider whether persons who feel the want of many or i expensive indulgences, are fairly admissible to the Infirmary as subjects for relief. The Committee call attention to the large outlay for Tea : and Sugar. If an allowance of Tea is continued, the expense c can hardly be lowered. At the present rate, it comes to less t than 6d. a-head a-week. The consumption of Coal for fire in t the wards is, according to my observation, too little rather t than too much. Fish I have never prescribed, — nor fruit. ; On one occasion when some fruit was brought to me at the ' Infirmary, I ordered it to be given to a Patient. The next I day I heard that it was taken away from him, after I had left t the House. The Committee refer to the great and rapid increase of I expense under the head of ' Dispensary.' The increase, they say, is attributable rather to the Out-Patients than the In- " Patients. The Committee do not refer, by name specially, ' to the cases treated without the prescription of the Medical ' Officers: — perhaps they include them under the general ; head of ' Out-Patients.' Of these I have no positive know- : lege; but I believe them to be numerous. In obedience to the request of the Committee appended to • their Report, I take the liberty of offering these sugges- • tions: — That greater facilities should be afforded for the : admission of In-Patients in early or acute stages of disease, — as in accidents, and as now with young children. From ' neglect, or want of timely attention, cases become chronic, ; and more costly in all ways; giving less satisfaction to Patients themselves, and their friends in the result. That the number of persons attending as Out-Patients, — especially those residing in the City, — should be reduced. Many of them are able to pay a Medical Practitioner for advice and250 medicines. Many, on the other hand, from Town and Country, are too poor to buy sufficient clothing or food ; to these it is of little use to give what are called ' tonic medicines' without more substantial relief. That the Medical Officers should have a share in the management of the House, — either collectively, or as a Committee in conjunction with Governors who are members of the Medical Profession. It may be a question, generally, whether costly drugs, and Medicinal pre- parations, or other articles expensive to purchase or giving additional trouble in preparation or distribution, should be allowed unless with the sanction of a Medical Committee. 17 April, 1869. To THE Committee of Management. Gentlemen, — In pursuance of the request of the Com- mittee, I have enquired into the case of S. B., with reference to the complaint made by her mother. The mother complains that she 'was not informed by any one at the Infirmary,' (when she visited her daughter on Sunday.) ' that she was in danger,' — and that ' no notice of the real nature of her com- plaint' was given to her, nor any notice 'sent on Monday, when she was dying,' — except that ' she received a note from a young girl who is living in Oxford,' with information to that efifect from the Nurse. The mother only visited her daughter once, — and that was on Sunday, (the day before she died,) — the twenty-second day of her being in the Infirmary. She did not make any enquiry about her daughter's case of anybody in the House. The symptoms of early danger did not come on till afterwards, — about 2 o'clock on Monday morning, — when the Patient called the Nurse on account of a sudden accession of severe pain which preceded the bursting of a large abscess. Though she rallied to some extent in the course of the day, from the first shock, and the exhaustion which followed, she dfed about II o'clock at night. A young woman, who visited her fre- quently during her illness, was the only person who came to see her on Monday, (which was the regular visiting day.) The Nurse told her of the increased and urgent danger of251 he symptoms, and desired her to write to the mother,— vhich she promised to do. It seems to me that the daughter's altered state and general ippearance, after an absence of three weeks from home, was \ sufficient intimation to a mother with ordinary powers of )bservation, that ' the nature of her complaint' was one of 'anger; and that there was not any duty on the Officers of ne House to give any clearer intimation of it. There was lot any concealment on the subject. It is to be regretted lowj — however late, — that the mother, the Recommending jovernor, and the benevolent persons who took interest in ler welfare, did not put themselves in communication with he House, or with me, during the time she was under treat- nent, — a course which is often taken, and which is generally atisfactory: explanations could have been asked and given, ir suggestions made, at a time when they could have been of ise to the Patient. They would have learned on enquiry hat the case was considered from the first to be of a serious lature; although a lingering and exhausting illness was to be xpected, rather than a sudden and early termination. When L appeared, — upon the expiration of the appointed time for isitors on Monday, — that the mother did not come, a special nessenger might have been sent to fetch her. The mother complains that when she saw her, 'her bed- lothes, — the sheets &c. of the bed, were not clean.' If this neans that the sheets had not been changed that day, it may )e true. From personal observation, as well as from enquiry, am satisfied that there is no foundation for a belief that they /ere ever unclean. The nature of the case rendered repeated )bservation on my part desirable. At every, or almost every, 'isit, the bed-clothes were opened for me. I do not remember hat I ever saw or smelt anything ofiensive or unclean: and ' do not believe that anything of the kind escaped my ibservation. The rest of the mother's complaint refers to the treatment dopted, -T- in diet, and otherwise, — and to the want of ' small omforts,^ — 'arrow root' being the only one named. Two ir three days after admission I prescribed a portion of solid neat on four days of the week, in addition to the ' liquid food'252 which she was taking: and afterwards I ordered a liberal supply of milk, — the best food in all respects for her. The food was given by the Nurse with great discretion, — at varied times, as appetite prompted, or as she could be persuaded to take it, or to try it. The broth, or soup, made in the House, of mutton, and sometimes of mutton and beef together, and seasoned with vegetables, is highly nutritious, and easy of digestion, and is, generally speaking, found to be more palateable than ' beef tea.' I did not prescribe arrow root: in her case I thought it indigestible, and not likely to be nutritious. When she was depressed by the sudden pain on Sunday night, brandy was given ; and after the abscess burst, Port wine and beef tea: before that time these would not have been beneficial. The mother complains that 'her ear was never syringed,' and that ' the discharge was on the pillow-case.' There was a slight discharge from one ear, — not constant and not offensive; a little of it was now and then observed on the pillow, — an accident it is impossible to hinder. The ear was ' kept clean' with cotton wool. I did not allow it to be syringed. The disease about the ear was of trifling import- ance in comparison with the serious disease in other parts. The mother complains that ' no local application was used to comfort her,' — and that 'splints were applied to the great increase of pain.' The question of seeking relief by local ap- plications, — fomentations, poultices, leeches, cupping-glasses, blisters, — presented itself, and was considered by me through- out the progress of the case, — as well as the question of cutting, to give issue to the products of inflammation. The only local means, as it seemed to me, of giving temporary relief, would have been the occasional application of a small number of leeches, — a mode of treatment which might have shortened her sufferings by hastening the fatal termination. Some days after admission I ordered a splint to be applied to the thigh, with the view of keeping the limb steady, and so to give relief. It failed : and a second, of a different form, was applied. This was not successful: it was removed; and no other applied. I do not now remember how many days it was on : but it had been removed long253 oefore the mother's visit. I can understand that 'she ex- jerienced great relief from warm fomentations,' used at home, n an early stage of the complaint, when the disease was more imited in extent, and at a time when she was herself less disabled by the inflammation, I have no reason to think that my local application, while in the Infirmary, would have been successful in giving relief in any sensible degree, — except as it might have diverted her attention, while the complaint continued its progress unabated. Some ' small comforts,' as they may be called, — chicken, ielly, fish, fruit, condiments, aromatics, — often seen in a sick- room, the suggestions of the friends, the Nurse, the family Practitioner, or others in immediate attendance, but more usually omitted in Hospital practise as not having visible effect in the treatment of disease, — were not ordered. I did not see the need for them. Notwithstanding the omission, and although there may not have been the exhibition of the same sympathy and solicitude as at home, I am satisfied that there was not any want of attention or kindness, on the part of the numerous persons about her, in any matter really im- portant to her state. In submitting this Report to the Committee, I take the liberty of offering with it the following suggestions :—That there should be a Medical Committee, consisting of the Medical Officers and Governors who are Members of the Medical Profession, — to whom questions such as these could be referred. That Ladies, who are willing to undertake the work, should be appointed as Visitors to the wards. That there should be some superintendance of the Nurses in the regular discharge of their duties in the wards, — such as the ' Sisters' in the Hospitals in London. The Visiting Ladies, and the Nursing Sisters, would serve as means of com- munication with the Officers of the House on many of the small wishes of the Patients, which are often overlooked as being matters not really affecting the course of disease, or the treatment necessary for it. That the friends of Patients should be permitted to attend them in the wards as Nurses. February 1873.254 Remarks upon the Report of the Sub-Committee. In the Report of the Sub-Committee is the following ; sentence : —' The Patient appears to have complained several > times of her diet; and these complaints were duly reported to Mr. Hussey by the Nurse.'' The complaints, reported to me by the Nurse, were con- fined to a statement that the Patient did not like the diet prescribed, or did not take the whole of it. From the ' Evidence' taken by the Sub-Committee it appears that j the Patient never expressed a wish for any particular article ' of diet. It also appears from the ' Evidence' that she com- \ plained on several occasions to tke House-Surgeon. It seems I to me that it was a neglect of duty on his part that he never on any occasion reported any complaint to me. Mr. D.'s ' Conditional Report' gives a Medical opinion of his own on the case of a Patient whom he never saw. . . . It is in direct contradiction of the facts reported by the Sub-Committee, of which he was a Member. It is not sup- ported by the opinion of any one of the Members: and it was afterwards cancelled by a Resolution of the Quarterly Court. In the Nurse's 'Evidence,' — She never made any remark ' to me about a change of diet. She never expressed gratitude to anybody. In the Chaplain's, — The girl appeared to be very morose in her disposition. May, 1873. To the Rev. J. D. My dear Sir, — It may perhaps have escaped your memory that at the Quarterly Court in July, when I moved that your ' Conditional Statement' on the case of S. B. should be erased from the Minutes, you said that 'the Patients were made to suffer because t/iere was an ill-feeling between me and the House-Surgeon" I am not gtiite sure of the first words; but I am quite sure of those I have underlined, — that there was an ill-feeling between him and me. So far as my feeling toward him is concerned, there is not a particle of truth in the statement so made by you.255 Before reporting your words to him, I am willing to receive from you any explanation, or any correction, if you think your memory on the subject is more correct than mine, 23 October, 1873. To THE HOUSE-SURGEON. Dear Mr. P., — Although I have httle doubt that you are well acquainted with the case which has been before the Committee, in one shape or other, for the last eight months or more, I think it right, (if it should be that you have not seen it,) to call your attention to a part of my second Report, made upon reading the Report of the Sub-Committee, in which your name was brought forward for the first time, in connection with the case. The Secretary can show it to you. I told the Committee that when a Patient in a Hospital makes a complaint, or a statement on the subject of his case, to the House-Surgeon, it is the duty of the House-Surgeon himself to report it to the Medical Officer who is responsible for the treatment: — and that the Medical Officers can not do their duty with credit to themselves and with satisfaction to the Governors, if this obvious duty is neglected. 27 October, 1873. — If Mr. D. believed that there was an ill-feeling, under which the work of the House suffered, in one of the Medical Officers toward the House-Surgeon, it was his duty to bring the subject to the notice of a General Court of Governors. If he believed that there was such a feeling in the House- Surgeon toward one of the Medical Officers, it was his duty to bring it to the notice of the Committee of Management, whose servant the House-Surgeon is. To THE Rev. R. E. C. Dear Sir,— In acknowlegement of your letter of the loth inst., I assume that the Committee, — composed of Governors of the Infirmary,—are sufficiently acquainted with the means of Medicai relief at the disposal of the Governjng Body, as well256 as with the nature of the reHef administered ; and that the questions for the Committee to consider, under the Resolution of the Quarterly Court, and on which you ask for information, are,—whether those means are capable of extension, — in what direction, and how far, — and whether there is a need for it. The Committee must have observed that before any great extension of the Infirmary can be made, the buildings must be enlarged : for such a purpose it will be necessary to have possession of some of the adjoining land, — either the house and grounds occupied by Mr. Owen, or a piece of the garden of the Observatory. The 'means of Medical relief in the neighborhood have been largely increased of late years. There are now 3 Hos- pitals with beds close to the town (in the Cowley Road, at Bullingdon, and at Headington Quarry), ' maintained by the Local Authorities' under the Poor Law. A Dispensary in St. Clement's has been opened. The Medical Dispensary is now divided into two districts, with a separate Medical Officer to each; and a similar division into districts, with separation of duty, has been made in the Lying-in Institution. A Dis- pensary has been opened at Abingdon, and a Hospital with beds at Banbury. Some ' Cottage Hospitals' have been opened in the County. There are many Sick Clubs and Benefit Societies,—well managed and in active operation: the pecu- niary subscription being small in amount, and within the power of every working man in steady employment. A House of Recovery is established at Shotover Hill. A Hos- pital for Incurable cases is founded, but not yet opened. There is not, however, any place to which Undergraduates living in College can be taken in cases of serious illness, when too ill to 'go down,'—where they can have the ordinary com- forts to which they have been accustomed at home. There is not any permanent provision for epidemic diseases. There is no House of Observation or separation, to which members of families in infected places can be taken. There is no recog- nized accommodation, or place of temporary residence, for menial servants in illness, at a time when more is wanted than can be furnished in the houses of their masters.257 Referring to the printed paper enclosed in your letter,— 'Topics for Enquiry,' — there is here, as in every district, a large and numerous class of persons, who, without urgent need, take advantage of any charitable help offered, and who are unwilling, rather than unable, to pay a Medical Prac- titioner for his services. Among the Out-Patients at the In- firmary, I am satisfied from my own observation, as well as from information given to me by Practitioners in the district, that a large number of those ' who do not need the aid obtain it,'—and that the number has increased of late years under the greater facilities offered at the Infirmary. I have observed that 'those who have had better education, as governesses, assistants in shops, and the like,' are not often found among the Patients at the Infirmary. There is not any system of training Nurses at the Infirmary; and there are not any sufficient means for receiving women as pupils for such a purpose. 26 May, 1875. To THE Rev. C. B. M. Sir,—It is possible that it may not be perfectly satis- factoiy to you to receive my answer,—that I can not accede lo your request, to sign the Certificate you ask for T. I do not recall the man, or his case, to my memory by merely seeing the paper you send. But that is not the reason for re- fusing to sign Certificates for him, or for other Out-Patients. I have no sufficient knowlege of the Patients who come now and then to be seen at the Infirmary, to justify me in certify- ing to their health ; nor, if I had, would it be right in me, as an Officer of a Public Institution, to interfere in their proper affairs between the Patients and the Managers of an other Institution. The man must apply to the proper Medical Ofi^cer of his Club. 12 August, 1874. To THE Chairman and Members of the Committee of Management. Gentlemen, — In acknowlegement of the Chairman's letter of enquiry, upon the case of E. T., —What are the reasons S258 which caused me to withhold my signature to a Certificate of his inability to work? — it will probably be thought by the Committee a sufficient answer, — That any statement of such disability would be inconsistent with the facts before me. However clear such an answer may be, I am unwilling to give that answer alone, without at the same time laying before the Committee the facts as they have come to my knowlege. The Chairman and some Members of the Committee will remember that, at the Meeting on the'36th of August, I brought the case before them, as one which seemed to me to be an attempt at imposition on the Charity. On Wednesday, the ist of July, T. came before me, as the Surgeon of the week, with the usual Out-Patient's letter. Upon examining into his case, I refused to undertake the treatment. I told him that he ought not to come so far; that he should stay at home, and obtain treatment there. I learned from the House-Surgeon that T. had been to the Infirmary before that day, without a subscriber's letter, and had been told to bring an Out-Patient's turn. Having formed my opinion, and acted upon it, I dismissed the case from my memory. I did not expect to see the man, or to hear of his case again. In opposition, however, to the advice I gave him, he came to me again. He asked me to sign some paper. I supposed it to be one from a Sick Club or Benefit Society: and I told him that the proper person to sign it was the Medical Officer of the Club. On Saturday, the 15th of August, a Lawyer from a distance called on me with reference to the case. From him I learned that the paper offered to me was for the Railway Passengers' Assurance Society, from whom T. was seeking compensation. I also learned that the House-Surgeon had signed such a paper. It is dated the 20th of June, and is a Certificate from him that he has attended T. from the 13th of June, and is still attend- ing him. The Committee will, I am sure, agree with me, that it can not be said with truth of a man who travels so far and so often, that he is wholly disabled from work. Yet this is what is now desired. The Committee will not fail to observe that there are several irregularities in the case. The man came to the Infir-259 mary on the 13th of June, — a Saturday. The regular and proper course was, to refer him to the Surgeon of the week ; who was in attendance on that day. This was not done. The regular admission day (Wednesday), to which the House- Surgeon referred the man, passed twice before he came with an Out-Patient's turn as directed. In the mean time, and after one of these admission days had passed, the House- Surgeon signed a Certificate of the man's health, and of his continued attendance on him ;—an irregular proceeding : but one which the Committee may be willing to excuse, as the act of a young man, done from kindness, without considera- tion of the effect. It is not so easy to find an excuse for the Patient's concealing this, when he asked me to sign a paper for him. The Patientj—a bailiff—has been seeking compensa- tion from a Society under a claim, which involves a statement on his part, that he earns a week. He brings a Governor's letter stating that he is ' poor and a real object of charity and the Recommending Governor certifies his belief that the man is so. The acting Members of the Committee on the admission day refer him, without enquiry,—perhaps with- out a knowlegeof the circumstances,—to the Medical Officers of the Charity, for advice and treatment. The case was referred to me on the 20th of August by the Assurance Society, with this remark;—'It appears to be one of those cases which agitate Philanthropists in this city, namely, the abuse of Medical Charities ;'—that such a man goes to a Hospital and accepts charity. In answer, I wrote;—'No doubt, as you suggest, the case is one of abuse of a Medical Charity. The man's admission would not, I am sure, receive the approbation of the Medical Officers, or the Medical Pro- fession. But we have not here the public opinion you have in London to support us, (as Professional men,) in our at- tempts to check the continued imposition and abuse in the administration of Medical Charities. Now that I am in pos- session, of the facts of the case, I shall mention it at the next Meeting of our Committee.' In conclusion, I take the liberty of adding my opinion that if the man had followed the advice which I,—the proper Officer appointed by the Governors, — gave him on the ist of S 226o July, the Committee would not have had the trouble of en- quiring into the case. The trouble the man has himself had is the consequence of his own act, in opposition to that advice. 28 September, 1874. To THE Rev. J. S. My dear Sir, — On referring to the Minute Book for an other purpose, I saw a Minute on T's. case —' That it is the opinion of the Committee that the Certificate referred to [the House-Surgeon^s,] was not of the character attributed to it.' In my Report I said, ' it is a Certificate from him that he has attended T. from the 13th of June, and is still attending him;'—and that it was 'a Certificate of the man's health, and of his continued attendance on him.' — I send a copy of it: — 'I hereby certify that I have attended E. T. from the 13th day of June (and am still attending him) in consequence of a sprained ankle, which disabled him, caused by the accident under which he claims com- pensation, and that the said E. T. has been thereby disabled from fol- lowing his usual employment, from the date of the accident to the .... day of .... , and his present state of disablement is likely to continue for W. L. M., L. R. C. P., London. Radcliffe Infirmary, 20 June, 1874. ^ In the copy supplied to me these spaces are left blank. An other subject, — but not yet ripe for discussion ; I wish you would think it over; — the absence of the Medical Officers from the Meetings of the Committee, and the inconvenience which is found to arise from it. I see the inconvenience; but I do not see the remedy. In the case of your present letter, — if I had been at the Board, a short question, and some half dozen words from me in explanation, would, I do not doubt, have saved time and trouble. The same has happened before ; and I think will again. I wish it could be otherwise.- 6 Novetnber, 1874. The attention of others, as well as myself, has been called to a printed paper in the name of Mr. S., the permanent Chairman of the General Committee of Management, re-26l commending that a large reduction shall be made at once in the number of beds now in the House. The ground on which he puts the recommendation is ' the tainted condition of the House in many of its wards,' It is remarkable that in the course of a long printed paper he makes no reference to the Medical Officers, or their opinion, — that he does not seek for support from Officers whose personal experience of the House, and of its value as a place for the treatment of the sick, extends over a period of from 20 to 30 years. , Without any wish to call in question the power of the Governors to take the whole management of the House and the sick into their own hands at any moment, I venture, as one of the Medical Officers, to suggest, as a matter of pru- dence, — if not of courtesy toward Officers who have served them long and faithfully, — that they should call for the opinion of the Medical Officers, or the Medical Committee, before they take, at Mr. S.'s recommendation, a course so unusual as that proposed by him. Governors will forgive me if I remind them that the re- sponsibility of the Medical Officers of a Public Institution ceases when Governors interfere; aiid that, as they incline to a course which involves an interference in what is uni- versally considered the special department of the Medical Officers, such an interference, — however light their hand, — must have the effect of lowering the character of the Medical Officers, aild thus far lessening their influence, and their power to do good. It can not be expected that the many servants now under their orders can serve usefully or cheerfully, when they see what they think an indignity put upon Officers to whom they have long looked to lead them in their difficult task, and to guide them in its varying scenes. The state of the wards and the House in general, as likely to have effect upon the health of the Patients or others re- sident within the walls, has always had a large share of our attention. The part I have taken, — on the different questions that have been raised from time to time, may be seen to some extent in the following papers But, a man gets tired of making suggestions, when he finds his suggestions do not receive attention.262 The number of beds in the House, exclusive of the de- tached ' New Building,' or Fever Wing, has not been the same at all times. It was, I believe, 134 in 1850, at the time I was appointed Surgeon. In the course of the 4 or 5 following years various alterations were made in the wards, — cupboards removed, partitions taken down, ceilings raised, and fire-places opened, — and the number of beds was increased to 146. In 1862 the number was reduced to 131. At a Meeting of the Medical Officers, I suggested that, before considering the question of reducing the number, information ought to be given to us what bad consequences, if any, had arisen from the number of beds then in the House. But a majority were of opinion that we had only to obey the order of the Governors that the number of beds was to be reduced. When the new ward for Accidents was added to the House, the number was reduced to 130, excluding M., which was taken for the use of children. At first 13 beds were placed in M. This number was afterwards reduced to 8. Jatiuary 1875. At the Weekly Board, 21 May, 1851, I proposed :— ' That it would be to the greater airiness of the wards and to the health of the Patients generally, if the convalescent were discharged more fre- quently than at present, and if it were made a general Rule of the House that no bed should be occupied until 24 hours after the last Patient had left it, and in case of a death not till after 48 hours ; and that the Medical Officers should be allowed to report at each Weekly Meeting of the Com- mittee, any Patients who will be fit to be discharged before the next Weekly Board ; — or that they should be at liberty to discharge such Patients in the intervals of the Meetings of the Committee, reporting their names at the next Weekly Board.' After some discussion it was rejected ; and it was Resolved that no note of it should be entered on the Minute Book. To Dr. a. The particulars you give me to correct, so as to represent the chief objections I made, require correction: the chief of all, — urged by Dr. Ogle and myself, and held, I believe, by nearly all the Governors regularly attending the House,— you omit: — That the badness of the existing ventilation263 should be shown, before any change is made: The Governors have nowhere assented to it: the recorded observations of the House Visitors disprove it. What I said, was meant to caution the Governors from too readily admitting, as data for the affairs of a Hospital, statistics derived from Asylums. I said that the doors proposed would hinder the free cir- culation of fresh air. I said that the system proposed would give more trouble, and would be a source of greater expense, than I thought they contemplated ; that, to give it fair play, to keep it fairly in action, they ought to provide an other servant: as to the hoppers themselves, they would never be moved ; as they were put up, so they would remain, and the locks would get rusty. The ' New Building' was mentioned as being well ventilated. It was said that the air was warmed on entering by a stove. Of the stove I said that it was never lighted. Of the building itself, I say that it is close, offensive, and unwholesome, — not fit for any case of fever. Though capable of improvement, I hope to see it pulled down, and the North wing extended in that direction. I said I thought it would be more consonant with the courtesy which distinguished the intercourse of the Governors with us, if they had first referred the matter to us. Also in commenting on the Report, — on the part of it which puts forward 'the opinion of the House-Surgeon,' — I did say that we had reason to complain that the Committee had taken the opinion of the House-Surgeon and had not consulted the Surgeons; and, between ourselves, I think that the Lay Members should have had a hint that official information on the Medical affairs of a Hospital was to be sought from the Medical Officers, of whom the House-Surgeon was not one; as well as that they were treading on tender ground in re- commending the numerous alterations in the wards without consulting the Medical Staff. 27 October^ 1851, To T, T. Esq. We are about to introduce gas into the Radcliffe Infirmary, — at least into the passages and staircases. One of my col-264 leagues ' protests' against it, unless certain tubes or caps lately recommended by Faraday are applied to each burner to carry off the ' products of combustion,' which, it seems, are very deleterious. My answer is, if these tubes are desired for the purpose of a scientific experiment, I have no objection; but I can not admit Medically that there is any necessity for them in our staircases and halls, —large, open places, freely communicating with the outer air by numerous windows and doors: or that the Governors need fear that the health of the inmates is likely to be endangered by the introduction of the gas. I am ready to admit that in some places, — for instance, the compositors' rooms of the London daily papers, — the health may suffer from the ' products of combustion ': but the question now is the staircases and passages of the Radcliffe Infirmary. What are these terrible ' products of combustion' ? The composition of coal gas, (carburetted hydrogen,) I understand to be carbon and hydrogen chiefly, with some nitrogen, a dash of oxygen, and possibly some other impurities of various kinds derived from the different coals from which the gas is obtained. Does the combustion generate much impurity beyond carbonic acid, water, and carbon ? and does it generate more deleterious products than would arise from tallow, wax, or oil, with cotton wicks, in number sufficient to give the same light? The chief objection to gas in a house I have always thought arose from the escape, — not the combustion, — of it. I never heard that the products of combustion were generated to a sufficient extent to injure the health of the residents. IS November, 1851, From Him, in reply. Your remarks on the composition of coal gas are so complete, that I need only add that sulphurous acid is the principal, and probably the most disagreeable and noxious emanation that is produced by the com- bustion of the gas. If the gas be moderately purified, I can not agree with your friend that anything noxious or prejudicial to health results from its use ; most certainly not, under the circumstances and with the limitations you mention. With regard to Faraday's lamps, the principle consists in carrying away the products of combustion by a down-draught through a double265 glass chimney. Theoretically this is of course unobjectionable : prac- tically its value is shown by its being very rarely used. Its objections are, enormous expense to set up, great attention and care to be kept in order, and considerable expense and trouble in repairing the damage to which the glasses are necessarily subject. 17 November^ 1851. At the Quarterly Court in October 1855, I proposed — That it should be made a Rule of the House, that some of the wards should be painted and white-washed every year; in order that all of them in turn might be thoroughly cleansed, once in every five years at least. The question was referred to the consideration of the next Quarterly Court: and it was then carried, —by the casting vote of the Chairman. To A Member of the Committee. Given,—That the windows reach to the ceiling, or to the cornice, and that they are at such a height from the floor that the Patients can not see out of them as they lie in bed;—- That there is a fan-light over the door, reaching to the ceiling, and turning on a perpendicular pivot, so as to form a brat- tice;—That the throat of the chimney (of both chimnies, if two fireplaces, as I hope), is as high as the head of a person sitting in a chair;—That the bedsteads, even in the closest part of the ward, are so far from each other, that the Porters can bring the stretcher with a Patient on it to each side of every bedstead without moving any,—the 'cubic space' allowed to each bed, and the ' number of beds' in the ward, may, as far as my- wish goes, be left to Mr. Architect. The door should allow of a bedstead with a Patient being carried through it; and, what is more necessary, it should allow the Porters to bring the stretcher into the ward without check. Will you allow me to suggest also that the floor should be deal, not oak; and that the walls should be of plaster, to be painted. Of course the cupboards will be in the lobby,—not in the ward. 18 November, 1861.266 To THE Same. To continue the subject of our conversation,—the tangible objections to the Long ward, if of a permanent kind, and due to the actual construction of the ward as a building. What I understand to be the chief objection, is the great heat in very hot weather, (such as part of last summer,) with the variable temperature, and the draughts of cold which come from the windows. It must be borne in mind that the needs of a ward require that every window should be sometimes, indeed frequently, opened; and that the operation of opening and shutting should be done without difficulty, and by a Nurse (i. e. a woman). The pullies for opening these large windows work well; but the cords break now and then,—a trifling matter you will say, and easily set right by supplying stronger cords. Do what you will, you will not succeed, in getting such windows made airtight. The air which comes in, is obstructed by the linen blinds now used, and passes out at the sides with a rush. Inside Venetian blinds should be put, as in M. and other wards. As the windows are flush (or nearly so,) with the inner walls, the laths should be set within a projecting frame, to turn the current of air away from the beds. The expense was, I think, what stopped Mr. Combe from proposing it. Outside blinds would, no doubt, keep the heat off most effectually: but they are a constant source of trouble and expense,—and in our summer only wanted for a very short time. It is, I think, worthy of consideration whether two of the windows on the north side might not be permanently closed with brick-work,—or boarded over. There has been some trouble in working the gas : I do not think the alteration lately made has altogether removed it. Considering the limited use to which gas-light can be applied in a ward, I think that two single burners with clear glass would be enough even for this large ward, and that they would be better placed over the fire-places. The boilers are defective from the spouts being too low for the pails in common use. This can be remedied, by putting new boilers, when the grates come under repair. It would be a great convenience, I think, if the door lead-267 ing Into the ward, — instead of being divided down the middle, half and half, — was divided two-thirds and one-third, and if the handle was some few inches higher. This is from my own observation: I have not heard it from others. 19 June, 1866. To A Member of the'Committee of Management. Without knowing for what special reasons the Outer sashes have been added, it is not easy to say whether they will answer the ends proposed ; or (which is the question you put to me,) whether they ought to be put to the remaining four windows. Of these four, my opinion (if I may be allowed to give it,) is that it would be well if two were permanently closed with brickwork. There is no doubt, I think, that the new sashes can be made to keep off much, if not the whole, of the cold air which used to come in at the sides. But I have some doubt whether it will be done without keeping them always shut: for I incline to think that the proper use of these heavy double sashes can only be had by an amount of care which it is not likely will be given. If the Committee add double sashes to the other windows, I would suggest, for their consideration, that the outside lining, should be of stone, not wood. I do not think that wood can be trusted to keep out the weather permanently; that the parting bead should project more, — so as to make a deeper channel for the sashes; that the glass should be fixed with slips of wood, not putty, — until glaziers have found a way of taking out broken glass without the noise which makes mending a pain of glass a common nuisance. At Littlemore, in some of the exposed windows there are three sashes; Mr. Ley speaks well of them : but the framework was made for the three at first. You are aware, I do not doubt, that in a Hospital it is thought right to fasten the lower sash, so that a Patient under delirium, shall not be able to open it himself, and jump out. The inner fastening of the window has been taken away, and a new one is not yet supplied. The objection I have seen to the present windows, arises in great measure from the linen blinds now in use : and that objection would only be permanently removed by the new268 sashes. When a window is opened, the air entering, not being able to pass throitgh the linen blind, (as between the laths in Venetian blinds,) rushes out at the sides, and so, on to the beds; the side walls at the windows not being deep enough (as in the old wards in the House,) to turn the current again, away from the sides. The light also comes in at the time — when it is not wanted. 15 October^ 1866. To A Member of the Committee of Management. Your enquiry for an opinion of the proposed plan for altering the 'New Building' is rather a comprehensive one. You must forgive me if I send you the opinion on more points than you mean the enquiry to comprise. With some altera- tions, chiefly in matters of detail, which I mentioned when you showed me the plan, and which could be done without difficulty, it will no doubt be a great improvement on the pre- sent state of the building. The Committee, I assume, are satisfied that the walls will bear the amount of knocking about, to the extent which will be necessary for carrying out the plan effectually: I should be inclined to doubt it. But there are objections, as it seems to me, to laying out any large sum of money upon the building, which deserve consideration before the work is undertaken. The staircase I do not think can be altered, except at a great expense, so as to make it fit for carrying' bad cases' (as we call them), to the upper wards. In the basement, the wards are on the ground, without a cellar underneath; and. they are too low in the ceiling. The building itself is at the extremity of our own land, — the back wall forming the boundary. This was a fault in the original construction. There ought to be a space beyond the building, as there is between the North wall of the ' House,' and the adjoining, property. The existing building, however much improved, will remain, what it has long been found to be, only a makeshift. It can not be enlarged if hereafter wanted. The outer walls forbid this in breadth, and their weakness will not allow it in height, so as to bear an other floor.269 t Your plan, (if I remember right,) proposes an extension at the west end of the building. Would it not be better to begin extension from the west end of the north wing of the House, and to remove altogether the existing building, which is, in truth, an obstruction to the enlargement of the Infirmary. Forgive me if I suggest. That the north wing of the House should be extended westwards, either in its present lines, or a little set back. This can be done to an extent which will allow any number of additional beds,—50 or 500. A stair- case could be carried up in the junction; and it would give the opportunity for some additions, much wanted, to the wards in that wing, a bathroom, scullery, and ' lift.' The outer walls should be of a thickness and strength to carry a second floor, if hereafter wanted. This would allow of all the windows being in a recess as now in M., L., and other wards. There should be a good cellar under the basement; the ground floor should be raised, above the level of the floor of the present kitchen ; the ceiling should be higher than in the basement in the House ; and the first floor would therefore be higher than the floor of L. You see it is not much I have to say, except that I think it is not worth while to lay out much money in altering the existing building; and that if you wish for additional accommodation, and are about to spend money for the pur- pose, there is an other way of obtaining it. 20 April, 1866. The Chairman of the House Committee wrote TO me, 2 November, 1865 :—' On enquiry I found there would be great inconvenience in the transfer of your Patient from the N. A. ward ; and all attempt at removal is now made impossible by the large influx of new Patients at the admission yesterday.' Letter to Him. As to the man in the N. A., I think his case can be easily settled. As there is not any separate place to which he can be moved, I do not see why he should not be discharged. It may be (as I can well believe,) to the benefit of those who remain ; and he can go without detriment to himself. As to270 E. S. she is fast recovering the use of her leg, but is not yet fit for service, nor, as I judge, fit for discharge. Too early and free use of the limb may reproduce abscesses; though every week lessens the likelihood of such a thing happening. 4 November^ 1865. To THE Same, Although I saw Dr. A. yesterday for a few minutes, I had not time to refer to the subject of your letter, —' the best means of keeping L. fresh and wholesome.' I know not whether we shall be ready with a Report for the Committee on Wednesday. Our best thanks are due, I think, to the Committee for their attention to so important a subject. It seems to me that it would be of use in our enquiry if we were furnished with some particulars of the ' complaints' made of the ' foul odor'; i. e. by whom have they been made, how often, and for how long a time ? Your letter is the first inti- mation I have had of any of them. Three Patients under my care in L. are confined to bed : all their secretions are therefore carried through the ward. One of them has lately suffered from diarrhea. Possibly the Visitors, or others who have made complaints, have entered the ward during the performance of some of these domestic operations. Surely a House Visitor has power to interfere and remove the Patient to an other ward, — to the New Building for instance, — trans- ferring the Patients now there to the House. Has the attention of the Committee been drawn to the strong smell of tobacco smoke which may often be smelt at the entrance to the ward ? I have found it repeatedly, and during a long period. I think this odor is well deserving of their attention. 18 December, 1865. To THE Same. When the Committee meet next, I hope they will find that the cause of the complaints has been removed. Dr. A. had not got with him the official letter requiring his attention. We referred to the Minute. From this it seems that the271 complaints had been made by Dr. G. and Mr. S. After con- ference with my Senior Colleague, Dr. A., and the House- Surgeon, it seemed to me that the two Patients with burns should be moved at once to one of the lower wards in the New Building, in which there are two beds empty : and it will be done, I suppose, this afternoon. Being in the Secretary's room to-day, he called my atten- tion to a strong smell of burnt fat coming from the kitchen. Possibly, this, or other odors, may frequently arise from the same quarter, and be carried into L. It may be worth the attention of the Committee, as bearing on the present, or any similar enquiry. 19 December, 1865. To Dr. a. What a consumption of time and trouble the new system of government gives us all. A nuisance is found in one of the wards, it arises from the effluvia of the discharges from one of the Patients, two of the Medical Officers become sen- sible of it, the Committee hear this, the Chairman by letter calls the attention of the attending Surgeon to it, he discusses it with the first of his Colleagues whom he meets, and ex- presses his wish to the House-Surgeon that the Patient should be moved. Are not these the facts ? To-day, I think, is the ninth day, and it is not done ; at least, it was not this morning. Now to your letter. Being pressed for time, I did not wait, because I supposed the expression of my wish, (or rather, yours and mine,) and the other trouble I had taken, would secure the removal of so serious a grievance ; and that no meeting would take place. Your letter this morning is the first intimation I have had that a meeting was held, I do not see the use of an other. It is not a common case even of severe burn: there is gan- grene of one arm. Any mode of dressing, or other treatment, which you, or any other of my colleagues, wishes adopted, shall have my concurrence. But I doubt any mode of topica- tion being efficient to de-odorize the ward to an extent that272 would satisfy you and me, as long as the Patient remains in it. If you, or others, wish her retained there, experimeriti causd, it is not for me to object. A Governor, who is fully competent to form an opinion, said to me that the case was one which ought never to have been put into the ward. I do not see why we should wish to cast a slur on those who did it; and it is useless now to discuss it, Ubi lapsus, &c. On Saturday [night, I think,) I had, by Mr. E's letter, the first intimation of the subject. On Sunday morning I was with you, as you know, and you appointed to meet me near the ward, at a quarter to 11: I was there till a quarter past 11, without your coming. On Monday morning I wrote to Mr. E. expressing my opinion that the House Visitors should remove the Patient. I went to the Infirmary, and did not see you. On Tuesday I saw you. I then wrote again to Mr. E., with your opinion and mine, that the Patient should be moved, and added my hope that she would be moved before the Committee met next day. Afterwards I saw Mr. Combe, talked with him, and, telling him I supposed the matter was ended, gave him my opinion of how the Committee ought to have acted on the Wednesday, upon hearing of the complaint; i.e. summon the House-Surgeon, —'Can you tell how this odor arises?' 'Yes: from such a case.' ' Under whose care' ' Mr. Hussey's.' 'Is he in the House?' 'No: he is gone for to-day.' 'In your opinion [not, in Mr. Hussey's,] is the Patient fit to be moved to an other ward?' 'Yes.' Then take the opinion of the Com- mittee on the question ; and, if in the affirmative, say, ' Let it be done at once,' and proceed to the next business on their paper. On Wednesday morning I found the Patient still in the ward ; and to-day I found the same. So this morning I begged the Secretary to communicate with Dr. R., the ' acting' House Visitor. I have seen Mr. Dry, the other Visitor; he does not act, as I understand. I have reason to-day to believe that Mr. E. is absent. What have you to suggest ? Tell me. This occurs to me, as an ultimatum. When I visit the Infirmary to-morrow, if the woman is still in the ward, and still fit to be moved, that I should take her myself over to the New Building; if thePorters will not help me, that I should get others on whom I can rely. 21 December^ 1865. To THE Same. The Patient has been moved ; and is comfortable in her new quarters. The Secretary forgot yesterday to speak to Dr. R. To-day I went to his house : he was gone for a ride ; the time of his return uncertain. I then went to Mr. Dry; and he has been kind enough to act. ' The Lesson for the future.' Are we to have this amount of trouble whenever one of the Faculty wishes a Patient to be moved .-^ It is a matter for serious consideration now that the Committee meets once a month, instead of weekly. What, if we have a case of delirium tremens, or variola ? 22 December, 1865. To THE Chairman. A Patient under my care in L. suffers now and then, (and is so suffering now,) in a way which unfits her, in my judgement, for being in the ward. I mentioned the case to the Secretary this morning, and I hoped that through you he could have got her moved. I have just been to the Infirmary, and found that it is not done. It is the Patient who was severely burnt. The 'burns' have all done well. But she has diarrhea and incon- tinence of urine. This, at any time, is highly offensive, and more so in this cold weather, when less fresh air is admitted, and with the ward full. If she is to remain in the ward, I think additional Nurses should be provided to attend to her, with two, perhaps more, fresh beds a day. I believe her friends are prepared to take her home. But I hope for her sake, as well as the other Patients, that she will be removed from L. without delay. . You are Visitor, I understand, and in that capacity, or as acting Chairman of the Committee, I should hope could use your plenary power in such a pressing matter. 8 March, 1866.274 The House-Surgeon wrote to me, 5 October 1870 :— The enclosed letter (calling attention to the Rules for the admission of children into the M. ward), I received from Mr. S. this afternoon ; and forward it on to you, that you may see how far this ' Rule 4,' applies to the case of W. W. Letter to Him. Thanks for the letter, which I return at once; that no time may be lost in sending it to the rest of the Staff. The Com- mittee will find out in the end, I suspect, how little fitted M. is for the purpose to which they apply it. The suggestion to keep out tedious and offensive cases is good : it is from R. I called the attention of my Colleagues to it some time ago. But how is it to be done ? We do not have too many appli- cations for acute cases, in adults or children: have we the means for treating all the chronic that crowd on us? The next six months is the time that mostly brings them. Rules indeed! Will you let me smile when you mention some one of them ? Where is the Rule that the Rules are to be obeyed.' As to little W., I have not seen him very lately : but I have advised his being admitted. As to the offensivity of his case, I should think it is minutoidal: the tediosity may be more open to questionizatioti. 5 October, 1870. To THE Chairman of the Committee of Management. The Secretary has given me a copy of a Minute of the Committee of the 31st inst., directing my attention as one of the Medical Staff, to a Report by the House-Surgeon of some cases lately in the House, and to the recommendations of the Committee founded upon it. Of this Report I have to observe that it was drawn without my knowlege, and submitted to the Committee without communication with me. It appears to have been prepared in part from notes taken, without my knowlege, of cases under my care, for the treatment of which I am responsible, — not the House-Surgeon. I do not ac-275 knowlege myself responsible for the statements in it, or the inferences drawn from it. As one of the Senior Ofificers of the Infirmary, I think it my duty to point out that the proper course for the Managing Committee of a Pubhc Institution would be, to refer such a document to the Medical Officers, or the Medical Committee, for examination, before proceeding to draw inferences from it, or to ' base recommendations on it;' — and that, while the Committee acknowlege ' feeling themselves responsible to the Public for the state of the Infirmary,' the general responsibility of the Governors of a Public Institution rests upon a belief that they act in Medical questions under the advice of their Medical Officers. The cases under my care, to which the Committee have referred, are these: — G. T. was admitted with extensive and spreading inflammation, five weeks after an injury, from which a more healthy man might have recovered without the formation of an abscess. Without wishing to criticize the nomenclature adopted by others, I should say that this was not a case which I should be disposed to class among cases of Erysipelas strictly so defined. I did not prescribe the treatment which I generally direct in such cases. Removal of the man from the ward where he was first placed to an other would have been, I think, injurious rather than beneficial. J. J. was admitted in my absence by the House-Surgeon, after treatment, during some lo days or more out of the House, of severe and extensive inflammation of the hand, followed by abscesses. It was of a nature peculiarly liable to be attacked by Erysipelas; and, if the disease was not in his system at the time of admission, it appeared soon afterwards. His bed was in the best part of one of the best wards ; some improve- ment was made in its position at my suggestion. I think it was best for him to be left in the ward where he was first placed. H. F. was admitted with disease of the bone of the tip of one finger, after treatment during several weeks out of the House. Fie might have been placed with advantage in a room where he would not have been alarmed by the anxiety shown for his case by those around him. After the disease appeared, he was in too feeble a state to make it prudent to T 2276 move him from place to place, upstairs and downstairs. He recovered, however, favorably. J. E. D. was transferred to my care in a precarious state, with several abscesses in different parts, and extensive disease still in progress in those tissues in which the effects of Erysipelas are generally seen. The Erysipelas was slow in its course, but not other- wise severe. He was at first in the E. A., and then in the N. A, After the distinct appearance of Erysipelas, I do not think he could have been moved from the Attic to an other part of the House or Out-Buildings without great risk. C. D. was admitted in a state of senile decay, making some scarcely intelligible complaint of obstruction of the bowels. Some few days before death, an unhealthy inflammation resembling Erysipelas made its appearance. Having lost whatever notes I took of her case, I am unwilling now to charge my memory with particulars. But I remember that she was placed at first in L., then moved to M., and afterwards back to L.,—without, as far as I remember, my opinion being asked beforehand. Although I am not inclined to say that she was injured by being moved, I think that, — considering her frail tenure of life, — those who advised the removal and are responsible for it, did well in abstaining from farther interference with her repose. M. C. was a young, but unhealthy subject, — bed- ridden and in a workhouse for several years. Erysipelas appeared two or three days after amputation of the leg. Though tedious in its progress, it was not severe in its character. The healing of the stump went on without in- terruption. It would have been a dangerous proceeding to have moved her upon the first appearance of the disease. M. W., a small, weakly child, with paralysis of the legs, and an abscess discharging freely after having been opened in one of the Hospitals in London, was admitted, — because there was an empty bed, and because there were some symptoms of the formation of an other abscess. He was placed at first in M., then moved to the L. ward, then back to M., — both of them wards for men. I do not remember whether in this case, as in several others, I expressed my disapprobation of male babies, or men-children, being placed in a ward with men, rather than among women. If I did not, it was because277 I have so often done it without effect that I have become tired of repeating my remarks. I think separation from the men would have been an advantage to the child. W. D. was knocked down by a bullock and severely injured about the chest, the thigh, and leg. I saw him in Christ Church Meadow immediately after the accident. He died from the effects of mortification. I do not consider his to be a case of Erysipelas. He might have been moved to B. — if the ward had been empty at the time. While I do not desire to call in question the judgement of those who, being responsible for the domestic arrangements, place the Patients on admission in particular wards, and move them afterwards to others, or leave them where they were placed at first, I am aware of some of the difficulties with which they have to contend, from the want of wards in which the Patients can be placed in isolation. The only ward for the purpose is not one to which I should have advised, if asked, that any of these Patients should be moved ; although in former cases when I have thought it desirable, I have re- commended the ward for the purpose. Remembering, as I do, the amount of trouble and personal exertion which I found necessary in order to obtain the removal of the Patient in the last of such cases, I am not willing, without some unusually urgent motive, to undertake a similar task again. Some of these Patients (J., F., W.,) belong to a large class of cases not needing Professional skill, which for the most part are sent to the Infirmary to be fed, as they recover from illness for which they have been treated out of the House. They are taken in, because there are empty beds. I referred to these at the Meeting of the Committee on the 14th inst.; and I suggested that they ought not to be admitted, and that the Medical Officers ought not to be expected to take charge of such cases. Although the question referred to us is not of the general state of the House, I take the liberty of calling the attention of the Committee to an important part of it, — the want of coal fires generally throughout the House, especially in what is called ' unseasonable' weather. I venture to suggest, — for the sake of the health of the Patients and the ventilation of278 the wards, — that the wards should never be without a fire in the grate, unless on the express desire of one of the Medical Officers. 27 October^ 1874. To THE Chairman and Members of the Committee OF Management. The Secretary's printed letter of the 2nd inst., inform- ing me that Mr. R. had been 'lately appointed by the Com- mittee to investigate into the causes of the recent outbreak of Erysipelas,' is meant to be, as I presume, a notice to the General Committee,— not the Medical Committee. It ought not, I think, to be necessary for me, as one of the Medical Officers, to point out the irregularity of the proceed- ing, and the want of authority in the General Committee of Management to undertake, or to direct, the investigation of any Medical or Surgical enquiry, until it has been first re- ferred to the Medical Committee,— this subject not having been so referred. The proposal that a stranger should under- take any such enquiry, — instead of the Medical Officers or the Medical Committee, to whom it properly belongs, — was rejected by a General Court of Governors, and was afterwards brought forward without notice at the ordinary Weekly Meeting of the Committee. It appears by the Minutes that 9 Members of the Committee (out of 27) were present, and that 4 only of them voted in favor of it, — not half the number present. The appointment, therefore, is the private act of 4 Members only of the Committee. It is done without the concurrence of any of the Medical Officers, and is not an act which the Medical Oflficers can recognize. 4 December, 1874. To John Simon, Esq., C.B. My dear Sir, — By the same post I send you a short paper on a subject with which I do not doubt you have some acquaintance, — an enquiry lately made at the Infirmary here. I should not have taken any public notice of it, if those who pushed the enquiry on, and afterwards published the Report, had not gone farther and called the attention of the Medical2 79 Officers to it in an official form. With every wish to assist you and others in any matter of Professional research, I venture, as a Professional brother and fellow-worker, to submit to you the great importance to the Profession in general, and to the country at large, that the Inspectors in your Department should act at all times in harmony with the Medical Officers of Public Institutions. It may be an extreme view,—but I am not sure that it is a wrong one to take, — that, when an Inspector finds he has not the hearty concurrence of the Medical Officers, he should refuse the enquiry, or withdraw from it. I trust this may be received by you in the same friendly temper in which I write it. 12 Aprils 1875. To THE Same. My dear Sir, — In a matter in which you have no con- cern, you will not wish to be drawn into receiving and writing letters : and I have no wish to urge it. But the last words of your letter, telling me of what Mr. R. informs you, need this notice from me. The Medical Officers are only partly Members of the Com- mittee: they have not the full powers of other Members. They do not generally take part in the business : there is not any duty calling on them to do so. They were not among the four Members who invited Mr. R. Mr. R. acted throughout as the servant of the Committee. I look on it as impossible that a Professional man of mature age, with ordinary powers of obsei*vation, could suppose that the enquiry he undertook had the countenance of the Medical Officers. 17 April, 1875. To THE President and Governors of the Radcliffe Infirmary. My Lord Duke, and Gentlemen, — In acknowlegement of the Minute made at a Meeting of Governors, drawing the attention of the Medical Staff to parts of the ' strictly con- fidentiaV Report addressed by Mr. R. to the Committee of28o Management, and printed and circulated by their order, I have the honor, as one of the Medical Officers, to submit the following remarks. The notice taken of the Report at that Meeting was irregular. The Meeting being held by adjournment from the Quarterly General Court of January, for the special purpose of receiving the opinion in writing of the Medical Staff, upon the question of the new wards about to be built, it was not competent for the Governors assembled there to enter on any but the special business which the Quarterly Court at its rising left to them. All the proper business of the Court had been ended at the former Meeting on the i6th of February, to which day the Court had been adjourned. If it had been supposed that any subject would be brought forward, but the special business of which notice had been given, it would have been in the power of other Governors to attend and take part in the proceedings, with — it is not unlikely—a different result as regards the Report. The opportunity was not given them to do so. The Report might have been dismissed with the remark that the writer, not having succeeded in the purpose for which he was employed,— ' Any attempt to unravel the respective influence of direct contagion, infected wards, or general sanitary state of the Infirmary or of the several wards, at this period of the prevalence, would be hopeless ;— ' It is impossible to state the respective parts played by this condition and by infection, in the development of the different cases of erysipelas :'— discusses at great length matters on which his opinion was not asked, — though, as might be expected, in some degree of doubt and uncertainty, being without ' a knowlege of the inti- mate working of the Infirmary, which is not to be gathered from a brief enquiry like this he has been engaged in.' The enquiry, of which the Report is the result, was made by a stranger, invited privately, — as I have before pointed out to you, — by four Members only of the Committee of Management, in defiance of the Order of a General Court of Governors, which directs that all Medical or Surgical enquiries shall be referred in the first instance to an especial Medical Committee.t 281 The number of cases in 6 months of the past year, in which Patients 'admitted for other forms of disease or for injuries, had been attaclced with erysipelas,' and the number of cases in which a Patient ' had died in consequence of the super-induced malady,' are assumed in opposition to the written statements of the Medical Officers who had the charge of the Patients,—the Officers, consequently, who alone are able to give correct information on the subject of their cases. From the Reports addressed by them to the Committee of Management, it appears that the number of such cases was not more than 23, and that the death of the Patient from the effects of erysipelas, happened in only one of the cases. Governors will, I think, be of opinion, that it was the duty of the Chairman of the Committee in his official communi- cation with Mr. R., to see that he was properly supplied at the earliest moment, — or, at all events, before he began to write his Report, — with a copy of these important documents. It need not be a matter of surprize that an Officer of a Public Board, accustomed to a regular and methodical mode of transacting matters of official concern, — not having so re- ceived the Reports of the Medical Officers, — does not refer to them in any way; but that he has drawn his Report from the imperfect materials supplied through the Committee. Whether this was a course likely to gain their confidence. Governors will form an opinion for themselves. Whether it was right for a Professional man engaged in such an investigation, to' pursue it without the concurrence of the Medical Officers, may be left to the judgement of his Professional brethren. Mr. R. refers, — without authority from the Medical Officers, — to certain other cases which ' there seemed to have oc- curred' in 1873, 'for which year he has recovered some of the facts.' We are not told from what source the Committee derived them. The Patients are not named : no clew is given, by which the cases can be traced by the Medical Officers, and all the facts recovered. We are told, — for the first time I believe, — that 'the Attics were not originally designed for the reception of Patients.-' A visit to the Attics, and an examination of the282 wards themselves, and of their connection with the Operation Room, will, I think, lead an observant visitor to doubt this. We are not told where the Committee obtained the evidence they furnished as the authority for the statement. Whatever the prevailing theories of ' overcrowding,' ' insufficient ward- space,'' 'air-space,' 'bed-space,' 'cubic-space,' 'floor-space,' — the Committee have long been aware that the Surgeons, with the best means of observing, have no reason to be dis- satisfied with the progress toward recovery of the Patients under ' treatment of serious Surgical cases' in those wards, or with ' the provision for ventilation in the Attics.' It has been, hideed, a matter of observation that, when a person enters these wards the first thing in the morning after being shut for the night, there is less evidence in them than in others of closeness, or ' unwholesomeness,' — if one sense (that of smell,) may be taken as the test. There is not any evidence, as far as I have examined the existing records of the House, that the Attics were ever ' designed,' or used, for any purpose but wards for Patients: they were certainly in use as wards before February 1778. There is not, I venture to submit, any more authority for the statement than for a similar statement we have heard of the wards on the ground floor. These are mentioned in the Register of Minutes as being in use as Wards in less than la months from the time the House was first opened ' for the reception of Patients.^ Among the errors, which might have been avoided by an examination of the Reports of the Medical Officers, reference is made,—among other cases,—to that of T,, in whom an abscess was opened,—'(date not recorded).' The date was recorded by me the day the operation was done. If it was of importance enough to be noted, and attention directed to it, the proper course would have been to ask me for the date. The man, it is added, ' had been attacked with severe ery- sipelas' on the 8th of September :—the fact being, as stated correctly in an other part of the Report, that the man left the Infirmary on the 12th of August. The case was not one of those which I define as erysipelas. In the case of D., the particulars of her case, and of the cause of her death are given in the Report I made to the Committee. She had not283 ' hemorrhoids'; nor did she die from erysipelas. Of C, in whom erysipelas appeared after amputation of the leg, we are told that ' the attack was a very severe one.' In my Report to the Committee I stated that the attack was not severe, and that the healing of the stump went on without interruption. D.'s case was not one of erysipelas. The cause of the man's death is stated in my Report to the Committee, In S.'s case, though mentioned correctly as one of erysipelas, the Patient's death was not from the effects of that disease, but from an other and a more insidious cause, as stated more fully in Mr. Briscoe's Report to the Committee. It is worthy of note that, in ' a study of all the phenomena of the prevalence,' no reference is made to the agency of the weather, and the connection of atmospherical changes with the production and spreading of epidemic and contagious diseases, — an influence, moreover, which would be ' operative' upon every ward and every person in the House. The ma- terials for an enquiry are close at hand,—r-at the Radcliffe Observatory. The Committee would have obtained them, I am sure, with the readiness and courtesy, with which, — I take this opportunity of acknowleging, — I have obtained them myself, from the present Observer, Mr. Main, and, on a former occasion, from his predecessor, Mr. Johnson. Though it has no connection with the subject he had him- self undertaken to investigate, Mr. R. refers to ' an official enquiry' made by 'his colleague Dr. B.' The Committee could have told him that, as far as the City of Oxford was concerned, many of the Residents know that the enquiry was of a private nature ; that no public notice was given of the visit, or of the intention to make an enquiry; and that the statements made by Dr. B. upon the subject of the water sup- plied to the inhabitants were publicly contradicted at the time by those who were best able to judge of them. ' There is no reason to suppose,' — it is satisfactory to find Mr. R. adding; —' that the water-supply, derived from the public service of the City, contributed to the outbreak.' Among matters of domestic arrangement, to which the Medical Officers have not made any objection, are the light curtains at the head of the beds. The use of them Mr. R.284 considers one of ' the conditions which admitted of infection becoming an active agent in the diffusion of erysipelas within the wards ;' and he dismisses the curtains with a nickname,— ' infection traps.' The Members of the Committee could have told him, — for it is within their knowlege, — that the one ward which has always been without curtains is the one best known to them for the ' unwholesomeness of the ward,' and for the frequency with which it has been necessary to have it ' vacated for cleansing,' as well as for the general want of success in removal of the ' infectiveness,' or ' persisting infection ' of the ward. If ' isolation,'' ' systematic isolation,' — a new term, and not defined with exactness, — is to be taken as meaning ' strin- gently applied,' the collection in one ward of all the cases at one time in the House of a disease liable to spread by con- tagion, it is not in any sense to be considered the proper way of doing what the Medical Officers have more than once recommended. Such a concentration in one ward is not a safeguard to the Patients, or to the Attendants. It is a heap- ing together of the materials of contagion, causing ' pollution of its atmosphere,' and ' fouling it to a most injurious extent' The removal of each Patient from the wards, and the separa- tion at once of single cases from others, in every case when required by the Medical Officers, is different from such ima- ginary 'isolation,' and — as the Committee have long been aware, — the means for it have not yet been provided. However slight the materials forming the foundation on which his opinions and theories are raised, — and however irregular, and uncourteous to a large majority of the Medical Officers, the mode in which the enquiry was at first directed, and afterwards followed, — it will not have been without a beneficial effect, if . . . when they see there is so much that a Stranger finds to condemn, ... it should produce in the Governors, who take upon themselves the control of the House, a greater readiness than heretofore to seek, and to' follow, the advice of those whose long experience of the Infirmary best enables them to give it. April 1875.285 To J. N. R., Esq. Dear Sir,—Your letter reached me duly. The fact, that you have sent a copy of it to a third person, — the Chairman of our Committee of Management, — removes the subject beyond the circle of private or Professional matters, and renders it unnecessary that I should do more than thus ac- knowlege it. 14 April, 1875. To THE Same. Dear Sir,—You have put the subject of your letter before the Committee. While it is in their hands, I decHne the dis- cussion of it with you. 16 April, 1875. To THE Same. Dear Sir, — I have nothing to add to what I have written to you;—that while the matter is before the Committee, I shall not discuss it with you. Surely this is the clear line of duty to take. Your letter received to-day seems to me as if written in a moment of warm feeling, and under temporary irritation. I have not shown it to any one: and I am willing, as a Profes- sional brother, to give you the opportunity of withdrawing it, if on reconsideration you wish it. 18 April, 1875. To THE Same. Dear Sir,—As I suppose it is not likely now that the Chairman will take farther notice of your letter of the 13th inst., I feel myself at liberty to give you an answer to it, and to the two others which you afterwards sent to me, provided you wish to receive an answer. From the concluding words of your last letter, I have some doubt whether you desire it; I therefore confine my present remarks to the statements you make, as of facts, of which you desire that I should ' permit you to remind me.' 1. The circumstances are stated correctly at page 3 of my printed letter to the President and Governors; and more fully286 in my letter to the Chairman and Members of the Committee of Management. The correctness of what I wrote has not been called in question. That letter (of the 4th of December,) was read at the Meeting of the Committee on the 5th, at which you were present; a printed copy of it was afterwards sent to you. The Medical Officers, though ' Members of the Com- mittee,' have not the full power of other Members. They do not in general take part in the business : there is not any duty calling them to do so. They were not among the four Mem- bers who invited you. 2. ' Communication with the Medical Officers' implies an interchange, or mutual intelligence. I am not aware of it; or that you sought it. 3. I believe I was, as you say, the first of the Medical Officers whom you saw. I saw you only once. Among the ' sources of information I considered you should consult, — which sources had due attention from you/ were the Reports made by the Medical Officers to the Committee. When I mentioned them, you told me you had not received a copy,—that you had not seen them, or heard of them. I see no sign in your report that you paid any attention to them. I sent you a printed copy of mine,—with others upon the ventilation, drainage, arrangement of beds, and other matters in the Infirmary. 4. Of this I have no knowlege. 5. I never heard of such a Meeting, — or of any request, or any wish, on the part of the Committee, or yourself, that the Medical Officers should meet you, or consult with you. I re- ceived the Secretary's printed notice,—that 'desired to meet the Committee,'—appointing a day and hour when the Medical Officers are all specially engaged with their own Pro- fessional duties. At that Meeting my letter of the 4th of December was read, — pointing out the irregularity of the proceeding, and the want of authority in the Committee : and that it was without the concurrence of any of the Medical Officers. A stranger, — a Professional man, — would not enter any Public Institution in London for the purpose of making a Professional enquiry or investigation, without the concurrence287 of the Officers. Whether he should do so, — especially whether a Medical man should enter a Hospital for such a purpose, without the concurrence of the Medical Officers,—is of im- portance to the Officers, and the Managers, and to the Inmates of all Public Institutions, and to all who take interest in their welfare. I know no reason why a Professional man holding the Public Office you hold should be unwilling that such a question should be ' left to the judgement of his Professional brethren,' — or that any of them, or others to whom the ques- tion is one of interest, should be forbidden a sight of a printed Report of such an enquiry, or the remarks of one of the prin- cipal Officers of the Institution upon it. 10 April, 1875. To THE Same. Dear Sir,—You have courted explanation : you refuse it when offered. From the confident style you assume, a stranger might think you took on yourself to act and write with the authority of the Committee, the Governors, and the Local Government Board. Yet, the fact is, you have not the autho- rity of any one of them: but that you have been simply engaged in a private adventure of your own. You fell into the hands of two or three persons whom you supposed to represent the ruling power. You are unwilling to acknowlege the mishap. The hint I gave you,—a hint I thought it would be a want of courtesy to keep back, when speaking within walls to a Professional brother,—unluckily did not serve to guide you on to a smoother path. You know that you received full courtesy from me ; though your manner and bearing, when you called on me, were not altogether such as I thought gave you a claim to it. Similar courtesy on your part would have made your business here more easy to your- self, and, as I think, more agreeable to others. 1 have treated you and your report with great forbearance. If it had not been for the imprudence,—as I think it, — of those who advised you, in publicly calling my attention, as one of the Medical Officers, to it at the late irregular Meeting, I should have let it pass, without taking any public notice of it. ■ 2 May, 1875.288 To THE Rev. J. S. My dear Sir, — In the printed paper you have addressed to the President and Governors, upon the subject of some of the late proceedings at the Infirmary, you say of the letter I addressed to them,—that it 'is calculated to produce most erroneous impressions on those who are ignorant of the facts;' and that you ' have undertaken, on your own responsibility, to lay before them the materials which are needful to enable them to form a correct judgement of the matter.' The first instance you give is, — referring to the Report made by Mr. R. to the Committee of Management, — that I have informed the Governors that the notice taken of it at the Meeting on the 2nd of March was ' irregular.' It is not unnatural that you, the elected Chairman at that Meeting, should desire to uphold the proceedings, and to impress 'on those who are ignorant of the facts,' that what was done was orderly. When they hear, however, that at the last Quarterly Court the proceedings of that Meeting were, after due notice given beforehand, publicly declared to be invalid, and erased from the Minute Book, they will not, I think, care to hear more about them. At page 3 of my letter, I have said that ' the enquiry of which the Report is the result, was made by a Stranger, in- vited privately, as I have before pointed out to you, by four Members only of the Committee of Management, in defiance of the Order of a General Court of Govei'uors, which directs that all Medical or Surgical enquiries shall be referred in the first in- stance to an especial Medical Committee.' In quoting this sentence, you have left out the words here printed in Italic. You add, ' This again it is easy to disprove by the documentary evidence of the Minutes.' At a Meeting of the Committee on the 5th of December a letter from me was read, pointing out the irregularity of the proceeding, and the want of authority in the Committee, — that it was in defiance of the Order of a General Court of Governors, — that the appointment of a289 Stranger had been brought forward without notice at the ordinary Weekly Meeting of the Committee: — that it ap- peared, by the Minutes that 9 Members only of the Committee, out of 27, were pi^esent, and that 4 only of them voted in favor of it, — not half the number present; and that it was done without the concurrence of any of the Medical Officers. The correctness of what I wrote rests on 'the documentary evidence of the Minutes,' to which you appeal: it has not been called in question. The last instance you give requires a fuller notice from me, — because you and Mr. R. are at variance ; and I can not say which of you is to be taken as the one ' to lay before the Governors the materials which are needful to enable them to form a correct judgement of the matter.' You say that, ' At the foot of page 3 (of my letter,) there occurs a paragraph which commences with a complaint against the Chairman of the Committee for negligence in faiHng to supply Mr. R. with the needful material for his report.' ' If you will be so good as to read again the paragraph referred to,' you will find that my words are,—'those important documents,— the Reports addressed by the Medical Officers to the Com- mittee of Management.' No other ' material' is mentioned. You give your view of your duty as the Chairman of the Committee, — 'that all, which the Chairman had to do, was to place unreservedly before him, (Mr. R.,) all the documents connected with his enquiry,' — 'which was done,'—you add: 'and that Mr. R. immediately put himself in personal com- munication with the Medical Officers, and first of all with Mr. Hussey.' As I read this, it is a clear and distinct state- ment by you that you gave those Reports to Mr. R., before he called upon me. When I saw him, I mentioned these Reports, — never think- ing that they had been kept back. It was, I assure you, ' a matter of surprize and regret to me to learn' from him, that he had not seen them, or heard of them. Allow me to add a little more. While many persons may, perhaps, be inclined to agree with you that it was the duty of the Chairman ' to place unreservedly before the person em- ployed, all the documents connected with his enquiry,'—with- U290 otit keeping back the Reports of the Medical Officers, — some may, I venture to think, be of opinion, that it was part also of the duty to Va^y something before the Medical Officers,—• namely, the expression of his own wish, or that of other Mem- bers of the Committee, that they, — the representatives of the Governors in their highest office, — would join heartily with Mr. R,, and help him in a matter in which some, at least, of the Committee took an interest. We never had this from you. The conclusion is, — that neither you, nor he, desired the co-operation of the Medical Officers. , May 1875. To Dr. Seaton. My dear Sir,—A short notice in some of the Medical Journals has called my attention to a Report made by one of the Officers of your Department, and reprinted in your Annual Report. I observe that it is there without the pre- liminary heading, ' Strictly Confidential,' which was in large type on the cover and on the title-page of the Report itself. The Report was the result of an enquiry at the Radclifife Infirmary, undertaken privately, without the authority of the Local Government Board. I venture to submit that if it was reprinted at the public expense, under your inspection, it ought to have been accompanied by the Letter addressed by me, as one of the Medical Officers of the Infirmary, to the Governors, when they called our attention to it. If I re- member right, I sent a copy to you, and to Mr. S. at the time, as well as to the writer of the Report, A Post-script has been added to the Report; and cases are quoted from the Infirmary without communication with the Medical Officers. I venture to submit to you that it is not in accordance with the usage and the courtesy of the Profession for a Member of the Profession to publish notes of a case under the care of an other Practitioner without previous communication with him: and that the Medical Officers of Public Institutions, and the cases under their care, are not excepted from the operation of this rule of courtesy. 13 March, 1878.291 In the Oxford Chronicle of ist July, 1871, a report is given of an Inquest held on a woman who died suddenly in the Radcliffe Infirmary under the influence of an anesthetic. She was about to undergo a capital operation. Bichloride of methylene was given on flannel. One only of the Surgeons of the House was present. The previous consultation of the Surgeons required by the Orders of the Governors had not been held. The case was mentioned at the Weekly Board: and I gave my opinion of the danger attending the use of the instrument employed for administering anesthetics. Upon hearing of an other fatal case, I wrote— To THE Chairman and Members of the Committee of Management. Gentlemen, — Referring to the Minute of the Committee of the and of August, 1871, I take the liberty of calling the attention of the Committee again to the manner in which an anesthetic is given in the House ; as I think the manner of giving it is attended with great danger to life. 12 September, 1877. To THE Same. Gentlemen, — In acknowlegement of the Chairman's letter of the i cith inst., I have to add that there are not any particulars or other matters of detail, either as information or explanation, in any way necessary or wanting for the proper understanding by my Colleagues of the subject of my letter, — if referred to them, as proposed by the Ckairman; for there are none but what are well known to them all. To describe the process of giving an anesthetic, in all matters of detail, so that it may be understood by those who are not members of the Medical Profession, is not, I suppose, what the Committee wish me to do. 18 September, 1877. To the Same. Gentlemen,—In acknowlegement of the Chairman's letter of the 19th inst., I beg leave to remind the Members of the U %292 Committee that an anesthetic is given by an Officer to whom the duty is specially assigned by act of the Committee, and that the mode of giving it is wholly within his discretion,— as of necessity it must be; — and also that no change has been made in the instrument used since my opinion, delivered to the Committee, was recorded in their Minutes of the 2nd of August, 1871. 25 September, 1877. To THE Rev. J. S. Dear Mr. Chairman, — The point to which I directed the attention of the Committee is, — that, in my opinion, the use of the instrument with which an anesthetic is given is attended with danger to life. If I have not succeeded in making this opinion clear by writing, is there any reason to think that I shall do so by attending personally to make the attempt ? Your letter does not suggest that there is. The remedy is obvious; — to have an other instrument, and to direct the Officer appointed to the duty to look to the Medical Officers for his instructions. 5 October, 1877. ^ To THE Chairman of the Quarterly Court, and the Governors assembled there. Gentlemen, — A copy of a Minute lately made at a meeting of the Committee of Management upon the subject of giving chloroform to Patients, has been sent to me, with a note that it will be laid before the Quarterly Court of Governors to-day. The Court will observe that the Minute relates to a matter of Medical or Surgical enquiry, and that, as such, it is a subject which the Committee of Management has been ordered by the Quarterly Court of April 1873, to refer without inves- tigation to the Medical Committee appointed by the order of that Court. The Committee, however, on the 19th of Sept. last referred it to the Medical Officers. In the absence of any Report from them, it would be un- becoming in me to offer any remarks upon it, except perhaps this general observation: That while the Medical Officers are293 bound by their duty to the Governors, and to the pubh'c, as the recipients of the charitable dispensations of the House, to do the best they can for the Patients with the materials placed at their command by the Governors, yet the interference of the Governors in the treatment, in an important matter of detail, removes from them the responsibility which attaches to them as the Professional Officers to whom the treatment of the Patients is entrusted. 24 October, 1877. To THE Rev. J. S. My dear Sir, — In the Oxford Chronicle of to-day, in a report of remarks made by you, — 'on behalf of the Com- mittee of Management,' — at the late Quarterly Court, I see that you refer to the case of the death of a Patient under chloroform, adding, that ' in such cases it has been the custom in this Infirmary to hold an Inquest, as it is in all the London Hospitals.' Of the present custom in the Hospitals in London, I am unable to speak; but I believe it is not the custom to hold Inquests in such cases in private practise. At the Infirmary I never heard that there had been more than one such case: that was in 1871. In that case the Patient died before any Surgical operation was begun. In the late case, the death happened, as I understood, after the operation was ended. Information was given to me. I re- ferred the informant to the Registrar of Deaths; and I heard no more of it. It seems to me that you can not be aware of the change which has taken place in the need for Inquests under the operation of the late Amended Act for the Registration of Deaths. In this case, I heard afterwards that there were 10 Medical doctors present. Surely there was Medical evidence enough to justify the Registrar in registering the death, and to satisfy any reasonable person that an Inquest was not wanted to make the cause of death clear. No application for an Inquest was made to me by the friends of the deceased, nor by the Officers of the Infirmary. In all the cases at the Infirmary in which I have held an Inquest information has been given to294 the Summoning Officer by one of the Resident Officers of the Infirmary. This has long been the estabhshed practise. None was given in this case ; and I never knew, till I saw the news- paper last night, that the question of an Inquest had been before the Committee. If I had known of it, I should have felt it a duty to the Public to attend the Committee, and explain why I did not think an Inquest necessary. 27 October, 1877. To THE Same. My dear Sir, — There is not anything in the letter to which you refer, that I wish to alter. Do you mean to say that a single case makes what people call a custom ? you are reported to have said as much. The intention of the Amended Registration Act is that every death shall be accounted for. Where a Medical Prac- titioner is in attendance, he is now bound to certify the cause of it. In case of doubt or suspicion, the Registrar and the Coroner are in communication. Under the amended Law, it is more than ever desirable that the Coroner should be a man of Medical education. In the late case (N.'s,) the death was duly registered on a Certificate from a Medical Practitioner: no application was made for an Inquest. It must be a rare case where a Coroner would be justified in ordering an Inquest in such circumstances. In 1871 I called the attention of the Committee to the inhaler used. If the Committee had then referred the ques- tion to the Medical Officers, — as they have now done, — it would not have been necessary for me to call their attention to it again. ■20 November, 1877. To THE Governors of the Radcliffe Infirmary. Gentlemen, — The question which has been before you some months, — whether you should appoint one paid Auditor, instead of three without reward, as heretofore, — being settled, there will not, I hope, any longer be a difficulty in obtaining the services of Governors willing to undertake the office: under this hope I request to be released from it.295 In retiring from the office of Auditor, I feel I shall not be doing my duty if I do not call your attention, more than is done in the Annual Reports, to the state of the Finances. It is right you should know that they are in a thriving state; and that for at least the last ten or twelve years, they have never been otherwise. In the year just past the Expenditure of the year exceeded the Income appropriated to the year by about £2^. But in 1855, the Expenditure was within the Income by £856; — the Income of that year having been increased by unusually large' Miscellaneous' receits, amounting to ;^i,2oo, given by numerous charitable persons, — most of them under the idea that the funds were failing. During the last ten years, the Capital Stock (of funded property) has been increased at a rate of between £S^o and ;^6oo a year. The yearly Income from funded capital is greater now by ;^300 than in 1847 ; and the yearly Subscriptions greater by about £100. The average yearly Expenditure has been within the average yearly Income, The alteration of the form in which the Annual Report for 1853 was printed, was attended (as was foreseen) with many mistakes, especially in the accounts. Among them are two, to which I beg your attention. Under the head of ' Shop Accounts' are two items, which, — as well as I could learn from examination of the bills, — are wrong: — ' Surgical Instruments and repairing ditto, ;^35 4^-. 4^/.; Instruments for the use of Patients, ;^30 i6j-.' The correct sums, I believe, are, 'Surgical Instruments, and repairing, £1'^ 16s. 2d.; for Patients, £42 3^.' There is great liberality in the gifts of Instruments for the use of Patients; and it is only right that the extent of this beneficence should be known. But there has not always been, .1 regret to say, the same liberality in furnishing things so important for their health and safety, as the instruments used by the Surgeons in the treatment of the Patients. In almost all operations in the House I use my own instruments, in preference to those belonging to the House. Of late years some few new ones have been bought; but the supply is still wretchedly short. Whether the accounts printed in the Reports of subsequent years- are less incorrect, I have no means of knowing; they296 are not submitted to the Auditors for examination. But there are mistakes in the Totals, not easily seen on a superficial examination; and it is not more than a super- ficial examination, I believe, that Governors give to these matters. In the Annual Report for 1853, the average of Disburse- ments, shown in the ' Comparative View of Receits and Disbursements/ is stated to be ;^3,889.- this is a mistake for ;^3>389- In the Comparative View in the Annual Report for 1854 are the following mistakes. The amount of' Benefactions, &c.' is put at '0.0.0.': it was £8^2 los. This mistake has arisen, I presume, from its being thought by those who prepared the Table, that the figures in this column are the sums spent during the year in the purchase of Stock. But, being under the general head of ' Receits,' they denote the sums received during the year, which are not appropriated to the Expen- diture, as part of the Income of the year, but invested in the purchase of Stock, under the orders of a General Court,— not always within the year in which they are received, but as soon as the pressing nature of the demands on the finances allows the investment to be made, without bringing too low the balance which it is always desirable to have in the Treasurer's hands. In one year (1851), a larger sum than here shown was invested: the amount of' Benefactions, &c.' received, and invested, during the year, being increased by the investment of a sum of about £4.00, an accumulation of a balance, from the Income having been for some years greater than the Expenditure. The sum received is rightly called £']1'^ 'id.: the sum invested during the year was ;^i,rio 15J. ^d. The year 1853 ended with a deficiency of ;^400. The ordinary Income of that and the preceding year had been heavily taxed for substantial repairs and other works, which could not be delayed longer without permanent injury; and these ought properly to have been paid out of Capital. While the 'Benefactions, &c.' of those years had been in- vested in Stock, without applying them to Expenses, which (strictly speaking) ought not to have been thrown a burden297 on the ordinary Income, unless under the beh'ef that the Income was able to bear it, — as was, in fact, the case. Upon the publication of the Annual Report showing this deficiency, a panic arose about the state of the Finances: and, without making an accurate investigation, it was as- sumed that the House must be ' in debt,' — although all the proper Expenses of the year had been paid, and the House had never been without a large balance in the Treasurer's hands. At the end of 1854, ;^5oo was borrowed. It was not wanted ; for there was at the time about 1,300 to the credit of the Treasurer in the Banker's pass-book. After paying all the expenses of the year, there was a balance of £s5° in favor of the House, — without, however, any abatement of the panic. In May 1855, a Special Appeal was publicly made in aid of the Funds; and an abstract of the accounts was published, showing the Expenditure, and part of the Receits, of the pre- ceding year. Upon this statement there seemed to be a deficiency of 1,001 13J. ^d., at the end of 1854. This deficiency is made by excluding from the calculation the sum of received in that year as 'Benefactions &c.;' and which had not been laid out in the purchase of Stock at the time the Appeal was issued. The result of this Appeal was, that an unusually large sum (about 1,200} was received before the end of the year, as Donations and Benefactions. The money borrowed was repaid ; 1,000 was laid out in the purchase of Stock; and at the end of 1855 there was a balance of £6^ in favor of the House. In 1856 the sum of £212 10s. was laid out in the purchase of Stock, and at the end of the year there was a balance of ;^447 IS. lid. in favor of the House. It may be worth while to mention that, since the end of the year (i.e. in February last) the Treasurer has laid out a farther sum of ;i^47o iis. 6d. in the purchase of Stock. March 1857. To THE Rev. J. S. Mv DEAR Sir, — After I got home on Saturday, not satis- fied with the confirmation which our examination (as far as it298 went,) gave to my figures, I thought I would again look over them, and, as I have found, —what we did not succeed then in finding, — a mistake in one of the sums in my letter, I hasten to tell you of it. It arises from relying too much on the figures in the printed Reports. It appears there are more mistakes than I supposed in them. The Report for 1856, in the Comparative View, sets the average expenses at ^. ^d. I supposed this to be correct. I now find the correct sum is £%,S9S i5-s"- 7^-; and consequently the Expenditure exceeded the Income by about 5j. ^d., instead of being (as I said,) within it. 13 Apnl, 1857. To THE Chairman at the Quarterly General Court. Sir, — In acknowleging the receit of a copy of the Minutes of the Special General Court of the 30th of April, I have to request that these observations upon them may be submitted to the Court. Of the part relating to the deficient stock of instruments, I have to observe that probably it escaped the attention of the Governors present that, as that subject was not comprized in the Notice summoning the Special Court, it was not compe- tent for the Court to entertain the question : and, having come under discussion irregularly, the Resolution passed can not be taken as a deliberate expression of opinion on the part of the Governors. If the Governors will refer again to Mr. Hansard's letter, they will see that the opinion he gave is not to the effect that the present supply is ' fully sufficient,' as stated in the Minutes : nor has Mr. Hester given such an opinion in a letter on the subject lately addressed to the Weekly Board. With reference to the Resolution itself, I have to observe thatj the enquiry, by which the Court satisfied themselves, was carried on without reference to me, — that, so far from there being ' no foundation ' for the statement I made, (that there is not a proper supply of Instruments,) I beg leave, with due submission to a General Court of Governors, to say that the statement I made is true, and that I am ready to prove it; — and that though it may literally be true that no application for what are generally known as ' Surgical Instruments' has299 been (till very lately) actually ' refused,' I have on more than one occasion found such appearance of unwillingness on the part of a Weekly Board to grant an application, that I have often preferred to furnish from my own resources what I wanted, rather than make an application which might not receive a hearty assent from the Governors; — and that other things, for which application has been made, — though not strictly to be called Surgical Instruments, — have been refused. Nor is there much encouragement for the Surgeons to make an application. The Court may perhaps call to mind that on a former occasion, when the Surgeons addressed the Quarterly General Court, (in July 1856,) on the important subject of the Drugs, the Court did not acknowlege the letter, and excluded all mention of it from the Minutes. If the Court is of opinion that there should only be such a supply of instruments and apparatus as depends on a vote of a Weekly Board, I will readily continue to supply from my own resources the additional instruments I think necessary in the treatment of the Patients under my care. But if the Court is of opinion that it is the wish of the Governors that the Patients should have the benefit of all such new and improved instruments and mechanical appliances as the Surgeons think necessary, I beg respectfully to suggest that the Court should empower the Surgeons individually to order such as they think necessary, — in the same way as they are now enabled (by Resolution of the Quarterly General Court of October last) to order Drugs. The Court will bear in mind that the Surgeons are no longer paid, as formerly, for their services; and although it may seem a heavy or unjust tax upon them to furnish instruments, it will in general be less troublesome to use their own, than to find that those belonging to the House, (if wanted, and if applicable to the case in hand,) are not in proper order, (fit for immediate use,) or are in use out of the House. I July, 1857. To THE Editor of the Oxford Journal. Sir,—The attention of your readers is again directed to the finances of the Infirmary by the letter of my Colleague,300 Dr, C. He refers, without questioning its correctness, to what has been repeatedly published during the last three or four years, that the finances are in a state of ' embarrassment.' The Annual Report for 1861, published by the Weekly Board, reports that 'the adverse balance of the previous year has been increased to £610, at the close of the last.' The report of the Committee appointed at the Quarterly Court in January, to consider the state of the Finances, received at the last Quarterly Court, and published in your paper of the 26th of April (of which it is remarkable that, while it treats of the expenditure in detail, it is silent on the subject of the receits), states that ' the Committee find that the balance against the House at the end of 1861 was £612;'' and the Committee recommend, ' on financial grounds,' that there should be a reduction in the number of beds now in the House. It appears from information given by the Treasurer, in answer to a ques- tion at the last Quarterly Court, that, fi'om this adverse balance of ;^6i2, is excluded a sum of uninvested life subscriptions, amounting to about ;^335, in hand at the end of the year. When a proposal is publicly made, and supported by the Treasurer and other active Governors, that some of the warda should be closed from a supposed failure of funds,—and when the Treasurer opposes the admission of Ladies as visitors to the wards, because, as he says, it is a ' time of great financial difficulty,'—it seems to be within the duty of the Medical Officers to enquire publicly whether this pecuniary difficulty or ' embarrassment' really exists. To me it seems that the finances are in a thriving state, and that, for at least the last I a or 15 years, they have never been otherwise. From the Annual Reports it appears that in the last I3 years the sum of £S'^A'^9 has been contributed to the funds: the expenditure of the House during the time was £a6,']2()-, leaving a balance in favor of the House of ;^4,'58o, which, if every thing desired by the Officers for the treatment of the Patients had been furnished, might have been properly invested in stock. The sum actually applied to the purchase of stock was ^^5,364 —more by ;^684 than the excess of the receits over the expenditure. The annual income arising from in- vested capital appears, from the same printed reports, to have30I been £1,644, in 1850, and £i,Sg^ in i85i : the annual sub- scriptions were £1,561 in 1850, and £i,S6y in 1861. The proposal that sickness and inability to procure the re- quisite Medical attendance should be the real claims to admis- sion without the necessity for presenting a Governor's turn, has my hearty recommendation. Such has ever been the practise of the House in cases of recent Surgical accident, and in a Hospital so richly endowed, and with a steadily in- creasing capital, — there is no satisfactory reason for a different practise in other cases of sickness. Sickness too often comes unexpectedly, and, among the poor especially, without any sufficient provision to meet the attack. There is no reason to think that the Radcliffe Infirmary would be an exception to what experience has taught, — that no general Hospital has ever failed from want of means to maintain its existence, and even to extend the full measure of usefulness projected by its Founders. On the other hand, it may be reasonably hoped that, by giving freer admission to the poor in cases of real sickness, the friends of the Institution would be increased in number, and — indirectly perhaps, but not less surely,—large and increasing donations, or ' benefactions,' would accrue to the funds. It may, perhaps, be worthy of consideration whether the burdens on the finances as at present expended could not be lightened, — always a matter of importance in a voluntary charitable Institution, — by removing the Patients when re- covervig at an earlier period. If a House of Recovery could be established in some healthy spot, at a convenient distance from the town, many of the Patients might be sent there when the acute stages of disease are over, and at a time when a change is desirable from the wearisomeness and depression of a sick ward, where the presence of the convalescents interferes more or less with the discipHne of the House (an Institution, be it always remembered, meant expressly for the sick), as well as with the peace and quietude which are absolutely necessary for those who are suffering from acute disease. They would regain their health more rapidly and more thoroughly in the freer air of the country, and when removed from continued intercourse and companionship with those302 who are still sick and suffering, and they would be sooner restored to their families or their labor. May 1862. To THE Same. Sir,—In the Oxford Journal of last Saturday a report is given of the late Quarterly Meeting of Governors of the Rad- cliffe Infirmary. The Chairman (the Rev. J. S.)^ who is also the Treasurer, is reported to have said, in addressing the Governors, that 'they began the year with deficient.' Your readers and other friends of the Infirmary will, I think, be glad to know upon what evidence the Treasurer made a statement so inconsistent with what has been lately published by the Weekly Board. If the fact is that there is a deficiency of funds to meet the proper expenses of the House, it is de- sirable to know what has become of the balance of £444, which the Weekly Board represented to be in the hands of the Treasurer at the end of the last year. By the Annual Report it seems that the receits of the past year (1863) amounted to £4,y2o, and that the disbursements amounted to £4,7,18 — leaving a balance upon the accounts for the past year of £502 in favor of the House. If a judgement is to be formed from the accounts published by the Weekly Board, it does not appear that the ' debt,' or 'deficiency,' about which so much has been said and written, has any existence. The bills are punctually paid every quarter, and the Treasurer continues to accumulate capital. 2 Ajigust, 1864. To THE Same. Sir, — At the late Convocation of the University, upon the subject of the proposed removal of the Coach-building Works of the Great Western Railway to this City (a report of which is given in the Oxford Journal last Saturday), an opinion was expressed that there would be a great increase of accidents and sicknesses, and that the Infirmary could not receive such an influx in its present condition. The habits of the skilled artizans of the present day to sub-303 scribe to Provident Societies and Sick Clubs, for the benefit of their families, and the existence of two large and well- managed Societies under the immediate patronage and en- couragement of the Directors of the Great Western Railway, ought to remove any groundless alarm that the workmen or their families, when attacked by sickness, are likely to be- come a burden on the funds of the Charitable Institutions of this city. The arrangements now being made for the erection of im- proved dwellings on an extensive scale, and in a healthy spot, give reason for the belief that the workmen will obtain a more healthy residence here than they now have in London: and the new residents, it may be confidently said, will be found well able, for the most part, to bear their own burdens in sick- ness as in health. Yet there may happen some unexpected emergency,— there may come some infliction beyond the means their own foresight has prepared : if so, I hope you will allow me to ex- press an opinion that there will not be found any deficiency of proper accommodation in Hospital for this supposed influx of : sickness and Surgical accidents. Upon the subject of that accommodation, it may be well to : remind your readers that—whatever the 'present condition' ' of the Radcliff"e Infirmary—the resources at the command of 1 the Governors are amply sufficient for a large extension of ' the benefits of that useful Institution. The permanent in- vested capital — now nearly ;^6o,ooo—has been steadily in- i creasing for many years past; and there has always been . a good balance in the hands of the Treasurer, applicable to '. the general purposes of the Trust,—'the relief of the sick and 1 lame poor, from whatever county recommended.' The surplus, indeed, is now so large as to call for the special ; attention of the Governors. 20 June, 1865. To THE Committee of Management. Gentlemen,—Enclosed I take the liberty of sending a ^ copy of a letter lately published by me, (upon the subject of ' the removal to this City of the Coach-building Works of the304 Great Western Railway Company,) to which, as I understand, the attention of the Committee has been directed. At the last Quarterly Court a Member of the Committee declared positively that the statements in it were not supported by facts. The statements in question are, that the permanent Capital has been increasing for many years, and is now nearly ;£'6o,ooo; — that thei-e has always been a good Balance ap- plicable to the general purposes of the Trust; — and that there is a Surplus, large enough for special attention. I respectfully beg to be informed whether the Committee think any of those statements, — and, if any, which of them, —. inconsistent with the facts. From the Annual Report it appears that the invested Capital consists of ;^58,89o Stock, (exclusive of some turnpike bondsj said to be worth about ;^i,ioo); — that the receits for 1864 were .^5,039 3^. 6d.^ and the payments £4,794 i8s.— leaving a Balance of £244 ^s. 6d.; — and that the Surplus, which at the end of 1863 was £444 17s. gd., amounted to £()o<) 16s. gd. at the end of 1864. 18 August, 1865. To THE Editor of the Oxford Clironicle. Sir, — In the Oxford Chronicle of last Saturday is a letter from 'A Ratepayer, a Governor of the Radcliffe Infirmary, but not a Victim of Fever.' Perhaps you will be kind enough to allow an other member of the same three classes to give some of the information which he tells you will be thankfully received. The Radcliflfe Infirmary, he reminds you, 'has wards adapted for the reception of fevers.' This may be so. But the new wards have been built without first obtaining the approbation of the Medical Officers, or that of the Local Board; although the rules of the Local Board, ' empowered by the recent legislation,' to which he refers, require that the plans of all new buildings within their district shall be first laid before the Board. You are next told that 'the income of the Radcliffe Infirmary is unequal to its annual expenditure.' It is a matter of public notoriety that the tradesmen's bills are punc-305 tually paid at the end of each quarter, and there has never been a want of ready money for them or the other regular expenses. By the latest printed Report (1875) it appears that the receits last year were larger than the disbursements, and that there was a balance of ^579 in hand at the end of the year. We have heard, from other sources, that 'the Infirmary now refuses to receive fever cases with the ordinary In-patient turns.' It can not be necessary to remind a Governor that the refusal is not the act of the Governing Body; nor is it done under the advice of the Medical Officers. It may be worth his enquiring whether it is anything but the private resolution of the Chairman, and one or two other members of the Committee. The Radclifife Infirmary is not a small Charitable Institu- tion struggling for maintenance. It is a Public Institution with duties attached ; having a large funded capital, such as few other County Hospitals possess. Some new duty, no doubt, has been cast on the Local Board by ' recent legisla- tion.' As ' our Sanitary Authority,' it is beyond question their duty to call on the Managers of the Infirmary to make a proper use of the public money in their hands, or to show to the satisfaction of the Board that they are ready to do so. Before the Ratepayers are called upon to contribute to the funds — whatever the pretext may be, and whatever the pressure put upon them,—they ought to be told in plain terms how much has been contributed from the national Exchequer and the local Rate-Book. Year after year — in fact ever since its foundation — the Infirmary has been subsidized from both sources^ by the total remission of parish rates, and in- come and- assessed taxes, and by the partial remission of others. Let the account be fairly stated, that the Ratepayers may see whether there is any duty on their part to contribute more to the funds of an Institution, the Managers of which now repudiate their obligations. 4 October, 1876. To THE Same. Sir, — In your report of the late meeting at the Infirmary one of the Governors (Mr. A.) is reported to say that * the X3o6 Treasurer told them at the last Court that he had not money to pay the bills.' It is a mistake. At the Court in April the Treasurer and Auditors reported that the quarter's bills remaining to be paid came to £ 1,300. In answer to a question put to him, the Treasurer (Mr, S.) said that there was £'i,^oo at the bank to pay them, — that there was a balance of ;^3oo after payment of the bills. This is the first time, to the best of my memory, that Mr. S. has told the Governors what cash he had in hand. 27 May, 1878. To THE Same. Sir, — There is not any mistake, as your correspondent ' N. D.' suggests, in the statement made in my letter to you, — that, at the Quarterly Court in April, the Treasurer told us that he had 1,500 in hand to pay the quarter's bills, that they came to 1,200, and that he had a balance of ;^30o after paying them. There was no other ' debt' out- standing. Your correspondent tells you that they ' have been and are continually in debt.' The tale has been told so long that some people believe it. I do not ask your correspondent to name the creditors ; for I know there are none. But, Sir, is there no debt due to the House ? Why is not a claim made on a certain Professor for forfeits due to the House for failure in the appointed work of the Professorship ? Why is the House charged with the expense of a Deputy to do part of the Professor's work for him ? And why, it may be asked also, are the funds of the House spent in supporting a young gentleman during his studies in the University ? It is not difficult to gather from your correspondent's letter that he is not satisfied with the system of management; but he does not suggest a remedy. It has occurred to some friends of the Institution, that the best thing for the Infirmary would be to have an other Treasurer. 10 June, 1878. To THE Same. Sir, — You have given a report of the Quarterly Meeting at the Infirmary. It seems that 14 Governors were present,307 with 5 of the Officers, and a lady, — all that attended out of a list of 600 Subscribers. The Auditors reported that the expenses of the Quarter were £^,79^- They did not tell how much of the sum had been paid during the quarter, and how much remained waiting to be paid. The Treasurer did not tell the amount of cash in his hands. We are told much about the expenses of the House; we hear little of the large sums which are continually received by the charity. Surely it is the duty of the Treasurer of a Charitable Institution which solicits contributions by public subscription, to tell the assembled Governors, when he meets them, what balance of cash he has in his hands. 30 1878. To W. W. W., Esq. My dear Sir,—Your printed letter has reached me,— directed, as I think, in your own hand. Is it meant for a joke ? — an other attempt to practise on the credulity of the Gover- nors ? Have you forgotten that at the Quarterly Court in April last, I obtained from the Treasurer an acknowlegement that the outstanding bills were £1,0,00, and that the cash in his hands was 1,500.? You were sitting next to me, and I called your attention to it, — pointing out to you that this was the ' deficit,' about which there was so much talking, and writing, and printing. Do you think it likely that a proposal for increasing the pecuniary subscription from each Governor will be adopted, if the truth is made known about the balance of cash in hand ? It is left out of sight in your letter ; as it is in what comes from the Treasurer himself and his Committer. It is a large assumption you make in the last sentence of your letter, —' that no material reduction can be made in the expenditure without considerably interfering with the efficiency of, and the benefits arising from, the Infirmary.' I do not allow it. But I am of opinion that none will be made as long as Mr. S. has the management of the money. 30 Septetnber, 1878. X %3o8 To THE Same. My dear Sir, — Thanks for your letter of yesterday. It is easy work on paper to make a ' deficit,' by adding together the bills of four quarters, and showing that the money re- ceived in three quarters is not enough to pay the expenses of the year. At the end of 1877 there was a balance of ;^i64 standing to the credit of the Treasurer in the Banker's pass- book. He began this year with that sum in his hands. The bills of the past year have been paid ; as well as those for the first half of the present year ; £ 500 has been added to the funded capital; and there is no ' debt' beyond the bills of the quarter just ended. Is it dealing fairly with the Public to ask for more money, and to keep this out of sight ? I October, 1878. At a Meeting of the Local Board, March 1878, Mr. Hussey brought forward the following resolution, notice of which had been previously given :— ' That the attention of the Charity Commissioners be re- quested to the Trusts upon which the Lancashire Fund was given to the RadclifFe Infirmary.' He said the question he proposed to them referred to a subject which received attention now in consequence of the large sum they were called upon to pay to the Infirmary for the treatment of the sick in the past year,—about £200 he believed. They were aware that until lately all cases of sickness were taken into the Infirmary and treated as a matter of charity, the only thing required being a recommendation from a Subscriber. But about 18 months ago the Managers of the Infirmary put an end to this, which had been their practise ever since the Infirmary was founded, 100 years ago; and they required that in future all cases of Fever should . be charged to the ratepayers, and this, notwithstanding an engagement made about 8 years ago that a certain number of beds should be kept free for such cases from the town, to be admitted free, that is, without recommendation from Subscribers, or any promise of payment from friends or others on behalf of the Patients. A sum of money, between309 ^1,300 and ;^i,30o — the remains of the fund which had been collected on behalf of the sufferers in Lancashire, after all the demands on it had been satisfied, — was given to the Infirmary, and taken by the Governors, on those conditions. They had received the money, they had recorded the con- ditions on which they received it, and they had refused to comply with them. The Charity Commissioners had power to compell the performance of the conditions ; and he proposed to the Board that they should request them to do so. It had been suggested to him that, instead of submitting the question to this Board in the terms of the motion, it would be better to refer it to a Committee, such as the Nuisance Removal Committee. He preferred the terms of his own motion rather than a reference to a Committee ; as he thought it was important first of all to ascertain whether the Charity Commissioners would interfere, because if they would not, the Board would have to agree to any terms the Managers of the Infirmary should require. If there was any general feeling at the Board in favor of a Committee he did not wish to stand in the way of it. After discussion, Mr. Hussey said, in reply, that from the Minutes which had been read of the different Courts of Governors, it appeared that the agreement made in 1869, to which he had called attention, had not been acted upon. But as those Minutes clearly implied that Patients were to be admitted free, without tickets or turns of recommendation^ it seemed to him to be still more important to ask for the in- terference of the Charity Commissioners to see such arrange- ment carried out. There seemed to be a general wish to refer the subject to a Committee. He would, therefore, ask the Board to allow him to withdraw the motion he had proposed, and to propose instead, — 'That the question be referred to the Nuisance Removal Committee, with instructions to report to the Board.' [The Oxford Chronicle, March 1878.]3IO To THE Secretary to the Charity Commissioners. Sir,—Under the Scheme proposed to be made by the Commissioners, the dividends of the Fund will be paid over to the Treasurer of the Infirmary, and will be disposed of at the discretion of the Committee of Management, as was the case before the intervention of the Commissioners. The only change made is that the funded Capital is safe,—having been transferred to the Official Trustee. No security is obtained against future attempts by the Governors of the Infirmary to evade their obligations, nor against a repetition of the breach of trust lately committed, — and even now contemplated again. At a Meeting of Governors in January last, the Treasurer gave notice that he intended to raise the question of the obligation of the Infirmary to take in cases of Scarlet Fever; and at a Meeting on the and of June, a Motion was carried, — to close the new Fever Wards against the admission of free Patients. The power to withhold the dividends will not be sufficient to restrain the Governors: nor is it likely that that power,— or any other power in defence of the objects of the Trust,— will be exercised by the proposed 3 Trustees, if, as I presume, they can act by a majority, without unanimity. The Vice- Chancellor of the University has no interest in the question : and it is not to be supposed that he will ever act otherwise than in support of the Treasurer of the Infirmary. He was not one of the Trustees of the Fund, when it was collected and paid to the Infirmary: nor was the Treasurer of the Infirmary one of them. The City, as represented by the Mayor, has a direct interest in the Fund, on behalf of the sick who are resident within the district, and on behalf of the ratepayers on whom much of the expense of the treatment of the sick will fall, if they are excluded from the Infirmary. When the collection was made, to enable the Governors of the Infirmary to build the new wards for the gratuitous treat- ment of cases of Fever, which were to be admitted without letters of recommendation, large sums were contributed from various sources, from public bodies, and from private persons, — the largest contribution in one sum being the Lancashire Fund. These contributions were sufficient for the purposes311 contemplated. The arrangements proposed were thought by everybody to be sufficient. Nobody doubted that the engage- ments publicly undertaken by the Governors would be faithfully kept. These sums were all paid to the Treasurer of the Infirmary, without any written instruments acknowleging the Trusts, — except in the case of the Lancashire Fund. No privilege was granted to the Trustees of the Lancashire Fund in return for the Benefaction, beyond what they could claim, under the Rules of the Infirmary, if they kept the fund in their own hands. The Capital {£1,2,1^,) if invested in their own names would produce a yearly dividend of 39 guineas. This, paid over annually to the Treasurer of the Infirmary, as 'Annual Subscriptions,' would give them the right, as Governors of the Infirmary (13 in number,) to recom- mend 26 In-Patients every year, beside Out-Patients. This allowance of 26 In-Patients would be enough for the cases of Fever likely to be applicants for admission and gratuitous treatment under the Trust. As a matter of pecuniary calculation, it is known that the ' Annual Subscriptions' are not of themselves enough for the necessary work of the House. The dividends of the funded Capital (^^50,000,) the result of former Benefactions and Legacies, 'for the relief of the Sick and Lame Poor,' are used as supplementary to the Annual Subscriptions and Donations. I venture most respectfully to submit for the consideration of the Commissioners that a larger number of Trustees should be appointed; that they should be persons inde- pendent of influence by the Treasurer and Governors of the Infirmary, and the University; and that these should be added to the 3 persons proposed, — the Ex-Mayor of the City, the Sheriff of the City, the Chairman of the Local Board, and the Chairman of the Trustees of the City Charities, with power to add 6 other persons, being Ratepayers within the district, — or that the persons, now about to be appointed to be the future Trustees of the City Charities, should be also the Trustees of the Lancashire Fund. 14 7une, 1881.312 To THE Chairman of the Committee of Management. In acknowleging the receit of the Minute of the 6th inst.,— as I do not know the circumstances out of which the matter in question arose, — I can only express the hope that in this, (as in all other matters,) I shall continue to obey every order made by competent authority for the observance of the Medical Officers. At the same time, — if the Committee do not think it stepping beyond my proper department, — I will take the liberty of pointing out respectfully for their con- sideration that any restriction of the power of the Medical Officers in prescribing for persons properly recommended is a diminution of the privileges of Subscribers. The Committee are, no doubt, aware that while the number of'Turns' allowed for Out-Patients has been diminished by late Regulation, many persons come to the Infirmary without the usual recommendation of Subscribers, and without being the object of any recent accident or sudden illness, nor laboring under any form of acute disease or other kind of injury, and receive advice and medicines without presenting themselves to the Board, and without reference to the Phy- sician or Surgeon of the week, as directed by the notice affixed to their Consulting Rooms. That many of these per- sons, as well as the regular ' Out-Patients,' are (as I think), able to pay a Medical Practitioner for advice and medicines, is a matter which the Committee may perhaps think is not quite within the province of one of the Medical Officers to suggest to them. II February, 1867. To THE Rev. J. S. My dear Sir, — As the original question did not concern me, I doubt whether I should have written, if I had not heard that others would write. I am sorry to see what is proposed. It seems to me to be superseding the Medical Officers. Of course, unless my opinion is asked officially, I shall not come forward officially: though I do not mind thus writing to you. I can not help thinking that the difficulty has arisen from departing from what should be the correct practise, — holding313 the Medical Officers of the week responsible for every thing during their week. It is now proposed that they shall not be allowed to interfere, — except upon leave from the House- Surgeon. But my objection extends beyond this. I think the House-Surgeon's first duty is to the In-Patients. The Rules require that he should visit the wards, (of course all the wards, and every Patient, and that Professionally,) to be able to report to the Medical Officers when they come in the morning. This will not be done, if he is treating, or only ' examining,' persons applying without letters of Subscribers. 19 March, 1867. To THE Same. My dear Sir, — The objection I make to the plan is that the House-Surgeon is to be made Examiner of all persons applying without letters, — with power to select and place them under whichever of the Staff he prefers. If a discretion is left to me, as you seem to think might be, — I should require every applicant during my week to be presented to me, or, if seen by the House-Surgeon in my absence, (as, after I had paid my day's visit,) that he should report the case to me at my next visit. 21 March, 1867. To THE Same. My dear Sir, — When in Oxford, if it could be managed, I should have been glad to have 5 minutes' talk with you. Not that I expect you to change your mind. If the Staff are willing to.'play second fiddle' to the House-Surgeon, I am not going to kick. Your little finger is thicker than our loins. The trouble I think might be left to us. It is odd if that argument is to be used against us now, when it was not allowed in our favor formerly. But in truth my plan would lighten everybody's labor, (Committee included,) and would niake the working of the Charity more satisfactory outside. You seem to forget the Rule that the Medical Officers shall visit twice a week at fixed times. The Rule is so well kept, during the week, that, I believe they always visit 3 times, —314 most of them 4, some 5, or even 6 days. The House-Surgeon can have no doubt when to expect them. The number of cases he would have to report, I do not beHeve would ever be 3, — often not one. You are aware, of course, that he keeps a book in which he enters cases he treats. You mention ' cut fingers.' I do not know accui-ately how many come. But I suppose not more on an average than a a week, — probably cases of urgency. No question could arise, if within the re- cognized rule of practise in a Hospital, — that the emergencies which arise must be treated by those who are on the spot. ' Aching teeth' you mention. These would be acute cases: no question could arise. As to other teeth, not aching, I am silent. You may remember I once mentioned them. In your enquiry have you not overlooked a Report by the House-Surgeon (30 May, i860) upon the increasing number of these cases ? 25 March, 1867. To THE Chairman of the Committee of Management. Sir, — In acknowleging the receit of the Minute of the Committee, of 16 March, I beg most respectfully to submit for their consideration, that the Medical Officers are the appointed advisers of the Governors in all questions of Medicine, and in all matters concerning the treatment of persons applying for the help of the Governors, — whether coming upon recommendation of a Subscriber, or applying of themselves without it; — that it is not competent for the Committee, without the sanction of a General Court, or without the approval of the Medical Officers, to withdraw, as proposed in the Minute, any of such persons from the consideration of the Medical Officers; — and that the duty of the House-Surgeon in the administration of relief on his own judgement, is limited to cases of urgency, (of which very few ever arise,) in the absence of the Medical Officers, or —at at other times, — with their concurrence, or under their direction. 16 April, 1867.315 To THE Rev. J. S. My dear Sir, — Thanks for your letter, and the trouble you take. If Mr. V. Thomas's mdependent Medical Board had the existence which through his influence it was ordered to have, you would be spared much of this trouble, — and more, as I believe. From your letter I gather that no alteration has been made in what I think the objectionable part of the order,— that which gives the House-Surgeon the right to treat all comers^ and to place them under the care of whichever of the Staff he prefers. Perhaps this is the intention of those at whose instance the order was made. 19 April, 1867. To the Same. My dear Sir, — The notion of a ' censure' conveyed in our recommendations is new to me. Nothing of the kind was suggested at our meetings. I am sure none was in- tended : nor would I have joined in it if it had been. Surely, the Minute you propose is objectionable, — as a declaration, impossible to be mistaken, that the present holder of the office has forgotten his relations to us and the House. If any considerable number of the Committee disapprove of our Report, or wish that the House-Surgeon should attend the Patients, would it not be well that the question should be again referred to us, for revision? — For myself, — having joined in the Recommendations, I am not inclined to express any adverse opinion without the opportunity of again con- ferring with my Colleagues : and I should say this, if present at the Board, and invited to join in the discussion. 9 May, 1872. To the Chairman and Members of the Committee OF Management. Gentlemen, — In pursuance of your request that the Medical Officers should report their opinion on the subjects of Dr. A.'s letter (of the 19th of April) I "have to submit these remarks. The purport of the letter is, that the labor3i6 required of the Medical Officers has increased. Dr. A. wishes to be relieved from attending the Out-Patients; and he sug- gests that a paid Assistant should be provided for the purpose of attending the Out-Patients who are placed under his care. It seems to me that the duties expected from the Medical Officers of a Hospital ought not to be such that any one of them is unequal to the regular and constant performance of his full share of the work required, — whatever the cause of his inability or indisposition: and that if the duty of attending Out-Patients is too great a labor for any one of the Medical Officers, it ought not to be expected from the others. If additional assistance is provided, — such as that suggested by Dr. A., — it should be common to all the members of the Staff, and should not be restricted to one only of the Physicians. Dr. A. has been a member of the Committee of Manage- ment for several years : and during all the time he has taken a full share of the work of the Committee, including the office of House Visitor. I venture to suggest that the labor to which he refers, would not be felt so heavily, if he confined his attention at the Infirmary to duties which are strictly Professional, — visiting the wards regularly ' twice in the week at fixed times,' as required by the Rules, and pre- scribing for the Out-Patients, watching their cases throughout the continuance of their attendance. It is not likely that the number of Out-Patients will be great during the next 4 months: nor is it likely that Dr. A. will find the necessary task of attending them more laborious, than during a similar period in former years. The necessity, therefore, for any immediate change, without taking full time for deliberate consideration, is not urgent at this season. In the absence, however, of any suggestions from my Colleagues, I venture to recommend, that no more ten-day tickets, or three-week tickets, should be issued: and that the liberty of exchanging turns of In-Patients for Out- Patients shall cease: — that casual applicants shall not re- ceive treatment without the sanction of the Physician or Surgeon of the week, except in the case of persons applying, in their absence, suffering under urgent and recent illness or317 injury, and (if required), in trivial cases, or such as may be safely treated at once and dismissed: — and that more effi- cient attendance, or supervision, should be given in the Out- Patients' Hall, on Tuesday, Wednesday, and Saturday, in passing the Patients to and from the consulting Rooms of the Medical Officers, and afterwards to the window for medicines. It will hardly escape the attention of the Committee that there is not any recognition in the printed Rules of any duty on the part of the Medical Officers to attend the Out-Patients. The custom, as it exists, has grown by degrees. Whenever the question of making new regulations comes under consideration, I have to suggest these subjects for enquiry, in addition to others which may be raised : — That the Medical Officers, — one each week, — shall take their turn of duty in rotation, indifferently, whether Physician or Sur- geon ; and that there shall not be any recognized distinction of Medical and Surgical cases, or mixed cases. That there shall be a Resident Medical Superintendant, having the general care of all the Patients, — In-Patients and Out- Patients both, — and responsible to the Committee of Management, with one or more qualified Assistants, as may be necessary; and that the Physicians and Surgeons should become the consulting Officers, and attend and act only in important and urgent cases, upon notice from the Resident Medical Superintendant. 6 May, 1873. , To THE Same. Gentlemen, — On Saturday the Dispenser called my attention to a paper in the handwriting of Mr. S., and signed by him: I enclose it, for the inspection of the Committee. It seems to be a fit subject for reference to the Medical Com- mittee. I have since learned that the subject was brought before the Committee of Management on Wednesday last, without the usual notice in the Secretary's letter summoning the meeting. The first statement in the paper is a complaint that the I^ispenser appeared in one of the wards at a time when the3i8 Surgeon of the week was there. I understand that this refers to me as the Surgeon ; and that the occasion was late one evening, at a time when there was no special call upon the Dispenser for attendance in the Apothecary's shop. It is only just toward an Officer, who has my confidence, with (I believe,) that of my Colleagues, that I should inform the Committee that he was in the ward with my sanction, waiting for my orders, and that therefore he was rightly so present, and in attendance, until he had my permission to withdraw to other duty. It is stated that 'he was told by the House- Surgeon that he ought to remain in the Dispensary.' If the House-Surgeon had said that in my presence, I should have reprimanded him at once, for the impertinence. The Com- mittee are aware, — and it would be well that all their Servants should know it — that the House-Surgeon's autho- rity exists only in the absence of the Medical Officers. I take the liberty of adding my opinion that it would be well if the House-Surgeon (as well as the Dispenser and others,) ' would confine himself to his own department,' and attend to it, I should not then have reason to complain of his frequent absence, and the necessity laid upon me of my- self rendering those services in the wards, which in other Hospitals are rendered by the House-Surgeon, under the direction of the Surgeons. An other statement is that ' a Patient remained in acute suffering from 8 p.m. to past midnight for want of a remedy which was ordered, and which the Dispenser was not at hand to prepare.' As I understand ' the circumstances,' the House- Surgeon went to an entertainment, and remained out till near midnight, at a time when the Dispenser was absent; it being one of the standing orders of the House that he and the Dispenser shall not both be absent at the same time. It is a part of the duty of the House-Surgeon, — as I un- derstand it, — to see that all remedies ordered are duly pre- pared and administered ; and as a Member of the Medical Profession, it is his duty to see that Patients do not suffer from want of them. At a time when he knew the Dispenser was not at hand, it was his duty to the House, himself to prepare the remedy ordered, and to see himself that it was319 properly administered. The omission to do so, and the going from home, when the Dispenser was absent, seem to me to be additional instances of want of proper attention on the part of the House-Surgeon. 28 January, 1874. After the following letters were printed, and copies sent to the Members of the Committee, I became aware for the first time of an alteration introduced into the Rules printed in 1867 :—'The House-Surgeon (among certain definite duties,) so far as it falls tinder his iiotice, shall see that the directions of the Physicians and Surgeons be obeyed by the Patients and Nurses.' Among the Officers of Public Institutions it is considered to be the chief duty of the House-Surgeon in a Hospital to receive the directions of the Medical Officers, and to see that they are carried into execution: it is the purpose for which he is appointed, — the duty for which he is paid. To THE Chairman and Members of the Committee OF Management. Gentlemen, — It may perhaps be convenient to the Com- mittee to have before them now a subject I have lately men- tioned at the Weekly Board, — What help the Medical Officers are to expect from the House-Surgeon in the regular discharge of their duties in the wards, — the treatment of the In-Patients and the investigation of their cases;—and espe- cially, who is to do the House-Surgeon's work when he is otherwise engaged. I beg leave most respectfully to request the attention of Members of the Committee, and — through them, — the attention of the Governors generally to these questions. In doing so, I venture to submit for their consideration that measures should be taken to give me that amount of Profes- sional assistance which is given to the Surgeons in other Hospitals by the House-Surgeon and Dressers: and that, if the House-Surgeon is absent or engaged in other work, some qualified person may be appointed to do what I consider320 9 March, 1875. to be a part of his work, — to report the cases to me, to receive my directions and see them executed, and to keep the instruments belonging to the House clean and in order, always fit for use. 2 December, 1873. To THE Rev. J. S. My dear Sir, — Your letter seemed so little of an official communication that I went this morning to see what Minute was made at the Board. Of course I see that it is not in any way an answer to my letter. It seems too much like a reso- lution not to entertain the subject at all:— ' That the Chairman be requested to thank Mr. Hussey for his letter, and inform him that the arrangement they have made with the House- Surgeon to attend to Physicians' Out-Patients is only of a temporary nature.' The contrast is remarkable. The Senior Physician makes a request — to be relieved altogether from care of Out- Patients : his letter is referred to the other Medical Officers, and — we know what followed. The Senior Surgeon makes a request, (for that small amount of Professional assistance which is given to all the Surgeons in every other Hospital in England,) his letter is read, and — we see what is not done. 19 December, 1873. To THE Chairman and Members of the Committee OF Management. Gentlemen, — I take the liberty of calling your attention to my letter of the 2nd of December. I am not aware that the question in my letter has received the attention of the Committee. 20 January, 1874. To the Same. Gentlemen, — Referring again to my letter of the 2nd of December, 1873, ^'"d recorded in the Minutes of the 10th, I beg the favor of your attention to the subject.321 To THE Rev. J. S. Dear Mr. Chairman, — The only question I find in your letter calling for an answer is that implied in the con- cluding words, asking on behalf of the Committee for ' the grounds of my dissatisfaction,' without which ' they will feel at a loss how to approach the matter.' If this letter is not a sufficient answer, you must be kind enough to tell me in plain English what you mean by the phrase. I do not under- stand it. One thing is clear to me,—that it has nothing to do with the subject of my letter. Do the Committee wish me to put down in writing all I have seen wrong in the House for some time past, — some lo or 15 years, perhaps? Are they ready to have it made public The request in my letter is made in such plain terms that there can not be a Member of the Committee who is unable to understand it. Do you think that your letter in reply will be allowed as an answer by the Local Government Board whom you have lately resolved to invite to the supervision of the House ? You refer to ' the present altered situation of affairs.' I see, — I regret to say, — the interference of Governors in the work of the Medical Officers to an extent unknown till lately; and injurious, as I believe, to the credit of the House, and to the welfare of the Patients : and I see that, while one of the Medical Officers receives some ^^200 a year for his work, a Deputy is appointed to do it, at the cost of an other ;^200. I have been unwilling, without necessity, to thrust upon the attention of the Governors the deficiencies in the department entrusted to me. I begged the attention of the Committee, only when the question of appointing a Second House- Surgeon was brought forward. The Committee at that time set the matter aside. They did not ask me to meet them. They did not refer my letter to the other Medical Officers. Now that a proposal for appointing a Third House-Surgeon is being publicly discussed, I return to the subject. The occasion calls for it. The subject is not one to be trifled with. If the Members of the Committee are content, — since the question is brought before them, — that the work which ought to be done by a Professional hand, or under the super- vision of a Professional eye, should be all done by a Nurse, Y322 18 March, 1875. without that supervision ; and if they are also content that the work which ought to be done by the House-Surgeon need not be done at all, — it is not for me, as an Ofificerj to com- plain. The act is that of the Committee, not mine. The responsibility is upon them, not on me. 13 March, 1875. To THE Same. lyiY DEAR Sir, — As you do not refer to the question I put to you, — the meaning of your phrase, ' the grounds of my dissatisfaction,' — I assume from youi" silence that I gave them sufficiently. If you like, I will get some copies of my letter printed, and send one to each Member of the Committee. This may perhaps be the best way of preparing them to con- sider the question. If the Committee doubt what to do, why not refer to their legitimate advisers, — the Medical Officers ? This was done with Dr. A.'s letter. Several dif- ferent courses were suggested, by them and by him: yet a solution was found. What can it matter, whose ' fault' it is, — even if there is any: or who is 'to blame,'—even if anybody? Why are such unprofitable questions raised ? Surely it is the duty of the Managing Committee of a PubHc Institution to deal with a question brought before them by one of the Medical Officers. 15 March, 1875. To THE Same. My dear Sir, — Why this pertinacity in evading the ques-. tion ? However urgent you are, I must beg leave to decline the personalities. Assuming it to be the duty of the Governors to provide the necessary help, I have asked them to furnish it. I have told the Committee, in words which can not be misunderstood, what is wanted on their part. If you, or others, do not acknowlege the duty on the part of the Governors, discussion of the question is useless.323 To THE Same. My dear Sir, — In acknowlegement of your invitatiorij — though such an invitation was not needed, — I have considered your letters with every degree of kindness and forbearance ; and I see nothing in them but a fixed determination not to meet the question I have put to the Committee. If what you now add is meant for an answer, it ought to have been given at the time, i.e. in December 1873. You now say, that you ' deny my statement.' There is no statement in my letter: and none, therefore, which you or others can deny. There is a question submitted to the Committee, which they have not considered, and a request, which they have neither granted nor refused. What must be the relations of the Committee of Management to the Medical Officers in a Hospital of which this can be said ? 20 March, 1875. To THE Same. My dear Sir, — If I am wrong in saying that the question submitted by me to the Committee, —' What help the Medical Officers are to expect from the House-Surgeon in the regular discharge of their duties in the wards,—the treatment of the In-Patients, and the investigation of their cases; — and espe- cially, who is to do the House-Surgeon's work, when he is otherv/ise engaged ?'—has not been considered by them, — be kind enough to show me, as the result of their enquiry into it, any opinion they have recorded, or any act they have done. Remembering how the Committee, — you sitting as Chair- man,— received a statement of the House-Surgeon's neglect of duty, in failing to report to me any one of the repeated complaints made to him by a Patient, — coming, though it did, in connection with two other cases of scandal, to which I need not now refer, — are you serious in asking me to bring before them anything which could be thought ' a cause for dissatisfaction'} You put a question to me about my ' sense of duty as a Medical Officer of an Infirmary.' Whatever the relative position of the Medical Officers and the Managers of a Public Institution,—here (at the Radclifife Infirmary,) the Medical Y 2324 Officers are not the Servants of the Committee of Manage- ment, and are not answerable to them. Questions of our duty, therefore, can not come before the Committee: I decline the discussion of such with the Chairman. 23 March, 1875. To THE Same. My dear Sir, —If you refer to my letter, you will see that I did not ask for 'an Assistant-Surgeon in the wards:'— I asked for the help of Dressers and House-Surgeon. The difference is well understood among Surgeons. Why talk about 'Rules'.? Where is the Rule that our Rules are to be obeyed,—that the Orders of the House are to rule either Officers or Governors? You have forgotten that you once gave me your opinion that our Rules were a dead letter, when a man chose to set them at defiance. If you find that the Committee on Wednesday are ' as much at a loss, as you own yourself to be, how to proceed,* your course is clear,—to refer to the Medical Officers for their opinion and advice. 25 March, 1875. From the Senior Surgeon of one of the County Hospitals. I find some difificulty, in spite of rules laid down for the House- Surgeon's guidance, to obtain a proper fulfillment of such rules : and I suspect that in Provincial Hospitals, it is difficult to enforce, without considerable trouble and vexation, the simple adherence to such rules. In Provincial |Hospitals, I find that there is a tendency, on the part of House-Surgeons, to seek their own advancement, with a view to obtaining a local position in the Town, beyond the simple fulfillment of House- Surgeon's duties : and so they are not content to remain in the position of subordinates. I do not know whether you experience the same discomfort and annoyance. 12 May, 1875. To THE Rev. E. F. G. Dear Sir, — Taking my opinion from the number of Out- Patients who have been attending, under my care, during the last 4 months, I think the proportion of those who would be3^5 better treated at home is about one-tenth of the whole; though it is not by any means constant: e. g. one Saturday in March, when about 30 attended, I thought as many as 8 of them would have been better treated at home. The number attending during the last 4 months, with more or less regularity, is rather more than 100. The number on a Satur- day is in general from about 25 to 30. About once a month the number is over 40, — without any cause, as far as I have 'seen. I have not observed that the number is less in bad weather, than when the day is fair. The cases which I think would be better treated at home are those of habitual ulcers of the legs, especially those de- pendant on enlarged veins ; ulcerations about the toes; ■ diseases of the hip, knee, and ankle, abscesses in those parts; diseases of the spine, and, generally speaking, all cases in chil- dren during the winter and spring, and at other times when brought by older children, or by persons not standing in the relation of a mother. To these should be added the cases of Patients who are not able to obtain for themselves proper clothing and food, and persons in receit of Parish relief. It does not seem to me that they are included in the enquiry made by the Committee. Among ' habitual ulcers ' of the legs, or other regions, I do not include cases of tedious ulcer- ation of a bad constitutional character. They often want a long course of treatment with expensive medicines. The number of Out-Patients has been increased very much of late years. The Committee will not, I hope, think it un- becoming, if I point out that this increase has been made without taking the opinion of the Medical Officers beforehand, and without thanking them for their services afterwards. Among the latest additions have been the Patients who have been treated by the House-Surgeon. I venture to submit for the consideration of the Committee, that the Medical Officers ought not to be called upon to take charge of such: but that all persons who apply for relief ought to be placed at once under the care of the Physician or Surgeon of the week, in every case where continued treatment is required. 8 July, 1874.326 To W. W. W., Esq. My dear Sir,—You ask for an opinion. It is that, taking an average of the last lo years of my work, I do not think that the medicines, &c., supplied on my prescriptions for 'Casual' applicants, i.e. those without Turns, cost the House half a crown a year. The only trustworthy facts within my knowlege are in a return by the Dispenser. In 3 years, 1870 and 1871, he dispensed 411 prescriptions from the Medical Officers, and 2,897 from the House-Surgeon. Of the 411 from the Medical Officers 42 were mine. Since that return, I believe I gave fewer prescriptions in each year. Of the teeth drawn, I can not tell you much. I do not think that I ever myself drew a tooth at the Infirmary, during the 28 years that I was on duty. Some years ago I made enquiry of the House- Surgeons about the number drawn by them. If I remember right, it was much beyond the 200 you suggest. %Ju7ie, 1878. To H. W. B., Esq. Dear Sir, — As a matter of general Professional conduct, I think it improper that the Medical Officers of a Public Institution should allow any part of their duty to be done by the House-Surgeon : and I do not think they would be justi- fied in applying to the Governors to alter their Rules so as to allow it. In the instance you give, it does not appear that Dr. I.—before deputing the House-Surgeon to the work,— applied to any of his Colleagues to undertake it. In case of emergency, — when they are unable to undertake the duty, — there can not be a question that the House-Surgeon would do right in supplying the place of the absent Officers. It is a general Rule in Hospitals, that cases of emergency must be treated by those who are on the spot. From the letter addressed by the Medical Officers to the Executive Committee, it appears that the Rule of the W. Infirmary is for the Medical Officers to depute the House- Surgeon 'occasionally';—that they do so 'from the very nature of their engagements.' The Medical Officers are more likely than others to know what the Rule is in such cases: and if such is the Rule, the Committee are under a mistake in327 supposing there was any neglect of duty on the occasion to which their Resolution refers. The Resolution itself appears to me a perfectly harmless vote, and one which may well be left without farther notice. 5 September^ 1875. To THE Rev. E. M. My dear Sir,—In the newspapers to-day I see your Notice of Motion for the Quarterly Court. Forgive me, if, after long acquaintance with the Institution, I ask whether it is worth while to be trying to check the wasteful expenditure, or to be making new Rules, as long as the management is left to a small number of persons, led by the present Governor General, or driven by a certain other Governor Occasional ? Are two House-Surgeons necessary ? What are the duties discharged by those two costly Officers? To me it seems that one has little to do, and the other helps. When the second was added, we were told it was that one might always be present in the House. Yet I have myself several times seen both at the same place of entertainment, and I have heard that on an occasion, when one was in Wales, the other went on the river, his boat was overturned, and he nearly drowned. Is even one wanted? During the last 15 years, or more, of my service in the House, I can hardly call to mind the nature of the help given to me in my duties. I have heard the remark made that the only use of the House- Surgeon was to hinder the Nurses from carrying out the directions of the Surgeons. You may perhaps remember that in the course of an en- quiry in Committee, it came out that the House-Surgeon did not report to the Surgeons the complaints made to him by the Patients, that he did not inform the Medical Officers what cases had been admitted, and that he did not take charge of the body of a Patient after her death. Are you aware that during the absence of the Officer, his work, — such as it is,—has been done by an occasional visit during the day of one of the Practitioners in the town^ and at night by the Assistant of an other Practitioner sleeping in the328 House ? If this could be done once, why not again, — and permanently ? 18 October, 1879. To THE Same. My dear Sir, — From the report of the Meeting at the Infirmary, I learn the treatment your notice of Motion received in your absence. The Chairman (Mr. S.) gave his opinion that it was illegal, and could not be put. I suppose he did not wish it to be carried; and perhaps he did not like the prospect of a discussion. In truth, there is now no rule, nor law, nor order there, except his will. It is remarkable that only last year, when a question arose of the election of a new Surgeon, it was at a Special Meeting of the Committee. I was present; and I pointed out that by the printed Rules, a Court for electing the Officer must be summoned at the regular Weekly Meeting of the Committee; and that it was not competent for a Special Meeting to give the notice for an Election, when it was not a part of the busi- ness for which the Committee had been specially summoned. The regular Weekly Meeting would be next day: but he could not wait 24 hours. In his eagerness to carry the point, he paid no attention to the objection, and (with the help of his fellow-Committee men,) he made an order summoning a Court for the Election. An other act of ' illegality' was done some few months ago. when Dr. A. was appointed to a new office, that of ' Honorary Physician,'—at a Court specially called for the election of an acting Physician. Mr. S. himself ' seconded' the motion for the appointment of Dr. A., after nearly all the Governors who had been specially summoned had left the room. 27 October, 1879. To THE Same. My dear Sir, — When we were talking of the House- Surgeon's work the other day, there was not time to add this. Some time after the second House-Surgeon was appointed, and had got into working order, I proposed to the Committee that a return should be made of the work done by the two329 Officers, showing how their time was employed in the House; IS is done in many other large establishments. The Members f the Committee would not have it. During the last 15 or 20 years, the House-Surgeon's work, ts done in the House, takes about 3 hours a day. With two Ilouse-Surgeons this is about an hour and a half each. For this, the funds of the Charity are charged some £400 a-year. When either of the two has been absent, I believe there has not been a single instance where a Deputy has been appointed. The one remaining has been recognized as the IJeputy of the absent one, and his services have been thought sufficient; — clearly showing that, — during those periods, at all events, — one such Officer was enough. 21 November^ 1879. To THE Same. My dear Sir, — You asked, when I saw you yesterday, what had been done at the Infirmary. The newspapers of to-day will have told you. It appears that the Medical Officers wish the two House- Surgeons to be kept: they do not say what services are ren- dered by them, or how much of their time is given to the work. May be, they are wanted to do the work of the Medical Officers in the House, or to help them in their private practise outside. There has been too much of this in late years. There was the usual talk of a ' debt.' The quarterly list of bills was produced. These are paid within a week after the Court, and then what debt remains '> I have often asked ; but I don't get an answer. 31 January, 1880. To THE Editor of the British Medical Journal. Sir, — In the report of the meeting of Governors at the Hospital at T., when some of the Medical Officers were dismissed for not signing the new ' Attendance-book,' one of the speakers, in quoting the answers received from the Medical Officers of the different County Hospitals, mentions the Rad-330 clifife Infirmary, as one from which an opinion had been obtained against such a book. Your readers may perhaps think this opinion requires some kind of modification, when they hear that our Governors have ordered a book to be kept in future, to be signed by the Sur- geons in proof of their attendance at Consultations, and that I alone of the Staff opposed the making of such an order. May 1859. To THE HOUSE-SURGEON, RaDCLIFFE INFIRMARY. If your Notice that ' Mr. S. will amputate portion of a foot/ refers to a Capital operation, as your use of the word ' amputate' would seem to imply, I should like to know more about the case ; for it seems to be in opposition to the printed Rules, as no Consultation has been held. As you have to enter in the Operation Book the reason why a Consultation was not held, no doubt you can tell me without trouble. 19 May, 1860. FROM Him, in reply. infirmary, Sunday. Sir, — I received your note this morning. If there has been any irregularity about the Consultation in this case, I beg to refer you to Mr. S. Your obedient Servant, E. B. G., House-Surgeon. E. L. HussEY, Esq. To F. S., Esq. Sir, — A notice from the House-Surgeon, received late this evening, tells me that you amputate a portion of a foot on Monday. If it is a Capital operation intended, of course it is against the printed Rules, as there has not been any Con- sultation ; — an important question, as it seems to me: for the Governors are not, I think, so likely now to overlook a breach of Rule, as formerly, when you admitted the Venereal case, for instance. If it is an operation on the girl's foot (T.) which I saw on Thursday, I should like to know whether she and her Parents know that one, at least, of the Surgeons thinks the disease is getting well, and that operative inter- ference is not justifiable : for so it appears as well as I can331 judge, though you have told me nothing but that you have passed a probe and felt some rough bone. Considering that it is not the general custom in Hospitals to amputate when any of the Staff gives his opinion that the disease will get well, and that the boy (W., I think,) on whose case I gave you such an opinion, died after operation, I venture to suggest to you whether it would not be well to communicate to the Child and Parents, or to the Recom- mending Governor, that the operation is not advised by the Staff unanimotisly. 19 May, i860. , From Him. Mayi\, i860. My dear Sir,—I beg to acknowledge the receipt of your note, and to state that I see no reason to alter my opinion. Yours faithfully, F. S. Ed. L. Hussey, Esq. To F. S., Esq. Sir, — By a letter received from the House-Surgeon this morning after 10 o'clock, I learn for the first time that the girl v., is to have her thigh amputated at 13 o'clock to-day. This is, as you know, against the Rules, — as there has not been a Consultation : and no doubt this, with other cases, will come before the Governors on Wednesday. My opinion, — which might, perhaps, be modified on Con- sultation, — is that the operation is as unjustifiable in her case as in the boy, W.j and the man (I forget his name), with fractured base of the skull. 21 July, 1862. ... I did not receive any answer to this letter. At the Quarterly General Court of Governors, 33 July, 1862, the Court ' ventured to express its hope that such arrangements might in future be made as to secure the ob- servance of the Rule in reference to Consultations before operations.'332 To F. S., Esq. Sir, — This evening I have received from the House- Surgeon the usual printed notice that you will amputate a thigh, — D.'Sj I suppose. Considering that several of the operations which have been done in opposition to my opinion have been fatal, and that in D.'s case I hold a confident opinion that the disease will cease, and that a useful limb may be obtained, I venture to submit for your consideration that it would be right, before a mutilating operation is done, that he should be told that one of the Surgeons is of opinion that the operation is not necessary. 6 May, 1864. From Him. May 7, 1864. Sir,—I beg to acknowledge the receipt of your letter, and to inform you that I will take an opportunity to mention to the Patient, D., your opinion. I only regret that I have to expose the ignorance of one of my Colleagues. Hoping that you may gain more Surgical wisdom, E. HUSSEY, ESQ. ^ faithfully, F. S. To THE Rev. J. S. My dear Sir, — You may perhaps remember that I have before brought to your notice the fact of the violation of the Rules for Consultations and Operations which you had so large a hand in making, and the observance of which you took on yourself to see enforced. This day 3 more Capital operations have been performed in the Infirmary without the required Consultation being held in any one of the cases. I received a notice to be present at two of the operations, the third was perfQrmed immediately afterwards, without any such notice, without any opinion being asked, and without my having seen or heard of the Patient, till he was put on the table for operation. I do not think there is any other Hospital in England in which such a state of things would be allowed to continue. 31 October, 1864. From Him. My dear Mr. Hussey,—I will certainly make it my business to enquh-e into the breach of the Rule : but I can not pledge myself at present to333 any course of action. The fact is, if persons will break Rules, there is only one course that will cure it; and as no one would be disposed to that course, when it comes to the point, practically there is no remedy with one who desires to break them. Yours sincerly, J. S. Nove7nber 9, 1864. To Him. My dear Sir, — When next in Oxford with an hour to spare, if you will let me know, I will be ready for a conver- sation with you. In my long acquaintance with Medical Charities, I have more than once known the misconduct of a Medical Officer come before the Governors. To me it seems that there are several practical solutions of the ques- tions. At all events I shall be glad to discuss them with you. November 1864. . . . Mr. S. did not give me the opportunity. To THE Rev. S. E., Chairman of the House Committee. Dear Sir, — As to your proposal of Consultations, no one will be more pleased than I shall be to see any plan for such a work carried out. But, before you take the step you pro- pose, I venture to suggest for your consideration one or two things. The proposal that a Governor should summon any of the Medical Officers to examine and consult upon a case, — not under his own care, — is an unheard of thing in a Hospital, as far as my knowlege goes. How do you think it would be re- ceived, if you proposed it to others of the Staff? — and do you think it is likely to be of use, or to do good in any way, to propose new forms of Consultation, when the existing forms, [as I foretold when they were introduced], are disobeyed } 4 November^ 1865. To F. S., Esq. Sir, — Late yesterday evening I received the official notice that you would ' excise a knee-joint' on Monday : it does not give the name of the Patient. It is the first intimation I have had that you contemplated such an operation. It was not mentioned at the 'Consultation' held some time ago»in334 the case of S.; and I know not whether it is his case, or the young woman^s (B.) I lately saw in Lichfield. In conformity with the Rule which requires us to tell the Operating Surgeon our opinion before he operates, it is right I should tell you that, — if it is in either of these cases—I think the operation unjustifiable. I am confident that, if the same care to keep the limb at rest, which will be neces- sary after the operation, is given now, both Patients will recover with useful limbs. I beg to suggest for your consideration that it would be right that the Patient should be told of this opinion, or, — at all events, — that he [or she] should not be allowed to believe that such an operation is done with the approbation of all of the Surgeons consulted. You may remember that in the former case, when you did the operation, the boy died. 14 April, 1867. From Him. April 15,1867. Dear Sir. — I have received your letter of the 14th inst. E. HussEv, ESQ. ^y^"""^' ^- To F. S., Esq. Sir, — A Notice late last night from the House-Surgeon tells me that you are going to ' excise a knee-joint' to-morrow; it does not tell the name of the Patient. If it refers to the case of S., or B., I have nothing to add to what I wrote to you on the 14th of April of the unjustifiable nature of the operation, and the ease with which a cure can be obtained without it. If it refers to B. the operation is, as you and the House-Surgeon ought to know, against the orders of the House ; it not being a case of urgency, and the previous Con- sultation of all the Surgeons, prescribed by the printed Rules, not having been held. 19 May, 1867. From Him. May 20,1867. Dear Hussev, — I have received another of your letters, dated May 19. Yours faithfully, F. S. E. HussEY, Esq.335 Note. — In the case of S., no mention was made at the Consultation on his case of any Capital Operation, — which, if he then had it in mind, was a breach of Professional propriety in Mr. S.; nor was any fresh Consultation held on his case with reference to the operation which was performed 2 months afterwards. In the case of B., — while the printed Rules require that in such a case a Consultation of all the Surgeons shall be held, •— it is the fact that such a Consultation was not held ; and there is no Rule, or customary practise, known to me, the Senior Surgeon of the Infirmary, allowing any of the Surgeons to dispense with it. As I was going into the Surgeons' Room, some very few minutes after the time named in the House- Surgeon's notice, — the short time given in this case not allowing greater punctuality, — I met Mr. S. at the door: he said the Consultation was over, and walked quickly away. I was at the Infirmary the day before, and was in communica- tion with him and the House-Surgeon upon other subjects. I was not requested to visit the Patient, nor was I told of the Consultation about to be held. The Rules require that the Surgeon shall, through the House-Surgeon, give notice to his Colleagues as soon as he thinks the question of operating arises. I had copies printed of the letters of 14 April, 1867, and 19 May, 1867, and the short notes in reply, with this heading : ' Mr. Hussey requests the attention of his Colleagues to the following correspondence,' and this note at the foot, —' The operation was done in both cases. The woman (B.) died. In the young man, (S.) the limb being, after operation, an in- cumbrance without reasonable hope of cure, was removed by amputation through the thigh ; and he went out of the Infir- mary alive.' I sent copies to the Medical Officers, and some members of the Medical Profession. I sent a copy also to Mr. S. and Mr. B., one of them the Chairman of the Com- mittee of Management, and the other his predecessor in office, being the only persons not members of the Medical336 Profession to whom I sent it. With it, I sent the following letter :— My dear Sir, — When you have read the paper I enclose, will you put it in the fire ? You will see it is meant for Pro- fessional, — i. e. Medical,— eyes. If the Medical Committee were in Session, I should bring it before them. As I can not make the requisite number of copies for my Colleagues and a few members of the Profession, I have had some printed, — but not for general distribution. I send it to you, for the i-eason that matters, — or rather parts of such — which I should have thought strictly Professional, have been in former time brought under your notice — by others. 2 October^ 1867. I sent a copy of the letters of 19 May, i860, and 6 May, 1864, with the notes in answer, to Dr. A., the Senior Medical Officer ; with a request that he would read them, and send them to the other Medical Officers. He refused to do so, and sent the copy back to me. A copy of the printed correspondence was produced at the Quarterly Court, 23 October, by a Governor, to whom I had not sent a copy, — adding, as he addressed the Court, ' We'll have it all out.' A letter from Mr. S. was also laid before the Court, requesting attention to the correspondence. . . . That letter was never produced to me. To THE Rev. J. S. My DEAR Sir, — Thanks for your letter: it is all I had heard on the subject. It is odd that Mr. S. should be the person to call the attention of the Quarterly Court — (of the 23rd inst.) passing over that in July—, to letters which, from his answers, one might think he looked on as a joke. If the Committee can take into their consideration our existing Rules for Consultations, Operations, registration, &c., with the view of making Rules which they will enforce, their labor will not be lost: they may do good service, and secure337 permanent harmony. I think I have on several occasions submitted to you individually whether it is desirable to retain Rules which, though clear and easy of observance, have been from the first (to speak courteously,) habitually disregarded. 25 October, 1867. To THE Chairman of the Quarterly Court. Sir, — According to the usual custom in such cases, the Committee of Management will, I presume, report to the Court to-day upon the Correspondence referred to them by the Quarterly Court in October. The Chairman has sent me a copy of their Minutes, which I conclude will be their Report. In the interests of the Infirmary, not less than in justice to myself^ I feel bound most respectfully to ask the Court to pause before they adopt that Report, or give any sanction to those Minutes. All I know of the proceedings of the Committee, and the investigation which it is stated in their Minutes was made, is that at the request of the Chairman I attended one Meeting, at which some few questions, apparently prepared beforehand, were put to me,—which I answered. Neither then, nor after- wards, was any other explanation asked of me. If I had been so asked, I should have shown that the letters and instances known are a part only of the correspondence which has taken place, of repeated irregularities, and of the representations I have felt it my duty as an Ofiicer of the Infirmary to make on the subject. I am prepared to show that there have been very many instances of irregularities, extending over several years. It was for the sake of the Institution itself, and the Patients, —to serve whom it is maintained,—that I addressed one of my Colleagues on the subject of the Consultations before Surgical operations. After the receit of the last note in reply, it became my duty to the Infirmary to take other steps, and I proceeded to print the correspondence which is before you, and lay it before the Medical Officers and some members of the Medical Profession. I sent it also to two Governors, not members of the Profession; but whose activity in the affairs of the Institution seemed to warrant the exception. z338 If the Governors can secure the full observance of those Rules which they have laid down for the guidance of the Medical Officers and the protection of the Patients, the Patients will in all probability derive the advantage of that Professional Consultation intended for them, and the need of any repetition of such correspondence will be avoided. In the absence of any such arrangement,—as I yet hope may be made, — I must most earnestly and respectfully submit that public and private interests alike require a full and impartial investigation of the whole matter. 22 January, 1868. To THE Chairman and Governors at the Quarterly General Court. Gentlemen, — Enclosed I take the liberty of sending a copy of a letter addressed by me to the Chairman of the Quarterly Court held on the 22nd of January. The Chairman of that Court has informed me that, as no Report was laid before the Court by the Committee, nor any Minutes read, he did not think it necessary to read the letter to the Court. The importance,—to the welfare of the Infirmary,—of the questions involved in the correspondence referred to the Com- mittee, urges me most respectfully to request the attention of the Governors to that letter. 19 February, 1868. To THE Rev. P. B. C. Dear Sir,—I have to thank you for your acknowlegement of my letter; and, more so, for the information you send me of the terms of the reference made by the Quarterly Court in October to the Committee of Management. It is the first I have heard of it. Nothing appears in the Minutes of the Court, to show that the Order was meant to be different from what has been done in other cases, — i.e. an enquiry directed, which would be followed by a Report to the next Quarterly Court: and I did not learn any thing more in communication with Mr. S. If I had known in October what I have now learned from you, I should not have prejudiced my own cause by waiting, nor should I have troubled the Quarterly Court in339 January, or yesterday, with the letter I sent. I now see I ought to have addressed it to the Committee. 20 February, 1868. To THE Chairman and the Committee of Management. Gentlemen,— On the 30th of October last I received from the Chairman of the Committee a copy of the Minute made by the Committee at their Meeting that day, upon the subject of the correspondence referred to them by the Quarterly Court of the 23rd. The Committee will, I trust, accept the following statement as a sufficient apology for the apparent neglect of the communication so made to me. They will see that the neglect has not been intentional. It having been the customary practise of the Weekly Board to make a report upon matters referred to them by a Quarterly Court to the Quarterly Court next following, I concluded that the practise would be followed upon the present occasion. On that assumption I addressed a letter to the Quarterly Court in January, the Court at which, as I supposed, the Resolution of the Committee would be reported, and taken into consideration. The Chairman of the adjourned Court of the 19th inst. has informed me that the whole question was referred to the Board of Management, — the words 'with direction to report to the Quarterly Court,' were omitted by intention; they were suggested, and deliberately left out. This is the first intimation I have had of the terms in which the Quarterly Court in October referred the paper in question to the Committee. Nothing appears in the Minutes of that Court to show that the order of the Quarterly Court was meant to be different from what had been done in other cases, and I did not learn more in my communication with your Chairman, Mr. S. Enclosed I take the liberty of sending a copy of the letter I addressed to the Chairman and Governors at the Quarterly Court. The importance to the welfare of the Infirmary of the questions involved in the correspondence urges me most Z 2340 respectfully to request the attention of the Committee to the contents of that letter. 26 February, 1868. To THE Chairman and Committee of Management. Gentlemen,— In acknowleging the receit of the Chair- man's letter of the 18th inst., informing me that the Committee must decline to reopen the question to which my letter of the 26th of February refers, I venture to submit these few remarks in reply. Considering that the Committee have impugned my Pro- fessional character and conduct, I must most respectfully ask of them that I may be allowed to have a full knowlege of their proceedings in the investigation which is stated to have been made ; and that I may be furnished with a copy of the Minutes, or other evidence, on which they founded the opinion they have recorded. The interests of the Infirmary, and of the. poor Patients of the House, — even more than justice to myself, — require that there should be a full investi- gation of the .charge made, namely, the breach of an important Rule of the House ; and if the Committee still decline the in- vestigation, and refuse the redress I seek with submission at their hands, I have no other course but to bring the whole subject fully before the Governors, and, if requisite, before the Public generally. It is for the Committee to consider whether the reputation of the Infirmary as an Institution for the treatment of the Sick Poor may not be damaged by the scandal to arise from the greater publicity of the facts. 31 March, 1868. From the Secretary, I received a copy of this Minute; — I April, 1868 :— * A letter having been received from Mr. Hussey, addressed to the Committee, the Secretary is desired to inform him that they have nothing to add to their communication of the i8th of March.'341 To THE Rev. J. S. My dear SiRj—Thanks for your letter ; and for the trouble you take in this, as in all other matters about the Infirmary. I must altogether disclaim your reasoning that the respon- sibility of the scandal from publicity will be mine. It is with those who brought the subject before the Quarterly Court, and those who, having entertained it, make imperfect investi- gation and resist enquiry. The case is this. I have repeatedly called attention to the Rules we Officers have to obey. After the last note in reply, I sought the opinion of my Colleagues and Professional brethren. One of my Colleagues, disclaiming this appeal, applies to the Quarterly Court. Reference is made to the Committee, — a newly created Board. Of their proceedings you know more than I do. The attempt to make out of it a personal matter between two of the Officers is an evasion of the point,—which is simply a question of the ob- servance of Rules. 7 Ai)nl, 1868. To THE Same. My dear Sir,—There shall be an official letter from me to 'the Chairman,' requesting a place in the paper of business. You can hardly suppose that an Officer of a Public Insti- tution, who is conscious of having done his work with strict- ness, will submit to the charge, — made without notice, and recorded without asking for explanation. It is not the business of the Committee to enquire into the conduct of the Medical Officers ; and for that reason I did not refer to them. You can not have forgotten that when the Rules wei^e finally revised, I foretold that they would not be obeyed ;—and that you replied, ' We'll see that they shall be in future.' You know how often I have called yotir attention to the breach of thern., I sought Professional opinion on a Professional matter. I believe matters had become of public notoriety long before I printed the paper on which action has now been taken. c) April, 1868.342 To THE Chairman of the Committee of Management. Sir, — The Committee to-day will, I believe, prepare the paper of business for the Quarterly Court for Wednesday next. I take the liberty of requesting that the subject men- tioned in my letters of the 26th of February, and the 31st of March, may be placed on the paper in due course for obtain- ing the attention of the Quarterly Court. The Committee are also in possession of a letter addressed by me to the Chairman of the Quarterly Court of the aand of January. These letters have not been before the Quarterly Court: and it is with respectful submission to the Committee, that I beg leave to express my wish that they should be laid before the Governors at the ensuing Quarterly Court. 15 April, 1868. To THE Chairman of the Quarterly Court of Governors. Sir, — Referring to the question of the observance of the Rules relating to the Consultations before Surgical opera- tions, and to my letters of 23 January to the Chairman of the Quarterly Court, and 26 February and 31 March to the Chairman of the Committee of Management, I beg leave most respectfully to submit for the consideration of the Court to-day, that, from the way in which the question was first brought forward, and afterwards dealt with by the Committee, the charge made has not been fairly met; and that the ques- tion is one which, in the interests of the Public and the poor Patients who are the objects of your bounty, is deserving of full and fair investigation and adjudication. 22 ApTil, 1868. The Chairman wrote to me in reply, from the Infirmary, that the letter ' was duly laid before the Court, and that no action was taken with reference to it.'343 To THE President and Governors of the Radcliffe Infirmary. My Lord Duke, and Gentlemen,—It is a duty which I owe to you as the Managers of this valuable Institution, and to the Public as represented by the Patients who are admitted to the benefits of it, as well as to myself as the Senior Surgeon, to direct your attention to the breaches which have from time to time occurred in some of the most important Rules of the Infirmary. It is a general Rule in Hospitals that no Capital operation, — that is, an operation recognised among Surgeons as putting life in danger, — shall be performed, unless in cases of urgency, without a previous consultation of all the Surgeons of the House. It was included among the original Rules and Orders of the Radcliffe Infirmary, printed in 1770, and has been con- tinued down to the present time, and printed among the amended Rules of 1866. In the last few years I have several times remonstrated upon the non-observance of the Rules respecting Consultations before Surgical operations, and re- presented the impropriety of the proceedings. Ungracious and delicate as is the task of bringing charges against a Col- league appointed to the same engagements in a Public Insti- tution, I venture to submit to your impartial consideration the facts I here lay before you. After the receit of the notes (of the 15th of April and the aoth of May, 1867), in reply to my letters of the preceding days, it became my duty to the Infirmary to take other steps. I proceeded to lay the correspondence before my Colleagues and some Members of the Medical Profession, (in print,) with this heading, ' Mr. Hussey requests the attention of his Col- leagues to the following correspondence,' and a short note of the results of the operations in the last two cases which had occurred. Of that Professional paper, I sent a copy to the Chairman of the Committee of Management, and to his im- mediate predecessor in office ; — the only persons, not members of the Medical Profession, to whom I sent it. The Chairman of the Committee afterwards informed me by letter that Mr. S. had sent a copy of it to the Chairman of344 the Quarterly Court, and that the matter had been handed over to the Committee ; that he had called a Meeting of the Committee, and he hoped I could be at the Infirmary at the time. During the Meeting my attendance was requested, and some 3 or 3 questions, evidently prepared beforehand, were put to me. These I answered : and the interview ended, without any explanation being asked of me, then or after- wards. . . . The Committee have not made any Report. The discourteous reply of an individual Officer can not be accepted as an answer to a charge of non-observance of Rules mutually applying to all the Officers. The question arising in the correspondence is of the con- sistent obedience to the Rules laid down by the Governors, and the treatment of the Patients in accordance with the promise publicly given in the printed Rules. The Rules in question were revised at the Quarterly Court in January 1859, when the whole of the Medical Officers were present. Some additions were made at the Quarterly Courts in April and July i860. Stated shortly, they are, — That no Capital operation shall be performed without a previous Consultation of all three Surgeons, except on sudden or ur- gent consideration: That the Consultation shall be a simul- taneous Meeting of all the Surgeons; and that it shall be held in the Surgeons' Room : — That the Surgeons shall sign the Register of Consultations at the time of consultation, as evidence that the Consultation has taken place: — That all Capital operations shall be entered by the House-Surgeon in the Register of Operations ; and when an Operation has been performed without consultation, the reason why it was so performed shall also be entered. Notwithstanding these Rules, many Capital operations have been performed without Consultation, in cases not of urgency. Some such have been performed which are not entered in the Register of Operations. The Register of Con- sultations has been signed by some of the Surgeons when the required Consultation has not been held; and (when I last saw the Register of Operations) there was not one instance in which the fact of an Operation being performed without Consultation, — or the reason for it, — was entered.345 Being of opinion that obedience to the Rules has not been observed as the Governors expect, that the Patients have not received that amount of consideration which the Rules award, and that the courtesy due from one Officer to an other has not been followed, the circumstances seem to be sufficiently- important to justify me in calling your attention to the facts, and to the correspondence now more fully submitted to you. May 1868. To THE Rev. J. S. My dear Sir, — It is not a correct way of putting the case, to say that I have put forth ' a statement respecting my differences with Mr. S.' There is not, moreover, in what I have printed anything which can justly be called 'very unfair toward him,' or toward anybody. It is a plain statement, in no way colored. No single Governor, I suppose, has had it more in his power than you have had to stop publicity on the subjects of my letter. I have done all I could to avoid it. For years I have exercised great forbearance : and it was only after the last attack on me, and all refusal of a hearing, that, in my own opinion and that of some friends (Professional and other,) whom I consulted, there was no other course left, but, at last, to turn and defend myself. If I had any doubt of the pro- priety of the course I have at length taken, the letters I have since received, and the opinions given to me, would have re- moved it. In case I am called upon more loudly for an answer, you will not find me backward to give it. 27 June, 1868. To THE Same. My dear Sir, — Your first question is easily answered. The Committee of Management made some enquiry into some question, the nature of which they never told me; though I asked you, — the Chairman,—what it was, before they met: and they made a Minute condemnatory of my conduct, — a neglect of the elementary principles of justice, as (at present,) understood in England, — condemning a man behind his back, without a hearing, and on a charge not made346 known to him. Every attempt I have since made to get a hearing has been refused. You say that I have ' committed great inaccuracy of state- ment.' If you will be kind enough to point it out, it shall be corrected. You observe, — in this instance rightly, — that I have not published the Minute of the Committee. You do not observe that I have not answered it. If greater pub- licity is given to it, it shall not long be without an answer. As to the correspondence, the printing of which does not please you, you should bear in mind what was in your hands before the Meeting of the Committee. I understand you did not produce it. It will not escape an impartial observer that I have avoided all personality. However you or others may desire to import such into what is a purely public question, it is not my intention to follow you. 30 June, 1868. Memorandum.—The question arising in the correspond- ence, and which the Committee of Management chose to entertain when referred to them, is simply a question of the consistency of the management with the Rules,—and whether the treatment of the Patients is in accordance with the pro- mise publicly given in the printed Rules. The attempt to make out of it a personal question among members of the Medical Staff, in a matter of Professional misunderstanding, is an evasion of the question. It simply indicates a deter- mination not to meet the real question at all. The Governors have a right to expect that a due regard shall be shown to Rules they have announced; and the Medical Officers are bound to be satisfied when they receive an assurance that the Rules shall be equally and consistently enforced. In seeking the opinion of my Colleagues and Professional brethren, it does not seem to me that I acted otherwise than in conformity with Professional propriety; or that I in any respect went beyond the bounds of the duty expected in the Surgeon of a Public Hospital. To their judgement I sub- mitted the correspondence. It was the proper course for a Professional man to take in the circumstances of the case. If it was in any way wrong to call the attention of a Colleague347 to the non-observance of the Rules mutually applying to all the Officers, it would be the informality of not courting full publicity by appealing at once to the Governors, with whom the whole question ought to rest. The ultimate decision must be theirs. I preferred that unnecessary publicity should be avoided ; and I adopted the more Professional course. Medical Practitioners, like other Professional men, will differ in opinion. Medical Officers of a Public Institution have a right to protect themselves from animadversion and adverse criticism; and they are entitled to ask for their opinion that fair publicity which is felt to be just toward the Patient. Cor- respondence is liable to misinterpretation. In bringing it to the notice of my Colleagues and Professional brethren, it may be perhaps, — if it was not already a matter of public notoriety, —that I gave it that slight amount of additional publicity which has brought it to the notice of the Governors, — its proper place. If a Medical Officer objects to the action of an other Medical Officer, calling his attention to neglect of public duties, and refuses the appeal to the judgement of a Professional tribunal, it seems rightly to have been proposed by a Governor at a General Court, and wisely referred, — as a fit subject for enquiry, or even for adjudication,—to a private Board. And, if only the investigation had been complete, — or, at all events, fair and impartial, — it would have been ungenerous to object to the action of the Committee on the merely formal ground that they exceeded the bounds of the discretion allowed them by the constitution of the House. It is to be observed that it is not one of the duties of the Committee of Management, as at present constituted, to enquire into the duties of the Medical "Officers in the discharge of any part of their duty, nor to define in any way what their duty is, nor to entertain any question concerning it. The Medical Officers, who are now excluded from the Committee, are not appointed by the Committee, and are not accountable to them for their conduct. It is not consistent with the practise of a Public Hospital that the conduct of those Officers should be impugned, without notice, without hearing, and without asking any explanation,—348 by the vote of a private Meeting. A reflection by the Com- mittee on an Officer is not an answer to a notice he has given to an other Officer that he did not observe the Rules laid down by the Governors, as his Colleagues are entitled to expect from him. The Resolution of the Committee leads to the belief that the Committee are of opinion that it is a breach of duty to call attention to the Rules, and that the Officers are not bound to obey them. The Resolution does not appear to have been a unanimous vote. It is not of a nature to deter enquiry into the general question,—whether the Patients have that consultation and Pro- fessional opinion which the Governors award them,—whether they are operated on with that amount of knowlege of the circumstances of their own case which the Governors and the public require. The moral question, — whether the Patients had that amount of consideration which the Governors require? — does not appear to have formed part of the enquiry under- taken by the Committee. In short, the investigation which the Committee profess to have made, was partial and insufficient; and the opinion they have given is not an opinion of that deliberate nature which is entitled to the acceptance of the Governors. ... It has not received the sanction of the Governors to whom the appeal was made. The original appeal was for the observance of Rules. The mischief follows on that appeal not being satis- factorily responded to. The enquiry can not be closed except by the public announcement that, the Committee will vin- dicate the Rules and privileges which the Governors have made before the Committee was appointed. To refuse pre- viously iS; in fact, only to agitate the question by inviting disagreeable imputations. The fact that the Committee declines the settlement of the question referred to them,—which their unwillingness indi- cates as important, — throws on me the necessity of giving a full explanation of the whole question. Whatever damage arises to the reputation, or the best interests of the House, through the greater publicity of the facts, the responsibility is with those who brought the question under the notice of a General Meeting of Governors, and those who, having under-349 taken the question, persistently refuse to make any but a partial investigation, and resist enquiry, shrinking from a re- sponsible duty when called upon by Officers to whose services they are so much indebted. July, 1868. To THE Chairman and Members of the Committee OF Management. Gentlemen, — In acknowlegement of the Minute of the Committee, of the 1st inst., upon the case of M. C, I have to express my opinion that extirpation of the globe of the eye is accepted as a Capital operation among Surgeons generally, as much as the extirpation of the testis and the mammary gland, —both of which last operations have, as I understand, been performed in the Infirmary without the consultation required by the Rules. 15 February, 1871. To THE Same. Gentlemen, — In farther acknowlegement of the Minute of the Committee, of the ist of February last, I learned on Friday that the united answer of a majority of my Colleagues had not then been delivered at the Board. To-day I learn from the Secretary that it has been given to him under seal. This hinders me from adding my opinion on the same sheet of paper. The question put by the Committee refers to a particular case, of which I have no knowlege beyond the few words spoken by the Patient, when he applied for relief of an other complaint. I am not able to say whether such a case comes under the printed Rules of the Infirmary ; because I think that any case may be esteemed a Capital operation within the principle of the Rule, — that there should be a consultation of all the Surgeons before an important operation. In some cases it necessarily rests with the Surgeon who has the care of the Patient, guided by the usages of the Profession, —to say whether the operation is one to be considered capital; and, naturally, in a public Institution, the tendency should be350 rather to encourage than to check consultations, and the con- sequent publicity. 24 April, 1871. To THE Editor of the British Medical Journal Sir, — My attention was called yesterday to an article in the British Medical Journal, — 'Medical Coroners acting as Medical Witnesses.' In it, you refer to some parts of what is reported to have been said by a Judge at the late Assizes here, during the trial of a prisoner on a charge of murder. The case altogether was of an unprecedented kind, involving many questions of the line of duty. Your readers may, per- haps, be willing to receive this short explanation from me. As there had not been any investigation by a Justice of the Peace, nor any prosecution by the Police, it appeared to be necessary, — late on Saturday evening, — that the Solicitors acting on behalf of the family of the deceased should prepare a bill of indictment to be laid before the Grand Jury early on Monday morning. If there had been more time, for the Solicitors to collect full evidence, and to summon a suffi- ciency of witnesses, it would not have been thought necessary that I, who had acted as the Coroner upon the preliminary enquiry, should be called as a witness. It can hardly be necessary for me to add that it was not by my own wish, nor with any good will of my own, that I was thus called forward in Court as a witness. While I was under examination, the Judge, — Mr. Baron H., — without asking for any explanation, began his address to me by telling me that I could have called in one of the Coroners for the County to hold the Inquest. With due sub- mission, I said I was not aware of it. The Clerk of the Peace for the County then informed the Court that the Coroner of the City could not do so. The Judge then said that I could have appointed a Deputy to hold the Inquest. I said I did not know that a Deputy could act, except in case of my illness or unavoidable absence. Afterwards, the Judge referred to a book handed to him by the Clerk of the Peace ; and he then said there was ground for the doubt I had of the351 power of a Deputy to act in the case, and that I was entitled to the benefit of the doubt. There was no need for me to add that I had also a doubt whether I could appoint a Deputy before I had done any act of acceptance of Office; the Inquest in question being the first act of such acceptance, testifying that I had undertaken the office to which I had been lately appointed. . . . More than 20 years before this, it had been said by a writer of authority, that a Coroner, being a Medical Practitioner, and wishing to attend as a Witness, ' has no power to appoint a Deputy, inasmuch as the circumstances do not satisfy the conditions on which alone the power to appoint a Deputy can be exercised.' The state of things which became public may be due to the defective state of the law regulating,—or neglecting, — the office of Coroner. Whether it is creditable, is a question in which a Coroner has no concern. One lesson may be learned ; and I commend it to those of our Professional brethren who hold the office of Coroner. It is : in a case where the inquest finds a verdict involving a criminal charge, not to commit the accused to prison for trial at the Assizes, but to order his apprehension for the purpose of being taken before a Justice of the Peace, and to report the case at once to the Secretary of State, as is done in cases of accidents on railways. This will relieve the Coroner from farther question, and secure the public against a miscarriage of justice. 28 August, 1&77. To THE Rev. J. S. Dear Mr. Chairma.n, — Your letter, received late last night, refers to two subjects. One was brought by me lately, — for the second time, — under the notice of the Committee; —the danger attending the use of the present inhaler for chloroform. I do not understand from you that the Com- mittee have done anything. The other is a subject altogether new to me, as one at any time under the notice of the Committee, or in any way within the discretion allowed to them by the Governors. Are you serious in expecting me to do more than thus acknowlege the receit of the note you have sent of it ? II October, 1877.352 To THE Chairman and Members of the Committee OF Management. Gentlemen, —Last Wednesday, after I left the Infirmary, I met one of the Members of the Committee, and stopped him in the street, to beg his attention to a subject which had lately come under my notice. At his suggestion I put this into writing. When holding an Inquest as Coroner, I have observed that the key of the Dead-house has been given over to the Sum- moning Officer, for the purpose of his allowing the Jury to see the body ; and that no representative or servant of the Governors has been in attendance. I venture to suggest for the consideration of the Committee, as the body of the de- ceased is supposed to be in their safe keeping, that an Officer on their part should be in attendance on such occasions with the key in his hands, and authorized to give the Jury the view which they are required to have. Attention to this, as a matter of general decency and order, would be beneficial in an other respect, — that it would hinder a recurrence of the scandal which arose in a former case within the memory of some Members of the Committee. 16 October, 1877. To THE ChAH^MAN of THE QUARTERLY CoURT, AND THE REST OF THE GOVERNORS THERE. Gentlemen,—Through the Vice-Chancellor of the Univer- sity, the Chairman of the Court, I have received a copy of a Minute made at the Quarterly Court of Governors on the 34th of October. It is a request that I will ' make my option as to the two offices of Coroner to the City and Surgeon to the Infirmary.' It would have been more consistent with the orderly way in which the business of the House was done in former years, if that Minute had been made at the Quarterly Court on the a5th of July last, or that of the 35th of April, and after due notice beforehand that such a question would be proposed ; and it would have been more proper that the communication to the Senior Surgeon, of a request without precedent in the1 C history of the House, should have been made to me through the President of the Infirmary. However wilHng I may be to help the Managers of the Infirmary in any matter under deliberation, or to grant any request properly made, there are no means of doing so in the present case. No reason is given for the request, none that I can take into consideration, or submit to the Town Council, from whom, some months ago, I received the appointment of Coroner by a unanimous vote. As far as the special office of Surgeon, in attendance on the sick in the Infirmary, is concerned, I do not understand how the office of Coroner of the City is related to an office for the treatment of the sick, or is incompatible with it, more than the office of Coroner of the University, or Radcliffe Librarian, both of which offices have long been held by two other of the Medical Officers ; nor, — if I may be allowed to say so, — do I understand that the Governors of the Infirmary have any special concern in the office of Coroner of the City, or are en- titled to meddle with the Officer who holds it. The duty of the Surgeon, as well as that of the Governors, is at an end before the duty of the Coroner begins. It seems to me, in- deed, that the office of Coroner of the City has even less to do with the treatment of the sick and the general affairs of the House than the office, which I also hold, of a member of the Local Board of Public Health. 20 November^ 1877. To A Member of the Medical Profession in London. Dear Sir,—In answer to the request you made some weeks ago, that -I would give you the facts of the case, and the question raised upon them, I now do my best to answer your enquiries. In a late case, where a Coroner applied to the Court of Queen's Bench, the Chief Justice asked, ' Does Dr. P. — (the Coroner) seriously think that his conduct requires vindication?' Mr. Justice Mellor asked, ' Is not life too short to treat this as a serious matter?' The Chief Justice added, that it was one of those charges which a strong Medical man would look down- upon with contempt. A a354 Do you think the oldest Judge on the Bench remembers having tried a case of murder, where there was no prosecution by the Police, no attempt to take the evidence of the dying man, no investigation by the Justices of the Peace, no prose- cutor or witnesses bound over by them, no recognizances or depositions returned by their Clerk ? It was the case here. That a drunken woman, whose habits were matter of public notoriety, should provide herself with a strange weapon, and inflict a wound which was followed by a lingering illness and death, that neither Police nor Magistrates should give any help in the attempt to bring the offender to justice is, it seems, consistent with our habits of administering the law; and the Surgeon who, while he failed in the attempt to save life, succeeded in lengthening it; the Coroner, who went be- yond the strict line of his duty to do an act of kindness, is the one person supposed to be at fault. The Medical history can be given in very few words. The man had a traumatic aneurism in the gluteal region, the result of a wound given by his wife. I saw him at his own house in consultation with the Medical Practitioner in attendance on him. We advised treatment at home; he refused this, from fear of a repetition of the violence. Some time afterwards he came into the Infirmary. I performed the usual operation, and applied a ligature on each side of the wound in the artery. Sloughing with hemorrhage followed, and the man died. In the meantime I had been appointed Coroner of the City, and on the death of the Patient in the Infirmary within the City, it became my duty as Coroner to hold the Inquest. The man's own house, where I had first seen him, was beyond the boundary of the City; if he had died at home, one of the Coroners for the County would have acted. I mentioned the case to the Coroner of the district, and warned him of the possibility of the man's death in his district; and I told him, from the in- formation I had received, the serious nature of the case which might perhaps come before him. At the time of the man's death his home had been broken up; it was not possible, therefore, to remove his body to the place, and so bring it within an other Coroner's jurisdiction. The Inquest was the first act of office on my part. Not being under either of the355 only disabilities allowed by law, — absence and illness, — I had no power to appoint a Deputy, or to call an Assessor. I was the only Coroner having jurisdiction. Upon the best consideration I could give, it seemed to me that I had no choice, but to take the duty of the Inquest upon myself. No witness was brought by the Police. The information given by the two or three persons who attended was scanty in every sense of the word. But there was enough to satisfy the Jury of the nature of the death, and the person who caused it, and to justify them in referring the case to a tribunal of larger jurisdiction. As the woman was at large, I gave a warrant to arrest her, and take her before a Justice of the Peace. After arrest by the Police, it appeared that, however willing the Justices might be to act, their Clerk was not at hand, and they could not act without him. The woman must be kept by the Police for two days and nights, till all things were in readiness for the enquiry to be made by the Magis- trates. The Inspector of the Police came to me in the diffi- culty. He appealed to my personal knowlege of the character of the woman, and of the place where she would be confined, and he asked for my authority to transfer her to a fitter lodging within the Castle. It seemed to me an act of kindness which I could not refuse to a poor woman whose husband had been lately under my care ; and I gave a warrant for the purpose. I never doubted that the Magistrates would act on the warrant under which the arrest had been made. It may be doubted whether a lawyer, if Coroner, would have done as much. It is more likely that he would say to the Police, ' You have the prisoner in custody on suspicion of felony. My duty is done.' In the'charge to the Grand Jury the Judge pointed out the omission on the part of the Justices of the Peace to investigate the case, and he called their attention to the consequences which might follow through neglect of the legislative enact- ments on the subject. ' This is a most extraordinary case,' the Judge afterwards said, ' in consequence of no depositions being returned.' Application was made on behalf of the prisoner for an adjournment of the trial. The Judge, the proverbial Counsel A a a356 for the prisoner, refused it, with the remark that he did not see what advantage it would be to her, — a reason clear enough from the prisoner's point of view. The period of ad- journment would have given time for enquiry, for the action of the Police, and the Magistrates ; and with other evidence, at an other Assize, an other verdict might have been found. In the case of the Welsh fasting girl, in 1870, the omission to return depositions and bind over witnesses was discovered on the eve of the Assizes, and the trial was adjourned by order of the Chief Justice Bovill, to enable the Magistrates to complete the necessary investigation. After some loose and inaccurate evidence of the nature of the operation, and the effects which followed, had been given in Court, it became necessary to say what was the operation really performed, and what was the cause of death ; and there was no other course but to call me as a witness. It would have been overloading the case with Medical evidence, to call the Surgeon who assisted me at the operation, to confirm the evidence I gave. While I was under examination the Judge, without asking for any explanation, told me that instead of holding the Inquest myself I should have called in one of the Coroners from the County. A Solicitor, who was present, instantly corrected the Judge, Turning again to me, the Judge said I could have appointed a Deputy. I said I was not aware that a Deputy could act, except in case of my illness or unavoidable absence. The Solicitor interposed again with the remark that the former Coroner had a Deputy, and that I could have appointed one in eight and forty hours. In truth, if the occasion served, as it did with my predecessor, I could havfe done it in eight and forty minutes. Afterwards, a book supposed to be of sufficient authority was found and handed to the Judge; and the doubt I had expressed was openly acknowleged. It would be well that a man should inform himself fully before he takes on himself, as Amims Cnrice, to guide an erring Judge. The maxim of the lawyers, Igiioraniia legis neminein excusat, does not apply to themselves. Moreover, says Dr. Johnson, ' Ignorance can not be certainly inferred from inaccuracy. Knowlege is not always present.' . . . ' The357 Judges in general,' I afterwards heard remarked at a Meeting of the Society of Coroners, 'know very little of Coroners' Law.' Before I retired, I received the comforting assurance that the Court gave me -credit for the performance of the operation ; but whether it was the operation really performed, and de- scribed by me, I was not told. 'Nobody knows,' said the Chief Baron Alexander,- ' how much energy it requires in a Judge to hold his tongue.' In charging thp Petty Jury, the Judge gave his opinion, without the appearance of its being pertinent to the case before the Court, that a Coroner should be a man of legal education, in order that the information given by the witnesses at an Inquest might be put into a shape to be produced as evidence, — the shape, it may be added, in which a Judge is accustomed to receive it, and that a Surgeon, when Coroner, should appoint a deputy, or resign his office, as soon as he thinks a Patient likely to die. In the matter of evidence I pointed out to the Jury on the Inquest the difference between the information given on an enquiry into the cause of death, and the evidence given before a Judge and Jury on the trial of a prisoner for a criminal offence. A Coroner is not a judicial officer like a Justice of the Peace; he does not act in the same judicial capacity, he does not perform similar judicial functions ; he is not a Judge engaged in trying a question at issue between two parties. What is said at an Inquest by those who come voluntarily as witnesses differs in many respects from the evidence given before a Judge and Jury at a trial, none of which is produced until the whole of it has been carefully sifted by opposing advocates keenly alive to the interests of their separate clients. After having been for many years a reader of the pub- lished reports of Inquests, I do not call to mind a case where a question of law came before the Jury, or one where the special knowlege of a practising lawyer was wanted. A knowlege of law and of legal forms of procedure is a be- coming ornament, no doubt, to a Coroner, as well as to a Justice of the Peace, to a Police Constable and a Magistrate's358 Clerk. With a proper knowlege of these, and a due attention to the duty required by them, prosecutor, recognizances, and depositions would not be wanting. It is not part of the duty of a Coroner to provide them. However odd it may seem to you at a distance, it is notorious here, that the question raised at the meeting of Governors at the Infirmary was a personal one, and a question of local interest only. It was simply whether one of the former Physicians, who is now one of the Professors in the University, — a man who had been known to declare that he would never rest till I was turned out, — was at length strong enough, with the help of the Chairman of the Committee of Management, to turn me out of the office of Surgeon to the Infirmary. But the talking, — to which nobody paid much attention, — went to the point, whether a Medical Practitioner should in any case hold the office of Coroner, either in the Infirmary, or out of it. 23 November, 1877. At the Quarterly Court of Governors, 23 January, 1878,— Mr. Plussey said that formerly the Rules required that no Order should be put in force until it was confirmed at the following Court, and it was then open to Governors to speak upon that question. He understood that that was now altered. Mr. S. said that it was so. Mr. Hussey said he had given notice of a Motion,— 'That the Order in question should be cancelled,' — and in doing so he said he would keep closely to the Minute read by the Chairman, as it stood on the Register, from which it might be quoted hereafter and used as a precedent, and without reference to the arguments by which it had been placed there. There was an excellent rule in the chief popular assembly — the House of Commons, — that no reference should be made in a subsequent debate to what had been said in a former debate; reference was only allowed to what had been recorded in writing. He would keep close to that rule, which he thought was generally beneficial. He then referred to the request made at the October Court, that he would ' make his option as to which of the359 two offices of Coroner and Surgeon he would retain.' The Motion had been proposed by two Officers of the House — the Treasurer, and Dr. R., one of the honorary Physicians. He did not see how the question concerned the Treasury of the House, and it could not be the personal feeling of Mr, S. (the Treasurer), because soon after his appointment as Coroner he met Mr. S. in the House and he addressed him voluntarily and offered him his congratulations. As to Dr. R., it was not often in a Hospital that one of the Medical Officers took an active part in the attempt to turn out a Colleague. He was requested by the Minute to make the option in a month. He had heard the remark made, that the Governors who proposed the Resolution in question seemed to look on turning a Surgeon out of a Hospital as a man did on turning a menial servant out of his house, — with a month's wages, or a month's warning; and as they could not give the Surgeon a month's wages, they gave him a month's warning. Did gentlemen think that a Professional man, with any proper respect for his character, would accept office, or would be willing to hold it, on such terms .-^ It was remarkable that the Minute was not the act of the majority of the Governors who attended ; for it appeared from the Minute-book that 27 Governors were present, and that only 13 of them voted in favor of it. Mr. Hussey referred to his letter in reply, which was read at the adjourned Court in November. He had pointed out the irregularity of the proceedings, that notice of the question proposed ought to have been given to the Governors at the April Court, at the time he received the appointment. It had been a matter of common conversation some months before then, that he had been named as the probable suc- cessor, if the office should become vacant. The question ought to have been brought forward at the July Court; and, if then passed, the confirmation would have been considered in the regular course in October. But in reprinting the Rules, they had left out those two safe-guards against hasty and inconsiderate orders,—'notice beforehand and confirmation afterwards. He had asked the Court for a reason. Surely an Officer36o was entitled to ask an assembly of gentlemen for a reason for a request which was without precedent in that or any other Hospital; but they had refused it. The Town Council could have no wish to be brought into collision with that Institution. They might have thought it desirable to connect themselves with the Infirmary by choosing one of the Officers of the House. The Members of the Council would be likely to say to him that he ought not to have accepted the office of Coroner when he was disqualified by his office at the Infirmary from holding it. There was an other body to be considered. There was, within a hundred miles of them, a large borough town, sending two Members to Parliament, and with a large Hospital. The Coroner of the Borough was a Medical man, but not at present one of the Officers of the Hospital. In that borough they were required under their charters to con- form to the customs of Oxford, and if the Coroner should ever be a candidate for office at the Hospital, he would have to be told that by the customs of Oxford he could not hold the two offices. He had referred to a Minute formerly made on the motion of Dr. R.; this had been read at the last Court, but they had not read what was in fact the answer to it, — a letter from one of the ablest men in the county, the late Rev. R. Pretyman,— to Mr. S., the Treasurer of the Infirmary: — 'Sir, — I received your circular dated 2nd August, and did not intend to take any notice of it ; but your second application received this morn- ing induces me to reply to it. I therefore beg to inform you that I am by no means satisfied of the correctness of the statement you have put forth, and I hope to find time to examine the few last reports. ' I have also read with astonishment a Resolution passed at your last Quarterly Court, recommending your Senior Surgeon to abstain from calling attention to the accounts ; it being well kno^vn that that same gentleman had for some time most efficiently filled the office of Auditor, and that other Medical Officers are in the habit of making observations upon the accounts without being subject to such an insulting recommen- dation. I have been equally disgusted at the uncourteous reply which was sent to a very simple and respectful application from the same gentleman. ' So long as the Committee of Management choose to stifle enquiry,361 and to treat with marked disrespect Medical Officers to whose services they are so much indebted, I am far more likely to withdraw my subscrip- tion than to exert myself in behalf of an Institution so conducted.' Mr. Hussey then referred to the Minute of the adjourned Court in November, which declared 'that the offices of Surgeon to the Infirmary and Coroner of the City are not proper to be held by the same person.' He asked why this should be; especially as the Minute allowed the Phy- sicians to hold the office of Coroner. There was no other Hospital where there was any restriction upon the Medical Officers holding offices outside the Hospital. The Governors here gave no reason for it; he was bound to accept it simply as being their will and pleasure. He submitted that were it so, the new Order ought not to apply to existing Officers, who had been appointed without any knowlege of the wishes of the Governors on the point. This had been admitted on former occasions of new Orders; — as when partnerships among the Medical Officers were forbidden. The Officers then in partnership were not dis- missed : and when the number of Surgeons was reduced from 4 to 3, one of the 4 was not called upon to resign. It was for the Governors that day to say whether this new Order was consistent with the course they wished, to be fol- lowed in questions affecting those Officers of the House who gave their Professional services to the charity without fee or reward, — and, he might add, without thanks from them. Of the power of the Governors to dismiss a Surgeon there could not be any doubt. They could also to-day dismiss the Treasurer, and appoint an other in his place. He was not sure that they could dismiss a Physician: the Physicians were paid Officers. It would be enough to refer them to one instance — the dismissal of the Head Master at Rugby by the Trustees of the School. Their President was one of the Trustees, so that they ought to be well acquainted with it. That case was much discussed in public, and was after- wards carefully considered in the Court of Chancery, and the judgement of the Court went with public opinion — that, whatever might be thought of the conduct of the Trustees, there ought to be, and there is, inherent in every Society,362 the power to dismiss any Officer at their will and pleasure • and practically it was a matter of little importance what formalities were observed in doing so. Of what value then, it had been asked, were our printed Rules, which were made with such parade and hedged in with such formalities ? Why, none, as affecting any question between the Governors and their servants. The Rules were merely a public notice of the plan on which it was proposed, — or hoped, — that the work of the House would be carried on by those who took the management; they were a state- ment, on the faith of which subscriptions were publicly solicited, and they were so far necessary in a Charitable Institution that the funds might suffer by Governors with- drawing their subscriptions in case of any arbitrary exercise of power, or a glaring breach of faith. But if so, there was no right of appeal; there was no Visitor. The power to give redress rested with the Governors themselves. [The Oxford Chronicle, 26 January, 1878.] To THE Rev. J. S. My Dear Sir, — In the Oxford Chronicle of the 27th of October last these remarks are reported to have been made by you at a meeting of Governors at the Infirmary: — 'The Judge of the Assize (Mr. Baron H.) pointed out to Mr. Hussey the indecency of uniting in his own person the two offices of Coroner and Surgeon to the Infirmary;' and in the Oxford Chronicle of the 24th of November, in answer to the question put by one of the Governors,—' Who had declared it to be incompatible that the two offices should be held by the same person?' — this is reported as having been said by you : —' That it was declared incompatible by the Judge at the last Assizes.' Assuming the report to be correct, will you be kind enough to tell me when, where, and to whom the Judge in question, or any other of the Queen's Judges, said what you have reported from him} It is within my own knowlege that it was not said at the last Assize. 2, In the Oxford Chronicle of the a4th of November, it is reported that you said,—'There was a Rule which Mr.363 Hussey broke habitually, weekly, every time he came as Surgeon to the Infirmary. It was this: he was required to certify to the Committee his opinion of the cases that were fit for discharge.' Will you be kind enough to tell me what Rule or Order you mean : for I know none, and the Secretary can not tell me of any. 3. In the Oxford Chronicle of Saturday last, I observe that you said,— 'They had already experienced great incon- venience from Mr. Hussey holding the two offices.' Be kind enough to tell me what the inconvenience was: for I know nothing of it. 28 January, 1878. . . . Mr. S. writing from the Infirmary, 30 January, tells me, he ' declines to enter into any correspondence with me on the subject.' To THE Matron, Radcliffe Infirmary. Dear Madam, — At the conclusion of my attendance as one of the Surgeons of the Infirmary, I beg the favor of your conveying to the Nurses my sense of the satisfactory manner in which, under my personal superintendance, they have at all times discharged their duties in the Wards. There is not any Nurse now in the House, nor, as far as I remember, — through the long series of years in which I have had the opportunity of obsei-ving, — have there been any, from whom I wish to withhold this expression of my approval. 28 Jantiary, 1878. At the Quarterly Court of Governors, 24 April, 1878,— Mr. Hussey said that in proposing the Motion of which he had given notice, he did not feel inclined to detain them at any great length, when he saw how small a number of Governors, — only about a dozen,—were present showing any interest in the affairs of the House. Some Governors who had different notions from those which prevailed there, thought that the superior Officers ought only to be removed by the same process by which they were appointed, — that364 was a Special Court. But the question had been lately ruled dififerently; and it was clear that the Governors in a General Court had full power to turn out any Officer at their mere will, without giving any reason, and without giving any notice beforehand of their intention. The printed Rules were, in fact, mere rubbish, in no way binding on the Governors. They were aware that he had himself been very lately removed from his Office by this summary process. Mr. S. had given as a reason for it that the Office of Surgeon was incompatible with an other office outside the House to which he had been lately appointed ; but nobody said how it became so. Mr. S,, when asked, who declared it to be so,—referred to a Judge at the Assizes. Mr. Hussey said that he did not feel himself called upon to take notice of what had been said by the Judge in question, unless the Governors desired him to do so. He would simply say that what Mr. S. had quoted,or misquoted, as such, was simply, wholly, absolutely false. And he submitted to them that an Officei who could show such disregard for the truth, ought not to be allowed any longer to hold office in the House. Also, when it had been publicly mentioned that Mr. Hussey had never broken a rule nor disobeyed an order of the House, Mr. S. had stated that there was one rule he broke habitually, weekly, every time he came to the House, that was in not certifying in some way his opinion to the Committee. Mr. Hussey said there was no more truth in this statement of Mr. S.'s than in the other; that there was no such rule, and that he had never failed, when called upon by the Committee upon any subject, to make a full report to them. Mr. S. had also stated that the House had experienced great inconveni- ence from Mr. Hussey holding the two offices. It was impos- sible to imagine what that was. Mr. S. when called upon, could not suggest any. Mr. Hussey believed this statement of Mr. S.'s to be as destitute of foundation as the other ; and he concluded by moving that Mr. S. be removed from the office of Treasurer, — to which is now attached, that of Chairman of the Committee of Management.365 To THE Editor of the Lancet. SiRj — My attention has been called to a letter in the Lancet of the 26th inst., from Mr. S., the Chairman of the Committee of Management, in which he tries to set right a statement in the Lancet of the 19th inst, referring to an Inquest lately held in the Infirmary. The deceased had been under treatment in the Infirmary for a week; and he died, as you rightly suppose, without suspicion of foul play. The symptoms during life were so clear that it was not necessary to open the body after death. Mr. S. says that 'the Committee of Management never requested the Coroner to hold an Inquest.' The fact is that I received from the Secretary a printed notice, with this heading ; —' Application to the Coroner to hold an Inquest.' Enclosed I send you a copy of it. 28 October, 1878. To THE Duke of Marlborough, K.G., President OF THE RADCLIFFE INFIRMARY. My Lord Duke,—Yesterday afternoon I held an Inquest at the Radcliffe Infirmary on a man who died from the effects of injuries, for which he had been under treatment there for a fortnight. In the morning the Summoning Officer, acting under instructions from me as Coroner, had in the usual manner warned Mr. W., one of the Medical Ofiicers, to be in attendance to give evidence: he made no objection. He never attended ; and he has not given any reason for being absent. It can not be necessary for me to remind your Excellency of the law, as generally understood, that it is the duty of every person present at the death, or attending in the last illness, to attend an Inquest, if he has notice of the time and place; and that there is a special penalty for neglect of the duty by Medical Practitioners. I venture to submit to your Excellency, as the President, that obedience to the law in that respect is specially the duty of the Ofiicers of a Public Institution, such as the Radcliffe Infirmary. Mr. W. has lately366 been appointed one of the Surgeons, and the deceased was under his care. This is not the first time I have had reason to complain of want of care at the Infirmary in providing the attendance of necessary witnesses. 31 October, 1878. Memorandum.—The case mentioned was one of those which, under recent regulations, are to be reported to the Secretary of State. It was desirable that the best Medical evidence of the cause of death should be taken. For that purpose I directed that the proper Medical Officer who had attended the deceased in the Infirmary should be called. Upon his refusal to attend, the Jury would not have the inferior officer called, to give the evidence instead of him. It has since been publicly suggested in a newspaper, by one of the Medical Officers of the Infirmary that they should not be called personally to attend, because it is the custom of some Hospitals for the House-Surgeon to give the Medical evidence required at Inquests. It will be enough to point out that in the Hospitals in London the House-Surgeon is appointed on the recom- mendation of the Surgeons, and that on the loss of their good-will he would be removed. He attends the Surgeons in the wards at all their visits, he receives their directions for the treatment of the Patients, and he sees them carried out. He is in constant communication with the Surgeons, and he makes it his business to learn their opinion of the cases under their care. In a case of death, he is able, — if only the Coroner is wilHng to hear it at secondhand, — to say correctly what in the opinion of the Surgeons is the cause of death. It is not so at the Radcliff"e Infirmary. There it, may happen that the House-Surgeon may give an opinion of his own, that the death was caused by a course of treatment, or an operation, which he did not see, did not understand, or did not remember. He is not responsible for the treat- ment of the Patients. The rules of his office, not less than the orders of the Governors, forbid him to undertake it. He36? is not the proper witness at an enquiry into the cause of death. A specimen of what kind of evidence may be given by a House-Surgeon can be seen in a published report of a case at the Assizes last year. When a suggestion is publicly made at a meeting of the Governors, — without contradiction by any of the Medical Officers, — that the Patients are sent there for their bodies to be experimented on ; — that there are ' mis-haps' in Me- dical practise; — when the Registrar of Deaths is asked by the Governors to alter an entry made under the authority of a Medical certificate from the House-Surgeon ; — and when it is publicly stated, without contradiction, that in a case of death there were three entries in the books of the Institution of a conflicting character, it can not be a matter of wonder that a question has arisen whether the Medical evidence, which it has been customary to give, is that evidence which ought to be laid before an Inquest by the Managers of the Institution. In the interests of public justice, I know no claim which the Medical Officers of the Radcliffe Infirmary have to be exempt from the duty of attending personally to give evidence touching the death of Patients under their care, more than other general Practitioners of Medicine have, who hold office in a Workhouse, or a Prison, a Dispensary, or a Benefit Club. 3 December, 1878. To THE Editor of the Oxford Chronicle. Sir, — In the Oxford Chronicle of Saturday last, after a report of what you call some ' Extraordinary Proceedings at the Infirmary,' these words are attributed to Mr. S., the Chairman of the Committee of Management; — ' Mr. Hussey has been offered, on the part of the Committee, every kind of courtesy to facilitate the working of his Inquests here; and he has taken no notice of that courtesy.' Be kind enough to allow me to say that the statement so attributed to Mr. S., — like other statements of his to which, on former occasions, I have more or less publicly called atten- tion, — is not true. 23 December, 1878.368 To THE Secretary, Radcliffe Infirmary. Dear Mr. Secretary, — Mr. S.'s letter [of which you have sent me a copy,] is a request to the Secretary of State, to give his authority to a pecuHar interpretation of the Medical Witness Act, and to enforce the observance of it in the Infirmary. No application has been made to me by Mr. S., or by the Medical Officers: and I am not aware that any attention has been paid to the letter on the subject addressed by me to the President, and referred by his Excellency to the Committee. If any such authoritative interpretation can be obtained, and one which will be ac- cepted by the Judges, it will, I am sure, be adopted by all Coroners, and by none more cheerfully than by me. As far as I understand the question raised, the objection to attend an Inquest, is only made on the part of the two junior Medical Officers, neither of whom has been a twelve-month in office. The Senior Surgeon has declared to me and to others, his readiness to attend when his opinion is wanted. Through private sources I have heard that Mr. Brunner was not in all cases satisfied with the Medical testimony furnished by the House: and I bear in mind that, in one case at least, a public correspondence with Mr. S. followed, not very friendly in character. It is a matter of public notoriety that the present Coroner for the County has not, any more than I have, followed in all cases the practise of his predecessor. Since I have been Coroner, 21 cases have been referred to me from the Infirmary. In two of them I did not think an Inquest necessary. In one of these Mr. S. afterwards publicly gave his opinion that an Inquest ought to have been held. In the other, I summoned a Jury in obedience to the printed application received from the Infirmary. The Jury agreed with me that an Inquest was not necessary. In about one third of the number the Patients were admitted in a dying state; and one body was brought in dead. One case of death of an Out-Patient was referred to me. In the in- formation given at the Inquest in that case, I did not see any3^9 reason why the death might not have been registered^ without Inquest, on the customary Medical certificate. It seems to me that in future, under the new system of Registration of deaths, with the help of the Medical Officers of Public Health, with the modern efficient system of Police, and with the prospect at an early period of a Public Pro- secutor, the cases for the Coroner will be fewer. But whatever the number, I think that the Medical Practitioner who visits the Patient, and prescribes the treatment, is the person whose opinion ought to be submitted to the Jury in a case where there is a doubt of the cause of death, and also in all cases likely to become the subject of a criminal prosecution. It seems to me that I should be liable to censure from the Judge, if knowing who the Practitioner was, I failed to call him. With the exception of one case, (altogether of an unpre- cedented kind,) which happened immediately after I was appointed Coroner, the case mentioned was the first in which I have held an Inquest on a Patient after an operation. You may remember that in a former case I did not think it ne- cessary ; though Mr. S. afterwards publicly declared his opinion that an Inquest ought to have been held. Bearing in mind the discussion which arose in some of the public Journals upon a misunderstanding, as I thought it, of the law applicable to those cases, I ventured to remind the Jury of what the law was. If I have stated it erroneously, or imperfectly, I shall be thankful to have my opinion corrected by the Legal advisers of the House. In the notes you give, there are two or three mistakes, of which it may be worth while to point out one. In referring to the view of the body, I said to the Jury, ' You see that the limb is not torn off.' In a late case the Jury had seen that a limb was crushed and torn off. It was apparent to them, as men of the world, that the injuries were the cause of death. No Professional opinion was wanted. Mr. S.'s letter is the first intimation I have had of the sug- gestion of the unskilfulness of the treatment: I do not believe that any of the Jury thought of it. If Mr. S. (the Surgeon) had attended, or given in his letter to me an outline of the Medical particulars, the proceedings would have been shorter, with less chance of the stupid notion being started. B b370 It is remarkable that in the printed application to hold an Inquest, the operation, (the treatment^ in fact,) is placed among the alleged circumstances of death. Let me suggest that the form of notice should be reconsidered and altered. While I continued one of the acting Medical Officers, I had beforehand an outline of the Medical evidence. Through the courtesy of Mr. Briscoe, I have received such through him. It saves unnecessary questions, and enables me to shorten the examination of the witnesses who depose to Medical facts or opinions. Always bearing in mind that when first appointed Coroner, I received in the House the congratulations of Mr. S., no one reciprocates more heartily than I do, the wish for a peaceable and orderly observance of the proceedings in the discharge of the duties of the office. Immediately after the Meeting in January last year, when my connection with the House as one of the Medical Officers ceased, I went to the Senior Medical Officer, with whom I had acted as a Colleague for a8 years, and — in the hope of permanently establishing friendly relations, — I suggested that he should be the bearer of a communication from me to the Committee. He declined to do so. 22 Januaryy 1879. To THE Secretary, Radcliffe Infirmary. Dear Mr. Secretary,—Although in Mr. S.'s letter to the Secretary of State there is only one question raised, there are ' circumstances ' brought under his notice, to which my atten- tion is directed by your sending me a copy of the letter. I have not referred to these in my letter to you in reply. I beg the favor of your laying that letter of mine and this before the Governors at the next General Court. From the Minute of the Court, a copy of which was sent to me at the time, it appears that the reason given by the Governors for ' removing' me from the office I held was that they were of ' opinion that the offices of Surgeon to the Infirmary and Coroner to the City are not proper to be held371 by the same person.' When requested by me to point out how, or why, the two offices are not proper to be so held, they did not give any answer. Mr. S. calls attention to some remarks made the year before last by one of the Judges, He does not quote them correctly, and he does not name the individual Judge who so far forgot his position as to make ' animadversion' publicly on the con- duct of an Officer of the Crown, without first calling on him for explanation. It was the extra-judicial dictum of a newly- appointed Judge, imperfectly informed of the law as well as the facts, and, but for the artificial importance given by two or three Governors at a meeting in the Infirmary, such remarks would not be worth notice. Of the Judge himself, and the occasion he took for his remarks, it was well said by one of the Governors present, ' that he came into Court with a small allowance of temper, and that he had lost that little before he had completed his sitting.' If any remarks reflecting on the conduct of one of the supe- rior Officers of a 'public Institution' were deserving of the attention of the Governors, their duty, on every recognised principle of justice, would be to call the attention of their Officer to them, and to receive explanation from him, before further notice was taken. To this, it may be said in reply, that it is not the custom in the Infirmary for the Governors to ask for explanation from persons whom they condemn, or to hear more than one side of a case. But in truth, the eager advocacy of two or three persons of narrow views and slender judgement failed to procure attention for remarks which might well be passed over, as having been words of indiscretion and altogether out of place. The mention by Mr. S. of the ' Honorary Medical Officers' is an other mistake. Those Officers have no duty in relation to the Patients. They do not attend them, and they are not able to give evidence. I never proposed to call any of them as witnesses. But of the acting Medical Officers — those who attend the Patients, — the ' superiors, under whose instructions the H ouse-Surgeon must act,' as declared at an Inquest by a former House-Surgeon, now one of the Medical Officers of B b 2372 the Infirmary, — it should be borne in mind that they do not stand in the same relation to the Governors and the public as former Officers. They no longer hold their office for life, or for good behavior. These 'valued Officers' — as Mr. S. calls them, — are now liable to be dismissed at will, with less for- mality than the menial servants. They can be ' removed ' at any General Court, without notice to them or to the Governors, — without cause found or complaint made. Five votes are enough for the purpose. The two last elected of the Officers have accepted their office on such terms; and the others have shown that they are not unwilling to continue under them, 17 April, 1879. To THE Editor of the Medical Times and Gazette. Sir, — In some remarks in the Medical Times and Gazette, referring to what you call ' the differences between the City Coroner and the authorities of the Radclifife Infirmary,' are some statements which need correction. The ' chief causes of these differences ' was that one of the Surgeons (not the one you mention), after receiving the usual notice to attend an Inquest, did not attend, and did not give any reason for being absent. I brought the subject imme- diately to the notice of the Governing Body by a letter to the President. The letter was referred by him to the Chairman of the Committee ; and — as far as I have been able to learn, — no notice was taken of the subject. Afterwards, at an other Inquest, one of the other Surgeons, who failed to attend under a summons, was brought as a wit- ness under a warrant. Upon complaint made in due course by a Solicitor on his behalf, the warrant and the proceedings under it were submitted to the lawyers. Under their opinion that the numerous legal formalities required had not all been properly observed, a written acknowlegement was immediately made by me that I was not legally justified in issuing the warrant, , . . No notice that that acknowlegement had been received, ever reached me. No ' action at law' was commenced373 till after this, — two months, in fact, after the warrant; and the ' legal proceedings' were limited to issuing a writ, and sending a copy to a SoHcitor for me. It can not be necessary to remind your Readers of the general principle of justice that, when a man injures an other, he should bear the expense, or a reasonable part of it. This case offered no exception ; and I readily agreed to the pro- posal made on behalf of the Practitioner supposed to be in- jured, that I should pay something toward the charges of his Solicitor. I have no knowlege of any ' disagreements be- tween the Coroner and the Medical Profession.' Whatever they may have been, they were confined to the two junior Medical Officers of the Infirmary, neither of whom had been a twelvemonth in office. lo March, 1879. From the Home Office to the Chairman of the Committee of Management, in reply to his letter soliciting the intervention of the Secretary of State :— ' Sir, — I am directed by the Secretary of State to acknowlege the receit of your letter of the 5th inst., stating that the Committee of Management of the Radcliffe Infirmary have accepted the Secretary of State's proposal with regard to cases of inquest held at that Infirmary, and I am to request that you will lay the following recommendation before the Committee for their consideration. ' The Coroner is not only entitled, but bound, to summon any witness whose evidence he considers essential to the enquiry ; and in the exer- cise of his discretion in this respect he is not to be interfered with. At the same time it is his duty to conduct the enquiry with the least amount of inconvenience to those concerned, and especially to the Officers of so useful an institution as the Radcliffe Infirmary. ' In special cases, where the cause of death in the Infirmary after an operation can not be ascertained without investigating both the neces- sity and also the effect of the operation, the presence of the Surgeon who performed the operation is properly required. ' But in ordinary cases, where, though there has been an operation, no question arises concerning it, and the evidence of the House- Surgeon is sufficient for the purpose of proving the cause of death, the presence of the Surgeon who performed the operation should be dispensed with.374 ' The Officers of the Infirmary should readily conform to all legal requirements of the Coroner, and should render to him every assistance in the conduct of his Inquest. ' I am, Sir, your obedient servant, 'Godfrey Lushington. ' Whitehall, March 8, 1879.' To THE Secretary, Radcliffe Infirmary. Dear Mr. Secretary, — Referring to your letter to me, enclosing a copy of Mr. S.'s letter of the 15th of January to the Secretary of State, soliciting the intervention of his office, — to the answer of the Secretary of State, dated 8th March, — to my letter of 31st October last, addressed to the President of the Infirmary, and referred by his Excellency to the Committee of Managetnentj — to my letters to you, of 22 January and 17 April, —all of them in the matter of In- quests at the Infirmary, — I beg the favor of your informing me whether the Committee of Management have any further communication to make. 12 May, 1879. From the Secretary. Dear Sir,— I beg to acknowlege the receit of your letter of the 12th inst., and in reply to state that I have received no directions from the Committee of Management to make any further communication with reference to previous correspondence in the matter of Inquests at the Infirmary. IS May, 1879. To THE Director of Public Prosecutions. Sir, — As Coroner of this City, and a Medical Practitioner, I venture respectfully to ask your opinion upon the nature of the Medical evidence to be requii'ed at an Inquest in cases of death by violence. The only difficulty I have had has been at the Radcliffe Infirmary; and the only persons who have refused to attend as witnesses have been the two Junior Surgeons of the insti- tution. In one case, one of them, after having had notice,375 failed to attend. The Jury did not think his attendance of importance, and they gave a verdict without it. In an other case the Surgeon having failed to attend on a summons, the Inquest was adjourned, and he was brought up on a warrant. Under the advice of Counsel that the arrest was informal, he threatened legal proceedings. The Managing Governors of the Infirmary took the part of their Officers ; and one of them wrote to the Secretary of State, soliciting his intervention to hinder me from calling the Medical Officers in future. A copy of the Secretary of State's letter in reply is enclosed. In cases where the death has happened from accidental causes, I have no wish to call unnecessary evidence. But, where the information points to violence likely to become the subject of investigation in a Criminal Court, it seems to me that such evidence ought to be laid before the Jury as will be satisfactory to the advisers of the Crown as prosecutors, and not open to censure from the Judge of Assize. The facts, — that the deceased was admitted a Patient into the Infirmary on a given day, with certain injuries, and that certain appearances were observed after death — might be given by the House-Surgeon, by a Pupil, or perhaps by a Nurse. But, if scientific evidence is required, — such as a Profes- sional opinion, — it seems to me that it ought to be taken from the Surgeon who had the proper care of the deceased as a Patient, the proper Officer who himself gave orders for the treatment during life, and who is himself directly answerable to the Governors and the public. To take the opinion of the House-Surgeon would be asking a Medical man to give a Pro- fessional opinion on a case which was under the care of an other Practitioner, — a proceeding which is not agreeable to the usages of the Medical Profession. It seems to me that the Surgeon himself ought to give the scientific evidence ; and that, knowing as I do the difference between him and the House-Surgeon, I should be liable to censure from the Judge of Assize if I failed to call the Surgeon himself. A distinction is to be drawn between cases in the large Hospitals in London, and those in the country. In London the • House-Surgeon is appointed on the recommendation of376 the Surgeon. He attends the Surgeon in his visits to the Patients, he receives his directions for the treatment, and sees it carried out. He is in full and confidential communication with the Surgeon; and he makes it his business to learn the Surgeon's opinion on the cases under treatment. In case of death, the House-Surgeon is able to say what, in the opinion of the Surgeon, is the cause of death ; and, if the Jury are willing to receive the Surgeon's opinion at secondhand, the House- Surgeon can give it. It is not so here : and it may happen that the House- Surgeon, if called as a witness, may report an operation, or a course of treatment, which he did not see, did not understand, or did not remember, with his own opinion of the effect of it on the cause of death. It is within my knowlege that such a thing has happened. 12 J actuary ^ 1880. To THE Secretary, Radcliffe Infirmary. Dear Mr. Secretary,—In the Report of the Infirmary for the last year, which I received yesterday evening, I see that my name is placed among the Officers of the Institution as one of the ' Honorary Surgeons.' Will you be kind enough to tell me by what authority that has been done? It is the first time I have seen it; or even heard of it as a thing pro- posed. The date of 1878 is placed there with it. But my name does not appear anywhere among the Officers in the Report for that year. It seems that you have had an other good year, in point of money. The Receits were ;^7,748; and the disbursements (with all your extravagances), only ;^6,945. An addition of ^£'1,596 was made to the funded Capital. But you still keep out of sight the amount of cash in hand. 20 March, 1880. To THE Chairman of the Committee of Manage- ment. Sir,—By a letter from the Secretary, in answer to an enquiry I made of him, I learn for the first time that at the377 Quarterly Court in April last year, it was Resolved,—by the correction of what was then voted to be an ' error,'— that I had been, in January 1878, appointed an ' Honorary Surgeon' of the Infirmary, The privileges of such an Officer were, I believe, created under a letter from the late Clinical Professor in June last year, and they consist in the use of a Laboratory lately erected for Medical research. The only time I remember a question of the position of such an Officer coming before the Governors, was at the Quarterly Court in October i860j when, one of the Junior Physicians having accepted a Professorship, which was declared by the terms of the endowment to be incompatible with the practise of Medicine, resigned his office of Physician. Before that time the only ' Honorary' Medical Officers were the Senior Physician and the Senior Surgeon, upon ceasing from their active duties. I urged upon the attention of the Governors present that the proceedings in a Hospital should be brought under the influence of a legitimate public opinion, and that the work of the Medical Officers should be open,—as far as it could be made so,—to the review of their Professional brethren ;—that by continuing the retiring Physician upon the Medical Staff, he would have the right to be present, as formerly, upon occasions of Medical investigation, — and I proposed that he should be named an ' Honorary Physician': it was agreed by the Court, 23 March, 1880. To THE President and Governors of the Radcliffe Infirmary, My Lord Duke, and Gentlemen,—On the 20th of March, i88o, I was informed for the first time that,—by the correction of what the Quarterly Court of Governors in April 1879 voted to be 'a Clerical error in the Minutes/ — I had been, in January 1878, ' made an Honorary Surgeon' of the Infirmary. Whether this was the only 'error' in those extraordinary proceedings, you may be better able to judge, if you have before you the state of things in which — to use the words of the Report for the year 1878, — I ' ceased to be a Surgeon to the Infirmary.'378 In the winter of 1876 it was a matter of common con- versation, that, upon a vacancy in the office of Coroner of the City, it was likely that I should succeed to the office. No mention of any objection on the part of my Colleagues, nor from the Governors, reached me; and I do not believe that any was made, either then, or afterwards when I received the appointment. So far from it,—the Governor, who, as Chairman of the Committee of Management, has long ruled the Infirmary, took the opportunity, of his own accord, the first time he met me in the House, to offer his congratulations upon my being appointed to the office. The first occasion on which I was required to discharge the duties of the office, was upon the death of a man, who had been under my care as a Patient in the Infirmary. However objectionable such a proceeding appears to a man who has given attention to matters of judicial investigation, there was no way to avoid it. The poor man's home, where I had seen him before he came into the Infirmary, had been broken up; or I could have ordered his body to be taken there. It was beyond the boundary of the City; and when there, the body would have been in the jurisdiction of an other Coroner. The words of the Statute under which I hold the office are clear,—that no other Coroner shall take an Inquisition within the City, and that no Deputy could act in the present case. In a County, not only can the Coroner's Deputy act for him ; but any one of the other Coroners can do the same: and he can relieve himself from the unpleasant duty which was thrown upon me by operation of law. The Jury found a verdict, attributing the death to a wilful act of violence: and the accused was tried at the Assizes on a bill of indictment found by the Grand Jury. At the Assizes, the Judge, forgetting perhaps that the case was in a Municipal Borough, without asking for explanation, addressed me from the Bench,—that I could have called in one of the Coroners for the County to hold the Inquest. I could only bow, with submission, to that statement of the law. He was instantly corrected by a Solicitor who was present. The Judge again addressed me, — that I could have appointed a Deputy. I ventured, with submission, to say,379 that the Deputy had no power to act in such a case. Upon production of an extract from the Statute-book, the Judge openly, and in terms as plain as a Judge speaking from the Bench can use, admitted that I was right in the interpretation I put on a modern Act of Parliament. Some remarks fell from the Bench on the state of the law under which a Coroner, if a Medical Practitioner, was required to hold an Inquest in the case of a person who had been a Patient under his care. These remarks were quoted at the Meeting, and called ' stringent' by the Chairman, and by an other Governor, ' not made with the usual dignity that proceeds from the occupants of the Bench.' The case was in many respects extraordinary. The evidence brought at the Inquest was defective; there had not been any Magisterial investigation ; and the depositions usually taken in such cases, had not been returned for the information of the Court. These things did not escape the observation of the J'-idge. But no thought of any connection of the Infirmary, or its Officers, with the proceedings, entered the head of Judge, or any one else. Some three months afterwards, a Professor in the University, formerly one of the acting Physicians of the Infirmary, and now one of the Honorary Physicians, being abroad during a holiday, writes at some length to the Chairman of the Com- mittee of Management, with his opinion that a Coronership ought not to be tenable simultaneously with the post of Medical Officer of the Infirmary, and desiring that it may be notified to the Committee. He might be smarting, perhaps, under the recollection of the scandal of an Inquest held on a Patient under his care, when he was Physician. He might have forgotten that a similar office was now held by one of the other Medical Officers,—but it was the Coronership of the University; and it was not held by a man with whom he had so often put himself in opposition. I have heard that he had been known on former occasions to declare that he would never rest till I was turned out of the Infirmary. He once told the Committee that he would not submit to have his will controlled by a General Court of Governors ; that he would have his opinion put upon the Minutes whether the Governors liked it or not. His manner and language in Com-38o mittee have been such, that,— if I am not misinformed,—he has had more than once to send a written apology. It was upon his bidding, six months after I had been appointed to the office in question, that the Chairman of the Committee now ' took the matter up.' It is the custom at the ordinary Weekly Meetings, for the Committee to take business relating to the regular affairs of the House: important business is not taken without previous notice. This, however, was brought forward, without notice, at the next Weekly Meeting, when only ten Members of the Committee were present; and, after some of them, who did not agree in it, had left the room, a Resolution was passed, and afterwards declared publicly by the Chairman and the Professor upon whose bidding it was proposed, to be the ' unanimous ' vote of the Committee, although the private act of less than a third of the number. The Chairman sent me a copy; and I wrote to him at once, that, as it was a matter affecting one of the Medical Officers, it was not a subject within the discretion allowed to the Committee. The letter I sent was not read at any of the Meetings. The business to be considered at the Quarterly Courts is advertized in the newspapers on the two Saturdays next before the Meeting. But there was not time for this : so it appeared only once,—three days before the Meeting. The Resolution of the Committee was adopted at the Court: 13 Governors voted for it,—less than half of those present. A month's warning was to be given to me to quit their service; and the Court was adjourned for a month, to com- plete the work they had begun. When the month was out, the Governors met again. They took for Chairman the Head of a College, and former Vice- Chancellor, who had on some occasions taken the same post, and who between two and three years ago begged leave to decline taking it again; and now, at a public Meeting, . . . when the question before the Governors was, that certain offices were 'incompatible' and 'not properly tenable' to- gether, ... he took the two posts of Chairman and Advocate, — posts which everywhere else are held to be incompatible, and not properly tenable together: and, while referring, as a38i matter of ' scandal,' to ' the stringent remarks,' as he called them, of the Judge of Assize, he did not refer to the fact that the Judge said publicly that I was right. An unpardonable offence had been committed. In a case wholly unprecedented, and overlooked in the amendments made by modern legis- lation, I had, in the discharge of a public duty, acted in obedience to an imperfect law. For this I was to be con- demned without being asked for explanation;—though the Chairman, having sat as a Judge in a criminal Court, ought to have known that if there is one principle in the adminis- tration of 'justice ' more firmly held than any other, it is that no man shall be condemned without a hearing. The Chairman of Committee now led the way. Of him and his statements it is enough to say, that I have, publicly in his presence, without contradiction, denounced his state- ments,— as being simply, wholly, absolutely false. The Professof*, by whose direction the question was raised, now came second. In an unguarded moment, — and wander- ing, like all the other speakers, from the question before the Court,—he told the Governors he had been in opposition to me at the Local Board, when some cases of small-pox were in the next County. The fact is, that, as a member of the Local Board, I supported a proposal made by the Mayor, for dividing the Town into districts, to be allotted to the Medical Practitioners, for house-to-house visitation, so as to find out all the persons un-protected by vaccination, and to see that all should be vaccinated without delay. The pro- posal of the Mayor of the City was not that of the Professor of the University. He did not see that, if it was adopted, any spreading of the disease would be impossible within the Town. ■ He did not also tell the assembled Governors that, at a meeting of the Committee of the Local Board, on a day when I was in the Chair, his behavior had been such that, after in vain calling him to order, I rose from the Chair, and left the room, followed by other Members of the Board. It was not without reason that a Governor present said that the matter before the Court was ' something more than a mere discussion of the merits of the case,'—and an other Governor, that' it had been far too much loaded and crowded382 with personal considerations.' The remark outside was, that it was the squabbles of the Local Board introduced there. The Senior Physician, who is also a Professor of the University, did not sit in silence. Had he, it might have been asked, discharged the duties of his two offices in such a manner that he should be a man to call public attention to the way in which other Officers did their work ? He was one of the largest contributors to the testimonial lately raised to the Chairman of Committee. If it belongs to the Governors to enquire into duties discharged outside the House, how is it they do not look to the mode in which duty is done within it? An other Member of the University, the neighbor and friend of the Promoter, came to the support of the Judge, whose extra-judicial remarks were a subject of discussion. A Lawyer by profession, he did not tell them that there were on the Bench men of different Professional fame; nor did he tell them that the opinion of the ablest Judge is not much esteemed, when given on a question not before the Court, and without a hearing of the party affected. An other Member of the Universit}'-, one of the Honorary Physicians of the Infirmary, the paid Officer of Health, and a Justice of the Peace, talked of ' incompatible' offices, and of his own anxiety to get out of such. It did occur to some persons that he, — a public servant, receiving public money, and having a seat on the Bench to administer public funds,— was not a man to be giving his opinion of what is ' altogether incompatible' in other public Officers. Would it not have been well, too, if he and his fellow Justices, who had fallen under the lash of the JudgCj had set themselves right, before one of them came there to try and set others right ? The Junior Member of the Committee, the Bursar of a College, announcing that he had been an Office-bearer in a Hospital in London, standing among them the greatest man there, — the proverbial ^ last man from Loftdon;—told them that it would not be tolerated in any Hospital in London, or in any place of any size, that the two offices should be held by one of the Medical Officers. Did he know that within 60 miles, in a town nine times the size of Oxford, there was383 a Hospital as large as the Radcliffe Infirmary, where the two offices had been held together for ao years? He did not tell them that in London the duties of the Coroner are too heavy for a Professional man to be able to discharge at the same time the duties of an other appointment; nor, that there is in London a public opinion which will not ' tolerate' the discharge of public duties in the way in which they were done in the Radclifife Infirmary, by one, — at least, — of the Medical Officers. An other Member of the University also talked, — a Go- vernor who lately recorded in the books of the Infirmary a false statement of the symptoms of one of the Patients, with his own opinion that a different course of treatment ought to have been followed in the case:—And a Fellow of the same College as the Promoter, suggested that Patients were sent to Hospitals to have .their bodies experimented upon; and that it would not do to have a person from behind the scenes to sit as Coroner over them. If these Governors had said or done such things in ' a Hospital in London, or a place of any size,' it may be confidently said that they would have found the Committee Room too warm to ' tolerate' them again. With all the efforts made by the promoters to bring the Governors to the Meeting, only a score,—out of 600 or more,—voted in the majority. If not overawed by the fierce- ness of one of them, or misled by the .... of the other, some may have acted under the influence of an old Statute of the University,—that no Officer, or Deputy, nor any Servant of the University, shall hold at the same time any office in the City. So large a number of the Governors are Members of the University, and so few others are willing to take part in such scenes and to oppose, no wonder that they sometimes think and act as if they alone were the Managers, the Medical Officers their Servants, and the Infirmary an Institution of the University. Having the privilege of naming their own Coroner, they resent the intrusion of the Coroner of the City, ... ' an Officer,' said the Chairman of the Committee (himself a member of the University), ' having a jurisdiction which derives its power from a source entirely independent of the Governors, and superior to them.'384 Supreme in power, though small in number, what the Governors resolve, it is the duty of an Officer to receive. I asked them by letter to tell me how and why the two offices were ' not proper to be held by the same person.' The only answer they gave, was — that I was to go. The new Rule was, in fact, made for that purpose. I ventured to point out, during the short time I was present at one of the Meetings, that in making a new order restraining the Medical Officers from the right they always had of taking an appointment or employment outside the House, it was the universal practise of the Infirmary, as of all Hospitals and other Public Institutions ' in London, or in any place of any size,' that the new Rule should not be applied to the Officers on the Staff at the time a new order of things was to be established, different from that on the faith of which they had accepted their appointments; and that there was not any case in which an Officer was called upon to resign when the change was made. It was a waste of time to talk of the faith the Governors of a Public Institution ought to keep with an Officer. It seems a pity that persons in a public position, engaged in the duty of ministering to the wants of sick and lame poor, talking—as it seems by the published report of the Meeting, — of 'conscience,' of 'justice/ of 'shame,' of 'scandal,' of ' indecency,' of what is ' immoral,' and ' untruthful,' should take so little trouble to find the thing which is, and should be blinded so readily by the thing which is not. April 1880. • To Dr. L. My Dear Sir,—Your 'Protest' reached me duly. But, what of it? The Members of the University look on the Infirmary as a little place of private patronage. No attention is paid to anything coming from an 'outsider.' The Com- mittee of Management, consisting of 37 Governors, is to be formed from the County, the City, and the University,—a third of the number from each. Yet it now has 18 members of the University, —just two thirds of the whole number. But there is a 'previous question,' as I told you,—that385 Mr. S. is still the Treasurer. The Special Court for choosing his successor was irregular, having been summoned by 6 Governors, with a ' Lady subscribing as Governor,' — instead of 7 Governors as required by the Constitution. 6 December, i88o. ... I could have reminded him that at the Meeting of Governors, when he, — a Licentiate of the College of Phy- sicians of London, — was proposed as a Candidate for the office of Physician, the Chairman of the Committee of Management recommended to the favorable notice of the Governors present a Candidate, not holding that License, as possessing the one qualification which the other Candidate did not possess, — that of a Graduate of ' this University.' THE WARNEFORD ASYLUM. To THE Rev. W. N. C, Chairman of the Committee. Dear Sir,—As a Governor of the Warneford Asylum, and as a Candidate for the office of Medical Superintendant, you will forgive me, I hope, in calling your attention to a paragraph in the Oxford Journal of to-day, in which it is stated ' that the Committee have selected three Medical men from the number of applicants; and from them the final election will be made.' It can hardly, I think, be necessary for me to remind you that the election of Officers rests altogether with the Governors, and that the Committee are not entrusted by the Rules, or by any reference from the Governors, with any such power of selection. I have heard it stated that the Committee made the selection before the time appointed by public adver- tizement had expired, for Candidates to send in their ap- plications. 7 September, 1872. The Secretary sent me the following entry from the Minute book:— 'The Chairman having read a letter which he had received from C C386 Mr. Hussey, relative to a paragraph in one of the Oxford papers, respect- ing the election of Officers, the Secretary was requested to inform Mr. Hussey that the Committee were not responsible for such paragraphs.' To THE President and Governors of the Warneford Asylum. My Lords, Ladies, and Gentlemen, — As a Governor of the Asylum, and as a Candidate for the vacant Office of Resident Medical Superintendant, I beg leave most respect- fully to request your attention to a notice issued by order of the Committee of Management, in which three Medical gentlemen are named by the Committee as being in their judgement most eligible for the office. It can hardly be necessary, I suppose, for me to point out for your consideration that the election of the Officer rests altogether with the Governors, and that the Committee are not entrusted by the Rules, or by any reference from you, with any power of selection or recommendation, and that there is not any precedent for their undertaking it. The selection, as I understand, was made at the ordinary Weekly Meeting of the Committee, ten days before the time ap- pointed by public advertizement for Candidates to send their applications had expired : and before the Committee had received an application from me. The established Rules of the House require, among other qualifications, that the Resident Medical Superintendant shall be a married man at the time of his appointment; and as the new Rules, which propose extensive changes in this and other important particulars, have not been confirmed, this quali- fication is required at the present Election. Two of the Candidates named by the Committee are not married. II Septeviber, 1872. To R. H. H. S., Esq., Medical Superintendant of THE Asylum at L. My dear Sir, — The ' outsider' was summoned to the Inquest at the Warneford Asylum by direction of the Coroner, — not by the Medical Superintendant. The Coroner claimsI 387 the right to summon whom he thinks proper, to give evidence of the cause of death, and to make the necessary p, m. ex- amination. It does not rest on any Act of Padiament: it depends upon the will of the Coroner, I told the Coroner that his new practise seemed to me to be in opposition to the ' Medical Witness Act/ which requires the Coroner to take the Practitioner in attendance, and only allows him to call an other Practitioner, when somebody makes oath before him that he suspects the Practitioner in attendance has helped the deceased out of the world. If the Coroner of the City adopts the practise, he must (when he has an Inquest at a certain Infirmary), take some Practitioner not on the Staff, to give evidence, make p. m. examination, &c. The Workhouse is, I think, partly in the County, and partly in the City, of course a similar practise must be followed there. I have not seen Mr. D. since I heard all this. You have to consider whether the Order of the Coroner can give the right of admission to the Dead-house against your will. 15 ytme, 1880. To J. M. D., Esq. My dear Sir, — Many thanks are due to you for the trouble you have so kindly taken. As a general proposition there can be no doubt of the correctness of the opinion given by the Secretary of State to the Committee at the Radcliffe Infirmary,—that 'the Coroner is not only entitled, but bound, to summon any witness whose evidence he considers essential to the enquiry; and that in the exercise of his discretion in that respect he is not to be interfered with.' Whether the power is not limited by the ' Medical Witness Act,' 6 & 7 W. 4, c. 89, is open to question. It seems to me that the Coroner has not the power claimed by Mr. R., — except in case of oath made before him of improper or negligent treatment, I have told Mr. S. that he has to consider whether the order of the Coroner can give a strange Practitioner a right of entry, — and if, as assumed by the Coroner, the Medical Officers of the House are not the fit persons to examine the C c «3«« body of a Patient in case of an Inquest, whether they are fit to do so in any case. The question is of importance to the Managers and the Medical Officers of all Public Institutions. For, if Mr. R. is right, his rule ought to be followed in all Hospitals and Workhouses ; and I, — as Coroner of the City, — must act upon it at the Radclifife Infirmary, and send a Practitioner from outside into the House on every Inquest. 16 Jime, 1880. To Dr. W. My dear Sir,—You know I believe, that I have been in communication with Mr. D., with reference to the late Inquest at the Asylum. The act of the Coroner, as I understand it, conveys such an imputation upon the Medical Superintendant, as well as on the Consulting Officers, that I (as a Governor), can not allow the subject to pass without calling further attention to it. If you, and the Consulting Officers, are not fit to examine the body of a Patient in case of an Inquest, it seems to me that you, and they, are not fit to do it in any case; and if so, that you and they ought not to be trusted to attend the Patients during life. I understand that the Coroner gave as a reason, that he wished to have some Practitioner independent of the House. Unless some one made oath before him that he believed the death was caused by negligent or improper treatment, the Coroner is required to take as a Witness the Practitioner in attendance. If Mr. D. is not able to be at the Committee on Tuesday, I propose to attend; and to beg their attention to the subject, and to suggest that they should refer it to the Commissioners in Lunacy. The question, as you can easily see, is of im- portance to the Governors and the Medical Officers of every Public Institution in the Kingdom, — not less than to all Practitioners. For if, — contrary to my opinion, — Mr. R. is right, it will be my duty, as Coroner of the City, to follow his rule in future cases, in Public Institutions, and in cases under private Practitioners. 19 June, 1880.389 To THE Same. My dear Mr. Medical Superintendant,— Thanks for your letter. It was my wish, — as it was my duty, — being in relation to the Committee a Governor and an Officer, and in relation to yourself a Professional brother and Colleague — to save the Institution, the Committee, and yourself from the repetition of an indignity; — but, volenti noil fit injuria. At a neighboring Institution, — which may be nameless, — we know very well that neither Committee, nor Medical Superintendant would take it so smoothly. The Coroner of the City, who is made to appear at Com- mittee, has no concern in it. The Warneford Asylum is not within his bounds: the 'difficulty' would not have arisen within the City. You and I see in it an other reason for having Coroners members of the Medical Profession, rather than of an other. Quarter Sessions here are liberal with their Coroners. In some Counties the fee paid to the strange Practitioner would not have been allowed. 22 July, 1880. MEDICAL EDUCATION. To C^sar H. Hawkins, Esq. My dear Sir,—Referring to the Regulation lately issued by the Council of the College of Surgeons, rejecting certifi- cates of attendance on Hospitals, if two Clinical Lectures are not given every week during 9 months of the year, I beg to call your attention, and, through you, that of the Council, to the injustice of it, as it bears on the Radcliffe Infirmary, and other County Hospitals. This Regulation will have the effect of removing all County Hospitals except 8 from the list of recognized Hospitals, not only as regards the attendance of Students likely to be candidates for the Member's diploma, but also as to the Dressers, House-Surgeons, and others, who may desire the Fcllpzvs diploma. And the injustice is not less, because other390 Regulations, enforcing an increased attendance in London, had previously deprived these Hospitals of most of the Pupils who formerly resorted to them as Schools of Surgery, It is an indirect attempt to force again on the teachers of Surgery those Regulations which were rescinded in 1826, upon the universal condemnation of the Members of the College, The number of Pupils attending a County Hospital (except the few to which a School is attached,) is necessarily small; they are for the most part the private Pupils, either of the Surgeons of the Hospital, or of the other Practitioners in the town where the Hospital is situated. This limited number gives facilities for Clinical instruction, which are excluded in the crowded wards of the large Hospitals in London. It is not maintained that a Student can obtain a complete Profes- sional education in a County Hospital: but it is well known that a valuable amount of practical knowlege, with Clinical instruction, is given in a more effectual way than in any Hos- pital in London, to the mere walking Pupils ; and it is on account of this valuable instruction that attendance on County Hospitals has been hitherto acknowleged as a part of recog- nized Surgical education. The Physicians and Surgeons give as it is, with little or no remuneration, direct or indirect, a considerable portion of their time to their duties at the Hospitals ; and the Council ought not to ask them to bestow more of it, in the shape of these new formal lectures, on a labor for which they do not offer any commensurate advantage. If the Council mean to follow this regulation by shortening the time required of candidates for the membership for attend- ance in London, much of the grounds of complaint will be cleared away : but they do not give any assurance of such a beneficial line of conduct. 28 September, 1854.391 To THE Same. My dear Sir, — The effect of the Regulation I beheve I have stated fairly, though not perhaps so fully and in so explanatory a manner as might be. I can believe that the Council do not themselves know what will be the effect of it beyond the Hospitals in which they individually hold appointments. If the Regulation had said that certificates would not be received from the Radcliffe Infirmary and certain other Hospitals, naming them, — or that they would only be re- ceived from Birmingham, Liverpool, etc., — it would have been speaking openly. But, instead, it says that these cer- tificates must be accompanied by certificates of certain speci- fied Lectures ; and these lectures, in my opinion, will not be given in the County Hospitals, except in 8 (I think this is the number): and I say it is unjust in the Council to ask it. In 1826 certain Regulations then lately issued, which would have injured the Surgeons of the County Hospitals, in com- mon with other teachers, were rescinded, after a large meet- ing of the Members of the College. The Chairman of that meeting has for 20 years held a high and honorable position in the Council, and can correct me if I am wrong. Not many years ago the attendance required in London was 12 months; indeed, I believe it was once 6 months; it is now 3 years. This I call increasing the attendance in London; and the effect of it has been to lessen the number of Pupils at the Radcliffe Infirmary, and most other County Hospitals. In alluding to the Radcliffe Infirmary, you forget that, however long a man may attend, the 3 years' attendance in London is still required, as this is not one of the Hospitals to which a school is attached. And what you say of the existing Clinical Lectures on Physic, exemplifies the effect of the new Regulation ; for these lectures, given by the Clinical Professor (the only endowed Clinical Professor in England, I believe), are recognized for Students in Physic by the Univer- sity which grants degrees in Physic : while now, by the new Regulation of the Council of the College of Surgeons, they392 will be refused, as not competent instruction in Physic for the amount of it required of Students in Surgery ; and an ' equal number,' which you say can be given by the Surgeons without difficulty, will be equally refused, as it will come short of the new requirements. With reference to an other question, — of shortening the time of attendance in London, I am one of those (the minority perhaps at present,) who think that, with the improved modes of conferring instruction, it is no longer necessary to exact from parents and guardians the heavy pecuniary outlay re- quired for a 3 years' residence in London ; and that, for many reasons, it is desirable to shorten it. With many thanks for the trouble you have taken in reply- ing to my letter, and with deep regret that you do not agree in opinion with me on the subject of it. 7 October, 1854. To The Editor of the Association Medical Journal. Sir, — In Sir Charles Hastings's last letter on 'Medical Legislation,' he alludes with approbation to a wish for ' uni- formity of quahfication' throughout the United Kingdom. Will he, or Sir J. Kay Shuttleworth, whom he quotes as a supporter of the theory, point out how this is to be obtained through uniformity of cdiication "> Will he kindly tell us how a country Practitioner, out of his hard-earned £100 ox £\oo a year, is to give a son the same Professional education that a Court Physician or Serjeant Surgeon gets for his sons or nephews .-^ Perhaps Sir J. Kay Shuttleworth, while sitting in his easy chair, calmly comparing the pleasures and the profits of his present happy estate with the struggles and anxieties of the Profession he left, is going to use his influence in behalf of this part of the ' great university of learning;' and we may hear that the next Parliamentary vote for education will include some small sum for the advancement of that educa- tion on which alone can be founded the right to require uni- formity of qualification. Though this, after all, is not the same with uniformity of practise, or uniformity of profits.393 The opinion of a former President (Dr. Ogle) is not yet proved to be erroneous. ' "VVe shall do well to bear in mind, that so long as in His inscrutable wisdom, the all-wise and all-benevolent Author of every blessing sees fit to distribute with unequal hand the gifts of talents, means, and opportuni- ties, so long, must inequalities exist among us, which it is neither practicable nor desirable to efface.' February 1856. To Dr. C. My dear Dr. C, — The difificultiesjn the way of Mr. P.'s plan seemed to me to be so many, that I have not speculated, as you have, upon the effects likely to be produced upon the Medical Profession, — if it is adopted. When the University, throwing out tentaaila to bring within its touch those who owe it no allegiance, offers to all comers a stains, — a dignity at all events, — in the Faculty of Arts, it seems reasonable to think that a way will be found to bring the Profession at large within the sphere of its legitimate in- fluence, and to extend to Students generally increased oppor- tunities and facilities for availing themselves of the advantages offered, — advantages which can not be too highly prized. The expense of an education in the University is too great to be within the reach of any but a small portion of those who enter the Profession, (as most have done,) with the view to earn their bread in it. It is this expense chiefly, — the want of capital for early investment, — which confines the benefit of that education to those who are able to put off the necessity for earning their bread till the middle period of life, — till (as the proverb goes,) they have lost their teeth to eat it. The expense is present and certain ; the return is doubt- ful, and will be distant. With all the solid prizes offered at the Bar as the reward of success, it is not found that a larger number than formerly go through the airricnbim of the Uni- versities, — once thought a necessary preliminary in the edu- cation of the accomplished English Lawyer. However much those who receive an education in the University may be fitted to adorn the seats they may one day fill on the Bench or in Council, the advantages are not sufficiently present to view,—394 the sacrifices required are not readily made, — under a va<Tue impression that they may delay, ever so little, a single com- petitor in the race he is preparing to run in the active business of life ; that others who have entered on their strictly Profes- sional studies at an earlier period have gained some positive advantage from that circumstance ; and that all parties do not start fair in the race. In your Letter to R. E. C. you suggest that, in the case of Candidates for Medical Degrees, the last year of residence in the University should be substituted for the first year of Pro- fessional work in London ; and that in that year the Candi- date should devote himself to the Sciences, — now well taught here, — of Chemistry, Anatomy, Physiology, and Botany. Upon this allow me to say a word or two. Let me suggest that he should give some part of his time in that year, (if he has not before,) to Clinical Medicine — and Surgery. That Chemistry and Botany can be thoroughly learned here, and better than in London, I readily believe: that it is desirable that a Student should have acquired his knowlege of them before coming to London, is an opinion I have often heard expressed by the Teachers in the Medical Schools in London. That Comparative Anatomy and Physiology, — so much at least as is necessary for the Physician and Surgeon,— can also be learned, may be admitted. But I am not of opinion that Human Anatomy, — that full amount of it which is necessary for the practising Surgeon, or the well-informed Physician, — is, or can be, acquired here : yet the elementary branches, — necessary alike for the Physician and Surgeon,— may be satisfactorily mastered. Although the University has not within itself the means of giving all the instruction it exacts in Medicine, and for that purpose rightly sends its Candidates elsewhere to get it, there has long existed within its precincts a Hospital contain- ing 158 beds in constant occupation, — a Hospital, of which you and I both are Officers, — and Teachers, will you allow me to add? — affording ample means for giving some really valuable Clinical instruction in Physic and Surgery, which will materially lessen the Student's labor, when he enters the large and comprehensive field presented by the Hospitals inLondon. This preliminary Clinical instruction will enable him to derive full advantage from attendance on the Profes- sorial Lectures in London. The more he has learned before he enters the Professor's Class, the more he will find he learns there. To use the language of the place, our instruction here must be TutQrial; in London it is Professorial. With what profit can a Student who has never seen disease attend Professorial Lectures on the principles of Physic and Surgery? ' Let him see cases, no matter wherebut see cases/ I once heard Sir William Lawrence observe, when asked about the education of a Pupil, ' or he will not understand what the Lecturer is talking about.' That there is not given here the tvhole of the instruction required for a Degree, or comprized in the mrricuhim of the Examining Boards in London, is not a reason that a Student should decline to avail himself of what is taught. It has often been a subject of regret to me, — as to others, — that so few of the Students in the University who propose to enter on ' the Physic line,' avail themselves of the advantages offered by attendance at the Infirmary; and, of those few, that scarcely any seek instruction in the department with which I am most conversant. Since I have been attached to the Infirmary (now between 8 and 9 years) only 4 Members of the University have been Pupils in Surgery, 3 of them having been introduced by myself. Surgery being chiefly concerned with the outward forms of disease should be studied first, — before the Student enters on the examination of diseases affecting the system generally, or the internal organs. The attention of the unpractised eye is more readily fixed in learning a Science more easily capable of denionstration, — though far enough removed from the rank of the exact Sciences, — and on treatment much of which consists in the application of mechanical principles to the relief of suff"ering. The beginner, who has watched the for- mation of an abscess in the areolar and adipose tissues of a limb, — or inflammation in the iris, or the vessels of the con- junctiva, — is led with less difficulty to study the effects of the same process in the viscera or the internal membranes. Thus, while I agree in much of what you say, I have ven-396 tured to suggest that there is one important matter not included in the scheme you put forward as an improvement on Mr. P.'s. Probably you have not overlooked the ad- vantage to be derived from Clinical instruction here: but rather have assumed as a matter of course that it will be included in any new curriculum, or that it will be sought without that. April 1858. To THE Secretary of the Royal College of Surgeons. Dear Sn<,—The Council of the College express a general opinion, that the ordinary course of education in Medical Schools, — however complete for the purposes it is intended to accomplish, — is not of itself a sufficient preparation for the responsibilities of practise in all the circumstances of difficulty with which a Surgeon in general practise has to contend. Of the 4 years to which the Professional education of persons qualifying themselves for Surgeons in general practise is (per- liaps unavoidably,) limited, the Council of the College prescribe a years and a half (3 winter sessions and 2 summer,) as the period to be spent at a Medical School and Hospital. How the rest of the 4 years may be most profitably occupied, and especially at what period of his pupilage it is best that a Pupil should enter a Medical School or Hospital, are the points to which the Council direct attention, and on which they solicit an opinion. The College of Surgeons, it seems to me, has more reference to the fact of a man being a Surgeon, than to the mode in which he is educated for it. The College might grant facilities for acquiring knowlege and Surgical handicraft ; but they should interfere as little as possible to restrict the means by which a man gains his information. The diploma, it must not be forgotten, is only a proof that a man is sufficiently qualified to begin the practise of his Profession. In answer to your first question, I think it would be well, in eveiy case where practicable, that entrance into the Profession should be by pupilage under the direction and supervision of a397 Surgeon engaged in practise. In the absence of Collegiate Institutions for the care and special training of all persons being educated for the Medical Profession, the moral and social relation of Master and Pupil is beneficial, and under it a young man most readily obtains a familiar knowlege of the ordinary handicraft of the Profession, and its every-day duties. The commencement of the pupilage (in whatever way), should be certified to the Council, or Court of Examiners, and registered for future reference. The nature of the Pupil's em.ployments and studies depends much on the position and duties of the Master, and the opportunities he thereby has of giving practical instruction. Practical pharmacy should be studied during the time. As far as I am able to judge, there is not any advantage gained by a Pupil who is only able to give 4 years to his Professional education in beginning his Professional studies at a Hospital. If he is under the pupilage of a Master who holds office in such an Institution, the Pupil may gain some advantage from the circumstance. But I can not think that the Council of the College will give the sanction of their authority to any scheme so manifestly unjust, which will restrict the right of taking Pupils to those members only of the College who hold office in Public Institutions, to the exclusion of others equally fit, who have ample opportunities and equal ability for training Pupils in the elementary work of the Profession. Attendance on Lectures at a Medical School, where the instruction is usually Professorial, should not be the only mode in which Professional study should be commenced. Unless a Pupil has seen something of disease, and of the method on which treatment is conducted in practise, he will not under- stand what the Lecturers talk about : his attendance will not be profitable to himself. The practical instruction and training to which reference is made, should extend through all seasons of the year, and should not be confined to the summer : and it is more to the PupiFs advantage that he should undergo it before he enters at a Medical School. I incline to doubt whether Pupils will readily undergo the practical training required for the rough and, ready work of their future duties, — and which is a thing398 essential to their success, — if they put it off till after they have spent one or more Sessions in a Medical School. The Hospital with which I am connected as Surgeon con- tains about 150 beds in constant use. The cases of disease or accident are much the same as in other Hospitals in towns of the same size in an agricultural county, with several smaller towns and large villages within a convenient distance, and being the centre of several lines of Railway. The building is at present being enlarged, so as to give a new ward for accidents, and rooms for Out-Patients, with Apothecary's shop and other accommodation. The Pathological Museum forms a part of the University Collections^ under one roof, about half a mile from the Hospital. The Pupils have been almost always trained to act as Dressers, under the instruction of the Surgeon who introduces them. But I am not inclined to recommend to the Council of the College that such Dressing, — however valuable as a part of the practical training and instruction necessary for a Pupil, — should supersede the dress- ing required of Candidates for the Fellowship of the College. 14 Augtist, 1862. To THE Editor of the Medical Times and Gazette. Sir,—'By the present rules and regulations,'—as you remind your readers, —' all Students are required to attend certain classes.' There are very few Members of the College now living who began their education and passed their exami- nation before the time when the attendance was required on certain classes and lectures, and practise at a Hospital. Why should it still be required ? The College of Surgeons is an Examining Board, rather than an Academical body; and it ought to be sufficient, in a candidate presenting himself at the College for examination, that he brings to the Court of Examiners the required amount of Professional knowlege and Surgical handicraft, without reference to the sources from which he derives it. Jtme 1880.399 To THE Same. Sir, — In last week's issue you have laid before your readers the endowments — almost the only endowments in England, for education in Medicine at Oxford. You have not told them the duties attached, though you add that no instruction is given. It may perhaps add to the astonishment you attribute to many Medical men, to learn that, under the scheme laid down by the Founder, the Professor of Clinical Medicine is to visit the Patients in the wards of the Radcliffe Infirmary, with the Pupils, daily from October to March, and that he is also to read a Lecture two days in the week. In addition to the emoluments you have named, there is an old bequest producing about ;^8o a year, divided equally among the Physicians of the Infirmary, — formerly six, now three, in number. The Clinical Professor, as one of them, takes his third, in addition to the emoluments of two well- endowed Chairs. Novetnber 1878. To THE Same. Sir, — Your comments direct attention to the late Harveiaii Oration. Your readers will observe that the Orator, while praising what the University of Oxford has done for ' teaching Physical and Biological science,' evades the question of what is done for the Professional education of the younger members who are intended for the Medical Profession. The charge against the University and the Professors whom they take for their advisers, is that endowments which were given for the education of Students seeking to qualify them- selves for the Profession of Medicine are diverted into an other channel, — no doubt they think it a better one, — that of the ' Scientific education ' of gentlemen ; and that candidates for degrees in the Faculty of Medicine are sent to other places to get their knowlege of the practise of Medicine, and to prepare themselves for the examinations required by the University for the degrees they grant. August 9,1880.400 THE ELECTION AT THE COLLEGE OF SURGEONS. To THE Editor of the British Medical Journal. Sir, — We hear that the Fellows by examination are to squeeze out those who are not of our own selves. The mark '43 is a blot on a man's escutcheon ; though the putting him on the list of 1843 was a question in which few of those whose names are on it had a voice. Sir, in reviewing that list, or its successor of 1844, is no distinction to be made between those who at the time were qualified to be put on it, — to pass for it 'by examination,' — and those whose claim was their ' Seniority' as Members of the College, or of the human species at large ? If we had never supported any of these last when pro- posed as Candidates for seats in the Council, we might now, I think, with some show of consistency, claim the right to keep the seats for ourselves, and our successors under the ' Exami- nation ' test. We try the Candidates by various and varying tests, — more strictly perhaps as each year increases their number. But, Sir, I take the liberty of suggesting for the consideration oi all the Fellows of the College, that if a Candidate is otherwise qualified, the fact that the Council of a former day deprived him of the power of submitting to the examination, should not be thought a reason for passing him by in favor of one of his juniors, though equally qualified for the distinction. 22 June, 1867. To W. A., Esq. My dear Sir,—When I met you last week, and we talked of the coming Election, and the dislike I and others had of the canvassing, you asked, if you remember, whether it had occurred to me to put forward any statement of my views. I said it had not: and that there seemed to me a sufficient objection,— that I did not know what questions were likely to be brought forward.40I Since that conversation, I have observed that there is one question by no means unHkely to be thrust on the Council; I know not whether it is ripe for discussion,—the admission of women into the Medical Profession, There are two points I see in the question in its present aspect,—the necessity for it, and the propriety of it. As I understand the law, the College of Surgeons is a voluntary Society, to which no one need belong unless h'e likes it. All persons, — men and women indifferently,—have the right to practise Surgery, if they can find subjects for their practise. It is true that the Managers of the Army, the Navy, the Hospitals and Schools, Charitable Institutions, and other public bodies, require that their Surgeons shall be Members of the College, as they in some cases require also other qualifica- tions in their Ofiicers. Still, the right to practise Surgery remains ; and I look on it as a waste of time to attempt to stop it: for the practise will continue, as long as dupes can be found for it, or profit can be made from it. The College of Surgeons,—as I understand the objects of the foundation, —was established to supply the country with that help in sickness and injury which women are not able to give. There is not any precedent that I know for admitting women into the Society. If any law is to be made or enforced for the admission of women, as the first of them enters the College by one door, I will leave it by the other. I will not be a party to the perversion of the College, — nor to the de- gradation, as I think it, of the women. We have heard of the cases of female sailors, of female soldiers, and even of female husbands. These, we know, have been the exceptions. The mass of the sex remains true to the high purposes for vvhich they were sent into the world : I will not be a party to lower- ing it. 27 June, 1876. After the Annual Election of Members of the Council, in July 1877, a large party of the Fellows dined together, according to annual custom at the Albion Tavern, under the presidency of Mr. E. L. Hussey. D d402 Mr, Holden, on behalf of the Council of the College of Surgeons, returned thanks for the toast of ' the Medical Corporations:' and he afterwards proposed ' the Health of the Chairman.' The Chairman, in reply, said : It is, I believe, the established custom of the Festival that the Chairman's chief duty shall be to propose what may be called the introductory toasts, and to return thanks for his own health, if you should pay him the compliment of receiving such a toast. The first part of this duty I have discharged; the other part remains, and it is by no means an easy one. It is a task requiring some skill, and more than an average amount of practise, to acknowlege in fit terms such a compliment as you have paid me, and paid too with a grace more due, I suspect, to the favorable opinion of my friend Mr. Holden, than to any merit of which I am conscious as arising from services I have rendered to you or to the Profession. I trust you will accept these few words as the expression of my grateful sense of the honor you have done me, and the kindness with which you have received my name. I hope I shall not start a subject of dissension. I wish to make a suggestion for the future occupation of this Chair. You can see that there are around me many men, my seniors in Professional standing, to say nothing of their right of pre- cedence from reputation. I can not help thinking that we might go on as smoothly hand-in-hand through the Register of Fellows, if we took the Chairman of the Annual Festival from among the country Fellows every third year, instead of every other year as we do now. There are, I believe, now on the Register, between the Chairman of last year and myself, not less than 20 Fellows resident in London, who have claims which ought not, I think, to be lightly regarded, or set aside without sufficient reason in favor of a junior from the country. I merely throw out the suggestion for the con- sideration of future Stewards. If the question has been con- sidered, and the present rota established on principles which past Stewards have thought best, I do not suggest that it should be reopened. After several other toasts, The Chairman rose to propose the last toast, and said : As403 the last act of the Chairman's Hfe I have to give you a toast; it is, ' The Health of our Hon. Secretary, Mr. Allingham.' He is the Executive Officer of the Committee of Stewards, without whom (I hope I may say it without offence) they could not be brought together, to act, and to plan what is before us. I am one of those who remember the enthusiasm and high feeling with which this Festival was established. Is it not due to the Secretary that it is not likely to drop ? We ought not to part without this acknowlegement of his services, and without making the small return which our thanks can give for the work he has so kindly done for us. [The Medical Titnes and Gazette, 14 July, 1877.] To Dr. B. Sir,—Some of my Professional brethren in this City have called my attention to remarks made by you at the meeting of the Medical Association at Leeds, referring to the meeting last year in Oxford. ' Situated as Dr. A. was, with little assistance to prepare for such a great meeting as that of the Association was, and the extraordinary amount of labor which necessarily fell upon him in consequence of the deficiency of assistance, it was marvellous to him (Dr. B.), who knew something of the labor necessary to get up such a meeting, how Dr. A. succeeded in doing what he did.' The words, we consider, imply that we did not give Dr. A., when President, the assistance that ought to have been rendered. If Dr. A. had less assistance than he desired, it was not the fault of his Professional brethren, — the resident Practitioners and Members of the Association. We were invited by a letter from him to attend a meeting on the subject;: and we joined him in the invitation to the Association to visit this City. We were not again consulted; and those of us who are not Members of the University were not admitted to take part in the arrangements. 3 August, 1869. D d a.404 To THE Editor of the Medical Times and Gazette. Sir, — In the Minute of the Council of the College of Physicians of Edinburgh, lately published^ are two passages which need a little more explanation. 'The Council [the Minute says] can not be surprized that the power of conferring the title of "Doctor," should be claimed as an exclusive right by the Universities.' The Council perhaps are not aware that the governing bodies of the Universities in England have never put forward such a claim. It is well known in England that the Archbishop of Canterbury has the right of conferring degrees as well in Physic, as in Divinity, in Arts, in Laws, and in Music; and the right is frequently exercised in all the faculties. The Council also state that the diploma of the English College of Surgeons ' implies legally only a right to perform operations, and attend cases of pure Surgery.' The Members of the College will not, I think, acknowlege this to be the only privilege conferred with the diploma. There are, I believe^ very few diseases which are not legally within the province of the Members of the College of Surgeons. A long list may be drawn by perusal of the earlier Statutes of the Realm; among them are intermittent fever, and all contagious diseases; and the Members of the College have always legally had the power of dispensing drugs for the treatment of such diseases. August 1859. To Dr. Wyllie. Sir, — My attention has been called to two letters in the Lancet, — one from Dr. C, the other from yourself, — upon a subject on which much has been printed of late, as formerly, in that and other Journals, . . . ' the Edinburgh College of Physicians, and the title of Doctor.' I trust it will be suf- ficient that I address this to you, the Secretary of the College, as I conclude you are sufficiently in communication with Dr. C. to be able to make him acquainted with the contents without trouble to yourself. You are aware that I am a Member of the College, and405 that I do not call myself Dr. But I claim the right to do so; and I certainly should, if I wished it, notwithstanding Dr. C.'s assertion that it is a 'false title/—an assertion, I take the liberty of adding, without a particle of evidence to support it. In your letter,—written as the Secretary of the College,—you say that you always tell the Licentiates that the title of Dr. legally belongs only to those who hold-the degree of M.D. from a University.' Be kind enough to refer them to the Statute, or Judicial decision, which declares the Law to be so. The Secretary of the College ought to be aware that the Archbishop of Canterbury has long had the power, and still holds it, of creating Doctors of Medicine; and that the Doctors so created have as full a right to the title of M.D. and Dr. as ' those who hold the degree of M.D. from a Uni- versity.' The honor so conferred by the Archbishop,—whether title, degree, or position, . . . status, gradus, or dignitas,—is not now, as before the Medical Act of 1858, a qualification for practise; but the right to the title is the same as ever: it is unquestioned, and it is valid in Law. The worth of it,— or, indeed of any title,—is not the matter in question. Dr. C,—if he wishes to make good what he has written,— should point out for the information of Physicians generally, and especially for the correction of ' the wilful error,' as he calls it, ' of those Licentiates who have taken the false title,' why it is more false for a Physician to style himself Dr., than for a Surgeon, Apothecary, or other Professional man, to call himself Mr., without holding the degree of M.A. from a University. There is surely less falsehood in it than in styling himself, or any of his friends Esq., or in allowing himself to be so styled by others, without being in possession of an ofJice of honor under the Crown, to which only such a title belongs of right. It has always been the custom in England to call a Physician practising medicine Dr.; as it has also been the custom to call a Surgeon, or Apothecary,—or a Gentleman, — Mr. It is a title, or mark of designation, given by courtesy; and surely, it may be said without fear of contradiction, that those who do not give it are not courteous. This is the sum of it.4o6 In strictness of Law, perhaps^ the Universities can not make a Physician: as they can not make a Gentleman. But their Graduates in Medicine, — Bachelors and Doctors equally,—were recognized, if they wished it, as Physicians: and those to whom the College of Physicians gave the right, under charters confirmed by Parliament, tain docendi, quam exercendi, scientiam et artem Medicam, wgre recognized in society, and were addressed, as Doctors, without a thought or suspicion that there was anything dishonorable or illegal in the practise. No more falsehood was seen in it than in the courtesy by which the younger sons of a Duke, or a Marquis, were called Lords, or the Judges of your Courts, — Lord Monboddo, Lord Auchinlech, and Lord Medwyn, — were honored with a similar designation, without being in possession of a Peerage. 22 February^ 1876. To Dr. J. B. G., M.D. ^ Dear Sir,—Thanks for your letter. The right of a Member of the College of Organists to call himself Dr. of Music might depend on several points,—e.g. the power given to the College under their Charter. I never saw the Charter; and I never heard of their College. The title might be attached to some office under the Crown,— perhaps, that of Organist to the Chapel Royal. The Crown, of course, has the right to grant the Title. Or, it might be in some other right, of which I have not any knowlege. Of one thing I am sure,—that there is not any custom in England, under which the title is given by courtesy to Organists, whether Members of the College, or not. The only Doctors of Music with whom I am acquainted are those with degrees from the Universities, or the Archbishop of Canterbury. There are many such. Of the other question you put, I am even less able to speak. I never heard of a Licentiate in Theology. The Archbishop of Canterbury and the Universities give the degrees of Bachelor and Doctor in Divinity. There are many such. The Bachelors in Divinity are not called ' Drs.,' — as Bachelors in Medicine are, almost universally, if they practise407 as Physicians. But your question is^ — What should we (Medici) say to them? For myself, I can only say that I should not trouble myself to say anything. I should leave it to othersj—the titulo-philists and the titulo-phobists, if I may use such words. My printed letter, as you will see, was addressed to Dr. W., and also to Dr. C. It calls upon them to give an authority for the opinion they have published. They have not done so. I shall be happy to consider it, if they do. 29 November^ 1879. To Dr. H. Dear Sir, — The great difficulty, as it seems to me, of carrying out any plan for the union and efficiency of the Medical Officers, and the formation of a Hospital Corps of Orderlies, is — to find the money which will be wanted for the purpose. The expense of holding a Commission in the Volunteer Service is so great, that you will hardly be able to obtain the services of a retired Medical Officer of the Regular Forces, unless where it may happen that such a man has retired, in good health and still young, and has entered into Medical practise as an ordinary competitor with other mem- bers of the Profession. The Medical Officers of the Volunteer Service are the only members of the force who give Pro- fessional services, with their time, and money. Here and there a waggon, or an Orderly, may be provided: but in most cases, if the Medical Officer thinks these necessary, he must find them as best he can. Your enquiry m^ay do good. You will find what objec- tions are likely to be made, and what difficulties have arisen; and, perhaps, how they have been overcome. When I joined as a Private, 20 years ago, there was abundance of Medical Officers in each corps: it is not so now. After 6 years' service as Ensign, I was appointed Surgeon to the battalion. I was requested to instruct the members of the Corps in 'the first treatment,' as it is now called, of the injured. I gave two Lectures, printed them at my own expense, and circulated about 3000 copies. . While others were discussing the wants of the Volunteer4o8 Service, and how to supply them, I told the Adjutant that I would myself undertake the whole care of the sick and wounded in our battalion, in case we were called into active service. My plan was this. I would first, — before the alarm died out, — collect some money. I would see that every man was provided with a bed ' at home,^ to which he could be sent in case of sickness or injury. The rear would be open ; and every sick or wounded man, not actually disabled, could be trusted to find his way home. His uniform, his necessity, or my order, would be a sufficient ' pass' for him by railway. For the cases which could not be sent home, I would find a farm-house, or a Church perhaps, not too far from the ' front,' to be used as a Hospital. I should find my own ' Orderlies,' and Nurses : and I would obtain all necessary drugs and Surgical appliances. The campaign, though short and sharp, would not be long. If the Director General of the Army Medical Department took the direction of the Medical affairs of the force, I should be relieved from much respon- sibility ; and I should be ready to act in all respects under his orders. 24 OctobeKy 1880. Mr. William Cleoburey, whose death took place at Oxford on the 7th of February (1853), in his 6ist year, had held the appointment of Surgeon to the Radcliffe Infirmary for about 38 years, having been elected to it in 1815. He held also the offices of Consulting Surgeon to the County and the Warneford Asylums. He was apprenticed to Mr. Short, of Bedford, one of the Surgeons to the Infirmary there, and completed his studies at St. Bartholomew's Hospital, where he was a Dresser under Sir Charles Blicke. He passed the College of Surgeons in 1813, and, having settled at Oxford, was soon afterwards elected Surgeon to the Radcliffe In- firmary,— an Institution to which he ever remained much attached, and the duties of which he discharged with ex- emplary uprightness till within a few weeks of his death. On the grant of the new Charter to the College of Surgeons, in 1843, his position and reputation obtained for him a place409 in the first list of the new class of Fellows created under the provisions of that Charter. Mr. Cleoburey never obtained extensive practise as a Con- sulting Surgeon. Possessed of competent private means, his retired habits and not robust health did not qualify him for the active competition necessary to ensure success in that struggle. But he was far from being inattentive to the wants and requirements of the Profession. He read with a critical eye all the approved publications of the day, and he treasured well in his memory the best modern discoveries deducible from Pathology. To the public he was favorably known as an Oculist, and during his whole career he maintained de- servedly a high reputation in diseases of the eye, with the Ophthalmic practise of Oxford and the neighboring counties. His operations on the eye, whatever their nature, were beautifully and skilfully executed, and were remarkably suc- cessful in their results. A 'good diagnosis/ he used to ob- serve, was the most important element of success. Among his Professional brethren, especially his Colleagues at the Infirmary, his reputation was not so limited. He was known to be a good Anatomist, retaining minute Anatomical knowlege with accuracy. His diagnosis was justly appre- ciated. It was cautiously formed ; and of its general cor- rectness it is sufficient to say, that his Colleagues have not recorded a case where his opinion was shown to be erroneous. During 35 years^ few, if any, operations were performed in the Infirmary without his presence and assistance. Residing near the House, he was generally selected by his Colleagues to supply their places when absent; and at whatever incon- venient hour an additional head or an additional hand was required, everybody looked to Mr. Cleoburey to supply it. As an Officer of a large charitable Institution, dispensing its benefits to numerous poor, his conduct to the Patients was kind and benevolent in the extreme; no harsh or unkind word ever escaped from his lips; and perhaps few Hospital Surgeons have descended to the grave having made a more honorable use of their talents and experience, and having done more positive good in their day, than Mr. Cleoburey. • . . Mr. Cleoburey was the Author of a short work, — An4IO ■Account of the System of Friction, adopted in cases of con- tracted Joints and Lameness, by Mr. Grosvenor, This reached a third edition. He also wrote, A Review of the different Operations on the Eyes. [The Medical Times and Gazette, February 1853.] Mr. William Ley, who had only lately retired from the office of Medical Superintendant of the Asylum at Littlemore, was born in 1806, and at the time of his death, in March 1869, had not completed his 63rd year. He was the son of a Clergyman in Devonshire, and received his early education at the Grammar School at Ottery St. Mary. He was apprenticed to Messrs. Lawrence and Warner, of Cirencester, Practitioners of good reputation and experience; and completed his Professional education at St. Bartholomew's Hospital, where he was a Dresser under Mr. Earle. He was admitted a Member of the College of Surgeons in 1831, and a Licentiate of the Society of Apothecaries in 1835. The first public appointment he held was that of Resident Medical Officer of the Fever Hospital. After holding it about 4 years, he began practise in Crawford Street, and about the same time he was elected Surgeon to the Western General Dispensary, — an office which gave him much work among the poor. His Colleagues remember that he did the work with ability, with good feeling, and with most conscientious up- rightness of purpose. In his own opinion, however, he was more fitted by his tastes for the duties of a Physician than for the more strictly Surgical part of the Profession. After some few years,—at the instance of Sir William Lawrence and other private friends, — he determined to quit the general practise of Medicine, and to enter on the special department of Lunacy, which was then receiving attention from active members of the Profession. With this view he took lodgings at Hanwell, for the purpose of studying the diseases and general management of the Insane. Ample opportunity was afforded at the Asylum under the personal superintendance and instruction of Dr. Conolly and Dr.411 Begley. Mr. Ley's minute knowlege of morbid anatomy and ability to detect shades of difference in diseased structure, at once gained the respect of all who met him at the exami- nations in the dead-house. When the Asylum for the united counties of Oxford and Berks was instituted in 1845, he was appointed to the ofiEice of Medical Superintendant then created. To form such an establishment, and to bring the different Officers — all alike new to their duties, — to work together in harmony, to main- tain the requisite discipline, and to enforce it by example, was a task which he executed with remarkable skill; he gained the affection of those under him, while he commanded their respect. Few people were more competent to advise, to guide, and to direct. He was seldom absent from the Asylum ; indeed, he denied himself the moderate relaxation which others in similar office find necessary as a relief from the monotony of the work. The view he took of madness, as it came under treatment, was, that the diseases of the mind, as shown in the Insane, were generally dependent on constitutional causes. He pointed to the Pathological evidence that they were most' frequently found in connection with diseases of the chest, or the respiratory system. It was a special feature of his system of management that the Patients were invariably treated with gentleness. On one occasion an Officer from an other Asylum applied to the Head Nurse to lend a ' strait waistcoat.' The Nurse, not being able to understand the name or the nature of what was wanted, came to Mr. Ley and reported the request. There was no such thing at Littlemore. Mr. Ley sought consistently to carry the humane system far beyond what was common. He succeeded, he said to a friend, ' only as far as the Attendants could comprehend.'' In the task he set himself to accompHsh, he felt that he had to take all the duty upon his own back, — or too much of it. It need not excite wonder that his health broke down, ' It took more out of a manl he said shortly before his death, ' than any man is justified in giving' . . . ' What a pity,' was the re- mark of more than one of his friends, ' that he did not try rest sooner.'412 Beyond his Annual Reports, which were regularly printed by the Committee of Visitors, he was not the author of any printed work, except a single pamphlet, — 'An Address to the Governors of the Warneford Asylum, upon the distribu- tion of the Warneford gifts.' He wrote a paper in one of the Medical Journals upon Cannabis Indica, which he was the first to bring to the notice of Practitioners in England ; and one in the Asylum Journal, upon a case of Fractured Ribs. He was one of the early Members of the Association of Medical Officers of Asylums. He served the offices of Presi- dent and Treasurer, and for some years he took an active part in the afTairs of the Society. At different times of late years Mr. Ley had shown symp- toms of hypertrophy of the heart; and, without admitting to himself the extent or the full consequence of the lesion, he felt the need of being released from the charge upon him. Con- scious of failing health, and doubtful of his power to continue the duty to his satisfaction, he more than once requested to be allowed to resign his office. At the urgent desire of the Committee of Visitors he consented to remain. Frequent and lengthening periods of illness, without perfect recovery in the intervals, made retirement necessary. The Committee acknowleged in most complimental terms his just and honorable discharge of duty through more than 20 years, — ' Tivcnty yeai's^ said one of the Committee^ ' and there has never becji a scandal.^ As a farther acknow- legement of the services he had rendered, the Committee awarded him a pension, which was conferred unanimously by the Quarter Sessions of both counties and the boroughs in union. When he was finally released from the labors under which his once strong health had given way, he spent some months in Devonshire, looking forward to a home among the scenes of his early life. He had lately returned to the neighborhood of Oxford, and was upon a visit to former friends at Littlemore, —purposing after a short stay to pass on again to Devonshire, to try whether the warmer climate would be more suitable to his increasing difficulty of breathing. His strength failed too rapidly to allow of his removal from Littlemore, and there, on413 the spot where he had long lived and labored, and under the watchful care of those who had been trained under his own eye, he quietly breathed his last. ' Men like Ley,' said one of his Professional friends, ' wha are satisfied with having few but close friends, are perhaps happier in life than those who are known far more widely and loved less deeply.' All who were much in contact with Mr. Ley saw much to admire and to attach in him. He was a man in the highest sense of the word truthful, most scru- pulous and honorable in his conduct, of high moral bearing, and strict integrity, straightforward and self-denying, but withal a man of considerable tact and ability. A man of enlarged and enlightened views: he was not merely benevo- lent but beneficent, conferring manifold kindness with a deli- cacy unexcelled. He was, in short, — as one of his early and intimate friends said of him, — a good, honest, humane, gentleman, rather intent on serving an other's purpose and benefit than his own. [The Medical Times and Gazette?^ Mr. Richard Welbank, who had long retired from the active practise of the Profession, died on the aist of August (1870) at Kilburn, where he had resided for several years. He was born in 1796 in the Tower, where his father, who held an appointment under Government, had a residence in con- nection with his duties in the Ordnance Office. He received his general education at the Charter-House : and he there acquired the taste for classical reading which he retained through life. He was articled at the College of Surgeons as a Student under his uncle, — one of a former class of Surgeons, who, being Members of the College, dispensed their own medicines and Surgical appliances, yet excluded from what is now known as general practise by not attending in cases of Midwifery. His Professional education was received at St. Bartholomew's Hospital, under the superintendance of Mr. Abernethy. After acting as Dresser under Mr. Abernethy, he became4H House-Surgeon on the nomination of Mr. Vincent. During the time he held the office he pointed out, as the result of his reading and observation, that the Sloughing Phagedena of the Civil Hospitals, which prevailed so severely in the foul wards among young and otherwise healthy subjects, was the same disease as the Hospital Gangrene of the Military Hospitals, attacking the wounds and operations in the Soldiers after a battle; and he suggested that the treatment which had been found successful in the army should be adopted at home, — namely, the complete destruction of the diseased parts by the free application of caustic, — the potential rather than the actual cautery, — and that Nitric Acid, from its greater affinity for animal matter, was the best agent. Mr. Vincent at first refused to allow of its use: but he was at length induced, in a case which seemed hopeless, to allow the application of an equal part of the Acid with water. Happily the sloughing was checked, and the Patient recovered. In subsequent cases the pure acid was used. The application of the pure acid was found to be less painful than when diluted ; the disease was cured ; and Sloughing Phagedena ceased to be a source of terror in the Hospital. Before the introduction of this treat- ment, Mr. Aberncthy has been known, in going round the wards, to clasp his hands, and to mutter as he passed on to the next bed, '/ don^t hioiv tvhai to do:'' — constitutional treatment had failed. Mr. Welbank entered on private practise in Chancery Lane, — highly respectable in its character, and sufficiently remu- nerative for the wants of a man who, by natural disposition as well as by choice, was a recluse and a scholar. At that time public appointments in the Profession were neither numerous nor easily obtained ; they were confined to the few who pos- sessed either wealth or influence: none were open to Mr. Welbank. Unhappily for his own reputation and advance- ment, his engagements with his uncle hindered him from accepting an offer by Mr. Abernethy, who, finding that his health began to fail, was desirous of obtaining the ser- vices of Mr. Welbank as his general Assistant in private practise. He took an active part in the affairs of the Medical and415 Chirurgical Society, which then held its meetings in Lincoln's Inn Fields ; and he contributed two papers to the Trans- actions, — one, a Report of the cases of Sloughing Phagedena which had been treated with Nitric Acid according to his plan; — the other, Suggestions for investigating the different forms of Venereal diseases. Adopting the distinctions by ^ Evans and Carmichael, of simple and phagedenic ulcers, her' proposed to restrict the term Siphylis to the sore which is in- variably followed in its secondary effects by a squamous erup- tion. This suggestion he also brought under notice in a separate volume. These, — and an English edition of Frick's work on the Eye, — were the only contributions he made in his own name to the literature of the Profession. When the Council of the College of Surgeons — in the interest of the Medical Officers of the large Hospitals in London, — refused to acknowlege the instruction given at the County Hospitals, or by private Lecturers, as part of the recognized curriculum of education, Mr. Welbank joined with others of his standing in supporting Sir William Lawrence in the attempt to obtain from the Council a review of their regulations; and his name was one of those attached to the public notice calling the meeting of Members of the College to consider the question. His name was placed in the first List of Fellows of the College under the Charter of 1843 ; and the following year he was elected into the Council, — being the first Member chosen by the Fellows. However honorable as a mark of the appro- bation of his Professional compeers, this latest honor came too late in life to be of any value as an object of personal ambition; —' hut^ said he to the Council after taking his seat, ' / do value it extremely, as it may be the means of enabling me to- extend to the yotmger members of the Profession that encoiiragement, which for thirty years of my Professional life I have so much felt the disheartening ivant of myself^ He was re-elected on the expiration of his term of office ; but did not retain his seat long. Under a consciousness of failing health he soon afterwards retired altogether from practise. [The British Medical Journal^4i6 Mr. Simon Murchison of Bicester was in his 6oth year at the time of his death, — in June 1871, He was born in India, His father, an indigo-planter, died comparatively young, at the early age of 36 years. The son received his early education at the Grammar School at Bath, where some of his father's family resided. He was apprenticed to Mr. Nicholls of Wells, a Practitioner of considerable local reputation. He attended as a Pupil at the United Hospitals, (Guy's and St. Thomas's,) and afterwards at the Seamen's Hospital, the old Dreadnought, under Mr. Busk. Of the value derived from the instruction under such a Master, he ever spoke with feelings of respect and affectionate remembrance. He passed the College of Surgeons in 1834, and the Society of Apothe- caries in 1835 ; and he began his Professional career at Bath, where he engaged in general and family practise. After some few years he removed to London ; and he joined as a partner in a practise which he did not find altogether suited to his tastes. As a Fellow of the Medico-Chirurgical Society, he attended the meetings of the Society; but without taking part in the discussions^ or contributing any paper to the Transactions. Soon after his marriage, he left London, and settled at Steeple Aston in Oxfordshire : from that place he shortly afterwards moved to the neighboring market town of Bicester, where he remained to the close of his life. Upon the first occasion of a vacancy, he was appointed Medical Officer of the Union Workhouse, with a large district of parishes. The duties of such an office, added to the laborious work of an extensive private practise told upon a constitution by no means strong. Though he was seldom disabled by illness, his intimate friends observed that his sti'ength was far from being equal to the demands made upon it: and he was told of their fears that he was suffering under degeneration of the muscular substance of the heart. At the beginning of the year he had agreed on terms of partnership with Mr. Drinkwater. But before these had come into full operation, he sank, after 4 days' illness, under the exhaustion attending an acute inflammatory affection of the fauces and larynx. As a Practitioner he was careful and painstaking,—judicious417 in treatment, and^ as a consequence, successful. Honorable and straightforward in all his conduct, he gained the respect of his Professional brethren, as he gained the respect of others. A gentleman by habit and education, he was one of the few men who can ill be spared from the ranks of the Profession. [The Medical Times and Gazette.'] Mr. John Ludford White, who died recently at Bath, had retired from practise for some years. He was born in London in 1814. His father, who had been engaged in mercantile pursuits in the City, retired with a moderate fortune at a com- paratively early age, and settled himself at Stoke Golding, near Hinckley, in Leicestershire. The son was sent to the Grammar School in the village, and he there received the rudiments of a good general education. At 14 years of age he was apprenticed to Mr. Brydges, of Narborough. After serving the usual time, he went to London for the completion of his Professional studies. He entered as a Pupil to the lectures at the School in Aldersgate Street, and attended the practise at St. Bartholomew's Hospital, where he was a Dresser under Mr. Earle. He passed the College of Surgeons in 1836 ; and subsequently he was appointed by Mr. Skey to be Demonstrator of Anatomy in the School in Aldersgate Street. He established himself in practise in Charterhouse Square, and for 2 or 3 years was the Acting Surgeon to the Charitable Dispensary in Fore Street. With the concurrence of his friends in London, he accepted the office of Surgeon to the large iron-works at Dowlais, which was offered to him by the late Sir John Guest. He held the appointinent for about 18 years ; when, having married a Lady with a fortune sufficient to justify him in retiring from the more laborious duties of the Profession, he took a house in the neighboring town of Cardiff, for the purpose of private practise as a Consulting Surgeon. He had previously, during his residence at Dowlais, passed the examination for the Fellowship of the College of Surgeons. A good Anatomist, and a good Surgeon, his opinion was valued by his Professional E e4i8 brethren, and he was much consulted by them, far and near, in cases of doubt and difficulty. After about 3 years' residence at Cardiff, he finally retired from practise, and removed to Oxford, where at 50 years of age he entered as a Student in the University. After passing the required Academical examinations, he was admitted to the degrees of B.A. and M. A. in the University. For several years he had been aware that he was laboring under fatty deposit about the heart. During his residence at Oxford, he suffered from repeated attacks of bronchitis with chronic asthma. After the death of his wife he removed to Bath, in the hope of obtaining relief in a warmer place of residence. But the malady gained ground, anasarca super- vened, and he died on the 14th of March, 1881, within a month of completing his 66th year. He was a man of genial and sociable disposition; and he will be missed from a large circle of friends, to whom he had become endeared by his many estimable private and Pro- fessional qualities, and by his honorable and upright bearing in all relations of life. [The Medical Times and Gazette, 9 April, 1881.]By the same Author. On the Cure of Scrofulous Diseases attributed to the Royal Touch. \ArchcBological Journal?^ 1853. Statistical Report of eases of Amputation, Lithotomy, and Hernia, in the Radcliflfe Infirmary. [Transactions of the Provincial Medical and Surgical Association. Vol. xix.] 1853, Analysis of cases of Amputation of the Limbs in the RadcliflTe Infirmary. [Medico-Chirurgical Transactions. Vol, xxxix.] 1856. On Accidents, in the Absence of the Medical Officer;—A Lecture delivered to the Volunteers of the City of Oxford. Second Edition, 1866. Extracts from Various Authors; and Fragments of Table-talk. 1873.