The Art op Cooking by Gas. 6 radiant heat of white flames. ( Vide the “ Report of the Jury of the Crystal Palace Gas and Electric Exhibition, 1883,” who based their opinion on a series of exhaustive trials, and testified to the superiority of the meat cooked by the white flames over that cooked by the blue ones.) The original inventors of cooking by gas used only luminous flames. Mrs. Clarke, the lady superintendent of the National Train- ing School of Cookery, after careful and extended trials at South Kensington (where the school was started), has finally adopted white luminous flames for the new school in Buckingham Palace Road. The burners composing the rings on the top of the kitcheners and hot-plates should be so arranged that the flames cannot touch the bottom of cooking utensils, thus preventing overheating the metal of the saucepans and stewpans, and the consequent burning of their contents. All kitcheners, roasters, grillers, and hot-plates should be provided with a governor. This governor once having been adjusted when the apparatus is first fixed, a supply of gas will always be maintained at a regular and constant pressure. The immense advantage of a constant supply at a uniform pressure cannot be overrated : it does away with all waste, flare of gas, and discolouring of kitchen utensils. Another point is gained by the use of flash lights to each burner. The ordinary method of lighting the gas with matches or paper is both unsatisfactory and uncleanly. Besides, when the cook is at her busiest moment, the temptation is great to leave the gas on when not actually in use, because it will be required presently. If, however, she knows that she has but to touch a handle and the gas will light up, she will be ready enough to turn it out when not wanted, and so save gas and keep the kitchen cool. These flash lights are also valuable in the prevention of possible accidents, because if any burner is inadvertently turned on, it will simply light up and be at once detected ; whereas in