262 The Art op Cooking by Gas. The terrine is a deep fire-proof porcelain dish made in the shape of a raised pie and provided with a well-fitting lid. These can be procured at almost any china shop, and are useful for many purposes. Skin and cleanse the hare, being careful to save the blood as much as possible. Divide all the meat of the more fleshy parts in pieces about an inch square and reserve it, then take all the rest of the flesh off the bones, add to it the liver of the hare, half a pound of veal, half a pound of fresh pork, both quite free from bones, skin, fat, and gristle, and half a pound of fat bacon, the rind of which has been cut off. Mince all these, and pound them well together with a dessert-spoonful of salt, a tea-spoonful of freshly-ground pepper, a table-spoonful of chopped-up parsley, a dessert- spoonful of chopped-up chives, a tea-spoonful of chopped- up thyme, and one of sage, a finely-minced shallot, a pow- dered bay-leaf, and four crushed cloves. Cut a slice of fat bacon in small lardons about an eighth of an inch thick and an inch and a quarter long ; sprinkle on a plate a tea-spoon- ful of salt, a salt-spoonful of pepper, one of powdered sage, and one of powdered thyme ; roll the lardons in this sea- soning and lard the pieces of hare, allowing one or two lardons to each piece (see page 144, “Full Directions for Larding”). In this case, prick the larding-needle right through the meat, coming out at the other side. Cut a quarter of a pound of lean raw ham in pieces an inch long and half an inch wide, throw these in boiling water over the gas turned three-quarter full on, and boil them for five minutes, drain and dry them. Melt an ounce of butter in a stewpan, put in the ham and larded pieces of hare, and shake them well over the gas three-quarter full on for ten minutes to brown them evenly, drain them. These being all ready, spread a layer of forcemeat at the bottom of the terrine, put some of the hare and ham on it, sprinkle a little pepper and salt over it. Put another layer of farce, one of hare,