Dinners for the Four Seasons—April. 79 Choux a la Gr£me. Put a pint of water in a stewpan with half a pound of butter, a quarter of a pound of castor sugar, a dessert-spoonful of yellow rind of lemon finely grated, and a pinch of salt. Put the pan on the gas turned full on. When the water boils and the butter is quite dissolved, add gradually half a pound of fine sifted flour, stirring quickly until it is well mixed and smooth, and thick enough to leave the sides of the pan easily. Reduce the gas to half-full on and let the paste cook for twelve minutes. Turn the gas out and stir into the mixture six whole eggs, one at a time, stirring well after each egg has been put in, until the whole is well mixed and smooth. Put this mixture in a forcing-bag with a plain pipe (rather large in the opening). Press it out on to a baking sheet in pieces a little larger than a walnut, and not too near each other, as they swell very much in cooking; cut off each piece with a knife as it is forced through the pipe. If no forcing-bag is available, flour the pastry slab, put the paste on it, and cut it in small pieces, and give these the shape of an egg. Beat up a whole egg, and, with a pastry brush, glaze the top of the choux. Light the gas in the oven of the kitchener for fifteen minutes. Bake the choux for twenty-five to thirty minutes. Look at them once or twice to make sure they are browning evenly. They should be only a light brown ; if they appear to turn colour too quickly, lower the gas a little. The choux being done, turn out the gas, bring them out and put them to cool on a pastry rack. When cool make a horizontal incision in the side of each chou, and, with a forcing bag and plain pipe, fill them with whipped cream flavoured with vanilla essence and sweetened with castor sugar in the proportion of four ounces to one quart of cream. Make an icing flavoured with noyau, maraschino, etc., according to taste (see below). Spread it on the choux, leave them to dry, and they are ready. They can be further ornamented by having some