256 The Art of Cooking by Gas. of three-quarters of an inch, and let it set, but reserve about half a pint of it to glaze the galantine. The galantine being quite cold, put it on a tin in the warm oven for three minutes, it will then look moist and greasy, wipe it carefully to remove this moisture, and put the galantine on a cold dish. Just soften the half pint of jelly which was reserved, and brush the galantine over with it evenly to produce a transparent glaze. Cut the jelly that is in the tin into blocks, either square or pointed, and put these round the galantine, ornament the top in a similar manner. Chop up finely all that is left of the jelly and put it in a forcing^bag with plain pipe end. Squeeze it round the base of the galantine between it and the blocks of jelly. The top can be further ornamented with truffles and cockscombs stuck on silver skewers. The galantine can also be raised in the dish by putting a block of fried bread under it (see page 210). The block for this purpose should be cut of the same length and breadth as the galantine, a trifle smaller if any- thing, and must be entirely hidden by the garnish of aspic jelly. Forcemeat for Galantine.—Pass through a sausage- machine three-quarters of a pound of lean veal, half a pound of fresh pork, and a quarter of a pound of ham. Pound these well together with a tea-spoonful of salt, a salt- spoonful of pepper, a table-spoonful of chopped herbs (parsley, thyme, marjoram, half a bay-leaf, a little basil), a salt-spoonful of grated nutmeg. If' the farce looks too dry add a little good gravy. Spread the farce on the table about an inch thick, reserving about a quarter of it. Put over it a quarter of a pound of tongue, and the same of ham cut in small strips, two table-spoonfuls of pistachio nuts which have been blanched (see page 227), and a couple of truffles, if available, divided in small dice. These being spread evenly over the farce, put over it the part that was reserved, rolled like a sausage, and wrap the