Dinners for the Four Seasons—Christmas. 109 pounds. Whether the head and shoulders, the middle of the fish or the tail be used, is a matter of individual chioce. The middle, of course, is most advantageous for serving a number of guests ; but, in any case, the fish cut from should be very fresh, the eyes bright, the flesh white and firm, and the tail thick and rather short. Cleanse out the fish very thoroughly, especially along the back-bone, rubbing it with salt, and laying it in water for an hour, then washing it in plenty of water. Tie it round with tape to keep it in good shape. Put in the kettle enough cold water to cover the fish, adding to each quart of water a dessert-spoonful of salt and two dessert-spoonfuls of French vinegar. The fish can be boiled in this plain court bouillon, or the vegetables, etc., indicated on page 66, for salmon can be added to it if preferred. Set the kettle on the gas turned three-quarter full on, and boil up. Skim carefully. Put the fish in and skim again as the scum rises. As soon as the water boils again, turn the gas down to half full on and simmer gently, allowing five minutes to every pound, always taking in con- sideration the thickness of the fish, which being lesser or greater than the average will make a difference of a few minutes. When the fish leaves the bone easily it is done. Raise the strainer and set it crosswise on the kettle to drain the fish. Dish up on a hot dish covered with a hot and neatly-folded serviette, garnish with fresh parsley and slices of lemon. Serve at once. Oyster Sauce.—Open carefully three dozen oysters, so as not to spill the liquor. Beard them and put them aside. Put the liquor and beards in a pint of white stock (see page 55), with two bay leaves, six peppercorns, a small piece of thin lemon-rind, and a grate of nutmeg. Set this over the gas turned half full on, and simmer for twenty minutes ; strain it. Melt four ounces of butter in a saucepan, and mix in four ounces of fine sifted flour ; when smooth, add the strained liquor, a pinch of salt, and a little