Dinners for the Four Seasons—Christmas. 121 drained on a sieve. Ornament the cream with a few dried cherries and angelica, and keep on ice until wanted. This is a very pretty dish and rather uncommon, as it is usually considered difficult to manage \ but a very little practice will enable a cook to dip and dry the oranges quite successfully. Served by themselves, each in a little paper boat, they make a very nice addition to a winter dessert, and their delicate manipulation is such as will commend itself to ladies desirous of trying their hand at fancy dishes. Should the sugar get too coloured in course of using, another quantity will have to be melted as directed above. The coating on the orange should be like thin ice, very clear and brittle. Silver Jelly. To make one quart of jelly, put a quart of water in a saucepan over the gas turned three-quarter full on, and, when it is quite hot, add half a pound of loaf sugar, an ounce and a half of the best French gelatine, the thin yellow rind of four lemons and their juice carefully strained, the whites and shells of two eggs, two cloves, and a small piece of cinnamon. Whisk briskly until it boils, then stop whisk- ing at once, and allow it to boil for two or three minutes. Lower the gas to half full, and let the jelly stand for twenty minutes. Pour a quart of boiling water through the jelly bag into a basin. Empty the basin, dry, and replace it, pour the jelly in the bag. When a little of it has passed through, see if it is clear. If not quite limpid, change the basin and pour the jelly through again. Do this again until it runs quite clear. When it has partly cooled, add to it two wine-glassfuls of Ivirsch or white curagoa. Bear in mind that the jelly must be quite colourless, so that orange-coloured curagoa or any other coloured liquor must be avoided. Pour the jelly in the mould, and drop in two or three leaves of silver. Do not touch these with the fingers, but hold the little book which contains them over the jelly, and drop the