Dinners for the Four Seasons—Aerie. 65 bones small and remove the marrow, which must not be used, or the soup will be cloudy. To every pound of beef allow one pint of cold water, then put in one pint more j thus : six pounds of meat, seven pints of water. Put the saucepan on the gas, turned on only half full so as to heat very gradually, skim carefully, add salt; skim again and again as the scum rises; then add thirty peppercorns, two large carrots, two small turnips, a little celery, a bouquet of herbs, a large onion stuck with eight cloves. Skim again, and, when quite free from scum, simmer gently for six hours. As long as the pot wants-skimming, it has to be on one of the burners nearest to the cook, but afterwards it can be put out of the way on one of the further burners, and wants no more care than an occasional look to see that it is not boiling too fast. The gas should be just high enough to keep the stock simmering, and no more. When done, strain it carefully into a deep basin, and set aside for use the next day. The meat, bones, and vegetables strained off will go to the stock-pot, a Papin’s digester by preference, and make excellent secondary stock for thick soups, etc. To Clarify the Soup.—Take off as much of the fat as can be removed with a spoon, then dip the corner of a clean cloth in boiling water and wash with it the top of the stock, which is quite set, until entirely free from grease. Put in a saucepan: the stock, an onion stuck with cloves, two carrots, two turnips, and (for three quarts of stock) one pound and a half of raw beef scraped finely with a sharp knife, the whites and crushed shells of three eggs. (All these things will be useful afterwards to stew down for secondary stock.) Put the saucepan on the gas turned three-quarter full on, and whisk briskly until the stock boils {not after), then reduce the gas to half full on, let the stock simmer for about half an hour. Put a spoonful of cold water in it once or twice, it will help in clearing it. If there is no jelly-stand available, put a chair upside down on