Dinners for the Four Seasons—Christmas. i 11 the paste, so that it covers one-half of it, and fold the other half over. Roll the paste out to half the thickness, not roll- ing backward and forward, but straight forward only. Fold it in three by bringing one end over the middle and lapping the other end over. Cover it and put it away in a cool place for twenty minutes. This is called giving the pastry a turn. Flour the slab very lightly, take out the pastry, and roll it out, fold it again in three, cover it and put it away. Give six turns at the same intervals. Let the pastry rest for five minutes after the last turn, roll it out to the thickness of three-quarters of an inch, and, with a rose pastry-cutter two inches in diameter, dipped in hot water, stamp the patties. Put them on a wet baking-sheet, and, with a plain round cutter about an inch wide, also dipped in water, mark the middle of each by cutting down about halfway through. Beat up a whole egg and brush the patties with it. The gas should be lighted for fifteen minutes in the oven previously, so that the patties can be put in as soon as they are ready. In twenty-five minutes they will be done; take them out, remove the top of the middle, and, with a small knife, scoop out quickly the soft crumb from the inside. Fill the patties with the ragout (see below), put the tops on again, and serve at once. Delay is very detrimental to bouchees, or patties, so much so that the celebrated epicure, the Marechal Due de Richelieu used to say that “ to eat really good little patties one ought to have the oven in one’s own pocket.” How- ever “ heroic ” this means of obtaining patties in prime condition may seem, it is certain that there ought to be no delay in serving them, and the cook will do well to reckon the time exactly, so that the bouche'es are taken straight- way from the oven to the table. Ragout for the Bouchees.—Cut all the white meat of a cold roast or braised fowl in small pieces. Put three ounces of butter in a small stewpan and gradually mix in three ounces of fine flour. Fry this without colouring it, and