General Directions—Roasting. 39 the gas turned three-quarter full on for eight or ten minutes. When a skewer passes easily through it, it is done. Drain it, and when cool, cut it in small dice. Mince finely half a pound of fresh pork, half a pound of veal, or the flesh of half a cold fowl, and the liver of the turkey. Soak a slice of bread in gravy, and squeeze it nearly dry. Mix all these together with four ounces of butter just warmed, and, if liked, a dozen bearded oysters cut small. Add a dozen button mushrooms which have been peeled, and blanched in boiling water for five minutes; a tea-spoonful each of chopped-up parsley, thyme, and yellow rind of lemon ; a tea-spoonful of salt; and a salt-spoonful of pepper. Mix in two whole eggs to bind the farce; fill the body and crop of the turkey, and sew the opening securely with soft cotton. Take out the cotton before sending the bird to the table. This forcemeat is very delicate. The forcemeat given for braised turkey can also be used. For truffle forcemeat see “ Roast Turkey Poult.” A more simple forcemeat is made by taking equal weights of sausage, meat, bread soaked in gravy and squeezed nearly dry, and warmed butter, adding pepper, salt, and herbs as above, and binding the mixture with two whole eggs. Goose.—Choose a plump white goose, having yellow and supple feet, which indicate that the bird is young. Fill it with forcemeat, and sew up the openings. Heat the roaster for ten minutes. Spit the goose firmly ; put it in the roaster, and start the turnspit. Allow ten minutes with the gas full on, basting with good beef dripping; not much of this will be required, as the goose is naturally fat and will soon yield enough to keep it well basted. Cook the bird for seventy minutes with the gas half full on, then turn it full on for ten minutes, making altogether one hour and a half. The goose must be slowly, but very thoroughly, cooked, or it will be both unpalatable and indigestible. Serve with good gravy and apple sauce (see page 126).