4 6 The Art of Cooking by Gas. through it, turn out the gas and let the fat rest for ten minutes. Strain it into a basin, add to it a pint of water, very hot but not boiling; stir well to wash the fat, cover the basin, put it away in a cool place. When quite cold, lift the cake of fat out of the basin, wipe the underpart of it, and store it away in a covered jar duly labelled. Dripping is simply clarified by putting it in a basin, pouring hot water over it, and stirring well round. It is then put away to cool, lifted off, and stored away in the same manner as the frying fat. This is fit for basting as well as frying, or can be used as a substitute for butter in cooking. When the fat is put in the pan for frying, the gas should be turned half full on for a few minutes to allow the fat to dissolve, then turned full on, and in about ten minutes it will be ready. It should be very hot, but not boiling; it is ready when it has quite ceased bubbling and a thin blue smoke rises from it which draws to one side. If the cook wishes to make sure that it has reached the requisite temperature let her drop a small piece of bread crumb, say a couple of inches square, into the fat. If the bread turns quickly of a golden brown colour, and, when lifted out, looks crisp and dry, the fat is just right; but if the bread remains pale, and looks sodden and greasy, the fat requires a little more heating. For soles, whiting, Thames dabs, smelts, etc., having pre- pared the fish with egg and bread crumb (see page 48), slip it in the hot fat. The fat will splutter as the fish is put in, in consequence of the great difference of temperature between them ; and if the fish were thrown in hastily, instead of being slipped into the pan, the hands might be splashed. Note.—No water must be allowed to fall into the hot fat while it is over the gas. The water, being heavier than the fat, sinks to the bottom, where it is rapidly converted into steam, and causes a violent bubbling of the fat, and some- times throws it about.