General Directions—Grilling. 47 Turn the fish gently about with the slice so as not to break it. In three or four minutes, according to the size of the fish, it will have acquired a bright golden tint and be well done. It can be then taken out and drained on a hot cloth, for it should be sent to the table absolutely dry and free from grease. The door of the griller of the Charing Cross kitchener being opened, forms a useful shelf. Put on it a dish or a baking tin, covered with a clean rough cloth thickly folded. It will get warm while the fish is being fried. Lift the fish out and put it on this cloth, and it will dry rapidly without getting cold. It is better to use a cloth than paper for draining fried things, as paper gets soaked with the fat and tears readily, and pieces of it may stick to the articles dried on it. If several batches of fish, etc., have to be fried, always allow a little time between each batch for the fat to get hot again. Not too large a batch should be fried at one time, or it will cool the fat too much. For small and delicate articles, such as chicken and lobster cutlets, sweetbreads, pommes duchesse, croquettes, etc., use the frying basket; take care to plunge it into the fat for a couple of minutes before putting in the articles to be fried. Have these at hand on a plate, lift them into the basket, which is held up just above the fat, and arrange them so that they do not touch each other. Plunge the basket in the fat, and as soon as the things are of a golden brown lift them out, transfer them carefully to the hot cloth, and put the basket in again to heat for another batch if necessary. When the frying is done, turn the gas out; allow the fat to get cool for ten minutes; clarify it as directed, and when cold and set, lift it out, wipe off the little water which may be clinging to the underside, and put it in a clean jar, duly labelled; cover it to keep the dust off, and store away. Great care should be taken that frying pans and baskets are not allowed to get any speck of rust on them. This applies especially to shallow frying pans, in which the articles to be