The Art of Cooking by Gas. 34 basting. Stop basting a few minutes before taking up the joint. When the meat is done, turn out the gas and stop the motor, open the roaster, put on the loose handle at the pointed end of the spit, lift the joint out and on to a very hot dish, loosen the screws of the sliding skewers, and remove the one nearest to the point. Draw the spit out and let the joint rest on the dish. Pull out the dripping pan, remove the fat carefully into a basin, pour about a quarter of a pint of hot gravy or good stock in the pan, and gently move it backwards and forwards • this will assist in removing such gravy as may have dried up on the sides of the pan. Pour this liquor round the joint. Care must be taken not to pour the gravy over the meat, as it spoils the appearance of the joint at once. When the meat is cut open, the juices of it will run into the dish, mixing with the gravy already there, and making up with it the best sauce which can be served with roast meat. If such a kitchener as the Charing Cross is used for roasting, the joints, poultry, etc., will take about the same time as if roasted in the Parisienne roaster, but will require a little more basting, and must be turned once or twice, to ensure even roasting. If an unregulated stove is used, the cook must ascertain by practical experiment the time needed to cook a certain weight of meat. There is considerable variation in the results according to the pres- sure obtained. On an average these stoves will cook from four to five pounds an hour. Beef.—Light the gas in the roaster for ten miuutes. Spit the joint as directed above, put it in the roaster, and baste it well; start the turnspit, close the roaster. If the joint weighs twelve pounds, allow ten minutes with the gas still full on, an hour and a half with it three-quarter full on, and turn it full on again for twenty minutes to brown the meat, making a total of two hours. For a six-pound joint, allow five minutes with the gas full on, forty minutes with it half-full on, and