L uncheons—December. 229 matter of individual taste as to which piece shall be used. Taking, for instance, three pounds of rump-steak an inch thick, trim off the skin and fat, and divide the meat in six neat pieces as nearly round or oval as practicable. The trimmings will not be wasted as they can be used for gravy ; but, of course, the steak must not be cut about any more than is absolutely necessary. Bat the pieces flat, pepper and salt them, and dip them on both sides in Lucca oil or dissolved butter. Light the gas in the griller for five minutes, wipe the pan and grid. Lay the pieces of steak on the grid and put them under the griller, turn them two or three times with the steak tongs while they are cooking, and, as soon as they feel firm when pressed between the tongs, they are done. Cut as directed above they will take fifteen to sixteen minutes. If cut from the top of the ribs, and an inch and a half thick twenty minutes will be re- quired. The fillets from the under-cut, cut three-quarters of an inch thick, will not take more than twelve minutes. While the steaks are cooking, prepare two ounces of fresh butter by mixing it with a table spoonful of parsley finely chopped up, well washed and squeezed in the corner of a cloth. The butter should be just soft enough to be worked easily; season it with a pinch of salt and one of pepper, and a tea-spoonful of lemon-juice. Dish up the steaks on a very hot dish, and, dividing the butter in six parts, put a piece of it on each steak. Potatoes Soufflces.—Carefully scrub and wash a dozen long kidney potatoes, and peel them thinly. Divide them lengthwise in slices a quarter of an inch thick. Have the fat heated ready for frying and quite still (see page 46). Put in the potatoes, taking care they do not stick together, turn them about with a slice, and when they look a pale straw colour, take them out, put them in a colander or wire basket, over a dish to drain. Turn the gas full on under the pan for three minutes to make the fat very hot. Put in