The Art of Cooking by Gas. i36 between two dishes to keep them flat. Take them out, stamp them into rounds an inch and three-quarters in diameter. Each fillet ought to yield four of these. Shell a freshly-boiled hen lobster without splitting it down the middle. Divide the tail in slices a quarter of an inch thick and stamp them to the same size and shape as the fillets. Wash, dry, and rub the coral through a sieve, spread it on the pieces of lobster. Chop very finely some well picked and washed parsley, wrap it in the corner of a cloth, dip it in cold water and wring it dry to improve its colour; spread it on the fillets of sole. Cover both kinds of fillets with aspic jelly, just warm enough to be soft, but not liquid, put them in a cool place, or on ice, to set. Line a turban mould with aspic jelly, turning it well about so that it spreads evenly. Lift one by one, the fillets of sole and pieces of lobster, trim the jelly round them, and arrange them alternately round the mould, each slightly overlapping the other and put a little slantingly, so that the ornamented side will be outwards when the aspic is turned out. Put the rest of the jelly in a forcing-bag and fill the mould with it in all parts. Put it in a cool place, or on ice, to set. Make half a pint of mayon- naise sauce. Break in small pieces a young lettuce, cut all the trimmings of the fillets of sole and the lobster very small. Season these and the salad with a little pepper and salt and a dessert-spoonful of tarragon vinegar, stir in half the mayonnaise and a quarter of a pint of aspic jelly chopped up finely. Dip the mould in warm water, wipe it dry, and turn the aspic out on a cold dish. Pile up the salad in the middle, add a few drops of tarragon vinegar, a little pepper and salt to the remainder of the mayonnaise, which ought to be very stiff. Cover the salad with it. Sprinkle a little lobster coral on it and stick a sprig of chervil on the top. Put chopped-up aspic round the turban. Serve at once, or keep on ice until wanted. One quart of jelly will be sufficient for this dish.