Dinners for the Four Seasons—Christmas. 115 and throw in the water a table-spoonful of salt. Cook from thirty to thirty-five minutes from the time the water boils. Pour off the water, cover the saucepan with a folded cloth, and let it stand a few minutes over the gas turned down to half full on. Peel the potatoes, and serve hot. Sea-kale. Wash and trim it, and tie it in little even bundles, allowing one bundle of four or five shoots to each person. Lay it in cold water for half an hour. Put enough cold water in a large pan to well cover the kale, add a table- spoonful of salt and one of lemon juice. Set this over the gas turned three-quarter full on, and when it boils put in the kale ; let the water boil up again, reduce the gas to half full on, and cook from thirty to thirty-five minutes, carefully removing any scum that rises to the top. Ascertain that the kale is tender by pricking lightly with a fork or, better, a thin skewer. Take it up with a slice, and drain between two hot cloths so that it does not get cold. Put a slice of plain toast in each of the vegetable dishes, and arrange the kale on it carefully, cutting off the string that held it in bundles. Send melted butter (see below) up with it in a boat, for if the melted butter is poured over it, the dish is apt to present a messy appearance after a few people have been served. Melted Butter.—Take six ounces of the best and freshest butter obtainable, and divide in live or six pieces. Put one of these pieces in an enamelled saucepan over the gas turned three-quarter full on. As soon as it is warm, stir in three ounces of fine sifted and dried flour, mix smoothly with a wooden spoon, but do not let it get coloured, add a salt- spoonful of salt and a pinch of white pepper, and, stirring constantly, pour in gradually nearly a pint of boiling water. Lower the gas a little, and stir in one by one the pieces of butter, taking care that each one is thoroughly mixed in before adding another one. Should the sauce look oily