56 The Art of Cooking by Gas. carrot and a small turnip, a dozen peppercorns, a salt- spoonful of salt, and a bunch of herbs. Pour on these two quarts of cold water, set the stock-pot on the gas turned half full on, skim very carefully, and simmer for three or four hours. Strain, cool, remove the fat, and use. Game Stock.—Butter the bottom of a stewpan, and lay on this half a pound of lean ham in thin slices; put in three pounds of bones and trimmings of game (cooked or uncooked), add two onions (sliced), and pour in a pint of cold water. Turn the gas full on under the pan, and boil briskly until the liquor looks brown and thick, like glaze; turn the gas down a little; put in three pints of boiling water, two carrots, one turnip, two cloves, a piece of celery, a bunch of herbs, twelve peppercorns, and a tea-spoonful of salt; skim with care, and simmer over the gas turned half full on for four hours. Strain, cool, remove the fat, and use. Fish Stock.—The court bouillon mentioned on page 67, for cooking salmon, makes an excellent fish stock ; if the bones and trimmings of the fish be put back in it after leaving the dining-room, and it is boiled for an hour, strained,'cooled, and freed from fat, it will be ready for use. The same rule applies to the various other kinds of fish. Should there be, however, no such fish stock in hand, the following recipe will supply the deficiency : Cleanse well, but do not skin, a pound of eels, a pound of skate, and a flounder. Any fish trimmings, such as the shells of lobster, the heads and shells of shrimps, the heads and bones of filleted fish, etc., can be added. Cut the fish in small pieces, and put them in two quarts of cold water, with a carrot, a small turnip, an onion stuck with two cloves, a bunch of herbs, ten peppercorns, a salt-spoonful of salt, and a table-spoonful of lemon juice. Set the saucepan on the gas turned half full on, bring slowly to boiling point, and skim thoroughly. Simmer for three hours, strain carefully on account of the small bones, and use when cold and free from fat.