Intr od uction. 3 with plates, each containing one of the mysterious fowls. These looked swarthy enough to boast African blood, and small enough to be young; but the sauce that accompanied them was nothing more than an ordinary brown sauce, with a few chopped-up herbs added to it. The explorers—I mean the inquisitive guests—cautiously cut a little piece of the flesh and tasted it, then suddenly looked at each other with rather awry face ; and well they might, for that single mouthful had dispelled the mystery. Alas for the poulets d’Afrique ! They were only rooks, they were not young, and they had not even been skinned. And, oh ! the bitterness of them ! The moral of this is: menus should be intelligible so that guests may be able to make their selection with ease and comfort. “ Good wine needs no bush,” and good food can afford to be named plainly, or at least by some title fairly descriptive of its nature. The advantages of gas properly applied to the work of the kitchen are not known to the general public as they deserve to be. Many people suffer from dyspepsia in con- sequence of the defective way in which their food, especially their meat, is prepared. Meat comes to the table under the name of roast meat which has never been roasted at all, but has been put into a closed oven with little or no ventilation, and there left to bake until it has acquired a dull grey brown colour—so much for appearance ; and a half-boiled, half-burnt flavour—so much for taste. Moreover, as all previous joints must have left on the rough porous surface of that too well closed oven something of their fatty vapours which could not escape into the open air, the oven com- municates from one joint to another an average flavouring which renders very natural the question occasionally heard, “ Is this beef or mutton ? or might it be pork ? ” To take another example: pastry is a thing that many people stand in positive dread of, and they often have good reasons for their fears; for, even if the pastry itself is well