52 The Art oe Cooking by Gas. and tasty than if cooled dry. For utilizing the liquor in which fish, flesh, or fowl has been boiled see “ Stocks,” page 54- To boil fish, put in the kettle sufficient cold water to cover the fish ; add to each quart of water a dessert-spoonful of salt and a tablespoonful of French vinegar, or a wine-glass- ful of white wine; set the kettle over the gas turned full on, and bring the water to boiling-point, skim it, lift the strainer out, put the fish on it, and put it back in the kettle. Let the water boil up again, skim, reduce the gas so as to keep the water only simmering, and reckon the time for cooking from that moment. White fish, such as turbot, should always be rubbed with a piece of lemon before being cooked ; this will assist the water in removing the impurities, which rising to the surface are then easily skimmed off. This skimming must be carefully and thoroughly done, or when the fish is lifted out of the kettle, the scum will settle on it, spoiling both appearance and taste. Fish should be very gently sim- mered in order that it may not be broken. If the fish is ready for the table a little too soon, it should wait in the fish kettle, and not be taken out until wanted. In this case turn down the gas very low. This will keep the water hot and the fish in good condition. Of course, the fish ought not to be ready and waiting more than a few minutes. Should, however, anything untoward prolong the delay, it is better to lift the fish out of the water, and, setting the strainer crosswise on the kettle, cover the fish with a hot damp cloth. But this is, at best, only a makeshift, and if the cook has timed herself well, and the guests are punctual, it should never be resorted to, as fish is best when ea.ten directly it is done. Fish is often overdone through the cook’s anxiety lest it should not be done enough, and in using a coal kitchener she may have good reason to be anxious; but in boiling fish over regulated gas burners the cooking is so absolutely regular, and every element of uncer-