Dinners for the Four Seasons—April. 69 some round croutons (see page 50), cut with a rose pastry- cutter. Five minutes before serving put the tails in a small frying basket, or a strainer, and plunge them in the sauce; as soon as they are white and opaque they are done. Lift them out, strain the sauce, and dish up by putting two tails on a crouton on each plate, and pouring a little sauce on the top. Chaudfroid of Quails. Take a dozen quails and bone them, but leave the feet on ; farce them with the farce given below, squeezed through a forcing-bag, and pat the birds into good shape; butter some small bands of paper and tie them with string, one round each quail. Light the gas of the oven for ten minutes before beginning to cook the birds. Melt a piece of butter in a saute pan, arrange the quails on their backs in this, and place on the breast of each a little piece of fat bacon. Put the pan in the oven and cover it with a piece of buttered paper. In fifteen minutes the birds will be done ; put them aside to cool. In the meantime, prepare the sauce as follows : Put in a stewpan a pint and a half of aspic jelly (see below), half a pint of tomato sauce {see page 73), one ounce of glaze, and two table-spoonfuls of sherry. . Mix thoroughly over the gas and let the sauce boil to reduce it, skimming it as necessary. When it is thick enough to coat the spoon dipped in it, take it off the fire, pass it through a tammy cloth, and put it aside to cool, but not so much as to get set'. When ready, remove the bands of paper, cut the quails in halves with a knife dipped in hot water, spread the sauce over the outer part of each half quail, and leave them on a dish to set. Warm some aspic jelly, just enough to make it barely liquid, and cover the quails with it. Put them again aside, and, when quite cold and set, half fill some paper cases (cutlet shape) with chopped-up aspic jelly, put one half quail on each of these and put some aspic jelly round. For this purpose it is best to put the chopped