Dinners for the Four Seasons—-July. 93 any water, the gas being turned three-quarter full on, add two tablespoonfuls of lemon-juice, and as soon as the sugar looks a clear golden brown, put half a pound of the almonds in it, stir them well so that they get evenly coated, then turn the gas low, and mould quickly. For this, have some small and rather shallow dariole moulds, oil them well inside, and have them ready for use, as the almonds must not wait; oil a marble pastry slab, take some of the almonds out and roll out quickly and as thinly as practicable, cut strips of this, and line the moulds very promptly as nougat hardens rapidly by contact with the air, whilst that which has been left in the pan to keep warm and soft, will get too brown if it waits too long. Pass a small sharp knife round the inside of the moulds to detach the nougats, and turn them out. Let them get cold and set. Repeat the operation with another half pound of almonds and half pound of sugar, and so on until all the almonds are disposed of and the nougats have all been moulded and taken out to dry as directed ; taking care to wipe the pan so that no shreds of almonds are left in before another quantity is put in. This way is indicated as being more convenient when only one or two persons can be attending to the nougats ; but if there are plenty, of helping hands, all the sugar (one and a half pound) and all the almonds can be put in at once and worked out again with as much dispatch as possible. When the nougats are all ready, whip stiffly a quart of thick cream with three ounces of castor sugar, mix with it a puree of apricots (see below), put this cream in a forcing-bag, and fill the nougats rather full with it, ornament the edge with preserved cherries cut in halves, alternating with tiny stars stamped out of angelica. Keep on ice until wanted. Puree of Apricots.—Skin eight fine ripe apricots, split them, take out the stones, rub the pulp through a wire sieve into a basin, add one ounce of sifted sugar, mix well, and add to the cream.