The Art of Cooking by Gas. 84 bone. This prevents the skin on the white side from split- ting, and keeps the fish flat. When the water boils, put the fish on the strainer in the kettle, the dark side downwards, and let the water boil up again, skimming carefully. When free from scum, cover with a buttered paper, and reducing the gas to half full on, cook from thirty to thirty-five minutes, according to the thickness of the fish. When done, take it up and drain it for five minutes. Dish on a folded serviette, the white side uppermost, rubbing it with a very little fresh butter; garnish with small bunches of parsley and lemons cut in quarters, and serve with lobster sauce. Note.—When turbot comes from the table, and as soon as the cook can spare the time to attend to it, all the fish that remains should be carefully picked off and set aside for croquettes, kedgeree, etc. The bones and skin, which are very rich in gelatine, should be put back in the liquor in which the fish was cooked, and the fish kettle set on the gas turned three-quarter full on. After boiling for thirty to forty minutes, the liquor can be strained and put aside for fish stock. It will set to a firm jelly in the basin, and in hot weather should be used the next day. Lobster Sauce.—Take a large freshly-boiled hen lobster, break the shell carefully, and take all the meat out, cut it in small square pieces. Pound the coral with double its quantity of fresh butter and a very little cayenne pepper, and put it aside. Put the broken shell in a saucepan with a pint and a quarter of cold water, an onion cut in slices, six peppercorns, a bay-leaf, a sprig of parsley, and one of thyme. Set this on the gas turned three-quarter full on, and boil for half an hour; strain the liquor. Melt four ounces of butter in a saucepan over the gas, and mix smoothly with it four ounces of fine flour, add the strained liquor, stirring constantly until creamy looking, put in a little salt, add enough of the lobster butter to colour the sauce a bright red. As there is cayenne pepper with the