215 L uncheons—September. small side bones. Cut the best parts of it in two-inch lengths, and divide these in lardons like those cut out of fat bacon. Season the lardons with a pinch of salt, one of pepper, one of nutmeg, and a dessert-spoonful of very finely chopped chervil, parsley, and chives; roll them lightly in the season- ing, and lard the pike all the way down with them on both sides. (See at “ Fricandeau,” page 144, full directions for larding.) Chop finely the rest of the eel, taking care that no bones remain adhering to the fish; beard six oysters, chop them up with three washed and filleted anchovies and the liver of the fish. Season with a tea-spoonful of finely chopped chives, one of marjoram, one of thyme, a salt- spoonful of salt, and a pinch of pepper. The beards and liquor of the oysters having been simmered for fifteen minutes in a quarter of a pint of milk, strain the milk, soak in it four ounces of bread-crumb, squeeze the bread rather dry, add it to the farce, and mix it all well together with two ounces of butter just warmed. Fill the fish with the farce, and sew the opening securely. Put the spit right through in at the mouth and out at the tail. Butter a double thick- ness of paper, and wrap the fish closely in it, tying it at both ends and in several places with tape. Light the gas in the roaster for ten minutes, and put four ounces of butter in the pan to dissolve. Put the pike in and start the turn- spit, reduce the gas to three-quarter full on, and pour in the pan a quarter of a pint of French white wine. Baste diligently with this and the butter all the time the fish is roasting. Thirty to thirty-five minutes will do for a fish of the size indicated. Lift it out, put it on a very hot dish, and remove the tape and paper carefully; take out the cotton used in stitching the opening. Garnish with parsley and slices of lemon. Crayfish or prawns, when obtainable, also make a very pretty garnish. Sauce for Roast Pike.—Pound three washed and filleted anchovies very smoothly. Melt half an ounce of butter in a