78 The Art of Cooking by Gas. brushing them with dissolved butter, divide the shredded almonds between them. Half fill the moulds with the mix- ture. Peel a potato, and, wrapping it in a piece.of buttered paper, put it in the centre opening of the mould, to prevent the mixture from running into it when it rises ; tie also a piece of buttered paper round each mould so that it is as high again as the mould. Leave the savarins standing in a warm place to rise. Light the gas in the oven of the kitchener for twenty minutes. Bake the savarins for about three-quarters of an hour, until they are of a pretty brown colour. Draw them out, and, removing the papers, turn them out on to a pastry rack standing in a dish, and while hot pour upon them the boiling syrup given below. See that they are evenly soaked, and leave them to drain. Put each savarin on a dish, ornament the top with dried cherries and angelica, arranging alternately half a cherry and two pieces of angelica cut leaf shape, so as to form a wreath. Fill the middle with a compote of preserved fruit, and pour upon the fruit a little syrup flavoured with the same liquor as that which has been used for soaking the savarins. Serve warm. Synip for Savarins.—Melt two pounds of loaf sugar in three pints of water, let it boil until reduced to about two pints, skimming it carefully, add a quarter of a pint of liquor—maraschino, noyau, etc.—according to taste, and use. This quantity of syrup will be sufficient for the three savarins, taking into account that which is used for soaking them and also for pouring on the fruit. Any preserved fruit, cherries, apricots, peaches, pine-apple, etc., can be used for the centre of the savarins—the smaller fruit left whole, the larger cut into dice about half an inch square. A peach, coloured with a little saffron and carmine, and having an aigrette of angelica leaves, can be put in the middle, and will look very ornamental. All this should be prepared in the course of the day so as to be ready for use.