38 The Art of Cooking by Gas. to finish and brown them. The forcemeats given for turkey are all suitable for fowls, as is also P£rigueux sauce for truffled fowls. The Parisienne roaster will hold two large fowls. Three spring chickens can be roasted in it by spitting them differently, that is driving the spit through the bird between the wing and leg. Two pairs can be roasted in the Charing Cross kitchener if necessary. Turkey.—Of this it should be remarked that the hen turkey is the best. It can be eaten simply roasted like a fowl, but is usually stuffed with a variety of forcemeats, according to individual tastes. It must be borne in mind that the forcemeat being inside of the bird (stuffing the flap of the breast only is not recommended, as flavouring only one part), it will take some considerable time to warm through. If the gas is turned on too full, the flesh will be done before the forcemeat has fairly begun to cook, and the very fact of the meat being done will prevent the heat from penetrating. Therefore, taking, for instance, a turkey weigh- ing about ten pounds, and having filled the inside with forcemeat, weigh it; it will come to about twelve pounds. Heat the roaster for ten minutes, and put in the dripping pan two or three spoonfuls of good beef dripping. Spit the turkey securely. Start the turnspit; leave the gas full on for five minutes, basting the turkey well with the melted dripping ; then reduce the gas to half full on, and cook for two hours and a quarter, keeping the bird well basted ; turn the gas full on, and give the turkey one more basting, and in ten minutes it will be ready for the table. If it is stuffed with sausage-meat, some broiled sausages will.be sent to the table round the dish, and bread sauce and gravy in tureens will accompany it; but if the turkey is truffled, Perigueux sauce only will be served with it. Forcemeat for Roast Turkey.—Lay a sweetbread in cold water for two hours, wash it well, and put it in a pan of boiling water, to which a pinch of salt has been added. Boil it over