Dinners for the Four Seasons—October. 97 paste-brush in the warm butter that has fallen in the pan of the griller, and brushing the fish over with it. Remove carefully on to a very hot dish, and serve with sauce verte. Sauce Verte.—Take some chervil, tarragon, chives, pars- ley, burnet, one ounce of each. Put these herbs in a stewpan with enough cold water to cover them, adding a very small piece of soda and half a shallot. Set this on the gas turned full on, and bring to boiling point, strain and wash in cold water. Dry the herbs thoroughly in a cloth, pound them in a mortar with four yolks of hard-boiled eggs, three sliced gherkins, four well-washed and dried anchovies filleted, a dessert-spoonful of capers, and three of oil; add them to three-quarters of a pint of mayonnaise sauce (see below). They ought to colour it a delicate green, and if this is not obtained, add a little sap green. This sauce can be eaten cold, or, if preferred, heated in the bain-marie. It is ex- cellent, and forms a pretty contrast with the pink flesh of the trout. Mayonnaise Sauce.—Put in a basin three yolks of eggs, very fresh and quite free from white and from germs, a tea- spoonful of salt, and a pinch of white pepper, and, taking a wooden spoon in one hand and a bottle containing half a pint of oil in the other, pour the oil drop by drop in the basin, stirring round and round with a constant even motion until all the oil-has been absorbed and the sauce is nearly as thick as butter ; add a table-spoonful of French vinegar, and a tea-spoonful of Chili vinegar. Mix well, and use. This is the French mayonnaise, and is useful for many dishes, either employed by itself or in conjunction with aspic jelly. It is simple to make, but takes time, as if the oil is poured in too quickly, the sauce will not thicken. In summer it is well to rest the basin in which the sauce is being worked upon ice. Using ducks’ eggs will also help in thickening it. If mustard is mixed with it, in the proportion of a H