Home Dinners—February. 129 after roasting a fowl. This should be clarified by putting it in boiling water and letting it stand until cold, when it will be ready for use. It is very tasty and useful for many purposes. Put a carrot and an onion stuck with two cloves in with the cabbage, and a pinch of salt. Set the stewpan over the gas, turned half full on, and simmer gently for an hour. Ascertain that the cabbage is done by pricking it lightly. In the meantime prepare three pints of good stock in the following manner : Put the stock, free from fat and sedi- ment, in a stewpan with six small carrots, six small turnips, six 'leeks cut in two-inch lengths. If this soup is made in early summer, when vegetables are small and young, the carrots and turnips should be put in whole ; at other seasons pare and cut them in pieces the size and shape of pigeons’ eggs. Set the stewpan over the gas, turned half full on, and simmer until the vegetables are tender, skimming carefully. (Of course, if these are young they will cook more quickly than if they are pieces cut from full-grown vegetables, so no exact rule can be given as to time.) Cut the top crust off a large tin loaf, and remove the crumb attached to it. Dip it quickly in the boiling soup, and put it, the hollow side downwards, on a baking-tin ; pour upon it a spoonful or two of clarified fat from a roasted fowl, as indicated above. Put the tin in the oven, previously lighted for ten minutes, and let the crust get evenly brown and crisp, occasionally basting it with a little more fat. When about to serve the soup, put the crust on a hot flat dish (a silver or plated oval dish looks the best), drain thoroughly the cabbage and arrange it in four little mounds round the crust. Strain the soup into the hot soup-tureen, and garnish the crust and cabbage with the vegetables, neatly sorted in little groups. Do this quickly, so that nothing has time to get cold, and serve at once. This is the real French croute au pot, according to the best and most practical method of preparing it. The cabbage is cooked separately, so as not to communicate too J