2 The Art of Cooking by Gas. is subject to variations, as it most probably may be. All apparatus, kitcheners, roasters, pastry ovens, etc., ought to be regulated so as to work at the lowest pressure at which gas is supplied, and maintain that pressure uniformly; thus they will be available at any hour of day and night, and temperatures will be made quite independent of any changes in the pressure of the gas. In composing the menus given for various meals, I have endeavoured as much as possible to give to the dishes such names as will be readily understood. The prevailing custom of writing menus in French has induced me to put them down in the two languages, so as to suit both fashion and convenience; yet I have not thought it necessary to insist on having always a literal translation, which, in many instances, would give but a faint idea of what the dish is really like. It is no more possible to translate literally plum pudding, mince pies, mulligatawny, Scotch woodcock, or Welsh rarebit, than souffle, chaudfroid, croute au pot, sole au gratin, and fricandeau. Blanchaille is, at best, but a poor substitute for whitebait; whilst hachis would not at all convey the idea of a haggis; and when it comes to angels on horseback the baffled translatress may well close the dictionary in despair. I have also avoided giving to the dishes high-sounding names which mean nothing in particular, and often dis- appoint the hopes they raise. I may be forgiven for telling the following anecdote, which will illustrate my meaning better than any explanation. At a public dinner given some years ago one of the items on the bill of fare was “ Poulets d’Afrique, sauce il la Livingstone.” Now, this sounds fine enough, and roused the curiosity and anticipation of some of the guests, who wondered what poulets d’Afrique might be. One suggested they perhaps were Guinea fowls, which, con- sidering the name, was not a bad guess. The waiter, being desired to bring some Poulet d’Afrique, presently returned