General Directions—Roasting. 33 v of balance) from slipping the toothed wheel out of gear. Now place the joint about equi-distant from each end of the roaster, and tighten the thumb-screws of the drivers so that they are firmly fixed to the spit and all turns together. It is sometimes asserted, but without reason, that spitting the meat lets out the juices. The spit conducts the heat through the centre of the meat and helps the regularity of the cooking, but it does not let out any juices. In fact, heat-conducting skewers have actually been invented to drive in meat when it is cooked in coal or gas ovens, and it is found that by their use the meat is better cooked, and loses less weight. If the spit is turned by. clockwork, wind it up ; if by a water motor, turn on the water till a fairly regular speed of about three or four turns per minute is obtained. The water motor enables the cook to regulate the speed with great nicety. The joint (or poultry) should turn only just fast enough to enable the juices and fat of the meat to glide slowly along the surface and round it, until they fall in the dripping pan. The turnspit being started, baste the joint thoroughly with the dripping, and close the roaster. Allow ten minutes for large joints, five minutes for small ones, with the gas still full on, to close the pores of the meat and keep in the juices. Reduce the gas to half full on, or three-quarter full on, according to directions, for the longer period of cooking, and turn it again full on for a few minutes at the last, to finish browning the meat. These directions apply to all kinds of meat and poultry, the time needed being stated for each kind under their several headings. For small joints it is well to keep the gas rather low after it has been full on for a few minutes, for, should the gas be kept too high throughout the cooking, the meat would be dried up. While the joint is cooking, look at it occasionally through the glass front, opening the lid only when the meat wants D