General Directions—Boiling. 53 tainty so far eliminated, that the cook knows almost to a minute when the fish will be done. When small pieces of fish are wanted, it is far better to grill than to boil them. A salmon steak (see page 149) grilled and served with tartare sauce is a most appetizing dish ; but the same piece of fish wrapped in a cloth and boiled, tastes of nothing in particular, except, perhaps, a faint flavour of the wash-tub imparted by the cloth. The reason of this is obvious; in a slice or “steak” cut from a fish, there is nothing to prevent the water from drawing out the juices of the fish, as there would be in a whole fish, which is pro- tected by the skin ; and those juices accordingly come out into the waiter, where they are wasted. But if the fish is grilled, the juices are kept in by the sharp heat, and the fish is, as it ought to be, at once tasty and nutritious. In soup and stock making, the process of boiling differs essentially from that which has been just described, in this respect, that the meat, etc., to be boiled must be put in cold water, and heated very gently, so as to dissolve those juices of the meat which at boiling point are not more soluble than the white of a hard-boiled egg. Therefore, when the pot is ready for boiling, light the gas, and turn it not more than half full on ; let the water get gradually warm, and skim off all that Comes to the surface. If, when lighted, the gas is turned on too high, the water will quickly boil up, hardening the meat and preventing its juices from dissolving; the scum, instead of remaining up at the top, where it naturally rises on being gradually drawn from the meat by slow heat, will mix again with the water, and a poor, cloudy stock will be the result. When the pot has been well skimmed and the vegetables added, skim again until no more scum rises, then put on the lid and the soup will take care of itself without any trouble on the part of the cook, provided that it is kept just simmering and no more. As the burner, once regulated, cannot alter in height of flame or intensity of heat, there is