i37 Home Dinners—March. Raised Salmon Pie. It is necessary for this to have a hinged mould which can be opened and closed at will. These moulds are sold in round and oval shapes. Assuming the mould to be six or seven inches in diameter, make a paste in the following manner. Rub a pound and a half of fine flour through a sieve set over the pastry-board or slab. Gather it in a mound and rub into it three-quarters of a pound of butter, add a dessert-spoonful of salt and make into a stiff paste with about half a pint of water, added gradually until the paste is firm and smooth, flour the table and roll the paste into a ball. If well made, it will stick neither to the table nor to the fingers. Cover it and let it rest'for half an hour. Then cut off a quarter of the paste and put it aside for the cover of the pie. Flour the roller and table, roll out the rest of the paste to rather more than a quarter of an inch thick, and shape it with the hands to form a sort of pouch. Press the paste evenly out so that there are no thin places, lift it with care and line the mould with it, pressing it well to the bottom and sides, so as to make it fit the mould. Cut the paste off all round, leaving it higher than the mould by at least half an inch. Fill it as indicated below. Roll out half the paste that is left to the thickness of an eighth of an inch. Put it on the pie and cut it off all round. Press the edges of pie and cover well together, and ornament the edge. Roll out the rest of the paste and trimmings, brush the first cover with water and put the second over it. Make a hole, half an inch in diameter, through both covers. Brush the upper one with beaten egg and lightly score it in rays from the centre with the point of a knife. Put the pie in the oven, which has been lighted full on for half an hour. Bake for two hours with the gas three-quarter full on. If the top crust browns too rapidly cover it with a buttered paper. Leave the pie for five or six minutes in the mould, after taking it out of the oven, then, through a small funnel placed in the