243 Brea icfasts—Ma r ch. with the pickle for a few minutes every time. When ready to cook it, lift it out of the pickle, rinse it well with warm water, wipe it, and roll it, roly-poly fashion, to the shape of a thick sausage. Butter a piece, of muslin or thin cloth and wrap the beef in it; tie it tightly at both ends, and wind the tape two or three times round it to keep it in shape ; this, however, must not be done tightly, or the tape will leave marks on the meat. Chop finely two ounces of beef suet, free from skin and gristle, melt it in a large stewpan or braising-pan over the gas turned three-quarter full on. Clean and slice two onions, two carrots, one turnip, two shallots, one small head of celery, put these in the braising- pan. Add a bunch of herbs (parsley, thyme, marjoram, basil, and a bay-leaf), twenty peppercorns, and no salt. Fry all these for five minutes, put in the meat, cover it and fry it with the vegetables for twenty minutes, turning it two or three times to get evenly done. Add three quarts of light stock, and half a pint of French white wine, or a quar- ter of a pint of sherry or Madeira ; the liquor must cover the meat. Bring up to boiling-point, skim, reduce the gas to half full on, and simmer very gently for five hours, skim- ming from time to time. Take the meat up and put it in a deep dish or basin; strain the liquor over it. Put a plate or a small dish on the meat, and a heavy weight over the dish, and leave the meat to get cold, say, until the next morning; lift it out, remove the tape and cloth. Glaze the meat all over (see Glaze, page 59), and, when dry, put it on a cold dish, ornament the top of it with blocks of aspic jelly made as directed on page 70, with three ounces of gelatine to the quart, so that it cuts very firmly. Chop up the trimmings of the jelly, put it round the beef and serve. One quart of aspic jelly will be sufficient; the jelly when made should be run on to a baking-tin to a depth of half an inch and put in a cold place until firmly set, it can then be divided into blocks with a sharp knife, and the blocks