7he Art of Cooking by Gas. 204 salt, one of pepper, a table-spoonful of French vinegar, and two of oil. Toss the salad lightly, and let it drain a while. Prepare the following ingredients :—Four hard-boiled eggs, four washed and filleted anchovies, sixteen stoned olives, a large table-spoonful of lobster coral which has been rubbed through a sieve, a table-spoonful of chopped-up chervil, and one of capers. Make half a pint of mayonnaise sauce. (See page 97.) Everything should be in readiness before beginning to dress the dish. Drain the salad and put it on a dish, pressing it together to form a firm basis ; arrange the fish over it in a circle, each piece slightly overlapping the other, and fill up the middle with the parings of the fish chopped small; pile this up quite level with the outer ring. Cover all smoothly with the sauce, which has been made very firm and creamy. Shell the eggs, wipe them, divide them first lengthwise, then across the middle to make four quarters of each egg. Stand these, yolk outwards, round the basis of the mayonnaise, and put an olive between each two pieces of egg. Each anchovy being divided into two fillets, lay these fillets on the top, all pointing to the middle and forming a double cross. In the spaces thus formed sprinkle alternately a little lobster coral and a little chervil, keeping the colours quite distinct. Pile up the capers at the top of the middle, and keep in a cool place till wanted. Mayonnaise is a useful dish for luncheons and cold suppers ; it can be made of fish as above, or of fowl, turkey, etc. It lends itself to a great variety of ornamentation. In * addition to the things already mentioned, cucumber, beet- root, truffles, red chillies, cut in strips or stamped with a vegetable-cutter, in rounds, stars, crescents, etc., are also very ornamental. The olives can be farced with anchovies. Prawns make a very pretty garnish, and stiff aspic jelly, either plain or coloured a delicate green and cut into small blocks, forms an elegant border.