General Directions—Roasting. 37 Heat the roaster for ten minutes. Spit the joint evenly (see page 32), and brush it over with Lucca oil; oil is much pre- ferable to any other fat for this purpose, as nothing else will make the crackling so crisp and delicate. Start the turnspit. Allow ten minutes with the gas full on after the joint has been put in the roaster, reduce the gas to half full on for one hour and a half, then turn it on full again for twenty minutes, making a total of two hours. Forcemeat for Pork.—Boil three onions (Spanish onions by preference) for ten minutes ; this will make them milder and more digestible than if used raw. Drain them well, chop them up finely; mix with them the same quantity of fine bread crumbs, a large table-spoonful of pounded sage, a tea-spoonful of salt, half a tea-spoonful of white pepper, one ounce of butter, and the yolk of an egg ; mix well. Lift the skin round the knuckle, and put the forcemeat underneath. Draw the skin down, and tie it round to keep it in place. This string will be removed' when the joint is taken up. Applesauce (.seepage 126) is the most usual accompaniment of roast pork, but sauce Robert, sauce piquante, and ravigote are also suitable, and are very useful for warming up cold roast pork. Fowls.—Heat the roaster for ten minutes. Put two large spoonfuls of good beef dripping in the pan. Spit the fowl or pair of fowls so that they are well balanced, and fasten them with the driving skewers to prevent them from slipping. Start the turnspit; allow five minutes with the gas full on after the fowls have been put in, basting them well, especially at the beginning, forty minutes with the gas half full on, and fifteen minutes at the last with the gas full on, making a total of one hour. These directions are for average full-grown plump fowls. Spring chickens will take about forty-five minutes (see page 76). Should the fowls be stuffed, they will want a quarter of an hour longer with the gas half full, but five minutes with the gas full on will be sufficient UNIvTRjII f LIBRARY LEEDS