Digitized by the Internet Archive in 2015 https://archive.org/details/b21471691THE (gafitronomif jl^egenrrator: SIMPLIFIED AND ENTIRELY NEW SYSTEM or COOKEEY WITH NEARLY TWO THOUSAND PRACTICAL RECEIPTS StriTED TO THE nSTCOME OF ALL CLASSES. ILLUSTRATED WITH NUMEROUS ENGRAVINGS AND COKBECT AND MINUTE PLANS HOW KITCHENS OP EVERY SIZE, FHOM THE KITCHEN OF A ROYAL PALACE TO THAT OP THE HUMBLE COTTAGE, ARE TO BE CONSTRUCTED AND FURNISHED. BY MONSIEUR A. SOYER, OF THE REFORM CLUB. FOURTH EDITION. LONDON:' SIMPKIN, MARSHALL, & CO., STATIONERS' HALL COURT: AND SOLD BY JOHN OLLIVIER, PALL-MALL. 184;.' CLASOOWUNIVERSIW 1.1BW ARY.C. AND J. AUI.ARD, PK1NTER8, BARTHOLOMEW CLOSE.TO HIS ROYAL HIGHNESS THE DUKE OE CAMBRIDGE. Your Royal Highness, The gracious condescension which permits of the dedi- cation of this Work to your Royal Highness, adds another to the many claims upon my devotedness and my gratitude. I have the high honour to be Your Royal Highness' Most obedient and humble Servant, ALEXIS SOYER.Baki/p Tucker, dol. •T. Walmslkv, Sculp.THE FOLLOWING DISTINGUISHED PERSONS HAVE HONOUEED THE AUTHOR WITH THEIR APPROBATION, AND THIS VOLUME, WITH THE KITCHEN PLAN OE THE REFORM CLUB, WERE COMMENCED UNDER THEIR PATRONAGE. H. R. H. the Duke of Cambridge. Ernest reigning Duke of Saxe-Coboui-g. H. R. H. the Duke of Sussex. H. R. H. the Hereditary Prince of Saxe- Coboui-g and Gotha. H. R. H. the Prince of Prussia. Archduke Frederic of Austria. Prince Bu-on de Couilande. Princess Clementine of France. The Duke of Leuister. The Duke of Bedford. The Duchess of Sutherland. La Duchesse d'Escars. La Duchesse de Lorges. La Duchesse de Valmy. The Countess of Essex. The Countess of Carlisle. The Dowager Marchioness of Dowushii-e. Ihe Countess of Clare. The Countess of Craven. The Baroness de Ludwigsdorff (Sweden.) Lady Ehza Phillips. Lady Flower. Lady Throgmorton. Lady Elibank. The Marquis of Ailsa. The Mai-quis of Normanby. The Marquis of Lausdowne The Marquis of Clam-icai-de. ihe Marquis of Titchfield Marquis of Headfort. ihe Marquis of Salisbury. Marquieza das Minas. Marquieza das Furjel The Earl Forteseue The Earl of Pembroke. The Eai-1 of Chesterfield. The Earl of Devon. The Earl of Yarborough The Earl of Charlcmont. rhe Count Hatzfeldt (Prussia). Count Woronzow. Countess Woronzow. The Earl Grosvenor. The Earl of Clarendon. The Eai-1 of Sefton. Le Bai-on de Molartie (great Echausonto the King of Hanover). Le Baron Adolplie de Rothschild. La Baronne de Rothschild. La Baronne de Weiber (Baden). Le Comte de Rancher (France). Le Comte de Pradel (France). Lord Ebrington. Lord Dinorben. Lord Maidstone. Lord Marcus Hill, M.P. Le Vicomte de Noailles (France). Viscoiuit Duucaunon. Lord James Stuart. Lord Mostyu Lord Jermyn. Lord Say and Sele. Lord Dudley Coutts Stuai-t. Lord Panmure. Lord F. Gordon. Lord Hastings. Lord Scarborough. Lord Nugent. Lord Lovat. Lord Templetown. Lord Clement. Lord Augustus Fitzclarence. Lord Vivian. Su- George Chetwynd. Sir Benjamin Hall, M.P Sir Henry Webb. Su- Andrew Leith Hay, M P Sir D. Lc Marchant. Sir John Guest, M.P. Sir Hesketh Fleetwood, M P bir James Duke, M.P. Sii- John Easthopc, M P Sir. R. Musgrave. iSSSt^].^™«^'''^(v--).LIST OF PATRONS, Sir Heiiry Pottmger. The Riglit Honorable Fox Maule, M.P. The Honorable H. R. Westenra. The Honorable J. 0. Murray. Lieutenant-Colonel Westeui-a. Lieutenant-Colonel Gordon. Major- General Evans. Admii-al Dundas, M.P. General Sii- Alexander Duff, Bart. Genenal Johnson. Le General Baron de Farincourt (France.) Colonel Sir William Robert Clayton. Colonel White. Colonel Beckwith. Major Riehardsou. Captain Noble Cajsar de Ladaeio (Naples). Lieut.-Gen. Baron de Warlmg'ton (Ba- varia). Capitaine deVaisseaux F. Gautier (France). Adiuiral Codrington. El Gen. Martui Joie de Triarte (Spain). Captain Robert Scherger (Cobourg). The Honorable General Mead. The Honorable Captain Vivian, M.P. Daniel O'Comiell, Esq., M.P. Maurice O'Comiell, Esq., M.P. John O'ConneU, Esq., M.P. George Duncan, Esq., M.P. Edward EUice, Esq., M.P. Robert Archbold, Esq., M.P. The Rev. Charles Tumor, D'.D. Captain Wemyss. Alston, Rowland, Esq. Basevi, George, Esq. Bryane, W. C. Esq. (America). Bavin Christopher, Esq. Boyd, W. Esq. Buckland, James, Esq. Hawes, B. Esq. M. Dugillion, Architect, Paris. Barry, Charles, Esq. Bouverie, Edward Pleydell, Esq. Collins, WiUiam, M.D. Clumy, Thomas, Esq. Clayton, John, Lloyd, Esq. Diwett, Thomas, Esq. Dardel, Monsiem- de. Dann, Henry, Esq. Faraday, Professor. Gully, John, Esq. Gunston, John, Esq. Gordon, Robert, Esq. Hoare, Charles, Esq. Harmer, James, Esq. Hope, —, Esq. Hovenden, J. E. Esq. Humphi-ey, Jolm, Alderman, M.P. Melik, A. Esq., (Turkey). Montefiore, N. Esq. Murphy, Mi-. Sergeant. Oliviera, Benjamin, Esq. O'Brien, Stafford, Esq. Perkins, Fi-ederic, Esq. Philips, Mark, Esq., M.P. Prescott, H. Esq. Rushton, E. A. Esq. Strutt, Edward, Esq., M.P. Sampayo, 0. H. Esq. F. A. Sarg, Esq. Wolfe, J. L. Esq.PREFACE, At the request of several persons of distinction, who have visited the Reform Club,—particularly the ladies, to w^hom I have always made it a rule never to refuse anything in my power, for indeed it must have been the fair sex who have had the majority in this domestic argument to gain this gastronomical election,—Why do you not virrite and publish a Cookery-book ? was a question continually put to me. For a considerable time this scientific word caused a thrill of horror to pervade my frame, and brought back to my mind that one day, being in a most superb library in the midst of a splendid baronial hall, by chance I met with one of MUton's allegorical works, the profound ideas of Locke, and several chefs-d'oeuvre of one of the noblest champions of literatm^e, Shakspeare; when all at once my attention was attracted by the nineteenth edition of a voluminous work: such an immense success of pubHcation caused me to say, "Oh! you celebrated man, posterity counts every hour of fame upon your regretted ashes!" Opening this work with intense curiosity, to my great disapi)ointment what did I see,—a receipt for Ox-tail Soup ! The terrifying effect produced upon me by this succulent volume made me determine that my few ideas, whether ciihnary or domestic, should never encumber a sanctuaryX PREFACE TO THE FOURTH EDITION. Bouquet cle Gibier, which met with so much success in London and Paris last Christmas, and offers to noblemen and gentlemen a new and pleasing mode of making pre- sents of game. The one I presented to His Majesty Louis Phihppe, with a copy of this work, met with the highest approbation from the com-t of France, and was most handsomely ac- knowledged by his Majesty. I now most humbly return thanks to the public for theu- kind encouragement, and trust that the success I have hitherto had may stUl be continued. ALEXIS SOYER. DUBLIN ; St. Patrick's Day, 1847.IMPORTANT. DESCRIPTION OF THE COMPOSITION OF THIS WORK. To sustain and deserve the title of " Gastronomic Regeneratoi'," nothing but an entire change from the system of any other publication on the art of Cookery would be admissible, it is now in the hands of ray readers to judge for themselves, and to stamp its character according to its merits, either as an original or a copy; to avoid the last, however, I have closely studied to introduce the greatest novelty in every depart- ment, and have entirely omitted all unnecessary confusion, which, in many previous works, have rendered them unintelligible to the un- initiated, and almost impracticable to the initiated; however, many old and useful receipts, too good to be omitted, will be found much sim- pMed^to reduce them to a practical point. I have also minutely studied the disposing and arranging of the building of all sized kitchens, from the one of the Reform Club and the Kitchen of the Wealthy to the humble one of the cottage, which cannot fail to prove useful when closely followed, as six years of expeiience in the kitchen of the Reform Club* has fvdly proved to me that tliose useful departments have not only previously been much neglected, but in many instances at a very great expense stdl worse arranged for want of practical knowledge, and considering that the pleasures of the table are an every-day enjoyment which reflects good and evil on all classes, my readers I am sure will agree with me that thie proper disposing of such an important depai-tment deserves some little attention, for food uncomfortably prepared is almost always unsightly, unwholesome, and consequently indigestible, not being cleanly prepared. I have Ukewise omitted in this work the placing of a long series of bills ot fare, which has been done in every previous pubUcation; although they might have proved useful in some few circumstances, they are seldom referred to, and often create confusion in the composition of a dinner by the difficulty of procuring perhaps the identical comestibles required m the receipts which the bills of fare refer to; and more I would venture to say, that in no circumstances have those bUls of fare been correctly followed; the only three I have introduced being one to arrange my pagodatique service to grace the Table of the Wealthy, the other the LucuUusian dinner, and the dinner of my Table at Home, which touncl at the end ol t)ic Receipts devoted to the Kilclicu of the Wealtliy.DESCUIPTION OF THIS WORK. will give a general idea of the manner in which I usually compose mv bills of faro, winch of course may be increased or decreased to any size lo avoid the old-fashioned method of giving ten or twelve for "every .season m the year, I have made the whole contents of my book one regular bill of fare, which will enable the most inexperienced cook or young lady j ust commenciny housekeeping, to compose a recherch^ or economical bill of fare at will, being so distributed, that after a short series of sauces the bill of fare commences, being first the soups, then the fish then the hors-d'oeuvres, or flying dishes, to be handed round the table during the time the removes and entrees are placing upon it • this IS the usual manner I serve a dinner, which cannot fail to be very hot; and to prevent confusion, which too often occurs, I place a number on a piece of paper between the cover and the dish, with a correspond- ing number to the name of the dish upon the bill of fare, which is then forwarded to the steward, who by this means not only understands the better placing it upon the table, but is able to answer to any questions respecting the dinner, thus saving time and confusion; and, above all, the dinner will be very hot and inviting, which would not be the case in the regular system of laying out the whole of the first course first upon the kitchen table, having to uncover every dish unnecessarily, then upon another table in a room adjoining the dining-room, and third and last, upon the dining-table, adding to which the chance of confusion and innumerable delays, in which your dinner is getting quite cold. In a plate service of sixteen entrees, which I was directed by the committee of the Reform Club to order, I introduced silver sand concealed in the heaters ; thus by placing them two hours in a hot closet previous to serving, they will retain their heat nearly a couple of hours longer upon the table, but for further details, see Pagodatique Dish at the end of the book. But to return to the arrangement of my book : after the hors-d'oeuvres come the removes, flancs, entrees, in succession in the first course, and for the second the roasts, savoury dishes, vegetables, entremets, and removes second course; thus my readers will have but to turn from one series to another in succession to arrange their bills of fare. For any description of plain joints frequently required in the first course, they will be found at the commencement of the series entitled My Kitchen at Home. For a public breakfast, luncheon, or suppers, where everything is partly cold, the series of savoury dishes in the second course will be found to facilitate and very much abbreviate the composition of the bill of fare for either of the above purposes. In the department entitled My Kitchen at Home will be found the same arrangements, and the repetition of many dishes from the Kitchen of the Wealthy, but so much simplified (hat the industrious classes of society may partake freely of them at a very moderate expense. I shall also remark that my motive in not making a translation to my index, but merely naming at the commencement of each scries the different comestibles, is to avoid the following ridiculous occurrence.DESCRIPTION OF THE WORK. XIU that is, the making of bills of fare in English from such curious trans- lation, not one of which have I seen deserving publication, being com- posed of comic French trivialife. As it is not the name that makes the dish, I have only explained the names of the different articles by way of distinction ; I have also mixed several headings in French and English, to instruct by degrees the un- initiated in the art of making a correct bill of fare ; I have also, in every place where the heading is in French, endeavoured to place the name of the comestible in the first line of the receipt. The reference by numbers will be found unavoidably repeated in many instances, especially those referring to stocks, sauces, pastes, or any of those articles which are the foundations of any others, which will be easily remembered after a few weeks' practice without having recourse to the index. My readers will probably also feel interested in knowing that, although for some time it has been my intention to write a work upon Gastronomy, the laborious and difficult 'duties which I had to fulfil at the Reform Club, added to the terrific efl'ect which has produced upon me the 19th edition of that monstrous volume mentioned in the preface, have often been the cause of my giving up such an idea, and having destroyed my old manuscripts, it is only within the last ten months that I in reality commenced afi-esh this work, in which lapse of time I had to furnish 25,000 dinners for the gentlemen of the Reform Club, and 38 dinner parties of importance, comprising above 70,000 dishes, and to provide daily for 60 servants of the establishment, independent of about 15,000 visitors who have seen the kitchen department in that lapse of time. Although I am entirely satisfied with the composition, distribution and arrangement of my book, should some few little mistakes be dis- covered they wUl be the more excusable under those circumstances as in many instances I was unable to devote that tedious time required tor correction ; and, although I have taken all possible care to prescribe by weight and measure, the exact quantity of ingredients used in the toUowmg receipts for the seasoning and preparing of all kinds of comes- tibles, I must observe that the ingredients are not aU either of the same size or quahty; for instance, some eggs are much larger than others some pepper stronger, salt salter, and even some sugar sweeter In 3 tl f' T-""' \^°n«iderable difi-erence in point of size and tiSfoodI/' V ^^'.'T*^ ^^'l' "^ ^'^-^t' descrip- tion of food IS subject to a similar fluctuation. I am far, however meSum of'tie's" '^T\'^''''T ^^^^ satisfied Tf the meamm ot the specified ingredients be used, and the receints in other respects closely followed, nothing can hinder success! ^SOYER'S NEW MODE OF CARVING. &c. &c. &c. You are all aware, honorable readers, of the continual tribulation in carving at table, for appetites more or less colossal, and when all eyes are fixed upon you with anxious avidity. Very few persons are perfect in this useful art, which requires not only grace, but a great deal of skill. Others become very nervous ; many complain of the knife, which has not the least objection to be found fault with; or else they say, this capon, pheasant, or poularde is not young, and consequently not of the best quality. You may sometimes be right, but it certainly often hap- pens that the greatest gourmet is the worst carver, and complains sadly during that very long process, saying to liimself, " I am last to be served; my dinner will be cold." Reproaches of this kind are daily addressed to the culinary artiste, who remembers perfectly well having burned his fingers whilst sending up those important removes. To illustrate this just question I will relate a curious and historic anecdote:—having one day served a petit diner, tres recherche, for five persons, in which was a poularde a I'ambassadrice, a new and rather voluminous dish of mine, after the first course a message was sent to me that the gentlemen had found that dish so good they regretted I had not sent two poulardes instead of one ; at first I took this message for a. pleasantry, but a short time after three parts of the poularde came down in a state that if exposed over a laundry door would have served for a sign, without having recourse to those popular words, "mangling done here;" the sight of a dish so greatly disfigured made me collect a few of my little culinary ideas. Nature^ says I to myself, compels us to dine more or less once a day; each of those days you are, honorable reader, subject to meet en tite-h-tUe with a fowl, poularde, duck, pheasant, or other volatile species; is it not bad enough to have sacrificed the lives of those animaux bienfaisans to satisfy our indefatigable appetites, without pulling and tearing to atoms the remains of our benefactors 1 it is high time for the credit of humanity and the comfort of quiet families, to put an end to the massacre of those innocents. Amongst other tribulations of carving I shall relate a most houfonne anecdote. " If you should, unhappily, be forced to carve at table," says Launcelot Sturgeon, in his Essays, Moral, Philosophical, and Stomachic, "neither labour at the joint until you put yourself into a heat, nor make such a desperate effort to dissect it as may put your neighbours in fear of their lives; however, if any accident shoidd happen, make no excuses, for they are only an acknowledgment of awk-XV NEW MODE OF CARVING. wai-dness. We reinember to have seen a man of high fashion deposit a turkey in this way in the lap of a lady, but with admirable compo- sure, and without offering the slightest apology, he finished a story which he was telling at the same time, and then, quietly turning to her, merely said, 'Madam, I'll thank you for that turkey.'" My conscience will not allow me to swear to the authenticity of the fact, but in the course of twelve months past I have witnessed a very simi- lar instance, only the party not possessing the assurance of the fashion- able above mentioned, did not continue the conversation, but in his nervous anxiety, endeavouring to replace it on the dish with vivacity, sent it roUing across the table to his right-hand neighbour, who quickly perceiving the imminent danger in which he was placed, for- tunately arrested its further progress with his fork. One hearty laugh of the remaining party terminated this scene of confusion. After a short consideration I found, by a most simple rule, and with the greatest facility, that a bird that would take ten minutes to carve very badly may be done well in two or three by the most inexperienced person. From this process a number of advantages may be derived : first, you may eat your dinner much hotter ; secondly, you can make eight or ten pieces of a fowl, or any other bird, where, previously, great difficulty was experienced in making five or six ; and each person will thereby be enabled to choose a favorite piece; a large bird, such as turkey, poularde, capon, &c., will be fit to reappear on your table in a very inviting state. I must dso observe that the birds are not in the least disfigured, but, on the contrary, their appearance is much improved. BIKECTIONS FOR CARVING. By the smiple process which I have efi"ected for the jointing of game or small poultry, with a long pointed pair of scissors, separating the smews which jom the wings to the breast, making the incision as small as possible, and also jointing the legs, by passing your finger between the skm and the flesh, pressing the legs over the breast with the left hand, the separation of the joints may be easily effected and having thus detached the four principal parts, the carving, when roasted, wUl be very simple. But for the jointing of large birds, as turkeys, geese, ^ZTl^ V'^'^'^u ^°.l^«t™«^ent I invented for that purpose from Bramah s, Piccaddly, with which a very intelhgible printed direction ^ito.^'"'^! ' j^i^^^-i bird, truss it with a packing-needle and string, as usual, but not pressing them so tightlv or they would become deformed, whUst, on the contrary, if merelv the process they have previously undergone will be totdly imperceptible oinTe'd "tr'^r" "^"-^ ^ ''''' P°"^^^y to table Lus^reSusly P*"'*-b^^° q^ite surprised at their unex- pec ed progress in that difficult art. Formeriy nothine was more dff ficult to carve than wild fowl, the continual motion (when a iv^ of Jit wmgs and legs making the sinews almost as tough as wires, puzzl ngxvi NEW MODE OF CARVING. the best of carvers to separate them; my new method has quite abo- hshed such a domestic tribulation. A long and dry description for the carving of each bird separately would be entirely useless, as every one of my readers will have perceived that almost the whole difficulty 18 defeated by this simple process; I shall therefore leave the subject, making but the following observation, which is, that in everything I dislike a straight line, and still more so in carving any kind of bird, by doing which you not only spoil their appearance, but cut against the grain, causing them to eat dry and, imperceptibly, obliging you to assist some of the guests to very thick pieces, unless the breast is very full and plump. I have here given a simple woodcut of a small turkey, by which you will easily perceive, that by trussing and carving in my new way, as represented, you will be enabled to carve for more people, assisting each to better slices with a middling-sized fowl, or any other bird, than with a larger one trussed and carved in the usual method. Keep, if possible, the legs in the position indicated in the design ; any small birds, such as woodcocks, plovers, snipes, or teal, are generally cut into two or four, being easily carved, but for anything above their size the foregoing plan had better be acted upon. Respecting the carving of any description of joints, it may be more simply explained. For a saddle of mutton or lamb, proceed precisely as directed for the saddle-back (page 644), and for a round or aitch- bone of beef, proceed as scientifically explained (pages 641-3) by the carver of this mighty dish. For the ribs or sirloin of beef, pass the knife between the chine- bone and the flesh to about an inch in depth, but only to about the length you think sufficient to cut as many shces from as you may re- quire ; then having a sharp knife, cut off the outside slice very thinly (which, if roasted according to my new plan, will be very good, espe- cially where parties have an objection to their meat the least under- done) ; hold your knife a little in a slanting direction, and continue cutting thin slices from the chine to the end, especially with the ribs, which are more lean, but it is preferable to leave all the ends of the sirloin in the dish as you carve, if not wanted, or after having carved two or three plates you are forced to dig the lean out, which is not only often, but generally done in a club-house where a scientific carverNEW MODE OF CARVING. XVU is not employed ; if a slice' from a fillet of a sirloin is required, the servant must take the joint to the sideboard, and turn it over with a couple of forks, when again placed upon the table, the carver must carefully part some of the fat which covers it, if too much, then cut short slices in a slanting direction, as if from the breast of a fowl, in- stead of crosswise, for then if clumsily carved and overdone it has a strong resemblance to an old strap. For a rump of beef, either roasted or stewed, always commence at the fattest end, carving in a slanting direction, by which means you will obtain a correct quantity of that delicate article, if even you should be carving for twenty people, whilst by cutting straight across, some would have the greater proportion fat and the remainder nothing but lean. Any other piece of beef rolled and stewed, and fillets of beef, as served for a remove, all require to be carved in a slanting direction. For a fillet of veal, proceed in the same manner as directed for a round of beef. A loin of veal, if cut straight at the commencement, is entirely spoiled, but when carved slantingly (if well done from the best end), and eaten with its own gravy, nothing could be nicer, the remaining is then also very good cold, even the kidney ought to be served the same ; and the breasts, either roasted or stewed, require the same style of carving. For legs of mutton or lamb I also proceed in a new way: the frill, which is placed upon the knuckle-bone, is not only intended to orna- ment the leg, but Ukewise to enable you to hold the bone with your left hand, and carving with the right, which would wonderfully facili- tate the operation. Instead of cutting across the middle, which opens all parts at once, thus losing a great deal of the succulence, I com- mence carving at about two inches from the knuckle, beginning with the heel of the knife, drawing it along to the point, cutting six or eight slices at once, more or less if required, then pass the knife beneath the whole, detaching them from the bone, thus helping each person quickly and with very hot meat, the gravy remaining in the meat will keep it moistened in good order for cold, whilst in the general manner you have nothing but dry meat, or if underdone on purpose for cold, the meat will always have a black appearance. This is my way of carving at home, but if objectionable to take the frill with the fingers, make use of the carving-fork ; at home I never allow any gravy to be put into the dish, but served separately in a boat, but It the meat is of good quaUty it will supply (if well roasted) an abun- dance of good gravy. If for the table of the wealthy, commence carving the leg nearer to the centre, but always in a slanting direction. l^or shoulders of mutton or lamb to eat w^ell and deHcate, the fat and lean must be weU mixed in serving, to accomphsh which the joint must be carved in a still more slanting direction than the legs, also be- ginning rather near to the knuckle. For necks and loins of mutton, never separate the bones of either with a chopper, or you wiU partially mutilate the meat, thus losing a the gravy in roasting, and frequently have great difficulty in carving, in tS !• ' ^^^^ ^ '"^^^ ^« possible, cutting m the direction you require to carve. j f > 5xviii NEW MODE Ol' CARVING. For ribs of lamb, which should be properly prepared for carving be- fore being roasted, having the centre of the bones broken, with the chine-bone detached ; to carve, you must of course foUow the bones, which run rather slantingly, helping each person to a cutlet from the neck, with a slice of the breast, but not cut too thick ; by following this plan, each person will have partaken of the breast, which, without con- tradiction, is the most delicate part (but which is most frequently left to be eaten when dry and cold), and if any remain, being evenly carved, will be very presentable to table on the following day. To carve a ham proceed very similar to the manner directed for the carving of a leg of mutton, commencing two inches from the knuckle, cutting very thin and delicate slices, slanting more and more as you proceed, or you will have nothing but fat left at the extremity. To carve an ox-tongue, stick your fork into the root, and cut a thin slice off, placing the heel of the knife upon it, which draw along to the point, thus taking the slice oS in one cut, leaving it upon the dish, and serving the inner slices cut in the same manner, but very thin and delicate, you will thus have carved the best part of it easily without disfiguring the whole, still having a decent piece remaining for cold, but if you had commenced in the middle you would at once spoil the appearance, and the remainder would eat dry when cold. Nothing is more creditable to a carver than leaving a piece of either meat, game, or poultry fit to reappear at table in an inviting state. HOW TO CAE.VE A HAUNCH OF VENISON. The above engraving represents a haunch of venison, cooked as No. 540, and ready for carving, the back-bone of the loin being first partly taken out to facilitate the operation, as marked by letters and lines in the drawing. The carving-knife must be sharp ; put the point of it an inch deep from letter A to B, and draw it in a slanting direction from letter A to A, so on from B to B, but go a httle deeper in, according to the thickness of your haunch, and avoid making a hole through any part of it, as a well must be reserved to give half a spoonful of gravy to every plate, each of two thin slices. If you are to help more than eight or ten persons from the haunch, then carvexix NEW MODE OF CARVING. the loin at the same time as the thickest part, from C C to D D, and give to each guest a slice from each part, by which you will quickly perceive that you have fairly cut the meat, and that each person will have had his proper quantity of fat, and from first to last each shce will be very inviting; serve on very hot plates of silver if possible. Every amateur of venison knows, that without its due quantity of fat it is hardly eatable ; I would therefore advise those who still wish to carve haunches on the old system, to calculate how many -plates they have to carve for, otherwise they are sure to be misled, if they do not take the trouble to ascertain the number who are to be helped. My new system possesses an advantage, which is, that if six or eight persons only partake of a haunch, the remains of it are in a fine state, and fit to be cut into large slices for another dinner, by merely putting a few spoonfuls of gravy with the slices into a sautepan, over a sharp fire for three minutes; turn them carefully, season with little salt, a teaspoonful of currant jelly, turn the slices two or three times over until the jeUy is dissolved, serve on a very hot dish, but be careful not to let the slices boil in the pan, or else they will become very tough. If any remain, make a hash as No. 784, or pie. No. 785. AKOTHEK SUCCESSFUL WAY. When I am called to carve a haunch of venison for eighteen or twenty I proceed as follows: I take off the fiat bone, previous to roasting, at the back of the loin, and pass the knife from the knuckle all along the lower part of the flap, which is left about two inches wide; I then begin to cut in a slanting direction, as the drawing represents, from the beginning of the loin, through the leg as far as the knuckle, without reserving a well for gravy, and in fact 1 have found it to be better, as every slice you cut through the leg produces its own gravy boiling hot, which unavoidably gets colcJ in the well formed the other way of carving. Do not omit to save some fat for the next day, as your hash or pie would be insipid. Haunch of mutton or lamb may be carved either way. For necks of venison, pass your knife across the lower part of the ribs, about four inches below the thickest part, then cut elices in a slanting direction, not interfering with the bone, as I have previously explained. For shoulders, see Shoulder of Mutton, page 645. SADDLEBACK OF VENISON. I Having made a trial with Mr. Grove of Charing Cross of cutting a buck to produce a saddleback of venison, as I have done of mutton (page 644), we succeeded remarkably well, and obtained a most splendid joint that ever could be placed before an epicure; but it cannot be generally adopted, except in the country, where gentlemenXX CARVING OF POULTRY. keep their own park of deer, as we found it interfered with both legs, which look like legs of mutton, and deprived them of the best part of the fat, which cannot be dispensed with: in other respects thev are excellent for pies. I have also introduced a sauciere, made like a coffee-pot, heated by a spu:it-lamp underneath, filled with good veal or beef gravy, to be taken round to each guest; the great heat of the gravy poured over the shoes of venison, mixed with the gravy already helped from the haunch, makes a fine thick mixture, by which this delightful and noble joint is really enjoyed; the currant jelly always served ought not to be too sweet or too firm. French beans, usually served with venison, ought to be very young and green, well dried, and very hot when sent to table; in case they could not be obtained, send up cauliflower or young brocoh with it; however I must here observe, that these vegetables are very unpalat- able, as nothing disagrees more with currant jelly than French beans and brocoH. I have substituted tomatas/arc?, as described No. 1099, when in season, and served on a silver dish : they were much approved of. Plain broiled tomatas must be cut across, with the juice extracted without breaking ; then put on the gridiron, with salt and pepper, on a very sharp fire, turn them, when done dish up, add a Uttle butter over each, and send very hot. CARVING OF POULTRY. A fowl which has been prepared with the Tendon Separator before roasting, can produce afterwards ten very inviting pieces, suitable to the fancy of as many guests. In the first place you take a carving fork, which you stick in the breast, between figs. 5 ffnd 6, then you give a cut at the fiUet, beginning at 1 down to 2, where you make the point of the knife cut through the joint of the wing, which by twisting a little will easily come asunder. The same operation is done from 3 to 4; and without removing the fork, you slide the knife under the leg at 7, and the same at 8, and both legs wUl immediately separate. The next cut is to be given at 5 to 6, and afterwards the back is divided in the same direc- tion as the last numbers—as each leg is divided at the joint commonly called drumstick, it completes the ten parts. A Duck. The best part of a duck is the breast, which should be cut in fillets obliquely, then the wings and the legs, the same as the fowl, and the body in two. A Pheasant. The best parts are the breast and legs, which are carved the same as a fowl. A Partridge. The wings and the body are the best pai'ts. A roast Hare must be cut along the spine, from the neck downwards to obtain the fillets, which ought then to be divided in parts, in the same oblique direction as the ribs. The legs and shoulders are seldom carved, but they are, with the body, excellent in a hash or stewed.THE TENDON SEPARATOR. XXI SOYER'S TENDON SEPAEATOR. The woodcut at p. xxiii represents one of the most serviceable of nistruments. Its object is to relieve carvers, more or less proficient, and must become mdispensable for the use of all cooks and poulterers boiliig^^^^^'^^ volatile species previous to trussing, roasting, or To a clever carver, sitting at a homely table or pubUc banquet it matters htt e whether aU eyes are fixed upon him or a fidgety foot- man IS at his elbow. He quietly distributes the severaf dainties accorchng to the fancy of the guests, and everything goes on in com! loit. Jiut to a person mexperienced, the notion of being placed at eitherTHE TENDON SEPARATOR. end of the table, to stay the ravenous appetite of some of the ffuests causes such a nervous excitement, that it is not an uncommon thing to see the splashing of sauce and gravy on those around—perchance the sudden appearance of an unfortunate Hmb flying with terrific velocity on a lady's dress, the whole of the company* being thus thrown into contusion—the poor carver's apologies received with black looks, and the harmony of the party placed in jeopardy. It is with a view to extricate society from such an awkward position that the inventor offers to the public the Tendon Separator, as a medium by which any gentleman may boldly take the carving-knife in hand, and be delighted to comply with the invitation of the Amphytrion: instead of inspiring fear, he wiU be admired for his ability in gracefully dividing a favorite piece of game or poultry. The simplicity of the operation will easily convince any one that the Tendon Separator possesses all that is required to remove awkwardness in carving; the only necessity being to divide the ten- dons in the joints, the toughness of which is the difficulty to be over- come, and often abandoned to make a desperate cut at the bones; hence arise the accidents above mentioned. The following instructions wiU enable all cooks and poulterers to prepare game and poultry for the table, perfectly free from opposition to any carver's knife. THE TENDON SEPARATOK Is represented shut when done with, by merely sUpping the brass ring to keep the spring in its place, and open M'hen in the act of being used; the straight part of the handle, with the ring, resting in the palm of the hand between the thumb and the fore-finger. When about separating the tendons and otherwise dividing other parts of your fowl or bird, you begin by turning the skin over the wings and cutting the tendons (No. 1, p. xxiv) in each of the joints; and then by taking hold of that part commonly called the drumstick with your right hand and the skin being already turned, you can easily get at the joint (No. 2) by making it come out, to cut the tendons of each leg; on turning the Separator with the points upwards, you give a cut at the breast-bone (No. 4) ; and, by holding thf^nstrument with both hands, immediately after turning the points downwards, you also give a cut at the back-bone (No. 5), and then, the four tendons being cut, the limbs are brought back to their former position. Then you introduce the instrument into the body at the other end of the bird, and with youi: left hand you take hold of the thigh-bone, which you also divide at No. 3, and again turning the points downwards, you give another cut at the back- bone No. 5 ; with little practice the cuts at the breast and back- bone, are made without interfering in the least with the skin; then you truss the bird in the common way, but a packing-needle and thread are to be preferred, as explained at page xv. When roasted, the appearance of the poultry is vastly improved by this simple operation, it looks more plump on account of the sinews having lost their power of contraction whilst roasting; therefore, when the binITHE TENDON SEPARATOR. comes to table, the carver lias merely to pass the knife in the usual manner to take up the wings and legs, and finds no resistance; the same at the breast and the back, ^.here it may easily be seen whilst carving that it has already been prepared. Three minutes is about the time taken by this new process to cut into ten parts an ordinary fowl. For a Turkey or a Goose, the sinews are divided as above, and in the act of carvmg, instead of cutting the fiUets in a straight line with the breast-bone, you separate them obUquely, and aU other parts as usual Pheasants, Ducks, and all Wild Fowl especially, must be prepared in a similar manner. A Hare or Rabbit may also have the sinews and back-bone divided; to effect this you lay the hare upon its back, and give six cuts nearly through the back-bone, holding the Separator with both hands, through the belly part; then you truss it for roasting. If it should happen to be a very large hai-e, the fillets only are carved, and they ought to be cut in thin shces in an oblique direction, instead of straight along the back. The half of a Fowl with the flesh on. The half of a Fowl dissected.XXV LARDING. DIRECTIONS FOR LARDING. My motive for introducing-the directions for larding at the com- mencement of this work, is to give it the importance which it deserves, it having in all former works heen generally omitted, or lost amongst a multitude of receipts, which has made me desirous of placing it in a conspicuous place, in the hope that many families in the middle classes of society may be able to partake of that very inexpensive luxury. Nothing but experience and practice would enable a person to lard well, I have, therefore, given the few following directions, so that a person might improve hiniself after once commencing. I have been induced to do so from the fact of having had many female cooks with me for improvement, many of whom could send up very good dinners, but few of them have scarcely known, or had any idea of larding, being in the habit of having it done by their poulterer whilst in London, and in the country avoiding it entirely: I shall, therefore, endeavour to explain, first, the choice of the bacon ; secondly, the manner of cutting it; and lastly, the best mode of larding. Choose the firmest bacon you can obtain, quite fat, and not at all red, or it would break and cause a deal of trouble. To cut it, take olF the piece of lean at the bottom, lay it upon a board with the rind upwards, and beat gently with a cutlet-bat, trim the sides, and cut it into bands the breadth that you may requu'e your lardons in length ; if for a fillet of beef, two inches; for fricandeau, turkey, poularde, fowl, pheasant, or sweetbread, an inch and a half; and for lamb's sweatbreads much smaller. Take one of the b^nds, place it before you with the rind downwards, and with a sharp knife cut it in slices, (but not separating it from the rind), of the thickness you require for the article you are about to lard, then place your hand at the top, press lightly, and draw your knife straight along as if cutting the bacon in slices, so as to form the lardons square at each end, com- mencing cutting from the heel of the knife, and finishing at the point. To lard, the French method is so famiUar to me that I cannot but recommend it, especially to inexperienced hands. If a fricandeau, lay it lengthwise upon a clean napkin across your hand, forming a kind of bridge with your thumb at the part you are about to commence at, having previously taken all the skin from the veal with a knife, then with the point of your larding-needle make three distinct lines across, half an inch apart, run your needle into the third line (at the further side of the fricandeau), and bring it out at the first, placmg one of the lardons in it, draw the needle through, leaving out a quarter of an inch of the end of the bacon at each line : proceed thus to the end of the row; then make another line half an inch distant, stick m another row of lardons, bringing them out at the second line, leavmg the ends of the bacon out aU of the same length; make the next row again at the same distance, bringing the ends out between the lardons of the first row, proceeding in like manner until you have larded the whole surface in chequered rows : proceed in a similar way with everything you lard, the difierence being only in the size of the lardons, and in the case of poultry or game, previously scald the breasts. By foUowing closely the above simple directions any cook may be able, t not to lard well, at any rate to lard weU enough for every-day use •eouterunl.^''' practice, and likewise competence, to lard aJticle^ lequirecl upon more particular occasions.xxvi REMARKS, MEAT AND POULTRY. A PEW THINGS I OBJECT TO, THAT IS, NOT TO USE IN COOKERY COMES- TIBLES WHEN OUT OF, OR BEFORE, THEIR PROPER SEASON. For Butcher's Meat, see page 637, Kitchen at Home. In PouLTRy. I never use turkeys before Michaelmas, and not after the latter end of March. Ditto turkey poults before the end of June, and not after September. Capons, poidardes, pullets, and fowls, I use all the year round. I begin about March with the spring chickens, till the begmning of July. Geese are in season almost all the year round. Goslings, or green geese, commence early in the spring, and are called so till the end of September, thus there is hardly any dilference between them and the Michaelmas geese. Ducks and ducklings the same. Rabbits and pigeons may be used all the year round ; but it is only in the early part of the spring that I use tame rabbits. Guinea-fowls are used when pheasants go out, which is about the latter end of January, and are used till the end of May. Their eggs are very good, more delicate than the common ones. I never use grouse before the 14th Aug., nor after the 22d December. Black cocks and gray hens about the same time as grouse, but they are more uncertain. Ptarmigans are sent from Norway about the middle of January, and continue tdl March, but that depends upon the weather. Though the shooting season for partridges is the first of September, and lasts till the end of January, I never cook one before the .3d, ex- cept being desired to do so, but I often keep some for three weeks after the shooting season is over. The same with pheasants, which begins from the 1st of October till the end of January. By hanging them by the necks and putting a piece of garlic in the beak and a httle cayenne, I one cold winter kept one six weeks after the shooting time had expired, which I after- wards presented to a party of real gourmets, who said it was the best they had partaken of during the season. I always use wild ducks, widgeons, teal, pintails, larks, golden plovers, snipes, woodcocks from the commencement of November till the end of March, after which the flesh becomes rank and unfit for table. Young pea-fowls are veiy good, and make a noble roast, see p. 401, and are in season from January tdl June, but they are very uncertain. Plovers' eggs, my favorite, an unparalleled delicacy, come about the middle of March, and are not considered good after the latter end of May; but when I can get them fi-esh in June, I do not discontinue their use, because they are, in my estimation, worthy of the patronage of the greatest gourmet. I have paid for them, at the beginning of the season, three shillings and sixpence each ; they are the black plover or peweet's eggs. 4REMARKS. XXVU FISH. For the last few years there has been quite an alteration in the seasons for these golden and silvery inhabitants of the deep. Except the Cod-fish, which come in September, and by strictness ot rule must disappear in March, the season for all other sea-fish becomes a puzzle ; but the method I foUow during the season is as follows: Crimped Gloucester is plentiful in June and part of July, but it may be procured almost all the year round. Common Salmon from March to July. Salmon Peale from June to July. Spey Trout from May to July. Sturgeon, though not thought much of, is very good in June. Turbot are in season all the year round. John Dories depend entirely upon chance, but may be procured all the year round for the epicure, May excepted. The original season of Yarmouth Mackerel is from the 12th of May till the end of July; now we have Christmas mackerel; then the west of England mackerel, which are good at the beginning of April, Haddock and Whiting aU. the year round. Skate aU the winter. Smelts from the Medway are the best, and are winter fish, the Yarmouth and Carlisle are good, but rather large ; the Dutch are also very large, which often lose in the estimation of the epicure. Brill is like turbot as to season. Slips are similar to soles, good all the year round. Gurnets are rather a spring fish. Flounders and Diamond Plaice, are in full season from June to July. Red MuUets vary very much now, but the beginning of the season was formerly the 12th of May; we had none this year except at a very extravagant price. I always use them when they are to be obtained. Fresh Herrings are in season from November to January. River Eels all the year round. Lobsters in the spring and part of the summer. Prawns ditto. Crabs are best in May, Oysters begin in August, but are not very good till September. Barrelled Oysters begin on the 15th of September, and last till the end of February. Barrelled Cod, Lent fish, are best in winter or about March. Sprats come in about the 8th of November. Crawfish is a very favorite dish of the greatest epicures of France and also of a few of the EngUsh; the author regrets that in fulfilment ot an agreement between himself and M. Sampayohe is restricted from giving the receipt of Crawfish a la Sampayo, which has appeared in his Bill of Fare, No 609. The reason of the enormous expense of this dish IS that two large bottles of trufi-es du Perigord, which do not cost less than four guineas, are stewed with them in champagne. VEGETABLES AND FRUIT. The seasons for these delicacies are the principal guide for the ™« ' '^'^ "^^'^"^'^^ ^'^^^^^ ^'^^^ at a great expense, they do not repay m flavour their exorbitant pricexxviii REMARKS.- HOW EVERYTHING SHOULD BE IN COOKING. All clear soup must not be too strong of meat, and must be of a light brown, sherry, or straw colour. oi a nrli^f^-^'^i^'.^ brown thick soups must be rather thinnish, lightly adhering to the back of the spoon. AU purees must adhere little more to the back of the spoon of pZ shtry.^'''' ^'"^ and the colour All kinds of fish sauce should be thicker for boiled fish than for broiled or fried. Brown sauce should be a Uttle thinnish and the colour of a horse- White sauce should be of the colour of ivory, and thicker than brown sauce Cream, or Dutch sauce, must be rather thick, and cannot be too white. Demi-glace requires to be rather thin, but yet sufficiently reduced to envelop any pieces of meat, game, poultry, &c., with which it is served. Every description of fish should be well done, but not over-boiled broiled, stewed, or fried. Beef and mutton must be underdone even for joints, removes, and entrees. Lamb requires to be more done. Veal and pork must be well done. Venison must be underdone, red in the middle, and full of gravy, but not raw. Poultry, either broiled, stewed, boiled, or roasted, must be done thoroughly, not cutting in the least red, but must be still full of gravy. Pheasants and partridges must be well done through, yet full of gravy. Grouse, black cocks, gray hens, and ptarmigans, must cut reddish, with plenty of gravy, but not too much underdone. All kinds of water-fowl must be very much underdone, so that the blood and gravy follow the knife in carving. Plovers must be rather underdone, but done through. Rabbits and pigeons must be well done. Second-course savoury dishes must be rather highly seasoned, but with a little moderation. Pastry should, when baked, be clear, light, and transparent, and of a beautiful straw colour; the body of a croustade the same. Large pies, timbales, and casseroles of rice must be of a yellowish brown colour. JelUes require to be rather white and transparent for fruits, and not too firm, but better so than too delicate. Orange jellies should be of a deep orange colour, and all fruit jellies as near as possible to the colour of the fniit.REMARKS. XXIX Creams should be very light and delicate, but fruit creams must be kept of the colour of tlje fruits they are made of. For aU the demi-glace removes the ice must be firm, but not the least hard. AU kinds of souffle or fondu must be well done through, or they would be very indigestible, clog the delicate palate, and prevent the degustation of the generous claret which flows so freely after dinner on the table of the real epicure. I recommend sugar in almost all savoury dishes, as it greatly facili- tates digestion and invigorates the palate, but always increase or dimi- nish the quantity according to the taste of your employer. I often introduce onions, eschalots, or even a little garlic in some of my most dehcate dishes, but so well blended with other flavours that I never have a single objection even by those who have a great dislike to it. Horseradish and herbs of every description may always be used with discretion to great advantage. Contrary to the expressed opinion of every other previous publication, I say that too much seasoning is preferable to too little, as your employer can correct you by saying there is too much of this or that, and you can soon get it to his taste; but while you fear over-seasoning you produce no flavour at all; by allowing each guest to season for himself, your sauce attains a diversity of flavours. The cook must season for the guest, not the guest for.the cook. I have always found great advantage in dressing the greatest part of my entrees on a thin roll of mashed potatoes;* this has never been found objectionable, as it is so thin that it is imperceptible when covered with the sauces, and serves to prevent any entrees dressed in crown from being upset, before going on table, by the carelessness of the servant; for large removes, as turkey a la Nelson (No. 510), &c.,. after forming the ship (see engraving), egg, bread-crumb, and set in a moderate oven to brown, fix in your croustade, and dish up ; the potatoes may be eaten, but not the croustade, which is merely an embel- lishment. Borders may also be made of forcemeat, as for ris de veau (No. 673), but gives much more trouble without being better ; also of rice, by preparing it as for casserole au riz (p. 260) ; it maybe used as mashed potatoes. Make but few preserves, only those that are indis- pensable ; you will have a continual enjoyment of earlier stock, as Mature closely watches our wants and UberaUy supplies our wishes Ihe real gourmet, though anxious to produce novelty, never attempts to over-force the produce of the various seasons. * Tlie mashed potatoes which are to be used for dishing up as described ot'Sf T'^' f! simply prepared as foUows :-Plain%oiS or steam s£ or eiglit large mealy potatoes; when weU done, peel and put them into a stew Fhr^ S^'T'^''' ^.little salt; then W the prong of X-k wh^k them till quite m puree; then add two tablespoonfuls of milk,^work up a loH? Toinr. V^'' l^y^ quantity on\ clean cloth roll it to thccurcumfcrence of a fom-penuy or sixpennvoiece and fm-m n round with It in your dish accorcUng to the^size^of the entrS,S tTepiZr tion accordmg to the size of the flanc or remove. ^AMATEXJR RKCETPTS. XXX BRAISED ROAST TURKEY, CAPOj^ OR FOWL Peel and wash two onions, one carrot, one turnip, cut them in thin slices, also a little celery, a bunch of parsley, two bay-leaves, lay three sheets of paper on the table, spread your vegetables, and pour over them two or three tablespoonfuls of oil; have vour turkey, or pou- larde, trussed the same as for boihng; cover the breast with thin slices of bacon, and lay the back of the bird on the vegetables; cut a few slices of lemon, which you lay on the breast to keep it white, tie the paper round with string, then pass the spit and set it before the fire; pour plenty of fat over to moisten the paper and prevent from burning, roast three hours at a pretty good distance from the fire : capons will take two hours, poulardes one hour and a half, fowls one hour, and chickens half an hour. AMATEUR RECEIPTS. Bis de Veau, aux Pistaches a la Br. Boots. Take three fine sweetbreads, clean them weU with milk and water, in order to make them as white as possible; do them gradually in a stewpan with good white gravy, some onion, carrot, and celery, with a little mace; then stuff them well with pistachio nuts nicely bruised; put them " en papillote" (that is, to oil or butter a piece of paper, which you fasten round by twisting it along the edge) and give them a nice wholesome colour; they will require from twenty to twenty-five minutes to bring them to a proper state of excellence, with the good, fine, wholesome colour they may be served up, with white endive, or celery sauce aux pistaches, after the above manner. Potage froid, ou Salade a la Br. Boots. Make some very good and highly-flavoured calf's-head soup, with a good abundance of egg and forcemeat balls, and some sausage-meat introduced therein; the pieces of calf's-head should not be cut larger than an inch square. When this soup is properly prepared and ripe, pour it into several milkpans, to the depth of about two inches ; let it stand in this way to cool and stiffen, for the next day's use. Dress a nice light salad of mustard and cress, with endive and a slight sprinkle of well-cut celery ; take this salad from the bowl (in which it has been dressed), hghtly with a fork, and form in a pyramid in the centre of a dish, around which place tastefully-ornamented slices of the cold and substantial soup, cut into sUces about the size and thick- ness of calf's liver that is usually served up with bacon. Garnish with slices of hard-boiled eggs and lemon. This, if properly managed, forms not only a pretty-looking spring dish, but a most excellent one.xxxi AMATEUR RECEIPTS. Bdast Swan a la Nonoich. Take three pounds of beef, beat fine in a mortar, Put it into the Swan—that is, when you've caught her; Some pepper, salt, mace, some nutmeg, an onion. Will heighten the flavour in Gourmand's opinion; Then tie it up tight with a small piece of tape. That the gravy and other things may not escape. A meal-paste (rather stiflf) should be laid on the breast, And some whited-brown paper should cover the rest. Fifteen minutes at least ere the Swan you take down, Pull the paste off the bird, that the breast may get brown, THE GBAYY. To a gravy of beef (good and strong) I opine You'll be right if you add half a pint of port wine : Pour this through the Swan—yes, quite through the belly: Then serve the whole up with some hot currant jelly. N. B.—The Swan must not be skinned. ANOTHER RECEIPT. Take two pounds of rump steak, chop it fine, season well with spice, a piece of onion, or eschalot, and butter. Rub the breast both inside and outside with beaten cloves, then stuff with the above, taking care to sew the bird up carefully, and to tie it very tightly on the spit, so that the gravy may not escape. Inclose the breast of the swan in a meal-paste, after which cover the whole bird with paper well greased with beef dripping. About a quarter of an hour before the bird is taken up, remove the paper and the paste, baste well with butter and flour till brown &nd frothy. A swan of fifteen pounds, weight requires about two hours roasting with a fire not too fierce. THE GEAVy. Take the giblets and a piece of beef, with a pint of port wine, and make a good gravy. Pour some of this through the body of the swan when dished. Some red currant jelly and port wine should be made hot and served up likewise. N. B.—The swan is not to be skinned. Coc^ a Leehie a la Wemyss. To some good stock made the previous night from an old fowl or of veal, add three pounds of the white part of the leeks, and let the whole boil slowly for three hours, then add a skinned fowl (old or young) cut into neat pieces, and three dozen of good prunes. Let all simmer together for one hour longer. Season with salt and white pepper, and you wdl have good cock a leekie. • v vv y N. B.—In frost the leeks require less boiling.xxxii nOUQUET DE GIBIER. BOUQUET DE GIBIER, OR SPORTING NOSEGAY. CADEAU FOR CHRISTMAS. This very seasonable novelty originated with M. Soyer, "the Gas- tronomic Regenerator," of the Reform Club; and, like everything which emanates from his inventive brain, is distinguished by its taste and utility. This is, indeed, a picturesque mode of keeping game, so as to make them ornamental until they become useful—at table. The lovers of "still life" pictures cannot but admire this "Bouquet;" and it is not unworthy of our painters' attention. The several articles of game, &c., are secured between branches of laurel and other ever- greens, set off with dried and coloured flowers, "everlastings," &c. The handsome specimen we have engraved bears the following, arranged the in order here denoted: TWO GOLDEN PLOVERS. LEVERET. PHEASANT. WILD RABBIT. WIDGEON. ENGLISH PARTRIDGE. TEAL. TWO SNIPES. TWO LARKS. The brilliancy of the plovers and of the pheasant, and the bright- ness of the wild-duck, backed by the sombre green, and the whole variegated and relieved by multicoloured flowers, is really very efi'ective. Not many days since, M. Soyer presented one of his " Bouquets de Gibier" to Viscount Melbourne, at Brocket Hall; when his lordship ^jlmired the novelty exceedingly, as did also the noble party on a visit at Brocket. Another " Bouquet" has been presented by M. Soyer to a lady of high fashion and beauty, if we may judge from the triplet which accompa- nied the offering: Madam, Flora liaving forsaken her flowers, I quicldy embraced the sport of swift Diana, To dedicate and present this bouquet to Venus. Count d'Orsay, the arbiter elegantiarum of our day, on the "Bouquet" being submitted to him, admired the artisDtcal design, and suggested that Landseer would appreciate its novelty, adding, " What a beautiful trophy it would make for a sideboard or a dining-room !" The "Bouquet," we augur, will be popular in the approaching Christ- mas season ; and though there is a musty old proverb about " looking at a gift-horse," the above novelty will surely throw the old-fashioned baskets into the shade, by presenting much that is agreeable to the eye, with the proximate association of another sense of enjoyment. niusfralcil LoTidon .VetPs. WILD DUCK. GROUSE, FRENCH PARTRIDGE. WOODCOCK.• (BOUQUET DE GIBIER. XXXIU OLIVE-BEANCH BETWEEN FRANCE AND ENGLAND. A present extraordinary to the King and Queen of the French was forwarded from London to Paris on the 21st of December by the well- known Gastronomic Regenerator, M. Soyer, of the Reform Club, and was presented to their Majesties on the 24th, in the morning, at the Palace of the TuUeries. Their Majesties were so delighted with the novelty and elegance of the composition, that after a long examination the King ordered it to be carried to the apartments of her Majesty the Queen of the Belgians, who was exceedingly pleased with it, and after- wards the whole of the royal family was summoned to see this bouquet; the sight was so new and unexpected that it met with their unanimous approbation. His Majesty then observed that such a welcome and graceful present from a foreign country had never before penetrated through France to the palace of its kings. Immediately after, by the orders of his Majesty, the sporting nosegay was carried by two gen- tlemen porters to the council of ministers then sitting at the Tuileries, and was admired by every one. It is reported that his Majesty intends to have a similar bouquet carved in wood for ornamenting the grand sideboard of the magnificent banqueting hall of the palace. To give an idea of the composition of this splendid innovation, the following description perhaps will be interesting to the public. The length of it was about ten feet, and wide in proportion. The frame was richly covered with Christmas holly, laurels, mistletoe, and evergreen, with a great variety of winter flowers. There were twenty-two heads of game, consisting of larks, snipes, woodcocks, black peweets, teal, French and English partridges, grouse, widgeons, wild ducks, black cocks, pheasants, a leveret, a hare, and golden plovers; the interstices were lightly filled with wheat and oats, the whole ornamented with tri- coloured ribands and small flags at the top—and to give a still more pleasing efi^ect, fancy birds of beautiful plumage, so abundant in Jingland, were spread in every part of this magnificent nosepay. The foUowing letter from his Majesty the King of the French ac- companied with a beautiful pin. forming a bouquet of diamonds and pearls, was sent by his Majesty's orders to the French Ambassador, and torwarded to Monsieur Soyer at the Reform Club. Cabinet du Eoi, Chateau des Tuileries ; 1847. MONSIEUB, .1. r w \^ ^ ""^^^ ^''^''^ °™Se sur Part culinah-e, et le groupe de Gibier dont vous lui avez fait hommage. giuupe Je suis charge. Monsieur, de vous transmettre les remercie- ments de sa Majeste pour cette double attention, et d'y joindie comme remeir'' -tisfaction, le bijou que je m'e^iresse de ^^s Recevez je vous prie. Monsieur, mes plus parfaites saluta- Le Secretaire du Cabinet, Monsieur Alexis Soyer CAMILLE FAIN. {Globe) tions.NUMBER OF STEWPANS AND OTHER KITCHEN UTENSILS REaUIRED IN THE KITCHENS OP WHICH I JIAVV „, - WITH TitK COMPLETE B.TTEKIE OE C J^rE^JrHrrKr^rvT"^'' Utensils. Stewpans, the sizes fluctuating from six gallons to half a pint Stock-pots, varying from twelve gallons to two Turbot kettles, one full size, and another two sizes smaller Long Fisli-kettles, two large and two middling sized ones , Braising-pans, two large and two middling-sized Preserving-pans (copper), one large round bot tomed and one large flat bottomed Egg bowls, one large and one middling-sized Baba and sponge-cake moulds . Large round copper pie-dishes for servants Thick flat braising-pans with hermetic covers Sautdpans, twenty deep, with thick bottoms and ten others .... Bain-marie-pans, varying from two gallons to a pint .... Pie-moulds for raised pies Jelly and charlotte moulds Small bordure for aspic jellies Freezing-pots, with accessories Baking-sheets of various sizes Gridirons . . . Salamanders Spoon drainers Spits of various sizes, including two with cradles .... Dripping-pans Steam copper cases for puddings and potatoes Round copper fruit bowls with handles Sugar-pans .... Soup ladles (small and cheap utensils) Copper kitchen spoons, six of which are co lander spoons . Wire baskets for frying Wire sieves . Hair sieves . . Omelette-pans Small jelly and driole moulds Tartelette-pans . Tammies . Jelly bags Wooden spoons . Paste brushes Scissors . . Kitchen knives . Boxes of cutters for vegetables and pastry Trivets, four common, and two for gas stoves Meat saws, four large and two small . Cutlet bats . Meat choppers, large Steak-tongs, two large and two small pairs Meat-hooks . Rolling-pins Kitchen basins Small pie-dishes for fruit and meat Kitchen table-cloths . Rubbers • . Fish napkins Pudding-cloths Round towels . <2 3 80 8 4 4 2 2 2 4 6 30 36 6 24 6 4 12 6 2 4 12 2 4 4 6 18 36 6 6 8 6 36 36 6 4 £4 10 ! prs. 12 4 6 6 4 2 1 prs. 24 2 36 24 24 8 24 18 12 j= £2 36 3 2 2 2 6 12 18 4 12 4 2 12 2 1 2 G 1 2 1 2 12 18 2 2 2 2 18 12 4 2 12 4 1 6 4 2 3 2 1 2 12 1 24 12 12 8 12 12 12 1 small 1 rather larger 1 I 1 1 6 8 2 4 1 1 2 1 I small 1 2 1 1 1 4 8 2 1 1 I 12 12 2 1 8 2 1 2 2 2 2, 1 small 1 1 1 large G 1 12 6 8 4 G 4 4 1.3-2 6, 1 hold- ing a gall 1 rather wide. 2 2 1 1 2 1 2 1 1 do. 1 4- U 6 black saucepans 1 flat bottomed 1 2 6 1 1 1 1 12 8 2 1 6 2 1 2 2 2 2 1 1 1 6 1 8 4 4 4 2 21 I TABLE OF CONTENTS, OK ABBREVIATED SUMMARY, REFERRING (fROM PAGE TO PAGe) TO THE VARIOUS SERIES OF DISHES, ETC. (For General Contents see the end of the Volume.)' SAUCES. Foundation sauces Thin sauces Sauces . . . Sauces, with Gaknitukbs of Vegetables, or gamisMug PAGE 1 — 9 9—U 14—33 34—48 Appendix to the Sauces. Composed of forcemeat of veal, rabbits, fowl, game, whitings, cod-liver, panada, veal-stuffing, boiled rice, branched macaroni, cro- quettes of potatoes, glaze Potages, or soups 48—52 53—88 Method of cleaning salt-water fish . f . . FISH—POISSON. 90 92 Method of cleaning fresh-water fish . . . . . 93—94 Fish Dressed. Turbot BriU . John Dory . Salmon, or saiunon Cod-fish, or cabillaud Eed mullets Whitings, or merlans . Mackerel, or maquereaux Haddocks, or merluches 95—101 101—104 104—107 107—111 119—122 122—124 125— 126 126— 128 128—130 Gurnets Herrings, or harengs . Skate, or raie Smelts, or eperlans Flounders, or carrelets Plaice, or plie White-bait . Sturgeons, or esturgeons Shell-fish . . . 130—132 131 133 134 135 135 136 136 137—139 Pike, or brochets Carp . Tench, or tanche . Perch Feesh-Water Fish. 139—143 143— 144 144— 145 . 146 Trout, or truite . Eels, or anguilles Lampreys .. Crawfish, or ecr6visses, 147— 148 148— 149 . 149 . 149xxxvi CONTENTS. HORS-D'CEUVRES, OB Dishes to be handed bound the Table. Composed of- Petits vol-au-vents and petites page bouchees, made of becf-mar- row, mackerel/ skate, liver, oysters, lobsters, fowls, and -of^e • • . . 151—155 Petits pates of oysters, lob- sters, and shi-imps , . 155 Rissoles of oysters, lobsters, page shrimps, mackerel, game, and fowls . . . 155 159 Croustades of butter . . . 160 Aiguillettes of sweetbread . [ 161 Escalops of oysters, lobsters, fillets of soles, and fowls . 161—163 REMOVES. EiRST Couhse. Beef, or bceuf Ox tongue, or langue de boeuf Veal, or veau Calf's head, ol: tete de veau Mutton, or mouton Lamb, or agneau . Pork . . Tui-key, or dinde . 164—176 177 177—184 184—188 189—196 196—20] 202—204 205—206 Capou, or poidarde Eowls, or poulets Goose, or oie Diicklings, or cannetons Venison, or venaison . Grouse Elack cocks Hare, or lievre . 203—220 215—220 220— 221 . 221 221—226 . 228 . 229 . 229 ELANCS. Composed of^ Eillets of beef, tongue, and. Wesphalia.hams .. .. 230—233 Loin, knuckle, neck of veal, and calf's head . . 234—237 Neck and loin of mutton . 238—240 Saddle, shoulder, and neck of lamb .... 240—243 Chicken and duckling . . 244 248 Pheasant, grouse, and partridge 249 —253 Leverets and rabbits . . 254—256 Pate chaud, or hot pie . . 256—260 Vol-au-vents and casserole of rice, do. rabbits, lamb's and calf'stail, lamb's and sheep's trotters . 260—264 Beef, or boeuf Veal, or veau Mutton, or mouton ENTREES, OK Made Dishes. 266—278 279—294 294—307 Lamb, or agneau . Pork, or porc-frais Venison, or venaison 308—321 322—325 325—329 ENTREES OP POULTRY. Turkey, or dinde . Poulet, or poulai'de 329—331 Fowls, or volaille. , , 340—347 332—340 Spring chickens, or poulets . 348—351 QUENELLES, on Eoecemeat. Composed of- Quenclles of fowls , , 352—354 Boudins, croquettes, and ris- solettes .... 355—357 Eillets of ducldiiigs 358—359xxxvn CONTENTS. ENTEEES OE GAME. PAGE Hare, or lievre . . . 360—362 . Rabbits, or lapins . . 363—366 Pheasant, or faisan . . 367—370 Groiise .... 371—373 Parti'idges, or perdreaux . 374—377 Wild ducks, or canards sauvages 378—379 PAGE TeaJ, or cerceUes . . . 380—381 Woodcocks, or becasses . 382—385 Plovers, or pluviers . , 380—387 Quails, or caiUes . . . 388—389 Pigeons .... 389—390 Larks, or mauviettes . . 391—392 flOASTS FOB, Sbconb GomiSE. Turkej, or dinde Capon, pullet, and cliicken Goose, or oie Duclding, or canneton . Woodcocks, or becasses Guiuea-fowl, or poule d'Inde Pea-fowl, or paon ' Pigeons Quails, or caiUes . Pheasants, or faisans Grouse Ptarmigan . 393—397 398—399 400 400 401 401 401 402 402 403 403 404 Black cocks and gray hens . . 405 Partridge, or perdi'ix . . . 405 Dun bird 405 Wild duck, or canard sauvage 405—406 Teal, or cercelles . . . 406—407 Plovers, or pluviers . . .407 Woodcock, or becasse . . . 408 Larks, or mauviettes . . , 408 Snipes, or becassines . . . 409 Hares, or lievres . . . . 409 Leverets, or levi-auts . . . 409 Rabbits, or lapins . . . 409 SAVOURY DISHES for Seconb Coukse. Composed of— Boar's head, ribs and fillets of beef, ox tongue, cold ham . 410—419 riUet aud loin of veal, galan- tine, and pates of veal and ham, cotelettes of veal, and sweetbread . . : 420—424 Cotelettes, tui-ban, and car- bonado of mutton . . 425 Balottiiis and cotelettes of lamb 426—427 Galantine and pate of turkey, capon (or poular-de) . ■ .. 428—433 Chaud-froid of poularde (or capon), fillets of do., duck- ling en aspic, salad of fowl, aspic mould . -434—438 Galantine, pates, fillet, and chaud-froid of pheasant . Galantine and salad of grouse Galantine and pates of par- tridges Woodcocks and pates froid of larks (cold) Lobster salad, mayonnaises of lobster, lobster en aspic au gratin .... Crabs, oysters en coquilles, salad of fillet of soles, trout and salmon pickled, galan- tine of eels 439—440 441 442—448 444 445—i46 447—449 VEGETABLES foe Second Coubse. Asparagus, sea kale, celery, salsify, cucumbers, and ve- gctable marrow . . 450—454 Jerusalem artichokes, cauli- flowers, brocoli . . 455-456 Artichokes, peas, Ercnchbeans •pmsscls sprouts . . 457—462 bpinach, encUve, sorrel, lettuces 463—465 vvmdsor beans, white haricotdo. 466—467 Tomatas and mushrooms . . 468 Carrots, turnips, onions, spring vegetables .... 469 Potatoes, lentils, trufiles . 470—474 Omelettes fines herbes, ham, truffles, mushrooms, olives, jardiniere, oysters, fillets of soles, muscles, lobsters, sugar-, preserves, and rum 474—477xxxviii CONTENTS. ENTREMETS, ou Sweets. Observations on pastry, dif- ferent sorts of paste, puff paste, do. with,beef suet, do. half puff, confectioner's paste, almond paste, and' gum paste Vol-au-vents of peaches, apri- cots, greengages, cherries, pears, apples, oranges, and gateau mille-feuille . Turban a la creme, weUs of fruit, Pthiviers cakes . Tourtes, tartelettes, and fan- chonettes a la vanille Dauphines, tartelettes, mii-li- tons, and petits vol-au-veuts Gateaux fourres with preserves Turban de Conde, and apricot cakes .... Petites bouchees, eventail with cherries, petits gateaux royals A flan of puff paste, do. of apples, do. of pears, do. creme pralinee . Pate a choux, petits choux with cream, almond, petits pains cremiere . Madeline with port wine, ge- noise, darioles , PAGE 478—483 484—486 487—488 489—493 494—495 497—499 . 500 . 501 502—503 504—505 506—507 Biscatelles, cakes a I'Indienne page gauffres aux pistaches, Alle- mande, vanilla, red nougat 508—510 bmall cups of nougat, nougat with apricots, crisp ches- nuts, amandes croquantes, mermgues ... 510-512 iurban of meringues . . . 513 Meringue iced, do. aux pis- taches, mushrooms en surprise 514 Biscuits manques with al- nionds, do. with rum . . 515 Calf's foot jelly, and various other jellies . , . 516—524 Creams, various . . . 524—528 Bavaroises, various . .' 529—531 Charlottes, chartreuses, sue- doises, bread and croquettes of apples . . , 532—536 Apples, pears, and apricots with rice .... 537—538 Pommes meringues, miroton, fritters of apples, peaches and apricots . . . 539—542 Croquettes of rice, cream of rice, macaroni, vermicelli, and cream fi-ied . , .543 Beignets soufBes, frangipane . 544 Omelette Celestine, panne- quets with preserve . . .545 REMOVES, Second Course SOUEELES, FOB Removes . 548—574 575—583 Appendix, Aspic 585 Mayonnaise a la gelee, do. fines herbes, do. ravigote verte, do. ordinaire, do. Provenpale . . . 586—589 Montpeilier butter, forcemeat for raised pie, and of liver for do. sponge cake, savoy cake in mould, biscuits, to clarify isinglass . . 591—592 Teeing, and chocolate iccing, sugar in grain, and to colour it . . , . 593 THE Second. VaniUa and lemon sugai", to clarify and boil sugar, sugar thread . . .' . 594—596 Iced cream of vanilla, coffee, chocolate, pine apple, lemon, orange, apricot, and straw- berry .... 527—599 Marmalade of apples, apricot, quince, cherries, strawber- ries, and raspberries . . 600—602 Jelly of apples, quince, cur- rant and raspberries, and to preserve toraatas ^, . 602—604CONTENTS. xxxix MY TAELE AT HOME. PAGE Plain joints. . . . 637-649 Soups 653-656 Ksh 656—660 Fi-esh-water fish . . . 660—662 Simple liors-d'oeuYi'es . . . 663 Removes simplified . . 664—672 Sauces . . _ . . 673—675 Economical made dishes . 676—687 PAGE Economical made dislies from poultry .... 688—691 Game . . . . . 692—695 Meat pies and puddings . 696 Second Couksb . . . 698—701 Jellies of liqueurs or spirits . . 702 Boliemian jelly cream . . 703—710 MISCELLANEOUS. Dedication to H. R. H. the Duke of Cambridge List of distinguished Personages who liave patronized the work , Preface .... Preface to the Fourth Edition . Description of the composition of this work Soyer's new mode of candng Directions for qarving. How to carve a haunch of venison Saddleback of venison Carving of poultry Soyer's Tendon Separator . Directions for larding Meat and poultry Ksh Vegetables and fruit . How everything should be in cooking Braised roast turkey, capon, or fowl Amateur Receipts—Ris deVeau auxPistaches a la Dr. Roots . Potage froid, ou Salade a la Dr. Roots .... Roast Swan a la Norwich Cock a Leekie a la Wemyss . Bouquet de Gibier, or Sporting Nosegay .... ui V vii ix xi xiv XV xviii xix XX xxi XXV xxvi xxvii ib. ■sxviii ib. ib. xxxi ib. xxxii Olive Branch between Erance and England .... xxxiii Number of stewpans and other utensils requii-ed Service pagodatique Table of the wealthy and bill of fare for ten persons Diner Lucullusian a la Sampayo BiU of fare for the same . xxxiv 606 607 608 609 611 Dialogue cuHnaii-e Description of the kitchen of the Reform Club, and plan . ' . 613 Reference to the plan . . 614 Kitchen of the Refom Club 615—629 My kitchen at home . 630—632 The bachelor's kitchen and cot • tage kitchen . . . 633 Dmner party at home . . 634 Receipts . . . 637—710 CofFee Monster bill of fare . . [ Pagodatique entree dish . Celestial and terrestrial cream of Great Britain General table of contents 1 , j » Madame Soyer's biography [ t^ie end of Criticisms of the press J ^^o^- 711 712 713 719xl CONTENTS. ENGRAVINGS. Portraits of the Author Emblematical woodcut A Turkey prepared according to M. Soyer's new plan Oarviug a hauncli of venison , . . Carving of poultry The Tendon Separator Eowl-one half with the flesh on, aaid the other haK dissected Mutton, pork, and lamb cutlets . Table of the wealthy Xitchen of th.e Reform Club Ground plan of ditto Eifteeu engravings representing the fitting-up of the kitchen of the wealthy Ground plan of my kitchen at home . . The bachelor's and the cottage kitchen . My table at home . Saddle-back of mutton ..... A new mutton cutlet . Pagodatique entree dish Dindonueau a' la Nelson, Poularde en diademe. Galantine a la voliere, Salade de grouse a la Soyer, Mayonnaise de homard, Croustades of bread for the centre of removes, Croustade for filet de boeuf, Croustades for poularde en diademe, Croustades for turkey a la Nelson, Gateau Britan- nique, Creme Cerito sultane sylphe a la fille de I'orage, Sis jelly moulds, _ and tlie Atelettes for Elancs, Removes, &c. . . . Portrait of Madame Soyer, Biography at the end of the book. PAGE i iv xvi xviii xxi xxiii xxiv 294 607 612 614 610 to 629 632 634 635 644 677 714 720THE GASTEONOMIC REGENEMTOE. SAUCES. The first eight sauces are what we term Poundation sauces; but to facilitate and simplify the making of aR kinds of made dishes, I have throughout this work princi- pally referred to the Brown Sauce (No. 1), and the White Sauce (No. 7), which are the two sauces I daily and prin- cipally use. The others are of course very good, and some- times necessary; but being more comphcated, I would re- commend that they be left to cuhnary artists, who can easily surmount this difficulty. The two above-mentioned sauces reqmre nothing but a little care and attention; if well made, you will have little trouble with the smaller sauces; for the foundation sauces being well made, the smaller ones require httle more than the ingredients directed for them, to give them then proper flavour; but if badly made, it would injure the whole dinner. The above-named sauces will keep four or five days in summer, and a week in winter, by adding a quart of hght broth, and boihng them up every day in summer, and every other day in winter. The following proportions in the foundation sauces are sufficient for a large dinner; but of course where so much IS not required, a quarter, or even a smaller quantity can be made.2 SAUCES. The colour of the brown sauce ought to be as near as possible to that of the horse-chesnut, whilst the white sauce should be of the colour of rich cream. If possible, nothing but the best flour should ever be used for a roux, which is the Erench culinary term for thickening; for inferior or new flour loses its strength by boiling, and your sauce would become thin and watery: but if such be the case, you should make more roux, to obviate this difficulty, which must be well mixed with a little cold stock, poured into the sauce, and all boiled together till you have obtained the consistency directed. No. 1. Brown Sauce. Put a quarter of a pound of butter in a large thick-bot- tomed stewpan, rub it all over the bottom, then peel and cut ten large onions in halves, with which cover the bottom; then take two pounds of lean ham cut into shoes, which lay over the onions; having ready cut in large shces twenty pounds of leg of beef and veal, put it over the ham, and place the s-tewpan over a sharp fire; let it remain a quarter of an hour, then with a large wooden spoon move the whole mass round, but keeping the onions still at the bottom. Keeping it over the ^q, and stirring it occasionally, until the bottom is covered vrith a fight brown glaze, then prick the meat with a fork, take off the stewpan, and put some ashes upon the fire, to deaden its heat; place the stewpan again over it, and let it stand half an hour longer, stu-ring it twice dming that time; the bottom will then be covered with a thick but clear brown glaze; fiU it up with fourteen quai'ts of water or sixteen of fight stock (No. 133), then add tlu-ee tm-nips, two carrots, four blades of mace, and a bunch of ten sprigs of parsley, six sprigs of thyme, and foiu: bay-leaves; leave it over the fire until it boils, then place it on the comer, add a quarter of a pound of salt; skim off ah the fat, andSAUCES. 3 let it simmer for two hom-s, adding two quarts of cold water by degrees, to clarify it and keep it to its original quantity; then skim it again, and pass the stock through a fine cloth into a basin, (by filling up the stewpan again with water you will have then an excellent second stock—for filling up stocks for soups or sauces, this remark also apphes to every description of stocks;) if by any misfortune the stock should become thick, clarify it as directed (No. 134). Then proceed as follows : put one pound of butter into a deep stewpan, (which is the best for this purpose,) place it over the fire, stirring it until it melts; then stir in a pound and a half of best flour, mix it well, and keep stirring it over the fire until it assumes a brownish tinge; then take it from the fire, and keep stirring the roux until partly cold, then pour in the stock quickly, still stirring it; place it over a sharp fii'e, stirring it until it boils, then place it at the corner of the stove, and let it simmer an hour and a hah"; by keeping it skimmed, you wiU take off all the butter, and the sauce will become clear and transparent; place it again over a sharp fire, and keep it stirred until it adheres to the back of the spoon, when pass it through a tammie into a basin, stirring it round occasionally untU cold, and use it where required. Should the colom^ of the sauce be too pale, add a few spoonfuls of brown gravy (No. 135). No. 2. Espagnole Sauce. Put half a pound of butter into a large thick-bottomed stewpan, and cover the bottom with good sHces of ham about a quarter of an inch in thickness; then cut up two legs of veal into as large shoes as possible, (having twenty pounds of meat,) but resemng the nut, or noix, for flanks or entrees, (see No. 565 ;) put the meat without any of the bone into the stewpan, which set upon a moderate fii'e for twenty minutes, then shake it round, to prevent the ham4 SAUCES, sticking to the bottom; cover it over quite close, then put a few ashes upon the &e; put the stewpan again over it, shaking it round occasionally, and once or twice turning the whole mass round together with a wooden spoon until the bottom is covered with a hght glaze; prick the meat with a fork to let out the gravy, and vsdth it remove the bottom pieces to the top; replace it upon the fire, shaking it round occasionally until each piece of meat be covered with a clear brown glaze; then fiU up the stewpan with sixteen quarts of Ught stock (No. 133); add six onions (in one of which you have stuck sis cloves), twelve peppercorns, two blades of mace, two carrots, a good bunch of parsley, six sprigs of thyme, and four bay-leaves; when it boils place it on the comer of the stove, skim it, and add two ounces of salt; let it boil rather quicldy, adding two quarts of water by degrees, which wiU facihtate the abstraction of all the fat in skimming; boil it two hours, then pass the stock through a fine cloth into a basin. Make a roux, and ter- minate your sauce as described in the last. No. 3. Brown Sauce from all sorts of meat. Knowing by experience the difficulty of getting meat for stock m the country, especially veal, I wiU, for the conveni- ence of famiUes, give a receipt for brown sauce, to be made from rabbits, poultry, trimmings of mutton, beef, pork, or even venison; (but to every ten pounds of meat reqmred, use twelve, as it is not so succulent as beef or veal.) In Scotland I was compelled to iise venison even for beef-tea.; this may appear rather strange, but it is no less true; for although the wealth of my employer would have enabled me to have anything required for my use, money could not purchase it at the time required. The mock beef-tea had of course a wild flavom-, but it was still very palatable. Butter the bottom of a thick stewpan, upon wliich lay ten large5 SAUCES. onions peeled and cut in halves, then put in what trimmings of meat or poultry you may have, proceed exactly with it as directed for brown sauce (No. 1), but using stock or water in proportion to the quantity of meat; the same precaution must be used lilcewise with the quantity of roux used for thickening. No. 4. For tTiichening Brown Sauce without making a roux. Make your stock as directed in either of the three last receipts, (according to circumstances;) if sixteen quarts, bake two pounds of the best flour in a moderate oven, without letting it brovm; sift it, and when quite cold mix it into a thin paste with two quarts of cold stock; mix it by degrees, getting it as smooth as possible; have the stock for your sauce boiling in a stewpan upon the fire, into which pour in the paste, keeping it stirred until it boils; then set it at the corner of the stove; let it simmer an hour and a half; skim it well, then place it upon a brisk fire, and add a few chopped mushrooms, boil it very quicldy, keeping it stirred until it adheres to the back of the spoon; then pass it through a tammie as before, and use it where required- No. 5. Veloute. This sauce has stood for a century as a foundation sauce in the highest class of cookery, and may be admired for its utility, and the dehcacy of its flavour; but I have avoided referring to it in ahnost every receipt on account of the expense attached to it and its tedious fabrication. Ac- cording to the old system, it requires two days to com- plete it; one for the simmering of the stock, and the other for the sauce. I have here, however, succeeded in simpK- fying it, by which the aroma of its component parts ai'e better presei-ved than when subject to so long boiling. Put six tablespoonfids of oil in a large thick-bottomed6 SAUCES. stewpaii, rub it over the bottom, then lay in twenty pounds of veal in large sHces, (from knuckles or the under part of legs,) an old fowl, two carrots, six onions, (in one of which you have stuck six cloves,) two blades of mace, four pounds of good ham, and a bunch of parsley, six sprigs of thyme, and fom^ bay-leaves; pour in a pint of water, and place the stewpan upon a sharp fire; when it begins to form large bubbles, stir the whole round with a large wooden spoon; place some ashes upon the fire, and some live charcoal upon the hd of the stewpan; take ofi" the fid occasionally, and stu^ the meat round, prick it, and when each piece is covered with a hght white glaze fill up the stewpan with sixteen quarts of Hght stock (No. 133), or water, add a quarter of a pound of salt, if water, but only three ounces, if stock; when upon the point of boihug, stand it on the corner of the stove and let it simmer for two hours and a half, keeping it well skimmed, and adding a Uttle cold water every now and then, to clarify it and keep its quantity; pass it through a fine cloth into a basin; then in another stewpan have a pound of fresh butter, which melt upon a slow fire, stirring in one pound and a half of flom-, stir it over the fire ten minutes (but do not let it change colour), add the trimmings of half a pottle of mushrooms; stir it round another minute, then take it off the fire and keep stirring it until about half cold; then pom' in the stock all at once, keeping it sthred quickly; place it over a sharp fire, and stir it until it boils, then place it at the corner of the fiire and let it simmer for two hours, keeping it well skimmed; pass it through a tammie into a basin, and stir it occasionally until cold; when wanted, take the quantity you requii-e, reduce it over a sharp fire, keeping it stured mitd it adlieres to the back of the spoon; finish with half a pint of cream or boiled milk. This sauce, when well made, should be as white as ivory;7 SAUCES. it is used for removes or entrees of poultry, and may be substituted for white sauce in any of these receipts. No. 6. Veloute, a plainer way. Well on the bottom of a thick stewpan,; cut twelve pounds of veal in dice, (lamb trimmings or rabbits may be used vdth it,) and two pounds of lean h'am also cut in dice; put the whole into the stevrpan with three onions, a carrot, four cloves, a blade of mace, half a grated nutmeg, and a bunch of parsley, four sprigs of thyme, and two bay-leaves; pour in a pint of water, and set it over a sharp fire, stirring it round occasionally, (the fire should be sharp at first, but very slow at the finish,) until the meat and the bottom of the stevs^an is covered with a white glaze ; then add a pound of flour, mix it well with the meat, then fill up the stewpan with ten quarts of stock (No. 133), or water; add three ounces of salt, if vnth water, but two if with stock, and keep moving it round until upon the point of bofling, when place it on the comer of the stove and let it simmer two hours, keeping it well skimmed; then pass it through a hau- sieve into a basin, and again thi'ough a tammie into another stewpan ; add a few chopped mush- rooms ; stir it over the fu-e until it is reduced to a proper consistency, (this sauce is quickly done, and full of flavour;) finish with a pint of cream or boihng milk, and use it as directed in the last. No. 7. White Sauce, or Bechamel. Cut twelve pounds of knuckles of veal into large dice, with two pounds of lean ham; weU butter the bottom of a large stewpan, into which put the meat, (some of the bones of the knuckles may be included in the weight of the meat, but not much,) with three large onions, one caiTot, a blade of mace, four cloves, and a bunch of parsley, two sprigs of^ SAUCES. thyme, and two bay-leaves; pom- in half a pint of water and place the stewpan over a sharp fii^e, stirring it occasionally until the bottom is covered with a clear white glaze, then fiU It up with ten quarts of stock (No. 133), or nine of water; add three ounces of salt, and when upon the point of boihng, place it on the comer of the fire; let it simmer two hours and a half, keeping it skimmed, and adding cold water occasionally, to keep the quantity, then pass it through a fine cloth into a basm ;* then in another stewpan have one pound of fresh butter, melt it over a slow fire and stir in one pound and a half of flour, stir it over the fire ten minutes, but do not let it change colour; then take it from the fire, stirring it until half cold, then pour in the stock, stirring it quickly all the time; place it over a sharp fire, keep stirring, and boil it for half an hour; add two table- spoonfuls of chopped mushrooms, and a quart of boihng milk; boil it ten minutes longer, then pass it through a tammie into a basin; stir it occasionally until cold, and use it where required. This sauce is easily made, full of flavour, and has a very good appearance. No. 8. Satcce Allemande, {or German Sauce blanche.) Is made from either of the three foregoing sauces. Put three quarts in a stewpan, which place over a sharp fire; reduce it to one third, keeping it stirred the whole time, it win then be very thick; have the yolks of six eggs in a convenient sized basin; mix the sauce with them by de- grees, and turn it again into the stewpan; stu it again over the fire until the yolks are quite done, which wdll take about five minutes; have three piats of stock reserved from the original sauce, with which mix it by degrees; also * The veal stock mentioned in the several receipts is mcidc precisely as the stock for wlute sauce.9 SAUCES. add a pint of boUing milk, but do not make it too thin; boH it again ten minutes, then pass it tln-ough a tammie into a basin, and stir it occasionally until cold. Use it for entrees or removes of poultry, either hot or cold; but for cold removes of poultry it is best adapted. This sauce never looks greasy; it will keep four or five days. No. 9. Demi-Glace. Put two quarts of brown sauce (No. 1) into a stewpan with one quart of consomme (No. 134), one ounce of glaze, four tablespoonfuls of tomate sauce (No. 37), place it over the fire, and when boiling place it at the comer, let it simmer very fast, skim it well, and reduce it to a clear fight glaze, with sufficient consistence to adhere fightly to the back of the spoon; then put it by in a basin, and use it where dhected. M thin sauces are or wiU become very much in vogue; they invigorate the appetite without overloading the stomach; and are, consequently, more wholesome; ah brown sauces are preferable for meat or game entrees, and in some instances, which you wiU see, for poultry; but of com-se the arrangement of your tables would prevent you serving all white or aU brown entrees. For famihes who have their entrees placed upon the table at the same time as the soup and fish, a thin sauce is much preferable; for if even the sauce should retain the same de- gree of heat it was served at, it will become much thicker by standing; but a sauce served thick if allowed to remain becomes almost uneatable. No. 10. Sauce aujus d'Estragon. Put two spoonfuls of common vinegar into a stevrpan, place it over the fire, and when boihng add eighteen spoon- fuls of demi-glace (No. 9), and six of consomme (No. 134),SAUCES. add a quarter of a teaspoonful of powdered sugar, place it over the &e and let it reduce very fast until it adheres hghtly to the back of the spoon, then add thhty fresh leaves of tairagon, let it just boil up and it is ready for use. Do not make it too long before you require to use it, or the tarragon would spoU the appearance of the sauce. No. 11. Jus d'Estragon clair. Put two tablespoonfuls of common vinegar into a stew- pan with a piece of glaze the size of a walnut; place it over the fire, let it boil, then add a quart of consomme (No. 134), and two spoonfuls of brown gravy (No. 135), reduce it to half, season with a Httle sugar and pepper, finish with leaves of tarragon, as in the last. No. 12. Sauce au jus de Tomates. Put an onion in shces into a stewpan with two sprigs of thyme, one bay-leaf, half a blade of mace, one clove, four sprigs of parsley, two ounces of lean ham, and one omice of butter; stir them round over a slow fire until becoming rather brown, then add a spoonful of Chih vinegar, ten of demi-glace (No. 9), and ten of consomme (No. 134), boil altogether about ten minutes, skim it, then add ten spoon- fuls of very bright preserved tomates, half a teaspoonful of sugar, and a very Httle scraped garhc; season with a httle cayenne pepper and salt; boil altogether five minutes, rub it through a tammie, put it again into a stewpan, set it upon the fire, boil and skim it. Use it where du-ected. No. 13. Sauce aujus de Chatnpignons. Put eighteen spoonfuls of demi-glace, (No. 9), into a stewpan with six of consomme (No. 134), and a little sugai-; place it upon the fire and reduce it to..a clear hght demi- glaze; skim it well, then have chopped six good fresh mush-11 SAUCES. rooms, throw them into the sauce, boil them ten minutes, then rub them through a tammie ; put it again into a stew- pan, warm it, but do not let it boil; after you have passed it, if made in the morning, warm it in your bain marie when required. No. 14. Sauce demi-provengale. Put eighteen spoonfuls of demi-glace (No. 9) into a stewpan with sixteen of consomme (No. 134), place it over a sharp fire, reduce it to two thu'ds, skim it, scrape half a clove of garhc with a knife, and put it into the sauce with a httle sugar, boil it again two minutes, and it is ready for use. No. 15. Sauce au jus piquant. Put two spoonfuls of chopped eschalots into a stewpan with three of vinegar; reduce it to half over the &e, then add eighteen spoonfuls of demi-glace (No. 9), and six of consomme (No. 134), boil it about a quarter of an hour, skim it well, add half a teaspoonful of sugar, and when again forming a Light glaze, add two tablespoonfuls of chopped gherkins, and a little cayenne pepper; it must not boil afterwards. No. 16. Sauce aujus d'Echalote. Put three tablespoonfuls of chopped eschalots in a stewpan with two tablespoonfuls of vinegar, place it over a sharp fire a couple of minutes, then add eighteen spoonfuls ot demi-glace (No. 9), and six of consomme (No. 134), boil, skim, and reduce it until it adheres to the back of the spoon, add a little sugar and cayenne pepper. Serve where directed. No. 17. Sauce au jus d' Orange. Take the rind from an orange as thinly as possible, take off all the pith, and cut it into thin strips, three quarters of12 SAUCES, an inch in length; boil them five minutes in water, and drain them upon the back of a hair sieve; then put ; pint of demi-glace (No. 9) into a stewpan with six spoonfuls of consomme (No 134), reduce it over the fire to the consist- ency of demi-glace, then add the rind of the orange and a httle sugar, boil it another five minutes, and when ready to serve add a Httle of the juice of the orange. No. 18. Sauce aujus de Bigarades. Proceed as directed in the last, but substituting a SeviUe orange for the sweet one, and boihng the rind ten minutes instead of five. No. 19. Jus lie demi Currie. Peel and cut in shoes a large onion, some carrot, turnip, two apples, and two ounces of lean ham; put them into a stewpan with two cloves, a blade of mace, a bay-leaf, sprig of thyme, parsley, and one ounce of butter; put the stewpan over a slow fire, stir them round occasionally until they become shghtly browned, then add a good table- spoonful of the best curry powder, mix it well, then add ten of consomme (No. 134) and eighteen of demi-glace (No. 9), boU altogether, then rub it through a tamniie; put it in another stewpan, place it again upon the fire, skim it well, and reduce it until it adheres to the back of the spoon, when add a Little sugar and cayenne if required, but that must depend entirely upon taste. No. 20. Jus lie aux Concomhres. Prepare three middling-sized cucumbers, as directed (No. 103), then put two ounces of butter vidth a teaspoonful of powdered sugar, and half one of chopped onions, into a stewpan, place it over the fire, and when the butter is melted add the cucumbers, which pass over the fii*e mitil tender13 SAUCES. and slightly tinged; then put them out upon a cloth, put eighteen spoonfuls of demi-glace (No. 9) into another stewpan with six of consomme (No. 134), reduce it until rather thickish; then add the cucumbers, boil them two minutes, season with a saltspoonful of salt, and the half of one of pepper, skim it, and it is ready to serve. No. 21. Jus lie auw Truffles. Put eighteen spoonfuls of demi-glace (No. 9) into a stewpan with ten of consomme (No. 134), reduce it until it becomes again a demi-glace, then add six middhng-sized Prench preserved trujffles, cut in thin sHces, vnth a quarter of a teaspoonful of sugar, sumner gently ten minutes, it is then ready to serve. No. 22, Jus lie aux Anchois. Put six tablespoonfuls of brown sauce (No. 1) into a stewpan with three of consomme (No. 134), and one of brown gravy (No. 135), place it upon the fire, and when boihng stii- in two ounces of anchovy butter (No. 78), stir it in quickly, but do not let it boil afterwards. This sauce must be made only at the time of serving. No. 23. Jus lie aux fines Herhes. Put two tablespoonfuls of finely-chopped onions into a stewpan with a piece of butter the size of a walnut; stir them over the fire until Hghtly browned; then add eighteen spoonfuls of demi-glace (No. 9), and eight of consomme (No. 134), reduce it to two thirds, skim it well, then add a tablespoonful of chopped parsley, and one of chopped mush- rooms, with a httle cayenne pepper, and a quarter of a tea- spoonful of powdered sugar; boil altogether five minutes, and finish with the juice of half a lemon; it is then ready for use.14 SAUCES. No. 24. Jus lie aux petits Navets. Scoop four large turnips with a scoop about double the size of a pea; when done, wash and well dry them upon a cloth, then put a little powdered sugar into a convenient sized stewpan; place it upon the fire, when it melts and becomes shghtly tinged, tlu'ow in an ounce of butter and the turnips, place them over a slow jfire, tossing them over occasionally until shghtly browned; then in another stewpan put ten spoonfuls of demi-glace (No. 9,) and six of consomme, then add your turnips; let it simmer upon the corner of the fire, keeping it skimmed until the turnips are done; add a Httle more seasoning, if required, and it is ready for use. No. 25. Jus lie aux Olives. Put half a tablespoonful of chopped onions into a stew- pan vsdth the same of salad oil; pass them five minutes over a slow fire, then add a teaspoonful of port wine, eighteen of demi-glace (No. 9), and six of consomme (No. 134), reduce it to two thirds, skimming it weU, then have twenty fine ohves, turn them, taking out their stones, so that they resume theu original shape, put them into the stewpan with a httle sugar, boU them two minutes, and the sauce is ready. Should the ohves be too salt, soak them a short time in warm water. No. 26. Sauce aux fines Herhes. Put three tablespoonfuls of chopped onions into a stew- pan with one ounce of butter, stir them over a moderate fu-e until getting rather brownish, then add a pint of brown sauce (No. 1), half a pint of consomme (No. 134), and two spoon- fuls of brown gravy (No. 135), let it simmer ten minutes, skim it well, then stir it over a sharp fire, reducing it untU it adheres to the back of the spoon, then add a spoonful ofSAUCES-. 15 chopped mushrooms, one of chopped parsley, and one of preserved tomates; season with a httle sugar, cayenne, and salt, if required. When ready to serve add the juice of half a lemon. No. 27. Saucepiquante. Put two tablespoonfuls of chopped onions into a stewpan with foiK of common vinegar, and a small piece of glaze; let them boil together a few minutes, then add a pint of brown sauce (No. 1), with half a pint of consomme (No. 134), stii- it quickly over a sharp fire until it adheres to the back of the spoon; then add a tea^poonful of chopped mushrooms, and a tablespoonful of chopped gherkins; it is then ready for use. This sauce reqmres to be seasoned rather high with cayenne pepper, sugar, and salt. No. 28. Sauce Robert. Peel and cut up foiu- middhng-sized onions into very small dice, put them into a stewpan with two ounces of but- ter, stir them over a moderate fire imtil rather brown; then add two tablespoonfuls of common vinegar, let it boil • then add a pint of brown sauce (No. 1), with half a pint of con- somme (No. 134), let it simmer at the corner of the stove ten minutes; skim it weU, then stir it over a sharp fire reducing it untH rather thick, finish it with two tablespoon- fuls of French mustard, a Httle sugar, and salt, if required. No. 29. Sauce Robert demi-provengale. Put the same quantity of onions into a stewpan as in the las but usmg two tablespoonfuls of salad oil instead of butter; proceed as in the last, and finish with a piece of scraped garlic the size of a pea. Use this sauce for any pur- pose you would the preceding one.16 SAUCES. No. 30. Sauce a Vltalienne. Put two tablespoonfds of chopped onions and one of chopped eschalots in a stewpan with three tablespoonfuls of salad oil, stir them ten minutes over a sharp fire; then add a wine-glassful of sherry, a pint of brown sauce (No. 1), and half a pint of consomme (No. 134), set it over a sharp jfire untn it boils, then place it at the comer, let it simmer ten minutes, skim ojff aU the oil which it will throw up, then place it over the fire, stir with a spoon, reducing it until it adheres to the back of it, then add a teaspoonful of chopped parsley, a tablespoonfal of chopped mushrooms, a little sugar, salt if required, and finish with the juice of half a lemon. No. 31. Sauce a Vltalienne {wJiite.) Itahan sauce for any description of fish, white meat, or poultry, must be made white, which is done by following the directions of the preceding receipts, only substituting white sauce (No. 7) for the brown, and finishing with thi-ee spoonfuls of cream. No. 32. Sauce Poivrade. Put two onions, half a carrot, and a turnip, in shces, into a stewpan, with two ounces of butter, a httle celery, leek, a sprig of parsley, one of thyme, one bay-leaf, two ounces of lean ham, and eight peppercorns; pass them over a shai-p fire until rather brown, add six tablespoonfuls of Tarragon vinegar, just boil it, then add a pint of brown sauce (No. 1), and half a pint of consomme (No. 134); simmer a short time, sldm it, then reduce quickly until it adlieres to the back of the spoon, then pass it through a tammie and use where directed. This sauce requires to be highly seasoned.SAUCES. 17 No. 33. Sauce poivrade demi-provengale. Proceed as in the last, but adding two eschalots to the vegetables, which pass* in a tablespoonful of oil instead of butter, and finish with a little scraped garlic. No. 34. Sauce a la Bateliere. Put a tablespoonful of chopped eschalots, one of chopped tan-agon, one of chopped parsley, and four of chopped mush- rooms into a stewpan with one blade of mace, three cloves, a wineglassful of vinegar, and one of sherry; set it upon the fire mitil nearly diy, then add a quart of brown sauce g (No. 1), with a pint of consomme, (No. 134), reduce it g ^ until it adheres to the back of the spoon, then add a spoon- I c ful of chopped gherldns, and one of chopped capers ; when I ready to serve stu- in an ounce of anchovy butter (No. 78). g 3 Do not let it boU afterwards. 3 Tliis sauce is a good zest for any description of broiled meat or poultry. No. 35. Sauce a la Reform. Cut up two middhng-sized onions into thin slices and put them mto a stewpan with two sprigs of parsley, two of thyme two bay-leaves, two ounces of lean uncooked ham, half a clove ol garhc, half a blade of mace, and an ounce of fi-esh but- ter; stu- them ten minutes over a sharp fire, then add two tablespoonfids of Tarragon vinegar, and one of Chih vinegar boil It one minute; then add a pint of brown sauce (No ])' or sauce Espagnole (No. 2), three tablespoonfds of pre- served tomates, and eight of consomme (No. 134) • place it over the fire until boiling, then put it at the coLr let «ten mmutes, skim it well, then place it agaii over the fire, keepmg it stm-ed, and reduce until it adheres to * A culinary term. 218 SAUCES. the back of the spoon ; then add a good tablespoonful of red ciUTant jelly, and half do. of chopped mushrooms; season a little more if required with pepper and salt; stir it until the jelly is melted, then pass it through a tammie into an- other stewpan. When ready to serve, make it hot, and add the white of a hard-boiled egg cut into strips half an inch long, and thick in proportion, four white blanched mush- rooms, one gherkin, two green Indian pickles, and half an ounce of cooked ham, or tongue, all cut in strips hke the white of egg; do not let it boil afterwards. This sauce must be poured over whatever it is served with. No. 36. Sauce au jus de Groseilles. Put a couple of onions in slices into a stewpan, with haK an ounce of butter, a sprig of thyme, and one bayrleaf; pass them over a sharp fire untU Hghtly browned; add two teaspoonfuls of common vinegar, let it boil, and then add a pint of brown sauce (No. 1), and half a pint of consomme (No. 134); let it simmer ten minutes at the corner of the fire, skim it well, then place it over the fire, stir and reduce it well, until it adheres lightly to the back of the spoon; then add two tablespoonfuls of red currant jelly; pass it through a tammie, and it is ready to serve with roast hares, fillet, &c., where directed. No. 37. Sauce aux Tomates. Procure two dozen ripe tomates, take out the stalk, squeeze out the juice and the seeds, then put them into a stewpan with a Httle salt, stew until tender, and drain them upon a sieve; then, in another stewpan, put two onions, part of a carrot, and a turnip, all cut in very thin slices, with a bunch of parsley, two sprigs of thyme, two bay-leaves, two cloves, a blade of mace, a clove of garhc, two ounces of lean uncooked ham, and a quarter of aSAUCES. 19 pound of butter; place the stewpan over a moderate fire, stir the mierepoix round occasionally, until the vegetables are tender, then add the tomates, stir them over the fire another minute, then stir in six ounces of flour, and add two quarts of consomme (No. 134); boil altogether twenty- five minutes, keeping it stirred, season it with a httle salt, sugar, and cayenne pepper, then rub it through a tammie; put it into another stewpan, set it over the fire, when boil- mg place it at the corner, let simmer ten minutes, skim well, then pour it in a basin, and use where directed. If no tomates, use two bottles of preserved tomatas. If too thick, dilute it with a httle more consomme. No. 38. Sauce a la Tartare. Rub the yolk of a cold hard-boiled egg through a hair- sieve into a basin, to which add the yolks of two raw eggs, with a httle salt and pepper; mix altogether with a wooden spoon; have a pint of good salad oil in a bottle, hold it with the left hand over the basin, dropping it in very gra- dually, and with the right continue stirring it round until It becomes rather thick, then moisten it with a little Tar- ragon vinegar, stiU keeping it stirred, then more oil, and so on until you have used aU the oil, keeping it rather thick • then add a tablespoonful of finely-chopped gherkins, half a do. of chopped capers, half a do. of chopped eschalots, and the same of chopped parsley, two of French mustard, a little cayenne pepper, sugar, and more salt if required, it is then ready for use. This sauce requires to be rather highly seasoned. ° No. 39. Papillote Sauce. Scrape two ounces of fat bacon, which put into a stew- pan, with wo tablespoonfuls of chopped eschalots, and fom- ot chopped mushrooms; stir them over a moderate fire ten20 SAUCES. minutes, then add half a tablespoonful of flour (mix it well) and a quart of demi-glace (No. 9); let it simmer ten minutes, skim it; then add a spoonful of chopped parsley, a Uttle pepper and salt, half a teaspoonful of powdered sugar, and a little grated nutmeg; mix the whole well together, then place it upon the fire; keep it stirred, and reduce until rather tliick, then pom- it into a basin, and use where di- rected. This sauce requires to be thick, but not pasty; it is folded in paper with cotelettes, joints of poultry, game, &c., with which it is also broiled and served, without taking them out of the papers. No. 40. Sauce a la Diable. Chop six large eschalots, wash and press them in a clean cloth, then put them into a stewpan with two wine-glasses full of Chih vinegar, a piece of garhc, two bay-leaves, and an ounce of glaze; boil all together ten minutes, then add four tablespoonfuls of tomate sauce (No. 37), a httle sugar, and ten of good gravy; boil it ten minutes longer, then add a pat of butter; stir it well in, and it is ready for use; serve it with devilled kidneys, poultry, or anything broiled. No. 41. 8auce CoriniJden. Put four chopped gherkins into a stewpan with a table- spoonful of capers, two of red currant jelly, half a tea- spoonful of salt, a little cayenne pepper, a httle grated nutmeg, a tablespoonful of chopped chalots, one of chopped parsley, a wine-glassful of vinegar, and half a tablespoonful of sugar; boil all together five minutes, then add six table- spoonfuls of brown sauce (No. 1), and twelve of tomate sauce (No. 37), with six of wliite broth; boil and skim it well; this pecuhar sauce is good for all kinds of broiled meat, game, or poultry, or may be eaten cold, with cold meat.21 SAUCES. No. 43. Sauce Provengale chaude. Put two yolks of egg in a stewpan, with half a table- spoonful of flour, half a clove of garlic well scraped, a small quantity of cayenne pepper, two ounces of butter, half a teaspoonful of salt, and the juice of half a lemon; place it over a moderate fire, and stir it until it becomes rather thick; then take it ofi" the fire, stir in two tablespoonfuls of oil by degrees, then eight of melted butter; if you should require to warm it again, stir it in a bain marie of hot water. Use where required. No. 43. Sauce a la Maitre Hotel Put eight spoonfuls of white sauce (No. 7) in a stewpan, with foiu- of white stock or milk; boil it five minutes, then stir in three ounces of maitre d'hotel butter (No. 79); stir it quickly over the fire untH the butter is melted, but'do not let the sauce boil after the butter is in; this sauce should only be made at the time of serving. No. 44. Sauce a la Ravigote. Proceed precisely as in the last, only using Ravigote butter (No. 80), instead of the maitre d'hStel butter, as there directed. The simpHcity of the last two sauces is perhaps not greater than their utihty or delicacy; they may not only be served with various descriptions of fish where directed, but with fillets of beef, mutton and lamb cutlets, calf's head, calves' tails, and many other articles where directed in this work. No. 45. Sauce a VIndienne. Put two good tablespoonfuls of chopped eschalots into a stewpan, with foiu- of white vinegar from a bottle of mHd Indian pickles, boH them a couple of minutes, then add a22 SAUCES. pint of white sauce (No. 7), and three tablespoonfuls of white broth; reduce it over a sharp fire (keeping it stirred) until rather thickish, then add two tablespoonfuls of cream, and pass it through a tammie into another stewpan; when ready to serve make it hot, and add six of the pickles, cut in strips, which serve in it. No. 46. Curry Sauce. Peel four large onions and two apples, shoe, and put them into a ste^rpan, with a quarter of a pound of butter, a blade of mace, six peppercorns, a sprig of thyi^e, parsley, and two bay-leaves; stir them over a moderate fire until the onions become brown and tender, then add two tablespoonfuls of the best curry-powder, and two of flour; mix it well in, then add half a pint of white sauce (No. 7), and a quart of white stock; season vsdth a httle salt, and half a teaspoonful of sugar; boil it a quarter of an horn", keeping it stirred, then rub through a tammie; put it into another stewpan, boU it up, skim and use it where required. Mangoes or curry paste may be used, but then you only require one spoonful of curry powder. No. 47. Sauce Soubise. Peel six large onions, which cut in very thin sHces, put them into a stevrpan with a quarter of a pound of butter, and place them over a slow fire, stirring occasionally until tender, but keeping them quite white; then add an ounce of flour, mix it well in, then half a pint of white sauce (No. 7), and haK a pint of milk; boil altogether twenty minutes ; season vdth half a quarter of a teaspoonful of white pepper, half ditto of salt, and three quarters ditto of sugar, a Httle cream may also be added; rub tlu:ough a tam- mie, put it in another stewpan, make it hot, and serve where required. This sauce must be rather thick, but not pasty.SAUCES. 23 No. 48. Sauce Souhise {brown). Peel and slice six onions, as in the last, put them into a stewpan with a quarter of a pound of butter, pass them over a moderate fire until tender and of a light brown colour, then mix in one tablespoonful of flour, add a pint of demi- glace (No. 9), and ten tablespoonfuls of brown gravy (No. 135), boil altogether until the onions are quite done, sea- son with a little pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg, rub it through a tammie, put it into another stewpan, make it hot, and serve where directed. No. 49. Sauce a la Milanaise. Cut thirty pieces of blanched maccaroni half an inch in length, as many pieces of lean cooked ham of the same size, and an equal quantity of white blanched mushrooms also the same, then put twelve tablespoonfuls of white sauce (No. 7), in a stewpan with fom- of white broth, season with a little cayenne pepper, salt, and sugar; boil it ten minutes, then add the above ingredients with two ounces of grated Parmesan cheese, stir all gently over the fire ten minutes, finish with a tablespoonful of cream, and use where required'. No. 50. Sauce a la Financiere. Put a wineglassful of sherry into a stewpan with a piece of glaze the size of a wahiut, and a bay-leaf, place it upon the fire, and when it boils add a quart of demi-glace (No. 9); let it boil ten minutes, keeping it stirred; then add twelve fresh blanched mushrooms, twelve prepared cocks- combs, a throat sweetbread cut into thin slices, two French presei-ved truffles also in shces, and twelve smaU queneUes (No. 120); bofl altogether ten minutes, skim it well, thin it with a little consomme if required, but it must be rather thick, and seasoned very palatably. 124 SAUCES. The above may also be made white by using bechamel, or white sauce (No. 7) instead of brown, and following the above dii-ections and finishing with half a gill of cream; serve in a vol-au-vent or wherever directed. No. 51. Sauce aux Truffles. Put a pint of demi-glace (No. 9) into a stewpan, place it over the fire, keeping it stirred until it has reduced one third; have four middhng-sized preserved French truffles cut into slices, which throw into the sauce, add a Httle sugar, and take it from the fire, not allowing it to boil after the truffles are in; it is then ready to serve where directed: by this simple method you retain the full flavour of the truffles, and keep them tender. Sauce aus truffles may also be made white by using white sauce (No. 7), instead of demi- glace, and finishing with half a gOl of cream, but it requires to be rather thicker than the brown. Wlien brown, neither this sauce nor the foUovdng must be too thick. No. 52. Sauce auco Champignons. Put a pint of demi-glace (No. 9) into a stewpan, reduce it to one tMrd, keeping it stirred, then add twenty blanched mushrooms (No. 107), a Httle catsup, and half a teaspoon- ful of sugar; boU altogether a few minutes, skim it, and it is ready to serve. To make it white put a pint of white sauce (No. 7) into a stewpan with half a teaspoonful of sugar, when it boils add twenty mushrooms, boil altogether ten minutes, then stir in a liaison of one yolk of egg mixed with two tablespoonfuls of cream, but do not let it boil aftem^ards. No. 53. Sauce a la puree de Tmffles. Well pound eight middhng-sized French preserved truf- fles, which afterwards rub thi'ough a hak sieve with a wooden spoon, then put half an onion, a small piece ofOK SAUCES. carrot aad turnip, cut into very thin sUces, into a stewpan with a piece of butter the size of a walnut, half a bay-leaf, a spng ot parsley, and an ounce of lean uncooked ham; stir them over the fire'untn quite tender; then add half a glass of wine and the pounded truffles, with which mix half a teaspoonful of flour; then add eight good tablespoonfuls of brown sauce (No. 1), boil it ten minutes; then rub it through a tammie, put it into another stewpan, add a httle consomme (No. 134), boil it up, season with a httle sugar, and salt, if required, and use where du^ected. No. 54. Sauce a la puree de Champignons. Well pomid a pottle of very fresh white muslu'ooms, then put haK an onion, a small piece of carrot, and a small piece of tm-nip, cut into very thin shces, into a stewpan with a piece of butter the size of a walnut, half a bay-leaf, a sprig of pars- ley, and an oimce of lean uncooked ham; stir them over the fire untn quite tender, then add the mushrooms, and eight tablespoonfuls of white sauce (No. 7); season with a httle salt, and sugar, boil it ten minutes, add four tablespoonfuls of cream, and rub it through a tammie, pnt it into a stew- pan, boH it one minute, and it is ready for use. No. 55. Sauce Ferigeux. Put four middhng-sized truffles, chopped very fine, into a stewpan with a glass of sherry, boil it one minute, then add a pint of demi-glace (No. 9), season with a little sugar, and salt, if reqmred, boil a minute and it is ready to serve. No. 53. Sauce Bechamel a la Creme. Put a pint of bechamel sauce (No. 7), and half a pint of white stock (No. 133), in a stewpan, reduce it over a sharp fire, (keeping it stirred), to one half, then add half a pint of good cream, a httle sugar, and salt if required, boil it ano- ther minute, and serve where required.26 SAUCES. No. 57. Sauce au Supreme. Take the bones of a fowl you have filetted, or the trimmincrs ot any other fowl, either roast or braised, (which is preferable It any,) but if usmg the bones of a raw fowl lay it in warm water two hours to disgorge, break the bones smaU and put them mto a stewpan with half an ounce of butter, a glass of sherry, one onion with a clove stuck in it, and one ounce of ham; place it over a good &e, keep stirring occasion- ally until the bottom of the stewpan is covered with a Hght glaze, then add a quart of hght broth (No. 133), let it boU at the corner of the stove, skim and reduce it to one thu-d, pass it through a cloth, (but first carefuUy take o£F every particle of fat), into a large stcAvpan, add a pint of veloute (No. 5), or bechamel (No. 7), reduce it over a sharp fire, keeping it stirred until it adheres to the back of the spoon; then add a little sugar and four tablespoonfuls of cream, boil two minutes longer, pass it through a tammie, and use where required. No. 58. Veloute de Gibier. Must be made either from pheasant or partridge; (wild rabbit may be introduced); chop up the bones, which put into a stewpan with an onion, the quarter of a carrot, and the quarter of a tm^nip (cut up small), a little parsley, thyme, and one bay-leaf; add a glass of white wine; pass them a few minutes over the fire, then add a quart of sauce veloute (No. 5), or sauce bechamel (No. 7), and a pint of veal stock; place it again over the fire, and keep stuTing mitil it becomes rather thickish; then add a gill of cream, and a little sugar, boil again mitil it adheres to the back of the spoon, then pass it through a sieve, and afterwai'ds through a tammie, and use where du'ccted. The bones of two par- tridges or one pheasant would be sufficient.SAUCES. 37 No. 59. Sauce a la puree de Gibier. Roast a grouse, and separate all the flesh from the bones, make a sauce with the bones as directed in the next; pound the flesh well in a mortar, put it into a stewpan; then add the sauce, boil altogether five minutes, then rub it tlnmigh a tammie, and serve where directed. Any description of game, or the remains of some from a previous dinner, may be used for the above purpose; the puree requires to be as thick as bechamel sauce (No. 7). No. 60. 8auce au fumee de Gibier. "Roast two grouse, let them get partly cold if time per- mits, then cut them into joints, which use for a salmi (see No. 876); chop the trimmings up small, with the back bones, and put them into a stewpan vsdth a glass of sherry, an onion, a piece of carrot, and a piece of turnip, all in sHces, a httle celeiy, a sprig of thyme, and parsley, a bay- leaf, one clove, and half a blade of mace, stir them over the fire five minutes, then add a quart of brown sauce (No. 1), and a pint of consomme (No. 134); boil quickly upon the corner of the stove twenty minutes, then sldm it well, pass it through a sieve, and afterwards through a tammie into a basin, and use where reqmred. The trimmmgs of any description of game, or some left from a previous dinner, may be used for making the above sauce, but if you have the choice, the trimmings of grouse are preferable. No. 61. Bemi-glace de Gibier. Make a sauce as above, when passed put it into a stew- pan with a pint of consomme (No. 134), and a table- spoonful of tomate sauce (No. 37); simmer it at the corner of the stove ten minutes, add a little sugar, skim it well.28 SAUCES. then reduce it quickly until a thinish glaze is formed and adheres to the back of the spoon. No. 63. Sauce Matelotte. Peel about twenty button onions, then put ateaspoonful of powdered sugar in a stewpan, place it over a sharp fire, and when melted and getting brown, add a piece of butter the size of two walnuts, and your onions, pass them over the fire until rather brown; then add a glass of sherry, let it boil, then add a pint of brown sauce (No. 1), and ten spoonfuls of consomme (No. 134), simmer at the comer of the fire until the onions are quite tender, skim it well; then add twenty small quenelles (No. 120), ten heads of mush- rooms, a teaspoonful of essence of anchovies, one of catsup, one of Harvey sauce, and a little cayenne pepper. Serve where directed. No. 63. Sauce Genevoise. Put one tablespoonful of chopped onions and one of chop- ped eschalots into a stewpan with haK an ounce of butter, pass them over the fire until lightly browned, then add fom- glasses of port vsdne, two cloves, and half a blade of mace, vsdth two bay-leaves, a sprig of thyme, and one of parsley, boil them a few minutes; then add a quart of brown sauce (No. 1), and ten tablespoonfuls of consonune (No. 134), reduce it until rather thick; then add one tablespoonful of chopped mush- rooms, boil it another minute, then pass it through a tam- mie into a clean stewpan; when just ready to serve, boil it up, season it with a little salt, cayenne pepper, and half a teaspoonful of sugar, then stir in one ounce of anchovy butter (No. 78), but do not let it boil after. Sei-ve with any description as directed. No. 64. Sauce a la Beyrout. Put a tablespoonful of chopped onions into a stewpanSAUCES. 29 with one of Chili vinegar and one of common vinegar, eighteen spoonfuls of melted butter, four of brown gravy, two of mushroom catsup, and two of Harvey sauce; then place it over the fire, keep stirring until boiling, then place it at the corner of the stove, let it simmer five minutes, skim it well, then place it again over the fire and stir until it ad- heres to the back of the spoon, when add two tablespoon- fuls of essence of anchovies, and haK a teaspoonful of sugar; it is then ready to serve. The above is a fish sauce, but may be used for meat or poultry by substituting white sauce (No. 7) for melted butter. (No. 71). No. 65. Sauce a Vessence de Poissons. Have the bones of two whitings or soles, (having used the fillets), break them into pieces and put them into a stewpan with an onion in sHces, a good bunch of parsley, a little thyme, bay-leaf, two cloves, one glass of sherry, and ten of white broth; place it over the fire and let it reduce until the bottom of the stewpan is covered with a Hght glaze; then add eighteen tablespoonfuls of white sauce (No. 7), and ten of white broth, let it boil twenty minutes, then pass it through a tammie into another stewpan, boil it again, and finish with half a gill of cream and a Uttle pepper and salt if required. No. 66. Sauce a la Hollandaise. Put two yolks of eggs in the bottom of a stewpan with the juice of half a lemon, a quarter of a teaspoonful of salt, a httle white pepper, and a quarter of a pound of fresh butter; place the stewpan over a moderate fire, and com- mence stirring it with a wooden spoon, (taking it off the fire now and then when getting too hot), until the butter be- comes melted and thickens with the eggs, (great care mustSAUCES. be exercised, for if it should become too hot the eggs would curdle and render the sauce useless); then add a pint of melted butter, stir it together over the fire, but do not let it boil; pass it through a tammie into another stewpan. When wanted stir it over the fire until quite hot. No. 69. Caper Sauce. Put twelve tablespoonfuls of melted butter into a stew- pan, place it upon the fire, and when upon the point of boihng, add two ounces of fresh butter and three table- spoonfuls of capers; shake the stewpan round over the fire imtil the butter is melted, add a httle pepper and salt, and serve where directed. 68. Lobster Sauce. Put twelve tablespoonfuls of melted butter into a stew- pan, cut a middling sized hen lobster into dice, make a quarter of a pound of lobster butter with the spawn, as directed (No. 77); when the melted butter is upon the point of boihng, add the lobster butter, stir the sauce round over the fire, until the butter is melted; season vdth a httle essence of anchovy, the juice of half a lemon and a quarter of a saltspoonful of cayenne, pass it through a tammie into another stewpan, then add the flesh of the lobster. Wlien hot, it is ready to serve where directed. This sauce must be quite red, if no red in the lobster use live spawn. No. 69. Oyster Sauce. Mix three ounces of butter in a stewpan with two ounces of flour; then blanch and beard three dozen oysters, as directed (No. 342); put the oysters into another stewpan, and the beards and liquor to the other ingredients, with a pint and a half of milk, a teaspoonful of salt, half a salt- spoonful of cayenne pepper, two cloves, half a blade of31 SAUCES. mace, and six peppercorns; place it over the fire, keep stirring, and boil it ten minutes; then add a tablespoonfiil of essence of anchovies, and one of Harvey sauce; then pass it through a tammie over the oysters; make the whole veiy hot, without boiling, when ready to serve. Another method. Put a pint and a half of white sauce (No. 7,) into a stew- pan, with the juice and beards of three dozen oysters, as above, six peppercorns, two cloves, half a blade of mace; boil it ten minutes, then add a spoonful of essence of an- chovies, a httle cayenne pepper, and salt if required; pass it through a tammie over the oysters, as before. A plainer method. Blanch tlu-ee dozen oysters, take away their beards, and put them, with their hquor, into a stewpan, with half a blade of mace, two cloves, and six peppercorns; place them over the &e, and directly they boil add half an ounce of butter, with wliich you have mixed half a tablespoonful of flour; shake the stewpan round over the fire two or three minutes, then add a little essence of anchovies; take out the spices, and serve; this sauce is full of flavour, and veiy simple. If too thick add a little milk. No. 70. Muscle Sauce. Proceed exactly the same as for oyster sauce, only using the hquor of muscle (see No. 341), but not the beards, mstead of oysters, and serving muscle in the sauce; four dozen would be about the number required. No. 71. Melted Butter. Mix a quarter of a pound of butter in a stewpan, with two tablespoonfuls of flour, without puttmg it upon theSAUCES. 32 &e; then add a pint and a half of cold water, place it upon the fire, keep stirring until upon the point of boihng, but do not let it boil; season with a tablespoonful of vinegar, and a teaspoonful of salt, and the eighth of one of pepper; pass it through a tammie into a basin, then add two ounces more of fresh butter; keep stirring till the butter is melted; it is then ready for use where required. No. 72. Anchovy Sauce. Make the same quantity of melted butter as directed in the last, but finish it with four good tablespoonfiils of es- sence of anchovies; there should be little or no salt in the melted butter. No. 73. Shrimp Same. Make the melted butter as for the last, but finish -with three tablespoonfuls of the essence of shrimps, and serve half a pint of picked shrimps in the boat with it. If no essence of shrimps, the anchovy sauce may be served with shrimps in it as a substitute. No. 74. Demi Maitre d'Hotel Sauce. Put half the above quantity of melted butter in a stew- pan, and when upon the point of boihng stir in a quarter of a pound of maitre d'hotel butter (No. 79); directly it melts serve, but do not let it boU. No. 75. Fennel Sauce. This is a sauce principally used for boiled mackerel; make the same quantity of melted butter as in the last, to which add a good tablespoonful of chopped fennel; sei-ve it in a boat. No. 76. Egff Sauce. Generally served with salt fish or a Dubhn-bay haddock: boil six eggs ten minutes, let them get cold, then cut themSAUCES. 33 in pieces about the size of dice; have eight tablespoonfuls of melted butter and three of good cream in a stewpan, season mth- a Httle pepper and salt, boil it five minutes, then add the eggs; shake the stewpan round over the fire until the eggs are quite hot, then add two pats of butter; shake it round until the butter is melted, then pour it into a boat, and serve very hot. No. 77. Lobster Butter. Procure a full-sized hen lobster, and quite full of spawn, , which take out and pound weU in a mortar; then add a quarter of a pound of fresh butter, mix them well together, then rub it through a hair-sieve, and put it on a plate upon the ice or in a cold place untU wanted. No. 78. Anchovy Butter. Take the bones from ten anchovies, wash the fillets; dry them upon a cloth, and pound them well in a mortar; then add a quarter of a pound of fresh butter; mix well together, and proceed as in the last. No. 79. Maitre d'Hotel Butter. Put a quarter of a pound of fresh butter upon a plate, with two good tablespoonfuls of chopped parsley, the juice of two lemons, half a teaspoonful of salt, and half that quantity of white pepper; mix all well together, and put in a cool place till required. 80. Bavigote Butter. Proceed as in the last, only substituting one spoonful of chopped Tarragon, and one of chopped chei-vHs for the two of parsley, and adding half a spoonful of Chili vinegar. 334 SAUCES AND GARNITURES OF VEGETABLES. No. 81. Puree de Choux de Bruxelles. Trim and boil about thirty heads of Brussel sprouts, very green, in two quarts of water, with which you have put a quarter of a handful of salt; when done, drain them and chop them very fine; then put an onion in a stewpan, in shces, with two ounces of butter, three sprigs of parsley, and an ounce of raw ham; stu- them ten mmutes over the fire, then add the chopped Brussel sprouts, and half a tablespoonful of flour; mix all well together, then add half a pint of white veal stock (No. 7), and half a pint of milk; stii- it until it boils, then add a teaspoonful of powdered sugar; rub it through a tammie, and serve where directed. Season with a little pepper and salt, if requued. It must not be too thick. No. 82. Sauce aux Choux de Bruxelles. Trun about thirty small Brussel sprouts \ have ready in a stewpan three quarts of boihng water, into which you have put a tablespoonful of salt; put in the sprouts, let them boil twenty minutes, then press them with yom- finger; if they are soft they are done, but be careful not to break them; lay them upon a sieve to drain, then put ten spoonfuls of Bechamel sauce (No. 7), into a stewpan, with sLx of boiled milk; let it reduce a few minutes, then add the sprouts, two ounces of fresh butter, a salt-spoonful of salt, half a one of white pepper, half a teaspoonful of sugai', one of chopped parsley, and the juice of half a lemon; keep them moving over the fire until the butter is quite melted, and serve where dii-ected.35 SAUCES. No. 83. Aux Haricots verts. Cut about fifty middling sized French beans into dia- monds, and boil them very green in salt and water; when done, drain them upon a sieve; then put ten tablespooufuls of Avhite sauce (No. 7) in a stewpan, with two of white broth (No. 133), one ounce of fresh butter, a salt-spoonful of salt, half a one of white pepper, one of chopped parsley, and the juice of half a lemon; then add the French beans ; mix all well together without breaking the beans; when quite hot, stu' in two tablespooufuls of Haison (No. 119), and serve. No. 84. Petit Pois a VAnglaise. Put a pint of young peas, boUed very green, into a stew- pan, with three tablespooufuls of bechamel sauce (No. 7), a quarter of an ounce of sugar, a httle salt, and two button onions, with parsley, tied together; boil them ten minutes; add two tablespooufuls of haison (No. 119), stir it in quickly, and serve. No. 85. Petit Pois an Lard. Put a pint of well-boiled peas into a stewpan, with five do. of brown sauce (No. 1), two of brown gravy, a teaspoonful of sugar, two button onions, and a bunch of parsley; let it boil about ten minutes; have ready braised about a pound of lean bacon, cut it in dice about a quarter of an inch square ; add it to the peas, take out the onions and parsley, season with an ounce of butter, and half a teaspoonful of sugar; mix well together, stew twenty minutes, and serve. No. 86. Puree de Pois vert. Put a pint of raw peas into a stewpan, with six button onions, a bunch of parsley, an ounce of lean ham, and one do.36 SAUCES. of biiiter; cover the peas with cold water, mix well together with your hands, throw aU the water away, put them over a qmck fire; when quite tender, add a half tablespoonful of flow; mix weU, pound it in the mortar, put it back in the stewpan; add twelve tablespoonfuls of broth (No. 133), season with a salt-spoon of salt, do. of sugar, rub it through a tammie, warm again, add a httle cream or milk to give it a proper thickness, and serve. No. 87. Ala Palestine. Peel ten Jerusalem artichokes, scoop them with a cutter the size of a small marble, put them into a stewpan with two ounces of butter, and a quarter of a spoonful of sugai-; set them over a moderate fire, toss them over until they are covered with a glaze, then add eighteen tablespoonfuls of bechamel sauce (No. 7), and eight do. of white broth (No. 133); boil gently, and skim well; season with a small quantity of salt; when the artichokes are quite tender, but not broken, add two tablespoonfuls of haison (No. 119), stir quickly, and serve. No. 88. Palestine a la Bourgeoise. Prepare and cut the artichokes as above; put an ounce of butter, and a quarter do. of sugar into a stewpan with the artichokes, and pass them over a moderate fire, until they are covered with a white glaze; then add half a table- spoonful of flour (mix it weU,) and twelve do. of white broth; let it simmer gently until they are quite tender, season mth a little salt and two tablespoonfuls of haison (No. 119), stir it in quickly, and serve. No. 89. Palestine ati Maigre. Cut the artichokes as above (No. 87), pass them in a stewpan with an ounce of butter, and half ditto of sugar, overSAUCES. 37 a moderate fire until they are covered with a white glaze; then add a tablespoonful of flour, and sixteen ditto of boiled milk; let it simmer gently until the artichokes are quite ten- der, season with a httle salt and white pepper; to finish add an ounce of fresh butter, and two tablespoonfuls of Uason, stu" it quickly and serve. K you have not a round scooper any shape wUl do; but round is preferable, as it is a very tender vegetable, and they are not so Hable to break. No. 90, Puree d'Artichaut. Peel, wash, and dry, on a cloth, ten artichokes, which cut in very thin shces, put them into a stewpan with a quarter of a pound of butter, a small bunch of parsley, one bay- leaf, a teaspoonful of salt, a httle white pepper, three quarters of a teaspoonful of sugar, and two ditto of broth; cut an ounce of lean ham in dice, set the whole over a slow fire, let it simmer gently for half an hour, when very tender add sixteen tablespoonfuls of bechamel sauce (No. 7); boil it twenty minutes, pass it through a tammie, into a clean stewpan, and before serving add three tablespoonfuls of hason (No. 119). This sauce requires to be rather thick. .No. 91. Puree a la Palestine maigre. Prepare and stew the artichokes precisely as before; when quite tender add one tablespoonful of flom-, and eighteen of ditto of boiling milk; let it boil twenty minutes, rub it through a tammie into a clean stewpan, add a httle cream before serving. No. 92. Navets Vierges. Peel six large turnips, scoop them the size of a marble, put one ounce of butter into a stewpan with a quarter of an ounce ot sugar, and the tiu-nips, pass them over a moderate tii-e38 SAUCES. about twenty minutes, toss them over, M'hen covered with a white glaze add ten tablespoonfuls of bechamel sauce, and four ditto of broth (No. 133), seasonwith a salt-spoonful of salt, a quarter ditto of pepper, finish with two tablespoonfuls of cream. This sauce must not be too thin. No. 93. Bagout de Navets a bmn. Scoop the same quantity of turnips as above (No. 92), put a quarter of an ounce of sugar into a stewpan, set it on the fire mitil it becomes rather brown, then add an ounce of butter, and the turnips, pass them until they are a yellow brown; then add twelve tablespoonfuls of brown sauce (No. 1), fom- ditto of broth (No. 133), or brown gravy (No. 135), and a bunch of parsley, with one bay-leaf; add a little salt and pepper, skim well and serve. No. 94. Puree de Navets a hlanc. Peel and cut six small turnips in thin shoes, put them into a stewpan with two ounces of butter, a quarter of a spoonful of white sugar, one onion minced, and a bunch of parsley; stir them over a moderate fire until nearly tender, add eighteen tablespoonfuls of bechamel sauce (No. 7), let it boil twenty minutes, pass it through a tammie, put it into a clean stewpan, finish with four tablespoonfuls of cream, and half an ounce of fresh butter. No. 95. Puree de Navets a hrun. Put half an ounce of sugar into a ste\\^an; let it get rather brown, add two ounces of butter, have ready peeled and cut in thin shoes six turnips, add them to the butter and sugar, and stir them about until quite tender; then add eighteen tablespoonfuls of brown sauce (No. 1); boil it about twenty minutes, rub it tlu'ough a tammie, put it intoSAUCES. 39 a clean stewpan, season with a teaspoonful of salt, a quarter ditto of pepper, and about an ounce of butter. Observe.—Never let a puree of any kind remain long at the side of the fire, as it gives it a strong and unpleasant flavour; if not wanted immediately set it in a bain marie. No. 96. Sauce aux Chou-Jleurs. Take two boiled cauliflowers, cut the tops ofi", so that the flowers will fall to pieces in sprigs, take them up carefully, put eighteen tablespoonfuls of bechamel sauce (No. 7), into a stevrpan with four ditto of white broth (No. 133), a httle salt and white pepper; boil it about ten minutes, then add the cauliflower and haK a teaspoonful of sugar, toss them about until well mixed, and add two tablespoonfuls of liaison (No. 119), and serve. No. 97. Puree de Chou-flettrs. Cut ofi" the flower of two heads of catdiflower weU boiled, put a teaspoonful of chopped onions into a stewpan vsdth a small piece of butter, pass them over a moderate fire about five minutes, then put the cauliflower in and mash them with a wooden spoon, add one tablespoonful of flour, and ten ditto of white broth (No. 133), let it boil about fifteen minutes, season with a teaspoonful of sugar, half ditto of salt, rub it through a tammie into a clean stewpan, add a gill of good cream and serve, if too thick, moisten with a little milk. No. 98. Macedoine de Legumes. Peel four very red carrots, wash them, cut them v\dth a small scooper the size of a large pea, the outside or red part of the carrot only; when ready, put them into a stewpan of boiling water, let them simmer about a quarter of an hour, then put them on a sieve to drain; peel and scoop the same40 SAUCES, size six turnips, and twenty button onions, put a teaspoon- ful of sugar into a stewpan with an ounce of butter, and the tui-iiips and onions, pass them over a moderate fire about five minutes, then add the carrots, set them again over the fire until they are covered with a white glaze, add ten table- spoonfuls of white broth (No. 133), let them boH about ten minutes, take off all the butter and scum, then add ten tablespoonfuls of bechamel sauce (No. 7), let it reduce until rather thick, season with a little salt if required; and five minutes before serving add three tablespoonfuls of haison (No. 119), a few Fi-ench beans, peas, asparagus, Brussels sprouts, or any green vegetable in season. No. 99. Macedoine de Legumes, brown. Prepare the vegetables and season exactly hke the above, using brown sauce instead of white, and omitting the liaison. The two last sauces require to be reduced until the sauce adheres to the vegetables, but not too thick. No. 100. Jardiniere. Peel four carrots, cut them lengthv^dse in shces a quai-ter of an inch thick, have ready a small long round cutter, cut as many pieces as possible out of each shce, boil them in water a quarter of an hour; peel and cut some tm-nips exactly the same; peel twenty button onions, put a tea- spoonful of sugar into a stewpan vsdth an ounce of butter and the turnips and onions; drain the carrots on a sieve and add them; toss the whole over a moderate fii*e about ten minutes, then put ten tablespoonfuls of consomme (No. 134), to the vegetables, let them simmer until quite tender, reduce and skim them well, then put twelve tablespoonfuls of brown sauce (No. 1), into another stewpan mth six ditto of consomme, reduce until rather thick, then add the vegetables, two spoonfuls of green peas, one ditto of French jieans, a fewSAUCES. 41 small pieces of cauliflower, and a few heads of asparagus; let the whole simmer twelve or thirteen minutes; season with a little salt and sugar if required; just before serving put in an ounce of butter, toss it about until melted; a bunch of parsley, with a bay-leaf, is a great addition to the flavoiu- if stewed with them. No. 101. Pointes d'Asperses en petits-pois. Get some fresh sprue grass, cut it about a quarter of an inch long, the green part only where it vdll break ofp, have ready a stewpan of boihng water with salt in, throw in the sprue and let it boil very fast until tender, which wiU be a quarter of an hour, or according to the size; then put them on a sieve to drain, put eight tablespoonfuls of the sprue into a stewpan with ten ditto of bechamel sauce (No. 7), a httle consomme, half a teaspoonful of sugar, a little salt, and a small quantity of chopped parsley; let it simmer five minutes; to finish add a pat of butter and two tablespoonfuls of liaison (No. 119). No. 102. Puree d'Asperges. Put twelve spoonfuls of sprue (boiled as No. 101), into a stewpan with two ounces of butter ; stir it over a mo- derate fire until it is mashed, then add half a tablespoonful of flour, mix it well, add eleven spoonfuls of bechamel sauce (No. 7), and ten ditto of broth (No. 135), half a teaspoon- ful of sugar, a quarter ditto of salt, let it boil five minutes, nib it through a tammie, put it into a clean stewpan; before serving add a pat of butter. When wanted warm it quickly or it will tiu-n yellow; if too thick moisten with a httle niilk. No. 103. Concombres a blanc. Get three best quahty fresh cucumbers, cut them in pieces about two inches long, peel each separately, then cut the42 SAUCES. outside in three slices (or four, if large), leaving the seeds m one piece m the midcUe, trim off all the edges neatly; put h^ilf a tablespoonful of sugar into a stewpan with an ounce oi butter, a little chopped eschalots, and the cucumber, pass them over a moderate fire ten minutes without breaking, and keep them quite white, then add a little white broth (No. 133), just enough to cover them, let them simmer untH tender,' then lay them, with a colander spoon, on a sieve to drain \ put twelve tablespoonfuls of bechamel sauce (No. 7) into the stewpan with six of white broth, skim ofi" all the butter, let it reduce until rather thick; season it with a quarter of a teaspoonfd of salt, a little pepper, and half a gill of cream; when ready to serve add the cucumbers. No. 104. Concombres a brun. Prepare and stew the cucumbers exactly the same, only brown them shghtly, reducing the same quantity of demi- glace (No. 9) instead of the white sauce. No. 105. Puree de Concombres. Cut the cucumbers in pieces and stew them as above (No. 103), put all the trimmings, and some of the worst- shaped pieces into a stewpan with an ounce of butter and half a spoonful of chopped onions, pass them over a moderate fire twelve minutes, add three tablespoonfuls of veal stock (No. 7), and let them simmer until quite tender; then put a tablespoonful of flour, mix it well, add fom- more of stock, and six ditto of bechamel sauce (No. 7), season with half a teaspoonful of sugar, a quarter ditto of salt, and a httle pepper, mb it through a tammie. WkQTi wanted, warm it very quickly, and add half a gill of cream; put the pieces into the puree and serve; it must not be too thick.SAUCES. 48 No. 106. JEpinard au Jus. Pick all the stalks off and wash the spinach very clean in several waters, have ready a large stewpan of boiling water, in which you have put a handful of salt, put in the spinach, and let it boil as quickly as possible about twenty minutes; when quite tender put it into a colander and press the water out until there is none remainmg, then chop it very fine; put one pound of spinach into a stewpan with a quarter of a pound of butter, stir it with a wooden spoon over a mo- derate fire until the butter is melted; then add a little fiom-, eight tablespoonfds of brown sauce (No. 1), half a tea- spoonful of salt, half ditto of sugar, a little white pepper, and very small quantity of grated nutmeg; a little glaze may be added; finish with two ounces of fresh butter. No. 107. Blanched Mushroom. Get a pottle of fresh mushrooms, cut off the dirt and hke- wise the heads (reserving the stalk for chopping), wash the heads in a basin of clean water, take them out and drain in a sieve; put into a stewpan two wine-glasses of cold water, one ounce of butter, the juice of half a good lemon, and a little salt; turn or peel each head neatly, and put them into the stewpan immediately, or they will turn black; set your stewpan on a brisk fiire, let them boH quickly five minutes, put them into a basin ready for use; chop the stalks and peel very fine, put them into a stevq)an with three table- spoonfuls of the liquor the mushrooms- have been boiled in; let them simmer three minutes, put them into a jar, and use where indicated. Observe.—^Tuming or peehng mushrooms is an art that practice alone can attain; if they are very fresh and white wash them quickly, and wipe them on a cloth, throw them into the liquid above mentioned.44 SAUCES. No. 108. JPurie d'OseUle. 1,.;!"' '"i!" good handfuls of sorrel (after mdted «, "^--^^feate fire without water, until ■melted; then put it on a sieve, and rnb it aU through ■ put half of buttei mto a stewpan, pass them over a quiek fire two or fee minutes, add a tablespoonful of flom-, mix well together add the sorrel and ten tablespooirfuls of broth (No. 133) half a teaspoonful of sugar, a little salt and white pepper; let it bod fifteen mmutes, stii- in two yolks of eggs qdcHy, and it^is^ready to serve. Demi-glace (No. 9) is v^ good iLead '^0- '^Od. Bagoui auxjeunes Hacines. Peel very thin four carrots and four turnips, cut them flat the thickness of an- inch, take a long cutter about thi^ee hues diameter, cut as many as possible, blanch the carrots m boihng water five minutes, then put them on a sieve to dram; put a tablespoonful of sugar m a stewpan, set it on the fire mitil it gets rather brown, then put in an ounce of butter, and the turnips, toss them over the fire untH covered with a brown glaze, add the caiTots, and eighteen table- spoonfuls of demi-glace (No. 9); let it boil at the comer of the stove untn the vegetables are quite tender, then take them out of the sauce with a spoon, and lay them on a clean sieve; reduce the sauce until rather thick, season with a httle pepper, pass it through a tammie into a clean stewpan, add the vegetables carefully, and sei-ve very hot. No. 110. Bagout de petits Oignom. Peel carefully fifty young onions, without breaking them, put half an ounce of sugar into a stewpan, set it on the fire until45 SAUCES. it gets rather brown, add two ounces of butter and the onions, toss them over the fire imtil forming a glaze; then add fifteen tablespoonfuls of brown sauce (No. 1), and eight of consomme (No. 134); let them simmer until tender, skim well, season with a smaU quantity of salt and pepper, and use where iiidicated; a little piece of glaze may be added. No. 111. Magouts depetits Oignons a Uanc. Peel the same quantity of onions as above, put half an omice of sugar with two ounces of butter into a stewpan, and the onions, toss them over the fire twenty minutes, then add sixteen tablespoonfuls of white sauce (No. 7), and eight of white broth, let them simmer untU quite tender; put in a bunch of parsley, season with a httle salt and pepper, and finish with two tablespoonfuls of haison (No. 119). No. 112. Garniture de fond d'Artichauts. ^ Boil six artichokes in water and salt until quite tender, take the leaves off and trim the bottom until all the hard part is off and the artichoke has a round appearance; cut each in four pieces, put them in a good demi-glace (No. 9), rather thick, for ten minutes; add a Httle sugar, two pats of butter, and serve. No. 113. Garniture de Haricot blanc nouveau. Put half a pint of white haricot into a stewpan with a pint of cold water, haK a teaspoonful of salt, and an ounce of butter ; let it simmer gently about one hour, or until quite tender, then put them on a sieve to drain; have ready a clean stewpan, put in the haricot with three tablespoonfuls of bechamel sauce (No. 7), a little chopped parsley, and salt, three pats of butter, and the juice of half a lemon, mis well together and serve where indicated.46 SAUCES. No. 114. Gros Oignons farcis. Peel twelve large onions, cut a piece off at the top and bottom to give them a flat appearance, blanch them in fom- quarts of boihng water twenty minutes, then lay them on a cloth to dry; take the middle out of each onion, and fiU them with forcemeat (No. 120), (with a little chopped eschalot parsley, and mushroom, mixed in it), and put them in a saute pan weU buttered, cover them, with white broth (No. 133), let them simmer over a slow fire untH covered with a glaze, and tender; turn them over and serve where required. No. 115. 8tewed Cabbage Lettuce. Get twelve cabbage lettuces, as hard and fuU as possible; take off the outside leaves and wash them weU; put them mto a stewpan with four quarts of boiling water, and let them boil about twelve minutes,—this process is to take the bitterness off,—lay them on a cloth to diy, cut each lettuce open and season with salt and pepper, close them again, and tie them separately with a strmg, put a few cloves in an onion, put it in a stewpan with a few vegetables of all kinds, a bunch of parsley, and a few shces of fat bacon on the top,' lay the lettuce in and cover with some very good veal stock (No. 7); put them over a slow fire about an hom-, take them carefully out and cut the string, lay the heart upwards, dress them on a dish to form a star, or if they are small do not cut them open. Use for gamitm-e where directed. No. 116. Chou braise and Chou-croute. Cut two large savoy cabbages in quarters, which trim and wash well, then blanch them twenty minutes in boiling water, then lay them upon a cloth, season them well, and stew them as directed in the last, use where indicated. Chou-croute. Take three or four pounds, not too sour,SAUCES. 47 and put it into a stewpan, with some slices of fat bacon, six onions cut in halves, three cloves, a blade of mace, half a carrot, half a turnip, four bay-leaves, and a few sprigs of thyme and parsley (laying the vegetables at the bottom and the chou-crout over them, wliich cover with fat bacon;) add a pint and a half of good stock, and stew it gently for two hours; when ready to serve press them at the rim of the §tewpan with a colander spoon, and pour off as much of the grease as possible, it is then ready for use where directed. Chou-croute is generally sufficiently seasoned in the barrel, but it may perhaps require a httle more pepper and salt. No. 117. Stewed Celery for Garniture and Celery Sauce. Procure twelve very fine heads of red celery, take off the loose branches, and cut the celery into heads five inches in length, blanch them twenty minutes in a stewpan of boil- ing water, then put them upon a sieve to drain, stew them precisely as directed for the lettuce (No. 115); but before stewing if the heads are too large split them in halves ; use where directed. To make celery sauce, or puree of celery, blanch twelve heads of fine white celery in boUing water until tender, then drain them upon a sieve, cut off the roots, chop, and put the celery into a stewpan, with a quarter of a pound of butter, stir it five minutes over a fire, then stir in one ounce of flour, add a pint of milk and half a pint of white sauce (No. 7), boil altogether ten minutes, season with a teaspoonful of salt, a quarter ditto of pepper, and a whole one of powdered sugar; then pass it through a tam- mie, put it into another stewpan, and make it hot when ready to serve. No. 118. Choux-fleurs for Garnitures. Take four heads of cauHflower, cut each in fom- pieces, trimming the stalks to give them a neat appearance ; • put half48 APPENDIX TO THE SAUCES. a gallon of water into a stewpan, with two ounces of butter and a tablespoonful of salt, when boihng, put in the cauH- fiowers to simmer about twenty minutes; when done, let them remain in their stock until wanted. * No. 119. Chicoree, or Endive Sauce. Well wash six heads of very white endive, blanch them in boiling water until tender, then drain them upon a sieve, after which chop them very fine, then put a quarter of a pound of butter into a stewpan, with a tablespoonful of flour, mix well together, then add the endive, ten spoonfuls of white sauce (No. 7), a piece of white glaze the size of a walnut, a little nutmeg, salt, and sugar; place it upon the fire, and when quite hot finish with half a giU of cream, and use where directed. [Liaison. Break the yoUcs of three eggs in a basin, with, which mix eight tablespoonfuls of cream or six of milk, pass it through a tammie and use where directed.] APPENDIX TO THE SAUCES. No. 120. Forcemeat of Veal. Take a pound and a half of lean veal, scrape, pound, and pass it through a fine vdre sieve, when passed there should be one pound of meat; then take one pound of beef suet, which shred and chop very fine, put it into a mortar and pound it well, then add six ounces of panade (No. 125), with the suet, pound them well together; then add the veal, season with a little pepper, salt, and a very little grated nut- meg, mix the whole weU together; then add tlu*ee eggs by degi-ees, then the yolks of tlu-ee more eggs when well mixed, whisk the whites of the tlu'ee eggs to a very stiff fi-oth, addAPPENDIX TO THE SAUCES. 49 to the forcemeat, mix them well in, and it is ready to use where dii-ected. To form this or the following forcemeats into lai'ge quenelles, have two silver tablespoons, fill one of them with the forcemeat, dip yom- knife in hot water with. wliich smooth it over, then dip the other spoon into boihng water, and with it remove the forcemeat from the first spoon and shp it from that into a buttered saute pan, proceeding thus until you have as many as you require; then cover them vdth some second stock, and boil them about ten minutes, or until firm, and they are ready for use. Small queneUes are made in the same manner, only using teaspoons instead of tablespoons. No. 121. Forcemeat of Habhits. Take the flesh of one or two young rabbits, according to the size, well pound and pass it through a wire sieve; then have ready boiled and cold a good veal udder, skin and pound it well, to a pound of the udder add six ounces of panada (No. 125), and one pound of the flesh of the rab- bits ; mix the same as the last, adding an eschalot finely chop- ped, to the seasoning, using three whole and three yolks of eggs, but omitting the whisked whites. No. 12'2. Forcemeat of Fowl. The best forcemeat is made entirely from the breasts of fowls, but should you have no use for the other parts the Avhole may be used. Take the flesh from yom- fowl as rnucb as you require, pound it well and pass it through a fine whe sieve, form the flesh into a ball, then have a piece of panada (No. 125), half the size of the ball of meat, scrape some fat bacon, one ounce, in proportion to the pound of meat, and two ounces of fresh butter, put the butter, bacon, and pa- nada, into the mortar together, pound them well, then add the meat, mix aU weU together, season Hghtly, and add four whole eggs, mixing them one at a time, then drop a piece of 450 APPENDIX TO THE SAUCES. the forcemeat into a little boiling stock, to poach; if too tender, add the yolks of one or even two more eggs; but if, on the contrary, it should be too firm, a little white sauce (No. 7), added cold wih rectify it; it is then ready for use. In giving the last three receipts I have introduced a dif- ferent method for each description of meat, although the same meat might be made into forcemeat by either process; for myself I give the preference to the former as directed for veal. No. 123. Forcemeat of Game. Proceed as in the last, only substituting the flesh of one or two birds for the fowl there directed. No. 124. Forcemeat of Wldtings. Take the fillets of three whitings, take off all the skin and pound them well, then take them from the mortar, and form them into a ball, have a piece of panada (No. 125) one thii'd . the size of the ball, put the panada into the mortar, pound it well, then add two ounces of fresh butter, which mix well with the panada, then add the fish, season with pepper, salt, and a Uttle grated nutmeg; mix all well together, then add by de- grees three whole eggs and the yolks of two, try it in a httle boiling water as directed for the forcemeat of fowl (No. 122), but if too firm use a httle melted butter, as these are served ge- nerally as a meagre dish with a fish sauce, in Cathohc famihes. No. 125. Panada for forcemeats. Put two thirds of haK a pint of water into a stewpan holding a quart vidth nearly an ounce of butter, when boil- ing, stir in a quarter of a pound of flour; keep it moving over the fire until it forms a smooth and toughish paste, take it out of the stewpan and when cold use it where directed. No. 126. Forcemeat of Cod's Liver. Chop half a pound of cod's liver, with which mix a fewAPPENDIX TO THE SAUCES. 51 bread crumbs and the yolks of tkree eggs, season with a httle pepper, salt, and chopped parsley, form it into que- nelles as No. 130, which use where directed. No. 127. Veal Stuffing. Chop three quarters of a pound of beef suet very fine, which put into a basin with six ounces of bread crumbs, a httle chopped parsley, thyme, and marjoram, with a bay-leaf mixed, when chopped, being sufficient to fill three large tablespoons; amalgamate the whole with the yolks of tlu-ee and three whole eggs; this is likewise used to stufi" baked fish or turkeys as well as veal. No. 128. To prepare Cockscombs. If you should have them in the rough as taken from the fowls, put them in lukewarm water for three hours, then have some water boiling in a stewpan, into which throw them for one minute, then take them out, put them upon a rubber with a handful of salt, and rub them well until aU the skin comes ofi", then put them into a basin of cold water for two or three hours, until they become quite white; by cutting off the tips of each they will disgorge much better; then (if about a pound of them) put them into a stewpan with a quarter of a pound of butter, an onion in slices, a little pepper and salt, place them over a fire one minute, then add the juice of a lemon ; stew them gently until quite tender, put them by in a basin and use where directed. No. 129. To boil Bice. Wash weU in two separate waters a pound of the best Carohna rice; then have half a gaUon of water boifing in a stewpan, into which throw your rice; boil it untfi about three parts done, then drain it upon a sieve, butter the interior of a stewpan m which put your rice, place the lid on tight and put It m a warm oven upon a trivet until the rice is52 APPENDIX TO THE SAUCES. perfectly tender; serve it separate with currie or any other dish where directed. Prepared thus, every grain will be se- parate and quite white. No. 130. To blanch Maccaroni. Have half a gallon of water in a stewpan in which put two ounces of butter and an ounce of salt; when boiling throw in a pound of maccaroni, which bod until tender, being care- ful that it is not too much done, the time of boiling depends principally upon the quahty, the Genoa maccaroni taking the longest time, and the Neapolitan the shortest, which last if too much done will fall in puree. No. 131. Croquettes de Pomme de Terre. Roast twelve fine potatoes; when done, take out the in- terior, which form into a ball; when cold put them into a mortar with a piece of butter half the size of the ball; pound them weE together, season with a little salt, pepper, chopped eschalots, chopped parsley, and grated nutmeg, mix them with the yolks of six and two whole eggs; then form them into croquettes about the size and shape of a large quenelle egg, and bread-crumb them twice over, and fry them to a light brown colom' in a stevrpan of hot lard, and serve as garni- ture where required. No. 132. Glaze. Make a good stock of veal or beef as directed for con- somme (No. 134), put the first and second stocks together in a large stewpan, the clearer the stock the better ; reduce it by boiling it fast, and when becoming rather thick pour it into a smaller stevq)an, stir it over a sharp fire until it has reduced to a proper consistency; use it where required. It may be put by in a bladder and kept a long time. Veal at all times makes the best glaze, but any kind of meat, game, or poultry, will produce more or less.53 POTAGES OR SOUPS. No. 133. Clear light Broth, or first Stock. Cut up sixteen pounds of the trimmings of veal, beef, lamb, or mutton, any kind of meat will do for this stock, as it is entirely used for filling up other stofcks, but it is only necessary to be made when you have a dinner party; cut up the meat with the bones, rub a quarter of a pound of butter over the bottom of a large stevrpan, into which put the meat, with six large onions, two carrots, two turnips, and two heads of celery; add a quart of water, then place the stewpan over a sharp fire, cover it, and let it remain until the bottom of the stewpan is covered with a fight white ^ glaze, stirring it occasionally to prevent its burning, then ' fill it up with seven gaUons of cold water, when it boils place it at the corner, then add a good bunch of parsley, thyme, and bay-leaves; let it simmer three hom^s, keeping it weU skimmed, pass it through a cloth and use it where requhed. I have here omitted salt, for this stock is only required to fiU up others, which correctly describe then- pro- portions of seasoning. No. 134. Consotnme, or clear Soup. This may be made of all beef or aU veal, but an equal quantity of each is the best. Cut up two knuckles of veal and a leg of beef with the bones, the whole being about sixteen pounds; rub a quarter of a pound of butter over the bottom of a large stewpan, into which put the meat, with one pound of lean ham, fom* onions, four tm-nips, two mid- dhng-sized carrots, six cloves, one blade of mace, and a pint of water; set it over a brisk fire, stirring it round occasion-POTAGES. aUy until the bottom is covered with a clear light glaze, then Mi It up with foiu- gaUons of hght broth (No. 133) or water; when boihng place it at the corner of the stove skim It well, add a good bunch of parsley, three sprigs of thyme, and two bay-leaves, a quarter of a pound of salt two leeks, and two heads of celery; let it simmer thi-ee hom-s, skim off all the fat, then pass it tln-ough a cloth into a basm, give it the colour of hght brown sherry with some brown gravy (No. 135), if sufficiently clear, which it will be if properly attended to. Some soups require to be Hghter and some browner than others, which is easily regulated by adding more or less of the gravy. But by placing the stew- pan over a slow fu-e when the stock is drawn down to a glaze, and allowing it to remain a short time, the glaze wiU become brownish, (but be careful not to let it burn,) when fill it up and your consomme will be sufficiently coloured. B2d should it require clarifying, put it into a stewpan and when boihng have the whites of eight eggs mth their shells in another stewpan, whisk them half a minute, then add a quart of cold stock, whisk all well together, then whisk the boihng consomme and pour in the whites of eggs; still con- tinue whisking it over a clear fke until it simmers and the eggs separate from the consomme, which will be then quite clear; then pass it thi'ough a thin but very fine cloth into a basin and it is ready for use. This is a new mode of clari- fying and cannot fail. For the proportions for smaller quantities of consomme, to four pounds of veal put a quarter of a pound of ham, one ounce of butter, two onions, half a carrot, a turnip, half a leek, half a head of celery, a sprig of parsley, one of thyme, a bay-leaf, three cloves, six peppercorns, an ounce and a half of salt and four quarts of water; it wiU requu'e an horn* and three quarters boiling. Or if you have to prepare it from beef, veal, and the trimmings of other meats, and reqiui-e a55 POTAGES. larger quantity, take ten pounds of meat, to which add tln-ee onions, haK a pound of ham, a carrot, two tmiups, a leek, head of celery, two sprigs of parsley, thyme, and two bay-leaves, six cloves, six peppercorns, two ounces and a half of salt, a blade of mace, and ten quarts of water; it vdll require two hours and a half boiling; trimmings of rabbit, poultry, or even game, may be added, but not too much game, especially if at aU high. You will here-perceive that by increasing the quantity of stock there is a diminution in the quantity of seasonings and vegetables, for the larger quantity requiring a longer ebuUition, extracts more flavour from the spices and vegetables; a stock for consomme by gently simmering will lose a pint and a half to every four quarts; I must here also observe that by again fiUing up a stock with cold water and boiling it the same time over again, you will have an excellent second stock, a little of which may be added to the fost, if it should have sufiered from over reduction, for vegetable soups are not so palatable when made too strong; the second stock is also very useful to fiU up a first stock, whereby some of the meat otherwise required can be saved, and if not required for th^t it may be converted into glaze by mixing it with other stock and pro- ceeding as directed (No. 132). No. 135. Brown Gravy. Butter the bottom of a thick stewpan, peel six large onions, cut them m three slices, lay them flat on the bottom of the stewpan which you have well buttered; take ten pounds of leg of beef, cut the flesh from the bone in large slices, lay it over the onions vdth the bones, which must be well chopped; add six cloves, two blades of mace, two carrots, two turnips, two leeks, one head of celery, and a tablespoonful of salt; put it over a brisk fire about ten minutes, shake the stevrpan now and then, and when form-56 POTAGES. mg a brown glaze at the bottom, cover the stove with ashes; set it on again, and let it remain half an hour until It gets very brown (but not biu-ning); pom- the fat off, which must be very clear; if not, it is not ready to fill up; fiU up with ten quai^ts of cold water; when boiling, let it simmer at the corner of the stove two hours; skim it weU, pass it thi^ough a cloth, and use it when re- quired. Should any of the brown sauces, large or small, be too pale, use some of this gravy instead of consomme, as directed. No. 136. Potage a la Victoria. Cut eight pounds of veal, four pounds of scrag of lamb, and one pound of lean ham in dice; butter the bottom of a stewpan, put in the meat, with three onions, two turnips, one carrot, one head of celery, three bay-leaves, a bunch of parsley, and half a pint of broth (No. 7); place it over a slow fire, stirring it occasionally until the bottom is covered with a white glaze; then add eight quarts of Hght broth or water, and two ounces of salt; when it boils, place it at the ■corner of the stove for an hour; have ready peeled and washed four apples, eight artichokes, and two anchovies; put them in, and let them boil about an hour; afterwards pass it through a napkin; then put half a pint of peai-1 barley into a stewpan with the stock; when the barley has boiled quite tender mix three tablespoonfuls of arrow-root with a httle cold broth, add it to the barley, pass the whole through a tammie, put it into a clean stewpan, and let it boU ten minutes; if it is too thick, add boiled milk to thin it. Season vdth half a tablespoonful of sugar, skim it well, have ready thirty cockscombs dressed as No. 128, and half a handful of picked parsley in small sprigs, and blanched; put the cockscombs, parsley, and a giU of good cream into the tureen, pour the soup in, mix well, and serve; thePOTAGES. barley must be done sufficiently to give the soup a light consistency. No. 137. Fotage a la Louis Philippe. Make a stock exactly as for the potage a la Victoria, and instead of mixing barley, put two ounces of butter mto a stewpan, with thi-ee ounces of flour; stk it over a moderate &e about ten minutes, then let it cool; add the whole of the stock, sthTing it all the time, untH it boils; then put six tablespoonfuls of semoHna into it, let it simmer at the comer of the stove until it is quite tender, rub it through a tanunie, boil it again; have ready scooped with a small cutter about eighty pieces of turnips, put them into a stew- pan with one ounce of butter and a teaspoonful of pounded sugar, pass them over a moderate fire until half done, then throw them into the soup, and let them simmer until quite tender; season with a httle salt, and when you serve it, put a gill of cream into the stewpan, mix weU, and serve im- mediately ; strew a httle chopped chervil, and about sixty heads of sprue grass in the tureen, or, if in season, add thirty smaU Brussels sprouts, boiled very green. No. 138. Potage a la Prince of Wales. Cut up twelve pounds of veal with the bones, two pounds of ham, two calves' feet, with a few pieces of trimmings of game or poultry (if any, if not add two pomids more veal), butter the bottom of a stewpan, put in the meat with six Jerusalem artichokes, two turnips, two onions, four leeks, one head of celery, and a bouquet garni; put about a pint of broth (No. 133) into the stewpan, place it over a brisk fire, stirring it every five minutes until the bottom is covered with white glaze, then add about ten quarts of light broth (No. 133), let it boil an hour, add five middle-sized apples, peeled and cored, with four anchovies, well washed; letPOTAGES. t smmer an ho^ and a half longer, skim it weU, pass it through a napkm, and clarify as No. 134; cut eight small long fillets oflP the breast of a braised fowl, cover them aU over with forcemeat (No. 122), have ready a paste-brush dipped m whites of eggs, smooth them over with it, lay them m a saute-pan, cover them with white broth as No 133; they must simmer gently about ten minutes. Make a custard thus : get a set of fresh lamb's brains, wash them weU, put an ounce of butter into a saute-pan, cut the brams in thin slices, and lay them in, seasoned with a httle pepper, salt, chopped parsley, and lemon-juice; place them over a moderate fire until they become rather firm; put them by until quite cold, then break six eggs into a basin; beat them well, mix four spoonfuls of good broth, and a little pepper and salt with the eggs; pass it through a tammie into another basin, then mix a teaspoonful of chopped parsley with it; put some into a flat-bottomed mould about half an inch thick; steam it about two minutes; take it out, put a layer of brains upon the custard, and pour the remainder of the custard over; let it steam very quickly about half an hour, take it out, let it get rather cool, then cut your pieces of fowl and custard into middhng sized pieces, diamond-shaped, about half an inch thick; have asparagus points cut and boiled in salt and water; put the asparagus, fowl, and custard into the tureen, and pour the stock very gently over, previously adding a tea- spoonfid of sugar. This potage, though compHcated, is very easily made with a httle practice; it is entu-ely new, very stomachic and wholesome. It must be of the colour of light sherry. No. 139. Potage a la Comte de Paris. Cut in large dice six pounds of veal, six do. of leg of beef, two pounds of lean ham, highly flavom-ed, two calves' feet.POTAGES. 59 two heads of white celery, four onions, one carrot, two timiips, three cloves, two blades of mace, and a handful of fresh parsley; put three tablespoonfuls of good salad oil into a stewpaa, add the whole of the ingredients, place it over a quick fire, stir it ten minutes with a wooden spoon; then add half a pint of broth (No. 133); when the bottom is nearly dry, add ten quarts of broth, as before; when it boils, place it at the corner of the stove; sldm as usual, add a tablespoonful of salt; have ready peeled and washed twelve Jerusalem artichokes, and six middle-sized apples cut in quarters, and the core taken out, which may be added when it has boiled an hour and a half; let it remain half an horn- longer, then pass the stock through a napkin into a clean stewpan, replace it on the stove and clarify as No. 134. The acidity of the apples will assist the clarification of the stock and give it the brightness of sherry. Take a spring chicken braised as No. 523, cut it in ten pieces, cover each piece all over lightly Avith forcemeat (No. 120), butter a saute-pan, lay them in it, have ready a paste brush dipped in whites of eggs, smooth each piece over vdth it, cover them with white broth (No. 133), and let them re- main simmering gently about a quarter of an hour, take them out of the broth and lay them on a cloth, have ready a httle riband maccaroni blanched in salt and water, drain it upon a sieve, put it into the soup and let it boil a few minutes, put the pieces of fowl into the tureen, pour the soup over, (with the maccaroni in it), and serve. This soup requires to be of the colour of pale sherry. No. 140. Potage a la JPrincesse Boyale. Take all the meat ofi" a roast fowl, pound it well in the mortar, put the bones to boil half an hoiu- in three quarts of boiling stock (No. 7), peel six good cucumbers, cut them in shoes; when this is prepared, put into a stewpan a quarter^0 POT AGES. of a pound of butter, two onions sliced, half a poimd of lean ham, two bay-leaves, one branch of basil, and the cucumbers; place the whole over a brisk fire, pass them five minutes, add one pint of broth, let it simmer half an hour, then add the pounded fowl, two ounces of flour, and four spoonfuls of sago, mix the whole weU with a wooden spoon, and pour the broth over it; let it boil about twenty minutes, then rub it through a tammie, put it into a clean stewpan and stii' it over the fire untH it boils; be care- ful it is not too thick, put into it a quart of boiling milk, and skim directly, add a good spoonful of sugar and as much salt as required; put twenty pieces of cucmnber, as No. 103, into the tureen, half a pint of green peas nicely boiled, and half a gill of good cream, pour the soup over, mix well, and serve. Tliis soup must not be too thick; in fact it is much better for all thick soups to be too thin than too thick, but to be correct dip a wooden spoon into it when quite hot and it should very lightly adhere to it. No. 141. Potage a la Saxe Cobourg. Put half a pound of fresh butter into a stewpan, half a pound of lean ham, and a large onion sliced very thin, pass it ten minutes over a slow fire; have ready, previously boiled, one hundred small Brussels sprouts, press the water from them, chop them fine, add them to the onions and butter, pass them five minutes over a brisk fire, add two table- spoonfuls of flour, mix well, add four quarts of good stock (No. 134), and a pint of boiled mUk; boil it quickly ten minutes, stming it all the time, season with a teaspoon- ful of sugar, a little pepper and salt, and pass it through a tammie a quarter of an horn- before serving; boil and skim well, it must not be thicker than green pea-soup; put some croutons in the tureen, with twenty very small quenelles de volaille (No. 130), and serve.POTAGES. 61 No. 143. Potage a la Comtesse. Cut half a pound of lean ham, with one onion, in small dice, have a bouquet garni, and six ounces of butter; put the whole into a stewpan over a moderate fire, stirring it about ten minutes; then cut five or six tliroat sweetbreads in slices (which have been previously blanched in water), put them into the stewpan and add a pint of white broth; let it simmer nearly half an hour, add four tablespoonfuls of flour, mix well, pound it in a mortar, put it into the stewpan again, with about four quarts of veal stock (No. 7), set it over a brisk fire until it boils, season with a teaspoonful of salt, two ditto of sugar, and a little white pepper; rub it through a tammie; when you serve it add a gill of cream, and croutons, cut hke sixpences, and fried in half butter and half oil. If too thick moisten it with more stock to make it of the consistency of a puree. No. 143. Fotage a la Gresham. Cut two knuckles of veal and two pounds of ham in dice, butter the bottom of a stewpan, put in the meat, with three onions, one carrot, two turnips, two heads of celery, one leek, a bunch of parsley, thyme, bay-leaves, basil, marjoram, and a pint of white broth (No. 133); let it simmer over a moderate fire about twenty minutes, then add twelve quarts more broth; when it boils have ready half a caK's head which has been scalded; put it into the stevrpan and let it simmer two hours and a half, when done put it on a dish to cool; pass the stock through a cloth into a clean stewpan, and place it over the fire; then mix half a pound of arrow-root, with three glasses of Madeira, and half a pint of cold broth; when the stock boils add the arrow-root, stirring it all the time, (skim it well), about twenty minutes, pass it through a tammie; before serving cut about twenty pieces of the6^ POTAGES. calf's head, (free from any fat), in large dice about an inch and a half square; put them in the tureen and pour the soup over. Add a little salt and sugar if required; this soup is very delicate, but better made too thin than too thick. No. 144. Fotageala Colbert. Peel and wash about a dozen Jerusalem artichokes, cut them in sKces about a quarter of an inch thick, lay them flat upon the table and cut them through with a cutter about the size of a large pea, wash two heads of celery well, cut them round like sixpences, peel fifty small button onions, and pass the whole in a stewpan with two ounces of butter and a teaspoonful of sugar until no hquor remains vsdth the vege- tables and they are covered with a glaze, keeping them quite white; if any liquor remains in your vegetables it wiU spoil the appearance of the soup ; put them into a clean stewpan with four quarts of consomme (No. 134), and half a pint of gravy (No. 135), let it simmer at the corner of the stove about ten minutes, taking care to skim it well, cut about forty pieces of cos lettuce the size of half-a-crown, which boil tiU done, cut twenty pieces of thin crust of French bread about the size of a shilling, which must be put into the tureen and the soup pom-ed over. No. 145. Potage a la Clermont. Peer and cut thirty button onions into rings, fiy them yellow in butter, cut also about sixty pieces of carrots, the size of a sixpenny piece, boil them in stock until neaily done, then put them on a sieve to drain, put four quarts of con- somme (No. 134), and a gill of brown gravy (No. 135), into a stewpan with two ounces of semohna, when boiling add the carrots and onions; let it simmer twenty minutes, add a little pickled chervil, cut a small spring chicken in pieces, which has been previously braised (No. 523), put it into thePOTAGES. "'^ soup a few minutes previous to serving, and a tablespoonful of sugar, add a Uttle more seasoning if required. No. 146. dotage Macedoine de Legumes. Cut an equal quantity of carrots, turnips, celery, and Jeru- salem artichokes with a scoop cutter, as large again as a pea, pass them in sugar and butter, with about a dozen button onions; have ready four quarts of consomme (No. 134), put the vegetables into it, let it boil at the corner of the stove about twenty minutes, add half a cabbage lettuce cut small, ten leaves of sorrel, a few leaves of tarragon and chervil (skim it well), add a little salt if required; serve a few green peas, or asparagus boiled very green, in the tureen with the soup; give it a beautiful colour with a little brown gravy (No. 135) if required. No. 147- Potage a la Jardiniere. Have ready the consomme clarified as previously, cut car- rots, turnips, and celery, in shces about a quarter of an inch thick, cut them through with a long cutter, add ten button onions, pass them in sugar and butter as usual, put them into four quarts of clarified consomme, let it simmer at the comer of the stove about twenty minutes, or until the vege- tables are done, skim it well, add a small quantity of picked tarragon, chervil, and a few white leaves of a cos lettuce; season with a httle salt if required; when done and ready to serve put into the tm'een a few French beans, peas, cauliflower, or Brussels sprouts according to the season. No. 148. Potage a la Julienne. Prepare and clean three carrots, three turnips, two onions, two leeks, and one head of celery, wash them all well, cut the carrots an inch in breadth in thin shces, cut them again across into small thin strips, if the carrots are old the red part only^4 POTAGES. must be used and peeled off like ribands, as fine and regular as possible ; all the vegetables must be cut in the same way; put a quarter of a pound of butter into a stewpan, when it is melted, put in the onions and fry them about three mi- nutes, then add the remainder of the vegetables, and pass them quickly with a tablespoonful of sugar, toss them over every minute, when there is no water remaining at the bot- tom add to them four quarts of clarified consomme, let it boil gently at the corner of the stove about twenty minutes, skim well, add six sorrel leaves, one cabbage lettuce, and a httle picked chervil, the lettuce and sorrel must be cut in dice, serve very hot. If not sufficiently coloured add half a pint of gravy (No. 135). No. 149. Potage auxpetits Navets a hrun-. Peel ten fresh turnips, scoop as many as possible out of them with a smaU cutter, the size of a marble; put a tea- spoonful of sugar into a stewpan, when it gets rather brown over the fire, put in about two ounces of butter with the turnips, toss them over the fire until they get a nice yellow colour; have ready nearly boiling four quarts of consomme (No. 134), and half a pint of brown gravy (No. 135), put them into it, let it simmer about twenty minutes, or until the turnips are tender, taking care to skim it well, season with a little salt and sugar if required; the consomme must be a Httle browner than usual. No. 150. Fotage a la Printaniere. Cut a bunch of spring carrots, ditto of turnips, ditto of green spring onions, in thick pieces, splitting the carrots in four, and about half an inch in length, wash them Avell, dry on a cloth, put them into a stewpan with two ounces of butter and a teaspoonful of sugar, pass them ten minutes over a sharp fire, have ready four quarts of consomme65 POTAGE^. (No. 134), nearly boiling, put in the vegetables and let it boil at the corner of the stove fifteen minutes, skim it well, add a very httle chervil and haK a pint of young peas, raw, when the peas are tender it is done; put a few French beans, cut in diamonds, into the tureen, and serve. No. 151. Potage a la Jerusalem, Have ready two dozen artichokes peeled and washed, scoop them with a cutter, the size of a marble, pass them with butter and sugar over a moderate fire until they are quite dry, put them into four quarts of clarified consomme (No. 134), and let them simmer until tender, skim it weU, season with a little salt and sugar if required; a little brown gravy (No. 135), may be added. No. 152. Potage a la Marcus Hill. Butter the bottom of astewpan, take three or four pounds of the knuckle of veal, and haK a pound of lean ham in cUce, (in case you have no veal, beef or mutton may be used in- stead ;) add two onions, three carrots, two turnips, and half a pint of broth (No. 133), let it simmer on a brisk fire, stir it very often, when it forms a thick jelly at the bottom fill it up with a gallon of broth or water; it must simmer on the corner of the stove an hour, taking care to skim it well'un- til reduced to three quarts, which will be sufficient for ten or twelve persons. Make a Chifforiade as follows :—Cut up four cabbage let- tuces, one cos ditto, a handful of sorrel, a little chei-vil, and taiTagon, with two cucumbers finely shced, the whole being well washed and drained on a colander ; put two ounces of butter in a stewpan and the chififonade over it, place it over a brisk fire until very httle Hquid remains; add to it two tablespoonfuls of flour, mixing it with the vegetables and stirring it weU. Pour the stock over, adding a quart of 5POTAGES. young fresh peas, skim it well; half an hour's ebullition will suffice for this dehcious soup, and the flavour of the vege- tables will be fully preserved; season with a teaspoonful of salt and two of sugar. No. 153. Potage auxpointes d'Asperges et (Eufspoches. Poach ten new laid eggs in saltwater and vinegar, rather hard, trim them, put them into the tureen, with half a pint of sprue grass, put three quarts of clarified consomme (No. 134) to boil; put into it for three minutes a fowl just roasted; when you take it out add twelve leaves of tarragon, skim it well, season with a little salt and sugar, pour it gently over the eggs, and be careful not to break them; yoiu- potage wiU have a most beautiful flavour of fowl, and the fowl will be as good as before for many made dishes. This soup must be of the colour of pale sherry. No. 154. Potage a la Brunoise. Cut two middle-sized carrots, two turnips, and fom- Jerusalem artichokes into thin shoes, lay them separately upon a table and cut each piece through with a small dia- mond cutter ; add one head of celery cut in small diamond- shaped pieces, and about a dozen very small onions peeled; put altogether into a stewpan with three ounces of butter and a teaspoonful of sugar; pass them over a brisk fire until the water from the vegetables is quite dried up, , and the butter and sugar form a glaze over them; put them into a clean stewpan with four quarts of clarified consomme (No. 134); toast a piece of French bread very brown, but not burnt, put it into the soup five minutes without breaking; when the vegetables are tender it is ready to serve; add about three tablespoonfuls of brown gravy (No. 135), and put a few pieces of very white cauliflower into the tureen.POTAGES. 67 No. 155. Potage a la Nivernaise. Cut an equal quantity of all kinds of vegetable in thin slices, lay them on the table and cut them through with a cutter the shape of a heart, pass them in butter and sugar, have ready four quarts of consomme (No. 134), blanch one oimce of Itahan paste in salt and water, put it into the soup ten mmutes before serving; skim well, add a little sugar, and put four large quenelles (No. 120) cut m slices, into the tureen. No. 156. Potage a la Palestine. Cut two onions, half a pound of lean ham, one turnip, one head of celery, two bay-leaves and a sprig of thyme; put the whole into a stewpan vdth haK a pound of butter, let it fry on a slow fire about twenty minutes (stirring it aU the time), when forming a white glaze at the bottom, take it off the fire; have ready peeled and washed a dozen and a haK of Jerusalem artichokes (if they are large, if small a larger quantity wiU be required) cut in thin slices; put them into the stewpan with half a pint of white broth (No. 133), let it simmer until tender; add three tablespoonfuls of fxour, mix the whole well together; add four quarts of good stock, and a pint of boiled milk; stir it until boiling, season with a tea- spoonfd of salt, two ditto of sugar, rub it through a tam- mie, boil it again and skim, fry croutons of bread (cut small) in butter; when ready to serve add a gill of cream and three yolks of eggs made in a haison in the tureen, pom- the soup over; (if too thick add a little more stock); put in the crou- tons and serve. No. 157. Potage a la puree de Navels. Cut half a pound of lean ham in dice, with two onions, one head of celery, put them into a stewpan with a quarter of a pound of butter and a bouquet garni, stii- it over a68 POTAGES. moderate fire about ten minutes, then add half a pint of white broth (No. 133), with three pounds of turnips, peeled, washed and cut in thin shoes; place them over a slow fire untn they are quite tender; then add three tablespoonfuls of flour, mix well together, add three quarts of broth, stir it until boiling, season with a httle white pepper, and a tea- spoonful of salt, and two of sugar; skim it well, pass it through a tammie, boil it again, add a pint of boiled milk, skim it weU ten minutes ; when you serve add a haison of two yolks of eggs mixed with a gill of cream, pour the soup in the tureen with small dice of fried bread. It must be rather thin. No. 158. Fotage a la puree d'Asperges. Cut two fresh bundles of sprue grass, boil very quickly in salt and water until tender; put four ounces of fresh but- ter into a stewpan with half a spoonful of chopped onions; when it is melted mix the sprue with it, then add three spoonfuls of flour, and fom' quarts of veal stock with one pint of boiled milk, let it boil five minutes, stirring it aU the time; season with a teaspoonful of salt, two ditto of sugar, and a httle white pepper; pass it through a tammie, boil it again in a clean stewpan ten minutes, and skim it well; serve half a pint of sprue grass nicely boiled in it. No. 159. Potage a la Crecy. Scrape, wash, and cut in thin shoes, some carrots; take three pounds and a half of the red part only, lay them on a sieve to drain, put into a stewpan half a pomid of lean ham, two onions, and one head of celery sliced, add haK a pound of butter, three cloves, one blade of mace, pass it over a moderate fire twenty minutes, then add the carrots mth one pint of white broth (No. 133), when quite tendei- add tluee tablespoonfuls of flour, mix well, put four quarts of white69 POTAGES. veal stock; let it simmer nearly an horn', skim it well, rub it througli a tammie, boil it again, if too thick add a little more broth, put fried bread into the tureen, season with a tablespoonful of sugar, and a Httle salt and pepper if required. No. 160. Pota^e a la puree de Choufieur. Boil three large white cauliflowers in salt and water untU quite tender, chop them very fiiie, put a quarter of a pound of butter into a stewpan, one leek, one head of celery (in sHces) a quarter of a pound of ham, and two bay-leaves, pass them ten minutes over a quick fire; add the cauliflower, and three tablespoonfuls of flour, mix well, add three quarts of white stock, and one ditto of boiled milk ; stir it until boil- ing, mb it through a tammie, boil and skim well; season with a teaspoonfiJ of sugar, half ditto of salt; finish with a haison of two yolks of eggs mixed vrith a gill of cream; pour the soup into the tm^een, have a cauliflower boiled, and cut into twenty small sprigs, put them into the soup, but be sure not to break them. No. 161. Potage a la puree de Concombres. Put half a pound of butter into a stewpan, slice two escha- lots, six Jerusalem artichokes, (if early in the spring, but they may be omitted,) half a pound of lean ham, and six cucmnbers peeled very carefully, as the least green would give a bad flavour; stu- it over a slow fire twenty minutes, then add the meat of half a braised fowl (No. 523), well pounded, and three spoonfuls of flom-, mix weU; add'three quai'ts of veal stock, and a quart of boiled milli, let it boil keepmg it stirred, mb it thi'ough a tammie, put it into a clean stewpan, sldm it weU; season with one teaspoonful of salt, two ditto of sugar, have ready about twenty pieces of cu- cumber, stewed as (No. 103), put them into the tureen, add half a pmt of good cream to the soup, and serve. It must not be too thick.70 POTAGES. No. 162. Potaffe a la puree de Pois verts. Cut a quarter of a pound of lean bacon in dice ; put it into a stewpan with a good bunch of green onions, ditto of parsley, a small piece of mint, a quarter of a pound of butter, and three quarts of very fresh peas, pour some cold water over, wash the peas well—^in mixing the butter with them pour off all the water; place them over a brisk fire until they are quite tender, then pound them in a mortar, put back into the stewpan, add three tablespoonfuls of flour; (mix it well), and about four quarts of good broth; stir it until boihng, skim well; season with a teaspoonful of salt, three ditto of sugar, and a little white pepper, pass it through a tammie and boU again; when you serve it have ready some croutons (small dice of fried bread), put them in the tureen. Do not serve it too thick. No. 163. Clear Giblet Soup. Cut six pounds of knuckle of veal, with the bones, and one pound of lean ham in large dice, have three onions, tAvo turnips, one carrot, two heads of celery, a bouquet garni, and a tablespoonful of salt; butter a stewpan lightly, put in the whole of the ingredients, add six cloves, two blades of mace, and half a pint of water; pass it over a brisk fire about twenty minutes, stirring every two or three minutes; when there is a white glaze upon the spoon add eight quarts of broth (No. 133), or water; duectly it boils place it at the comer of the stove, scald the giblets in boihng water five minutes, take them out, and cut them in joints, the giz- zard in four pieces; put them into the stock and let them simmer gently until they are quite tender, which will be about two hours and a haK; take them out, pass the stock through a cloth, and clarify as (No. 134); have ready some carrots and turnips scooped with a small cutter, two \ /POTAGES. 71 heads of celery cut in small dice, and passed in butter and sugar, put them into the soup, and let them boU gently until quite tender; skim well, season with a Httle salt and sugar; put the giblets, with some French beans or peas, into the tureen and pour the soup over. No. 164. Potage aux Queues de Bceuf {clair.) Cut six pounds of leg of beef in large dice, without bones, cut two ox tails in joints, put them into a stewpan with half a pound of ham, one carrot, one head of celery, foui* onions, two ounces of butter, half a pint of white broth (No. 133), six cloves, one blade of mace, and a tablespoonful of salt; pass it over a moderate fire half an hour, stirring it every five minutes; when getting a yellow glaze at the bottom put some ashes on the stove to slacken the fire, let it remain twenty minutes longer, until the bottom is covered with a brown glaze, then add two gallons of cold water, start it on a quick fire, skim it, and let it simmer on the corner of the stove for two hom's, or untU the ox tail is quite tender; then take aU the pieces of ox tail out and put them by until wanted; pass the stock through a napkin into a clean stewpan, have ready some vegetables cut hlce for jardiniere (No. 147), pass them in sugar and butter, put them into the stock, boil until quite tender; season with a httle more salt if required, a tea- spoonful of sugar, and a httle cayenne; ten minutes previous to serving add a bunch of parsley with a little thyme and bay-leaf, and the ox tails ; take out the parsley and serve very hot. No. 165. Potage aux Queues d'Agneau. Cut six pounds of trimmings of lamb or veal, half a pound of ham, a large bunch of parsley, thyme, bay-leaves and marjoram, three cloves, one blade of mace; put thi-ee tablespoonfuls of salad oil into a stewpan with the ingre- cUents, and half a pint of white broth, cut six lamb's tails in72 POTAGES. joints an inch long, put them into the stewpan with one calf's foot cut in pieces, pass it ten minutes over a brisk fire, then add six quarts of broth (No. 133), or water, and two ounces of salt, when boihng, skim well, and let it simmer on the comer of the stove about an hour; take out the pieces of tails and pass the stock through a napkin into a stewpan, mix two ounces of arrowroot with a gill of cold broth, and a glass of Madeka, throw it into the boihng stock, stir weU all the time, skim; season with two teaspoonfuls of sugar, pass through a tammie into a clean stewpan; put in the pieces of tail ten minutes before serving; be careful to take ofi" any fat which may rise from them, add juice of a lemon and serve. No. 166. Potage aux Queues deveau {clair). Proceed exactly as in the last, but instead of lamb use veal, for stock, cut four calves' tails in pieces half an inch long, allow more time to stew, being larger, but finish the same way. No. 167. Potageala Duchesse. Cut eight pounds of veal, one pound of ham, and one calf's foot in dice, butter the bottom of a stewpan, put in the meat with two onions, the peel of haK a lemon, and half a pint of broth (No. 133); pass the whole over a brisk fii-e, until forming a white glaze, then add eight quarts of broth, or water, and half a pint of brown gravy (No. 135), when boiling,' let it simmer at the comer of the stove about two hours, boil a fowl in it, sldm it well, pass through a tam- mie ; put two ounces of arrowroot into a basin, mix with half' a pint of cold broth, add it to the boihng stock, skim well, boil twenty minutes, have ready a small spring cliicken braised, when cold cut it in nice pieces, have ready also about forty small quenelles de volaille (No. 120), put them into the soup and serve. The fowl that you boil in the stock may be used instead of the chicken.73 POTAGES, No. 168. Clear Grouse Soup. Cut six potmds of leg of beef in large dice, with two wild rabbits and one pound of lean ham, butter the bottom of Iste™ put in the meat, with two calf's feet, two onions, one carrot, two tm^ips, abunch of thyme, mar- "m, ba^-leaves, and parsley, a-blade of mace, and six d v" aU inclosed in the bunch; set the stewpan over a bnsk fire, add one pint of broth (No. 133), stu: it until forming a white glaze, then add eight quarts of water, and nearly a pint of brown gi^avy (No.l35); when boiling about an hour add the trimmings of three grouse which have been previously roasted underdone, (cut the fihets and legs m pieces and reserve for the tureen;) let it simmer one hour longer, pass through a napldn into a clean stewpan when near boihng, add an ounce of arrowroot mixed with two glasses of port wine and a httle cold broth; season witn a tablespoonful of salt and half ditto of sugar; boil twenty minutes, pour into your tureen over the grouse, and serve very hot. The above quantity would be sufficient for two tm^eens. No. 169. Clear Partridge Soup. Proceed exactly the same as in the last, being very parti- cular that the birds are young and not over done. No. 170. Clear Pheasant Soup. Prepare the soup as before, two young pheasants will be enough, but they must hang untd full flavoured, or it would not taste of game. Where pheasants are plentiful some may be used instead of the rabbits. No. 171. Clear Woodcock Soup. Roast two or three woodcocks, well wi-apped in paper.74 POTAGES. underdone, let them cool, cut them in pieces like the grouse, put the trimmings into the soup, which must be the same as the grouse soup (No. 168); put the inside of the wood- cocks m the mortar, pomid weU, mix fom- ounces of force- meat (No. 122) with it, add one yolk of egg, take a knife, surround every part of the pieces with it, poach them gently in a saute-pan with a httle stock, put them into the tureen and pour the consomme over. No. 172. Clear Hare Soup. Cut a young hare in small pieces, the legs in two pieces, ditto the shoulders, and the back in six pieces, put them in a stewpan with half a pound of lean ham cut in dice, half a pound of butter, eight cloves, two blades of mace, twenty peppercorns, fry the whole twenty minutes over a moderate fire; when the hare is getting firm throw over it an oimce of arrowroot, mix well, add six quarts of consomme (No. 134) and one of water, let it boil nearly two hours, or until the hare is done, which you may easily ascertain with a fork, if quite tender put into a small stewpan until wanted, pass the stock through a fine sieve; have ready four heads of good white celeiy washed, cut all the best part in dia- monds, pass them in butter and sugar, then add about a pint of the stock and simmer until tender, keeping it well skimmed; before serving add the celery, pieces of hai'e, one glass of port wine, quarter of a tablespoonful of salt, and one ditto of sugar; serve very hot, pouring it over some of the best pieces of hare which you have reserved for yom* tm'een, nicely trimmed. No. 173. Potage clair a la Poissoiiiere. Prepare a good stock of eight pounds of veal, half a pound of ham, one carrot, one turnip, four onions, four cloves, two blades of mace, two heads of celeiy, and half a pint of broth;POTAGES. 75 pass it over a brisk fire twenty minutes, when there is a white glaze at the bottom add two gaUons of broth (No. 133 or water, and a tablespoonM of salt, then add a smaU cod's head, let it simmer two hours, skim well, pass it through a cloth into a clean stewpan, put it again on the stove to reduce one thh-d, have ready scalded and bearded four dozen of fresh oysters and a pint of muscles, fiUet one sole, cut it in diamonds; quarter of an horn' before serving dinner put into the soup the oysters, muscles, and fiUets of soles, with half a handful of picked parsley ; let it simmer ten minutes, skim it well, add a little salt if required, and a teaspoonful of sugar with a httle cayenne, and serve very hot. No. 174. Grouse Soup. Roast two or three grouse, take off all the flesh, reserving some of the fillets, which cut in thin sHces and serve with the soup in the tureen; put the bones in a stewpan with two quarts of first stock (No. 133)—boil them half an hour —place the flesh into a mortar, pound it well, then put two onions, half a carrot, and a tm^nip, in shoes into a stewpan, with half a pound of butter, a few sprigs of parsley, thyme, two bay-leaves, six peppercorns, and haK a blade of mace; stir them five minutes over the fire, then add a pint of stock, and stew them until tender, when add the flesh of the birds and four ounces of flour; mix them weU together, then add the stock from the bones, half a pint of brown gravy (No. 135) and some consomme (No. 134), making altogether five quarts, boil twenty minutes, keeping it stirred; season with a little salt and a tablespoonful of sugar; pass it thi'ough a tammie, then put it into another stewpan, boil it again, skim well, pour it into a tureen in which you have put some croutons and the pieces of fiUets; serve very hot.76 POTAGKS. No. 175. Pheasant Soup. Prepare this soup exactly as the last, but finishing with milk or cream, and omitting the brown gravy, as this soup must be kept white. No. 176. Partridge Soup. Roast four partridges, and proceed as in the last. No. 177. Hare Sowp. Cut eight pounds of beef and veal, mth about a pound of bacon, in large dice, have three onions, two tm'nip^, two carrots, four bay-leaves, a bunch of parsley, four sprigs of thjrme, basil, and three heads of celery; butter the bottom of a stewpan, put in the meat and vegetables vsdth a pint of broth, place it over a moderate fire, cut the hare in pieces (rather small), put it into the stewpan, stir it every six minutes until it is covered with a brown glaze, then add three quarters of a pound of flour over the meat, mix well with eight quarts of broth (No. 133), and a pint of brown gravy (No. 135); let it simmer until the hare is quite tender, take it out of the stev^an, then trim about ten or twelve of the best pieces for the tm^een, puU all the meat from the remainder, poimd it well in the mortar and add it to the puree; pass it through atammie, put it into a clean stewpan, place it on the stove to boil again; mix the following ingre- dients in a basin, two tablespoonfuls of flour, eight ditto of port wine, half ditto of salt, a good pinch of cayenne pepper, one ditto of sugar, mix well with half a pint of cold broth (No. 133), add it to the soup when upon the point of boiling; stir it well, serve very hot; two heads of celery may be added cut small, passed in butter, and boiled imtil tender.POTAGES. 77 No 178 FureeofallUndsofGamcmixed or separate. If yon have any game from a previous dinner, whether ph sln\ partridge! grouse, hare, wM rabbits or any W of game, take all the meat from the bones, put ^"--^"^^lll a sLpanto simmer with fom^ quarts of consomme (No. 134 MTn hour, pound the meat in the mortar very fine, put it L a clean stewpan with quarter of a pound of but er, half ditto of ham, two heads of celery cut thin, two eschalots, one carrot, one tm:nip, four cloves, and four peppercorns ; pass it over a slow fireLnty minutes, add half a pint of broth, with the meat, (which for that quantity of soup should be about two pounds), and thi^ee tablespoonfiils of flom-, mix weU pour the stock from the bones over, with haK a pint of bro4n gravy (No. 135), boil twenty minutes, pass it through a tamnde into a clean stewpan, if too thick add more broth season with a httle salt and a spoonful of sugar; put some croutons in a tureen cut very thin of the size of a sixpenny piece, and crisp, if not ready to serve it must be kept hot in the bain marie; do not let it boil after it is passed, or it will curdle and have a bad appearance. No. 179. GiUetSoup. Prepare the stock exactly like the clear giblet (No. 163), instead of clarifying it put half a pound of butter into a ste\vpan with three quarters of a pound of flom% make a hght-coloured roux, mix the stock with it, boil it about forty minutes, keeping it stkred, add a large bouquet garni, pass through a tammie into, a clean stewpan, have ready about fifty small button onions, passed in butter and sugar, throw them into the soup and let them simmer until tender; ten minutes before serving add a glass of Madeira, and the giblets (which you have well trimmed), season with a little salt and sugar if necessary.78 POTAGES. Ko. 180. PotagealaMeine. Put a pint of rice into a basin, wash weU in three waters put a quarter of a pound of butter into a stewpan, two minced onions, one turnip, one carrot, four Jerusalem arti- chokes, half a pound of lean bacon, two cloves, half a blade ot mace and a smaU bunch of parsley; pass the whole over a slow fire about fifteen minutes, taking care it is not the least brown ■ add thi'ee quarts of white stock (No. 7) and the rice, let it simmer very gently untH the rice is quite tender, have ready a fowl roasted, take all the meat ofi" the bones and pound weU in the mortar, put the bones in a stewpan with two quarts more stock, boH a quarter of an hour, add the meat to the rice and vegetables, and pound all well together, put it back into the same stewpan, add the broth from the bones, rub through a tammie, boU a quarter of an hour longer, season with a tablespoonful of sugar, skim well, put two yolks of eggs in a small basin, mix well with half a pint of cream and pass through a tam- mie ; two minutes previous to serving throw it in the soup, stir it in quicldy, put some croutons in the tm-een, add more stock if too thick and serve very hot. No. 181. Potage a la Begenfe. Prepare yom* soup just as the above; have ready braised a spring chicken, cut in ten nice pieces; put it into the soup ten minutes to warm; put into the tureen fom- spoon- fuls of very green sprue grass, if in season, or gi'een peas, or small Brussels sprouts, and pour the soup gently over. No. 182. Soup Mulligatawny. Cut four onions, four apples, one carrot, two tm-nips, one head of celery, and half a pound of lean ham in slices; put them into a stewpan with half a pomid of butter, pass7Q POTAGES. ' ^ it twenty minutes over a brisk fire, with fom^ cloves, one blade of mace, a bunch of parsley, thyme, bay-leaves, and a pint of broth (No. 133); let it simmer about twenty mi- nutes, then add three tablespoonfuls of curry powder, one do of cm-ry paste, and four do. of flour; mix the whole weU together, with eight quarts of broth; when boilmg, slam it, season with a teaspoonful of sugar, and salt if reqmred; pass it through a tammie, serve with pieces of roast chicken in it, and boUed rice m a separate dish (No. 129.) It must not be too thick, and of a good yellow colour. No. 183. Fota^e Queues de Veau a hlanc. Make the stock and stew the calves' tails precisely as No. 166, instead of clarifying it; put a quarter of a pound of butter into a stewpan with six ounces of flour; stK it over the fii'c about five minutes; let it cool, then mix the stock with it, sturmg it well with a wooden spoon until it boils; then place it at the corner of the stove about twenty minutes; skim, add a bouquet garni, and a glass of madeu-a or sherry, pass it through a tammie; season with a spoonful of sugar, a httle cayenne, and salt if reqmred; put it into another stewpan upon the fire, and ten minutes before serving add half a pint of cream and the calves' tails to warm. No. 184. Potage Queues de Veau a VIndienne. Put four quarts of mulhgatawny soup (No. 183) into a stewpan, and a pint of consomme (No. 134); cut some vegetables as for juhenne (No. 148), put ten tablespoonfuls of salad oil into a saute-pan; when hot, fry the vegetables in it, until rather brovm; lay them on a sieve to drain, then add them to the soup, which is in ebullition; skim well, put about fifteen nice pieces of calves' tail in it, and serve, with some dry boiled rice in a separate dish.80 POTAGES. No. 185. Potage Tete de Veau a I'Indienne. Proceed exactly as above, except, .put pieces of cooked calf's head cut in square pieces, instead of calves' tail. No. 186. Potage Queues de JBoeiif a I'Indienne. Prepare tlie same stock as No. 184; put about twelve pieces of ox-taU, weU stevred, as No. 164, into the soup ten minutes before serving. No. 187. Potage Queues de Boeuf a VAnglaise. Butter the bottom of a middling-sized stewpan, into which put six pounds of leg of beef, two ox-tails cut in joints, four onions, two heads of celery, two turnips, one carrot, ten peppercorns, a blade of mace, six cloves, and a bunch of parsley, thyme, and bay-leaves; then add half a pint of water, place it over the fire, stnring it round occasionally, until the bottom of the stewpan is covered with a brownish glaze; then fill up the stewpan mth eight quarts of first stock (No. 133), and two ounces of salt; when boihng, place it at the corner of the fire, skim it, and let it simmer until the pieces of ox-tails are perfectly tender, when take them out, and put them into a basin; then pass the stock through a cloth, in another ste\^Tan, make a roux with half a pound of butter, and thi-ee quarters of a pound of flour; then add the stock, which should not exceed seven quarts; stir it over the fii'e until it boils, then add a salt-spoonful of cayenne, two glasses of port wine, and fom' heads of celery (cut fine and passed ten minutes, in butter, over a sharp fire,) let the soup simmer an hour at the corner; skim it well, and put by until wanted; this quantity is sufficient for two tm-eeus, so when ready to serve, put half of it in a stewpan, withrOTAGES. 8] ten pieces of the tails, and when quite hot, pom- it into your tm-een. If too thick, add a little consomme. No. 188. Potage mas HuUres. Blanch four dozen oysters until rather firm (they must not nearly boil) drain them on a sieve; save the liquor in Avhich they are blanched. Put a quarter of a pound of butter into a stewpan; when it is melted mix with it six ounces of flour; stir it over a slow fire a short time; after- wards let it cool, then add the hquor of the oysters, a quart of milk, and two quarts of good ved stock (No. 7); season as follows: a teaspoonful of salt, half a saltspoonful of cayenne pepper, five peppercorns, half a blade of mace, a tablespoonful of Harvey sauce, and half do. of essence of anchovy; strain it through a tammie; boil it again ten minutes, skim well; beard the oysters, and put them in the tureen; add a gill of cream to the soup, when it is served, and pour it over the oysters. No. 189. Potage auxfilets de Soles. Put a quarter of a pound of butter, with six ounces of flour into a stewpan; make a white roux; when cold, mix weU with two quarts of veal stock (No. 7), and one quart of milk; set it on the stove, stir until boihng; have ready filleted two very fresh soles; trim the fillets, and put the bones and trimmings into the soup, with four cloves, two blades of mace, two bay-leaves; two spoonfuls of essence of anchovy, one do. of Harvey sauce, one do. of sugar, haK a saltspoonful of cayenne, and a little salt if required; skun well, pass through a sieve into a clean stew pan, boil again; put in ten small pieces of salmon cut haK an inch long, and a quarter do. wide; cut the fillets of the soles the same size, put them into the boiling soup with half a handful of picked parsley; boil ten minutes; finish with two yolks of eggs 6POTAGES. 83 and half a pint of cream mixed together; throw them into the soup. The pieces of soles are to be added five minutes before serving; the salmon may be omitted. No. 190. JPotage a la Poissonniere. Blanch two dozen oysters, four dozen very fresh muscles, blanched and bearded; put a quarter of a pound of but- ter into a stewpan, vnth six ounces of flour, make a white roux; when cool, add the Hquor of the oysters, muscles, and bone of the sole, with two quarts of broth, and three pints of milk; season with a spoonful of salt, one do. of sugar, a sprig of thyme, parsley, two bay-leaves, fom- cloves, and two blades of mace; pass through a tammie into a clean stewpan, boil and skim well; cut about ten pieces of salmon into thin sHces, half an inch long, a quarter do. wide; cut the fillet of the sole the same size; put all into the boiling soup, with half a handful of picked parsley, and a gill of good cream; put the oysters and muscles in the tureen and serve. No. 191. Potaffe d'Anguille. Bone two large eels from head to tail, cut the meat off in slanting dice the size of a teaspoon; put a quarter of a pound of butter into a stewpan, with a spoonful of chopped eschalots, to which add a quarter of a pound of flom-; stu- it over a moderate fire five minutes, let it cool, then add three quarts of good consomme (No. 134); when it boils throw in the bones of the eels, a small bunch of tm-tle herbs ; let it boil a few minutes; skim it well, pass through a tammie into a clean stewpan; put the raw eel into it, with two spoonfuls of Harvey sauce, one do. essence of anchov}'-, a quarter of a handful of picked parsley, two glasses of port wine, a little salt and sugar; place it again over the fii*e, boil five minutes, skim, and serve.83 POTAGES, No. 192. Potage de Homard. Take all meat from a hen lobster, break up the shell and small claws in a mortar, and put them into a stewpan, with five pints of consomme, place it at the comer of the fire to simmer half an hour; then mix the red spawn with a quarter of a pound of butter, as directed (No. 77); then put two onions, a piece of carrot, and half a turnip, in slices, into a stewpan, with a few sprigs of parsley and thyme, two bay-leaves, a blade of mace, four cloves, and a quarter of a pound of butter; stir them ten minutes over a mode- rate fire, then add the flesh of the lobster, previously well pounded, reserving a few shoes for the tm-een, and half a pint of second stock; boil it a minute, then add a quarter of a pound of flour; mix it well, and moisten with the stock from the sheUs which strain into it; season with a Httle cayenne pepper and essence of anchovies; boil it five minutes, then rub it through a tammie, and put it into a clean stewpan; let it boil ten minutes at the corner of the fire, skim it well, and when upon the point of serving, stir in the quarter of a pomid of lobster butter; do not let it boil afterwards; pour it into the tureen over the filleTs of lobster, and serve very hot. This soup requires to be quite a red coloiu*. No. 193. Potage a la Chanoinaise. Make a white roux of a quarter of a pound of butter and six ounces of flour; add five pints of white consomme (No. 134) and three pints of milk; when boiling, skim weU: add three tablespoonfuls of essence of anchovy, two do. of Harvey sauce, a bunch of thyme, parsley, bayleaf, half a spoonful of salt, do. of sugar, and a Uttle cayenne pepper; pass through a tammie; have ready the soft roes of three mackarel, cut in square pieces, and passed in butter,84 POTAGES. as directed (No. 382); throw them in the soup; have ready likewise twenty small quenelles of fish (No. 124); finish with two ounces of maitre d'hotel butter (No. 79) in wliich you have introduced a little chopped tarragon; put the whole into the soup five minutes previous to serving; add the juice of a lemon. No. 194. Potage Tate d'ltalie. Put four tablespoonfuls of various shaped small Itahan paste in a quart of boiling water, with a little salt ia it, boil it a few minutes; put it on a sieve to drain; have about three quarts of clarified consomme (No. 134), quite boiling; put the paste into it, and boil a quarter of an hour; it must be of a pale sherry colour; consomme of fowl is the best for this kind of potage; season vrith a little salt and sugar. A piece of good glaze may hkevdse be introduced. No. 195. Potage au Vermicelle. Put three quarts of consomme to boU, throw in a good handful of vermicelli; let it simmer gently about fifteen minutes; season with salt and a little sugar. No. 196. Potage a la Semoule. Put about six tablespoonfuls of semoulina into three quai'ts of consomme (No. 134); when it boils, set it at the corner of the stove to simmer about twenty minutes; season with a little salt and sugar; serve very hot. No. 197. Potage au Piz. Steep half a pint of rice (previously well washed) in boil- ing water five minutes, drain it on a sieve, put it into thi-ee quarts of boiling consomme (No. 134), let it simmer half an hour; when the rice is quite done, but not in puree, it is quite ready to serve, with the addition of a piece of glazePOTAGES. and a Httle sugar if required. The consomm6 must be very strong for this soup. No. 198. Potage au Macaroni. Boil twenty sticks of macaroni in two quarts of water where you have put salt, and a piece of butter; when tender, cut each stick in three pieces; have ready three quarts of consomme (No. 134) put the macaroni in, simmer twenty minutes; and serve with grated Parmesan cheese separate. No. 199. Potage au Macaroni en rubands. Prepare and serve as above, but using the tape macca- roni instead of the other, and only blanching it five minutes in the water. No. 200. Turtle Soup. This soup, the dehght of civic corporations, the friend of the doctors, and enemy of the alderman, has been, and per- haps ever will be, the leading article of Enghsh cookery. Its great comphcation has rendered it difficult in private esta- bhshments; I shaU here, hoAvever, simplify it so as to render it practicable. Make choice of a good turtle, weighing from one hundi-ed and forty to one hundred and eighty pounds, hang it up by the hind fins securely, cut off the head and let it hang all night, then take it down, lay it upon its back, and with a sharp knife cut out the belly, leaving the fins, but keeping the knife nearly close to the upper shell; take out the interior, which throw away, first collecting the green fat which is upon it, then remove the fins and fleshy parts, leaving nothing but the two large shells, saw the top shell into four and the bottom one in halves; then put the whole of the turtle, including the head, into a large turbot kettle, and cover them with cold water, (or if no kettle large enough blanch it in twice), place it upon a sharp fire and letPOTAGES. boil five minutes, to suiRciently scald it, then put the pieces into a tub of cold water, and with a pointed knife take off all the scales, which throw away, then take out carefully the whole of the green fat, which reserve, place the remainder back in the turbot kettle, where let it simmer until the meat comes easily from the sheUs and the fins are tender, then take them out and detach all the glutinous meat fi'om the shells, which cut into square pieces and reserve until re- quii-ed. Pricandeau and a few other entrees were sometimes made from the fleshy parts, but the stringy substance of that mock meat is not worth eating, and few stomachs can digest it. The Stock.—For a turtle of the above size (which is con- sidered the best, for in comparison with them the smaller ones possess but Httle green fat,) cut up sixty pounds of knuckles of veal, and twenty pounds of beef, with six pounds of lean ham ; well butter the bottom of tlu-ee large stewpans, and put an equal proportion of meat in each, vdth four onions, one carrot, twenty peppercorns, ten cloves, two blades of mace, an ounce of salt, and a pint of water; place them upon sharp fires, stirring them round occasionally until the bottom of each is covered with a brovraish glaze, when fill them up with the water in which you blanched the turtle, taldng more water if not sufficient; when boihng place them at the corners of the fires, let them simmer two hom's, keep- ing them always well skimmed; then pass the stock through a fine cloth into basins to cool. The stock after being dravm dovm in the three separate stewpans, may be turned into a large stock pot, but my reason for doing it in smaller quantities is, that it requires less ebullition, and conse- quently the aroma of the difierent ingredients is better pre- served ; after having passed the stock, fill them up again ■with water, let them simmer fom- hours, when pass it and convert it into glaze as du'ccted (No. 132).87 POTAGES. ^' The Soup —Put three pounds of butter into a large stew- pan with ten sprigs of winter savory, ten of thyme, ten of basil ten of marjoram, and ten bay-leaves; place it a tew minutes over a moderate fire, but do not let it change colour, then mix in four pounds and a half of flour to form a roui, which keep stirring over the fne untH it becomes hghtly tinged, when take it off the fire and stir it occasion- aUy until partly cold, then add the stock which should amount to ten gallons, place it again over the fu-e and stir it until boihng, then place it at the comer, let it simmer two hours, keeping it well skimmed, then pass it through a tam. mie into a clean stewpan, add the pieces of turtle, place it at the corner of the fire and let it simmer until the meat is nearly tender, when add the green fat, and let it remain upon the fire until the meat is quite tender, add a httle more salt if requued, and put it by in basins until ready for use; when ready to serve warm the quantity required, and to each tureenful add liaK a saltspoonful of cayenne, and a quarter of a pint of Madeira wine; serve a lemon separate. To make soup of a smaller sized turtle you must of course reduce the other ingredients in proportion. The remains of the soup put in jars will keep a considerable time. No. 201. Clear Turtle Soup. Is now perhaps held in the highest estimation among real epicures, and when artistically prepared is indeed worthy the n^ame of a luxury; it is easier digested and does not clog the palate so much as when made thick, indeed a pint of this soup may be taken before a good dinner (with the assistance of milk punch not too much iced or too sweet) where half a pint of the other might spoil the remainder of yom- dinner. I shall here describe it in that simple man- ner which will render it easy for any cook not only to un- derstand but to do it well. Prepare the turtle precisely as88 POTAGES. in the last, as also the stocks, merely fiUing them up when the bottom of the stewpan is covered with a white glaze instead of brown, thus keeping the stock white and very clear; when done, pass them through a cloth into a clean stewpan, place it over the fire and reduce it one third, hav- ing previously thrown in a bunch containing ten sprigs of winter savory, ten of marjoram, ten of thyme, ten of basil, and ten bay-leaves, then mix three quarters of a pound of the best arrow root with a quart of cold stock and a pint of wine, (sherry), pour it into the boiling soup, keeping it stir- red five minutes, then pass it through a cloth into another stewpan, add the pieces of meat from the turtle and proceed as for the thick turtle, but omitting the cayenne; this soup ought to be quite clear and of a greenish hue. No. 202. Moch Turtle Soup. Put a quarter of a pound of butter at the bottom of a large stewpan, then cut up twenty pounds of knuckles of veal in large dice, with two pounds of uncooked ham; put them into a stewpan with six onions, two carrots, two heads of celery, twenty peppercorns, two blades of mace, two ounces of salt, and a pint of water; set it over a sharp fire, stirring it round occasionally until the bottom of the stew- pan is covered with a light brown glaze, then lay in the half of a scalded calf's head, the cheek downwards, and fUl up the stewpan vdth fom^teen quarts of water; when boihng, place it at the comer of the fire, where let it simmer two hours and a half, keeping it well skimmed, but taking out the half head as soon as it becomes flexible to the touch, (which will take about the time the stock reqiures to simmer), remove all the bone and press the head flat be- tween two dishes until cold, then pass the stock thi'ough a cloth into a basin, put a pound of butter into another stew- pan, with four sprigs of winter savory, fom- of thyme, fom-89 POTAGES. of marioram, four of basil, and four bay-leaves, fiy them a L 2utes in the butter, but do not let it change colour, then mix in a pound and a half of flour stir it a few mi- nutes over the fire untU becoming slightly tmged, take it from the fhe, stnring it round occasionaUy until partly cold, when pom: in the stock, place it again upon the fire, keep- ing it sthred until it boils, then place it at the comer and let it simmer for half an horn-, keeping it well skimmed, season with a little cayenne pepper, and more salt if re- qim-ed and pass it through a tammie into a basm until wanted. When the calf's head is cold take off all the meat and fat, leaving nothing but the glutinous part, which cut mto pieces an inch square ; when ready to serve the soup put about three quarts (to each tureen), into a stewpan with twenty of the pieces of head and a glass of sherry, boH alto- gether fifteen minutes, when skim and serve very hot. This soup may likewise be thickened without a roux, as directed for brown sauce (No. 4). Forcemeat and egg-balls were formerly served in this soup, the latter in imitation of tm^- tles' eggs, but better imitations of bullets, and almost as in- digestible ; the omission of them will, I am certain, prove beneficial, for whether the stomach be strong or dehcate it will not bear loading with ammunition of that description. The above soup requires to be a hght brown colour, and for thickness it must adhere Hghtly to the back of the spoon.90 METHOD OF CLEANING SALT-WATER PISH. Turhot. Take the giUs out carefuUy, and make an incision close to the head (on the back of the fish) from which take out the mside, and wash it weU with salt and water. Observe that the middle-sized fish are the best; if too large they sometimes eat tough and thready, this fish is better kept a day or two after it is caught, particularly in whiter. Brill. Take the scales off" the belly, and proceed the same as for tm-bot, but cut ofi" the fins. John Dory. Cut off the fins, take out the gills, and open the fish at the breast, from whence take out the inside; wash it but as Httle as possible. The liver of this fish is very dehcate; but cannot be obtained except by parties hving near where they are caught, as it dissolves in a very short tune if kept. Cod-Jish. Cut and pidl out the gills, then open the belly and take out the inside; wash it in spring water, if this fish is re- quired crimped, you must clean it before it is quite dead (that is to say, whilst hfe remains in the muscles of the fish);POISSONS. '^^ cut it up in slices tln-ee inches in thickness, and lay them in spring water for a quarter of an hour; or if the fish is wanted to be served whole, merely cut incisions upon each side to the bone, about two inches apart, and lay it m spring water three quarters of an hour. Whitings. Cut out the gills, and open the beUy; wash them and cut ofie the fins; if for frying, cut off the flaps under the neck of the fish, then pass yora knife Hghtly from the head to the tail, down the back, merely cutting through the skin; then detach the skin at the head, and puU it aU off one side together, and then the other; then put the tail into the mouth, and run a peg through the nose and tail, to keep it in that position. Haddocks Are cleaned in the same manner as whitings, but not skinned or trussed, as they are seldom fried. Salmon. Cut out the gills, open the belly, and take out the inside, which wash hghtly; .scrape off the scales, and cut it in shces, or serve whole; if it is to be crimped, you must let the scales remain; crimp it m the same manner as cod-fish. Clean salmon-trout in the same way as salmon. Soles. Take out the gills, and make a small opening in the belly of the fish; take out the interior, leaving the roe; then de- tach the skin of the back at the head; pull it all off the fish together, and cut off the fins.93 roissoNs. Mackerel. Cut the giUs, and pull them out carefuUy, so that the mside of the fish comes with them; wipe it well, cut off the fins, and trim the tail. Med Mullets. Scale them very Kghtly, or you wiU destroy aU the bloom; pull out the gills, and part of the inside will come with them. Gurnets. Scrape off all the scales, cut the fins off close, pull out the gills, open the beUies, and take out the inside; wash it well, and scrape the parts where the blood rests, or when cooked it will look like a bruise. Herrings. Scrape them, pull out the giUs, and the inside with them, leaving the roe unbroken; wipe them well. Smelts. This fish is so very delicate, that it requires every atten- tion in cleaning them : pull out the gUls, and the inside will come vsdth them; vsdpe very Hghtly. METHOD OF CLEANING FRESH-WATER FISH. Carp. Have a sharp-pointed kitchen knife, put the point cai*e- fully imder the scales (between the scales and the skin); atQ3 POISSONS. the tail of the fish pass the knife gently up the back to the head, dividing the scales from the skin carefully; you may then take off the whole of the scales in one piece from each side, and your fish will look very white; (most cooks axe acquamted with this mode, but should it be too difficiilt for some, they can scrape it in the common way; it will not look so white, but will eat equaUy good;) then make a smaU incision in the belly, close to the bladder; pull out the g-ills with a cloth, and the inside with them; but if any remains, take it out of the incision, but be careful not to disturb the roe or break the gall; lay it in spring water half an hour to disgorge; dry it with a cloth. Pike. Take off the scales as you would a carp; make two in- cisions in the belly, a small one close to the bladder, and a larger one above; pull one of the gills at the time with a strong cloth, and if the inside does not come with them, take them out of the incisions, and wash it well; the cutting of the fins is a matter of taste, but it is usually done. Trout Are sometimes served with the scales on, but they are usually taken off; clean hke salmon. Tench Are very difficult fish to clean; the best way is to form them in the shape of the letter S, and instead of scraping them from the tail to the head, like other fish, scrape up- wards from the belly to the back with an oyster knife, the scales running that way; take out the gills, open the belly, take out the inside, and wash it clean.94 POISSONS. JPerch Are very difficult to scrape; they must be done almost ahve: form the fish hke an S, and scrape it with an oyster- knife; open the beUy and take out the inside; puU out the gills, and wash weU; when large, they are often boiled with the scales on, and they are taken off afterwards, which IS much easier; but it depends upon how they are to be cooked. Eels. KiU them by knocking their heads upon a block or any- thing hard; then take the head in your hand with a cloth, aud just cut through the skin round the neck, and turn it down about an inch; then pull the head with one hand and the skin with the other, it will come off with facihty; open the belly and take out the inside; cut off the fins and those bristles that run up the back; if the eel is large and oily, hold it over a charcoal fire, moving it quickly all the while; but the small ones wiU not require it. Nothing is harder to kill than eels; and it is only by kiUing, or rather stunning them in the manner above described that they suffer the least. Lampreys Are cleaned in the same manner as eels, but do not re- quire skinning.95 POISSONS. No. 203. Turhot, to boil. A turbot must be well rubbed over with salt and lemon before it is put in the water; have ready a large turbot- kettle half full of cold water, and to every six quarts of water, put one poimd of salt, lay the fish in and place it over a moderate fire; a turbot of eight pounds maybe allowed to simmer twenty minutes or rather more, thus it will be about three quarters of an hour altogether in the water; when it begins to crack very shghtly, lift it up with the drainer and cover a clean white napkin over it; if you in- tend serving the sauce over your fish, dish it up without a napldn; if not, dish it upon a napkin and have ready some good sprigs of double parsley to garnish it with, and serve very hot. No, 204. Turbot a la Creme. Cook the turbot as above and dish it without a napkin, (but be careful that it is well drained before you place it on the dish, and absorb what water runs from the fish vrith a napkin, for that liquor would spoil your sauce, and cause it to lose that creamy substance which it ought to retain ; this remark apphes to all kinds of fish that is served up vdth the sauce over it); then put one pint of cream on the fire in a good sized stewpan, and when it is nearly simmering add half a pound of fresh butter, and stir it as quickly as possible until the butter is melted, but the cream must not boil; then add a liaison of three yolks of eggs, season with a Httle salt, pepper, and lemon juice, pour as much over the turbot as vnll cover it, and serve the remainder in a boat; or if not approved of, dish the fish on a napkin, garnish wdth parsley, and serve the sauce in a boat. This sauce must not be made until the moment it is wanted.96 POISSONS. No. 205. Turhot Sauce homard. Cook the turbot as before, then take an ounce of lobster spawn and pound it in a mortar with a quarter of a poiuid of fresh butter, rub it through a haii- sieve Avith a wooden spoon upon a plate, have ready a pint of good melted butter nearly boiling, into which put the red butter, and season with a teaspoonful of essence of anchovy, a Httle Harvey sauce, cayenne pepper, and salt, then cut up the flesh of the lobster in dice and put in the sauce; serve it in a boat very hot. No. 206. Turbot a la Hollandaise. Cook the tm^bot as before, and dish without a napkin; then put the yolks of four eggs in a stewjjan with half a pound of fresh butter, the juice of a lemon, half a teaspoon- ful of salt and a quarter of one of white pepper; set it over a slow fire stirring it the whole time quickly; when the butter is half melted take it off the fire for a few seconds, (still keeping it stirred), till the butter is quite melted, then place it again on the fire till it thickens, then add a quart of melted butter, stir it again on the fire, (but do not let it boil, or it would curdle and be useless), then pass it through a tammie into another stewpan, make it hot in the bain marie, stirring all the time pour it over the fish or serve in a boat. The sauce must be rather sharp, add more seasoning if required. No. 207. Turhot a la Mazarine. Cook the fish as above, then have all the spawn from two fine hen lobsters; if not sufficient get some live spa^ATi from the fishmonger's, making altogether about two ounces, pound it well in the mortar and mix it with half a pound of fresh butter, rub it through a hair sieve, place it uponPOISSONS. 97 ice untn firm, then put it in a stewpan with the yolks of four eggs, a httle pepper, half a teaspoonful of salt, and four tablespoonfuls of lemon juice, place it over the fire and proceed as for the sauce Hollandaise, adding the same quantity of melted butter, and two teaspoonfuls of essence of anchovy, pass it thi'ough a tammie into a clean stew- paa to make it hot, dish the fish without a napkin, soak- ing up the water in the dish with a clean cloth, and pom- the sauce over it; be careful the sauce does not boil or it will ciu-dle. This dish is one of the most elegant, and is the best way of dressing a turbot, for I have always remarked that not- withstanding its simphcity, it has given the greatest satis- faction, both for its dehcateness and appearance, causing no trouble only requiring care. No. 208. Turbot en matelote Normande. Procure a smaUish turbot, one weighing about ten pounds would be the best, cut ofi" part of the fins and make an in- cision in the back, butter a saute-pan, (large enough to lay the turbot in quite flat), and put three tablespoonfuls of chopped eschalots, three glasses of sherry or Madeira, half a teaspoonful of salt, a httle white pepper, and about haK a pint of white broth into it, then lay in the turbot and cover it over with white sauce (No. 7), start it to boil over a slow fire, then put it into a moderate oven about an hour, try whether it is done with a skewer, if the skewer goes through it easily it is done, if not, bake it a httle longer, then give it a Kght brown tinge vdth the salamander, place the fish upon a dish to keep it hot, then put a pint of white sauce in the saute-pan and boil it fifteen minutes, stirring it ah the time, then pass it through a tammie into a clean stewpan, and add a little cayenne pepper, two tablespoonfuls of essence of anchovies, two dozen of oysters, (blanched), two 798 POISSONS. dozen of smaU mushrooms, two dozen quenelles (No 120) SIX spoodfuls of milk, and a teaspoonful of sugar, reduce it till about the thickness of bechamel sauce, then add eight tablespoonfuls of cream and the juice of a lemon, pom- over the tiu-bot; have ready twenty croutons of bread cut trian- g-ularly from the crust of a Prench roll, and fried in butter • place them round the dish and pass the salamander over it and serve. No. 209. Turdot en Matelote vierge. Boil a turbot as before, dish it up without a napkin, and have ready the foUowing sauce; chop two onions very fine and put them in a stewpan with fom- glasses of sherry, a sole cut in foiu- pieces, two cloves, one blade of mace,' a little grated nutmeg, some parsley, and one bay-leaf; boH altogether five minutes, then add a quart of wliite sauce (No. 7), boil twenty minutes stirrmg all the time, then put a tammie over a clean stewpan, and colander over the tam- mie, pass the sauce, take the meat ofi" the sole and rub it through the tammie with two spoons into the sauce, add half a pint of broth, boil it again until it is rather thick, season with a teaspoonfid of salt, one of sugar, the juice of a lemon, and finish with half a pint of cream whipped, mix it quickly and pour over the fish; garnish with white- bait and fried oysters (that have been egged and bread- crumbed,) or, if there is no white-bait, smelts aaoU do. No. 210. Turhotala Beligieuse. Dress the turbot as before, and cover with Hollandaise sauce (No. 66); chop some Tarragon chervil, and one French truffle, which sprinkle over it; gai'nish with hard-boiled eggs cut in four lengthwise and laid round.POISSONS. 99 No. 311. Turbot ala Creme {gratine). Put a quarter of a pound of flour in a stewpan, mix it gently Avith a quart of milk, be careful that it is not lumpy, then add two eschalots, a bunch of parsley, one bay-leaf, and a sprig of thyme tied together, for if put in loose it would spoil the colour of your sauce, (which should be quite white,) then add a httle grated nutmeg, a teaspoonful of salt and a quarter ditto of pepper, place it over a sharp fire and stir it the whole time, boil it till it forms rather a thick- ish paste, then take it off the fire and add half a pound of fresh butter and the yolks of two eggs, mix them weU into the sauce and pass it through a tammie, then having the remains of a tm-bot left from a previous dinner, you lay some of the sauce on the bottom of a dish, then a layer of the turbot, (without any bone,) season it lightly vdth pep- per and salt, then put another layer of sauce, then fish and sauce again until it is all used, finishing with sauce; sprinkle the top hghtly with bread crumbs and grated Par- mesan cheese; put it in a moderate oven half an hom% give it a fight brown colour with the salamander and serve it in the dish it is baked on. No. 212. Tu.rbot a la Poissoniere. . Boil a turbot as before, and take it up when only one third cooked, then put in a large saute-pan or baldng sheet forty button onions peeled and cut in rings, two ounces of butter, two glasses of port wine, the peel of half a lemon, and four spoonfuls of chopped mushrooms, then lay in the turbot and cover with a quart of brown sauce (No. 1), set it in a slow oven for an hour, then take it out and place it carefully on a dish, place the fish again in the oven to keep hot, then take the lemon peel out of the sauce and pour the sauce into a stewpan, reduce it till rather thick.100 POISSONS. then add twenty muscles, (blanched), twenty heads of mush- rooms, and about thirty fine prawns ; when ready to serve add one ounce of anchovy butter, a tablespoonful of sugar, and a Httle cayenne pepper, stir it in quickly but do not let it boil; pour the sauce over the fish and serve very hot. No. 213. Turbotala Creme d'AncJwis. Boil the tm-bot and dish it without a napkin, then pour the following sauce over it and serve immediately: put a quart of melted butter into a stewpan, place it on the fire and when nearly boihng add six ounces of anchovy butter (No. 78), and four spoonfuls of whipped cream, mix it quickly but do not let it boil; when poured over the fish sprinkle some chopped capers and gherkins over it. No. 214. Small Turbot a la Meuniere. Crimp the turbot by making incisions with a sharp knife, about an inch apart, in the belly part of the fish, then nib two tablespoonfuls of chopped onions and four of salt into the incisions, pour a httle salad oil over it and dip it in flour, then put it on a gridiron a good distance from the fire—the beUy downwards—let it remain twenty minutes, then turn it by placing another gridiron over it, and tm-n- ing the fish over on to it, place it over the fire for about twenty-five minutes, or longer if required; when done place it upon a dish and have ready the following sauce : put six ounces of butter in a stevrpan, with ten spoonfuls of melted butter, place it over the fire, moving the stewpan round when very hot, but not quite in oil, add a haison (No. 119) of two yolks of eggs, a Httle pepper, salt, and the juice of a lemon, mix it quickly and pour over the fish; serve di- rectly and very hot. The fish must be kept as white as possible. For the above purpose the turbot should not ex- ceed eight pounds in weight.POISSONS. 101 No. 215- Turbot au gratin a la Froven^ale. This dish is made from fish left from a previous toer ; put two tablespoonfuls of chopped onions, and two of chop- ped mushrooms into a stewpan with two tablespoonfuls ot salad on • place it over a moderate fire five mmutes, sturmg ' it with a wooden spoon; then add three pints of brown sauce (No. 1), and reduce it one third, then add a clove of scraped garlic, a teaspoonful of Harvey sauce, one of essence of anchovy, a little sugar, a little cayenne, and two yolks of eggs, pour a httle sauce on the dish you serve it on, then a layer of fish hghtly seasoned with pepper and salt, then more sauce and fish again, finishing with sauce, sprinkle bread crumbs over it and place it in a moderate oven half an hour, or tiU it is very hot through, brown it hghtly with the salamander and serve very hot. The gar- hc may be omitted if objected to, but it would lose the flavour from which it is named. No. 216. Brill au naturel. This fish though not so much thought of as turbot is very dehcate eating, and being cheaper may be more freely used for fillets, &c., and may be recommended cooked in the following ways:—Boil a briU as you would a turbot, but the flesh being softer than that fish you put it in boil- ing water; if the fish weighs from four to five pounds put it into six quarts of water in which there is one pound of salt, draw the kettle to the corner of the fire and let it sim- mer for half an hour, try whether it is done as you would a tm'bot, drain it and dish it on a napkin; garnish with parsley, and serve with shrimp sauce (No. 73). No. 217. Brill a la puree de Cdpres. Take a very fresh fish, and an hour before cooking rub a^^'^ POISSONS. good handful of salt on it, then boil it as before, dish it ^vithout a napkm, and have ready the following sauce — put a pnit and a half of melted butter into a stewpan, then have ready prepared three tablespoonfuls of capers, and two of gherkins, with a httle boUed spinach pounded in a mor- tar with four ounces of fresh butter, and passed through a hau' sieve, and when the melted butter is nearly boHing stu: it quickly into it; finish it with a httle essence of anchovy, a little cayenne pepper, and a little sugar, and pour over the fish when ready to serve. The butter requu-es to lay upon ice until quite hard. No. 218. Brill a la Hollandaise. Boil the fish as above and proceed as for turbot a la Hol- landaise ; see that article. No. 219. Brill aux Cdpres. Boil the fish and put twelve tablespoonfuls of melted butter into a stewpan, place it on the fire and when nearly boiling mix two ounces of fresh butter and three tablespoon- fuls of capers with a httle pepper and salt, dish on a napkin and pour the sauce over or serve in a boat. No. 220. Brill a la Mmniere. Proceed as for Turbot a la memiiere, (No. 214,) allowing suflicient time according to the size of the fish. No. 221. Brill sauce Ilomard. Proceed as for turbot sauce homard, (No. 205.) No. 222, Brill a la Billingsgate. Broil the fish as for brill a la meuniere and dish it with- out a napkin; then have ready the following sauce;—blanch a pint of muscles, beard them and take out the black spots.POISSONS. J^^^ then put two chopped eschalots in a stewpan with one ounce of butter, pass it over the fii-e five minutes, then add haE a tablespoonful of flour, mix with it the liquor from the muscles, half a pint of milk, and half a giU of cream, a saltspoonful of salt, a little white pepper, and some grated nutmeg, boil it until rather thick, pass it through a tammie, then add two pats of butter, a few drops of essence of an- chovy and the muscles; pom over the fish and serve very hot. No. 223. Brill aw gratin. See turbot a la creme gratine (No. 211,) and proceed in the same manner. No. 224. Brill a la creme d'Anchois. Proceed as for tm-bot a la creme d'anchois (No. 213.) No. 225. Filets de Brill a la Juive. FiUet a briU by passing a good knife from the head to the tail of the fish close to the middle bone, hold your knife in a slanting dhection keeping it close to the bone (without cutting the bone) until you reach the fins, proceed in like manner until you have got off all the meat fi'om the bones, then cut each fillet in halves, or in four pieces if they are large, egg and bread-crumb each piece, then dip them in clarified butter and again bread- crumb them; when ready fry them of a yellowish brown in salad oil, dish them upon a napkin, and have a good lot of fried parsley, which place in the middle, dishing yom- fillets round it, serve vdth a sauce HoUandaise (see Turbot a la Hollandaise, No. 206,) in which you introduce a tablespoon- ful of the best salad oil. To fry fish in oil you merely re- quire to cover the bottom of your saute-pan and let it get very hot before you put the fish in it.104 POISSONS. No. 226. Filets de Brill en matelote. FiUet and fry the fish as above, dish it on a border of mashed potatoes, and place the following sauce in the centre:—peel about forty button onions, and pass them in a stewpan with two ounces of butter and a httle sugar; when of a hght brown colour add two tablespoonfuls of wine, set it on the fire five minutes, then add a quart of brown sauce and eight tablespoonfuls of stock, set it on the comer of the fire to boil forty minutes, skim it, then add twenty quenelles (No. 120), twenty heads of mushrooms, a teaspoonful of essence of anchovy, one of Harvey sauce, and one of mushroom catsup, with a little cayenne pepper. No. 227. John Doree. Of all fish this one is perhaps the most dehcious, although but recently in vogue; their appearance has been a great objection to them; considering this I have studied to dis- cover several ways of dressing them to improve then- ap- pearance and flavour; to dress them plain you boil them in the same way as brills, allowing about the same time for the same weight, and ascertain when done by the same means; serve on a napkin; garnish the parts that are broken with double parsley, and serve anchovy sauce in a boat. No. 228. JohnBoreeaVOrleannaise. Procure a very fresh dory about five pounds in weight, then have ready half a pound of forcemeat of fish (No. 124), in a basin, vsdth which mix a httle chopped thyme and parsley, season rather high, stuff your dory with it, lay it in a fish kettle with three onions, a carrot, tm-nip, head of celery, a bunch of parsley, thyme, and bay-leaf, one tablespoonful of salt, fom- cloves, two glasses of port wine, two of vinegar, and fom- quarts of water, set it over105 POISSONS. a slow fire for an horn- to stew, drain it well and dish it loT. a naplcin, have ready the Mowing sance^^^^^^ foni' volks of eggs in a stewpan with half a pomid ot blr f;Itspoo'nfnl of salt, a httle white pepper, and three tables^oonf Jof tarragon vinegar; it over^^ ^^ (withawoodenspoon,)tiU the butter is mehed and thickens then add an onnce of lobster spawn (that has been pounded with an ounce of butter and passed through a tan- sieve), mix it weU together, then add eighteen spoonfuls of bech- amel sauce (No. 7), stir it over the fire tfil it becomes red and thickish, then add a few drops of essence of anchovy and a httle cayenne pepper, with a pinch of sugar, pass it through a tammie, then add six gherkins cut m large fiUets, and thirty fiUets of boiled beet-root the same size as the fiUets of gherkin; pour it over the fish, and garnish with craw fish, and sprigs of parsley laid between. No. 229. John DorSe en matelote Mariniere. Flour the fish and boil or stew it as above, dish it with- out a napkin, then have ready a matelotte sauce (see fiUets of briU en matelotte, No. 220,) to which add three dozen of oysters that have been blanched and bearded; pour the sauce over the fish and serve very hot. No. 230. John Doree a la Cremiere. Boil the fish, put a pint of milk with the water you boil it in, dish it on a napkin, garnish with some large sprigs of double parsley, have ready the following sauce : put half a pint of double cream in a stewpan, and when it is nearly boiling, add a quarter of a pound of fresh butter; shake the stewpan round with your hand tiU the butter is melted, then add the juice of a lemon, a saltspoonful of salt, and half ditto of white pepper; serve in a boat very hot.106 POISSONS. No. 231. John DorSe en Bavigote. BoU the fish as above, and dish it up without a napkin; have ready the following sauce: put thi-ee yolks of eggs in I stewpan, with six ounces of fresh butter, three tablespoonfuls of Tarragon vinegar, a saltspoonful of salt, and a little white pepper; stir it over the fire for a few minutes untH the butter melts, and it becomes thickish; then add eighteen spoonfuls of melted butter, stir it over the fire, but do not let it boil; pass it through a tammie, then add a table- spoonful of chopped tarragon and chervil mixed; place it again over the fire, keeping it stirred, and wh6n very hot poiu* it over the fish, and garnish with a few sprigs of chervil. This sauce requires to be rather thick, to mask the fish. No. 232. John Boree a la puree de Crevettes. Boil the fish as usual, and dish without a napkin; have ready the following sauce: pick and wash a pint of fresh prawns, pound them in a mortar Avith half a pound of fresh butter, and rub them through a sieve; then put twelve spoonfuls of bechamel sauce (No. 7) in a stewpan, with twelve of melted butter ; place it over the fire, and when it boils, stir the butter and prawns into it; pour the sauce over the fish, and strew chopped lobster over. No. 233. John Doree a la Bateliere. Boil the fish as usual, and dish it up without a napkin; have ready the follo\ving sauce: peel fifty button onions, pass them in a stewpan with a little sifted sugar and butter, but keep them quite white; then add a glass of sheriy, twenty spoonfuls of bechamel sauce, and a bunch of parsley; set it on the corner of the stove to simmer till the onions are quite done (if the sauce is too thick, add a few spoonfuls107 POISSONS. of white stock); then thiw in twenty heads of mnshrooms a dozen of blanched oysters, and a tablespoonM of essence of anchovies; take out the bnnch of parsley finish with a little cream, pom^ the sauce over the fish, and salamander of a hght colour. No. 234. Join Dork a la Creme {gratine) Proceed as for Turbot a la creme gratine (No. 211). No. 235. John Doree a la Hollandaise. Proceed as for Trabot a la Hollandaise (No. 206). No. 236. Saumon. The Thames sahnon used to be reckoned the most re- cherche; but since so many steam-boats have been intro- duced upon the surface of that noble river, and the tunnel has been built, introducing their greatest enemies, human beings, both above and below thek hquid habitation, they have fled to the ocean for protection, and are now no longer discernible from then- once commoner brethren. But the Severn salmon is now esteemed the best; the crimped is in the highest favour with the gourmets. It would be useless to make any observations about this fish, as it is well known to range as one of the highest order. No. 237. Saumon au naturel. Put your fish in cold water (using a pound of salt to every six quarts of water), let it be well covered with water, and set it over a moderate fire; when it begins to simmer, set it on the side of the fne. If the fish weighs four pounds, let it simmer haK an hour; if eight pounds, three quarters of an hour, and so on in proportion; dish it on a napkin, and serve lobster or shrimp sauce in a boat. (See those sauces, Nos. 68 and 73.)108 POISSONS. No. 238. Crimped Salmon au naturel. Have two quarts of water boHing in a stewpan, with half a pound of salt, in which place two sHces of crimped salmon (if more than two required, put more water in proportion), boil them quickly for a quarter of an hour or twenty mi- nutes ; try the bone in the centre, and if it leaves easUy, the fish is done; avoid leaving the fish in water after it is done, as it destroys its aroma; but if not ready, cover it over with a wet napkin, and stand it in the hot closet; dish on a napkin, and serve either lobster or shrimp sauce with it. (See Nos. 68 and 73.) No. 239. Saumon en matelote Mariniere„ Rub two or three large slices of sahnon with oil, and dip them in flour; then put them on a gridiron over a moderate fire; when one side is done turn them carefully, and when the bone will leave easily, they are done; dish them without a napkin, and pour a matelote sauce (No. 62) over them. 240. Saumon a la Mazarine. BoU the salmon in shces, as previously; dish it without a napkin, and pour a Mazarine sauce over them (see Tm-bot a la Mazaiine, No. 207.) No. 241. Saumon a la Hollandaise. Boil the salmon as before; if in shces, dish them without a napkin, and pour the sauce over them; if a whole salmon serve it in a boat. (See Tm'bot a la Hollandaise, No. 206.) No. 242. Saimion a la Cardinal. StufP the belly of the salmon with forcemeat of fish (No. 124) and braise as directed for John Doree a I'Orleannaise (No. 228); when done dish it without a napkin, and coverPOISSONS. it with a mazarine sauce (No. 307), sprinkle truffles and o-herkins cut in diamonds over it. No. 243. Saumon a VAmiral Truss a small salmon in the form of the letter S, and boil it as previously; dish it without a napkin, and have ready the following sauce: peel four large onions, cut them m shces, and put them into a stewpan with six tablespoontuls of salad oil; fry them a hght brown colour, then pour off the oil, and add two glasses of port wine, three cloves, one blade of mace, a sprig of thyme, a bay-leaf, one teaspoonful of salt, two of sugar, twenty spoonfuls of brown sauce (No. 1), and six of brown gravy (No. 135); reduce it over a sharp fire a quarter of an hour, rub it through a tammie, and place it again in a stewpan; boil it again a short tune, and finish with one ounce of anchovy butter (No. 78), and two spoonfuls of Harvey sauce; then place a border of mashed potatoes round the fish, upon which dish a border of quenelles of whiting (No. 124); and upon every other quenelle stick a prawn, pour the sauce over the fish, and a mazarine sauce over the quenelles; serve very hot. No. 244. Saumon en matelote Saxone. Boil a smaU salmon as in the last article, and dish with- out a napkin; have ready some small legs of lobster, bend them at the joints and stick the ends into the back of the salmon, from head to tail, make the sauce as for turbot a la poissoniere (No. 212), and pour over the fish, then have ready some fillets of sole (cut in strips as fine as white- bait,) nicely bread-crmnbed and fried in. lard, with which garnish your fish. No. 245. Saumon ala Beyrout. Broil two slices of salmon in oUed paper over a mode-POISSONS. rate fire; when they are done peel the skin from the edge and lay them on a dish without a napkin; have ready the following sauce: put one tablespoonfid of chopped onions m a stewpan with one ditto of Chih vinegar, one of common vinegar, two ditto of Harvey sauce, two ditto mushi'oom catsup, and twenty tablespoonfuls of melted butter ■ let it reduce tiU it adheres to the back of the spoon, then add two tablespoonfuls of essence of anchovy and a small quan- tity of sugar, pour it over the fish and serve very hot. ^0- ^^Q. Sawnonala Pecheuse. Take a sHce of thick salmon and make an incision upon each side, cutting it to the bone, put plenty of salt and chopped omons upon it and rub it weU in, then oil a sheet of white paper, lay the sahnon on it, fold the paper over and crimp it at the edges to keep the steam from escaping, put it on a gridiron over a slow fire, and when done serve it in the paper with pats of butter separate ; the person that serves this dish at table should open the paper and place tAvo pats of butter on each shce; it requires to be eaten very hot. No. 247. Saumon a VBciMiere. BoU three large shoes of sahnon, place them upon a dish, then have ready the following sauce : put a teaspoonful of chopped onions into a stewpan, vdth a very small quantity of salad oil, pass it over a moderate fire three or fom* mi- nutes, but keep them quite white, then cut in small dice the tender part of four dozen of oysters, put them in the stewpan with the onions, stu- them over the fii-e till the oysters are warmed through, then add half a tablespoonful of fiour, (mix all well together,) two tablespoonfuls of oyster sauce (No. 69), half a teaspoonful of salt, and two ditto of sugar, VTith a little cayenne pepper and essence of anchovies, place it again over the fii-e, keeping it stuTcd, and when itPOISSONS. Ill has boUed two minutes stir in the yolks of fonr eggs very quickly, keep it over the fh^e another haH mmute tiU it begins to set then pour it on a dish and when cold spread it upon the slices of sahuon, then egg and bread-crumb over, and put in a warm oven twenty minutes, salamander of a good coloiu, dish them without a napkin, and pour a lobster sauce (No. 68) with oysters in it round them. No. 248. Saumon a la Creme d'AncJiois. Boil two shoes of sahnon, dish without a napkin, and pour the sauce over them (see Turbot a la creme d'anchois, No. 313). No. 349. Saumon au gratin a la Provengale. Should you have any salmon left from a previous dinner it is very good served in this manner (for description, see Turbot au gratin a la provenfale, No. 215.) No. 250. Saumon a la Creme {gratine). Proceed as for Turbot (No. 211). Many of my readers will probably make some remarks and think it singular that so many different fishes are served with the same sauces, but I must here observe that each fish brings with it its own flavour; and again, it is not to be supposed that any cook would send two different fishes the same day with the same sauce, when there is such a variety to choose from. No. 251. Sole en matelote Normande. Cut the fins off a fine fresh sole and make an incision down the back close to the bone, in which put some force- meat of fish (No. 114), well seasoned with chopped escha- lots and parsley, then butter a saute-pan very ligbtly and put a teaspoonful of chopped eschalots into it with two glasses of white wine, lay the sole into it and season with1 1 o POISSONS. a Httle pepper and salt, then cover it with some bechamel auce (No. 7 , and put it into a moderate oven for abou wenty mmutes or half an honr, (but try whether it is done with a skewer,) brown it hghtly with the salamander, then take up he sole, dish it without a napldn, and make the sauce as foUows: put six spoonfuls of white sauce (No. 7) m the saute-pan with six ditto of milk, let it boH four mi- nutes, keepmg it stirred, then add one dozen oysters blanch- ed, one dozen queneUes of whiting (No. 124), one dozen mushrooms, half a teaspoonful of essence of anchovies, and torn tablespoonfuls of cream, with a little cayenne pepper and sugar; pom- the sauce over and round the fish, pass the salamander agam over it and garnish round mth fried bread cut m smaU triangles. The sauce may be passed though a . tammie before the garniture is added if requii-ed. Fi-ied smelts are frequently served as garniture around it. No. 252. JSole au gratin* Cut the fins ofi" a fine fi-esh sole, make an incision in the back, then butter a saute-pan and put two teaspoonfuls of chopped onions in it with half a glass of white wine, then lay in the sole, cover it with a brown sauce (No. 1), and sprinkle some brown bread-crumbs over it, with a few small pieces of butter; then place it in a moderate oven twenty minutes or half an hour (try when done as before), take it out of the saute-pan and dish without a napldn; then put four spoonfuls of stock and two of brown sauce in the saute-pan, boil it five minutes, keeping it stii-red, then add the juice of half a lemon, a teaspoonful of chopped mushrooms, one of chopped parsley, one of essence of ancho- vies, and a Httle sugar and cayenne pepper; pom- the sauce round the fish, place it again in the oven for a quarter of an hour, pass the salamander over it and serve veiy hot. * In France we have silver dishes on purpose for au gratitis, in wliich they are dressed and served to table, the gratin adlicring to the bottom of the dish.113 POISSONS. No. 253. Sole a la Poltaise. Trim a fine sole and make an incision down the back clearing the meat from the bone, then melt two ounces of butter, and mix with it a teaspoonM of chopped eschalots, one of chopped mushrooms, one of chopped parsley, and a glass of sheny; put the sole in a dish and pour the butter, etc., over it, sprinkle a few bread crumbs on it and put it in the oven twenty minutes or half an hour; when done pour a httle anchovy sauce (No. 72) over it, and brown it lightly with the salamander. No. 254. 8ole a la Hollandaise. Plain boil a sole in salt and water and pour the sauce over it (see Turbot a la Hollandaise, No. 206). No. 255. Sole aucB fines herbes. Boil a sole as before (if the sole is very fresh it may be put in boiUng water, but it is best to let it only simmer) in salt and water, and dish it without a napkin j have ready the following sauce: put in a stewpan six teaspoonfuls of chopped onions and a piece of butter, fry the onions a hght brown, then add eight tablespoonfuls of brown sauce (No. 1), and let it boil at the corner of the stove ten minutes, then add a teaspoonful of chopped mushrooms, haK ditto of chopped parsley, one ditto of essence of anchovies, and the juice of a quarter of a lemon; pour it over the fish and serve. This sauce must be rather thick but not too much so. No. 256. Sole a la Maitre d'Hotel. Boil the sole as above and dish it without a napkin; then put four tablespoonfuls of melted butter, and four ditto of bechamel sauce (No. 7) in a stewpan, with four of broth, when it boils add two ounces of fresh butter, a teaspoonful 8114 POISSONS. of chopped parsley, the juice of a lemon, and a little pepper and salt; pour the sauce over the fish and serve. No. 257. Sole a Vltalienne. Boil a sole as usual, then have ready the following sauce : put two teaspoonfuls of chopped eschalots in a stewpan with a very httle salad oil, fry them a few minutes, but keep them quite white, drain off the oil, and add two tablespoon- fuls of white wine, ten ditto of white sauce (No. 7), four ditto of boiled mUk, and let it simmer ten minutes at the corner of the fire, skim it well, then add a teaspoonful of chopped mushrooms, a httle chopped parsley, the juice of half a lemon, and two tablespoonfuls of cream; mix the whole well together, season it a httle more if required and pour it over the fish. No. 258. Soles plain fried. Lard and oil together is much better to fry in than but- ter, for the milk that remains in the butter is sure to bmn ; the only way to use butter is to clarify it, but that is very expensive, lard by itself being as good as anything, but be careful that it is clean and not burnt; cut off the fins of the sole and dip it in flour, then egg and bread-crumb it, but do not put it in the lard unless it is quite hot, which you may easily ascertain by throwing a drop of water in it; if it is hot enough it will make a hissing noise; allow the sole ten minutes to fry, or less, according to the size, dish it upon a napkin, garnish with parsley, and serve shrimp sauce (No. 73) in a boat. Observe the above receipt, to fry all kinds of fish, as eels, smelts, whitings, flounders, perch, gudgeons, &c. Pour pounds of lard would oe sufficient, and would do for several occasions.POISSONS. 115 No. 259. Sole a la Colbert Make an incision in the back of a sole from the head nearly to the tail, then break the hone in three pieces, bread- crumb it and fry as before; when done, take out the pieces of bone and fill with the following: lay two ounces of but- ter on a plate with half a teaspoonful of chopped parsley, half ditto of chopped tarragon and chervil, two ditto of lemon juice, and a little pepper and salt; put about three parts of it into the sole and mix the remainder with two tablespoonfuls of melted butter, pour round the fish, which is dished without a napkin; put it in the oven a few minutes and serve very hot. No. 260. Sole a la Meuniere. Cut the fins oflF a sole and crimp it on each side by mak- ing incisions across it; then rub haK a tablespoonful of salt and chopped onions well into it, dip it in flour and broil it over a slow fire; then have ready four pats of butter mixed with the juice of a lemon and a little cayenne pepper; rub it over the sole, which is previously dished up without a napkin, turn the sole over once or twice, put it in the oven a minute and serve very hot. No. 261. Sole a la Creme d'Anchois. Boil a sole as usual, and dish it without a napkin; have ready the foUovdng sauce: put six spoonfuls of white sauce (No. 7) in a stewpan, with four of white broth ; let it reduce a few minutes ; then add an ounce of anchovy butter, and two spoonfuls of whipped cream; mix it weU, and pour over the fish. No. 262. Filets de Soles en matelote. Fillet two soles in the manner described (see Fillets of brill a la juive. No. 225), cut each fiUet in halves, flour and116 POISSONS. egg, and bread-cramb them; fry them of a nice colom- in salad oil; when done, dish them on a border of mashed potatoes, and fill the centre with a matelote sauce (see Fillets of brill en matelote. No. 226), and serve very hot. No. 263. Filets de Soles au gratin. Fillet two soles; egg and bread-crumb, and fry as above; dish them on a thin border of mashed potatoes, pour the following sauce over them, and cover with bread-crumbs: put twelve tablespoonfuls of brown sauce (No. 1) in a stew- pan, and when it boils add a tablespoonful of chopped mushrooms, one do. of Harvey sauce, and one do. of essence of anchovies; let it boil five minutes, season vdth a httle sugar; add two yolks of eggs, put it in the oven ten minutes, pass the salamander over it, and serve very hot. No. 264. Filets de Soles a la Maitre d'Hotel. Fillet a pair of soles as before (but neither cut them or bread-crumb them), rub an ounce of butter into a saute- pan, then lay in the fiUets, the skin side dovmwards, and sprinkle chopped parsley, pepper, salt, and the juice of a lemon over them; then place them over a slow fire; turn them when about half done (they must be kept quite white); when done, lay the fillets on a cloth, cut them in halves slantingly, and dish them round without a napkin ; then place them in a hot closet; then put ten tablespoon- fuls of melted butter, and two do. of white sauce (No. 7) into the same saute-pan, with a Httle more lemon-juice and chopped parsley; boil it two minutes; then add two pats of butter, a httle sugar and salt, and fom* tablespoonfuls of milk; pour over the fillets, and serve dkectly. No. 265. Filets de Soles a la Hollandaise. Fillet two soles and lay them in a saute-pan, well but-POISSONS. 117 tered, sprinkle a little pepper, salt, and the juice of half a lemon over them; place them on the fire, and cook them quite white; when done, lay them on a cloth, cut them m halves slantingly, and dish them round; when ready to serve, pour some sauce HoUandaise over them (No. 66). No. 266. Mlets de Soles a Vltalienne. Fillet two soles, and cook them as in the last; dish them up in the same manner; place them in the hot closet; then put a teaspoonful of chopped eschalots in the saute-pan, with two spoonfuls of white wine; stir it over the fire a minute, then add six tablespoonfuls of melted butter, two of white sauce, and four of white broth, with a teaspoonful of chopped mushrooms, haK do. chopped parsley, a little lemon-juice, and two spoonfuls of cream; when ready to serve, pour the sauce over the fish. No. 267. Mlets de Soles en ravigote. Fillet and dress the soles as for Filet de soles a I'ltalienne ; then put ten tablespoonfuls of white sauce (No. 7), and six of white broth in the saute-pan; then mix half a teaspoonful of chopped parsley, haK do. of chopped chervil, and half do. of chopped tarragon, vsdth two ounces of fresh butter, a little pepper and salt, and two teaspoonfuls of tarragon vinegar; boil the sauce in the saute-pan three minutes, keeping it stirred, then add the butter thus prepared vsdth it; stir it over the fire another minute, and when ready to serve, pour it over the fillets. No. 268. miets de Sole a la Orlie. Fillet two soles and cut them in halves lengthwise; then lay them in a basin with an onion cut in slices, a little parsley, thyme, bay-leaf, two wine-glasses of vinegar, and a little pepper and salt; let it remain thus two hours, thenPOISSONS. 118 dry tliem in a clotlv, flour, egg, and bread-crumb them, and fry in oil; dish them round without a napkin; then put four tablespoonfuls of tomata sauce (No. 37) in a stew- pan, with one of Harvey sauce, and two of good stock; boil three minutes; finish with a Uttle sugar, and pom- it in the dish, but not over the fish. This sauce requires to be rather thin. No. 269. Filets de Soles a la Reform. Fillet two soles, beat each fillet flat; have ready a dozen oysters, blanched and chopped, which mix with four table- spoonfuls of forcemeat of whitings (No. 124), and a little chopped eschalots; spread some on one fillet, then cover another over it, and so on tiU they are all done; put a little oil in a saute-pan, vdth a little chopped eschalots, and a glass of white wine; lay your fillets in, season with a httle pepper and salt, and put them in a moderate oven mitil ten- der ; turn them over, and cut each into large diamonds, dress them round (points upwards) upon a dish, and put them in the hot closet; put ten tablespoonfuls of melted butter, and six do. of milk into the saute-pan; place it over the fire, and when it boils pass it through a tammie ; place it again on the fixe, boil it a few minutes, add two pats of butter, and stir it till quite smooth; pour the sauce over the fillets, sprinkle some gherkins and ham (cut in strips haK an inch long) over, and serve very hot. No. 270. Mlets de Soles am HuUres. Fillet and dress two soles as for Filets de sole a la Hol- landaise (No. 265), dish them round, then put a dozen and a half of oysters hghtly blanched in the saute-pan, with ten tablespoonfuls of oyster sauce (No. 69), and four do. of milk; boil five minutes, season with a little cayenne pepper and salt, if required, and pour over the fillets.119 POISSONS. No. 271. Cod-Jish au naturel. Crimped cod, Uke crimped salmon, is preferable to the plain, and is better cut in shoes and cooked, than to cook the whole fish; to boil it well you should have the water boihng (with one pound of salt to every six quarts of water); when you put in the fish, then draw it to the corner of the stove, and let it simmer twenty minutes or half an hour; when it is done, the bone in the centre will leave with facihty; be careful you do not boil it too much, for it would cause the fish to eat tough and stringy, and observe in boihng cod that is not crimped, to put more salt in the water, it will make the fish eat firmer. No. 272. Cabillaud aux Hmtres. Boil your fish as above, dress it on a napkin, and garnish with some nice sprigs of double parsley, and serve the oyster sauce (No. 69) in a boat. No. 273. Cabillaud a la Bechamel. Boil two slices of cod as before, dish them without a napkin, and have ready the following sauce: put nearly a quart of Bechamel sauce (No. 7) in a stewpan, with a quarter of a pint of white stock; stir it over the fire, to reduce ten minutes, then add two teaspoonfuls of essence of anchovies, a httle cayenne pepper and sugar; finish with a gill of whipped cream, and pour over the fish. No. 274. Cabillaud a la Collegienne. Boil the fish as before, and dish it vdthout a napkin; then have ready the following sauce: put an ounce and a half of butter in a stewpan, and mix two oimces of flom* with it over the fire; then add a quart of milk, with two eschalots peeled, an anchovy well washed, a httle salt and120 POISSONS. cayenne pepper; let it boil fifteen minutes, keeping it stirred and pass it through a tammie into a clean stewpan; then add a pint of muscles (that have been blanched and bearded), two hard boUed eggs cut in dice, and three teaspoonfuls of lemon-juice; season rather high, and when ready to serve pour over the fish. No. 275. CaUllaudala Nohle Dame. Boil two slices of cod as before, dish them without a napkin, and pour a good Hollandaise sauce (No. 66) over them; then have ready two soles filleted, each fillet cut in halves which egg and bread-crumb, and fry (of a fight brown colour) in oU; dress them round the cod-fish to garnish it, and sprinkle a few sprigs of chervil over it; this dish is very good, and looks exceedingly well if nicely done. No. 276. Stewed Cod aVEcossaise. Put into a large stewpan four tablespoonfuls of chopped onions, twenty do. of melted butter, two of Harvey sauce, two of essence of anchovies, and one of Chih vinegar; put in two sHces of cod, start them over a sharp fii-e, and, when boihng, place them to simmer for half an hour; then turn them, and let them simmer another quarter of an hour; dress them on a dish, without a napkin; then put a little sugar in the stewpan, and reduce the sauce till rather thick; pour it over the fish, and serve. No. 277. Cabillaud entier a la Bourgeoise. Procure a crimped cod-fish about ten pounds in weight, cover it over with salt on a dish, and let it remain six hours; then put it in a fish-kettle, and pour two gallons of boihng water over it; let it simmer an hour very gently; take it up, drain it weU, and dish it mthou^a napkin, garnish with twenty very white young potatoes; thenPOISSONS. 121 put half a pound of fresh butter in a stewpan; place it over the jSre, and when it is melted add a saltspoonful of salt, a httle white pepper, the juice of a lemon, and pour it over the fish. No. 378. CaUllaud a la Bachel. Salt a crimped cod as above, then put it into a large baking dish, with four tablespoonfuls of chopped onions, and three glasses of Madeira wine (but previously fill the incisions of the fish with a forcemeat of cod's hver. No. 126); put it in a moderate oven, and when half done, take it out; egg it over and bread-crumb, then put it in the oven again; it will require an hour and a quarter to bake; when done, dish it without a napkin, and pour a Beyrout sauce (see Saumon a la Beyrout, No. 245) over it without garniture. No. 279. Slices of Cod a la Montejiore. Boil two shoes of cod, and let it get cold; then cover them with forcemeat of cod's hver (No. 126), egg and bread- crumb them, put them in the oven half an hour, and brown them hghtly with the salamander; dish them without a napkin, and pour anchovy sauce (No. 72) round them. No. 280. CaUllaud a la Creme {^ratine.) See Turbot, (No. 211.) No. 281. CaUllaud a la Frovengale. See Turbot au gratin a la Frovengale (No. 215). No. 282. CaUllaud a la Juive. Put four tablespoonfuls of chopped onions, and two do of salad oil in a stewpan; pass them over a fire five minutes; then add twenty tablespoonfuls of melted butter, two do. of Harvey sauce, two do. of essence of anchovies, and two of122 POISSONS. Chill vinegar; lay in two slices of cod, and proceed as for stewed cod a TEcossaise; reduce the sauce, and pom- over them; garnish with quenelles of cod's hver (No. 126), and onions sHced and boiled. No. 283. Cahillaud a la HoUandaise. Boil the fish, dress it without a napkin, pom a sauce HoUandaise (No. 66) over, and sprinkle some chopped parsley upon it. No. 284. Salt Fisk Choose the fish with a black skin, and be particular in soaking it well; to boil, put it in a fish-kettle with plenty of cold water, place it over the fire, and the moment it boils take it ofi", put the cover on the kettle and let it simmer a few minutes, but if it boils the fish would be hard and thready, when done dish it on a napkin, garnish with plain boiled parsnips and parsley, and serve egg sauce (No. 76) in a boat. No. 285. Salt Cod a la Maitre d'Hotel. Boil a nice square piece of fish as above directed, dish it without a napkin, and have ready the following sauce : put. twenty tablespoonfuls of melted butter in a stewpan, and when it boils add a quarter of a pound of maitre d'hotel butter (No. 79), stir it tiU it becomes smooth, and pour the sauce over. No. 286. 8alt Fish a la Bourgmestre. Boil a square piece of fish as above, dish it without a napkin, then melt a quarter of a pomid of fresh butter in a stcAvpan over the fire, and when half melted add a little pepper, a little scraped garlic, the juice of half a lemon, and when very hot four hard-boiled eggs cut in sHces, pour over the fish.POISSONS. 123 No. 387. Bed Mullets a Vltalienne. Of aU fish this is one of the most recherche when in good order, it is of a nice red colour, and the eyes look very ^"mL a paper box the length of the fish, then oU the box and lay in the fish, season it with a little pepper, salt, chopped parsley, and lemon juice, and pour two tablespoon- fuls of white sauce (No. 7) over each, then put it or them, (if more than one) in a moderate oven and bake twenty minutes or haK an hour, according to the size, and when done, shghtly brown them with the salamander; serve them in the paper boxes with an Italian sauce (No. 31) poured over them. No. 388. Bed Mullets a la Venitienne. Put into a deep saute-pan a tablespoonful of chopped eschalots, one ditto of chopped parsley, one ditto of chopped tai-ragon, one of chopped musln-ooms, two of salad oil, and four of sherry; then lay in four nice muUets, (well cleaned), season with a little pepper and salt, cover them with a sheet of wliite paper, and place them in a slow oven for an hour, turn them over and dress them in a dish without a napkin ; then put twelve tablespoonfuls of brown sauce (No. 1), with one of essence of anchovy, and a httle sugar, boil it about ten minutes and pour over the fish. No. 389. Bed Mullets a la Bavigote. Put the mullets in boxes and dress as for Itahenne, but make the sauce thus: place a quarter of a pound of fi"esh butter on a plate with a tablespoonful of chopped tarragon, one ditto of chopped chervil, one ditto of lemon juice, and a little pepper, salt, and sugar, mix aU well together; have ten tablespoonfuls of white sauce (No. 7) boiling in a124 POISSONS. stewpan, and throw the other ingredients into it, stir it over the fire tiU quite smooth, and pour over yourmuUets m the paper boxes. If too thick add a Httle milk. No. 290. Fillets of Mullets h la Montesquieu. Take four fish and fillet them by passing the knife from the back of the head to the tail, keeping close to the bone, then cut each fillet in halves, then rub a quarter of a pound of butter on the bottom of a deep saute-pan and lay in the fillets; season with a Httle pepper, salt, chopped parsley, the juice of a lemon, and a glass of sherry ; place them over a brisk fire five minutes, then turn them gently and place them again on the fire for five minutes, dress them round on a border of mashed potatoes, but be careful not to break them, as they are very dehcate; put ten spoonfuls of melted butter in the saute-pan, with four of milk, and a httle sugar and salt; set it over the fire, boil it three minutes, keeping it stirred, and then pour over the fillets. No. 391. Fillets of Mullets a Vltalienne. Take four fish, fillet and dress as above, serve an Itahan sauce (No. 31) over them. No. 292. Fillets of Mullets a la Venitienne. Fillet and dress the fillets as above, and sauce as for mullet a la Venitienne (No. 288.) No. 293. Fillets of Mullets sauce Bavi(/ote. FiUet and dress the fish as before, with the exception of the sherry and sauce, as for mullets a la Ravigote. No. 294. Fillets of Mullets a la Mazarine. Fillet and dress the fish as in the last, and pour a sauce Mazarine, (see turbot a la Mazarine, No. 207) over them.POISSONS. 125 No. 395. WJdtings, to fry them. Every person knows the delicacy of this fish, and its Hffhtness as food, especiaUy invahds; it is generally well received at aU tables : to fry them well, dry them m a cloth, then throw them in flour, egg and bread-crimib, fry them in hot lard, observing the dh-ections for frying soles ; serve them on a napkin with shrimp sauce in a boat, and garnish with parsley. No. 296. WJiiting au gratin. Have the whitings skinned, with their tails turned into then mouths ; butter a saute-pan and put in the whitings, with a tablespoonfulof chopped onions and four tablespoon- fuls of brown sauce (No. 1) over each; sprinkle bread crumbs over them, and a little clarified butter, and put them in a moderate oven haK an hour; take them out and dress them on a dish without a napkin; then put twelve table- spoonfuls more brown sauce into the saute-pan, with a tea- spoonful of chopped mushrooms, one ditto chopped parsley, one ditto essence of anchovy, a httle pepper, salt, and sugar, boil ten minutes, pom- round the fish, and pass the sala- mander over them. (See note to No. 253.) No. 297. Wliitings broiled. Have the fish skinned and curled round, flour it, and lay it on the gridiron over a moderate fire; it will take about twenty minutes; dish it on a napkin, garnish with parsley, and serve plaia melted butter in a boat. Season when near done. No. 298. Wliitings broiled a la Mcdtre d'Hotel. Broil the fish as above, dish them vdthout a napkin, have six tablespoonfuls of melted butter in a stewpan, put it to boil, then add two ounces of maitre d'hotel butter1 9fi ^'^^ POISSONS. (No. 79), stir it tiU it is melted, but do not let it boil and pour over the fish. No. 299. Fillets of Whitings fried. Take the fiUets of six smaU whitings which have not been skinned, dip them in flour, egg, and bread-crmnb them, and fry m very hot lard; garnish with fried parsley and serve with sauce Hollandaise (No. 66) in a boat. No. 300. Fillets of Whitings a la Hollandaise. FiUet six whitings as above, cut them in halves, then butter a saute-pan, and lay in the iiUets skin side down- wards ; season with a Httle pepper, salt, and lemon juice place them over a slow fire five minutes, turn them and place them again on the fire; when done, dish them round on a dish, and pour some sauce HoUandaise (No. 66) over them. No. 301. Fillets of Whitings hVItalienne. Fillet and dress the fish as in the last, adding chopped parsley to the seasoning, and make the sauce as for Filets de soles a ritalienne (No. 266). No. 302. Wliiting a VHuile. Fry the whiting in very hot salad oil, instead of lard, .of a very fight brown colour; dish it on a napkin, garnish with fried parsley, and serve shrimp sauce in a boat. No. 303. Mackerel. The mackerel is a useful fish, and makes its appearance upon the tables of all classes; for whilst its dehcious flavour makes it a favourite of the rich, its cheapness jErequently renders it economical food for the poor. To plain boil them put them in boihng salt and water, let them simmer twenty minutes or half an hour, according to the size; dish1 97 POISSONS. on a napkin, garnish with parsley, and serve fennel sauce (No. 75) in a boat. No. 304. Mackerel a la Maitre d'Hotel Cut a mackerel up the back close to the bone, season it with pepper and salt, (a httle cayenne if approved,) butter the skin weU, and lay it on the gridiron; it wiU take about twenty minutes over a moderate fire to brod; when it is done have ready a quarter of a pound of maitre d'hotel butter (No. 79), place the mackerel on a dish without a napkin, put haK the butter in the incision at the back, and spread'the rest over it; place it in the oven a few minutes and serve very hot. No. 305. Mllets of Mackerel a la Bumas. Fillet your mackerel as you would whitings by passing the knife down the back bone, lay your fillets in a buttered saute-pan, (the skin side upwards), with two tablespoonfuls of oil, two of port wine, and season with a little pepper and salt; place them over a sharp fire ten minutes, then turn them and place them over again five minutes longer, or till they are done, take them out, cut each fillet in halves, and dish them round on a dish without a napkin ; then put twelve tablespoonfuls of brown sauce (No. 1) into the saute-pan, let it boil five minutes, then add a teaspoonful of chopped mushrooms, haK ditto of chopped parsley, a httle lemon juice, and a smaU quantity of sugar; chop the roe of the mack- erel and put in the sauce, let it simmer five minutes, pom- it over the fillets, cover them lightly with bread-crumbs, brown hghtly with the salamander and serve very hot. The sauce must not be too thick. No. 306. Mackerel au beurre noir. Open your mackerel at the back, season with pepper and■'•^^ POISSONS. salt butter all over, and lay quite flat on the gridiron, broU It about a quarter of an hour over a moderate fire, and place It m a dish without a napldn, then put half a pound ot butter m a stewpan, place it over a sharp fire till it becomes black, (but not burnt,) throw in half a handful of picked parsley, fry it crisp, and pour it over the fish, then put four tablespoonfuls of common vinegar into the stewpan, boil it half a minute, season with pepper and salt, and pour likewise over the fish, put it in the oven five minutes and serve very hot. No. 307. Fillets of Mackerel a la Venitienne. Fillet your mackerel and cut each fillet in halves, butter a saute-pan and lay them in skin-side downwards ; season with a little pepper, salt, and chopped eschalots; place them on a slow fire five minutes, then turn them, and place them again on the fire ten minutes longer, but keep them quite white; dress them on a dish without a napkin in the form of a star; put ten tablespoonfuls of brown sauce (No. 1) in the saute-pan, with half a teaspoonful of chopped tarragon and chervil, half ditto of chopped truffles, and a tablespoon- fiil of port wine; let it boil a few minutes, pour over the fillets and serve. No. 308. Dublin Bay Haddock a la bonne Femme. This fish used to be very difficult to procm-e fresh in London, but the rapidity of steam conveyance by sea and land, brings it almost alive into the London markets. I must highly recommend this both for its fii-mness and its lightness ; it is usually cooked in one of the two following ways, but it may be plain boiled and served with shrimp, maitre d'hotel, Hollandaise, or any other sauces: cut four or five incisions on each side of a Dublin Bay haddock, about an inch deep, put it in a deep dish and cover it well129 POISSONS. with salt, let it remain so about twelve hours, then put it in boihng water and let it simmer thirty or forty minutes, (if the fish weighs six or seven pounds,) dish it on a nap- km, garnish with parsnips plain boiled, and parsley, and serve egg sauce (No. 76) m a boat. No. 309. Dublin Bay Haddoch, baked. Fill the belly of the fish with stuffing (No. 127), sew it up with packtln-ead, and truss it with its tail in its mouth ; rub a quarter of a pound of butter over it, set it on a baking sheet, put it in a warmish oven and bake it three quarters of an hour; when done, dress it on a dish without a napkin, and pour a Beyrout sauce round it—(for sauce, see No. 64). No. 310. Common Haddock, plain. This is a very serviceable, light, wholesome fish, and may be obtained like soles or whitings, at any time of the year; to dress them plain put them in boUing water weU salted, and let them simmer about twenty minutes, (or according to the size,) dress on a napkin and serve shrimp sauce in a boat. No. 311. Haddock a la Maitre d'Hotel. Cut the fish open at the back on each side of the bone, season it with pepper and salt, dip it in flour, and lay it on a gridiron over a moderate fire, tmiiing it very carefully; it will take about twenty minutes to cook, dress it on a dish without a napkin; then have ready a quarter of a pound of maitre d'hotel butter (No. 69), put half of it in the back of the fish, and put the fish in the oven, put +he remainder of the butter in the stewpan with six tablespoon- fuls of rather thin melted butter; when quite hot pour it round the fish and serve. 9130 POISSONS. No. 312. Haddock a la Walter Scott. Put two tablespoonfuls of chopped onions, one ditto o*' Harvey sauce, one ditto of catsup, one ditto of sherry, and twenty ditto of melted butter into a middhng-sized stew- pan, place it over the fire and let it boil fifteen minutes, keepmg it stirred, then have ready a good sized haddock! cut it in four pieces, put it into the stewpan with the sauce! place it over a slow fire for twenty minutes, or longer if necessary, when done, dress it on a dish without a napkin; reduce the sauce a little more if required, then add a Uttle sugar and essence of anchovy, pour it over the fish and serve. No. 313. Fillets of Eaddoch a la St Paul Fillet your fish the same as a whiting, dip the fillets in flour, egg, and bread-crumb, and fry in hot lard, or oil, in a saute-pan, dress them on a napkin, garnish with fried water- cress, and serve with two ounces of anchovy butter melted, but not boiled, in a boat. No. 314. milets of Haddock a la Hollandaise. ' Fillet your fish as above, and proceed as for fillets of whiting a la Hollandaise (see No. 300). No, 315. Gurnet and Pipers. Though this fish is not much appreciated, I must say it is deserving of more repute than it possesses in the opinion of epicures, for when fresh and well di-essed it deserves to rank as one of the first of the second-class fishes; to dress it plain it is put in boihng water, and simmered twenty or thirty minutes or more, according to the size; dress it on a napkin, garnish with parsley, and serve anchovy sauce in a boat.POISSONS. 131 No. 316. Boast Gurnet. rm the belly of the fish with stuffing (No. 137), sew it up with packthread, aud trass the fish with its tail in its mouth, butter a saute-pan, and put two tablespoonfuls of chopped eschalots and a glass of sherry into it, egg the fish with a paste brash, bread-crumb, and lay a few pieces of butter upon it; then put it in the saute-pan, and place it in the oven half an hour, or more if required; when done, dish it without a napkin, first drawing out the packthread, then put twelve tablespoonfuls of brown sauce (No. 1) in the saute-pan, with fom' ditto of broth, a quarter ditto of sugar, and a half ditto of essence of anchovy; boil it five minutes, pom- it round the fish, pass the salamander over it and serve. No. 317. Fillets of Gurnets en matelote. Slcin and fillet four small gurnets (in the same manner as you would whitings), cut each fillet in halves, egg and bread-crumb, and fry them in oil in a saute-pan; dress them on a border of mashed potatoes, and serve a sauce mate- lote (No. 362) in the centre. No. 318. Fillets of Gurnets a la Maitre d'Hotel. Skin and fillet the fish as above, then butter a saute-pan •and lay the fiUets in it, season with a little pepper, salt, chopped parsley, and lemon juice; place them on a slow fire five minutes, turn them and put them again on the fire tin done, dress them round on a dish without a napkin, and finish the sauce as for fillets of soles a la maitre d'hotel (No. 364), and pour over the fillets. No. 319. Fillets of Gurnets a Vltalienne. Skin, fillet, cook, and dress the fish as before for sauce, (see fillets of soles a la Itahenne, No. 366.)133 POISSONS. No. 320. Herrings broiled, same Digon, These fis]i are fresh when the eyes look bright, the gUls red, and the scales glossy; the dehcacy of these fish prevent them being di^essed in any other way than broiled or boiled they may certainly be bread-crumbed and fried, but very few persons like them; they are best in the foUowing way: wipe them well and cut thi-ee incisions on each side, dip them in flour, and broH them over a moderate fire; when done, sprinkle a httle salt over them, dish them on a nap- kin, garnish with parsley, and serve the foUowing sauce in a boat: put eight tablespoonfuls of melted butter in a stew- pan, with two ditto of French mustard, two pats of butter, and a httle pepper and salt, when boihng and the pats are melted, pour the sauce into the boat and serve. No. 321. Herrings plain boiled. Put two quarts of water to boil (in a stewpan), with hah" a pound of salt; when boiling put in six or eight herrings, stand them on the corner of the fire to simmer for a quarter of an hour, take them up, dish them on a napkin, and serve shrinip, anchovy, or sauce HoUandaise in a boat; these fish require to be served the moment they are dressed, or they become heavy and indigestible. No. 323. Boiled Herrings a la Crime. Boil the herrings as above, and dish them without a nap- kin ; have ready the following sauce: put six tablespoonfuls of the best cream in a stewpan, with a little pepper and salt, and when nearly boihng add two ounces of fresh butter and the juice of half a lemon; stu' it quick and pom- over the fish. No. 323. Skate2Jlain boiled. This fish with some persons is a gi-eat favom-ite; it isPOISSONS. 133 usually crimped, cut in slices, and rolled round, but very seldom dressed whole; to boil it put in salt and water as usual when the water boils, and let it simmer twenty mi- nutes, then take it up, dish it on a napkin, garnish with parsley, and serve with anchovy sauce in a boat. No. 324. Shate au Beurre 7ioir. Boil the skate as above, drain it weU, and dish it with- out a napkin; put half a pound of butter in a stewpan and set it on the fire till it gets quite black, then fry haK a handM of parsley (that has been weU washed and picked) in it quite crisp, and pour over the fish, then put five tablespoonfuls of vinegar, with a little pepper and salt^ into the same stewpan, boil it a minute, pour over the fish, put it in the oven five minutes and serve very hot. No. 325. Shate a la Maitre d'Hotel. Boil the fish as previously, dish it up without a napkin, then put twelve tablespoonfuls of white sauce (No. 7) in a stewpan, and when it boils add a quarter of a pound of maitre d'hotel butter (No. 79) to it; stir it till the butter is melted and pour over the fish. No. 326. Smelts, to fry them. Select these fishes very fresh, they being so very dehcate they must not be kept more than one day in summer or two in winter; then' appearance when fresh is very silvery, the eyes are very bright, and they smell like violets or cucumbers, but if the belly looks at all black they are not fresh, and consequently not wholesome ; the most common method of dressing them is to fry them; diy them well in a cloth, and dip them in flour; then have half an ounce of butter melted in a stewpan, into which break the yolks of two eggs, Avith which wash the smelts over with a paste134 POISSONS. bnish, dip them in bread-crambs, fry in very hot lard, dress them on a napkin, garnish with parsley, and serve vi^ith shrimp sauce in a boat. No. 327. Smelts a la Juive. Egg and bread-crumb the fish as before, fry in salad oil (very hot), dress them on a napkin, garnish with parsley, and serve without sauce. No. 328. Smelts a la Boulangere. Dry the fish in a napkin, dip them in very thick cream, and immediately afterwards in flour, so that it forms a paste round them; fry them in very white hot lard, di-ess them on a napkin, garnish with parsley, and serve without sauce. No. 329. Atelettes Eperlans a la Menagere. Put ten smelts upon a silver skewer, dry them in flour, then oil your gridiron and lay the fish upon it, broil them ten minutes over a clear fire, dress them on a dish -without a napkin, and pour some butter clarified, vdth a httle pep- per, salt, and lemon-juice, over them. In France these fishes are served for second course in the following way: have four small silver skewers, (atelettes,) and run them through the eyes of the fish, egg and bread-crumb them, and fry in very hot lard five minutes; serve them on a napkin without any sauce ; they take the place of a roast. No. 330. Buisson d'lJperlans. Truss the fishes by putting their tails into their mouths, season them vsdth pepper and salt, egg and bread-crumb and fry them in very hot lard, di'ess them on a napkin pyramidically, garnish with fried parsley, and serve plaiu melted butter in a boat.POISSONS. 135 No. 331. Flounders, Water Souchet. Put a pint of water into a deep saute-pan, with half a tablespoonful of salt, and a little pepper, and forty smaU spricrs of parsley; when nearly boiling have ready six small flomders, (cut in halves in a slanting direction), and put them into the saute-pan, let them simmer about twelve minutes, take them up and dress them on a dish without a napkin; then add a httle sugar to the hquor they were boiled m, reduce it five minutes, and pour over the fish; haK broth may be used with half a pint of water instead of a pint. . No. 332. Flounders a la Greenwich. Dry them on a cloth, then dip the white part of them in yolks of eggs, then in flour and bread-crumbs mixed together, fry them in hot lard, dress them on a napkin, with fried parsley in the middle; serve anchovy sauce in a boat; six small fish are enough for this dish. No. 333. Flounders plain fried. Dry them, dip in flour, egg, and bread-crumb, and fry them in hot lard; dress them on a napkin, garnished with parsley, and serve shrimp sauce (No. 73) in a boat. No. 334. Flounders broiled. Dry them and dip them in flom', put them on a gridiron over a moderate fire, when done dress them on a napkin, and serve shrimp sauce in a boat. No. 335. Plaice. May be dressed hke soles, (au gratin,) but the usual way is to bod or fry, and serve on a napkin with anchovy sauce in a boat. It is a watery fish and seldom admitted in the kitchens of the wealthy.186 POISSONS. No. 336. Whitebait. This very delicate Httle fish is cooked in the most simple at the corner, but do not touch the fish with your hands • then have ready an equal quantity of bread-crumbs and lloiu- on a dish, throw the fish into it, toss them liditly over with the hands, take them out immediately, put them m a wire basket, and fiy them in very hot lard; one minute win cook them; tm-n them out on to a cloth, sprinkle a little salt over them, dish them on a napkin and serve very hot These Lihputian fishes never can be had at home in the perfection you get them at Greenwich or BlackwaU, where they are obtamed as soon as caught, and dressed by persons m constant practice. No. 337. Sturgeon. The flesh of this fish is or ought to be absolutely white; if red, nothing can be done with it; though this fish is much in vogue in Prance, in England it is thought no- thing of, for which reason I shaU only give two receipts how to dress it; no fish requires so much cooldng; to di-ess it plain it is merely boiled in salt and water, a pound of the fish requiring half an hom-, dish on a napkin, garnish with parsley, and serve anchovy sauce in a boat. It is cut in shoes an inch in thickness to boil. No. 338. jStur^^eo n a la Chanceliere. Procure two pieces of middling-sized fish about five inches in thickness, then prepare the follomng mai-inade: put two onions, one carrot, one turnip, six eschalots, fom- bay-leaves (cut up very small,) six cloves, two blades of mace, and two tablespoonfuls of oil, in a stcA^'pan, pass it over the fire ten minutes, keeping it stirred, then add fom-POISSONS. wineglassfLils of vinegar, four of sherry, and three pints of broth; boH altogether twenty minutes, then lay m the fish, cover the stewpan, and put it in a slow oven for fom- horns; let it remain in the stock tiU ready to serve, dish it without a napkin, and have ready the foUowing sauce : put twenty tablespoonfuls of thick white sauce (No. 7) m a stewpan with twenty of the stock the fish was cooked m, let it reduce to two thkds, then pass it through a tammie into another stewpan, and add twenty blanched muscles, twenty olives, twenty mushrooms, two spoonfuls of essence of anchovies, half a one of sugar, and a little cayenne; when hot pour over the fish. The fish di-essed this way may be served with matelote, maitre d'hotel, or Mazarine sauce. OP SHELL FISH. No. 339. Lobsters. The middhng-sized ones are preferable to the very large onesthe meat is more delicate; plain boiling in salt and water is all they requii-e, or sea water if it can be obtained; though the dressing of this fish is so very simple you very seldom meet with them boiled to perfection; often they are over done, then they have lost their succulence, and eat tough and thready ; but if, on the contrary, they are under done, they are very unwholesome and unpalateable; to avoid this mistake I wiU here give the proper time to boil them; put a lobster weighing one pound into boiling water and let it boil a quarter of an hour ; if the lobster weighs two pounds it will requu*e half an hom*, and so on in pro-1 OQ POISSONS. portion; this is one of the most useful sheU fish employed m^cookmg, as may be seen by the different receipts for No. 340. Cmh8. This is also a very dehcate fish; it is boHed in the same manner as a lobster, only allowing five minutes longer to each pound, but small ones are useless; they are usually eaten cold with oU and vinegar; to send them to table, dress the meat in the back sheU by mixing the soft part mth a few bread-crumbs, seasoning it with a httle pepper and salt, and putting it in the centre of the sheE; then pick the flesh from the large claw with a fork, and filhng up the two ends, separating it from the other with some red spawn, place it upon a dish, surround it with the smaU claws in a circle, and garnish with parsley. No. 341. Muscles. Though very little in use, the flavour of this fish is very dehcious in many sauces; many people are afraid to eat them, but with care there is not the sHghtest danger if prepared in the following manner: wash them well in several waters, and be particular in taking off all the threads that hang to the joints of the shell, put them in a stewpan with two onions (sliced), four cloves, two bay-leaves, and a handful of parsley; set them on a brisk fli-e and cover them over, toss them over now and then, and when they open of themselves they are done; turn them out of the stewpan, lift off the top shells and take out the flsh, beard them and be particular that no small crabs remam in them (as they are supposed to be the unwholesome part), put them in a basin, strain their own hquor over them, and put them by for use. In July and August these fish may be omitted.POISSONS. 139 No. 343-. Ousters. The English green oysters are the best that are known ; the latter end of August is about the time an epicure would beghi to eat them; the smaU ones are the best for table, and the large ones for cuhnary pm^poses; to blanch them open them with care, and put them in a stewpan with theu' own hquor; let them set, but they must not boil; beard them, strain their own hquor over them in a basin, put them by and use where described. No. 343. Pike roasted. This fish in France is found daily upon the tables of the first epicures, but the quahty of this fish there appears much more dehcate than here. But perhaps the reason of its being more in vogue there is, that other fish are more scarce; not being so much in use here, (that is, in London,) but in the country, where gentlemen have sport in catching them, they are much more thought of, and to them, per- haps, the following receipts may be the most valuable. To dress it plain it is usually baked, as follows: havmg well cleaned the fish stuff" it with the stuffing for fish (No. 127), and sew the beUy up with packthread ; butter a saute-pan, put the fish into it and place it in the oven for an hour or more, according to the size of it; when done dish it without a napkin and pour anchovy sauce round it; this fish, pre- vious to its being baked, must be trussed with its tail in its mouth, four incisions cut on each side, and well buttered over. No. 344. Pike a la Chambord. The large fish are the only ones fit for this dish (which is much thought of in France). Have the fish well cleaned, and lard it in a square on one side with bacon, put it in a fish-kettle, the larded side upwards, and prepare the follow-140 P0IS80NS. andZ^tt - one turnip and put them m a stewpan with six bay-leaves, six cloves' two blades of mace, a httle thyme, basil, abunch 7,tZy iZl'ZLi '7 'T' '"^^ ^^^^ ^ P-™^ °f ^-ttl-; pas'; t over a slow &e twenty minutes, keeping it stirred- then add half a bottle of Madeii. wine, a winejassful of vi^egaT he fir f i^*^ ^^^^ kettle over the fish; set the fish on the fire to stew for an hour or more, according to the size, but take care the marinade does not cover the fish, moisten the larded part now and then with the stock, and put some burnmg charcoal on the M of the kettle; when done glaze it lightly, dish it without a napkm, and have ready the foUowing sauce : put a pint of the stock yom- fish was stewed in (having previously taken oa aU the fat) mto a stewpan, with two glasses of Madera wme, reduce it to half, then add two quarts of brown sauce (No^l), keep it stirred over the fii^e tiU the sauce adheres to the back of the wooden spoon, then add the roes of foiu- carp or mackarel (cut in large pieces, but be careful not to break them), twenty heads of very white mushrooms, twenty cockscombs, twelve large quenelles of whiting (No. 124) and finish with a tablespoonful of essence of anchovies and half a one of sugar, pour the sauce round the fish, arrang- ing the garnitm-e with taste, add twelve craAvfish to the garnitiu-e, having previously taken ofi" aU the smaU claws; serve very hot. This dish I dare say wiU be but seldom made in this country, on account of its compHcation, but I thought pro- per to give it on account of the high estimation in which it is held in France; I must however observe that I have omitted some of the garnitm-e which would make it still more ex- pensive, and if there should be any difficulty in getting what remains, the sauce is very good without.POISSONS. 141 No. 345. Pike en matelote. Stuff and bake the fish as before; when done, dress it without a napldn, and pour a sauce matelote (see Saumon en matelote marmiere, No. 239) in the middle and round the fish, and serve very hot. Or the fish may be stewed as in the last. No. 346. Pihe a la Hollandaise. Boil the fish in salt and water, in the same manner as cod-fish; drain it well, dish it without a napkin, pour a sauce Hollandaise over it. (For sauce, see Tmbot a la Hollandaise, No. 206.) No. 347. Small Pike a la Meuniere. Crimp a smaU pike, it must not weigh more than two pounds, but smaller if you can get it, and proceed exactly as for Sole a la meuniere (No. 260), but allow it more time. No. 348. Pike with caper sauce. Boil the fish as before, and have ready caper sauce made as follows : put fifteen tablespoonfuls of melted butter in a stewpan, and when it boils add a quarter of a pound of fresh butter; when it melts, add two tablespoonfuls of Haison (No. 119); let it remain on the fire to thicken, but do not let it boil; moisten with a Httle milk if required, then add two tablespoonfuls of capers, and poinr over the fish. No. 349. Pike a la Maitre d'Hotel. Boil the fish as usual, and dish it vdthout a napkin; then put twelve tablespoonfuls of melted butter in a stew- pan; and when it is upon the point of boiling, add a quarter of a pound of maitre d'hotel butter, and when it melts pour over and round the fish; serve very hot.142 POISSONS. No. 350. Pihe a VBgyptienne. Cut two onions, two turnips, one carrot, one head of celery, and one leek into slices; put them into a large stewpan with some parsley, thyme, bay-leaves, and a pint of port wine; then have your fish ready trussed, with its tail in its mouth; put it into the stewpan, with the vegetables; add three pints of broth, and set it on a slow fire to stew, with some live charcoal upon the hd; try, when done, by running the knife close in to the back bone; if the meat detaches easily, it is done; take it out, and place on a baking sheet; dry it with a cloth, then egg and bread- crumb it; put it in the oven, and salamander it a light brown; then put twenty tablespoonfuls of white sauce (No. 7) in a stewpan, with eight of milk, and reduce it five minutes; then add four gherkins, the whites of fom- hard- boiled eggs, and two trufiies, cut in very small dice; finish with two tablespoonfuls of essence of anchovies, the juice of half a lemon, and four pats of butter; dress the fish without a napkin, and sauce over. No. 351. Mllets of PiJce a la Maitre d'Hotel Fillet three small pike and dress them in the manner described in Fillets of mackerel a la Venitienne (No. 307); dress them round on a dish without a napkin, and sauce over with the same sauce as Pike a la maitre d'hotel. No. 352. Fillets of Pike en matelote. If for a dinner for twelve, fillet four small pike; egg and bread-crumb, and fry in oil; dish them round on a border of mashed potatoes (previously cutting each fillet in halves) and serve sauce matelote (No. 62) in the centre.POISSONS. 143 No. 353. Fillets of PiJce a la Meuniere. Fillet four pike as above, cut each fillet in halves, rab some chopped eschalot into them, dip them in flour, broil them; when done, sauce as for Sole a la meuniere (No. 260). Observe, if you happen to live in the country where pike is plentiful, you may dish the fillets in as many ways as soles or any other fish; but I have omitted giving them here, thinking it useless to fill a useful book with so many repe- titions ; we have several ways of dressing pike to be eaten cold in France, which I have also omitted, as they would be quite useless in this country. No. 354. Carp en matelote. Have your fish ready cleaned, and make four or five in- cisions on each side; then put two shced onions, three sprigs of thyme and parsley, and half a pint of port wine in a stewpan, or small fish-kettle; season the fish with pepper and salt, lay it in the stewpan, add four pints of broth, and place it on a slow fire to stew for an horn- (which will be sufficient for a fish of five pounds weight), or more in pro- portion to the size; when done, dress it on a dish, without a napkin; drain it well, and serve a matelote sauce (No. 62) over it, only use some of the stock from the fish (having previously taken off all the fat) instead of plain broth, as directed in that article. No. 355. Carp a la Genoise. Prepare your fish as above, and lay it in your fish-kettle, with two ounces of salt, haK a bottle of port wine, two onions, two turnips, one leek, one carrot (cut in shoes), three bay-leaves, six cloves, two blades of mace, and a sprig of parsley, cover the fish with white broth; stew it as before, dress it without a napkin, prepare a sauce Genoise (No. 63), and pour over it.144 POISSONS. No. 356. Stewed Carp a la Marquise. Cook the fish as above, and when done, dress it on a dish without a napkin, and have ready the foUowing sauce: put twenty tablespoonfuls of white sauce (No. 7) in a stewpan, reduce it over a fire untH rather thick, then add a giU of whipt cream, two tablespoonfuls of capers, and two of chopped gherkins; pour over the fish, then sprinlde two tablespoon- fuls of chopped beet-root over it, and serve. No. 357. Carp with caper sauce. Cook the fish as above, and dress it without a napkin; then put twenty-five tablespoonfuls of melted butter mto a stewpan, and when nearly boihng add a quarter of a pound of fresh butter; stir it till the butter melts, then add four tablespoonfuls of capers, and pom- over. This sauce must be rather thick. No. 358. Carp fried. Open the fish down the back with a sharp knife fi'om the head to the tail, cutting off half the head, so that the fish is quite flat; break the backbone in three places, but allow the roe to remain; then dip the fish in flour, and fry it in hot lard; dress it on a napldn, garnish with pai'sley, and serve plain melted butter, well seasoned, in a boat. No. 359. Tench en matelote. This fish, though not much thought of by our fu'st-rate epicures, is, according to my opinion, superior to carp; in a matelote it is excellent. Have yom- fish prepared for cooking, and put them into a small fish-kettle (with a drainer); and if Two middle-sized fish, put two onions, half a carrot, one tm-nip, three bay- leaves, a bunch of parsley, four cloves, a blade of mace, tenPOISSONS. 145 allspice, haK a pint of port wine, and half a pint of broth in the kettle with them; place them over a moderate tire, stew them half an hour, or more if required; when done di-ain them weU; dress without a napkin, and pour a mate- lote sauce (No. 62) over them. No. 360. Tench a la Beyrout. Stew the fish exactly as above, dress them without a napkin, and pour a sauce Beyrout (No. 64) over them. No. 361. Tench a la Poulette. Stew the fish as before, only use bucellas instead of port wine; then peel thirty button onions, pass them in a stew- pan (over a fire) with a little powdered sugar and butter tiU they are covered with a white glaze; then add two glasses of bucellas wine, boU it three minutes; then put twenty tablespoonfuls of white sauce, and ten of the stock from the fish in vdth it, and let it simmer on the corner of the fire till the onions are quite done, keeping it well skimmed; then season with a httle pepper, salt, and sugar, and add twenty muscles (blanched), a httle chopped parsley, and a tablespoonful of lemon-juice; take it ofi" the fire, stu' in four tablespoonfuls of liaison, and pour over the fish j serve very hot. The sauce requires to be thick enough to well cover the fish. No. 362. Tench sauce nu,v Monies. Stew the fish as before, dish it up without a napkin, have ready a muscle sauce (No. 70) pour it over the fish, and sei-ve very hot. No. 363. Tench fried or broiled. Is very good served with anchovy or shrimp sauce in a boat. 10POISSONS. 146 No. 3G4. I^erch a la HoUandaise. Have three middling-sized fishes ready prepared for cook- ing ; then put two ounces of butter, two onions (in shces), one carrot (cut small), some parsley, two bay-leaves, six cloves, and two blades of mace in a stewpan; pass it five minutes over a brisk fire, then add a quart of water, two glasses of vinegar, one ounce of salt, and a little pepper; boil altogether a quarter of an hour, and pass it through a sieve into a small fish-kettle; then lay the fishes into it, and let them stew twenty or thu'ty minutes over a moderate fire; dress them on a dish without a napkin, and pour a sauce HoUandaise (No. 66) over them. No. 365. Perch a la Maitre d'Hotel. Prepare and cook your fish as above; then put twenty tablespoonfuls of melted butter in a stewpan, and when it is upon the point of boihng, add a quarter of a pound of Maitre d'Hotel butter (No. 79) and pom^ the sauce over the fish, which dress on a dish without a napkin. No. 366. Small Perches en water souchet. Cut four small fishes in halves, having previously taken off all the scales, and proceed precisely as for Floimders en water souchet (No. 331). No. 367. Small Perches frits au beurre. Scale and well dry six perches, and make incisions here and there on each side of them; then put a quarter of a pound of butter into a saute-pan, season yom- fishes with pepper and salt, put them in the saute-pan and fiy them gently, tiuning them carefully; when done, di-ess them on a napkin, garnish with parsley, and serve A^dthout sauce. In my opinion, they are much better cooked this wayPOISSONS. 147 than boiled or stewed; laxge fish may also be done this way, but they require more butter, and must cook very slowly. No. 368. Trout plain boiled. Trout that is caught in a river or running stream is pre- ferable to that caught in a lake or pond; although I have had very fine ones from ponds, they have invariably tasted muddy; in fact a running stream is better for all fish in this respect; but still water most affects the flavour of the trout. Prepare the fish for cooking, and boil it in salt and water; if it weighs two pounds, aUow it haK an hour, and more in proportion; dress it on a napkin, garnish with parsley, and serve shrimp-sauce in a boat. No. 369. Trout a la Maitre d'Hotel. Stew the fish hke perch, allowing more time in proportion to the size; dress them on a dish v^dthout a napkin, and sauce the same as Perche a la Maitre d'Hotel (No. 365). No. 370. Trout a la Genoise. Stew the fish as above, dress it on a dish without a nap- kin, and pour a sauce Genoise (No. 63) over it. No. 371. Baked Trout. Proceed exactly the same as for baked pike (No. 343.) No. 372. Trout a la Bey rout. Dry your fish with a cloth, flour it, and lay it on the gridiron; broil it nicely over a moderate fire; when done, peel off aU the skin; dish it without a napkin, and pour a sauce Beyrout (No. 64) over it.148 POISSONS. No. 373. Fillets of Trout a la Mazarine. FiUet a fisli, and cut each fiUet in halves; fry it in butter, hke perch, di-ess it round on a dish, and pour a sauce Maza- rine over them. For sauce, see Turbot a la Mazarine, No. 207, or they may be served with a matelote sauce in change. No. 374. ms fried. Cut the eels in pieces about three inches long, dip them in flour, egg and bread-crumb, and fry them in very hot lard, dress them on a napldn, garnish with parsley, and serve shrimp-sauce in a boat. No. 375. Eels a la Tartare. Cut the eels and fry as above, have ready some Tarlare sauce (No. 38) upon a cold dish, lay the eels upon it and serve immediately; should the eels be large they must be three parts stewed before they are fried ; dry them upon a cloth previous to bread-crumbing them. . No. 376. Spitchcoched Bels. Take the bones out of the eels- by opening them from head to tail, and cut them in pieces about fom* inches long, throw them into some flour, then have ready upon a dish about a couple of handfuls of bread-crumbs, a tablespoon- ful of chopped parsley, a httle dried thyme, and a httle cayenne pepper, then egg each piece of eel and bread-crumb them with it, fry them in very hot lard, dish them on a napkin, and serve shrimp-sauce in a boat. No. 377. Steioed Eels. Cut the eels in pieces as before, and tie each piece round with packthread, then put them into a stewpan with anPOISSONS. 149 onion, a tablespoonful of white wine, three cloves, three whole allspice, a bunch of parsley, thyme, and bay-leaf, and a httle white broth, sufficient to cover them; place them over a moderate fire, and let them stew gently for half an hour or more, if required, (according to the size of the eel,) take them out, drain them on a napkin, dish them without a napkin, and have ready the following sauce : put a tea- spoonful of chopped onions into a stewpan with four table- spoonfuls of white wine, and eight ditto of brown sauce (No. ]), let it boil gently for a quarter of an hour, keeping it stirred, then add a teaspoonful of essence of anchovies and a httle sugar, and pour over your eels. No. 378. Uek en matelote. Stew the eels as above, dress them without a napkin, and pom- a sauce matelote (No. 62) over them. They may also be served with a sauce a la Beyiwt (No. 64). No. 379. Lampreys. Are fish not so often used as eels, though they are re- markably good eating; but I think they have got out of repute by being so often served underdone; they may be stewed in the same manner as eels, (only a lamprey requires double the time stewing that an eel of the same size would require), and serve with the same sauces, with matelote sauce especially; if you fry or broil them they must be three parts boiled beforehand; to try when done run a trassmg needle into them, if it goes in easy they are done. No. 380. Crawfish. These are very favourite little sheU-fish, and much used m France, but seldom served as a dish in this country (they are not good when in s awn); for a dish have two dozen of them and wash in several waters (choose them as150 POISSONS. neax as possible of equal sizes), then put them in a stewpan, with two onions, one carrot, one turnip, one head of celery, six bay-leaves, a bunch of parsley, six cloves, twelve pepper- corns, half an ounce of salt, half a teaspoonful of pepper, a quarter ditto of cayenne, two glasses of vinegar, four of sherry, and haK a pint of broth; place them over a very brisk fire for twenty-five minutes, stirring them occasionally, take them off the fire and let them cool in their stock, put them in a basin, cover them with the stock, but strain the vege- tables away from them, and use for garnishing where di- rected ; to make a dish dress them on butter in the fdrm of a bush, minghng very green double parsley vdth them. There are some few other sorts of fresh-water fish not very frequently used, which may be fried, boiled, or stewed, in some of the ways as described in the foregoing fist.151 HORS-D'CEUVRES, OR DISHES TO BE HANDED ROUND THE TABLE. No. 381. Petits Vol-m-Vents a la Moelle de Bceuf. Make a pound of puff paste (No. 1132), roll it half an incli in thickness, then cut out your vol-au-vents with a fluted ciitter rather larger than a five-shUhng piece; have ready a baking sheet, (on which you have sprinkled some water,) and put your vol-au-vents on it, egg them over with a paste brush, and cut a top with a small plain cutter, which is done by dipping the cutter into hot water, and just marking a ring upon the top of each vol-au- vent, but do not cut it deep, then put them in a very warm oven, and pay particular attention to the baking of them, which win occupy about twenty minutes, keep the oven door shut as much as possible, take them out when done, and with the point of a knife take off the lid without break- ing it, and take out the soft paste remaining inside, leaving them quite empty, they are then ready for immediate use; prepare the marrow as follows: take all the marrow from a beef marrow-bone, in as large pieces as possible, have ready on the fire a stewpan of boiliag water, into which throw the marrow, and let it boil ten minutes, then take it out carefuUy and put it in cold water, put a pint of brown sauce (No. 1) into a stewpan, vdth fom- spoonfuls of brown gravy (No. 135) and a small piece of glaze, and reduce it till it becomes rather thick, then cut the marrow in dice about a quarter of an inch square, and two minutes before serving throw it into the sauce, with two large quenelles (No. 120) also cut in dice, whilst boihng, previously draining them upon a cloth; warm it quickly, season with a httle saltHORS-D'oiUVRES. and sugar if required, fill the vol-au-vents, and dress them on a napkin pyramidically; serve very hot. No. 382. Petits Vol-au-Vents m laitance de Magucreau. Make the vol-au-vents as in the previous article, put two ounces of butter into a saute-pan, rub it over the bottom have^ ready four soft roes of mackerel, then put into the saute-pan with a little pepper, salt, chopped parsley, and a teaspoonful of lemon-juice; set them over a moderate fii-e five minutes, turn them, and when done cut them in small dice, but let them remain in the saute-pan, then add eight tablespoonfuls of white sauce (No. 7), and two of hght broth, a little sugar, and two or three tablespoonfuls of cream; stir it over the fire and mix it well without breaking the roes, fill your vol-au-vents, and serve very hot on a nap- km; carp roes may be served in the same manner. No. 383. Petits Vol-au-Vents au foie de Baie. Make the vol-au-vents as above; boil the fiver of a skate in salt and water an houi', let it get cold, put six table- spoonfuls of white sauce (No. 7) in a stewpan, with fom- of fight stock, and reduce it tiU rather thick, then add a httle chopped parsley, three tablespoonfuls of cream, a fittle white pepper, sugar, and salt, if required; cut the fiver in smaU dice, with four quenelles (No. 120), put it in the stewpan, make it hot, but do not stu' it much or you wiU break it, add a fittle lemon-juice, fiU the vol-au-vents, and serve as before. These patties, although seldom served, are veiy excellent if weU done and nicely seasoned. No. 384. Petits Vol-au-Vents aux Huitres. Prepare the vol-au-vents as before, put eight tablespoon- fuls of white sauce in a stewpan, with a little cayenne pep- per, a teaspoonful of essence of anchovies, two peppercornSjHORS-d'(EUVRES. 153 half a blade of mace, and six tablespoonfuls of liquor from the oysters, reduce it till very thick, have ready, blanched and bearded, two dozen oysters (No. 843), cut each oyster in four pieces, put them in the sauce, (previously taldng out the pep- percorns and mace,) with a little salt, sugar, and lemon- juice, make it hot over the fire, add a Kttle cream, but do not let it boil, or the oysters would become tough and the sauce very thin : fill the vol-au-vents and serve on a napkin as before. No. 385. Petits Vol-au-Vents de Homard. Prepare the vol-au-vents as usual, put eight tablespoon- fuls of white sauce (No. 7), and four of Hght stock, in a stewpan, with a httle cayenne pepper, salt, and a teaspoon- ful of essence of anchovies, boil it ten minutes, then cut a small hen lobster up in large dice, pound the red spawn from it with one ounce of butter, pass it through a hair sieve and mix with the sauce; put in the lobster, make it hot, fill your vol-au-vent, and serve as before. N. B. The last four dishes may be made maigre by substituting melted butter or oyster sauce for white sauce. No. 386. Petites Bouchees a la Moelle de Bauf. Are made in the same manner as the petits vol-au-vents, but the paste must not be more than a quarter of an inch in thickness, and the bouchees must be cut with a fluted cutter not larger than haK-a-crown piece, bake them in a warmer oven than the vol-au-vents, prepare the beef mar- row, fill and serve the same as No. 381. No. 387. Petites Bouchees au laitance de Maquereau. Make the bouchees as before, and prepare the mackerel roes the same as for petits vol-au-vents (No. 382). No. 388. Petites Bouchees au foie de Raie. Prepare them as usual, and proceed as for No. 383.154 hors-d'ceuvres. No. 389. Pelites Bouchees aux IluUres. Prepare tliem as before, and proceed as for vol-au-vents (No. 384). No. 390. Petites Bouchees de Homard. Prepare them as before, and proceed as for vol-au-vents (No. 385). No. 331. Petites Bouchees a la Beine. Prepare them as usual, pick the meat of the half of a braised chicken, and cut it in very small dice (not larger than peas), cut about the same size one ounce of cooked tongue, six blanched mushrooms, and two middhng-sized Prench truffles; mix altogether, then put twenty table- spoonfuls of white sauce (No. 7) in a stewpan, with eight of milk, reduce it to one half, then add the minced fowl, tongue, &c., season with a little lemon-juice, pepper, salt, sugai', and two spoonfuls of cream; serve them very hot on a napkin. No. 392. Petites Bouchees a la puree de Volaille. Prepare them as before, take about half a pound of the flesh of chicken, turkey, or any description of poultiy; pound it well in a mortar, with half an ounce of lean boiled ham, then put a teaspoonful of chopped eschalots in a stew- pan, vidth half an ounce of butter, pass them over the fire, stirring them with a wooden spoon, then add a httle flom*, mix it well with the butter and eschalots, then add the pounded meat, fom- spoonfuls of white sauce, and half a pint of good stock that the bones of the poultry have been previously boiled in, boU altogether a quarter of an horn-, season with a little white pepper, salt, and sugar, pass it through a tammie by rubbing it with tvA'^o wooden spoons, put it into another stewpan, boil it, finish with a table-155 hors-d'ohuvres. spoonful of liaison, fill the bouchees, and serve on a napkin very hot. No. 393. Felites Bouchees de Gibier. Prepare the bouchees as before, put twenty tablespoon- fuls of game sauce (No. 60) in a stevrpan, then cut up into small dice the flesh of a grouse, partridge, half a pheasant, or the remams of any game you might happen to have by you, put it in the stewpan with the sauce, make it hot but do not let it bod, season with a Uttle sugar and salt, fill and serve as before. No. 394. Petites Bouchees a la puree de Gibier. Prepare them as before, and proceed as for the petites bouchees a la puree de volaille, (No. 392) only using the flesh of game, and game sauce, instead of the flesh of poultry and white sauce. No. 395. Petits Pates a la Pdtissiere. Make one pound of puff paste (No, 1133), roll it into a sheet a quarter of an inch in thickness, then cut twenty pieces of the size of a five-shilling piece with a plain round cutter; mix the remains of the paste together, and roll them out to the thickness of the eighth of an inch, and cut twenty more pieces from it with the same cutter, sprinkle a baking sheet with water and lay them on it a little distance apart, wash them over with a little water vdth a paste brush, then have ready prepared in a basin half a pound of forcemeat of veal, fowl, or game (Nos. 120, 122, 123), with which mix half an ounce of beef marrow chopped very fine, one eschalot, a Uttle parsley also chopped fine, and the yolk of an egg; mix well together vdth a wooden spoon, then put a Httle lump of the forcemeat half the size of a walnut on each piece of paste on the baking sheet,hors-d'ceuvres. 156 cover them over with the twenty pieces of paste you first cut, and close them weU at the edges by pressing them down with the top part of asmaUer cutter, egg the tops over but be careful that the egg does not run down the sides, or it would prevent the patties from rising straight, put them in rather a hot oven and bake them about twenty minutes; dish them in pyramid on a napkin and serve; to be good they should be served directly they are taken from the oven; care should be taken not to put too much forcemeat in them, or it will upset them in baking. No. 396. Fetits Fates aux HuUres a la Pdtissiere. Proceed as above, but instead of using forcemeat use some of the salpicon of oysters as prepared for the rissoles aux huitres (No. 399). No. 397. Petits Pates de Homard d la Pdtissiere. Proceed as above, using some of the salpicon as prepared for the rissoles de homard (No. 400). No. 398. Petits Pdtes of Shrimps or Prawns a la Pdtissiere. As before, using the salpicon of shrimps as prepared for rissoles of shrimps or praws (No. 401). No. 399. Bissoles aux Huitres. Put half a tablespoonful of chopped onions into a stew- pan, with half an ounce of butter, place it over the fii-e, fiy the onions, but they must be kept white; then add half a teaspoonful of floiu-, and twelve of oyster hquor, (mix well) and eight tablespoonfuls of white sauce (No. 7), boil alto- gether ten minutes (or more till it becomes rather thickish), keeping it stuTed the -w hole time, season with a Httle cayenne pepper, and salt, (it requu-es to be seasoned rather high,) then have ready blanched three dozen of oysters, cut1.57 hors-d'oeuvre. each into four pieces, dry them on a cloth, and put them into the sauce, let them boil two minutes, add a few drops of essence of anchovies, and tln-ee yoUcs of eggs, stir again over the fire a minute to set the eggs, then put it out on a dish and set it to get cold; make half a pound of puff paste (No. 1132), roU it ten times, (or the trimmings of paste previously made wiU do,) roU it out as thin as a sliiUing, then cut it out with a round cutter the size of the top of a small teacup, lay a teaspoonful of the preparation of oyster on each piece, wet it round with the paste brush, turn one edge over on to the other and close it well, then egg and bread-crumb them, fiy in very hot lard (enough for them to swim in), when done dish them on a napkin, gar- nish with fried parsley and serve very hot; it will take about five minutes to fry them. No. 400. Rissoles de Homard. Put a teaspoonful of chopped onions into a stewpan with half an ounce of fresh butter, fry them white, then add ten or fifteen tablespoonfuls of white sauce (according to the size of the lobster), stu' over the fire and let it boil five minutes, or more, until rather thick, have a fresh lobster cut up into smaU dice, put it into the sauce, season with cayenne pepper, salt, a httle chopped parsley, juice of a lemon, and a few drops of essence of anchovies, let it boil a minute, then add two yolks of eggs, stir it over the fire another minute, to s.et the eggs, and pour it out on a dish to get cold; make and ser\'e the rissoles as in the last article. No. 401. Rissoles of Shrimps. Prepare the salpicon exactly the same as the lobster in the last article, but be careful that the shrimps ai-e not too salt prawns are better for this pm-jjose than shrimps ; they require but very little seasoning ; make, fry, and serve the rissoles as before.iiors-d'ceuvre. 158 No. 402. Rissoles de laitances de Maquereau. Put a quarter of a pound of butter in a saute-pan, rub it over the bottom, lay in the soft roes of fom- mackerel, sea- son them with a little white pepper, salt, a teaspoonful of lemon-juice, and a very Httle chopped parsley; place them over a moderate fire five minutes, turn them, but do not let them get the least brown; when quite done cut them into small dice without breaking, then put half a tea- spoonful of chopped eschalots into a stewpan, with a few drops of salad oil; fry them quite white, then mix half a teaspoonful of flour T^ith them, and ten tablespoonfuls of white sauce (No. 7), stu- it over the fire, and boil till it becomes very thick (as the roes of mackerel are so very dehcate), season with a Httle cayenne pepper, salt, and a little sugar if required; then put in two yolks of eggs, mix well, and add the mackerel roes, stu* it very gently over the fire till the eggs become set, then put it on a dish to get cold; make, dress, and serve the rissoles as before. This dehcate hors-d'oeuvre requires great attention and proper seasoning. No. 403. Rissoles de Gibier. Roast a grouse or any other bird rather underdone, or the remains of some game left from a previous dinner will do, pick the meat ofi" the bones and cut it into very small dice; then put a teaspoonful of chopped eschalots in a stew- pan, with a quarter of an ounce of butter, fry them rather brown, add ten tablespoonfuls of game sauce (if none, make some with the bones as directed, No. 60), and four of brown ditto (No. 1), reduce over the fii'e till it becomes rather thick, season with a httle cayenne pepper, salt, a teaspoonful of chopped muslu-ooms, and a teaspoonful of wine; let it boil, then add the game, with a httle sugar and159 iiors-d'ceuvre. two yolks of eggs, stii- it gently over the fii-e just to set the eggs, pour it on a dish to cool; make, dress, and serve the rissoles as before. No. 404. Rissoles de Volaille. Cut half a roast (or boiled) fowl up into very small dice, then put a teaspoonful of chopped eschalots in a stewpan, with half an ounce of butter, fry them quite white, then add sixteen tablespoonfuls of white sauce (No. 7), put it over the fire to reduce till it is rather thick, put the fowl into the sauce, season with a Uttle salt, white pepper, sugar, a teaspoonful of chopped mushrooms, and a Httle chopped parsley; let it boil a few minutes, then stir in the yolks of two eggs, let them set, and pour it on a dish to cool (a httle ham or tongue may be mixed with the above, if required;) make, fry, and serve the rissoles as before. Rissoles may also be made of turkey, pigeons, veal, lamb, sweetbread, &c., by following the above receipt, and using either one or the other of those articles instead of fowl. No. 405. Croustade de Beurre. Have ready a lump of fresh butter very hard and cut it into shces one inch and a half in thickness, lay them upon a table or slab in a cool place; then take a round cutter the size of half-a-crown, and with it cut twelve pieces of the butter out of the slices, beat up three ot four eggs on a plate, put the pieces of butter into them, then take them out and throw them into a dish of bread-crumbs, take them out, throw them again into the eggs, and then the bread- crumbs, repeating the process three times, lay them upright upon the table, and mark a ring a little larger than a shilling on the top of each with a smaller cutter, stand them in a wire basket and fry in very hot lard, of a nice hght- brown colom-, and very crisp, take them out, take off thehors-d'ceuvre. 160 lids, empty them with care, and you will save nearly all the butter from them, turn them topsy-turvey in a dry place until wanted; when ready to serve put them in the oven a short time to get hot, and fill with any of the preparations for petites bouchees. You may form the croustades in dia- monds, or any shape your fancy dictates; they make very beautiful hors-d'ceuvres, and very cheap, as with care you may save the butter, which when cold may be apphed to any other purpose. No. 406. Croustade de Beurre a la Dulce of York. Prepare the croustades as above, and make a good pm-ee of fowl (as for petites bouchees a la pm-ee de volaille, No. 392), then peel a good sized cucumber, cut it in pieces two inches long, and divide each piece into three lengthwise, take out the seeds, and stew the pieces of cucumber tUl very tender, with a little sugar, onion, and broth, keeping them very white; when cold cut them in small dice, mix with the puree of fowl, fill the croustades, and serve very hot with a plover's egg upon the top of each. No. 407. Croquettes de Homard. Prepare a salpicon of lobster the same as for rissoles de homard; when quite cold cut it out in pieces two inches long and thi-ee quarters of an inch wide, beat up three or four eggs on a plate, and throw each piece into them and then into a dish of bread-crumbs, take them out, roU them lightly with the hand, beat them gently with a knife to make the crumbs stick, then throw them again into the eggs and bread-crumb, smooth them again Avith a knife, fry in hot lard, and dress them on a napkin garnished with fried parsley; they may be made in the form of pears or any way that fancy dictates, giving them the shape pre- vious to bread-crumbing them. Croquettes may be madeHORS-d'(EUVEE. of any of the preparations for rissoles by foUowing the above dhection. No. 408. Aiguillettes de Bis de Feau. Por these kind of hors-d'oeuvres it is necessary to have twelve smaU silver skewers, about four inches long and the thickness of a pacldng-needle, with a ring or fancy design on the top, they are not very expensive but are very novel for this description of dishes; the persons eating what is served upon them taking the head of the skewer with the fingers of their left hand and picking it off with theu- fork. Boil three tln-oat sweetbreads in water ten minutes, poiK off the water and add one onion, one carrot, one turnip, two bay-leaves, and a pint of white broth, let them simmer about twenty minutes tin firm, then take them out of the broth lay them on a clean cloth, cut them in pieces, with a long round cutter, about the size of a shilhng, and season with pepper and salt; then chop two eschalots- very fine and put them in a stewpan Avith an ounce of but- ter ; fry thein quite white, add ten tablespoonfuls of white sauce (No. 7), and eight of hght stock, reduce until rather thick, add two yolks of eggs and the juice of half a lemon, take it off the fire, but do not let it boil after the yolks of eggs are in, then dip each piece of sweetbread into the sauce with a fork, and lay them on a dish till cold, then nm the skewers through the centre of each piece, putting two pieces on each skewer, have ready fom- eggs well beaten on a plate, dip each skewer into the eggs and then into the bread-crumbs twice over, fry in hot lard, and serve them very hot on a napkin. No. 409. Aiguillettes {escalopes) aux Huitres. Put eighteen tablespoonfuls of good oyster sauce (No. 69) into a stewpan, reduce it until rather thick, then add two 11-•'"'^ H0RS-D'a5UVRE. yolks of eggs, stir them well in, and take it off the fire • choose rather small oysters, have them ready blanched and bearded, dip them one by one into the sauce with a fork, and lay them on a dish to cool; when quite cold run the skewers through (placing five on each skewer), dip them in eggs and bread-crumbs twice over as before, fry them in hot lard, and serve very hot on a napkin. No. 410. Aiguillettes {escalojjes) de Homard. Cut forty pieces of lobster the size round of a shilHng, and one inch in thickness, then put a teaspoonful of chopped eschalots in a stewpan, with a very small piece of butter, fry them quite white, then add eight tablespoonfuls of oyster sauce (No. 69), reduce till rather thick, season with a little sugar, cayenne, and the juice of half a lemon, finish with the yolks of two eggs, dip the pieces of lobster into it and proceed as before; fry, dish, and serve in the same manner; the onions may be avoided if objectionable. No. 411. Aiguillettes de filets de Sole. Fillet a sole, butter a saute-pan, lay in the fillets, season with pepper, salt, and the juice of a lemon, place them over a slow fire and when done lay them flat on a dish, place another dish on them, upon which put a four pounds weight, when cold cut them in pieces with a cutter the size of a shilling, prepare oyster sauce as above, dip each piece in the sauce and proceed exactly as before. No. 412. Aiguillettes aux Huitres. Make a preparation of oysters the same as for rissoles aux huitres, adding one more yolk of egg; when cold make thin croquettes two inches long, egg and bread-crmnb them once, pass a silver skewer through each, then egg andhors-d'osuvre. 163 bread-crumb again, fry and serve on a napkin with fried parsley. No. 413. Aiguillettes de Homard. Make the preparation as for croquettes de homard (No. 407), and proceed exactly as in the last. No. 414. Aiguillettes de Sole. Make a preparation as for croquettes de homard, only using the fillets of soles instead of lobster, and proceed as before. No. 415. Aiguilettes de Volaille a lajolie Jille. Make a prepai'ation as for rissoles de volaille (No. 404), but adding tongue, truffles, and pistachios cut in small fillets; when cold make them into croquettes about two inches long, but do not bread-crumb them; pass a silver skewer through, then have ready some batter for frying (No. 1285), hold each skewer by the head, pour some batter over each croquette with a spoon, covering every part of them, and fry in lard, but not too hot, as they must be quite white and crisp; dress them on a napkin and serve very hot. For Aiguilettes de Gibier a la joMe fiUe proceed exactly as above, only using game in the preparation in- stead of fowl. . In France hors-d'oeuvres are made of tastefully dressed anchovy salads, olives, &c., to invigorate the appetite, which is unrequired at this almost the commencement of the dinner.164 REMOVES. No. 416. Croustades of Bread for removes. Although it is against my principle to have any unneces- sary ornamental work in a dinner, I am rather partial to these croustades, they being simple and very elegant. It would be quite useless my attempting to explain by receipts ihe manner in which they are made, as so much depends upon the taste and skill of the artist. Having invented several new removes reqmring croustades of different de- signs, I have had them engraved, and think I may say that the whole of the designs there represented are quite original. These croustades are cut out gf one or two loaves of bread; when cut in separate pieces they are joined by running a silver skewer (or attelet) tlu-ough them; the body of the croustades is fried in lard, of a nice straw-colom-, and the small ornaments attached are cut with cutters and fried in oil, some must be kept quite white and others allowed to get very black; they are fixed to the body of the croustade with a stifiish paste • made of whites of eggs and flour; my reason for departing from the old-fashioned custom of placing them in the centre of a dish and putting them at the head, is that it facihtates the camng, and you are not so subject to get pieces of it in yom- plate with the sauce, besides which I think it has a more novel appear- ance, and makes the dish more elegant. No. 417. To obtain, lard, and dress a fillet of Beef. A fillet of beef can only be procured in this comitry by purchasing a rump and sirloin together, (in France it is sold as a separate joint,) but the rump- and sirloin can beREMOVES. 165 used for other dishes, or for the servants' meals, and m families where they kill their own meat, it is of no conse- quence. To cut out the fillet lay the rump and sirloin upon the table, the inside uppermost, then pass your knife along close to the chme bone, keeping the knife close to the bone until you get past the fillet, then commence cut- ting upwards through the fat, which trim from the fillet, except a little at the sides, then with a sharp knife take all the skin from the top of the fillet, beat it lightly, and lard it nicely lengthwise with small lardons of fat bacon, two inches in length, and the thickness of a quill; have pre- pared and cut in slices six onions, two carrots, two turnips, one head of celery, one leek, a handful of parsley, a few sprigs of thyme, and six bay-leaves, moisten with a teacup- ful of salad oil, lay your fillet on a large dish and cover with the vegetables, let it remain thus all night; to cook it run a lark spit through the length of the fillet, lay all the vegetables upon four sheets of paper, (or more, for if not sufficient paper it will burst and the vegetables fall in the dripping-pan,) lay the fillet upon them, cover and tie it up surrounded with the vegetables; baste it well when you first put it to the fire, to prevent the paper from bmning, roast an hour and a half or a little longer before a good fire; when done, take it from the vegetables, glaze the larded part, brown lightly with the salamander, and it is ready to be sauced and served. It may also be roasted without the vegetables, but then an hour would sufi&ce. No. 418 . Fillet of Beef a la Joan d'Jrc. Prepare and cook the lillet as described, then cut a croustade in the form of a breast-plate (see plate), fix it at the head of the dish upon paste, then lay your fillet m the middle of a dish, make a small border of mashed potatoes round, upon which alternately place a small que-166 REMOVES. neUe (No. 120) and a smaU fillet of tongue, to match; proceed in like manner all the way romid, then have ready nicely boiled twenty heads of fine asparagus, cut half of them five inches in length, and the remainder three inches, dress them inside of the croustade on the top to represent arrows, pom-a jus d'eschalotte sauce (No. 16) over the fillet, glaze tho quenelles and tongue, and serve very hot. No. 419. Mllet of Beef a la Beyrout Prepare and dress the fillet as "before, then cut a crous- tade of bread representing the Wall of a citadel, fonn the cannons with stewed carrots, and the balls with trufiles, place it on mashed potatoes at the head of the dish, lay the fiillet in the centre, make a border of mashed potatoes round, rather high, close to the croustade on each side, but di- minishing as you go from it; have ready twenty crawfish, place them on the potatoes, tails upwards, pour a sauce Beyrout (No. 64) round the fillet; glaze and serve. I must here observe that as crawfish are frequently served to garnish calf's head, I see no impropriety in using them to garnish beef. No. 420. Mllet of Beef au jus d'Orange. Prepare and dress the fillet as described (No. 417), dish it up plain and serve with jus d'orange sauce (No. 17) over it. No. 421. Fillet of Beef au jus de Toniate. Prepare and dress the fillet as described above, dish it up plain, pour the sauce au jus de tomate (No. 12) round it; glaze and serve very hot. ' C No 422. Fillet of Beef NapoUiah^. Prepare and dress the fillet as described (No. 417), place it in the centre of the dish, have ready two croustades, theREMOVES. 167 shape and size of scallop sheUs, fix one at each end of the fillet on mashed potatoes, and fill them with fresh scraped horseradish, then have ready the foUowing sauce: make a mierpoix of two onions, two tmnips, one caiTot, one apple, a quarter of a pound of lean ham (cut in thin shoes), haK a clove of garhc, one bay-leaf, andthi'ee tablespoonfids of salad oil; pass the whole twenty minutes over a slow fire (in a stewpan), then add four tablespoonfuls of Tarragon vinegar, boil it five minutes, add a pint and a half of brown sauce (No. 1), and a pint of consomme (No. 134); reduce it to half, skim off" all the oil, then add six tablespoonfuls of very red tomate sauce, one ditto of orange, marmalade, and two of currant jelly, let it boil a few minutes longer, pass it through a tammie into another stewpan, season rather high, have ready a quarter of a pound of Smyi-na raisins (well soaked in water for one hour), and twelve of the best quahty Trench plums cut in quarters lengthwise, throw them into the sauce, make it hot, pom' romid the beef, which glaze very nicely and serve. No. 423. Fillet of Beef a la Strashourgienne. Prepare and dress your fillets as du'ected, adding foiu" glasses of sheny to the vegetables you roast it in; prepare two croustades the size and shape of scallop shells, dress yoiu- beef in the middle of the dish, placing a croustade (on mashed potatoes) at each end; have ready previously boiled two pomids of Strasbm^g bacon (which, from its dry nature requires soaking two days and boiling four hours), cut it in slices two inches long, and have an equal number of sliced of fried potatoes to match, make a border of mashed potatoes round the beef, and dress the slices of bacon and fried potatoes alternately upon it, have ready pre- pared the 'following sauce : put a tablespoonful of chopped eschalots in a stevrpan, with three of Tarragon vinegar, let il reduc(5 to half, then add a pint and a half of brown108 REMOVES. sauce, two spoonfuls of tomate sauce (No. 37) a pint of consomme (No. 134), and half a tablespoonful of sugar let It boil qmckly twenty minutes, skim weU, and reduce mitil It adlieres to the back of the spoon, then have ready a lemon, peeled, sHced, blanched in boiling water and dramed on a hair sieve, which tluw in the sauce' pour It round the beef, fiU one of the croustades with stoned French olives, and the other with Indian pickle made hot in a little demi-glace (No. 9); serve immediately. No. 424. Fillet of Beef a la Napolitaine. Prepare and dress the fiUetas directed (No. 417), di-essit plain on a dish and have ready prepared the following sauce : cut in thm slices two onions, half a carrot, one tm-nip, half a head of celery, two bay-leaves, a sprig of thyme, a'bunch of parsley, three cloves, one blade of mace, and a quarter of a pound of lean ham; put them into a stewpan with two ounces of butter, stir it over a brisk tire till getting rather brown at the bottom, then add four tablespoonfuls of tan-a- gon vinegar, let it reduce to half, then add a quart of brown sauce (No. 1) and a pint of consomme (No. 134), stir it until boiling, then place it at the corner of the stove to simmer a quarter of an hour, skim it, then add a table- spoonful of chopped mushrooms, a Httle grated horseradish, and three tablespoonfuls of cm-rant jelly; boil it quickly five minutes, and pass it through a tammie into a clean stewpan, add a quarter of a pound of Smyrna raisins well washed and soaked, pour the sauce over the beef, garnish with scraped horseradish and hard-boiled eggs cut in quar- ters lengthwise and laid near the rim of the dish. No. 425. Fillet of Beef a la Milanaise. Prepare and lard the fillet as before, then make a stiffish paste of flour and water, roll it about half an inch in thick- ness and fold the fillet in it, fold it again in three sheets ofREMOVES. •^"•^ paper, tie it up at both ends, run a lark spit through it, and just as you are going to put it down to roast open the paste, poiu- in three glasses of Madeira wine, close the paste well, tie it up securely, roast it two hours, take it up and remove from the paste, glaze it, brown Hghtly with the salamander, dish it plain, and have ready the following sauce: cut half a pound of blanched maccaroni into pieces an inch long, hkewise two ounces of very red cooked tongue, six large blanched mushrooms, and four middhng-sized ■Prench truffles, put twenty spoonfuls of white sauce (No. 7) in a stewpan, stk it over the fire five minutes, season with half a teaspoonful of salt, a small quantity of cayenne, and ahttle sugar, add all the other ingredients, with half a pound of grated Parmesan, stir the whole over the fire to get hot, but do not break the pieces ; moisten with a little cream, pom* the sauce in the dish, lay the fillet upon it, glaze and serve: No. 426. Fillet of Beef a la Bohemienne. Trim and lard a fiJIet as directed, cut in thin shces six onions, two carrots, three turnips, tlu'ee heads of celery, and a leek ; put tlrem into a dish large enough to hold the fillet, then put a quart of vinegar into a stewpan, with a pint of broth; when it boils put in a few peppercorns, nine cloves, two blades of mace, four bay-leaves, a sprig of thyme and sweet marjoram, a small bunch of parsley, half a pound of brown sugar, and a httle salt, let it boH twenty minutes and pour it over the vegetables; when it gets cold lay in the fillet of beef, covering it over with the vegetables, let it remain in this pickle six days, turning it every day; \\:hen ready to cook roast it in paste as in the previous article, brown it with the salamander, serve it in the middle of the dish, make a low border of mashed potatoes roimd it, have ready potatoes fried (and cut in slices in the shapeREMOVES. of cotelettes) dish them upon the border of mashed no- tatoes round the beef, have ready the following sauce • put a quart of poivrade sauce (No. 32) in a stcAvi^an, when It boils add twenty French olives (stoned), twenty small pickled onions, and twenty pickled mushrooms; pom- the sauce round the beef but not over the potatoes; an ounce of anchovy butter may be added to the sauce if approved of. You can also braise the fillet in a baking dish in the oven with the marinade it is pickled in. No. 427. Filkt of Beef a la Romaine. Trim your fiUet and lard it tlu'ough the thick part with large pieces of cooked tongue and fat bacon, twelve pieces of each, tie it up with a piece of string, put half a pound of butter in a large stewpan, and lay in the beef with a pound of bacon cut in slices, two onions, two bay- leaves, two cloves, and ten peppercorns; place it on a sharp fire, when getting a little brown and forming a glaze, put in six glasses of sherry and a pint of consonune, (No. 134), set it over a very slow fire for two hom-s, moving it round Avith a wooden spoon occasionally; have ready blanched one pound of the best small maccaroni-(No. 136); put it in a stewpan, after it is well drained from the water take up the beef, skim. the fat oflp the gravy it is cooked Avith, and pass it thi'ough a sieve upon the maccaroni, add six tablespoonfuls of tomata sauce, and place it over the fire; Avhen it simmers add half a pound of grated Parmesan and half a pound of grated Gruyer cheese, move it round quickly, (it must not be too liquid, so if too much gravy from the beef reserve some of it;) season with a Httle cayenne pepper, salt, and sugar, put a layer of maccaroni upon your dish, then a layer of grated cheese, then the remainder of the maccaroni, egg and bread-crumb the top, sprinlde more grated cheese over, brown it with the salamander, lay the171 REMOVES. ^ ' fillet on the top, glaze, and serve very hot. Should any gravy remain pour it round. No. 428. Btewedrump of Beef a la Mamande. Choose a rmnp of beef from twenty-five to thii-ty pounds, in weight, the meat dark and well covered with fat, bone and lard-it slantwise thi^ough and through with very large lardons of fat bacon six inches long, chop up the bone which put into a large stewpan, with five or six pounds of the trimmings of any other meat, one pound of lean ham, three onions, two turnips, one carrot, one head of celery,^ one leek, a bunch of parsley, thyme, and bay-leaves, eight peppercorns, and a blade of mace: put a pint of water m the stewpan, cover and stand it over a brisk fire, stirrmg it occasionally till the bottom is covered with glaze, then lay in the beef, fill the stewpan with water, skim when boiling, and let it simmer on the corner of the fire for six hours; to try when it is done run a trussing-needle into it, if it goes in easy it is done; have ready prepared eighteen middling-sized onions, butter a sa,ute-pan, put half an ounce of powdered sugar in it, cut a piece of the top and bottom of each onion, blanch them in boiling water ten minutes, drain well, stand them in the saute- pan, cover with stock, place them over the fire, stew till tender and the stock has become a thin glaze, have ready eighteen pieces of carrots, and eighteen turnips cut in the form of small pears, which dress in the same way as the onions, lay the rump of beef on your dish, and arrange the onions and vegetables with taste around it, using for variety any green vegetables that may happen to be in season with them; for the sauce put a quart of brown sauce in a stewpan, with the glaze from the onions and vegetables, and half a pint of good stock; season with a little pepper and salt if required, reduce a quarter of an172 REMOVES. hour, or till it becomes rather thick, pour the sauce over the vegetables, glaze the top of the beef, brown it hghtly m the oven, or with the salamander, and serve. To carve, cut it in tliin slices slantingly through the thickest end, where there is most fat; if underdone it is uneatable. No. 429. Steioed Mimp of Beef aux Oignons places. Stew the beef as directed in the last, hkewise thirty-sk onions, stewed in the same way as there duected; make a border of mashed potatoes round the dish, place the beef in ^the centre, and dress the onions round upon the potato; place a fine Brussels sprout on the top of each onion (or a httle sprue grass or green peas if in season), then put a quart of brown sauce (No. 1), in a steAvpan, with four spoonfuls of tomata sauce and the glaze the onions were cooked in; boil well five minutes, keeping it stirred and well skimmed, pour over the onions, glaze the beef, brown it mth the salamander, and serve. You may put a very white cauhflower at each end of the dish, if you have any. In making the border of mashed potatoes on your dish, be sure and leave sufficient room for the beef, as you can (and it is the best way) dress the onions and garniture on it first, and not place the beef on till ready to serve; for the fat running from the beef it would spoil the appearance of the sauce if it remained long on the dish before serving. No. 430. Stewed Bump of Beef a la Voltaire. Dresg the beef as before, then blanch two white winter cabbages (savoys) in salt and water ten minutes; take them out, and lay them on a sieve to drain; then make a mier- poix of two onions, half a carrot, one tm'nip, one head oi celery, one leek, a little parsley, thyme, one bay-leaf, and half a pound of lean ham, all cut up very small; put them into a stewpan with two ounces of butter, fry fiveREMOVES. 173 minutes, keeping them stii-red; then squeeze the cabbage quite dry, lay it in the stewpan with the vegetables and a quai't of veal stock, place it over a slow fire to stew for one hoiu, or till quite tender, take out the cabbage (save the stock), lay it on a cloth, turn the end of the cloth over it, squeeze it rather dry, and make a long roll of it (about the size round of half-a-crown piece), cut it in pieces about an inch in length, and dress them on the dish round the beef; a small onion dressed as before may be placed on the top of each piece with a nice Brussels sprout between; and sm- round the whole with small fried sausages; for sauce, skim off the fat from the broth the cabbage was stewed in; put half a pint of it in a stewpan, with a quart of brown sauce (No. ly, place it on the fire, and reduce it to one-half; add a quarter of a teaspoonful of sugar, and pour the sauce over the cabbage, glaze and salamander the beef, and serve; this remove is very good, and a similar dish is reputed to have been a great favourite of the celebrated man from whom I have named it. No. 431. Stewed Hump of Beef a la Portugaise. Stew the beef as before, peel eight Portugal onions, boil them in a gallon of water tiU nearly tender, take them out and drain them; butter a convenient sized stewpan, put in the onions with two ounces of sugar, just cover them with good veal stock, and stew them until the stock is reduced to a thinnish glaze, and adheres to them; place the beef on the dish, and dress the onions round it at equal distances apart, and between each onion place a small but nice white cauliflower; for the sauce, add a quart of brown sauce, with the glaze from the onions; reduce it to half over the fu'e, pass it through a tammie into a clean stewpan, let it boil, throw in forty French olives ready stoned, pour the sauce over the vegetable, glaze the beef, salamander, and serve.174 REMOVES. No. 432. stewed Rump of Beef a la Joan d'Jrc. Stew the beef as before, and proceed the same as for Fillet of beef a la Joan d'Arc (No. 418). 433. 8teioed Bump of Beef a la Beyrout. Stew the beef as before, and proceed as for Filet de boeuf a la Beyrout (No. 419)-. No. 434. Stewed Bump of Beef a la Macedoine de legumes. Stew the rump as before, then peel forty young carrots, the same number of young tm^nips; tie up ten small bmiches of green spring onions, butter a saute-pan, place them in it .with a tablespoonful of sugar (leave the stalks of the onions about an inch and a half in length), hah cover them with some good stock, and let them simmer until quite tender; cook the turnips and carrots in the same manner, but sepa- rate, make a low border of mashed potatoes round the dish, leaving room for the beef in the centre; dress the carrots, onions, and turnips on the potatoes tastefully, and variegate them with peas, cauliflowers, asparagus, French beans, and stewed cucumbers (No. 1064); glaze and salamander the beef on a separate dish, place it in the middle of the vege- tables, and have ready the following sauce: put a quart of brown sauce in a stewpan, with the stocks the vegetables were cooked in, reduce until it becomes thickish, pour over the vegetables, and serve. No. 435. Stewed Bump of Beef sauce piquante. Prepare and stew the rump of beef as before, and prepare the following sauce: put two tablespoonfuls of chopped onions in a stewpan, with six do. of common vinegar, and half an ounce of glaze; let it reduce to half, then add a quart of brown sauce (No. 1), and half a pint of consommee (No. 134); let it simmer half an hour, skim, and seasonREMOVES. 175 ^ith a Uttle cayenne pepper, salt, sugar, a tablespoonfnl of chopped musln-ooms, one do. of chopped gherkins, and one do. of sUced gherkins; glaze and salamander the beef, pour the sauce round, and serve. No. 436. Stewed Bump of Beef sauce tqmate. Prepare and stew the beef as before, glaze and salaman- der, pour some tomata sauce (No. 37) round, and serve. If you should have part of a rump of beef left from a pre- vious dinner you can cut it in slices a quarter of an inch thick, and warm them in a httle consommee in a saute-pan; serve with any of the foregoing sauces, but especially the two last; the best way to warm them is to glaze them well and put them in a moderate oven about twenty minutes; do not let them boil, or they would eat very hard. No. 437. Stewed Sirloin of Beef . The sirloin, after having been deprived of its fillet, is of no use for roasting, but is equally as good as the ramp when stewed; bone it carefully and lard the thick part with fat bacon, hke the rump; roll it up, and tie it well with string, to keep its shape; stew it in the same manner as the rump, trim it at each end, wipe off the greasy fat lightly from the top with a clean cloth, glaze it lightly, and put it in the oven until it has obtained a light gold colom'; serve with any of the sauces or garnitures used for stewed rumps of beef. No. 438. Stewed Sirloin of Beef a la Printaniere. Prepare and stew a sirloin as described, glaze and sala- mander it, place a low border of mashed potatoes round the dish, and at each end put a croustade of bread cut in the shape of flat vases; then have ready boiled and cut three inches in length, fifty fine heads of asparagus; dish them^'" REMOVES. in, crown upon the potatoes; then have a quart of verv young peas, nicely boiled; put them into a stewpan with a teaspoonful of sugar, a little pepper and salt, and four pats of butter; toss them over the fire till the butter is melted; put them in the croustade at each end of the dish, place the beef m the centre, pour a "sauce aux concombres (No, 103) round the beef and serve. (For the sauce aux concombres, see No. 103). No. 439. Bibs of Beef a la Jean Bart. Take fom* ribs of beef, and saw the rib bones asunder in the middle; pass yom^ knife under, and detach them from the flap; then take the chine bones from the fleshy part, sawing them off the ribs so as to leave but about four inches of the flat" rib bones underneath; then lard the thick part tlu-ough and through with fat bacon hke the sii'loin, fold the flap over so as to form a nice square piece, tie it with string to keep its shape, and roast tlu-ee hours in vegetables, in the same manner as described for fillet of beef; when done, take off the string, glaze and salamander, place it on your dish, with a square croustade of bread, with a cannon and anchor also cut from bread upon it, at the head of the dish, and have ready the following sauce: chop very fine ten eschalots, ten fresh mushrooms, and half a pound of lean ham, put them into a stewpan with fom* glasses of sherry and two,of Chili vinegar, add a bunch of parsley, two bay-leaves, the rind, of half a lemon, and fom- cloves; put them into the stewpan, let all simmer ten minutes, then add fifteen spoonfuls of tomata sauce (No. 37), twenty of white sauce (No. 7), and ten do. of consommee; reduce the sauce until rather thick, but it must be transparent, season with a little cayenne pepper, a teaspoonful of sugai*, and a little salt, if requii-ed; pass it thi'ough a tammie into another stewpan, boil it up, and pom* round the beef.177 REMOVES. No. 440. Ox Tongues May be served plain boiled; if a good-sized tongue, allow it from three to foiu' houi'S to boil; put it in cold water, take off the skin, trim off a great part of the root, put it in hot water again a short time, dress it on a dish garnished with vegetables as for stewed rump of beef a la Elamande (No. 428), or served with spinach or a Milanaise sauce (see Fillet of Beef a la Milanaise); but when used as a remove, they are mostly served as part of the garnitiu-e of another dish. No. 441. Loin of Veal a la Cambaceres. Procure a nice white loin of veal, saw off the chump, cut off the thick skin from the thick part, then cut some lardon of fat bacon and lean raw ham, a quarter of an inch square and three inches long, with which lard the thickest end on the top; skewer the flap underneath, butter the bottom of a large flat stewpan, cover with thin shoes of fat bacon, and lay the veal on the top of them, the larded side uppermost; add two onions with fom- cloves stuck in them, one carrot, one turnip, a bunch of parsley, thyme and bay4eaves (tied together), half a pint of bucellas wine, and a quart of stock; place it over a sharp fire a quarter of an hour to boil, skim and place it in a moderate oven for two hours (according to the size), basting it every quarter of an horn- with the stock; when done glaze and salamander the larded part, but put the cover of the stewpan over the other part (whilst salamandering it) as it must be kept quite white; make a low border of mashed potatoes on the dish you intend serving it on, and have ready the following garnitiu-e : you have previously boiled a Russian ox-tongue; take off the skins, and cut it in escalopes the size of five-shilling pieces j then cut up six very large French truffles, and stew two 12178 REMOVES, cucumbers; cut in escalopes of the same size as the tongue, make them hot in separate stewpans, in a Httle stock, and dress them alternately on the border of mashed potatoes all roimd the dish; place the veal in the centre, and have ready the following sauce: put two tablespoonfuls of chopped muslu-ooms in a stewpan with a glass of Madeira wine, two quarts of white sauce (No. 7), and a pint of boihng milk; reduce it over the fu-e till it becomes rather thick; pass it through a tammie into another stewpan, season with a little sugar, salt, and the juice of half a lenion; pom* a little over each piece of truffle and cucumber, and the rest in the dish; glaze the pieces of tongue carefully, and serve. No. 442. Loin of Veal a la Macecloine de legumes. Prepare and braise the veal as before, garnish and sauce as for stewed rump of beef a la Macedoine de legumes (No. 434). No. 443. Loin of Veal a la Puree de Celeri. Prepare and braise the veal as before, without larding it; make a border of mashed potatoes on the dish, then have twenty good heads of celery, cut off the tops witliin two inches of the bottom, make a puree of celery (No. 117) with the tops, and stew the bottoms in a quart of white stock, with a quarter of an ounce of sugar, until tender; dress them upright upon the border of potatoes, place the veal in the centre, and pour the pm-ee of celery round; serve very hot; the sauce must be rather thinner than usual. No. 444. Loin of Veal a la Strashourgienne. Roast a loin of veal in vegetables in the manner as de- scribed for PiUets of Beef (No. 417), aUomng it longer time according to the size; dress it on the dish with a border of mashed potatoes round, then have ready thii'ty pieces ofKEMOVES. 179 Strasburg bacon, cut in the shape and size of cutlets; di^ess them on the potatoes round the veal, pour a sauce poivrade (No. 32) into the dish, but not over the bacon; glaze the bacon, and serve. The Strasburg bacon being very diy, requires soaking at least twenty-four hoiu-s; it must be allowed to simmer until very tender; place it be- tween two dishes, with a weight upon it, and when cold cut it into the shapes required, and make them hot in good white stock. Good streaky bacon may be used instead of the Strasburg, if it is difficult to obtain. No. 445. Fillet of Veal a la Princiere. Procm-e a good leg of veal, cut oflF the knuckle just above the joint, then cut out the bone from the middle of the fillet; have ready two pounds of forcemeat (No. 120), cut half a pomid of cooked ham and twenty mushrooms into very small dice, mix them with the forcemeat; season rather high with cayenne pepper, salt, and nutmeg, put the force- meat in the place the bone was taken from, pidl the udder of the fillet round, and skewer it up, but not too tight; tie it up with string, put it on a spit, and roast it four hom-s in vegetables, in the same manner as described for fillets of beef; when done take it from the paper and vegetables, cut off the string, and run three or four silver skewers tlu'ough it in the place of those you have taken out; the fillet must be quite white; place it on the dish, make a border of mashed potatoes round it, upon which dress alternately a piece of tongue and a piece of bacon, each piece cut in the form of a heart, and not more than a quarter of an inch in thickness; glaze the garniture, and have ready the following sauce: put two quarts of white sauce into a stewpan, stir it over the fire until it becomes thick, then add nearly a pint of thin cream; pour the sauce in the dish, but not over the garnitm^e, and seiTe immediately; the first slice must be cut off" the veal previous to its going to table.180 REMOVES. No. 446. Fillet of Veal a la Versaillienne. Cut yoiir fillet as before, have ready boiled an ox-tongue, trim it, cut olf tlie root and about two inches of the tip, put it in the middle of the fillet from where you have taken the bone, and fill up the cavities round the tongue \Aith some forcemeat (No. 120), skewer up the fillet and roast it as before; when done lay it on the dish with a border of mashed potatoes round it, upon which dress alternately a quenelle of veal and a slice of stewed cucmuber (No. 1064), then put two quarts of white sauce in a stevrpan, with a pint of broth, reduce it, and add nearly half a pint of cream, pour the sauce over the garnitm-e, and sprinkle a Httle chopped tarragon and chervil over it; serve as soon as possible after you have poured the sauce over, which requires to be seasoned rather high. No. 447. Fillet of Veal a la Palestine. Prepare and dress the fillet exactly as before, then peel fifty Jerusalem artichokes, and turn them in the shape of small pears; boil them nicely in salt and water, lay your fillet on a dish vdth a border of mashed potatoes romid it, upon which dress the artichokes, the round part upper- most, between each artichoke place a fine Brussels sprout; sauce the same as the last and serve. No. 448. Fillet of Veal a la Jardiniere. Prepare the fillet as before, but place a piece of boiled bacon in the centre instead of the tongue,, roast it in vege- tables as before, pom- a sauce jardiniere (No. 100) upon a dish, sprinkle a pint of young green peas plain boiled upon it, dress a cauliflower at each end and another on each side, place the fillet in the middle upon the sauce and serve.REMOVES. 181 No. 449. Fillet of Veal a la Fotagere. Prepare the fillet as before, then lard it through and through with pieces of fat bacon a quarter of an inch square and six inches long, skewer it up tight, put it on a spit and roast it as before, but twenty minutes before it is done take it out of the vegetables but not ofi" the spit, and let it remain before the fu-e to brown; have ready prepared twenty middle-sized onions, and as many pieces of carrots tmiied in the form of pears, stew them as du-ected in stewed rump of beef a la Plamande (No. 428), place the fillet in the dish, make a border of mashed potatoes round it, upon which dress the onions and carrots, with a cauli- flower at each end; have ready the following sauce: put two quarts of brown sauce in a stewpan, with half a pint of consomme and half the stock the carrots and onions were cooked in, boil it till it becomes Hke a thin glaze, pom- over the vegetables, sprinkle about a pint of young peas nicely boiled over them if in season, and serve. No. 450. Fillet of Veal aiixpetitspois. Prepare and roast the fillet exactly as the preceding, then put a pint of white sauce (No. 7) in a ste-R^an, let it boil; have ready a quart of young peas nicely boiled, put them into the stewpan, with the white sauce, a little salt, and half an ounce of pounded sugar let it boil up, then add two ounces of fresh butter, toss them together over the fire, poiu- them out into the dish, lay the fillet over, and serve as soon as possible. No. 451. Neck of Veal a la puree de celeri. Take the best end of a neck of veal with about seven bones in it, cut oflF the chine bones to give it a nice square appearance, and roast it in vegetables as the fillets, but ofREMOVES. 1S2 course it will not require so long; when done, dress it on a dish with a piece of boiled bacon about three inches broad at each end, make a border of mashed potatoes round, upon which dress the bottoms of fifteen heads of stewed celery (No. 117), and sauce with a pm-ee of celery made from the tops, as there directed; serve very hot, but glaze the veal and bacon the last thing before going to table. No. 452. Nech of Veal a la Bouennaise. Prepare a neck of veal, leaving it as long as possible, take off the skin and the chine bones, lard and braise it as for loin of veal a la Cambaceres (No. 441); when done, put three tablespoonfuls of oil into a stewpan, with two of chopped eschalots, two of chopped raw muslu'ooms, and two of chopped parsley, pass them ten minutes over the fu-e, then pour off the greater part of the oil, add half a teaspoon- ful of flour, mix it well, and put in eighteen tablespoonfuls of white sauce (No. 7), stir it over the fire till it becomes rather thick, then add a little salt, hah" a teaspoonful of sugar, and the yolks of two eggs, mix aU well together, and spread it over the larded part of the veal, egg and bread- crumb it, brown it hghtly with the salamander, and serve a jus d'echalotte sauce (No. 16) with mushi'ooms in it, pom- it in the dish round the veal. No. 453. Neck of Veal a la Milanaise. Braise the veal precisely as (No. 441), prepare a MUa- naise sauce (see fillet of beef a la MUanaise, No. 425) which pour into the dish and dress the veal upon it. No. 454. NecJc of Veal a la Bruwellaise. Dress the veal the same as for neck of veal a la puree de celeri (No. 451), then have about one hundred Brussels sprouts, nicely boiled, put them into a stewpan, with two183 REMOVES. ounces of butter, a little pepper, salt, sugar, and the juice ot half a good lemon, stir them gently over the fu^e but do not break the sprouts, pour them upon your dish, dress the veal upon them with a piece of bacon at each end, glaze them, pour half a pint of thin white sauce (No. 7) round over the Brussels sprouts and serve. No. 455. Breast of Veal. I do not consider that a breast of veal is good without the tendron (which is usually cut out and braised for en- trees), yet it would be impossible to roast it with the breast, for it would not be a quarter done by the time the other was; I therefore recommend the following new method: cut out the tendi-on, braise it as described (No. 685), let it get cold, take the other bones out of the breast, lay some forcemeat of veal (No. 120) down the centre, upon which place the tendron, roll it up, sew it with string and your trussing-needle, oil some paper, tie the veal up in it, and roast it two hours, place a sauce Soubise (No. 47); or jar- diniere (No. 100) on the dish; take the veal from the paper and lay it upon the sauce, or if preferred you may serve with a plain veal sauce made thus : put ten spoonfuls of brown sauce, and the same quantity of melted butter into a stewpan, place it on the fue, let it boil ten minutes, skim it, add three tablespoonfuls of Harvey sauce, and it is ready to serve. No. 456. Breast of Veal auxpois fins a VAnglaise. Dress the veal exactly as before, have ready boiled a a quart of fresh young peas, put them into a stewpan, with eight spoonfuls of brown sauce (No. 1), a teaspoonful of powdered sugar, a quarter of a pound of fresh butter, and a small bunch of parsley, boil them ten minutes, season with a little salt if required, pour them into your dish, glaze the veal and serve it upon them.184 REMOVES. No, 457. Breast of Veal a la puree de celeri. Dress the veal as before, and serve with a puree of celery (No. 117) under it. No. 458. Breast of Veal sauce tomate. Dress the veal as before and serve mth a sauce tomate (No. 37) under it. Breasts of veal may be stewed like the necks, or roasted with vegetables, but they are best roasted as before described. No. 459. Calfs Head. Procure a nice wliite calf's head that has been well scalded, saw it in halves, taking out the tongue (whole) and the brains, make a white stock as follows : put two carrots, two turnips, two heads of celery, (cut up smaU), a quarter of a pound of butter, six cloves, four blades of mace, and a bunch of parsley, thyme, and bay-leaves, pass it over the fire twenty minutes in a long brasier large enough to lay the head in, then add a pint of water with which when boiled mix a quarter of a pound of flom-, add a gallon of water, two lemons in slices, and a quarter of a pound of salt; let it boil up, then lay the head in, take care that it is well covered or the part exposed would become quite black, when boihng set it on the corner of the stove to simmer for two hours, or until it is done, which you can ascertain by pressing the cheek on the thickest part vni\\ yom* finger, if it gives easily it is done; let it remain in the broth mitil ready to serve, take it up, drain it on a clean cloth, break off the jaw-bone, lay it on yom* dish, smTound it with six nice boiled potatoes cut in halves, and pom* sauce'Holland- aise (No. 66) over it, or sauce piquante (No. 27), or sauce tomate (No. 37), if preferred. To serve calf's head for a remove for a large dinner,If REMOVES. ■^"'^ Avhen the head is done cut off the ears, take out all the bone, and set it on a large dish, place another dish upon it and press it Hghtly with a seven pounds weight till it o-ets cold, then lay it out on the table and cut it into oval pieces two inches wide and three long, make a border of mashed potatoes, warm the pieces in the stock it was boiled in, drain them on a cloth, then chsh them alternately with quarters of boiled potatoes round the dish, trim the gristly part of the ears, then cut mcisions in them longways with- out separating the edges, tmn them over and they will form a frill, place a httle of the brains inside of each, and the re- mainder with the tongue cut in halves in the centre, upon wliich place the ears at each end, sauce with HoUandaise as before, but if requhed with other sauce the quarters of potatoes must be omitted. No. 460. Calfs Head au naturel. Although calf's head is seldom if ever dressed this way in England it is about the best method; the glutinous sub- stance of the head being so rehshing with this sauce, all French epicures patronise it. Take a small calf's head, lay it upon its skull on the table, open the under part without cutting the tongue, take out the under jaw-bones carefully, fold the cheeks under, tie it round with string, boil it three hours, (as described in the last), when done lay it upon a cloth to drain, untie the string, take out the tongue, peel it, put the point of a knife in the middle of the skull bone, it will open with facility, take off the two pieces of bone that cover the brains, and leave them exposed, place the head upon a dish with one half of the tongue on each side, (each person that partakes of it should be served with tongue and brains); serve the following sauce in a boat: put two tablespoonfuls of chopped eschalots, one of chopped parsley, one of chopped tarragon and chervil, a quarter186 REMOVES. ditto of salt, a little pepper, six tablespoonfiils of salad oil and three cHtto of common vinegar; mix aU well together and serve; each person should stir the sauce previous to helpmg themselves to it, for by standing the oil wiU come to the top ; the head requires to be very hot, but the sauce qmte cold. No. 461. Haifa Calfs Head a la Imxemhourg. Procure half a caK's head, pass your knife under the skm upon the top of the skuU and saw off about two inches of the skuU bone, boil it as described in the last, when done drain it on a cloth, lay it in a saute-paji, and spread the following forcemeat over it: having previously weU washed the brains, cut them in shoes, put two ounces of butter in a saute-pan, let it melt, then lay in the brains, sprinkle a little chopped parsley, pepper, salt, and the juice of half a lemon; put them over a slow fire, turn them, and when done chop them fine and put them in a basin, with four tablespoonfuls of bread-crumbs, one of chopped mush- rooms, a httle more pepper and salt, a httle grated nutmeg, and chopped lemon peel; mix altogether, with the yolks of two eggs; after it is spread wash it over with eggs, with a paste-brush, sprinlde some bread-crumbs over it, place it in the oven -half an hour, salamander a hght brown, place it on a dish, and have ready the following sauce: put into a stewpan fom- tablespoonfuls of tarragon vinegar, one blade of mace, two cloves, one spoonful of scraped horseradish, and a glass of brandy; let it boil five minutes, add thi-ee pints of brown sauce (No. 1), and one ditto of consomme (No. 134); when it boils set it at the comer of the stove, sldm it well and reduce it to two-thirds, pass it thi-ough a tammie into a clean stewpan, and add two dozen of piclded mushrooms, and two dozen very small gherkins; warm altogether, finish with an ounce of anchovy butter, and1R7 REMOVES. half a teaspooiiful of sugar, pour the sauce round the head and serve; you may di'ess the whole head, cutting it up as described (No. 459), cover each piece with the torce- nieat, dress them on a border of mashed potatoes, and serve the sauce in the centre. No. 462. Tete de Veau en Tortue. Dress the head, and when cold cut it in oval pieces, as described (No. 459), make a smaU elevated casserole of rice in the shape of an oval vase (see'No. 626), which place in the centre of the dish, make the pieces hot and dish them on a border of mashed potatoes round it, placmg an ear at each end; have ready the following garniture and sauce: make a mierepoix of two onions, one timiip, balf a carrot, a quarter of a pound of lean ham, all cut up in shces; put them into a stewpan, Avith two cloves, haK a blade of mace, a sprig of thyme, marjoram, mnter savory, basil, a little parsley, a ba^-leaf, and two ounces of butter; pass it over a foe till it becomes a little brown, then add four glasses of Madeira, two quarts of brown sauce (No. 1), haK a pint of tomata sauce (No. 37), and haK a pint of broth, reduce it on a quick fire twenty minutes, skim it weU, pass it through a tammie into a clean stewpan, boil it again tiU it adheres to the back of the spoon, season with haK a saltspoonful of cayenne pepper, and a little sugar, add twenty prepared cockscombs (No. 128), six French truffles sliced, twenty blanched mushrooms, and twenty small quenelles (No. 120); when very hot lay the garniture in the rice casserole, and pour the sauce over the pieces of caK's head; an attelet with a crawfish, truffle, and large quenelle upon it, may be stuck at each end of the casserole of rice in a slanting direc- tion.188 REMOVES. No, 463. Calf 8 Head a la Pottinger. Dress and cut a head in pieces as before, make two croustades of bread, one in the shape of a cushion, and the other like a scallop-shell, make the pieces of head hot, and dress them in your dish on a border of rice (prepared as No. 626), put the croustade in the form of a cushion at one end of the dish, and the other elevated upon a piece of fried bread at the other end, in which put the brains, at each side of the dish dress an ear cut to form a friU, mth a plover's egg in each; have ready the following sauce : put two tablespoonfuls of chopped onions into a stewpan, with six of the vinegar from Indian pickles, let it boH a few minutes, then add three pints of white sauce (No. 7), and a pint of white stock, let it boil until it adheres to the back of the spoon, pass it through a tammie into another stewpan add twenty mild Indian pickles, the same number of small gherkins, and thirty cockscombs (No. 128), when hot pom- the sauce over the head, stick three attelets prepared as in the last in the croustade resembling a cushion very taste- fully, and serve. No. 464. Calfs Head in currie. Prepare and dish the head as in the last, boil a pound of rice (see No. 129), and dish it in a pyramid in the middle, leaving a place at the top to lay in the brains ; have ready prepared the following sauce : put four onions, two apples (cut in slices), a sprig of thyme, a httle parsley, a blade of mace, and six cloves into a stewpan, with two ounces of butter, fry them of a Hght brown, add one tablespoonful of curry powder, mix it well, then add three pints of white sauce (No. 7), and a pint of broth; boil altogether twenty minutes, pass it through a tammie, put it again into a stewpan, let it boil, season with a little salt and sugai-,1RQ REMOVES. ^"-^ pom^ over the head and serve veiy hot. If the cm-ne is preferred browner, use a Httle brown gravy (No 135); more currie powder may be added if requu-ed very hot. No. 465. Saddle of Mutton a la Bretomie. Roast a saddle of mutton quite plain (see kitchen at home), for the sauce wash and soak well a pint of young diy French haricots, put them into a large stewpan with three quarts of water (cold), an ounce of salt, and an ounce of butter; set them over a brisk fire till they boil, then set them at the corner and let them simmer for five hom^s, or till tender, drain them.on a sieve, cut four onions in thin slices, put them in a stewpan, with three ounces of butter, stir them over the fire till they are a fight brown coloiu-, then add half a tablespoonful of flour (mix it well), and a pint of good gravy; when it boils put in the haricots, mix them well, and season with a saltspoonfd of pepper, and four ditto of salt, add the gravy from the mutton, with half an ounce of glaze, pom^ them on the dish, dress the saddle on the top and serve. Care must be taken not to have this sauce either too thick or too thin. No. 466. Saddle of Mutton au Laver. Roast the saddle quite plain, put two pounds of fresh laver in a stewpan, vdth two tablespoonfuls of catsup, four ounces of butter, a teaspoonful of salt, a httle pepper, four tablespoonfuls of brown sauce, and one ounce of glaze, make it very hot, pour in the dish, dress the saddle upon it and serve. No. 467. Saddle of Mutton a la Polonaise. Roast a middling-sized saddle of mutton, and let it get cold, then cut off" afi the meat, leaving the bone and flaps uncut, stand it on a strong dish that will bear the oven; have ready some mashed potatoes rather stiff with whichREMOVES. build a wall round the bone and flaps, to shape it, again like the saddle, mince the meat you have cut out very fine, put two tablespoonfuls of chopped onions in a middling-sized stewpan, with half an ounce of butter, fry them a very light brown, then add half a tablespoonful of flom- (mix weU), a quart of brown sauce (No. 1), and half a pint of stock, let it boil ten minutes, then add the mutton (mix well), season with pepper, salt[ and two tablespoonfuls of catsup, make it quite hot, then add three yolks of eggs, stir well over the fire for three minutes to set the eggs, put it uito the saddle, egg all over with a paste-brush, cover the top with bread-crumbs, melt a little butter, which sprinkle over the bread-crumbs, put it in a moderate oven half an hour, salamander a hglit bro^vn, serve in the same dish, and pour the following sauce round; put a pint of brown sauce in a stewpan, with half a pint of broth, a spoonful of catsup, half a teaspoonful of sugar, and the smallest piece of garhck imaginable scraped on the tip of a knife, boil altogether five minutes, it is then ready. Tliis dish may be made of the remains of a saddle of mut- ton left from a previous dinner, by procming sufficient mut- ton for mincing, and is equally as good. No. 468. Saddle of Mutton a la Marseillaise. Prepare the saddle of mutton exactly as for Polonaise, only when you put in the mince, which you have made rather stifier, have ready prepared the follomng pm-ee : cut six onions in small dice, put them into a stewpan with two ounces of butter, let them simmer gently until quite tender, then add half a tablespoonful of flom- (mix well), four ditto of white sauce. (No. 7), and ten of millc, let it boil twenty minutes, season with a little pepper, salt, and sugar, stir in the yolks of tliree eggs, stir over the fire a minute to set the eggs, let it cool a little, and spread it over the mince, egg over and bread-crumb the top, put it in a mode-1 Ql REMOVES. ^'^^ rate oven half an hom^ salamander a light brown, and serve with a sauce Soubise (No. 47) rather thinnish round it. No. 469. Saddle of Mutton rdti, braise, a la Mirabeau. Trim a nice saddle of mutton (South Down are the best, from fom- to five years old), take off the skin and skewer the flaps miderneath, roast it in vegetables as directed for fiUet of beef (No. 417), about two hours and a half will be sufficient, take it from the vegetables, glaze and salamander nicely, place it on yonr dish and serve with the following sauce: put a quart of poivrade sauce (No. 32) in a steAvpan, and when boihng add a teaspoonful of sugar, fom- of chopped gherkins, and two ounces of boiled beetroot cut in dice; sauce over and serve. No. 470. Saddle of Mutton, roti, braise, aux legumes glace. Roast the saddle in vegetables as in the last, glaze and salamander, dress on your dish with a border of mashed potatoes roimd, upon which dress your vegetables prepared as for stewed rump of beef a la Plamande (No. 428), pour- ing the same sauce over them. No. 471. Haunch of Mutton. This delicate joint is generally plain roasted (see Kitchen at Home); when of the fust quahty and properly kept it is by many compared to venison, although there is not the least resemblance, the fat of venison being so very de- Hcate and palatable that nothing can equal it, but both are very estimable. I shaU give but a few simple receipts in order to preserve the flavour of this dehcate joint. No. 472. Haunch of Mutton tm jus de Groseilles. Koast the haunch quite plain, put twenty tablespoonfuls of brown sauce (No. 1) in a stewpan, with ten of con- somme (No. 134), one of tomata sauce (No. 37), and an192 REMOVES, ounce of glaze, boil it gently half an hour, then add four tablespoonfuls of red currant jelly, boil up, pour it on the dish, and the moment you serve lay the haunch upon it; should you dish the haunch too soon the fat would ran from it and spoil the sauce; it should be carved in the same way as a haunch of venison, then you keep the gravy from running into the sauce, and can serve it separately. No. 473. Haunch of Mutton ala Bretonne. Plain roast the haunch, and proceed as for saddle of mutton a la Bretonne (No. 465). No. 474. Haunch of Mutton a la Polonaise. Koast a haunch, and when cold cut out all the meat from the middle, leaving the edges (or the mashed potatoes would not stand), mince the meat, shape the haunch with mashed potatoes, and proceed as for the saddle (No. 467). You can use a haunch left from a previous dinner, if not too much cut. No. 475. Haunch of Mutton a la JBohSmienne. Procure a small haunch of mutton of about twelve pounds in weight, beat it well with a rolling-pin, lay it in an earthen pan, and cover with a marinade as prepared for fillet of beef (No. 426), let it remain a week, roast it in paste in the same manner as for the haunch of venison (see No. 540); roast it three hours, take it out of the paste, glaze and salamander of a nice brown colour, put a frill of paper to the knuckle, and dress upon yom- dish ya\h. the following sauce round it: pass half a pint of the marinade it was pickled in through a sieve into a stewpan, add a quart of brovm sauce (No. 1), let it boil tiU it becomes rather thick, skim well, add one tablespoonfiil of red currant jelly, pass tlu'ough a tammie into a clean stew- pan, then add twenty blanched mushrooms, twenty small193 REMOVES. pickled onions, and twenty French olives (stoned); let them ■warm in the sauce, which shghtly flavom" with a little scraped garlick sauce over. No. 476. Haunch of Mutton aux legumes glaces. Proceed as directed for the saddle (No. 470). No. 477. Leg of Mutton a la Bohemienne. Proceed as directed for the haunch (No. 475), but of course it Avill not require so much time to roast (for which see Kitchen at Home). No. 478. Leg of Mutton a la Bretonne. See saddle of mutton (No. 465). No. 479. Leg of Mutton au Laver, See saddle of mutton (No. 466). No. 480. Leg of Mutton a la Provengale. Procure a nice delicate leg of mutton, beat it well with a rolling-pin, make an incision at the knuckle in which push four cloves of garhck as deep into the fleshy part of the leg as you can, roast it quite plain, and serve a thin sauce a la Bretonne (No. 465) under it, into which you have put a small piece of scraped garhck. No. 481. Gigot de Mouton de sept hemes. What! seven hours to cook a leg of mutton ! exclaims John Bull; shade of the thu-d George protect us, why 'tis nonsense; to which I must answer you are right, it would rob it of its flavour; but still it gains another flavour which is far from being bad; and you must observe that, although there will be less nourishment it will be much easier of digestion. WeU, weU, methinks I hear hun say, if you 13194 KEMOVES. are determined upon publishing that destructive receipt (which absui'dity I am sure no one upon this soil will ever follow, or disgrace their tables with), write it in French and oflPend no one; but for heaven's sake never invite me to dine with you on the day you find room for such a dish upon your table, so taking the hint I give it in my native tongue:—Desosse un assez gros gigot de mouton jusqu'a la moitie du manche; vous assaisonnerez des lardons de sel, de gros poivre, de thyme et de laurier piles, et vous piquerez le dedans de votre gigot; ne faites pas sortir vos lardons par- dessous. Quand il est bien pique, vous lui ferez prendre sa forme premiere; vous le ficellerez de maniere qu'on ne s'aperpoive pas qu'on I'ait desosse; vous mettrez ensuite des bardes de lard au fond de votre braisiere, quelques tranches de jambon, les os concasses, quelques tranches de mouton, quatre carottes, six oignons, trois feuiUes de laurier, un peu de thyme, trois clous de girofle, un bouquet de persil et de ciboule, deux cuillerees a pot de bouillon: vous mettrez a cuire votre gigot pendant sept heures, et le ferez aller a tres petit feu; vous en mettrez aussi sur le cou- vercle de la braisiere. Au moment de servir vous I'egoutterez, vous le deficellerez, le glacerez, et le servkez avec le mouille- ment reduit dans lequel il aura cuit; ayant soin de bien- ecumer toute la graisse que votre fond est susceptible d'avok. No. 483. Necks of Mutton a la Leguniiere. Cut off the scrags and take the chine bones fi-om two necks of mutton, lard the lean parts with lardons of fat bacon about three inches long, roast them in vegetables as for fillet of beef (No. 417); when done, di'ess them on a dish, placing fillet to fiUet, so as to form a saddle; fill up the crevice between them with mashed potatoes, upon which dress small pieces of cauliflower and small bunches of aspa- ragus, orBrussels sprouts; make a border of mashed potatoesREMOVES. 195 round the mutton, upon which di-ess soiiie onions, with pieces of carrots and turnips stewed (see stewed ramp of beef a la Flamande, No. 428), place four onions at each end of the dish, and stick a fine head of asparagus in each; glaze the mutton, and pom* a demi-glace (No. 9) over the vegetables. No. 483. NecJcs of Mutton a la Bretonne. Trim the necks as above, roast them quite plain (see Kitchen at Home), and sauce as for saddle of mutton a la Bretonne, (No. 465.) No. 484. Neck of Mutton a la Bohemienne, Proceed as for haunch of mutton (No. 475), only three days in the marinade will be sufficient. No. 485. Neck of Mutton a la Provengale. Trim a neck of mutton, lard it, and put it into a conve- nient sized stewpan, with two onions, one carrot, one turnip (cut in shces) six cloves, a blade of mace, and a bunch of parsley, thyme and bay-leaves; cover with white broth, and set it on the fire; when boiling, set it on the corner to simmer for two hours; take it out, and lay it on a saute- pan, spread a puree of onions as for cotelettes de mouton a la Proven9ale (No. 701) over the top, egg and bread-crumb it, put it in the oven a quarter of an hour, salamander a light brown, sauce with demi-glace as for the cotelettes. No. 486. Neck of Mutton a la Charte. Trim two necks of mutton as before, lard and braise as in the last article; then peel some young turnips, and cut about a pint of scoops from them the size of marbles (with an iron scoop); put a teaspoonful of powdered sugar into a stewpan, place it over a sharp fire, and just as it begins to196 REMOVES. brown, add two ounces of butter, and the scooped turnips; pass tliem ten minutes over the fh-e, then add a pint and a half of brown sauce (No. 1), and half a pint of consommee; let it sunmer tUl the turnips are quite done; take them out, and put them into another stewpan, skim and reduce the sauce until it becomes rather thickish, season a little more if required and pass it through a tammie upon the turnips, dress the necks upon a dish fillet to fillet to form a saddle; glaze, pour the sauce and tm-nips round, have twelve pieces of turnips cut in the form of pears and stewed as (No. 1103), dress six of them, one upon the other, in pyramids at each end of the dish, and serve very hot. No. 487. Breast of Mutton panee, grilUe, saucepiquante. Procure two breasts of mutton cut as large as possible, which put in a stewpan, and braise three hours in the same manner as described for neck of mutton Provengale (No. 485), previous to placing them in the stewpan tie them well up with string; when done take up, lay them on a dish, take all the string and bones from them, which will leave with facihty, place another dish upon them, and press till quite cold vdth a fourteen pounds weight; about haK an horn- before serving trim, egg and bread-crumb, beat gently with a knife, melt a httle butter in a stewpan, and with a paste-brush butter the mutton all over, throw them again into bread-crumbs, beat gently again with your knife, and put them on the gridiron over a moderate fire; when hghtly browned on one side, turn them by placing another gridii'on over and turning both gridkons together; when done, take them from the gridiron with a fish-sHce, lay on your dish, and serve sauce piquante (No. 37) round, or you may serve them with dressed spinach (No. 1085), sauce Soubise (No. 47) or fines herbes (No. 26).197 REMOVES. No. 488. Saddle of Lamb aux petits pois. Roast a saddle of lamb in vegetables, as described for fillet of beef (No. 417); when done glaze and salamander a light brown colour; put a quart of yomig peas boiled very green into a stewpan, quite hot, with two ounces of butter, half a tablespoonful of sugar, a httle salt, and six table- spoonfuls of bechamel sauce (No. 7); shake them round over the fire a few minutes, pour them in your dish, and dress the saddle over. A saddle will require about two hours roasting. No. 489. Saddle of Lamb a la Sevigne. Roast the saddle with vegetables as before, make a pm^ee d'asperges (No. 102), cut two large cucumbers in pieces about two inches and a half in length; cut each piece length- wise in three, take out the cores, cut them in the shape of the bowl of a spoon, and stew them as described (No. 103), have ready some queneUes de volaiUe (No. 120), place a roll of mashed potatoes at each end of the dish; at the bottom dress half a circle, with the cucumber and queneUes, by laying them alternately in a slanting position, and at the top of the dish lay nine quenelles upon a roll of potatoes, formed like the bows of a boat, so that the first quenelle stands out in a point, and the others are brought gradually in to the ends; place a piece of stewed cucumber cut Hke a diamond between each quenelle, and dress some nice heads of sprue grass m the centre, at each end of the dish; place the saddle in the middle, and pour the puree d'asperges (quite hot) on each side. No. 490. Saddle of Lamb a VIndienne. Roast the saddle in vegetables as before, then put a quart of sauce a I'Indienne (No. 45), into a stevsT)an; whenREMOVES. 198 boiling and ready to serve, add thirty very mild green Indian pickles. When hot, sauce round and serve. No. 49]. Saddle of Lamb demi Provengale. Roast the saddle with vegetables as before; cut six large onions in small dice, which put into a stewpan with three tablespoonfuls of oil; stir over a sIoav fire till they are quite tender, then add half a tablespoonfd of flour (mix well) and twelve do. of white sauce (No. 7); boil ten minutes, season vdth half a teaspoonful of salt, one do. of sugar, and a quarter do. of pepper; add the yolks of three eggs, stir it over the fire half a minute, lay it out on a dish, and when nearly cold spread it over the saddle a quarter of an inch in thickness; egg and bread-crumb over, put it in a sharp oven ten minutes, salamander of a hght brown, and serve with sauce demi-giace (No. 9) round it. No. 492. Saddle of Lamb a la Menagere. Plain roast a saddle* and allow it to get cold, cut out all the meat, leaving the flaps untouched, shape round the saddle a wall of stifi" mashed potatoes, cut the meat up in square thin slices, then put a quart of white sauce (No. 7) in a stewpan; let it boil up, put in your meat, season with lemon-juice, pepper, and salt; moisten with a Httle white broth, and when it is quite hot add the yolks of two eggs, mixed with four spoonfuls of cream; place it within the saddle, egg all over, sprinlde bread-crumbs on the top, and put it in a sharp oven upon the dish you intend ser\dng it on a quarter of an hour; have ready poached eight eggs, lay them on the top, garnish round with peas, Brussels sprouts, or asparagus, nicely boiled, and pom- a white demi- glace (No. 7) round; serve immediately; ham or tongue, with mushrooms cut in sHces, may be added A^dth the lamb. * See Kitchen at Home.REMOVES. 199 No. 493. Haunch of Lamb. Like the haunch of mutton, this joint is usually plain roasted, but for a change it may be roasted with vege- tables, and served with any of the sauces, as used for the saddle in the foregoing receipts. It will require nearly two hom's roasting. The fore-quarter may likewise be dressed the same ways. No. 494. Fore-quarter of Lamb a VHoteliere. Roast a fore-quarter well covered with oiled paper, and a good distance fi'om the fire, when done it must be a Hght gold colour, then put a quarter of a pound of maitre d'hotel butter (No. 79) in a stewpan, and when beginning to melt add half a pint of good cream; shake the stewpan round tiU hot, but not near boihng, and the moment you serve pour it upon the dish, and dress the fore-quarter upon it. No. 495. Fore-quarter of House Lamb aux pointes d'asperses. Roast the lamb exactly as in the last, have ready a sauce aux pointes d'asperges (No. 101), pour it hot on your dish, lay the lamb upon it, and serve. It will take about an hour roasting. No. 495. Bibs of Lamb a la Chanceliere. Roast a fore-quarter of lamb vdth vegetables (see No. 417), and when done cut out the shoulder very round, cut off all the meat from it, and mince it very fine, with half a pound of cooked ham, twenty button mushrooms, and sk middling- sized French truffles; then put a teaspoonful of chopped eschalot in a stewpan, with a teaspoonful of salad oil; fry them of a light yellow colour, add a quarter of a table- spoonful of flour (mix well), half a pint of stock, and a pint200 REMOVES. of white sauce; let it boU, keeping it stirred, add your meat and the other ingredients, season with pepper and salt, and when boiling add the yolks of two eggs; stir them in quickly, and poui' the whole into the place you cut the shoulder from; egg it over with a paste-brush, sprinkle bread-crumbs and grated Parmesan cheese over, brown it hghtly with the salamander, dress upon your dish, pour a sauce bechamel a la creme (No. 56), rather thin, round and serve. No. 496. Leg of Lamb a la St. John. Roast the leg in vegetables as described (see No. 417); an hour and a haK would be sufficient; when done, place a paper frill on the knuclde, and lay it in your dish; have ready prepared the following sauce: put the yolks of three eggs in a stewpan, with half a pound of fresh butter, the juice of half a lemon, a little pepper, salt, and two table- spoonfuls of tarragon vinegar; place it over a moderate fire, keeping it stiiTed with a wooden spoon, and when the butter has melted and begins to thicken (great care must be taken that the eggs do not curdle, which they will do if you allow it to get too hot before the butter is melted, or aUow it to boil in the least), add a pint of white sauce (No. 7), and a little sugar; mix aU well together, pass through a tammie into a clean stewpan, place again over the fii^e to get hot (but not to boH), keeping it stirred; add half a giU of cream, and if too thick a little miUc, pour it over the lamb, have ready a few pistachios each cut in eight lengthwise, sprmkle over, and serve very hot. No. 497. Leg of Lamb aux pois. Roast a leg of lamb quite plain, have ready boiled, very green, two quai'ts of young peas, put them hot into a stew- pan, with three pats of butter, a tablespoonful of sugar, a little pepper, salt, and six spoonfuls of white sauce (No. 7),901 REMOVES. -^"-^ mix aU well together over the fire, without breaking the peas; poiu- them in a dish, dress the leg over and serve. No. 498. Boiled Leg of Lamb and Spinach. Boil a leg of lamb quite plain, which will take from an hour and a quarter to an hour and a half (add a httle milk to the water you boil it in), have ready dressed sufficient spinach to cover the bottom of the dish an inch and a half in thickness, dress the lamb upon it, and serve; to dress spmach, see No. 106. No. 499. Boiled Leg of Lamb a la Palestine. Boil a leg of lamb, dress it on your dish, and pour a sauce Palestine (No. 87) over it. No. 500. Boast Leg of Lamb a la Jardiniere. Plain roast the lamb, have ready a sauce jardiniere (No. 87), pour it on the dish, and dress the leg upon it. The shoulder may be dressed exactly as the leg. No. 501. Shoulder of Lamb a la Bruxellaise. Roast a shoulder of lamb with vegetables, and serve with sauce as for neck of veal a la Bruxellaise (No. 454). No. 502. Shoulder of Lamb a la Bolonaise. Cut all the meat from the top of the shoulder and a little from the bottom, so as not to spoil the shape; build a wall of mashed potatoes about two inches high round it, and proceed as for saddle of mutton (No. 467).202 IIEMOVES. PORK. Pork ,s a great favoiuite with some persons but scarcely erer used for removes, except plain roasted stuffed with sage and omons that I shall describe in my Kitchen at Home but 1 shall here give six new ways of dressing pork for removes; ,t must be of the best quality, small, and, above aJi, m season. No. 503. Leg of PorJc sauce Eobert. Score the sldn of the leg with a shaip' knife, oil some paper, wrap the leg up in it, and roast about two hom-s and a half of a nice yellow colour; have ready the foUowing sauce : put hm tablespoonfuls of chopped onions into a stewpan, with two ounces of butter, stir over a moderate fire tiU the onions are nicely browned, then add three table- spoonfuls of tarragon vinegar (let it boil), a quart of brown sauce (No. 1), half a pint of consomme, and a little brown gravy; let it boil at the corner of the stove about twenty minutes, skim it weU, reduce it till it adheres to the spoon, season with a little cayenne pepper, salt, and two table- spoonfuls of French mustard; when ready to serve add twenty small gherldns, twenty pickled mushrooms, twenty small quenelles (No. 120), pour the sauce in the dish, di'ess the leg upon it, put a paper frUl on the knuclde and serve. No. 504. Leg of Pork a la Piedmontaise. Roast the leg as before, and prepare the sauce thus: put two tablespoonfuls. of chopped onions into a stewpan, with four of Indian piclde vinegar, let boil a few minutes, then add twenty tablespoonfuls of brown sauce (No. 1), and ten ditto of consomme, let boil twenty minutes, skim well,REMOVES. season mtli a little cayenne pepper, sugar, and salt, pass it through a tammie into a clean stewpan, stone forty French olives, put them into the sauce, glaze the pork and pour the sauce round. No. 505. Loin of Pork a la Bourguignote. Trim a small loin of pork, cut off all the rind, wrap it in oHed paper, and roast of a nice yeUow colour; have ready the following preparation: cut six lai'ge onions in small dice and put them in a stewpan, with two ounces of butter; let them stew over a slow fire till quite tender and rather brown, then add half a tablespoonful of flour (mix well), and fifteen of brown sauce (No. 1); boil twenty minutes, season mth a teaspoonful of chopped sage, half ditto of sugar, and half of salt, finish with the yollcs of thi'ee eggs, stir over the fire half a minute to set the eggs, and spread it over the pork half an inch in thickness, egg and bread-crumb over it, place it in the oven ten minutes, salamander a hght brown, and serve the following sauce round it: put fifteen spoonfuls of brown sauce (No. 1) and six of consomme in a stewpan, with two of Harvey sauce, one of catsup, and half a one of Chih vinegar, bod altogether ten minutes, and finish with a httle sugar, salt, and pepper, if requu'ed. No. 506. Neck of Pork a la Bemoulade, a VIndienne. Trim the neck, but do not take off the rind, wrap it in oiled paper and roast as pre^dously; make a good sauce remoulade (No. 717), to which add three tablespoonfuls of chopped Indian pickle, pour the sauce in the dish and dress the pork upon it. No. 507. Neck of Pork a la Venitienne. Put two tablespoonfuls of chopped onions into a stewpan, with an ounce of butter, fry rather brown, then add half aREMOVES. tablespoonful of flour (mix weD), and twelve ditto of brown sauce, reduce it until thick, add half a tablespoonful of chopped parsley, one ditto of chopped mushrooms, and season mth half a teaspoonful of sugary a little salt and cayenne pepper; let it cool, open part of the neck length- wise between the skin and the flesh, put in the above pre- paration, tie up the neck in oiled paper and roast it then prepare the foUowing sauce: put two chopped eschalots in a stewpan, with a spoonful of salad oil, two tablespoonfuls ot common vinegar, and a smaU piece of glaze; boil' five minutes, then add six tablespoonfuls of brown sauce (No 1), SIX of consomme, and six ditto of tomata sauce (No 37); boil altogether ten minutes, pour the sauce on your dish and serve the pork upon it. No. 508. Boast Sucking Pig. Procure a sucking pig of from eight to nine pounds wash the mside and wipe it weU with a diy cloth, prepare the stuffing thus : boil four large onions untH quite tender chop them very fine, with six leaves of sage, a little thyme and parsley, season with a little cayenne pepper and salt, add three tablespoonfuls of bread-crumbs, and mix it with three eggs, stufi" the pig quite fuU, sew up the beUy, put it on the spit, place it at a distance from a moderate fire (folded in buttered paper) for half an horn, then put it closer, allowing it two hours to roast, but ten minutes before it is done take ofi" all the paper to allow it to become brown and crisp; serve plain gravy in the dish, and bread sauce with currants in it in a boat; before sending it to table take ofi" the head and cut the pig in halves down the back. No. 509. Sucking Pig a la Savoyards. Take a very delicate sucking pig 'and prepare the205 REMOVES. following stuflang: put two tablespoonfuls of chopped onions in a ste^^pan, with a teaspoonful of oil, pass them over a moderate fire five minutes, add half a pound of rice previously well boiled in stock, half a pound of sausage- meat, fom- pats of butter, a httle chopped parsley, pepper, salt, and three eggs; mix all well together, stuff the pig, and roast it in oiled paper, as in the last; prepare the sauce thus: put two tablespoonfuls of chopped onions in a stew- pan, with one of salad oil and fry them quite white, add a wineglassful of sherry or Madeira, a pint of white sauce (No. 7), and six tablespoonfids of milk, let it boil a quarter of an hour, skim well, add a good tablespoonful of chopped mushrooms, half ditto of chopped parsley, a teaspoonful of sugar, ditto of salt, and a little white pepper; dress the pig in the dish, pour the sauce round, and garnish with small Med sausages. No. 510. Turkey a la Nelson. Make a croustade resembling the head of a ship, as represented in the design; procure a very white nice young turkey, truss it as for boiling, leaving as much of the skin of the neck attached to the breast as possible, have ready the following stuffing: scrape an ounce of fat bacon (with a knife), put it into a stewpan, with a teaspoonful of chopped eschalots, pass five minutes over a moderate fire, then add twenty tablespoonfuls of white sauce (No. 7), let it reduce till thick, add twenty small heads of mushrooms, six French truffles cut in shces, and twelve cockscombs; mix all well together over the fire, season with a teaspoonful of pow- dered sugar, half ditto of salt, and a little white pepper; finish with the yolks of two eggs, stir over the fire a minute to set the eggs, and lay it out on a dish to get cold, then detach the skin on the breast from the flesh without breaking, and force some of the stuffing under the* REMOVES. Skin; put the remainder in the interior of the breast, roast It m vegetables as described for fillet of beef (No 417) but just before it is done take away the paper and vege^ tables, and let it remain before the fire till of a fine gold colour. Fix the croustade at the head of the dish with a paste made of white of egg and flour, make a border of mashed potatoes round the dish, place the turkey in the centre, and have ready the foUowing garnitme: fillet three fowls, lard and braise the fiUets as No. 792, form the legs into httle ducMings as described (No. 1024), prepare six shces of tongue of the size and shape of the fiUets and dress them round the turkey upon the mashed potatoes to form a ship. For the sauce put two glasses of Madeira wme in a stewpan, with a tablespoonful of ChiH vinegar, two minced apples, a smaU bunch of parsley, a spoonful of chopped mushrooms, and half an ounce of glaze; let it boil a few minutes, add ten tablespoonfuls of tomatl sauce (No. 37), a quart of brown sauce (No. 1), and a pint of consomme, let it boil quickly until it adheres to the spoon, stirring it the whole time, finish with a tablespoonful of red currant jelly, pass it through a tammie into another stewpan, season with a Httle salt and pepper, boil it another minute, glaze the turkey, pour the sauce in the dish, glaze the pieces of tongue and serve. No. 511. Turkey a la Godard. Procure a good-sized turkey, veiy white and well covered with fat, truss it as for boihng, hold the breast over a charcoal fire till the flesh is set, then lard it with fat bacon very neatly, lay the tiu-key in a braising-pan breast up- wards, and pour in as much good veal stock as -ndll nearly reach the larded part, start it to boil, skim, then place it over a slow fire to simmer for three hours, keeping some hve char- coal upon the cover of the braising-pan, and now and thenREMOVES. ^^"^ moistening the breast with a little of the stock; when done take it up, give a nice yellow coloui' to the bacon on the breast, put it on your dish, and have ready the Mowing garnitiu^e: prepai^e six large quenelles de volaille (No. 122), truss and roast foui' pigeons (No. 959), lard and cook four fine veal sweetbreads (No. 671), arrange them with taste round the tm-key, and have ready the foUowing sauce: strain half the stock the turkey was dressed in through a cloth into a stewpan, let it boU, put it on the comer of the stove, skim tiU you get off every particle of grease, reduce it to haK, add a quart of brown sauce (No. 1), and half a pint of tomata sauce (No. 37), let boil, keeping it stiiTed till becoming a thickish demi-glace, add two dozen cocks- combs, and a teaspoonful of sugar, with a httle cayenne and salt if required, pour it in the dish but not over the garniture, and serve. Attelets of cockscombs and truffles are sometimes stuck in the breast, but it is an impediment to the carving, and it looks as well without. No. 512. Turkey a la Cidpolata. Although this dish has been degusted by our great great grandfathers, and has been for upwards of a century one of the strongest piUars of the art, I shall here describe it, as an old proverb justly reminds me that a good thing can never get old. Truss the turkey as for boiling, and to modernize it, lard neatly the right breast, roast thirty good chesnuts which mix in a basin with one pound of sausage- meat highly seasoned, stuff the breast of the tm-key with it, and braise as in the last article, when done place it upon your dish, and have ready the following ragout: cut two pounds of lean bacon in long square pieces about the size of walnuts, blanch them ten minutes in boiling water, put two ounces of butter in a middling-sized stewpan, with the bacon, fry till becoming rather yellowish, then add a table-■^"^ llEMOVES. spoonful of flour mix well, add by degrees three pints of good wb e stock, with a quart of white sauce, stir over the fii-e tiU boihng, then put in forty button onions, twenty fine heads of mushi^ooms, a bunch of parsley, one bay-leaf and two cloves; boH altogether, and when the onions are done take them with the mushrooms and bacon out of the sauce with a colander spoon, put them into a clean stew- pan, with thu-ty chestnuts roasted white, and eight sau- sages broUed, each one cut in three, reduce the sauce keep- mg It stuTed tin it becomes the thickness of brown sauce previously having simmered, and sldmmed off all the grease, pass the sauce thi'ough a tammie upon the other ingredients, make aU hot together, finish with a Haison of two yolks of eggs, and pom- over and round the tm-key (except over the breast), which serve very hot. The old style used to be brown, in that case substitute brown sauce for white and omit the liaison. No. 513. Small Turhey ala Bucliesse. Procm^e a small nice turkey, truss it as for boihng, and roast it in vegetables as usual, keeping it quite white, place it upon your dish with a border of mashed potatoes round, upon which dress twenty-five queneUes (No. 120), and twelve shces of tongue (cut in the same shajpe as the quenelles), have ready boiled very green some French beans cut in diamond shapes, which sprinkle over the breast of the turkey, and sauce over with a puree de con- combres (No. 105). No. 514. Poularde a VAmhassadrice. Procure a nice white poulai'de, cut it open down the back, and bone it without breaking the skin, make two pounds of forcemeat (No. 120), with Avhich mix six large French truffles cut in shces, spread the forcemeat half an209 REMOVES. inch in thickness upon the inside of the poularde, then have ready boiled and nicely trimmed a small ox tongue, cover it with the forcemeat, fold a shce of fat bacon round, and put it in the middle of the poularde, which roll up and sew from end to end, fold the poularde in slices of fat bacon, and tie it up in a cloth, have ready prepared some vege- tables of all lands cut in slices, put them in a convenient- sized stewpan, lay the poularde upon them, the breast downwards, but first moisten the vegetables with a little salad oil, add half a pint of Madeira wine, and sufficient white broth to cover the poularde, set on a sharp fire to boil, skim, and let it simmer for three hours, prepare the following garniture : braise two spring chickens (trussed as for boiling) three quarters of an hour in the braise with the poularde, have ready prepared a croustade as represented in the design, upon which place a larded sweetbread nicely cooked and glazed, place a fine cockscomb and a large truffle upon a silver attelet, and run it through the sweet- bread, sticldng it upright in the croustade, then take the poulaixle out of the cloth, take ofi" the bacon, pull out the string it was sewed up with, dry it with, a cloth, and place it upon yom* dish with the garniture arranged tastefully around it; have ready the following sauce: chop half a pottle of fresh mushrooms very fine, put them into a stew- pan, with one ounce of butter and the juice of haK a lemon, boil over a sharp fire five minutes, add two quarts of white sauce (No. 7), with one of the braise, let boil, keeping it stirred until it adheres to the back of the spoon, rub it tlu-ough a tammie into a clean stewpan, adding a few spoonfuls of white broth if too thick, season with a tea- spoonful of sugar and a little salt, cut a few very black truffles in shoes, and chop a couple very fine, place them on a plate in the hot closet ten minutes; put your sauce again on the fire, and when boiling add a gill of whipped cream, 14210 REMOVES. pour the sauce over the poularde and chickens, lay the shccs of trufSes here and there upon them, and sprinkle the chopped truffles lightly over, the blackness of the truffles contrasting with the whiteness of the sauce has a pleasing effect; serve directly you have poured the sauce and sprinkled the truffles over. The bones being taken out of the poularde they must be carved crosswise, thus carving through tongue and all. No. 515. Poulardes en Diademe. Make a croustade representing a diadem, stick three silver attelets upon it, on which you have stuck a cravdish, a large truffle, and a large quenelle, roast two poulardes quite white in vegetables, and have an ox tonge nicely boiled and trimmed, place them on the dish with thek tails to the croustade and the tongue between; upon the root of the tongue and at the end of each poularde place a nice larded sweetbread well cooked and glazed (or a fine head of cauhflower nicely boiled), make a border of mashed potatoes round, upon which dress alternately truffles and fine cockscombs, previously dressed (No. 128); have ready the following sauce: peel four middling-sized cucumbers, mince and put them into a stewpan with an ounce of but- ter, a quai-ter of a pound of lean ham, two chopped escha- lots, and a httle powdered sugar, pass the whole over a slow fire, and stew them gently half an hour, or till quite tender, then mix in half an ounce of flour, add two quarts of white sauce (No. 7), which moisten with a pint of white broth, let boil tiU it adheres to the spoon, stirring the whole time, rub through a tammie and put it into a clean stewpan, place over the fii-e, and when boiling add a giU of cream and two pats of butter ; season with the juice of a lemon, a Httle salt and sugar if required; pour the sauce over the poidardes and cockscombs, glaze the tongue,REMOVES. 211 truffles, and sweetbreads and serve immediately; do not pom- the sauce over until quite ready to serve. No. 516. Poulardes a la Vicomtesse. Make a croustade as represented in the plate (fig. 5), roast two poulardes in vegetables as in the last; place the croustade in the middle of the dish, and upon each gradation of it stick an attelet, upon which you have placed two plo- ver's eggs warmed in stock; place the poulardes on the dish breast to breast, and at the tail of each lay three larded lambs' sweetbreads (No. 671), make a border of mashed potatoes round, upon which dress shces of cooked ham warmed in stock, and cut in the shape of fillets of fowls; have ready prepared the following sauce: cut into thin shces a little carrot, tm-nip, onion, and celery, put them into a stewpan, with an ounce of butter , three cloves, half a blade of mace, a bay-leaf, a sprig of thyme and pars- ley, pass them over a brisk fu-e until hghtly browned, add four tablespoonfuls of tarragon vinegar, and one ditto of common vinegar, let boil, add two quarts of brown sauce (No. 1), and one of consomme, boil it twenty minutes, keeping it stiiTed, pass it thi-ough a tammie into a clean stewpan, add hah" a puit of tomata sauce (No. 37), and two tablespoonfids of red currant jelly; boil altogether till it adheres to the spoon, season with a httle salt and pepper if required, sauce over the poulardes, glaze the pieces of ham and serve immediately. No. 517. Poulardes a la Jeanne d'Arc. Roast the poulardes in vegetables as before, and di-ess them with croustade, garnitm-e, and sauce as described in fillet of beef a la Jeanne d'Arc (No. 418).212 REMOVKS. No. 515. Poulardes a la Jeune Princesse. Bone two nice poularcles as for poularde a rambassadrice (No. 514), lay tliem on a cloth, have ready prepared four pounds of forcemeat (No. 120), spread some half an inch in thickness over the inside of the poulardes; have ready boiled a Russian tongue, which cut in halves lengthwise, trim each half, lay one upon the middle of each poularde, cut twelve pieces of fat bacon four inches in length and the thickness of your finger, lay three pieces upon each side of the tongue at equal distances apart, and between each piece lay rows of small very green gherkins, season with a little salt and pepper, cover with a httle more of the forcemeat, roll and sew up the poulardes, tie them in cloths and braise two hours, as du-ected for poulardes a I'ambassadrice; when done take them out of the cloths, pull out the packthread you sewed them up with, dress them on your dish in a slanting direction, make a border of mashed potatoes round, have ready twenty small croustades de beurre a la pm-ee de volaille (No. 405), which dress upon the mashed potatoes at equal distances apart, and upon the top of each place a plover's egg (from which you have peeled ofi" aU the sheU) warmed in broth, between each croustade lay small bunches of asparagus (previously boiled), cut an inch and a half in length, and six or eight in a bunch; have ready the foUow- ing sauce: put three quarts of white sauce (No. 7), and one of white stock in a stewpan, the sauce strongly flavom-ed with mushrooms, place it over the fire, keep stnring, reduce to two-thirds, add a gill of whipped cream, season with a Httle salt and sugar if required; pour the sauce over the poulardes, and upon the breast of each sprinkle a few heads of sprue grass nicely boiled and cut very smaU; m carvmg they must be cut across, it will resemble marble.213 BEMOVES. No. 519. Foidardes a la Financiere. Roast two poiilardes in vegetables as usual; have ready boiled two ox tongues, trim them, nicely cutting off part of the tip; when the poulardes are done dress them up on your dish tail to tail, dress the two tongues crosswise, that is, the tips of the tongues touching the tails of the poulardes, have a very fine larded sweetbread nicely cooked and glazed, which place in the centre (this way of dishing them is very simple but very elegant); have ready the following ragout: put twenty dressed cockscombs, twenty heads of mush- rooms, four truffles cut in shoes, twelve pieces of sweetbread the size of half-crowns (well blanched), and twenty small quenelles (No. 120), in a stewpan, in another stewpan put two glasses of sherry, half an ounce of glaze, a httle cayenne pepper, and a bay-leaf; reduce to half over a good fire, then add three quarts of espagnole or brown sauce (No. 1), and twenty spoonfuls of consomme (No. 134), boil and skim, reduce, keeping it stirred till it becomes a good demi- glace and adheres to the back of the spoon, pass it through a tammie into the stewpan containing the garnitm-e, add a little powdered sugar, make all hot together, pour over and round the poulardes, glaze the tongues and serve. No. 520. Poulanles a la Warsovienne. Roast two large poulardes in vegetables, and let them get cold, then take all the meat from the breast, but be careful to leave a run haff an inch in thickness, cut up the flesh in small dice, put it into a stewpan with fifteen spoon- fuls of white sauce (No. 7), two truffles cut in slices, and twelve pieces of stewed cucumber (No. 103); season with a httle sugar, salt, and a very little grated nutmeg; stir all very gently over the fire (being careful not to break the214 REMOVES. pieces of cucumber), when it boils add tlie yolks of two eggs mixed with two spoonfuls of cream, stir them in quickly ; have ready warmed in stock the carcasses of the poulardes, place the mince in the breasts, egg over, and bread-crumb round the rims, place them in the oven twenty minutes to set, then dress them breast to breast on your chsh; poach twelve plovers' eggs very nicely, lay six upon each poularde, that is, three upon each side of the breast to form a diamond, then place a small larded lamb's sweet- bread upon the top between the two poulardes and in the centre of the eggs, place a fine cauliflower on each side, and sauce over with a sauce bechamel, or maitre d'hotel (No. 43); glaze the sweetbread and serve. No. 521. Poulardes aux legumesprintaniers. Roast two poulardes in vegetables as before, then with a sharp knife tm'n forty young carrots and forty young tm*- nips, keeping them in their shape as much as possible, wash and place them in separate stewpans, with a pint of veal stock and half a teaspoonful of sugar, boil until the stock is reduced to glaze, by which time they will be weU done, place them in a bain marie to keep hot, peel also forty young onions the same size as your turnips, butter a saute-pan, put in half an ounce of sugar (sifted), over which place the onions, cover with veal stock and let them stew until the stock forms a thickish glaze, place them in the hot closet until wanted, then take up the poulardes, dress tail to tail on your dish, make a border of mashed potatoes round, and at each end place a fine head of caulifloAver nicely boiled, then place alternately an onion, and a turnip with a carrot upon the top between, making a pyi-amid in the middle of the border on each side; for sauce put the glaze from the vegetables and onions into a stewpan to- gether, boil and skim ofi" all the butter, add two quai'ts ofREMOVES. 215 brown sauce, reduce quickly, keeping it stirred all the tmie, until it adheres to the back of the spoon, add a little salt if required; pour the sauce over the whole and serve. No. 522. Poulardes aux legumes verts. Roast the poulardes in vegetables as usual, then take ten large turnips, cut each in halves exactly in the centre, peel them thin without leaving the marks of the knife, and scoop out the centres to form them into cups, with a round cutter the size of half-a-crown-piece, cut twenty pieces of tm-nip one inch in thickness to form stands, stew them nicely in stock as in the last, but not too much done, and place them in the bain marie till ready to serve, then place a border of mashed potatoes round the interior of the dish, leaving sufficient room for yom- poulardes, and at each end stick a croustade of bread cut in cups but larger than those of turnips, place the turnip cups upon their stands at equal distances apart upon the mashed potatoes, place a nice head of cauhflower upon each croustade, have ready boiled some very young peas and heads of asparagus, fill the cups alter- nately with each, place your poulardes in the centre, and have ready the following sauce: put two quarts of white sauce (No. 7) and a pint of white stock in a stewpan, with the glaze from the tm-nips, reduce to two-thii'ds, skim, season with a little salt and sugar, finish with a gill of cream, sauce all over, but lightly over the vegetables, and serve. Capons may of course be dressed in the same manner as poulardes for removes, but to give a second series would only be a useless repetition. No. 523. Petits Poulets a la Warenzorf. Procure four very nice spring chickens trussed as for boiling, roast them in vegetables, as described (No. 417), have also ready boiled and nicely trimmed two deer tongues.216 REMOVES. place, one at each end of the dish makmg the tips meet in the centre, place a chicken at each corner, its tail in the centre, and between each lay a, hunch of fine boiled aspa- ragus ; you have made a round fluted croustade of bread about four inches high, and the same in diameter, ornament it on the top with rings the size of a shilling, fried very white, and scoop out the middle of the croustade to fonn a cup; place it in the centre of your dish, with some fine heads of asparagus cut about four inches in length standing upright in it, glaze the tongues nicely, have two quarts of sauce puree d'asperges (No. 102) ready, which pour over the chickens and serve very hot. No. 524. Fetits Poulets a la Ferigord a blanc. Scrape four ounces of fat bacon, which put into a stew- pan, with two bay-leaves, three cloves, and a blade of mace, set over the fire to melt, and when quite hot take out the spice and bay-leaves, add ten large trufSes cut in shces, and foiu- chopped very fine, vdth a quart of white sauce (No. 7), place it over the fire to reduce, keeping it stirred until becoming very thick, finish vnth two yolks of eggs and place it on a dish to cool; procure fom- nice spring chickens, detach the skin from the breasts vidthout breaking, force the above preparation under the skins, sew the skin down (but not too tight, or it would burst in roasting), roast them in vegetables as usual; have ready a croustade in the form of a vase, which place in the centre of your dish filled mth fine trufiles warmed in strong stock, dress the chickens mth taste around it, first draining them upon a cloth, glaze lightly, and have ready the following sauce: put two quarts of white sauce (No. 7) into a stevrpan, with a pint of good veal broth, place it on the fire and when boiling add six large Erench truffles cut in thin slices, and half a teaspoon- ful of sugar, reduce, keeping it stirred until becomingREMOVES. 317 thickish, add half a giU of whipped cream ; pour the sauce round the chickens and serve very hot. No. 525. Petits Poulets a la Macedoine de legumes. Procure four spring chickens, roast them in vegetables, but just before they are done take off aU the paper and vegetables and let them get a nice gold colour; prepare and poach a piece of forcemeat (No. 130) four inches square, and another two inches square, place the smaller one upon the larger in the centre of the dish, di-ess the chickens by placing the tails upon the forcemeat and the breasts towards the edges of the dish; you have previously peeled and turned twelve Jerusalem artichokes in the shape of pears, and stewed in white stock, place three at the breast of each chicken, and a piece of boiled cauhflower between each at the tail, build some Brussels sprouts pyramidically at the top, and sauce with macedoine de legumes abrun (No. 99). Fowls may be dressed in the same manner as the chickens and are used when chickens cannot be obtained. No. 536. Petits Poulets a VIndienne. Put one pound of rice nicely boiled (No. 139) in a basin with a quarter of a pound of suet, a httle pepper, salt, cayenne, grated nutmeg, chopped parsley, two spoonfuls of bread-crumbs, one of currie powder, and three or four eggs, mix aU weU together, then have four spring chickens un- trussed, fill them with the above, and truss them as for boiling, stew them one hour gently in a braise as No. 514, make a round croustade of the form of a cup, five inches high, fill with some beautiful white rice in pyramid, with seven or eight mild Indian pickles interspersed, dress the chickens round the croustade, with a piece of boiled bacon three inches long and two broad between each, pour about two quarts of sauce a I'lndienne (No. 45) over, and serve very hot.218 REMOVES. No. 527. Petits Poulets au jus d'estraffon. Roast three spring chickens in vegetables, the same as for petits poulets a la macedoine de legumes, dress them on yom- dish, and pom- a sauce au jus d'estragon (No. 10) round. No. 528. Petits Poulets a la Marie Stuart. Procure four spring chickens trussed as for boihng, detach carefully part of the skin from the breasts, and lay sUces of French truffles under the skin, shaping a heart upon the breasts of each, prepare half a pound of maitre d'hotel butter (No. 79), divide it in four parts, and place one on the top of the truffles under the skin of each breast, covering vdth the skin, then put half a pound of butter, two onions, tw^o bay-leaves, and two wine-glasses of pale brandy, ^dth a httle stock into a flat stewpan, lay in the chickens, place a sheet of buttered paper over, put on the cover, place it ten minutes over a sharp fire, then set in a moderate oven for an hour, when done take out the string, lay them on a clean cloth to drain; have ready a croustade in the form of a pyramid, which place in the centre of your dish entirely enveloped with mashed potatoes haK an inch in thickness ; have ready some fine heads of asparagus boiled very green, and cut about an inch in length, stick them upon the pyramid with a small nice white head of cauli- flower at the top, dish your chickens round and sauce with u thin puree of truffles (No. 53) round them. No. 529. Petits Poussins a la Chanoinaise. Have ready three parts roasted in vegetables sk very young spring chickens trussed as for boiling, cover them all over with forcemeat (No. 128), throw some chopped truffles and ham lightly over, and put them into a flat stewpan just co-REMOVES. 319 vered with some good veal stock, set them in a moderate oven twenty minutes, with the cover over, and when done dress them at the corners of the dish upon a little mashed pota- toes, place a small croustade in the centre, upon which place a nicely-cooked larded sweetbread, glaze well, and have ready the following sauce: put two quarts of demi- glace (No. 9) into a stewpan, with a little sugar, and when boihng have ready a tongue (ready boiled) cut in sHces the size of half-a-crown-piece, and six large truffles also shced, put them into the sauce, and when very hot pom* into your dish, but not over the chickens; serve very hot. No. 530. Petits Poulets a la Prinianiere. Roast four spring chickens in vegetables, have ready some yomig carrots, turnips, and onions, stewed as directed (No. 438); make a small border of mashed potatoes round the dish, dress the vegetables with taste upon it, variegating them with peas or asparagus heads boiled very green, dress the chickens in the centre and have ready the following sauce: put two quarts of demi-glace (No. 9) into a stewpan, reduce well over the fire, keeping it stirred, add half a tea- spoonful of sugar and the glaze from the vegetables, reduce again till it adheres to the back of the spoon, pour over the chickens and vegetables, and serve very hot. No. 531. Petits Poussins a la Tartare. Procme fom- very young spring chickens, not trussed, cut off the feet below the joints, break the bone in each leg, then cut an incision in the thigh of the chicken and turn the legs into it, cut the chickens open down the back-bone, and beat them flat, fry five minutes in butter in a saute-pan, season with a little pepper and salt, egg and bread-crumb them all over, lay them on a gridiron over a moderate fire, and broil a nice hght-brown colom-; for sauce put ten table-220 REMOVES. spoonfuls of white sauce (No. 7) and six of consomme in a stewpan, and when it has boiled ten minutes add ten spoon- fuls of sauce tartare (No. 38), stir altogether till quite hot, but do not let it boil, pour it on your dish, garnish the edges of the dish with slices of Indian pickle, dress the chickens upon the sauce and serve du-ectly; the sauce tar- tare may also be served cold with the chickens glazed and served hot upon it. No. 532. Petits Poussins a la Marechal. Truss and broil four chickens precisely as in the last, and have ready the following sauce : put thi-ee tablespoonfuls of tarragon vinegar into a stewpan, with a small piece of glaze, half a pint of brown sauce (No. 1), and twenty tablespoon- fuls of consomme (No. 134), reduce ten minutes until form- ing a demi-glace, pour the sauce in the dish, glaze the chickens, dish them upon the sauce and serve. No. 533. Goose a la CJtipolata. Truss your goose nicely, and lard the breast (with lardons of fat bacon tliree inches long) here and there slantwise, then proceed exactly as for turkey a la chipolata (No. 512). No. 534. Goose stuffed with cliesnuts. Procure a fine goose, truss it, chop the liver very fine, cut an onion in small dice, put them in a stewpan, with the liver, and a quarter of a pound of scraped fat bacon, pass them over a slow fire for ten minutes or a Httle longer, have ready roasted and peeled thirty fine chesnuts, put them in the stewpan, with two bay-leaves, let them stew slowly over the fire half an hour, season with pepper, salt, and sugar, and when nearly cold stuff the inside of the goose, which sew up at both ends; roast an hour and a half in vegetables, and just before it is done take away the paperREMOVES. 221 and vegetables and let it get a nice light-brown colom-, dress on a dish and serve a sauce au jus de tomates (No. 12), in which you have introduced two tablespoonfuls of apple jeUy ; a little sage may be added to the above prepa- ration if approved of. No. 535. Goose a la Portugaise. Prepare your goose, then peel four Portugal onions, cut them in thin shces and put them into a stewpan with a quarter of a pound of butter; let them simmer over a slow fire until quite tender, then add a tablespoonful of flour, a little pepper, salt, grated nutmeg, and sugar, with half a pint of white sauce (No. 7); boil altogether twenty minutes, then stir in the yolks of two eggs and put it out on a dish to cool, stuff the goose with it, which roast as in the last, di-ess upon your dish with ten stewed Portugal onions and sauce as directed for stewed rump of beef a la Portugaise (No. 431). No. 536. Buchlings aux olives. Roast four smaU duckhngs in vegetables; have ready a croustade cut in the shape of a vase, set it on a few mashed potatoes in the centre of the dish, dress the ducklings with their tails towards it, and have ready the following sauce : put two quarts of demi-glace (No. 9) in a stewpan, when it boils have ready turned sixty French oHves, which throw into it, season vdth half a tablespoonful of sugar, when verv hot put the olives on the top of the croustade, pour the sauce over and serve directly. No. 537. Ducklings au jus d'orange. Roast four ducklings as in the previous article, di'ess a croustade in the centre of the dish, upon which place a fine Seville orange with a silver attelet through it, dress the222 REMOVES. ducklings round, and serve with a ius d'orauffc sauce (No. 17). No. 538. Ducklings aux legumesprintaniers. Roast them as above, and serve as directed for the pou- lardes (No. 521). No. 539. Buchlings a la Chartre. Roast your ducklings as before, have ready fifty young turnips turned in the shape of pears, put half an ounce of sifted sugar into a convenient-sized stewpan, set over the fii-e, and when it melts and assumes a brownish tinge add half a pound of butter and the turnips, toss them over every now and then, and when about three parts done and a light-brown colour turn them out on a cloth to drain the butter from them, likewise drain all the butter from the stewpan, put your tmiiips again into it, with a quart of brown sauce (No. 1), half a pint of white stock, and a bunch of parsley, boil altogether ten minutes, or tiU the sauce adheres to the spoon, dress a croustade in the form of a vase in the centre of the dish, dress the ducklings round, take the parsley from the sauce, dress some of the turnips with taste upon the croustade and the remainder between each duckling; pom' the sauce round and serve. No. 540. Haunch of Venison. May be decidedly called the second great pedestal; tiu-tle soup and haunch of venison certainly being the two great pedestals, or Gog and Magog of Enghsh cookery. It is appreciated from the independent citizen to the throne ; for where is there a citizen of taste, a man of wealth, or a gourmet, who does not pay due homage to this delicious and recherche joint, which ever has and ever will be in vogue ; but even after all that natm^e has done in point ofUEMOVKS. flavour should it fall into the hands of some inexperienced person to dress, and be too much done, its appearance and flavour would be entirely spoilt, its delicious and delicate fat melted, and the gravy lost; of the two it would be pre- ferred underdone, but that is very bad and hardly excus- able, when it requires nothing but attention to serve this glorious dish in perfection. A good haunch of venison weighing from about twenty to twenty-five pounds will take from three to fom- hours roasting before a good sohd fire; trim the haunch by cutting off part of the knuckle and sawing off the chine bone, fold the flap over, then envelope it in a flour and water paste rather stiff, and an inch thick, tie it up in strong paper, foiu- sheets in tliickness, place it in your cradle spit so that it will turn quite even, place it at first very close to the fire until the paste is well crusted, pouring a few ladlefuls of hot di-ipping over occasionally to prevent the paper catching fire, then put it rathef fmther from the fire, which must be quite clear, sohd, and have sufficient frontage to throw the same heat on every part of the venison; when it has roasted the above time take it up, remove it from the paste and paper, run a thin skewer into the thickest part to ascertain if done, if it resists the skewer it is not done, and must be tied up and put down again, but if the fire is good that time will sufficiently cook it, glaze the top well, salamander until a httle brown, put a frill upon the knuckle, and serve very hot with plenty of plain boiled Prench beans separate. For the mode of carving a haunch of venison, see preface. No. 541. Haunch of Doe Venison a la Corinthienne. Trim your haunch and lard the fillet of the loin and the leg as you would a fricandeau, put it for a week in a mari- nade (No. 426), turning it over every other day; place it on a spit, tied up in oiled paper,.,and roast it two hom-s,224 REMOVES. but just before taking up, take off all the paper, to give a nice colour; dress it on your dish with a frill at the knuckle, and have ready the following sauce: well wash and pick half a pound of fine currants, soak them in water two hours, dry them well on a sieve, put half a pint of the marinade through a sieve into a stewpan, with two glasses of port wine, and two chopped eschalots, reduce to half, add a quart of brown sauce (No. 1), reduce till it adheres to the back of the spoon, add a tablespoonful of currant jelly, pass it through a tammie into another stewpan, add your cur- rants, season with a Uttle cayenne pepper, and salt if re- quired, pour the sauce round the haunch, and serve. No. 542. Neclcs of Doe Venison a la Corinthienne. Trim two necks of venison by cutting out the shoulders, not too deep, cut the breast off rather narrow, slip your knife between the rib bones and the flesh to half way up, saw off the bones, skewer the flap over, detach the chine bones from the flesh, saw them off, and lard the fillets; put them in marinade (No. 426) one day (they must be well covered), tie them up in oiled paper, and roast for one hour; when done glaze and salamander the tops, di*ess them fillet to fillet on your dish, and sauce the same as for haunch a la Corinthienne. No. 543. NecJcs of Venison a la BoMmienne. Proceed as above, and sauce as for fillet of beef a la Bohemienne (No. 426.) No. 544. Faisans a la Corsaire. Procure three young pheasants, truss them as for boiling, chop the Hvers very fine, and put them into a basin with a quarter of a pound of chopped suet, one pound of bread- crumbs, a little pepper, salt, grated nutmeg, chopped parsley.IlEMOVES. 225 and thyme • mix the whole well together with four eggs, put in a mortar, pound it well, stuff the birds with it, and roast them in vegetables; make a croustade shaped like the bows of a ship, dress it at the head of the dish, make a large quenelle (No. 120), which ornament with truffles to fancy; run a sUver attelet through it lengthwise, and stick it at the top of the croustade, dress the pheasants on the dish, the tails of two of them touching the croustade, and the other between, with its breast towards the end of the dish; have ready the following sauce: put two quarts of the sauce a I'essence de gibier (No. 60) in a stewpan, with half a pint of white broth; reduce till it adheres to the spoon, then add twenty dressed cockscombs and twenty heads of mushrooms; sauce over the pheasants and serve. No. 545. Faisans a la Garde Chasse. Procure four very young hen pheasants, truss them for roasting, merely cut off the tips of the claws, make a small incision in the leg at the knuckles, and truss them with their claws resting on then- thighs, and their knuckles over their tails; stuff them with the same preparation as in the last, but adding a glass of brandy and half a gill of double cream; put them on your spit, have ready washed and cut from the roots a few good handfids of heather from the mountain, surround the birds with it, and tie them in oiled paper; roast them three quarters of an hom% take them up, and dress them on your dish in the form of a cross; have four large quenelles of game (No. 12'3), and place one be- tween each pheasant; have ready the following sauce: put two glasses of port wine in a stewpan, with a teaspoonful of sugar, and an ounce of glaze; boil tliree minutes, then add a quart of the sauce a I'essence de gibier (No. 60); boil altogether ten minutes, skim, add two ounces of fresh 1522G REMOVES. butter, stir it in with a wooden spoon; when quite melted pour the sauce over the bu-ds, and serve. No. 546. Faismis truffes a la Piemontaise. Procure four young pheasants as above, but they must be quite fresh, stuff the breasts of them with half a pound of truffles prepared as for poularde a la Perigord (No. 524), only using haK oil and half bacon, and adcUng half a clove of garhc scraped; show as much truffles as possible under the skin; they must be kept in that way a week or more (according to the weather), before they are fit for dressing; roast nearly an hour in oiled paper of a hght gold colour^ dress upon your dish in the form of a cross, have ready the following sauce: put two quarts of clear aspic (No. 1360) in a stewpan, reduce twenty minutes, cut six raw or pre- served truffles in slices, put them into the aspic with a glass of champagne, hock, or madeira, and a httle sugar; stew them twenty minutes, sauce over your birds, and serve very hot. No. 547. Faisans a VExtravagante. This is a very elegant remove, and can be made where woodcocks are plentiful, but to the economiser it would ap- pear a most extravagant extravaganza; procure two large pheasants and six woodcocks, fillet the woodcocks and cut each fillet in halves lengthwise, put two ounces of scraped bacon in a sautepan with a tablespoonful of chopped es- chalots and half a pottle of chopped mushrooms; lay the fillets over them, season with pepper and salt, set them over the fire five minutes, turn the fillets, set them again on the fire five minutes longer, add twenty tablespoonfuls of bechamel sauce (No. 7), half a pound of cockscombs pre- viously cooked, a little grated nutmeg, and half a spoonful of sugar; it must be rather highly seasoned; add three yolks of eggs, stir a minute over the fire tiU the egg sets,REMOVES. . 227 theu put it on a dish to cool; when firm divide it in two, and stuff the pheasants with it, having previously extracted all the breast bone, sew the skin of the neck over on the back, but do not draw it too tight, or it would burst on the breast; siuround with fat bacon, and tie them in oiled paper; roast them one hour, but just before they are done take off the paper and bacon; shake flour over, and they will become brown and crisp; have ready prepared the fol- lowing sauce: put the remainder of the woodcocks in a stewpan, with two glasses of sherry, a pint of white stock, two eschalots (cut in slices), a little parsley, thyme, and bay- leaf, two cloves, and half a blade of mace, let simmer a quarter of an hour, add a quart of brown sauce, let the whole boil together twenty minutes at the corner of the stove, take out the pieces of woodcock, and pass the sauce through a tammie into a clean stewpan, take the flesh and trails of the woodcocks from the bones, which pound well in the mortar, then put it in the sauce, boil it up again, season with a little pepper, salt, and half a teaspoonful of sugar, and rub it through a tammie with two wooden spoons, the sauce is then ready; for garniture cut twenty- four pieces of bread in the form of hearts, cover them on one side with forcemeat (No. 23) rather thick in the middle, and fix a cockscomb ready dressed upon each; butter a saute-pan, and lay them in it; cover them over with a sheet of buttered paper, and place them half an hour in a mode- rate oven; make a border of forcemeat (No. 120), poached in pieces an inch broad and half an inch thick, wliich lay on your dish, upon which dress them, place the pheasants in the centre, pour the sauce round, glaze the birds and cockscombs, and sen'e. The way to carve pheasants dressed this way is as follows: the breast being free from bone, detach the legs with a knife, and cut the breast in slices in a slanting direction;228 REMOVES. the scraped bacon will escape in roasting, keeping the birds moist; they wiU not cut greasy, but will have a marbled appearance Hke gallantine. No. 548. Grouse a la Bob Boy. Grouse are the most favourite birds in this country, and certainly the most welcome; they make their first appear- ance on the 12th of August, a time when most delicate palates are fatigued with domestic volatile productions, at that period they are very properly used for roasts only; but when more plentiful they are very excellent dressed in the manners I have here described, though seldom or ever used for removes; I have, for the sake of variety which is said to be charming, given a few new methods. Pick, draw, and truss four grouse, make a stuffing like for the pheasants (No. 544), using the liver of the grouse, stuff and place them on the spit, surrounded with fat bacon and sprigs of heather, moistened with a glass of whiskey, tie them up in paper and roast three quarters of an hour, dress on a dish in the form of a cross, and have ready the following sauce: put a quart of good melted butter in a stevs^an on the &e, and just as it begins to boil, add a quarter of a pound of butter; stir the sauce till the butter is melted, season rather high, and pour over your birds; (the sauce must be rather thick, but not too thick;) under each bird place a piece of toasted bread well glazed; serve very hot. No. 549. Grouse a la Corsaire. See Faisan (No. 544). No. 550. Grouse a la Piemontaise. See Paisan (No. 546). No. 551. Grouse a la Garde Chasse. See Faisans (No. 545).REMOVES. 229 Of Black Cocks and Grey Hens. These bii-ds are a similar fiavoui- to the grouse, only much larger, and may be dressed just in the same manner, only two cocks will be sufficient for a remove of ten or twelve persons if well garnished with quenelles, cockscombs, muslu-ooms, truffles, &c. No. 552. Hare a la Macgregor. Skin a fine young hare, and truss it as for roastmg, stuff with a forcemeat made of the liver (see faisan a la corsaire, No. 544), put it on the spit, rub well with oil, and while roasting sprinkle a httle flom- over now and then ; have ready the fillets of three other hares skinned and nicely larded, put some butter in a saute-pan, and fry them gently of Ught brown colour, rather underdone; cut each fillet in halves, and have twelve pieces of toasted bread cut in the form of hearts, of the same size as the fillets; di-ess them alternately on your dish upon a border of mashed potatoes, di-ess the hare in the centre, glaze the fillets and bread, and pour a quart of sauce poivrade (No. 33), in which you have introduced a spoonful of mild orange mar- malade instead of the ciurrant jelly, over the hare, and serve very hot. No. 553. Levraut a la Coursiere. Skin and draw two leverets just caught by the dogs, save the blood in a basin, truss them for roasting, lard the fillets, roast haff an horn- before a quick fire, put a quart of poivrade sauce (No. 32) in a stewpan ; when boihng stir quicldy with a wooden spoon, and pour in the blood; add a Httle salt, cayenne pepper, a tablespoonfd of cm-rant jelly, fom- pats of butter, and the juice of a lemon; sauce over the leverets and serve immediately.I 230 f LANGS. Flancs are required in every dinner where there are more than four entrees; they are served upon oval dishes of from eighteen inches in length to nme in width, and require a little depth; for flancs being made chshes, lilce removes, the dish must contain the sauce. My readers will perceive by the Index that many of them are like the removes; but these I shall merely give references to, my object in placing them with the flancs being to show that by being reduced in size they will do for flancs in large rhnners, and also be an assistance in the making of bills of fare. Flancs are to be made of one or two sohd pieces of poultry, game, butcher's meat, or pastry, and keep every- thing which is divided into many pieces, as cotelettes, fillets, escalopes, fricassees, salmis, &c., for entrees as much as much as possible, by doing which you will add more im- portance to your dinner, and cause more harmony in the arrangement. No. 554. Mllet of Beef pique aux legumes printaniers. Procure a piece of fillet of beef fifteen inches in length, lard, trim, and dress it as directed (No. 417); when ready to serve dress a border of mashed potatoes on yom- dish; have ready twenty young carrots, twenty yomig turnips, with twenty small, onions, dressed as directed for poulardes (No. 521); dish them upon the mashed potatoes with a small cauliflower nicely boiled at each end of the dish, place your fillet in the centre, glaze it, and sauce with a demi-glace, made also as directed for the poulai-des, but half the quantity will be sufficient.231 FLANCS. No. 655. Filet de Bmf au jus de groseilles. Procure and lai'd a piece of fiUet of beef the same size as in the last, pickle it four or five days, as directed for filet de bceuf (No. 426); when wanted take it from the marinade, dry it, and roast it in paper, but ten minutes before it is done take off the paper to allow it to colour a little; place it on your dish, and have ready the following sauce: run half a pint of the marinade through a sieve into a stewpan, add an ounce of glaze, place it on the fire, reduce it to half, add a quart of brown sauce, and again reduce it till it be- comes a clear demi-glace; sldm it when required, add half the rind of a lemon, the peehngs of a few mushrooms, a httle scraped garhc, the size of a pea, and a spoonful of ve):y bright currant jelly; stir it two minutes over the fire, season it rather high, pass it through a tammie, sauce over the fillet, and serve. No. 556. Mllet of Beef a la Beyroiit. Procure but a piece of fillet the same size as in the last, and proceed as directed (No. 419). For Pilet de Boeuf a la Milanaise, Do. au jus d'orange, and Do. au jus de tomates, see Removes, Nos. 425, 420, 421, merely substituting a piece of the fillet when serving them as flancs. No. 557. Langue de Bceuf a la Marquise. Bon a nice ox-tongue three hours, when done take the skin off carefully; by allowing it to get cold, you can cut any design upon it your fancy may dictate, but I prefer sending them plain, merely trinmaing it. You have pre- viously filleted and dressed tlu'ee cliickens, as described for supreme de volaille, (see No. 792), then make a border of232 FLANCS. mashed potatoes round your dish, and dress half the fillets of chicken on each side, one upon the other in a slanting du-ection; have ready dressed four nice larded sweetbreads place two at each end, and the tongue in the centre, have ready the following sauce : put a pint and a half of white sauce (No. 7) in the saute-pan in which you cooked your fillets of chickens, with twelve spoonfuls of good veal stock, stir it over the fire tiU it becomes rather thick, then add a gill of cream and a Httle powdered sugar, mix all well to- gether, pass it through a tammie into a stewpan when hot, sauce over the fillets, glaze the sweetbreads and tongue, and serve very hot. No. 558. Langue de Bceuf a la Prima Donna. Boil the tongue as in the last, then have ready twenty- four quenelles of veal (No. 120), dress a low border of mashed potatoes round the dish, upon which di'ess the quenelles, making them go quite round, then have ready tke following sauce: put twenty spoonfuls of white sauce (No. 7), and ten of veal stock in a stewpan; let it boil ten minutes, then add a quarter of a pound of maitre d^hdtel butter (No. 79), mix it very quick over the fire, and when melted sauce over the quenelles; put a nicely boiled Brussels sprout between each quenelle, glaze the tongue, and serve. No. 559. Langue de Bcenf a la St. Aulaire. Cook the tongue as before, and when done fix it on the dish upon mashed potatoes; have ready the following ra- gout : cut four middling-sized cucumbers into pieces about an inch and a half in length, split each piece in three, take out the seeds from each piece, peel them and trim them at the corners, put them in a stewpan with an ounce of butter, half a spoonful of powdered sugar, and two chopped eschalots; stew the cucumbers very gently till quite tender, but not toFLANCS. ^^'^ break them, then cut the breast of a cooked fowl into shces the size of the pieces of cucumber and add with them; then add a quart of hot bechamel sauce (No. 7) and a little white stock, shake the stewpan over the fire, but do not stu- it with a spoon, or you would break the contents; finish with a haison made from the yolk of one egg, pour it round the tongue, and serve. No. 560. Langue de Boeuf a la Jardiniere. Cook the tongue as before, fix it in your dish upon mashed potatoes, and serve with a jardiniere sauce (No. 100) round it. No. 561. Langue de Bceuf a la Milanaise. Cook as before, and serve with a sauce a la Milanaise (No. 49) under it, to which has been added some fillets of fowl cut the same size as the pieces of macaroni. Ox-tongues may also be served with sauce piquante (No. 27) or sauce a I'ltalienne (No. 30), and they are fre- quently served as a flanc, quite plain, especially when the opposite flanc is composed of veal or poultry. No. 562. Westphalia Ham, small. These hams require to be well soaked in water, and scraped previous to dressing; boil from three to four hours, and when done take off" the skin, leaving a little on the knuckle, which you cut as fancy may direct; glaze it nicely, put a paper frill upon the knuckle-bone, and serve it plain, or it may be served with any of the following sauces: poivrade (No. 32), jardiniere (No. 100), Milanaise (No. 49), or dressed spinach (No. 1085); but when it is intended to be eaten with a remove of poultry, it is as well served plain. ft284 FLANCS. No. 508. Loi7i of Veal a la Camba^eres. For this see Removes (No. 441), only in this instance sub- stitute the thm end of the loin only, and that not too large. No. 564. Loin of Veal a la Cremiere. Prociu-e part of a loin about the size your dish wiU con- veniently hold, place it on a spit and have ready some vege- tables of all kinds cut small; lay them on two or three sheets of thickish paper, moisten them with half a pint of cream, tie the veal up in them and roast it two hours, make a border of mashed potatoes round your dish, upon which dress twelve nice poached eggs; take up the veal, clear it from the vegetables, and dress it in the centre; have ready the following sauce : put a quart of bechamel sauce (No. 7) in a stewpan, with a little grated nutmeg, salt, and sugar; stir it over a quick fire, boil it ten minutes, then add a gill of cream, the juice of a lemon, and an ounce of fresh butter, pom- it over the eggs and veal, and serve; the sauce requires to be rather thick, but if too much so, thin it with a Uttle milk; if sprue grass is in season, a few of the heads boiled, and lard between the eggs, would have a pleasing effect. For Loins a la puree de celeri. Do. macedoine de legumes, and Do. a la Strasbomgienne See Removes, Nos. 443, 442, and 444. No. 565. Noix de veaupique au jus. Prociu-e a very white leg of veal from a cow calf, saw o£P the knuckle, lay the fillet on the table and cut it open without cutting tlirough the meat, that is cut from the bone in the centre under the udder until you cut thi'ough the skin, take out the bone, and lay it out, there will be three separate lumps of meat, the largest of which is theFLANCS. ■^'^"^ noix (or nut); to cut it out press your hand upon it and with a sharp knife cut down close to the sldn, separating it from the sldn till it comes to the udder, then bring the knife up, lay the piece upon the table the best side down- wards and beat it well, trim it of a nice shape, and lard it with pieces of fat bacon two inches long and slender in proportion, cut off the udder and sew it to the side, put a few shces of bacon in a flat stewpan, with two or three onions cut in shces, half a bunch of paisley, two bay-leaves, and a sprig of thyme, lay in the noix, add a pint of white broth, then put the hd on the stewpan, and place it in a moderate oven for three hours, occasionally looking at it, taking care that the gravy does not become dry or burnt, if it becomes dry add a httle water to moisten -it, but not enough to cover the veal, which moisten now and then with the gravy; when done, glaze it nicely, shghtly colour it with the salamander if required, and lay it on a dish, keep it hot, then pass the gravy tlirough a tammie into a smaller stewpan, set it on the corner of the fire, skim off all the fat, pour it in your dish, and lay the noix in the last moment of serving, or the fat would run, and give the gravy a bad appearance. No. 566. Noix de Veau a la Potagere. Procure and di'ess a noix de veau as in the last, except- ing the udder, which is not required, and you need not be particular about its being the leg of a cow calf; when cooked make a border of mashed potatoes round your dish, upon which dress several pieces of nice cauliflowers, (about the size of eggs,) which you have previously boiled, place the noix in the centre the last thing before serving, and have ready the following sauce -. put thirty spoonfuls of white sauce (No. 7) in a ste\\Toan with ten of the gravy f:om the noix, (free from fat,) boil ten minutes, then add230 FLANCS. half a gill of cream and a little sugar, pour the sauce over the cauliflowers, glaze the noix and serve immediately, tb-owing a few green peas, well boiled, round. No. 567. Noix de Veau a la Palestine. Prepare and dress the noix as in the last, then wash and peel two dozen middling-sized Jerusalem artichokes, give them the shape of pears, boil them in salt and water in which you have put a piece of butter, boil them till tender, make a small border of mashed potatoes upon yom- dish, on which dress the artichokes, the thick part uppermost, scoop a piece out of the top of each, and stick in a nicely- boiled Brussels sprout, place the noix in the centre, glaze it and pour a thin sauce a la puree d'artichaut (No. 90) over the artichokes and serve. No. 568. Noix de Veau aux legumes nouveaux. Prepare and dress the noix as in the last, then have pre- pared twenty young carrots, twenty young turnips, and twenty yoLmg onions, prepared as described in the article stewed rump of beef a la Flamande (No. 428), dress them tastefully upon your dish upon a thin border of mashed potatoes, place the noix in the centre and have ready the follovidng sauce : mix the glaze from the vegetables mth a quart of brown sauce (No. 1), and half a pint of the gravy from the noix, (but quite free from fat,) in a stewpan, place it over the fii'e and reduce till it becomes a thickish demi-glace, keeping it well sldmmed, sauce over the vegetables, glaze the noix and serve. No. 569. Noix de Veau a la puree de chamjnrjnons. Prepare and dress the noix as before, and have ready a sauce a la puree de champignons (No. 54), pom* it on your dish, lay the noix over, glaze and serve immediately.FLANCS. 287 No. 570. Noia; de veau a la Prince Albert. Prepare and di'ess the noix as before, have l&ewise ten lambs' s\veetbreads larded and dressed (see No. 746), also ten plovers' eggs, which peel and warm in white stock, make a thin border of mashed potatoes round yoiu' dish, and dress the sweetbreads and plovers' eggs alternately upon it; place the noix in the centre, place a ring of truffles upon each plover's egg, and have ready the following sauce : pass the gravy from the noix and sweetbreads through a sieve into a stewpan, set it on the fire, skim off all the fat, add a quart of brown sauce (No. 1) and a pint of con- somme (No. 134), reduce it quickly over the fire, keeping it stirred vdth a wooden spoon, and when reduced to a thinnish glaze take it off the fire, add a little sugar, and two pats of butter ; glaze the sweetbreads and noix, sauce round and serve immediately. No. 571. NecJc of Veal a la St. Clair. Trim the best end of a very nice neck of veal, see Re- moves (No. 451), roast it in vegetables, and give it a nice gold colom-; make a border of mashed potatoes round your dish, upon which dress a number of shces of fried ham, (each cut in the shape of a long heart,) to form a crown, place the veal in the centre, and pom' some very thin tomata sauce (No. 37) (in which you have mixed half an ounce of anchovy butter) round, and serve. For neck of veal a la puree de celeri, ditto a la macedoine de legumes, and ditto a la cremiere, (see Nos. 451, 422 and 564.) No. 572. Calf's Head a la Constantine. Cook half a calf's head as directed (No. 459), and when done lay it on a dish with another dish upon it, on which place a fourteen pounds weight, when cold cut twelve nice238 FLANCS, oval pieces out of it, egg each piece over with a paste-brash, and throw it into bread-crumbs mixed with chopped lean ham; set them in the oven and when quite hot and of a nice gold colour dress them in a crown round your dish upon a border of mashed potatoes, place the brains at each end of the dish, and have ready the following sauce : make a quart of sauce au jus d'echalotte (No. 16), well seasoned, add to it twenty pickled mushrooms and forty very small white pickled onions, warm them five minutes in the sauce, then pom^ the sauce in the centre, glaze the pieces of calf's head and serve very hot. For calf's head en tortue, ditto a la Hollandaise, and ditto a I'amiral, see Nos. 462, 459 and 463. No. 573. Neck of Mutton demi Provengale. Prepare and braise a neck of mutton as described for the Removes, see that it is not too fat; you have prepared a puree of onions like for the cotelettes (see No. 701), spread some over the neck about a quarter of an inch thick, egg and bread-crumb it hghtly, then put it in a hot oven twenty minutes, if not sufficiently colom-ed pass the sala- mander over it, then have ready the following sauce: put a pint of brown sauce in a stewpan, with half the quantity of good stock, reduce it over the fire till it comes to a nice demi-glace, add a httle scraped garlic the size of a couple of peas, dress the neck in a dish and pour the sauce over; serve very hot; a little seasoning may be added to the sauce if required. No. 574. NecJc of Mutton a la Souhise. Prepare, lard, and braise a neck of mutton as described in the Removes fNo. 482), when done glaze it weU, pass the salamander over, place it in your dish, and serve Avith a sauce Soubise (No. 47) poured round it.FLANCS. 239 No. 575. Neck of Mutton a VAlgerienne. Procure a large neck of mutton, trim it as before, and lai'd the lean part with fine cut bacon, hke for the noix de veau, make two quarts of marinade (see fillet of beef a la Bohemienne, No. 436), and lay the neck in it for three days, then run a skewer through it and fix it on your spit, roast it about an horn', giving it a very good colour; have ready the following sauce : strain half a pint of the mari- nade into a stewpan, add a pint of brown sauce and a small piece of glaze, reduce it till forming a thickish demi- glace; you have previously soaked twenty very nice Erench plums in boiling water twenty minutes, drain them on a sieve, and when dry throw them into the sauce, season with a little salt and^ cayenne pepper, pour the sauce in your dish, dress the neck upon it and serve. No. 576. Nech of Mutton a la Portugaise. Prepare, lard, and braise a neck of mutton as before, then peel six middhng-sized Portugal onions, blanch them twenty minutes in boihng water, then lay them on a cloth to drain, put a quarter of a pound of butter in a flat stew- pan, let it melt, lay in the onions, add one ounce of sugar, and a little salt, and just cover them with a little white stock, let them simmer gently for one hour or more until quite tender, take them out carefully, lay on a cloth, cut them in halves, dress in a border round the dish, and lay the neck in the centre, then take the butter from the stock the onions were stewed in, put half a pint of it in a stew- pan, with a quart of white sauce (No. 7) and haK a pint of stock, reduce it till it becomes again thickish, and pour it over the onions round the mutton, which glaze and serve very hot.PLANCS. 240 Por neck of mutton a la legumiere, ditto a la Bretonne, and ditto a la Chai'tre, see Removes, Nos. 482, 483, and 486. No. 577. Loin of Mutton en Carhonade. Bone a loin of mutton carefully, leaving the small fillet attached, lard it well with pieces of lean ham and fat bacon, season with chopped eschalots, chopped parsley, pepper and salt, roll it up as tight as possible, previously putting in some forcemeat (No. 120), tie it up with string, put in a stewpan, with some white stock and vegetables, let it stew gently two hours and a haK, then take it up, cut off the string, trim it at each end, glaze the top, pass the salaman- der over to give it a nice colour, and serve with dressed spinach (No. 1085), sauce Soubise (No. 47), or sauce piquante (No. 27). No. 578. Carhonade de Mouton a la Bourginotte. Prepare a loin of mutton as in the last, then peel one hundred button onions, put half an ounce of pounded sugar in a stewpan, set it over the fire and as soon as it is melted add half an ounce of butter and the onions, place them over a slow fire, tossing them every now and then, when getting tender add a pint and a haK of white sauce (No. 7), and a pint of white stock, with a small bmich of parsley, thyme, and bay-leaf, set it on the fire till the onions ai-e quite done, take them out with a colander spoon and put them in a clean stewpan, reduce the sauce till it becomes rather thickish, pass it through a tammie upon the onions, warm altogether, pour the sauce in yom- dish, place the cai'bonade in the centre, which glaze and serve very hot. For breast of mutton a la Soubise, sauce piquante, tomate, &c., see Removes No, 487.241 PLANCS. No. 579. Saddle of Lamb a la Bonne Fermiere. Procm-e a very smaU saddle of very white lamb, trim it according to the size of yoiir dish, roast it in vegetables as described in the Removes (No. 417), then boil two lambs frys in water five minutes, drain it on a sieve, egg and bread-crumb it, and fry in very hot lard, set the saddle m the centre of your dish, dress the fry around it, and gar- nish with parsley fried nice and crisp, put a quart of con- somme in a stewpan, let it reduce to more than half, add a little sugar and chopped mint, and pour it in the dish but not over the fry. ^ , ^ For saddle of lamb aux petits pois, ditto a la Sevigne, ditto a la menagere, and ditto demi Proven^ale, see Re- moves Nos. 488, 489, 492, and 491. No. 580. SJioulder of Lamb farci aux truffles. Take the blade bone carefully out of a shoulder of lamb Avithout bursting the skin, lard the under part with pieces of fat bacon about an inch and a haK long and a quarter of an inch in thickness, lay it upon a cloth, season it, and spread some forcemeat about an inch in thickness down the centre in a line with the knuckle, cut some long strips of cooked ham or tongue and lay upon it, with some truffles cut in as long strips as possible, then roll the; flaps over and sew it up, giving a nice oval appearance, tie it up in a cloth and put it in a stewpan, with two large onions, two carrots, two turnips, a bunch of parsley, thyme, and bay-leaf, some trimmings of veal, beef, or mutton, cover the whole with some white stock (or water, but then you must put more meat), let it simmer for three hours, skim it weU, add half a pint of bucellas wine, take up the lamb, untie it, pull out all the string, draia upon a cloth, lay it on your dish, place a paper frifl upon the knuckle bone, keep hot, and prepare 16I'LANCS. the following sauce: take one quart of the stock it was cooked m which pass through a tammie into a stewpan take off all the grease, add a pint of denii-glace (No 9) reduce it to a demi glaze, season with a httle sugar and salt if required, pour it round the lamb and serve very hot • to carve it cut it in sHces crosswise, it m4U have a marbled appearance. No. 581. S/wuMer of Lamh farci a la Financiers Proceed exactly as in the last, but serve with a rao-out financiere (No. 50) instead of the sauce. ° No. 582. Shoulder of Lamh farci a la ^uree de pois vert. Proceed as before, but omit the truffles, and serve with a piu-ee of green peas (No. 86). No. 583. Shoulder of Lamh a la Maitre d'Hotel. Plain roast a small shoulder of lamb, then put a gill of good cream in a stewpan, place it over the fire, and when boiHng add a quarter of a pound of maitre d'hotel butter (No. 79;, stii- it till melted and pour it over the lamb. No. 584. Neck of Lamh aux legumes printaniers. Trim a nice white neck of lamb in the manner described for mutton (No. 482), keep it nice and square, run a skewer through and roast it with vegetables, make a border of young vegetables on your dish prepared as for fillet of beef (No. 554), dish the lamb in the centre, sauce over the vegetables, and serve sauce the same as for the filet de bceuf. No. 585. Neck of Lamh auxpetitspois. Proceed as in the last, when roasted prepare a quart of peas as directed (No. 84), pom- them on yom- dish and ch-ess the lamb upon it.FLANCS. 243 No. 586. Nech of Lamb a la Bruxellaise. Trim and braise a neck of lamb as before, keeping it as white as possible, make a very nice green pm-ee of Brussels sprouts (as directed No. 8i), pour the puree in your dish and di-ess the lamb upon it. No. 587. Nech of Lamb a la Louairiere. Trim and braise a neck of lamb as above, have twelve lambs' sweetbreads, six hearts, and six throats, blanch them, lard the six heart-breads, and dress them as (No. 674), cut the six throat-breads in shces and put them in a stewpan, with half an ounce of butter, three chopped eschalots, a Mttle pepper, salt, and the juice of a lemon; let them sim- mer ten minutes, then add a quart of white sauce (No. 7), twenty tablespoonfuls of white stock, and a small bunch of parsley, simmer twenty minutes, take out the parsley, add twelve fine cockscombs ready dressed, (see No. 128), and finish with a haison of two yolks of eggs mixed with a gill of cream; do not let it boil after the liaison is in, pour the sauce on yom' dish, lay the neck upon it, glaze the larded sweetbreads, dress them round the neck and serve; keep the neck as white as possible. No. 588. Neck of Lamb a la Mattre d!Hotel. Plain roast a neck of lamb and proceed as directed for shoulder (No. 583). No. 589. Vetits Poussins a la Moskovite. Truss two chickens as for boihng, dip the breasts in boiling water one minute, and lard them very nicely, braise them thus: put some slices of fat bacon at the bottom of a flat stewpan, lay in the chickens breast upwards, put in two onions, one carrot, one turnip, four cloves, and a . small244 FLANCS. bunch of parsley, thyme, and bay4eaf, add as much Avhite stock as will come up to the larded part of the chicken, cover with a sheet of buttered paper, put the cover on the stewpan and place it over a slow fire, let them simmer very gently about half an hour, a short time before they are done lay some red hot charcoal upon the cover of the stew- pan to colour the larded part of the chickens; have ready the following sauce : you have previously boiled a very nice Russian tongue, with a sharp knife trim it and cut it into long thin shces, cut also ten large gherkins in thin slices lengthwise, put two tablespoonfuls of finely chopped onions in a stewpan, with four of the vinegar from the gherkins, reduce it to half, then add three pints of white sauce (No. 7), and a pint of white stock, boil it a quarter of an hour, or till it becomes rather thickish, pass it through a tammie into a clean stewpan, warm it, season with a httle cayenne and a teaspoonful of pounded sugar, add the shces of tongue and gherkins, and when quite hot add a gill of cream; pom- the sauce on the dish upon which lay the chickens, slantwise, the breasts pointing contrarywise. No. 590. Petits Poussins a VEcarlate. Roast two spring chickens in vegetables as directed in the Removes; you have previously boiled an ox tongue, which cut in halves lengthwise, trim each piece to imitate two small tongues, fix them on mashed potatoes on your dish, the points in the centre and the thick parts at the ends, then dress the chickens tail to tail to form with the tongues a cross; have ready boiled five small heads of cauliflower, place one of them in the centre upon the tails of the chickens, and one between the chickens and tongue in each space; have ready the following sauce : put three pints of white sauce in a stewpan, with a pint of white stock, boil till rather thick, season with a httle sugar and9 All FLANCS. '^^'^ salt finish with a liaison of two yolks of eggs, mixed with a gin'of cream, sauce over the chickens and cauliflowers, glaze the tongue and serve. No. 591. Petits Foussins a la Palestine. Jloast two spring chickens in vegetables as before, pre- pare forty Jerusalem artichokes and di'ess in a border round the dish, as directed for noix de veau a la Palestme (No. 567), dress the chickens in the centre, and sauce the same as in the last article. No. 592. Petits Foussins a la Venitienne. Truss, lard, and braise two chickens as before, dress them on a dish, and have ready the following sauce: put two tablespoonfids of chopped eschalots in a stewpan, with one of salad oil, pass them a few minutes over the fire, then add two glasses of sherry, reduce to half, add a pint and a half of white sauce (No. 7), and half a pint of Avhite stock, reduce it till it comes to a proper consistency, add one tablespoonful of chopped mushrooms, one of chopped truffles, and one of chopped parsley; season with a little sugar and salt, tlu-ow in twelve fine cockscombs ready dressed, squeeze a little lemon-juice in, and finish with half a gill of cream, sauce over and serve. No. 593. Petits Foussins a la Prince Albert. Truss and braise two chickens as above, then have eight lambs' sweetbreads, and eight plovers' eggs, as dhected for noix de veau a la Prince Albert (No. 570), make a border as there described, and dress the chickens in the centre; have ready the following sauce: put a quart of good veal stock in a stewpan, with the trimmings and bones of a cooked fowl, reduce it to half, pass it tlu-ough a sieve into another stewpan, skim it, then add a pint of tonmta sauce246 I'LANCS. (No. 37), half a pint of white sauce, and half a teaspoonfd of sugar; boil altogether ten minutes, finish with two pats of butter, and when melted pom- it over the chickens; glaze the sweetbreads and serve. No. 594. JPetits Poussins au jus d'estragon. Braise two chickens as directed for a la Moscovite (No. 589), but they will not require larding, and completely cover them with stock ; when done pass the stock through a tammie into another stewpan, place it on the fii-e, skim off all the fat, and clarify it as directed (No. 134), place it again on the fire and reduce it to a very thin glaze, add two tablespoonfuls of vinegar, and half a one of sugar,' throw in twenty leaves of tarragon, boil altogether two minutes, dress the chickens on a dish, sauce over and serve. Por petits poussins a la maiechale, and ditto a la tartare, see Removes, Nos. 532, 531. No. 595. Pefits Poussins a la Chevaliere. Trass, lard, and braise the chickens as directed for a la Moscovite (No. 589), only let them stew rather longer, dress on your dish, and have ready the following sauce: peel about forty button onions, put a quarter of an ounce of powdered sugar in a stewpan, place it on the fke, and Avhen the sugar melts add an ounce of butter and the onions, pass them over a slow fii-e till they become tender, but they must be kept quite white, add a quart of white sauce (No. 7), half a pint of veal stock, and a good bunch of parsley; let it simmer until the onions are quite done, take them out with a colander spoon and put them in an- other stewpan, reduce the sauce until it becomes sufficiently thick, then pass it through a tammie over the onions, add twenty heads of mushrooms, boil up, and finish with two pats of butter, a little sugar, and a Uaison of two yolks ofFLANCS. 247 eggs; poiir the sauce on your dish, di'ess the chickens over md serve; you can lard and di-ess the fillets of two chickens as dii^ected (No. 792), and garnish your chickens with them. No. 596. Petits Poussins a la Marengo. Take two spring chickens and truss them as directed for poulet a la marechale (No. 532), put four tablespoonfuls of oil in aflatstewpan, lay in the chickens, previously seasoned with pepper and salt, place them over a moderate fire, put the cover on the stewpan, let them go ten minutes till they become brown, then tm-n them and let remain till the other side is browned, pour off the oil, then add a pint of brown sauce, one bay-leaf, and a pint of good consomme, place it over the fire for a quarter of an horn*, take out the chickens, lay them on your dish and keep hot, throw about forty heads of mushrooms into the stewpan, with a little sugar and a clove of scraped garhck, reduce the sauce till it be- comes rather thickish; pour it over the chickens and serve. Poulet a la Marie Stuart (No. 528), Do. a la Perigord (No. 524), Do. a la macedoine de legumes (No. 525), Do. a rindienne (No. 526), which are given in the Removes, may also be served for flancs, reducing the quantity to the size of the dish. No. 597. Ducklings aux petitspois au lard. Truss two duckhngs with their legs turned inside, roast them in vegetables, but just before they are done take away the vegetables and let them obtain a little colom-; have ready boiled three pints of young peas, which put in a stewpan, with half a teaspoonful of salt, three of sugar, a bunch of ten spring green onions tied up with a few sprigs of parsley, one bay-leaf, a sprig of thyme, ten248 FLANCS. spoonfuls of brown sauce (No. 1), and two of consomme; you have boiled half a pound of lean bacon, which cut into neat square pieces the size of small walnuts, put them in the stewpan with the peas and simmer altogether ten minutes, take out the bunch of herbs, place your ducldings in a flat stewpan, pom- the peas over and place them in your bain marie for half an hour before serving, then di'ess your ducldings on a dish, pour the peas over and serve. No. 598. Ducldings au jus d'orange. Truss and roast two ducklings as above, and serve on a dish with a sauce au jus d'orange (No. 17) round them. Duckhngs aux olives and duckhngs a la Chartre are di-essed the same as above, but they are given in full in the Re- moves, No. 539. No. 599. Faisans a la Fontainbleau. Procure two young pheasants, pluck, draw, and truss them with their legs turned inside, lard the best part of the breast in a square, lay some thin slices of fat bacon at the bottom of a flat stewpan, put your pheasants upon it breasts upwards; have ready blanched twelve fine cabbage lettuces, take off the outside leaves and place them in the stewpan with the pheasants, put in also two large onions with three cloves stuck in each, and a bunch of parsley with two bay- leaves, pour in sufficient white stock to come up to the larded part of the birds, lay eight pork sausages on the top of the lettuces, cover the whole with a sheet of buttered paper, cover the stevq)an and stew gently for an hom*, glaze and salamander the breasts of the birds, take the lettuces and sausages carefully out and lay them on a clean cloth to extract the grease, then lay two pieces of lettuce in the centre of your dish, just large enough to dress the bu-ds upon, place one upon each piece, and with the remainder249 FLANCS. make a flat border near the edge of the dish, cut the sausages into tln-ee pieces and di'ess them upon the border of lettuce, pass the stock from the stewpan through a sieve into another stewpan, set it to boil, skim off all the fat, add a pint and a half of brown sauce (No. 1), reduce it to a nice demi-glace, add half a teaspoonful of sugar, sauce over the birds and serve. The cabbage lettuces must be rather highly seasoned when put in the pan to stew. No. 600. Faisans a la puree de Gibier. Truss, lard, and braise two pheasants in the same man- ner as in the last, omitting the lettuces and sausages; when done, have ready prepared two thick pieces of toast, which cover M-ith a stuffing made from the hvers of the birds, as directed for faisans a I'amiral (see Removes, No. 544); put them in a saute-pan in the oven twenty minutes, shape them tastefully, place them in your dish, and dress the birds upon them; have ready prepared the following sauce: roast a grouse, partridge, or any bird you have, or the remains of some game left from another dinner, pick off all the flesh, which pound well in a mortar, put two teaspoonfuls of chopped eschalots in a stewpan, with a small piece of butter, pass them a minute or two over the fire, then add the pounded game with a quart of the demi-glace de gibier (No. 61), and a gill of stock. Boil altogether ten minutes, rub it through a tammie, put it into another stevs^an, season vidth a little pepper, salt, and half a teaspoonful of sugar; if too thick, add a httle broth, warm it, but do not let it boil, sauce round the birds, glaze the larded part, and serve. No. 601. Faisans truffes a la Piemontaise. Proceed as directed in the Removes, using only two small pheasants or one large one.250 PLANCS, No. 602. Faisam a VAmiral. Proceed as directed for the remove, but one large phea- sant will be quite sufficient, diminish the quantity of garni- ture and sauce in proportion. No. 603. Grouse. Two small grouse will be quite sufficient for a flanc; they are di-essed in any of the ways as described for phea- sants, but though dressed in the same manner, they might be served in a large dinner, where pheasants were dressed the same, as the flavour of the two would be very different, the grouse being so much wilder would give a different flavom- to the garnitm-e and sauces. For grouse a la Rob Roy (see Removes, No 548). No. 604. Chartreuse de Perdreauvc. Truss two nice partridges with the legs tm-ned inside, stick about ten small pieces of fat bacon two inches in length and the size of a quill through the breasts length- wise, then cut two nice savoy cabbages in quarters, and boil five minutes, throw them into plenty of cold water; when cold lay them on a sieve, squeeze quite dry with a cloth, season well with pepper and salt, cut out the stalk, and put them into a stewpan, with two onions, tlu'ee cloves, a bmich of parsley, thyme, and bay-leaves, one caiTot, and three quarters of a pomid of streaky bacon; cover with a quart of white stock, and let stew an horn* or more, till the stock has reduced to a thin glaze; take it off the fire, roast your partridges, take out the skewers and string, bmy them in the stewed cabbage whilst hot, and let them remain till wanted; then butter a large plain oval mould, paper it, and again butter the paper; have ready peeled sixty smallPLANCS. 251 button onions, which stew in a httle white stock and sugar till tender, cut about a hundred pieces of carrots, half an inch in length, and the thickness of a large quill; stew them in the same manner as the onions, have also cut of the same size the same quantity of tm-nips (do not stew them too much or they would be useless), place a row of onions round the bottom of the mould, then above them a row of carrots, slantwise, but one touching the other, then a row of the tmiiips, then carrots, proceeding in like man- ner till you reach the top; drain the cabbage, and squeeze it till it is somewhat fkm, put some of it at the bottom of the mould an inch in thickness, and line the sides not quite so thick, put the partridges in the centre with slices of the bacon, finish Ming up with the cabbage, place in a stew- pan of water over the fire to get hot, but do not let the water get into it; when ready to serve turn out on your dish, and take the paper carefully from it; have ready the following sauce: put the stock from the vegetables and a little of the stock from the cabbage into a stewpan, add a quart of brown sauce (No. 1), boU to the consistence of demi-glace, add a httle sugar, sauce carefully all over, and serve. No. G05. Chartreuse de Perdreaiix a VImjjerial. Prepare the chartreuse just as above, and when tmiied out have thirty small quenelles de volaiUe (No. 120), made in a dessert-spoon; make very carefully a border of mashed l)otatoes on the top of it about half an inch from the rim, u})ou which dress the quenelles in the form of a crowli, place a fine lai-ded sweetbread dressed (No. 674) in the centre, tlirough which run an atelette of vegetables, sauce as in the last article, and serve; the cabbage, if possible, requires to be ckier than in the last.I'LANCS. 252 No. 606. Chartreuse de Perdreaux a la Moderne. Prepare a chartreuse as before, then have twenty young carrots turned in the shape of pears, but not too small, put thein in a stewpan with a little sugar and white stock, and boU till tender; turn out the chartreuse on your dish, make a thin border of mashed potatoes on the top about half an inch from the rim, cut off a piece from the thick part of each carrot, and stand them upright upon the potatoes, fill the centre with a pint of fresh boiled green peas dressed in pyramid, upon the top place a small white cauliflower, nicely boiled, sauce as before, and serve; this makes a very pretty dish. In case you could not procure a mould as required, you could turn your vegetables, and dress as the carrots above; lay the cabbage, bacon, and partridges in the centre of yom- dish, dress the vegetables on mashed potatoes tastefully around, finish on the top in either of the two last ways, sauce the same, and serve; although not so handsome it takes less time, and the exercise of a httle taste on the part of the cook will render it a very pretty dish. No. 607. Perdreaux a la Mecldenhourg. Take three large young partridges, draw, and leave the skin upon the neck as long as possible, put half a pound of the forcemeat of game (No. 23) in a basin, add two finely- chopped fresh French plums, two ounces of chopped tongue or ham (cooked) some chopped parsley, two yolks of eggs, a little cream, and a little grated nutmeg, mix all together, and stuff the breasts of yom^ birds with it, tie them up in thin shoes of bacon, and in two or three sheets of oiled paper, put them into a stewpan with half a pint of bucellas wine, a pint of good stock, two large onions, an apple, and a o-ood bunch of parsley; place the stewpan on the fire, and253 when it begins to boil place it in a moderate oven for three quarters of an horn', take the birds out of the papers take off the bacon and place them on yom- dish, keep hot, and prepare the foUowing sauce: pass the stock from the stew- pan tlu-ough a fine cloth into another stewpan, slam off ail the fat and reduce it to half, mix a dessertspoonful of arrow- root with a glass of cold stock, put it into the stewpan, with two spoonfuls of tomata sauce (No. 37); boil till formmg a demi-glace, put a piece of toast beneath each bird, sauce over and serve; but the last thing before serving add half a spoonful of red currant jelly to the sauce, which season a httle high. No. 608. Perdreaux alapuree de (jihier. Proceed exactly as for the faisan a la puree de gibier (No. 600), the only difference being that the partridges will not require so long to braise as the pheasants. No. 609. Perdreaux truffSs a la Pkigord. Draw three partridges carefully, then prepare a stuffing of truffle as directed for poulardes truffes a la Perigord (No. 524), stuff the inside and breasts well, and leave them a week to take the flavour of the truffles ; when ready to roast pass a thin flat iron skewer tlirough them, passiYig it through the pinions and thighs, tie them in oiled paper, fix the skewer to the spit and roast them before a good fire for half an hour, letting them get a little colour through the paper; in taking them off the skewer be careful not to break the breast, or they would look unsightly ; dress them on a dish and sauce as for the poulardes; serve very hot. No. 610. Leveraut sauce jooivrade. A young leveret may be occasionally served for a flanc; truss it as for roasting, and lard the fiUets very fine, roast it254 l-'LANCS. nicely, keeping it rather underdone, dress it on your dish and serve with a sauce poivrade (No. 32) round it. No. 611. Levraut au jus de groseilles. Truss and lard a young leveret as above, then prepare a marinade as for filet de boeuf a la Bohemienne ( No. 426), put in the leveret for tlu-ee days; when ready dry it in a cloth and roast before a sharp fire, keep it moist, serve with a denii-glace (No. 9), in which you have put two spoonfuls of currant jelly, a little cayenne pepper, and two dozen of stoned olives. No. 612. Lapereaux a la Taverniere. Tame and even wild rabbits are extremely useful in cook- ing, though very little used for flancs; they may be served with propriety in the ways I have here described, particu- larly in the country, where they are so plentiful, and yom- resources frequently so limited. Skin and truss two young rabbits as for roasting, then put two ounces of butter in a flat stewpan, (large enough to contain the rabbits,) cut half a pound of mild lean ham into large dice, put them into the stevrpan, with the butter, and fry them gently ten minutes, then put in the rabbits, put the cover over the stevTpan and place it over a slow fii'e, tujn them roimd now and then until they take a Hght- brown colour, add fifty button onions, which also colom', take out the rabbits, add two ounces of flom- to the ingre- dients in the stevrpan (mix weU) and a quart of white stock; place the stewpan over the fii'e, keep it stirred until boiling, put back the rabbits, with a good bunch of parsley, thyme, bay-leaf, and fom- cloves; let it simmer, skim off the fat, which will rise to the top, take out the rabbits, you have previously taken out the onions with a spoon and deposited them in a clean stewpan, mth the pieces of ham; reducePLANCS. 255 the sauce to the thickness required, pass it tlirough a tam- mie into the stewpan containing the onions and ham, add twenty heads of musln-ooms, dress your rabbits on a dish slantingly, the heads pointing different ways, sauce over and serve. Finish the sauce with a haison of two yolks of eggs mixed with haK a gill of cream. No. 613. Lapereaux a la Jardiniere. Procme two young rabbits and proceed as in the last, but at the time you add the onions also add the same quantity of pieces of carrot and tranip cut with a scoop of the same size as the onions, skim well, and when done take them out, put them as before in a clean stewpan, take up the rabbits, pass the sauce through a tammie upon them, add half a teaspoouful of sugar and a few heads of aspara- gus or peas, make it quite hot; sauce over the rabbits and serve. No. 614. Lapereaux auxpetitspois. Dress the rabbits as directed for lapereaux a la taverniere, but putting only half the quantity of onions; when you take out the rabbits add a quart of fresh boiled young green peas, (you do not take out the onions as previously,) season with a little sugar and salt, dress the rabbits on a dish, and sauce over; the sauce requires to be rather thick, but yet not too thick; if too thin it would have a bad appearance, and if too thick it would be unpleasant eating. No. 615. Lapereatcx a la Villageoise. Skin and truss two young rabbits, make a stuffing of the livers as directed in faisan a I'amiral (No. 544); stuff the rabbits and roast them, baste them well whilst roasting by throwing flour over them and moistening with butter, and when roasted have ready the following sauce: put two tea-FLANCS. •25G spoonfuls of chopped eschalots in a stewpan, with a small piece of butter, pass them for five minutes over a slow fire, then add half a pint of melted butter (No. 71), keep it stirred over the fire, and when beginning to boil add two ounces of fresh butter, a little salt, pepper, and the juice of a lemon, shake the stewpan over the fire till the butter is melted; dress your rabbits upon a dish, sauce over and serve. No. 616. Lapereaux a la Bourgmestre. Truss and stuff two very fine young rabbits as above, lard the fillets and roast a nice colour ; you have previously filleted three young rabbits, take oflP the skin of the fiUets and lard them with very fine bacon, then put some thin slices of bacon and onions cut in shces in a saute-pan, put your fillets upon them, cover with white stock, lay a sheet of buttered paper over and put them in the oven for haK an hour, give your fillets a good colour, di'ess your rabbits in the centre, the fillets around upon a border of mashed potatoes, and serve vdth a sauce Soubise (No. 47) pom-ed round. No 617. Lapereaux a VAnglaise. Truss two young rabbits as usual, and put them in a stewpan, with a quart of water and a pint of milk, stew them half an hour or till tender, place them on a dish and serve them up covered with onion sauce (No. 47). No. 618. Pate chaud cVAgneaw. Procure an oval raised-pie mould, about four inches in height, five in breadth, and nine in length; then make the following paste: put two pounds of flom- on yom'pastry slab, make a hole in the middle, put a quarter of a pound of Chopped suet and a quarter of a pound of butter in a257 FLANCS. stewpan, with half a pint of water, let it boil one minute, pour it into the flour, mix with a spoon until cool enough to work with the hands, work it smooth, and when nearly cold roU out a sheet three quarters of an inch in thickness, with which hne the mould, pressing the paste equally at all parts; you have cut twelve or more lambs' cutlets, leave them thick and take away the bones, lay the cutlets in the pie al- ternately with slices of potatoes about a quarter of an inch in thickness until it is quite full, season highly as you proceed with pepper, salt, chopped onions, and chopped parsley, make a cover with the trimmings of the paste, ornament it to fancy, work up the edges with the fingers, and crimp it nicely with the paste-nippers, let it stand two hours to get dry, egg the top and bake it three hom's in a moderate oven; when done cut out the lid, take as much fat from the top as possible, put half a pint of good stock in a stewpan, with a pint of white sauce (No. 7), and a small piece of glaze, reduce till rather thick, add a Httle sugar, pour in the sauce, take out of the mould, put on the cover and serve very hot; if care be taken in baking the crust will be a bright yellow colour. No. 619. Pate chaud de Mouton a VIrlandaise. Line a mould with paste as in the last, fill it as there described, using mutton cutlets instead of lamb, and more onions in the seasoning, give it half an hoiu- longer to bake, and use brown instead of white sauce to fill it up; serve in the same manner as the last. No. 620. Fate chaud d'Escalopes de filet de Boe.uf. Line a mould with the paste as before, have twenty or more pieces of fillet of beef, in slices a quarter of an inch in thickness, season them on a dish with pepper, salt, and onions, dip each piece in flour, and grate a little nutmeg 17FLANCS. 258 over them, have also ready twenty thin slices of lean ham, but the same size as the pieces of beef, and twenty shces of potatoes one inch in thickness, put a layer of beef at the bottom of the pie, then a layer of the ham, then potatoes, proceeding in like manner till it is full, cover and bake as before; when ready to serve pour in a brown sauce as in the last. No. 621. I*dte chaud d'Escalopes deVeau et de ris deVeau. Line a mould with paste as before, take a piece of veal from the leg, from which cut twenty-four escalopes the thickness of three five-shilling-pieces, but rather larger, have also two large throat sweetbreads, boil them in water a quarter of an hour, and cut them into escalopes the same size as the veal, cut also thirty very thin escalopes of streaky bacon the same size, season the whole very highly mth pepper, salt, nutmeg, chopped parsley, and chopped es- chalots, proceed to fill the pie, first lay in a piece of veal, then bacon, then sweetbread, bacon and veal agam, pro- ceeding in like manner till full, cover and bake three hours, when done sauce as for the pate d'agneau and serve. You may place a couple of bay-leaves upon the top of each pie previous to covering, it is an improvement to all, especially lamb or veal. No. 622. Pate chaud de Volaille. Line a mould with paste as before, then cut up two chickens into neat pieces, taking off the wings mth good fiUets, leaving sufficient on the breast, which divide in two pieces, bone the legs, and divide the backs into two, put a quarter of a pound of butter in a stewpan, when it melts add your pieces of chicken, season with a little pepper, salt, and chopped eschalots, add two bay-leaves and place the stewpan twenty minutes over a very slow fire, then pom- ofi"PLANOS. 259 the butter and add a pint of white sauce (No. 7), stew ten minutes and pour them on a dish till cold, fill up the pie, placing the pieces of the back at the bottom, then the legs, then breast, finishing at the tops with the wings, have also twenty pieces of cooked ham about the size of five-sliilHng- pieces, which intersperse with the chicken, put a cover on and bake one hour and a haK in a very warm oven, when done cut ofi" the cover and take off as much of the fat as possible, put a pint of white sauce (No. 7) in a stewpan, with four spoonfuls of white stock, when it boils add about forty heads of mushrooms and half a teaspoonful of sugar, boil ten minutes, finish vrith a haison of two yolks of eggs mixed with a gill of cream, pour the sauce into the pie, put on the cover and serve. No. 623. Pate chaud de Figeonneaux. Line a mould with paste as before, then take six young pigeons trussed with their legs inside, cut each pigeon in halves lengthwise, pass them in butter the same as the chickens, proceeding in the same manner, but using brown instead of white sauce, put them on a dish to cool, have the yolks of eight hard-boiled eggs (which cut in halves), and twelve sHces of boiled streaky bacon, lay a slice of bacon and half a pigeon alternately in the pie, interspersing the hard-boiled yolks here and there, when filled cover and bake two hoiu-s in a moderate oven, when done take ofi" the cover and as much fat as possible, then put a pint of brown sauce (No. 1) in a stewpan, with half a pint of good stock and an ounce of glaze, reduce to two thu-ds, pour into the pie which cover and serve as before. Pates chauds may be made of all kinds of birds as phea- sants, grouse, partridges, woodcocks, snipes, or larks, by following either of the two last recipes, but they are usually served as entrees, where I intend placing them.PLANCS. 260 No. 624. Pate chaud de Lapereau. Line a mould with paste as before, then procure two or tliree young rabbits, according to the size, which cut into neat pieces, and place in a stewpan of boiling water for one minute, take them out, pass in butter, and proceed pre- cisely as for pate chaud de volaille (No. 622). No. 625. Vol-au-vent. Vol-au-vents are usually served for entrees, but by cut- ting one larger and of an oval shape they may be served for flancs with any of the garnitures as directed in the entrees. No. 626. Casserole de Biz. Wash in several waters two pounds of the best Carolina rice; when very clean put it into a stewpan, with two quarts of water, half a pound of butter, two large onions, and half an ounce of salt, set on a fire, and when boiling place it to simmer very gently on a slow fue for one hour; when done it must appear quite dry and tender to the finger, take out the onions and mix the rice well with a wooden spoon; if sufficiently done it will clog together, then put it in a mortar and pound it well till it forms but one mass, butter a baking-sheet, lay the rice upon it and you wiU be able to form it into any shape you please, but for flancs form it of an oval shape in imitation of a raised pie, (should the rice stick to your fingers dip them in cold water,) when of a proper shape and well elevated cut a piece of carrot or tur- nip in the form of a wedge, with which make impressions all round according to fancy, melt some butter, and with a paste-brush rub it all over the rice, put it in a very hot oven and bake it a light yellow colour; if well made it will retain its shape, and any design you may have impressed upon it; when well done make an incision with yom- knifeFLANCS. 201 half an inch from the edge aU round, and empty it to with- in half an inch from the bottom; it is then ready to serve \^dth any of the ingredients as directed in the following. No. 627. Casserole de Biz aux queues d'Agneau. Procm-e six house lambs' tails, blanch them ten minutes in boiling water, then cut them in pieces an inch long; put a quarter of a pound of chopped suet in a stewpan, with two onions, a carrot cut up small, one turnip, three bay-leaves, six cloves, and a little thyme; pass the whole upon a slow fire ten minutes, add two tablespoonfuls of flour (mix well), two quarts of white stock, and a little salt; then add the tails, let simmer gently forty minutes or more till tender, take them out and drain upon a clean cloth, put into another stewpan a quart of white sauce and half a pint of white stock, reduce till rather thick, then add the tails, with twenty heads of mushrooms, a httle chopped parsley, pepper, and salt, add the haison from two yolks of eggs and a gill of cream; shake it over the fire, but do not let it boil, finish with a little lemon-juice, pour it in the casserole and serve. No. 628. Casserole de Biz au queues de Veau. Scald and cut four calves' tails mto pieces an inch long, di-ess them precisely as the lambs' tails in the previous article, only allowing them longer to stew, terminate and serve as in the last. No. 629. Casserole de Biz auxpieds d^Agneau. Procm'e twelve lambs' feet, throw them into boiling water for two minutes, extract the long bone by holding the feet in a cloth and moving the bone gently tHI it leaves the socket; when they are all done proceed as for the lambs'PLANUS. 263 tails (No. 637), boiling them rather longer, sauce and serve precisely the same. No. 630. Casserole de Biz aupieds de mouton. Procm*e ten small sheeps' feet, dress them precisely as the lambs' feet, but of course they will take more time; when tender divide each foot in two lengthwise, sauce and serve as directed for queues d'agneau (No. 637). Sheeps' feet, commonly called sheeps' trotters, are seldom used in this country to any real advantage, although in Paris they have made the fortunes of more "than one restaurateur; one house was so famed for them, that its proprietor named it Restaurant du Pied de Mouton. About sixteen years ago epicures were seen from all parts of Paris trotting after a dinner of trotters, until the proprietor saved an immense fortune; but they are even now much thought of in Paris, both for their lightness and delicacy, and are always to be had in any of the first houses. Por my part I really think they deserve a better fate than that of being trotted about from bar to bar in palaces cer- tainly containing the choicest spirits, and to be exposed on a cloth (semi-blanche) in a basket, and from thence to the honest, but not very delicate fingers of a London coalheaver or dustman; I must, however, observe that it is not my desue to deprive them of their luxury, but a mere wish to find a resting-place for the unfortunate trotters upon the tables of the affluent in this country, where they would be eaten and admired for their dehcacy. No. 631. Casserole de Biz a la Neapolitaine. Have ready a casserole of rice as dii'ected, then boil half a pound of riband macaroni in water ten minutes, strain it and put it in a stewpan, cut up a braised fowl, (or the263 FLANCS. remains of some poultry from a previous dinner,) in as large pieces as possible, which put in the stewpan, with the ma- caroni and a quarter of a pound of lean ham, cover with a pint of very strong beef gravy; let all boil together a few minutes, then add a quarter of a pound of grated Parmesan cheese, a tablespoonful of tomata sauce (No. 37), and a httle cayenne pepper, pom- it in the casserole, egg and bread-crumb the top, put it in the oven twenty minutes and serve. No. 632. Casserole de Biz Polonaise a la Koroski. Prepare a casserole of rice as before, then mince the flesh of a fowl (or the remains of several) with two ounces of lean cooked ham and a few mushrooms, or tmffles; put two spoonfuls of chopped onions in a stewpan, with two pats of butter; stir them over the fire two minutes, add half a spoonful of flour, (mix well) and a quart of white sauce (No. 7); boil altogether a short time, then add the mince, season with a httle pepper and salt, flnish with three table- spoonfuls of cream, and pour it in your casserole; you have previously boiled eight eggs in water five minutes, then put them in cold water, peel off" the shells, warm them again in broth, and dress them on the mince at equal distances, the ends pointing to the centre; have also eight pieces of cook- ed tongue cut in the shape of cockscombs, warm them and place a piece upright between each egg; have ready a nice larded sweetbread, nicely cooked, which place in the centre, glaze the sweetbread and tongue, and pour a Httle white sauce over the eggs ; serve very hot. No. 633. Casserole de Biz a la Boyale. Prepare a casserole of rice, mince a fowl, with ham and trufiies, and proceed as in the last; when done fiU yourFLANCS. 264 casserole; have ready twelve plovers' eggs, peel off the shells, warm them in broth, and place them round on the mince points upwards at equal distances, apart; have previously boiled some nice asparagus, cut off the heads about an inch and a half in length, and stand a bunch of five or six heads between each plover's egg, making them stand a little above the eggs; have also twelve very fine cockscombs ready cooked (see No. 128), which dress in the middle, put fifteen tablespoonfuls of white sauce in a stewpan, and when boil- ing add two pats of butter and a httle lemon-juice, finish with a liaison of one yolk of egg, pour over the cockscombs and serve. No. 634. Casserole de Biz a la Chevaliere. Prepare a casserole as before, prepare two chickens as directed in the entree a la chevaliere (No. 818); fill yom- casserole, by placing the pieces of back at the bottom, then the legs and pinions, pour the sauce and garniture over, dress the four larded fillets to meet in a point, and finish by placing a small white head of cauliflower, nicely boiled, on the top, in the centre of the fiUets, and serve. When you serve a dinner where four entrees and two flancs are required, it is the object of the host to see his table weU garnished; and no hors-d'ceuvres being served, you may make flancs of them, although, I must repeat, flancs ought to be composed of one sohd piece, or, at any rate, not more than two or three pieces, but circumstances may require a deviation from this rule; I have therefore given a list of those hors-d'ceuvres which may be used for flancs, by adding to the number required for a dish, and maldng them rather larger; the croustades de beurre and timbales must be dressed in a cu'cle on a border of mashed potatoes, and the petits vol-au-vents in pyramid on a napkin. i265 PLANCS. I win here give but the Hst; for directions you must r« to the chapter devoted to Hors-d'ceuvres. Croustade de beui're aux hiutres. Do. aux laitances de maquereaux. Do. puree de volaille. Do. pm-ee de gibier. Petits timbales aux ceufs de pluviers. Do. de volaille aux truffes. Do. puree de riz de veau. Do. quenelles de gibier. Petits vol-au-vents aux huitres. Do. aux filets de soles. Do. de homard. Do. of crab.266 ENTREE S. Entrees require to be smaU and elegant, as weU as tasty; those which can be dressed in a crown hke cotelettes, que- neUes, or fillets of any description, are preferable, and'more graceful, the garnitiu-e being placed in the centre; they are also more hkely to be partaken of on account of the facihty of sending, they being ah-eady carved, and much better than large pieces, such as whole fowls, vol-au-vents, or pates chauds; where you require flancs, by all means reserve them for that purpose; but in a dinner of fom- entrees only, you require to send two entrees hght, and two (what I term) soUd, for the sake of variety, for if you had four Hght entrees upon the table without flancs, there would not appear sufficient dinner for the assembled guests, but the sohd entrees may be made to look exceedingly light if carried to a height corresponding to their breadth ; in dishing your entrees always allow an inch between the entree and the rim of the dish, or if the dishes are large leave more space; the round entree dishes are the most preferable, and should not be more than an inch and a half, or less than an inch in depth. No. 635. Of Beef for Entrees. Of all kinds of butchers' meat, beef, though so useful in cooking, presents the least variation for entrees, the fillet being the only part that can be used to any advantage. No. 636. Escalopes de Mlet de Bceuf a la Reform. Take out the fillet from beneath a rump of beef, take off all the fat, and cut it into slices (lengthwise) half an inchENTREES. 367 in thickness, beat them well with the cutlet-bat, which previously dip in water, then cut them into ten or twelve escalopes, the size and shape of fillets of chickens, lay each piece upon the table, season with pepper, salt, and a Uttle chopped eschalots, cut two very thin shces of fat bacon to each escalope of beef, trim the bacon to the same size and shape, egg over the escalopes of beef, and stick a piece of the bacon upon each side of them, then egg all over and throw them into a dish of bread-crumbs mixed with chopped lean cooked ham; take them out, beat hghtly with your knife, put a little oil in a saute-pan, place it over a mo- derate fire, when quite hot put in yom- escalopes, fry a nice colour, and dress in crown upon a thin border of mashed potatoes, glaze nicely; sauce over with a sauce reforme (No. 35), and serve. No. 637. Escalopes de Filet de Bceuf a la Gotha. Cut twelve escalopes of beef as described in the last, scrape a quarter of a pound of fat bacon, melt it in a stew- pan, and pass it through a sieve into a well-tinned saute- pan, then lay in your escalopes, season them with a table- spoonful of chopped eschalots, and a Httle pepper and salt, pass them over the fixe five minutes, and leave them to get cold in the saute-pan; you have procm-ed half a pound of pork sausage-meat, which place in a mortar, add to it three tablespoonfds of white sauce (No. 7), a Httle chopped parsley, also a little thyme, and one bay-leaf, chopped very fine, pound all well together and mix it vidth one egg; you have also procured a pig's caul, cut it in twelve square pieces, each the size of a small hand, lay a little of the sausage-meat in the centre a quarter of an inch in thickness, upon which lay one of the escalopes, with the bacon and seasoning which is attached, cover with a little more of the sausage-meat and wrap them up in the caul, keeping the268 ENTREES. same shape as the pieces of beef and as flat as you can, proceed in hke manner till they are all finished; put them in a cool place ten minutes, before serving put them over a good fire upon a gridiron, broil them a nice colour, di-ess them in a crown, fill the centre with some very white stewed choucroute (No. 116), and serve very hot. No. 638. Escalopes de Filet de Bceuf a la Portugaise. Prepare twelve escalopes of beef as before, and cook them precisely as in the last; have ready prepared two Portugal onions, which peel and blanch ten mmutes in boil- ing water, then put them into a stewpan just large enough to contain them, cover with some white veal stock, add a bunch of parsley, and stew for an hour or more till quite tender, the smallest one will of course be the first done, take it ofi" and keep it hot till the second one is done, then place the largest upon a piece of mashed potatoes in the centre of yom- dish, dress the escalopes around upon a small border of mashed potatoes, the points incHning inwards; dress the smaller onion upon the larger, and run a silver attelet through them both; pass the stock the onions were stewed in through a tammie into another stewpan, reduce it to a demi-glace, skim it well, add fom- tablespoonfuls of brown sauce (No. 1), boil altogether a minute, sauce over and serve. No. 639. Escalopes de Filets de Bceuf a la Nemours. Cut twenty-four escalopes of beef as before, but not half so thick, put four tablespoonfuls of forcemeat (No. 120) in a basin with two spoonfuls of chopped lean ham and the yolk of an egg, mix well td^fesfe^er, then lay twelve of the escalopes of beef upon the table, put a little of the force- meat on each, spread it all over with a knife, lay a very thin slice of cooked ham, fat and lean, upon each, spread a httleENTREES. ^^^^ more of the forcemeat over, then lay one of the other twe ve escalopes upon each, season with a little pepper and salt; effo- over with a paste-brush, and thi'ow them mto bread- cmmbs and chopped parsley mixed, take them out, beat hghtly with your knife, and fry carefully in a saute-pan with lard dress them in a crown, glaze and have ready the fol- lowing sauce: put an ounce of glaze in a saute-pan, with two spoonfids of broth and two of white sauce; when bod- ing, add half an oimce of very fresh butter, haK a teaspoon- fid of sugar, and a httle lemon-juice (do not let it boil after you have put in the butter), sauce over and serve. No. 640. Escalopes de Filet de Boeuf a V Ostende. Cut twenty escalopes as in the last article, then blanch and beard two or three dozen of Ostend or smaU oysters, and cut them up in small dice, then put half a teaspoonful of chopped onions in a stewpan with a small piece of butter, pass them over the fire three minutes, add haK a table- spoonful of flour (mix well), four tablespoonfuls of the juice of the oysters, and fom- of white sauce, boil altogether five minutes, keeping it stirred, then add the oysters with a little essence of anchovies and cayenne pepper; place it again on the fire, and just as it begins to boil add the yolk of an egg, stir it well in and set it on a dish to cool, then lay ten of the escalopes upon the table, and spread a Httle of the above upon each, cover the ten other escalopes over them, season with a httle pepper and salt, egg, bread- crumb, and fry as in the last; glaze, dress them in crown, and have ready the following sauce: put half an ounce of glaze in a stewpan with six tablespoonfuls of good stock and four of brown sauce, place it on the fire, and when it bods add half an ounce of anchovy butter, pour the sauce in the dish and serve.270 ENTREES. No. 641. Escalopes de Filet de Bcenf pique a la Chasseur. Cait ten escalopes as described for a la reform, but rather thicker, lard each piece with bacon one inch long and nar- row in proportion, but do not let the bacon show far out of the beef, then prepare two quarts of marinade (see filet de boeuf a la Bohemienne, No. 426); lay your escalopes in a dish, and strain the marinade over, let them remain about twenty-four hom-s, take them out and lay them on a cloth, cover the bottom of the saute-pan with thin shces of fat bacon, lay the escalopes over, add a little of the liquor, but not sufficient to cover them; place a sheet of buttered paper over the saute-pan and put them in a slow oven for half an hour or more, moisten them now and then with their stock, and when nearly done glaze and give them a little colour with the salamander, take them out, drain on a cloth, and dress in crown upon a border of mashed potatoes; have ready the following sauce : pass the stock they were cooked in through a tammie into a stewpan, boU it at the corner of the stove, skim off all the grease, add half a pint of brown sauce, and reduce it till it forms a good demi-glaze, then add a spoonful of currant jelly and a pat of butter, mix it quickly and sauce over, season a little more if required. No. 642. Other Entrees of Fillets of Beef . Take the best part of a fillet of beef, that is, about the middle, cut eighteen slices three quarters of inch in thick- ness, and beat them with yom- small chopper to the thick- ness of half an inch; cut each slice into an oval piece, cut also six oval pieces of suet from the kidney, about half the size, and not so thick as the fillet, dip the pieces of fillet in flour, previously seasoning them with pepper and salt; fry in clarified butter in a saute-pan over a sharp fire, egg and271 ENTREES. bread-crumb the pieces of fat, fry them after the pieces of fillet, di-ess them alternately with the fillets in a crown, and serve with any of the following sauces: Sauce piquante (No. 27), Do. a ritalienne (No. 30), Do. tomate (No. 37), Do. poivrade (No. 32), Do. a la HoUandaise (No. 66), or any of the sauces described for fillets of beef in the Re- moves, but of course preparing a smaller quantity; you can also convert the remains of a fillet of beef left from a re- move into an entree, by cutting it into slices and trimming it into oval pieces, not cutting the larded part; lay the pieces in a saute-pan and just cover them with a good strong gravy, place a sheet of paper over, and put them in a mo- derate oven till they are quite hot through, take them out and serve with any of the sauces mentioned for fillets of beef in the Removes. No. 643, Aiguillette de Langue de Bceuf en Papillote. Boil a salt ox-tongue three hours, and when cold cut ten pieces from the best part, of the shape of a fillet of fowl, and haK an inch in thickness, then put two tablespoonfuls of chopped onions in a saute-pan with one of oil, place the pan over a sharp fii-e, keeping it stirred with a wooden spoon; when the onions become tender (but not to change colour) pour ofi" all the oil, add a spoonful of chopped mushrooms, one of chopped parsley, and a pint of white sauce (No. 7), moisten with a little white stock, and reduce it till it becomes very thick, then add the pieces of tongue, toss over in the sauce, and leave them to get cold; have cut ten pieces of white paper in the shape of hearts, and large enough to fold a piece of the tongue in each, spread a little of the cold sauce upon the paper, then a slice of the tongue272 ENTREES. which cover with more of the sauce, twist up the papers and broil them gradually ten minutes, serve them in the papers dressed in a crown, with a sauce Italienne (No. 30) under them; the tongues of any other animals, whether pickled or not, may be served in this manner, but of course the sauce must be more highly seasoned for the fresh tongue than for the pickled one. No. 644. Ttirhan de Langue de Bmif a Vicariate. Boil two tongues separately, one pickled very red, and the other not pickled; cut six pieces from the thick part of each, about the size and shape of fillets of fowl, place the twelve pieces in a saute-pan vidth an ounce of glaze and four tablespoonfuls of consomme (No. 134), place over the fu'e, and let it remain till the pieces are quite hot, but do not let it boil; dress them alternately on a border of mashed potatoes in crown, and prepare a sauce thus: place the saute-pan again on the fire, and add ten tablespoonfuls of tomata sauce (No. 37), vdth four of consomme and a httle sugar, boil a few minutes, pour over the tongue, glaze the red pieces, and serve. No. 645. Turban de Langue de Boeuf a la Jardiniere. Proceed with the tongues precisely as in the last, and prepare the following sauce : cut about fifty scoops of carrots and fifty of turnips (with an iron scoop) a little larger than a pea, peel also forty very small onions, put them altogether in a stewpan with an ounce of butter and a quarter of an ounce of powdered sugar, pass them for ten minutes over a sharp fire, tossing them over now and then; add half a pint of good white stock, let them stew till tender and the broth is reduced to glaze, then turn them into the saute-pan with the stock you warmed the tongue in, stir all round together, dress the vegetables in the centre,ENTREES. 273 pom- the glaze over the tongue, and serve; if the carrots are old they reqiiii-e to be stewed separately, as they take so much longer than the turnip or onion. No. 646. Turban de Langue de Bceuf, sauce piquante. Prepare twelve pieces of tongue as before, either pickled or fresh, dress them round upon your dish, put a pint of sauce piquante (No. 27) in the saute-pan with a little sugar, boil altogether a minute, sauce over, and serve immediately; you can also serve dressed spinach or endive (Nos. 106 and 119) with it; if you serve an entree of pickled tongue, it should be placed near an entree of fowl or veal, or near to a remove of the same description, vsdth which they eat much better, and for entrees of fresh tongue, season the sauces rather high. No. 647. Queues de Bceuf aux navets au brun. A few very nice entrees may be made of ox-tails; they certainly do not make handsome ones, but their delicate flavour supplies their deficiency in appearance. For one entree take two fine tails, cut them at the joints into pieces, or saw them into pieces an inch thick, which last way in my opinion is best, the pieces not being so clumsy; when cut put them into a stcM^an, vsdth three large onions, one carrot, one turnip, six cloves, a blade of mace, four bay-leaves, four sprigs of thyme, and a table- spoonful of salt; cover them with second stock or water, place the stewpan over the fu'e, and let it boil at the corner till the pieces are tender, and leave the bone easily; when done lay them on a cloth to drain, put a Httle mashed po- tatoes upon the bottom of your dish, build up the pieces pyramidically, and have ready the following sauce: scoop fifty pieces of turnips the size of small marbles, put them in a stewpan with half a'tablespoonful of powdered sugar 18ENTREES. 374 and half an ounce of butter, pass them ten minutes over a sharp fire, acid a pint of brown sauce (No. 1) and a few tablespoonfuls of broth or brown gravy (No. 135), with a bimch of parsley and a bay-leaf, let them simmer at the corner of the stove until the turnips are tender, take them out with a colander spoon and put them into a clean stew- pan, reduce and skim the sauce well, and when of a proper thickness, pass it through a tammie over the turnips, make all hot together, sauce over the tails, and serve. No. 648. Queues de Boeuf a la Jardiniere. Cook and dress the tails as before, then cut some carrots and turnips with button onions, as directed for the tongue a la jardiniere (No. 645), pass them in a stewpan, with a little butter and powdered sugar, ten minutes over a sharp fii'e, add a pint of brown sauce, with a quarter of a pint of stock, boil on the corner of the stove (skim well) until the vegetables are tender, and the sauce attains a good consist- ency ; season with a little salt and sugar if required, sauce over, and serve. No. 649. Queues de Bceuf sauce ausc cornichons. Cook and dress the tails as before, have ready a quart of sauce au jus d'echalotte (No. 16), but not quite so acid as there directed, reduce till rather thick; have ready a good tablespoonful of chopped gherkins, and when the sauce is boiling throw them in, season with a little sugar and salt, sauce over, and serve. The sauce requires to be thick en-ough to adhere to the pieces of tails. No. 650. Queues de Boeuf en currie. Cook the tails as before, have ready about a quart of currie sauce (No. 46), moisten it with twenty spoonfuls of stock, stir in a stewpan over the fire, and reduce it till itENTOEES. 275 adheres to the back of the spoon; then- put in your ox-tails, and stand the stewpan in a bain marie till wanted, dress them in pyramid upon yom' dish, add twenty mushrooms to the sauce, which boil and skim, pour over, and serve with some boUed rice very dry (No. 129) upon a separate dish, to be placed on the side table. No. 651. Queues de Bceuf a la Sicilienne. Cook the tails as before, select ten of the best pieces, which di-ain well upon a cloth, have ready prepared about half a pint of sauce DurceUe (No. 704), let it get cold, then spread some over each piece of tail to entirely cover it, egg and bread-crumb, and place them in a warm oven twenty minutes, salamander a nice brown colour, dress in pyramid on your dish, and serve with some sauce aux fines herbes (No. 26) round. No. 652. Queues de Bceuf a la Marseillaise. Cook and select ten of the best pieces as above, but in- stead of sm-rounding them with a sauce Durcelle spread a puree of onions, as for cotelettes a la Proven^ale (No. 701), a quarter of an inch in thickness over them, egg and bread- crumb twice each, and just before serving fry in very hot' lard; then put a pint of brown sauce in a ste-wpan, with a quarter of a pint of consomme (No. 134), and a little piece of scraped garhc the size of a pea; reduce and skim till be- coming a nice demi-glace, dress in pyramid, and pour the sauce round. No. 653. To prepare and dress Palates of Beef Palates of beef, if properly dressed, are very delicate eat- mg, being of a gelatinous substance, they are much to be recommended; the reason, I believe, they are so seldom used, is the difficulty of giving them a graceful appearance27C) ENTREES. ' m the dish; to obviate which, I have introduced one or two new receipts; I never expect it will be a fashionable dish, yet I think they are likely to bring them more in vogue. For one entree take four palates, put them in a large stewpan with lukewarm water for four or five hours to dis- gorge, then pour off the water, cover again with fresh water and put them on the fire till the palates begin to get hard, take one out and put it in cold water, scrape it with a knife, and if the skin comes off easily, take out the rest, but if not leave them a little longer, scrape them until you have got ofi' all the sldn, and nothing but the white, half-trans- parent substance remains, when done, prepare a white stock (No. 133), in which boil them three or fom' hours till very tender; try them with, a knife, take them up and lay them fiat upon a dish, put a little of the stock in the dish with them, then place another dish of the same size over them, and let them remain till quite cold, they are then ready for use. No. 654. Palates de BoBuf a la Bavigote. Having prepared four palates as in the last, cut each in three, of an oval shape, each piece to be about the size of a fillet of fowl, then put a teaspoonful of chopped escha- lots in a stewpan with a very smaU piece of butter, stir a few minutes over a slow fire, add a quart of white sauce (No. 7), and reduce it till becoming thick, keeping it stu-red, then take it ofi" the fire, add the yolk of two eggs, stu: very quicldy, and season with a little pepper, salt, and chopped parsley; then take each piece of palate singly on a fork and dip in the sauce, when well covered lay it on a dish to get cold ; when all done, and half an hour before dinner-time, dip them into three eggs well beaten together, then into bread- crumbs, then into the eggs and bread-crmnbs agam, beat liffhtlv with a knife, and fry them a nice coloiu- in veryENTREES. 277 hot lard; serve with a sauce ravigote (No. 44) under, and di'css them in crovm upon a border of mashed potatoes. No. 655. Attelets de Palates de Bceuf. Have four palates prepared, which cut into thirty pieces with a round cutter, the size of a shiUing, dip each piece into sauce, but a little thinner than above, and lay them on a dish to cool; cut twenty pieces of dressed tongue of the same size, and twenty shoes of large truffles, with twenty of mushrooms, then have eight small silver skewers (or attelets), upon which place the pieces of palates, placing either a shce of tongue, truffle, or musln-oom between each; when you have stuck them all on the skewers, have a little of the sauce you dipped the palates in, spread a little over the crevices between to make them look like one, dip each attelet in eggs and bread-crumbs twice over, and fry a nice colour in hot lard; dress them three at the bottom, then three above, the reverse of the others to form a square, and the other two across, garnish with plenty of fried parsley, and serve very hot. No. 656. Palates de Bmtf a la Vivandiere. Proceed, fiy, and dress them as directed for a la ravi- gote ; serve with the foUoMdng sauce: chop two large onions very fine and put them in a stewpan vrith an ounce of butter, place them over the fu-e, keeping stirred till they become rather yellow, then pour off as much butter as you can ; add a glass of port vrine and a piece of glaze the size of a walnut, let simmer five minutes, add twelve tablespoon- fuls of brown sauce and six of consomme (No. 134), reduce tin it adheres to the back of the spoon, season with a little cayenne pepper and sugar, pour the sauce in the centre and round your palates, have a good handful of fried parsley, which place in a pyramid in the centre, and serve very hot.278 ENTREES. No. 657. Turban de Palate de BoBuf au p'atin. Prepare fom- palates of beef as before, which cut into twelve oval pieces, have ready some forcemeat (No. 120), place a little on the bottom of a saute-pan in a cu'cle (the size you require your entree), then cover each piece of palate with the remainder, and dress them in a crown upon the forcemeat in the saute-pan; egg and bread-crumb, place them in a moderate oven for three quarters of an hour, if getting too much colour cover some paper over; when done, detach it from the saute-pan with a thin long knife, and with a fish-shce remove it into yom- dish, sauce over with a sauce Itahenne (No. 30), and serve. Should you have a silver dish for au gratins, it would be preferable to dress it upon that, as it would not requu-e moving. No. 658. Vol-au-vent de Palates de Boeiof. Make a vol-au-vent as described (No. 1140)", have ready prepared four palates, which cut into pieces with a round cutter the size of half-a-crown, put them into a stewpan va\k ten mushrooms, a quart of white sauce (No. 7), and six spoonfuls of white stock ; when boihng, add a bunch of parsley, let simmer on the corner of the stove half an hour, skim, take out the parsley if too thick, add a Httle more stock, throw in a pat of butter, a httle chopped parsley, pepper, salt, sugar, and a little lemon-juice, finish mth a liaison of two yolks of eggs, let it set over the fire, but not boil, fill the vol-au-vent and serve. It may be served also in a casserole of rice (No. 626), or flat, as a blanquette, in an entree-dish garnished with croutons of bread. No. 659. Palates de Bmif en Papillote, Have prepared fom- palates, which cut into twelve ovalENTREES. 279 pieces, put two tablespoonfuls of salad-oil in a deep saute- pan, with foui- of chopped onions, stir with a wooden spoon five'niinutes over a sharp fire, then pour off as much of the oil as possible, add a quart of white sauce (No. 7), a table- spoonful of chopped parsley, and one of chopped mush- rooms, with sk of white stock, boil altogether five minutes, keeping it stnred; add a little grated nutmeg, then put in your pieces of palates, boil a few minutes longer, and turn the whole on a dish to get cold; finish dressing, and serve as directed for aiguillettes de langue de bceuf (No. 643). No. 660. Turhan de Tete de Veau en Tortue. Cook and prepare a calf's head as directed in the Re- moves (No. 462); only for entrees you must cut much smaller pieces, and of course you require a much smaller quantity of sauce. I have merely repeated it here to show that it may be served as an entree; but great care must be taken in boiling the head, for if not done enough it is not eatable, and if done too much it would be impossible to dress them on your dish. Care must also be taken in dish- ing up to make it look graceful, and it caimot be served too hot. No. 661. Turban de Tete de Veau a la Maitre d'Hotel. Prepare your caK's head as in the last, and dress the pieces in crown upon mashed potatoes, have ready the fol- lowing sauce : put a pint of white sauce (No. 7) in a stew- pan, with eight spoonfuls of good white stock, boil ten mi- nutes, keeping it stuTed, add two ounces of maitre d'hotel butter (No. 79), very highly seasoned, let it melt, but do not let the sauce boil after the butter is in, sauce over and serve immediately.280 ENTREES. No. 662. 'Man de Tete de Veau a la Hollandaise. Prepare and dish the calf's head as before, serve with a sauce Hollandaise (No. 66) over it. No. 663. Tmhan de Tete de Veau a la Poulette. Prepare and dish as before, have ready the following sauce: put half a pint of white sauce (No. 7) with a pint of white stock, thirty small button-onions, a bunch of parsley, a sprig of thyme, and one bay-leaf, tied together, into a stevrpan, simmer at the comer of the stove nearly an houi', skim and take out the bunch of herbs, then with a colander-spoon take out the onions, which put in a clean stewpan, reduce the sauce tih it adheres to the back of the spoon, pass through a tammie over the onions, add twelve nice white blanched mushrooms, set again on the fire, and when nearly boihng, add a haison of one yolk of egg (mixed with two tablespoonfuls of cream), stir in quicldy, place over the fire another minute, keeping it stirred, but do not let it boil, add a little lemon-juice and chopped parsley, sauce over and serve immediately. No. 664. Turban de Tete de Veau a VIndienne. Prepare and dress the head as usual, and serve with a sauce a I'lndienne (No. 45). Great care should be taken in choosing Indian pickles, no sort are of any service in cooking but the green prickly sort, when good they are milder eating, a good fiavom-, and firm to the touch, but if very hot and soft they ai'e fit for nothing whatever. Calf's head may be served for entrees dressed as directed with sauce currie (No. 46), and rice, separate, or sauce poivrade, piquante, or tomates (Nos. 32, 27 and 37).ENTREES. No. 665. Oreilles de Veau farci. It requires four ears to make an entree, trim rather small and set them in warm water to disgorge for several hom^s, then prepare a white stock like for caK's head (No. 459), put them in and stew for an hour or more till tender, leave them to get cold in then- stock, then take half a pound of forcemeat (No. 120), to which add a teaspoonful of chopped mushrooms; mix altogether with the yolk of an egg, take out the ears, which dry on a cloth, fill the inside with the forcemeat but not too full, have some eggs well beaten in a basin, dip the ears in, then tlu-ow them into bread-crumbs, fry in lard but not too hot as the forcemeat takes some time to cook, dress upon mashed potatoes on your dish and serve a sauce aux fines herbes (No. 26) under them. No. 666. Oreilles de Veau en marinade. Cook the ears as above, but do not stuff them, cut each ear in five or six pieces the long way, and put them in a basin with pepper, salt, two onions in slices, a little parsley, thyme, and bay-leaf, eight cloves, three spoonfuls of vinegar, and two of oil; let them remain six hours or more, then take out the pieces of ear, wipe each piece with a cloth, have ready some batter (No. 1285), dip the pieces in sepa- rately, let them be covered in every part, and drop them into hot lard, they will take five minutes to fry, dress them on a dish with a sauce an jus de tomates (No. 12) under them; garnish with fried parsley and serve. Two ears will be sufficient for the above. No. 667. Langues de Veau aux champignons. Procure four tongues, which put in warm water to dis- gorge, then put them in a stewpan, with two onions, one carrot, one turnip, two bay-leaves, one blade of mace, and282 ENTREES. six cloves; cover with white broth or water, if water add a scrag of veal, half a pound of lean ham, and a little salt; place on the fire, and when it commences boiling skim it and place it at the corner of the stove till the tongues are done, which you can ascertain by pricking them with a packing-needle; if it goes in easy they are done; take them up and peel off the skin, cut each tongue into tliree sUces of the shape of cotelettes, dress them in a crown upon mashed potatoes, glaze well, and serve with a sauce aux champig- nons (No. 52). If the tongues are boiled the day previous, warm them as directed langue de boeuf (No. 644). Calves' tongues dressed this way may also be served with sauce a la jardiniere (No. 100), sauce piquante, or sauce poivrade (Nos. 27 and 32). No. 668. Calves Brains. Procure two sets of brains, leave them four hom^s in water to disgorge, take off the skin which covers them, and put them in a stewpan, with a pint of water, one wine- glass of vinegar, some salt, two onions sliced, a carrot, a few cloves, and a bunch of parsley, thyme, and bay-leaf; let boil gently from twenty minutes to half an hour, take them up, lay on a cloth, and cut each one in halves, p^ce them in the dish and serve with a sauce HoUandaise ($s^o. 66), matelote (No. 62), maitre d'hotel (No. 43), or picjuante (No. 27), or beurre noir (No. 306). No. 669. Queues de Veau a la Bavigote. Four calves' tails are quite sufficient for an entree, pro- cure them as large and as white as possible ; cut them in pieces an inch and a quarter in length, and put them into a stewpan, with a quart of good white stock, two onions, half a carrot, head of celery, three cloves, a bunch of pai-sley, thyme, and bay-leaf; set on the fire to boil, skmi, and place/ ENTREES. 283 it at the corner to simmer for two hom-s, or until the tails are done, which you can tell by pressing them with your finger, drain them on a cloth, lay a little mashed potatoes on the bottom of your entree dish, stand the larger pieces perpendicularly upon it, then again other pieces upon them, till they form a pyramid; have ready a good ravigote sauce (No. 44), rather highly seasoned, which pour over and serve; the sauce should be thick enough to adhere to the pieces. No. 670, Queues de Veau a la Poulette. Cook and dress the tails as before, and sauce as directed for turban de tete de veau a la poulette (No. 663). No. 671. Of Sweetbreads. The middle-sized heart-breads are to be preferred to the over large or small, the throat-bread is rarely used to dress and serve whole,-, but may be served in blanquettes, vol-au- vents, or ragouts. Sweetbreads cannot be too white, if red when brought in leave them four or five hours in warm water to disgorge, put them in a stewpan well covered with water to blanch, (if you put them in cold water they will be blanched enough as soon as the water begins to boU), throw them a minute in cold water, then lay them on a dish face downwards, place the bottom of another dish upon them, on which place a four pounds weight, they are then ready for use where directed; three sweetbreads are sufficient for an entree if rather large, and four if small. No. 672. Bis de Veau a la Santa Cruz. Take three good sweetbreads, blanch as directed, then lard them (with very thin strips of fat bacon an inch and a half in length) from top to bottom an inch and a half in width, and again from one side to the other to form a cross ; have thirty-six pieces of truffles cut in the shape of cloves^ but much thicker and rather longer, (twelve for each sweet-284 ENTREES. bread), make a hole with a larcliiig-needle in the centre of the cross in which place a piece of the truffle, proceeding in lilce manner in the centre of the bacon at equal distances apart, cover the bottom of a flat stewpan with fat bacon, lay the sweetbreads upon it, cover the bottom of the stewpan about the depth of two inches with stock, place it over the fire till the stock boils, put it in the oven about half an hour will be sufficient to cook them, (but that depends upon their size and the heat of the oven,) try them with a larding-needle, if quite tender through they are done ; but if soft in the middle and toughish leave them a httle longer, glaze them hghtly and salamander a nice gold colour, di-ain them on a cloth and have ready the following sauce: blanch one ounce of riband macaroni in water till tender, dry, and put it in a stevs^an, with ten spoonfuls of brown sauce (No. 1), and two of tomata sauce (No. 37), with a piece of glaze, reduce till rather thick, then add twenty heads of mushrooms and two tablespoonfuls of grated Parmesan cheese; season vdth a httle sugar and cayenne, pour the sauce in yoiu- dish, dress the sweetbreads over and serve very hot. No. 673. Ris de Veau pique a la Turque. Blanch four small heart-sweetbreads as du-ected, and lard them nicely from end to end lengthwise, with fat bacon an inch and a half in length, and breadth in proportion, braise as directed in the last j have ready a ring of forcemeat (No. 120) made in around plain mould* well buttered, with a round piece of bread in the centre; lay the forcemeat round the bread an inch and a half in thickness, place the mould in a stewpan of boiling water, (but do not let the * It would be advisable to have a mould pm-poscly for borders of tbis descrip- tion two inches in height, half an iuch in depth, and eight inches in diameter, with a cylinder five inches in diameter; these borders are by some always used instead of a border of mashed potatoes, but I prefer the last-mentioned, being quicker made, the entrees resting more steadily upon it, and, being laid thinly upon the dishes, never interlcring with any description of sauces.ENTREES. 285 water get into the mould), place the stewpan over the firo till the forcemeat is set, then take it out, detach the bread from the centre and turn out the forcemeat, which will be a complete ring, place it on the dish, cut each of the sweet- breads in halves and dress them upon it, the cut part to- wards the middle; then have ready blanched half a pound of good rice as directed (No. 129), put it in a stewpan, with six pats of butter, two spoonfuls of cream, a httle saflEron powder, pepper, salt, and sugar; mix all together and dress in pyramid in the centre, place a fine (dressed) cockscomb between each half sweetbread, sauce over the rice with sauce au supreme (No. 57), glaze the sweetbreads and serve. No. 674. Bis de Veaupique a la Financiere. Blanch, lard, and braise three sweetbreads as before; have ready a ragout a la financiere (No. 50), which pour in the dish, dress your sweetbreads over, glaze Hghtly and serve. No. 675. Bis de Veau pique a la puree d'asperges. Blanch, lard, and braise three sweetbreads as before, but keep them a more dehcate colour and drain them well upon a cloth; when you take them from the stewpan have ready a puree of asparagus (No. 102), which pom- into the dish, dress the sweetbreads over and serve. Larded sweetbreads may be also served with a truffle sauce (No. 51), Palestine, jardiniere, aux concombres, dressed spinach, or endive (see Nos. 87, 100, 103, 106, and 119.) No. 676. Bis de Veau rdti. Heart-sweetbreads are also preferable for roasting, al- though the throat-breads may be used; blanch as before and let them cool, place them in a stewpan, with two onions, two cloves, a blade of mace, a can-ot, quarter of a pound of lean ham, a bunch of parsley, thyme, and bay-leaf,286 ENTREES. just cover with a good stock, and place them on the fire to boil twenty minutes, take them out, dry on a cloth, egg and bread-crumb them twice over, then mn a long flat skewer through them lengthwise, which tie up on a spit, roast before a fierce fire till they become a nice Hght brown, keeping them basted wdth butter; pass the stock they were boiled in through a sieve into another stewpan, boil and skim well, place the sweetbreads in a dish, pour some of the stock round and serve; it may also be served with sauce piquante, poivrade, or tomata (Nos. 27, 32, 37). No. 677. Caisse de ris de Veau a la Ninon de I'Enclos. Roast fom- sweetbreads as directed in the last, and let them remain till cold, then open and empty them, thus making a case, leaving it a quarter of an inch in thickness; cut up what you have taken from them in shces, have also twenty small pieces of cucumber, prepared as directed for sauce (No. 103), put a teaspoonful of chopped eschalots in a stewpan, with a very small piece of butter, pass over the fire a few minutes, but keep them quite white, then add three parts of a pint of white sauce (No. 7) and a httle milk, reduce till thickish, keeping it stirred, add the sweet- bread and cucumber, season with a httle sugar and salt, and when it boils add a liaison of one yolk of egg mixed with half a gill of cream; do not let it boil afterwards, fill the cases and cover the opening with a little very thick fritter butter (No. 1285), place them in a sharp oven, and as soon as the batter is baked sufficient, dress them on yom' dish, three at the bottom and one on the top; serve with a tliin bechamel sauce (No. 7) under. No. 678. Escalopes de Bis de Veau au supreme. Blanch three sweetbreads twenty minutes, and when cold cut each bread into four slices lengthwise, and trim inENTREES. 287 the shape of fillets of fo^l, well batter the bottom of a saute-pan, lay in the escalopes, keeping them in their shapes, season over with a little white pepper, salt, and the juice of half a lemon, place over a slow fire, ten minutes vdll be sufiicient to cook them; when done on one side turn, keep them quite white, lay them on a cloth to drain, and dress in crown on a border of mashed potatoes; serve with a sauce au supreme (No. 57) poured over. No. 679, Escalopes de Bis de Veau aux pointes d'asperges. Dress tlu-ee sweetbreads as in the last, and serve a sauce > aux pointes d'asperges (No. 101) in the centre. No. 680. Escalopes de Bis de Veau a VIndienne. Dress three sweetbreads as in the two last, but keep them rather underdone; when cold egg and bread-crmnb them twice over, put six spoonfuls of oU in a saute-pan, place it over the fire, and when hot lay in the escalopes, which fry a nice Hght brown colom-, dress in a crown on a border of mashed potatoes, and serve with a nice white Indian sauce (No. 45) in the centre, previously glazing the escalopes h'ghtly. No. 681. Escalopes de Bis de Veau en caisses. Blanch four throat-sweetbreads, and cut them in shoes one size larger and three times the thickness of a shilling, butter the bottom of a saute-pan and put in two table- spoonfuls of chopped eschalots, lay the pieces of sweetbread over, season with a httle salt and pepper, and place them over a slow fire; when done add a spoonful of chopped mushrooms, one of chopped parsley, half a pint of brown sauce (No. 1), a little glaze, half a pint of broth, a little powdered sugar and grated nutmeg; let simmer altogether ten minutes, moving them round by shaking the saute-pan. I288 ENTREES. have six or eight small paper boxes, or cases, fill each of them three parts full with the above, egg the top with a paste-brush, sprinlde bread-crumbs over and place them in a warm oven twenty minutes, pass the salamander over, dress them in pyramid on your dish, and serve with plenty of fried parsley. No. 682. Atelettes de Bis de Veau. Prepare the sweetbreads precisely as in the last, but add a Haison of two yolks of eggs mixed with four tablespoon- fuls of cream, and leave them to get cold in the sauce, have six silver skewers (atelettes), and run sLx or eight pieces of sweetbread upon each, with as much sauce as possible adhering to them, smooth roimd with a knife, dip them in eggs well beaten in a basin, then into bread-crumbs, beat lightly with a knife, dip them again into the bread-criuubs, fry in hot lard, dress them as described for atelettes de palates de boeuf (No. 655), and serve a sauce Itahenne (No. 30) under. No. 683. Blanquette de Ris de Veau aux trvffes. Blanch tliree throat-sweetbreads twenty minutes, cut them in slices the size and double the thickness of half- crown-pieces, cut also into thin slices six good-sized trufiles, then put a tablespoonful of chopped eschalots in a conve- nient-sized stewpan, with a small piece of butter, pass them a few minutes over a sharp fire, keeping them quite white, add a pint of white sauce (No. 7), reduce three minutes, then add the sweetbread and truffles, season with a httle salt and sugar, simmer gently five minutes, finish with a liaison of one yolk of egg mixed with half a gill of cream, pour it out in your dish and garnish with eight large tri- angular croutons of bread (in the fom of a star) fried in butter, which glaze and serve.ENTREES. 289 No. 684. Vol-au-vent de Bis de Veau. Make a vol-au-vent as directed (No. 1140), cook two sweetbreads with truffles as in the last, and when ready to serve fill your vol-au-vent, which glaze lightly and serve very hot. Sweetbreads may also be served either in blanquettes or vol-au-vents, with cucumbers, stewed mushrooms, slices of tongue or ham, instead of truffles. No. 685. Of Tendrons de Veau. Por one entree you will require the tendrons from two breasts of veal, which are cut out without injm-ing the breasts, and afterwards stewed (see breast of veal in the Removes); tie the two tendrons together and put them in a deep stewpan, with two carrots, four onions, six cloves, a good bunch of parsley, thyme, and bay-leaf; cover vsdth a second stock, place them on the fire, and when boiling draw it on the corner, skim, and let stew gently for six or seven hours; when done (which you may ascertain by run- ning the point of your knife through them, if tender they are done, if not stew them till they are,) lay them on a dish, take away the string, pull out the small bones which may remain, and place another dish of the same size upon them, on which place a seven pounds weight; when quite cold and set, cut twelve pieces out of them either of an oval or diamond shape, but not too large, egg and bread-crumb the sides but not the edges twice over, and fry them gently of a hght-brown colour in a saute-pan. Serve with any of the sauces directed for the sweetbreads. No. 686. Tendrons de Veau a la Noble Dame. Prepare two tendrons as before, and when quite cold cut out twelve pieces of any shape you please, but one third 19ENTREES. 290 less than in the previous article, put a quart of white sauce (No. 7) in a ste\vpan, with six spoonfuls of white stock and two of chopped mushrooms; reduce till thick enough to cover the back of the spoon, take it off the fire and stir in the yolks of two eggs very quickly, take your pieces of tendrons one at a time with a fork, dip them in the sauce so that they are covered on every part, and lay them on a dish to get cold; have ready some fritter batter (No. 1285), dip each piece of tendron with as much sauce as adheres to it, and fry in very hot lard, dress them in crown on a bor- der of mashed potatoes, fill the centre with fried watercresses, for sauce put a gill of cream in a stewpan, and when boil- mg add two pats of butter and a little salt; when the butter is quite melted sauce round and serve. No. 687. Tendrons de Veau a la Dawphine. Proceed precisely as in the last, but instead of dipping them in the batter, egg and bread-crumb twice over and fry in very hot lard of a fine yellow colour; serve with a sauce tomate (No. 37) poured round. No. 688. Cotelettes de Veau pique aux petits pois. Veal cotelettes require to be cut from the neck in the same shape as mutton cutlets, four are sufficient for an entree, they must be very nicely larded on one side, hke a sweet- bread, braise in the same kind of manner until very tender, glaze lightly, and salamander of a hght-brown colom-; have ready boiled a pint of young peas, which put in a stew- pan, with two pats of butter, a little salt, and a teaspoonful of powdered sugar; when boUing finish with a Haison of one yolk of egg mixed with a tablespoonful of cream, pom- into the dish and dress the cotelettes over in a square, glaze Hghtly and serve; dressed in the above manner they may also be sei-ved with sauce a la jardiniere, aux navets au brun.ENTREES. 291 aiix pointes d'asperges, aux concombres, sauce poivrade, or sauce toinate. No. 689. Cotelettes de Veau enpapillote. Cut six small veal cotelettes, do not lard them, put six tablespoonfuls of oil in a saute-pan, in which fry the cote- lettes ; when done pour off a little of the oil, put four table- spoonfuls of chopped onions, one of chopped parsley, one of chopped mushrooms, and . twenty of brown sauce (No. 1) seasoned rather high, moisten with a little stock and simmer altogether twenty minutes, place the cotelettes on a dish in the sauce to get cold, cut six pieces of paper in the shape of hearts, oil them, and put a cotelette in each with as much of the sauce as possible around, fold each one up, plaiting it at the edges, broil them twenty minutes over a slow fire, and dress them in a circle on yom- dish without removing the papers. No. 690. Cotelettes de Veau a la Sans Fagon. Cut four large cotelettes, which season well, dip them in a basin containing two eggs well beaten, then throw them into a dish of bread-crumbs, in which you have mixed some finely chopped eschalots and parsley, beat them wdth your knife, dip them into warm clarified butter, and again into the bread-crumbs, beat again with your knife, and broil them nicely over a sharp fbe; have in a steAvpan six or eight well boiled mealy potatoes, add four pats of butter and a httle pepper and salt, mash them well with a fork, adding a gill of cream by degrees, mixing quickly they will be very hght, dress them in a pyramid on your dish, glaze the cotelettes, which stand upright against the potatoes, and serve; this is an excellent dish for luncheon.292 ENTREES. No. 691. Noiw de Veaufor Entrees. Are prepared exactly in the same manner as described for the flancs (No. 565), only they are not required so large, half the noix being quite sufficient, that is, cut into two slices, trim it of a nice shape, lard, dress, and serve, with the sauces as described for the flancs. No. 692. Grenadins de Veaupique aux racines nomelles. Cut twelve fillets from a noix de veau the size and shape of fillets of fowl, lard them nicely with very finely cut bacon, cover the bottom of a convenient-sized saute-pan with thin shoes of fat bacon, upon which lay the grenadins, add a little veal stock but not enough to cover them, place a sheet of buttered paper over and stand them in a mode- rate oven for an hour or till tender, moistening occasionally with a little of the stock ; when done glaze them hghtly and salamander of a light colom-, then have prepared twenty young carrots and twenty young turnips, which cook as directed (No. 109), dish the grenadins in crovm upon a border of mashed potatoes, place a pyramid of the potatoes in the centre of the dish, upon which dress the carrots and turnips in rotation; have ready the following sauce: put the glaze from your vegetables in a stewpan, with half a pint of brown sauce (No. 1), and a httle good stock, place it on the fire, sldm, and reduce until rather thick; sauce over your vegetables and serve. Grenadins may be served with any of the sauces as de- scribed for noix de veau or sweetbreads. No. 693. Of Veal Kidneys. The kidney being part of the loin is usually served with it, and a loin of veal roasted without it would be considered worthless, but still the loins may be dressed, as dh*ected inENTREES. 393 the Removes, without the kidneys; to stew them proceed as follows: cut three kidneys into thin shces, put an ounce of butter into a convenient-sized stewpan, place over the fire, and just as it begins to get brown throw in the kidneys, stii- them over the fire with a wooden spoon, and when they become firm add half a tablespoonful of flour, stir it in, then add a glass of sherry, eight spoonfuls of broth, and twenty mushrooms, let all boil together five minutes, season with a little pepper, salt, nutmeg, and the juice of half a lemon, if too thick add more broth, pour them on a dish and serve, or they would look better served in a croustade of bread (No. 416) fried a nice yellow colour, No. 694. Veal Kidneys en Caisses. Proceed exactly as described for ris de veau en caisses (No. 681). No. 695, Boudin de Veau a la Legumiere. Make two pounds of veal forcemeat as directed (No. 120), cover the sides of a plain round mould with vegetables, pre- cisely as directed for a Chartreuse (No. 604), then cut a piece of bread quite round, the depth of the mould, cover the bread with white buttered paper, and stand it in the centre of the mould,* leaving the space of an inch and a half all round, which fill up with the forcemeat, being careful not to disarrange the vegetables; when well filled, put the mould in a stewpan, cover with a piece of stifi" paper, put water enough in the stewpan to come three parts of the way up the mould, place the stewpan over the fire and let it sim- mer gently (keeping it covered) nearly an hoiu-, turn it out on your dish, take the bread and paper from the centre, sauce over with a good demi-glace (No. 9), and serve. * A cyUnder copper mould is preferable to a phiiu one, but as almost every kitchen has plain moulds, I describe tliis iu preference.294 ENTREES. No. 696. Boudin de Veau a la Richelieu. ^ Butter a plain round mould rather thickly, have five or six good-sized truffles chopped very fine, throw them in the mould, which roll round until the sides are quite covered with them; then prepare a piece of bread as in the last, fill the space up with the same forcemeat, blanch it in a stew- pan as before, turn out on your dish, take away the bread, and serve with a sauce Perigueux (No. 55) over it. No. 697. Of Mutton for Entrees. For entrees the small South Down mutton is much to be preferred, the principal entrees made from mutton are cote- lettes, which never will be out of vogue; I shall therefore give a numerous list of receipts for the dressing of them, but the manner of cutting them requires particular atten- tion ; the most simple method is to take the chine-bone off from the neck neatly vsdth a saw, but not quite detaching all the meat from the bone, then cut it into chops, leaving a bone to each; with a knife cut off the skinny part from each side of the bone and a piece of the meat at the end of the bone, so as to leave a piece of bone about half an inch in length, then with a cotelette-bat beat them nearly to the same thickness as the bone, take the rough parts of the bone off with yom' chopper, and trim the cotelettes of a good shape, taldng off a greater part of the fat and romidiug the- lean part nicely; but in cutting cotelettes to look well, much depends upon the taste of the person, they require to be cut some time previous to cooking, or they would sluink and loose their shape. No. 698. Cotelettes de Mouton a la Beforin. Chop a quarter of a pound of lean cooked ham very fine,Lamb CutletENTREES. 295 and mix it with the same quantity of bread-crumbs, then have ten very nice cotelettes, lay them flat on yoiu- table, season lightly with pepper and salt, egg over with a paste- brush, and throw them into the ham and bread-crumbs, then beat them hghtly with a knife, put ten spoonfuls of oil in a saute-pan, place it over the fire, and when quite hot lay in the cotelettes, fry nearly ten minutes (over a moderate fire) of a fight brown colour; to ascertain when done, press your knife upon the tliick part, if quite done it will feel rather firm; possibly they may not aU be done at one time, so take out those that are ready first and lay them on a cloth till the others are done ; as they require to be cooked with the gravy in them, dress upon a thin border of mashed potatoes in a crown, with the bones pointing outwards, sauce over with a pint of the sauce reform (No. 35), and serve. If for a large dinner you may possibly be obliged to cook the cotelettes half an horn* before, in which case they must be very underdone, and laid in a clean saute-pan, with two or three spoonfuls of thin glaze; keep them in the hot closet, moistening them occasionally with the glaze (with a paste- brush) until ready to serve ; the same remark appHes to every description of cotelettes. No. 699. Cotelettes de Mouton a la Vicomtesse. Cut, bread-crumb, and fry ten mutton cotelettes as in the last, but let them be rather underdone, then have ready six large quenelles of veal (No. 120) quite cold, mash them in a basin with a Avooden spoon, then add a teaspoonful of very finely chopped eschalots, two of chopped parsley, and a little grated nutmeg, with a tablespoonful of cold white sauce (No. 7) and the yolk of an egg; mix all well together, and put a piece of the size of a walnut upon each cotelette, spread it even, then have ten thin small shces of cooked ham, place a slice upon each cotelette, which again cover with^"^^ ENTREES. the forcemeat, forming a flattish dome, but not too thick • egg over with a paste-brush, sprinkle with bread-crumbs' put agam mto the saute-pan, and place them in a moderate oven ten mmutes, salamander a light colour, dress in crown on a thm border of mashed potatoes, and have ready the foUowmg sauce : put two yolks of eggs in a stewpan with a quarter of a pound of butter, a Httle pepper and salt a tablespoonful of vinegar from India pickles, and a Httle lemon-juice, stir it quickly over the fire with a wooden spoon untH beginning to thicken, then add ten tablespoonfuls of bechamel sauce (No. 7) with four of milk, stir over the fire, but do not let it boil, then pass it through a tammie into a clean stewpan, stir it another mi- nute over the fire, sauce over, have two firm green India pickles and half an ounce of lean cooked ham chopped very fine, which sprinkle over and serve very hot. No. 700. Cotelettes de Mouton a la Westphalienne. Prepare ten cotelettes as in the last, mixing chopped Westphalia ham with the bread-crumbs instead of the com- mon ham, Hkewise sprinkling ham over the forcemeat in- stead of bread-crumbs, place them in the oven as before, and salamander a nice colour, dress in croMTi as in the last, and have ready the following sauce: pound a quarter of a pound of lean WestphaUa cooked ham very fine, add two ounces of butter, and pass it through a hair sieve with a wooden spoon, then put a pint of brown sauce (No. 1) in a stewpan with six spoonfuls of consomme (No. 134) and a piece of glaze the size of a walnut j reduce and skim till becoming a good demi-glace, add two tablespoonfuls of tomata sauce, a little sugar, and the butter with the ham, stir over the fire until the butter is melted, sauce over and serve.297 ENTEEES. No. 701. Cotelettes de Mouton a la Provengale. Have ready ten cotelettes, season with a little pepper and salt, egg with a paste-brush, and dip them into bread- crumbs, beat lightly with a knife and fry in oil, but very much underdone, lay them on a cloth, and have ready the following: chop six middhng-sized onions very fine and put them in a stewpan with two tablespoonfuls of oil, pass them over a moderate fire ten minutes, keeping stirred with a wooden spoon, then add half a tablespoonful of flour (mix well), half a pint of white sauce (No. 7), and four table- spoonfuls of good stock, boil altogether a quarter of an hour or till the onions are quite tender, season with a little pepper, salt, and nearly a teaspoonful of powdered sugar, draw the stewpan off" the fire and stir in the yolks of two eggs, place over the fire another minute, pour it out on a dish to get cold, place a piece the size of a large walnut upon each cotelette, spread it over with a knife, leaving it thickest in the middle; egg them with a paste-brash, sprinkle bread- crumbs over, drop a little oil on each, put them in the same saute-pan, place in the oven ten minutes, salamander a hght brown, and dress them on your dish as before; have ready the following sauce: put nearly a pint of brovra sauce (No. 1) in a stewpan with a piece of glaze the size of a walnut, and eight spoonfuls of consomme (No. 134); re- duce and skim well till it adheres to the back of the spoon, add a httle scraped garhc the size of a couple of peas, sauce over and serve; more garhc may be added if approved of. No. 702. Cotelettes de Mouton a la Bohemienne. Have twelve good cotelettes well-trimmed, lay them in a basin and pour a quart of good marinade hot over them (see filet de boeuf a la Bohemienne, No. 426), let them re- main fom- or five days, turning them occasionally; when298 ENTREES. wanted take them out, dry on a cloth, dip in flour and broil them quickly over a sharp fire, dress in crown like the cotc- lettes reform, and have ready the following sauce: a gill of the marinade in a stewpan, with two spoonfuls of tomata sauce (No. 37), six of brown sauce, and a piece of glaze the size of a walnut, reduce till it becomes half glaze again, then add a spoonful of red-cmi-ant jelly, three anchovies well washed, and cut into small diamond-shaped pieces, also twenty pieces of gherkins cut in the same shape, let warm in the sauce, which pour over and serve. The cote- lettes may be bread-crumbed if required. No. 703. Cotelettes de Mouton a la Soubise. Prepare twelve cotelettes, season with a httle pepper and salt, egg over with a paste-brush, and tln-ow them into bread-crumbs, beat hghtly with a knife, and fry them in clarified butter in a saute-pan, dress on your dish as before, and serve with a sauce Soubise (No. 47) under, glaze hghtly when dressing them on your dish. No. 704. Cotelettes de Mouton a la Burcelle. Egg, bread-crumb, and fiy twelve cotelettes in oU, when done take out and lay them on a cloth, put a teaspoonful of chopped eschalots and two of chopped onions in the saute- pan, fry them a fight brown colour, pour off as much oil as possible, add half a pint of brown sauce (No. 1) and a httle consomme, let boil quickly ten minutes, then add a httle sugar, cayenne pepper, half a teaspoonful of chopped mush- rooms, the same of chopped parsley, and one teaspoonful of Harvey sauce, put the cotelettes into the sauce to get hot, have ready fom- paper cases six inches long, lay three cotelettes in each, pom- the sauce over, place them in a moderate oven ten minutes, di-ess on your dish in the cases and serve immediately.ENTREES. 299 No. 705. Cotelettes de Mouton mxpetites racines. Prepare and fry twelve cotelettes as directed for cotelettes a la Soubise, dress in crown and proceed as for the gre- nadins de veau (No. 692), glaze them hghtly and serve. No. 706. Cotelettes de Mouton saucepiquante. Dress the cotelettes as above, glaze lightly and serve with sauce piquante (No. 27) over them. No. 707. Cotelettes de Mouton a la Jardiniere. Dress twelve cotelettes as before described, dish as usual, have ready a sauce jardiniere (No. 100), place the vege- tables, and sauce in the centre, glaze the cotelettes hghtly, and serve. No. 708. Cotelettes de Mouton auw champignons. Dress and dish twelve cotelettes as in the last, and have ready the following sauce: put a pint of demi-glace (No. 9) in a stewpan, with a httle consomme, reduce it a little, and skim; then add thirty mushrooms, season with a little pepper and sugar, add a small piece of glaze half the size of a walnut, and boil altogether ten minutes; pour the sauce in the middle of the cotelettes, which glaze and serve. No. 709. Cotelettes de Mouton aux navets au brun. Dress and dish twelve cotelettes as in the last, have pre- pared forty scoops of turnips, each the size of a marble, put them in a stewpan with an ounce of butter, and a tea- spoonful of sugar, pass over a fire ten minutes, keeping them tossed, to prevent their burning, then add a pint of brown sauce (No. 1) and half a do. of consomme, stand it on the corner of the stove, skim well, and let it remain till the tiu-nips are tender, and the sauce becomes rather300 ENTREES. thick; then poiir it in the centre of the cotelettes, which glaze and serve; should the turnips be done before the sauce is thick, take them out with a colander spoon until it has sufficiently reduced. No. 710. Cotelettes de Mouton a la Palestine. Dress and dish twelve cotelettes as before, have ready the following sauce: scoop forty scoops of Jerusalem arti- chokes the size of the turnips in the last, and proceed ex- actly the same, using white sauce (No. 7), and white stock instead of brown, and finishing with a good tablespoonful of liaison; serve as before j they must not be boiled too quickly, or they will break to pieces. No. 711. Cotelettes de Mouton auxpointes d'asperges. Prepare and dress the cotelettes as before, have ready boiled, very green, half a bundle of sprue grass cut into pieces a quarter of an inch in length, put eight tablespoon- fuls of white sauce (No. 7), with fom- of white stock in a stewpan, and when a httle reduced add the sprue, with half a teaspoonful of powdered sugar, and a Little salt; let boil a minute, and finish with a Haison of half a yolk of egg mixed with two tablespoonfuls of cream, sauce in the centre of the cotelettes, which glaze lightly, and serve. When sprue grass is cheap, dress it thus for cotelettes: you have cut and boiled a bunch very green; drain it upon a sieve, and whilst hot put them into a stewpan, with six pats of butter, a teaspoonful of salt, and the half of one of sugar; place over the fire, stirring round gently until the butter is melted, then dress them in a pyramid in the centre of the cotelettes, pour a thin bechamel sauce round, glaze the cotelettes, and serve. By this simple method you retain the full flavom- of the grass.301 ENTREES, No. 713. Cotelettes de Mouton aux haricots verts. Proceed exactly as before, using some French beans cut in diamonds and nicely boiled, instead of the sprue grass, dress the beans in either of the above methods. No. 713. Cotelettes de Mouton auxpetitspois. Dress and dish your cotelettes as usual, have ready, nicely boiled, a pint of young peas (No. 1075) which put in a stewpan with an ounce of fresh butter, two spoonfuls of white sauce, a bunch of green onions, half a teaspoonful of sugar, and a little salt; keep them moving over the fire by shaking the stewpan tiU they are quite hot; take out the onions, finish with a haison of a yolk of egg and two table- spoonfuls of cream, dress the peas in the centre, glaze the cotelettes, and serve. The peas may also be dressed in either of the methods directed ia the two last. No. 714. Cotelettes de Mouton aux chouxjleurs. Dress the cotelettes as before, have nicely boiled two small cauhflowers, put ten tablespoonfuls of white sauce (No. 7) in a stewpan, with half a teaspoonful of sugar and a httle salt; divide each cauhflower into eight pieces, and when the sauce boils add them to it, finish with a Haison of half the yolk of an egg, mixed with three tablespoonfuls of cream, and serve as before. The cauliflower must not be too much done, or it would break to pieces. No. 715, Cotelettes de Mouton aux truffes. Proceed with the cotelettes as before, put a pint of demi- glace (No. 9) in a stewpan, with a Httle consomme, and reduce tiU it adheres to the back of the spoon; have six middling-sized preserved truffles cut in thin sHces, which throw into the sauce whilst boiling, season with a little302 ENTREES. sugar, boH all together a few minutes, glaze the cotelettes, sauce over, and serve. No. 716. Cotelettes de Mouton a la Maintenon. Have twelve cotelettes nicely cut, lay them on the table and season lightly, put two tablespoonfuls of oH in a sautc- pan, lay in yom- cotelettes, and fry over a moderate fire till three parts done, take them out, and put two tablespoonfuls of chopped onions in the saute-pan; fry till of a hght brown colom% pom- off as much of the oil as possible, add a pint of brown sauce (No. 1), and two tablespoonfuls of tomata sauce (No. 37), with a little consomme, a teaspoonful of chopped muslirooms, one of chopped parsley, a httle sugar, grated nutmeg, pepper, and salt; reduce till rather thick, then throw in the cotelettes for a few minutes, tiun out on a dish, and leave them to get cold in the sauce; have twelve pieces of white paper, each cut in the shape of a heart and large enough to fold a cotelette in, rub a little oil over, and place a cotelette in each with as much of the sauce as pos- sible ; fold them up, and broil ten minutes over a moderate fire, dress them in a crown on your dish, without taking them out of the papers, which must well cover the cotelettes, or they would be very dry. No. 717. Cotelettes de Mouton sauce remoulade. Dress twelve cotelettes as for sauce Soubise (No. 703), then put six tablespoonfuls of white sauce (No. 7) in a stewpan, with three of veal stock or consomme, place it over the fire, and when boiling add an equal quantity of sauce tartare (No. 38) stir over the fire till hot, but do not let it bod, sauce under, and serve. No. 718. Cotelettes de Mouton a la Financiere. Proceed with the cotelettes as before, and serve the303 ENTREES. ragout a la financiere (No. 50) in the centre, only observe that the garnitiu-e must be very small, or it would look clumsy with such an entree as cotelettes. For cotelettes de mouton a I'ltahenne, ditto, sauce poi- vrades, ditto, aux fines herbes, and ditto, aux jus d echalotte, dress the cotelettes as usual, and sauce over with either of the above-named sauces (see Nos. 30, 32, 26 and 27). No. 719. Cotelettes de Mouton a la Maitre d'Hotel. Proceed with the cotelettes as before described, then put eight tablespoonfuls of white sauce (No. 7) in a stewpan, with two of cream and two of broth; when boihng add one oimce of maitre d'hotel butter (No. 79), shake the stewpan round till the butter melts, then pour the sauce under the cotelettes; have ready some fried potatoes very crisp, cut thin, and of the size of six penny-pieces, wliich build in pyramid in the centre, glaze the cotelettes and serve. No. 720. Cotelettes de Mouton a la Hollandaise. Proceed precisely as for the last, only using some sauce Hollandaise (No. 66) instead of the sauce maitre d'hotel, fried potatoes the same. Por the two last entrees the sauce must not be too thick. No. 721. Cotelettes de Moutonpanee, grillee. Prepare twelve nice cotelettes, which season nicely, egg and bread-crumb them, beat lightly with a knife, have some hot clarified butter m a stewpan, dip each cotelette in, then throw them into bread-crumbs, beat again with yom- knife, and place them on the gridiron over a moderate fire, turn- ing them now and then, ten minutes will be suflacient, dress in crown vsdth a Httle plain gravy, or vsdth any of the fore- going sauces.304 ENTREES. No. 722. Of Cotelettes braised. Braised cotelettes are much more in vogue in France than in England, for in the former they prefer meat stewed, whilst in the latter the meat is more succulent and tender! and even for Soubise or Provenpale the cotelette saute is preferred, although properly they ought to be braised; I shall, therefore, describe the manner of braising them and leave the choice to my readers. Prepare a neck of mutton by cutting off the chine-bone, and cut the cotelettes as before, but let them remain nearly of the same thickness you cut them from the neck, which will be nearly an inch, then stick five or six pieces of fat bacon about the size of a quill through the lean of each cotelette, cutting off the ends, then cover the bottom of a stewpan with thin shoes of fat bacon and lay twelve cote- lettes over, all laying on the same side, just cover them with stock, to which add an onion, three cloves, and a bunch of parsley, place a sheet of buttered paper over them, and place them over a slow fire to simmer between two and three hours, try them and ff very tender place them upon an oval dish, vsdth a Httle of their stock, place another dish over them upon which put a seven pounds weight; when quite cold trim nicely of equal sizes and put them in a saute-pan with then- stock to warm, dress them in crown on a border of mashed potatoes, and serve with a sauce Soubise (No. 47), or any other sauce as directed for the cotelettes sautes. Although these cotelettes are reqmred to be tender they must not be too much done or the bones would fall from them. No. 723. Cotelettes de Mouton braise a la Marseillaise. Cook your cotelettes as directed in the last, but cut them rather small; when cold cover all over with the prepai-ationENTREKS. 305 of onion as for cotelettes a la Provengale, egg and bread- crumb all over and place them in the oven for a quarter of an hom', dress in crown, previously giving them a nice colour with a salamander, and serve with a sauce Soubise (No. 47) much thinned, with cream under them. No. 724. Carhonade of Mutton. Prepare a loin of mutton as a carbonado (see flancs No. 577), and when cold cut it in shoes rather more than half an inch in thickness, reduce the stock the carbonade was boiled in to a thin glaze, put the shoes in a saute-pan and pour it over them, place them over a slow fire till quite hot, dress them in crown on a border of mashed potatoes, and serve with any of the sauces named for cotelettes. No. 725. Poitrine de Mouton sauce piquante. Braise and press a breast of mutton as directed (No. 487), and when cold cut ten pieces out of it in the shape of cote- lettes, one third fat and two thirds lean, but not too large, egg, bread-crumb, and broil as for cotelettes panees grillees (No. 721), dress in crown on a border of mashed potatoes, glaze and serve with sauce piquante (No. 27) in the centre. They may also be served with sauce Soubise (No. 47), poi- vrade (No. 32), jus d'echalotte (No. 16), or fines herbes (No.-26). No. 726. Bognons de Mouton a la brochette. Mutton kidneys dressed in this manner are usually served for breakfast or luncheon, but they may be served as an entree for dinner. Procure nine fresh kidneys, cut them open and run silver or wooden skewers through to keep them open, season well, egg over with a paste-brush, and dip them into a dish of bread-crumbs, broil over a moderate fire, about ten minutes will be sufiicient; when done di-ess 20300 ENTREES. them on your dish in pyramid, place a piece of maitre d'hotel butter (No. 79) in each, half the size of a walnut, place them in the oven two minutes, glaze hghtly and serve very hot. No. 727. Bognons a la Tartare. Broil nine kidneys as above, and serve with a good sauce a la tartare (No. 38) under them. No. 738. Bognons de Mouton a la Venitienne. Cut ten fresh kidneys in halves the long way, take off the skins and cut out the roots, or they would shrink in cooldng; put two ounces of butter in a saute-pan, with a spoonful of chopped eschalots, place the pan on the fire and as soon as the butter melts place in the kidneys, fry about five minutes, and when half done turn them, dress them in a crown on a border of mashed potatoes, and put them somewhere to keep hot; pour as much of the butter as possible from the saute-pan, and put in a pint of brown sauce (No. 1) and six spoonfuls of consomme; boil alto- gether ten minutes, then add half an ounce of anchovy butter (No. 78) and the juice of half a lemon, mix it well in, sauce over the kidneys and serve. No. 729. Bognons de Mouton saute au vin de champagne. Skin eight kidneys and cut them into thin slices, put an ounce of butter in a stewpan, place it over the fh-e, and when the butter begins to brown throw in the kidneys, stir round with a wooden spoon and when they become fu-m add a small tablespoonful of fiom-, mix weU, add two wine- glasses of champagne with two of white broth and twenty blanched mushrooms ; let aU boil very gently a few minutes, season with the juice of half a lemon, a little pepper, salt, and chopped parsley; pom- them out on yom- dish andENTRIES. '^07 serve. The sauce requires to be rather thick, sherry or hock raay be used instead of champagne. No. 730. Pieds de Mouton a la Poulette. Proceed as directed for the flanc (No. 630) and serve them in a small casserole of rice, according to the size of yom* entree dish. No. 731. Fieds de Mouton a la puree d'oignom. Cook the feet as directed (No. 630), and have ready pre- pared the following puree : peel and cut in dice four large onions, which put in a stewpan, with a quarter of a pound of butter over the fire, keeping them stirred vdth a wooden spoon till tender, then add a tablespoonful of flour, mix well, a pint of millc and a little broth, season with pepper, salt, and sugar, keep boiling till the onions are quite done, then put in the feet, which let simmer a few minutes, finish with a haison of two yolks of eggs mixed with half a gill of cream, stir well, and place it over the fire a minute, keeping it stirred to thicken, serve either on a dish or in a casserole of rice (No. 626). They require to be seasoned rather highly. ENTREES OF LAMB. No. 732. Pieds d'Agneau. Lambs' feet are cooked in the same manner as the sheeps' but do not require quite so long to stew; having previously cooked ten feet put a pint of white sauce (No. 7) in a stewpan, with half a pint of white stock and four but- ton onions; reduce to half, then pass it through a tammie over the feet into another stewpan, season with a little pep-ENTRERS. 308 per, salt, and sugar, add twenty heads of mushrooms and a little chopped parsley; simmer altogether two or three mi- nutes, add a little lemon-juice, and finish with a haison of two yolks of eggs mixed with half a gill of cream, mix quickly and serve in a pate chaud (No. 618), or casserole of rice (No. 626), made according to the size of your dish. No. 733. Pieds d'Agneau farcis. Have eight feet ready cooked and cold, then have pre- pared a quarter of a pound of veal forcemeat (No. 120), with which add a little chopped parsley, chopped eschalots, and the yolk of an egg, fill the part of the feet with it from which you took the large bone, put them again into the stock they were cooked in and simmer twenty minutes, take them out, drain on a cloth, and dress them in pyramid by placing a little mashed potato upon the bottom of the dish, laying four at the bottom and finishing with one at the top, sauce over with a sauce Hohandaise (No. 66), and serve with chopped gherkins sprinkled over them. No, 734. Pieds d'Agnem en marinade. Having cooked eight feet, cut each one in halves length- wise and put in a basin vdth two onions shced, two bay- leaves, a sprig of thyme, a bunch of parsley, a glass of vinegar, two spoonfuls of oil, and a little salt and pepper, let them remain four hours, drain upon a cloth, and dip them into fritter batter (No. 1285), fry a nice hght brown colour, dress on a napkin, garnish with fried pai'sley, and serve with some tomata sauce (No. 37) in a boat. No. 735. Pieds d'Agneau en cartouche. Have cooked eight feet, which diy upon a cloth, make a sauce like for the cotelettes durcelle (No. 704), stew the feet in it twenty minutes, then leave them to get coldENTEEES. '^'^•^ in the sauce, have eight pieces of cartridge paper, (each piece large enough to fold a foot in,) oil them and lay m a foot with as much of the sauce as you thmk sufficient, roU them round and fold the paper at each end to imitate a cartridge, broU them over a slow fire, dress m pyramid and sei-ve with a little gravy in a boat. No. 736. Oreilles d'Agneau a la Belle Fermiere. Procm-e eight or ten lambs' ears and put them into luke- warm water to disgorge for two or three hours, then make a blanc (No. 459), in which put the ears to stew; let them be weU covered or they will turn black, boU gently about an horn-, if done the thick part of the ears will feel tender, if not ready to serve let them remain in the stock until wanted, make a border of forcemeat as described for the ris de veau a la Tiuque (No. 673), place it on your dish, take out the ears, make five or six incisions in the thin part of each ear and'tm-n them back to imitate a frill, dress upon the force- meat to imitate a vase, by tm-ning the curl of the ears out- wards, put some mashed potatoes in the centre of the dish, upon which place a fine green bunch of asparagus well- boiled, and not more than four inches in length, standing upright; sauce over with a thin sauce a la pm-ee d'asperges (No. 102), and serve. No. 737. Oreilles d'Agneau a la Marquise. Cook and dress eight or ten lambs' ears, as above, on a border of forcemeat, only turning the ears half reverse way, they will then form a crown; place a plover's egg peeled and warmed in stock in the hollow of each ear, and have ready the following sauce: put a pint of white sauce (No. 7) in a stewpan with eight tablespoonfuls of white stock or milk, reduce one-third, then in another stewpan have ten cockscombs nicely dressed and ten button mushrooms, passENTREES. 310 the sauce through a tammie upon them, place over the fire, add a gill of cream and the juice of hah' a lemon, season with a httle pepper, salt, and sugar; when hot put the gar- nitm-e in the centre of the dish, sauce over and serve. No. 738. Oreilles d'Agneau a la Bavigote. Cook and dress ten ears precisely as in the last, omitting the eggs, put half a pint of white sauce (No. 7) in a stew- pan with half the quantity of white stock, and let it reduce one third; then have ready two ounces of butter, with which you have mixed a teaspoonful of chopped tarragon, one of chopped chervil, one of chopped parsley, and two of tarragon vinegar; season with a Httle pepper and salt, mix it with the sauce, stir over the fire till hot, but do not let it boil, sauce over and serve. No. 739. Oreilles d'Agneau a la Maitre Hotel. Proceed exactly as above, only using two ounces of maitre d'hotel butter (No. 79) instead of the butter there described. No. 740. Oreilles d'Agneau en marinade. When cooked cut each ear in halves, lengthwise, and proceed exactly as for the pieds d'agneau (No. 734). No. 741. Oreilles d'Agneau farcis. Have eight ears cooked as before, dry them well Avith a cloth, then put half a pound of veal forcemeat (No. 120) in a basin, with a teaspoonful of chopped eschalots and one of chopped mushrooms, mixed with the yolk of one egg; put a spoonful of the forcemeat in the hollow of each eai', egg and bread-crumb them all over and fry twenty minutes in lard, not too hot, or they would be too brown before they were sufficiently done; dress them on a border of311 ENTREES. mashed potatoes and serve with a sauce Italienne (No. 30) under. No. 742. Queues d'Agneau a la Cremiere. Lambs' tails are extremely deKcate, cut four into pieces an inch and a haK in length, and cook them as directed (No. 627); when tender take them out, put sixteen spoon- fuls of white sauce in a stewpan, with four of veal stock, boil five minutes, season with a little salt, pepper, grated nutmeg, and sugar ; when boihng put in the tails, and two minutes before serving add half an ounce of butter and the juice of half a lemon, move the stewpan round over the fire tiU the butter is melted, add two spoonfuls of whipped cream, and when quite hot pour into your dish and serve, or they may be served in a vol-au-vent, casserole of rice, or croustade. Lambs' tails may be dressed in any of the methods directed for lambs' feet, and require to be rather highly seasoned. No. 743. Langue d'Agneau a la Persane. Procure eight lambs' tongues, let them disgorge twelve hours in lukewarm water, cover the bottom of a stewpan with thin slices of fat bacon, lay the tongues over and cover them with stock, add two onions, one carrot, and a bunch of parsley, thyme, and bay-leaf; when boiling draw them to the corner of the stove to simmer, skim well, try when done with a trussing-needle; if they feel tender take them up, take off the skin, trim a Httle on each side, cut them in halves lengthwise in the shape of cotelettes, and dress them on a border of mashed potatoes; have ready the following sauce : put a tablespoonful of chopped onions in a stewpan with the half of one of salad-oil, pass them a few minutes over the fire, add a glass of sherry, boil a minute, then add a pint of white sauce (No. 7) and spoonfuls of white312 ENTREES. stock, reduce till ratlier thick, add a teaspoonful of chopped mushrooms and one of chopped parsley, season rather high, di-aw it off the fire, put in the yolks of two eggs, mix quickly, stir over the fire another minute to thicken, then put it on a dish until cold; with a knife spread it over the tongues half an inch in thickness, so as to form one mass, egg and bread-crumb over and place it in the oven half an hom', salamander a Hght brown colour and serve very hot, with the foUovring sauce round: put four spoonfuls of white sauce (No. 7) in a stewpan, with four of white broth, let it boil a few minutes, then add two spoonfuls of cream; boil all together, season and serve. CaK's tongue may also be dressed as in the last, but instead of being covered in the manner there described, serve it with a sauce matelote (No. 62) in the centre and glaze the tongue lightly. No. 744. Lambs Brains a VInnocent. Procure eight or ten lambs' brains and put them in luke- warm water to disgorge, take off the skins, put the brains in a stewpan with two minced onions, a bunch of parsley, and a Httle cannot, cover with water, add a glass of vinegar, and a httle salt, and boil them ten minutes, then lay them on a cloth and divide each piece in two thin shces, have eight paper cases in which lay the shces of brains, season- ing separately, place a piece of butter on the top of each, with a httle chopped parsley, lemon-juice, and a spoonful of white sauce (No. 7); egg and bread-crumb the top, and place them in a hot oven to brown, dress upon the dish in the cases pyramidically and serve. No. 745. Lambs ¥ry. Procure two sets of lambs' fry, which blanch ten minutes in boihng water, df^m them on a sieve, and when quiteENTREES. ^^"^ diT egff over with a paste-brush, thiw them into bread- crumbs with which you have mixed some chopped parsley, fry them in very hot lard of a nice light-brown colour, dress pyramidically upon a napkin, garnish with fried parsley and serve. No. 746. Bis d'Agneau auxpetitspois. Procure ten lambs' heart-sweetbreads, if not very white lay them in lukewarm water to disgorge, put them in a stewpan of boihng water to blanch, two minutes will be sufficient; throw them into a basin of cold water, and when cold, lard very neatly with very thin strips of bacon, when larded cover the bottom of the stewpan with thin shces of fat bacon, two onions sHced, and a httle parsley, thyme, and bay-leaves, lay the sweetbreads over, and put in suf- ficient broth to come up to then- sides, set them in a sharp oven for about twenty minutes, glaze and salamander very Hghtly; then have ready prepared a border of forcemeat as directed for ris de veau a la Turque (No. 673), which place in the centre of your dish, dress the sweetbreads upon it, then have a pint of young peas nicely boiled, put them in a stewpan with three pats of butter and a teaspoonful of sugar, pass over the fire five minutes, and finish vdth a liaison of haK the yolk of an egg mixed vsdth a tablespoon- ful of cream, place them in the centre, glaze the sweet- breads lightly and serve. No. 747. Ris d'Agneau a la Cambageres. Lard, cook, and dress eight nice sweetbreads as above, then have nicely cooked nine very fine cockscombs (No. 128), and place one between each sweetbread; have also the following garniture and sauce: prepare thirty very small quenelles of fowl (No. 120), poach them in stock, drain on a cloth, and put them in a stewpan, vidth six truffles814 ENTREES. turned to the size of small marbles, and twelve fine oHves (stoned) m another stewpan, put half a glass of sheriy, a bay-leaf, half a teaspoonful of chopped onions, and a piece of glaze the size of a nut, boil two minutes, then add a pmt of brown sauce (No. 1) and eight spoonfuls of con- somme, reduce to a good thickness, and add the trimmings of some fresh mushi-ooms, then pass it through a tammie over the garniture, boH all together one minute, add a quarter of a teaspoonful of sugar, and poiu- the sauce in the middle of the dish^ building the garniture in a dome, and placing the^ remaining cockscombs on the top, glaze the sweetbreads lightly and serve. No. 748. Bis d'Agneau aux concovibres. Lard, cook, and dress ten sweetbreads as before, and serve a sauce aux concombres (No. 103) in the centre; they may also be served with a sauce a la jardiniere (No. 100), pointes d'asperges (No. 101), sauce tomate (No. 37), &c. No. 749. Bis d'Agneau a la Madone. Blanch ten nice sweetbreads, trim them well, cut a deep incision in the centre of each, in which stick a very fine cockscomb (No. 128); surround each sweetbread with a slice of fat bacon, place them in a stewpan and braise as before, but they must be kept quite white, braise half an hoiu*, take off the bacon and dress them upon a border of forcemeat as the last, the cockscombs vsdll be quite firm, then have ready the following sauce: peel and mince the half of a very small cucmnber and put it in a stewpan with a chopped eschalot and a pat of butter, let them go gently over the fire, stirring occasionally, until it has become quite a puree, add a quarter of a pound of the flesh of a cooked fowl well pounded in a mortar, season with a little salt and315 ENTREES. pepper, boH all together five minutes, rub it through a tam- mie, put into a clean stewpan, and when boUing finish with a tablespoonful of whipped cream, sauce over and serve. The sauce must not be too thick. For atelettes de ris d'agneau, see atelettes de ris de veau (No. 682), and proceed in the same manner. No. 750. 'Epigramme d'Jgneau aux haricots verts. Procure the ribs of a lamb, saw off the breast as large as possible, leaving the bones of the neck long enough to cut cotelettes, braise and press as dii'ected for breast of mutton (No. 487); the day before you want to use it, cut seven nice cotelettes from the neck, then cut seven pieces from the breast, rather small, and the shape of hearts, egg and bread-crumb the cotelettes, which also fry in the same saute-pan, the whole of them to be of a nice light-brown colour, make a border of mashed potatoes upon your dish, on which dress the cotelettes upon one side and the pieces of breast on the other, have one hundred French beans cut iu diamonds and boiled very green, drain them quite dry on a sieve, put them into a stewpan with a quarter of a pound of fresh butter, a little pepper, salt, a teaspoonful of sugai', and the juice of a lemon; set over the fbe till very hot, dress them in the centre, glaze the cotelettes and breast hghtly, pour nearly half a pint of thin white sauce round and serve very hot. No. 751. Epigramme d'Agneau aux petits pois. Proceed vdth the breast and cotelettes exactly as in the last, using peas instead of French beans, and omitting the lemon-juice; or they may be served with the petits pois a la Franfaise (No. 84), or petits pois au lard (No. 85); ex- perience has taught me that the above is not only the most simple method, but the peas eat much nicer than in either316 ENTREES. of the other ways; the peas must be young and perfectly fresh, if the reverse stew them by all means. No. 752. Epigramme d'Agneau auw concombres. Proceed exactly as before, using a sauce aux concombres (No. 103) instead of the other vegetables. No. 753. Mpigramme d'Agneau a VAncienne. Prepare your cotelettes and breast as before, but dress them alternately on the dish; you have previously roasted a shoulder of lamb, when cold cut half a pound of the best part out, which cut into slices the size of half-a-crown, cut also ten fine heads of blanched mushrooms in tAvo shces and put them into a stewpan with the lamb; in another stewpan put a pint of white sauce (No. 7), six spoonfuls of white stock, with four of boiled milk and a bunch of parsley, reduce to a proper thickness, pass it through a tammie over the lamb and mushrooms, place over the fire to boil, season lightly with a little pepper, salt, sugar, and the juice of half a lemon; let simmer a few minutes, add a liaison of one yolk of egg mixed with half a gill of cream, move the stew- pan gently over the fire till the sauce thickens, pom- the sauce in the centre, glaze the cotelettes and serve. Although this way of serving an epigramme is good, yet I give the preference to the other, for the lamb coming in season with the vegetables they look so much more inviting; the epigramme a I'ancienne I consider fitter for a winter dish. No. 754. Cotelettes d'Agneau auwpetits pais. Lamb cotelettes require great attention, both in cutting, bread-crumbing, and frying. Cut twelve cotelettes of the same size and shape as represented in the engraving, lay them upon a dish, season hghtly vdth white pepper and salt, put three yolks of eggs upon another plate, which mixENTREES. with a tablespoonful of cream, rub each cotelette in it and afterwards into very fine bread-crumbs, beat them hghtly with yoiu- knife, keeping them in their shapes, have a quar- ter of a pound of butter in a small stewpan, let it boil at the corner of the stove, skimming ituntH perfectly clarified, then pom- it into a thick flat-bottomed saute-pan over a brisk fire, lay in the cotelettes (turning them two or three times, which wiU cause them to be a fight brown colora); fry very crisp, not doing them too much ; if properly done they will be very full of gravy; to ascertain when done press them Hghtly with the point of your knife; if beginning to feel a little firm they are done; take them out, glaze very hghtly, dress them in your dish upon a border of mashed potatoes the reverse way, the bones pointing outwards, and serve the peas dressed as for epigramme (No. 750) in the centre. My object in using mashed potatoes is to keep the cotelettes in their places in being carried to table. Why I recommend a thick-bottomed saute-pan is that the thin ones by the action of the fire frequently rise in the centre, which would cause the cotelettes to bm'n and completely spoil this dehcate entree. No. 755. Cotelettes d'Agneau auxpointes d'asperges. Prepare and dress twelve lamb cotelettes as above, and serve with the garniture aux pointes d'asperges. No. 756. Cotelettes d'Agneau aux haricots verts. Prepare and dress the cotelettes as before, and serve with' the garniture aux haricots vert. No. 757. Cotelettes d'Agneau aux racines glacees. Prepare your cotelettes as above, dress them on a small border of mashed potatoes, then have ready the young vegetables and sauce as directed for grenadins de veau aux318 ENTREES. racines nouveUes (No. 692), dress the vegetables in pyramid 111 the centre, sauce round, glaze hghtly and serve. In a large dinner vrhere you are obliged to cook your cotelettes some time before serving, put them into a saute- pan, half cover them with thin glaze, and keep hot till wanted. This remark appHes to every description of cote- lettes. No. 758. Cotelettes d'Agneau aux jeunes oignons. Prepare and dress twelve lamb cotelettes as before; have ready the following sauce : peel fifty spring onions nearly as large as marbles, put half a teaspoonful of sugar into a stewpan, place it over the fire and when melted add two pats of butter and your onions, pass over a slow fire twenty minutes or till tender, tossing them occasionally, then add fifteen spoonfuls of white sauce (No. 7), with eight of white stock and a small bunch of parsley, simmer at the corner of the fiire a few minutes, skim well, take out the parsley, make a liaison of one yolk of an egg mixed with two tablespoon- fuls of cream, stir in quickly, stir another minute over the fire to thicken, sauce in the middle of the cotelettes, which glaze and serve ; should the onions be too much done take them out with a colander spoon, place them in a clean stewpan, reduce the sauce and pass it through a tammis over them. No. 759. Cotelettes d'Agneau a la Palestine. Proceed exactly as for cotelettes de mouton (No. 710), but scooping the artichokes a size smaller. No. 760. Cotelettes d'Agneau a la Vicomtesse. Proceed as for cotelettes de mouton a la vicomtesse (No. 699).319 ENTREES. No. 761, Cotelettes d'Agneau a la puree de truffes. Prepare twelve lamb cotelettes as usual, and have ready the Mowing puree: put six large Trench truffles in a mor- tar and pound them very fine, then put a pint of demi- glace (No. 9) in a stewpan, with four spoonfuls of con- somme, reduce a few minutes, keeping it stured, add the pounded truffles and a httle sugar, simmer a couple of minutes, rub it through a tammie with a couple of wooden spoons, put it again into a stewpan to make hot, sauce mider the cotelettes, which glaze and serve. The French raw truffles are the best, but if you cannot obtain them use the preserved, or raw EngHsh truffles if most handy, but choose the blackest you can get. No. 762. Cotelettes d'Agneau a la puree de champignons. Prepare twelve cotelettes as usual, which glaze and serve with a sauce a la puree de champignons (No. 64) under them. No. 768. Cotelettes d'Agneau a la puree d'artichauts. Prepare the cotelettes as usual, and have ready the fol- lowing puree : peel and shoe eight large Jerusalem arti- chokes, and one small onion, put the onion into a stewpan, with an ounce of butter, two ounces of raw ham, a sprig of thyme, ditto parsley, and one bay-leaf; stir over the fire five minutes, then add the artichokes, with a very little white stock, cover the stewpan and place it over a slow fire, stirring round occasionally; let them remain tiU quite tender, then add a tablespoonful of flour, mix well, and nearly a pint of white stock; boil altogether, keeping it stirred, rub it through a tammie, place it in another stew- pan, add a httle sugar, pepper, and salt, boil and skim well, finish with two tablespoonfuls of good cream, sauceENTREES. under the cotelettes, which glaze and serve; these purees require to be rather thick, yet not so thick as to eat pasty and disagreeable. Lamb cotelettes may also be served with a puree of cauli- No. 764. Cotelettes Agneau farcis ause truffes. Cut, lard, and braise twelve lamb cotelettes as described for mutton (No. 722), but they mil not require so long stewing, press them between two dishes until cold, trim them nicely, then make a puree of truffles as dii-ected rNo. 53), but thicker, take it off the fire whilst boihng, and stir m the yolks of two eggs very quickly, place it a moment on the fire to set, and pour on a dish to get cold, then take the cotelettes by the bones and surround them with the puree, spreading it over with a knife, egg and bread-crumb twice over, and put them in a wii-e basket; have four pounds of lard in a stewpan over the fire and very hot, put in the wire basket and cotelettes, fry of a nice fight-brown colour, dress them in crown on a border of mashed potatoes, and serve with a Httle clear demi-glace (No. 9) in the dish. No. 765. Cotelettes d'Agneau farcis aux champignons. Prepare your cotelettes as above, make a puree of mush- rooms as directed (No. 54), but thicker, and adding the two yolks of eggs as in the last, spread it over the cotelettes, bread-crumb, fry, and serve exactly as in the last. Lamb cotelettes farcis may also be made with puree of asparagus (No. 102), cauHflower (No. 97), artichokes (No. 90), or cucumbers (No. 105), by foUowing the above articles. For cotelettes d'agneau a la reform, Provengale, maitre d'hotel, Hollandaise, poivrade, piquante, or tomates, see cotelettes de mouton, with the same sauces, and proceed as there directed.ENTREES. 321 No. 766. Bkmqiiette d'Agneau. Roast a shoulder of lamb, and when cold cut the best part of it into thin slices about the size of half-crown-pieces, cut also about half the quantity of cooked ham or tongue into pieces of the same size as the lamb, put them together in a stewpan; you have previously boiled in another stew- pan a pint of good white sauce (No. 7), and half a pint of stock with a bunch of fresh parsley in it, which pass through a tammie over the meat, season with pepper, salt, and the juice of half a lemon, simmer gently, pour on a dish and serve; truffles or mushrooms may likewise be added, and it may be served in a croustade of bread, casserole of rice (No. 626), or vol-au-vent (No. 1140); if you have the remains of any joint of lamb it may be used for the above pm'pose. No. 767. Croquettes d'Agneau. Roast a shoulder of lamb and when cold cut it up in very small dice with one fom'th the quantity of cooked ham or tongue; put a tablespoonful of chopped onions into a stewpan, with an ounce of butter, pass it over a fire till the onion becomes yellowish, then add a Httle flour, mix well, put in your mince, with about a pint of white sauce (No. 7), season with a httle pepper, salt, and sugar; boil all together five minutes, keeping it stirred, if too thick add a httle more sauce, then add two yoUcs of eggs, stir them in quickly over the fire for one minute, add the juice of a lemon, and pour it out on a dish to cool; when quite cold take twelve pieces of it rather larger than walnuts, roU them about two inches in length, egg and bread-crumb twice over and fry in very hot lard; dress them on your dish in crown upon a small border of mashed potatoes, and serve with some of the blanquette d'agneau above, in the centre. 21322 ENTREES. ENTREES OF PORK. Very few entrees are made of pork, the cotelettes being the principal; they require a sharp high-seasoned sauce; the small pork only can be used. No. 768. Cotelettes de Pore a VIndienne. Cut twelve cotelettes from a neck of pork, similar to the manner du-ected for mutton cotelettes, only you will be able to cut four cotelettes without bones, by cutting a cote- lette from between the rib-bones, as they requke little or no beating, you cut them from the neck of the same tliick- ness you require your cotelettes, egg and bread-crumb and fry them a nice colour in clarified butter; they require to be well done, for underdone pork is very unwholesome; dress in a crown upon a border of mashed potatoes, and serve with a sauce a Flndienne (No. 45) under them; if for a dinner of any importance omit the cotelettes without bones, using two necks to obtain the quantity. No. 769. Cotelettes de Pore sauce remoulade. Prepare and dress the cotelettes as above, and proceed as for the mutton cotelettes, sauce remoulade (No. 717). Pork cotelettes are also served with theu" original sauce Robert (No. 28), sauce piquante (No. 27), au jus d'echa- lotte (No. 16), or poivrade (No. 33) over, and with a sauce tomate (No. 37) beneath them; the cotelettes requu'e glaz- ing, especially where the sauce is served under them. No. 770. Cotelettes de Pore a la Siamoise. Prepare twelve cotelettes as before, dress them on your dish, and have ready the following sauce : peel forty buttonENTREES. 323 onions, then put half a teaspoonful of sugar in a stewpan, and place it over the fire; when melted and beginning to brown, add two ounces of butter and the onions; keep tossing them over the fire until they get rather brown, add a pint of brown sauce (No. 1), and half the quantity of consomme; let boil on the corner of the stove till the onions are done, keeping it well skimmed, the onions must be tender but not broke, take them out carefully vdth a colander spoon and place them in a clean stewpan ; reduce the sauce till it adheres to the back of the spoon, add a tablespoonful of French mustard, and pass it through a tammie over the onions; have also twenty little balls the size of marbles, cut from some gherkins, which put in the sauce, warm altogether, but do not boil, dress the onions and gherkins in the centre, sauce over and serve. No. 771. Cotelettes de Pore a la Bolognaise. Prepare twelve cotelettes as before, but mixing some grated Parmesan cheese with the bread-crumbs, and frying them in oil; then cut eighty pieces of blanched macaroni (No. 130), about three quarters of an inch long, with twenty pieces of cooked ham or tongue, and twenty mush- rooms the same size as the macaroni; put them into a stewpan, with two spoonfuls of tomata sauce (No. 37), and a piece of glaze the size of a walnut; place over the fire and when quite hot add two ounces of grated Parmesan, and two of grated Gruyere cheese, mix weU together by shaking the stewpan round, season with a little salt, pepper, and cayenne, if approved of, and pom in the centre of you^ cotelettes, which glaze and serve with nearly half a pint of demi-glace (No. 9) poured round and over the garnitm^e. No. 772. Cotelettes de Pore a la Jeune France. Prepare twelve cotelettes as before, but cook them rather334 ENTREES. underdone, have ready the preparation of onions as forcote- lettes a la Provenpale (No. 701), with a spoonful of French mustard added, cover the cotelettes all over with it about a quarter of an inch in thickness, egg, bread-crumb, and fold each one in a piece of pig's caul to keep its shape, put a little oil in the saute-pan, lay in the cotelettes, put it over the fue for two or three minutes, then in the oven to give them a good colour, if not sufficient colour pass the sala- mander over, take them out, lay upon a clean cloth to drain, dress in crown upon a border of mashed potatoes, and serve with a demi-glace (No. 9) round. No. 773. Filets de Fore a VHanoverienne. Procure four small fillets of pork from under the loins, take off all the skin and beat them flat, lard neatly with fine bacon as for a sweetbread, cover the bottom of stewpan vrith thin slices of bacon, two onions in slices and a little parsley, thyme, and bay-leaf, lay the fillets over, add about a pint of stock, stand it over the fire five minutes, then put it in the oven ; when done they wiU be quite tender, glaze and salamander a nice colour, place them on a clean cloth to drain, and cut each fillet in halves, dress upon a border of mashed potatoes in crown, have ready some very white stewed choucroute (No. 116), which dress in pyramid in the centre, put twelve spoonfuls of brown sauce in a stew- pan VTith four of consomme, a small piece of glaze, and a little powdered sugar, reduce tiU rather thick, sauce round and serve. Your choucroute must be very white. PiUets of pork may also be served with dressed spinach (No. 106), ditto endive (No. 119), sauce tomata (No. 37), Robert (No. 28), or Indienne (No. 45). No. 774. Escalopes de Fore a la Lyonnaise. Procure four fillets from the loin as in the last, but doENTREES. 325 not lard them, cut them into pieces the size and shape of a fillet of fowl, egg, bread-crumb, and fry in clarified butter, di-ess in crown on your dish, sauce over with a brown Sou- bise (No. 48), sprinkle bread-crumbs over, salamander and serve. Escalopes may also be served with any of the sauces as served with the cotelettes. No. 775. Langue de Pore clemi sale. Have three fillets of pork larded, and braise as (No. 773), and cut each fillet in halves to make six pieces, boil also three small pigs' tongues, spHt each one in half, skin and trim nicely, make a border of mashed potatoes on your dish, upon which dress the fillets and tongues alternately in crovra, glaze hghtly and serve with a sauce tomate (No. 37). Pigs' tongues may be dressed in the same manner as calves' or sheep, but they are not such dehcate eating. DOE VENISON, OR CHEVREUIL. The flesh of the doe or roebuck is a kind of black meat, and possesses a wild gamey taste ; it is seldom used vdthout being pickled in a marinade, and is sent to the table with a sharp and savomy sauce. No. 776. Cotelettes de Chevreuil a la Boheniienne. Cut twelve cotelettes from the necks, the same as you would mutton, but they will be rather larger,^ make two quarts of the marinade as for filet de bceuf a la Bohe- mienne (No. 426), and lay in the cotelettes, let them re- main four days; when ready for use take them out, dry326 ENTREES. upon a cloth, season with a Httle pepper and salt, clip in flonr, egg and bread-crumb afterwards, dip them in cla- rified butter, and again in the bread-crumbs, beat them lightly with a knife, place them on a gridiron, broil nicely, dress them in crown, and have ready the following sauce : put six tablespoonfuls of the marinade in a stewpan, with a piece of glaze the size of a walnut, reduce it a little, then add twelve spoonfuls of brovra sauce (No. 1) and six of con- somme, reduce again until it adheres to the back of the spoon, season a httle high, add half a tablespoonful of cur- rant jelly, sauce round and serve. Garnitm-e as for cote- lettes de mutton may be introduced. No. 777. Cotelettes de Chevreuil saute sauce poivrade. Having cut twelve cotelettes, season with pepper and salt, put a quarter of a pound of butter in a saute-pan, melt it and lay in the cotelettes, put them over a sharp fu'e and when partly done turn, keeping them underdone; take all the butter away without disturbing the cotelettes, then pour a pint of thin poivrade sauce (No. 32) and half a pint of consomme over, let them simmer about ten minutes till the meat has taken the flavom- of the sauce, dress the cote- lettes as before, reduce the sauce till it adheres to the spoon, add twenty pickled mushrooms, sauce over and serve. No. 778. Minced Chevreuil. With the remains of a haunch or any other part from a previous dinner, take the meat and cut it up in veiy thin slices, have ready boiling on the fire about a pint of sauce piquante (No. 27), throw in the meat, but do not let it boil; after the meat is in, season rather high, and finish with a spoon- ful of cm-rant jelly, it requires to be rather thick, tm-n it out on your dish and garnish round with triangular scippets of bread fried in butter, serve immediately.327 ENTREES. No. 779. Of the Wild Boar. The principal and most recherche part of this ferocious animal is the head, which is eaten cold, stuffed the German fashion; it is, however, a second course dish, and wiU be given in that series. The cotelettes are dressed exactly as the chevreuil, it may also be minced, but as it is seldom or ever eaten in this country, I shall content myself with these few remarks (see Boar's Head, No. 984). No. 780. Of Venison for jEntrees. The haunches and necks are usually roasted, its high price would prevent its being cut up for entrees, as that would only be spoihng a noble dish to make a small one, and then would not be so dehcious as the joint nicely roasted, but in large families in the country, where venison is very plentiful, the receipts for a few entrees may be very accept- able. No. 781. Cotelettes de Venaison en demi-glace. A neck of venison requires to be hung a fortnight or tliree weeks before it is ready; cut the cotelettes as de- scribed for mutton, but of course they will be larger, and you must leave as much of the fat as possible, and be care- ful in beating it flat not to detach the fat from the lean, as the fat is so delicate ; put two ounces of butter in a saute-pan to melt, lay the cotelettes over and place them on a brisk fire, when hatf done turn them, fry them a good colour, (they are done when they feel firm to the touch,) lay upon a cloth, dress in crown on a small border of mashed po- tatoes, and place them in the oven to keep hot, pour off the fat from the saute-pan, and put in a glass of port wine, let reduce a little, then add a pint of demi-glace (No. 9) and four spoonfuls of consomme, reduce till it adheres to the328 ENTREES. spoon, add a little sugar and a pat of butter, mix well, and sauce over the cotelettes, which serve as hot as possible. No. 782. Cotelettes de Venaison aux olives. Proceed exactly as above, but just before pouring the sauce over add about twenty stoned olives, dress them in the centre, sauce over and serve; truffles or mushrooms may likevnse be introduced. No. 783. Cotelettes de Venaison aujus de groseilles. Saute and dress your cotelettes as above, then put a pint of thin sauce poivrade (No. 32) in the saute-pan with a little consomme, reduce till thickish, skim a Httle, add a spoonful of currant jelly, sauce over and serve. No. 784. Hashed Venison. The remains of a haunch of venison when cold is much thought of as hash, under which humble name it makes its appearance amongst the most sumptuous dishes, and is a great favourite with epicures, but if no fat remains do not attempt to dress it; but a good haunch well-carved vsdll supply sufficient fat to hash the remainder. Put a quart of good brown sauce (No. 1) in a stewpan wi\k a pint of consomme (No. 134), a piece of glaze, and a good bunch of parsley, let reduce to a good demi-glace, skim, then have as much venison as you require cut in thin shces, the fat thicker than the lean, put it into the sauce, season with pepper and salt, put it over a sharp fire to get hot as quick as possible, but do not let it boil or it would get hard and become very greasy, serve as hot as possible, with red currant jelly separate, make only sufficient for one entree.ENTREES. 829 No. 785. Venison Pie. May also be made from the remains of a hamich in a common pie-dish or sHver soufHee-dish; put some thin sHces of venison at the bottom of the dish, season with pepper, salt, and little chopped eschalot, then a layer of fat, pro- ceeding alternately tiU the dish is full, building it up to form a dome and give the pie a good appearance, put in a piece of glaze the size of a walnut, a few spoonfuls of gravy, and four of brown sauce, cover with puff-paste (No. 1132), make a hole in the top, egg over, and bake in a hot oven; when done pour about six spoonfuls of demi-glace (No. 9) into it with a funnel, shake it about a httle and serve very hot. Should you require to make a pie with raw venison pass it a few minutes in butter in a saute-pan upon the stove. ENTREES OP POULTRY. No. 786. 'Estomacs de Binde a la Turenne. Many entrees may be made of turkey, but it is usually served as a remove, being too large, and consequently too expensive to cut up ; but several entrees may be made from the remains of one previously served, for the following choose very young small turkeys : Have a young turkey weU plucked and drawn, with a sharp knife cut off the whole of the breast, leaving nothing but the legs and backbone, then carefully skin and bone the breast without separating the fillets, it wUl then be in the form of a heart; lard one of the fillets as you would a sweetbread, and cover the other with a slice of fat bacon, put three onions, one caiTot, and one tiunip, in slices, into a convenient-sized330 ENTREES. stewpan, with a little parsley, thyme, and two bay-leaves cover them with half a pint of stock, lay the breast over and start It to boil over the fire, then place it in a moderate oven till tender, glaze and salamander the larded fillet a hght yeUow colom-, but keep the other white, drain upon a clean cloth, and serve with a sauce a la puree de truffes (No. 53) under them. No. 787. Estomac de Binde a la Jetme Comtesse. Prepare the breast as above, only larding and glazing both fillets; you have previously roasted the legs tied up in vegetables, take ofi" all the flesh, which pound weU in a mortar and pass through a wire sieve, then put a spoonful of chopped eschalots in a stewpan with two pats of butter, place it over the fire a few minutes till the eschalots become a little yellow, then add a quarter of a tablespoonful of flour (mix well,) and the puree of turkey, which cover with half a pint of white sauce (No. 7) and six spoonfuls of white broth, stir over the fire until boihng, season with a little sugar, pepper, and salt, and pass it through a tammie with a couple of wooden spoons, put it in a clean stewpan, boil a few minutes, then add two tablespoonfuls of cream and a pat of butter, which stir in quickly, pour it in yom- dish, dress the breast over and serve. The above piu-ee requu-es to be rather thick, but at the same time dehcate, if there is more than you require, reserve some of it, as too much sauce would spoil the look of the entree. No. 788. Escalopes de Binde en hlanquette. Take out the two fillets of a turkey, and take ofi" all the skin, then beat ihem to the thickness of a five-shilKng-piece, and from each, fillet cut five escalopes in a slanting dhec- tion, put two ounces of fresh butter in a saute-pan, place it over the fire, and when melted lay in the escalopes, seasonENTREES. '^'^^ Hghtly with a little white pepper, salt, and the juice of half alemon, place them on a slow fire, turn them, pour off all the butter from the saute-pan, and cover with fifteen spoon- fuls of white sauce (No. 7) and fom- of milk, place over the fire, let it simmer a few minutes, take it off and stu- in quickly a haison of two yollcs of eggs mixed with three spoonfuls of cream, stu- over the fire another half minute, but do not let it boil, dress them garnished with croutons on your dish and serve; a few mushrooms and slices of cooked tongue might also be introduced. No. 789. Escalojpes de Dinde a la Belle Fermiere. Fillet a turkey as before, and cut each escalope into an oval shape, season with a httle salt and pepper, egg and bread-crumb, fiy a hght brown colom' in clarified butter, di-ess them on a border of mashed potatoes in crown, with a large dressed cockscomb (No. 128) between each, sauce in the middle and round as for estomac de dinde (No. 787), and serve very hot. No, 790. Emincee de Dinde a VItalienne Is made with the remains of a tm-key from a previous dinner, cut large shces from the breast-part, as much as you may require, and put them into a stewpan with six gherkins cut in long shces, have ready a pint of good sauce Italienne (No. 31), and when boihng pour it over; warm them gently, bu.t do not let them boil, and serve in a dish with very smaU croquettes de pommes de terre (No. 131) round. No. 791. Blanquette de Dinde au Janibon. Cut up the remains of a tm-key as above, and put it in a stewpan, with a quarter of a pound of lean ham (cooked) also m shces, in another stewpan, have a pmt of white;ENTREES. sauce (No. 7) and half a pint of white stock, which boil with a few trimmings of mushrooms, then pass it through a tammie over the sHces of turkey, place it on the fire, let simmer a few minutes, season with a little sugar and salt, add the juice of half a lemon, and finish with a Haison of two yolks of eggs, mixed with three tablespoonfuls of cream, serve plain in your dish, or in a vol-au-vent or casserole of rice (No. 626). Croquettes, rissolettes, and boudins are made with the remains of turkey, in the same manner as described for fowls (No. 840). No. 792. Filets de Foulardes a VAmhassadrice. Poulardes being smaller than capons, are better adapted for entrees, but both are dressed in the same manner. Have previously roasted in vegetables and quite white two small poulardes ; when cold, with a sharp knife cut out the fillets, which again cut into two equal shoes, beat them shghtly with the blade of a strong knife, then have ready half a pound of delicate forcemeat of fowl (No. 122), with which put a couple of finely chopped truffles, cover each piece of fillet the eighth of an inch thick, and all over, then have chopped finely two more truffles, the same quantity of lean ham, mix the same quantity of bread-crumbs with each, egg the fiUets over, then dip them into the chopped ham and truffles, four into each, and saute them in clarified butter very gently, turn them when half done, and when done dress them in crovra upon your dish; have ready a thin sauce a la pm^ee de concombres (No. 105), to which when boiling add twelve fine cockscombs (No. 128) and a Httle cream, sauce in the middle, and serve. No. 793. Filets de Poularde a la Marie Stuart. FiUet a poularde by splitting the sldn up the breast, andENTREES. passing youi' knife down the bone, keeping close to the ribs until you have scooped them out, then lay them flat on a board, and with a thin knife take off the inner skm, leaving the upper one untouched; then cut off the legs, with as much skin as possible attached, bone them, and prepare the following stuffing: scrape half an ounce of fat bacon, and put it in a stewpan, with four cloves, a blade of mace, six peppercorns and a bay-leaf, pass them over the fire five minutes, stirring with a wooden spoon, take out the spice and bay-leaf, add six large truffles cut in thin slices, pass them three minutes over the fue, then add twelve spoonfuls of white sauce (No. 7), boil altogether ten minutes, keeping it stirred, season with a little salt, pepper, sugar, and a Httle nutmeg; take it off the fii-e, and stir in the yolk of an egg very quickly; when cold stuff the legs, braise, and give them the form of little ducks (No. 1024), then stuff the fillets with the best slices of truffles under the skin, and put them in a saute-pan, with haff a pound of butter, season with a httle pepper, salt, and lemon-juice, saute them very white over a slow fire, then make a little pyramid of mashed potatoes in the middle of your dish, lay the two ffllets almost upright against it, opposite to each other, and the two legs on the other sides, surmount them with a very nice, white, dressed calf's ear (No. 665) cut as a frill, with a plover's egg (shelled) placed ki the centre, make a good stock with the bones of the poularde (see No. 6), skim off aU the fat, and reduce it very nearly to a glaze, then add six spoonfuls of white sauce (No. 7) and half a gill of cream; boil altogether a minute, sauce over, and serve. The entree will stand best upon a pyramid of mashed potatoes, but a pyramid of forcemeat blanched in stock may be used. No. 794. Filets de Poulardes a la Talma. Fillet two poulardes as described in the last, then take334 ENTJIEES. off the filet mignon, or small fillet, from the under part of each, lard the large fillet neatly as you would a sweetbread, and braise them as described for the estomac de dinde (No. 786), then have twelve French beans boiled nice and green, cut pieces from them in half circles, beat the small fillets gently, make incisions in them, in which stick the pieces of French beans, saute them in a saute-pan, keeping them quite white, then have ready some spinach dressed (No. 106) rather stiff, make a pyramid of it in the centre of the dish, dress the fillets almost perpendicular against it, with the smaller fillets between, the pomts uppermost, and on the top place a quenelle de volaiUe (No. 122), in which you have stuck a fine cockscomb, pass the braise in which you dressed the fillets through a sieve, skim off all the fat, and place it in a stewpan, with ten spoonfuls of brown sauce, and reduce it till it adheres to the back of the spoon, add a little sugar, sauce over, glaze your fillets and serve. No. 795. Filets de Poularde a la Busse. Prepare a little rice as for a casserole de riz (No. 626), with which form a smaU pyramid to stand in the centre of yom- dish, egg over and stand it in the oven to set, then cut a piece off the top, and empty a space large enough to hold a quarter of a pint; at the top of the pyramid there requires a space the size of half-a-crown, after you have emptied it put the top on again, and keep it hot; then fiUet two poulardes as above, take off the small fillets, which form into rings by bringing the two ends together, butter a saute-pan, in which lay the fillets, with the rings, season with a little white pepper, salt, and lemon-juice; place them over the fire, when half done turn them, but keep them quite white, have also previously boiled a Russian tongue, from the thick part cut four pieces the size and shape of the fillets of fowl, but not quite so thick, place the rice in335 ENTREES. tlie centre of your dish, and di-ess the fillet of poulardes and pieces of tongue, (which you have made hot in a little white stock,) alternately round it, put twenty stewed mush- rooms in the rice croustade, and have ready the following sauce : put a pint of white sauce (No. 7) in the saute-pan, with the broth you warmed the tongue in and six spoonfuls of veal stock; boil altogether ten minutes, pass it through a tammie into a stewpan, boil again till it becomes^ rather tliick, then add a little sugar and a gill of cream, sauce over the mushrooms till the croustade is full, then over the fillets, glaze the tongue, place the rings on the top of the pyramid, pom' the remainder of the sauce round and serve; the person that carves should be acquainted that the crous- tade of rice contains mushrooms, that he might carve the croustade and serve vdth the entree. No. 796. Filet de Poularde a la Pierre le Grand. Fillet two poulardes as in the last, and when about tlu-ee parts cooked lay them on a cloth, and with a thin sharp knife divide each fillet into two; have previously boiled a Russian tongue as m the last, cut also four pieces from the thick part, and pound the remaining tender part very fine ; rub it through a wire sieve, then put a tablespoonful of chopped eschalots in a stewpan, vdth a small piece of butter, stir over the fire a few minutes, add a teaspoonful of flour, mix well, and a pint of white sauce (No. 7), reduce it a little, then add the pounded tongue and two yolks of eggs, stir them in quickly, and season a Httle more if required, stir over the fire a short time longer, till the eggs begin to set, then with a fork dip in each fillet, let them be well covered, and lay them on a dish to get cold, when egg and bread-cnunb them twice over, and fry a good colom- in foiu' pounds of very hot lard, warm the fom- pieces of tongue in a little stock, make a border of mashed potatoes on yourENTREliS. 330 dish, dress the fillets in crown with the pieces of tongue interspersed; you have previously made a stock with the bones of the poulardes (No. 6), which reduce to a thin glaze, add a teaspoonful of tarragon vinegar, and sauce round; fiy two bunches of watercresses very crisp, sprinkle a httle salt over, dress them in the middle and serve very hot. No. 797. Mlets de Poularde a la Dumas. Fillet two poulardes and divide the fillets as in the last; when three parts cooked have ready the following puree: peel and cut in thin sHces a very fresh cucumber, which put in a stewpan, with a spoonful of chopped eschalots and thi-ee pats of butter, pass gently over a slow fire twenty minutes, keeping them stirred, then add half a tablespoonful of flom- and a pint of white sauce (No. 7); season with a little sugar and salt, rub it through a tammie, previously boihng five minutes, put it into another stewpan, with two yolks of eggs, stir quickly over the fire till the yolk sets, then dip in the fillets and proceed as in the last, dress the same and serve with a puree of cucumbers (No. 105), in which you have put three spoonfuls of cream. These entrees should be served immediately or they become soft. Poulardes and capons may also be served in escalopes or blanquettes, as directed for the tm'key (Nos. 788~and 789), especially any fillets that may be left neither larded or fi'ied. No. 798. Blanc de Poularde auoa concombres. Roast a large poularde in vegetables (see No. 417), and when cold cut the breast out carefully, and afterwards into thin slices, make a stock with the bones as directed (No. 6), then peel two cucumbers, which cut into pieces two inches in length, spht each piece into four and take out the seeds if any, trim them at the corners and put them into a stew- pan, with a spoonful of chopped eschalots and two pats ofENTREES. 337 butter place them over a slow fire tossing them occasion- ally • wlien a little tender pour off the butter and place m the pieces of poularde, then put the stock from the bones m a stewpan, not more than a pint, and reduce it to half, add a pint of white sauce (No. 7) and a little sugar, reduce till it adheres to the back of the spoon, then take it off the fire, and sth in a liaison of two yoUts of eggs mixed with half a gill of cream, pass it through a tammie over the pieces of poularde and cucumbers, and stand in the bain marie to get hot, serve plain in a deep entree dish. This dish is much thought of by great epicures, the eyes are certamly not treated, but the palate is dehghted. The same description of entree may be made the next day from the-legs. No. 799. Classes de Poulardes a la Talleyrand (ie Ferigord. Bone the legs of two poulardes, leaving as much skin as possible on them, then stuff and braise them as directed for poularde a la Marie Stuart (No. 538), only place shoes of truffles between the flesh and the skin, then poach a square piece of forcemeat (No. 120) three inches high, and smaller at the top than the bottom; when cold place it on a cloth and cut it in the shape of a pyramid according to the size of your dish, make it hot in some stock, take it out care- fully and fix it in the centre of your dish upon a piece of mashed potato, then take up the legs, draw out the thread and place them on a cloth to drain; have four very small silver skewers, or atelettes, place a nice truffle warmed in stock on each, dress a leg upon each side of the pyramid upon a piece of mashed potato, perpendicular, and run an atelette through each at the top, fixing it to the forcemeat, they being nearly upright; then have ready the following sauce: chop four small truffles and put them in a stewpan, with haff a glass of Madeira wine, reduce a minute, then 22338 ENTREES. add the stock the legs were braised in (having previously passed It through a cloth and taken off the Avhole of the fat) and twelve spoonfuls of brown sauce (No. 1); reduce till it adheres to the back of the spoon, add a little sugar, sauce over and serve. To simplify the above they may be cooked as described, and dressed plain on the dish with the sauce over. No. 800. Cuisses de JPoulardes au Meil. Bone the legs of two poulardes, leaving as much skin on as possible, season them with a httle pepper and salt inside, then have ready a quarter of a pound of forcemeat (No. 120)i chop two ounces of lean cooked ham, mix it with the force- meat, stuff the legs with it, sew them up vdth a piece of packthread, then hold them a quarter of a minute over a charcoal fire to make the skm firm, have some bacon cut very fine, and with it lard a circle very neatly (forming rays), upon the top of each, braise them as directed (No. 793), have also ready a pyramid of forcemeat as in the last, when the legs are done prick a hole in the centre of the larded circle, in which place a piece of truffle to resemble a clove but six times the size of one, prepare four little silver atelettes or skewers with a dressed cockscomb upon each, dish the legs precisely as in the last, and serve with a puree of mush- rooms (No. 54) round. This may also be simplified by serving the legs plain in the dish with the pm-ee under. No. 801. Cuisses de Poulardes a VEcaillere. Bone and season fom- legs as above, have ready a quarter of a pound of forcemeat (No. 120), with which mix ten well blanched oysters cut in quarters, and the yolk of an egg, stuff the legs, sew them with packtln-ead, and braise them as before; prepare also a pyramid of forcemeat as be- fore, have fom' little atelettes and place a craw-fish (No. 380)339 ENTREES. upon each, dress the legs with the atelettes as before, and have ready the following sauce : put a pint of white sauce (No. 7) in a stewpan, with six spoonfuls of oyster hquor; reduce it to a proper thickness, add half a gill of cream, mix well, and pass it through a tammie into another stewpan, into which put two dozen blanched oysters, season with a httle cayenne pepper; warm altogether, sauce over and serve. No. 802. Cuisses de Poulardes farcis auxpetits legumes. Bone and season four legs as before, stuff them vsdth a quarter of a pound of forcemeat (No. 120), and braise them as before, make a pyramid of mashed potatoes in the centre of your dish and dress a leg on each side; you have pre- viously turned twenty young carrots and twenty young turnips in the shape of small pears, and stewed with suffi- cient stock to cover them, in which you put half a tea- spoonful of sugar; when tender dry them on a cloth, and stick them alternately in the potatoes above and around the legs very tastefully; then put a pint of brown sauce (No. 1) with the stock you stewed your vegetables in, add a bunch of parsley and half a bay-leaf, with six spoonfuls of con- somme ; reduce till it adheres to the back of the spoon, take out the parsley and bay-leaf, add a pat of butter, sauce over and serve. No. 808. Cuisses de Poulardes en fricassee a Vhoteliere. Bone, stuff, and braise as before fom- legs of poulardes, make a pyramid of mashed potatoes in the centre of your dish, draw out the packthread, drain the legs on a cloth, dress them romid, place a fine craw-fish on the top, and have ready the foUowing sauce: peel fifty small button onions and put them in a stewpan, with a pint of white sauce and half a pint of white stock, add a small bunch of^^'^ ENTREES. parsley and half a bay-leaf; let simmer till the onions are tender keeping it skimmed, then take out the parsley and bay-leaf and with a colander spoon take out all the onions which deposit in another stewpan, reduce the sauce till il adheres to the back of the spoon, season with a little salt sugar, and lemon-juice, and finish withahaison of one volk of egg mixed with two tablespoonfuls of cream, pass it through a tammie over the onions, warm altogether without letting it boil, sauce over and serve. No. 804. Cuisses de Poulardes a la Bayonnaise. Procure four legs of poulardes and take out the thigh- bone, leaving the one in the leg, but cut off above the knuckle; then put four spoonfuls of salad oil in a stewpan, season the legs with a Httle pepper and salt, and lay them in, place the stewpan over a slow fire, cover it, and let them remain till they get a yellowish colour, turn, and when three parts done add thirty button onions cut in rings, set it over a sharp fire to give a tinge to the onions, pour off as much oil as possible, add a pint of white sauce (No. 7), and half the quantity of white stock, let simmer until it becomes rather thick, then take out the legs, which dress flat on your dish; season the sauce a little more if required, add the yolks of two eggs, stir them in quickly, sauce over, sprinkle bread-crumbs upon them, place a small piece of butter on each leg, place them in the oven a quarter of an hour, salamander a light brown and serve. No. 805. Entrees of Spring Chickens, Pullets, Fowls, etc. The number of entrees which mav be made of this kind of poultry is immense, but to abbreviate and avoid repetition I have classified the three sorts together, so that the follow- ing entrees may be made from either of the three sorts, but for many entrees the spring chickens are preferable; theENTREES. 341 puUets are generally most, used, especially for fillets, for if the fillets are very small the least neglect would make them very dry and uneatable, two large fillets are again awkward, however tender, there being too much for one and not enough for two ; but I have made this observation merely to state that the same entrees may be made from either where you happen to have them in the house. No. 806. Filets de Volaille a la Sevigne. Take two nice plump pullets, fillet them as directed for the poularde (No. 792), detach the filet mignon, or small fillet, from each, lay the fillets on a board, dip your cote- lette-bat in water, beat one of the small fillets flat, then another and lay on the top of it, thus making two large fillets of the four small, then with a thin knife detach the skin from the large oneSj melt two ounces of butter in a saute-pan, lay in the fillets, which season lightly with white pepper, salt, and juice of a lemon; stand it by till ready, then make some forcemeat with the legs as directed (No. 122), from which make six flat long queneUes with two tablespoons, and poach them in a Httle stock, place the fillets over the fire, turning them when half done, but keeping them quite v;hite, (the two small fillets wiU be done before the others,) be sure and not do them too much, they are done as soon as they feel firm to the touch; then make a small border of mashed potatoes on your dish, dress the fillets haK way round and the que- nelles the other, making them stand as high as possible, sauce over vdth a thin puree of cucumbers (No. 105); have ready a handful of green peas nicely boiled, which sprinkle over and serve. No. 807. Filets de Volaille a la Neva. Fillet and dress two fowls as above, likewise make theENTREES. 342 forcemeat and six quenelles with the legs, when the que- nelles are partly cold dip them in a basin containing two eggs well beaten, take them out with a fork, and sprinkle some chopped boiled Russian tongue over, place them in an entree-dish, cover and put them in a hot closet for an hour, cook the fillets as before ; make a small border of mashed potatoes on your dish, dress the fillets and quenelles alter- nately to form a crown, and have ready prepared the follow- ing sauce: break up all the bones of the fowls and put into a stewpan with a glass of Madeira wine, an onion in shces, one bay-leaf, two cloves, a httle carrot and celery, place it over the fire two minutes, then cover the bones with two quarts of white stock, and let them simmer gently one hour, skim weU and pass it through a cloth into another stewpan, add six spoonfuls of good brown sauce (No. 1) and reduce it to a clear demi-glace, then add ten heads of white mush- rooms and ten pieces of boiled Russian tongue cut the size of half-crown-pieces, place the garniture in the centre, sauce over and serve; if you cannot obtain the Russian tongue for any of the above purposes, the EngHsh pickled tongue may be used instead. No. 808. Filets de Volcdlle saute au Supreme. Fillet three fowls as before, making nine fiUets fi'om the three, saute the same, dress them in crown on a border of mashed potatoes, sauce over with a sauce supreme (No. 57) and serve; should you reqmre a larger entree use fom- fowls instead of three. No. 809. Filets de Volaille auw truffes. Fillet three fowls as before, saute the same, then have a pint of the sauce supreme (No. 57) in a stewpan, boil the sauce, and when boiling throw in four preserved truffles in shces, add a tablespoonful of tliick cream, sauce over and serve.ENTREES. 343 No. SIO. Filets de Volaille auos truffcs a la Bechamel. Proceed with the fiUets as before, put fifteen spoonfuls of sauce bechamel (No. 7) in a stewpan, with eight of white stock, reduce till rather thick, then add four truffles in shces,' with a httle salt and sugar, when again boiling add two tablespoonfuls of good thick cream, sauce over and serve. No. 811. Filets de Volaille aux champignons. Prepare the fillets of three fowls as before, saute and di-ess them as usual; wash and turn half a pottle of mush- rooms, pass the heads in a stewpan with a Httle butter, salt, lemon-juice, and two tablespoonfuls of water, boil three mi- nutes, then in another stewpan have a pint of the sauce supreme (No. 57), add the mushrooms with their stock, skim well, boil altogether ten minutes, add two tablespoon- fuls of good thick cream and a little sugar, sauce over and serve. No. 812. Filets de Volaille aux champignons a la Bechamel. Proceed as before with the fillets, and likewise prepare half a pottle of white mushrooms as in the last, but saving the trimmings, which put in another stewpan with half the Uquor from the mushrooms and a pint of bechamel sauce (No. 7), reduce tiU rather thick, then pass it through a tammie into another stewpan, add a httle sugar and your mushrooms, previously drained on a cloth, boil altogether two minutes, add half a gill of boiling mUk, sauce over and sei-ve. No. 813. Filets de Poulet a VAmhassadrice. Roast three fowls in vegetables as directed in the Re- moves, cut out the fillets and proceed exactly as for filets de poulardes a rambassadrice (No. 792).344 ENTREES. No. 814. Filets de Poulet a la Strashourgienne. Roast two large fowls in vegetables, and when cold take out the fillets, and with a thin knife divide each fillet in halves, to form two out of one, then pound two ounces of foie gras de Strasbourg (a small tureen of which can be piu-chased at any respectable ItaHan warehouse in London) in a mortar, and rub it through a hair sieve, put a spoonful of chopped onions in a stewpan with half a pat of butter, stir them a few minutes over the fire, then add half a pint of white sauce (No. 7), reduce tiU rather thick, add the foie gras, and when ready to boil take it off the fire and stir in the yolks of two eggs very quickly, leave it to get cold, then spread it over the fillets the eighth of an inch in thick- ness, have three eggs in a basin well-beaten, take each fillet on a fork, dip them into the eggs, throw them in a dish of bread-crumbs, take them out, pat them gently with a knife and repeat the operation, have four pounds of hot lard in a stewpan, in which fry them a light brown colour, dress m crown on a small border of mashed potatoes, and serve with fried water-cresses in the centre quite dry, with a Httle gravy separate. No. 815. Filets de Volaille a la JDuchesse. Fillet three fowls, with the filets mignons making nine fillets, lard four of the fillets neatly and braise them as you would a sweetbread, then saute the remainder of the fillets as usual; di-ess them alternately on a border of mashed po- tatoes, two larded, and the other plain, and have ready the following sauce : put a pint of white sauce (No. 7) in a stew- pan with six spoonfuls of white stock, a small bunch of parsley, and the trimmings of some fi-esh mushrooms, boil till it becomes thick, keeping it stirred, add half a pint of cream and pass it through a tammie into another stewpanENTREES. ^^"^ in which you have placed a dozen of dressed cockscombs (No 128), boil it up, then sauce over the plain fillets, put the cockscombs in the centre, glaze the larded fillets Hghtly and serve. If too thick, add a Uttle stock to the sauce. No. 816. Bpigramme de Filets de Volaille a la JosepUne. Prepare and cook the fillets of three fowls as above, cut also four pieces from a cooked tongue the size and shape of your fillets, warm them in stock, make a small border of raashed potatoes on your dish, dress the larded fillets first, then the plain, then the tongue to form a crown, sauce with a thin puree of green peas (No. 86) in the centre, glaze the tongue and larded fillets, and serve. No. 817. Filets de Volaille aux concombres. Fillet three fowls as usual, place them in a saute-pan with butter, season and put by until ready; have two fine cucumbers cut in pieces three inches in length, spht each piece in halves, take out the seeds and peel so as not to leave a mark of green upon it, trim each piece as near the size and shape of the fillets as possible, blanch them three minutes in boiling water with salt, drain them on a sieve, put them in a saute-pan with a httle sugar and some good white stock, set them on the fire till the cucumber is tender and the stock has reduced to demi-glace, then saute your fillets, and dress upon a small border of mashed potatoes alternately vdth a piece of the cucumber, add the remainder of the cucumber and the demi-glace to a demi-puree of cu- cumbers (No. 105) (but keep it quite white), with which sauce over and serve. The cucumbers must be the best for this piu-pose and fresh, or you vrill not be able to succeed. No. 818. Fricassee de Poulet a la Chevaliere. Fillet two fowls but leave the pinions of the wings at-ENTREES. tached to them, lard and braise as directed for filets de poulardes a la Marie Stuart (No. 793), cut off the leo-s nicely, and take out the thigh-bone, leaving the leg-bone, but cutting it off above the knuckle; cut each back also into two pieces and trim neatly, put the legs and pieces of back into a stewpan, just cover them with one pint of water and two of stock, add a Httle pepper, salt, and a small bunch of parsley, thyme, and bay-leaf, with an onion m slices, and two cloves, set them over the fire, let simmer twenty minutes, and skim well; then take out the pieces and put them on a cloth to dry, trim neatly and place them into another stewpan with two ounces of fresh butter, pass them five minutes over the five, then add one tablespoon- ful of flour, mix well; you have previously passed the stock you boiled the fowl in through a cloth, pour it over the fricassee, which keep stirred till boiling, then stand it at the corner to simmer, skim well, it requires to be rather thin, let simmer nearly an hour, then take out the pieces very carefully and place them in another stewpan, put a spoonful of chopped mushrooms in the sauce, reduce till it adheres to the back of the spoon, pass it through a tammie over the pieces of fowl, place it again on the fire, add twelve cockscombs, twelve mushrooms, and twelve shces of truffles, let simmer a minute, finish Avith a Haison of one yolk of egg mixed with three tablespoonfuls of milk, take it off the fire immediately, put a little mashed potatoes in the bottom of yom- dish, take out the four pieces of back, place two in the centre of the dish and two others over to form a square, stand the four legs upright around, drain the four fiUets on a cloth, (let them be a nice colour,) and dress them over; place the garniture from the sauce on the top to form a pyramid, sauce over the legs and round, glaze the fillets lightly and serve.ENTREES. 347 No. 819. Fricassee de Poulet a VAncienne. Cut two fowls into eigM pieces each, that is, two legs, two wings, with a piece of the fillet, two pieces of back, and two pieces of breast, put them into a stewpan with two quarts of wai'm water, let them remain ten minutes to dis- gorge, pour off an the water, then just cover them with cold water, add a quarter of a teaspoonful of pepper, and one of salt, parsley, thyme, and bay-leaf, with an onion in slices, and two cloves, simmer gently twenty minutes, skim well, take out the pieces, lay them on a cloth, and trim them into neat pieces, then place them in a stewpan with two ounces of butter, pass over the fire five minutes keeping them moved; add two tablespoonfuls of fiom-, mix well, pass the stock the pieces were boiled in through a cloth over, stir aU together, then have peeled forty button onions, throw them in and boil altogether nearly an hour very gently (keeping it skimmed), till the sauce is sufficiently thick, then finish with a haison of two yollcs of eggs mixed with half a gill of milk, stii- it in quick and do not let it boil afterwards, put a little mashed potatoes on the bottom of the dish, dress the pieces in pyramid, comniencing with the backs, and finishing vidth the breasts upon the top, sauce all over and serve. No. 820. Petits Poulets Printaniers saute aux truffes. Procure two spring chickens, cut each one in halves, then again divide the wings from the legs, thus maldng eight pieces of the twocut off the legs just above the knuckle, break the back-bones with a knife, put haK a pound of butter in a flat stewpan, let it melt, lay in the pieces of chicken, let them remain over a slow fire until they become rather brown, then turn them, let them remain until the other side is browned, then pom- off as much of the butter348 ENTREES. as possible, and add a pint of brown sauce (No. 1) with ten spoonfuls of consomme, place it again over the fire, and when boiling throw in fom- large truffles cut in thin slices and a little sugar, keep moving them round gently till the sauce adheres to the pieces; then take them out, dress as elevated as possible, sauce over and serve. Poulet printanier saute aux champignons, and ditto aux olives, are done precisely the same, only substituting twenty stoned ohves, or thuiy heads of mushrooms, for the truffles. No. 821. Poulet Printanier hraise a la Financiere. Roast a spring chicken very white in vegetables, as di- rected in the Removes, when done draw out the string, place it in the centre of an entree-dish, and serve with a sauce financiere (No. 50) over, they may also be served with a sauce a la bechamel (No. 7) or any of the sauces di- rected for the flancs. No. 822. PetitsPouletsPrintaniers sauce renioulade {chaude). Take out the back-bone of a good-sized chicken, cut the legs ofi" at the knuckles, break the leg-bone, then make an incision in the thigh and draw the legs through to the in- side ; break the joints of the wings, and beat the chicken rather flat, then put a piece of butter in a saute-pan, when melted lay in your chicken, pass it over a slow fire ten mi- nutes, tm^n it and place it again over till it becomes shghtly coloured, then lay it on a dish, season well with pepper and salt; egg all over, throw it into bread-crumbs, cover all over, place it on a gridiron over a slow fire and broil it a nice yellow colour; have ready the foUovsdng sauce : put six tablespoonfuls of white sauce (No. 7) in a stcAvpan with four of white stock, place it over the fire, and Avhen boiling add six spoonfuls of well-seasoned sauce remoulade (No. 38), stir it quickly over the fire imtil hot, but do not letENTB.T1ES. it boil, pour it in your dish, gcarnish the edge with fillets of gherkins, lay the chicken over, which glaze lightly and serve. No. 823. Toulet Printanier grille aux champignons confii. Prepare and broil a chicken exactly as in the last, put the juice from a small bottle of piclded mushrooms, not too salt, in a stewpan with a spoonful of chopped eschalots; re- duce to half, then add twelve spoonfuls of bro\\Ti sauce (No. 1), season with a little cayenne pepper and sugar, bod till rather thick, add the mushrooms from the bottle, when hot pour the sauce in the dish, dress the fowl over, which glaze and serve. Spring chickens broiled may also be served with sauce piquante (No. 27), poivrade (No. 33), tomate (No. 37), fresh mushrooms (No. 52), or a la mare- chal (No. 532). After having used the fillets of fowls or chickens, the legs may be dressed in any of the methods given for legs of poulardes or capons, of course their not being so large, they will not require so long to cook, but there being six instead of four legs, they wiU require the same quantity of sauce; they may also be served in any of the following ways. No. 824. Cuisses de Volaille truffes a la Perigord. Cut off the six legs with as much of the skin as possible attached, giving them a round shape, take out the thigh- bone, and cut off the leg above the knuckle, then stuff the round part with a preparation of truffles, as for poularde a la Marie Stuart (No. 528), showing the truffles under the skin, sew them up, and braise as directed for that article; when done put a thin oval border of mashed potatoes on your dish, and dress the legs upon it, three on each side; place a small paper frill upon each bone, and serve with a350 ENTREES. puree of traffics (No. 53) in the centre and round; the puree must be rather thin. No. 825. Cuisses de Volaille a la JDino. Prepare, stuff, and braise six legs as in the last, also have a fine larded sweetbread (No. 671) which braise with the legs, glaze and salamander of a nice gold colom-, then have poached an oval piece of forcemeat (No. 120), an inch and a half high, three inches long, and two inches broad, place the sweetbread on the top, and dress the legs round, three upon each side, place a fine cockscomb between each leg to hide the forcemeat, fix them there by running httle pegs made of stiff paste through them, sauce over the legs with a sauce a I'ltalienne (No. 31), glaze the sweetbread, and serve very hot. No. 826. Cuisses de Volaille braise aux concombres. Prepare and bone six legs as above, season them with a little pepper, salt, and very finely-chopped eschalots, then have ready haff a pound of forcemeat of fowl, with which stuff them, sew them round and braise as before; when done dress them on your dish as described for cuisses de volaiUe truffes a la Perigord (No. 824), sauce in the middle and round with a garniture and sauce aux concombres (No. 103), and serve. No. 827. Cuisses de Volaille braise auospois. Prepare, bone, stuff, and braise as the last, dress the same, and serve with stewed peas round and in the centre. For stewed peas (see No. 1079.) The legs braised as above may also be served with a sauce Palestine (No. 87) or a la jardiniere (No. 100.)351 ENTREES. No. 828. Vuisses de Volaille en fricassee a VAncienne. See (No. 819) and proceed exactly the same; dress them on the dish, and serve as above. No. 829. Cuisses de Volaille a la Marengo. Cut off the legs neatly as before, taking out the thigh- bone, and proceed as directed for petits poussms a la Ma- rengo (see Planes, No. 596), dress them pyramidically, sauce over, and serve. The v^hole of a fowl may be dressed in this manner by cutting it up as directed for poulet prin- tanier (No. 820), and proceeding as described where above dii'ected. No. 830. Poulet a la Provengale. Cut up a large fowl or a small poularde into eight pieces, that is, the two legs, the two wings, with a piece of the fillet attached, two pieces of breast and two pieces of back, put them into a saute-pan with eight spoonfuls of oil and six onions, peeled and cut in thin shoes, season with a httle pepper and salt, place it over a slow fire, move and turn them occasionally; when done, lay them on a cloth, to drain off all the oil, put a little mashed potatoes on the bottom of your dish, dress the inferior pieces at the bottom, and the better one at the top, dressing them as tastefully as pos- sible, put the stewpan again on the fire, pour off as much oil as possible, and mix a quarter of a tablespoonful of flour with the onions, then twelve spoonfuls of white sauce (No. 7), and eight of white stock, add a little scraped garhc the size of a pea, and a httle more sugar, take it off the fire, stu- in the yolks of two eggs, sauce over, egg and bread-crumb all over, set it in a very hot oven ten minutes, salamander, and serve.ENTREES. 352 No. 831. Tmhan de Quenelles de Volaille a la Husse. Take the flesli of a nice delicate large fowl, and Avith it make some forcemeat as directed (No. 122); when done make eight large quenelles with two silver tablespoons, by filling one of them with forcemeat, dip your knife in hot water, and smooth it over in a shght dome, then dip the other spoon in hot water, and scoop the quenelle from the first spoon with it, taking it into the hot spoon, from which it will easily slip, place them in a buttered saute-pan, and cover with good second broth, place them over a quick fire, boil twenty minutes, and lay them out on a cloth; cut also eight pieces from a boiled Russian tongue, the size of the quenelles and the thickness of two five-shilling pieces which warm in a little consomme; make a border of mashed po- tatoes, cut a httle piece off the bottom of each quenelle, and dress them alternately with a piece of the tongue in crown; break the bones of the fowl up very small, and put them in a stewpan with a glass of sherry, one minced onion, one bay-leaf, a httle thyme, and one clove; boil it two minutes, then add a quart of white stock, reduce it to half, skun off all the fat, and pass it thi'ough a tammie into another stew- pan, add a pint of white sauce (No. 7), and reduce it till it adheres to the back of the spoon; finish with two table- spoonfuls of good thick cream, and a httle sugar, sauce over the quenelles, glaze the tongue, and serve with the remainder of the sauce round and in the centre. No. 832. Quenelles de Volaille a VBcarlate. Proceed precisely as above, using plain ox-tongue instead of the Russian. No. 833. Quenelles de Volaille aux concombres. Make eight quenelles as before, then procm-e a fine hot-353 ENTREES. house cucumber, from wliich cut and trim eight pieces the size of your quenelles, put them in a stewpan with a pat of butter and a little sugar, pass them over a slow fire ten minutes, then add six spoonfuls of white broth, and let them simmer very gently till quite done, but not too much so, or it would be impossible to dress them; then poach the queneUes and lay them on a cloth to di'ain with the cuciunber, have ready a border of mashed potatoes on yom- dish, cut a httle piece off the bottom of each quenelle, and dress them alternately vdth the cucumber in crown; have ready the following sauce: add half a pint of white sauce (No. 7) to the stock the cucumber was dressed in, reduce it till it adheres to the spoon, add a tablespoonful of cream, sauce over, and serve. No. 834. QueneUes de Volaille en demi deuil. Make twelve quenelles as before, poach them and lay them on a cloth, have ready chopped two or three vea"y black truffles, dip six of the quenelles in some egg well- beaten, roU them in the chopped truffles, place them in a dish, cover them up and stand them in the hot closet an hour; place the other six in some fresh stock in a stewpan and keep hot in the bain-marie, have ready a border of mashed potatoes on your dish, cut a piece off the bottom of each of the quenelles, dress the six black ones on one side and the wliite ones on the other to form a crown, put ten spoonfuls of milk in a stewpan, boil it, and add a pint of white sauce (No 7); reduce till it adheres to the back of the spoon, then add two pats of butter and the juice of a lemon, sauce over the white quenelles; you will probably have a few chopped truffles left, which sprinkle over, and sei-ve the remainder of the sauce in the centre. 23851. ENTRKES. No. 835. Quenelles de Volaille a la York Minster. Make and poach twelve quenelles as before, dip them in egg, and then roll them in some finely chopped cooked lean York ham, place them on a dish, cover and put them in the hot closet to dry; make a border of mashed potatoes on yoiu- dish, and dress one red and one white quenelle alter- nately, put twelve good spoonfuls of white sauce (No. 7) in a stewpan, with ten of boiled milk and a little sugar, let reduce till it adlieres to the spoon, add about forty strips of the cooked ham cut the size of julienne-roots, sauce over and serve; finish the sauce with a httle cream. No. 836. Quenelles de Volaille a la Pair de France. Make eight quenelles as before, and when lajdng in the saute-pan make a long incision in each, in which put a very white middle-sized dressed cockscomb, cover them with white stock, and poach very gently for a quarter of an hour; have also poached a sohd piece of forcemeat fom* inches in diameter and two and a haK in height, with a long round cutter cut fom' holes near the centre, large enough to stand in four plovers' eggs, which peel and warm in a Httle stock, and between the four on the top place a fifth ; cut a small piece ofi" the bottom of each quenelle, and stand them upright upon a little mashed potatoes against the centre piece, the cockscombs facing outwards, sauce over with a very white thin puree of artichokes (No. 98), and serve with a little chopped chervil sprinkled over them. No. 837. Quenelles de Volaille a la Silene. Pass a tablespoonful of chopped onions in butter in a stewpan over a sharp fire, and when they begin to colour add a teaspoonful of flour, mix well in, then add half a pint of brown sauce, a piece of glaze the size of a walnut,ENTREES. ^^'^ two teaspoonfiils of chopped mushrooms, and one of chopped parsley, reduce five mmutes, take it off the fu-e and stu: in the yoU^s of two eggs very qiiickly; you have previously poached ten queneUes as before, and when cold dip them into the above sauce, covering them all over, (previously cutting a small piece off the bottom,) then dip them into some egg well-beaten, and then into bread-crumbs, pat them a httle with your knife and repeat the operation; fry them a nice colour in a stewpan containing four pounds of very hot lard, dress them in crovm upon a border of mashed potatoes, and have ready the following sauce : put a pint of consomme free from salt in a stewpan, with some bones of a raw or cooked fowl and a bunch of parsley, boil it till reduced to half, squeeze in the juice of twelve grapes, pass it through a tammie into another stewpan, reduce to a thin glaze, add half a teaspoonful of tarragon vinegar and a little sugar, pom* it in the centre of yom- dish and serve very hot. No. 838. Boudins de Volaille a la Bichelieu. Make sufficient of the above forcemeat, for twelve que- nelles, lay a little flom- on yom' dresser, upon which place twelve pieces of the forcemeat, each of the size of a quenelle, roll each a little with the hand, then vdth a knife form them into pieces two inches long and nearly an inch wide, place them m a buttered saute-pan as you do them, and poach exactly as for the quenelles, dress them in crown on a border of mashed potatoes, sauce over with a sauce Perigueux (No. 55) and serve. No. 839. Boudins de Volaille a la Sully. Make the same quantity of forcemeat as for the last, lay it on your dresser and divide it into five pieces, flatten them with your knife, having sufficient flom' on the board to pre-ENTREES. 350 vent them sticking; have a salpicon as for croquettes (see next), place a Httle of it upon the centre of each piece of forcemeat, roll them up, place them in a buttered saute-pan, cover with stock and poach them twenty minutes, drain on a cloth, cut off the ends, and lay them on your dish, three at the bottom and two across, sauce the same as the last and serve. No. 840. Croquettes de Volaille auoa truffes. Cut up a small braised fowl (or the remains of two or three left from a previous dinner) into very small dice (or mince), cut also two large truffles of the same size, put half a tablespoonful of chopped eschalots into a stevt^pan with half an ounce of butter, pass them three minutes over the fu-e, add a quarter of a tablespoonful of flour, mix well, then put in the fowl and truffles and half a pint of white sauce (No. 7)—or more if not sufficiently moist, boil all together ten minutes, season with a little white pepper, salt, and sugar, then stir in the yolks of two eggs very quickly, stir another minute over the fire, turn it out on a dish to cool; when cold take twelve pieces, each the size of a very large walnut, roll them about an inch and a half in length, egg and bread-crumb twice over and fry a good colour in hot lard, dress them in crown on a border of mashed potatoes, and serve with a sauce aux truffes (No. 51) in the centre. The remainder of a previous dinner of any kind of poultry may be used for croquettes. No. 841. Croquettes de Volaille au Jambon Are made in the same manner as in the last, only using cooked lean ham instead of truffles, and serving a little blaiiquette de volaille au jambon (see blanquette de dinde, No. 88) in the centre ; croquettes de volaille a I'ecarlate are made the same, merely substituting some cooked tongueENTRIES. 357 and adding tongue to the blanquette ; when made larger they are called boiidins, but the croquettes are preferable, being more crisp. No. 842. Bissolettes de Volaille a la Pompadour. Make half a pound of forcemeat (No. 122), then have ready two buttered saute-pans, place half of the forcemeat in the centre of each, then spread it over the bottom to the thickness of half-a-crown piece with a spoon, occasionally dipping the spoon in white of egg; then cover them over with stock and place them on a moderate fire, let them simmer for five minutes, take ofi" as much of the stock as possible, and leave them in the saute-pans to get half cold, take them out with a fish-shce, place one of them on a dish, then have prepared a salpicon as for the cro- quettes aux trufies (No. 840), cover the sheet of forcemeat with it a quarter of an inch in thickness, then cover the other sheet over it, press them hghtly together; when cold cut it out in diamond shapes (with a knife) about two inches long and one vdde; then have ready the following sauce : put a teaspoonful of chopped eschalots in a stewpan with a quar- ter of a pat of butter, pass them over the fire two minutes, add a pint of white sauce (No. 7) and haK a giU of milk, boil altogether five minutes, keeping it stirred; then take it ofi" the fire and stir in the yolks of two eggs very quickly, stir it over the fire another haK a minute, then take each piece upon a fork and dip it into the sauce, cover it all over and place it upon a plate ; proceed in like manner till they are all done, put them by tUl quite cold, have ready some good fi-itter-batter (No. 1285) made with milk, dip each ris- solette in with a fork and drop it into a stewpan of rather hot lard, fry five minutes, dress them on a napkin, and serve with plenty of fried parsley the moment they are done.ENTREES. 358 They may also be served with sauce (omitting the napkin) as follows : put eight spoonfuls of white sauce into a stew- pan, with six of cream, place it over the fire a few minutes, s^dd a little sugar and salt, sauce round and serve. No. 843. Filets de Canetoris aux jpetits pois. Roast four ducklings in vegetables as dii-ected in the Re- moves, take away the vegetables just before they are done, to give the breasts a slight colour; then cut out the fillets very neatly, dress them on a. small border of mashed po- tatoes vdth a thin crouton of fried bread between each, put a pint and a half of young green peas (previously boiled)'' in a stewpan, with the gravy that has run from the ducldings, two ounces of fresh butter, a teaspoonful of sugar, and a Httle salt, keep tossing them over the fii-e till quite hot, then add a Uaison of one yolk of egg mixed with two table- spoonfuls of cream, stir it in quickly, place them in the centre of the dish in pyramid and serve. No. 844. Filets de Canetons a la cJdcoree. Proceed vdth the ducldings precisely as above, fiUet and dress the same, serve with some endive prepared as directed (No. 119) in the centre, but not too much nor too tliick. No. 845. Filets de Canetons a la macedoine de legumes. Roast and fillet four ducldings as before, then prepare a stand of vegetables as directed for Chartreuse (No. 604), but not more than two inches in height, fiU it \vith stewed cab- bage well pressed and almost dry, and tm-n it out on yoiu- dish; when perfectly hot and the vegetables sufficiently cooked, dress the fillets in crown on the top, have ready a white jardiniere sauce (No. 99), which di-ess in pyramid in the centre and serve.359 ENTREES. No. 846. Filets de Canetpns aujus (Tomnge. Roast and fiUet foiu- ducklings as before di-ess them in crown on a border of mashed potatoes, and have ready the foUowing sauce: put twenty spoonfuls of brown sauce m a stewpan with ten of white stock, place it over the fire to boil with some bones from the breast of the ducklmgs, boil to a'demi-glace, keeping it skimmed, take out the bones and pass the sauce through a tammie, then add the rmd of an orange free from pith, which you have previously cut m fillets and blanched five minutes in boilmg water, boil the sauce a few minutes, keeping it stirred, and fimsh mth the juice of half the orange, sauce over and serve. This sauce reqiures to be quite transparent, but to have con- sistence enough to adhere to the fillets ; filets de cane- tons a la bigarade are the same as above, merely substi- tuting a SeviUe or real bigarade for a sweet orange. No. 847. Mlets de Canetons farcis. Bone a duclding by placing it on yom- board and open- ing it at the back-bone, which is fu'st to be taken out, then lay it out flat; take out the other bones singly, and cover the interior with forcemeat of fowl (No. 122), filling up every cavity and making it perfectly level on the top, put some thin shces of bacon at the bottom of a deep saute- pan with a bunch of parsley and a few onions in slices, lay the duckhng over and cover with white stock, lay a sheet of buttered paper over and pat it in a slow oven for one hour or more till tender, take it up, lay it on a dish free from the bacon or onions, place another dish over and press it till cold, then cut it into pieces the size and shape of the other fillets above, warm them in a saute-pan in a little good stock, dress them in crown and serve in any of the preceding ways.360 ENTREES OP GAME, No. 848. Filets de Lievre sauce reforme. Procure three good-sized but young hares, when skinned lay them on a table and pass a knife down the back-bone, from the shoulder to the leg, keeping it close to the ribs till you have extracted the fillet, when done lay the fillets on a board the skin side downwards, and with a thin knife cut off the whole of the skin, by pressing your hand upon the fillet and drawing the knife along from the thin end to the thick ; cut each fillet in halves, beat them hghtly, trim them of a nice shape, and lard them neatly, then cover the bot- tom of a stewpan with thin shces of fat bacon, lay the fillets over, add three onions in slices with a bunch of parsley, a blade of mace, and a couple of cloves, put in a httle broth, but not to cover them, place the hd on the stewpan and place them in a moderate oven till tender, glaze and sala- mander a nice colom', take them out, drain them a minute on a cloth, trim nicely, and dress them in crown on a bor- der of mashed potatoes, and serve with a sauce reforme (No. 35) over, previously placing a thin piece of toasted bread the same size as the fillets between each. No. 849. Filets de Lievre pique sauce poivrade. Proceed exactly as in the last, dress them in crown with- out the pieces of toast, and serve with a sauce poivrade (No. 32) over, dressed in the same manner, they may be served vdth a sauce tomate (No. 37), No, 850, Filets de Lievre pique a la Bourguignote. Proceed and dress yom* fillets exactly as before, and have ready the following sauce: peel forty button onions, thenENTREES. 361 put a little pounded sugar in a stewpan, whicli place over the &e, when it melts and turns yeUowish put m a pat of butter Ind your onions, keep moving them over a slow fire tiU they become rather brown, then add a pint of browii sauce (No. 1) and six tablespoonfuls of consomme, place it at the corner of the stove, and skim well, let simmer till . the onions are done; then take them out with a colander spoon and place them in another stewpan, reduce the sauce till it adheres to the back of the spoon, pass it through a tammie over the onions, have twenty pieces of cooked streaky bacon in diamonds the size of the onions, put them in the sauce, which make hot, but not to boil, sauce over and serve. No. 851. Filets de Lievre pique, marine en demi-glace. Prepare and lard twelve pieces of fillets as usual, have ready a quart of marinade, see filet de boeuf a la Bohemi- enne (No. 426), and put them into it for three days; when wanted dry them on a cloth, butter a saute-pan, lay in the fillets, cover them with a sheet of buttered paper, and stand them twenty minutes in a moderate oven, glaze and sala- mander a fight brovm, and dress in crown on a border of mashed potatoes, then pour as much of the butter ofi" from the saute-pan as possible, and put eight spoonfuls of the marinade and a pint of brown sauce (No. 1) into it, reduce over the fire, keeping it stirred till it adheres to the back of the spoon, add a small piece of glaze and a teaspoonful of currant jelly ; sauce over and serve. No. 852. Escalopes de Lievre a la Chasseur. Pillet three hares as before and cut each fillet into four escalopes in a slanting direction; beat them into an oval shape, put an ounce of butter in a deep saute-pan, with a teaspoonful of chopped eschalots; when the butter is meltedENTREES. 363 lay in the escalopes, season them with a little pepper and salt, and place them on a sharp fire; when half done turn them over, be careful not to do them too much; when done dress in crown upon a border of mashed potatoes, pour off the butter, then put a glass of port wine in the saute-pan, with fifteen spoonfuls of demi-glace (No. 9), a little salt, and sugar, reduce it three minutes, keeping it stirred, sauce over and serve. No. 853. Cotelettes de Lievre a la DaupJdne. Fillet two hares as before, and out of each fillet cut three cotelettes by cutting each fillet in halves, making one of the thin end and cutting the thick into two equal slices, thus making twelve pieces of the four fillets; beat them of an equal thickness, boil the rib-bones of one of the hares till all the flesh comes off, and stick a bone in each piece to imitate the bone of a cotelette, egg, bread-crumb, and fry them in on a nice colour, but not too much done, dress in crown upon a border of mashed potatoes, and sauce over with a sauce piquante (No. 37) in which you have introduced a few chopped olives. No. 854 Turhan de Lievre a la Peronne. Fillet one large hare and make six cotelettes out of the two fillets as in the last, egg and bread-crumb them with a little chopped ham mixed with the bread-crumbs, and fry in. oil as before; you have previously made forcemeat of the legs as described (No. 133), with which make six large quenelles, poach, and dish them on a border of mashed potatoes alternately with the cotelettes; have ready the following sauce: put a teaspoonful of chopped eschalots in a stewpan, with two of tan-agon vinegar and a piece of glaze half the size of a walnut, place over the fire two minutes, add a pint of white sauce and eight spoonfuls363 ENTUEES. of white ^tock, reduce till rather thick, then add a little sugar and twenty smaU pickled onions; sauce over the quenelles, glaze the cotelettes and serve. For boudins de lievre, or quenelles, proceed the same as for boudins or quenelles de volaille, only using forcemeat made from the legs of the hare instead of the forcemeat of fowl; and for jugged hare and civet de lievre, see Kitchen at Home. They may be made from the legs after you have taken the fillets for other purposes. No. 855. Filets de Lapereau a la Valencienne. For entrees the tame rabbits are the best, and most pre- ferable ; but the wUd are very good and may be dressed in any of the following ways. Take three or fom^ young rabbits, skin and fillet them the same as the hares ; if the fillets are sufficiently large cut each one in halves forming each piece in the shape of a small cotelette, beat them Hghtlyand of equal thickness, place them in a buttered saute-pan, season with a little white pepper, salt, and the juice of half a lemon, place them over a moderate fire and when half done tm-n them ; they are done as soon as they feel firm to the touch, and must be kept quite white, dress in crown upon a border of mashed potatoes, put eighteen spoonfuls of white sauce (No. 7) in the saute-pan, with ten of white stock, stir over the fire till it adheres to the back of the spoon, add a little pepper and salt if required, finish with two tablespoonfuls of cream and the juice of haK a lemon; sauce over and serve. No. 856. Filets de Lapereau a VEcarlate. FiUet three rabbits and so cut the fillets as to have nine pieces, which cook as in the last, then cut nine shoes of cooked ham of the same size and shape as the fillets, and364 ENTREES. make tliem hot in a little stock, dress thein alteraately with the fillets in crown upon a border of mashed potatoes, then put a pint of white sauce (No. 7) and half a pint of white stock in the saute-pan, stir over the fire untQ nearly thick enough, then add twenty heads of blanched mush- rooms and a httle sugar, boil another minute, and finish with two tablespoonfuls of cream; sauce over the fillets, glaze the tongue and serve. No. 857. Turban de Lapereau a la Douariere. Fillet three good-sized rabbits and cut each fillet in halves, making twelve pieces, six of which lard neatly; dress the six plain as before, but the six larded ones must be braised like sweetbreads, and glazed, and salamander a good colour, make a border of mashed potatoes on your dish, upon which dress the fillets alternately, (one larded and one plain,) in crown, put a pint of brown sauce (No. 1) in the saute-pan, with half a pint of consomme, boil and skim, add half a glass of sherry, and a little salt, pepper, and sugar, with two spoonfuls of tomata sauce (No. 37) and twenty small quenelles from forcemeat made with the legs of the rabbits, as described (No. 121); when hot, sauce over the plain fillets, glaze the larded ones, put all the que- nelles in the centre and serve. No. 858. Epigramme de Filets de Lapereau. Proceed precisely as in the last, only dressing the six plain fillets on one side and the larded ones on the other instead of alternately, and add twelve dressed cockscombs and twelve blanched musln-ooms to the garnitm^e in the sauce; or they may be served with a blanquette made from the legs of the rabbits, previously braised, proceeding as described for blanquette de dinde (No. 791).ENTREES. 365 No. 859. Filets de Lajpereaw a la Musulmane. Lard twelve pieces of fillets from three or four rabbits, braise them as you would sweetbreads; when done glaze and salamander of a light colour, and dress in crown as high as possible; you have boiled half a pound of good rice (No. 129), season it with a Httle salt, and mix four pats of butter and a pinch of saflfron \^dth it, dress it in pyramid in the centre of your dish, serve with a thin currie sauce (No. 46) round the fillets, and some separate in a boat j serve very hot. No. 860. Cotelettes de Lapereau mw petites racines. Fillet three rabbits, cut each fillet in halves and shape them in the form of cotelettes, sticking a piece of the rib- bone of the rabbit in at the thin end, egg, bread-crumb, and fry them in oil of a light brovm colour, dress in crown, glaze them Hghtly, and sauce as directed for grenadins de veau (No. 692). The legs and shoulders may be used for pies, curries, or fricassees, which I give in my Kitchen at Home. No. 861. Lapereau saute aux truffes. Procure two nice young rabbits, which cut into twelve pieces, being two legs, two shoulders, and two nice pieces from the back of each; put four.ounces of butter in a thick- bottomed saute-pan; when melted lay in the pieces and proceed as du-ected for petits poulets saute aux trufies (No. 820). Lapereau saute aux champignons is done the same, using mushrooms instead of truffles, and lapereau saute aux fines herbes, by using a sauce fines herbes (No. 26) instead of the brown sauce, and omitting both the truffles and mushrooms.ENTREES. 366 No. 862. Lapereau a la Marengo. Cut up two rabbits precisely as above, and proceed as directed for poulet printanier a la Marengo (No. 829), dress them as liigh as possible on the dish, pyramidically, sauce over and serve. No. 863. Babbit Ciirrie. Cut up two rabbits as before, and cook them as for saute aux truffes (No. 861); when done and nicely brown- ed pour otf as much butter as possible and pom' a quart of currie sauce (No. 46) over, add twenty button onions, pre- viously stewed in a little broth, and twenty pieces of cook- ed streaky bacon cut in small diamonds, stand them over a slow fire twenty minutes, keeping it stirred occasionally; then build the pieces up in your dish, sauce over and serve with rice (No. 129) in a separate dish; should the sauce be too thick moisten it with a drop of broth, but it requires to be thick enough to adhere to the rabbit. No. 864. Fricassee de Lapereau. Cut up two young rabbits as before, and put them two hours in warm water to disgorge, then put them in a stew- pan just covered with clear water, add two onions, one carrot, a bunch of paxsley, two cloves, and a little salt, boil half an hour at the corner of the stove, and skim well, take out the pieces and pass the ^tock through a cloth, trun each piece of rabbit nicely, and put it in another stewpan, with a quarter of a pound of butter, pass them over the fii'e thi-ee minutes, then mix one ounce of flom- with them, pom- the stock over and add fifty peeled button onions, stii' romid gently until boihng, then di-aw it to the corner of the fii-e and let simmer till the rabbit is very tender, then take them out, with the onions, and put them in another stewpan, reduceENTREES. 307 the sauce tiU it adheres to the back of the spoon, pass it through a tammie over the rabbit and onions, add a liaison of two yolks of eggs mixed with half a gill of cream, stir it in gently, place it over the fii-e but do not let it boil, dress the rabbit in yoiu- dish and sauce over; musln-ooms may be added, and the onions ought to be kept as whole as possible. No. 865. Faisans au veloute de Gibier. Roast two small young pheasants in vegetables as direct- ed for the Removes, let them get cold, then cut off neatly the two wings, two legs, and two pieces from the breasts of each, which will make twelve very nice pieces, take off the skin and place them in a stewpan, cover them with a little stock and six spoonfuls of veloute (No. 6), put them in the bain marie to warm gently, then put a quart of white sauce (No. 7) in a stewpan, with half a pint of white stock and the backs and trimmings of the pheasants cut up very small, reduce till it adheres Hghtly to the back of the spoon, pour off the stock from the pieces of pheasants, place a tammie over the stewpan, over which hold a colander, pour the sauce through the colander, and then squeeze it through the tammie, add a httle sugar and a little cream, place the stewpan over the fire but do not let its contents boil, dress the pieces of pheasants in pyramid, placing a little mashed potatoes on the bottom of the dish to keep them in their place; sauce over and serve. No. 866. Faisans a la puree de Gibier. Cut up two small pheasants as above, dress them in pyramid on your dish and serve with a sauce a la puree de gibier (No. 59) over, have about fifty very small crou- tons of bread, diamond shape, and fried in oil, which sprinlde over the last thing before serving.KNTREES. 3G8 No. 867. Filets de Faisans a la Comte de Brabant Fillet two full-grown young pheasants as you would a fowl, lard and braise them exactly the same, have half boiled in water sixty very fine Brussels sprouts, drain them in a colander and put them in a stewpan with a quarter of a pound of streaky bacon, season vdth a httle pepper and salt, add a pint of good stock and stew them over a mode- rate fire till the stock is reduced to glaze, take out the sprouts, squeeze them together between two dishes, and dress them as a perfect pyramid in the centre of your dish, glaze and salamander the fillets nicely, and dress a fillet on each side vdth a thin slice of the bacon at each comer, place a quenelle at the top, and sauce round with the sauce fumee de gibier (No. 60) j serve immediately. No. 868. Filets de Faisans pique aux legumes. Lard and braise six fillets from three pheasants as above, have a fine fresh cucumber, cut six pieces from it of the same size as the fillets, which stew in a Httle stock in which you have put half a teaspoonful of sugar; when tender but not too much done drain them on a cloth; make.a border of mashed potatoes on your dish, upon which dress the fillets and pieces of cucumber alternately in crown; have ready a small jardiniere sauce (No. 100) to which you have added a few blanched mushrooms, put the vegetables in the centre with a piece of boiled (or a small) cauliflower on the top, sauce round, glaze the fillets and serve. No. 869. Turban de Faisans en salmi. Roast two pheasants in vegetables as directed in the Removes, cut them into quarters, that is, the fom* breasts vsdth the wings and the legs vdth a piece of the back-bone, beat and trim them lightly, cut ofi" the pinion from the369 ENTREES, wings, and make the breasts and legs nearly of the same shape, place them in a stewpan, cover them vsdth a little stock, put the lid on the stewpan and set in the bain marie to get hot, make a border of forcemeat (see ris de veau a la Turque No. 673); when done place it in the centre of yom- dish and dress the pieces in crown upon it, sauce over Avith a sauce fumee de gibier (No. 60) in which you have put four large truffles in sHces, or twenty button mushrooms ; serve very hot. No. 870. Filets de Faisans a la Marquise. Fillet four yoimg pheasants, lard and braise four of the • fillets, (as for the filets aux legumes), egg the other four over with a paste-brush and tlu-ow them into a plate in which you have chopped ham and bread-crumbs mixed, cover them well, beat gently with a knife, and fry a light brown in a Httle clarified butter, make a small border of mashed potatoes upon your dish and di'ess the fillets alter- nately upon it; you have previously prepared a sauce veloute de gibier (No. 58), rather more than a pint, add twenty very white dressed cockscombs, when hot sauce round and garniture in the centre; glaze your fillets and serve; a spoonful of whipped cream would also be a great improvement added to the sauce when finished. No. 871. Filets de Faisans a la Maintenon. Prepare eight small or four large fiUets divided into two separate sKces, put them in a saute-pan with two table- spoonfuls of oil, place them over a sharp fire, saute them very underdone, and lay them on a cloth, put two table- spoonfuls of chopped onions in the saute-pan, fry them tiU tummg yeUow, then add a pint of white sauce (No 7) two spoonfuls of chopped mushrooms, two of chopped parsley, a little grated nutmeg, pepper, salt, and sugar, 24370 KNTREES. reduce till rather thick, keeping it stirred, lay in the fillets to warm, and leave them to get cold in the sauce, have eight pieces of paper each cut in the shape of a heart, and large enough to fold a fillet in, place a fillet in each with the sauce equally divided amongst them, fold the papers over, twisting them up at the edges, and place them on the gridiron to broil over a slow fire; when done dress in crown on your dish leaving them in the papers, and serve with a little plain gravy. After having used the fillets of pheasants one day the legs may be used the next, by roasting in vegetables and trimming them nicely ; serve either a la Brabant (No. 867), or en salmi (No. 869); but the legs of large pheasants being so stringy will not make a very dehcate entree, and it is much better to convert them into a sauce a la puree de gibier (No. 59), soup, (No. 175), or forcemeat (No. 123): No. 872. Turban de Quenelles de Faisans. Proceed exactly as for the quenelles de volaille, only using a forcemeat made from the flesh of pheasants instead of fowl, dress them in crown, and serve with a sauce veloute de gibier (No. 58), puree de gibier (No. 59), or sauce fumee de gibier, either of which may be garnished with cockscombs, truffles, or mushrooms, as du-ected for the entrees of pheasants. Boudins de faisans are served the same way only shaping them as directed for boudins de volaiUe a la Bicheheu (No. 838), with which sauce they may also be served. No. 873. Grouse a la Commodore. Prepare two young but full-grown grouse, roast one of them underdone, and-make forcemeat (No. 123) of the other • when the roasted one is cold cut it into eight pieces, that is, two wings, two legs, two pieces of the back, and371 ENTREES. two pieces of the breast; cover each piece all over with the forcemeat the sixth of an inch in thickness, egg each piece over and place them in a buttered saute-pan, just cover them with a httle white stock and boil gently ten minutes, lay them on a cloth to drain, put a little mashed potatoes on the bottom of your dish, build the pieces in pyramid, and have ready the following sauce: chop the bone of the grouse very small and put them into a stewpan, with three pints of consomme free from salt, an onion, and a little celery, with a bunch of parsley and two cloves, boil gently haK an horn', pass the stock through a cloth into a stewpan, reduce to a very tliin glaze, then mix a tablespoonful of the best arrow-root with haK a glassful of wine and a little cold broth; pom- it into the gravy, keeping it stirred, season a little more if required, and when boihng sauce over and serve. No. 874. Filets de Grouse a la PaoK. Roast four young grouse in vegetables as described for the Removes, take out the breasts or fillets carefully, have ready a pound of forcemeat (No. 1"23), with which*'cover each fillet nearly a quarter of an inch in thickness all over, put them in a buttered saute-pan, just covered with a little white stock, boil gently ten minutes and lay them on a cloth; have ready eight croutons or pieces of bread, the shape of the fillets and the thickness of a crown-piece, fried in oil a fight brown and very crisp, dress the fillets and croutons alternately in crown upon a border of mashed potatoes, glaze the croutons, sauce over with a demi-glace de gibier (No. 61), sprinkle a few chopped olives over, and serve very hot. No. 875. Filets de Grouse a la Chanceliere. Fillet four young grouse, trim the fillets as dii-ected for372 ENTREES. filet de poidarde (No. 792), butter a saute-pan with two ounces of butter, lay in your fillets, season witli a little pepper, salt, and lemon-juice, add a piece of glaze tlie size of a walnut, place them on the fire, saute underdone, pour off as much butter as possible, add a pint of demi-glacc (No. 9) and twenty small quenelles (No. 120); shake the saute-pan round over the fire two minutes, take out the fillets, which dress in crown on a border of mashed pota- toes ; sauce over, put the fillets and quenelles in the centre and serve. No. 876. Salmi de Grouse aux truffes. Plain roast two grouse and cut each one up into eight neat pieces (whilst hot, as for a la commodore), place them in a stewpan, cover them with a thin brown sauce (No. 1), put the cover on the stewpan and place it m the bain marie till the pieces are hot, in another stewpan have a pint and a half of the sauce fumee de gibier, reduce it a third, then add six middling-sized truffles cut in thm slices, and a httle sugar ; have also six croutons or scippets of fried bread (as for a la Paoh), dress the pieces of grouse in pyramid on your dish, with the croutons well glazed resting upon them round the dish; sauce over and serve. No. 877. Grouse a la Ailsa. Roast two grouse, cut them into quarters, that is, the wings with the breasts, and the legs with the back-bone, pound the back and trimmings weU in a mortal- and put ihem in a stewpan, with a pint of the sauce fumee de gibier (No. 60), boil five minutes, then pass it through a hair sieve into another stewpan, season with a little salt and sugar if required, and add the yolks of two eggs, stn- over the fire till it becomes tliickish but do not let it boil, then put in the pieces of grouse; when half cold dress themENTREES. 373 upon a border of mashed potatoes, sauce and sprinkle bread-crumbs over and place them in a moderate oven half an hour; serve with a demi-glace de gibier (No. 61) round. No. 878. Turhan de Quenelles de Grouse a la Moderne. Make and poach twelve quenelles from a forcemeat of grouse (see No. 123), poach them as for quenelles de volaille (No. 831), dress in crown upon a border of mashed potatoes, sauce over vsdth a sauce fumee de gibier (No. 60), have ready the yolk of a hard-boiled egg chopped very fine, which sprinkle over and serve. Black cocks and gray hens being larger birds are gene- rally used for roasting, but the gray hen if well kept may be dressed in any of the preceding ways; the ptarmigan also which makes its appearance in February, (a Swedish bird as well as Scotch,) may be used for the same purposes as grouse, the flavour is sunilar but not quite so good. No, 879. Perdreaux a la Silene. Procure three young partridges, pluck and draw them and cut each bird in halves, cut off" each leg below the knuclde, break the part of the leg above the knuckle, make an incision in the thigh and tm^n the leg inside, break the back-bone (in three) the thigh-bone and the joint of the wing in each, place the six halves in a saute-pan, in which you have put eight tablespoonfuls of oil, fry gently till three pai'ts done, then egg, bread-crumb, and place them on a gridiron over a slow fke, broil them a good colour, and dress in crown upon your dish, then pour off" the oil from the saute-pan, add two glasses of port wine, a spoon- ful of chopped eschalots and one of chopped mushrooms, pass them over the lire two minutes, add a pint of brown sauce (No. 1,) ten spoonfuls of consomme, and a little pepper, salt, and sugar, reduce till rather thick, finish with374 ENTREES. the juice of half a lemon, sauce round and serve, shghtly glazing the partridges. No. 880. Perdreaux grilles a la puree de Gibier. Prepare and broil three partridges as in the last; you have previously roasted an old one and made a puree of it as dii-ected (No. 59), dress the partridges in crown, glaze and serve with the puree round and in the centre. No. 881. Perdreaux aux choux. Procure two partridges trussed as for boiling, and lard them with fat bacon lengthwise up the breast; have ready two white-heart savoy cabbages, cut them in quarters and blanch them ten minutes in boiling water; drain them quite dry on a cloth, season well with white pepper and salt, cut off all the stallc and place them in a stewpan with half a pound of streaky bacon; cover with a good white stock and place them over a slow fire to stew until the stock has reduced to a thin glaze and the cabbage is quite tender; you have roasted the two partridges, tlmist them quite hot into the cabbage, and place the stewpan contain- ing them in a bain marie to keep hot for one hour, or till ready for use, then drain and press the cabbage in a colan- der, saving the stock that comes from it; dress in a dome on your dish, take the skewers and strings from the bu-ds and dress them upon the top with slices of the bacon round, broil three sausages, which cut in halves lengthwise and lay round at the bottom, put a pint of brown sauce (No. 1) in a stewpan, with twelve spoonfuls of stock from the cabbage, skim off all the fat, reduce to a demi-glace, sauce over and serve. No. 882. Cliartreiises de Perdreaux. Proceed as directed in the Elancs (Nos. 604, 005, and375 ENTREES. 606), but using a round mould not too large for the dish instead of oval moulds as there directed. No. 883. Filets de Perdreaux auxpetits ISffumes. Roast six young partridges underdone and when nearly cold cut out the breasts or fillets as neatly as possible, place them in a saute-pan, with a piece of glaze the size of a walnut and a httle white stock, warm them and reduce the stock to glaze, dress them in crown upon a border of mashed potatoes, have prepared some carrots, turnips, and button onions as for sauce a la jardiniere (No. 100), pass them ■ over the fire in a little butter and sugar, cover them with a pint of the sauce fumee de gibier (No. 60), six spoonfuls of consomme, and the glaze from the saute-pan ; simmer at the corner of the stove tiU the vegetables are quite done, skim it well, dress the vegetables in the centre, glaze the fillets and serve. No. 884. Filets de Perdreaucc a la Florentine. Roast six partridges and fillet them as in the last, warm and dress them precisely the same, then have a pint of demi-glace de gibier (No. 61) in a stewpan, reduce it a third, then add twelve blanched mushrooms, twelve dressed cockscombs, and twelve very small French preserved truffles; add a httle sugar, place the garniture in the centre, sauce over and serve. No. 885. Cotelettes de Perdreaux a la Bacchante. Procure six young partridges, fillet them, take a rib-bone and stick in the small end of each fillet, beat them hghtly with a thin knife, take off the skin, season with a little pepper and salt, egg, bread-crumb, and fry of a Ught brown colom- in salad oil, but not too much done, dress them in crown on a small border of mashed potatoes, have ready a pint ofENTREES. 37G the sauce veloute de gibier (No. 58), which you have made from the legs and bones of the birds, which put in a stew- pan, with a pint of white stock (No. 133), reduce, and when it adheres to the back of the spoon add fifty Smyrna raisins previously soaked in hot water two hours, and the juice of ten large Portugal grapes, sauce in the centre, glaze the cotelettes and serve. I have served this cmious entree with Enghsh grapes whole m it, and very good it is, being refreshing to the palate, but a person requu-es to be used to them before they can appreciate. No. 886. Cotelettes deFerdreaua a laDouariere. Prepare twelve cotelettes as above, fry them in oil and dress them the same on your dish; have a pint of demi-glace de gibier (No. 61) in a stewpan, reduce it one third, have forty small quenelles made from forcemeat from the legs, (see No. 123), the queneUes must be made with very small egg-spoons, as directed for the queneUes (No. 120); when poached lay them on a cloth to drain, put them into the sauce; when hot dress the quenelles in the centre \ sauce over and serve. No. 887. Cotelettes de Perdremw a la Due de Chartres. Prepare and dress twelve cotelettes or fillets as before, dress them on a dish and have ready the following sauce: have fifty scoops of turnips the size of small marbles, put them in a stewpan, with an ounce of butter and half a teaspoonful of sugar, pass over the fire five minutes, keep- ing them moved, then add a pint of demi-glace de gibier (No. 61), place it on the corner of the stove, let sinnner, keeping it skimmed till the turnips are done, finish with a little orange-juice, sauce in the centre, glaze the cotelettes and serve.ENTREES. 377 No. 888. 3pigramine de Perdreaux a Vessence de Gibier. Fillet six young partridges, lard six of the fillets, and braise them as for filets de faisans a la Brabant (No. 867), place the other six m a saute-pan well buttered, season with a little pepper, salt, and lemon-juice, saute them gently over a moderate fire, make a thin border of mashed potatoes on your dish, di'ess the six larded fillets first, then the six plain ones to form a crown ; glaze nicely, sauce over with a demi- glace de gibier and serve (see Sauce, No. 61). No. 889. Bpigramme de Perdreaux aux champignons. Proceed exactly as in the last, merely adding thii'ty heads of blanched mushrooms to the sauce and a httle sugar. No. 890. Turban des Filets de Perdreaux a la Perigord. Fillet three young patridges, make hkewise haK a pound of forcemeat from the legs as directed (No. 128), from which make six quenelles with two tablespoons (No. 831); saute your fillets as in the last, plain, then poach your quenelles, make a border of mashed potatoes on your dish, and dress the fiUets in crown, alternately vdth the que- nelles, put three parts of a pint of demi-glace de gibier (No. 61) in a stewpan, reduce it a third, add four large French truffles chopped very fine, with a little sugar, sauce over and serve. No. 891. Turban de Quenelles de Perdreaux a la Berri. Make a pound of forcemeat from the flesh of one or two partridges as directed (No. 123), and with two tablespoons make twelve large quenelles, poach them in wliite stock (see quenelles de volaille, No. 831) and lay them on a clean cloth to drain a moment, make a border of mashed po- tatoes on yoiu: dish, upon Avhich dress the quenelles in378 ENTREES. crown, then put a pint of the sauce veloute de gibier (No. 58) in a stewpan, with half the quantity of white stock, reduce till it adheres to the back of the spoon, then add a tablespoonful of whipped cream, sauce over, sprinkle a few pistachios chopped very fine upon the top of each quenelle and serve. No. 892. Mlets de Canetons Sauvage a I'essence. Wild ducks are best after frosty weather, the middUng- sized ones are the best for entrees. Roast four young ones underdone well wrapped up in vegetables, when done cut the fillets out neatly, and dress them in crown on a border of mashed potatoes, have pre- pared the following sauce: put a spoonful of chopped eschalots in a stewpan with a glass of port wine, the back- bones of two of the ducks and a piece of glaze the size of a walnut, boil two minutes, then add a pint of brown sauce (No. 1) and ten spoonfuls of consomme, simmer a few mi- nutes, take out the bones, skim, reduce it fast till it ad- heres to the back of the spoon, pass it through a tammie into another stewpan, add a little cayenne pepper and lemon-juice, when hot sauce over and serve. No. 893. Filets de Canetons Samage a la Sgrien?ie. Prepare six fillets from three wild ducks as in the last, have six croutons of fried bread (or scippets), chop the livers of the ducks up very fine, mix with a little chopped parsley, pepper, salt, and a small pat of butter, spread some upon each of the croutons, thicker in the middle than at the sides; set them ten minutes in a warm oven and sala- mander, dress them alternately with the fiUets upon a bor- der of mashed potatoes in crown, sauce the same as in the last, with the addition of twenty mild stoned olives just be- fore sei-ving.379 ENTEEES. No. 894. Filets de Canetom Sauvage au jus d'orange. Cook and fillet four wild ducks as in the last, di-ess upon your dish and put them into the hot closet to keep hot with a cover over them; chop up the legs and back very fine and put them in a stewpan with a glass of sherry and a bunch of parsley, boil five minutes, then add a pint of consommee, boil ten minutes, skun and pass through a cloth into another stewpan, reduce to half glaze, then add ten tablespoonfuls of brown sauce (No. 1), a httle sugar, and haK the yellow rind of a large orange, cut in fine strips and blanch five minutes, boil altogether a few mi- nutes, finish with a teaspoonful of juice from the orange, sauce over and serve. No. 895. Filets de Canetons Sauvage au fumee de Gibier. Cook and fillet four wild ducks as before, dress them in crown on your dish and serve with a sauce fumee de gibier over, made from the legs and bones of the ducks as described (No. 60). No. 896. Salmi de Canetom Sauvage aux iruffes. Proceed exactly as for salmi de grouse (No. 876), only cutting up two wild ducks in neat pieces instead of the grouse, but the wild ducks require to be more underdone. No. 897. Filets de Canetom Sauvage a la puree de Grouse. Roast and fillet four wild ducks as before, dress them in crown, and serve with a sauce a la puree de grouse (No. 59) over. Widgeons are rather smaller than the wild ducks, but are dressed exactly the same; care should be taken in roast- ing any kind of water-fowl that it should be rather under- done, and if there is a necessity for warming them in sauce380 ENTREES. when cut up for entrees, care should be taken that they do not boil in it, for it would give the sauce a greasy ap- pearance, and cause the fillets to eat tough and altogether very unpalatable. No. 898. Turban de Filets de Sarcelles a la Moderne. Teal are much smaller than either of the two last, but of the same species, though more dehcate and excellent for entrees. Roast eight teal twenty minutes in vegetables, cut out the fillets, which must be underdone with the gravy in them, have ready half a pound of game forcemeat (No 123), when cold cover each of the fillets very thinly with it, dress them in crown upon a border of mashed potatoes, set them in a very hot oven for ten minutes till the forcemeat is cooked, sauce over vdth a sauce fumee de gibier (No. 60) and serve. No. 899. Turban de Sarcelles a la Toulouse. Roast and fiUet eight teal as in the last, dress them on a border of mashed potatoes, then put eight spoonfuls of game sauce (No. 60), eight of consomme, and eight of to- mata sauce (No. 37) in a stewpan, boil them together a few minutes, add twenty pickled mushi'ooms, sauce over and serve. No. 900. Sarcelles aujus d'orange. Roast six teal as before, cut them in halves, chop off the pinions of the wings, beat them a little and dress in cravm, sauce over with au jus d'orange (No. 17) and serve. Teal may be dressed in any way as directed for the wild ducks.381 ENTEEES. No. 901. Sarcelles a la Bateliere. Bone four teal by cutting the skin through down the back, sepm-ating the skin on each side of it until you have cleared it, lay the bu-d open, take out the back-bone, and with a knife you will find no difficulty in taking out all the rest; half fill them with forcemeat (No. 120) and sew them up with packthread, then put them into a stewpan with three glasses of sherry, a pint of white stock, half a pound of lean uncooked ham, two onions, one head of celery, a bimch of parsley, a little carrot, turnip, two cloves, and a blade of mace; put the cover on the stewpan and place it in a moderate oven for an hour, try with a larding-needle, and if tender they are done; lay them on a cloth to drain, make three croutons of bread each in the shape of a cocks- comb, but a great deal thicker and larger, put three of the teal at the bottom of the dish, and stand a crouton (nicely fried) between each to form six points, place the remaining teal upon the top, and have ready the following sauce : strain the stock the teal was cooked in through a cloth into another stewpan, skim ofi" all the fat, add half a pint of white sauce (No. 7), reduce it till it adheres to the back of the spoon, add a Httle cream sauce over and serve. No. 902. Sarcelles a la macedoine de legumes. Roast four teal in vegetables, cut them in halves, dress in crown on a border of mashed potatoes, and serve with a white sauce macedoine de legumes (No. 98) in the centre. No. 903. Sarcelles a la puree de champignons. Proceed as in the last, but serve with a puree of mush- rooms (No. 54) in the centre.382 ENTJiKKS. No. 904. miets de BScasses a la LucuUus. Roast six woodcocks underdone, take the fillets out care- fully, have ready half a pound of very white forcemeat of chicken (No. 122), cover each fillet all over about the eighth of an inch in thickness, egg them over when done and place them in a buttered saute-pan, cover them with white stock, and simmer ten minutes, drain them on a cloth and dress in crown upon a small border of toasted bread; you- have previously pounded all the flesh from the legs with the trail in a mortar, pass through a sieve, and put it in a stew- pan with ten spoonfuls of game sauce (No. 60) made from the bones, boil until thick, keeping it stm-ed, then take it off the fire and stir in the yolks of two eggs very quickly, stir another minute over the fu'e to thicken, and di'ess in the middle of the dish as high as possible, sauce over with a demi-glace de gibier (No. 61) and serve. No. 905. Filets de BScasses a la Talleyrand. Roast fom- woodcocks, fillet them, cover each fillet Avith forcemeat as in the last, poach them the same, have eight crou- tons of bread the same size as the fillets, and the thickness of a five-shilling-piece, pound the trails from the woodcocks in a mortar, season them lightly, and mix them with the yolk of one egg, spread it upon the croutons (which you have previously fried), give them the shape of a dome, put them ten minutes in the oven, salamander a light colom-, make a thin border of mashed potatoes on yom- dish, dress the fillets half way round, then the croutons, put a pint of game sauce (No. 60) in a stewpan with six spoonfuls of consomme, reduce till it adheres to the back of the spoon, then add six middling-sized truffles chopped very fine with a little sugar, sauce over and serve.ENTttEES. 38B No. 906. Filets de Becasses a Vlmperial. Roast five woodcocks, fillet as usual, siuTound each fillet with the forcemeat, and poach as before, dress them on a smaU border of mashed potatoes, and place a fine dressed cockscomb warmed in a httle stock between each, sauce over with a sauce veloute de gibier (No. 58) and serve. No. 907. Turban de Becasses aux champignons. Eoast five woodcocks, cut them in halves, and di'ess them in crown, breasts upwards, upon a border of mashed potatoes; put a pint of demi-glace de gibier (No. 61) in a stewpan, reduce it, then add forty very fine blanched mush- rooms, with two spoonfuls of thin hquor, boil two minutes, then add a httle salt, sugar, the juice of haK a lemon, and two pats of butter, take it ofi" the fire, shake it round till the butter is melted, sauce over and serve. No. 908. Salmi de Becasses. Roast three woodcocks underdone, and when cold cut them into neat pieces, that is, two wings, two legs, and the breasts; chop the trails from the interior very fine and spread them upon six croutons of fried bread in the shape of fillets, place them in the oven three minutes, and sala- mander lightly; make a game sauce with the bones as di- rected (No. 60), when you have reduced it to a good con- sistency, put in the pieces of woodcocks, cover the stewpan, stand it in the bain marie tiU they are quite hot, then build them up as high as possible on your dish, di-ess the croutons round, sauce over and serve; truffles or mushrooms may be added to the sauce. No. 909. Salmi de Becasses a la Joinville. Roast two woodcocks underdone, cut them up and pro-384 ENTREES. ceed exactly as in the last, make ten quenelles de gihier (No. 123), poach them, lay them on a cloth to drain, egg over with a paste-brush, and roll them in chopped ham and truffles, place them in a dish, which put in the hot closet with the cover over for half an horn-, then put a border of mashed potatoes upon your dish, di'ess the quenelles in crown with the woodcocks in the centre and over, as ele- vated as possible, sauce over with a demi-glace de gibier, dress the croutons round and serve. No. 910. Entree de Becasses a la Comtesse. Roast your woodcocks in vegetables, separate the breasts from the legs, take off the flesh from the legs and pound it in a mortar with the trails, make a pm-ee as for the filets a la Lucullus, then have ready a croustade of bread two inches high, rather oval, and fluted round, not too large for the dish, make an incision round the top a quarter of an inch from the edge, fry a nice colour, scoop out the top, place it on your dish, pour in the puree; you have kept the breasts hot in a stewpan in the bain marie, dress them over the puree vsdth the points to meet in the centre, place two fine dressed cockscombs warmed in the sauce between each breast, and a quenelle upon the top, sauce over with a demi- glace de gibier (No. 61) and serve. No. 911. Becasses a la Berigord. Roast three woodcocks nicely before a sharp fire, put a piece of toasted bread under them whilst roasting to catch the trails, when done cut the toast into three pieces, dia- mond shapes, place them in your dish and place the woodcocks upon them, their tails to meet in the centre of the dish, sauce over as for filets a la Talleyi-and (No. 905) and serve.385 ENTREES. No. 912. Becasses a Vessence. Roast three woodcocks as in the last, dish them the same, and serve with a sauce a I'essence made from some bones or remains of woodcock, as directed (No. 60). No. 913. Becasses a la Financiere. Proceed precisely as in the last, but adding ten blanched mushrooms, ten fine dressed cockscombs, ten small queneUes (No. 123) of game, and as many shces of truffles to the sauce. No. 914. Becasses a la puree. Roast three woodcocks as before, having previously roast- ed one, with which make a puree as directed (No. 59), sauce round and serve. 915. Snipes or Becassines. Snipes may be dressed in any way as directed for the woodcocks, but being much smaller you cut them in halves instead of filleting them, dress round to form a crown, only you require more of them. No. 916. Plovers. Plovers, hke other game, require to be kept a short time before they are cooked; they are dressed similar to wood- cocks, although not quite so recherche; when well dressed they are very dehcious. No. 917. Filets de Phviers a la Marie Antoinette. Roast eight plovers well wrapped up in thin slices of bacon, and tied up in paper; when done leave them to get cold in the bacon, then cut out the fillets as for woodcocks, 25380 ENTREES. and stick tlic pilon of the leg at the pomt of each fillet; let a piece of the bacon remain over each fillet, egg and bread- crumb twice over, and fry them a nice colom* in salad oil; chop up the legs, bones, and trimmings of the birds, and put them in a stewpan with a glass of sherry, an onion in shces, and a Httle raw ham minced; place it on the fire a couple of minutes, then add a pint and a half of good white stock; place it again on the fire, and let it simmer half an hour, skim, and pass it through a cloth into another stewpan, reduce to a thin glaze, then mix a httle arrow-root with three spoonfuls of white stock and the juice of half a lemon, pour it into the sauce, keeping it stirred till boiling, dress the fillets in crown on a circle of mashed potatoes, sauce round, and serve very hot and crisp. No. 918. Filets de Pluviers auos truffes. Proceed with the fillets exactly as in the last, make ten croutons of bread, upon which put the traU, see woodcocks (No. 905), dress the fillets round alternately with the crou- tons, put a pint and a haK of demi-glace de gibier (No. 61), and a giU of consomme in a stewpan, reduce to half, then add six middling-sized truffles in shces, and a little sugar, sauce over and serve. No. 919. Filets de Pluviers aux cliampignons. Proceed exactly as in the last, only using mushrooms instead of truffles. No. 920. Fillets de Pluviers a la Begence. Roast three plovers in bacon as before, and when done have three larded lambs' sweetbreads nicely cooked, di-ess them alternately on a border of mashed potatoes in a ring, put half a pint of demi-glace de gibier (No. 61) in a steAv- pan boil it a minute, then add twelve stoned French ohves.ENTREES. 387 season Avitli a little sugar, sauce m the centre, glaze the sweetbreads, and serve. No. 921. Fate chaud des Fluviers. Make a paste as directed for pate chaud, see Flancs (No. 618), build up a crust with the hand or in a small round mould to match your dish, then fiUet twelve plovers, season them with a Httle pepper, salt, and chopped eschalots, cut some thin shces of fat bacon, vsdth which Hne the inte- rior of your crust, which has stood a good hour after build- ing to get firm, lay the fillets romid, placing a thin sHce of fat bacon between each; the pate must not be more than three inches in height when filled; add four spoonfuls of game sauce, and a few raw mushrooms, cover with a thin sheet of the paste, and ornament the exterior to your fancy, forming a lid with a round piece of puif paste (No. 1132); bake it an hour and a half in a moderate oven, take off the hd and as much fat as possible from the top, add half a pint of game sauce (No. 60) quite hot, and serve either with or without the hd. No. 922. Quails. The chmate of this comitry is fax from being advantageous for these dehcate bu-ds, which migrate even from France at the end of the autiunn; the quails in this comitry must be fed in confinement to fatten, before they are fit to be eaten, wliich destroys much of that beautiful flavoiu- they possess in France, where they feed in their native vineyards. No. 923. Cailles en macedoine de legumes auxfeuilles de vignes. Truss eight quails, fold each one up in a vine-leaf, and then in a thin shce of bacon, nm a skewer through them sideways, which tie upon the spit; then have some vege- tables of all kinds, cut up in thin slices, which moisten with388 ENTREES. a little oil, have then some sheets of paper, upon which lay the vegetables, lay the quails on the spit over them, breasts do"wnwards, cover well with the vegetables, fold the paper round, and fie them up; roast from twenty-five to thirty minutes before a sharp fire; you have prepared a border of vegetables as for Chartreuse (No. 604), but not to stand more than two inches in height; fill it with stewed cabbage and boiled French beans, turn it out on your dish, and dress the quails upon it, their tails towards the centre and their breasts outside; make a pyramid of boiled green peas on the top, and serve a white jardiniere sauce (No. 98) round. No. 924. Cailles aux petits pois. Proceed exactly as above with the quails, but make the stand entirely of green peas nicely boiled; have ready a pint of stewed peas (No. 1079) with which you have put the quails a few minutes, fill the centre with them, dress the quails round as above, and pour the remainder of the peas in the dish. No. 925. Turban des Cailles a la Financiere. Roast eight quails in vegetables, but without the vine- leaf and bacon, make a border of forcemeat as for ris de veau a la Turque (No. 673), stand it in your dish, then make a ragout financiere (No. 50), but us&g game sauce instead of brovm sauce; put your quails five minutes m the sauce, then dress them round on the border of forcemeat; o-arniture in the centre, sauce over, and serve. & N-0. 926. Turban des Cailles aiix concombres. Roast seven quails as before, cut each one in halves lengthwise, have also fourteen pieces of cucumbers the same size, stewed as No. 103, dress them alternately with the halves of quails upon a border of mashed potatoes, andENTREES. 389 serve with a sauce a la puree de concombres (No. 105) iu the centre. No. 927. Turban de Cailles a la puree de truffes. Proceed as above, using ten quaUs instead of seven, and serving with a puree de trufiPes (No. 53), omit the cucumbers. No. 928. Quails for Vol-au-vents, or Fate chaud. Roast and cut them in halves if for vol-au-vents, put them in a white financiere sauce (No. 50), but if for pates chauds, in a brown financiere twenty minutes before serving. • No. 929. Cotelettes des Pigeonneaux a la Parisienne. Procure sk large pigeons, fiUet and form them into cote- lettes (see cotelettes de perdreaux. No. 885), stuff vnth a httle forcemeat of fowl, egg and bread-crumb them, and fry a hght yellow colour in oil; fry also twelve croutons of bread the size and shape of the cotelettes, and di'ess them alternately upon a border of mashed potatoes, to form a crown; sauce with a puree de concombres (No. 105) made brown instead of white, and serve, glazing the cotelettes lightly. No. 930. Cotelettes des Pigeonneaux a la Financiere. Proceed as in the last, only serving with a ragout a la financiere (No. 50) instead of the puree. No. 931. Cotelettes des Pigeonneaux aux pois verts. Proceed as before, and serve with a pint of green peas, prepared as for cotelettes de mouton aux pois (No. 713)! They may also be served with a sauce aux trufies (No 51) ItaUenne (No. 30), jardiniere (No. 100), or sauce piquante (iNo. 27).ENTREES. 390 No. 932. Cotelettes des Pigeonneauw a la Suliman. Prepare the cotelettes as usual, season them well with chopped parsley, do. eschalots, and a little pepper and salt; procure a pig's caul, cut into twelve pieces, in each of which fold a cotelette, place them in a saute-pan, and fry them in oil a nice colour, but rather underdone; dress on a border of plain boiled rice, which you have made hot and seasoned with a Httle salt and pepper, and moistened with a piece of butter; serve very hot vsdth a sauce a I'lndienne (No. 45) in the centre. No. 933. Turban of Larks a la Parisienne. Larks when in good order and fat are excellent for entrees. Bone eighteen fine ones with a penknife, lay a little forcemeat of game (No. 123), in the interior of each, with a few fillets of truffles, sew them with packthread, giving them their first shape as near as possible; cover the bottom of a stewpan with thin slices of fat bacon, then lay in the larks, which again cover with sheets of fat bacon; add a few vegetables of each sort in shces, with a bunch of parsley, two glasses of Madeira wine, and half a pint of consomme; cover the stewpan, and place it in a moderate oven; when the bkds feel tender they are done; take them out, and lay them on a dish; lay another dish over, and press them hghtly till cold; pass the stock they were cooked in through a cloth into a stevrpan, and skim off all the fat; use it with the bones of the larks to make a sauce (No. 60); when the sauce is of a proper consistence, add twenty small quenelles (No. 120), put it in the bain-marie to keep hot, pull all the packtln-ead from the larks, and put them m a stewpan with a little consomme, wai'ni them gently, have ready a border of forcemeat as for tm-ban de caillesENTllEES. 391 (No. 925), dress the larks in crown upon it, garnitui'e in the centre, sauce over, and serve. No. 934. Turban of Larks aux Jines herbes. Proceed with the larks as in the last, dress them on a border of forcemeat, and make the sauce the same; put a tablespoonful of chopped onions in a stewpan, with half a one of oil, fry a light yellow colour, keeping them stirred; add one of parsley and two of chopped mushrooms, with which mix a quarter of one of flour, and twelve of the sauce; stir it over the fire twenty minutes, season with a little pepper, salt, and nutmeg, take it off the fu-e, a,nd stir in the yolk of an egg very quickly; pour all over the larks, let them get cold, egg and bread-crmub over, and place them twenty minutes in a moderate oven, salamander a nice colom- and sauce as in the last, omitting the queneUes, and pom-ing round instead of over; serve very hot. No. 935. Turban of Larks aux quenelles. Prepare eight larks as for a la Parisienne; have also pre- pared eight quenelles de gibier (No. 123) of the same size as the larks, dress them alternately upon a border of mashed potatoes, and serve with a sauce an fumee de gibier (No. 60) over. No. 936. Fate Chaud de Mauviettes. Prepare a crust as for the pate chaud de pluviers, bone twenty-four larks, stuff" them with forcemeat, but do not sew them, fold a shce of fat bacon round each, fiU yom- pate, and proceed exactly as in No. 623. No. 937. Pate Chaud de Mauviettes gratine. Proceed as above, but when you have filled the pate have haff a pound of forcemeat (No. 120), with which mix someENTREES. 393 chopped eschalots, do. parsley, and do. mushrooms; cover all over the larks, and again cover that with shces of fat bacon; bake an hour and a half; when done take off the lid, and the fat bacon, salamander the forcemeat a nice brown, and serve with some clear strong consomme (in which you have boiled the bones of the larks reduced to a demi-glaze), poured over. No. 93S. Vol-au-vent de Mauviettes. Bone twelve or eighteen larks according to the size of your vol-au-vent, which you have previously made (see No. 1137), stuff them hghtly, place a leg-bone in the breast of each, and form them in the shape of a pear; place them in a stewpan covered with slices of fat bacon, add a glass of sherry, Avith a little stock and a few vegetables, stew them gently one hour, then in another stewpan have a pint of sauce veloute de gibier made as du-ected (No. 58) from the bones of the larks; take the larks out of the braise, drain them on a cloth, then put them into the sauce, with ten blanched mushrooms; when hot fill the vol-au-vent, and serve directly.393 OF THE ROASTS FOU SECOND COURSE, In London the poultry and game are sent in so nicely prepared for cooking that any remark upon the method of killing, plucking, and di^awing them would appear almost unnecessary, but remembering the manner that I have seen poultry and game mutilated in some parts of the country, I have been induced to give the following simple directions. The best way of killing poultry is to take the bird by the neck, placing the thmnb of the right hand just at the back of the head, closing the head in your hand, your left hand holding the bu-d, then press yom- thumb down hard and pull the head and neck contrariwise, the neck will break instantaneously, and the bkd will be quite dead in a few seconds, when hang it a short time by the legs for the blood to flow into the head, which renders the flesh much whiter. In France we usually kill them by cutting the throat close to the head; both methods are good with regard to the whiteness of the flesh, but I prefer the Eng- hsh method, not being so barbarous. To pluck either game or poultry have the bird upon a board vsdth its head towards you, and pull the feathers away from you, which is the direction they lay in ; many persons puU out the feathers in a contrajy direction, by which means they are likely to tear the skin to pieces, which would very much disfigure the bird for the table. To draw poultry after it is well plucked, cut a long inci- sion at the back of the neck, cut the neck bone ofi" close to the body of the bird, but leave the skin a good length over.394 ROASTS. then take out the thin skin from under the outer with the crop, cut an incision under the taU just large enough for the gizzard to pass tlirough, no larger, then put your finger into the bird at the breast and detach all the intestines, squeeze the body of the bird and force out the whole from the incision at the tail; it is then ready for trussing, the method of doing which will be given in the various receipts throughout tliis series. The above method of drawing poultry is equally applicable to game. To make a gravy for roasts well butter the bottom of a convenient-sized stewpan, upon which lay three onions in thick sHces, over which lay a few slices of lean bacon and three pounds of lean beef; place it over a good fij-e and add two cloves and six peppercorns, with a few sprigs of pars- ley ; when the onions begin to brown stir the meat round with a wooden spoon, keeping the onions still at the bottom, stir occasionally until the onions are well browned but not burnt, then fill up with two quarts of water and half an ounce of salt; when boiling place it at the corner of the fire, skim and let it simmer an hour, skim again, pass it through a cloth into a basin and use when required. The simplicity of roasting is so generally known by all classes of cooks that but very little attention is often paid to it; the simplicity of the arrangement for roasting being such as with many to leave it to attend to itself; but I shall here in a very few words show my readers the facility of roasting well and with little trouble, which I consider of the greatest importance, especially in a dinner-party where, after the entrees have been well degusted, nothing refreshes the palate or disposes it better for the second course than a fillet or cut from the fillet of a well-roasted capon, chicken, or some description of game, but if badly roasted it would lose its eSect. In roasting much depends upon the fire which requiresROASTS. 395 to be solid and to throw out a great heat, as it is always easy to keep anything a good distance from it, but a bad fii-e would be the destruction of anything placed before it, for if you had a couple of good fowls or a brace of birds, and were to put one down before a slow fire and the other before a brisk, you would be so astonished at the difference in flavoiu- that did you not know different you would declare that one was of an inferior quaHty; I am also very much against the improper manner of basting, which would give any birds or poultry the appearance of having been first roasted and afterwards stewed; I have never during the last six years suffered any bird to be basted in my kitchen with the exception of rubbing a piece of butter over the breast of poultry or game as soon as the skin becomes set; any kind of game or poultry is done when you perceive a great smoke arising from it, and if not taken up imme- diately you lose the flavour and the bird its appearance, for instead of going to table nice and plump it will present a mean and shrivelled object, loudly bespeaking the cook's inattention, unless it has been kept in a screen or hot closet, by the party having kept the dinner waiting. By following the above simple method great benefit wiW be derived in this simple branch of the art, but the most universally useful, for I thmk we may say without hesita- tion that near two thirds of om- annual and volatile food is daily roasted, which has made me so desirous of impressing the necessity of attention, which is all that is required to roast well. No. 939. Boast Turhey au Cresson. Por second course a turkey should be very small and well trussed, the breast thrown out, the sinews of the legs cut and the feet chopped off, run a skewer tln-ough the pinion of the right wing, passing it beneath the thigh-bones and through the pinion of the left wing, run yoiu- spitROASTS. through the body, passing it between the skewer and the back-bone, and tie the legs upon a rest (made by folding a thick piece of carrot about two inches long and one broad in buttered paper) upon the spit to keep the legs upon a level with the thighs; have a good clear fire, put down the turkey at a short distance from it, five minutes after it is down rub it over the breast a minute with a piece of butter Avhich being hard and cold you have pressed into a large wooden spoon, (made with a very long handle, by which means you can rub it over the bird whilst turning without approaching too near the fire,) about a quarter of a pound would be sufficient for six or eight; then place it a Httle fm-ther back, (according to the heat and size of your fire,) the butter will form a froth over it; if the skin should bhster you must put it still fm-ther from the fire, keep it of a nice gold colour, and when done serve with gravy in the dish and garnish with nice fresh water-cresses. A turkey weighing five pounds will require about thi'ee quarters of an hour to roast, and so on in proportion, but one of that size is quite large enough for a roast second course; but if before a smaU fire an hour and a quarter, or if a larger tm-key an hour and twenty minutes. No. 940. Turkey Barded. Truss a turkey as described in the last, have a square piece of fat bacon the eighth of an inch in tliickness and large enough to cover the breast, upon which tie it with pack- thread ; roast and serve as in the last, taking away the pack- thread but leaving the bacon; it moU require a little longer to roast as the bacon prevents the fillets from being done so soon. No, 941. Turkey Larded. Lard the breast of a young turkey as you would a noix de veau (No. 565), (only cut the bacon finer), to facilitateUOASTS, 397 the larding, dip the breast in a stewpan of boihng water, or pass it a minute over the flame of a charcoal fire to set th^ skin to the flesh, place it down to roast but do not butter it over the larded part; serve with gravy and water-cresses in a dish as before. No. 943. Dindonneau truffe a la Ferifford. This dish is sometimes served as a roast in the second course, but very seldom in this country. Proceed exactly as for the remove (No. 524), but choose a very small tur- key, for what would look noble in the first com^se would appear vulgar in the second. No. 943. Dindonneau farci. Have a young turkey, but do not let its weight exceed six pomids, have ready one pound of veal forcemeat with which mix six trufiles in small dice and half a pound of fat hvers previously blanched, season well, then stufl" the breast and interior of the turkey, fasten the skin over to the back- bone, (but not too tight,) with a packing-needle and string, and roast in vegetables as for the removes; about a quarter of an hour before it is finished take the vegetables from it, and place it closer to the fire to take a nice gold colour; serve with a httle gravy in the dish. It will require one hour to roast. No. 944. Boast Turkey a VAnglaise. Have a young tm-key, stuff the breast with some veal stuffing (No. 127), roast it plain as directed, and serve with a Uttle gravy and water-cresses; a few small country sau- sages broiled very crisp should be handed round the table. No. 945. Turkey Poults. Turkey poults, so called from being used when about the size of a large poulet, are trussed with the legs tmiied398 ROASTS. at the knuckle and the feet pressing upon the thighs, the neck is skinned and the head fixed under the wing; roast them the same as directed for turkeys, about twenty-five minutes or half an hom-, according to theii- size, and in the same modes, but they are usually served, one larded and the other barded, with gravy and water-cresses in the dish. No. 946. Cliapon roti au cresson. Roast and serve a capon in any of the ways directed for turkeys, roast of a nice gold colour and serve with water- cresses round; a capon weighing five pounds requu-es about three quarters of an hour to roast. Poularde au cresson exactly as above. No. 947. Poularde a la Bemidoff. Put a pint and a half of sauce bechamel (No. 7) in a stewpan, place it over the fire and reduce until becoming thick, keeping it stirred, then add twenty dressed cocks- combs and twelve small French truffles, season with a little pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg, take it off the fire and stir in two yolks of eggs very quickly, stir it another minute over the fire to set, and put it away to get cold, then have a nice poularde trussed with the legs turned inside, cutting off the feet, which stick into the apertures where you tm'ned in the legs, fix them in with string and a pack- ing-needle, as also the legs and wings, using no skewers, and giving the poularde a handsome appearance, take out the breast-bone, stuff the poularde with the above preparation, roast it in vegetables as for the removes; when nearly done take away the vegetables and give it a nice colom-; have ready the following sauce : put a pint and a half of white veal stock in a stewpan, vdth six spoonfuls of bechamel sauce, and reduce it to a white demi-glace, then add a httle sugar and four spoonfuls of good cream; sauce round and serve.399 ROASTS. No. 948. Poularde roti a la Stdel. Roast a nice poularde in vegetables as above, when nearly done take away the vegetables, let it turn a few minutes before the fire, then rub it all over with butter, have some bread-crumbs and flour mixed together in a flour- box, which shake over the poularde by degrees whilst roast- ing, it will form a white crust over, take it up and serve with a demi-glace de volaille (No. 6) under. No. 949. Foulet roti. For a dmner of four entrees you would require two fowls, but not too large, truss and roast them as directed for a tm^key, judging the time requhed according to their size, serve with gravy and watercresses; they may be larded, barded, or served in any way mentioned in the foregoing re- ceipts ; a fowl weighing two pounds and a half would require half an horn' roasting, or three quarters of an hour if larger. No. 950. Spring Chickens I ■ Are served like fowls, generally plain roasted, but they may be lai'ded or dressed a la Stael (No. 948) as the pou- larde. Be particular in tying the legs upon paper to the spit, as directed for the tm'key, as it so improves their appearance when roasted. About twenty-five minutes would be sufficient to roast them. No. 951. Spring Chickens a la Forrester. Truss them as directed for poularde (No. 947), but roast them quite plain, not very brown; have two good handfuls of very fresh water-cresses, pick off all the stalks, and one of small salad mixed well together, and completely cover the chickens with it, serve a Uttle gravy on the dish with some separate, and a boat of bread sauce.400 llOASTS. No. 952. Geese. A green goose roasted plain and served with a little gravy is generally sent up for second courses; but if the larger ones axe used they must be stuffed with sage and onions, but very few would choose such a thing for a roast second course, whilst green geese in their season are great favourites, truss them by cutting off the leg at the knuclde, and the wing at the first pinion, fixing them at the side vrith skewers to throw the breast up; a full-grown goose will take one hour to roast, but a green one not more than half an hour. No. 953. Buchlings. Make a very favourite roast in the London season, they must have good fillets, white and plump, and requu-e to be .a little more underdone than any other description of poultry; if too much done the fat catches and gives a rank flavour to the flesh, besides causing the fillets to eat diy, they are usually served plain roasted for a second course, but r have served them differently upon some occasions for the sake of variety, but it must be with a very thin sauce and one that invigorates the palate, although they never can be better than when served plain roasted, I shall here give one or two deviations ; truss them by twisting the legs at the knuckles and resting the feet upon the thighs, cut the wing off at the first pinion, and run a skewer through the bird, fixing the pinion and legs with it, place them upon a spit and roast twenty minutes. No. 954. Canetons au vin de Madere. Roast them plain, but just before they are done shake a little potato-flour over them mixed with a little common floiu-, dress them on your dish, and have ready the follo\raigROASTS. 401 sauce : put tlu-ee spoonfuls of chopped olives and one of chopped eschalots in a stewpan with two glasses of Madeira wine, reduce it a minute, then add half a pint of demi-glace (No. 9) with a Httle cayenne, sugar, and six spoonfuls of con- somme, reduce it till it adheres hghtly to the back of the spoon, then add the juice of half a lemon, sauce under and seiTC. No. 955. Canetons au jus d'orange. Roast two ducldings plain, and serve with a sauce au jus d'orange (No. 17) over. No. 956. Canetons au jus d'eschalotte. Roast as in the last and serve v^dth a sauce au jus d'es- chalotte (No. 16) under. No. 957. Guinea Fowls. These birds must be very young, for being naturally very dry, they are not eatable if more than twelvemonths old; they are generally larded or barded, and served plain roasted, rather well-done, they are trussed hke the common fowls, and requu-e nearly tlu-ee quarters of an hour to roast. No. 958. Pea Fowls. These magnificent birds make a noble roast, and when young are very excehent, they are larded, plain roasted, and served with the tail stuck into them, which you have pre- served, the head with its feathers being left folded up in paper and tucked under the wing; roast about an hour and a half, take the paper from the head and neck, dress it upon your dish with water-cresses and a border of tulips or roses round, and the gravy separate in a boat. In large famihes where these volatUe demi-gods are plen- tifal, I would recommend them to have one of the finest peacock's tails mounted in silver, and made to easily fix 26403 UOASTS. upon the dish, by means of a shde, in which the fowl is served, it would look splendid upon table, and remind us of the ancient Roman banquets, where Lucullus, Tiberius, and Horace used to feast and sing their love. No. 959. Figeons Are trussed as a fowl to roast, and served plain roasted, with a little gravy in the dish, or roasted with a vine-leaf upon the breast, over which you have tied a square piece of bacon, they will take a quarter of an hour to roast, but serve them vdth the bacon and leaf over; my new way of cooking them is to cut up a head or two of celery into very thin layers, lay some on the breast of each, and tie pieces of fat bacon over, roast and serve with a httle gravy as usual; this method has been much approved of. No. 960. Quails. Eight quails are sufficient for a dish, they should be killed if possible forty-eight hours before dressing, draw and truss them by cutting off the wings at the first pinion, leaving the feet, and fixing the pinion of the wing and legs with a very small skewer; cover the breasts with vine- leaves, over which tie a thin square shce of fat bacon, then pass a long skewer through the pinions and thighs of each, tie them on a spit and roast them nearly twelve minutes at a convenient distance from a sharp fire of a nice gold colour, serve with a little gravy in the dish. No. 961. Cailles a VEloise. Prepare eight quails with the bacon and vine-leaves as before, then have a pig's caul, cut it into eight square pieces and fold a quail in each, roast them a minute longer than in the last, and serve with a very thin sauce bechamel (No. 7) which you have finished with a spoonful of wliipped cream under.403 ROASTS. No, 962. Pheasants For second course are usually served plain, you require two of tliem for a dish in a foiu* entree dinner, truss tliem the same as a fowl, leaving the head and neck on, which skin, and fix round at the side with the skewer you have fixed the wing and legs with; a middhng-sized one will take about half an hour before a brisk fire, they are also good larded, or one larded and the other barded. No. 963. Faisans a la Galitzine. Roast a couple of pheasants, and when done cut the breasts in shces without detaching them ; put six spoonfuls of consomme of game in a stewpan, with a piece of glaze the size of a walnut, boil two minutes, then add two pats of butter, a little cayenne pepper, and the juice of half a lemon, pour over and serve. 964. Grotcse Are generaUy served plain roasted upon a piece of toast, with gravy separate in a boat; they may also be served a la Rob Roy, as directed for the Remove (No. 548), but two bu-ds wiU be sufiicieut for a roast, truss them as you would a fowl to roast. No. 965. Grouse a la Bonny Lassie. Truss them rather roughly, roast them before a brisk fire rather underdone, if young a quarter of an hour will be suffacient, and serve them upon toast, crisp and well-but- tered, made from brown bread, and sei-ve with a rather tlnck and boiled melted butter (No. 71) over Grouse may hkewise be served for a change with a thin sauce a 1 essence de gibier, with which you may add a few truffles or mushrooms, but this wiU of com-se much dependKOASTS. 404 upon the first course, or, at least, of what the first course consists, although, as I have before stated, they are better plain roasted; yet in some parts of the country where they are plentiful a change may be deshed. Ptarmigans Are Swedish birds, but many are found in Scotland, much of the same species as grouse, and are very plentiful about the month of February; they are dressed precisely in the same way as the grouse. A curious anecdote of the cele- brated Charles the Twelfth, relating to what he used to call a fete, or repas champetre, gave me the idea of inventing the following roast, and calhng it Ptarmigan a la Charles the Twelfth. Kill them by accident, pluck them immediately, draw them, and save the feathers and interior, put three gims in bivouac, and hang the ptarmigans on one side with string or green twigs, hght a wood fire beneath, upon which put the feathers and interior, let remain, tm-ning them the whole time, till done, and serve them au naturel, with a good bit of salt sprinkled over them; many people would object to this method, but the flavour is excellent to a scientific palate, and more so to a hungry stomach. The anecdote is as follows : crossing a momitam m Sweden with a smaU part of his army, the King was unex- pectedly attacked by a numerous body of Russians, and a skirmish took place, but the King was as usual victorious; having lost several of his iraves, a search was made for them in the heather, where they found one hundred and fifty-one killed and thirty wounded, bemg fifteen of the enemy, two Swedish officers, one heutenant, seven privates, one huncked and thirty ptarmigans, and twenty-five black cocks, all killed by accident, the birds were, by commandKOASTS. 405 of his Majesty, plucked and roasted, to the no small satis- faction of his troops, who were short of provisions at the time; so great was the treat that they hoped his Majesty would often repeat the fete champetre. No. 966. Black Cocks and Grey Hens. These birds, hke pheasants, must be well kept; they are excellent eatmg, and are usually served plain roasted, trussed hke grouse, but may be served a la Stockholm as follows : lard one side of the breast, and cover the other side with vine-leaves and fat bacon, which tie on, roast from half to three quarters of an hour according to the size, and serve with toast under, and gravy in the dish. No. 967. Partridges Make a very nice roast, truss them in the same manner as du-ected for grouse, obtain them young if possible, the old ones although notthe best for stewing eat much better dressed that way; fom- will be sufficient for a roast, put them upon the spit, and when the fkst course goes to table place them before a sharp fire fifteen minutes, or according to the size, and serve with a gill of clear gravy upon the dish and bread sauce in a boat; you may also lard or bard them with fat bacon, or lard two and bard two, allowing them a little longer to roast, it will give them a very nice appearance. No. 968. Dun Birds Are very seldom sent to table, but plain roasted is the usual way, and a little or no improvement can be made; serve them in a dish with gravy and a lemon separate, not too much underdone. No. 969. ¥ild Bucks and Pintails. Must not be too old, they require keeping two or three406 ROASTS. days or longer before they are dressed; they are trussed by twisting each leg at the knuckle, and resting the claws on each side of the breast, fixing them with a skewer run through the thighs and pinion of the wings (No. 953), rub the liver over the breasts, and roast them from fifteen to twenty minutes rather brown, serve three for a ruast, as the breast is the only part eatable, a little gravy on the dish and lemons separate. No. 970. Wild BucJcs a la Chasseur. Truss them as before, rub the liver over, and roast un- derdone, cut the breast in slices without detaching them, catch the gravy that escapes in a saute-pan, add a piece of glaze the size of a walnut, place it on the fire, and when hot add four pats of butter, haK a glass of port wine, a little mignonette, pepper, and the juice of half a lemon, shake altogether over the fire, and when the butter is melted sauce over and serve. Although I have directed that they should be roasted underdone they must have no appearance of rawness. No. 971. Widgeons Require but very little keeping before they are dressed, if well roasted they are nearly equal to the wild duck, and are served the same; it requires rather more than a quarter of an hour to roast them to perfection. No. 972. Teal Make a beautiful roast as well as entree, and when in good order are very delicious, after a frost they are generally very fat; truss them with care, leaving the breast the same as ducklings, six will be sufficient for a dish, keep them a very Hght brown colour and rather crisp, serve with a little gravy and water-cresses, if approved of, serve lemon separate; these birds being tender are easily cut in halves by theROASTS. 407 carver, to one half of which he can assist each guest; they will reqiiii-e about eight minutes roasting. No. 973. Teal aujus d'orange. Roast as above, and sei-ve with a sauce au jus d'orange (No, 17) over them, or they may be served with a sauce au jus de bigarade (No. 18), or a demi-glace de gibier (No. 61). No. 974. Plovers Are good when well kept, and excellent as a roast, truss, but do not draw them, and put six on a skewer, set some toast underneath to catch the trail which may escape from them whilst roasting, about ten minutes is sufficient; cut the toast in diamond shapes, place them in your dish with the plovers over, and gravy separate in a boat, they may also be served barded with the vine-leaf as for pigeons or quails, but the bacon must be very thin, and when roasted quite crisp, black plovers are dressed in the same way, but the golden ones are the most delicate. No. 975. Of the WoodcocJc. These birds are one of the greatest luxuries, they must not be too fresh or too stale when dressed; they are fit for cooking when they look black between the legs and the feathers become rather loose; pluck and truss them with the legs twisted at the knuckles and the feet pressing upon the thighs; bring the pinion of the wing to the thigh, you have previously skinned the head and neck, bring the beak round under the wing, which pass through the pinions of the wings and thighs, place about four upon a skewer, tie them upon a spit and roast them from ten to fifteen mi- nutes before a sharp fire with a piece of toasted bread beneath to catch the trail that falls from them; when done cut the toast in diamond shapes, each piece large enough toROASTS. 408 stand a bird upon, dress them slantwise on your dish with gravy sufficient to Hghtly moisten the toast, and some sepa- rate in a boat; they may also be barded with a piece of bacon tied over the breast not too thick, but they will require rather longer to roast. The beak may be made to form the skewer. No. 976. Woodcocks a la Stdel. Truss as before, put them down to roast, when down two minutes rub butter over, and shake flour gently but continually over them till done, it wiU give them quite a new appearance, and are by many preferred to plain roasted; serve them on a toast as before. No. 977. Woodcocks a la fumee de Gibier. Roast as before and serve with a sauce fumee de gibier (No. 60), which you have finished with a pat of butter. Although I recommend that this dehcate bird should be served plain roasted, yet it maybe served with advantage as above directed. No. 978. Woodcocks a la Piedmontaise. Roast as before then cut fom- large truffles in shces, fry them a few minutes in oil, then pour off the oil, add ten tablespoonfuls of sauce fumee de gibier and a little sugar, boil altogether two minutes, dress the bhds on toast, sauce over and serve. No. 979. Larks Are very dehcious little birds, about twelve or fifteen are sufficient for a dish; they are usuaUyroasted plain, or with a thin slice of fat bacon tied over them, and served with a Httle gravy in the dish and crumbs of fried bread round; they requii-e about eight mmutes to roast them well.ROASTS. 409 No. 980. Snipes Are somewliat similar to woodcocks, and dressed exactly the same, but you require eight or ten for a dish; they do not require more than ten minutes roasting. No. 981. Hares. One is sufficient for a roast, skin and truss it nicely, stufP the belly with a good veal stuffing, sew it up, then put it on the spit, rub butter over the back and shake flour over it, roast it about forty minutes before a sharp fire, but that depends upon the size of course; serve them with plain gravy in the dish and cmTant jelly separate. They are also served with a sauce poivrade (No. 32), or sauce au jus d'groseillfis (No. 36), they may also be larded. No. 982. Leverets Are plain roasted and do not require stuffing, nor so long roasting being smaller; they are usually served with plain gravy, but may be served with either of the sauces mentioned in the last; you require two for a roast. They wiU take from twenty-five to thirty minutes roasting. No. 983. Babbits. You require two for a roast; they may be stuffed with a good veal stuffing or forcemeat of veal, plain roasted, and sei-ved with a httle gravy on the dish. Wild rabbits are dressed precisely the same; they may be stuffed with a forcemeat of game instead of veal, both require butter and flom* rubbed over them, and will take from twenty to twenty-five minutes roasting.410 SAVOURY DISHES FOR SECOND COURSE. These dishes are divided into three classes, and in Eng- land all belong to the second course, but in France they are very frequently served in the first with a dinner of four or SIX entrees, that is, one or two of them, and are very com- mendable in the summer months; for breakfasts, luncheons, or suppers, they are invaluable. The large pieces, such as pates of game, galantine of turkey, poulardes, boars' heads, &c., are in smaller dinners placed at the bottom of the table to face the roasts, but in a dinner of six or ten entrees they axe served as flancs. All others, such as small galantine of game a la voliere, pates, chaud froids, salads, mayonnaise, &c., by maldng them smaller may be served as savoury entremets, in a corner dish. THE boar's head Has in all times ornamented the tables and even the walls of ancient epicures ;—a princely dish is a boar's head, its ferocious appearance giving it such noble dignity when brought to table that it has not only been recognized as one of the first and most recherche dishes of antiquity, but has been immortahzed by some of the oldest masters; never has an antique banquet been represented without the intro- duction of either a black or white servant in the act of bringing or placing a boar's head upon the table of a wealthy amphytrion. Sneiders, Weenix, and Rubens, haveSAVOURY DISHES. -^'^A often traced it upon tlieir immortal canvasses, which were eagerly bought by the greatest epicureans to embelhsh then- banqueting halls, and to show their children, from gene- ration to generation, how their great forefathers used to Kve. No. 984. Of the Boars Head a V Antique. Prociu-e a head with as much of the neck attached to it as possible, singe it well, holding it over a charcoal fire, and keeping it moved, then wipe it with a cloth, scrape well with a knife without scratching the skin, and place it on a cloth upon its skull, open it with your knife from one end to the other, and bone it very carefully without piercing the skin, leaving no flesh whatever upon the bones, bone the two necks of the boar, which cut into long fiUets two inches square, place the head in a sahing-tub, over which put ten pounds of salt, one of brown sugar, ten bay-leaves, half an ounce of peppercorns, a quarter ditto of cloves, six blades of mace, eight minced onions, twenty sprigs of thyme, ten ditto of winter savomy, and two shced carrots; mix aU well together and leave it eight or ten days, (rubbing the head every other day,) until well salted, then take it out, dry it well upon a cloth, lay the head straight before you, skin side downwards, have ready ten pounds of forcemeat (No. 1377) but using the flesh of the wild boar instead of veal,* with which cover the interior of the head an inch in thickness at the thinnest parts, roU the fillets cut from the neck in pieces of the rind, (both salted with the head and dried upon a cloth,) place a layer of them lengthwise in the head, with * The flesh of the wild boar being rather difficult to obtain in tliis country, the head being the only part considered worth presenting, the flesh of the common pig may be used for the forcemeat and interior, as well as the rind, which must be selected in pieces as large as possible; a bottle of common port wine is an improvement in tlic pickling.SAVOURY DISHES. 413 a long piece of fat bacon half an inch square between each, sprinkle a Httle chopped eschalots, pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg over, and place here and there about a pound of the best preserved truffles, with one of very green pista- chios blanched and skinned, and continue filhng with force- meat and the other ingredients until you have used the whole, finishing by covering forcemeat over; join the two cheeks together with the above in the interior, sew it up with packthread giving it the shape of the head as much as possible and fold it in one or two large thin cloths leav- ing the ears out and upright; braise as foUows : put haK a pound of butter in a large braising-pan or stock-pot, over which put fifteen pounds of trimmings of pork or knuckles of veal, eight onions, two carrots, four turnips, eight bay- leaves, a tablespoonful of peppercorns, twelve cloves, ten sprigs of thyme, ten of marjoram, four blades of mace^ a bottle of bucellas wine, and four calves' feet, place it upon a sharp fire stirring it occasionally until the bottom is covered with a clearish glaze, then add six gallons of water and a pound of salt, when boiling draw it to the corner of the stove, skim, and put in the head the ears uppermost and let simmer seven or eight hom-s, perhaps more, according to the size and age of the boar, but the better plan would be to try it with a trussing-ueedle; if tender it is done; skim the stock, in which leave the head until half cold, when take it out, partly undo the cloths, and tie it again tighter if possible, and press it in a cover or upon a baking sheet with thi'ee flat pieces of wood, one at each side with a weight against them, and one upon the top between the ears, on which place a fourteen pounds weight, let it remain all night until quite cold, when take it out of the cloths, detach the thread it was sewn up with, cut a piece an inch in thickness from behind the eai's, (from which part it must be carved in as thin slices as413 SAVOURY DISHES. possible,) it will have a marbled appearance, trim the head a little, setting the ears in a proper position, glaze it with a bromiish glaze, form the eyes with a little lard and round pieces of truffles, and the tusks with pate d'office (No. 1137) baking them, have some very fresh tulips and roses, which stick tastefully in the ears and some around, but leaving space to carve, garnish boldly with croutons aspic made from the stock clarified as duected (No. 1376). A black hog's head may be dressed exactly the same with the greatest success ; pig's heads also, but more sim- plified, proceeding as for galantine (No. 996), but having the meat pickled. A plain pickled boar's head is also very much thought of, and is a noble dish: singe the head as before, but leaving a few bristles round the eyes and ears, tie it up in a cloth, and braise as before until quite tender. It must not be boned. The head of the young boar or marcassin is very dehcate dressed in either method, so likewise are the legs, necks, shoulders and saddles, pickled and roasted, or braised and served with a poivrade or any other highly-seasoned sauce, cotelettes may also be cut from the necks. The following is the German method of making a sauce to be eaten with boar's head : cut the rind (free from pith) of two Seville oranges into very thin strips half an inch in length, which blanch in boUing water, drain them upon a sieve and put them into a basin, with a spoonful of mixed English mustard, four of currant jeUy, a little pepper, salt, (mix well together,) and half a pint of good port wine. No. 985. Bibs of Beef a la George the Fourth. Beef, as for entrees, offers but very little variation for second course dishes, the ribs, fillets, and tongue being the414 SAVOURY DISHES. only parts to be recommended; and even these are more fit for luncheons or suppers. Take a piece of ribs of beef with five bones, well covered, but not too fat nor too large, bone it and lard the tliick part with long pieces of fat bacon and lean ham or tongue, well seasoned with pepper, salt, and chopped parsley, then lay the beef on a dish, with, a little pepper, salt, fifty pep- percorns, six blades of mace, ten eschalots in sUces, half a pint of Madeu-a, and a little thyme and bay-leaves, let remain thus five days in winter, and but three in siunmer, turn and rub it every day; when ready to dress clear away the ingredients, roll and tie it up, then put two pounds of lean ham cut in dice in a large stewpan, with two ounces of butter and six large Portugal onions, pass gently over a slow fire, keeping stirred, put in the beef, let it braise gently until becoming a good colour, add water sufficient to reach half way up the beef, with half a pint of Madeu-a, two calves' feet, a good bunch of parsley, and twenty pieces of carrots, turned the size and shape of young carrots, let it remain over a slow fire and place some live charcoal upon the lid, let stew gently four or five hours, or until tender, which try vdth a trassing-needle, but take out the carrots and onions as soon as done; when done take out the feet and skim ofi" all the fat, leave it in the stock till three parts cold, then take it up, place it in a deep dish-cover, take ofi' the string, and strain the stock through a sieve over it, then lay another dish upon the beef, upon which place a twenty-eight pounds weight, and leave it till quite cold, warm the stock and pass it through a napkin, season a little more if required, and place it in a mould upon ice, dress the beef on a dish, glaze it nicely, dress the onions at each end and the carrots in pyramid at each side, cut the stock when fiim in crou- tons, with which garnish the beef tastefully and serve jSAVOURY DISHES. should the Stock be thick clarify it as directed for con- somme (No. 134); it is not, however, required to be very clear. To carve it must be cut,in sHces crosswise. No. 986. Bibs of Beef a la Bolinghrohe. Proceed with the beef just as in the last, but put a roll of veal stuflang (No. 127) in the centre, the carrots and onions only being required for flavour are cut in small slices; press yom- beef as in the last, but thicken the stock with a little roux to form a thin brown sauce, with which make a good sauce piquante (No. 27), which flavour shghtly with a httle scraped garhc, place the beef in your dish, and the sauce upon ice, when nearly cold and ready to set pour it over, sprinlding the top with grated crust of bread, with which you have mixed some chopped gherkins, it is then ready to serve. No. 987. Bilet de Bceuffroid a la BoUmienne. Prepare and lard a fillet of beef as directed for the Re- moves (No. 417), then put it in a basin in which you have put the following marinade : fom- onions in slices, one carrot, a head of celery, ten sprigs of thyme, eight bay-leaves, two cloves of garhc, and a little parsley, which pass in half a pound of butter in a stewpan over a sharp fire five minutes, then add one quart of vinegar, one of water, two ounces of salt, and half a pound of brown sugar, with twenty pepper- corns, ten cloves, and two blades of mace, bod half an horn', but do not put in the fillet till the marinade is cold, let re- main a week, and when wanted put it in a braising-pan with one quart of the marinade and two of veal stock or consomme (No. 134), place it over a slow fire, and stew gently for two or three hours, depending upon the size, take it out and place it in a dish to cool, with a httle stock over it, skim the remainder and pass it through a napkinSAVOUET DISHES. 416 into a stewpan, place it upon the fire, reduce it to half, skim it well, add a little clarified isinglass (No. 1382) sufficient to set it as a delicate aspic, six spoonfuls of tomata sauce, and a little redciu-rant jelly; having trimmed and dished the fillet, sauce over, when quite cold garnish with a border of plovers' eggs, and decorate three silver atelettes, by placing a fine dressed cockscomb at the top, a fine truffle beneath, and a plover's egg, ornamented with truffles at the bottom, stick them in the fillet, one slanting at each end, and the other upright in the centre, it is then ready to serve. No. 988, Filets de Bceuffarcis a la Dr. Johnson. Trim a nice smaR fillet about fifteen inches long, and cut dS. the thickest part of the thin end, then with a long knife cut a deep incision down the thin side, lengthwise, which fill with a pound of veal forcemeat (No. 120), with which you have mixed some ox-tongue, truffles, and hard-boiled whites of eggs, cut into good-sized fillets, season with a little chopped eschalots, then cover the ffllet vnth leaves of celery as large as you can get them, over which also lay slices of cooked ham, and envelope the whole in thin slices of fat bacon, tie it up with string, then place it in a braising- pan with two calves' feet, and half cover it with good stock, place it on a slow fire and stew it two hours and a half, or until tender, which try with a trussing-needle, take it up and leave it on a dish to get cold; then pass the stock through a sieve into a stewpan, and place it upon the ice to set, when firm take off aU the fat, wash the top Avith hot water to take off" all the grease, then clarify it as duected for aspic (No. 1370), and pass it tlnwgh a napkin, trim the fillet at each end lightly, leaving the top untouched, when quite cold have ready a long mould and pom' a little of the clarified stock into it half an inch in depth, place it on the417 SAVOUTIY DISHES. ice, and when set ornament it with fillets of truffles, tongue, and whites of hard-boiled eggs, wliich cover carefully with more of the clarified stock half an inch thick; when qaite set lay in the fillet of beef, the top downwards, and fill the mould with the remainder of the jelly; when set tiun it out of the mould upon a dish by dipping the mould in warm water, garnish round with stoned ohves and the remainder of the clarified stock; you may also stick atelettes on the top, ornamented tastefully. If you cannot procure a mould place the fillet upon a dish, and garnish it tastefully with croutons of aspic. No. 989. Cold Ox Tongues. Dress them as described for fiancs in first com*se, but as soon as they are cooked skin them and cut ofi" nearly all the root, truss it of a good shape by placing the root end against some fixture, and running a fork through the middle of the thin part into the board; when cold trim it. Although I disapprove of ornamented hot tongues for first course, I must confess that a bold design carved upon a fine tongue is pleasing to the eyes on a luncheon or supper-table, and even for dinners in a second course, although seldom used there; the design must be left entirely to the taste of the artist, but one of the most simple and yet tasty designs, is the imitation of a long escalope shell, commencing at the thin end and terminating at the thick; glaze well with light glaze, a sheet of aspic a quarter of an inch in thickness may be laid over it, which will produce a pleasing efiect, dress it upon your dish with croutons of aspic round. Tongues for second course, as for the first, are seldom served by themselves, but are usually intended to be eaten with veal or poultry upon the table. 27418 SAVOURY DISHES. No. 990. Tongue a la Lancret Boil, truss, and trim the tongue as above, di-ess it on yoiu' dish, and have ready the following garniture : boil gently foui^ very fine cauliflowers, not too much done, when cold cut three of them into smaU bunches, have ready a good sauce mayonnaise a la gelee (No. 1371) in which you have mtroduced a httle whipped cream, dip each piece of cauli- flower in the sauce and lay them on a dish, which set upon the ice, dip also the whole cauhflower in; when the sauce has set firm place the cauliflower upon the root of the tongue with an atelette, dress the bunches round the tongue, variegating them with a few stoned oUves ; the tongue may also be carved in any design your fancy may dictate and nicely glazed. No. 991. Tongue a la Printaniere. Trim and carve the tongue when cold in the shape of a palm-branch; have some aspic (No. 1370) flavoured rather strongly with tarragon, have also twenty young can-ots and twenty middle-sized onions, dressed as directed in No. 428, let them get cold in their glaze, place the tongue in the centre of the dish, glaze lightly, dress the vegetables alter- nately round upon a thin border of fresh butter, and just as the aspic is on the point of setting pour it over the vege- tables, which will look quite transparent, set the dish on ice till ready to serve, a few green peas if in season may be thrown over the onions. No. 992. Tongue a la Comedienne. Truss and trim the tongue as usual, carving a comic mask upon it, glaze lightly, and place it upon yom' dish, have ready prepared the following garniture : put two table-SAVOURY DISHES. 419 spoonfuls of chopped eschalots in a stewpan, with one of Chili and one of common vinegar, a piece of glaze the size of a walnut, a pint of white sauce (No. 7), half ditto of to- mata sauce (No. 37), with double the quantity of aspic gelee, reduce over a sharp fire, keeping it stirred till be- coming rather thick, then add a spoonful of capers and the same of chopped gherkins, oil a saute-pan hghtly, pour in the sauce, set it on the ice just before serving, turn out on a cloth, cut it in croutons and garnish tastefully. No. 993. Cold Hayn. Procure a very nice Westmoreland ham of about nine pounds in weight, soak it ten hours in cold water, and simmer three hours* in plenty of water; when done take it out and let remain until cold, when cut oflF the skin as thinly as possible (but without leaving the marks of it), leaving a piece about two inches and a half broad upon the knuckle, which either festoon or Vandyke, carve the fat into the form of a shell, branch, or any other design your fancy may du-ect, glaze hghtly, and serve garnished with aspic (No. 1370), chopped and in croutons, or with any of the garni- tm-es directed for the tongues. No. 994. Fillet of Veal a la Pontoise. Procm-e a small leg of veal from a cow calf, cut off the knuck e so as to leave the fillet about eight inches in height, take the bone from the centre, have ready some good veal stuffing (No. 127) m which you have introduced some lean chopped ham and chopped eschalots, season rather high and put 1 m the place the bone came from, envelope the fillet with large ti,m slices of fat bacon, tie it up weU with string wrap It m three or four sheets of oHed paper, place it on a eo:idn.;^^:ssr:;-^^^^^^^ ^'SAVOURY DISHES. 430 spit and roast three hours before a moderate fire, take up, tie it tight in a napkin, place it on a dish to cool, put an- other dish upon the top, upon which place a fourteen pounds weight, let remain till cold, then take off the paper and bacon, the fillet will be quite white, cut a slice off the top, glaze the sides, and serve with a thin sauce tartare (No. 38) round it. No. 995. Mllet of Veal a la Cardinale. Cut a fillet as in the last, have also ready boiled a nice ox-tongue very red; you have also prepared about tw^o pounds of good veal forcemeat (No. 120), run about twenty pieces of fat bacon right through the thickest part of the fillet, surround the tongue (trimmed accordmgly) with the forcemeat, and place in the centre of the fillet, but not to pro- trude out of it, surround it with shoes of fat bacon and roast it in vegetables (see Removes, No. 417); when done place it on a dish till cold, without taldng away the paper and vege- tables, when cold take it out; trim and glaze as in the last, dress on your dish, and garnish with croutons of aspic (No. 1370), cut according to taste, surmount it with six small atelettes, upon each of which you have placed a crawfish (No. 380), truffle, and quenelle de veau (No. 120), it is then ready to serve; the atelettes must be fiixed upon the rim of the fillet, leaning outwards to give it a graceful ap- pearance, some of them, however, must be taken out to carve. No. 996. Loin of Veal au Jamhon. Roast a nice loin in vegetables, in which let it remam till cold, have also a good ham nicely boiled, from which cut twenty-four croutons, the size and shape of small fillets of fowls, dress the veal in the centre and the ham round; fiU a large saute-pan with aspic (No. 1370), which set upon421 SAVOURY DISHES. the ice, when fii'm dip the bottom of the pan in warm water and turn the jelly in one piece over the lorn, have also some chopped, with which garnish the ham. No. 997. Loin of Veal a la Dame Blanche. Roast a nice loin of veal as in the last, and when cold have ready the following sauce: put six tablespoonfuls of tarragon vinegar in a stewpan with a blade of mace, six cloves, six peppercorns, one bay-leaf, and two ounces of raw ham; boil altogether three minutes, then add two quarts of sauce bechamel (No. 7) and a pint of aspic (No. 1370), reduce till rather thick over a sharp fire, keeping it stirred, pass it through a tammie into a stewpan, which place upon the ice, keep it stirred, and just as it is begin- ning to set stir in half a pint of whipped cream, pour over the loin, which stand upon the ice tiU the sauce is firm, cut six mild Indian pickles into pieces of equal sizes, which strew carelessly over the top. No. 998. Galantine de Veau au Jambon. Bone a breast of veal about fifteen inches in length, cut off the end where the shoulder was taken out, and cut out some of the meat in large pieces from the other, so as to leave the skin about haK an inch in thickness ; then cut the meat in strips the thickness of your finger, and as long as possible, with a corresponding number of strips of fat bacon and cooked ham; have also ready three pounds of forcemeat (No. 1377), lay the sldn of the breast downwards, open on the dresser, spread some of the forcemeat down the centre half an inch in thickness, leaving good room at the ends and sides, then put a layer of the strips alternately, season with pepper and salt rather high, cover again with forcemeat, then again a layer of the strips, cover the whole with forcemeat, then cover the flaps over and sew it up tight, fold it in a sheet of422 SAVOURY DISHES, paper and tie it up in a cloth, place it in a stewpan, cover with good stock (or put it into a stewpan in which you are preparing a stock), place the stewpan over the fire, and when boiling draw it to the corner, where let simmer three hours and a half, then take it up, lintie the cloth, and turn the galantine over, from which take off the paper, fold again in the cloth, but be careful to keep the sewn side upper- most, place it in a deep dish surrounded with the stock, place a flat dish upon it, upon which stand a fourteen pounds weight; let remain till quite cold, take it up, trim, draw out the string it was sewn with, cut off the ends, dress it in the centre of your dish, garnish with chopped aspic (No. 1370) in a roll, round outside of which place crou- tons of the same, and upon the top of the galantine dress smaller croutons of aspic, brown and white alternately. Gherkins quartered lengthwise may be used for the interior of the galantine. The aspic may be made from the stock the galantine is cooked in, by making an addition of two calf's feet, and clarifying it as directed. No. 999. Pate de Veau au Jambon. Have ready buttered a large raised pie mould,* make also a paste with five pounds of flour mixed with a pint and a haK of hot water in which you have dissolved a pound of fresh butter, work the paste very smooth with the hand; when cold line your mould with it three quarters of an inch in thickness, and bringing it more than an mch above the top, reserving the trimmings for a cover, line the inside of the pie with forcemeat (No. 1377) half an inch in thickness; then have ready larded Avith fat bacon four pounds of lean veal, which you have cut in pieces the length of the interior of your pie, and two inches square, * If no mould, put lialf a pound less butter in tlie paste and raise the pie ■witb your hands, making a bold ornament round and upon the top.SAVOURY DISHES. 423 which place in a stewpan, with a quarter of a pound of butter, well seasoned with pepper, salt, and four bay-leaves, and pass them twenty minutes over the fire until well covered with theh own glaze; use them when cold, pouiing the gravy from them into the pie; have also two pounds of cooked ham, fat and lean, which cut as near as possible of the same size as the veal, lay two pieces of the veal at the bottom of the pie with a piece of ham between, cover with the forcemeat, and proceed in like manner tiU you have filled the crust, finishing as a dome above the edges of the pie, which raise gracefully with your fingers, and crimp with a pah of paste pincers, after having placed on a cover of paste a quarter of an inch in thickness, making a hole at the top; then lay an oval piece upon the top to form a lid, which ornament with leaves or as fancy directs, bake five hours in a slow oven, then cut off the lid, lay an oval piece of tin (made for that purpose) upon the meat, upon which place a fom' pounds weight, let remain till the pie is cold, then take out of the mould, glaze the top and garnish with chopped aspic and croutons of the same; serve either with or without the cover. By filling the pie wdtli strong gravy upon taking it from the oven, shaking it well, you will have no occasion to open or press it to carve it, then it must be cut m thin slices through crust and all. No. 1000. Cotelettes de Veau a la St. Garat. Cut six nice cotelettes from a neck of veal, of a nice shape, lard them tb'ough and through the fillets with thickish pieces of fat bacon and cooked tongue, place them in a saute-pan, and cover with a good veal stock, stew gently over a slow fire till tender, lay them flat in a dish, pour their stock over, then lay another chsh upon them and press lightly till cold, have six moulds the shape and large enough to contain a cotclctte, have also some aspic jelly (No. 1370),424 SAVOURY DISHES. pour a little in each mould about a quarter of an inch deep, place them on a dish of ice, and when partly set form a rosette or star upon each, with fillets of hard-boiled white of egg and truffles, cover them with a little more aspic to keep them in their places, and when set firm lay a cote- lette upon each, fill the moulds up with aspic and place them on the ice till firm, then dip them in hot water and turn them out on your dish, one to follow the other in a circle, if no moulds place them in a saute-pan, cover them with aspic, and when set turn them out upon a cloth by dipping the bottom of the pan in warm water, and with the point of a knife cut them out of equal sizes. No. 1001. Cotelettes de Veau a la Princesse. Cut, braise, and press six cotelettes as above, make a good sauce mayonnaise a la gelee (No. 1371), and when getting stiff dip each cotelette in so that it is well covered, and place them in a dish upon the ice, dress salad in pyramid in the centre of a flanc dish, against which lay the cotelettes with a small paper friU upon the bone of each, garnish round with croutons of aspic (No. 1370). No. 1002. Biz de Veau a la Chinoise. Lard sis small sweetbreads as directed for the entree (No. 671), which braise, keeping them a very light colour, when cold have some very white aspic (No. 1370), and six small plain round moulds; cover the bottoms of the moulds a quarter of an inch deep with aspic, when pai-tly set gar- nish romid with rows of stoned olives and pickled mush- rooms, or pieces of beetroot, boiled carrots, tmiiips, &c., according to fancy, and make a star or rosette of whites or 1 hard-boiled eggs in the centre, cover with a httle more of the aspic and when set firm place in the sweetbreads (topsy- turvy) and fill up with aspic, have some rice well boiled435 SAVOUEY DISHES. and dry, (see No. 139), put it in a stewpan, with six pats of butter and some pepper and salt, when the butter is melted mix weU together and place it to get cold on the ice, dress it in pyramid in the centre of a flanc dish, dip the mo'ulds in warm water, and turn them out in an oval chcle round the rice, placing a fine cabbage lettuce upon the top. No. 1003. Cotelettes de Mouton braise aux navets. Cut, lard, and braise twelve mutton cotelettes as directed (No. 733), press them in their stock Hghtly like the veal cotelettes, when cold trim them of a nice shape, you have prepared a good poivrade sauce (No. 33), to which you have added half a pint of aspic (No. 1370), and when nearly cold dip in the cotelettes, holding them by the bones, until they are quite enveloped, dress them (when quite cold) upon a thin border of fresh butter, garnish with croutons of aspic, and serve a ragout of turnips (No. 93) cold in the centre. No. 1004. Turhan de Cotelette de Mouton a la Fermiere. Braise, press, and trim the cotelettes as in the last, but instead of a poivrade reduce a good maitre d'hotel sauce (No. 43), to which add haK a pint of cream; when nearly cold dip the cotelettes in the sauce, place them on the ice tin somewhat firm, dress them in crown as in the last, then prepare a salad with half a beetroot, one cucumber, one lettuce, season with a httle oil, vinegar, pepper, salt, chopped tarragon and chervil; mix all weU together, dress in pyramid in the centre of your cotelettes, which garnish with shces of cucumber and serve. No. 1005. Carhonade de Mouton. Proceed as directed (No. 577), and when the carbonade is cold cut it in shces, which trim and dress as dii'ected in either of the two foregoing receipts.426 SAVOURY DISHES. No. 1006. Ballottins d'A^neau a la de Bazan. Take two very white small shoulders of lamb, bone them completely, cut off some of the meat at the thickest part o as to give only a quai'ter of an inch in thickness, season the mside with a little mixed spice, pepper, salt, and chopped eschalots, have ready some forcemeat as dkected (No. 120), cover the shoulders half an inch in thickness with It, then lay alternately small fillets of cooked tongue fa bacon, and lamb cut from a loin, season with pepper and sa^t, cover with the forcemeat, then another layer of the Mets, then forcemeat, fold it over and sew it up, givin- it the form of an egg; when both done tie them in napfins and braise m good stock, tiy when done with a larding- pm, if tender take them out, press aU ways ahke to keep the shape of eggs, when cold take them out of the napkins draw out the siring and dress the two on one dish in a slantmg dii^ection, stick an atelette at each end, have ready some aspic (No. 1370), or it may be made from the stock by adding two calf's feet to it, cover the bottom of a saute- pan with some of it, let set on the ice, then arrange fifty pickled mushi'ooms and fifty stoned olives over, fiH up the saute-pan and place it on the ice, when set cut'it in crou- tons, with which garnish the baUotins. No. 1007. Ballottins a la Catalanaise. Prepare them exactly as in the last; when cold put a quart of sauce bechamel (No. 7) in a stewi^an, mth a glass of white wine, half a glass of vinegar, and half a pint of consomme, reduce till rather thick, add a little isinglass dissolved in water and pass it thi-ough a tammie into a clean stewpan, place the stewj^an upon the fire, and when boiling add a quarter of a pound of maitre d'hotcl butter (No. 79), in which you have introduced a tablespoonful ofSAVOURY DISHES'. 4-27 chopped tarragon and chervil; when the butter is melted finish with a Httle cream, place it by to cool, and when upon the point of setting pom it over the ballottms, place them upon the ice till the sauce is quite firm, then garnish tastefully with croutons of aspic (No. 1370) and place an atelette at each end. No. 1008. Cotelettes d'Agneau a la GeUe. Take the chine bones from two necks of lamb and saw the ribs rather short, the length you would require your co- telettes, lard the fillets and roast them in vegetables, do not take them out until quite cold, cut your cotelettes from them of a nice shape, reduce a good demi Proven^ale sauce (No. 34), with which envelope each cotelette, when cold and the sauce is set dress them in crown upon your dish with chopped aspic (No. 1370) in the centre and croutons of the same round. No. 1009. Cotelettes d'Agneau froid a la Princesse. Prepare two necks of lamb as above, from which cut the cotelettes, glaze, dress them in crown the reverse way, sauce over with a very white mayonnaise sauce (No. 1374), sprinkle chopped gherkins and chopped ham over. No. 1010. Galantine de JDinde. Pluck and draw a turkey, bone it as directed for the pou- lardes (No. 514), spread it open upon the dresser, have ready some forcemeat as directed (No. 1377), spread some down the centre of the turkey, (you have previously tm-ned the legs inside,) half an inch in thickness, have ready some long strips of lean veal the thickness- of your finger and the length of the turkey, have also strips of lean cooked ham and fat bacon, lay them alternately upon the forcemeat, season with pepper and salt, then cover with a "layer of^'^^ SAVOURY DISHES. forcenieat and so on till you have as much as the bird will contain, finishng with forcemeat, pnll the flaps over and sew It up with packthread, tie it up in a napkin and roll it ^ press It of the same proportions, put it in a stewpan with a ew vegetables of eaeh sort, and cover with good stock, (or stew it in a veal stock you may be preparing for a white sauce or soup,) stew two hours and a half or till tender, which try with a larding-piu, take it up, untie the string, open the cloth, see that the part where it is sewn up IS at the top, wrap it again in the napkin but tie It only at each end, set it in a deep dish surrounded with some of the stock, set another dish upon it and press it tiU cold with a foiu-teen pounds weight, make an aspic, using some of the stock it was cooked in as directed (No. 1370), dress the galantine upon a dish, surround it with the aspic chopped and in croutons, and form a star of aspic upon the top, or garnish in any other design your fancy may dii-ect. No. 1011. Galantine de JDinde auwfoies gras. Proceed exactly as above, using fiUets of rabbits instead of veal, and interspersing eight fat Hvers of poulardes in the interior. No. 1012. Galantine de Dinde a la Voliere. Bone a very young turkey, and proceed exactly as in the last, using two ounces of pistachios, blanched and skinned, and half a pound of truffles cut into thick ffllets, instead of the livers, when stuffed and sewn up roll it very tight in a cloth, which also tie very tight, especially at the tail, which requires to be made so much nan'ower; stew as be- fore, when done take it out of the napkin, see that the part where it is sewn shall be at the bottom, tie it again in the napldn, but only at the ends, lay it in a deep dish siu-- rounded with the stock it was stewed in, place a dish slant-SAVOURY DISHES. 439 wise upon it (to press the tail thinner), upon which place a ten pounds weight; when cold take it from the napkm, draw out the string and place it upon a dish; you have saved one of the legs of the turkey, cut the foot off an inch and a half below the knuckle, with which form the head and neck of the bird; should the leg of the bnd not be of sufficient length make it higher by fixing it upon a wooden skewer, place it at the thickest end of the galantine, covermg it with some of the forcemeat (which you have blanched and mixed with a little hot glaze), make of the size and as nearly as possible in imitation of the real head and neck, stick the two claws of a convenient-sized lobster in the sides for wings, and with the tafi of the lobster form the tail of thebkd; surround it with chopped aspic (No. 1370) in rolls, over which lay thin sHces of it to imitate waves, and sm-round with croutons of the same; it is then ready to serve. No. 1013. Pate de Binde au blanc de Volaille. Bone a small turkey and line the interior with forcemeat (No. 1377), you have prepared a mould as for pate de veau (No. 997), but using pate a fine, or pate a dresser (Nos. 1135,1136), instead of the pate there directed, the interior of which also line with forcemeat, trim a nice red ox-tongue (cooked), cut it about the length of the turkey, cover with thickish sHces of fat bacon, roll it up in the turkey, which place in the pie, cover with a slice of fat bacon, and again with forcemeat in a dome, finish the pie and bake as di- rected (No. 997); make a stock with the bones of the turkey, with which make a sauce as directed (No. 57), do not press the meat in the pie, but when three parts cold pour in the sauce, put it in the larder till quite cold, and serve either with or without aspic (No. 1370) on the top. Galantines may also be made of geese (when young) or^'^^ SAVOURY DISHES. pates, byfoUoMHiigthe receipts for the galantines or pte of tiirkey andaddmg a Httle sage and onL to the foreemeat Poulardes, capons, and fowls are also used for galantines m either of the ways directed for turkey. No. 1014. Galantine de Poularde a la Persane. Make a galantine as directed (No. 1008), have ready some grated cmst of bread, with which mix an ounce of chopped pistachios; when the galantine is cold glaze it well and throw the cnunbs and pistachios aU over, have ready some aspic (No. 1370), put a Httle in a plain oval mould about half an mch in depth, when set form a rosette of hard-boiled whites of eggs and truffles, by cutting them with cutters; cover with a little more jeUy, so as to make It an inch and a quarter in thickness, the mould must not be qmte so large an oval as the galantine; when the aspic is set turn it out of the mould upon the top of the galan- tme, and precisely in the centre, dress also croutons of aspic around, and stick an atelette at each end, upon each of tvhich you have placed a crawfish and a small hard-boiled egg, shelled and ornamented with wreaths of truffles. But galantines may be ornamented in several elegant ways, entirely depending upon the taste of the indivi- dual; for instance, the aspic may not only be cut in dif- ferent shaped croutons, but you may have them variegated, (see aspics;) besides the number of tasty designs which may be worked with egg, truffle, pistachios, anchovies, and vari- ous things of that description with which aspics may be ornamented; but in all cases let neatness be your object, and avoid confusion or multipHcity of colours. With the remains of a galantine of any description you may make an excellent and elegant dish, by cutting twenty pieces the size and shape of fillets of fowl; put some aspic a quarter of an inch in depth into a large saute-pan, standSAVOURY DISHES. 431 it on the ice to set, then form twenty stars, or rosettes, with truffles, lay a piece of the galantine over each, which again cover with aspic ; when firm clip the pan in warm water, and tmn out its contents upon a clean cloth, cut out each fiUet with a cutter dipped in hot water, dress them in crown round your dish upon a thin border of anchovy butter, have ready a salad prepared thus : half a dressed beetroot cut in slices, a sliced cucumber, the white of two nice lettuces, and six fiUets of anchovies, season with a httle oil, vinegar, pepper, salt, and chopped tarragon and chervil, mix well together, dress it in pyramid in the centre of the dish, dress a border of hard-boiled eggs around upon the top of the galantine, and finish the top with chopped aspic, the galantine may also be cut as above, and dressed plain with the salad m the centre, and garnished round with croutons of aspic. No. 1015. Pate de Volaille aux truces. Line a raised pie-mould with pate fine (No, 1136) as di- rected, but you will not require so large a mould; line the pie with forcemeat (No. 1377), you have previously boned a small fowl, which stuff as for galantine a la voliere (No. 1010), seasoning it rather highly, but it will not requii^e sewing up ; having filled it, place it in your pie, cover with forcemeat, forming a dome, finish the pie as directed for pate de veau, bake two hom-s and a haK in a slow oven, take it out, cut off the lid, lay a sheet of tin upon the meat (made for that purpose), upon which place a seven pounds weight, let remain until cold, then take your pie out of the mould and serve with croutons and chopped aspic (No. 1370) upon the top. No. 1016. Poulardes a la Mazar/ran. Procure two nice poulardes, which roast in vegetables, (with which you have mingled two glasses of sherry,) as4'^^ SAVOURY DISHES. for the removes in first course, when done take them up and keep them in the vegetables till quite cold, which wiU keep them white; you have previously boiled, trussed, and carved a branch of laurel or palm upon a tongue (No. 988), fix an elegant Greek croustade of bread at the head of the dish; you have previously made two quarts of sauce becha- mel a la creme (No. 56), very savoury and well reduced; when three parts cold dip the poulardes into it with a fork, take them out quite enveloped with the sauce and put them in the larder till cold, then dress them on yom- dish their tails to the croustade, their breasts protruding outwai-ds, place the tongue between, the root facing the other end of the dish; you have prepared thi'ce atelettes with a crawfish, cockscomb, and truffle upon each, stick one upright in the croustade, and the other two in the root of the tongue, glaze the tongue nicely, and garnish round with bold crou- tons of aspic (No, 1370) of a very hght colour. No. 1017. Poulardes a la Banquiere. Prepare two poulardes and tongue as in the last; you have reduced a quart of good demi-glace (No. 9), with a pint of sauce tomate (No. 37) and a pint of aspic (No. 1370), keeping it stirred; when about three parts cold dip in the poulardes, place them on your dish and pour the remainder of the sauce over, let get cold, then place on the tongue and croustade with the atelettes garnished similar to the last; you have previously procured thirty fine cockscombs, thirty button mushrooms, as many small truffles, as many smaU quenelles (No. 120), and two throat-breads cut in as many slices; when quite cooked have ready a quart of bechamel sauce (No. 7) well reduced with half a pint of aspic, add a gill of whipped cream, and when tlu'ee parts cold dip the above garniture into it, one piece at a time, and lay them on a dish in the ice, when set rather firm garnishSAVOURY DISHES. 433 the poiilardes very tastefully with them, placing here and there the heart of a young cos lettuce. No. 1018. Poulets Printanier a la Santa Cruz. Prociu-e four spring chickens nicely trussed as for boiling, lard the breast of each with cooked tongue and truffles to form a cross, tie them in oUed paper and roast, leave them in the paper tiU cold; you have also boUed two Russian ox tongues, spht each one in halves lengthwise and trim them neatly to give them the shape of small tongues, pre- pare also a croustade of bread in the form of a pyramid, eight inches in height and three in width at the bottom, place it in the centre of your dish with an atelette upon the top, place a chicken resting upon the breast, tail uppermost, at each side upon a little cold mashed potatoes, and the tongue at the four corners, pour a red sauce mayonnaise (No. 1373) over the chickens but not to cover the cross, glaze the tongues Ughtly, and garnish round the edges with rolls of chopped aspic. No. 1019. Poulets Printanier a la Princesse Boy ale. Prepare your chickens and tongues as in the last, but do not lard them, dish them the same, make a border of plo- vers' eggs round, placing little heads of cos lettuce between, sauce over the chickens with a very white mayonnaise sauce and hghtly glaze the tongues. No. 1020. Poularde a la Guillaume Tell. Procure a fine poularde, bone it carefully, season the interior with chopped eschalots, pepper, and salt, cover with a little forcemeat (No. 120); you have previously boiled a tongue, when cold cut off the root, trim and cut it in large dice, which mix with forcemeat and stuff the poularde with it, cover over the flaps and sew the poularde 28^^'^ «AV0UIIY DISHES. in its original shape, tie it up in a napkin and braise it m good stock, to which you have added two calf's feet, stew two hours and a half, take it up and press it lightly] when cold draw out the packthread, reduce the stock to a demi-glace but keep it as clear as possible, procm-e a mould large enough to contain the poularde, and an inch higher, place it on the ice, poiu- in a little of the stock a quarter of an inch in thickness, when it sets throw in some truffles and hard-boiled whites of eggs cut in dice, then lay in the poularde, which cover with the remainder of the stock, when set firm dip the mould in warm water and turn it out. on your dish, ,garnish round with chopped aspic and croutons, and stick three atelettes ornamented upon' the top, two slantingly at the ends, and one upright in the centre. No. 1021. Chaud froid de Poularde. Cut a nice capon or poularde into two fillets, two good wings, two legs, and two pieces of back, lay them in luke- warm water one hour to disgorge, wash well, then put them in a stewpan, cover with two quarts of good veal stock, add two middling-sized onions, with a clove stuck in each, a bunch of parsley, and a blade of mace, set on the fire till boiHng, then set it on the corner, skim, and let simmer very gently nearly an hour; take them out, and drain them upon a cloth, then in another stevrpan make a white roux (No. 7), as for white sauce, with two ounces of butter, and when partly cold add the stock to it; boil well, keeping it stirred aU the time; if too thick, add a little more good stock; but it requires to be rather thicldsh; add a little sugar, four pats of butter, and a gill of cream; put the pieces of poularde in a deep dish, with thirty button onions, which you have previously peeled and stewed in a little white stock, pass the sauce through a tammie over, a,nd letSAVOUBY DISHES. 435 them remain till quite cold, di-ess a little salad upon a flanc dish upon which di-ess the pieces pyramidically formmg small pyramids here and there with the onions, and placmg a smaU sprig of parsley upon each, garnish with croutons of aspic (No. 1370) cut rather bold. No. 1022. Claud froid de Poularde a la Pembroke. Proceed as above, adding twenty button muslirooms with the onions you have chopped, a good-sized truffle, and a piece of very red tongue, which sprinkle over each piece as you dish them up. . No. 1023. Chaud froid de Poularde en mayonnaise. Prepare as above, dress in a bordure upon the salad, sauce over with a mayonnaise a la gelee (No. 1377), and place a large tmffle, Avith a cockscomb upon it, at the top. This dish may also be made with the remains of poulardes from a previous dinner, by cutting them in neat pieces and dipping them into a good bechamel sauce (No. 7), well reduced and half cold; when the sauce is set, proceed as before. No. 1024. Filets de Poulardes a la Nesselrode. Take the four fillets from two poulardes, as directed (No. 792), lay them in a saute-pan with plenty of butter, season with a little pepper, salt, and lemon-juice, and saute them gently over a slow fire; when done place them on a dish, with another dish upon them, till quite cold, then with a thin knife split each fillet into two; have ready a quart of good bechamel sauce (No. 7), add a pint of white stock, in which you have stewed the bones from the poulardes, reduce again to a quart, then stir in a Kaison of one yolk of egg, mixed with two tablespoonfuls of cream; stir over the fire half a minute, then pass it through a tammie; dip each430 SAVOURY DISHES. fillet in the sauce, and lay them, when perfectly enveloped, upon a dish till cold; you have previously soaked and boiled two Russian pickled tongues; when cold cut eight pieces from them the size of the fillets, which glaze lightly; dress a border of eggs (hard boiled) upon a flanc dish, which tastefully ornament with small fillets of anchovies upon the top of each piece of egg, and rings of beetroot around, surround it with croutons of aspic, fill the centre Avith some salad nicely seasoned, dress the fillets and tongue alternately upon the top in crown, and sauce mayonnaise (No. 1374) in the centre. No. 1025. Filets de Poulardes a la Bavigote. Fillet three poulardes and dress them as in the last, but add two ounces of ravigote butter (No. 80) with the sauce you dip them in, dish them the same but omit the tongue, and sauce with a green mayonnaise (No. 1373). No. 1026. Petits Canetons en aspic. After having used the fillets for either of the preceding dishes, take ofi" the legs with as much of the skin as possible, bone and spread them out before you, have ready some forcemeat (No. 120), to which add two chopped trufHes, put a good tablespoonful upon each leg, then sew them round with packthread ; when done place them in a stew- pan, with two onions sliced, a little lean ham, a sprig of thyme, parsley, and bay-leaf, add rather more than a pint of stock, and stew them very gently one hour over a slow fire; when done place them in a dish with their stock, place another dish upon them and press very lightly; you have saved and half stewed the bones from the legs, with which you may easily form the heads and neck, stick them into the thicker end of the birds, form the wings and tails with the claws and tails of crawfish, in imitation of littleSAVOTIllY DISHES. ^'^'^ ducldin^s, dress them to form a cross upon a romid dish and garnish with aspic chopped and in croutons; four wiU be siifficient for an entremet, and eight for a flanc; tiiey likewise make handsome garniture for larger dishes. No. 1037. Salade de Volaille. Roast a poularde or large fowl in vegetables; when done and quite cold cut it into ten fine pieces, place it in abasm, with a large onion sliced, a little oil, vinegar, pepper, and salt, toss them over occasionaUy, aUowing them to remain an horn; you have dressed a border of hard-boiled eggs upon a thin border of butter, garnish round with half slices of cucumber, gherkins, and beetroot, and place a fiUet of anchovy upon each piece of egg, fill the interior with salad cut rather fine," upon which build the pieces of fowl m pyramid, (dipping each piece into the sauce,) the best pieces at the top, and just as you send it to table sauce over with a sauce mayonnaise (No. 1374). No. 1028. Salade de Filets de Poularde a la Brunow. Cut the flesh from a poularde into slices as near as pos- sible the size of half-crown pieces, cut also some slices of cucumber, which stew in white stock with a little sugar till quite tender; when done drain upon a sieve, and add them to the slices of fowl, also a few peas well boiled, if in season; put a pint of bechamel sauce (No. 7) in a stewpan, with a pint of aspic (No. 1370) and a Httle sugar, boil altogether until rather thick, keeping it stirred, then add the blan- quette of fowl with the vegetables, shake the stewpan round and poiur the whole into a saute-pan, which place upon the ice; when quite set dip it in warm water and tinn it out on a clean cloth, cut it in middling-sized pieces of a diamond shape and dress upon a salad prepared as in the last; dress them hi crown and sauce tartare (No, 38)438 SAVOURY DIsilES. in the centre, making the sauce white by using EngHsh mustard instead of French, and adding a spoonful of ' whipped cream. No. 1029. Pouhts Printaniers a la Masaniello. Bone two spring chickens without opening them at the back, have some good veal forcemeat (No. 120) and an ox- tongue well boiled, which cut into two pieces, trim them and place one piece in each chicken, fill the remaining space up with forcemeat, tie them in a thin cloth and stew them an hour or rather more in good veal stock (No. 7), lay them on a dish breasts downwards and press them Hghtly, place a Httle aspic (No. 1370) at the bottom of a plain oval mould large enough to contain one of the chickens ; when it sets lay in the chicken and cover A^ith more aspic, dip the other chicken into a sauce bechamel a la creme (No. 56); when the sauce is about half cold and quite set place a croustade of bread (representing a fishing- boat) in the centre, with a chicken on each side; having turned out the one in the aspic, stick three atelettes in the croustade ornamented with a large quenelle de volaille, a truffle, and a cockscomb; sauce round with a very white mayonnaise sauce. The mast in the croustade must be made of pate d'office (see plate containing the designs for croustades). No. 1030. Mmile d'Aspic a la Poyale. Cut the flesh from the breast of a poularde or large fowl into slices the size of half-crown pieces as near as possible, cut also a large truffle in slices, have about twenty very white button mushrooms, and ten dressed cockscombs, boil a quart of sauce bechamel (No. 7) with a pint of aspic, keeping it stirred until rather tliick, add a little sugar and the above ragout, shake the stewpan round and pom* theSAVOURY DISHES. Whole into a saiUe-pan, which place upon the ice tHl firm 2 the pan in warm water and turn it out upon a clean dotWt' should be about a quarter of an inch m tlnck- ',e's-with an oval cutter an inch and a half long and one broad, cut it into as many pieces as possible; have ready a flat round mould with a cylinder, put a little aspic at the bottom, which decorate with whites o eggs (hard- boiled) and truffles, place it on the ice and when set di^ess in the fillets in crown, fill the mould with the aspic, keep it on the ice till ready, when dip the mould in warm water and turn it out upon your dish. No. 1031. Galantine de Faisan aux truffes. Bone two pheasants if for a flanc, one if for a cold entree, lay it out before you and proceed exactly as for a galantme of tmkey, only using the forcemeat for game (No. 1378) as directed, and fiUets of hare or rabbit instead of veal, braise and press the same, aUowing for the difference in size, serve garnished with aspic (No. 1370) chopped and in croutons. No. 1033. Gala?itine de Faisans a la Foliere. Proceed as in the last, but press and garnish them as du-ected for galantine de dinde (No. 1010), but the claws must be from a very small lobster. No. 1033. Fate de Faisans aux truffes. Bone a couple of pheasants and fill each one as for a galantine, but not too tight, they will not requu-e sewing up; you have lined a raised pie-mould with pate fine (No. 1136), as dh-ected (No. 997), line the pie with force- meat (No 1378), place one of the pheasants at the bottom, cover it with forcemeat, then put in the other which also cover with forcemeat, finishing in a dome; finish the pie as before directed, bake it fom hours in a slow oven, press itSAVOURY DISHES. till cold and serve with aspic (No. 1370) clioppcd and in croutons upon the top , by fiUing the pie up with good stron- stock when taken from the oven there would be no neces- sity for pressing it. No. 1034. Filets de Faisam a la Prince George. Roast three pheasants in vegetables quite white, take out the fillets, cut each one in halves to form two, making twelve, pound well the meat from the legs, and put it into a stewpan, with a quart of white sauce (No. 7) and half a pint of good white stock, boil till rather thick, then rub it through a tammie, pour into a stewpan, place over the fire, and stu* until boiling, then add a Haison of two yolks of eggs mixed with half a gill of whipped cream, stir in quickly but do not let it boil afterwards, place it by in a basin, and when half cold dip each fillet in with a fork, let it be quite enveloped and place them by till quite cold; you have prepared a border of forcemeat as du-ected for ris de veau a la turque (No. 673), place it on your dish and dress the fillets in crown upon it, have ready turned and blanched a pottle of good white button mushi'ooms, mix them vdth the remainder of the sauce, whip half a pint of aspic (No. 1370) upon the ice till becoming very light and white, mix it with the sauce, which dress in the centre of your fillets and garnish round with a light border of the hearts of lettuces. FiUets of pheasants may also be served with a sauce macedoine de legumes as directed (No. 98) but cold. No. 1035. Chaudfroid de Filets de Faisans. Proceed with the pheasants precisely as in the last, only using a sauce gibier (No. 60) instead of the sauce becha- mel, dress them in turban in the centre of yom* dish, pour441 SAVOURY DISHES. a UtUo more of the sauce over, and garnish with a border S-boiled eggs, placing a sprig of parsley between. No. 1036. Grouse Like pheasants make excellent galantines and pies by following the same receipts. They may also be dressed m either of the methods directed for pheasants, but requn-- ing rather less time to cook. No. 1037. Galantine de Grouse a la Montagnard. Eorm two small grouse into galantines as directed for a la voHere (No. 1010) into the shape of birds; have ready three parts cold a good sauce a la puree de grouse (No 59), with which envelope them, leaving it upon them rather rough, sprinkle brown bread-crumbs and chopped pistachios all over, dress croutons of aspic (No. 1370) romid, and garnish with a little of the heather from the mountams. No. 1038. Made de Grouse a la Soyer. Make a very thin border of fresh butter upon a con- venient-sized dish, upon which stand a very elevated bor- der of hard-boiled eggs, (by cutting a piece off the bottoms when quite cold and cutting each one into four lengthwise,) fiU the centre with some nice fresh salad, and ornament the eggs with fillets of anchovies, beetroot, gherkins, &c., ac- cording to taste; you have previously roasted three grouse rather underdone; when quite cold cut them into neat pieces, that is, into legs, wings, part of the backs, and each breast into six shces, then have ready the following sauce: put two tablespoonfuls of finely chopped eschalots in a basin, with two tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar, the yolks of two eggs, two tablespoonfuls of chopped tarragon and chervil, a saltspoonful of white pepper, and two of salt, with which mix by degrees twelve tablespoonfuls of salad oU and three of'^^^ SAVOURY DISIIKS. Chili vinegar; mix well together and place it upon the ice • w^ien ready to serve whip half a pint of cream rather stiff' which add to the sauce, pour a little over the salad, upon which lay some of the worst pieces of grouse, over which put more sauce, proceeding in like manner to the top cbessmg them pyramidically. When it is for the flanc of a large dinner I only use the fihets, roasting four or five grouse mstead of three, and when you have dressed three parts of the pieces of grouse upon the salad, build a second row of eggs upon it, having formed a level with the pieces for that purpose, and terminate exactly as the design repre- sents. I must observe that the salad is better adapted for gentlemen than ladies, though if less eschalot were used it might also meet their approbation * No. 1039. Ferdreaux a la DownsUre. Partridges being smaller birds are mostly used for cold entrees, but four mil make an excellent flanc; draw them and extract the breast-bone, have ready one pound of force- meat of game (No. 124), with which mix six truffles cut in fillets, and thirty pieces of fat bacon the size and shape of dice; stuff the bii'ds, sew them up, and place them in a stewpan with tliree onions in slices, a head of celery, and a bunch of parsley, thyme, and bay-leaves, nearly cover them with stock, simmer over a slow fu-e nearly an horn", leave them to get cold in the stock, cbain them on a cloth, and dress on yom- dish in the form of a cross, with the heart of * Tlie first time I served a salad of the above deseription after inventmg it was in a dinuei- which I di-essed for some noblemen and gentlemen who had made a wager as to which could send the best dinner, myself or the artiste at a celebrated establislmient in Paris, where they had previously dined; my first course being full of novelty, gained the approbation of the whole party, bxit tlie salad created such an unexpected effect that I was sent for, and had the honour of sitting at the table for au horn- with them and over several rosades of exqui- site Laffitte; the salad was cluistcned a la Soyer by General Sir Alexander Duff, who presided over the noble party.443 SAVOURY DISHES. 1 • . in the centre; pass and clarify the stock anicecoslettm - isinglass, reduce to they were cooked m, ^^^ig ^^^^ water-cresses. No 1040. Galantine de Perdreaux a la VolCere. Proceed as directed for the pheasants 0^^082^^^^^^^^^^ nsin.. the claws and tails of lai^ge crawfish instead ot ZSJI there directed, dress then, with the fonr tads m the centre, and aspic (No. 1370) round; one hour and half would be sufficient to stew them. Imets of partridges are dressed in the same manner as the fiUets of pheasant (Nos. 1034 and 1035). No. 1041. Pate de Perdreauw. Have a round mould about five inches in height and four in diameter, which line with p^te fine (No. 1136), which again hue mth forcemeat (No. 1378); you have previously boned two partridges, which fill as for galantme a la voliere, fold each one in a slice of bacon, lay one at the bottom, which cover with forcemeat, then the other, which also cover, finishing in a dome, cover with the paste, work up the edges, and crimp as for the pat6 de veau; bake it two hours in a moderate oven, take off the cover and pour m a pint of stock in which you have stewed the bones of the partridges, and boil half an ounce of isinglass, previously passing it tlii'ough a napkin; serve neatly garnished upoii the top with aspic (No. 1370) chopped and in croutons. It must be quite cold previous to garnishing. No. 1042. Becasses a la d'Orleans. Eoast four woodcocks underdone, catching their trails upon toasted bread, with two others make a puree as di.SAVOURY DISHES. rected (No. 59), into which dip the four roasted ones, and let them remain tiU nearly cold, then take them out and sprmkle aU over with chopped ham and whites of hard- boiled eggs ; you have prepared a croustade in the form of a vase, which stand in the centre of your dish, cut the toast m four pieces, each the form of a diamond, dress the wood- cocks round the croustade upon each piece, dress hard- boiled eggs in a border upon the croustade, and garnish with aspic jelly, whipped (No. 1370), chopped, and quite white, m the interior, and in croutons round. Pates of woodcocks are excellent, they are made the same as for partridges, keeping their trails for the interior of the birds after they are boned. Plovers and snipes may be dressed precisely as du'ected for the woodcocks. No. 1043. Pdtefroid de Mauviettes Is also a very favourite dish for second course, and when well prepared stands high in the estimation of a gourmet; the following receipt is exactly as they are prepared at Pi- thiviers : pluck and bone six dozen of larks, take out the in- terior, extract the gizzard, and pound the intestines with two pounds of forcemeat (No. 120), place a Httle in each bird, roll them up, and envelope them in veiy thin slices of fat bacon ; you have hned a raised pie-mould with paste as for pate de veau (No. 997), which again line with the force- meat, place a layer of the larks at the bottom, then a layer of forcemeat, then larks again, till quite full, and finish with a quarter of a pound of maitre d'hotel butter (No. 79), a thin sHce of fat bacon, and three bay-leaves, cover Avith paste and bake in a moderate oven two hom*s and a half, place it by, and when half cold add a pint of good game sauce (No. 60), shake it well in; when quite cold take oft' the lid, and garnish with some fresh sprigs of parsley. AtSAVOURY DISiraS. miviers the pies arc made square, and crimped from top to bottom, but the shape has nothiug to do «th the quahty, aud I consider those made iu moulds look the handsomest. patH above may be made of all smaU birds that are eatable. No. 1044. Salade de Homard a VIndienne. Prepare a border of liard-boUed eggs as directed for sa- lade de grouse (No. 1036), dress some nice fresb salad m the centre, then take the flesh from a very fine lobster or two middling-sized ones, cut it in as large sHces as possible put it in a basin, and season with a little tarragon, and chervil, pepper, and salt; dress them in pyi'amid upon the salad, interspersing six mild Indian pickles m slices, and serving with a good white sauce mayonnaise (No. 1375) over. No. 1045. Mayonnaise de Homard a la geUe. Prepare a border of half hard-boUed eggs and half crou- tons of strong aspic (No. 1370), cut the same height as the eggs, and triangular, dress some salad in the centre as m the last, and the lobster weU seasoned upon the top, and sauce over with a sauce mayonnaise a la gelee (No. 1371). No. 1046. Miroton de Homard a la Cardinale. Cut the flesh of a large lobster into slices as large as pos- sible, and nearly an equal size; reduce a pint of white sauce (No. 7) (with which you have mixed two tablespoonfuls of tai-ragon vinegar) to two thirds ; then dip haK the pieces of lobster into it vvdth a fork, and place them on a dish to cool, add two ounces of red lobster butter (No. 77) to the remainder of the sauce, stir it well in, and dip in the re- mainder of the pieces; when cold and set, dress them in crown upon salad, with a white mayonnaise in the centre.440 SAVOURY DISHES. No. 1047. Homard en Aspic. Cut twenty slices of lobster as above, of equal sizes dip them into the white sauce as there directed, and put them by until cold; then put a Httle clear aspic jeUy (No. 1370) in the bottom of a flat cylinder mould, ornament it with the whites of hard-boiled eggs cut in chamonds, squares, leaves, and crescents, arranged in the form of wreaths, branches,' &c. ; just cover with a little more jelly, and when set lay m the sHces of lobster slanting, one resting upon the other, and fill up the mould with aspic, place it on the ice, and when firm dip the mould in warm water, and turn the aspic out upon yom^ chsh; fiU the centre with some finely cut salad, upon which build some more lobster, which sauce over with a sauce mayonnaise a la gelee (No. 1371), but not to run over the aspic. No. 1048. Homard au Gratin. Procure three small lobsters, cut them down the centre, save all the shells, and cut the flesh into small slices, put a spoonful of chopped onions into a stewpan, with a small piece of butter, pass them over a sharp fire a few minutes, keeping them stirred; then add a pint of white sauce, re- duce one-third, keeping it stu-red, add the flesh of the lob- ster, season with a Httle pepper, salt, cayenne, and essence of anchovies; stn- gently over a sharp fire, and when boil- ing take it ofi", stu- in the yolks of two eggs, put it into the shells, egg and bread-crumb over, place them in a warm oven ten minutes, salamander of a good colour, and serve very hot, di-essed upon a napkin, garnished mth a few sprigs of fresh parsley. Lobsters au gratin may also be served in silver, escalope shells if handy are preferred.447 SAVOURY DISHES. No. 1049. Crabs Maybedi-essedin salad, like lobster, cutting the hard part intf Is large slices as possible, and passing the soft through a han sieve, and mixing it with the sauce. No. 1050. Co(iuilles am HuUres. Procure the deep sheUs of twelve oysters which well clean, butter the interior slightly, and as many bread-crum^^^^ as wiU adhere to the butter; you have previously blan hed and bearded four dozen of oysters, lay them on a cloth to drain, then put a teaspoonful of chopped eschalot into a stewpan with a small piece of butter, pass them a few mi- nutes over the fire, stir in a quarter of a tablespoonful of flour, add a pint of oyster sauce (No. 69), reduce one thud, then add yom: oysters, season with a httle pepper, salt, cay- enne, chopped parsley, and essence of anchovies, stu^ gently over the fire, and when quite hot stk m the yollcs of two eggs, stk over the fii'e a short time till it thickens, but do not let it boil, then fill the shells, egg^and bread-crumb over, place in a hot oven ten m.inutes, salamander a nice colom% chess in pyramid, and garnish with fried parsley. No. 1051. Salade de Filets de Soles. rillet two or three soles, then well butter a saute-pan, lay in yom- fillets, which season with a little white pepper, salt, chopped parsley, and the juice of a lemon, place them over a slow fire, and when half done turn them over (they must be kept quite wliite), when done lay them flat upon a dish with another dish upon them tiU cold; cut each fillet in halves, trim them of nice shapes, and put them m a basin with a little chopped tarragon and chervil, chopped eschalots, pepper and salt; then dress a salad as di- rected (No. 1038), dress the fillets in crown upon the^'^'^ SAVOURY DISHES. Ito'im) '''''' '''' ' mayonnaise sauce No. 1052. Filets de Soles aux Concombres. ' Fillet two soles and dress them as above, cut each fiUet in halves, then have sixteen pieces of cucumber the same size as the fiUets, but thinner, dress them in turban alternately with the fiUets upon a thin border of fresh butter, sauce over the fillets only with a sauce mayonnaise (No. 1373) in which you have added a little whipped cream, and di-ess a good salad cut rather fine in the centre. The remains of turbot or John Doree, may be cut into fillets and served in either of the above methods. Fillets of soles may also be served in aspic, or mu'oton. a la cardinale, as directed for lobster (Nos. 1047 and 1046). No. 1053. Tmifes mannees en mayonnaise. Put three onions sHced in a stewpan with two ounces of butter, one turnip, one carrot (in shoes), a head of celery (cut small), a good handful of parsley, and two bay-leaves; pass the tvhole ten minutes over a sharp fire, add a pint of vinegar, a blade of mace, and haK a dozen peppercorns; let simmer, then add three pints of water; you have cleaned three fine freshwater trout, which put in the above marinade and let them simmer half an hour; let them get cold in the marinade, take them out, drain upon a cloth, and di'ess them on your dish, the head of the centre one pointing with the tails of the others; sauce over with a very white mayonnaise sauce (No. 1373) into which you have put extra chopped tarragon and chervil and a Httle whipped cream. No. 1054. Dame de Saumon marinee. Gut two good slices from the middle of a fine salmon, four inches in thickness, and dress them in a marinade, asSAVOURY DISHES. , 449 for the trout, first tying them up; stew one hour and leave them in the marinade to cool; when qmte cold di'am than on a cloth; di-ess on your dish, fiU the centre with Mont- peliere butter (No. 1376), garnish with a border of eggs, and sauce roimd with a very white Tartare sauce (No. 38), and sprinkle a httle chopped gherkins over. No. 1055. Galantine d'Anguille. Procure two fine eels, sldn and bone them, have ready prepared some forcemeat of whiting (No. 134), lay the eel open before you and spread some of the forcemeat down the centre, upon which lay smaU fillets of truffle, pistachios, cooked tongue, and whiting, cover with more of the force- meat, and sew the eel up in its original shape, cut it into two equal parts and envelope each in thin shces of fat bacon, tie in a napkin and place them in a stewpan m which you have prepared a marinade as for the trout, but using half a pint of Madeka wine instead of vinegar, stew gently haK an hour or until tender, and leave it to get cold in the stock, take out and remove them from the nap- kin, glaze and place them on your dish side by side upon a stand of MontpeUier butter (No. 1376), and a little between them to hold them together; garnish round with craw-fish and croutons of aspic (No. 1370). Six rolls of them, each three inches high, may be dressed into what we term a bastion, that is standing them up on end in a cu-cle, jom- ing them together with MontpeUier butter, and placing the half of a hard-boiled egg cut across (to form a cap) upon each, decorated with fillets of anchovies and very green gherkins. 39450 t VEGETABLES POR SECOND COURSE. Where a dish of vegetables are required for second course, if there should be two flancs contrive to let the vegetables make one of them; but if there should only be four dishes in the second course they may be dressed upon one of them, as also in larger dinners, and especially when there are a great many vegetables in season. No. 1056. Asparagus Is one of the most favourite vegetables we have, and is generally served plain; the large grass is preferred, although the smaller is, in my opinion, the fullest flavour for a dish; you requu-e a hundi-ed large ones or a hundred and a half of small, scrape and cut them of equal lengths, (about eight inches,) and tie them in bundles of fifteen; about twenty minutes before ready to serve have a gallon of water, in which you have put two ounces of salt, boiling in a stewpan, put in yom' grass, let boil quickly, and when tender take it up, dress in pyramid as high as possible upon a piece of toasted bread, and serve melted butter (No. 71) or sauce HoUandaise in a boat. No. 1057. Asperges enpetits Pois. Procure a bunch of small green asparagus, or sprue, break off the green tops carefully, avoiding the white parts, cut the tops into pieces the size of large peas, boil them in half a gallon of water into which you have put an ounce of salt; when tender strain them off, but be cai'eful theyVEGETABLES. fu-e not too much dotie, or they would go in puree and taste watery; drain them diy upon a sieve and put them into a stewpan, with eight spoonfuls of white sauce (No. 7), a little pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg, with a teaspoon- ful of powdered sugar; place the stewpan upon the fire, move them round gently, add four pats of butter, and when melted finish with a liaison of one yoDc of egg mixed with a quarter of a gill of cream; move it round over the fire, and when it thickens pour them upon your dish and dress croutons of fried bread round; or they may be served in a croustade of bread. No. 1058. Sea-Kale. The short thick kale is the best, trim it nicely, about sixteen heads wiU be sufficient for a dish, boil tiU tender in a gallon of water, with two ounces of salt, take them out, place them on a clean cloth to di-ain, and dress them pyi-amidically upon a piece of toasted bread; serve plain melted butter separate in a boat. No. 1059. Celeri a la Moelle de Bceuf. Pocure ten fine heads of celery, cut them to about seven inches in length, (the red celery is the best,) if too thick take ofp some of the outside sticks, wash and trim them nicely, blanch ten minutes in boiling water, drain them on a cloth, put them into a convenient-sized stewpan just covered with a good white stock, in which let them stew gently till tender, drain them, dress upon toast, place four large pieces of marrow round, (which you have boiled in water,) and sauce over with a pint of good brown sauce (No. 1), which you have reduced with half a pint of the stock the celery was stewed in, and seasoned with a little sugar.VEGETABLES, 452 No. 1060. Ccleri a la Chetwynd. Trim and blanch ten fine heads of red celery, as in the last, blanch also twelve middling-sized onions twenty mi- nutes, place them in a stewpan with the celery, cover with veal stock (No. 7), and stew gently tiU tender, dress the celery upon toast with the onions round and sauce over with a good white bechamel sauce (No. 7) which you have reduced with half a pint of the stock the vegetables v/ere cooked in till becoming thickish, then add half a gQl of very thick cream, a httle sugar, and sauce over. No. 1061. Salsifis a la Poulette. Salsifis although a very favomite vegetable on the conti- nent and very plentiful in England, is seldom used, but I hope the following recipes will tend to bring it more in vogue. Choose fifteen or twenty young ones, scrape the black skin, cut them into pieces three inches long, rub each piece with lemon and throw them into water, then put two onions, a carrot, one turnip, and a head of celery, all cut small into a stewpan, with a handful of parsley, a quarter of a pound of lean ham, a little thyme, two bay-leaves, and a quarter of a pound of beef suet chopped fine, stu it over a sharp fire ten minutes, then add two ounces of flour, (stir weU in,) fill up vsdth two quarts of water, \vith the juice of a lemon, stir it till it boils, then put in yom- salsifis which stew gently till tender, take them out and lay them upon a cloth to drain, then put a pint of white sauce (No. 7) into another stevq)an, with half a pint of white stock, stir over a sharp fire tiU boiling, then add twenty button mushrooms and a teaspoonful of chopped parsley; season with a Uttle pepper, salt, grated nutmeg, and pow- dered sugar, put in the salsifis, let simmer gently for halfVEGETABLES. ^'^^ an hour (the sauce must be rather thick,) take out and LsTin two rows upon a border of mashed potatoes tZ L sauce with a haison of two yolks of eggs mixed w^ia gill of cream, stir over the fire tiU it thickens but do not let it boH; sauce over and serve. No. 1063. Salsip a la Moelle de Boeuf. Prepai-e the salsifis as above; when very tender dress it upon voiu- dish, have foin- large pieces of beef marrow (weU boiled m water), sauce over with a good demi-glace (No.9). garnish mth croutons of fried bread in the shape of hearts, and serve with a piece of marrow upon each. No. 1063. Fried Salsifis. Cook the salsifis as before, let them get cold in the stock, then take them out, drain upon a cloth, and trim them all of equal sizes, then put them in a basin, with a spoonful ol vinegar, four of salad oil, and a little pepper and salt, let them marinade six hours, turning over occasionally a quar- ter of an hoiu- before serving, dip each piece separately in a fritter batter (No. 1285) and fry them in a stewpan of hot lard, when done lay them on a cloth and dress in pyramid upon a napkin, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. Salsifis well cooked and tender, when cold, is very goodm salad or to ornament a mayonnaise. No. 1064. Concomlres farcis en demi-glace. Procure four very fine cucumbers, which cut into pieces tln-ee inches in length, peel them and take out the seeds with a long round cutter, then have ready some very nice forcemeat of veal (No. 120), into which you have put a little chopped basil, thyme, and laurel leaf, put a piece of bacon at each end, which tie on, place them in a stewpan, with a httle stock, and stew gently three quarters of an hourVEGETABLES. or tm tender, then drain them upon a cloth, trim each end and dress m pyi-amid upon a border of mashed potatoes' but be careful not to break them; sauce over with a good demi-glace (No. 9) and serve; the forcemeat must not be too delicate. No. 1065. Concombres farcis a la creme. Proceed with the cucumbers as in the last, but sauce over with a celery sauce a la Chetwynd (No. 1060). No. 1066. Croustade am Concombres. Prepare a plain croustade according to the size of your dish, and three inches in height, then have four cucumbers, wliich cut into pieces two inches and a half long, peel them, split each piece into three, take out the seeds and trim them neatly, put them in a stewpan with an oimce of butter, a teaspoonful of sugar, and cover with white stock, let them stew till tender, drain them upon the back of a sieve; in another stewpan have a pint of good bechamel sauce (No. 7), which reduce till rather thick, then add the cucumber and a httle powdered sugar, place on the fire, and when boihng finish Avith a haison of one yolk of egg mixed with two tablespoonfuls of cream: place the croustade upon your dish, pom- the ragout into it, and serve. No. 1067. Vegetable Marrows .Aje excellent when young and about the size of turkeys' eggs; peel fifteen and boil them in half a gallon of water, into which you have put two ounces of butter and two ounces of salt, boil twenty minutes, or till quite tender, drain them upon a cloth, and di-ess upon a border of mashed potatoes, in the form of an oval dome; sauce over with a pint of good melted batter (No. 71), with Avhicli you haveVEGETABLES. 455 introduced a liaison of two yelks of eggs mixed with half a gill of cream. All sauces for vegetables require to be rather thick, as it is impossible to drain the vegetables quite dry to serve them hot. Vegetable marrows dressed as above may also be seiTcd with a white sauce a I'ltalienne (No. 31). No, 1068, Jerusalem Artichokes Are very useful vegetables when judiciously employed, as my readers will perceive by many of the foregoing re- cipes ; they are good five months in the year, from Octobei till Mai'ch, and some seasons much longer; when they become too rough they have lost their succulence, and are only fit to flavour stocks: take about thuty of the best shaped ones and as near as possible of the same size; turn them into the shape of pears, boil in salt and water, with which you have put a quarter of a pound of butter; when tender take them out, drain them upon a cloth, and dress in the form of a dome; sauce over with melted butter (No. 71), sauce HoUandaise (No. C6), sauce bechamel (No. 7), sauce ravigote (No. 44), or sauce tomate (No. 37). No. 10G9. Cauliflo'wers and Brocoli. Both vegetables are very excellent and universally em- ployed; they require great particularity in cleaning; the best way is to throw plenty of salt over them and put them in cold water till ready to cook, boil them in salt and water till tender, but not too much done or they will not hold together; the heads should not be too large, and the best are close and fuin; Avhen done dress some nice green Brussels sprouts upon a border of mashed potatoes -^ith the cauli- flowers hi the centre, mix nearly half a pint of good white sauce (No. '7), with the same quantity of melted butte]' (No. 71), and when hot add a liaison of one yolk of egg mixed with two spoonfuls of cream; sauce over and serve;VEGETABLES. 456 they may also be served with a sauce a la maitre d'hotel (No. 43). No. 1070. Chouxjleurs au Parviesan. Boil three cauliflowers as before, and when done drain them upon a cloth, then put a pint of good white sauce (No. 7) in a stewpan, with half a pint of milk, season mth a little pepper, salt, and cayenne, reduce it over a sharp fire till getting thick, add half a pound of grated Parme- san cheese and a quarter of a pound of grated Grayer, mix well and stir in two yolks of eggs, then put a httle at the bottom of your dish, dress some of the cauliflower in pieces upon it, which again cover with sauce, proceeding thus till you have formed a dome, finishing with the sauce all over, egg and bread-crumb hghtly, put it in a warm oven a quar- ter of an hour, salamander of a Hght brown colour, and serve. No. 1071. Artichokes Are very great favourites with most epicures, and then' flavour renders them worthy of so high an appreciation. Have six not over large but of a very good size, trim the bottoms rather close till it shows the white streak, cut also an inch from the top with a pair of scissors, and a little off the point of each leaf, have a gallon of water (into which you have put half a pound of salt,) boiling, put in the artichokes and boil one hour, or till you can pull out a leaf with facihty, take them up, lay them upon a cloth to drain, upside down, dress them upon a napkin, and serve with melted butter separate in a boat; they may be boiled previously and kept in cold water till wanted, and are ready by merely dipping them in boihng water.457 VEGETABLES. No. 1073. ArtichoJces a la Barigoule. Trim yoiir artichokes as above and blanch twenty mi- nutes place them in cold water, then scoop out the mtenor ^th the handle of a spoon and your fingers, taking out eveiT particle from the interior, have some fat m a stewpan very hot, into which dip the tops of the artichokes tdl of a yeUow colom:, then put them back upon the cloth; you have scraped a quarter of a pound of fat bacon, which pu into a stewpan, with fom^ tablespoonfuls of oil, tour ot chopped onions and eschalots, two of chopped mushrooms, and one of chopped parsley, a little thyme, two bay-leaves, and a little pepper, salt, and sugar; pass the whole ten minutes over a moderate fire, then add a pint of brown sauce (No. 1), boil twenty minutes, stir m two spoontuls ot bread-crumbs and set it in a cold place; when cold mix it again and put an equal proportion in each artichoke; tie a square piece of fat bacon a quarter of an inch m thickness upon each, tie them across with string and put them into a flat stewpan, with three pints of good stock, set them m a moderate oven to braise for about three quarters of an hour, or till you can take a leaf out with facUity, then take them out, drain them on a cloth, take off the string and bacon, and di-ess them upon your dish fom- at the bottom and two at the top, with two spoonfuls of demi-glace (No. 9) in each. For the amateur who does not object to the flavour of onions, dressed in the above manner they are most ap- preciated. No. 1073. ArticJiauts a la Bordelaise. Proceed exactly as above, but filling them with the fol- lowing sauce (instead of the sauce there mentioned): peel thhty large button onions and cut them in rings, put them in a stewpan with a httle oU, and fry of a hght yellow^'^^ VEGETABLES. colom', add half a pint of wlnto sauce (No. 7), and two tablespoonfuls of bread-mnnbs, mix well, then add eighteen stoned ohves, and the fillets of foin^ anehovies well washed, stew till all IS well cooked, then season with a little pepper sugar, and a piece of scraped garlic the size of a pea, fill the artichokes, and when done serve with a little white sauce in each. No. 1074. Artichauts a Vltalienne. Take fom^ good artichokes, cut them in quarters and trim them well, cuttmg aU the green from the bottoms and takmg out all the fm- from the interior, put them in a stew- pan of boiKng water (to blanch) a quarter of an hom- • then take them out, drain them upon a cloth, put a tablespoon- M of chopped onions in a saute-pan with a tablespoonful of oil, and one of wine, pass them one minute over the fire, then put in the artichokes, which cover with brown sauce and a Httle stock, stew them gently over a moderate fii-e tiU you can puU out a leaf with facihty, take them out and dress in tm^ban upon a border of mashed potatoes, put a tablespoonful of chopped mushrooms into the saute-pan, re- duce the sauce to a proper consistency, season with a httle sugar and salt if requu-ed, sauce over and serve. No. 1075. Artichauts cm Veloute. Prepare the artichokes as above, and blanch them, put an ounce of butter in a saute-pan, lay in the artichokes, which cover with a good white sauce (No. 7); place a lid upon the saute-pan, and put them in a moderate oven till done, then take out the artichokes, which di'ess in turban as above ; put a little milk in the saute-pan, reduce the sauce till rather thicldsh, add a little sugar, and finish Avith a liaison of two yolks of eggs mixed witli a gill of cream, pass through, a tanimie and sauce over.VEGETABLES. 459 No. 1074. Artichaux a la Bruxellaise. Dress a border of artichokes as in the last, upon a border of mashed potatoes, and have ready a quart of very nice Brussel sprouts dressed a la maitre d'hotel (No. 1083), which cbess in pyramid in the centre. This dish can only be served in the autumn season of the year, as it is only then both vegetables can be obtained. No. 1075. Peas. The best of all green vegetables, and the dehght of mil- hons, whilst then* profusion renders them attamable by aU; like the asparagus, they belong to that season of flavour, the spring of the year, but remain m season till a much later j)eriod; when young the EngHsh method of cooking them is good, because the more succulence there is in a vegetable the less zest they require to make them palatable. To describe the difierent sorts would be almost an endless, and to a certain extent a useless task, but the Prussian blues are, in my opinion, the very best; to plain boil them, have two quarts of fresh-sheUed peas, with a sprig of young mint, about ten leaves (the greatest fault with most people is putting too much), have a gallon of water boihng upon the jfire, in which you have put two ounces of salt, when boil- ing put in your peas, let them boil as fast as possible from ten to fifteen minutes, try whether they are tender, if so strain them through a cuUender, dress them upon your dish with two pats of butter upon the top and serve; or when drained put them into a stewpan with a quarter of a pound of fresh butter, half a teaspoonful of salt, and a good teaspoonful of powdered sugar, place over a fire, and keep tossing them until the butter is melted, dress them either plam upon your dish or in a bread croustade.460 VEGETABLES. No. 1076. Pois au sucre Anylo-Franc^ais. When you have boiled and drained two quarts of young- peas, put them in a stewpan with six young green onions in a bunch, six spoonfuls of white sauce, a little pepper and salt, and two teaspoonfids of powdered sugar, let simmer ten minutes, then stir in a haison of two yolks of eggs mixed with half a gill of cream, do not let them boil, but when the sauce becomes thickish and hangs to the peas turn them out upon your dish and serve, previously taking out the onions. No. 1077. JPois au sucre a la Fram^aise. The manner of dressing peas duected in the last keeps them very green, which the French style does not, unless very young, but to balance, their flavour is superior; and although the eye must be pleased to a certain extent, my principal business is with the palate. Put two quarts of young peas in a good-sized stewpan with six young onions, a bunch of parsley, and a quarter of a pound of fresh butter; just cover the peas with cold water and rub them well together with the hands, pom- ofi" all the water, add a good bunch of parsley, a tablespoonful of sugar, and a teaspoonful of salt; set the stewpan upon a sharp fire, moving them round very often, if young twenty minutes is quite sufficient, but when tender they are done (if they should become too dry add a very httle water), when done take out the onions and the bunch of parsley ; you have previously mixed a tablespoonful of flom- with two ounces of fresh butter, mix well with the peas, stu' them over the fire till they become thickish, then add a Haison of two yolks of eggs (mixed with half a pint of milk or cream), season a little more if required, stir the liaison in quickly, do not let it boil, and when it thickens they are ready to serve, they must not, however, be too thick or too thin.VEGETABLES. 461 No. 1078. Trench Beans. Cut enough young beans into strips to make a good flanc dish ; have a stewpan with a gallon of water m winch you have put a quarter of a pound of salt, when boiling put in the beans, which boil very fast till tender; when done strain them off, " lay a bed of them upon yom- dish, upon wliich lay two pats of butter, sprinlde them over with pepper and salt, then more beans, proceeding thus till you have formed a pyramid, serve very hot. No. 1079. Haricots verts saute au buerre. When boUed as above, put them in a stewpan with six ounces of fresh butter, season with a little chopped parsley, sugar, pepper, and salt; toss them over a sharp fire, and when quite hot dress them in pyramid. No. 1080. Haricots verts aux fines herbes. Boil the beans as before, when boiled put two spoonfuls of chopped onions in a stewpan with a quarter of a pound of butter, pass them a few minutes over the fire, keeping them quite white, add a spoonful of flour (stir well in) and a pint of good white stock, boil until it adheres to the back of a spoon; then add your beans, toss them well together, add a teaspoonful of chopped parsley, the juice of a lemon, a httle pepper, salt, and sugar, finish with six pats of butter, and four spoonfuls of haison (No. 119), dress them as high as possible upon the dish, or in a croustade of bread. No. 1081. Haricots verts a la Poulette. Boil the beans as before, when done drain them quite dry, put them into a stewpan with three parts of a pint of bechamel sauce (No. 7), six spoonfuls of stock, pepper, salt,^'^^ VEGETABLES. sugar, a bunch Of green onions, and parsley; stew gently ten mmutes, take out the bunch, add a teaspoonful of chopped parsley, and finish with a liaison of two yolks of eggs mixed with a gill of cream, stir in quickly, and when It begms to thicken serve as in the last. No. 1082. Brussels Sprouts saute &u buerre. The smaU firm ones are the best; boil a sufficient quan- tity m salt and water about twenty minutes, or tiU tender, as directed for the beans; when done put them in a stew- pan, with a httle pepper, salt, and sugar, a quarter of a pound of butter, and the juice of a lemon, when quite hot di-ess them as high as possible upon yom- dish. No. 1083. Brussels Sprouts a la Maitre d'Hotel. Boil a sufficient quantity of sprouts as before, and di-ess them upon your dish in pyramid; then put a pint of melted butter in a stewpan, let boil, and whilst boiling add a quarter of a pound of maitre d'hotel butter (No. 79), stu- it in quickly and sauce over, or sauce them in layers as you dress them up. No. 1084. Chouw de Bruccelles a la Creme en turban de Concombres. Make a turban of cucumbers, cut and dressed as directed (No. 103), form the tm-ban upon a border of mashed po- tatoes ; boil sufficient Brussel sprouts, which dress in pyra- mid, sauce over the cucumbers with a good sauce Hollan- daise (No. 66), and over the sprouts with a good sauce be- chamel (No. 7), but not too thick, so that the Brussel sprouts may show through it; they may Hkewise be dressed in a border of Jerusalem artichokes, which gives a great variety to those favomite vegetables; peas and French beans may also be dressed in a turban of the above de- scription.463 VEGETABLES. No. 1087. Spinach Is a very wholesome and digestible vegetable, excellent for invalids, but still more so for those in good health, be- cause an invahd can only have it plain-dressed, whilst a person in health can enjoy it in any of the tasty ways in which it is dressed. Pick and wash it very clean in three or four waters, for as nothing is worse than spinach when gritty, so likewise there is nothing more troublesome to get quite clean, from its growing so near the earth; boil in plenty of salt and water about a quarter of an hour, then drain it through a sieve, and squeeze quite dry with a cloth, chop veiy fine (which I consider is better than passing through a wire sieve), put it in a stewpan vdth half a pound of fresh butter, pepper, salt, half a teaspoonful of sugar, and a little grated nutmeg, stir five minutes over a sharp fire, pour it out upon yom* dish, and serve with croutons of fried bread round; the above proportion is for half a sieve. No. 1088. Epinards mt jm. Proceed exactly as above, adding haK a tablespoonful of flom', and when well mixed half a pint of good demi-glace (No. 9), glaze the croutons which you garnish with and serve. No. 1089. Bpinards a la Frangaise. When your spinach is well chopped put it into a stew- pan with a quarter of a pound of fresh butter, stk over the fire till quite hot, then add a tablespoonful of flour; season with a little pepper, salt, sugar, and grated nutmeg, mix well, then add half a pint of good stock, stir ten minutes over the fire, add a quarter of a pound more butter, after taking it from the fire; when melted pour it out upon yom- dish and serve as before. The old system was to make aVEGETABLES. 464 roiix, which frequently got ratlicr overdone, and gave the spinach more the flavour of sauce, thus destroying the aroma; but the flour, if added proportionably, gives no flavoiu-, and shghtly thickens. No. 1090. Epinards au sucre. Prepare the spinach as before and put it into a stewjjan, with a quarter of a pound of butter and a httle pepper and. salt; when quite hot add a tablespoonful of flour, mix well, moisten with half a pint of milk, boil a few minutes, and when ready to serve stir in a quarter of a pound of butter and a teaspoonful of powdered sugar, serve as before. No. 1091. Endive au jus. In France this vegetable (which is mostly used in Eng- land for salads) is as popular for entrees and entremets as spinach, its bitterness rendering it very wholesome. Pro- ciu"e twelve heads, pick ofi" all the green leaves, wash each head in two or three waters, and boil them in salt and water till tender, then put them in a basin of cold water, press every one; cut ofl" the roots and chop the re- mainder fine, but not quite so fine as spinach, put it in a stewpan, place over the fire, and stir until becoming rather dry; then add half a pint of good brovm sauce, and a piece of veal glaze the size of a walnut, season with a little pepper, salt, sugar, and grated nutmeg, and dress in a croustade of bread, or vsdthin a border of croutons of fried bread, which you have stuck upright upon your dish with a stiffish paste made from whites of eggs and flour, put the dish in the oven tiU the paste is set, and if desired, serve poached eggs upon the top. No. 1092. Sorrel Is more used as a sauce for entrees than as an eutremet.VEGETABLES. 465 the spring of the year is the only time it can be used for second course; pick and well wash a sufficient quantity of sorrel, drain and put it into a stewpan without any water, sth' over the fire till it is melted, then lay it upon the back of a hair sieve, and with a wooden spoon rub it througli into a dish; then put it into a stewpan with a quarter of a pound of butter and a spoonful of flour, mix well, season with a little pepper and salt, and half a pint of good stock, let boil; then take it from the fu'e and stir in four new-laid eggs separately, stirring a minute over the fu-e after each, then add three pats of butter, and serve as in the last, or in a deep silver dish, with eight poached eggs upon the top, or use for entrees if required. No. 1091. Laitue braisee a la Pensionnaire. Procure twenty fine young cabbage-lettuces, pick off some of the outside leaves, wash the lettuces weU, and blanch them in plenty of water till tender, then throw them into cold water, press in a cloth, tie up, put them in a stew- pan with a little good stock, and braise in a moderate oven or over a moderate fire half an hour, then take them out and drain them upon a cloth, turn half the point of the green leaf over to give an oval shape, arrange them in a saute-pan, cover with a good demi-glace (No. 9), and put them into the oven; poach twelve eggs, then make a border of mashed potatoes upon your dish, upon which ' dress the eggs and lettuces alternately, showing a httle of the white, sauce over with a good sauce fines herbes (No. 26) and serve. No. 1094. Laituesfarcis. Prepare twenty fine lettuces, blanch them ten minutes in boihng water, throw them in cold water, press them in a cloth, then take out some of the interior, and fill with some 80VEGETABLES. 4GG forcemeat (No. 120) with which you have mixed some chopped parsley and muslu-ooms; tie them up and braise as above three quarters of an horn-, take them up, drain, and serve with a sauce demi-glace (No. 9) over tliem. No. 1095. Feves de Marais When young are very dehcate, take two quarts directly they are shelled and boil them nearly ten minutes in salt and water, try if done, drain them upon a sieve, then put them in a stewpan, pour half a pint of good sauce maitre d'hotel (No. 43) over, and add a little chopped tarragon and powdered sugar, and serve. They are also very good plain boiled, with a few pats of butter laid over them. No. 1096. Wliite Haricots Beans. There is perhaps no white vegetable more in vogue in France than this, but although so well appreciated there and eaten by many English gommets, they never think of having them dressed at home; it is true that the haricot in France is what the potato is in England, when in theu' prime and just taken from their shells, there are a great many epicures who would not dine without them. The reason I so strongly recommend them is because I have seen thousands of them in noblemen's gardens, many of which are quite spoiled, and some dried for the winter season, when they might be dressed and eaten in theh prime; I think, however, that when my readers know the simplicity of dressing them, and then- moderate expense, they will at least give them a trial. They are very numer- ous about the month of September, but when old and dry I do not recommend them, they being very hard of diges- tion, and only fit to be used dry as duected in other parts' of this work. Have one quart of them fresh shelled, have also twoVEGETABLES. 467 quarts of water boiling, in which you have put two ounces of butter and a httle salt, put in yoiu- beans and boil them about half an hour, or tiU tender, drain qmte dry upon a sieve then put them in another stewpan with a quarter ot a pound of butter, a httle pepper and salt, toss them a few minutes over the fire, and when very hot turn them out upon your dish and sei-ve. No. 1097. Haricots blancs a la Bretonne. BoU the beans as in the last, then put two tablespoonful of chopped onions in a stewpan with an ounce of butter, stu- over the fire tih they become rather yehowish, then add half a pint of brown sauce (No. 1) and a piece of glaze the size of a walnut; boil a few minutes, then add the beans, di-ain quite dry, season rather high, and when quite hot pour them upon your dish and serve. No. 1098. Haricots blancs a la Maitre d'Hotel. Boil the beans as before, and when done drain quite diy and put them into a stewpan with six ounces of maitre d'hotel butter (No. 79); toss them over, add a little more seasoning if reqmred, and serve when quite hot. They may also be served plain boiled with a httle butter upon them. No. 1099. Tomates au gratin. Take ten fine tomatas not too ripe, cut a little from the top of each, press out the pips and juice, but do not break the skins or press away any of the flesh; fiU the interior with a sauce as directed for artichauts a la barigoule (No. 1070), stand them m a saute-pan, egg and bread-crumb all over, stand them in a hot oven a quarter of an hour, sala- mander of a good colour, and dress them pyramidically upon your dish.VEGETAULES, 408 No. 1100. Tomates a la Piemontaise. Proceed as above, but using a little garlic (scraped) in the sauce, likewise put a little salad-oil in the saute-pan which serve under them. No. 1101. Mushrooms plain broiled. Choose them rather large and black underneath, peel the skin from the top, and broil over a sharp fire, seasoning with pepper and salt; when done, place a small piece of butter upon each and serve; ten minutes is sufficient time to broil good-sized ones. No. 1102. Mushrooms farcis. Procure twelve middhng-sized mushrooms, scoop out part of the interior, make a good sauce aux fines herbes (No. 26) very thick, to which add the interior of the mush- rooms, and a few bread-crumbs; fiU your mushrooms, egg and bread-crumb over, place them in a saute-pan in the oven twenty minutes, salamander a Hght colour and serve on a napkin. No. 1103. Croute aux champignons. Procure a very fresh pottle of white mushrooms, wliich peel and trim, pass a few chopped onions in a stewpan with a small piece of butter (do not let them get bromi), add a pint of sauce bechamel (No. 7); when boihng put in the mushrooms (raw), let simmer half an hour, season with a little salt, pepper, and sugar, and finish with a haison of two yolks of eggs mixed with half a giU of cream, move round over the fire tUl it thickens, dress them upon yom- dish in the crust of a French roll, scooped out and fried for that purpose, and sauce over.VEGETABLES. 469 No. 1104. Young Carrots in their glaze. Scrape forty young carrots, which put into a stewpan .vith a teaspoonful of sugar, four young onions, a bunch ot parsley, and a bay-leaf; just cover with a good white stock and stew tiU the caiTots are tender, then take them out and cbess in the form of a dome by sticking them into mashed potatoes; strain the stock they were stewed m through a napkin into a stewpan, add to it liaK a pint of brown sauce (No. 1), and reduce till it adheres to the back of the spoon, then add two pats of butter, sauce all over and serve. No. 1105. Young Turnips in their glaze. Proceed exactly as for the carrots, only using white sauce instead of brown, and finishing with a haison of one yolk of egg mixed with a spoonful of cream. No. 1106. Oignons Printaniers mi Sirop doree. Peel about forty spring onions, each about the size of a walnut, put them into a stewpan, with one ounce of butter and one of powdered sugar, toss them occasionally over the fii-e, (but be careful not to break the outer skin,) until covered with a hght glaze; cover with a white stock and stew very gently till quite done, drain them upon a cloth, dress neatly upon a border of mashed potatoes, reduce and skim the stock till nearly a glaze, add two pats of butter, sauce over and serve. No. 1107. Macedoine de Legumes Printanieres. Stew ten onions, ten carrots, and ten turnips, as directed in the preceding articles, dress them upon a border of mashed potatoes in three separate rows, have ready a white macedoine de legmiies (No. 98), in which you have intro- jfluced some peas and asparagus heads nicely blanched,VEGETABLES. 470 which dress in the centre as high as possible, and sauce over the vegetables with their stock reduced to a thin glaze. No. 1108. Pommes de Terre a la Maitre d'Hotel. Eor dressing in sauce there is no potato to equal the French red kidney potato, which will keep as it is cut, whilst a round mealy potato would crumble to pieces, but being rather difficult to procure obtain some waxy kidney potatoes, which boil and stand by to get cold, then peel and cut them in shces, which put in a stewpan, with a Uttle pepper, salt, and about half a pint of stock, set them upon the fire, let them boil two or three minutes, then add (if a sufficient quantity for a flanc dish) three quarters of a pound of fresh butter, keep shaking the stewpan round over the fire till the butter is melted, it will thus form its own sauce, finish with a tablespoonful of chopped parsley and the juice of a lemon, turn out upon yom- dish and serve. The potatoes require to be cut in shces the size of a halfpenny, but double the thickness; if not able to ob- tain the proper potatoes use melted butter instead of stock to boil them in, or having no consistence they would form a puree. No. 1109. Pommes de Terre sautees au heurre. Cut your potatoes after boihng them as above, put haK a pound of butter in a saute-pan, let it melt, then put in the potatoes, fry a light yellow colour, season with a little pepper, salt, and lemon-juice ; dress them upon a napkin and serve. No. 1110. Pommes de Terre a la Lyonnaise. Cut your potatoes as above, then put three quai'ters of a pound of butter in a saute-pan, with thuty button onions cut in rings, place them upon the fire and when becomhig471 VEGETABLES. Ilnwl* ™t in VQM potatoes, season with chopped parsley, ^rltiTe. »d'a good pinch ot black pepper; when ratlier yellow and quite hot, serve. No. 1111- Lentilles Are only nsed in the winter, they are dried; pnt one quart of them in warm water, and let them soak two hours, E put them in a stewpan, with three quarts of wa^e. a quarter of a pound of butter, and a httle salt, let them simmer two hours, but they may reqmre either more or less time, as that depends entirely upon the quality, there bein^ two sorts, the smaller ones being the best, ihis perhaps is the only dish of vegetables that we have inhe- rited from the ancients. Centm-y after centm-y have they been in vogue; they are mentioned in Scripture, and several of om- great masters have immortalized that ancient dish m some of theii- most celebrated pictiu-es; although not much in vogue in England, in France and upon the contment they are much used, especiaUy in Lent. When boiled ten- der di-ain them upon a sieve, put them into a ste^vpan, with a little pepper, salt, a teaspoonful of chopped parsley, and a quarter of a pound of butter, with which you have mixed a teaspoonfid of flour; keep tossing them over upon a sharp fire, and when quite hot di-ess in a croustade or within a border of mashed potatoes, as they would not look Avell dressed flat. No. 1113. Lentilles a la Comte au riz. Cook yom- lentils as above, then put four pats of butter in a stewpan, with two tablespoonfuls of chopped onions, pass them a few minutes over the fire, then add half a tablespoonful of flour, mix well and moisten with a httle of the liquor from the lentils, bod two minutes keeping it stirred, then add your lentils and a little chopped parsley,473 VEGETABLES. boil altogether and finish with a liaison of two yolks of eggs mixed with half a gill of cream, stir in quickly and when it thickens serve as in the last. No. 1118. Truffles. Perigord is the only place renowned throughout the world as the favourite soil for this recherche vegetable, and our celebrated diplomatist, Talleyrand de Perigord, was indeed a worthy owner, for he was not only a great diplo- matist but likewise a great gourmet. Having an interview with any distinguished personage upon any question of political importance, after patiently hearing, his usual reply was, I win consider of it after dinner; perhaps your excel- lency will favom' me with a call to-morrow morning;— and ringing the bell often call for his bill of fare and order some of his most favourite dishes. But in eulogizing Talleyrand and the produce of his estate I must not forget to mention that the truffles of Piedmont though partly white are very excellent, likewise in Burgundy, and many very good ones are now found in the southern counties of England, especially in Hampshire, but none are equal to those from Perigord. The white are dressed the same as the black. No. 1114. Truffes au vin de Champagne. Soak twelve large truffles in lukewarm water two hours, then with a rather hard scrubbing-brush clean them well in two or three waters, picking the dirt from the eyes with a small pointed knife, when thoroughly clean cover the bottom of a stewpan with slices of fat bacon, one carrot, one turnip, two onions, (cut in slices,) a bunch of parsley, thyme, and bay-leaf, six cloves, and one blade of mace, put in the truffles^ which half cover with some good white stock, let simmer half an hour then add half a pint of473 VEGETABLES. Champagne, shnmer another half hovn^, but be sure the cover of the stewpan fits tight, take off the stewpan and su^iound it .vith ice with a weight upon the cover; when quite co d ch-ain and serve upon a napkin. None but the black truffles ought to be di^essed in the above manner. I gene- raUy serve their liquor, which is exceUent, in a sauce-boat with them. Season a Httle more if reqmred. No. 1115. Croute cmx Truffes. Wash them as in the last and peel lightly with a knife, cut them into thin shoes, put two ounces of butter m a saute-pan, then your truffles, which season rather highly with pepper, salt, and two glasses of sherry, set them over a slow fire, turning them over occasionally ; when tender and becoming glazy add a pint of demi-glace (No. 9), shake aU round together over the fire a few mi- nutes, add a little sugar, and serve them over fom- crusts, thus: cut two French rolls in halves lengthwise, scoop out the crumb, butter the crusts and broil them, glaze, lay them upon your dish and pom- the truffles over. No. 1116. Truffes en cmistade a I'ltalienne. Cut and fry a very pretty croustade of bread, dress it upon your dish, saute your truffles as in the last, pour them into the croustade and sauce over with a white Italienne sauce (No. 31). No. 1117. Truffes demi Piemontaise. Procure some truffles as large as possible, wash and peel as before, cut them in slices and put them into a saute-pan, with six tablespoonfuls of salad oil, fry very gently, add two pieces of bruised garhc, a glass of sherry, and six spoonfuls of tomata sauce (No. 37), mix altogether well, boil gently, add a little sugar and juice of lemon, and serve them in yoiu' dish upon a piece of toasted bread.VEGETABLES, ETC. 474 No. 1118. Truffes ala Dim. If you should have some of the truffes au vin de cham- pagne left from a previous dinner, scoop out the interior so as to leave them quite shells, chop what you have taken fi'om them rather coarse, with a few mushrooms, mix them with a quai'ter of a pound of forcemeat of fowl (No. 123), season well, and fill each truffle with it, egg them all over and cover with some chopped truffles, braise them slowly in some good stock for one hour, and serve with a sauce a la puree de truffes (No. 53) under them. No. 1119. Omelette auxfines herbes. Break eight eggs in a stewpan, to which add a teaspoon- ful of very finely chopped eschalots, one of chopped parsley, half ditto of salt, a pinch of pepper, and three good table- spoonfuls of cream, beat them well together, then put two ounces of butter in an omelette pan, stand it over a sharp fire, and as soon as the butter is hot pom' in the eggs, stir them round quickly with a spoon until delicately set, then shake the pan round, leave it a moment to colom' the omelette, hold the pan in a slanting position, just tap it upon the stove to bring the omelette to a proper shape, and roll the flap over with a spoon, tm-n it upon yom- dish, glaze hghtly, and serve with a quarter of a pint of good demi-glace (No. 9) round; omelettes must not be too much done, and must be served as soon as done. No. 1120. Omelette au Jambon. Break eight eggs, season, beat and fry as above, but adding two ounces of lean cooked ham, minced and chopped with the eggs, and using but haff the quantity of salt, glaze and sauce round precisely as. above.475 VEGETABLES, ETC. No 1121. Omelette aux Truffes. Make an omelette as for fine, herbes, with the a^ti-of two preserved truffles chopped very fine, ^^^^^ ^^^^^^^^^^^ LddLg-sized tr*s cut in slices, ^^^^^^^^^^ sauce demi:glace (No. 9) one third, ^ J^^^^^^ the truffles, boil three minutes, have the ^^^^f ^^^^^^^^ the pan, and when just ready to t.un on uponjie d.h put L truffles in the centre, with some of the sauce turn the flap over with a spoon, tmn on to yom' dish, glaze, and pour the remainder of the sauce round. No. 1122. Oynelette aux Champignons. Proceed exactly as for the last, merely substituting mushrooms for the truffles. No. 1123. Omelette aux Olives. Boil half a pint of sauce demi-glace (No. 9) in a ste.vpan, reduce it one thii-d, then add twelve stoned olives, and a httle sugar; make an omelette as for fines herbes, put the ohves in the interior, glaze, and sauce round. No. 1124. Omelette a la Jardiniere. Prepare rather more than half a pint of sauce a la jardi- niere (No. 100), have it hot in a stewpan, then make an omelette as before, and when ready to turn upon your dish put some of the sauce in the centre; glaze the omelette, pour the remainder of the sauce round, and serve. No. 1125. Omelette aux Huitres. Put half a pint of good oyster sauce (No. 69) m a stewpan, let it be wefl seasoned, reduce it one third, add twelve or sixteen blanched oysters, let boil up, then stir in a liaison of one yoUc of egg mixed with a tablespoonful of^'^^^ VEGETABLES, ETC. cream; do not let it boil; when it thickens have an omelette as m the last; pour the sauce over, glaze, and serve. No. 1126. Omelette auw filets de Soles. Put half a pint of good thick oyster sauce in a stewpan upon the fire; you have previously fiUeted a middling-sized sole, cut each fiUet into six or eight smaU pieces, and when the sauce boils thi'ow them in, boil three minutes, finish the sauce with a Haison, and proceed as in the last. No. 1127. Omelettes aucc Monies. Proceed exactly as for omelette aux huitres, but using muscles and sauce (see No. 70) instead of oysters. No. 1128. Omelette de Homard. Make about half a pint of nice red lobster sauce (No. 68), into which put the flesh of a small lobster cut in dice; when hot have ready an omelette as before, put some of the sauce in the interior, turn out upon your dish, glaze, and pom- the remainder of the sauce round. No. 1129. Omelette au Sucre. Break eight eggs into a stewpan, into which put a tea- spoonful of sugar and four tablespoonfids of cream; put two ounces of butter in an omelette-pan when quite hot, but not discoloured, pom- in the eggs, and proceed as for the omelette aux fines herbes (No. 1117), tm-n out upon yom- dish, shake some powdered sugar over, salamander a nice colour, and serve. / No. 1130. Omelette au Confiture. Make an omelette precisely as in the last, and just before turning it upon your dish put two or three spoonfuls of jam or marmalade in the centre, sugar over, salamander, and sei*ve.477 VEGETABLES, ETC. No. 1131. Omelette au BImm. The same as the last, but the moment of going to table pom- three glasses of rum round and set it on fire. Sweet omelettes may also be served with apricots passed in sugar or rhubarb, as directed in Nos. 1142, 1184; for the remainder of entremets of eggs, see Kitchen at Home.478 ENTEEMETS. Observations upon Fastry. Although the art of making pastry is very nearly as old as the world, having been the dehght of the ancients, and of the sensual inhabitants of Asia, it is only within the last twenty years that it has attained any degree of perfection, which is partly due to the talent and intelHgence of my il- lustrious compatriot and confrere, Careme, who has left little or no room for innovation in that vast j&eld of culi- nary dehght; but I shall endeavour as much as possible to simplify the present excellent system, and introduce as much novelty as I can into that department, which is considered the greatest ornament of the second course; I must here hke- wise observe that as ages change so also do the fashions. Fifteen years ago large pieces, (or pieces montees,) were very much in vogue, but at the present time I know many epi- cures that would object to sit down before those once fa- vorite monuments, or colossal sugar ornaments, the modern table embellishments having very properly fallen into the hands of the silversmith. Simplicity, the mother of elegance, being now the order of the day. Of different sorts of Paste. The variety of pastes is to the pastry what first stocks are to soups and sauces, and must be very properly first described, particularly as it is here to which I must refer my readers for paste even used for the hors-d'oeuvres and entrees; to succeed you must be particular in yom- propor- tions, and very careful in the mixing, for although there is479 ENTREMETS. nothing more simple if pains be taken, so will the least "gledproduce a faUure, nor is it only w.th the mahng of the paste that pains must be taken, bu likewise with the bakings for as paste bacUy made wo.Jd no improve m bakinS, neither will paste, however well made, be good it badly baked; should the oven be too hot the paste would become set and bm^n before it was done; and, agam, it too cold it would give the paste a dull heavy appearance, but an oven properly heated (which can be readily known by a little attention on the part of those in the habit of usmg it) will give it a clear brilhant appearance. For every description of pastry made from puff paste, try if the oven is hot by placing yom' hand about half way m, and hold it there about a quarter of a minute, if you can hold it there that time without inconvenience it would not be hot enough, but if you cannot judge of the heat, the safest method would be, try a piece of the paste previous to baking the whole; I apply these few observations to all my readers, but particularly to the nninstructed, as a person of continual practice cannot fail to be aware of the truth of them. No. 1132. Puff Paste. Put one pound of floiK upon your pastry slab, make a hole in the centre in which put the yolk of one egg and the juice of a lemon, with a pinch of salt, mix it with cold water (iced in summer, if convenient) into a softish flexible paste, with the right hand dry it off a; little with flour until you have well cleared the paste from the slab, but do not work it more than you can possibly help, let remain two minutes upon the slab; then have a pound of fresh butter from which you have squeezed all the buttermilk in a cloth, bringing it to the same consistency as the paste, npon which place it; press it out with the hand, then fold the4 so ENTREMETS. paste m three so as to hide the butter, and roll it with the rollmg.pm to the thickness of a quarter of an inch, thus making it about two feet in length, fold over one third, over which again pass the rollmg-pin; then fold over the other thu-d, thus forming a square, place it with the ends top and bottom before you, shaking a little flom- both under and over, and repeat the rolls and tm-ns twice again as before; floiu- a baking-sheet, upon which lay it, upon ice or in some cool place (but in summer it would be almost im- possible to make this paste well without ice) for half an hoiu-, then roll twice more, tm^ning it as before, place again upon the ice a quarter of an hour, give it two more rolls, making seven in all, and it is ready for use when re- quired, rolling it whatever thickness (according to what you intend making) directed in the following receipts. When I state that upwards of a hundred different kinds of cakes may be made from this paste, I am sure it will be quite sufficient to m-ge upon every cook the necessity of paying every attention to its fabrication, as it will repay for the study and trouble. No. 1133. Puff Paste with Beef Suet "Where you cannot obtain good butter for making paste, the following is an excellent substitute: skin and chop one pound of kidney beef suet very fine, put it into a mortar and pound it well, moistening mth a little oil, until be- coming as it were one piece, and about the consistency of butter, proceed exactly as in the last using it instead of butter. No. 1134. Half Puff Paste. Put one pound of flom* upon your pastry slab with two ounces of butter, rub well together with the hands, make a hole in the centre, in which put a pinch of salt and the yolk481 ENTREMETS. of an egg with the juice of a lemon; mix with water as be- fore, then roH it out thin and lay half a pound of butter (prepared as for puff paste) roUed into thin sheets over, fold it in three, roll and fdld again twice over, lay it in a cold place a quarter of an hour, give another roll and it is ready for use where required; this paste is mostly used for fi-uit tarts, for which it is well adapted. No. 1135.* Pate a dresser. Put tlu-ee pounds of the best flom' upon yom^ pastry slab, make a hole in the centre, in which put a poimd of butter, half an ounce of salt, and the yolks of six eggs'; the butter must not be too firm, add half a pint of water, squeeze all well together with your hand, mixing the flom- in by de- grees, tearing weU to pieces with the right hand, holding it with the left until it forms a smooth but stiffish paste, but if so stiff that you cannot work it without cracking, press out flat with your hand, sprinkle water upon it, fold over, press out agam, proceeding in like manner until you have obtained the consistency required; you must also be careful not to make it too soft, as in either case you would not be able to use it. This paste must not be too miich worked after it is mixed or it would become greasy; more care must be exercised in summer than in vdnter in this respect, it is used for raised pies either hot or cold. No. 1136. Pate fine or Pate a foncer. Put three pounds of best flour upon your pastry slab, make a hole in the centre, in which put an ounce of salt, two pounds of fresh butter, six eggs, and sufficient water to form it into a rather stiffish paste (it vdU require about half a pint), mix well together, drawing in the flour by degrees; * For the description l o make hot water paste for raised pies, see pat6 chaud (No. 618). o-iENTREMETS. 482 when well mixed, roll out foui- times as for pufF paste, let remain haK an hour and it is ready for use where dii-ected. No, 1137. Fate Office or Confectioner s Paste. Weigh one pound and a half of flour, which put upon your slab, make a hole in the centre, in which put one pound of sifted sugar, mix it well with twelve eggs into a stiflBsh paste, having first well dissolved the sugar with the eggs, work it well, it is then ready for use. This paste was very much used when pieces montees were so much in vogue, but in the several receipts in which it is referred to, it is used upon quite a new principle, and very much simplified; this paste, with the above proportions, ought to be very stiff, but still pliable enough to be worked without breaking; should it be too stiff add more eggs, or too soft more flom% the half or quarter of the above quantity may of course be made. No. 1138. Pate cVAmande. Blanch a pound of almonds, put one fom^th of them into a mortar, pound well, moistening with a httle water to prevent them oihng; when pounded to a paste take it out, add another fourth, and proceed in Hke manner till they are all done, then rub them through a hair sieve and put them into a preserving pan with one pound and a half of sifted sugar, set over a slow but equal fii'e, keep stuTiug for about five-and-twenty minutes, clearing it from the sides of the pan, press with your finger and if it feels tough take it out and put in the mortar \vith the eighth of an ounce of gum tragacanth, soaked and squeezed through a napkin; add the juice of a lemon, and pound well together till quite cold, it is then ready for use, but if not used directly roll it up in a ball and place it upon a plate under a basin to keep moist, it will keep for weeks if483 ENTREMETS. moist. Of this paste you can form stands, or convert it into any ornament yom- fancy may direct. Low stands are the best for entremets, being much better than the old-fashioned ones, that were made eight or ten inches in height, and when a jelly or cream served upon in was cut even by the most experienced person as soon as the first spoonful was taken the remainder was often seen dancing upon the table, to the horror of all persons of good taste. For myself I never use anything of the description, except for cold luncheon or supper, and even then of the most simple construction. No. 1139. Pastillage or Gum Paste. Put two ounces of gum tragacanth into a small basin, pom- a quart of filtered water over it, and cover the basin with a sheet of paper to keep it free from dust; let soak twenty-fom- hours, then pour off the water and place the gum in a strong cloth, through which squeeze it on to a plate, not leaving a particle in the cloth; then place it upon your pastry slab, work it round with your hand until as white as cream, have an equal quantity of starch-powder, and powdered sugar, which you have passed through a silk sieve, work it in by degrees, keeping it well worked with the hand until it becomes a stitSsh paste, firm enough to roU and cut into any shape required. It may be used in- stead of pate d'amande. No. 1140. Vol-au-Vents Of all things in pastry require the most care and preci- sion ; they that can make a good vol-au-vent may be stamped as good pastrycooks, although many variations in working puff paste, aU others are of a secondary importance. Make a pound of puff paste (No. 1132) giving it only six roUs and a haK instead of seven, leave it an inch in thick- ness, make a mark upon the top either round or oval, and according to the size of your dish, then with a sharp-484 ENTREMETS. pointed knife cut it out from the paste, holding the knife with the point slanting outwards; turn it over, mark the edges with the back of your knife, and place it upon a baking sheet, which you have sprinlded vnth water; egg over the top, then dip the point of the knife into hot Avater, and cut a ring upon the top a quarter of an inch deep, and half an inch from the edge of the vol-au-vent, set in a rather hot oven, if getting too much colom- cover over with a sheet of paper, do not take it out before done, or it would fall, but when quite set cut off the lid and empty it with a knife ; if for first course it is ready, but if for second, sift sugar all over, which glaze with the salamander. Re- gulate the thickness of the paste from which you cut the vol- au-vent, according to the size you require it, the smaller ones of course requiring thinner paste. A vol-au-vent for entrees will take about half an hour to bake, and as the common iron ovens often throw out more heat upon one side than the other, it will require tm^ning two or three times to cause it to rise equal; it ought to be when baked of a hght gold colour. No. 1141. Vol-au-vent de Peches. Put three quarters of a pound of sugar in a sugar-pan, vdth the juice of a lemon and about half a pint of water, place it upon t^ie fire and boil till becoming a thickish syrup; then have\twelve peaches not quite ripe, which cut in halves, break their stones and blanch the kernels, throw six halves with the kernels into the syrup, boil three mi- nutes, take them out with a skimmer, lay them upon a dish and take off their skins, stew the rest in syrup m like man- ner, six at a time; when all done poiu* what hquor rmis from them again into the syrup, which reduce to a good thickness, pass it through a tammie into a basin, when cold pour a little over the peaches and leave until ready to serve, dress the peaches in yom- vol-au-vent with the syrup over.ENTREMETS. 485 served as a compote with small pastry around it; in stew- ing the fruit, be careful that it does not catch in the least, a round-bottomed pan or regular sugar-pan is the best to use for this purpose, but if not convenient a common stewpan may be used. No. 1142. Vol-au-vent d'Abricots. Cut twelve apricots, not ([uite ripe, in halves, break then- stones and blanch their kernels, which with the apricots put into a sugar-pan with three quarters of a pound of lump sugar broken into small pieces, the juice of a lemon, and a glass of sherry; stew them ten minutes over a quick fire, moving them round occasionally, then pour them into a basin, which stand upon the ice, when quite cold fiU your vol-au-vent and serve; should the apricots be quite ripe, pro- ceed as directed for the peaches, but leaving their skins on. No. 1143. Vol-au-vent of Greengages. Proceed exactly as in the last, only using twenty or twenty-fom' greengages instead of the apricots. No. 1144. Vol-au-vent de Cenmr.^- Pick and stone fom- pounds of cherries, which put into a pan with three quarters of a pound of powdered sugar, stew them about twenty minutes over a sharp fire, moving them occasionally, place them upon the ice till cold, when fill your vol-au-vent and serve. Should the syrup be too thick, reduce it until thick enough to envelop the fruit. No. 1145. Vol-au-vent de Poires. Take twelve middhng-sized ripe pears, which cut in halves, peel them neatly, and take out the cores; throw them into a pan, in which you have put the juice of two lemons, and the thin rind of one cut in thin strips and three486 ENTREMETS. quarters of a pound of sugar broken small; pass them over a sharp fire, moving them occasionally till tender, put them upon the ice to get cold; when ready, fill your vol-au-vent, and serve. No. 1146. Vol-au-vent de Pommes. Procure twenty smaU golden pippins, peel them neatly, and take out the cores with a long round vegetable cutter; rub them over with lemon, and stew till tender in syrup made from three quarters of a pound of sugar as for the peaches (No. 1141); when cold dress them as high as pos- sible in a vol-au-vent, and when ready to serve, poiu: the syrup over. No. 1147. Vol-au-vent d^ Oranges. Take ten fine oranges, cut them in halves, peel them, but not to lose their shapes, have a rather thicker syrup than usual, simmer the oranges five minutes, ten at a time, lay them upon a dish, reduce the syrup, and when cold dress in pyramid in a vol-au-vent, and pour the syrup over. No. 1148. Gateau de Millefeuille a la Moderne. Make a pomid of puff paste, give it nine rolls, roll out to the thickness of two penny-pieces, from which cut ten round pieces, each about five inches in diameter, sprinlde water over two baking-sheets, upon which lay them, wet lightly with water, and sprinkle a little rough sugar over them, but not too coarse; bake very crisp in a mode- rate oven, keeping them as white as possible; when baked lay one upon your dish, which cover Avith apricot marmalade; then another, which cover with orange mar- melade; then another, which cover with currant jelly, proceeding thus to the top; when finished mask the wholeENTREMETS. ^^'^ over witli apricot marmalade, sprinlding plenty of very finely chopped pistachios romid, and decorate the top with what dessert fruits you have in season, cherries, strawberries, or raisins, di-essed in pyramid. No. 1149. Turban a la Creme aux Macarons amers. Give half a pound of puff paste (No. 1132) ten rolls, and from it cut eight round pieces of the same size as m the last; then with the same cutter cut three pieces out of each in the form of middling-sized leaves, wet Hghtly upon the top, and dip them into some coarse sugar (pounded and sifted through a coarse wke sieve), place them upon a wet baking-sheet, and bake in a moderate oven as white as possible; then have ready a round board a quarter of an inch thick, and, according to the size of your dish, made of pate d'office (No. 1137) and baked in a moderate oven; boil also half a pound of sugar an casse (No. 1389), dip the ends of the pieces of pastry singly into it, and build them in crown upon the rim of your board, one row sur- mounted by another, dressed the reverse way; make a meringue mixture with two whites of eggs (see No. 1218), which lay in fiUets, with a paper cornet upon the top; sprinkle over with some very green chopped pistacliios, and set in a warm place to diy, but not any longer than ne- cessary ; whip a pint of good double cream very stiff', with which mix a httle sugar, a quarter of a pound of crushed ratafias, and a glass of good noyeau; put the cream in the turban when ready to serve. No. 1150. Puit de Fruit aux Blanches Couronnes. Make half a pound of puff paste (No. 1132) give it nine rolls, from it cut eight round pieces half an inch in thickness, then with a cutter, four sizes smaller, cut a piece from the centre of each, so as to form rings; place them upon a488 ENTREMETS. baking-sheet, wet the tops lightly, and sprinkle a little coarse sugar over; bake them in a moderate oven as white as possible, dress one upon the bottom of your dish, cover it with a sweetmeat of some description, and proceed in like manner to the top; fill with any of the fruits as de- scribed for the vol-au-vents, have a little cream whipped very stiff lay it in piping with a paper cornet, between each ring, and garnish the top tastefully with fillets of red currant jelly or green angehca. No. 1151. Gateau de PitJiwiers. Blanch and pound well half a pound of almonds, moist- ening them with a little white of egg to keep them from oiling; put a quarter of a pound of butter in a basin, with a quarter of a pound of powdered sugar, beat well together till it becomes smooth and creamy, then add the yoUcs of four eggs; beat two minutes longer, add the pounded al- monds, with two ounces of crushed ratafias, and half a gill of whipped cream; you have previously made haK a pound of pufi" paste (No. 1132), divide it nearly in halves, having one piece larger than the other, mould them gently into two baUs, roU out the smallest to the thickness of a penny, keeping it quite round, lay it upon a baking-sheet, put the above mixture in the centre, and spread it over, leaving the space of half an inch from the edge all round, roU out the other piece of paste rather larger and thicker than the former, wet the first sheet round the edges vdth a paste- brush, and cover the other over, closing it carefully, trmi and notch round, egg over the top, and with the back of your knife sketch some design upon it; bake three quarters of an hour in a warm oven, but when the paste is sufficiently coloured, cover with a sheet of paper; when done sift a little sugar over, and glaze with the salamander. The original cake is baked quite white by using waterENTREMETS. instead of eggs, and tb:owing sugar over; my objection to which is, that many people in this country, from its ap- peaxance, fancy it is not sufficiently baked and must be Indigestible; it may, however, be baked either way, accord- ing to fancy. No. 1153. Tourte cVEntremet a la Creme. Make a piece of paste thus place six ounces of flour upon yom: slab, with three oimces of butter, rub well toge- ther, make a hole in the centre, in which put one egg, a teaspoonful of powdered sugar, and a very little water, mix well together, then mix the whole into a stiffish paste; roll it out of the size and shape you want your tourte, and place it upon a baking-sheet, then have ready a pound of puff paste, roU it to about three quarters of an inch in thickness, cut out a piece exactly of the same size and shape as the other, cut out the centre, so as to leave a band of about an inch in breadth, wet the piece of paste upon the baldng- sheet, and place the band upon it at the rim, pressing dovm hghtly; egg it upon the top, but do not let it touch the side; mark round with the back of your knife every quarter of an inch, and fiU the interior with frangipane (No. 1295), bake about half an hour in a warm oven, and serve when cold. Should you require the tourte for a flanc instead of an entremet, you must roll the paste oval instead of round, and make a long band of puff paste, which lay round the rim, carefully joining it at each end, by cutting one end slantwise under, and the other over, making it of the same thickness; egg the band upon the top, but do not let it run over the edges previous to baking. No. 1153. Tourte Entremet a la Marmelade de Pommes. Prepare a sheet of paste upon a baking-sheet as be-ENTREMETS. 490 fore, in the centre of which put some apple marmalade (No. 1399) spread it within an inch and a half of the edges all round, roll out a piece of the trimmings of puff paste very thin, from which cut about forty narrow bauds, Avct the edges of the paste, and string the bands tastefully over the marmalade, forming diamond shapes; have ready a band of puflp paste as in the last, which place round the apples, pressing it closely to the bottom sheet, egg the top, and bake as in the last; when done shake sugar over the top, and glaze hghtly with the salamander. No. 1154. Tourte d'Entremef cm Confiture. Prepare a sheet of paste upon your baking-sheet as be- fore, in the centre of which put some apricot, greengage, or strawberry jam; roU out a very thin sheet of puff paste, wet the edges of the sheet, and cover over the jam, closing it down at the edges; trim it level, have ready a band of paste, as in the last, wet round, place the band round, press it close, then with a sharp-pointed knife make incisions upon the thin paste over the marmalade, cutting quite tln-ough, formmg some fancy design, wet shghtly, throw sugar over, egg the band upon the top, and bake as before. No. 1155. Tartelettespralinees aux Abricots. Have ready buttered twelve or as many small tartelette pans as you may require, line each one with a piece of puff paste cut with a cutter of the same size as the pans, force up the edges with yom' thumb and finger, put a small ball (made of stiff flour and water paste) in each, and bake them nicely in a very hot oven; when done take out the little balls, turn the tartelettes upside down, shake powdered sugar over the bottom of each, and glaze Avith a salamander, turn them over, shake sugar in the interior, which also glaze with the salamander; you have previously chopped491 ENTREMETS. two ounces of almonds very fine, which put into a basin with two ounces of sugar, and mix weU with the white ot an egg, spread a httle upon the bottom of each tartelette, shake a httle sugar over and place them in a slow oven to di-y ■ when ready to serve put an apricot in each, stewed as for the vol-au-vent d'abricots (No. 1141). They may be served salamandered very crisp upon both sides, omitting the almonds. No. 1156. Tartelettes de Peches. Make yom- tartelettes as ui the last and fill with peaches dressed as for vol-au-vent (No. 1141). No. 1157. Tartelettes auw Censes. Proceed as before, fiUing them when baked with cherries dressed as for the vol-au-vent (No. 1144). No. 1158. Tartelettes aux Groseilles vertes. Make the tartelettes as before, have ready three pints of young green gooseberries, which put into a sugar-pan with tlu-ee quarters of a pound of lump sugar and half a wine- glassful of water, place them over a sharp fh-e, moving them round occasionally till done, which you may ascertain by their shrivelled appearance, if too much done they vv^ill become quite brown, put them in a basin and leave them till quite cold, when fill the tartelettes and serve. No. 1159. Tartelettes of Greengages. Prepare your tartelettes as before and fill with greengages prepared as directed for the vol-au-vent (No. 1143). No. 1160. Tartelettes aux Fraises. Prepare the tartelettes as before, pick a fine pottle of strawberries, which put into a basni, v.dth two ounces of492 ENTREMETS. powdered sugar and a little powdered cinnamon, shake them well together, fill the tartelettes and serve. No. 1161. Tartelettes de Pommes. Prepare the tartelettes as usual, and have ready prepared ten apples (golden pippins) cut each one in halves, take out the cores and peel them neatly, put the juice of a lemon in your sugar-pan into which throw them as you peel them ; when they are all done add half a pound of lump sugar and a hfctle thin lemon-peel cut in strips, stew them gently till tender and leave them to get cold in then- syrup, then fill the tartelettes, half an apple in each, mix a httle apricot marmalade with the syrup, pour a httle over each and serve. No. 1162. Tartelettes de Poires. Prepare the tartelettes as before, then have eight or ten small ripe pears, cut them in halves and proceed precisely as with the apples in the last, serve the same. No. 1163. Tartelettes of Cranberries. Prepare the tartelettes as directed, then have ready three pints of cranberries which you have drained and stewed over a sharp fire, with one pound of lump sugar and two ounces of green angehca cut in fillets^ until the syrup be- comes very thick, place them upon the ice till cold, when fill the tartelettes and serve. The cranberries sold in London I beheve ai'e from America; they are tolerably good, but nothing to compare to those I have used in Shropsliire and Wales; they grow in that part of the country in meadows close to the water; upon my fu'st going there I was quite unacquainted with the merit' of this beautiful fruit, but soon perceived that veiy beautiful entremets might be made from them, besidesENTREMETS. ^'93 plain taxts, for which they were daily used; their bitterness and peculiar wild flavonr rendering them very palatable and Avholesome. I have thought proper to make this remark knowing that so few people are aware of then- merit and that so many are actually spoilt for want of gathermg. No. 1164. Tartelettes d'Oranges. Prepare the tartelettes as described, have eight oranges, peel and cut off the white pith and divide each orange mto twelve pieces, make a syiaip with half a pound of sugar and half a pint of water, reduce till rather thick, then throw in half the oranges, let them boil one minute, take them out, lay them upon a dish, and put in the remainder, stew one ninute as before, reduce the syi'up again, and when nearly cold pour it over the oranges; when ready fill your tarte- lettes and serve. No. 1165. Fauchonettes a la Vanille. Line eighteen tartelette pans with puff paste as for tarte- lettes, but do not work up the edges so high, have also a creme made in the following manner: put a pint of milk into a stewpan and when it boils put in a stick of vanille, and reduce the milk to half, in another stewpan have the yolks of three eggs, with an ounce and a haK of powdered sugar and one of sifted flour, with a grain of salt, pour in the mill-:, taking out the vanille, place over a slow fire, keep stii-ring tiU it thickens; when cold fiU the tarte- lettes and bake them nicely in a moderate oven, when baked and cold have ready a meringue mixtm'e of fom- eggs, (see No. 1218,) a teaspoonful of which lay upon each, spreading it quite flat with a knife, make a ring of seven small button meringues round each upon the top with a larger one in the centre, sift sugar over and place them in a slow oven till of a light brown colour and the meringueENTREMETS. 494 quite crisp ; to serve, dress them pyramidically upon your dish. No. 1166. Daupldnes. Line eighteen tartelette-pans with puif paste, and place a small piece of apricot or other marmalade in the centre, which cover with a custard made as directed in the last, bake them in a moderate oven ; when cold prepare a me- ringue mixture (No. 1218) of five eggs, with which form a very high pyramid upon the top of each tartelette, sift sugar over and place them in a slow oven to dry, keeping them very white; serve cold, dressed round upon a napkin. No. 1167. Tartelettes a la Pompadour. Line eighteen tartelette-pans vdth puff paste, have also eighteen pieces of brioche paste (No. 1321), each the size of a walnut, roll them out to the thickness of a penny-piece, keeping them round, place a piece of apricot or other mar- malade in the centre, wet the paste, fold it over the mar- malade to form a ball, and tm'n them over into yom' tarte- lettes, wet the tops, turn them over on some rough pounded sugar, place them upon a baking-sheet, bake in a moderate oven, dress ppamidically upon a napkin and serve quite hot. No. 1168. Mirlitons aux Fleurs d' Orange. Line about eighteen or twenty tartelette-pans with puff paste, then put an ounce of powdered candied orange- flowers in a basin, vdth a quarter of a pound of crushed maccaroons, a quarter of a pound of sugar, two yolks and two whole eggs, with a grain of salt, stir altogether, then add two ounces of fresh butter warmed and the whites of two eggs beat up very stiff, fill the tartelettes, sift sugar rather thickly over and bake them in a moderate oven.495 ENTREMETS. No. 1169. Mirlitons mx Amandes. Proceed exactly as in the last, using one ounce of bitter and one ounce of sweet almonds, blanched, di'ied, and pounded, and two ounces of maccaroons instead of a quar- ter of a pound, omitting the candied orange-flowers. No. 1170. Mirlitons au Citron. Proceed as for mirlitons aux flem^s d'orange, only rubbmg the rind of a lemon upon the sugar previous to pounding it, and omitting the orange-flowers. No. 1171. Tetits Vol-au-vents a la Chantilli/. Make a pound of puff paste (No. 1133), when done roll it to about a quarter of an inch in thickness, and with a fluted cutter cut out twenty pieces rather larger than a penny-piece and with a plain round cutter the size of a haKpenny, cut a piece from the centre of each, leaving the rings, roll up the trimmings of the paste to the same thickness as before, from which cut twenty more pieces with the fluted cutter, sprinkle a baking-sheet with water, upon which lay them, wet lightly upon the top, and place the rings over very even, pressing them down gently, egg the tops and bake in a good oven; when done sift. sugar over and glaze with the salamander, whip half a pint of double cream, to which add a Httle sugar pounded, with a few candied orange-flowers; when the vol-au-vents are cold put a httle marmalade in the bottom with the cream over and serve. No. 1173. Petits Vol-au-vents aux Abricots. Make the vol-au-vents as in the last, but when baked have a quarter of a pound of sugar boiled au casse (No. 1389), dip the top of each of the vol-au-vents Ughtly496 ENTREMETS. into it, and immediately dip them in white sugar, in grains (that is, the sugar pounded and all the fine sifted from it, which again sift tlu-ough a coarse wire sieve), when all done fiU the centre with some good apricot marmalade, or small pieces of apricots, peaches, &c., as prepared for the large vol-au-vents. No. 1173. Petits Vol-au-vents a la GeUe mousseuse. Make the vol-au-vents as described in the last, but dip- ping them into red sugar in grains, (see No. 1386,) instead of white; when done put a pint of very good marasquino jelly into a bowl, melt it, place it upon the ice and keep whisking till set, it will be quite white and frothy, fill the vol-au-vents, and serve with a few drops of marasquino sprinkled over and a very fresh strawberry upon the top of each, or, if not in season, a brandied cherry. No. 1174. Fetits Puits aux PistacJdos Are made the same as the vol-au-vents; when baked dip the tops lightly into sugar as before, and dip them into chopped pistachios (very green) and sugar in grains, fill them with some whipped cream flavoured with vanilla sugar (No. 1387) and place a dried cherry upon the top. No. 1175. Gateau fourre a la Crhne. Make half a pound of puff paste (No. 1133), when done divide it into two parts, one a fourth larger than the other, roU them up into two balls gently, and roll the first into a sheet the thickness of a penny-piece, sprinlde a bakmg- sheet with a little water, upon which lay it, put some fi-an- gipane (No. 1295) in the centre, which spread to witlnn half an inch of the edge aU round, and three quarters of an inch in thickness, wet the edge hghtly, then lay the other sheet of paste (which vou have rolled into a sheet, tluckerENTREMETS. ^ ' and larger than the first) over, close it weU at the edges, egg it well over, trim round with your knife, sketch some design upon the top with the point of a knife, bake about thi-ee quarters of an hoiu' in a moderate oven; when done sift sugar over and glaze with the salamander; when cold cut it into pieces two inches and a haK in length and one m breadth; di'ess in crown upon a napkin or upon a border of apple marmalade. No. 1176. Gateau fourre au Conjture. Make half a pound of puff paste and proceed as in the last, spreading apricot, strawberry, or greengage jam about a quarter of an inch in thickness in the centre instead of the frangipane, finish as the last, but it will not take so long to bake, serve the same. No. 1177. Gateau fourre, ou d'Jrtois, aux Pommes. Peel and cut ten apples into sKces, put them into a preserving-pan with two ounces of butter, six ounces of powdered sugar, some thin lemon-peel cut in strips, and a a httle powdered cinamon, pass them over a sharp fire till tender, then take them off, mix four tablespoonfuls of apri- cot marmalade with them, and put by till cold; make haK a pound of puff paste and proceed as before, using the above preparation instead of the sweatmeats before men- tioned. No. 1178. Gateau fourre Anglo-Frangais. Put three ounces of ground rice in a stewpan vdth which mix gradually a pint of milk, stir over the fire tiU it thicken^ and the rice is done; you have pounded a quarter of a pound of sweet almonds and one ounce of bitter with six ounces of sugar, put them in the stewpan with half an ounce of candied citron cut small and soaked in a glass of 32498 ENTllEMETS. marasqmno, which also put m, add five eggs, beat alto- gether, and stir over the fii-e till it again thickens, when cold proceed exactly as for the gateau foui-re a la creme, substituting the above preparation for the frangipane. No. 1179. Petits Gateaux fourres au Confiture. Prepare half a pound of pufi" paste (No. 1132), which roU into a long band three inches wide and nearly a quarter of an inch thick, have it upon your slab before you, then place roUs of jam an inch and a half in length, as thick as your little finger and two inches apart, in the centre; wet the edges aU along and fold the paste over, press down with your finger round each piece of marmalade, cut them out with a knife, sprinkle a baking-sheet with water, upon which lay them; egg over, and with the point of a knife sketch a leaf upon each, cutting nearly through the paste, bake them nicely in a moderate oven, and when done sift sugar over and glaze with, the salamander, dress them round upon a border of apple marmalade when cold, or dress in pyramid. Any kind of sweetmeat may be used for these Idnds of gateaux, but observe it reqmres to be very firm, for if soft it would run from the paste, and give them a bad appearance. No. 1180. Petits Gateaux fourres {round). Make three quarters of a pound of puff paste, from which cut twelve pieces with a round cutter tln-ee inches and a half in diameter and the thickness of a penny-piece, then roll out the trimmings, from which cut twelve more pieces vsdth a plain round cutter thi-ee inches in diameter, lay a small piece of the preparation of apple as for d'Ai'tois (No. 1137) in the middle of the smaller sheets with a preserved cherry upon the top, wet round the edges Hghtly, then place the larger sheet over, press it well down upon the edges withENTREMETS. 499 tlie rim of the smaller cutter, with which also cut them round; wet hghtly over and place a small ring upon the top, sprinkle white sugar in rather coarse grains over, and bake rather white in a moderate oven, when cold place a fine preserved cherry within each ring upon the top, and di-ess them in pyi'amid; they may hkewise be made square or any other shape, by following the above dhections, they may be made smaller if reqmred. No. 1181. Petits Gateaux fourres aux Amandes. Make the cakes exactly as above, blanch two ounces of sweet ahnonds, spht each one in halves (wet the top of the cakes), and with them form a rosette, pressing them into the paste; place a ring of paste upon the top as before, sprinkle white sugar in grains over, bake them nearly white, when done fiU the ring with red currant jelly, and when cold serve as before. No. 1182. Petits Gateaux fourres Meringue. Make the cakes as before, but omitting the almonds, when baked and cold prepare a meringue mixture of three whites of eggs (see No. 1218), which put into a paper cornet, and with it pipe a rosette tastefully upon each ga- teau ; throw pounded sugar over, shaking off all that does not adliere to them, place them in the screen to dry, when dry fill each cavity with currant, apple, or quince jeUy, which will have a very pleasing efiect. You may also form a rope round with meringues, vi^hich sprinkle with gTeen and red sugar in grains (see No. 1386), filling the interior with jelhes as before, they may be made oval also. No. 1183. Patisserie d'Amandes a la Conde. Make half a pound of puff paste, give it nine rolls, rolling it the last time to the thickness of a penny-piece, have ready500 ENTREMETS. blanched and chopped half a pound of sweet almonds, which put in a basin with half a pound of powdered sugar and the whites of two eggs, or little more if required, spread it over the paste the thickness of a shiUing, and vnth a knife cut the paste into pieces two inches and a half in length and nearly one in breadth, place them upon a baldng-sheet, and bake nicely a very hght brown colour in a moderate oven, dress them in pyramid. No. 1184. Turban de Conde a la Bhubarbe. Dress some of the pastry as directed in the last, in a crown upon a border of apple marmalade, have ready a bundle of red forced rhubarb (very young), which put mto a preserving-pan with one pound of powdered sugar and a wine-glassful of water, stew quickly over a sharp fire keep- ing it very red, the syrup must be very thick 5 when quite cold fill the centre of the tm^ban and serve. Apricots, apples, pears, peaches, greengages, or any other fruits, dressed as for vol-au-vents, can be served in this manner. No. 1185. Petits Gateaux d'Jbricots. Make three quarters of a pound of pufi" paste (No. 1132), roll it to the thickness of a penny-piece, and cut it into pieces three inches square, in the centre of which put a roU of apricot marmalade about two inches long and the thick- ness of your finger; wet the paste round hghtly, and fold it over in the form of a book, egg over and bake them m a warm oven, when done sift sugar over and glaze with the sala- mander, or they may be made in the shape of diamonds by cutting'the paste into pieces of that form, and covering one over the other. No. 1186. Fetits Gateaux renverses. Make half a pound of puff paste, roll it to the thickness501 ENTREMETS. of a halfpenny-piece, and with a round cutter cut out twenty-four pieces rather larger than a five-shiUing piece, wet hghtly and fold them over forming half cycles, wet the top, dip into some coarse sugar in grains and bake on a baldng-sheet in a moderate oven of a light colom-, cut fillets of currant jelly, with which garnish by piping them in the separation with a paper cornet, and serve dressed in pyramid. No. 1187. Pelites Bouchees a la Patissiere. Make haK a pound of puff paste, from which cut fifteen pieces the thickness of a penny-piece, with an oval fluted cutter two inches and a haK in length and one and a half in breadth, wet them upon the top; then roll out the trim- mings, from which cut twenty an inch in diameter, taking out the centre with a smaller cutter, thus forming them into rings, place them upon the top exactly in the centre, wet the rings lightly, dip the tops into some white sugar in grains, place them upon a baking-sheet, and bake them a hght colour; when done fill the ring with a little currant or apple jelly, a dried cherry, or any description of preserve. No. 1188. Eventail aux Cerises. ■ Make half a pound of puff" paste (No. 1132), which roll to the thickness of half an inch, cut it in strips a quarter of an inch wide and three inches long, lay them upon then- sides upon the baking-sheet, leaving them room to spread, bake in a moderate oven, when done sift sugar over and glaze with the salamander, dress them in a crown upon a border of apple marmalade, with cherries in the centre dressed as for vol-au-vent (No. 1144). No. 1189. Petits Gateaux a la Poyale. Make half a pound of puff paste (No. 1132), which rollENTREMETS. 502 to the thickness of a penny-piece, beat three quarters of a pound of finely sifted sugar in a basin with the whites of two eggs and a httle lemon-juice; if too stiff add a little more white of egg, beat well, spread over the sheet of paste, and cut it into pieces three inches long and one broad, lay them upon your baking-sheet and bake in a slow oven. There are likewise a great many small cakes wliich may be made from puff paste in all variety of forms, with, dif- ferent shaped cutters, and ornamented with different pre- serves, or meringued in any pattern or design you may fancy, but these must be left entirely to the taste. No. 1190. J Flan of Puff Paste. Make half a pound of puff paste, roU twelve times tiU nearly worn out, letting it remain some time on the slab before using; then have a plain round or oval flan mould,* butter the interior and line it with the paste about one third of an inch in thickness, place a sheet of white paper at the bottom and a band round the sides in the interior, which fill with bread-crumbs, bake in a warm oven rather crisp, take out, empty it of the bread-crumbs, and paper and turn it from your mould, sift sugax aU over and glaze with the salamander, serve filled with any of the frmts dressed as directed for vol-au-vents. Should you have any trimmings of paste left from a previous day it may be used instead of making fresh. No. 1191. Flan de Pommes a la Portugaise. Make half a pound of flom- into a fine paste (pate fine, No 1136) roll it into a sheet about eleven inches in dia- meter, work up the sides mth your hands two^ inches in height which crimp and ornament neatly mth pate d office (No. 1137), or some of the same paste cut into small leaves, * Flan movdds are generally fluted, and about an inch and a half in height.503 ENTREMETS. with which form a wreath or some other design, by wetting the flan round and sticking them upon it; then peel two dozen small apples (golden pippins), take the cores from fifteen of them with a long round cutter, make a syrup with half a pint of water, the juice of a lemon, and three quarters of a pound of sugar, reduce over a sharp fii-e till becoming thickish, put in the whole apples which stew gently till tender, then take them out, cut up the remainder, put them into the syrup and boil to a thickish marma- lade ; lay half the marmalade at the bottom of the flan, then the whole apples, and fill up with the marmalade not hiding -the whole apples, put a band of buttered paper round and bake three quarters of an hour, when done take ofi" the buttered paper and mask aU over with apricot marmalade, serve either hot or cold. No. 1192. Flan de Poires. Make a crust the same as above, peel and cut in halves about two dozen very nice pears, put them into a preserv- ing-pan with three quarters of a pound of sugar, the juice of two lemons, and the rind of one, free from pith, cut into small strips; stew till tender, when cold place them in your flan with the syrup over, bake three quarters of an hour with a band of paper round, finish and serve as in the last. Cherries, greengages, and apricots may also be used for the above purposes by following the same methods, dress- ing the fruit as for vol-au-vents. No. 1193. Flanc a la Cremepralinee. Prepare a crust as before, which fill with some frangipane (No. 1295), in which you have put six ounces of sweet and one ounce of bitter almonds, blanched and chopped, put a band of paper round, bake three quarters of an hour, then take ofi" the paper, wet the crust, sift sugar all over, and glaze with the salamander.ENTREMETS. 504 No. 1194. Pate a Choux. Put half a pint of water in a stewpan, with six ounces of butter, two ounces of sugar (pounded), with half a stick of vanille and a pinch of salt; when it begins to boil sth in three good spoonfuls of flom-, keep sturing over the fire, keeping it cleared from the bottom of the stewpan, till becoming a toughish paste; take it off the fire, and stii' in six or seven eggs one after the other, and work them well in; it is then ready; butter a baking-sheet and lay your paste upon it in round pieces nearly the size of a walnut,* egg over, and sprinkle white sugar in grains upon them, bake in a moderate oven, and when done and cold open a lid at the top, fill them with a jam or marmalade of some description, replace the lid, and serve dressed in pyramid upon a napkin. Half the quantity of this and following receipts may of course be made. No. 1195. Petits Choux a la Creme. Prepare your paste as in the last, place it in round balls upon your baking-sheet, egg over, sprinkle with sugar in grains, and bake them as in the last, then put two yolks of eggs in a stewpan, with a tablespoonful of sugar, a little chopped lemon-peel, and a few candied orange-flowers well pounded; mix well together, add a giU of boiling milk, stir over the fire till it thickens, place in a basin upon the ice, when cold, add a gill of whipped cream, mix well, fill your petits choux, and serve as in the last. No. 1196. Petits Choux aux Amandes. Proceed as above, but when they are baked cover Hghtly * The only way to sliape them properly is by taking a piece the size of a walnut, and moulding it with your finger at the rim of the stewpan; drop them upon a baking-sheet, and make them still more round with the paste-brush in egging them over.ENTREMETS. with a mixture of almonds and sugar, as directed for patisserie d'amandes (No. 1183); put them agam m the oven tiU it has set and become crisp; when cold fiU and serve as before. No. 1197. Pefits Choux a la Comtesse. Prepare the paste as before, but lay it out upon your baking-sheet, in long pieces the size of your finger, egg and sugar over, bake as before, and when cold open them beneath and fill with the cream as above. No. 1198. Petits Cloux en Gimblettes. Make the paste as before, lay it in larger round balls upon a buttered baking-sheet, dip the handle of your paste- brush into some egg, with which make a hole as large as a shiUing in the centre of each, thus forming them into rings, each rather larger than a five-shilling piece; egg over, and sprinkle with sugar in grains and chopped pistachios mixed together; bake them as before, but in a slow oven; they do not require to be filled. No. 1199. Petits Pains a la Cremiere. Put half a pint of thin cream in a stevrpan, with a quar- ter of a pound of butter, two ounces of sugar, and a little salt; when boiling add three spoonfuls of flour; stir well over the fire, clearing it from the bottom tiU becoming toughish, then add six eggs, one at a time, which work in well; the paste requires to be rather firm; when cold put a little flour upon your pastry slab, upon which tmii the paste; roU it out in pieces an inch and a half in length, make an incision down the centre with your knife, and lay them upon a baking-sheet, egg over, bake them in a warm oven; when done sift sugar over, and glaze with the salamander; seiTe dressed in pyramid, and very hot.506 ENTREMETS. No. 1300. Madeline au vin de Forts. Put half a pound of floiu' in a stewpan, with six ounces of sugar, a quarter of a pound of fresh butter melted, and a little orange-flour water; mix the whole well together with five eggs, butter a cylinder mould, put the paste into it, and bake of a nice gold colour in a moderate oven; put foiu- glasses of port wine in a stewpan, with a little sugar, four cloves, and a httle cinnamon; mix a teaspoonful of arrowroot with a glass of port wine cold, which sth in with the other in your stewpan, tmii the madehne out upon your dish, pour the wine over, straining it through a sieve; when cold fill the centre with half a pint of whipped cream, flavoured with orange-flower-water, and serve. They may also be made in smaller moulds, dressed in pyramid, with the sauce over. No. 1201. Genoises. Well pound two ounces of sweet almonds with a quarter of a pound of sugar, and pass them through a wire sieve; put them into a basin, with six ounces of flour and six eggs; beat well together, add a Httle salt, half a gOl of whipped cream, and a piece of butter the size of an egg (melted but not hot); butter a saute-pap, pour the mixture into it, bake in a moderate oven half an hour, or till rather crisp, turn it out upon your board, and when cold cut it into a variety of shapes with your knife or difierent shaped cutters (but do not make them too large, or they would not look well), which decorate with a white or pink iceing (No. 1383) or meringue with a paper cornet, and difierent sorts of preserves. No. 1202. Genoisesfourees. Prepare a mixture as above, but only put half of it in507 ENTREMETS. the saut6-pan; when half done spread a little jicot mar- malade over, and pom over the remamder of the mixtme; ^vhen done tmn out upon a board, cut and ornament it as dii-ected above. This style of genoise is new, and wnen well made very excellent. No. 1203. Genoises a V Orange. Proceed as before, but rub the sugar with the rind of an orange previous to pounding it, and add a smaU glass of brandy; bake, cut, and ornament it as before. No. 1204. Genoises aux Pistaches. Make a genoise as before, bake it, and when cold cut it into round pieces the size of a penny-piece; cut also as many rings the size of a shiUing, mask the tops of the round pieces with white iceings (No. 1383) and place a ring in the centre of each, which also mask; have two ounces of pistachios blanched and split in halves, which lay upon them, their pomts to the rings, thus forming rosettes; fill the rings with marmalade when ready to serve. No. 1205. Darioles. Lhie (very thinly) a dozen smaU dariole naoulds with paste (pate a foncer. No. 1135), then put one ounce of flour in. a basin with an egg, beat it quite smooth, then add six yolks of eggs and four ounces of sugar (pounded) with a cjuarter of an ounce of candied orange-flowers, six large macaroons crushed, one whole egg, and half a pint of good cream ; mix all well together, put a small piece of butter in each of the moulds, fill them with the above preparation, and bake in a quick oven, when done take them out of the mould, sift sugar over, and serve very hot; they will be as hght as souflles and eat as dehcate.508 ENTREMETS. No. 1206. Biscatelles. Put one pound of sugar into a basin with five eggs, work it well, and add by degrees four more eggs, then stu- in the yolks of five other eggs with a pound of flour, add tlu-ee quarters of a pound of butter just melted, and the whites of five eggs, beat very stifi*, bake it in a saute-pan, and when cold cut it into a variety of shapes, wliich ornament with meringue, iceing and preserves as your fancy may direct; half the above quantity would be sufficient for a dish. No. 1207. Gateaux a VIndienne. Make a sponge-cake mixture (No. 1379) of six eggs, which bake in twelve small dariole moulds, when cold cut them in slices, spread a little cmTant jelly upon each, with a little maresquino, and build them of their original shape ; have ready a meringue mixture (No. 1218) of five eggs, with which mask them, finish the top in a point, sprinkle over with rough sugar and diy in a very slow oven, keeping them quite white; when cold, dress in pyramid as elevated as possible. No. 1208. Gauffres aux Pistaches. Weigh the weight of six eggs of sugar and three of flour, which put into a basin with half a pound of sweet almonds chopped very fine, mix them with six whole eggs and a tea- spoonful of orange-fiower water; rub two or three baking- sheets very lightly with veiy white wax, upon which drop the mixture with a spoon into cakes the size of a penny piece; let it spread, then lay some pistachios ])lanched and filleted upon them, place in a warmish oven, and be very particular in baking, for if done too much you will -not be able to do anything Avith them, and if not done enough they will not be crisp eating; directly they are doneENTREMETS. '^"^ take them from the oven, and with a thin knife take them off the baking-sheet, curl them over the handle of a wooden spoon as quickly as possible, and place m a screen or a short time to dry; in case yom- gaiiffres run out of shape cut them out with an oval cutter or with the pomt of a knife before putting them upon the spoon. No. 1209. Gauffres a VAllemande Are made the same as the above, but omitting the al- monds and pistachios, serve them fiUed with whipped cream, to which you have added a httle powdered sugar and orange- flower water, if in season a fine strawberry may be placed at each end, dress them in pyramid upon a napkin. No. 1210. Gauffres a la Vanille Are made the same as the gauffres aux pistaches, but adding half a stick of vaniUa weU pounded and sifted with the sugar, and half a glass of brandy instead of the orange- flower-water. A vaiiety of beautiful entremets may be made with gauffres, according to taste. No. 1211. Gauffres a la Flamande. Put half a pound of flour in a basin, with which mix six eggs by degrees, working it at first upon one side of the basin, until you have mixed the whole into a smooth paste, then dissolve a piece of dried German yeast, half the size of a walnut, in a wineglassful of warm water; when dissolved pour it into the basin wdth a gill of warm milk and a little salt, mix all well together, stir in six ounces of butter, pre- viously melted, also two spoonfuls of orange-flower-water, set in a warm place for nearly two hours, when the mix- ture would have risen about two or three inches turn it round five or six times with a wooden spoon to bring it down; let remain half an hour longer and it is ready for use.510 ENTREMETS. Put the gaiiffi-e irons upon a slow fire, turning them oc- casionally, to get hot by degrees, mpe them well with a cloth, and mb lightly over the interior with fat bacon, then put in two or three spoonfuls of the paste, close the h-ons, put them over the fire (turning occasionaUy) for a few mi- nutes ■ open the irons half way to see if coloured suffi- cently (they should be of a Hght gold colour) and very crisp, if done tm-n it out, proceeding in like manner with the remainder; when finished have half a pound of lump sugar, well pounded, with a quarter of an ounce of powdered cinnamon and passed through a fine sieve, dip the gaufii-es into it on both sides and serve very hot dressed in pyramid upon a napkin. No. 1212. Gauffres a la Casalesry. Put half a pound of fresh butter into a middhng-sized basin (having previously pressed it in a cloth to extract the buttermillc), work it round with your hand until forming a whitish cream, then add half a pound of sifted flom- and a piece of yeast of the size of a walnut; work well together, set it in a warm closet half an hour, or until iveU risen, take it out, add half a pint of whipped cream (taking care that the mixture is not too hot, or it would turn sour) and a little salt, put the gaufire irons upon the fire, and proceed as in the last; when done roll them in powdered cinnamon and sugar mixed together, and send very hot to table; either of the two last may be served either as an entremet or a remove. No. 1213. Bed Nougat Blanch and skin three quarters of a pound of almonds, which cut into small fillets, and place them in the oven mitil lightly browned; put six ounces of powdered sugar in a copper pan with a little essence of cochineal, stu' roundENTREMETS. over the fire tiU melted, and when it commences boihng stir in the ahnonds and turn it out upon a buttered bakmg- sheet, spread out thin, and before getting too crisp cut it into pieces (with a knife) two inches in length and thi^ee quarters of an inch in breadth; dress them m cro;vn upon yoiu- dish and fiU the interior with a pint of whipped cream, in which you have put a tablespoonful of sugar and one of orange-flower-water; strawberries may be added if in season. Nougat aux pistaches is made by omitting the cochineal, and when spread out upon the baking-sheet sprinkhng chopped pistachios over whilst very hot, and proceeding as in the last. No. 1214. Small Cups of Nougat Prepare the nougat as before, then have a number of daxiole or tartelette moulds, oil the interior shghtly, and when the mixture is half cold put a piece the size of a walnut in each, which press to the shape of the mould, with your finger and thumb; when cold take them out and serve fiUed with cream as before. Vases and large cups may also be made with it, by having moulds and proceeding as for the smaller ones; but for the larger moulds or shapes, wliich require more time to fill, to prevent the mixture getting cold, keep the pan upon a trivet at the mouth of the oven, taking it by pieces as you require. No. 1215. Nougat d'Abricot. Make haK a pound of pufi" paste (No. 1132), roll twelve times, leaving it about the thickness of haK-a-crown piece, place it upon a baking-sheet, and spread apricot marma- lade over a quarter an inch in thickness, then have ready, finely chopped and well dried, three quarters of a pound of blanched sweet almonds, which put into a basin with three quarters of a pound of powdered sugar, and mix with512 ENTREMETS. the whites of four eggs, spread it all over the marmalade and bake in a hot oven a nice colom:when cold cut it into pieces of any shape you please, and dress in crown upon a napkin to serve. Brioche paste (No. 1321) would be better than puff paste for the above, but they are very excellent either way. No. 1216. CMtaignes Croquantes. Roast sixty chesnuts, take them from the husks, and when cold pound them well, adding a little white of egg to prevent their oiling ; then add half a pound of flour, half a pomid of sugar, half a pound of butter, and the yolks of two or three eggs, mix all well together; lay the paste upon a marble slab, roU it out into small pieces two inches long, place them on a baking-sheet, mark vidth a knife upon the top, and bake in a sharp oven, when done dip them into sugar boiled to au casse (No. 17), when cold they are ready to serve. No. 1217. Amandes Croquantes. Blanch one pound of sweet almonds, which put in a slow oven to dry, when cold put them into a mortar with one pound of lump sugar, pound very fine and pass them through a wire sieve upon a marble slab, rub in thi-ee quarters of a pound of butter, a Kttle chopped rind of lemon, and the yolks of three eggs, form the paste thus made, into small pieces of any shape you please, which bake and dip in sugar as in the last. No. 1218. Meringues a la Cuilliere. Pound and sift one pound of lump sugar, whisk the whites of ten eggs very stifi", throw the sugar lightly over, and with a wooden spoon stir gently, perfectly mixing the sugar, then with a table or dessert-spoon lay them out513 ENTREMETS. upon white paper in the shape of eggs, sift powdered sugar thickly over, let them remain ten minutes, then shake off the superfluous sugar, place upon boards which you have wetted, and put them into a slow oven, just hot enough to cause them to be light and shghtly tinge; when the outside becomes quite crisp, take off the papers, by tiu-ning them topsy-tm'vy and lifting the papers from them, dip your spoon into hot water, and vidth it clear out the best part of the interior, dust them with powdered sugar, lay them upon a baking-sheet, and put into the screen to dry; they may be made a day or two before they are required, if put away in a dry place; to serve, fill them with whipped cream flavoured either with vanilla or orange- flower (but do not make it too sweet), stick two together, dress in pyramid upon a napkin and serve. Should they happen to stick to the papers, moisten the papers vnth a paste-brush and water. No. 1219. Turban de Meringues. Make a meringue mixture as above of five eggs and haK a pomid of sugar, wliich lay out on white paper, but with a teaspoon, of the size and shape of pheasants' eggs; sift sugar over, which shake ofi" directly, place them upon boards and bake in a slacker oven than dii-ected for the last, keeping them quite white, and drying them quite through; when cold wet the paper underneath, take off the meringues, dry them a little more, have ready, and baked a round board of pate d'office (No. 1137), seven inches in diameter, have also ready a httle white iceing (No. 1383) mixed rather stiff, form a ring of it round the rim of the board, upon which dress the meringues, placing a piece of the iceing the size of a pea at the bottom of each to fix them one to the other, place it to diy, have a little iceing thinner than the last, dip one end of the remaining meringues into 83514 ENTREMETS. it, and then into chopped pistachios (very green), with them form another row upon the first, keeping the green end uppermost, dry it till set, and when ready to serve fill the interior with a whipped cream as in the last, and sprinkle chopped pistachios over, or fill them with any of the cremes bavaroises; the meringues may likewise be laid out with a paper cornet. No. 1320. Turban de Meringues glace. Make a turban as directed in the last, then soak two ounces of citron (candied), two ounces of currants, and two ounces of Smyrna raisins, in one glass of maresquino, mix the whole in a freezing-pot with a pint and a half of vaniUa ice (No. 1391), fill the turban, at the moment of servuag, with it. No. 1221. Petits Meringues auw Pistaches. Make a meringue mixture of five whites of eggs and half a pound of sugar as before, lay out upon papers with a teaspoon; have ready two ounces of chopped pistachios, which sprinkle over, then sift a Httle sugar over, which shake ofi" immediately, place them upon boards, bake and empty as directed for meringues a la cuiUeree (Mo. 1218), fill them with whipped cream in which you have intro- duced a few chopped pistachios, stick two together and serve; these are intended more for garniture than to be served as a dish by themselves. No. 1222. Champignons en surprise. Malce a meringue mixtm^e of ten eggs as before, put one half of the mixture into a paper horn, (or cornet,) cut a piece of the bottom with a knife to leave a hole as lai-ge as the tip of your little finger, press the mixtm-e through it upon sheets of white paper, into pieces as lai-ge round asENTREMETS. 515 a five-shiUing piece, sprinkle them over with grated choco- late and powdered sugar mixed, put the remainder of the mixtm-e into another paper horn, cut a hole at the bottom smaller than in the last, and press the mixtm-e through it upon paper, into pieces an inch and a haK in length, and thicker at one end than the other, commencing at the small end to form the stalk of a muslu-oom, sift a little sugar over, place them upon a board, with those you first laid out, put in a slow oven, when the smaller ones are per- fectly dried take them off the papers, stick two together, dip the thick end in white of egg and then into grated chocolate, take out the larger ones, remove them from the paper by wetting it at the back, then stick the smaller ones into them, thus forming mushrooms, dry in the screen and use them for garniture where directed. No. 1223. Biscuit manque aux Amandes. Put half a pound of powdered sugar into a basin, vdth the yolks of six eggs, beat them well together with a wooden spoon, melt two ounces of fresh butter, which add to the mixture, with six ounces of flour and the whites of the six eggs beat very stiff, stir it till well mixed, but not more than is requked, butter a saute-pan lightly, put some finely powdered sugar into it, shake all over the pan and turn out that which does not adhere to the butter, pour in the mixture, have a quarter of a pound of sweet ahnonds cut into thin fillets, lay them upon the top and sift sugar over, bake in a moderate oven of a hght brown colom-; when done take it out of the saute-pan, and when cold cut it in pieces of a diamond shape three inches in length and two in breadth and serve dressed in pyramid. No. 1224. Biscuit manque au Rhum. Put half a pound of powdered sugar in a basin, withENTREMETS. 516 three quarters of u pound of flour, a quarter of a pound of butter, (melted,) two glasses of old Jamaica rum, a quarter of a pound of sweet almonds well pounded, (with the sugar,) and a little salt; mix the whole together, with the yolks of six and two whole eggs, then add the whites of the six eggs whipped very stiff, stirring them in very Ughtly, have ready a large square paper box, butter the interior well and pour in the mixtm-e; bake in a moderate oven; when nearly done egg over the top with a paste-brush and cover with a preparation of almonds made thus: blanch and skin half a pound of sweet ahnonds, which cut into thin fillets, dry them in a hot closet, put them into a basin, mth three ounces of sugar and mix with the whites of two eggs, place the manque again in the oven until done and the almonds become shghtly browned, then take it from the oven and when cold cut in diamcmds or any other shapes your fancy may direct. They do not require to be more than an inch in thickness, and rum may be exchanged for any other flavour if desired. No. 1225. Calf 8 Foot Jelly. Jelhes may be considered as the fii'st, most wholesome, and refreshing dishes of the second course, especially when made from calves' feet, which meritorious discovery belongs especially to the EngUsh kitchen, where I beheve they have been used for years; the inventor certainly deserves a place in the archives of cookery. For the making of jelhes in France nothing but isinglass is used, Avhich is so adulterated in its preparation that it requires a person to be a good judge to select it, whilst calves' feet may be selected by any one, only requiring to be well scalded and fresh But here I must observe that the discovery hasENTREMETS. 517 never been advantageously developed to the public at large, for the introduction of cloves, mace, cinnamon, and other spices, give it a veiy common flavour, vi^hich does not at all harmonize with the dehcacy of the jeUy; a real gourmet would not only send it from his table, but discharge the maker with the impression that a cook without taste was no cook at all; the only flavoiu- required in jelly being some hght liqueur, wine, or the freshness of some deUcious fruits. Orange jeUy, and jelly from the juice of any other fruits, may likewise be made with the calf's foot jelly, by omitting the greater part of juice of lemon and using it instead, but here isinglass has an advantage, it will keep for any time and may be used in the country where, perhaps, at the time required calves' feet cannot be obtained. Take four calf's feet, cut them up and put them into a stewpan, with six quarts of water, place upon the fire; when boihng remove to the corner, where let bod slowly five hours, to reduce to about two quarts, keeping weU skimmed, pass through a hair sieve into a basin, in which let remain in a cold place till set quite firm, take ofi" as much of the oil from the top as possible with a spoon, and wash off" the re- mainder with a little hot water as quicldy as possible, wipe dry with a cloth, and put it into a stewpan, with a pound of lump sugar broken in small pieces, the juice of ten lemons, the rind of fom: (free from pith), the whites of eight eggs, with the shells, half a pint of water, and half a pint of sherry, place the stewpan over the fire and keep whisk- ing its contents until boihng, then pass it through yom- jelly bag, pouring that which first runs through back again, until it mns quite clear; it is then ready for use as directed in the following receipts. To be quite certain of the strength of yoiu- jelly take a httle from the stewpan previous to its boihng, which put mto the bottom of a small mould and place upon the iceENTREMETS, 518 if too strong add a little more water, but if by mistake too weak reduce it in clarifying. I have invented some few new jelly moulds, the designs of which are shown in the accompanying plates, also some new fruit atelettes (which will be found at the end of this work), one of which, placed at the top of a jelly when turned out, is a very handsome addition. No. 1226. Gelee de Dantzic aux Fraises. Take a quart of jelly clarified as above, with which mix four glasses of eau de vie de Dantzic, reserving the gold leaves by letting them set at the bottom of the glass, mix four tablespoonfuls of the jelly with it, have a cylinder mould and place it in ice, put the jelly vdth the leaves first in, so that the gold will show at the top of the jeUy when turned out, place a fine strawberry in each knob of the mould, then add a Httle more jelly, when neai'ly set add more strawberries, sticking them to the sides of the mould and arranging them as tastefully as possible, fill up by degrees or you would have all the strawberries swimming at the top; when finished and quite set it is ready to turn out, which is done by dipping the mould in warm water; wipe quickly with a cloth, shake the mould gently, tm-n over carefully upon your dish, and draw the mould off quite straight. Two glasses of pale brandy may advantageously be added to the jelly. No. 1227. Gelee de Maresquin aux Peches. Take a quart of jelly clarified as before, to which add fom^ glasses of the best ItaUan maresquino, have fom' nice ripe peaches, but perfectly sound, which cut into quarters, bury a cylinder mould in ice, place a httle jelly at the bottom, then arrange some of the pieces of peaches, which cover with jelly; when neaiiy set arrange the remainder,ENTEEMETS. 519 and till up the mould, proceeding as in the last. The fruit will impart its own pecuhar flavom- to the jelly. No. 1328. Gelee de Noyeau aux Abricots. Flavour a quart of jelly clarified as before with four glasses of the best noyeau, (here I must remark that if the hquors used are not of the best quality it would render the jelly cloudy and very unsightly,) have six nice ripe deep- coloured apricots, which cut in quarters and arrange taste- fully in your mould, proceeding as in the two preceding articles. Observe in arranging the fruit in your mould that each piece is separate, so as to leave some parts of the jelly transparent, otherv^ise it would appear very heavy and imgraceful. No. 1229. Gelee Macedoine aux Fruits de belle saison. Prepare a quart of jelly as directed (No. 1225) putting the gold leaves in the mould, which you have previously surrounded with ice, have ready twelve very fresh straw- berries, twelve black grapes, twelve very white cherries, and one peach or apricot cut in six, put six strawberries at the bottom, with a piece of peach between each, cover with jelly, when set place in another row of fruit, proceeding thus until full, but not putting the fruit too close together and varie- gating it as much as possible, or if in winter and the above fruit cannot be obtained prepare three small apples, (golden pippins,) which cut into quarters and put into a stewpan, with the juice of a lemon and one ounce of powdered sugar, set them over a slow fire to stew till tender, then put them out on a plate to cool, peel and take all the pith from two small oranges, which cut in quarters, have also a few brandied cherries and some fine black and green grapes; arrange the whole tastefully in yoiu- mould, filling with jelly as before directed.IfiNTREMETS. 520 No. 1230. Bordure de Poires en geUe, Cut twelve middling-sized ripe pears in halves, take out tlic cores peel neatly, and throw them into a preserving- pan, with the juice of two lemons and half a pound of lump sugar, let stew rather quickly till tender, but not to break, put them upon a dish till cold, have a cylinder mould (but not too deep) upon the ice, have a quart of jelly flavoured with fom- glasses of any liquor, put a httle at the bottom of the mould half an inch in depth when set, dress your pears round in a border, (but the reverse way, so that they become right when the mould is turned over,) fill the mould up vsdth the jelly when quite cold and upon the point of setting, and when wanted turn it out as before, and fill up the centre with red whipped jelly. Apricots or peaches cut in halves may be dressed the same, or apples. No. 1231. GeUe au Bhum. Have a quart of jelly clarified as before, to which add four wineglasses of old Jamaica rum, colour a Httle with some essence of cochineal, pour it into your mould vsdthout any fruit. This is better appreciated by a party of gentlemen, and should not be introduced where there are ladies; by keeping the jelly a httle stiffer you may introduce more rum. No. 1232. GeUe Mousseuse a VEau de Vie. Put a pint and a half of jelly in a stewpan upon the ice, add fom- glasses of cognac brandy, whip it until very hght and upon the point of setting, when pour in yom- mould, it will be quite white ; when ready to serve turn it out as before directed. If wanted clear, proceed as for gelee au rhum.521 ENTllEMETS. No. 1233. GeUe demie chamle froide marbree. Flavour a quart of jelly with three glasses of maresquino, have ready also a pint of the preparation (creme au mares- quin, No. 1251), nearly set in a basin, dip in three apricots cut in quarters, which put in a plate upon the ice till set, have also some quarters of peaches, which also dip into the cream, when set commence filling your mould with the jelly, placing a few fine strawberries at the bottom, then some of the fruit enveloped, filling with the jelly as before directed, and variegating it as much as possible with black grapes, strawberries, and the enveloped fruit. This is quite a new idea, it not only looks well but likewise cuts and eats beautiful. No. 1234. GeUe fouettee aux Fruits. Put a pint and a half of jelly upon the ice in a stewpan, to which add three glasses of maresquino, whip the jelly to a white froth, and when upon the point of setting stir in very carefully about thirty strawberries, not too ripe, with a few cherries, apricots in quarters, or peaches; fill your mould and when set turn out as usual. A jeUy for whipping requires to be rather stiffer than when clear, if not stiff enough add a little clarified isinglass. No. 1235. GeUe a VAnanas. Procure a middling-sized pineapple, peel it carefully, cut in halves lengthwise, then into slices, (rather thin,) have a quart of jelly in which you have infused the rind of the pineapple, previously well washed, place a little at the bottom of the mould, and when nearly set lay a border of the pineapple over one upon another, forming a ring, cover with more jelly, let it nearly set, then add another border of the pineapples, proceeding thus until the mould is filled.ENTREMETS. No. 1236. Orange Jelly. Have ten fine Malta oranges and three or four lemons, peel off the rind of eight very finely, which put into a basin, clarify a pound of sugar (No. 1389), pass through a napkin into the basin (over the rind) whUst hot, and cover with a sheet of foolscap paper, twisting it tightly over the edge, and pricking a small hole in the centre with a pin to give a little vent; cut the oranges and lemons in halves, squeeze out all the juice through a hair sieve into another basin, and proceed to clarify it as follows: wash well two sheets of white blotting-paper in a basin of water, let well drain upon a sieve, bruise it in a mortar until forming quite a puree, take from the mortar and put it into the basin with the juice, which mix well vdth it; let remain a quarter of an hour to settle, then pour it into yom* jelly bag, pour- ing what runs through back again into the bag until be- coming as clear as spring water, strain the syrup again through a napkin, add the clarified juice, two ounces of clarified isinglass (No. 1382), and a few drops of hquid cocliineal, to give an orange tint; mix all well together, and pour into a mould surrounded vdth ice, when set and ready to serve, tm'n out as before directed. Lemon Jelly is made precisely as directed for the orange jelly, using all lemon-juice instead of orange, rather more syrup, and omitting the cochineal. Some persons mix a handful of white sand well washed with the juice which wiU assist the clarification, but the idea would be objection- able to many. No. 1237. Orange Jelly, in the skins of the Oranges. Procure twelve of the best-formed oranges, and with a round vegetable cutter cut a hole of the size of a shillingENTllEMETS. at the stalk of each, then with the handle of a teaspoon empty all the pulp from them and clear away as mnch ot the pith as possible, throw them into cold water to harden and retake their original shapes, make a jelly with the pulps as in the last, drain the skins of the oranges, stand them upon ice and fill with the jelly, dress m pyramid when set, or cut them in quarters for garnishing. Should you make a hole in clearing out the skins, place a small piece of butter over previous to placing them upon ice, which take off at the time of serving. No. 1238. GeUe de Fraises. Pick two pounds of fresh strawberries, wliich put in a basin, with the juice of two lemons, (over them) and a quart of clarified boihng syrup; cover with paper, let remain twelve hom-s, colour a httle deeper with the essence of cochineal, pour into your jelly bag, and when it has all run through add two ounces of clarified isinglass cold, but not set; mix well and pour it into your mould. No. 1239. GeUe d'Abricots. Take the stones from eighteen ripe fleshy apricots, cut into thin sHces and put them into a basin vnth the juice of thi-ee lemons; have ready boiling a pint and a half of clarified syrup, pour it over the apricots, cover the basin vsdth paper, and let them remain until quite cold, then drain the syrup through a napkin, add an ounce and a half of clarified isinglass, (half cold,) mix well in, and pour into your mould. The remainder of the apricot would make a very good marmalade. No. 1240. GeUe a la Bacchante. Have two pounds of very fine green grapes, which pound in a mortar, with a few leaves of spinach well washed, add524 ENTllEMETS. luilf a gill of water, pass tlic juice from tlieni through a jelly bag, and mix it with three quarters of a pound of clari- fied sugar, yielding a jjint and a half of syrup, and two ounces of clarified isinglass, both nearly cold, add a pint of champagne, stir well in, pour the jelly in your mould and leave it upon ice till set; when ready turn it out and serve. No. 1241. GeUe de Fleurs d' Orange au Vin de Champagne. Clarify three quarters of a pound of sugar, and when boiling add two oimces of candied orange-flowers, take off the fire, cover over closely, and let remain tUl cold, then strain it through a napkin, when all has run through add two ounces of clarified isinglass, (cold but not set,) and nearly a pint of champagne, mix altogether and pour it into your mould. No. 1242. Pain de Fruit a la Busse. Pick a pint of fine red cmi-ants, half the quantity of raspberries, a pound and a half of cherries, (stoned,) and nearly a pottle of strawberries, place a few of them lightly at the bottom of the mould, then have ready a quart of strawberry jeUy (No. 1238), in which dissolve a pound of powdered sugar; when well dissolved pom- some of it in the mould containing the fruit, which place upon the ice, let it nearly set, then put more fruit with more jelly, pro- ceeding in like manner until the mould is fuU; when set dip it into warm water and turn carefully into your dish. No. 1243. Creme a la Vanille. Put the yolks of five eggs in a stewpan, with six ounces of powdered sugar, beat well together with a wooden spoon; in another stewpan have a pint of milk, inENTREMETS. wMch put an ounce of isinglass, boil ten minutes, stir- ring occasionally to keep it from bmniing, tlirow m two sticks of vanilla, take it from the fire, put a cover upon the stewpan till three parts cold, then take out the vanilla, pour the milk in the other stewpan upon the eggs and sugar, mix well together, and stii- over the fire until be- coming a little thick and adhering to the back of the spoon, but do not let it boU, pass through a tammie into a a round bowl; when cold set the bowl upon ice, add four glasses of noyeau or maresquino, keep stkring its contents, and when upon the point of setting add three parts of a pint of cream weU whipped, mix well together and pom-- ing into your mould, keep it upon ice till wanted, and when ready to serve dip into warm water, wipe with a cloth, and turn it out upon your dish. No. 1344. Creme aux Pistaches. Blanch and skin a quarter of a pound of very green pistachios, which pound well in a mortar, with six ounces of sugar (upon which you have rubbed the rind of a lemon) and eight bitter almonds, have three quarters of a pint of milk boiling in a stewpan, into which put the above ingredients, with thi'ee quarters of an ounce of isinglass previously dissolved, boil a few minutes, then in another stewpan have the yolks of five eggs, pour the milk upon them and stk altogether over the fire till it thickens, then pour it into a bowl to cool, pound well in a mortar two or three good handfuls of spinach well washed, then place it in a strong cloth, which twist as tight as possible, thus squeezing aU the juice out of it, which put into a small stewpan over the fire, the moment it boils it will curdle, pour it on the back of a silk sieve, then place the bowl with the other ingredients upon the ice, finish your cream as in the last, but at the moment of adding your whipped526 ENTREMETS. cream, add also some of the spinach from the back of the sieve sufficient to give it a beautiful light green colour. No. 1245. Creme a VAnanas. Take the half of a middhng-sized pineapple, peel it, and throw the rind into a stewpan containing a pint of boihng milk and an ounce of isinglass, cut the pineapple up into small strips and put them into a small preserving-pan, with half a pound of sugar and a wineglassful of sherry or water, place on the fire and let it boil to a thick syi-up, in another stewpan have the yolks of five eggs, to which add the milk by degrees, stirring all the while, straining it through a sieve, place over the fire, keeping it stirred till thickening, then pass it through a tammie into a bowl, add the syrup with the pineapples, leave it to cool, then place it upon ice, and finish as for the creme a la vanille. No. 1246. Creme aux Amandes. Blanch and skin a quarter of a pound of sweet almonds, which diy and pound well with six ounces of lump sugar, put it into a stewpan, with the yolks of four eggs, mix well together, then in another stewpan have a pint of milk in which you have put an ounce of isinglass, boil until re- duced to three quarters of a pint, pass through a tammie, and pour over the other ingredients, which stir over the fire till it thickens, when pour into your bowl, let remain till cold, stirring occasionally to keep it smooth, add two glasses of noyeau, and finish as in the last. No. 1247. Creme d'Orange. Rub the rind of two oranges upon six ounces of lump sugar, which pound and put into a small preserving-pan, with the juice of four large oranges, let the sugar dissolve, boil over the fire till forming a thick syi'up, boil nearly527 ENTREMETS. a pint of milk in a stewpan, with an ounce of isinglass ten minutes, then pom it into another stewpan containing tJie yolks of five eggs, which place upon the fire, stnring until it thickens, but not boihng, pass it through a tammie, add the syi-up from the orange, and finish as for the creme a la vaniUe. No. 1248. Creme aux Fraises. Prepare a cream as directed for creme a la vanille, and when ready to pour in your mould add half a pound of fresh gathered strawberries well picked, placing them here and there whilst putting it in the. mould, and serve when ready. No. 1349. Crhne d'Abricots. Take a dozen ripe apricots, which cut in sHces and put in a preserving-pan, with half a pound of powdered sugar and the juice of a lemon, stew them over a slow fire till tender, then rub them through a tammie with two wooden spoons, put rather more than half a pint of milk to boil, with an ounce and a half of isinglass, reduce to half a pint, then pom' it into another stewpan containing the yollcs of four eggs, stir over the fire till it thickens, when pass it through a tammie into a bowl, add the apricots, and finish as before. No. 1250. Creme au Ponche. Boil an ounce of isinglass in three quarters of a pint of milk (five minutes), take the rind fi'om two lemons as thin as possible, without any pith; directly the milk commences boiling tlu-ow it in, then in another stewpan have the yollcs. of five eggs and four ounces of powdered sugar, beat well together with a wooden spoon, then add the milk, mix well, and stK over the fii-e till it thickens, pass through a tammie,528 ENTREMETS. into a bowl, and when cold add three glasses of maresquino, one of rum, and a teaspoonful of arrack, place upon ice and finish as before; six Hqueur glasses of milk punch added instead of the above Uqueurs would be very excellent. No. 1251. Creme au Maresquin. Prepare a cream as for the creme a la vanille, only adding a quarter of an ounce more isinglass to the custard, and when cold mixing four glasses of maresquino with it. No. 1252. Creme au Noyeau. Proceed exactly as in the last, only substituting noyeau for maresquino. No. 1253. Creme au Cafe. Put three ounces of the best (miroasted) Mocha coffee into a stewpan, keep tossing over a sharp fire tiU it be- comes yellow, in another stewpan have a pint of milk in which you have boiled an omice of isinglass, tlirow your coffee into it, place the cover upon the stewpan and let stand till haff cold, have the yolks of five eggs in another stewpan, wdth which mix four ounces of powdered sugar, then add the milk, stir over the fire till it thickens, and finish as before. No. 1254. Creme au Caramel. Put foiu- ounces of powdered sugar in a stewpan, which stir over a slow fire till quite melted and beginning to tint, take it off the fire; in another ste\^an have three quarters of a pint of milk in which you have boiled an ounce of isinglass, pour it upon the caramel, which stir occasionally until it is quite dissolved, pour into another stewpan with the yolks of five eggs, stir over the fire tiU it thickens, when pass through a tammie, and finish as before.ENTREMETS. 529 No. 1255. Bavaroise auw Fraises. Pick two pounds of fine red strawberries, which put into a basin with haK a pound of powdered sugar, let them re- mam half an hour, then rub them through a tammie, add an ounce of isinglass, previously dissolved in two wine- glassfids of water, boiled and passed through a tammie; set the whole upon the ice, stirring until upon the point of setting, when stir in a pint of cream well whipped, pour it into the mould, which keep upon the ice till set, and when wanted dip it into warm water, and turn out upon your dish. No. 1256. Bavaroise auw Framboises. Proceed exactly as for the strawberries in the last, using a pound and a quarter of raspberries and six ounces of cmTants; or either of the above bavaroises may be made by putting the fruit into a preserving-pan with three quar- ters of a pound of powdered sugar, moving it over the fire until boiling, when strain it through a silk sieve mixing the juice with the dissolved isinglass, and finish as before; should either of the above be deficient in colour a little essence of cochineal may be used. No. 1257. Bavaroise auw Abricots. Take twelve ripe fleshy apricots, cut them in halves, stone them, and put them into a preserving-pan with half a pound of sugar, the juice of two lemons, and an ounce of isinglass, dissolved in a httle water, stew them till quite tender, then rub them through a tammie, put them in a basin when cold, stK it upon the ice, and when upon the point of setting add a pint of cream well whipped, and pour into your mould. 34530 KN'IMIRMETS. No. 1258. Bavaroise aux Poires. Procure a dozen and a half of middling-sized pears, peel and cut out the cores, shce them into a preserving-pan, with the juice of two lemons (the rind of one of which also add, cut very thin), twenty bitter ahnonds blanched, and chopped very fine, half a pound of lump sugar, and an ounce of clarified isinglass, place the pan upon a moderate fire, moving the contents occasionally, stew until quite tender, when rub them through a tammie, and finish as in the last. No. 1259. Bavaroise aux Pommes. Peel and cut in quarters twenty small pippin apples, which put into a preserving-pan, with the juice of two lemons, two glasses of sherry, half a pound of sugar, and an ounce of clarified isinglass ; proceed precisely as in the last article, adding a glass of maresquino, if approved of, or noyeau. No. 1260. Bavaroise aux Pistaches. Blanch and skin fom ounces of pistachios with twelve bitter almonds, and pound them well with six oimces of sugar, upon which you have rubbed the rind of a lemon ; when'well pounded throw it into three quarters of a pint of boiling milk with tliree quarters of an ounce of isinglass, boil altogether five minutes, then pour it into a bowl or basin, stand upon the ice, keep stirring, and when upon the point of setting add a pint of cream whipped and some of the preparation of spinach, as for the creme aiLx pistaches (No 1244); pour it into your mould, which must be pre- viously Hghtly oiled, and twenty chopped pistachios shook over the interior, until adhering to the sides.ENTEEMETS. No. 1261. Bavaroise a VAnanas. Procure a middlingsized pineapple, peel and cut it in slices, which put into a small preserving-pan, with half a pound of sugar, half an ounce of isinglass, and a wineglass- ful of water, stew until quite tender, then rub them through a tammie, set it on the ice, keeping it stirred; when upon the point of setting add a pint of cream well whipped, mix well, and pour it into your mould. No. 1262. Bamroise au Maresquin. Put one ounce and a half of isinglass in a stewpan, with half a pint of water, the juice of two lemons, and fom^ ounces of lump sugar, boil altogether, reducing one half, skim and pass it through a tammie into a bowl; when cold add fom* glasses of maresquino, and two of brandy, place it on the ice, and when upon the point of setting add a pint of cream well whipped, and pour it into your mould. No. 1263. Bavaroise au Ponclie. Boil one ounce of isinglass in a stewpan with the juice of fom- and the rind of two lemons cut very thin, half a pound of sugar, and nearly half a pint of water, reduce one half, then pass it through a tammie into a bowl or basin, and when cold add two glasses of maresquino, two of rum, and half a one of arrack, place it upon the ice and finish as in the last, or use the milk punch as directed for creme au ponche. I must here observe, that although I have stated as nearly as possible the qimntity of isinglass to be used in the foregoing recipes, yet there are so many causes which may make it either too much or insufficient, such as the difference in quality of isinglass, or the difference in the quantity of juice extracted from the various fruits, which532 ENTREMETS. would make it impossible to be exact; so that the surest method is to try a little first upon the ice before adding the whipped cream, if too stiff, a little more milk, juice, or liquem* (whatever it may be you are making) must be added, but if not stiff enough, a little more clarified isin- glass, which is the method adopted by most practitioners. No. 1264. Charlotte Busse. Line the inside of a plain round mould with Savoy bis- cuits (No. 1381), cutting and placing them at the bottom to form a rosette, and standing them upright round the sides, vdth a piece cut ofi" the top and bottom of each, and trinnned at the sides to make them stand quite close, stand the mould upon ice, then have ready a creme au maresquin (No. 1251), to which you have added a good glass of cognac brandy, with which you fill the interior, when set and at the time of serving, turn over upon a dish and hft off the mould. No. 1265. Charlotte Prussienne. Put a little jeUy (flavoured with a little brandy and co- loured of a beautiful crimson, with a little essence of cochi- neal) into a plain round mould, covering the bottom half an inch in depth; place it upon the ice, then line the sides of the mould with Savoy biscuits, and fill with a bavaroise au maresquin (No. 1262), place it upon ice till set, and when ready to serve dip the bottom of the mould very quickly in warm water, and turn it over upon your dish. No. 1266. Charlotte Busse en mosdique. Have a plain round mould, at the bottom of which lay some grapes (white and black), strawberries, pieces of apples (stewed), pears, or any fruit in season; cover the bottom, variegating them as much as possible to mutate533 ENTREMETS. mosaic, set the mould upon ice, and pour in a little clear jelly, but only sufScient to just cover them; when set line the side of the mould with the biscuits, and fill as for charlotte russe, only introducing angeHca and stewed apples, cut in large dice, with the cream. No. 1267. Charlotte Busse aux Liqueurs. Line a mould as directed in either of the three last ar- ticles, and fill with a cream made as for the crenie au maresquin (No. 1251), only using one glass of cm-agoa, one of noyeau, and one of maresquino, instead of all maresquino. No. 1268. Charlotte aux Praises. Line a plain round mould with ripe strawberries by burying the mould in ice to the rim, and dipping the straw- berries in calf's-foot jeUy, first covering the bottom with them cut in halves, the cut side downwards, afterwards building them up the sides, the jelly (which must be cold, but not set) causing them to adhere; when finished, fill it with the cream as dkected for the charlotte russe, and when ready to serve, dip the mould in warm water, and turn it out upon your dish. The cream must be very nearly set when you pom- it in, or it woidd run between the strawberries and produce a bad effect. No. 1269. Gateaux aux Fruits de belle saison. Line a charlotte mould very tastefully with various kinds of fruits (such as stoned cherries, strawberries, pieces of peaches, apricots, apples, or pears, cut into very tasteful shapes, stewed in a httle syrup, and drained upon the back of a hair sieve), by dipping them into jelly, forming some design at the bottom of the mould, and builchng them in reverse rows up the sides, having the mould previously placed in ice, when well set, terminate as in the last.ENTREMETS. 534 No. 1370. Charlotte de Pommes au Beurre. For the few following receipts, the russet apple is the one I should recommend, it being the most suitable, not being so watery, or falling in puree, but in case they cannot be obtained other sorts may be used, which will require to be more reduced in stewing. Well butter the interior of a plain round mould, then cut twelve pieces of bread the size and thickness of a shilling, dip them in clarified butter, and lay them in a circle round the bottom of youj mould; cut also eight small pieces in the shape of diamonds, dip them in butter, and with them form a star in the centre of the circle, cover the whole with a round piece of bread the size of the bottom of the mould and the thickness of a penny-piece, cut about thhty other pieces an inch wide and four inches in length, dip one after the other in clarified butter, which stand upright, one half way over the other, all round the interior of the mould ; then have ready prepared two dozen or more russet apples, which peel and cut in shoes, put them into a roimd- bottomed preserving-pan with six ounces of butter and half a pound of broken lump sugar, with a httle lemon-peel cut in strips, and a glass of sheriy, place them over a sharp fire tossing over occasionally, but keeping them together m a clke; when quite tender fill yom^ mould (having previ- ously weU egged and bread-crumbed the interior), place another round piece of bread (also egged and bread-cnmibed) over the apples, and stand the mould in a hot oven until the bread becomes well browned, take out and turn it over upon yom: dish, have a few spoonfuls of red cmTaiit jelly in a stewpan, with a glass of sheriy, melt it over the fii'e and when quite hot pom' round the charlotte; sugai' and salamander the top if not quite crisp, and serve.535 ENTREMETS. No. 1271. Charlotte de Fommes a la Confiture. Proceed as in the last, but when the apples are ready mix a few spoonfuls of apricot marmalade with them and fill the mould; place it in the oven, and serve as before. No. 1272. Chartreuse de Pommes. Procure twenty small russet apples, cut off the top and bottom of each, and vdth a long vegetable cutter cut out as many pieces as possible of the thickness of a quill, and about an inch in length, have in a stewpan upon the fire a thick syrup made from half a pound of sugar, vdth the juice of a lemon and haK a pint of water; when well reduced throw in half yoiu^ pieces of apples, stew them untd tender, but not to break, take them out and lay them upon a hair sieve, put the other half of the apples into the syrup, stew them until nearly done, then add a little essence of cochineal to give them a crimson colour, stew a minute or so more, then take them out, lay them on the sieve tUl cold, lightly oil a plain round mould, cut some pieces of green angelica, vdth which form a star at the bottom of the mould, and a border round the bottom, then with the white pieces of apples make a row round the sides, standing each piece upon one end slantingly, one leaning upon the other, above which place a row of the red pieces in the same manner, and so on alternately tiU you reach the top; you have previously peeled a dozen and a half of apples, which cut in shces and put in a preserving-pan, with half a pound of sugar, the juice of a lemon, a small piece of butter, a little powdered cinnamon, and a small glass of rum, place them over a sharp fire, stirring occa- sionally until forming a thick marmalade, put them in a basin until cold, fill your chartreuse, and when ready to sen'e turn it out upon yom- dish, garnish with filletsENTREMETS. 530 of red currant jelly, and pour a little white symp reserved from tlie apples over. No. 1273. Suedoise de Pommes. This very grotesque entremet was never a favorite of mine; any kind of ornaments, such as cascades, ruins, arches, &c., may be made from them, and ornamented vdth various fruits, but they look very heavy, and from the apples being so much boiled and reduced become very unpalatable, they being nothing more than apples boiled in syrup to a very firm marmalade; I shall not here enter into the various modes of dressing it, but substitute other entremets, which, if not so ornamental, are at any rate much more palatable. No. 1274. Pain de Pommes a la Busse. Put one pound and a half of lump sugar and a pint and a half of water into a round-bottomed copper preserving- pan, place it over a sharp fire and reduce it to au casse (No. 1389), have ready twenty-four good brown pippin apples peeled and cut into slices, which put into the sugar, keeping stirred until it becomes quite a thick marmalade, take off the fire and put it into a cyhnder mould, previ- ously slightly oiled, shake it well down and let it remain until quite cold, when tm-n it out of the mould upon yoiu- dish; have a few spoonfuls of currant jelly in a stewpan, which melt over the fire, add two glasses of good old rmn, and when partly cold pom^ over and serve with whipped cream in the centre, in which you have introduced a quar- ter of an ounce of candied orange-flowers. No. 1275. Croquettes de Pommes. Prepare some apples as in the above, (or the remains of one previously served,) when cold form it into the shapeENTREMETS. 537 of pears, have tliree eggs in a basin well whisked, dip each piece into it, then throw them into a dish of bread-crumbs, smooth them over with a knife, then again dip them into the eggs and bread-crumbs, and fry of a hght brown colour . in very hot lard, dress them upon a napkin in pyra- mid, and serve with sifted sugar flavoured with orange over them. No. 1376. Pommes au Biz. Peel and quarter twelve good-sized apples, put them into a preserving-pan, with three quarters of a pound of sugar, the thin rind of a lemon in strips, the juice of another, and a wineglassful of water, pass them over a sharp fire, and when tender lay them upon the back of a hair sieve to drain, then put six ounces of rice into a stewpan, with a quart of millc, place it upon the fire, stir until boiling, then place it upon a very sIoav fire to simmer very gently until quite tender, placing a httle fire upon the hd, if it becomes dry before it is tender add a httle more milk, then add a quarter of a pound of sugar, a quarter of a pound of butter, and four eggs, stir them well in, stir over the fire uutn becoming again thick, when put it upon a dish to get cold, then form a stand with it upon your dish eight inches in diameter and three in height, but hollow in the centre, where dress some of the apples, more rice over, then more apples, forming a pyramid ; you have previously reduced the syrup drained from the apples, which pour over the whole, and garnish with some very green angelica, forming any design your fancy may dictate. Pommes au riz may be served hot as well as cold. No. 1277. Pokes au Biz. Peel and cut in halves eighteen small ripe pears, which put in a small preserving-pan, with three quai-ters of aENTREMETS. 538 pound of sugar, a little water, and the juice of two lemons, stew them till tender, then lay them upon a dish to cool, and mix three tablespoonfuls of apricot marmalade with the . s}Tup, have some rice prepared as in the last, with which make a stand, but not quite so high, dress the pears in a border in the interior, and again in the centre dress the remainder of the rice in pyramid; when ready to serve pour the syrup over, and garnish tastefully with angelica round. No. 1278. Airicots au Biz. Proceed exactly as in the last, only passing two dozen of apricots cut in halves, with the kernels from the stones pre- viously blanched and skinned, in the syrup instead of pears, dress them upon the dish precisely the same. No. 1279. Fommes au Biz en Timbale. Line a plain round mould with pate fine (No. 1186), having previously buttered it, the paste must not be thicker than a shilling, then line the interior of the paste with rice dressed as for pommes au riz, placing eight apples in the centre, likewise dressed as for pommes au riz, cover another sheet of paste over, and put in a hot oven imtil the paste is quite done; when three parts cold turn out upon yom- dish, mask it over with apricot marmalade, and decorate it with dried cherries and blanched pistachios, according to taste; do not serve until quite cold. Apricots and pears may also be used; this entremet may also be served hot. No. 1280. Pommes a la Trianon. Put four ounces of ground rice in a stewpan, mth a pint and a quarter of milk and two omices of butter, stu* until boiling, then add the rind of a lemon cut very thin, let simmer over a slow fire until the rice is done and becomes rather thick, when take out the lemon-peel and add a539 ENTREMETS. quarter of a pound of powdered sugar and the yolks of eio-ht eggs, stir again over the fire untH the eggs are set, and put it out upon a dish to get cold, then turn twelve golden pippin apples, taking off the rind without leaving the maxk of your knife, having previously vdth a long vegetable cutter taken out the cores, rub the apples with lemon-juice and stew them in a thick syrup (made with three quarters of a pound of sugar boiled with half a pint of water and the juice of a lemon), stew them until tender, but keep them whole, peel and quarter three oranges, which (after having taken out the apples) just give a boil up m the syrup, then dress the rice in pyramid in the centre of your dish, surrounded with the apples interspersed with the quarters of oranges, and pour the syrup over when ready to serve. No. 1281. Pommes Meringuees. Line a small raised pie-mould, three inches in height and eight in diameter, with pate fine (No, 1136), about a quar- ter of an inch in thickness, or if no mould raise a crust with the hands of pate a dresser, fiU it with bran or flom-, and bake in a moderate oven; when done empty it and have ready some apples dressed as for charlotte de pommes (No. 1270), or dressed in syrup as in the last, with which fill the croustade, then make a meringue preparation (No. 1218), of five eggs, which lay over the top, smoothing it nicely, and ornamenting it with some of the mixture, by piping it with a paper funnel according to your taste, sift a little sugar over, and place it in a very slow oven till it becomes crisp, and serve when ready either hot or cold. No. 1282. Pommes a la Vestale. Make a pyramid of rice (upon a dish) dressed as for pommes au riz (No. 1276), peel and cut eight russet apples540 ENTREMETS. in slices and put them into a preserving-pan, with half a pound of sugar and the juice of a lemon, stew till quite tender and put them into a basin to cool, then cut nine -small apples, (golden pippins) in halves, to which give the shape of cups, which stew in a thick syrup until nearly tender, but not to break, then place the apples upon the pyramid, make eighteen small tartelettes (No. 1139) of thin gum paste, small enough to fix in each cup of apple, and di-ess them in pyramid upon the others; when ready to serve cover the whole with thick syrup, pom- a teaspoonful of brandy into each tartelette, with some in the dish, which set on fire at the moment of going to table, it has a very pleasing effect. No. 1283. Pommes au Beurre. Peel eighteen russet apples, which cut in quarters and trim of a nice shape, put them into a small preserving-pan, with two ounces of butter and three quarters of a pound of sugar, having previously rubbed the rind of an orange upon it and pounded it, pass them over a sharp fire, moving occasionally until quite tender, have ready buttered a plain dome mould, put the apples into it, pressing them down a little close; when half cold tm'n it out of the mould upon a dish, and cover aU over with apricot marmalade; when cold it is ready to serve. No. 1284. Miroton de Pommes. Procure a dozen russet apples, which cut into slices a quarter of an inch in thickness, peel and take out the cores with a round cutter, then put two ounces of butter in a saute-pan, spread it over the bottom and lay in your apples, with half a pound of powdered sugar and the juice of two lemons, stew gently over a moderate fire; when done di-ess them rather high in crown upon yom- dish, melt tlu'ceENTREMETS. '^^^ spoonfuls of red cm-rant jelly in a stewiDan, with wliicli mix a glass of Madeira wine, which pour over when ready to serve. No. 1285. Beignets de Pommes. Make a paste as follows: put a pound of sifted flour into a basin, with which mix a good half pint of water, mix it with a wooden spoon until very smooth, then have an ounce and a half of butter melted in a stewpan, which stir into it, whisk the whites of three eggs very stiff, which also stir in gently, then have six russet apples, which cut in sUces a quarter of an inch in thickness, peel them and take out the cores with a round cutter, dip each piece separately into the batter, when completly but thinly enveloped drop them into a stewpan of hot lard, to fry them well, the lard should not at &st be too hot, but become hotter as they proceed in cooking, proceeding thus till you have fried the whole of them a nice hght brown colour, drain them upon a cloth, then lay them upon a baking-sheet, sift sugar over and glaze them vdth the salamander, serve dressed in a double crown upon a napkin. No. 1286. Beignets d'Oranges. Prepare a paste or batter as in the last, then peel eight middUng-sized oranges, quarter them, without breaking the thin skin that divides them, and take off all the white pith, dip each piece singly into the batter, and then into a stewpan of hot lard ; fry of a nice light colour, di-ain upon a napkin, lay them upon a baking-sheet, sift sugar over, glaze with the salamander, and serve them dressed in pyramid upon a napldn. The fruit for any description of fritters may be soaked in any liqueur for haK an horn- before they are required, but it often prevents their being well fried.542 ENTREMETS. No. 1287. Beignets de Peches. Skin and cut in halves twelve ripe but firm peaches, take out the stones and put the peaches into a basin, with a quarter of a pound of powdered sugar, toss them together lightly, but not to break the peaches; have a batter pre- pared as in the last, in which dip each piece of peach se- parately, fry them in lard, not too hot, glaze and serve pre- cisely as in the last. No. 1288. BeigneU d'Abricots. Cut twelve or fourteen apricots in halves, put them into a basin with a little powdered sugar, and proceed exactly as for beignets de peches. No. 1289. Croquettes de Biz. WeU wash half a pound of the best Carohna rice, which put into a stewpan, with a pint and a half of miEc, and a quarter of a pound of butter, place it upon the fire, stir until boiling, then place it upon a slow fire, cover the ste"o^an and let simmer very slowly untU quite tender; rub the rind of a lemon upon a lump of sugar weighing a quarter of a pound, pound it in a mortar quite fine, add it to the rice, with the yollcs of eight eggs (mix well), stir them a few mi- nutes longer over the fire until the eggs thicken, but do not let it boil, lay out upon a dish, when cold form it into a number of small balls, or pears, or into long square pieces, according to fancy; have three or fom^ eggs in a basin weU whisked, dip each piece in singly, and then into a dish of bread-crumbs, smooth them gently with a knife, dip them again into the eggs and bread-crumbs, put them into a wire basket, which put in a stewpan of very hot lard, fry a nice Hght brown colour, drain on a cloth, dress them pyi-a- midically upon a napkin, and serve with powdered sugar sifted over them.ENTREMETS. 543 No. 1290. Croquettes de Creme au Biz. Proceed precisely as in the last, only using ground rice instead of whole, they are finished and served exactly the same. No. 1291. Croquettes de Macaroni. Blanch six ounces of macaroni in haK a gallon of boil- ing water until tender, then strain and put it in a basin of cold water; when cold cut it into pieces half an inch in length, and put it into a stewpan containing a pint and a half of boHuig milk, in which you have infused a stick of vanilla, boil until it becomes thickish, add a quarter of a pound of powdered sugar, two ounces of butter, and the yolks of eight eggs, stir them well in over the fire until the eggs thicken, then pour out upon a dish, and proceed precisely as for the croquettes de riz. No. 1292. Croquettes de Vermicelle. Put six ounces of vermicelli in a stewpan with a pint and a half of milk, boil until very tender and becoming thick, keeping it stirred with a spoon, then add a quarter of a pound of sugar, upon which the rind of a Seville orange has been rubbed, and two ounces of butter, stir well in, add the yolks of eight eggs, and proceed as directed in the last article. Croquettes of semohna may also be made the same way. No. 1293. Creme Frite a la Patissiere. Put the yolks of six eggs in a stewpan with two good tablespoonfals of sifted flour, mix quite smooth with a wooden spoon; then add a pint of boiling milk or qream, stir in by degrees and place it over the fire, keeping stirred544 ENTREMETS. until it thickens, add an ounce of butter, six ounces of sugar, two ounces of crushed ratafias, a httle orange-flower- water, and three whole eggs, mix the whole well together, and stir it a few minutes longer over the fii-e imtil the eggs set; then pom- it out upon a saute-pan, previously oiled, and when quite cold cut it into pieces one inch wide and two and a half long, dip them in eggs and bread-crumbs twice over, the same as for croquettes, fry them in the same manner, dress upon a napkin as high as you can, with sifted sugar over, they may be flavoured also with vanilla or lemon. They may be varied in shape according to fancy. No. 1294. Beignets Souffles a la Vanille. Place half a pint of milk in a stewpan over the fire, and when boihng put in a fresh stick of vanilla, place a cover upon the stewpan, let it infuse ten minutes, then take out the vanilla and add rather more than an ounce of butter, place it again upon the fire, and when boiling stir in quickly six ounces of flom'; dry the paste weU over the fne, keep- ing it from sticking to the bottom of the stewpan, then take it off and stir in six whole eggs gradually, and six ounces of powdered sugar; have ready a stewpan of hot lard, into which drop the above mixture in pieces about the size of small walnuts, fry a nice colom% and when quite done drain them upon a cloth, and serve upon a napkin with sifted sugar over; they may also be flavoured mth orange-flower-water. No. 1295. Frangipane. Put six whole eggs in a stewpan with thi'ee tablespoon- fuls of flom-, beat well together with a wooden spoon, then add a pint of milk or cream, and keep stirring over the fii'c until it becomes thick and upon the point of boiling; add a quarter of a pound of sugar, upon which the rind of anENTREMETS. 545 orange or lemon has been rubbed, two ounces of crushed ratafias, and a small glass of brandy (mix well); put two ounces of butter in a stewpan, place it upon the fire, and when getting a little brown stir it into the frangipane, which is then ready, for use ; it may be flavoured also with vanilla or any of the flavours used for such purposes. No. 1296. Omelettes a la Celestine. Put a quarter of a pound of powdered sugar and a quar- ter of a pound of flour together in a basin, which well mix with four eggs tiU smooth, then add neaily half a pint of milk; have ready an omelette-pan, in which put a small piece of butter, when the pan is quite hot pour in two tablespoonfuls of the mixtm-e, which let spread all over the pan, when quite set and of a light brown colour under- neath, turn it over upon the bottom of a stewpan-hd, pre- viously buttered, and again from that upon a cloth, pro- ceeding thus with the whole mixture, then spread a tea- spoonful of apricot marmalade upon each; have ready some frangipane as directed in the last, quite hot, lay a piece the size of a small sausage upon each, and fold them up neatly, trim the ends, lay them upon a baldng-sheet, sift sugar over and glaze Hghtly with the salamander, dress them in crown, or in pyramid upon your dish, and serve very hot. No. 1297. Pamequets a la Confiture. Put a quarter of a pound of sifted flour into a basin with four eggs, mix them together very smoothly, then add half a pmt of milk or cream, and a Kttle grated nutmeg, put a piece of butter m your pan (it requires but a very Httle) and when qmte hot put in two tablespoonfuls of the mix' ture, let spread all over the pan, place it upon the fire and when coloured upon one side turn it over, then tiu'n it upon yom- cloth; proceed thus till they are aU done, 35540 ENTREMETS'. then spread apricot or other marmalade all over, and roll them up neatly, lay them upon a baking-sheet, sift sugar over, glaze nicely with the salamander, and serve upon a napkin ; the above may be served without the marmalade, being then the common pancake.547 REMOYES. SECOND COURSE. My readers could not have failed to remark the nume- rous innovations in aU classes of dishes throughout this work, which nothing but constant study, practice, and profound knowledge of the art could have brought to perfection. In the following Removes still greater innovations wiU be found than in any other department, for I have always aimed at producing the greatest effect upon the last dishes sent to table, particularly as they are the ones over which each convive has time to pass remarks, and admire, if pro- perly executed. The transformation of the second course from the first has never failed to give the greatest satisfac- tion, and has often caused the greatest hilarity at table; some parties, unacquainted with them, have ordered their removal, thinldng they belonged to the first com-se, whilst others have actually carved them before discovering their mistake. And, again, those Removes being only demi- glace, and not too sweet, refresh the palate, disposes it more favorably for the dessert, and does not prevent the freely partaking of the ices which there cannot be avoided. Any kind of ice pudding, however excellent when done to per- fection, is too close an imitation of the dessert ices, and properly belong to the confectioner. To regenerate that finish of the dinner, which is veiy properly much thought of in England, it only requires a Httle artistic feehng, which is soon acquii-ed by prac- tice and perseverance. To simphfy them as much as pos- sible, I have only described one sort of sponge-cake, which548 REMOVES. ■ is always vaiied in flavour by the different kinds of fruits , and ices with which they are filled. The introduction of atelettes of fruit in the Removes as well as in the jelHes, is also quite a new idea, and renders the appearance of both very novel as well as very handsome. No. 1298. Gateau Britannique a VAmiral. Make a sponge-cake of tAventy eggs as directed (No. 1369), have a tin mould in the shape of a vessel, which paper well at the sides, to prevent the mixture running over whilst baking (the mould requu-es to be eighteen inches in length, six in breadth, and high in proportion); butter and lightly flour the interior of the mould, into which pom- the mixtm^e, which bake an hour and a half in a moderate oven (this cake requires to be baked a day or two before using); mask the exterior with chocolate iceing (No. 1383) to imitate the coloiu of a ship, when quite dry partly empty the interior,* leaving a piece across in the centre, to fix the mast upon, which you have made of pate d'office (No. 1137), as also the ladders, rigging, and gmis, by roUing pieces of the paste to the thickness requu'ed mth the hands, cutting them to the lengths required, and baking them a light colom- in a moderate oven; mask the guns with chocolate iceing, made rather darker than for the cake, and form the muz- zles mth small rings of puff paste, place them judiciously at the sides, as also the mast and rigging at their respec- tive places (see design), place the vessel upon a dish, lay- ing rather upon one side, lay roUs of gelee a la bacchante * In emptying the interior of this or any of the following cakes for removes, care should be taken not to leave them either too thick or too thin; if too tliick it would not hold sufQcient ice, and eat very heavy, if the reverse it would be too delicate, and not hold together in dishing up. About three quarters of an inch in most cases would be the thickness required. Any of the Removes may be curtailed in pouit of size, but the above would be sufScient for a dinner of eighteen persons. -SECOND COURSE. 549 (No. 1240) round, over which lay thin sHces of the same to form waves, make the sails of wafer or rice-paper, fix them to the mast as if filled with wind, upon the side the vessel is laying on, have also a flag made of the same ma- terial, painted with a little water-colour, which place at the stern ; well soak the interior with wine and brandy, mixed with apricot marmalade, just before serving, and when ready fiU with a dehcate vaniUa ice (No. 1381); you have previously formed some ropes of spun sugar, which affix to the rigging at the moment of serving. This dish has a pleasing efiect, and, unlilce many orna- mental dishes, the whole of it is eatable. It may be rather difficult for many, but with a few trials, aided by the above directions, I flatter myself it may be easily accomplished, but of course a great deal depends upon the taste of the person employed, who, if they could not accomplish one thing, would resort to another, and succeed in making a very handsome dish. Should you have no mould to bake the cake in, bake it in something as near as you can to the size, and afterwards shape it with a knife; and,..again, should it be inconvenient to make the green jelly for gar- nishing, any other description of white clear jelly may be used. The remains and trunmings are very good made into cabinet pudding. No. 1399. Hure de Sanglier glace en surprise. Or mock boar's head; this dish, although more simple than the last, is no less pleasing. Make a sponge-cake of thirty eggs (No. 1369), which bake (in an oval baking-dish or common tin dish-cover) nearly two hours ; the cake re- (luires to be ten inches in thickness at one end, and about six at the other (which may be accomplished by tilting the dish shghtly upon one end to bake the cake); the next day cut it into the shape of a dressed boar's head Avith a knife, then carefully take out the interior to within an inch of the550 llEMOVES. surface, in as large pieces as possible, put the pieces back again to keep the cake in its proper shape, turn it over upon the bottom of a large dish, and mask it all over with a chocolate iceing as near as possible to the colour of the real boar's head, form the eyes vi^ith white iceing, placing a dried cherry in the centre, and forming the eyelashes with thin fillets of pistachios, make the tusks of gum paste (No. 1139) or pate d'office (No. 1137), and the ears of puff paste (No. 1133), by working it a little with the hands, giving them their shape, and baking them upon two round cutters of a corresponding size, fix them with a stiffish paste made of flour and white of eggs, when done, upon the head, and mask them also with chocolate iceing; fix in the tusks, and when weU dried and ready to serve empty the interior, which soak with a httle brandy, and fiU with a lemon-cream ice (No. 1385) in which you have introduced four glasses of cura^oa, turn it over upon a silver dish, glaze over with currant jelly, melted and mixed with a little wine, and garnish with gelee au citron (No. 1225) made reddish vdth a httle cochineal, to give it the colour of a brown aspic (No. 1360), form some bold design upon the top (between the eyes) with it in croutons, and the re- mainder chopped and also in croutons around. No. 1300. eigne glace en surprise. Make a large sponge-cake of forty eggs as du-ected (No. 1369), bake it in a large oval tin dish-cover (about two hours and a half would be the time required), and the next day cut it with your knife into the form of the body of a swan (leaving a space in the breast down the front for the neck), empty the interior as in the last; ice it over with a white iceing, and when upon the point of setting ruffle it with the prongs of a fork in imitation of feathers, form the head and neck of pate d'office (No. 1137) by roUing out a piece with the hands of sufficient length and proportionateSECOND COURSE. '^'^^ thickness to form the neck, being rather thicker at one end than at the other; cut it in halves lengthwise, placing them upon a buttered baking-sheet, the cut side downwards, model each half head with taste separately, form each piece exactly alike, and of the same size for the neck, bemg some- what in the form of the letter S, but finishing qmte straight at the bottom, bake them in a moderate oven, and when done join them together with a paste made of flour and white of egg, with which also affix it to the dish you intend serving it upon (previously scraping the bottom of the neck quite flat with a knife), mask it over with a white iceing, and when upon the point of setting ruffle it with the prongs of a fork, and set in a warm place until dry ; an hour be- fore serving pour some gelee au maresquin (No. 1227) cold, but not set, into the dish, filling it to the inner rim, and stand it in a cold place until set; when ready to serve empty the interior of the body, which soak with three glasses of maresquino and three of brandy ; fill with a va- nilla ice (No. 1381), with which you have mixed two ounces of citron, two ounces of angelica, two ounces of cur- rants, and two ounces of Smyrna raisins, the citron and angehca cut into dice, and aU soaked three hours in mares- quino and brandy; turn it over on your dish upon the jelly, fixing it neatly to the neck, you have previously made some Sucre file (No. 1380), with which form the vsdngs and tail, and fix in their respective places, whip about a quart more of the jelly as above upon ice until upon the point of setting, and with it, when set, form a kind of foam at the breast, diminishing it at the sides by degrees, in imita- tion of waves caused by the bird swimming. No. 1301. Jamho7i glace en surprise. Make a sponge-cake of twenty-four eggs as directed CNo. 1369), bake it in a mould of the shape of a ham, or in a baking-dish, having a cake about six inches in thick-552 REMOVES. ness, and when cold cutting it with a knife in the shape of a ham, empty the interior as before, mask the exterior with chocolate iceing as near to the colour of real cooked ham as possible, over which sprinkle a few chopped pistachios and crushed ratafias, in imitation of chopped parsley and bread- criimbs ; you have reserved a little of the iceing, with which mix some more melted chocolate, making it a very dark brown, it will when cool form a kind of paste, with which form a part of the skin of a ham left upon the knuckle end, cut in points when dry and ready to serve, line the interior with apricot marmalade, soak it a little with brandy, fill it with apricot ice (No. 1387), turn over upon your dish, glaze with a httle meUed currant jelly, form a star of clear brownish calf's-foot jelly upon the top, flavoured according to taste, with some chopped and in croutons around, run a skewer in at the knuckle, upon which place a paper frill, and serve. No. 1302. Gigot de Mouton houilli glace en surprise. Make a cake of the same size as the last, but bake it in a smaller compass, that is, more round and smaller at one end than at the other; the next day form it with your knife into the shape of a leg of mutton, mask it over with a white iceing in which you have introduced a very httle chocolate, to give it the colour as near as possible of the fat of a leg of mutton when boiled (having previously emptied the interior); form the knuckle-bone of pate d'of- fice, and imitate the lean part with some chocolate iceing; when dry and ready to serve, soak the interior with fom- spoonfuls of preserved greengages, mixed with two glasses of sherry, and fill it with strawberry ice (No. 1388); tiu'n it over upon your dish, place a paper frill upon the knuckle, surround it with gelee mousseuse (No. 1232) in broken pieces, to imitate mashed turnips, and a few apples dressed as for pommes a la Trianon (No. 1280), to imitate wholeSECOND COURSE. O^** ones; make also a custard with the yolks of four eggs and half a pint of milk (as directed for creme au maresquin, omittmg the isinglass), to which, when cold and thickish, add an ounce of very green pistachios, blanched and coarsely chopped in imitation of capers, which pour over the cake previous to garnishing. No. 1303. Mle de Mouton a la Jardiniere en surprise. Make a sponge-cake with the same quantity of eggs as in the last, which bake in a long square baking-dish, or form a square in a round one with bands of paper, fixing them in their place vsdth pieces of common paste against the side of the dish; the next day form it with a knife to the shape of a saddle of mutton, trussed as for roasting (as near as possible), ice it as in the last, but rather darker, with chocolate, to imitate a real one when roasted (imitate it from a real one should you have one); you have previously emptied the interior, form the lean parts with darker co- loured chocolate iceing, and the flaps by graining it with a knife ; when dry and ready to serve fill with apricot: ice (No. 1387), turn it over .upon your dish, garnish with a custard made as for vaniUa ice (No. 1381), but coloured brovm with a httle melted chocolate, to which add a quan- tity of fruits, dressed as directed for chartreuse de pommes (No. 1272), thus imitating a sauce with vegetables ; green cm-rants passed in sugar, and mixed with and served in the custard, make a very good imitation of peas. No. 1304. Cotelettes de Mouton glace en surprise. Make a sponge-cake of eighteen eggs as directed (No. 1369), which bake in a baking-dish so that the cake shall be about fom inches in thickness; when baked and cold cut it in thin shces, lay them upon your table, and spread apricot mamalade upon each alternate slice, then lay those554 REMOVES. slices without the marmalade upon the others, press gently together and cut them into pieces about tln-ee inches in length and one and a half in breadth, of the shape of cote- lettes, using a round cutter to form the circle of the cote- lette, have ready some thin light chocolate iceing in a basin and some ratafia-crumbs in a dish, mask the cotelettes lightly with the chocolate iceing and throw them into the crumbs, take them out, pat them gently with your knife, put a piece of blanched ahnond in the end to imitate the bone, and put them upon a baking-sheet in the screen to dry; when ready make a thin border of apricot or any other marmalade on a silver dish, upon which dress the cotelettes in border, garnish round with strawberry jelly, chopped and in croutons, and serve with a vanilla ice dressed very high in the centre. No. 1305. Haunch of Lamb glace en surprise. Make a sponge-cake (No. 1369) of tliirty-six eggs, which bake in a very long mould; when cold cut it into the form of a haunch of lamb (or it may be baked in two separate pieces and afterwards joined together with the iceing), empty the interior, which again put into the cake to keep it in shape, mask it over with an iceing of a Hght gold co- lour, made by adding a httle melted chocolate and coclii- neal; when dry and ready to serve moisten with some brandy and preserved strawberries, and fill with strawberry or vanilla ice (Nos. 1381, 1388), place a frill upon the knuckle-bone, which you have previously formed of pate d'office, glaze it over mth apricot marmalade and cm-rant jelly mixed, pour a httle melted currant jeUy mixed with wine, in imitation of gravy, round and serve. No. 1306. Shoulder of Lamb glace en surprise Is very good for a small party; make a sponge-cake555 SECOND COURSE. (No. 1369) of twelve eggs, bake it in a flat saute-pan, and when done and cold form it into the shape of a shoulder, empty a httle from the interior, fix on the knuclde, which you have formed of pate d'office (No. 1137), and mask the whole over with nearly a white iceing to imitate a boiled shoulder of lamb; when dry and ready to serve dish it up with vanilla ice (No. 1381) in the interior, and round in imitation of mashed turnips. No. 1307. Cotelettes (VAgneau a la Beforme en surprise aux Champignons. Make a sponge-cake as directed for cotelettes de mouton en suprise (No. 1304), cut it into pieces of the same shape, but much smaller; mask them over hghtly with apricot marmalade, and dip them into ratafia crumbs, it will give them a lighter appearance; form the bone with strips of blanched almonds, and dress them the reverse way on your dish upon a border of marmalade, melt some currant jelly in a stewpan, with which mix some syrup of pine- apples, put in forty thin strips of pineapples, forty ditto of green angeHca, and forty preserved cherries, pom' it over the cotelettes, and when set and ready to serve fill the centre with a lemon ice (No. 1385), and garnish with some mush- rooms of meringues (No. ] 222). No. 1308. Chapon en surprise glace aux Fruits. Make a sponge-cake of twenty eggs, bake it in a long roundish mould, or an old tin dish-cover; when done and quite cold form it with your knife into the shape of a roasted capon trussed, with the legs inside; form the pinions of the wings with pate d'office, stick them to the sides in theii* proper position, then mask it over with a light choco- late iceing in which you have introduced a Httle prepared cochineal, to give it the coloiu- as near as possible of a roast556 REMOVES. capon; you have previously emptied it, and again filled it to keep it in shape, but when perfectly dry again empty it and line the interior with orange marmalade, soak it with a little wine, fill the interior with an orange cream ice (No. 1386) flavoured with noyeau, turn it over upon a silver dish, garnish round with pears dressed as for poires au riz (No. 1277), mixing theu syrup with a httle apricot mai-malade, and pouring it over them; you have made a croustade of pate d'ofiice, in imitation of the one of bread, in the form of a gondohere, upon which place a few straw- berries, a peach, and cherries, which place at the head of the dish with sUver atelettes of fruit upon it, and serve. To form a good imitation of a capon, you require to have a real one before you, or at least a fowl, if possible. No. 1309. Petits Poussins en surprise a la Sutherland. Make a sponge-cake of thirty eggs (No. 1369), and when finished stir in a quarter of a pound of fresh butter (melted) very gently, bake it in three oval moulds, each about the size of a large chicken; when quite cold cut each one into the shape and size of a spring chicken trussed as for boil- ing, (having a real one as a model,) empty the interiors, place it in again to keep them in shape, mask them all over with a white iceing (No. 1373) to wliich you have added a little brown brandy instead of lemon-juice; you have previously formed the claws of pate d'office (No. 1137) and baked them, fix them at the sides m their proper posi- tions and place them to dry, you have also made three cakes of Genoise paste (No. 1201) of the same size as the above, and when cold cut two of them into the form of Russian tongues, weU trussed, and make them Avith a cho- colate iceing as near as possible to the colom- of real tongues, with the cake cut a croustade in imitation of a bread croustade, mask it with a very light chocolate iceing.557 SECOND COURSE. and ornament it with small designs of puff paste baked very white, or gum paste, place it at the head of your dish ; when ready to serve, fix three silver atelettes of fruits (see Plate) upon the top; again empty the interior of the imitation chickens and fill them with a creme plombiere (No. 1333), place two of them vdth then- tails , tovvards the croustades, with a fine bunch of black grapes hanging from it, then the two imitation tongues, which glaze over with melted currant jelly, then the other imitation chicken between them, place the remainder of the creme plombiere round and between, place a fine red strawberry with the stalls on here and there, and serve with a thickish custard in which you have intro- duced two glasses of noyeau over each. No. 1310. Dindonneau en surprise a la Gondoliers. Make a sponge-cake (No. 1369) of thirty eggs, which bake (in an old tin dish-cover) in a moderate oven; when done turn it out upon a sieve, and when quite cold cut it into the shape of a trussed turkey, (having a real one for a model, which may be used in the first course, these dishes only being appropriated to large dinners,) which mask over with a chocolate iceing to imitate as near as possible the colom^ of a roasted turkey, having previously emptied the interior, which again place in to keep its shape, form the claws with pate d'office (No. 1137), and cover them with a httle of the iceing made darker with a little more chocolate, make a nice croustade of Genoise paste (No. 1201), the shape of the head of a gondola, which fix at the head of the dish, again empty the cake, soak the interior with brandy and apricot marmalade, fill with an apricot cream haK iced, tm-n over upon yom- dish, garnish round with a red mous- seuse jelly in croutons, and small pears cut in halves and stewed as du-ected (No. 1145), glaze over with currant jelly melted with a little wine, and serve.558 REMOVES. No. 1311. Peacock a la Louis Qmtorze. Make a cake of the same size as in the last, bake the same, and when done and cold cnt in the shape of the body of a large bird, mask it over with a pinkish white iccmg, rather thick, having previously emptied it; have ready blanched a quarter of a pound of pistachios (very green) make the neck and head of pate d'office in two separate halves lengthwise, as directed for the swan onlv givmg the head the shape of a peacock, bake a light colour and jom them together with a paste made of whites of eggs and flour, fix it upon the dish with the same paste havmg formed the bottom so that the body wiU adhere closely and unperceivedly to it, mask it with the same ice- mg, cut the pistachios in flat fiUets, and stick them into the neck to form feathers, you have previously mixed a quantity of red and green sugar (No. 1376) together, which sprinkle thickly over the body of the bird; when dry, again empty the interior, which moisten with Malaga wine and brandy, fiU with strawberry ice (No. 1389), turn over upon your dish, fitting it to the head and necki form the wings with sucre file (No. 1380), also the tail, fix the skins of some of the cherries upon the tail to imitate feathers. Any one perfect in sugar will form the tail open, which will produce a magnificent effect; have some very Hght jelly flavoured with gold water, (containing plenty of gold leaves,) chop it into rather small pieces, with which lightly cover the body of the bird; the crown of the head and eyes must be well imitated with sucre file, a small black currant imitating the balls of the eyes, gai-nish round tastefully with croutons of the above jelly and serve. No. 1312. Faisans en surprise glace au Chocolat. Make a sponge-cake (No. 1369) of twenty eggs, whichSECOND COURSE. ^50 bake in two sepai^ate oval moulds; when cold cut them into the shape of two pheasants trussed as for roastmg, empty each one as before, putting the pieces agam m to keep them in shape, make the legs and pinions of the wmgs with pate d'office (No. 1137), mask them over with cho- colate iceing (No. 1374), imitating as near as possible the colom- of roasted pheasants, making the legs darker than the body, imitate larding upon the breast with some blanched sweet almonds cut into thin strips of about equal sizes; when dry and ready to serve Une the interiors with currant jelly, and fill with a creme glacee au chocolat (No. 1383), or au cafe Moka (No. 1382), turn them over upon your dish and garnish with some jeUy (No. 1225), chopped and in croutons round; white strawberries and pieces of apples prepared as for the chartreuse de pommes (No. 1272), and soaked in brandy, maybe served with the ice in the interior. No. 1313. Maniveau de Champignons glace en surprise. Make a basket of pate d'office (No. 1137), which is done by roUing out a piece of the paste to three quarters of an inch in thickness, with length and breadth corresponding to the size of your dish, place it in a baking-sheet, put it in a moderate oven, and when about half baked cut an odd number of holes all round near to the edge with a long vegetable cutter a quarter of an inch in diameter, then form a number of pegs of the same paste to fit into the holes when baked, and all of equal lengths, roU out a number of cords of the same paste as long as possible and the thickness of blanched macaroni, which plait round the pegs, going in and out one upon the other untU you have reached the top and formed a rustic basket, let it stand some time to get dry, then bake it in a moderate oven; when done and cold glaze it over with some red currant jelly, dress a pineapple ice (No. 1384) in the560 REMOVES. centre m pyramid, which cover all over with mushrooms of mermgues (No. 1222), building them in clusters as high as possible; garnish round with a gelee au rhum (No. 1231) chopped and in croutons, and serve. No. 1314. Tmhan de Conde glace a VAnanas. Make a pound of puff paste into conde as directed (No. 1183), make a thin border of any kind of marmalade upon a silver dish, on which dress the conde in turban, that is, standing upon end, one resting upon the other,' dress a pineapple cream ice (No. 1384) in the centre in pyramid, garnish round with orange jelly in the skins of the oranges (No. 1237); cut in quarters and serve. No. 1315. JBombe demi glace ala Mogador. Make a good vanilla ice as directed (No. 1381), well flavoured with maresquino, have a large round pewter ice- mould which opens in two halves, partly fill each half, leaving a hollow in the centre of each, which fill: with all kinds of small fruits, grapes, strawberries, currants, Smyrna raisins, &c., soaked in maresquino, , close the mould, (having it sufficiently filled to form a ball when turned out,) and bm-y it in ice and salt, then make a thin ornamented border of pate d'office (No. 1137) an inch in height, which fix upon a silver dish and bake in a moderate oven, place it somewhere for !he dish to get cold; when ready to serve, dip the mould into lulcewarm water, and turn the ice quickly out in the centre of your dish, you have previ- ously prepared some finely-spun sugar (sucre file, No. 1380), with which form a fusee, stick it in the top of the ice, twisting it round, bringing the other end near the edge of the dish, pour half, a pint of brandy in yom- dish outside of the border of paste, which set on fii-e at the moment of going to table; the fu-e wiU require to bm-n the sugar,SECOND COUESE. which will give it quite the appearance of a fusee; it would, however, be better that the brandy should not be set on fire until it reached the dining-room. No. 1316. Ceritds SuUane Sylphe a la Mile de VOrac/e. Procure a half oval-pointed mould about fifteen inches in height, ten inches by eight in diameter at the bottom, and the size of a five-shilling piece at the top, which bmy to the rim in ice with which you have mixed plenty of salt, line the interior with a sheet of wliite paper, laying it in closely to fit the mould, have ready a pint of cream mixed rather stiffly, with which you have mixed a meringue mixture of three eggs, as for the biscuit glace (No. 1318), spread it all over the interior of the mould to about an inch in thickness, place a cover over the mould made to fit tight, over which place some ice, and leave it one hour, when it will be quite frozen, take ofi" the hd, have ready a nice cherry or strawberry cream ice (No. 1388), place a little at the bottom of the mould, upon which lay a few fresh strawberries, then more ice, proceeding thus until quite ftiU, place the cover again over, fixing it tight, bury it in ice and salt, and leave it an hour, or tiU Avanted, when dip it into very lukewarm water, turn it out upon your dish, take ofi" the paper, have ready a silver atelette (see atelette of fruits in the Plate), upon which you have placed some fine fresh fruit, that is, a peach vsdth a bmich of fine black grapes resting over, and a few red currants or straw- berries beneath, which stick into the top, have ready some finely-spun sugar (sucre file, No. 1380), which twine round Hghtly like rolls of gauze (see design), not, however, covering the whole of it, and at the moment of serving lay a fine bunch of black grapes upon each side on vine-leaves; have some very fight gelee de Dantzic (No. 1226) chopped finely, with which garnish round, sprinkling some over the grapes, 36562 REMOVES. but not too heavy, and serve as quickly as possible. As soon as it is turned out of the mould you had better set the dish upon the ice and salt you took it from (pourmg off all the water) whilst ornamenting, and it would be better to make a border of pate d'office upon yom- dish as in the last, but smaller, to prevent it shding about when carried to table, which would upset the garnitm^e. No. 1317. Gateau glace a VEloise. Bury a mould in ice as in the last, then whip a quart of double cream very stiff, to which add a very httle powdered sugar and two glasses of noyeau, put it in a freezing-pot, and when about three parts frozen line the mould as in the last, make a custard with eight yolks of eggs as for vanilla ice (No. 1381), to which add a little clarified isinglass (No. 1372), stir it upon the ice, and when becoming thickish add two glasses of noyeau, half a pint of whipped , cream, and haff a pound of cherries, stoned, and passed in sugar as directed (No. 1144), only dry well before adding them to the custard, which must be kept as white as possi- ble, place it in the centre of your mould, which cover up and bury in ice until wanted; when ready, dip the mould in lukewarm water, tm^n it out upon your dish, stick a few fine cherries here and there over it, prepai'e another custard of four yolks of eggs, which pom- all over and sei-ve. The garnishing of these dishes must be effected very quickly, as they require to be served the moment they are tmned out. No. 1318. Biscuit Mousseux glace, en caisse. Make a custard of six yolks of eggs as directed for creme au maresquin (No. 1251), but omitting tlu-ee parts of the sugar; put into yom- freezing-pot, and when half frozen have ready the following preparation : boil a. quarter of a pound of sugar au casse (No. 1379), have ready fiveSECOND COURSE, 563 whites of eggs whipped very stiff, with which mix the sugar by degrees; when quite cold mix with the custard, adding half a pint of whipped cream and three glasses of any white hquem-, fi-eeze the whole together, keeping the pot twisted until you have obtained a good consistency; have ready a number of small round paper cases,* place a band of paper round each, half an inch above the top, and fill with the above preparation; place them in a flat tin box, sprinlde ratafia crumbs upon the top of each, place the Hd upon the box, which must close very tight, and bury it in ice and salt for six hours; when ready to serve, take them out of the box, detach the bands of paper from them, dress upon a napkin, and serve. They will have every appear- ance of having just left the oven. No. 1319. Souffle glace au Curac^oa. Proceed exactly as in the last, only using cm'a^oa instead of a white hqueur; place it in a middling-sized silver soutfle- dish, surround it with a band of paper, sprinlde crushed ratafias over the top, place it in the box, which cover and bury in ice, and salt eight hours; when ready to serve take ofi" the band of paper, and dress it upon a napkin on a silver dish. No. 1320. Ponding Souffle glace a la MephistopJteles. Proceed precisely as in the last, place in a dish of the same description, and whilst buried in ice make a cover from a meringue mixture (No. 1218) of four yolks of eggs, very firm, a large spoonful of which place upon a sheet of paper, forming it round, three inches in diameter, and the remainder in a paper cornet or horn, cut ofi" the point of one, leaving a point the size of a sixpenny-piece, -with which * These round paper cases are to be procured at Temple's, Wliitcomb street, Belgrave square.REMOVES. 564 work a spiral line round the meringue until you have formed a cover large enough for the souffle-case, sift sugar over it, and bake in a very slow oven; when done turn it gently over in yom^ hand, take off the paper, empty the interior lightly, and place it to dry in a very slow oven (it might be made the day before); make a border of pate d'office upon a silver dish as for the bombe glace (No. 1315), bake in a warm oven; when ready to serve take the souffle from the ice, take off the paper, stand it in a dish of ice and salt to reach the rim of the souffle-case; place on the cover, which must be quite cold and crisp, and place it in the oven until the meringue cover is warm, when take it out, stand it in the centre of your dish, pour half a pint of brandy upon the dish outside of the border of paste, which set on fire upon its going into the dining-room. No. 1321. Brioche. Put four pounds of flour upon a marble slab, one pound of which place upon one side, with an ounce of Gennan yeast dissolved in a giU of warm water in the centre, mix the yeast well with your fingers, add a Httle more water, and mix the flour into a stiffish but delicate paste, which roll up in the shape of a ball, cut an incision across it with a knife, place it in a basin wefl floured and put it into a warmish place for ten minutes or longer, untill becoming very light, make a large hole in the centre of the remainder of the flom-, in which put half an ounce of salt, half a gill of water, two pounds and a haff of fresh butter, and sixteen eggs, mix the eggs and butter well together, and work in the flour by degrees, if too stiff add more eggs, the paste must be kept rather softish, press it out with yom- hands by degi-ees, lay the leaven upon it, which spread o^'cr, bring the ends over with your knife, press it out agam and fold over until well mixed, sprinkle some flour upon a cleanSECOND COURSE. 505 cloth, fold the paste in it and let remain all night; when ready to use tlu-ow some flom- upon yom' pastry slab, tmii yom- paste out upon it and work it up together with yoiu hands, then cut a piece, which mould into a ball with the hands, place it upon a piece of buttered paper on a baking- sheet, make an impression with your hand in the centre, mould another ball of the paste two thirds the size of the former, wet the former ball mth a little water, fix the other upon it, press gently, egg over with a paste-brush, make a few incisions roimd with a knife, and put it in a moderate oven, (it will requue about two hours baking, to try when done run a thin wooden skewer into it, if done it Avill come out perfectly diy,) bake of a nice gold colour. Many small cakes, rissoles, &c., are made from this paste. By butter- ing a middle-sized stewpan, putting a band of paper four uiches in height round, and baking the paste in it, it will of itself make a remove, but of com'se requiring longer baking. No. 1322. Baha. This cake is made of the same description of paste as the last, but using six more eggs, as it requires to be softer, and working lightly with yom- hand about ten mi- nutes before adding the leaven, to which add a teaspoonfnl of powdel-ed safii'on 3 you have also picked and cleaned a quarter of a pound of Smyrna raisins, half a pound of Malaga, a quarter of a pound of currants, and a little candied orange, lemon-peel, and citron, cut into thin slices, soak the whole in half a pint of Madeira wine and tlu'ee glasses of brandy or rum, and mix with the paste, working together hghtly with the hands, have buttered a large sponge-cake mould, or stewpan, place a band of paper three inches in height round the rim, put it into a waim place for two or three hours, or until raised nearly to theREMOVES. 566 top of the mould, stand it upon a trivet in a warmish oven, and bake about three hom-s, ascertaining when done with a skewer, as in the last; yom^ paste must not be made too thin, or all the fruit would fall to the bottom and spoil its appearance. Take off the band of paper, turn the baba over upon a hair sieve, and serve either hot or cold. Pre- viously to mixing the fruit with the paste you may hue the interior of the mould very thinly with some of it, mix the fruit with the remainder and fill, this process will prevent the cake sticking to the mould, as the fruit will sometimes cause it to do, but gives rather too much the appearance of brioche when on the table. No. 1323. Brioclie au Fromage. Make the paste as directed (No. 1321), but rather softer, and when ready for use mix in a pound of Gruyere cheese cut into smaU dice, with half a pound of grated Parmesan and a saltspoonful of cayenne pepper, mould it as for the brioche, put it into a buttered stewpan as there directed, egg lightly, place in a moderate oven, and bake it about two hours of a fine gold colom-, (but try whether done or not as before,) and serve very hot. The same paste with cheese may likewise be served in small cakes, making fifteen or sixteen from the same quantity of paste, or cutting up a large one with difierent shape-cutters into the same number of pieces, and placing them in a hot oven upon a baking- sheet (when the first course comes off the table) until very hot and becoming rather brown, dress them upon a napkin on your dish, and send very hot to table, Avith another nap- kin over them, which should not be removed untd placed upon the table. No. 1324. Brioche frite au Fin de Madere. Make a brioche as dkected (No. 1321), which when coldSECOND COURSE. cut into pieces a quarter of an inch in thickness, and of the shape and size of smaU fillets of fowl, have ready four yolks of eo-ss in a dish, with which you have mixed a gill ot .ood^ream, have also clarified half a pound of fresh butter, a quarter of which put into a deep saute-pan over the fire; when hot dip eight pieces of the brioche into the eggs and cream quickly, and fry them in the saute-pan of a light yeUow coloiu% proceeding thus untd they are all done, dress them in crowa upon yom^ dish on a border of apricot mar- malade, and place it in the oven to keep hot, put half a pound of the marmalade in astewpan, and when melted add a pint of Madeira wine; when boiling pour over the brioche and serve very hot. The remainder of a brioche or baba from a preceding dinner may be used for the above purpose. In serving a brioche or baba to table as a remove I strongly recommend the above method, as very few, even after a sumptuous dinner, could resist the temptations of this deli- cious dish, so well blended with the apricot and Madeira, whilst brioche or baba served entire cannot invigorate the appetite, and is not, in my opinion, exactly the kind of food to suit an aheady nearly satisfied stomach. They are, however, excellent for breakfasts, luncheons, and ball sup- pers, where every person composes their meal according to their fancy. No. 1325. Nougat auos Fraises. Blanch three quarters of a pound of sweet almonds in boihng water, and a quarter of a pound of pistachios, sepa- rate, take off" the skins and cut each almond into five or six fillets, and the pistachios in two, place them upon a sheet of paper and dry in a warm oven until the ahnonds become a light straw colom-, but taking the pistachios out earlier, then put a pound of sifted sugar into a copper pan and stir it over the fire with a wooden spoon until melted,REMOVES. then throw in yom- almonds, (which must be hot,) and stir untn well mixed, taking it off the fire, you have previously slightly oiled a large Savoy-cake mould, put in part of the mLxture which press to the sides with a lemon, then the remamder in smaU pieces, pressing the whole to the sides tormmg it into one piece the thickness of a five-shilling piece, and when cold turn it out from the shape upon a chsh whip a quart of cream very stiff, which di-ess upon the dish you intend serving the nougat on, in pyramid place some very fine strawberries upon it and the nouo-at over, have a little sugar boiled to the seventh degree (No. 1379), have also a few very fine strawberries, witlUhe stalks on, as the green is an improvement, dip the stalks of the strawberries into the sugar, place one upon the top and the others aU over, at the distance of two inches apart, fixing them in a drooping position, it is then ready to serve! The above makes a handsome remove, the pistachios, almonds, and strawberries correcting the taste of the melted sugar; if not convenient, the pistachios may be omitted, but adding more almonds in proportion. The sugar may be flavoured with lemon vanilla or candied orange-flowers. No. 1326. Croque en houclie. Make some paste as directed for pate a choux (No. 1194), not, however, using so much butter, and adding a httle more flour, drying it well in the stewpan, and adding suffi- cient eggs to make it of the same consistency as there directed, flavouring with sugar upon which you have rubbed the rind of a lemon, form about a hundred and fifty small balls the size of marbles, upon two baking-sheets, egg them over and bake very dry in a moderate oven of a light gold colour, then have some sugar boiled to the seventh degree (No. 1379), oil a large Savoy-cake mould lightly, place one of the petits choux upon a trussiiig-needle, dip it in theSECOND COURSE. 'J"*^ sugar, fix it at the bottom in the centre of yom' mould, then dip in the remainder one after the other, placing them roimd the interior of the mould, one adhering to the other until the mould is fiUed up, (to facilitate the buHding of them have your sugar in two different sugar-pans, being cai-eful that it does not grain, for if the sugar is not quite clear and crisp it would stick to the mould, and your croque en bouche tumble to pieces,) when quite cold try gently with both hands to move it, just enough to detach it, turn it out carefully upon a napkin, and serve with whipped cream flavoured with vanilla sugar under it. The above when well made makes a pretty remove, but scarcely fit to eat, it being a mass of sugar without any relief to the palate. Although not a great admirer of nougat, the almonds certainly form a relief; a croque en bouche of oranges or any other fruit is a little, more commendable, but is very difficult to succeed vdth, and do not in reality repay in quality the trouble they give; such dishes, in my opinion, being fit only for children who are fond of sugar- plums. No. 1337. Meringue Pagodatiqiie a la Chinoise. Have ready prepared a meringue mixture of fifteen eggs (No. 1218), with which make six rings upon paper, (lay- ing them out with a paper cornet or funnel, in the bottom of which you have cut a hole of the circumference of a shining,) the three largest to be eight inches in diameter, the next one six and a haK inches, the next five, and the smallest three and a haK inches in diameter, and the whole of them an inch in thickness, have some of the preparation in a small paper cornet with a hole at the bottom of the size of a pea, with which ornament the rings, laying small fillets of it over them, then with the large paper cornet lay out four other pieces of an octagonal form, (to imitate the top of aEliMOVES. Chinese pagoda, which may easily be accomphshed if the mixtiLre is firm, as it may then be laid out bto any shape desired,) leavmg a ring in the centre, making the largest rather larger than the largest ring, diminishing the size in proportion to the other rings, and piping them according to fancy with the smaUer paper cornet with which also form sixteen little beUs by pressing an upright dot from it upon paper, and pulling the cornet up quickly, making the four largest half an inch in height and a quarter of an inch in width, and making each four a size smaller in proportion; bake the whole of the preparations (first sifting sugar over them) upon boards in a very slow oven, scarcely allowing them to obtain any colour; when baked and crisp place them in a hot closet until perfectly dry, when take them out, wet the back of the papers lightly with a paste-brush and carefully detach the meringues from them, which again put into the hot closet until quite crisp, then fix the beEs, the largest upon the largest octagonal piece at the corners, and the smaller upon the smaller pieces, by running a needle with a piece of white silk through them, and fasten- ing them with a little boiled sugar or isinglass when upon the point of setting; when ready to serve place the three largest rings upon yom- dish, filhng the middle with some whipped cream flavoured with vanilla sugar (No. 1377), then the largest octagonal piece, which also fill with cream, then the next sized ring, and so on until you have built the whole up, finishing with the smallest octagonal at the top, you have also made and baked a pointed meringue of the shape of half a lemon, to fit into the hole at the top, haAdng it decorated to correspond, which place upon the top and serve immediately, or it would become damp, and eat toughish instead of crisp.SECOND COURSE. 571 No. 1328. Meringue a la Parisienne. Prepare a meringue mixture of ten whites of eggs, with which make ten large rings, each about eight inches in diameter, and half an inch in thickness, laying them out upon paper; pipe them in stripes with the paper cornet, and sift sugar over, let them remain ten minutes, then shake off the superfluous sugar, lay them upon boards, and place them in a slow oven to bake; when of a light brown colour and quite set, put them into a hot closet to dry, then wet the back of the papers hghtly with a paste-brush, from which carefully detach the rings, place them again in the hot closet to dry, and when ready to serve pipe them with bright red currant jelly between the stripes of meringue, dish them one upon the other, filhng them with whipped cream, and serve as quickly as possible afterwards, with a few straw- berries upon the top. A meringue mixture may also be formed into various other shapes, according to fancy. No. 1329. Nesselrode Pudding. Blanch four dozen chestnuts in boiling water, skin and place them in the screen, when dry take them out, and when cold put them into a mortar with one pound of sugar, and half a stick of vanilla, pound the whole well together, and sift it through a fine wire sieve, put it into a stewpan with the yolks of twelve eggs, beat them weU together; in another stewpan have a quart of milk, when boihng pour it over the other ingredients, mixing well, and stir over a sharp fire until it begins to thicken and adheres to the back of the spoon, when lay a tammie upon a large dish, pour the mixture in and rub it through with two wooden spoons; when cold place it in a freezing-pot and freeze as directed (No. 1881), when frozen have a large high ice-mould, which closes hermetically, have also two ounces of cm-rants,^''•^ REMOVES. and two ounces of Smyrna raisins, soaked in fom- glasses of maresquino from the previous day, with four ounces of candied citron cut in dice, put them into the freezing-pot with a pint of whipped cream and half the meringue pre- paration directed in (No. 1318); freeze the whole well together and fill your mould, which bury in ice and salt mitil ready to serve, when dip it into lukewarm water, and turn it out upon yoiu- dish. No. 1330. Pouding de Cabinet glace. Have ready prepared, and rather stale, a sponge-cake as directed (No. 1369), which cut into sHces half an inch in thickness, and rather smaller than the mould you intend making the pudding in, soak them well with noyeau brandy, then lay some preserved dry cherries at the bottom of the mould, with a few whole ratafias, lay one of the slices over, then more cherries and ratafias, proceeding thus until the mould is three parts full; then have ready a quart of the custard, as prepared for creme au maresquin (No. 1251), omitting half the quantity of isinglasss, pour it lukewarm into your mould, which close hermetically and bury in ice and salt, where let it remain at least two hom-s; when ready to serve dip it in lultewarm water, and turn it out upon yom* dish; you have made about half a pint of custard, which keep upon ice, pom- over the pudding when ready to serve, and sprinkle a few chopped pistachios over. No. 1331. Glace Meringue au four. Make a pineapple cream ice as directed (No. 1384), and when well frozen have ready a plain oval ice-mould, place the cream in it, fiUing it quite tight, close and bmy it in ice and salt until five minutes before ready to serve, then dip it into lukewarm water, and tm-n it out upon your dish, which bmy up to the riui in ice and salt upon a baking-SECOND COURSE. ' ^ sheet have ready a preparation of meringue as directed for petits' biscuits glaces, (No. 1318), with which cover it over, place it in a warm oven a minute, just settmg the mermgue, which wiU bhster and brown shghtly, and serve immediately. No. 1332. Flombiere. Blanch and skm a quarter of a pound of sweet ahnonds, with six or eight bitter ones, when dry and cold place them in a mortar with three quarters of a pound of sugar, and ten or twelve leaves of candied orange-jBiowers, pound well, sift tln-ough a wire sieve, and place it in a stewpan with the yolks of nine eggs, beat them well together, then in another stewpan have boihng a pint and a half of milk, which pom- over the other ingredients by degrees, keeping it stkred, place it upon the fire, stirring until it thickens and adlieres to the back of the spoon, rub it through a tammie, add two glasses of noyeau; when cold put it into your freezing-pot to freeze (see No. 1381), and when half frozen add a pint and a haK of whipped cream, when quite frozen fill a mould, and serve as for the Nesselrode pudding. No. 1333. Plombieres Mousseuses a I'Orange. Prepare about three parts of the quantity of plombiere ice as directed in the last, to which, when half frozen, add a pint aiid a haK of whipped orange jeUy (No. 1236) just upon the point of setting, beat the whole weU together with the spatula, worldng it until Avell frozen ; have a dozen and a liaK of oranges, peeled, quartered, and passed in svigar as directed for vol-au-vent (No. 1147), and place them in a basin upon ice; when ready to serve make a border of pa- tisserie d'amande (No. 1183) upon your dish, in the centre of which put a httle of the plombiere, then a layer of oranges, then plombiere and oranges again, proceeding thus and finishing in pyramid; garnish round with a httle^'^^ REMOVES. of the orange jelly (clear), chopped and in croutons, and serve. No. 1334. Gafeaua^ de Fruit a la Gelee d' Orange mousseuse. Make a chartreuse of fruit as directed (No. 1269) in a large oval mould, having a quantity of fruit left; have also about a quart of orange jelly (No. 1236), which place upon ice in a bowl, whisking it untU upon the point of set- ting, when place a layer of it in the chartreuse, then a layer of the fruit, the jeUy, and so on untH quite filled, place it upon ice, and when set and ready to serve dip in lukewarm water, and turn it out upon your dish; serve garnished round with orange jelly in the sldns of the oranges (No. 1237), cut in quarters after it has set. No. 1335. Gateau Souffle a VEssence de Fonclie. Break ten eggs, put the whites in a copper bowl, and the yolks in a basin, with four tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar, four of crushed ratafias, two of potato flour, a httle salt, and a quarter of an ounce of candied orange-flowers, beat well together, whip the whites, which stir in lightly with the mixture ; weU butter and bread-crumb the interior of an oval plain mould, butter also and bread-cnunb a band of paper three inches broad, which tie round at the top of the mould, pour in the mixtm-e, and half an hour before ready to serve stand it in a moderate oven (it wUl take about the above time to bake), when done turn it out upon your dish ; have ready a custard of three yolks of eggs, made as for creme au maresquin (No. 1251), to which you have added two glasses of essence of punch, pour round the gateau and serve. The above mixture may be baked in twelve small moulds and dressed in pyramid, but then they would require more sauce.SECOND COURSE. 575 OF LARGE SOUEELES EOU REMOVES. Souffles when well-made are excellent removes for the winter season, but I generaUy strive to avoid them in the summer, as they are not, in my opinion, at all suitable for that season of the year, for which reason I have introduced the new souffle glace, which, by pleasing the eye, and being more refreshmg to the palate, cannot fail to give general satisfaction. No. 1336. Souffle a la Vanille. Prepare a crust or croustade of pate fine (No. 1136), or water paste, by hning a raised pie-mould with it, filling with bread-crumbs, and finishing the edges as for a raised pie; bake it (of a very Kght brown colom^ about an hour in a moderate oven, when done empty out aU the bread- crumbs without taking it out of the mould, then tie a band of buttered paper (fom- inches wide) round the top, and put it by until wanted. Put half a pound of butter in a stew- pan, with which mix three quarters of a pound of flom' without melting it, in another stewpan have rather more than a quart of milk, into which, when boiling, put two sticks of vanilla, place a cover upon the stewpan and let it remain until half cold, then take out the vaniUa, and pour the mUk upon the butter and flour, stir over a sharp fire, boiling it five minutes, then stir in quickly the yolks of ten eggs, and sweeten with half a pound of sugar; when cold, and an hour and a quarter before you are ready to serve, whip the whites of the ten eggs very stifi", stir them in with the mixture hghtly, pour it into the croustade, and bake about an hour in a moderate oven, if going too fast, and liable to be done before required, open the oven door, as it576 REMOVES. ought to be served the moment it is done; when ready to serve take it from the oven, detach the band of paper, take it from the mould, di-ess it upon a napkin on a dish, and serve immediately. These souffles may be baked in a silver souffle-case, if preferred, they will take considerable less time in baking, but fall quicker after being taken from the oven; any liqueur or spirits even may be introduced in souffles of this description if approved of. No. 1337. Sovffle a la Fleur d'Orange. Proceed exactly as in the last, but infusing an ounce of candied orange-flowers in the milk instead of the vanilla. No. 1338. Souffle au Cafe vierge. Proceed as for the souffle a la vanille, omitting the va- uiUa, and procming two ounces of green coffee, which place in a stewpan over a sharp fire, keeping them moved until of a very Hght brown colom^, then throw them into the milk when boiling, cover over until half cold, and finish as before directed, passing the milk through a sieve. No. 1339. 8oi(ffie a la Creme de Biz Is made by using ground rice instead of the common flour, finishing the same, and using any of the flavours di- rected in the three last. No. 1340. Souffle au Citron. Proceed as directed for souffle a la vanille, but infusing the rind of two lemons, free from pith, in the milk instead of the vanilla. No. 1341. Souffle au Macaroni. Have half a pound of macaroni blanched as directedSECOND COURSE. 577 (No. 130), lay it upon a cloth to drain, and cut it into small pieces, the eighth of an inch in thickness; make half the preparation as directed for soufSe a la vanille, but using an infusion of an ounce of bitter almonds; when it be- comes thick over the fire stir in the macaroni, and when again nearly boiling, the yolks of ten eggs, when cold whip the whites, which add to the other ingredients, and finish as where previously directed. No. 1342. Souffle au Tapioca. Put a half a pound of tapioca in a stewpan, with three pints of milk and a quarter of a pound of fresh butter, and when boihng add the rind of two lemons, free from pith, tied in a bunch, boil until the tapioca is rather stiff and well done, then take out the lemon and stir in the yolks of twelve eggs very quickly, stir another minute over the fire to thicken a httle, and put by until cold; when ready, whip the whites of the eggs very stiff, stir them Ughtly with the tapioca, bake and serve as for the other description of souffles. No. 1343. Souffle au Mum. Break the yolks of twelve eggs in a basin, to which add half a pound of sifted sugar, beat well with a wooden spoon until becoming quite thick and whitish; when stir in two glasses of rum and an ounce of potato flour; whisk the whites of the eggs very stiff, mix them gently with the mixture, put it upon the dish you intend serving it on, shaping in pyra- mid with a knife; and a quarter of an hour before serving place it in a moderate oven, when done pour a little rum round, which set on fire and serve immediately. Souffles au maresquin, noyeau, curapoa, or whiskey, are made pre- cisely as the above, omitting the nun, adding two glasses of one or the other Hqueurs instead, and serving without the fire round it. q757S REMOVES. No. 1344. Omelette Soufflk. Proceed as described in the last, but omitting the rum or hqueurs, and flavoming mth three tablespoonfuls of orange- flower water, or rubbing the rind of a lemon upon the sugar previous to pounding and mixing (or vanilla sugar, No. 1377, might be used); place the souffle upon the chsh, bake a quarter of an horn-, and serve. These kinds of souffles are much more simple in their fabrication than the others, and much quicker done; their greatest difficulty is the whipping of the eggs, which must be very stiflf; a Httle practice would, however, soon enable you to manage them; the best method is to put them into a copper bowl -with a pinch of salt, and commence whipping very slowly, then quicker and quicker by degrees, until they adhere Hke feathers to the whisk. These souffles may likewise be baked in a silver souffle-dish, by tying a band of buttered paper round to bake it, which detach at the time of serving. No. 1345. Omelette Soufflee a 1'Antiquaire. Though the last-mentioned article has received the name of omelette soufflee, it has no particular right to the name; for as there is no making an omelette without eggs, so is there no making an omelette soufflee without an omelette- pan ; I do not, therefore, intend entirely to forsake the old- fashioned method. The mixtm^e is prepared precisely as the last, but the appearance and flavour are very different, being produced by the different method of cooking them; put an ounce of butter into a very clean omelette-pan over the fire, when melted, pour in half the preparation, place it over a very brisk fire a few seconds, then twist it round in the pan, which give a jerk, tossing the omelette half way over, stand it over the fire again, give the pan another jerk,SECOND COURSE. 579 tossing the omelette again over, and turn it out upon your dish, set it in the oven and proceed the same with the re- mainder of the preparation, which when done turn over upon the other, leave it in the oven about a quarter of an horn-, sprinkle sugar over, salamander and serve very quicldy. The butter the souffle is fried in gives it a superior flavour to the last. No. 1346. Omelette Sowfflee a la Creme. Proceed as in the last, deducting two of the whites of eggs, and adding a gill of whipped cream, fry and serve as above. No. 1347. Souffle au Gingemhre. This is a very excellent remove for a party of gentlemen, make a preparation as for souffle a la vaniUe (No. 1336), adding a httle syrup, midng a quarter of a pound of fresh preserved ginger with it, cut into thin sHces, add two more whites of eggs to the preparation, which bake in a croustade as directed where above referred to. No. 1348. Souffle au Cerises. Prepare a souffle mixture as before, giving it the flavour of orange-flowers; when the whites of eggs are well mixed, add a pound of cherries prepared thus: procure them not too ripe, take out the stones, and put them into a sugar-pan with half a pound of sugar, stew them until surrounded with a thickish syrup, then turn them out upon a sieve to dry, stir them into the souffle Hghtly, pour in yom- crous- tade, and bake it a short time longer, as the cherries will prevent the souffle rising so quickly. No. 1349. Souffle aujus d'Orange et au Zeste praline. Prepare a souffle mixture as before, but when you pom-580 REMOVES, in the milk add likewise the juice and pnlp of eight oranges, having previously rubbed the rind of one of them upon two ounces of sugar, pound it fine, place it in the hot closet to diy, and add it as extra sugar to the souffle, bake and serve as before; a gill of milk less must be used in the above on account of the orange-juice, it would otherwise be too moist. No. 1350. Biscuits Souffles a la Creme. Put the yolks of ten eggs in a basin, and the whites in a copper bowl, add half a pound of sugar, upon which you have rubbed the rind of a lemon previous to pounding, beat it well with the yolks of the eggs, then add half a pint of cream well whipped and ten ounces of flour; stir all together lightly, whip the whites of the eggs very stiff, and stir them into the preparation; have ready a dozen and a half of small paper cases, fill each one tlnree parts full, and fifteen minutes before serving place them in a moderate oven ; when done shake sugar over, dress in pyra- mid upon a napkin, and serve. No. 1351. Fondue au Parmesan et Gi'uyere. Put half a pound of butter and three quarters of a pound of flom* in a stewpan, mix them well together (without melting the butter) with a wooden spoon, then add rather more than a quart of boihng milk, stir over the fire, boil twenty minutes, then add the yolks of ten eggs (stk in well), a pound of grated Parmesan,. and half a pound of • grated Gruyere cheese; season with haK a teaspoonfiil of salt, a quarter do. of pepper, and half a saltspoonful of cayenne; if too thick add two or three whole eggs to give it the consistency of a souffle, whip the ten whites of egg firm, stir them gently into the mixture, have ready a crous- tade prepared as for the souffle (No. 1336), pour in the581 SECOND COURSE. above mixture, and bake it in a moderate oven; it will re- quire half an hour longer than the souffle; dish and serve the same. No. 1352. Fondue a la Napolitaine. Prepare three fourths of the mixture as in the last, but previous to adding the whites of eggs stir in a quarter of a pound of good macaroni blanched as directed (No. 130) and cut into pieces an inch in length; add the whites, bake, and serve as before. No. 1353. Petites Fondues au Pate d'ltalie. Blanch a quarter of a pound of any description of Italian paste in boiling water a few minutes, strain it upon a silk sieve until a little dry, put an ounce of butter and a spoon- ful of flour, mix well together, then add half a pint of boil- ing milk; stir over the fire untU thickish, add your paste, stir it a few minutes longer over the fire, then add a quarter of a pound of StUton cheese in small lumps, and a quarter of a pound of grated Parmesan; season with a little pepper, salt, and cayenne, add six yolks of eggs, stir it another minute until the eggs are partially set, and when cold whip the whites very stifi"; mix them weU in, fill small paper cases with it, bake a quarter of an hour in a moderate oven, and serve very hot. No. 1354. Fondue {simple method). Put two ounces of Gruyere and two ounces of Pai'mesan cheese (grated) into a basin, with a httle salt, pepper, and cayenne, add the yolks of six eggs, with half a pound of butter melted (mix well), whip the whites of the six eggs, stir gently into the other ingredients, fill small paper cases vidth it, bake about a quarter of an hour in a moderate oven, dress upon a napkin, and serve very hot.582 REMOVES. No. 1355. Petites Fondues {en caisse) au Stilton. Put six ounces of butter and half a pound of flour in a stewpan, rub well together with a wooden spoon, then add a quart of warm milk, stir over the fire a quarter of an hour, then add the yolks of eight eggs, three quarters of a pound of grated Parmesan, and half a pound of Stilton cheese in small, dice, season rather highly with pepper, salt, and cayenne, add the white of the eggs whipped very stiff, which stu' in lightly; have a dozen and a half of small paper cases, fill each one three parts fuU, place them in a moderate oven, bake about twenty minutes; when done dress them upon a napkin on your dish, and serve very hot. No. 1356. Ramequins. Put a gill of water in a stewpan, to which add two ounces of Gruyere and the same quantity of Parmesan cheese (grated), two ounces of butter, a Httle cayenne pepper, and salt if required, set it upon the fire, and when boihng stir in two or three spoonfuls of flour; keep stirring over the fire until the paste becomes dryish and the bottom of the stewpan quite white, then add three or four eggs by degrees, until forming a paste like pate a choux (No. 1194), butter a baking-sheet well, and lay the paste out in pieces upon it with a tablespoon, making them long, and half the size of the bowl of the spoon; egg over, and lay a small piece of Gruyere cheese upon each, put them into the oven about twenty minutes before they are requii-ed; bake them a httle crisp, and serve very hot, dressed in pyramid upon a napkin. No. 1357. Petits Bamequins au feuilletage. Make half a pound of paste (No. 1132), which roU very thin, have ready some grated Parmesan and Gruyere cheeseSECOND COURSE. 583 mixed, thiw half a handful over the paste, which fold in tlii-ee roll it out to the same thickness again, cover agani mth cheese, proceeding thus until you have used the whole of the cheese (half a pound), then cut them into any shapes you like with pastry cutters, set on a wet baking-sheet, egg them over, bake a nice coloiu- in a moderate oven, dress m pyramid upon a napkin on a dish, and serve very hot. No. 1858. DiaUotins cm Gruyere. Put a gill of milk in a stewpan with two ounces of butter, when boiling stir in two spoonfuls of flour, keep stii-ring over the fire until the bottom of the stewpan is dry, then add four eggs by degrees, half a pound of Gruyere, and half a pound of grated Parmesan cheese; mix well in, season with pepper, salt, and cayenne rather highly, mould the paste into little balls with the forefinger against the side of the stewpan containing it, drop them into very hot lard; fry of a nice light brown, dress in pyramid upon a napkin, and serve very hot. No. 1359. Croquettes de Macaroni au Fromage. Put two quarts of water, with a little salt and a small piece of butter into a stewpan, and when boiling add half a pound of macaroni, which boil until tender, drain it upon a sieve, and when cold cut it into pieces a quarter of an inch in length, put them into a stewpan with half a pint of bechamel sauce, a little cayenne pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg; let simmer a few minutes until rather thick, stirring it gently occasionally, then add half a pound of grated Parmesan and Gruyere cheese (or good common cheese may be used), tm-n gently a few minutes longer over the fire, take it off, stu' in the yolks of four eggs quickly, stir another minute over the fire to set the eggs, and pom- out upon a dish until quite cold, then form it into olive-584 REMOVES, shaped pieces, rather larger than walnuts, or into pieces of the shape of pears, or into croquettes two inches long, the thickness of your finger; have tln-ee eggs weU beaten upon a plate, into which dip them, roU them over, then throw them into a dish of bread-crumbs, pat them gently with your knife, dip again into eggs and bread-crumbs, place them in a wire basket, and fry in very hot lard; di-ess them in pyramid upon a napkin, and serve very hot. If the preparation is well prepared, once bread-crumbing would be sufficient.APPENDIX. No. 1360. As^ic, Or Savoury Jelly, extracted from the succulence of meat, when well made, is very inviting at any season of the year, especially in the summer, besides being the principal orna- ment and garniture of those savoury dishes which reheve the monotony of the second com'se. The tediousness and expense of its preparation in the old-fashioned manner has often been the cause of its being omitted, which has also pre- vented gourmets from partaking of the second com^se, but where well served, its dehghtful flavour vdll restore, cleanse, and invigorate the palate, causing each guest to partake more freely of the savoury dishes, which will afford a zest to the delicate Lafitte or Chateau Margot, which flows so generously in the glasses of true epicures. By foRovdng closely my new receipt, I venture to say that any cook, with a Uttle experience, will produce an aspic fit for the table of a crowned head. Take two large knuckles of veal, which cut in large dice, having about six pounds of meat, well butter the bottom of a middling-sized stewpan, put in the meat, with one pound of lean ham and two calf's feet, cut up, breaking the bones, add half a gill of water, and place the stewpan over a sharp fire, stirring the meat round occasionally until the bottom of the stewpan is covered with a whitish glaze, then fill it up with five quarts of water, add three onions.586 APPENDIX. one small carrot, one turnip, half a head of celery, six peppercorns, one clove, half a blade of mace, a teaspoonful of salt, and a bmich of parsley, with which you have mixed two bay-leaves and a few sprigs of thyme, also two apples, peeled and cut in quarters; when boiling place it at the corner of the stove, let sunmer gently for three hours, skimming off every particle of fat, or it would interfere with the clarification; it should be reduced to about a half, pass it through a fine cloth into a basin, place a little in a mould upon ice to ascertain if sufficiently firm, if too firm add a little Hght broth, but if, on the contrary, too weak, reduce it until you have obtained the consistency of strong calf's-foot jelly, place the remainder in a stewpan upon the fire, taste if to your palate; have the whites of six eggs in a basin, with the shells, whisk them half a minute, add a giU of water or broth, two spoonfuls of tarragon vinegar, and a little salt, beat all together, have the stock boiling upon the fire, whisk round, pour in the eggs at once, and keep whisking a few minutes; set the stewpan at the comer A^^th the Hd on, upon which place some live charcoal, and let it remain five minutes, have a fine napkin, which tie in a square upon the top of your jelly-stand, through which pass it into a basin, pouring the first that runs through again into the napkin, when passed and set it is ready for use where di- rected. Should you require the aspic to partake of the flavour of fowl, twenty minutes before passing the stock, thrust a fowl just roasted into it, leaving it but a very short time. The same remark also applies to game of any description, should you require the aspic of such a flavour. To obtain aspic of a fine gold colom-, let your stock draw down to a pale yellowish glaze before filliug it up, or add a spoonful of brown gravy (No. 135); three very distinct co- lours may likewise be made of aspic, without introducing the colour-box of some celebrated artists, that is, leaving theAPPENDIX. 587 one nearly white, the other a gold colour, as above men- tioned, and the other quite a dark brown, adding more brown gravy and reducing it a httle, clarifying it sepa- rately and colouring before the clarification; place it m thi-ee separate saute-pans or flat moulds, which place upon ice, when set, ornament jom dishes tastefuUy, it wiU pro- duce an exceUent efi'ect, especiaUy in a large supper. Should you not succeed in clarifying it the first time, the operation must be again performed. No. 1361. Mayonnaise a la geUe. Put a quarter of a pint of melted aspic upon ice in a stewpan, which keep whisking until becoming a white froth, then add half a pint of salad-oil and six spoonfuls of tar- ragon vinegar, by degrees, first oil, and then vinegar, con- tinually whisking until it forms a white smooth sauce, to aU appearance like a cream; season with half a teaspoonful of salt, a quarter ditto of pepper, and a Uttle sugar, whisk it a little more, and it is ready to serve; it is usually dressed pyramidicaUy over the article it is served with. The advan- tage of this sauce (which is more dehcate than any other) is, that you may dress it to any height you like, and it will remain so for a long time; if the temperature is not too hot it win remain hours without melting or appearing greasy. No. 1362. Mayonnaise a la geUe aux fines herhes. Proceed precisely as in the last, but adding half a spoon- ful of fresh chopped parsley, haK a one of finely chopped eschalots, and one of finely chopped fresh tarragon and chervil. No. 1363. Mayonnaise a la gelee en Bavigote verte. Well pound two good handfuls of spinach in a mortar, and put it into a thick cloth over a dish, twist up the clothAPPENDIX. 5S8 as tight as possible, until you have extracted all the liquor, Avhich put into a stewpan, and place over the fire, the mo- ment it boils it will curdle, when pour it upon the back of a silk sieve, when cold take a spoonful of the green from off the sieve, which put into a basin with a good spoonful of chopped tarragon; have ready a good mayonnaise a la gelee (No. 1361), which put into the basin, mixing the whole lightly, but well together; it wiU be of a fine pistachio green colour, and is then ready for use where required. To make it red, use the spawn of lobster and omit the spinach. It requires to be extremely well seasoned. No. 1364. Mayonnaise ordinaire. Put the yolks of two fresh eggs in a basin, with the yolk of one hard-boiled one, rub through a hair sieve, add two saltspoonfuls of salt, and one of white pepper, stir round with the right hand with a wooden spoon, holding a bottle of salad-oil in the left, dropping it in by degrees, continually stirring, when becoming a little thickish, add a couple of spoonfuls of common vinegar, by degrees, still keeping it stirred, then more oil, proceeding thus untD you have used a pint of oil and fom* or five spoonfuls of vinegar, having, by constantly worldng it, formed a stiffish cream-looking sauce, perfectly smooth; this sauce being used for salads, requu-es to be rather highly seasoned, as it affords the seasoning for salad, volaille, &c. \ mayonnaise aux fines herbes, ditto en ravigote verte, are made as above, adding the herbs, or herbs and spinach as in the two preceding. Should the sauce curdle in making, the operation must be again commenced, putting the yolk of an egg in a basin, stirring in carefuHy a little oil and vinegar, and when forming a smoothish paste, stir in the cm-died sauce by degrees until the whole has become very smooth. Always choose a cool place to make it in.APPENDIX. 589 No. 1365. Mayonnaise a la Provengale. Prepare a sauce as described in the last, quite plain, bruise half a clove of a garlic to a pmee, which add to the sauce with twelve chopped olives, two of chopped gherkins, two of capers, and the fillets of a small anchovy cut in fine strips; this sauce may be used for any description of salad. There are many persons who, I am aware, have a great dis- like to garlic, but as there are a great many also very fond of it, 1 have here given it as a bo7i7ie boucJie. No. 1366. Montpellier Butter. Boil six eggs quite hard, when cold take out the yolks, which put into a mortar with foiu" anchovies well washed, two spoonfuls of capers, six gherkins, a little salt and pepper, a spoonful of tarragon and chervil, and one of parsley, pound all well together (adding the yolk of a raw egg) until it forms a stiffish paste; then add by degrees a pint of on (keep mixing with the pestle), moistening occasionally with vinegar, add a spoonful of the colouring from spinach prepared as (No. 1363), to give it a nice colour, rub it through a hair sieve into a basin, put it upon the ice, and when firm it is ready to use where directed; a quarter of the above only may be prepared if no more is required. No. 1367. Forcemeat for raised pies. Take three pounds of lean veal from the leg, which cut into very small dice, with one pound of fat bacon, put the whole into a middling-sized stewpan, with a quarter of a pound of butter, two bay-leaves, two sprigs of thyme, six of parsley, one blade of mace, twelve peppercorns, half an ounce of pepper, and the same of salt, pass it over a sharp fire until the bottom of the stewpan is covered vdth a white glaze, stirring the whole time ; then turn it upon a dish,590 APPENDIX. and when cold chop it very fine, taking out the mace and peppercorns, put it in a mortar and pound it well; add two pounds of sausage-meat, pound and mix the whole well together, then add six eggs and a Httle cold white sauce, when well mixed it is ready for use where dii-ected. No. 1368. Forcemeat of Liver for game pies. Procure a very nice calf's Uver, which lay in water a short time to disgorge, then cut it up in small dice, with a pound of lean veal and one of fat bacon, put the whole in a stewpan with a quarter of a pound of butter, an ounce of pepper, the same of salt, rather less than a quarter of an ounce of mixed spice, two bay-leaves, and a httle thyme and parsley, pass ten minutes over a sharp fire, keeping it stirred; then lay it upon a dish until cold, when put it into a mortar and pound well, when fine add one pound of pork sausage-meat, with six eggs and a little brown sauce, mix the whole weU together, rub it through a wire sieve with a wooden spoon, and use where du'ected. No. 1369. Sponge-cake. Put one pound of powdered sugar in a good-sized bowl, which stand in a bain marie of hot water; sift one pound of flour upon a sheet of paper, then break twelve eggs into the bowl vsdth the sugar, which whisk rather quicldy until they become a little warm and rather thickish, when take the bowl from the bain marie, and continue whisking until nearly or quite cold, when add the chopped rind of a lemon and the flour, which mix lightly with a wooden spoon ; have ready your mould or baking-dish lightly but- tered, into which you have put a httle flom', knocking out all that does not adhere to the butter, pom* in the mktm-e and place it one hour in a moderate oven, it may requue longer or not so long, but that will depend entirely uponAPPENDIX. 501 the compass you have it in ; if done it will feel firm to the touch, but the surest method is to run a thin wooden skewer into the centre, if it comes out clean the cake is done, but if not some of the mixture would adhere to it; cai-e should be taken not to disturb it until quite set, or it would sink in the centre, and never properly bake; when done tm-n it out upon a sieve to cool. As the above is for cutting, and many of my new removes are made from it, it had better be overdone than not done enough. No. 1370. Savoy Cahe in mould. Have ready a large high mould hghtly buttered, (with a soft brush, and clarified butter,) turn the mould up to drain, and when the butter is quite set thi'ow some finely sifted sugar mto it; move the mould round until the sugar has adhered to every part, after which turn out the superfluous sugar, tie a band of buttered paper round at the top, and place it in a cool place until the mixtm*e is ready. Place the yolks of fourteen eggs in a basin with one pound of sugar (upon which you have rubbed the rind of two lemons previous to pounding), beat weU together with a wooden spoon until nearly white, then whip the whites of the eggs very stifi", add them to the yollis and sugar, with six ounces of flour and six ounces of potato- flom', mix the whole lightly, but well together, and fill the mould rather more than three parts fuU, place it in a very moderate oven one hour, keeping the oven door shut; then try when done as directed in the last, if done take ofi" the paper and turn it out upon a sieve until quite cold. The above mixture being more dehcate than the last, would not do so well for removes, but may be used for that pm-pose by being made three or four days before it is required.592 APPENDIX. No. 1371. Savoy Biscuits. Have the weight of nine eggs of sugar in a bowl, which put into a bain marie of hot water, weigh the same weight of flour, which sift through a wire sieve upon paper, break the eggs into a bowl, and proceed as directed for sponge-cake; then with a paper funnel or bag, with a tin pipe made for that purpose, lay it out upon papers into biscuits three inches in length, and the thiclaiess of your little finger, sift sugar over, shaking off aU that does not adhere to them; place them upon baking-sheets and bake in rather a warm oven of a brownish yellow colom-, when done and cold detach them from the paper by wetting it at the back, place them a short time to dry, and they are ready for use for charlotte russe, or wherever dkected. No. 1372. To clarify Isinglass. Put a quarter of a pound of isinglass in a small stew- pan, just cover it with a little clear spring water, and add a piece of lump sugar the size of a walnut, place it upon the fire, shaking the stewpan round occasionally to prevent its sticking to the bottom; when upon the point of simmer- ing add the juice of half a lemon, let simmer about a quar- ter of an horn-, skim and pass it through a fine cloth; if the isinglass is good it will be as clear as crystal, but if it should be a little clouded (which it might be, and yet the isuiglass tolerably good) clarify it again thus : pom- it into a larger stewpan adding half a gill of water, place it upon the fire, and when on the point of boihng have the white of an egg in a basin, whip well with half a gill of water, pour it into the isinglass, which keep whisking over the fire until boiling, when place it at the corner of the stove, and let re- duce to its former consistency, it will keep good some few days if kept in a cool place; if required for cremes or ba-APPENDIX. 593 varoises it will not requii'c clarifying, but merely dissolving as at first directed. No. 1373. Glace Boy ale or Iceing. Have ready a pound of the best white sugar, which pound well and sift through a silk sieve, put it into a basin with the whites of three fresh eggs, beat well together with a wooden spoon, adding the juice of half a lemon, keep beating well imtd it becomes very hght and hangs in flakes from the spoon (if it should be rather too stifi" in mixing, add a httle more white of egg, if, on the contrary, too soft, a httle more sugar), it is then ready for use where required. No. 1374. Chocolate Iceing Is made similar to the last, but when finished have ready a piece of the common chocolate, which melt in a stewpan over the fire, keeping it stii'red; when quite melted stir some of it in with the iceing until you have obtained the colom' required, moistening the iceing with a little more white of egg, and use where directed. No. 1375. Sugar in grains Is made by pounding a quantity of sugar in a mortar, and sifting off all the fine thi'ough a hair sieve, then again what remains in the sieve put into a rather coarse vvdre sieve, and that which passes through is what is meant by the above term. No. 1376. To colour sugar in grains. Prepare about half a pound of the sugar as in the last, which put upon a baking-sheet; have a spoonful of the essence of spinach prepared as (No. 1244), which stir in with the sugar until every grain is stained, when put them 38APPENDIX. 594 in a warmish place to dry, but not too hot; to colour them red, use a little prepared cochineal or liquid carmine, in- stead of the spinach, and proceed exactly the same ; sugar may be made of other colours by the use of indigo, rouge, saffron, &c.; but not being partial to such a variety of co- louring, I have merely given the red and the green, which, with the white, I consider to be sufficient for any of the purposes for which they are used. No. 1377. Vanilla Sugar, Chop a stick of well-frosted vanilla very small, and put it into a mortar with haK a pound of lump sugar, pound the whole well together in a mortar, sift through a hair sieve, and put by in a bottle or jar, corkmg it up tight, and using where required. No. 1378. Lemon Sugar. Rub the rind of some fresh lemons upon a large piece of sugar, and as it discolom-s the part upon which it is rubbed scrape it off with a knife; when you have obtained a suf- ficient quantity, diy ahttle in the screen, and bottle for use where required. Orange sugar may be made in the same manner, substituting very red oranges for the lemons. No. 1379. To clarify and boil Sugar. Break three pounds of fine white sugar, the hardest and closest grained is the best, put it into a sugar-pan with tln:ee pints of clear spring water, set over a sharp fire, and when beginning to boil place it at the corner to simmer, and squeeze in the juice of half a lemon, skim well and re- duce to two thirds, it is then ready to use for jelhes, &c. If not able to obtain the best quality sugar it would be necessary to use white of eggs as an assistance in the cla- rification, by putting the white of one egg in a basin and595 APPENDIX. whipping it well with a pint of cold water, add half of it to the sugar, whipping it well in, let simmer, adding the re- mainder by degrees whilst simmering, and passing it tln-ough a fine cloth into a basin. The boiling of sugar is divided into seven different degrees, which may be ascertained by the following directions :— The first degree is known by dipping a copper skimmer into it whilst boihng, turning it over two or three times, if the sugar falls from it in sheets it has attained the first degree. The second is knovra by boiling yom' sugar rather longer, dipping yom' finger and thumb into cold water, then your finger into the boUing sugar, putting yom* finger and thumb together^ and again opening them, it will form a kind of thread; if it is too weak boil a little longer, this is the most useful degree for fruit or water ices. The thu'd degree is attained by boiling it a little longer, and trying it in the same manner, upon the thread break- ing, should it form a kind of pearl, it has attained the above degree; the sugar in boiling would also be covered with a quantity of small bubbles resembling pearls. The next degree is attained by boUing it still longer, dip a skimmer into it, tmm, take out and blow it hard, when the sugar will form little bladders and float in the air, this degree is called the souffle. Por the next degree boil stiU longer, trying it in the'' same manner, but blowing harder, the bladders will be larger and adhere together, forming feathers; this degree is called la plume, or the feather. The next is called au petite casee, and is obtained by boiling the sugar a little longer, to know this degree have a pint of cold water in a basin into which you have put a piece of ice, dip you finger into it, then into the boiling sugar, and then into the water again, take the piece which596 APPENDIX. adheres to the finger and bite, if rather crisp, but sticking to the teeth, it has attained that degree. The seventh and last requires great attention, to attain it boil rather longer, dip yom- finger in as before, if it cracks and does not at all adhere to the teeth in biting it is done, take from the fire and it is ready for use for making any kind of sugar ornament. When intended for such purposes, however, add a little tartaric acid when it arrives to the degree la plume, and pour it into a smaller sugar-pan, allowing it to reach the rims, it voll be then imable to bm-n round the sides as if in a larger pan; if such a thing should, however, happen in a larger pan, wipe the interior of the pan round with a sponge previously dipped in cold water, or it would discolom- the sugar. Ornaments of spun sugar I have a very great dishke to for a dinner, but if requu-ed, the sugar must be boiled to the last degree. Should the sugar grain it maybe brought back by adding more water, and when dissolved, boiling over again; in spinning sugar you must keep the bulk of it in a warm temperature, having a little in a smaller pan for use, which keep in a melted stately placing it in a bain marie of hot water or in a hot closet. No. 1380. Sucre file. Having boiled your sugar to the seventh degree, as in the last, oil the handle of a wooden spoon, tie two forks together, the prongs turned outwards, dip them hghtly into the sugar, take out and shake them to and fro, the sugar running from them over the spoon forming fine silken threads, proceeding thus untH you have as much as you require, take it from the spoon and form itmth yom' hands into whatever may be dkected for the garnishmg of any dish not, however, too thick, or it would look heavy. AnAPPENDIX. 597 experienced hand would prefer doing it from^the lip of the sugar-pan. Other lands of ornaments from sugar are made in a similar manner by oiling a mould or shape and running fillets of the sugar from the lip of the pan over it as taste- fully as possible, but as I have not referred to it in this work I will not enter into its details. No. 1381. Vanilla Cream Ice. Put the yolks of twelve eggs in a stewpan, with half a pound of sugar, beat well together with a wooden spoon, in another stewpan have a quart of milk and when boihng tln^ow in two sticks of vanilla, draw it from the fire, place on the hd and let remain until partly cold, pour it over the eggs and sugar in the other stewpan, mix well, and place it over the fii^e (keeping it stirred) until it thickens and adlieres to the back of the spoon, when pass it through a tammie into a basin, let remain until cold, then have ready a pewter freezing-pot in an ice-pail well smTounded with ice and salt ;* put the above preparation into it, place on the lid, which must fit rather tightly, and commence twisting the pot round sharply, keeping it turned for about ten minutes, when take off" the hd and with your spatula clear the sides of the interior of the pot, place the lid on again, turn the pot ten minutes longer, when again clear the sides and beat the whole well together until smooth, it being then about half frozen, then add fom* glasses of noyeau or maresquino and a pint and a half of cream well whipped, beat the whole * To freeze quickly any description of ice the freezing-pot must be well set, place it in the centre of the pail, wluch must be large enough to give a space of four inches aU round, break twelve pounds of ice up small, wliich put roimd at the bottom six inches in depth, over which put two pounds of salt, beat do\vn tiglit with a roUiiig-pin, then more ice, then salt, proceeding thus until withui three inches of the top of your freezing-pot, saltpetre mkcd with the salt will faciUlalc it in freezing.APPENDIX. 598 well together, place the lid upon the top, keep tAvistmg it round a quarter of an hour, clear well from the sides, beat again well together, proceeding thus until the whole is frozen into a stiff but smooth and mellow substance, should you require to keep it sometime before serving, pom- the water which has run from the ice out of the pail and add fresh ice and salt; when ready to serve work it up smoothly with your spatula. No. 1383. Coffee Cream Ice. Proceed exactly as in the last but omitting the noyeau or maresquino, and making an infusion with coffee as directed (No. 1253) instead of vanilla. No. 1383. Chocolate Cream Ice Is made similar to the vaniha cream ice, but omitting the vaniUa and liqueur, in the room of which scrape a quarter of a pound of chocolate, place it in a stewpan over the fire and keep stirring until melted, then have ready boiling a quart of millc, which mix with the chocolate by degrees, finish with eggs and sugar, and freeze as before. No. 1384. Pineapple Cream Ice. Procure a rather small pineapple, take off the rind which reserve, and cut the apple into pieces an inch m length and about the thickness of a quill, place them in a sugar-pan, with half a pound of sugar and half a pint of water, set it upon the fire and reduce to a rather thickish syrup, have ready a pint and a half of mill?: upon the fii'c, into which when boiling throw the rind of the pineapple, cover it over and let infuse ten minutes, in another stewpan have the yolks of twelve eggs, to which add the milk by degrees, (previously straining it,) place over the fii'c, keeping itAPPENDIX. B99 stirred until adhering to the back of the spoon, when pass it through a tammie into a basin, add the syrup and pine- apple, and freeze it as in the last, adding a pint and a half of whipped cream; when half frozen use where directed. No. 1385. Lemon Cream Ice. Take the rind from six lemons as thin as possible and free from pith, squeeze the juice of the lemons into a sugar-pan, with half a pound of sugar and half a pint of Avater, place it upon the fire and reduce until rather a thickish syrup, have a pint and a haK of milk upon the fire into which when boiUug throw the rind of the lemons, cover over and let remain until half cold, in another stew- pan have the yolks of twelve eggs, (to which you have added an ounce of sugar), with which mix the milk by degrees, and stir over the fire till it adlieres to the back of the spoon, when stir in the syrup and pass it through a tammie; when cold freeze as directed (No. 1381) adding a pint of whipped cream when haK fr'ozen. No. 1386. Orange Cream Ice. Proceed precisely as in the last, but using the juice and rind of ten oranges instead of lemons as there directed. No. 1387. Apricot Cream Ice. Procure a dozen and a haK of fine ripe apricots, which cut in halves, take out the stones, which break, extracting the kernels, which blanch in very hot water and skin, then put them with the apricots into a sugar-pan, with half a pound of sugar and half a glassful of water, let them boil until almost forming a marmalade, when put them by in a basin, have the yolks of twelve eggs in a stew]jan, with which mix by degrees a pint and a haK of miUc, set over the fire, keeping it stirred until^hick enough to adhere to600 APPENDIX. the back of the spoon, when pass it through a tammie into a basin, add the syrup and apricots, and when cold three glasses of noyeau, freeze as in (No. 1381), and when half frozen add a pint of good whipped cream. No. 1388. Strawberry Cream Ice. Procure about two pounds of fine ripe strawberries, wliich pick and rub through a hair sieve with a wooden spoon, obtaining aU the juice and pulp of the strawberries, mth which mix half a pound of powdered sugar and put it by in a basin, in a stewpan have the yollcs of twelve eggs, vrith which mix by degrees a pint and a half of milk, stir over the fire untH it becomes thickish, adhering to the back of the spoon, when pass it through a tammie, and when cold add the juice from the strawberries and three glasses of maresquino, freeze it as directed (No. 1381), adding a pint of whipped cream when half frozen and sufficiently prepared; cochineal to give it a strawberry colour if ap- proved of. No. 1389. Apple Marmalade. Peel and cut thirty apples in shces, taking out the cores, and if for preserving to every pound of fruit put three quarters of a pound of broken sugar, (but if for immediate use half a pound would be quite sufficient,) place the whole into a large preserving-pan, vdth half a spoonful of powdered cinnamon and the rind of a lemon chopped very fine, set the pan over a sharp fire, stirring it occasionally until boiling, when keep stirring until becoming rather thick, it is then done; if for immediate use a smaller quan- tity would be sufficient, which put by in a basin until cold, but if to keep any time put it in jars, which cover over with paper, and tie down until wanted.APPENDIX. 301 No. 1B90. Apricot Marmalade. Stone about eight pounds of ripe fleshy apricots, break the stones, and blanch and skin the kernels, which with the apricots put into a preserving-pan, add six pounds of sugar and place it over a sharp fire, stirring occasionally until boihng, when keep stirring until becoming rather thick, take it off, put it in jars, and when cold tie paper over, and put by until ready for use. No. 1391. Quince Marmalade. Procure a sieve of fine ripe quinces, which peel and cut in four, taking out the cores, place them in a large pre- serving-pan and cover with cold water; set upon the fire, and when boiling and tender to the touch, place them in a large sieve to drain one hour, pass them through a tammie, then have ready a corresponding weight of sugar boiled to the sixth degree (No. 1379) in the preserving- pan, to which add the puree of quinces, keep stirring over the fire tfll forming thin sheets, drop a little upon the cover of a stevqoan, if it sets quickly take it from the fire, put it in small jars, and let remain a day until quite cold, wheu tie them down, and put by until wanted. No. 1392. Apricot Marmalade {transparent). Procm-e a quantity of very ripe apricots, each of which cut into four or six pieces, break the stones andblanch the kernels, put the apricots in a preserving-pan with a small quantity of water, boil them until quite tender, when pass them tlu-ough a sieve; to every pound of fruit have three quarters of a pound of sugar (in a preserving-pan) boiled to the sixth degree (No. 1379), add the apricots with their kernels, and keep stii-ring over the fire until forming thin transparent sheets, try when done as in the last, and put away in pots.602 APPENDIX. The marmalade would be still more transparent if you were to peel the apricots first, but then you Avould lose some of then' delicious flavour. No. 1393. Cherry Marmalade. Procure a sieve of bright Kentish cherries, pull out the stallcs and stones, and put the fruit in a preserving-pan, place over the fire, keeping it stirred until reduced to two thirds, have in another preserving-pan, to every pound of fruit, half a pound of sugar boiled to the sixth degree ^No. 1379), into which pour the fruit when boihng hot, let reduce, keep stirring until you can just see the bottom of the pan, when take it from the fire, and fiU your jars as before. A plainer way is to take off the stalks and stone the fruit, place them in a pan over a sharp fire, and to every pound of fruit add nearly half a pound of sugar, keep stir- ring until reduced as above, and let it get partly cold in the pan before fiUing the jars. No. 1394. Strawberry Marmalade. Pick twelve pounds of very red ripe strawberries, which put into a preserving-pan with ten pounds of sugar (broken into smallish pieces), place over a sharp fire, keep con- tinually stuTing, boihng it until the surface is covered mth clearish bubbles, try a little upon a cover, if it sets, fill the jars as before. No. 1395. Basj)berry Marmalade. Pick twelve pounds of raspberries and pass them through a fine sieve to extract the seeds, boil as many pounds of sugar as you had pounds of fruit to the sixth degree (No. 1379), when add the pulp of the fruit, keep stn-rmg over the fire, reducing it untH you can just see the bottom of the pan, take it from the fii'e, and put it into jars as before.APPENDIX. 603 No. 1396. Apple Jelly. Cut six dozen of sound rennet apples in quarters, take out all the pips, put tliem into a sugar-pan, just cover tliem with cold water, and place over the fire, let boil until the apples become quite pulpy, when drain them upon a sieve, catching the liquor in a basin, which afterwards pass thi'ough a new and very clean jelly-bag ; to every pint of Hquor have one pound of sugar, which boil to the sixth degree as di- rected (No. 1379), when, whilst hot, mix in the hquor from the apple Avith a very clean skimmer, to prevent it boihng over keep it skimmed, lift the sldmmer occasionally fi-om the pan, and when the jelly falls from it iii thin sheets, take it up and fill the pots as before; the smaller pots are the best adapted for jellies. No. 1397. Quince Jelly. Proceed exactly as du'ected in the last, but using quinces instead of apples. No. 1398. Currant and Raspberry Jelly. Put half a sieve of fine red currants in a large stewpan with a gallon of white cm-rants and a gallon of raspberries, add a quart of water, place over the fire, keep stming, to prevent them sticking to the bottom, and let boil about ten minutes, pour them into a sieve to drain, catching the juice in a basin and draining the currants quite dry, pass the juice whilst hot through a clean jelly-bag, have a pound of sugar to every pint of juice, and proceed precisely as directed for apple jeUy. Should you have time to pick the cm-rants from the stalks previous to boiling, you would lose that bitter flavour, and have less difficulty in making your jelly clear.APPENDIX. 604 No. 1399. emrant Jelly Is made precisely as in the last, omitting the raspberries, the difference being in the use; the last being adapted for the garnishing of pastry, and this to use for sauces, or to serve with hares, venison, or any other meat, w^here required. A more simple method of making emrant jelly is to rub the fruit through a sieve, and afterv^ards squeeze it through a fine linen cloth, put it into a preserving-pan with to every pint of juice (three quarters of a pound of white sugar; place over a sharp fire, stirring occasionally M'itli a skimmer, keeping it well skimmed; it is done when dropping in sheets as before from the skimmer. For my mrxs. part, I prefer this last simple method, being quicker done, and re- taining more of the full freshness of the fruit. It is not my intention to give a description of the various methods of preserving fruits which belong to the confec- tionary department; I have however given the few foregoing receipts, they being required for reference from various parts of this work, and being all that are requned for the garnishing of dishes for the second course; various other fruits may, however, be made into marmalades and jelhes by following those few simple directions. No. 1400. To preserve Tomatas. Procure six half sieves of fine red ripe tomatas, pull out the stalks, squeeze out the seeds, and throw the tomatas into a middling-sized stock-pot or large stewpan, add two carrots (cut in thin slices), ten onions (do.), a head of celery, ten sprigs of thyme, ten do. of parsley, six bay-leaves, six cloves of garlic, fom- blades of mace, ten cloves, ten pepper- corns, and a handfid of salt; place upon the fire, move them occasionally from the bottom, and let boil threeAPPENDIX. 605 quarters of an hour; then line a couple of large sieves with cloths, into which put them to drain, (not too dry,) throw the hquor that runs from them away, rub them thi'ough a wire sieve, and afterwards through tammies, then put them into a stewpan, season with a teaspoonful of cayenne and a httle more salt, place upon the fire, and stir until boihng, take from the fire, and when about three parts cold, put into strong glass bottles* (do not fill them too fall), cork them down, tightly securing the corks with wire or string, place them in a vegetable steamer, and steam them well for half an hour (or if no steamer, have a large fish-kettle of water simmering, in which stand the bottles, with their necks just out of the water) take them out, and when cold dip the tops into melted pitch and rosin, then into cold water, and put by untU required. * For this purpose I can recommend the stone bottles and apparatus for preserving fraits invented by Mr. James Cooper, of No. 7, St. John-street, Clerkenwell; I have used them upon several occasions and for different de- scriptions of fruit, and have never met with any system that so well preserved the freshness of the fruit, or which is more simple ia its operation. END OF EECEIPTS POB THE TABtE OF THE WEAiTHY.606 SERVICE PAGODATIQUE. My new pagodatique dishes, which have been pronounced by persons of taste who have seen them (and more so by those who have partaken of their contents) to be most novel, useful, and elegant, a service of them forming quite a new coup d'oeil, and giving the greatest variation to small recherche dinners. Having invented them only last year, and having then this work in progress, caused me to refrain from giving them any great publicity previous to this pubhcation; and the only service ever used was by me at the Reform Club, where they met with complete success, A minute description of the origin, utility, and construction will be found at the end of this work, with correct engravings, representing it both with and without the cover; so I shall here content myself by giving a bill of fare of a dinner served in them, to grace the table of the wealthy, as represented in the following engraving. They being entnely devoted for entrees, four of them make a service, and in very large dinners may be always introduced as corner dishes. In the following biU of fare I have given two entrees, containing four sauces each, and the others with only two, being the manner in which I have frequently served them, each brown entree must be hghtly glazed, dressed elegantly in the centre, not covering too large a space, and just sufficient clear gravy to cover the bottom of your dish, whilst the white entrees would require a little thin white sauce; some entrees, again, which require to be dipped in white or brown sauce would have sufficient run from them to cover the bottom of the dish.607 mil of favt DINBK POUR DIX PERSONNES. Potage a la Victoria. Potage a la Pi-ince of M^ales. Deux Poissons. Petit TiU'bot eu matelote Truites de riviere a la creme. 0 o o ^C3 4^ Deux Heleves. Quartier d'Agneaii de Maisou roti. Petites Poiuardes eu Diademe. QuATiiE Entrees Pagodatique. Petites Cotelettes de Moutou au naturel, les quatres saucieres garnies des sauces et garnitures suivantes, Semoularle Uanclie au Jus d'EcImloie a la Reforme. a la Palesiine. Eis d'Agneau Pique auxjiointes d'Asperges. aux Concomhres. Quenelles de Pluviers au Velonte de GiUer a la Financicre. a la Ferigueux aux champignons. aupis d'Orange. PHets de Canetons aux petits pais. Deux Eotis. Les Cailles aux feiullcs de vig-nes. Jeunes Dindouneaux aux cressons. m tr+- c-t- P' >—* su Hd o I SB o Six Enteemets. La Gelee de Emit demi chaud froid marbre. Asperges a la Hollaudaise. Maniveau de Champignons eu surprise a la creme. Deux Releves, Petites CoquiUes aux huitres. Galantiae de Poussiu a la VoUere. Charlotte do Eraiscs au uoyeau. Gateau Britaniiique a rAmiral. Croquettes de Macaroni au fromage de Stilton.608 DINER LUCULLUSIAN A LA SAMPAYO. I BEG to present to my Readers a copy of tlie Bill-of-fare of the most reclierclie dinner I ever dressed, wliich the hberal- ity and epicurean taste of the gentleman who gave it, to a select party of connoisem's, enabled me to procure; he wish- ing me to get him a first-rate dinner, and spare no expense in procuring the most novel, luxurious, and rare edi- bles to be obtained at this extravagant season of the year; I, therefore, much to his satisfaction, placed before him and his guests the following: (see p. 609). I had also proposed the following dish to the party, which was accepted, but which I was unable to obtain from Paris on account of a change in the weather preventing their arrival, the articles being two dozen of ortolans; hav- ing already prociured twelve of the largest and finest truffies I could obtain, it was my intention to have dug a hole in each, into which I should have placed one of the birds, and covered each with a piece of lamb's or calf's caul, then to have braised them half an hour in good stock made fi'om fowl and veal, with half a pint of Lachryma Christi added; then to have drained them upon a cloth, placed a border of poached forcemeat upon the dish, built the truffles in pyra- mid, made a pm^ee with the truffle dug from the interior, using the stock reduced to a demi-glace and poured over, roasted the twelve remaining ortolans before a sharp fire, with which I should have garnished the whole round, and served very hot.609 REFORM CLUB. 9 Mai, 1846. Diner pour 10 Personnes, Saumon de Severne a la Mazarin. Potage a la Cotnte de Paris. Do. a la puree d'Asperges. Deux Poissons. Deux Releves. Rougets gratiiits a la Montesquieu. Le Chapon farci de Foie gras a la Nelson. Saddleback d'Agneau de Maison a la Sevigne. Quatre Hors-d'ojuvres a la Franyaise. Les Olives farcies. Then marine a I'ltaUenne. Salade d'Anchois historiee. Sardines a I'Huile de Noisette. ,^ g -11 S PL, PS > ID bo u O C3 Quatre Entrees. Saute de Filets de VolaiUe a I'Ambassadrice. Petites Croustades de Beurre aux Laitances de Maquereaux. Cotelettes de Mouton Galloise a la Reforme. Turban de Ris de Veau puree de Concombres. Deux Rots. Les DotreUes aux FeuiUes de Vignes. Le Buisson d'Ecrevisse Pagodatique, au Vin de Champagne a la Sampayo. La Gelee de Dantzic aux fruits Printaniers. Les petits Pois nouveaux a i'Anglo-Francais. Les grosses Truffes a I'essence de Madere. Les Croquantes d'Amandes pralinees aux Abricots. Le Miroton de Homard aux ffiufs de Pluviers. La Creme mousseuse au Curafao. i ° CO CO CO ^ to O re to 5' re re -4 Deux Releves. La Hure de Sanglier demi-glacee, garnie de Champignons en surprise. Les Diablotins au fromage de Windsor.610 DINER LUCTJLLUSIAN. [Note. Tlic tradespeople received tlieii- orders a week previous to the dinner. Tlic finest nrallcts I ever saw, as well as tlie Severn salmon, were obtained at Grove's, in Bond Street; the remainder of the fish was from Jay's, Hunger- ford Mai-ket. At seven o'elock the live Severn salmon was brought to me, it having just arrived dii-ect from Gloucester, and was boiled innncdiately, being just ten nunutes before the dinner was placed upon the table, and was eaten in its greatest possible perfection. The iinest of the poultry came from Bailey's, Davis Street, Grosvenor Square, and Townsend's, Charles Street, Haymarket. The foies gras and some very fine ft-esh Pi-ench truffles came from Morel's; the hors-d'-ceuvres, from Edges and Butler's, Regent Street. Tlie saddleback of lamb came from Newland's, Air Street, Piccadilly, the Welsh mutton from Slater's, and the young green peas and a very expensive dessert came from Solomon's, Covent Garden. My being so minute in mentioning the name of the above tradespeople is not to advertise their fame in their different specialities, as that I believe they have already acquired, but merely to prove the trouble a real gom-met vsdU take to furnish his table, Mr. S. haviag called many times upon several of them himself, previous to this pai'ty taJdng place, to ascertaiir what his dinner was to be composed of. The most expensive dishes were the mullets, the salmon, poulardes a la Nelson, and, above aU, the crawfish which, when dressed, cost upwards of seven guineas.]Gil DIALOGUE CULINAIRE Entre Lord M. H. et A. Soyer. 8. Vous avez paifaitement raison, Mylord; le titre de gourmet n'appartient qu'a celui qui mange avec art, avec science, avec ordre, et meme avec beaucoup d'ordre. Lord M. Le gourmand n'est jamais gourmet; Tun mange sans deguster, I'autre deguste en mangeant. S. L'homme fier et hautain, Mylord, s'occupe de son diner par besoin; l'homme du monde, epicure profond, s'en occupe avec plaisir. Lord M. II est certain que Ton ne- saurait donner trop d'attention a la rigide execution et a I'ordre intelligent d'un diner. Le diner etant de chaque jour, de chaque saison, de chaque siecle, est non seulement la seule mode hereditaire, mais aussi 1 ame de la sociabilite; lisez I'histoire, et vous y verrez que de tons les temps, et chez tons les peuples, lebien qui s'est fait, et quelquefois le mal, fut toujom-s precede ou suivi d'un copieux diner. 8. Rien, n'est plus vrai, Mylord, que de tons les plaisirs de la vie qui nous sont legues en ce monde, celui de la table est le seul auquel les renes du char de la vie n'echappent qu'a regret; et souvent, en ami fidele, ne les lache qu'aux abords du tombeau; tandis que tons les autres s'epa- nouissent frivolement, comme a la suite d'un beau prin- temps, et, en nous delaissant, couvrent nos fronts radieux du givre des ans. Lord M. II est positif que deguster est une faculte de tout age; un vieillard de cent six ans, que j'ai beaucoup connu, degustait parfaitement alors. S. Nos cent degustateurs demaudent de continuelles etudes, et reclament, sans cesse, un continuel changement.612 DIALOGUE CULINAIRE. Lord M. Le plus bel esprit manquerait d'eloquence s'il negligeait par trop I'ordre de ses repas. S. C'est ce qui nous prouve, Mylord, que nos plus agreables sensations dependent non seulenient de la nature, mais aussi du soin que nous donnons a notre personne. Lord M. Oui, car plus Tame est sensible, plus la degus- tation est feconde. Les sensations degustatives operent avec autant d'activite sur le palais que le charme de la melodie le fait sur I'ouie; par exemple, I'liomme dans un cas de folie, pent bien eprouver le besoin de manger, mais Taction encbanteresse de la degustation lui est aussi interdite que la raison. 8. Votre argument sur ce point est extremement juste, Mylord. N'etes-vous pas aussi de mon avis, que rien ne dispose mieux I'esprit humain a des transactions amicales, qu'un diner bien con^u et artistement prepare. Lord M. C'est ce qui m'a toujom's fait dire qu'un bon cuisinier est aussi utile qu'un savant conseiUer. 8. Je me suis toujours aper^u, Mylord, que le palais le plus fin etait le plus difficile a plaire, mais aussi le plus juste a recompenser. Lord M. Le cboix des vins est de haute importance dans I'ordre d'un diner; un vin fin, leger et genereux protege le cuisinier et devient le bienfaitem- du convive. 8. Permettez-moi de vous faire observer, Mylord, quune reunion gastronomique sans dames est a mes yeux un par- terre sans flem-s, I'ocean sans flots, une flotte maritime sans voiles. Lord M. Certes, de telles reunions sont le berceau des bonnes moem-s et de la jovialite, comme la debauclie est le tombeau de la moralite. Eefobm Club, May 14,184.6.I « •DESCRIPTION OP THE KITCHEN OF THE REFORM CLUB AND SIMPLK GUIDE FOR FITTING UP THE KITCHENS OF THE WEALTHY, INTRODUCTION. The unexpected success my new plan has met with for the building of kitchens since the opening of the Reform Club, 'induced me a few years ago to pubhsh a sectional plan of it on a large scale, which I am happy to say was very successful, and met with the approbation of all scientific men, and of the higher classes of society, having received instructions since that time to contrive and arrange nu- merous noblemen's and gentlemen's kitchens, by adapting many of my new and simple discoveries to any shaped kitchen with the greatest facihties, at a very moderate ex- pense ; I therefore beg to present my readers with the re- duced scale of the plan, as well as the correct measurement and size of all the apparatus. I have not the slightest hesi- tation in stating that, by the simple arrangements which I am about to submit, any kitchen, large or small, would be easily benefited and improved; it may also be always kept clean without much labour, the work more carefully done, and the appetite (my intimate fiiend) wiH become the keener. My motto has always been " cleanHness is the soul of the kitchen."REFERENCE TO THE PLAN OF THE KITCHEN DEPARTMENT OF THE REFORM CLUB. A. La Boucherie, in which all Joints are - trimmed for cooking. B. The Meat and Game Larder. 1. Table for provisions which are ready for dressing. 2. Slate dresser, with ice drawers and pickling tubs underneath. 3. Slate well for soaking hams. 4. Slate dresser,similar to the preceding, hut larger. 5. Vegetable boxes. 6. Slab for opening oysters. The frame for hanging meat, game, &c. is suspended from the ceiling. C. The Cold Meat and Sauce Larder. 1. The safe. 2. Slate slab to deposit cold stocks, sauces, &c., and shelves. D. The Pastry and Confectionery. 1. Marble slab. 2. Mortar. 3.3. Dressers for dishing up the second course, and depositing pastry and confectionery, under which are hot and cold drawers, lined with tin, and having a steam-pipe pass- ing behind, which slightly warms them ; these di-awers are for keep- ing either moist or dry whatever may require to be so kept. Above each dresser are closets. E. Office du Chef de Cuisine. F. Passage. 1. Fish slab. 2. Lai-ge shelf to deposit sauces, &c., for cooling. 3. Hour shelf. G. Open Yard. H. Lift, to hoist Coals to the Dormitory De- partment. L Passage. J. Kitchen Maids' Dining Room. K. Roasting Kitchen. 1. Low French charcoal stove. 2. Stove. 3. Oven for gratins, souffles, &c. 4. Steam closet. 5. Fire-place. 6. Screen, with hot closets. 7. Large pastry oven. 8. French charcoal stove for vegetables. 9. Hot delivery window for joints and vegetables. 10. Mortar. 11. Rack for the spits. 12. Dresser. 13. Iron rails for moulds and coppers. L. The Vegetable Kitchen. 1. Table to dish up vegetables. 2. Dresser, with steam-pans for cooking vegetables. 3. Sink for washing vegetables. 4. Draining dresser. 5. Dresser to deposit clean crockery. 6. Two sinks for washing plates and dishes, provided with bell-traps to prevent smell. Above is the plate- rack. 7. DeUvery window for crockery. M. The Scouring Scullery. 1. Two sinks for washing coppers. 2. Scouring table. 3. Dresser and draining board. 4. Steam-boiler. 5. Large coal-box. N. The Butler's Pantry. 0. The Butler's Room. P. Fire-proof Plate Closet. Q. Passage. R. Lift, to convey Dinners to the Coffee Room. S. Staircase. T. The principal Kitchen. 1. Table. 2. Hot closet. 3. Fire-place. 4. Screen and closets, as in the roasting kitchen. 5. Sideboard for silver dishes. 6. Dresser,andshelvesforcovers,moulds, &c. 7. L0W French charcoal stoveforlargefish. 8. Broiling stoves. 9. A bain marie. 10. Hot closet, to deposit fish, chops, &c., if required to wait. 11. Delivery window for entrees. 12. Kitchen clerk's desk. 13. A bain marie for soups and sauces, to supply coffee-room. 14. Large French charcoal, and gas stove for made dishes. 15. A bain marie for soups and sauces, for house dinners. 16. Sink. 17. Hot plate for dishes to be sent up to private dining room. ' 18. Lift for sending up dinners.KITCHEN OF THE KEFOEM CLUB, &c. (a.) la boucheme. • This essential part of the kitchen department is complete in its several arrangements, and one cannot help noticing that in spite of the moderate size of this room everything is contrived with the utmost convenience, perfect ventilation, and with due economy. As this small space is fully adequate to the general wants of this large kitchen, it must, therefore, be equally good for one of smaller dimensions. My object not being to fix the size of aU pri- vate boucheries according to this, it therefore must be left to localities, and the details below may be taken as a general principle. The length of the room is twelve feet by nine; at the further corners are two blocks to cut the meat upon, which are two feet in diameter, and two feet seven inches high, includ- ing the supporters, eight inches from the floor, giving facihty to clean under- neath, also to prevent decay; between the two blocks is a patent scale of a simple construction, and very convenient, upon which can be weighed above two hundred pounds of meat with great ease. On the right and left are two tables, three inches thick, sLx feet six inches long, one foot nine inches wide, and three feet three inches high, with a drawer to each, and a square box covered over, underneath the tables, for waste fat, &c.; above the tables is a flat rod with small hooks, one inch and a half long and three inches apart, upon which are various sized meat-hooks; all round the room upon the walls are thick slates, six feet high. Those slates lately introduced in bmlding I would particularly recommend where coolness is required, and also as being very clean. (b.) principal lardeu fob, meat and game. The gastronomic variety generally collected in this sanctuary of taste requires the utmost care and cleanliness, the joints prepared for the day arranged with symmetry and taste, so as to present to the eye the finest sides, the same respecting the chessed meat dishes and cold poultry, which should always be trimmed and garnished with fresh parsley, ready to be served up at a moment's notice. A good ventilation, being of the utmost importance, should be particularly attended to. The following dimensions wUl greatly assist for the contrivance of a larder perfectly convenient if built with the same proportions. The size is eighteen feet long and fifteen feet wide, having on the right side a dresser fourteen feet long, three wide, and two feet ten inches high, the top IS of slate one inch thick, instead of wood, which is an excellent substi- tute, and always covered with a dresser cloth; there are eight ice drawers opening on castors, when large and deep as these, it is advisable to make them m a simdar manner running on castors, as their weight would otherwise cause them to open with difficulty. The first four are two feet eight inches square and nine inches deep, hned with lead, and principaUy for jellies, ice creams, &c., the others beneath are deeper, for piclcling-tubs ; the tempera- ture IS from thirty-five to forty degrees, allowing comestibles of the most cleiicate kind to be kept a consideral)le time without deteriorating their qua- lities. Ihe construction of those drawers is considered ingenious • the hot-OIG KITCHEN OF torn being inclined on eacli side towards tlie middle, which forms a channel at the end of which tiieve is a small drain to let the ice water escape without the assistance of hands, having at the back a pipe to receive the waste water running into other pipes outside. On the left going in there is another sideboard of the same material, eight feet and a half long and two feet wide, there are six drawers aU of them lined with lead, and (which might be called simply ice-preservers, being almost free from air, and only now and then refreshed with ice at a trifling expense) from five to six inches thick, covered with a zinc plate to fit the drawer, and a cloth over it for chops, steaks, aspics, entrees, and a variety of things always kept fresh and tender; the woodcut below gives the exact foi-m of the drawers as described above. It will be worth consideration to adopt the plan in all larders, as they certainly have the several advantages of preserving ice for a long time, and keeping in readiness any sort of prepared dishes, and even the flavour of fruit to perfection. ICE DBAWEBS AND DEESSER. At the end cf this sideboard is a slate well, threcfeet six inches long, two feet wide, an J one foot deep, supplied with hot and cold water ; this well is used for soaking hams, tongues, and calf's head; adjoining is a slab for open- ing oysters, under which is a well to keep them in. In the middle of the larder is a dresser-table, ten feet long and two feet four inches wide, covered with a tablecloth, to depose fresh provisions ready for the day's dressing. On the right going in are fixed divisions, boxes made of slate, for vege- tables, very simple and very useful, each having sliding fronts of wood to facUitate cleaning. The first row is ten feet long, divided into eleven parts, namely, five of one foot one inch opening and eight inches deep, six inches high in front, and ten inches at the back, the other six are smaller; the lower divisions are for large vegetables, and consequently of greater dimen- sions, divided into seven boxes, five of which are one foot seven inches deep, nine inches high in front, and one foot five inches at the back, with one foot five inches opening, the other two are for potatoes. The whole appearance of the above boxes is agreeable, for you see at once all the various productions of the kitchen garden the most in season, and kept separate. There is something new in the plan which might easily beTHE EEFORM CLUB. 617 adopted. It is remarkably clean and cool. Too often vegetables are kept in drawers, or mixed together in any corners ; wliere as if fitted in this style, a gai-dener or greengrocer, without asking what is wanted, can observe it at once, and replenishes all empty boxes, seeing actually what is required and not supplying by guess. VEGETABLE BOXES. On the ceiling suspended by fixed iron rods is a large frame ten feet long, and six wide, divided into three parts, having eight iron rods, one on each side of the transverse battens to hang up the joints, game, poultry, &c.; SUSPENDED FRAME FOB, MEAT, GAME, ETC. by means of loose and moveable hooks tinned over of a particular form, very easy to remove from and hook on the frame with the joints or other articles upon It, Ijy the aid of a long handle with a double hook, there being a hole618 KITCHEN OF in the centre of the meat hook for that purpose, thus avoiding pricking any unnecessary holes in the meat. (c.) The Cold Meat and Sauce Larder. This room, close to the other, is thirteen feet long and eleven feet wide; on the right is a meat-safe con- structed on a new principle for keeping cold meat, and by which flics are always excluded. The doors by a simple contrivance open and shut as it were by themselves, by means of a cord and a weight, which draws them, the same as a sash rolling upon puUies, in a groove with iron plates in it, through which two pins are fixed six inches apart; on pushing the door open the pin is raised underneath to stop it, and by a retrograde motion of the elbow when taking a dish out the said pin drops, and the door shuts of itself, it is so quickly done that there is hardly time for a fly to get in, besides the wires are so close that the impediment is complete, in addition to that an excellent current of air always prevails. The meat-safe is four feet high, six feet wide, and three feet deep, with two shelves inside; under it, between the bottom and the floor, is a shelf for jars and kitchen basins, &c. MEAT SAFE. On the opposite side is a slate dresser eleven feet long and two feet three inches wide, with a skirting all along, seven inches high; underneath at the further end is a cupboard, three feet long, with shelves for china, by the su e is a shelf for jars, &c. ; above the dresser there are two shelves the whole length and two feet wide, for preserves and bottles and jars of all sizes. (d ) Pastry and Coneectionery. This important part of the kitchen department may appear smaU at first view, being only eight feet long and thirteen feet wide, but the arrangement is in every respect perfectly conve- nient. A marble slab, five feet nine inches long and three feet wide, on a level with the window, with two ice-di-aweis beneath, one for butter and eggs, andTHE BErORM CLUB. 610 the other for preserving various forcemeats, salad, sauces, &c., is sufficient for the Uk of two pastrycooks. On the right is a marble mortar, with a long-handled pestle going through a rmg fixed in the waU and on the left a flour-bin covered. Underneath are divisions for scales, weights, and sundiy implements, on the right and left are di-essers, two feet and a half wide, with two rows of di-awers, where roUing-pins, cutters for all kinds of pastry, and sugar-sieves are kept. Above, at one foot four inches from the dresser, are closets, one foot six inches in depth and eight feet frontage, with three shding doors. Within are divisions to put away fancy ornamental pieces and usefid articles and ingredients for that tasty department; in this as well as in the other three rooms there is an admi- rable coolness, absolutely necessary for the making of pastry, and preserving it when completed. Any pastiy or entremet which requires to be kept dry, such as meringues, maccaroons, almond paste, &c., must be kept in a closet in the kitchen. (e.) Head Cook's Office and Parloub. This room, nineteen feet long and thirteen feet wide, is conveniently situated on the same floor with the others, and very handy by its proximity to the kitchen; it is well fitted up with a closet for su- perior preserves and all kinds of new light kitchen utensils. PESTLE AND MOBTAR. (f.) Passage. This space is three-and-thirty feet long and nine feet wide, dividing the rooms above described from the kitchen, although a passage, it is particularly useful; on the right from the second larder, and immediately under the stairs, there is fixed a white marble slab, four feet long and three feet three FISH SLAB. inches m width, surrounded with a slate border of three inches in height, the slab is use d for keeping fresh and cool all the fish brought in for use ; at the ex- tremity ot the slab, which is an inclined plane, there is an horizontal shower-G20 KITCHEN OF pipe supplied with iced water from a cistern above. On the opposite side, all along the waU, there is an hour shelf, thirteen feet and a half lone and one foot SIX inches wide, divided by numbers showing the hour when (hshes are to be cooked, which is from five to eight at night. Upon the same line on the left is another dresser, four feet and a half long and three feet wide, to cool sauces and stock before they are removed to the second larder to be put by the side of those already cooled; a rule I would re- commend, because the fermentation of hot sauces or stock would affect those in the second larder if put there whilst hot. At the end of the passage on the right, and above the kitchen door, is a ventdating screen four feet square; it is a simple frame with two cross-pieces covered with canvas, and fixed horizontally above the door, with hinges so as to move it up and down at will, which is done by means of a cord nailed in the middle of the frame and passed through two pulUes fixed in the ceiling, and tied with hooks on the wall opposite; you make use of the cord the same as for a Venetian blind, the only difference is, that you keep moving it up and down aU the time required to diminish the heat of the kitchen. No one would suppose, without seeing it perform, what surprising effect this simple contrivance produces, as the ascending movement draws away the heat from the kitchen into the passage, and introduces fresh air into it perfectly un- expected ; it is only on particular occasions, and in the heat of summer that it is made use of, as the ventilaiion of this kitchen is everything that can be wished for, it was more as a model for confined kitchens that I have apphed this extra-ventilating screen. (g.) a small back yard, nine feet long and seven feet wide, separated from the passage by a glass partition and doors, wherein are deposited various things for kitchen use, and ice creams frozen. (h.) In the small passage leading to the roasting kitchen there is a hft worked by steam, to hoist coals to the sleeping-rooms; and a gas-meter inclosed in a wooden box for the supply of the gas-stoves in the principal kitchen. (i.) Passage leading to and from the roasting kitchen. (j.) The kitchen-maids' dining-room, eight feet square, fitted with drawers, tables, closets, &c.; the entrance in the passage above mentioned. (k.) Roasting Kitchen. On entering into this room you see in a direct line the vegetable kitchen and the scullery. On the left there is a low cast- iron French stove for boiling large joints and making stock which has been previously boiled on a quick fire, and removed there to simmer gently; this stove is two feet seven inches long, two feet nine inches wide, and one foot nine inches high, and is purposely made low on account of the great weight lifted on and off. In the centre is a grate, one foot square, for charcoal. Contiguous to it is another cast-iron stove, or hot plate, the waste fire of which heats the small oven for gratins, soufiies, &c. (see opposite). It is five feet long by two feet nine inches wide, and the same in height. At the end, on a line with the fire-place, is the steam-closet, six feet high, four feet and a half wide, and two feet deep, forming three shelves with the bottom to keep the dishes very hot as well as the roasts ; near it is the large roasting fire-place, six feet and a half wide and five feet and a half high. The grate is five feet wide and three feet high, and very shallow, giving a great heat at a compa-631 THE REFORM CLUB. ratively smaU expense; a boiler is at the back, which holds one hundred eallons of water always hot, and amply sufficient for aU kitchen purposes; the salamander is also easily and quickly heated at the same fire without in- CHAECOAl STOVE AND HOT PLATE. terfering with the roasts, having a place formed in the front of the grate pur- posely for its reception. In front of the roasting fire-place is a closet-screen, six feet wide, two feet deep, and six feet high, to keep all joints very warm. The plan of this screen differs from the common ones ; the back, fronting the fire, is covered with iron sheeting; the front shuts in with sliding doors, forming two sepa- rate closets, the top being only sixteen inches high, and the lower four feet high, with two iron grated shelves; the doors being kept shut, there is always a regular heat. "What renders this screen a perfect desideratum, are the two folding leaves at each end, fastened with hinges and completely in- closing the fire, thereby preventing the smoke escaping, and also the heat from bemg felt even close to the screen ; and the advantage of the whole is, that notwithstanding the immense fire, presenting a surface of fifteen feet square, no inconvenience results from it. (See Cut, page 622). Lower down is a large cast-iron oven for pastry, six feet nine inches high, four feet nine inches wide, divided into two parts, one above the other, each ot two feet opening, one foot nine inches high, and two feet six inches deep, with grated shelves. Joining the oven there is a French stove, three feet two inches long and two feet four inches wide, with one grating, to boil dehcate vegetables. Above, m the thickness of the waU, is a cistern two feet long, two feet tour inches deep, and one foot wide, to k«ep the large boiler behind the roasting lire-grate constantly supplied with water. Opposite 18 a sash window, by which roasts and vegetables for the coffee- room are handed to the waiters ; beneath the window is a closet for plates andKITCHEN OF 622 dishes, the top of which is of cast-iron and warmed by steam, thus dishes are removed from one hot place to another until they reach their destination ; the length is four feet eleven inches, and two feet deep, with a sheet-iron shelf inside. BOASTING BANGE. On the right side of this closet is a marble mortar of twenty inches dia- meter, surrounded with wood-work and forming a pedestal, the pestle with a long handle passes through a ring fastened in the waU four feet above. _ Near to the above is the iron rack to hang up all the spits and other im- plements. It consists of two half rings, to each of which are attached scroll hooks The hook on the upper ring supports the wheel end of a spit, and the lower hook holds the point. . • , i i „ ;ivo<!=m' Further on, next to the door leading to the principal kitchen, s a dies ei eight feet long and two feet wide, to unspit the roasted joints or othei purposes. (L.) Vegetable Kitchen. At the end of the roasting kitchen and only divided bv an arch twelve feet in span, you enter this room, fifteen feet long and slxteen^de; in the centre is a deal table, nine feet long and tM^o feet two inches wide, with drawers. , i i nf ihi^m snuare On the left, upon a wide shelf, are three steam-boilers, two of them square.THE REPORM CLUB. 623 to cook potatoes, and the other for steaming puddings, &c. ; the square ones might be taken as models, they are one foot five inches square, and one toot high, divided into four parts, forming four distinct compartments m one. The round boiler is fifteen inches in diameter. The front of the shelf has a groove under the tap of the steamers to let out the water produced by the steam, which runs into the sink ; a draining-board is next to the steamers, where vegetables are deposited after they are washed. Next is the vegetable sink, three feet nine inches long, two feet six inches wide, and one foot eight inches deep, with two taps for hot and cold water. Against the glass partition, on each side of the door which leads to the scullery, are two dressers, six feet long and two feet four inches wide, with four open divisions imder each, for sundry articles of Idtchen utensils. On the right are two sinks, three feet six inches long, two feet six inches wide, and one foot six inches deep, for washing dishes, having two taps each, for hot and cold water. Above is a plate-rack, eleven feet long and one foot deep, to dry plates and dishes. On the right side of the sinks is a delivery window with a closet beneath, four feet long and two feet wide, serving as a dresser, from which clean plates and dishes are sent to the coffee-room. (m.) The Scouring Scullery and Steam Boiler. This room, on a level with the vegetable kitchen, is thu'teen feet long and seventeen feet wide ; on the left is a large dresser, or draining-board, with grooves, six feet long and three feet and a half wide, to dry aU the coppers after being scoui-ed; under it are large drawers. Above are two shelves the whole length of the room for large pans and coppers. Next to the dresser are two large sinks, three feet and a half long, two and a half vdde, and one foot and a half deep, with two taps for hot and cold water. Against the window, and close to the sink, is a thick scouring table, three feet by two, with a box underneath for sand, &c. On the right is the steam boiler, eight feet three inches long, six feet wide, and five feet high, surrounded with bricks, and by which large closets, bains maries, plates for delivery-windows and tables, are heated, large coppers sup- plied with steam for cooking; also dressing-rooms, baths, and closets in vari- ous parts of the house. The appearance of these three rooms, each for a difierent purpose, forms, as it were, only one room, well Hghted, very cool, extremely convenient, and without the least confusion. (n.) Butler's Pantry. A large room, twenty-four feet long and seventeen wide, including pnvate room, with a fire-place, cupboards, sink, and plenty of water; a large table is in the middle, where everything belonging to his de- partment is prepared. (o.) Butler's Office. Well fitted up, and very convenient from its proxi- mity to the pantry and plate closet. (p.) Iron closet for plate, fire-proof. (q.) a large passage leading out, and also to the back staircase, to the conee-room.624 KITCHEN OF (ii.) A lift, by which dinners are conveyed to the coffee-rooms either by steam or by hands. THE DINNEE LIFT. (s ) The back staircase for servants. (t.) Principal Kitchen. The size of this kitchen is twenty-eight feet long and twenty-four wide ; in the middle is an elm table, made on a plan entirely original, having twelve irregular sides, and giving the utmost faciUty for the various works of the kitchen, without any one interfering with another. The principal length is twelve feet by seven wide, and three inches thick. Under the edge of the table, in front, are two sliding boards, two feet long and two inches and a half thick, which are used for straining sauces, purees, &c.; as these sUding boards are lower than the table they are particularly usefid, and save an additional width; below are two drawers, and at each end, in front, are two Uttle moveable copper buckets with water, handy for spougmg off any blood or mess left upon the board or table after the cutting of poultry, game, or fish. In the same direction there are two columns supporting the ceiling and passing through the table, round which, at a convenient height, are copper cases lined with tin, in ten compartments, each of which contains every ingredient and chopped herbs of the seasons for flavouring dishes, such as salt, pepper, spices, sweet herbs, crumbs and rasping of bread, eggs, chopped onions, &c.; the other contains vaiious sauces for fish dressed in the Enghsh style. These cases turn round at will on castors fixed under it to the column, so that, without moving from your place, you can get every ingredient you may require ; the diameters of the columns are one toot, and the cases for ingredients project over three inches and a half; as columns are not always wanted to support the ceihng of a kitchen, the cases might easily be introduced on the table supported by a stand, turning in the same way as, and similar in shape to a lamp. . n , • i. In the middle of the table is a cast-iron steam closet, four feet one inch635 THE REFORM CLUB. long, two feet eleven inches wide, and two feet nine inches high, with two sliding doors on each side, and a shelf inside for keeping dehcate entrees per- fectly good for several hours, by means of two different degrees of heat; above, five inches distant from the top, is a grated iron shelf, all round upon which are placed middle-sized and small stewpans, supported at each corner by little balusters, as it pi-ojects beyond the closet it forms a cornice and gives it an elegant appearance. The whole contrivance of this table is much more convenient than might be imagined, by the number of useful objects a common table is deprived of; I certainly could have had a table of large dimensions* upon which great dinners might be laid out, as is commonly done, but that was precisely what I wished to avoid, finding it much more to the purpose, as soon as entree dishes are ready, to put them quickly into a warm place untU wanted to be taken up, which is done with regularity; every dish being num- bered is placed upon the table without confusion, and to all appearance as if the whole had just been dressed, an advantage seldom if ever at the disposal of any chef de cuisine, who generally finds it very difficult to dispose of dishes in a fitting place to keep them in such a proper degree of heat as I obtain with the steam closet. Many culinary artists who have seen it for the first time question whether it is possible to dress a dinner of sixteen entrees or KITCHEN TABLE.KITCHEN OF 626 On the right hand side of the table is a roasting fire-place, principally used for game and poultry, on a plan entirely new, the size is seven feet wide and five feet six inches high, the bars are perpendicular and vertical, opening at one end, and supported upon castors, which allows the cleaning of it with much more ease, and affords access for the repairing of the boiler without pulling down any of the works around it; at the back of the stove in front of the boiler are thick Welsh lumps, by which hot water can be obtained twenty-four hours after the fire is put out. The great advantage of this range is, that from the smallest bird to the largest joint, even a baron of beef can be cooked to per- fection, although there is only four inches and a half depth of coals. As the consumption of this article is much less in a grate built on this principle, I expect that the old style of grates will disappear. Another advantage is, that broUing can be done in a very superior style, by means of a double gridiron suspended from an extending bracket hooked over the top bar; for which see my Kitchen of the Bachelor. On the left, in the thickness of the wall, is a small cistern to supply the boiler with water as it is drawn out hot on the right hand side. A screen closet is placed before this fire, drawn on castors, seven feet long, six feet high, and two feet wide, having two grated shelves for dishes, and open to the fire, with sUding doors and flaps, the same as the one described in the roasting kitchen. Turning your back to the fire-place, on the right is a recess, ten feet high, ten wide, and two and a half deep, forming an elliptic arch, in which is fixed a dresser used for silver dishes, &c., previous to a large dinner; underneath are four drawers for small kitchen utensils, and above the dresser three shelves for tinned iron saucepans ; in the front of the shelves are suspended covers of various sizes and large preserve-pans. On the right, in another recess, six feet four inches high, four feet three inches wide, and two feet and a half deep, there is also a di'esser, above it large dish covers. In the recess of the same size on the left is fixed a low cast-iron charcoal stove for boiling large fish, which is only used when large fish are required to be stewed or boiled; when not in use for that purpose it is covered with a thick board elevated one foot above, being supported u.pon four strong feet in wood, thus forming a dresser upon which to deposit any article previous to its being di-essed at the broiling or fish stoves; on each side are tin drainers for kitchen spoons, &c., higher up are two rows of hooks for large dish covers ; the whole appearance of that side is pleasing to the eye, by the number of various articles to be seen, its regularity, and the brilliant cleanli- ness of everything. Facuig the fire-place is a large cast iron stove, heated with coals, twelve feet five inches long, and two feet ten inches wide, divided into five parts, two of them are used for broiling steaks, cotelettes, &c., and the others to boil and fry fish. On a compass brass rod, and moveable, is fixed a fire-screen obhquely at the end, to prevent the heat injuring the eyes, and at the same time acting as a reflector in the interior of saucepans on the stove if required. At the extremity of the stove is a bain mai-ie, two feet eight inches square, and seven inches deep, principally for keepmg fish-sauces hot. Next is a cast iron steam closet, four feet seven inches wide, two feet two inches deep, di^^dedinto three parts, the two shelves are of iron, two inches and a half thick, therein are deposited all the fish dressed and waiting to be taken up. , .. , Near it is another closet, five feet and a half long and two wide, wai-medTHE REFORM CLUB. 627 also by steam, with sliding doors for china dishes and covers; the top, whicli is on a level with the delivery window, is of cast iron and heated by the same means, therefore every dish from the time they are dressed up to the time they reach their destination, keeps moving from one place to another in or upon places kept hot for that purpose. In the corner next to delivery window is the desk for the clerk of the kitchen, the size is four feet long and three feet wide, with a seat, aU the orders are sent from the dining-room by a wooden pipe of communication, and after each dinner is served the biU is sent up in the same way. Every dish is called for by the clerk at the hour ordered. On his left are three voice conductors with bells communicating to all parts of the club where cidinary services are required. Turning to the left is the large and principal French stove, fifteen feet three inches long by three feet nine inches wide. GAS STOVES, ETC. beginning with a bain marie two feet and a half square, warmed by steam, with two taps for hot and cold water. This bain marie is for soups and sauces especially prepared for the coffee-room. By the side is a column sup- porting the ceihng, round it at a proper height are three rows of hooks for fryingpan covers, spoons, forks, skimming ladles, &c. Along the stove at back is the coping wall separating the two kitchens, on which are fixed two grated ii-on shelves, upon which are placed a number of stewjaans and moulds of all sizes. Further on is situated the stoves where entrees, soups, &c., arc prepared, being a grate for- a charcoal fire in the centre, with one of my new gas stoves upon each side, which aff'ord the greatest comfort ever uitroduced in any culinary arrangement; each stove is divided into five com-KITCHEN OF C38 partments, (see Plate) eacli having a separate pipe and brass cock, with a separate main pipe to each stove, which supplies sufficient gas to burn the whole five compartments at once, or only one by not turning the gas into any of the other compartments, or if all burning at once the fire may be regulated to any height you may think proper by means of the brass cocks, turning the gas cither full or only partially on. It possesses also the follow- ing advantages : you obtain the same heat as from charcoal the moment it is lit, it is a fire that never requires making up, is free from carbonic acid which is so pernicious, especially in small kitchens, and creates neither dust or smell (except the gas should neglectfully be not properly turned off), and by my last improvement it is also now quite free from smoke. With the aid of my new octagonal trivet* I can place nine stewpans over without the fear of upsetting either, some only simmering and others boiling at the same time, which is invaluable, as by the gentle simmering you are enabled to extract all the fat from soups or sauces, assisting in the clarification, and causing them to digest more freely. The gas stoves also tend to greater economy, as they are not lit till the moment wanted, then only the quantity required, and may be put out the moment it is done with, I think it a great pity that they can only be fitted in London and other large towns daily supplied with gas, but it is there it is most required, as the kitchens are smaller than in country houses, no heat whatever being created in the smallest kitchens by the use of gas stoves. Further on at the end of the stove and parallel with the bain marie there is another, two feet six inches square with two taps for hot and cold water, used for keeping sauces hot for a private dinner in the house dinner room, being three different bain maries, one for fish sauce, one for the cofiFee-room, and one for the private dinner. Next is a slate sink two feet and a half long, one foot two inches wide, and eleven inches deep, with two taps for hot and cold water used for washing various kitchen utensils used at the charcoal stoves. Above the sink, hot plate, and bain marie, is an iron rack nine feet long with hooks to hang large saut^-pans. Near it is a hot plate two feet six inches square heated by steam, upon which are placed dishes prepared for dinners and from thence removed to the house dinner-lift, which is drawn up either by steam or hand machine. The sink trap bell is one of the most simple and useful fixtures of a kitchen ; * Tlie old fashioned triangular trivets seemed to have been made as incouveiiieut as possiljlc, being made only for one largo stcAvpan to stand over the fire, not leaviug room for any smaller ones round. , , ,^ t The maker of these gas stoves is Mr. Eikett, who constmcts Ihcm to peifcctiou at a trifling cxpciiso accorduig to their mciit. BAIN MAllIE, SINK, HOT PLATE, AND BACK. FOB SAUTE-PANS.TIIF REFORM CLUB. 629 SINK TRAP BELL. I invented it after twelve months of tlic greatest inconvenience arising from a complete stoppage in many of the drains of the club, which not only created an offensive effluvia but frequently caused the opening of the greater portion of the basement of the house. Since the introduction of the trap bell to the sinks throughout the kitchen department such oifence has entirely ceased. The beU is made of copper and is six inches long and ten in circumference. It screws to the sink and has several holes pierced through for the passage of the water only and the prevention of anything else passing down. It will be seen that the plug is attached to a rod, which is in its turn joined to a chain. By pidUng the latter the plug is removed and if it be necessary to keep it open a link of the chain may be attached to a nail fas- tened in the waU. The expense is a mere trifle, the comfort none can fuUy appreciate. I am happy to add that my example has since been followed with similar success throughout the club, and that it has been likewise copied in many noblemen's and club-house kitchens. I now beg leave to remark to my readers that if I have been a little tedi- ous or profuse in giving the exact measurement of the diiferent parts and every object of this kitchen by feet and inches, it was with the view to be useful to those who have honoured me with their subscription, and the public; I dare hope that my humble eflforts vriU have the effect of producing hereafter a reform in the art of building and fitting up a kitchen which, without being of an immoderate size, contains all that can be wished for as regards saving of time, comfort, regularity, cleanliness, and economy. I am happy to have this opportunity of acknowledging that without the great liberahty of the honorable members of the Eeform Club, and the kindness of that celebrated architect Mr. Barry, I could never have succeeded in accomplishing the improvements so essential in a well regulated establish- ment ; I shall, therefore, remain always gratified for the encouragement they never ceased to give me in confiding to my du-ection this new system of building and fitting up a kitchen which is now in active operation, not only for the economy of the .Reform Club but to serve as a guide to the amateurs of a good kitchen as weU as of good living. END OF DESCBIPTTON.MY KITCHEN AT HOME. Do not fancy, gentle reader, under tliis title to see a wonder of the age, as regards grandeur and magnitude, but for comfort and convenience you will find a correct miniature of the kitchen, the plan of which I have just de- scribed, the room being only large enough for one or two persons to work in instead of fourteen, and intended to supply parties of from eight to ten instead of a hundred and above ; whether of great or httle importance every- thing, more or less, has its share of merit when well-contrived, and by the same rule, these two culinary departments, although upon a very different scale, possess the same advantages. In pubUshing my plan of the kitchen of the Reform Club, many persons could not conceive my motive for so doing, saying that no private family would ever be in want of so large a kitchen, and it would be madness to go to such an expense, vrith which reason I fully concurred, but being aware at the same time that all my new plans and discoveries might be reduced to any scale, those just observations have induced me to make My Kitchen at Home as complete in its way as the other, and to be able to afford the facility to any man cook, if employed upon any extraordinary occasions, to dress a first-rate dinner, as well from the receipts adapted for the wealthy, as from those under the heading of My Kitchen at Home. The completeness of the arrangements, although much smaller, would at first become rather expensive, but would last almost for ever; should they, however, be too expensive for some of my readers, a reduction might be made in some of the fittings or apparatus, but still keeping to the same style, and retaining the most useful and serviceable, but as any curtailing would disfigure this Httle model, I will, for the convenience of some, present my readers with the plan of a smaller one, under the denomination of the Bachelor's Kitchen, which unfortunate class are often individually deprived of any kind of real homely comfort; and to be still more sociable, I have even added the smallest of all kitchens, being that of the Cottage. My intention, in giving the plans of several smaller kitchens, is to prove what I have before advanced, that I could easily introduce any of my plans, or apparatus, into kitchens of the smallest dimensions. I now must politely beg of my readers to refer to page 633, where they will see a correct plan of my smaU Kitchen at Home, under which title I shelter myself from culinary criticisms, because every man is, or ought to be, allowed to do anytliing he Ukes " at home."REFERENCE TO PLAN OF MY KITCHEN AT HOME. THE KITCHEN. A. The kitchen-grate, for roasting, constructed with perpendicular bars, about two feet in height, and backed with Welsh lumps. The opening of the grate has a sUde, working up and down, to regulate the draught. B. A boiler behind the grate, from which a constant supply of hot water is obtained, c. The smoke-jack. T>. The screen and plate-warmer. E. The dripping-pan. F. The ash-pit, having an air drain attached, communicating with an air brick at the exterior, to increase the draught required to tm-n the smoke-jack; it would also prevent the chimney from smoking. G. The oven, heated by a fire beneath. H. The hain marie, heated by hot water circulating from the boiler. I. The hot plate, heated by a fire. The coal would be kept underneath. K. A charcoal, or gas stove. L. Thick kitchen table, with shding shelves and rows of drawers. M. Place for wet sponge to wipe the table. NN. Seasoning box, and fish-sauce box, made to turn on centre pivots. o. Dresser with cupboards beneath, to put four entree services of china; above it the shelves and hooks for covers, baking-sheet, &c. p. Iron rail, or shelf for coppers. a. Dresser for dishes, with drawers for small kitchen utensils, one drawer for fat and a slide-board; over it a rail, with hooks for the covers. B. Iron rail similar to preceding. s. Rack for the spits, as described in the Kitchen of the Reform Club. T. The scrubbing-board. u. The hot water tub, with taps. w. The cold water tub. X. The draining-board, grooved and inclined towards the cold water tub. Y. The plate-rack; that part which is over the tub beuig perforated with holes at the bottom. The other half of the bottom is inclined in the dii-ection of the holes. z. A cistern, in the front area. THE LARDER. A. A dresser with drawers beneath, to deposit sauces and cold meat. B. Flour box. . . 0 Narrow upright closet for preserves and spice jars. d'. Marble slab for pastry, with ice drawers, and pickle drawers beneath. E. Mortar. F. Safe for cooked meat. G. H. 1. ■Rail huns from the ceiling to hang up meat and game. Boxes ofSrent sizes in two tiers; they are made of slate with wooden moveable fronts, and are for vegetables Iron rail above, for moulds and spices K. Potatoes.PLAN OF WIY KITCHEN AT HOME.REFERENCE TO PLANS. THE BACIIELOR'S KITCHEN. A. The grate with upright hars about eighteen inches in height, an.l Welsh hnnps at the hack Near the bottom of the grate are small openings to assist the draught, which comraumcate with an air drain from the exterior. The onen- ings can be regulated by sUdes. ^ a. The boiler. c. Reservou- to supply boiler, the pipe from which has a baU-cock. D. The oven. E. The hot closet Below this is a tap to procure hot water from the boiler. F. The screen and plate-warmer. g. The dripping-pan. h. The smoke-jack. I. A double gndiron This is moveable, and hangs from a bracket which clasps upon the top bar of the grate. It can be moved to any distance from the bars, and can be turned without removing it from its position on the bracket. For tliis purpose there is a swivel-joint about the middle of the handle. J. Swing bracket, to support a pan. K. A chai'coal or gas stove. L. Rack for the spits, as described in the kitchen of the Reform Club. MM 1 Iron shelves of open raUs for the coppers, &c., about seven feet from the M J floor. N. The sink, furnished with taps for hot and cold water. It has the bell trap, of which a drawing has akeady been given. Under the sink the coal-box is kept. 0. The plate-rack, placed above the sink. p. The dresser, with slide boards and drawers, a. Place for the sponge and water. R. The spice-box. s. The meat-safe. This is divided into two compartments, for raw and cooked meat. It is placed outside the building, and runs upon wheels and rails, being tb-awn forwards or pushed back. With this object a chain is attached to the front, and there is a weight, made to counterbalance the weight of the safe, exclusive of the contents. There is a slide board near the foot of the dresser to stand upon. The plan represents the safe in its position, when not in use. It could readily be adapted to balconies in existing buildings. It might be desirable to have the wire gauze double. T. Dresser, with mai'ble top, to make pastry upon. Beneath are the vegetable boxes in two ranges ; they are shown by dotted lines. V. The mortar, which stands upon a block of wood, slightly hoUowed to receive it. When not in use it can be placed beneath the dresser. There is an iron ring above, as in the other kitchens, for the handle of the pestle to work through. WW. Closets for preserves and other purposes. X. Shelves. THE COTTAGE KITCHEN. A. The grate, as before. b. The boiler. c. Reservoir to supply boiler. D. Oven. E. The screen. This is a simple wooden rail covered with tin, and can be used as a clothes-horse. F. Swing bracket, to support a pan. G. Bracket for roasting, and gridiron, before described. H. Ash-pit, and air drain communicating with the exterior. 1. The sink, with taps for hot and cold water. The coal-box may be placed under- neath. K. Plate-rack. l. Water-butt. M. The dresser, with drawers and slide boards. N. Place for the sponge and water. o. Salt and spice-box. p. The meat-safe, placed at the upper part of the larder, which is well ventilated by panes of perforated zinc in the window, a. Potatoes, beneath the stairs. R. Plate shelves, s. Shclves for the pans, below the plate shelves. t. Copper.DINNER PARTY AT HOME. p BILL OF FARE FOR EIGHT PERSONS. 1 Soup. Frencli Pot au Peu. 1 Fish. 3 Slices of Salmon en matelote. o o 2 Removes. Pm Braised Fowls with spring vegetables. ^ Leg of Mutton basted with devil's tears. 2 Entkees. Lamb Cutlets with asparagus, peas. Salmi of Plovers with mushrooms. 2 Roasts. 2 DuckUngs. 4 Pigeons barded with vine leaves. 4 Enteemets. Orange Jelly. Omelette, with fine herbs. Green peas. Gooseberry Tart, with cream. 1 Remove. Iced Cake with fruits. Nothing but light wine is drunk at the fii-st course, but at the second my guests are at liberty to drink wines of any other description, intercepting them with several hors d'ceuvres, wliich are small dishes of French pickled olives and sardines, tliin slices of Bologna sausage, fillets of anchovies, ciboulettes, or very smaU green onions, radishes, etc.; also a plain dressed salade a la Francaise, (for which see end of the entrees. Kitchen at Home), fi-omage de brie Neufcliatel, or even Windsor cheese, when it can be procured. The coffee and dessert I usually leave to the good taste and economy of my menagere.RECEIPTS. PLAIN JOINTS ADAPTED TO THE TABLE OF THE WEALTHY AS WELL AS MY TABLE AT HOME. As hardly any dinner is properly served without a simple joint, which may be deposited either on the table or sideboard, I have placed all plam joints, as also the dh-ections for choosing meat, at the commencement of My Kitchen at Home, to which I shall beg to refer my readers while making the bills ot fare, or choosing different quaUties of meat. OF THE CHOOSING AND BOASTING OF PLAIN JOINTS. Here I must claim all the attention of my readers, many of the profession will, I have no doubt, be surprised that I should dwell upon a subject which appears of so little importance, saying that, from the plain cook to the most professed, aU know how to roast or boil a piece of meat, but there I must beg their pardon ; I wiU instance myself, for, previously to my forming any intention of writing the present work, I had not devoted the time neces- sary to become professionally acquainted with it, always depending upon my roasting cook, who had constant practice, myself only having the knowledge of whether or not properly done. I have since not only studied it closely, but have made in many respects improvements upon the old system, and many discoveries in that branch which I am sure is the most beneficial to aU classes of society, (remembering, as I have before stated, that three parts of the animal food of this country is served either plain-roasted or boiled). My first study was the fire, which I soon perceived was too deep, consumed too much coal, and required poking every half hour, thus sending dust and dirt all over the joints, which were immediately basted to wash it off; seeing plainly this inconvenience, I immediately remedied it by inventing my new roasting fire-place (see page 622), by which means I saved two hundi'ed-weight of coals per day, besides the advantage of never requiring to be poked, being narrow and perpendicular; the fire is lighted with the greatest facility, and the front of the fire being placed a foot back in the chimney-piece, throws the heat of the fire direct upon the meat, and not out at the sides as many persons know from the old roasting ranges, I have many times placed ladies or gentlemen, visiting the club, within two feet of the fire when six large joints have been roasting, and they have been in perfect ignorance that it was near them until upon opening the wing of the screen (see same Plate) by surprise, they have appeared quite terrified to think they were so near such an immense furnace. My next idea was to discontinue basting, perhaps a bold attempt to change and upset at once the custom of almost all nations and ages, but being so confident of its evil effects and tediousness, I at once did away with it, and derived the greatest benefit (for explanation, see re- marks at the commencement of the roasts in the Kitchen of the Wealthy), for the quality of meat in England is, I may say, superior to any other nation; its moist soil producing fine grass almost all the year round, which is the best food for every description of cattle, whilst in some countries not so favoured by nature they are obliged to have recourse to artificial food, which638 KITCHEN AT HOME. fattens the animals but decreases tlie flavour of tlie meat; and, again, we must take into consideration tlie care and attention paid by the farmers and graziers to improve the stock of those unfortunate benefactors of the human family. Every country is famous, more or less, for some produce, so is every county ; for instance, for the best beef we are indebted principally to Scot- land : the Highland ox, which if bred in Scotland, kept there until four years old, and fed twelve months in Norfolk, cannot be surpassed; those also that are killed in Scotland are likewise very commendable, but the con- noisseur would give the preference by far to those that had undergone a change of atmosphere and pasturage. Norfolk also produces excellent beef, as hke- wise does Herefordshire, which three sorts are ranked as the best by the first judges. The Brighton downs are noted for producing sheep of the first quality, next to which may be ranked those of the Norfolk downs, they are rather larger, more fleshy, and the meat sometimes a darker colour. Herefordshire also produces some very excellent. The Scotch mutton is also very good, and deservedly of high repute, but I rarely ever use it, as it is killed in Scotland and hurriedly packed, which causes it not to look so weU and frequently very much bruises it; but those of Leicestershire are, in my opinion, quite the con- trary, being coarse meat and very fat, I consider it unworthy of making its appearance upon the table of a man of wealth. When residing at Melton Mowbray I tried several haunches, even after hanging a month in winter and then roasted to perfection, I could not find in them any flavour worthy of the taste of an epicure; I consider it more as a useful nourishment than a delicate meat. The best Welsh mutton is brought du-ect from its native mountams, the heath upon which it feeds gives a very rich flavour to the meat, which is veiy dark without much fat; many are fed in some of the EngHsh counties, they are very excellent and much fatter, but do not possess the same wild flavour. The best veal to be obtained in the spring time of the year comes from the west of England, being rather small and very white, but there is a steady supply of good veal from Surrey and Essex throughout the year. Although very flne veal may be obtained in this country, it is not to be compared to the quality of veal we obtain in France ; the veal of Pontoise, a httle town six miles from Paris, outrivals any; I would venture to say that one pound of that veal would make a better stock than double the quantity of the veal procured here, no one can account for it, but such is the actual case; al- though there the quality of any other description of animal food is deficient, we hive to boast of the'exceUent flavour, succulence, and excessive whiteness ^^Houiriamb may be obtained throughout the whole year, but there is no gi-eat demand for it before February; grass lamb makes its appeai-ance now much earlier than formerly, the quahty much depends upon the wmter season if a mild winter they may really be fed upon grass, but if the contraiy, they musrbe fed with prepared food, which increases then- size but dmnnishes ^^'portSoasting is best when about six months old Berkshhe and Hamp- shire producing thf best. The size of a leg of pork should not exceed mo e 11 an seven pounds, nor much less than six ; I do not know why but of late y ars por£ Ls lost in a great measure its popularity, and ^^^^^^^^^ upon a nobleman's table; it is in season from October to about Maicli.KITCHEN AT HOME. 639 No. 1. SiELOiN OF Beef. The royal lionoui* wliicLt this bold and hand- some dish reeeived from the merry monarch, who conferred upon it the honour of knigthood, good Sir Loin, which title it has ever since retained (previously only bearing the cognomen of loin), and most Ukely will retain untd the latest period. As a joint it claims precedence of all others, in roasting, the fillet and fat below keeps the upper part moist, and when well roasted such is the quantity of gravy, that after a few slices have been cut it may be taken from it with a spoon. Procure a fine square piece of sirloin weighing about twenty pounds (which has been hung at least three weeks in winter, and eight or ten days if possi- ble in summer, observing that the older the meat is the longer it wiU require keeping before cooking, this remark apphes to aU kinds of meat, especially to beef and mutton), trim nicely, leaving the fat about an inch and half in thickness over the fillet, cut a slice slantwise from the flap, which turn under, fixing it with skewers, thus giving the joint an oblong shape ; with a sharp knife cut through the sinew (running along the chine-bones) in four or five places, or the meat would contract in roasting; make an incision in the centre of the chine-bones, lengthwise, with a chopper, through which pass a spit an inch wide and half an inch in thickness, bringing it out at the flap, keeping the centre, and avoiding the fiUet. When the joint is larger it would be advisable to use a cradle-spit, which, however, like the other spit has its inconveniences, one maldug a hole through the meat, and the other pressing upon the fat making it heavy, but in any kind of joint, if not over-roasted, you will never perceive the mark of the spit, as the cavity closes immediately upon the spit leaving it; always choose a spit corresponding to the size of the joint. In a large kitchen where you require many joints roastmg at one time a cradle-spit is a nuisance, and must be used only where it cannot be avoided. Tie half a sheet of buttered foolscap paper upon each side of the beef and place to roast, keeping it two feet from a very clear fire, let re- main twenty minutes, then rub the top over with a piece of butter placed in the bowl of a large wooden spoon (see page 396), and place the beef back to the distance of three or four feet from the fire, allowing it two hours and a half to three hours to roast; take it from your spit, let remain a few minute* upon a dish untd no more fat runs from it, when place it upon the dish you intend serving it on (previously taking out the piece of rump-bone affixed to the side to facilitate the carving; but in choosing a piece of sirloin obtain it if possible without any of that bone attached, or, at any rate, with but a very small piece, as the joint looks so much handsomer without it) pouring half a pnit of good gravy (page 394) under, you will then perceive my object m not bastmg meat, the fat and the skin will be of a very Ught gold colour which woidd have been quite the contrary if continuaUy basted. By placing the meat too near the fire the fat quickly melts and faUs into the drippmg-pan, whdst, by keeping it a tolerable distance it cooks gradu- ally, and as the meat revolves runs over its surface, keeping it continuaUv moist; and, agam, by placing it too near the fii-e it is liable to catch, causmg many persons to think that it has not been weU basted; another Z. ^1 '^^f: that by continually pouring hot fat over you cause that beautiful light fat a ached to the joint to become heavy, and the gravy which inseparably falls from the joint with the fat remains upon it, burnY and causes it to be very indigestible. It will also be easy to perceive in th^ habit of pouring a quantity of hot fat over all joints, that if three or four should be roas ing together, one over the other, that o^e description of meal becomes basted with the fat and gravy of several, whilst the mere mbbinTofKITCHEN AT HOME. 640 a piece of butter over is not the least objectionable, as nothing can fall upon other joints but a little butter or clear fat, which cannot in the least interfere with the flavour of other meats, but still I would advise that lamb, veal, poultry, and even game, be kept at the top where there is beef, mutton, or pork roasting; this only applies to large estabhshraents. The above description is apphed for the kitchen of the wealthy, but I must confess I do not object to a small piece of beef for my kitchen at home; I should proceed precisely as above, only procuring a piece of not more than eight, ten, or twelve pounds in weight; put a Uttle water m the dripping-pan, place the beef upon a spit papered as before, put it very near the fire for a few minutes, rub over with butter, then put it back at the distance of two feet; let roast, if weighing from ten to twelve pounds, an hour and a half to two hours, depending much upon the fire, of which any person may judge with or without practice ; take it up, dress upon your dish, then have the contents of your dripping-pan in a basin, from which extract the whole of the fat, and pour the gravy over the chine-bones, it wiU be very good and save the trouble and expense of making gravy; a couple of Yorkshire puddings of two eggs each, are very excellent cooked under the meat; before I had a smoke-jack in my small kitchen I used to roast very well with a bit of string. For the cottage kitchen, where there is no smoke-jack provided, you may roast very well with a piece of worsted or string by hooking it to the meat, and then suspending it to a bracket fixed under the mantel-piece, which will enable you to remove it to any distance you thought proper from the fire, making a tea-tray, at the distance of three feet from the fire, act as a screen ; the bottle-jacks are not bad, but soon get out of repair. No. 2. Ribs of Beef. A piece of from twenty to twenty-five pounds makes a very pretty joint; trim neatly by sawing off the tips of the chine-bones to make it stand flat, saw also about three inches from the tips of the ribs, merely sawing through the bones, which detach from the meat, leaving a flap, which fold under and fix with wooden skewers, not, however, pulling it too tight, or it would cause the skin to crack in roasting, which would produce a very bad efiect; roast as directed for the sirloin, from two hours and a half to three hours would be sufficient, unless very thick. For a cold joint the ribs are better than the sirloin, which last should always be eaten hot. At home I often have a piece of ribs of beef weighing from six to eight pounds, and roast by passing a very thin spit through and placing it down before a moderate fire, or, if in a small cottage, hang it up with string as for the small sirloin; it would take from an hour and five minutes to an hour and a quarter roasting, being perpendicular you may baste it slightly as it does not receive much nourishment from its own fat. No. 3. Rump of Beef. This is also a very dehcate joint, but can only be had to perfection in the winter months, as it requires hanging from three weeks to a month before it is in readiness to roast to perfection ; procure one of from thirty to thirty-five pounds in weight, trim neatly, leaving all the fat, it taking so long to roast, should it be short of fat it would go to table qmte dry; roast it in a cradle-spit as directed for sirloin, but keepmg it still further from the fiire, and giving it from four hoiu-s and a half to five hours roasting, it might also be roasted in paste as directed for haunch of venison (No, 222), or wrap it up in several sheets of paper well buttered, and browned by taking off the paste twenty minutes before removing from the fii'e.641 KITCHEN AT HOME. This bold joint never makes its appearance in my kitchen at home, but I have frequently used the piece of fillet attached to it, which weighs from three to five pounds; I leave about an inch of fat upon it, pass a small spit through, and roast from three quarters of an hour to an hour ; for gravy I proceed as for the sirloin. Cold potatoes, previously boiled, put under it in the di-ipping-paa whilst roasting, and turned occasionally, are very excellent. No. 4. Baron op Beef. It is an old saying that two extremes often meet, so with me I leave my five pounds joint roasting and, like Gulliver, make a step towards the empire of the giant. This is, indeed, a colossal joint, wliich at first sight would put a modest fire out of conceit, my smoke-jack out of order, and, above all, drive my few guests' appetites from their frugal stomachs ; they not being initiated in the grandeur or importance of a civic or aristo- cratic banquet would consider it a mighty dish of vulgarity. But stay, friends, I would observe grandeur and magnitude are far from being vulgar; to prove that my assertion is correct I have the opinion of ages, for it is a dish almost as old as England herself. I have before stated that Charles the Second gave the title and importance to the sirloin, and I have no doubt the baron owes its origin also to some such cause or great event, which I will attempt to discover for the information of some of my readers who, like myself, at present may be entirely ignorant of its origin, which I feel assured will prove interesting. A baron of beef is generally cut from a small ox, and includes the two riiraps and two sirloins with one of the rib bones on each side; it must be trussed precisely as for a saddle of mutton; pass a spit, which of course must not be too lai-ge, through the spinal marrow bone, then wrap the beef up in paste as for a haunch of venison (No. 540), only a httle thicker, add also more paper, set it three feet from a brisk fire, pouring fat over the paper to prevent its catching fire, twenty minutes afterwards remove the spit two feet further from the fire, enclose it well with the fire-screen, and roast eight or nine hours, keeping it tm-ned by hand, half an hour before it is done take ofi" the paste and paper and give the beef a fine gold colour, when take up, dress in a dish with gravy under and serve. The ancdent style was to serve a representation of St. George and the dragon, cut from vegetables, upon the top, fresh salad also of every description used to be placed around, but the whole was obhged to be moved at the commencement of carving. Having promised my readers that I would make all possible inquiry relat- ing to the origin of the inviting joint called baron of beef, a careful search into " Hone" and others, has not, I regret to say, been attended with quite a favourable result, and the only information which I can at present obtain is the legendary one that King John after signing Magna Charta at Eunnymede partook of a repast in the company of his barons consisting of the saddle and part of the ribs of beef roasted, and that hence arose the say- ing " baron of beef." Now this appears very much like the traveller's talc that had but one pomt in its favour, namely, that no one present could possibly contradict it. No. 5. Round of Beef. " Here," says John Bull, with a good-humoured countenance, (standmg near a table upon which was a round of beef beina; prepared for dressing, clapping his hands upon his knees and bending with no httle difficulty his colossal stomach,) " do you know, ray excellent friend " says he to me, " I fear you cannot cook that glorious dish to perfection, for I 41KITCHEN AT HOME. 64:2 have not yet forgotten your seven hours dressing of a leg of mutton, (page 193), so if you are not above receiving a lesson I wiE give you one which will enable you to dress this all-imp or tant dish to perfection, for I prize it as I do my own roast beef of Old England, and you must be aware that after the centu- ries of practice I have had that I must understand some little about it. Well, in the first place the quaUty of the meat has a great deal to do with it, of which you have given a fair description, I therefore pass it over, but to proceed : it must be cut pretty freely from the knuckle and placed in a brine- tub, cover well with salt, rub it well in, leave it until the next day, when again rub it with the salt and brine created by the gravy from the meat, rubbing weU every other day until it has remained a fortnight, that is if of a good size, weighing from thirty to thirty-five pounds, if larger or smaller more or less time, which must be left to your own good judgment, then take it out of the pickle, let drain twenty minutes, take out and form it of a good shape, folding the fat round, which fix with skewers, tieing it round with a few yards of very wide tape, tie it up in a thin cloth and place it in a large stock pot with plenty of cold water, set upon a good fire and when beginning to boil draw it to the corner, where let simmer five hours, but two hours before it is done put in eight fine carrots, scraped and cut into six or eight pieces, twelve turnips (peeled) and two suet puddings weighing from two and a half to three pounds each, these articles w^ould, perhaps, cause the water to cease boihng, if so, place it again quite over the fire until it does boil; when done take out the round, let drain ten minutes, take it from the cloth, detach the tape, take out the skewers, replacing them as you take them out with long silver skewers, dress upon a large hot water dish, and pour over about a quart of the liquor it was boiled in, cut a large slice from the top about two inches and a half in thickness, dress the carrots and turnips taste- fully around and serve, with the puddings upon a separate dish, sending one after the other, they will eat much lighter. When upon the table it must be carved with a regular round of beef knife (very sharp) in sUces not exceeding the thickness of half-a-crown piece, assisting each guest to a shce, also give one-third fat, with a Httle of the carrot and turnip, but never dig the underdone part from the centre to obUge any one, for they that cannot eat from a joint well cooked and fairly carved are not worthy of having one set before them. Some persons like them salted to cut red quite through, I do not admire it, but it is done by adding two ounces of salt prunell and half a pound of saltpetre to every fifteen pounds of salt used in the pickling. When a round of beef is very large some persons place a tin tube in the centre to boil it, I do not think it a badplan, as it causes it to cookmoreregular." After receiving the above useful lesson, and being desirous of improving my profession in all its branches, I remembered that amongst the number of joints boiled to serve cold for large civic, agricultural, or benevolent anni- versary dinners, the round of beef was the most prominent, and having seen it standing in dishes to get cold, with the dish filled with the gravy that runs from it, particularly if a Uttle over done, caused me to hit upon the following expedient to prevent the meat losing so much of its succulence: fill two large tubs with cold water, into which throw a few pounds of rough ice, and when the round is done throw it cloth and all into one of the tubs of ice water, let remain one minute, when take out and put it into the other tub, fiU the first tub again with water, and continue the above process for about twenty minutes, then set it upon a dish, leaving the cloth on until the next day, or until quite cold; when opened the fat wiU be asKITCHEN AT HOME. 643 white as possible, besides having saved the whole of the gravy. If no ice, spring water will answer the same purpose, but will require to be more fre- quently changed; the same modewouldbeequally successful with the aitch-bone. The above is a joint which I have always considered too large for my Kitchen at Home, but the aitch-bone or brisket is easily managed. No. 6. Aitch-bone of Beef. A good sized one would weigh from fifteen to twenty pounds, pickle it precisely as directed in the last, but one week woidd be sufficient, boil nearly three hours and serve with the vege- tables round as before, and a suet pudding separate ; if for cold do not take the tape from it untU cold, trim the top, run a silver skewer in at the extre- mity, and serve garnished with sprigs of very green fresh parsley. No. 7. Beisket of Beef. The whole brisket would require pickling for a week, it must not be too fat, this being a long awkward joint may be cut in two and served upon separate occasions, boil about five hours and serve as for the last two with the vegetables around it, when upon table it must be cut into thin slices fat and lean in fair proportions. The remains of a bris- ket of beef are excellent when cold. No. 8. Brisket op Beef a la Gabrick, This dish will, I am sure, be as popular with the English public as the celebrated tragedian and comedian whose name I have borrowed, even if he were now alive. Procure a nice brisket of beef with as little fat as possible attached, if too much cut a little of it off" and detach the whole of the bones from it, then make a pickle with twenty pounds of salt, three quarters of a pound of saltpetre, four cakes of salt prunel, two pounds of moist sugar, and two cloves of garlic, with which rub the meat well and leave it rather more than a week, rubbing and turning it over every day, then drain and cut it into two equal parts, place one upon the other, mixing the fat and lean well, tie them together, and afterwards in a clean cloth, put into a large stewpan or stock pot containing six gallons of water, and let simmer for eight hours, but to ascertain correctly if done run a trussing-needle into it, if tender it is quite done, then take it out and let it remain ten minutes upon a dish to drain, have ready a large tin dish-cover eighteen inches long, twelve wide, and deep in proportion, place it upon a trivet and put the beef into it, opening the cloth to lay smoothly in the cover and with a fork arranging the meat fat and lean toge- ther aU over the bottom; you have a common piece of board half an inch in thickness made to fit into the cover, place it upon the meat with half a hun- dred weight upon it and let remain in a cold place until the next morning, then take off" the weight and the board, pull the cloth gently at each angle^ and when loose turn it over upon your dish, take the cloth off" gently, gar- nish with sprigs of parsley, fresh watercresses, and small radishes (if in season,) cut m thm strips crosswise. Nothing could be nicer than this for a breakfast or luncheon, it wiH keep good a fortnight in winter and as lono- as a week m the summer by putting it in a cold place. I have frequently made some m my Kitchen at Home, procuring a piece weighing ten or twelve pounds, from the bones and trimmings of which I have also made very excel- lent soup, which last of course must be fresh. The pickHng wiU answer to salt three or four other joints, as it will keep good nearly a month in summer and much longer in winter. No. 9. Haunch of Mutton. The haunch is the most important joint644 KITCHEN AT HOME. from the sheep, it reqmres hut little trimming, and to be hung about three Aveeks, (season permitting). Saw about three inches from the knuckle, detach all the skin from the loin and put it upon a spit, commencing running the spit in at the knuckle and bringing it out at the flap, avoiding the fillet of the loin (a cradle spit may be used for this joint) set it down at the distance of two feet from a good solid fire, and if weighing about twenty pounds it requires two hours and a half roasting, ten minutes after it is down rub it over with butter, which you have fixed in the bowl of a wooden spoon, it will form a kind of froth over it, then place it back three feet from the fire, where let it continue until done, if approved of shake over a little fiour from a flour-dredge a quarter of an hour before taking it up, when done dress upon your dish with a paper frill upon the knuckle and about half a pint of gravy under. If the meat is rather fat the butter may be omitted. No. 10. Sotek's Saddle Back of Mutton. This is an entirely new joint which I have introduced, in this present month, April 1846. I have served it but three times in our cofi"ee-room, where it gave the greatest satis- faction to those who had partaken of them, they having dined from fifteen to eighteen each, whilst two saddles which would weigh six or eight pounds more would not dine more than seven or eight if badly carved, or more than ten if properly carved in the usual manner, the cut is a correct repre- sentation of the appearance of the new joint, with serves to indicate the mode of carving. It is composed of the two loins and two necks of a sheep trimmed into the form of a double saddle without interfering in the least with the legs and shoulders, which would cause a serious loss to the butcher. Trim and dispose the saddle back as follows : saw the centre bone of the back as far as the saddle, dividing it but not cutting the meat or making a hole through, then with a small saw divide each joint, so as to admit of the necks being cut into chops in carving, when well separated take a piece of a good length from the ends of the rib bones, trim the flaps, turn them under, fixing them with skewers and string, giving the proper shape as the design represents, pull the skin from the whole back, melt two ounces of butter, which rub over with a paste brush to give a good appearance and let remain five or six days previous to roasting, weather permitting. To roast pass a long saddle of mutton spit through the spinal marrow bone, brmging it out at the ends of the necks, fix it to a larger spit, and place at a good distance from a moderate fire for nearly three hours, avoid basting, but a quarter of an hour before taking up shake a little flour mixed with some finely-ground rice over, which is very good for a little change. This joint looks very noble and does not appear too large when roasted. For a small dinner a saddleKITCHEN AT HOME. 645 back of Welsh mutton or lamb will make a very fine Remove. To carve commeLrbfpassing your knife down the back where nothing but the meat SdS holds it together, and from thence crosswise to the flap, serving a cutlet and a he. between to each person, continuing the same way through S sadZ you will thus carve the meat according to the Pr^^^^^^^ fresh hot gravy for each person as you proceed carving. Should any lemam it is fit either to be sent cold to table or dressed otherwise advantageously. No 11 Saddle of Mutton. Procure a fine saddle of mutton about foin-te'en pounds in weight, that has been kept some time take off the skm wXa knife, and skewer the flaps under, run a lark-spit through the spinal maiTow-bone, which spit affk to a larger one, and place down p roast as di- rected for the saddle-back ; it will require about an hour and three quarters roasting, and must be cai-ved as in the last. No 12. Leg of Mutton. A leg weighing eight pounds would take about an hour and a half roasting ; run the spit in under the thigh-bone and biing it out at the knuckle, roast it as described for the haunch, and send to table with a frill upon the knuckle. , t i n • • • When I have a leg of mutton to roast in my kitchen I make a small incision at the knuckle two or three days before roasting, in which I put two or three cloves of garhc, it will give the mutton a fine and peculiar flavour, not at aU resembhng the strong, and to some objectionable, flavour of garhc. I fre- quently serve it with haricot beans under it, dressed as directed (No. 1094). No. 13. Shoulder of Mutton of seven or eight pounds weight will re- quire about one hour roasting; run the spit in at the flap and bring it out at the knuckle, observe the same directions as before, not basting, but merely rubbing it over with the butter. No. 14. Loin of Mutton. A loin weighing six pounds would require an hour to roast; take off all the skin with a knife, and separate the joints with a chopper, not cutting through the fillet; run a lark-spit through from one extremity to the other and aflfix it to a larger spit, observe the same directions in roasting as for the haunch. This is a very favorite dish of mine at home, where I in general joint it with a meat-saw so as to enable me to carve it into thin slanting chops, which look so much more inviting in the plate than those huge pieces which are generally carved. No. 15. Neck of Mutton. Tliis I call a very recherche Uttle joint when well kept; it must be nicely trimmed, sawing through the bones at the tips of the ribs, which detach from the meat, folding the flap over; saw off the chine-bone, and with a knife detach the remainder of the bone from the flllet, detach the skin from the upper part, fix the fiap under with a couple of skewers, run a long fiat iron skewer through the centre, from one extremity to the other, fix it to a larger spit, roast (if weighing five pounds) nearly three quarters of an hour, observing the same directions as before, carve it cross- wise, cutting it in cotelettes, one of which, with a bone, serve to each guest. No. 16. Boiled Leg of Mutton. Cut the knuckle from a leg of mutton which has been hung some time, put into an oval braising-pan well covered with cold water, in which you have put two ounces of salt, place it upon a sharp fire until boiling, when skim well, and place it upon the corner of the fire to simmer about two hours, that is if the leg does not exceed more than646 KITCHEN AT HOME. nine pounds in weight; about half an hour before it is done add a dozen turnips peeled and cut into quarters, when done take it up, dress upou a ?l7o?f?V""'P-! ''T^ P^^' " ^''"^ "P«" knuekle, pour nearly Llf a pm of the liquor it was boiled m over, and serve with caper sauce (No 67) in a boat Observe m boiling any description of meat, fast boiling would not cook It any quicker, but cause it to eat very hard and bad At home I have tried to cook them by placing them in the water whilst boding and when again beginning to boil drawing it to the corner of the fire; It certainly saves a Uttle time, but does not eat so tender as when nut into cold water. I generaUy there mash turnips and serve them separately (1 do not like them plain and watery, although I consider they must be much more wholesome). Place the turnips when boded into a stewpan, add half a teaspoonful of salt, a quarter ditto of pepper, two ounces of butter with which you have mixed half a tablespoonful of flour, and four tablespoonfuls ot cream or mdk, mix aU weU together over the fire with a wooden spoon. toY caper sauce I mix a tablespoonful of flour with an ounce of butter, and put It m a smallish stewpan, add half a pint of the liquor the mutton was boiled m, stir over the fire until upon the point of boiling, when add a quar- ter of a tablespoon of salt, quarter that quantity of pepper, little grated nut- meg, and a good spoonful of drained pickled capers; then add another ounce of butter, shake round over the fire, and when melted it is finished, I some- times also add a spoonful of haison^ it gives it a rich colour. No. 17. Shoulder of Mutton (boiled). Choose a very tender one, weighing about seven pounds, cut ofi" the knuckle, and boil it as above; one hour and a half would be sufficient. Welsh Mutton.—No. 18. Saddle-back of Welsh Mutton. Trim and truss it as South Down mutton, it will take one hour less roasting ; you may butter twice over. No. 19. Haunch. If weighing twelve pounds roast it an hour and a half as directed (in proportion) for the haunch of mutton, but if deficient of fat rub it over with butter three or foirr times instead of once. No. 20. Saddle. If weighing eight pounds roast it an hour and a quarter. No. 21. Leg. If weighing five pounds roast it an hour. No. 22. Loin. If weighing four pounds roast three quarters of an hour. No. 23. Neck. If weighing three pounds roast it half an liom-. No. 24. Shoulder If weighing four pounds roast it three quarters of an hour. Loin and neck about the same time. No. 25. Lamb is divided into but three principal joints, being the fore- quarter, haunch, and saddle, two joints may be made of each by separating the shoidder from the ribs, the leg from the loin, or dividing the saddle, but they are usually roasted together. To trim the fore-quarter saw off' the chine-bone, and break the rib-bones down the centre, pass two iron skewers from the breast to the back and a lark-spit through lengthwise, fix it upon a larger spit, cover a sheet of buttered paper over the top, and roast an hour and a quarter before a good fire, rubbing butter over, it would be a light gold colour; should the shoulder have been taken off it will only require thi-ee quarters of an hour to roast, serve in a dish with a little gravy under, and mint sauce in a boat. The haunch must be trimmed by cutting off the shank-bone, place it upou a small spit by running the spit in at the extremity of the loin, passing overKITCHEN AT HOME. ^4.7 .,e.high bone, a„abnnsi.|g it 0^ fh^r^lrSJrrsoUtre^ u'pon the .nueMe, and .erve a. h^fm-P The lea: only woiild require one hour roasting. rir\he tc dfe, skewer the flaps underneath, curling each one round, run a lark- pit hrough the spinal marrow-bone, and fix it to a larger spit; place I shtet butSd paper'over, and roast an hour and a half before a good fire, dress upon your dish and serve as for the fore-quarter. No 26. Fillet or Veal. Choose it of the best quality, as described at the commencement of this series. Procure a eg, saw off the knuckle, take out the bone in the centre of the fiUet, and fiU up the cavity with some Suffing made as directed (No. 127), fold the udder and flap round which fix with three skewers; place half a sheet of buttered foolscap paper top and bottom, which tie over and over with plenty of string, run a spit through, flxing the fillet with a hold-fast, set down to roast, placing it rather close to the fire ten minutes, rub weU over with butter, then place it at least two feet and a half from the fire, to roast very slowly, giving it a fine gold colour; a fillet weighing sixteen pounds would require three hours roasting, when done take it up, detach aU the string and paper, trim the top and set it upon your dish; have a pint of melted butter in a stewpan upon the fire, to which, when boiling, add four spoonfuls of Harvey sauce, and two of mushroom catsup, mix well, and pour round.the fillet; have also boiled nicely an ox- tongue, which skin and trim, dress upon a dish surrounded with greens or cabbage nicely boiled, and serve as an accompaniment to the fillet. In my small kitchen I, however, content myself with a nice piece of streaked bacon, of about two pounds in weight, boiled and served surrounded with greens or turnip tops if in season. For the different modes of dressing the remainder see the Entrees, Kitchen at Home. No. 27. Loin of Veal. Procure one with plenty of fat and a nice kidney in it, cut off the chump, take away the rib-bone at the other extremity, and fasten the flap over the kidney with a skewer, run a spit through lengthwise (not too thick a one), commencing at the thickest end, and fixing it at the other extremity with a hold-fast, tie it up in a sheet of oiled paper; if weigh- ing fourteen pounds it will require two hours and a quarter to roast, serve with sauce and tongue, or bacon, as in the last, upon a separate dish. At home I usually content myself with tbe chump as taken from the loin, either roasting or boiling it, should it weigh four pounds it would require an hour roasting, or an hour and a quarter boiling ; if roasted, serve with bacon and the same sauce as for the fillet, but if boiled I make half the quantity of sauce as for boiled leg of mutton, but omitting the capers, and adding a spoonful of roughly chopped fresh green parsley. Dress the remains the second day as directed in the Entrees, Kitchen at Home. No. 28. Breast of Veal. Procure a nice breast of veal, which trim as directed (No. 456), stuff the interior with a long roll of stufllng (No. 127), roll the flaps over and sew it up with a trussing needle and string, place it upon a spit, running it through lengthwise, and roast one hour and a quarter as directed for the loin, serve with the same sauce, and bacon and greens se- parate. The breast of veal stewed is also good, but for the details, I must refer to the Removes in the first part of this work. At home I stew them, and add a few heads of celery with the stock it is stewing in, which I after-648 KITCHEN AT HOME. wards dress round the veal, and make a httle white sauce similar to No 7 with some of the kquor it was stewed in, or thicken the sauce with a ukle butter and flour, and add a gill of milk. No 29. Shouldeu of Veal. A shoulder weighing fourteen pounds would require two hours and a half to roast, and three hours to boil, serve with a parsley and butter sauce if boiled, or if roasted with sauce as for the dressed ^^'^^^^ ^^^^ ^^^^^ ^'^^ separate, whichever way it is Should you boil the shoulder add a few vegetables, and you may reduce the stock it was boiled m to a glaze (by continual boiling), Avhich\dU be very servicable m dressing the remains upon foUowing days, by boiling a calt s footwith the shoulder you would produce a muchgreater quantity of glaze. No. 30. Neck of Veal is usually served as the shoulder, either roasted or stewed, with vegetables, but I have described a number of methods of dress- ing it in the Removes of the first department of this work. No. 31. Knuckle of Veal is a very favourite dish of mine; I procure two of them, which I saw into three pieces each, and put into a stewpan with a piece of streaked bacon two pounds in weight, four onions, a carrot, two turnips, and six peppercorns, place over the fire, and when boiling add a little salt, skim well, and place at the corner to simmer gently for two hours, take up, dress them in your dish surrounded with the vegetables and bacon] and serve with parsley and butter over ; very good soup may be made from the stock it was boiled in if required, or if not, into glaze, which put by until wanted. No. 32. Leg of Pork. Choose the pork as described at the commence- ment of this series, if a leg, one weighing about seven pounds, cut an incision in the knuckle near the thigh, into which put a quantity of sage and onions, previously passed in butter, sew the incision up with packthread, score the rind of the pork in Unes across, half an inch apart, place upon a spit, run- ning it in just under the rind, and bringing it out at the knuckJe. If stufied the day previous to roasting it would improve its flavour ; roast, if weighing seven pounds, about two hours and a half, and serve with apple sauce in a boat. I often roast a small leg of pork at home as directed above, and make apple sauce thus : peel and slice six nice apples, which put into a stewpan, with a tablespoonful of currants well washed and picked, and one of brown sugar, a httle of the rind of a lemon chopped very fine, six spoonfuls of water, and a very small piece of cinnamon, bod until in puree, then stir in a handful of bread-crumbs, and serve hot. When, however, I am in a great hurry I merely put apples, water, sugar, and a little rind of lemon. Other joints of pork are roasted in the same manner, but do not require stuffing, a loin weighing six pounds requiring two houi's and a quarter to roast; a neck of the same size will take about the same time, as wdl the spare-ribs, which is nothing but the necks of larger pork with the blade-bone cut out and the fat taken off. No. 33. Salt Pouk. Pork is salted in the same manner as described for beef, omitting the saltpetre, but of course not requiring so long a time; a leg weighing seven pounds would be well salted in a week, as also would a hand and spring w^eighing about ten pounds, and either would rcquu-e twoKITCHEN AT HOME. 649 Lours boiling, putting them in a stewpan with cold water and serving with iTts and greens upon a separate dish, with the leg it is also customary to serve a peas pudding made thus: tie about a pmt of spht peas loosely n TpiKlL^g c Jh, throw them into boiling water to stew until tender, then take them up, turn from the cloth upon the bade of a hair sieve, throuo-h which force them with a wooden spoon put them into a basm, add two ounces of butter, season with pepper and salt, mix well with six whole eggs, tie up tightly in a pudding cloth, boil an horn- and serve very hot. A pie's head is also excellent pickled; divide the head in two, take out the brains and detach the jaw-bones, piclde it twelve days, rubbing it every day (the brine in which you have pickled one joint, with the addition of more sak would pickle several and keep good for upwards of a month), when ready boil it nearly thi-ee hours, and serve with greens round as an accompaniment to veal or poultry. To pickle it red rub it weU with twelve pounds of salt, a quarter of a pound of saltpetre, two cakes of salt pruneUa, and half a pound of coai-se sugar, rub it every day, aUowing it to remain fifteen days in pickle after which it maybe hung and dried or smoked previously to di'essing. MADE DISHES THAT CAN BE EASILY FBEPAEED AT A MODERATE EXPENSE IN MY KITCHEN AT HOME. Preaching economy which has been practised, from age to age in all domestic works is not here my intention, as my readers must quickly perceive that the simpUcity of my recipts excludes the seal of extravagance, having simplified even dishes of some importance, which daily give and have given the greatest satisfaction at the Reform Club. The regular courses of a cuisine bourgeoise, or domestic cookery, will be found extremely easy to execute in my kitchen at home, and numbers of them done to perfection in the kitchen (or sanctorum) of a bachelor, as well as in the small cottage kitchen. No. 34. Fbench Pot-au-feu. Out of this earthen pot comes the favorite soup and bouiUi, which has been everlastingly famed as having been the support of several generations of all classes of society in France ; from the opulent to the poorest individuals, all pay tribute to its excellence and worth. In fact this soup and.bouiUi is to the French what the roast beef and plum- pudding is on a Sunday to the English. No dinner in France is served without soup, and no good soup is supposed to be made without the pot-au- feu. Generally every quarter of a century makes a total alteration in fashions and pohtics, need I say also in cookery, which must be approximated not only to the fashion but more strongly so to the poHtical world, humbly bend- ing its indispensable services to the whims and wishes of crowned heads, which invariably lead the multitude; for example, the biUs of fare of the sumptuous dinners which used to grace the tables of Louis the Fourteenth, Sixteenth, and Eighteenth, of France, were all very difierent to each other, and none of them were ever copied to grace the sumptuous and luxurious tables of the Empire; even the very features of them have undergone an entire change in our own days; every cuUnary invention taking its title and origin from some celebrated personage or extraordinary event, every innova- tion in cookery, like a change in fashion, causing us to forget those dishes which they have superseded; I have no doubt but that, if some correct historian could collect the bills of fare of dinners from various centuries and nations whichKITCHEN AT HOME. 650 crowned heads have partaken of, he might write a very interesting volume under the title of History of Cookery, in which we should be able closely to trace the original history of different countries.* Nothing can stamp the anniversary of any great event so well as a sumptuous banquet; peace, war, pohtics, and even religion, has always been the cause of extraordinary and sometimes monstrous gastronomic meetings, for a proof of which my readers will find at the end of this work a correct bill of fare (found in the Tower of London) of a dinner given by the Earl of Warwick at the installation of an Archbishop of York, in the year 1470. In time of war artists are engaged sketching on immense canvasses the horrors and disasters of a battle, while in peace they sketch the anniversary banquets for the victorious, in honour of the event, (re- minding us of the calm after a storm,) and we may sincerely hope, for the credit of humanity at large, that a disastrous battle may have its hundreds of anniversary banquets without a fresh combat. But to return to the humble but indispensable science of cookery, everything seems to prove to us that it has always performed an important part in political events, and has been exposed to as many alterations ; still, amongst so many changes, it is with a national pleasure that I find, amongst the heap of frivolous cuhinary ruins, an old favorite of our great great-grandfathers still remaining ours, having boldly passed through every storm, it has for ever established its cuhnary power upon our changeable soil. The brown cheek of this demi-immortal is daily seen ornamenting the firesides of millions, and merely acquaints the childi-en the first thing in the morning that something good is in preparation for their dinner ; this mighty vessel is called in French pot-au-feu,-\ in which is made that excellent and wholesome luxury which for centuries has been the principal nourishment and support of the middhng and poorer classes of France at a very trifling expense. It is not upon the tables of the wealthy that the best of this national soup is to be obtained, but upon the right or left side of the entrance to his noble mansion, in a square, oval, or octagonal room, commpnly called la Loge du Portier, or the Porter's Lodge, as nearly every porter has his portiere, that is, a wife who answers the door (whilst her husband is doing the frotage, or polishing the floor of the apartment), while pulling the string or wire which loosens the lock to let people in with one hand, she skims the pot-au-feu with the other; should she be fortunate enough to possess two eyes she would keep one upon her pot-au-feu, and the other upon the individual; who had, probably, come only to make inquiry, but unfortu- nately for La Mfere Binard (who I shall have the pleasure of introducing to my readers as a gastronomic wonder in her simple style) she had but one eye, which she almost entirely devoted to the ebullition of her pot-au-fm ; having been portiere there two-and-thirty years, she knew most of the people in the habit of calling by their voice, and used to answer them even without turning her shaking head. But what brought her domestic cookery in such high repute, that she was not to be excelled by any portiere of Paris, was, that one day her master, M. le Comte de C * * * * (who was a good gentleman and great epicure), came home from a long ride while she was performing her humble occupation of pouring the soup into the tureen, a triple knock came to the door, which immediately opened as by electricity, * Especially in France, where cookery was lu-st cradled, and has ever since been well Being a brown earthen pot, wliich costs about skpence or a sliilliiig, and which with care would last twenty years; the more it is used the better soup it makes.KITCHEN AT HOME. 651 and in walked her beloved master, who came to the door of the lodge to pay his duties to his old and faithful servant, whilst an exhalation of the most delicious fragrance perfumed the small apartment from the boilmg con- some which attracted his scientific attention; after a short mquuy he discovered in an old brown pan the gloriously smoking hot consome, and seizing with avidity a spoon by the side, tasted (much to the astonishment ot La Mere Binard) several spoonfuls, pronouncing the first delicious, the second exceUent, the third dehghtful, in fact magnificent. " Can you spare any of it ?" he said, addressing the worthy dame. " Yes," said she, " but I am sure Mon- seigneur does not mean it." " But indeed I do," repUed he, " and if I had been aware 1 could have obtained such a treasure, I would have had nothing else for my dinner to-day; and if you were not so far advanced in years I would not object to make you a cordon bleu." The earthen pan was immediately conveyed up stairs to the dining-room, and deposited upon the table of his seigneurie, where an excellent dinner was waiting for himself and friends, but the immortal pot-au-feu resting on a superb silver tray, with its handle hahf broken ofi", made all the homage of the dinner, to the great annoyance of the cook, who had thus sacrificed the art he had displayed in dressing a most recherch6 dinner, and felt much offended at the whim of his wealthy master, who had neglected his dinner to take pot-luck with his porter's wife. By a friendly introduction to La Mfere Binard, I, with a great deal of sup- plication, obtained from her the following valuable receipt, having been obhged first to Ksten to the constant repetition of the above anecdote before she could explain it to me.—" I generally choose," says she, " a bit of the gite a la mix, part of the aitch-bone, a piece of the rump, or a slice from the thickest part of the leg, weighing from four to five pounds, with sufficient fat attached, or adding a small piece, then I put it into the earthen pan, and fill with cold water to within two inches of the rim, being about four quarts, then I set it by my wood fire until beginning to get hot, when a thin scum win arise by degrees, which I carefully take off and throw away, then I add half a pound of beef hver, and a tablespoonful and a half of salt, it will pro- duce more scum, which also carefully remove, have ready prepared well washed and clean, two middling-sized carrots cut in halves, then in four, two small pieces of parsnip, four turnips, two onions, with two cloves stuck in each, eight young leeks, or two old ones, a head of celery cut into pieces three inches in length, tie the leeks and celery 'into a bunch, and put altogether into the pot-au-feu, set it alone nearer the fire until it commences boihng, fresh skim again, draw it a little farther to the corner of the fire, put a wooden skimmer across the pot, upon which rest the lid to prevent its boilmg fast, (which would entirely spoil the soup, the meat becoming very hard and the soup thick and muddy). " You quite astonish me, Mrs. Binard," said L " Oh," says she, " I have had so many years of experience, and know it to be the case." " Yes," said I, " my dear lady, I do not in the least doubt your correctness." " Well, then, one hour after- wards I add a Httle cold water to keep it to the same quantity, put in a burnt onion to give it a colour, and let simmer four hours, sometimes five, depending if the meat is cut very thick, then I cut some lai-ge thin shces of bread, which I lay at the bottom of the tureen, then I take off the greater part of the fat, cut the bunch of celery and leeks open, lay them upon the sUces of bread, with one of the carrots, two turnips, and the pieces of parsnip, take half of the broth with a ladle, which pour into the tureen (there being quite enough soup for six of us, myself, Binard, my daughter and652 KITCHEN AT HOME. her husband and the two boys ; then I take out carefuUy the meat, which I lay upon tlie dish, with half of the liver at the side, the other half when cold I give to Minette (her favorite cat), lay the remainder of the vegetables round, with some fine sprigs of fresh parsley, by that time the bread is (tremp^) moistened, set both upon the table at once, keeping the meat covered until we have done with the soup; that is the way we dine upon a Sunday; the next day, with the remainder of the broth I make vermicelli or rice soup, or the same with bread in it, and fricassee the remainder of the beef m various ways; when my daughter was iU I used to put a calf's foot in the pot-au-feu with the beef, it made the soup very strengthening and did her much good," " Will you be kind enough," said I, " to tell me where you get these burnt onions, for I perceive without it your soup would be quite white." " Bless you, sir! " she replied, " you may get six for two sous at any of the grocers, or you can burn them yourself in the oven, or by the fire-side, gently turning them now and then until they are quite black, but not burnt to a cinder, or it would spoil the flavour of the soup." I then took leave of her, returning thanks for her kindness, and put down the receipt as she gave it me during her long explanation; as follows : (Receipt), put in the pot-au-feu six pounds of beef, four quarts of water, set near tbe fire, skim, when nearly boiling add a spoonful and a half of salt, half a pound of liver, two carrots, four turnips, eight young or two old leeks, one head of celery, two onions and one burnt, with a clove in each, and a piece of par- snip, skim again and let simmer four or five hours, adding a Httle cold water now and then, take off part of the fat, put sUces of bread into the tureen, lay half the vegetables over, and half the broth, and serve the meat separate with the vegetables around. Since I have been in England I have broken my precious earthen pot, I have, however, made some very good soups at home in a black saucepan or stewpan, but must admit not quite so delicate and perfect as in the identical de terre. SOUPS.—No. 35. Julienne Soup. Put about six pounds of knuckle of veal in a stewpan cut in four pieces, with about half a pound of streaked bacon; put a piece of butter at the bottom of the stewpan, and about half a pint of water, place it over a sharp fire, moving it round occasionally with a wooden spoon untU the bottom of the stewpan is covered with a white glaze, when add about a gallon of water, two ounces of salt, three onions (with two cloves in each), two turnips, one carrot, a head of celery, leek, and a bunch of parsley, thyme, and bayleaf; when boiling put in two burnt onions (see Pot- au-feu) to colour it, and stand it at the corner of the fire to simmer for two hours, keeping it well skimmed, then pass the broth through a hair-sieve into a stewpan; you have previously cut two middling-sized carrots, two turnips, an onion, a leek, and a little celery into very thin strips an inch long; put them in another stewpan with two ounces of butter and a tea- spoonful of powdered sugar; place it upon a sharp fire, tossing them over occasionally until well fried and looking transparent, then put them into the brotli with the half of a young cos lettuce, and a httle tarragon and chervil, place it at the corner of your fire, and when it boils skim ofi" all the butter; let it simmer until the vegetables are perfectly tender, when pour it into your tureen; serve the veal and piece of bacon upon the dish with melted butter and chopped parsley over. Beef may also be used for the above, and the ve- getables cut in any of the shapes directed for the soups in the other depart- ment of this work; if you only require a smaller quantity, take only three pounds, or diminish all in proportion.653 KITCHEN AT ROME. No 3fi Mutton Broth. Any description of trimmings of mutton may be used for broth, but the scrag end of the neck is usually chosen; put about two scrags into a stewpan Oiaving previously jointed the bone), with three onions (a couple of cloves stuck in each), three turnips, one carrot, and a bunch containing a leek, a head of celery, and a few spngs of thyme and parslev, fill up the stewpan with rather more than a gaUon of water; when boiling skim it, and place it at the corner of the stove, where let it simmer for three hours, then cut a smaU carrot, two, turnips, an onion, and a piece ot leek and celery into very small square pieces, put them into a stewpan with a wineglassful of pearl barley, pass the broth through a hau- sieve over them, and boil at the corner of the fire until the barley is tender, when it is ready to serve; the meat may be trimmed into neat pieces, and served m the broth, or separately with melted butter and parsley, or onion sauce. No. 37. Irish Mutton Broth. This broth is made similar to the last, addin'o- ten or twelve mealy potatoes cut in large dice, which by boiling to a puree''thickens the broth; just before serving throw in twenty heads of parsley, at the same time put in a few flowers of marigolds, which really give a pleasing flavour; it is then ready to serve. At home I make clear soup of the trimmings of any meat, either beef, veal, mutton, or lamb, or the trimmings of two or three different sorts of meat, in the same manner as directed for Julienne soup. No. 38. A VERY SIMPLE RECEIPT FOR THE ScOTCH CoCK-A-LeEKEY. This is a very favourite national soup with the Scotch, which by rights ought to have been the pride of Welch cookery, ranking as high in the estimation of millions as their celebrated and generally appreciated rai-e bit, commonly called a Welsh rabbit. Take six or eight pounds of leg of beef (depending upon the quantity you want to make), with which make a stock as dii-ected for Julienne soup, let- ting simmer two hours, and keeping it weU skimmed; in the mean time trim two or three bunches of fine winter leeks, cutting off" the roots and part of the head, then split each in halves lengthwise, and each half in three, wash well in two or three waters, pass the stock through a sieve into another stewpan, into which put the leeks, with a fowl trussed as for boiling, let simmer very gently at the corner of the fire for three hours, keeping it well skimmed, season a little if required, and half an hour before serving add two dozen French plums, without breaking them; when ready to serve, take out the fowl which cut into neat pieces, place in a large tureen, and pour the leeks and broth over, the leeks being then partly in puree; if too thick, however, add a drop more broth or water. Should the leeks happen to be old and strong it would be better to blanch them five minutes in a gallon of boiling water previously to putting them with the stock. Although an old cock is usually procured in Scotland for the above purpose, I prefer a young one, but should an old one be most handy stew it a short time in the stock before passing it. No. 39. Ox-tail Soup. Cut up two ox-tails, separating them at the joint, put a small piece of butter at the bottom of a stewpan, then put in the ox- tails, with a carrot, turnip, three onions, head of celery, one leek, and a bunch of parsley, thyme, and bay-leaf, add half a pint of water and twehe grains of whole pepper, set over a sharp fire, stirring occasionally until the^^4' KITCHEN AT HOME. bottom of the stewpan is covered with a thickish brown glaze • then add « quarter of a pound of flour stir it well in, and fiU up the st w^an w th three quarts of water, add a tablespoonful of salt, stir oceasionall/until bo hnT when set i upon the corner of the stove, skim weU, and let simmer until the tads are stewed very tender, the flesh coming easily from the bone, take them out imniediately and put them into your tureen ; pass the soup, which must not be too thick, through a hair sieve over them, add a head of celery previously cut smaU and blanched in a Httle stock, and serve. Ox-tail soup may also be made clear by omitting the flour, and serving ve- shlpe dii-ected in Juhenne soup (No. 35), but cut in any other No. 40. Ox-cheek Soup. Blanch and wash weU two ox-cheeks, cut off the beard, take away all the bone, which chop up, and cut the flesh into mid- dling sized pieces leaving the cheek part whole, put altogether mto a stew- pan, with four quarts of water, a Httle salt, ten peppercorns, two carrots, two turnips, one leek, one head of celery, and a bunch of parsley, thyme, and bay- leaf, also a burnt onion to colour it; let stew at the corner of the fii-e six hours, keeping well skimmed, then take out the fleshy part of the cheek and pass the broth through a hair sieve into another stewpan, mix half a pound of flour with a pint of cold broth, which pour into it and stir over the fire until boiling, place it at the corner, let simmer till tender (adding two heads of celery cut very fine, and a glass of sherry) ; when the celery is tender, cut the meat in small square slices, keep them warm, and when the soup is ready pour over and serve. Sheep's or lamb's heads also make very good soup by following the above receipt, and adding two pounds of veal, mutton, or beef to the stock, two heads would be sufficient, and they would not require so long to stew. No. 41. New Mock Turtle Soup. Procure half a calf's head (scalded, not skinned), bone it, then cut up a knuckle of veal, which put into a stew- pan with half a pound of lean ham, two ounces of butter, one of salt, at the bottom, a carrot, one turnip, three onions, a head of celery, a leek, and a bunch of parsley, thyme, marjoram, basil, and a bay-leaf, with nearly half a pint of water, move round occasionally upon the fire until the bottom of the stewpan is covered with a white glaze, then add six quarts of water, and put in the half head, let simmer at the corner of the fire for two hours and a half, or till the head is perfectly tender, when take it up and press it between two dishes, pass the stock through a hair sieve into a basin ; then in another stewpan have a quarter of a pound of butter, with a sprig of thyme, basil, marjoram, and a bay-leaf, let the butter get quite hot; then add six ounces of flour to form a roux, stir over a sharp fire a few minutes, keeping it quite white, stand it off the fire to cool, then add the stock, boil up, skim, and pass it through a hair sieve into another stewpan, cut the head into pieces an inch square, not too thick, and put them into the soup, which season with a httle cayenne pepper; when the xjieces are hot, add a gill of cream, and pour it into your tureen. The above quantity will make several tureens of soup and will keep good several days. No. 42. Brown Mock Turtle Soup. Proceed the same as in the last article, only colouring the stock by drawing it down to a brown glaze, orKITCHEN AT HOME. 655 with a couple of burnt onions, and serving with a glass of port wine in it, or two of sherry, omitting the cream. No 43 MuLLAGATAWNEY Soup. Cut up a knuclde of veal, which put in a stewpan with a piece of butter, half a pound of lean ham, a carrot, one turnip three onions, six apples, one head of celery, one leek, a bunch ot pai-sley, thyme, and bay-leaf, a blade of mace, six cloves, and half a pmt ot water r set the stewpan over a sharp fire, move the meat round occasionally, let remain untU the bottom of the stewpan is covered with a brownish glaze ; then add two or three tablespoonfuls of currie powder, one of currie paste, if handy, and half a pound of flour, stir well in, and fill up with a gallon of water, add a spoonful of salt, half ditto of sugar, and a quarter ditto of pepper, let boil up; then place it at the corner of the stove, where let it sim- mer two hours and a half, then pass it through a hair sieve into the tureen ; trim some of the pieces of veal, which serve in it, and some plain boiled rice separate ; ox-tails or pieces of rabbits, chickens, &c., left from a previous dinner may be served in it instead of the veal; if too thick add a drop of broth or water. No. 44. GiBLET SoTJP. Clean two sets of giblets, and soak for two hours, cut them into equal sizes and put them into a stewpan, with a quarter of a pound of butter, four pounds of veal or beef, half a pound of ham, a carrot, turnip, three onions, a head of celery, leek, two ounces of salt, and a bunch of parsley, thyme, and bay-leaf; place the stewpan over a sharp fire, stirring the meat round occasionally, when the bottom of the stewpan is covered with a light glaze add half a pound of flour, stir well in, and fiU up with a gallon of water, add two burnt onions to colour it; when boihng set at the corner of the stove, let simmer, skim well, and when the giblets are tender take them out, put them in your tureen, pass the soup through a hair sieve over, and serve; twenty button onions, or any small sharp vegetable is very good in it, also a glass of port wine. No. 45. Gbeen Pea Soup. Put two quarts of green peas into a stewpan with a quarter of a pound of butter, quarter of a pound of lean ham cut in dice, two onions in slices, and a few sprigs of parsley; add a quart of cold water, and with the hand rub all well together, then pour ofi" the water, cover the stewpan close and stand it upon a sharp fire, tossing or stirring them round occasionally; when very tender add two or three tablespoonfuls of flour, mix well in, mashiug the peas with your spoon against the sides of the stewpan, add three quai-ts of broth, made as for Julienne soup (No. 35), or broth from the pot au feu (No. 34), and a tablespoonful of sugar, with a little pepper and salt if required, boil all well together five minutes ; then rub it through a tammie or hair sieve, put it into another stewpan with half a pint of boil- ing milk, boil and skim, then pour it into your tureen, and serve with small croutons of fried bread-crumbs. It must not be served too thick. No. 46. WiNTEB Pea Soup. Wash a quart of split peas, which put into a stewpan with half a pound of streaky bacon, two onions in slices, two pounds of veal or beef cut into small pieces, and a little parsley, thyme, and hay-leave, previously passed in butter in the same stewpan; cover with a gallon of water, add a httle salt and sugar, place it upon the fire; when boil- ing stand It at the side untU the peas are boiled to a puree, and the water hasKITCHEN AT HOME. 65G reduced to half, then take out the meat, place it in the tureen, keep it hot and rub the soup through a hair sieve or tammie, put it in another stewpan' and when boiling pour over the meat, and serve. The bacon is good cold the meat may also be put into the tureen if approved of. ' No. 47. PuKEE OF Vegetable Soup, Peel and cut up very fine three onions, three turnips, one carrot, and four potatoes, put them into a stewpan with a quarter of a pound of butter, the same of lean ham, and a bunch of parsley, pass them ten minutes over a sharp fire ; then add a good spoonful of flour, mix well in, moisten with two quarts of broth (prepared as for Ju- lienne soup. No. 35), and a pint of boiling milk, boil up, keeping it stirred ; season with a little salt and sugar, and rub through a hair sieve or tammie' put it into another stewpan, boil again, skim, and serve with croutons of fried bread in it. No. 48. Maigbe Soup. Cut two onions into very small dice and put them into a stewpan with two ounces of butter, fry them a short time, but not to change colour; have three or four handfuls of well washed sorrel, cut it into ribands, and put it into the stewpan with the onions, add two table- spoonfuls of flour, mix well, then a pint of milk and a pint of water, boil all together ten minutes, season with a little sugar and salt, and finish with a liaison of two yolks of eggs, mixed with a gill of cream, stir it in quickly, do not let it boil afterwards ; put the crust of a French roll cut in strips into your tureen, pour the soup over, and serve. No. 49. Onion Soup Maigre. Peel and cut ten large onions into small dice, put them into a stewpan with a quarter of a pound of butter, place them over the fire, fry them well; then add three tablespoonfuls of flour, which mix well, and rather better than a quart of water, boil till the onions are quite tender, season with a little salt and sugar, finish with a Uaison, and serve as in the last; grated cheese is an improvement in it. No. 50. Vermicelli Soup. Make your stock as for Julienne soup (No. 35), when passed put it into another stewpan with two ounces of ver- micelli, boil it a quarter of an hour, then pour it into your tureen, and serve. Semoulina or tapioca soup is made the same, using either, instead of ver- miceUi. For rice soup, see No. 196. No. 51. Maccauoni Soup. (See No. 197, ItaHan Paste, No. 193). FISH.—No. 52. TuRBOT. For the methods of cleaning fish, see the other department of this work. In my kitchen at home I should never think of cook- ing too large a turbot, but choose a middle-sized one which, generally speak- ing, is the best; cut an incision in the back, rub it well with a good handful of salt, then with the juice of a lemon, set it in a turbot kettle well covered with cold water, in which you have put a good handful of salt, place over the fire and as soon as the water boils put it at the side, if a turbot of ten pounds it wiU take an hour after it has boiled, if it should be allowed to more than simmer it will be very unsightly; take out of the water, leave a minute upon your drainer, serve upon a napkin garnished with fresh parsley, and lobster sauce in a boat; for sauce (see No. 68,) or shrimp sauce (No. 73).KITCHEN AT HOME. 657 No 53. TuRBOT, THE NEW FxiENCH FASHION. Boil youi' turbot as 111 the last, but 'dress it xipon a disb without a napkin, sauce over with a thickish melted butter, (having placed a border of weU-boiled small potatoes round) sprinkle a few capers over and serve. No. 54. Turbot a la Creme is done with the remams of a turbot from a previous dinner; detach the flesh from the bone, and warm in salt and water, make cream sauce as page 99, only omit a third of the butter. Brills are cooked in the same manner as turbots, but being smaller do not require so long boihng, but iu boiling any description of fish never take it up until it leaves the bone with facility, which try by placing the point of a knife between the flesh and the bone, if done the flesh will detach imme- diately. No. 55. John Doree, Boulogne Fashiojj. John Dories, though not very handsome, are very delicate eating; choose them from four to six pounds in weight, and boil as directed for turbot; one of the above size woidd require about three quarters of an hour, if any remain dress like turbot, or with caper sauce, &c. No. 56. Salmon Plain Boiled. I prefer always dressing this fish in shces from an inch to two inches in thickness, boiling it in plenty of salt and water about half an hour the whole fish may be boiled, or the head and shoulders of a large fish, but they require longer boiling. Salmon eats firmer, by not being put into the water until boiling, dress the fish upon a' napkin, and serve with lobster sauce (page 30), shrimp, do., or plain melted butter in a boat, with fresh sprigs of parsley boiled a few minutes in it. A salmon weighing ten pounds will require an hour and a half boiling ; a head and shoulders weighing six pounds, one hour; the remains may be dressed a la cr^me, as dhected for the turbot. (No. 54). No. 57. Salmon Sauce Matelote. Cook three good slices of salmon as du-ected in the last, or a large salmon peal trussed in the form of the letter S, di-ess it upon a dish without a napkin, having previously di-ained off" all the water; have ready the following sauce : peel fifty small button onions, then put a good teaspoonful of powdered sugar into a convenient-sized stew- pan, place it upon a sharp fire, and just as the sugar melts and turns yel- lowish add a quarter of a pound of butter and the onions, place it again upon the fire, tossing them over occasionally until they become slightly browned, then add a good tablespoonful of flour, (mix well but gently), a glass of sherry, and a pint of broth (reserved from some soup), let boil at the corner of the stove, skim well, and when the onions are done and the sauce rather thick, add a little pepper, salt, a teaspoonful of catsup, one of Harvey sauce, and one ot essence of anchovies; when ready to serve add two dozen of oysters, blanched and bearded, aUow them to get quite hot, sauce over and serve. I sometimes at home make a few fish queneUes (No. 124) and add to the sauce. The remainder of the above is very good if put in the oven upon a dish with a cover over and a Uttle additional sauce. No. 58. Cod Fish Plain Boiled. (See page 119). . 59. Cod Fish sauced over wtth Oyster Sauce. Boil three slices 42KITCHEN AT HOME. G58 of tlie fish as above, drain and dress them upon a dish without a napkin, Llanch three dozen oysters by putting them into a stewpan with their juice upon the fire, move them round occasionally, do not let them boil, as soon as they become a little firm place a sieve over a basin, pour in the oysters, beard and throw them again into their Uquor, put them into a stewpan ; when boiling add four cloves, half a blade of mace, six peppercorns, and two ounces of butter, to which you have added half a tablespoonful of flour, breaking it into small pieces, stir well together, when boiling season with a little salt, cayenne pepper, and essence of anchovies, finish with a gill of cream, or milk, and sauce over. The remains of this fish may be taken from the bone and placed upon a dish, with a little of the above sauce (to which you have added the yolks of two eggs) over, sprinkle over with bread-crumbs, and place it twenty minutes in a hot oven till the bread-crumbs become brown. For Salt fish see page 122 in the other department of this work. No. 60. Haddocks. (See pages 308, 309, 310). No. 61. Baked Haddocks. (Seepage 129). No. 62. Soles, Fried. (See page 114). No. 63. Soles, the Jewish Fashion. Trim the fish well, dip it into a couple of eggs, well beaten, put six tablespoonfuls of salad oil in a saute- pan, place it over the fire, and when quite hot put in your sole, let remain five minutes, turn over, and fry upon the other side, ten or twelve minutes wiU cook it, according to the size; serve upon a napkin without sauce; they are excellent cold. \ No. 64. Sole a la Meunieke. (See page 115, in the other department of this work). No. 65. Sole aux Fines Hekbes. Put a spoonful of chopped eschalots into a saute-pan, with a glass of sherry and an ounce of butter, place the sole over, pom* nearly half a pint of melted butter over it, ivpon which sprinkle some chopped parsley, place it in a moderate oven for half an hour, take the sole out of the pan, dress upon a dish without a napkin, reduce the sauce that is in the pan over a sharp fire, add a httle Harvey sauce and essence of anchovy, pour over the sole, and serve them with a httle flour and butter. No. 66. Fbied Whiting. The whiting requires to be skinned and the tail turned round and fixed into the mouth, dip it first into flour, then egg over and dip it into bread-crumbs, fry as directed for the sole ; for whiting aux fines herbes proceed as directed for sole aux fines herbes. At home I prefer the whiting fried with their skins on, merely dipping them in flour. No. 67. Whiting au Gratin. Put a good spoonful of chopped onions upon a strong earthen dish, with a glass of wine, season the whitings with a little pepper and salt, put it in the dish, sprinkle some chopped parsley and chopped mushrooms over, and pour over half a pint of aucho^7 sauce (page 32), over which sprinkle some brown bread-crumbs, grated from the crust of bread, place it in a warm oven half an hour; it requkes to be nicely browned; serve upon the dish you have cooked it in.KITCHEN AT HOME. 659 No 68 Eed Mullets. Procure two red muUets, whicli place upon a strong dish not too large, sprinkle some chopped onions, parsley, a little pepper and salt, and a Httle salad-oil over, and put them mto a warm oveu for half an hour, then put a tablespoonfid of chopped onions m a stew- pan, with a teaspoonful of salad-oil, stir over a moderate fire until getting rather yeUowish, then add a tablespoonful of sherry, half a pint of melted butter, with a little chopped mushrooms and parsley ; reduce quickly over a sharp fire, keeping it stirred until becoming rather thick; when the mullets are done sauce over and serve. No. 69. Mackarel are generally served plain boiled; put them in a kettle containing boiling water, well salted, let simmer nearly half an hour, take them up, drain, and dish them upon a napkin, serve melted butter in a boat, with which you have mixed a tablespoonful of chopped fennel, boiling it a few minutes. No. 70. Mackarel a la Maitre d'H6tel. (See p. 127); as also for mackarel au beurre noir. No. 71. Gurnets are best stuffed and baked; stuff them as directed for haddocks, turn them round in the same manner, lay slices of butter over, cut very thin and bake half an hour or more (according to.their size) in a warni oven, when done di-ess upon a dish without a napkin, and have ready the fol- lowing sauce : put a tablespoonful of chopped onions in a stewpan, with one of vinegar, place over the fire a couple of minutes, add half a pint of melted butter, a tablespoonful of Harvey sauce, one of catsup, and two of water, reduce until rather thick, season with a little pepper, cut the fillets of a good anchovy into strips, put in the sauce, which pour round the fish and serve. No. 72. Boiled Gurnet. You may boil it either with or without the stuffing in very salt water, it wiU require rather more than half an hour; serve with anchovy sauce separate. No. 73. Herrings boiled with Cream Sauce. Boil six herrings about twenty minutes in plenty of salt and water, but only just to simmer; then have ready the following sauce : put half a gill of cream upon the fire in a stewpan, when it boils add eight spoonfuls of melted butter, an ounce of fresh butter, a little pepper, salt, and the juice of half a lemon ; dress the fish upon a dish without a napkin, sauce over and serve. For broiled herrings a la Digon, see page 132. No. 74. Skate is usually crimped, cut into long slices, and curled round; procure two or three slices, tie them with string to keep the shape in boiling, put them into a kettle of boiling water, in wliich you have put a good hand- ful of salt; boil gently about twenty minutes (have ready also a piece of the liver, which boil with it), when done drain well and put it upon a dish with- out a napkin; put three parts of a pint of melted butter in a stewpan, place it upon the fire, and when quite hot add a wineglassful of capers, sauce over and serve. For skate au beurre noir, see page 133. Skate may also be served upon a napkin with a boat of well seasoned melted l)utter, to which you have added a spoonful of Harvey sauce.KITCHEN AT itOME. oco No. 75. Flounders, Water Souciiet. Procure four or six Thames flounders, cut each in halves, put half a pint of water in a saute-pan, with a little scraped horseradish, a little pepper, salt, sugar, and forty sprigs of fresh parsley; place over the fire, boil a minute, then add the flounders, stew ten minutes, take them out and place in a dish without a napkin, reduce the liquor they were stewed in a little, pour over and serve. To fry flounders, trim them, and proceed precisely as directed for fried soles (p. 114). Smelts are likewise floured, egged, bread-crumbed, and fried as above. Plaice are plain-boiled in salt and water, and served with shrimp sauce in a boat. FRESH WATER FISH.—No. 76. Pike. Clean as directed (page 93), stuff" the interior as directed for haddocks (page 129), only adding some fillets of anchovies and chopped lemon-peel with it; curl round and put in a baking- dish, spread a little butter all over, put in a moderate oven, when about half done egg over with a paste brush, and sprinkle bread-crumbs upon it; a middling sized pike will take about an hour, but that according to the size and the heat of the oven; when done dress upon a dish vdthout a napkin, and sauce round as directed for baked haddock above referred to. No. 77. Pike, Sauce Matelote. Cook a pike exactly as in the last, dress it upon a dish without a napkin, and sauce with a matelote sauce over, made as directed for salmon sauce matelote (No. 57). This fish may also be served with caper sauce as directed for the skate (No. 74)—the smaller ones are the best; the remains of a pike placed in the oven the next day, with a cover over it and a Uttle more sauce added, is very nice. No. 78. Stewed Carp. Procure a good-sized carp, stuff" it, then put it into a baking-dish with two onions, one carrot, one turnip, one head of celery, and a good bunch of parsley, thyme, and bay-leaf; moisten with two glasses of port wine, and put it in a moderate oven about two hours to bake ; try if done with a knife, which is the case if the flesh leaves the bone easily, dress upon a dish without a napkin, then have ready the following sauce: mince a large Spanish onion with two common ones, and put them into a stewpan with three spoonfuls of salad-oil, fry rather a yellow colour, add two glasses of port wine and two spoonfuls of flour, mix all well together, add a pint of broth (reserved from some soup) or water, with half an ounce of glaze, boil it up, drain the stock the carp was cooked in from the vegetables, which also add to the sauce ; boil well at the corner of the stove, skim, and when rather thick add a teaspoonful of Harvey sauce, one of essence of anchovies, twelve pickled mushrooms, and a little cayenne pepper, pour all the liqour drained from the fish out of your dish, sauce over and serve. No. 79. Carp, Sauce Matelote. Put your carp in a small oval fish- kettle, with wine and vegetables as in the last, to Avhich add also a pint of water'and a Httle salt, with a few cloves and peppercorns ; put the lid upon the fish-kettle and stand it over a moderate fire to stew an hour and a half, according to the size ; when done drain well, dress upon a dish without a napkin, and sauce over with a matelote sauce, made as directed for salmonKITCHEN AT HOME. G61 sauce matelote (No. 57), or caper sauce, as for skate (No. 74) ; small carp are very good flavoured, bread-crumbed and fried. No. 80. Truite a la Twickenham. When you have cleaned your trout as described at page 93, put them into a kettle of boiling water, to which you have added a good handful of salt, and a wineglassful of vinegar; boil gently about twenty minutes, or according to their size, dress upon a napkin, and serve melted butter, into which you have put a tablespoonful of chopped gherkins in a boat. The remains of trout, salmon, ormackarel, are excellent pickled ; put three onious in shces in a stewpan, with two ounces of butter, one turnip, parsley, thyme, and bay-leaf, pass them five minutes over the fire, add a pint of water and a pint of vinegar, boil until the onions are tender, then strain it through a sieve over the fish, it will keep some time if required, and then do to piclde more fish by boihng over again. No. 81. Truite a la Burton. Boil the trout as in the last, then put half a pint of melted butter in a stewpan, with two tablespoonfuls of cream and two of millc, place it upon the fire, and when upon the point of boiling add a haison of one yolk of egg mixed with a tablespoonful of cream, (dress the fish upon a dish without a napkin) put two ounces of fresh butter, a pinch of salt, and the juice of a lemon into the sauce; shake round over the fire, but do not let it boil; sauce over the fish and serve. No. 82. Tench, Sauce Matelote. Put thiee onions, a carrot, and turnip, cut in slices into a stewpan, or very small fish-kettle, with a good handful of parsley, a few sprigs of thyme, three bay-leaves, six cloves, a blade of mace, a little salt, and two glasses of sherry; lay your tench over, (it will require four for a dish, and they may be either cooked whole or each one cut into two or three pieces) add a pint of water, cover down close, and stew gently over a slow fire for about half an hour, take them out, di-aiu upon a cloth, di-ess in pyramid upon a dish without a napkin, and pour a sauce over made as directed for salmon sauce matelote (No. 57), or as for stewed carp (No. 78). No. 83. Tench with Anchovy Butter. Cook the tench as in the last, but they may be plain boUed in salt and water; dress upon a dish without a napkin, then put six spoonfuls of melted butter in a stewpan, with one of milk; place it upon the fii-e, and when upon the point of boiling add an ounce of anchovy butter (page 33), shake it round over the fire until the butter is melted, when sauce over and serve. No. 84. Perch fried in Butter. Clean the fish as explained (p. 94), dry well, make an incision upon each side with a knife, put a quarter of a pound of butter in a saute-pan over a slow fire, lay in the fish, fry gently, turning them over when half done; when done dress upon a napkin, and serve melted butter in a boat. No. 85. Perch, Hampton Court Fashion. Cook the fish as above, and have ready the foUowing sauce : put six spoonfuls of melted butter in a stewpan with a httle salt and the juice of a lemon; when upon the point of boiling stu- in the yolk of an egg mixed with a tablespoonful of cream; do not let itKITCHEN AT HOME. 662 bon; blanch about twenty small sprigs of parsley in boiling water ten minutes, dram and put them m the sauce, which pour over the fish and serve. Perch may also be served plain boiled or stewed as directed for tench, with sauce served separate. No. 86. Eels Fried, Cut your eels into pieces three inches long, dip the pieces into flour, egg over with a paste brush, and throw them into some bread-crumbs; fry in hot lard as directed for fried soles (p. 114). _ No. 87. Stewed Eels, Sauce Matelote. Procure as large eels as pos- sible, which cut into pieces three inches long, and put them into a stewpan with an onion, two bay-leaves, a sprig of thyme and parsley, six cloves, a blade of mace, a glass of sheiTy, and two of water; place the stewpan over a moderate fire, and let simmer about twenty minutes, or according to the size of the eels; when done drain upon a cloth, dress them in pyramid upon a dish without a napkin, with a matelote sauce over, made as directed for salmon sauce matelote (No. 57) but using the stock your eels have been cooked in to make the sauce, having previously well boiled it to extract all the fat. No. 88. Gudgeons are floured, egged, bread-crumbed, or sumply floured, and fried as directed for smelts; but being smaller, they require less time to cook. No. 89. Escaloped Oysteus. Put two dozen of oysters with their liquor into a stewpan, place over a fire, and when a little firm drain them upon a sieve, catching the liquor in another stewpan; detach the beard from the oysters, and throw them again into their liquor; add half a blade of mace, place again upon the fire, and when boiling add a piece of butter the size of a walnut, with which you have mixed a teaspoonful of flour; shake round over the fire until becoming very thick, season with a little cayenne, and salt if required, have an escalop shell, well buttered and bread-crumbed, place the oysters in, sprinkle bread-crumbs over, put it in the oven a quarter of an hour, pass the salamander over, and serve. No. 90. STEVfED Oysters. Blanch and beard the oysters as above, when done, put them with their Uquor in a stewpan, with four cloves, a blade of mace, and a teaspoonful of essence of anchovies, with a little chopped parsley and cayenne ; let simmer a minute, stir in two pats of butter, with which you have mixed half a teaspoonful of flour, let simmer a little longer, lay the oysters in your dish upon a piece of toast, and sauce over. No. 91. Gratin of Lobsters. Procure a good-sized lobster, cut it in halves, detaching the head from the body, take out all the meat, and save the four shells ; cut the meat into dice, then take a teaspoonful of chopped eschalots in a stewpan, with a piece of butter the size of two walnuts, pass them a few minutes over a fire, add a tablespoonful of flour (mix well in), half a pint of milk, stir over the fire, boiling about five minutes, then add the lobster, which season with a little cayenne, salt, chopped parsley, and essence of anchovies; stand it again upon the fire, stirring until boihng, then stir in the yolk of an egg; take off" the fire, fill the shells of the lobster, sprinkleKITCHEN AT HOME. G63 bread-crumbs over, put them into the oven '-^bout ten rmnutes t^^ top re- quiring to be browned; serve upon a napkin garnished with parsley. SIMPLE HORS-d'cEUVBES. No 92 Rissoles of Oysters. Prepare two dozen of blanched oysters as directed for escaloped oysters, but cutting each oyster into six pieces, turn it out upon a dish, where leave it until quite cold; then have the trimmings of some piitF paste,* which roll very thia; put some of the oysters upon it in pieces the size of a walnut, fold them over with the paste, which cut out with a round cutter, gi\dng each the shape of a turnover, egg with a paste- brush and throw them into bread-crumbs; cover well, have ready a stew- pan in which there is some veiy hot lard or white diupping (as for frying fish), in which fry your rissoles of a light brown colour; dress upon a napkin in a plate, garnish with fried parsley, and serve to be handed round the table. No. 93. Rissoles of Lamb. Cut up about a pound of cooked lamb (the remains of a previous day) into very small dice, with a quarter of a pound of lean cooked ham, then put a teaspoonful of chopped eschalots in a stewpan, with a piece of butter the size of a nut, pass them over the fire a couple of minutes, then stir in a teaspoonful of flour, after which add nearly half a pint of melted butter and the meat, stir it over the fire until it boUs, season well with a little pepper and salt, and stir in the yolks of a couple of eggs, put it out upon a dish till cold, and proceed as directed in the last article. The flesh of any poultry or game may be used exactly the same. No. 94. Rocambole, or Crouuettes of Meat, Game, or Poultry. Make a preparation as above with some description of cold cooked meat, or poultry; when cold divide it into pieces each rather larger than a walnut, roU them to about two inches and a half in length, have three eggs in a basin well whisked, into which dip them, throw them into bread-crumbs, take them out well covered, and smooth them by gently patting them with a knife, then dip them into clarified butter, and again into bread-crumbs, smooth them again, and fry them of a Kght colour in a stewpan of hot lard, and serve precisely the same as for rissoles. No. 95. Lamb's Fry. See the other department of this work, page 312 ; nothing can be more simplified. remotes simplified. No. 96. Stewed Rump of Beef. Choose a small rump of beef, cut it away from the bone, cut about twenty long pieces of fat bacon, which run through the flesh in a slanting direction, tlien chop up the bone, place it at the bottom of a large stewpan, with six cloves, three onions, one carrot, a turnip, head of celery, a leek, and a bunch of parsley, thyme, and bay-leaf, then lay in the rump (previously tying it up with string), which just cover with water, add a good handful of salt and two burnt onions, place upon the fire, and when boiling stand it at the corner, let simmer nearly four hours, keeping it skimmed ; when done pass part of the * The receipts for paste bemg so simple in the other department of this book, I siiaLl upon all occasions refer my readers to them (p. 478).6G4 KITCHEN AT HOME. stock It was cooked in (keeping tlie beef hot in the remainder) through a hau- sieve into a basin, in another stewpan have ready a quarter of a pound of butter, melt it over the fire, add six ounces of lloir, mix well together, stirring oyer the fire until becoming a little brownish, take off, and when cold add two quarts of the stock, stir it over the fire until it boils, then have tour carrots, four turnips (cut into smaU pieces with cutters), and forty bntton onions peeled, put them into the sauce, when again boUing draw it to the corner, where let simmer until tender, keeping it skimmed, add a little powdered sugar and a bunch of parsley ; if it should become too thick add a little more of the stock, dress the beef upon a dish, sauce round and serve. No. 97. Stewed Rump OF Beef WITH Onions. (Seepage 172 in the other department. _ The remains of stewed beef, cut in slices and warmed in some of the stock, IS good the next day served with a little sharp sauce (page 15). The remain- ing stock IS good for any kind of soup or stock the next day. No. 98. Stewed Rump Steak with Oyster Sauce. Cut from a small stale rump of beef two steaks, about three quarters of an inch in thickness, season well with pepper and salt; well butter a deep saute-pan, lay in your steaks, with four cloves, a blade of mace, and a bunch of parsley, thyme, and bay-leaf, cover with a quarter of a pint of water, set over a slow fire, when they have simmered half an hour, turn them over, and let remain until quite tender; take up, place upon your dish, and keep them hot, place the saute-pau at the comer of the fire, boil, skim well, add an ounce of butter, with which you have mixed half a tablespoonful of flour, stir well, and when it thickens, add two dozen oysters, previously blanched and bearded, half a teaspoonful of essence of anchovies, and a little cayenne pepper, sauce over the steaks and serve. The steak with common stewed oysters would be very good. No. 99. Ribs of Beef a l'Hoteliere. Procure four ribs of beef, but not too fat or too thick, take off the chine-bone neatly, and the tips of the rib-bones, skewer the flap under, so as to form a good square piece ; put a quarter of a pound of butter at the bottom of a large braising-pan, let melt, then lay in your beef (which must be previously larded through the best part with ten long pieces of fat bacon), season with a teaspoonful of salt, and half ditto of pepper, cover the braising-pan, and put it upon a slow fire for twenty minutes, keeping it stirred round until becoming a nice gold colour, then add a pint of water; when about half done throw in eighty button onions and about sixty small pieces of carrot, cut the shape and size of young ones ; half an hour after add the same number of pieces of turnips, and a bunch of parsley, to which you have added three bay-leaves and four sprigs of thyme, keep stewing gently until tlie vegetables ai-e done and the beef is quite tender, which take out, trim, and lay it upon your dish, skim ofi" as much fat as possible from the vegetables, add an ounce of butter with which you have mixed a tablespoonful of flour, with a teaspoonful of sugai-, boil altogether, dress round and serve. No. 100. Beef a la Mode. The real beef i\ la mode is made as follows, and not as a kind of soup daQy sold in cookshops. Procure either a small piece of rump, sirloin, or ribs of beef, about twelve pounds in weight, take away all the bone, and lard it through with ten lougKITCHEN AT HOME. 665 pieces of fat bacon ; then put it into a long earthen pan, with a calf's foot, ITolX two carrots cit in slices, if lai-ge, a bunch of P^-ley, ^ W- leaves, two sprigs of thyme, two cloves stuck m one of the J^^J^J t^^" spooAil of iepper, one of salt, four wineglasses of sheny, four ditto of water, and a pound of streaked bacon cut in squares, place the cover upon the pan, with a piece of common flour and water paste round the edges to keep it perfectly air-tight; put in a very moderate oven four hours, take out, place upon your dish with the vegetables and bacon round, skim the gravy which pour over • but the above is best eaten cold, when it should not be taken out of the pan, nor the pan opened until nearly cold. A long brown earthen pan for the above purpose may be obtamed at any china warehouse, but it you cannot obtain one, a stewpan must supply the place. Another method. Have ready six pounds of rump of beef cut into pieces two mches square, lard each piece through with two or three lardons of bacon; have also two pounds of streaked bacon, clear it from the skm, and cut it 'into squares half the size of the beef, put them into an earthen pan Avith two calf's feet (cut up), half a pint of sherry, two bay-leaves, a sprig of thyme, a bunch of parsley, four onions, with a clove in each, a blade of mace, and half a pint of water, cover the pan as in the last, and put it in a moderate oven for three hours; do not open the pan until three parts cold, then take out the meat, lay a little of the beef at the bottom of a stewpan (not too large), then a little of the bacon, then more beef, and so on alternately, press them together hghtly, then pass the gravy through a haii- sieve over, and leave it until quite cold, then dip the stewpan into hot water, and turn out upon your dish to serve ; the calf's feet may be made hot in a Uttle of the stock, to which add two pats of butter, with which you have mixed a teaspoonful of flour, a httle chopped parsley, and half a spoonful of vinegar, and serve as an entree. The above is excellent either hot or cold. No. 101. Ox-tongue. Procure a weU-pickled ox-tongue, if weighing five or six pounds it will take three hours gently boihng in a gallon of water, when done skin it and trim the root, serve where afterwards directed, or with spinach dressed as (No. 1088) under. No. 102. Loin of Veal with Stewed Celery. Put a small loin of veal upon a spit, surrounded with all descriptions of vegetables, tied up in oiled paper ; roast, if a middling-sized one, about two hours and a half before a moderate fire, have sixteen heads of celery, trim off aU the green part from the tops, and a httle of the roots, wash well; then cover the bottom of a stewpan with shces of fat bacon, lay in the celery, two heads tied together, add two onions and a carrot, just cover them with a little good stock, made as directed for soupe JuUeime (page 652), let simmer an hour or more until veiy tender, drain upon a cloth, untie them, dress the loin in the centre of your dish, make a border of the celery round, take out the bacon, onions, and carrot, skim off all the fat, reduce a httle, add an ounce of butter, with wliich you have mixed half a tablespoonful of flour, stu- well in, season with a httle sugar, salt, and pepper, and when boiling, sauce over the celery and serve; add a httle catsup and Harvey sauce to give a brownish colour to the sauce. No. 103. Loin or Veal with White Sauce. Roast a loin of veal as directed in the last, but keep it as white as possible, when done di'ess it uponKITCHEN AT ilOME. 066 your dish, witli some small well-boiled cauliflowers round it, have a quart of white sauce made as directed (No. 13G), boiling in a stewpan, sauce over the whole, and serve; shoidd peas be in season, a pint of young green ones may be boiled and sprinkled over. No. 104. Dress Fillet of Veal for Remove. Procure a small fillet of veal, skewered up very round, and well covered with udder, place a good piece of streaked bacon in the centre where the bone was taken out, and stuff it under the udder thus : chop three quarters of a pound of beef suet very fine, which put into a basin with six ounces of bread-crumbs, the rind of half a lemon chopped very fine, a little grated nutmeg, two tablespoonfuls of chopped parsley, and a little chopped tbyme and marjoram, with one bay-leaf, mixed, amalgamate the whole with the yolks of three, and two whole eggs, sew it in, surround your fillet when upon the spit with every description of vege- tables, tie up in oded paper, and roast about three hours before a moderate fire ; when done clear it from the vegetables, skewer up with silver, plated, or polished skewers, draw out those it was first trussed with, place upon your dish with a celery sauce (page 47), white sauce (No. 136), or rather thin melted butter, with which you have mixed two tablespoonfuls of Harvey sauce and one of catsup, and boiled untU it becomes rather a clear brown sauce. No. 105. Breasts and Necks of Veal maybe plain roasted, or roasted in vegetables as above, and served with stewed peas (No. 1077), or a sauce jardiniere (j)age 40), which are very simply described. No. 106. Half Calf's Heab with White Sauce. Procure the half a scalded calf's head, which put into a braising-pan, just cover with water, add a little salt, two onions, two carrots, two turnips, a large bunch of parsley, thyme, and bay-leaves, and six cloves, boil very gently for two hours, or until tender, which you can tell by pressing upon it with your finger; when done take up, drain, and place it in your dish, surrounded with some well-boiled potatoes cut in halves, and have ready the following sauce : p,ut a pint and a half of melted butter into a stewpan, with the juice of a lemon, when boUing add two ounces of fresh butter and a pinch of salt, when the butter is melted add a liaison of two yolks of eggs, mixed with half a gdl of cream, stir in quickly over the fire, but do not let it boil, sauce over and serve ; the sauce requires to be rather highly seasoned. Should you have the tongue and brains, boil the tongue with the head, when done skin it, lay the brains in warm water to disgorge, blanch them two minutes in boiling water, to which you have added a little salt and vinegar; skin, chop, and put them into a stewpan, with the juice of a lemon, a little pepper and salt, a tablespoonful of chopped parsley, and half a pint of melted butter, boil altogether a few minutes, turn out upon a dish, dress the tongue over, and serve with the calfs head. No 107 Half Calf's Head in Currie. Boil half a calf's head as directed in the last, and have ready the following sauce : put four large onions in slices in a stewpan, with two ounces of lean ham, three apples in shces, six cloves, a blade of mace, two bay-leaves, and two ounces ot butter, pass them over the fire until shghtly browned, add two good tablespoonhils o flour, and one of currie-powder, or a little more if required, mix well in, addKITCHEN AT HOME. 667 a auart of the stock the head was boiled in, season witb salt and sugar, reduce until of a proper consistency, rub it through a hair sieve or tammie, put into another stewpan, boil up, skim, and sauce over the head, which serve with rice, plain boiled, in a separate dish. No. 108. Half Calf's Head a la Vinaigrette. (See No. 460). No 109. Half Calf's Head Broiled, Sauce PiauANTE. Boil the head as before, when done drain upon a napkin, place it upon a bakmg-sheet, e^g over with a paste-brush, cover with bread-crumbs, put a few smaU pieces of butter upon it at various places, and put into a hot oven imtil well browned; dress upon your dish with about a pint of good sharp sauce (page 15) round. The tongue and brains may be served dressed as described before, with each of the methods for dressing calf's head. No. 110. Large Veal Pie. Have ready boiled a pound of streaked bacon, when cold cut it in large thin slices, also cut four pounds of lean veal from tbe fillet into large but thin slices, season each piece well with pepper and salt, and dip them into flour; lay some of the bacon at the bottom of a pie-dish, then some veal, over which sprinkle a Httle chopped eschalots, then more bacon, and so on alternately, finishing in a perfect dome; have ready a pound of half puff paste (page 480), place a band round the edge of your dish, wet it, and pour in a quarter of a pint of water to the meat, cover with the remainder of the paste, egg over and decorate it tastefully, bake an hour and three quarters in a moderate oven. They may also be made of the re- mains of a joint of veal previously served, but half a pint of white sauce (No. 136) used in it, and the water omitted, but tlie paste will then require to be much thinner, and it must be baked in a much warmer oven, or the meat would eat dry ; a couple of bay-leaves in a veal pie is a great improvement. No. 111. Saddle OF Mutton A LA Bretonne. (See page 189.) No. 112. Leg of Mutton basted with Devil's Tears. Procure a fine but small leg of mutton which has been well kept, cut an incision in tbe knuckle, in which put a clove of garlick, rub all over with a spoonful of salt, a saltspoonful of cayenne, two ditto of black pepper, and another clove of garlic (well mixed), and let remain upon a disb until the following day, when place it upon a spit before a sharp fire, then procure about a quarter of a pound of fat bacon, place it upon a long toasting-fork, running the prongs through the rind, and hold over the fire until in a blaze, then hold it over the mutton upon which it will drop in tears of fire, until all melted ; it will give the mutton quite a peculiar flavour and appearance, and requiring a quarter of an hour less to roast than in the ordinary method; when done dress upon your dish, sauce over with two spoonfids of Harvey sauce and serve. No. 113. Leg of Mutton, the Housewife's Method. Have a good ]eg, beat it a little with a rolling-pin, make an incision in the knuckle, in which put two cloves of garhck, then put it into a braising-pan with a pound of lean bacon cut in eight pieces, set over a moderate fire half an hour, moving it now and then until becoming a light brown colom-, season with a httle pepper and salt, add twenty pieces of carrots of the same size as the bacon, fifteen middling-sized onions, and when half done fifteen middling-sized068 KITCHEN AT SOME. potatoes, two bay-leaves, two cloves, and a pint of water, replace it upon a moderate fire, moving round occasionally, stew nearly three hours dress upon your dish with the carrots and onions dressed tastefidly around take ott as much of the fat from the gravy as possible (which will be a little thickened by the potatoes), take out the bay-leaves and pour the garniture round the mutton, which serve very hot. No. 114. Shoulder of Mutton, Savoyard's Method. Put a smaU shoulder of mutton in a deep saut^-pan or baking-dish, season with a little pepper and salt, cover over with thin sUces of fat bacon, then put in ten potatoes peeled and quartered, and the same quantity of apples, with half a pint of water, place in a moderate oven and bake for two hours, dress upon your dish, with the potatoes and apples round, skim all the fat from the gravy, which pour over and serve ; it requires a Uttle oil or butter over before baking. No. 115. Shoulder of Mutton a la Polonaise. As described (No.467) in the other department of this work. No. 116. Shoulder of Mutton, Proven9Ale Fashion. Roast a fine shoulder of mutton; whilst roasting mince ten large onions very fine, put them into a stewpan, with two tablespoonfuls of salad-oil, pass them ten minutes over a good fire, keeping it stirred, then add a tablespoonful of flour, stir well in, and a pmt of milk, season with a little pepper, salt, and sugar; when the onions are quite tender and the sauce rather thick stir in the yolks of two eggs and take it off" the fire; when the shoulder is done spread the onions over the top, egg over, cover with bread-crumbs, put in the oven ten minutes, and salamander a light brown colour, dress upon your dish, put the gravy from it in your stewpan, with a pat of butter, with which you have mixed a little flour, boil up, add a little scraped garlick, pour round the shoulder, which serve. The shoulder may also be dressed in the housewife's method, as directed for the leg. A little burnt sugar may be added. No. 117. Saddle OF Lamb, Berlin Fashion. Roast a small saddle of lamb an hour, keeping it rather pale; you have boiled eight or ten good potatoes, peel them, put in a stewpan, add two ounces of butter, a teaspoon- iul of salt, a quarter ditto of pepper, a tablespoonful of chopped parsley, and a little grated nutmeg; mix aH. well together with a fork, add half a gill of milk and one egg, turn well with a wooden spoon, let it get cold, and roU them in long shape and size of plover's eggs, egg and bread-crumb twice, fry light-coloured in hot lard or fat; dress your saddle upon a dish, surround it with the potatoes, have half a pint of melted butter in a stewpan, place upon the fixe, and when upon the point of boiling stir in a quarter of a pound of maitre d'hotel butter (page 33) highly seasoned; when quite melted sauce round and serve with mint sauce likewise in a boat; for other variations see pages 197, 198, and following pages. Haunch, fore-quarter, or ribs, may he dressed the same. No. 118. Leg or Shoulder of Lamb vfith Peas. The leg or shoulder must be plain roasted, (seepage 645,) boil a quart of very young peas, which strain and put into a stewpan, with a quarter of a pound of butter, half a tea-669 KITCHEN AT HOME. spoonful of salt, and one of sugar, toss them weU together over the fire until the batter is melted, when pour them into your dish and dress the joint over. No 119. Leg or Shoulder with French Beans. Plain roasted as before; you have cut and boiled two hundred French beans, di'am and put them into a stewpan with a quarter of a pound of fresh butter, a little pepper, salt, powdered sugar, and grated nutmeg, toss over the fire tiU the butter is melted, add half a pint of melted bntter; boil altogether ten minutes, then stu- in quickly a haison of one yolk of egg mixed with a quarter of a gill of cream, pom- them in your dish and serve the joint over. No. 120. Boiled Leg of Lamb with Spinach. Boil a small very white leg of lamb, (see page 646), have also half a sieve of spinach, weU picked, washed, and boiled, drain it quite dry, chop it very fine, and put it into a stewpan, with a quarter of a pound of fresh butter, a little salt, sugar, and grated nutmeg, stir over the fire until very hot, then add a tablespoonful of flour, eight of melted butter, and four of cream or milk, boil two or three minutes, keeping it stirred, then pour it upon your dish, and dress the leg over. No. 121. Neck of Lamb a la Jardiniere. Plain roast the neck; you have previously cut with a round tin cutter rather larger than a quill about fifty pieces of carrot, and one hundred pieces of turnip, half an inch in length, put them into a stewpan, with twenty button onions ready peeled, two ounces of butter, and a teaspoonful of powdered sugar; place them over a sharp fire (keeping them moved to prevent burning) ten minutes, add a tablespoonful of flour and a pint of broth, which reserve from your soup, stand it at the corner of the fire, add a small bunch of parsley, thyme, and bay-leaf, and let boil until the vegetables are tender and the sauce becomes thickish, keeping weU skimmed, then add a few ready boUed peas, French beans, Brussels sprouts, or any other green vegetables in season, pour the sauce in your dish, and dress the lamb upon it; if your sauce is not quite brown enough add a few drops of colouring to it. No. 122. Lamb's Head Broiled, with Mince Satjce, or Satjce PiauANTE. Procure two heads, split them, but not to detach them, take out the brains and the greater part of the skull bone, forming each head as nearly as possible to the shape of a heart, put them into a braising-pan, with two onions, a carrot, turnip, head of celery, a bunch of parsley, thyme, and bay-leaf, six cloves, a blade of mace, and just cover them with a little water, stew them until quite tender, then take out, drain, egg over with a paste- brush, and cover them with bread-crumbs, place small pieces of butter here and there over them, place them in the oven ten minutes, then brown them with a salamander, and serve with a good sauce piquante (page 15) round them, or they may be served with the brains cooked as directed for calf's brains (page 282) under them ; sheeps' heads are done the same, only they require a longer time to stew. The heart and pluck are also excellent served under them as foUows : blanch them in boiling water twenty minutes, and when half cold cut the whole in very fine dice, put an ounce and a half of butter in a stewpan, with a spoon- ful of chopped onions, pass over the fire two minutes (keep stirring), then add a spoonful of flour (mix well), moisten with a pint of broth or milk, when670 KITCHEN AT IIQME. boiling add tlie mince, and season with a teaspoonful of salt, a quarter ditto of white pepper, and a little grated nutmeg. No. 123. Loin or Neck of Pork a la Botjrguinotte. The neck or loin must be plain roasted; you have peeled and cut four onions in dice, put them into a stewpan, with two ounces of butter, stir over the fire until rather brown, then add a tablespoonful of flour, mix well, add a good pint of broth if any, or water, with an ounce of glaze, boil ten minutes, add two table- spoonfuls of French mustard, with a little pepper, salt, and sugar, pour the sauce upon the dish, and dress your joint upon it; serve with a httle apple sauce separate in a boat. No. 124. Loin or Neck of Pork, Normandy Fashion. Procure a neck or loin, put it in a common earthen dish, having previously scored the rind, rub over with a little oil, place about twenty potatoes cut in halves or in quarters in the dish with the pork, ten onions peeled, and twenty apples peeled and quartered, place in a warm oven for an hour and a half or more, then dress it upon your dish with the apples, onions, and potatoes around, and serve. No. 125. Pig's Cheek, a new Method. Procure a pig's cheek nicely pickled (see page 649), boil well until it feels very tender, tie half a pint of spht peas in a cloth, put them into a stewpan of boiling water, boil about half an hour, take them out, pass through a hair sieve, put them into a stew- pan, with an ounce of butter, a httle pepper and salt, and four eggs, stir them over the fire until the eggs are partially set, then spread it over the pig's cheek, egg with a paste-brush, sprinkle bread-crumbs over, place in the oven twenty minutes, brown it with the salamander and serve. No. 126. Sucking Pig is merely plain roasted (see page 204), stuffedmth sage and onions, but before putting it upon the spit it requires to be floiu-ed and rubbed very dry, otherwise the skin would not eat crisp ; the usual me- thod of serving*^ it is to cut off the head, and divide the body and head of the pig in halves, lengthwise; serve apple sauce separate in a boat if ap- proved of. In My Kitchen at Home I can also roast a haunch or neck of venison, de- pending upon which is presented to me, and precisely as recommended in the other department of this book (page 222) ; for the remains I also proceed the same. No. 127. Roast Turkey. Pluck, draw, and truss a turkey for roasting, stuff it at the breast with the same stuffing as directed for the fillet of veal (page 51) ; if it should weigh twelve pounds it will require two hours roast- ing before 'a strong fire, when done take it off the spit, take away the skewer and string it was trussed with, hold it by the legs, sprinkle a little salt over, and pour a little hot water or broth over the back to make a gravy,* and serve with broiled sausages, ham, or a piece of boiled bacon, separate. No. 128. Braised Turkey. Truss a nice turkey with the legs inside as for boiling then put three onions in slices at the bottom of a stew- * If you should have a little gravy, use it ijistead of water, if not a piece of glaze udded to half a pint of water would make a very good gravy.671 KITCHEN AT HOME. pau, with a carrot, turnip, leek, and a head of celery, also cut small, a bunch of parsley, a sprig of thyme, a hay-leaf, four cloves, a blade of mace, half a pound of lean ham, and two pounds of veal cut in dice, cover them with two quarts of water, then lay in the turkey breast downwards, cover the stew- pan close and let it simmer about two hours over a slow fire ; then take it up, place it upon your dish, with a cover over it to keep it hot, then pass the stock from it through a hah- sieve into a stewpan, place it upon the fire, boil and skim off" all the grease; then in another stewpan place two ounces of butter, let melt, then stir in a sufficient quantity of flour to make a roux, stir over the fire some time, but keeping it quite white, then take it off", stir until partly cold, add the stock, boil, keep it stu:red; if too thick add a little milk, season with a Httle salt and sugar, place four cauliflowers nicely boiled round the turkey, sauce over the whole and serve ; a boiled ham, tongue, or a piece of bacon is usually served separate with it. No. 129. Capons or Poulardes are almost too extravagant for My Kitchen at Home, but may be either plain roasted or braised, as directed for the turkey in the last, and served with peas, French beans, or sauce jardiniere, made as directed for the legs or shoulders of lamb, only for jardiniere, stewing the vegetables in the sauce you have made from your braise, instead of the method there directed. No. 130. Fowls WITH Mushroom Sauce. Braise two fowls, trussed for boiling, precisely as directed for braised turkey; when your sauce is made, add a pottle of white button mushrooms, stew for half an hour in the sauce, adding a httle sugar, then stir in a liaison of one yolk of egg mixed with a spoonful of cream, take it instantly from the fire, dress the poularde upon vour dish, and sauce over. No. 133. Fowls with Spring Vegetables. Braise a poularde as di- rected for the turkey, and make a sauce from the braise as there directed ; then have twenty young carrots and twenty young turnips, lightly peeled, and three parts boUed, with twenty small onions, drain and put them into your sauce, which you have made as (No. 136), with a good teaspoonful of powdered sugar; stew them gently until tender, then dress the poidarde upon your dish, arrange the vegetables tastefully around, mix half a giU of cream with the sauce, boil a few minutes, sauce over the whole and serve. No. 132. Fowls Braised Fricassee Sauce. Braise the fowls as before, and make the sauce from the braise, in which put a bunch of parsley, fifty button onions, and a pottle of mushrooms, both well peeled, stew half an hour, add a little sugar, salt, and a gdl of cream, boil a few minutes, sauce over and serve. Chickens may be dressed in either of the above methods, calculating the time they requu-e cooking by their size. No. 133. Roast Goose. Pluck, draw, and truss a goose, fiU the inside with sage and onions, by cutting four large onions into small dice, and put them into a stewpan with a few leaves of sage (chopped fine), and a couple of well-boiled mealy potatoes, crumbled very small, add two ounces of butter, and a little pepper and salt; when the onions become tender stuff" the goose, the day previous if time permit, which roast an hour and a quarter before a moderate fire, serve plain, with a little gravy on the dish, and apple sauce separate. 'KITCHEN AT HOME. 672 No. 134. Ducks may also be stuffed and roasted as a goose, a few apples may also be used with the stuffing instead of potatoes, for either ducks or geese, if approved of. No. 135. Ducks a l'Axjbergiste (or TAVERN-KEErER's Fashion). Truss one or two ducks with the legs turned inside, put them into a stewpan with a quarter of a pound of butter; place them over a slow fire, turning round occasionally, until they have taken a nice brown colour, add two spoonfuls of flour, mix well with them, add a quart of water, with half a tablespoonful of salt and sugar, let simmer gently until the ducks are done (but adding forty button onions well peeled as soon as it begins to boil), keep hot; peel and cut ten turnips in slices, fry them in a frying-pan in butter, drain upon a cloth, put them into the sauce, and stew until quite tender; dress the ducks upon your dish, skim the fat from the sauce, which has attained a consis- tency, pour round the ducks and serve. SIMPLIFIED ENTREES. The word entree is a French culinary term (universally known by the nobility and gentry of Europe) signifying a corner or made dish in which sauce is introduced, the importance of which is known in the kitchens of the wealthy as forming the size and magnitude of a dinner; being con- sidered as the principal dish upon which it is intended to dine well, the wealthy epicure orders his cook to prepare a dinner of four, six, or eight entrees, thus making a criterion for the second course, which, in the opinion of real gourmets, is a secondary consideration of delight, and very often left entirely to the cook. But when a lady of moderate income is considted, she very properly devotes all her attention, good taste, and economy to the subject. The entrees, however, which I am here about to describe are very econo- mical ; whilst those entrees of importance, which are so well known for theh excellence and unavoidable expense, I have left to those whose means will better afford it, and content myself with here offering to my readers those only with which I would be content in placing before my fi-iends at home. My readers will find that certain made dishes, instead of being expensive, tend to greater economy, every ordinary cook might be perfect in roasting and boiling a joint, but quite incapable of making a single made dish to per- fection, even from the remains of a joint. In a tradesman's family it often happens that he dines once or twice a week from a Sunday joint, either m winter or summer ; in the last it is partly excusable, but in the former hot meat, for such an important meal, is much more preferable, being more light than cold, and of course digests more freely ; to prove the truth of this argu- ment, pickles are continually used with cold meat to invigorate and open the appetite, and facilitate digestion; I would always advise to take a httle cold lunch, and a hot late dinner, if circumstances permit, and avoid as much as possible a supper, particularly a late one. SAUCES —No. 136. For daily use I avoid making any foundation sauces, but when I want to give a httle party at home, I generally previously provide a small quantity of white and brown sauce as follows : , . , , Cut and chop a knuckle of veal, weighing about four pounds, into large673 KITCHEN AT HOME. dice; butter the bottom of a large stewpan with a quarter of a pound of butter, add two onions, a smaU carrot, a turnip, three cloves, half a blade ot mace, a bay-leaf, and a sprig of thyme, and six of parsley tied in a bunch ; add a gill of water, place over a sharp fire, stirring round occasionally, until the bottom of the stewpan is covered with whitish glaze, when fill up with three quarts of water, add a good teaspoonful of salt, and let simmer at the corner of the fire an hour and a half, keeping weU skimmed, when pass it through a hair sieve into a basin; in another stewpan put a quarter of a pound of butter, with which mix six ounces of flour, stirring over the fire about three minutes, take off", keep stu-ring until partly cold, when add the stock all at once, continually stirring and boiling for a quarter of an hour ; add half a pint of boiling milk, stir a few minutes longer, add a little chopped mush- rooms if handy, pass through a hair sieve into a basin, until required for use, stirring it round occasionally until cold ; the above being a simplified white sauce. For a brown sauce I use the same proportion as for the white, but having beef instead of veal for the stock, which must be made brown by placing four large onions cut in halves at the bottom of the stewpan, which niust be well buttered, placing the meat over, standing upon the fire, and drawing down to a brown glaze before filling up, the thickening must also be made brown, by stu-ring a few minutes longer over the fire, and the milk omitted. Some- times I make both stocks in the same stewpan, pass one half for the white sauce, and put a couple of burnt onions into the remainder, allowing it to simmer an hour longer, when pass and use for a brown sauce. No. 137. Melted Butter. Put two ounces of butter into a stewpan, with which mix a good teaspoonful of flour, using a wooden spoon, add a saltspoonfid of salt, half a one of pepper, a little grated nutmeg, and half a pint of water, stir over the flre until just upon the point of boihng, when take ofi", add two ounces more butter, and half a tablespooiiful of vinegar, keeping it stiiTed until quite smooth, and the butter well melted, when pass through a hair sieve or tammie if required (you can also use mUk instead of water for the above), it is then ready for use; in making melted butter great attention ought to be paid to the above directions, it being almost in daily use. No. 138. New and Economical Lobster Sauce. Break up a fi'csh lobster, use the soHd flesh for salad or any other purpose, pound the soft part and shell together (in a mortar) very fine, place the whole in a stewpan, cover with a pint of boiling water, place over the fire, and let simmer ten minutes, when pass the liquor through a hair sieve into a basin, and use for making melted butter as in the last, to which add a little cayenne pepper and a piece of anchovy butter (see page 31) the size of a walnut; if any red spawn in the lobster, pound and mix it with a small piece of fresh butter, and add to the sauce with a Uttle lemon-juice when upon the point of serving; an anchovy pounded with the shells of the lobster would be an improvement' some of the flesh may be served in the sauce. No. 139. Lobster Sauce a la Creme. Cut up a small lobster into slices, the size of half-crown pieces, put into a stewpan, pound the soft and white part with an ounce of butter, and rub it through a sieve; pour three spoonfuls of melted butter, and two of cream, over the slices in the stew- 43KITCHEN AT HOME. ()74 pan, add half a blade of mace, a saltspoonful of salt, a quarter ditto of pepper, and a little cayenne, warm gently, and when upon the pomt of boiling add the butter and two spoonfuls of thick cream, shake round over the fire until quite hot, when it is ready to serve. No. 140. Lobster Sauce SIMPLIFIED. Put the slices of lobster as above into a stewpan, with four spoonfuls of milk, add a little pepper, salt, cayenne, two cloves, and a quarter of a blade of mace, let boil, add a piece of butter the size of a walnut, with which you. have mixed a Uttle flour, shake round over the fire, and when getting thick add half a gill of cream, when quite hot it is ready to serve. No. 141. Shrimp Sauce is very excellent made by pounding half a pint of shrimps with their skins, boiling ten minutes in three parts of a pint of water, finishing as directed for lobster sauce (No. 138), and always serving very hot. No. 142. Anchovy Sauce is made by adding a spoonful of Harvey sauce and two of essence of anchovy, with a little cayenne, to half a pint of melted butter; shrimps, prawns, or even blanched oysters may be served in it. No. 143. Oyster Sauce. Put two dozen of oysters into a stewpan with their liquor, and two spoonfuls of water, add six peppercorns, and half a blade of mace, blanch them until just set, drain the oysters upon a sieve, catching the liquor in another stewpan, detach the beards from the oysters, which put again into the liquor, place over the fire ; when beginning to sim- mer, add a piece of butter the size of a walnut, with which you have mixed sufiicient flour to form a paste, breaking it in four of five pieces, shake round over the fire, when it thickens add a giU of milk, season with a little cayenne, salt, pepper, and a few drops of essence of anchovies, serve very hot. Anothei- way. Blanch and save the liquor as above, omitting the water; reduce to half, add eight spoonfuls of melted butter made with milk, season rather high, adding a teaspoonful of Harvey sauce and one of essence of an- chovy, it is then ready for use. No. 144. Caper Sauce. Make half a pint of good melted butter, to which add a tablespoonful of capers and a teaspoonful of their vinegar. Observe, that all fish sauces are better too thick than too thin, the fish being watery, the sauce would not envelope it if too thin. No. 145. To CHOP Onions, Herbs, etc. Every practical cook knows how to chop the above ingredients to perfection, but many plain cooks instead of chopping, hterally smash them with their knives, thus losing the succulence and flavour, which becomes absorbed by the wood they are smashed upon. For onions, peel, and cuf in halves lengthwise, then with a thin knife cut each half in sUces, leaving them joined at the root; again cut into shces cou- trarywise, and then from top to bottom, thus having it cut into very small squares ; then take the knife hghtly with the right hand, place two fingers of the left upon the point, and commence chopping, Ufting the knife entirely every stroke, not digging the point into the board, and pressing heavily upon the handle as is too commonly the case; when chopped very fine put themKITCHEN AT HOME. G75 into the corner of a clean cloth, which rince in water to wash them, squeeze quite dry in the cloth, they will be then as white as possible, and quite ready for use. Eschalots are chopped in the same manner, cutting first into small dice, without cutting them in halves. For parsley or herbs, previously wash very clean, take the stalks in your left hand (when quite dry), pressing upon the leaves with your fingers, hold- ing the knife with your right liand, cutting as fine as possible ; chop as di- rected for the onions. By following the above directions you wiU be enabled to chop them very fine, scarcely staining the board; the above directions to some may appear superfluous, but the difiference made in the flavour of sauces, by their being well or badly chopped, being so great, caused nie to make the above observations. No. 146. To MAKE A Colouring or Browning from Sugar. Put two ounces of white powdered sugar into a middling-sized stewpan which place over a slow fire, when beginning to melt, stir round with a wooden spoon until getting quite black, when set it in a moderate oven upon a trivet about twenty minutes, pour a pint of cold water over, let dissolve, place in a bottle, and use wherever directed in my Kitchen at Home. ECONOMICAL MADE DISHES. No. J47. Fillet of Beef or a small rump steak is very excellent dressed in the following new way : Procure a piece of fillet of beef, weighing from three to four pounds, which can be purchased in any butcher's shop, being the under part of the rump; trim it a little, taking off part of the skin, leaving a piece of fat half an inch in thickness upon each side, cut it crosswise in slices a quarter of an inch in thickness, making about six pieces, beat lightly, giving them a roundish shape ; place them upon a gridiron over a sharp'fire, season whilst broiling with about a saltspoonful of salt, and the half of one of black pep- per, turn them once or twice whilst upon the gridiron, which process will keep the gravy in, and when done dress them immediately upon a dish, in which you have put the following simple but excellent sauce, which I usually make over an ordinary fire: put the yolks of four eggs in a stewpan or iron saucepan, with half a pound of fresh butter (rather firm) cut into shces, half a teaspoonful of salt, a quarter ditto of pepper, the juice of half a lemon, and half a tablespoonful of chopped parsley; set upon a slow fire keep stirring quickly with a wooden spoon in every direction, until becoming rather thick, when remove it from the fire half a minute, stiU stirring, then again upon the fire, sturring until the butter is quite melted, but congealed with the yolks of eggs, forming a smooth thickish sauce; should it, however be too thick, add a little milk or cream, and if requiring more seasoning add a httle pepper and salt, with the juice of the other half lemon: proceed the same for rump steak, but if for a comer dish, the fillet would be prefer- able as the steak would be too large, appearing clumsy. The above quantity would be sufficient for a party of ten, but a much smaller quantity niight be A great improvement would be to have four or five middling-sized po- tatoes, peeled, cut m quarters lengthwise, and afterwards into thin slices crosswise; liave ready upon the fire a stewpan, containing lard or dripjingKITCHEN AT HOME. wlien hot (which you may perceive by the smoke arising from it, or by throwing a drop of water in, if sufficiently hot it will liiss and snap), put in the slices of potatoes, and fry about ten minutes until crisp, and a very lio-ht brown colour; care must be taken that the fat is not too hot, or the po- tatoes would be burnt before they were sufficiently cooked. Another method of frying potatoes, although rather more extravagant, is very simple and excellent; put a quarter of a pound of butter in a stewpan or saucepan, and when melted put in twenty small new potatoes, if in season, or potatoes cut as before, place over a sharp fire, stirring them occasionally, until of a nice gold colour; should they absorb aU the butter, add a little more, when done sprinkle a Uttle salt over, and serve round the fiUet or steak; this may be used in many instances in the kitchens of the wealthy. No. 148. A New Steak. Procure a piece of ribs of beef containing a couple of bones, from which detach the meat, and cut three steaks length- wise, beat lightly with" the cutlet-bat, trim a little, broil one or two, sea- soning them well, and serve with sauce and fried potatoes as before. No. 149. Fillet or Steak a la Maitre d'Hotel. Cut, ti-im, and broil the fillet or steaks, from either the rump or ribs of beef, as before (alM'ays over a sharp fire) ; place them upon your dish, have ready two ounces of butter, with which you have mixed a saltspoonful of salt, a quarter ditto of white pepper, one of chopped parsley, and the juice of half a lemon, rub all over the steaks, turning them three or four times, the butter mixing with the gravy forms an admirable sauce ; serve with fried potatoes round as before. The above steaks or fillets are also very excellent broiled as above, and served with anchovy butter (page 33), instead of the butter prepared as last directed, and using one ounce instead of two. Should any of the above steaks be required plain broiled, to give them an extra zest, sprinkle chopped eschalots in addition to the other seasoning over previous to placing them upon the gridiron ; a steak cut of the ordinary size, would require ten minutes broiling over a good fire. Mutton and lamb chops, or even cotelettes, are very good dressed in the before-mentioned man- ners ; a Httle glaze, if liandy, is also an improvement. For mutton chops, a little Harvey sauce and chili vinegar poured over just before taking from the gridiron renders them very beautiful eating. No. 150. A New Mutton or Lamb Chop. Having previously and suc- cessfully introduced a new joint (the saddle-back), I thought I would also introduce a new form of mutton or lamb chops, and adopted the following one, as represented in the engraving, which is not only very novel, but the manner in which they are cut, by jagging the meat, causes them to eat much lighter and better, they being saw^ed olf the saddle instead of cut fi-om the loin, proceed as follows: . i i i/. • i. Trim a middling-sized saddle of mutton, which cut into chops, halt an incli in thickness, with a saw, without at all making use of a knife; then trim to the shape represented in the drawing; season weU with salt and pepper, place upon a gridiron over a sharp fire, turning them three or four times, they will require about ten minutes cooking; when done place them upon a dish, spread a small piece of fresh butter (if approved of) over each, and serve. The bone keeping the gravy in whUst cooking, is a very677 KITCHEN AT HOME. .rreat advantage in having chops cut after the above method At home, when I have a saddle of muttonf I usually cut three or four such chops from it cook and rub maitre d'hAtel butter over, and serve them with tried po- tatoes round, using the remainder of the saddle as a joint the next day. The above are also excellent seasoned, dipped into eggs, and bread-crumbed previous to broiling ; for lamb chops proceed precisely the same, only broihng them a few minutes less. No. 151. Veal Cutlets. Cut four cutlets from the neck, half an inch in thickness, beat Hghtly with a chopper, and cut off the chine-bones, season them well; have a couple of eggs well beaten upon a plate, into which dip them, then into bread-crumbs, take out, pat gently with a knife, and broil • rather more than ten minutes upon a gridiron over a good fire, turning occa- sionally, keeping them of a very light brown colour ; di-ess upon a dish, spreading a piece of the maitre d'hotel butter over each, turning them two or three times in the dish, and serving very hot. Veal cutlets are also very good served with the new sauce as for fiUets of beef or steaks, and the fried po- tatoes around them. No. 152. Pork Chops. Take four chops from a loin of pork, each about half an inch in thickness, beat them lightly, trim, season well with pepper and salt, broU nearly a quarter of an hour over a good fire, and serve very hot upon a dish, with or without apple-sauce in a boat. No. 153. Pork or Veal Chops Fried. Put one ounce of butter in a saute or fi-ying-pan, rub over the bottom, lay in four cliops, well sea- soned as in either of the two last; place the pan over a moderate fire, when the chops become coloured upon one side, turn them over, they wlU require turning two or three times before done ; when done, and of a nice colour, take them out, and place upon a dish ; put a spoonful of chopped onions in the pan, which fry until becoming of a brownish colour, then take oir as much of the fat as possible, add a teaspoonful of fiour (mix well with a wooden spoon), and moisten with half a pint of water; stir quickly, add a bay-leaf, and when boihng, season with half a saltspoonful of pepper, two of of salt, one of sugar, and two spoonfuls of vinegar, stir over the fire until forming a sauce, when again lay in the chops, let simmer five minutes, dress the chops upon a disb, add two chopped gherkins to the sauce, which pour over and serve, a little brown colouring (No. 146) added to the sauce would improve their appearance.KITCHEN AT HOME. 678 No. 154 Hashed Beef is made from any description of roast beef, it may a so be made from stewed, but roast is preferable; cut about a pound and a halt of meat into thm slices, using a small quantity of tbe fat • lay them upon a dish, sprinkle a spoonful of flour, a teaspoonful of salt, and a quarter ditto of pepper, place the meat in a stewpan, moisten with half a pint of water or light broth, if handy; add a little colouring (No. 146) to give a nice brown colour, place it upon the fire, allowing it to warm gently, stirring oc- casionally, simmering a quarter of an hour, taste if requiring more seasoning, if so add a httle and serve very hot immediately. In making a hash of any description, avoid having to keep it hot as much as possible, or it wovdd be- come greasy, and hkewise prevent the hash boiling over the fire, which would cause the meat to eat hard and tough. If the beef has been well roasted, as described (page 639), the remainder being underdone, makes an excellent and very nutritious hash. To vary any description of hash, it may be served upon a large piece of buttered toast, or half a spoonful of chopped onions may be added with the flour and seasoning; chopped parsley may also be added with a spoonful of catsup, two of Harvey sauce, two of vinegar, or one of chih vinegar, four nice green gherkins in slices may also be added at the time of serving. Some fresh mushrooms from the fields, cleaned, and stewed in the hash, is also a great improvement, a bay-leaf also added imparts a pleasant flavour. A little meat left upon the bones, well peppered and broiled, are frequently served with the hash. No. 155. Remains of Salt Beef, although very good cold, in winter is very desirable made hot; one of the best methods of doing which is to con- vert it into that old fashioned dish entitled bubble and squeak; the beef should be, as usual, rather underdone, and cut into slices not thicker than a five- shilling-piece, then put two ounces of butter in a saute or frying-pan, when melted lay in the beef, which place over a quick fire, frying both sides of a yellowish brown colour, when take them out upon a dish, keeping them hot; you have previously boiled six or eight greens or one Savoy cabbage, which chop fine, season with four saltspoonfuls of salt and one of black pejiper, place in the same pan you fried the beef in over the fire, keep turning them over until quite hot, when dress upon a dish with the beef over, and serve. A few shoes of fat ought to be fried with the beef. Another way of warming salt beef, is to cut sUces and lay in a pan with just sufiicient water to cover them ; place over the fire,'add about an ounce of fresh butter mixed with a little flour, a httle Harvey sauce, and a piece of glaze about the size of a walnut, if handy. Another way would be to lay the slices in a saute or frying-pan well buttered, place over the fire and fry a light brown colour, pour off" as much of the fat as possible, add a quarter of a pint of water, and a piece of butter the size of a walnut, with which you have mixed half a teaspoonful of flour, shake round over the fire a minute or two, add two spoonfuls. of piccalilly cut in slices, two ditto of the liquor, and one of the colouring (No. 146), and serve over when ready. No. 156. Ox Tails en Currie. Have ready some ox tails dressed as described in page 273, (they will keep several days in a basin covered with their own stock), when wanted warm them in their stock, cut four onions into very thin slices, put them into a stewpan with a quarter of a pound of butter, fry over a slow fire until the onions become brown and pulpy, whenKITCHEN AT HOME. G79 tails stirrinff them round gently until well covered with the sauce, set over r sbw fi"e to stew very slowly for half an hour, moving them round occa- li alVfin sh wiTh a Lie salt and the juice of half a lemon ; dress upon a dT^^va^^cUj, pour the sauce, which must be rather thick, over, and serve with rice boUed as directed (page 51), upon a separate dish. Another way for a change, would be to introduce four very ripe tomatas at the Lme time^with the potato and currie-powder omitting the lemon-jnice, and adding half a teaspoonful of sugar. A tab espoonful of currie-paste added to aSy description of hash would convert it into a very good curne. No 157. Ragout op Ox Tails. Cut two ox tails into pieces two inches in length, rub two ounces of butter over the bottom of a convenient- sized stewpan, place in the pieces of taUs, with half a pound of streaked bacon cat into square pieces the size of walnuts, place over a moderate fire, stirring occasionally until nicely browned, but not in the least burnt, add two ounces of flour (mix weU) and three pints of water, when boiling and halt cooked add a bunch of parsley, with two bay-leaves, twenty young carrots or pieces of old ones, and twenty button onions, season with a teaspoontul ot salt, a half ditto of sugar, and a quarter ditto of pepper, let simmer until the tails and vegetables are quite tender, keeping weU skimmed, when take out and dress them in pyramid upon mashed potatoes, garnish round with the vegetables, pass the sauce through a hair sieve into another stewpan, place over the fire, stir with a wooden spoon until adhering to the back, when pour over the tails, and serve very hot. No. 158. Ox Cheeks are very dehcate when well stewed, and may be purchased very cheap, they require soaking aU night, and about six hours to blanch in salt and water, until the flesh wiU detach easily from the bone, when take it out, remove the bone, place some onion, carrot, and turnip, in sUces, in a large flat stewpan, with a piece of bacon, a few sprigs of thyme, pai-sley, and two bay-leaves, cover with a little stock (if any) or water, place the flesh from the cheek over, put in a moderate oven until very tender, when take up, dress upon a dish, and serve with a sharp sauce over. Ox cheeks may also be served in currie, or converted into a ragout after blanching, as directed for ox tails. Should you happen to have the remains of a fresh ox tongue it would be very good cut in slices, warmed, and served with a shai"p sauce, or hashed ; the remains of a pickled one may be used in any little made dish of veal, or poultry, hereafter described; to some persons it is, however, preferable cold. No. 159. Ox Kidneys are very good for breakfast or luncheon; cut the kidneys into thin slices, avoiding the piece in the centre, put two ounces' of butter in a stewpan, with a little chopped eschalots, place over the fire, when becoming a little browned add the kidneys, which keep stirring for five minutes still over tlie fire, add half a tablespoonful of flour (mLx well), two glasses of sherry, two of water, half a teaspoonful of salt, a quarter ditto of pepper, one of chopped parsley, and a bay-leaf, let simmer gently five minutes, not, however, to boil, or they would become hard and indigestible, should the sauce be too thin add a little butter and flour mixed together, it6S0 KITCHEN AT HOME. 1 • ] 1 °i-'vu veiy uoi. A lew raw mushrooms stewed w Hi ihc kidneys is also a great improvement. httwea witu the A bullock's heart is a favourite dish with some persons: soak an hour n kkewarm water to disgorge, dry, and stuff the interior ^ith a good vea hnf^H r./^ """^ f ^"^^ ^ «^°d^^-te fire, and seiTe very hot with a httle veal sauce (see page 647) around; proc ed the same fS calves or sheep's hearts, but of course they wiU require less time. No. 160 Calf's Head. Should you have any left from a previous dinner It may be dressed in various ways. To hash calf's head cut into good slices not too thm, or it would have a bad appearance, put a spoonful of chopped onions m a stewpan with a wineglassful of vinegar, six peppercorns, a sprie of thyme, a bay-leaf, a piece of glaze the size of a walnut, and a ffill of broth reduce to half over the fire, then add the slices of calf's head and a ^iU more broth, season with a little pepper and salt, when quite hot through add half an ounce of butter, with which you have mixed a teaspoonful of flour first breaking it into four or five pieces, shake round over the fire until beco'mino- a little thickish, add a Httle colouring (No. 146) to give alight brown colour pour out upon your dish, and serve with a few slices of gherkins sprinkled over. Calf's head may also be cut in slices, warmed, and served with some of the sauces as directed for fillet of beef, or curried as for the ox tails (^0. 156) ; hashed calf's head with a couple of spoonfuls of currie paste added is also very excellent. No. 161. Calf's Brains and Tongue. Boil the tongue in stock or water until tender, lay the brains in lukewarm water to disgorge, then care- fully take off aU. the skin, put about a quarter of a pound of butter in a saute- pan, rub all oyer the bottom, cut the brains in shces, lay them in the pan, season with a little pepper, salt, and lemon-juice, place over a moderate fire, and when set turn them over, add about a gill of melted butter, and a little milk, if too thick, season a little more if required, shake the saute-pau round, moving the brains from the bottom, but not breaking them, and pour upon a dish, skin and trim the tongue, cut it in halves lengthwise, glaze and serve dressed upon the brains. Slieep and lamb's tongues and brains are dressed in precisely the same manner as the calf s. No. 162. Veal Cutlets, the English Method. Procure a piece of fillet of veal weighing about four pounds, from which (to the best advantage) cut eight or ten pieces of the shape and size of fillets of fowl, season lightly with a little pepper and salt, have a couple of eggs, well beaten, upon a plate, into which dip the cutlets, and afterwards into bread-crumbs, beat lightly, then cut four or five slices of streaked bacon, which fry in a saute or fiying-pan, when done talce out and lay in the cutlets, which, fry of a nice light brown colour, dress the bacon and cutlets alternately upon your dish, pour as much fat as possible out of the pan, into which pour a quarter of a pint of water, and the same of melted butter, boil until becoming rather thickish, when add a tablespoonful of Harvey sauce, one of catsup, a little colouring (No. 146), and a little pepper and salt, boil another second, pass through a sieve over the cutlets, and serve. Veal cutlets cut and fried as above may also be served upon some very light mashed potatoes, omitting the sauce.KITCHEN AT HOME. ^81 No 163. Sweetbreads. I never can procure sweetbreads at home except in the' axitumn or winter season of the year, so manyfamihes being then out of town th^yniaybe procured at a very reasonable price; I "^f ly/^^ss them thus : lay them in water three or four hours to disgorge blanch two minutes in boilhig water, take out and put them into another stewpan, with TL shces of onions, carrot, turnip, a little parsley, thyme, bay-leaf six peppercorns, a blade of mace, and a small piece of bacon, cover over with a ittle broth if any, place over the fire, and let boil about twenty minutes, then take out, dry them on a cloth, egg all over, throw into bread-crumbs, run a skewer through each, tie them to a spit and roast of a nice brown colour before a sharp fire, a quarter of an hour would be sufficient, they might also be browned in a hot oven, or fried in very hot lard or dripping ten minutes, then however, they must be stewed rather longer, serve them with vege- table' garniture of any description, if peas, merely plain boiUng them, putting them in a stewpan, with a little sugar, pepper, salt, and a piece of fresh butter, toss them round over the fire until very hot, pour them into the dish, and dress the sweetbreads over, or serve with French beans dressed also in the same manner, spinach dressed as du-ected (page 43), or merely with the following sauce : put a gill of melted butter into a stewpan, with a spoonful of Harvey or Reading sauce, and a little catsup, boil altogether, and if too thick add a little water. If I cannot meet with heart sweetbreads, I in general satisfy myself with the throats. No. 164. Calf's Liver Stewed, French Fashion. Procure a small- delicate liver, cut twenty pieces of fat bacon, three inches in length and ca quarter of an inch square, season with a httle pepper, salt, and chopped parsley, then with a larding-needle run them into the liver crosswise, put two ounces of butter into a convenient-sized stewpan, with half a pound of lean uncooked ham, keep stirring over a sharp fire until the ham becomes rather brownish, then lay in the liver, cover the stewpan, stir round occa- sionally until the hver has become quite firm and of a brownish colour, then add half a teaspoonful of salt, a quarter of one of pepper, forty button onions, twenty young carrots, (or twenty pieces of old, previously blanched), half a pint of water, a bunch of parsley, with three sprigs of thyme and two bay-leaves, (tied together) four cloves, and a blade of mace, let simmer twenty minutes, then add twenty new potatoes, or old ones cut of the same size, cover the stewpan, and let stew gently until all the vegetables are done, when take out the bunch of herbs, dress the liver upon a dish with the vegetables and ham around it, skim all the fat from the gravy in the stewpan, pour over the vegetables and serve, if any remains it is excellent made hot the next day, or even to be eaten cold. No. 165. Calf's Liver Fried. Cut the liver into slices the eighth of an inch in thickness, dip them in flour, and try them in a saute or frying-pan in which yon have previously fried some slices of streaked bacon, fry the Uver until quite browned and rather crisp, when take out and place it upon a dish with the bacon, pour as much of the fat as possible from the pan, pour in a quarter of a pint of water, when boiling add a piece of butter the size of a walnut, with which you have mixed a teaspoonful of flour, shake the pan round over the fire until becoming rather thickish, season with a little Harvey sauce, catsup, pepper, and salt, if too thick add a little more water, pour over the liver and serve. Or for variation, after the liver is well fried^682 KITCHEN AT HOME. take It out and put a tablespoonful of chopped onions in the pan, set upon the fire a minute, then pour off the greater part of the fat, add a teaspoonful of flour, mix well m, and half a pint of hroth or water, boil until forming a thickish sauce season with pepper, salt, two spoonfuls of vinegar, a little sugar, and half a teaspoonful of mixed mustard, set upon the fire until quite hot, pour over the liver and serve. Or liver may be served plain fried with bacon, without any sauce whatever. Sheep or lamb's liver may be dressed precisely m the same manner. With the remains of a joint of veal, either roasted, boded, or braised, I make mmce, hashes, blanquettes, and even pies. For a blanquette of veal cut about a pound into thin slices of the size of half-crown-pieces, add also a few shces of cooked tongue, ham, or streaked bacon, season well with about a teaspoonful of chopped onions, half ditto of salt, and a quarter ditto of white pepper, add a gill of broth or water, warm gently, and when quite hot add a piece of butter the size of a walnut, with which you have mixed a teaspoonful of flour, shake round over the fire, when becoming thickish add half a gill of milk or cream, with which you have mixed the yolk of an egg, stir in quickly, add the juice of half a lemon, and serve (it must not boil after the egg and cream has befen added) with triangular pieces of toasted or fried bread round. A blanquette of lamb made in the same manner is equally good. With the bones you may make a httle stock by chopping them up into small pieces, and putting them into a stewpan, with an onion in slices, a bay-leaf, bunch of parsley, and a little raw ham, add water according to the quantity of bones, and boil rather more than half an hour, convert it into sauce by thickening with a little butter and flour, and use for hash, to make which cut the meat into small thin slices, put into a stewpan, with sufficient of the above sauce to moisten it, let simmer ten minutes, add two spoonfuls of vinegar and four gherkins in slices, season with a little white pepper and salt, pour upon your dish and serve. No. 166. Minced Veal and Poached Eggs is also a very favorite dish from the remains of veal; cut about a pound of the lean with a little of the fat, and two ounces of cooked ham into very small dice, put a tablespoonful of chopped onions into a stewpan, with half an ounce of butter, place over the fire, keep stirring until the onions change colour slightly, then stir in a tablespoonful of flour, moisten with half a pint of stock or milk, let bod ten minutes, add the mince, season well with white pepper and salt, when quite hot stir in a yolk of egg, mixed with two tablespoonfuls of cream or milk, do not let boil afterwards, finish with the juice of half a lemon, and pour upon your dish, have ready poached six eggs, by having a stewpan upon the fire with one quart of water, quarter of an ounce of salt, and a quarter of a gill of vinegar, when boiling break six eggs in separately, let boil from three to four minutes, draw off" the fire, take them out with a colander spoon, drain a moment upon a cloth, dress upon the mince, pour a little melted butter over each, and serve with triangular pieces of fried bread round. Minced lamb, beef, or mutton is done the same, using stock or water instead of milk, and letting the onions with the thickening become a little brown over the fire, likewise omit the yolk of egg and cream, serve with the eggs precisely the same, any kind of mince must be rather thick that the eggs may rest on it. By finishing the minced veal with the yolks of three eggs, stirring a moment over the fire untd set, and pouring upon a dish until cold, you can serve it in any shaped croquettes you please, talcing pieces from it of683 KITCHEN AT HOME. the size vou may require, shaping them with a knife, dipping twice into eggs and b arcrumL. patting thL|ently, frying alightbrown -lour m a ste pan of hot lard or dripping, and serving upon a napkin gar ushcd with fned parsley; they may be made in oblong shapes, the size and length of smaU sausaaes, and fried as above, they are then called boudins. Patties may also be made from cooked veal, preparing a blanquette as before described, and leaving it upon a dish untd cold ; hue six large patty- pans very thinly with half puff paste (see page 480), lay some of the veal in the centre of each, sprinkle a little water over, and cover with sheets of the same paste of the thickness of a five-shilling piece, egg over crimp the edges a little with a knife, place a leaf of paste upon the top of each, and bake about twenty minutes in a very hot oven until the paste is weU done. The remains of poultiy, game, or any other description of meat may also be converted into patties in the same method as above. The remains of meat dressed as for the above patties is also very excellent for larger pies, filling the dish with it, when cold covering with paste, and baking in a rather warm oven. No. 167. Mutton Cutlets sautes. Cut eight cutlets from a neck of mutton, as directed (page 294), and put them into a saute-pan, with an ounce of butter, season well with pepper and salt, place over the fire, when becoming a httle browned turn them over, when firm to the touch they are done (which will take about ten minutes), take up and dress them upon your dish, pour as much of the fat as possible from the pan, add a quarter of a pint of water or broth, let boil until becoming a thin glaze, add a little sugar and a spoonful of Harvey sauce, pour over the cutlets and serve. Should you want a thick sauce you can obtain it by adding a small piece of butter, with which you have mixed a little flour, to the gravy in the saute-pan, add- ing also a little colouring (No. 146). No. 168. Mutton Cutlets saute w^ith Vegetables.—Dress the cutlets as in the last, have some vegetables of all kinds (that is carrots, turnips, artichokes, and button onions) cut up small, stew them in a little broth with a Uttle sugar until tender, when pour them into the saute-pan you cooked the cutlets in, reduce until the stock becomes a thin glaze, then dress the vegetables in the centre of the cutlets, sauce over, and serve. No. 169. Mutton Cutlets, Irish Method. Cut eight or ten mutton cutlets, season well with pepper and salt, place them in a stewpan, just cover them with water, let simmer gently twenty minutes, then add forty button onions, and as many pieces of potatoes, cut with a scoop in pieces a size larger; stew until tender, dress the cutlets in a circle upon your dish, with the vegetables in the centre, skim off some of the fat from the stock in the saute-pan, reduce a little, sauce over, and serve. No. 170. Mutton Cutlets Broiled. Cut eight or ten cutlets, season well with pepper and salt, dip them into eggs, then into bread-crumbs, beat gently with a knife, have a little butter in a stewpan, which melt over the fire ; dip each cutlet into the butter, and again into bread crumbs, beat again lightly, place them upon a gridiron over a moderate fire ; when lightly coloured upon one side turn them over; they will require about ten minutes to cook thoroughly; serve plain dressed upon your dish.684 KITCHEN AT HOME. Dressed as above they may likewise be served with a maitre d'h6tel sauce made thus : put half a pint of melted butter into a stewpan with a piece of gkze the size of a walnut, when boiling add two ounces of maitre d'hotel butter (see p. 33), shake the stewpan round over the fire; when quite hot pour in the dish with the cutlets, have ready some thin shces of potatoes tried as for the Met of beef, dress in pyramid in the centre, and serve. No. 171. Mutton Cutlets Harricoed. Cut ten cutlets from a neck of mutton, leaving them rather short, not beating them flat, and taking off some of the fat; put two ounces of butter in a stewpan, lay in the cutlets, which well season with pepper and salt; set upon a moderate fire, turning them round occasionally until of lightish brown colour, then add a good spoonful of flour; mix well, and moisten with a quart of water, keep stirring until boiling,' throw in twenty small onions, twenty small pieces of carrots, and the same of turnips (each about the size of walnuts), and a small bunch of parsley, with two bay-leaves; let simmer until the vegetables are done, skim well^ take out the cutlets, which dress in crown upon a dish, place the vegetables in the centre, reduce the sauce if required, which pour over and serve. Should it be convenient, it would be as well to pass the vegetables by putting about a quarter of an ounce of powdered sugar into a stewpan ; place over the fire, and when melted add two ounces of butter and the vege- table, which keep tossing over the fire until covered with a kind of glaze, when put them into the stewpan with the cutlets; it gives the harrico quite a peculiar and good flavour. No. 172. Ragout OF Mutton en currie. Peel and slice four large onions, which put into a stewpan with two ounces of butter, place over a moderate fire, and when becoming lightly browned and pulpy lay in ten cutlets as in the last; move round occasionally until a little brown, when add a good spoonful of currie-powder and the half of one of flour; mix well, moisten with a pint of water, let simmer twenty minutes, or until the mutton is quite tender, finish with a little sugar, salt, and lemon juice, take out the cutlets, which dress in circle upon a dish, have ready some boiled rice (p. 51) very hot, which dress in pyramid in the centre; pass the sauce through a tammie, pour over the cutlets, and serve. No, 173. Mutton Currie. Peel and slice four large onions as in the last, fry the same, have ready two pounds of lean mutton cut into square pieces the size of walnuts, put into the stewpan with the fried onions; let remain ten minutes over the fire, stirring frequently, then add a tablespoou- ful of currie-powder and one of currie-paste; mix well in, let remain over a slow fire until the mutton is tender, season with a little salt and lemon-juice, pour out upon your dish, and serve with boiled rice separate. Lamb cutlets are dressed precisely as the mutton; but when bread-crumbed and broiled they are very good served with peas or French beans, previously boiled and placed in a stewpan with an ounce of fresh butter, a Mttle pepper, salt, and sugar; when quite hot stir in half a gill of cream, with which you have well mixed the yolk of an egg, stir in quickly, pour out upon your dish, dress the cutlet over, and serve. No. 174. Pork Cutlets sautes. Cut six or eight good-sized cutlets from the neck, of the same shape as the mutton, lay them in a butteredKITCHEN AT HOME. .siute nan season well with pepper and salt, place over the fire ; when done afth^ruZ a plate, pour sc^ne of the fat from the saute-pan, add a good tSlesronful of Chopped onions, pass over the fire a minute, then add a tea- spooXl of flour; moisten with half a pint of hroth or water, wi h a piece of Xze added, season a httle more, add a bay-leaf and a teaspoonful of vinegar, a one of mustard, mix weU, lay in the cutlets until quite hot, when dress upon a dish, sauce over, and serve. This sauce is good with any kind of cutlets, but especially pork. No 175. Pork Cutlets ATJX Cornichons. Cut six or eight cutlets from a middhng-sized neck of pork, season well with pepper and salt, dip in e-<.s well beaten upon a plate, and then into grated crust of bread (not too bi-own) put two ounces of lard or butter into a saute or frying-pan lay in the cutlets and fry very slowly; when done place them upon a dish ; keep hot, pour some of the fat from the pan, add a good teaspoonful ot flour, mix well, moisten with half a pint of broth or water with a piece of glaze, add half a wineglassful of vinegar, a Uttle salt, pepper, and six gherkins in slices, place the cutlets in the pan to warm gently in the sauce, then dress them upon a dish, sauce over, and serve. No. 176. Pork Cutlets sauce demi Robert. Cut eight cutlets from a neck as before, season well with pepper and salt, sprinkle chopped onions and parsley over upon both sides, beating the cutlets lightly to make them adhere, then dip them into eggs well beaten upon a plate, and then into bread-crumbs ; pat them hghtly, have some clarified butter in a stewpan, into which dip the cutlets, and again into bread-crumbs, well covering them, place them upon a gridiron over a moderate fire, broiling a nice light brown colour ; when done dress them upon a dish ; have ready the following sauce : cut two large onions mto very small dice, put them into a stewpan with an ounce of butter, fi7 of a light yellow colour, add a teaspoonful of flour, mix well, moisten with half a pint of broth and two spoonfids of vinegar, season well, let bod, skim, and reduce until rather thick, when add a spoonful of mixed mustard, one of colouring (No. 146); sauce in the centre of the cutlets and serve. No. 177. Hashed Pork. Put two spoonfuls of chopped onions into a stewpan with a wineglassful of vinegar, two cloves, a blade of mace, and a bay-leaf, reduce to half, take out the spice and bay-leaf, add half a pint of broth or water, cut some pork previously cooked into thin small slices, season weU upon a dish with pepper and salt, shake a good teaspoonful of flour over, mix all together, and put into the stewpan; let simmer gently ten minutes, pour out upon your dish, and serve with slices of gherkins in it; a little mustard may be added if approved of, or a little piccalilly with the vinegar is excellent. The remains of salt pork, though very palatable cold, if required hot may be cut into large thin slices, and placed in a buttered saute or frying-pan, with a little broth, or merely fried in the butter, and served with a puree of winter peas, made by boding half a pint of peas until tender (tied up in a cloth); when done put them into a stewpan with two ounces of butter; season with pepper and salt, add a gdl of milk or cream, pour into the dish, and dress the pork over. No. 178. Pig's Livek. Procure a nice pig's liver with the caul, cut the686 KITCHEN AT HOME. liver into good-sized shoes of the shape of hearts, season with a httle vevver salt and cayenne, sprinkle chopped eschalots and dried sage over aKTd each piece of liver m apiece of the caul; put some buttfr in a s^uti or frynig-pan, lay them ni_, place over the fire, let fry rather quickly not too tl^ ^n^/T:' ^"^^ \' a beautiful colour; take out and dress in circle pon your dish ; have ready the following sauce : put six spoonfuls of melted butter m a stewpan with one of catsup, and two of Harvey or W^^ces tei-shire sauce; when boiling pour over the Uver and serve. ^ 10 plain fry It, cut m slices, season with pepper and salt, dip in flour or eggs and bread-crumbs, fry a hght brown in butter or lard, dre'^^s in a ci'rcle upon your dish pour a giU of water into the pan, add a little Harvey since and a piece of butter the size of a wahiut, withVhich you have mixed half a overandl^e ^'^^ ' ^'^"'^^ No. 179. Pigs' Kidneys. Cut them open lengthwise, season well with pepper and salt, egg over with a paste-brush, dip into bread-crumbs, with which you have mixed some chopped parsley and eschalot, run a skewer through to keep them open, and broU for about a quarter of an hour over a good fire; when done place them upon a dish, have ready an ounce of butter, with which you have mixed the juice of a lemon, a little pepper and salt, and a teaspoonful of French or common mustard, place a piece upon each of the kidneys, place in the oven for one minute, and serve. Pigs' kidneys may also be sauted as directed for ox kidneys (No. 159). No. 180. Black Puddings. Very few people take the trouble to do them at home, it being part of the business of the pork butcher to prepare such delicacies. I shall, however, here describe a very simple method for making them more palatable than those purchased in England, having so much spice in them as to entirely destroy their delicate flavour. Cut into rather small dice twenty large onions, having cut off the roots, being hard, put them into a stewpan with half a pound of lard or butter, let stew gently, cut three pounds of pig's flead, free from skin, into small dice, have ready boiled six heads of endive chopped fine, and put into the stewpan with the onions, add two ounces of salt, a saltspoonful of pepper, half a nutmeg, grated, and four spoonfuls of parsley, chopped with a little thyme and bay-leaf; then add six pints of pig's blood, mix well, leaving no lumps; if too thin add a few hand- fuls of bread-crumbs, or half a pound of well-boiled rice; have ready the small intestines, which well scrape and wash in salt and water, tie one end upon a tin funnel, having a piece a yard in length, closing it at the other end, fiU with the above preparation by pressing through funnel; take ofl" the funnel, tie up the end, and put them into a stewpan of nearly boiling water, let simmer twenty minutes, pricking them occasionally with a pin; when no blood oozes out they are done; take up and place them upon a dish until cold; when ready to serve cut into pieces four inches in length, cut through the skin at different places, broil ten minutes over a sharp fire, serve plain, but very hot. These puddings are best made whilst the blood is still warm from the pig, which if killed at home, the other ingredients may be prepared previously. The endive may be omitted, but for a real epicure procure it if possible; they are served in France on the best of tables, and are quite worthy of that honour. Many kinds of black puddings are also made in Scotland, whereKITCHEN AT HOME. 687 they more frequently use sheep's blood, using the interior and all, in the same proportions as if made of a pig, adding oatmeal, omitting part of the onions, and using the larger entrails. It being usual in this country to introduce leeks, you must then omit the bread crumbs and rice, or part of the onions. To prevent the blood curd- hng, it must be salted, by adding a handful of salt, and whiskmg weU for ten minutes as soon as you obtain it from the pig. „ , i vr Rice well boiled in broth but not too much so is an exceHent addition to black puddings (half a pound for the above quantity being quite sufficient), or grated bread; leeks also may be used instead of endive, or both may be omitted. I have mentioned these dilferent articles, that if one cannot be pro- cured another might be used instead, fiU also very even, mixing fat and aU well together, carefully avoid letting any air get in, or they would burst m boihng. No. 181. Excellent Sausage Cakes. Chop some lean pork very fine, having previously detached all the skin and bone, and to every pound of meat add three quarters of a pound of fat bacon, half an ounce of salt, a saltspoonful of pepper, the quarter of a nutmeg grated, six young green chopped onions, and aUttle chopped parsley ; when the whole is well chopped put into a mortar and pound well, finishing with three eggs, then have ready a pig's caul, which cut into pieces large enough to fold a piece of the above preparation the size of an egg, which wrap up, keeping the shape of an egg, but rather flattened, and broil very gently over a moderate fire. No. 182, Pigs' Feet. Procure six pig's feet, nicely salted, which boil in water, to which you have added a few vegetables, until well done, cut each one in halves, take out the long bone, have some sausage-meat as in the last, and a pig's caul, which cut into pieces each large enough to fold half a foot, well surrounded with sausage-meat, when well wrapped up broil slowly half an hour over a moderate fire, and serve. Or, when the pigs' feet are well boiled, egg over, and throw them into some grated crust of bread, with which you have mixed a little parsley, broil a nice colour and serve with a little plain gravy. MADE DISHES FROM POULTRY. No. 183. Blanquettes of Turkey. With the remains of a roast or boiled turkey you may make a very nice blanquette, cutting the meat into smaU thin slices, chop up the bones and put them into a stewpan, with an onion, half a blade of mace, and a very little lean ham or bacon, just cover with water, boil twenty minutes, and with the stock make a white sauce as directed (No. 135), put the slices into a stewpan, just cover with a httle of the sauce, add a little white pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg, make all hot together, not, however, allowing it to boil, finish with three tablespoonfuls of cream, mixed with the yolk of an egg, stir in quickly, pour out upon a dish, and serve with triangular scippets of fried or toasted bread round. When cucumbers are in season I frequently use one, cutting it in pieces two inches in length, which again spht into three, peel, and take out all the seeds, put them into a stewpan, with a few chopped onions, a httle butter, and sugar, and stew gently over a slow fire until tender, five minutes before serving add them to the blanquette, they being a great improvement.C88 KITCIIHN AT HOME. No 184. BouDiNS ofTurkk^. Cutup aU the flesh remaining upon atur- key mto small dice, if about a pound and a half, put a teaspoonful of chon- ped onions mto a stewpan, with a piece of butter of the size of two walnuts pass a few seconds over the fire, then add half a tablespoonful of flour fmi^ well) and the mmce, which moisten with a pint of stock made from the bones as in the last, simmer some time, keeping it moved, season with a little pepper salt, and sugar, finish with the yolks of three eggs, which stir in quicklv over the fire, not allowing it to boil aftei-wards, pour out upon a dish untU cold; just before ready to serve, divide it into equal parts, which roU out each to about the size of small eggs, shaping them to fancy, egg and bread-crumb twice over, fry m very hot lard or dripping of a light brown colour, and serve. A little ham or tongue (should you have any left) cut small, and nuxed with the mince would be a great improvement. No. 185. Turban of Croquettes. Croquettes are made precisely as the last, but not more than half the size, when done, dress them in crown upon a border of mashed potatoes, and have ready some of the blanquette of turkey, which serve in the centre. No. 186. Minced AND Grilled Turkey. Detach the leg, wing, or take ofi" the best part of the turkey remaining, which season well with pepper and salt, and broil over a good fire, have ready prepared a mince from the remaining flesh of the turkey, made as directed for the boudins, but omitting the yolks of eggs ; when quite hot and well seasoned pour into your dish, and dress the broiled piece upon it. No. 187. Devilled Turkey. Cut up the remains of your turkey into good-sized pieces or joints if sufiicient, cut incisions crosswise upon each piece, and well rub them with cayenne pepper, broil quickly over a sharp fire, dress them in your dish, and have ready the following sauce: put a table- spoonful of chopped eschalots in a stewpan with a wineglassful of chili vinegar, reduce to half, add half a pint of thin melted butter, two table- spoonfuls of catsup, and two of Worcestershire sauce, boil about a quarter of an hour, stir in two ounces of fresh butter, pour over and serve. Many persons like the above best dry, so it would be as well to serve the sauce separate in a boat, or a little plain gravy only underneath. The remains of poulardes, capons, or fowls may be dressed precisely as directed for the tui-key. No. 188. Goose Hashed. The remains of a goose is fit only for hashing, or devilling, for which proceed as last directed; when for hashing put a spoon- ful of chopped onions into a stewpan, with an ounce of butter, pass over the fire until becoming rather brown, when add a tablespoonful of flour, mix well, cut up the remains of a goose into moderate-sized pieces, season with pepper and salt, add about a pint of stock or water, let simmer ten minutes, when pour out upon a dish and serve. For a variation, a httle sage and a couple of apples shced and cooked in the sauce is very good. No. 189. Stewed Duck and Peas. Procure a duck trussed with the legs turned inside, which put into a stewpan, with two ounces of butter and a quarter of a pound of streaked bacon, let remain over a fire, stirring occa- sionally until lightly browned, when add a good tablespoonful of flour (mix well) and a pint of broth or water, stir round gently until boiling, when skim.KITCHEN AT HOiME. G89 and add twenty button onions, a bunch of parsley, with a bay-leaf, and two cloves let simmer a quarter of an hour, then add a quart of nice young peas, let simmer untU done, which will take about half an hour longer, take out the duck, place it upon your dish (taking away the string it was trussed with), take out the parsley and bay-leaf, season the peas with a little pepper, salt, and sugar, reduce a httle if not sufficiently thick, pour over the duck and serve. No. 190. Duckling with Turnips is a veiy favorite dish amongst the middle classes in France. Proceed as in the last, but instead of peas use about forty pieces of good turnips cut into moderate-sized square pieces, having previously fried them of alight yellow colour in a little butter or lard, and. drained them upon a sieve, dress the duck upon a dish as before, season the sauce with a httle pepper, salt, and sugar, reduce until rather thickish, a thin sauce not suiting a dish of this description; the turnips must not, how- ever, be in puree ; sauce over and serve. The remains of ducks left from a previous dinner may be hashed as directed for goose, and for variety, should peas be in season, a pint previously boiled may be added to the hash just before serving. The sage and apple must in all cases be omitted. No. 191. Fricassee of Fowl or Chicken. Cut a fowl or chicken into eight pieces, that is, the two wings and legs, dividing the back and breast into two pieces each, wash well, put them into a stewpan and cover with water, season with a teaspoonful of salt, a little pepper, a good bunch of parsley, four cloves, and a blade of mace, let boil twenty minutes, pass the stock through a sieve into a basin, take out the pieces of fowl, trim well, then in another stewpan put two ounces of butter, with which mix a good spoonful of flour, moisten with the stock, and put in the pieces of fowl, stir occasionally until boiling, skim well, add twenty button onions, let simmer until the onions are tender, when add a gill of cream, with which you have mixed the yolks of two eggs, stir in quickly over the fire, but do not let boil, take out the pieces, dress in pyramid upon your dish, sauce over and serve. No. 192. Fricassee OF Fowl WITH Mushrooms. Proceed as in the last, but adding twenty mushrooms, (peeled, if very black) not too large, about ten minutes before adding the cream and yolks of eggs. No. 193. CuRRiE OF Fowl, Oriental Fashion. Peel and cut two large onions into thin shces, which put into a stewpan, with two ounces of butter, fry them over a slow fire until lightly browned and quite pulpy, then add a good tablespoonful of currie-powder, and one of currie-paste, mix well, add half a pint of broth or water, let boil, keeping it stirred, then have a fowl cut into eight pieces, which put in the stewpan, cover well with the currie, add half a pint of cream, let simmer gently three quarters of an hour over a slow fire, stirring occasionally, take out the pieces, dress pyramidically upon a dish, pour the sauce over, and serve with rice plain boiled as directed (page .51) on a separate dish. No. 194 Broiled Fowl. Procure a fowl trussed as for boiling, cut out the back-bone and press quite flat, season well with pepper, salt, and chopped eschalots, place in a saute-pan, fry upon both sides, take out, egg 44690 KITCTTEN AT HOME, over with a paste brush, dip into bread-crumbs, place upon the gridiron over a moderate fire, and broil a very light brown colour, glaze over, if any, and serve with a little plain gravy, or mushroom sauce, made by putting half a pint of melted butter into a stewpan, with about twenty button mushrooms, well washed, let simmer ten minutes, add two tablespoonfuls of catsup, and two of Harvey sauce, finish with a pat of butter, pour the sauce in the dish, dress the fowl over and serve. I very frequently also serve it at home with a sauce k la tartare made as directed page 19. No. 195. Fowl Sauted in Oil. Cut a fowl in pieces as described for the fricassee, and put them into a stewpan, with four spoonfuls of oil, place over the fire, and when of a hght brown colour add a good tablespoonful of flour (mix well), and moisten with a pint of broth or water, let simmer a quarter of an hour, keeping well slcimmed, add a raw trufile cut in sUces, or a few mushrooms, season with a Uttle pepper, salt, sugar, and a httle scraped garlic the size of a pea, take out the pieces of fowl, which dress pyramidi- cally upon your dish, reduce the sauce over the fire, keeping it stirred until adhering to the back of the spoon, when pour over and serve. No. 196, Fricassee of Rabbits. Cut two nice young rabbits into very neat joints, or the legs only may be used, and put them into lukewarm water to disgorge for half an hour, take out and put them into a stewpan with a large onion cut into slices, two cloves, a blade of mace, a little parsley, one bay-leaf, and a quarter of a pound of streaked bacon cut in dice ; just cover with water, let simmer a quarter of an hour, keeping it well skimmed, pass the stock through a sieve, and proceed precisely as for the fricassee of fowl, page 689. No. 197. GiBELOTTE OF Rabbits. Cut two youug rabbits into joints as in the last, cut also half a pound of streaked bacon into dice, fry the bacon in butter in a stewpan, then put in the pieces of rabbits; when sUghtly browned add a good spoonful of flour, mix well, and moisten with rather more than a pint of water, season with a little salt and pepper, when begin- ning to boil skim well, add fifty button onions, and a few button mushrooms, if any, let simmer a quarter of an hour, take out the pieces of rabbit, wliich dress in pyramid upon a dish ; let the sauce boil, keeping it stirred, until the onions are quite tender, and the sauce thick enough to adhere to the back of the spoon, when add a little colouring, pour over the rabbit and serve. No. 198. CuRRiE OF Rabbit. Cut four middling-sized onions and two apples in sUces, and put them into a stewpan with two ounces of butter, place over a moderate fire, stirring occasionally, until the onions are shghtly browned and quite pulpy, when add two tablespoonfuls of currie-powder and one of currie-paste ; mix well and moisten with half a pint of stock or water, let boil; have ready a couple of young rabbits cut into joints, and fried in butter in a saute or frying-pan of a nice brown colour, put into the currie sauce, season with a little salt and juice of lemon, let stew very gently over a very slow fire, stirring occasionaUy, until the rabbit is quite tender, when dress upon your dish, and serve with rice, plain boiled, separate. The legs only of the rabbits may be dressed in either of the foregoing ways, should the fillets be required for other purposes.KITCHEN AT HOME. No. 199. Rabbit Pies. Cut two or three rabbits up ^J^^^l^'J''^ ] pound of streaked bacon in sUees ; butter a pie-dish, j^y^l'^'^f^^'^Z bacon upon the bottona, dip the pieces of rabbits into flo^"'. P^^^^ a layer^ot them over the bacon, season well with pepper , ^^^^^^ layer of bacon, then rabbit, again seasoning, proceeding ^^^^l*!^,^! in a dome above the edge of the dish ; have ready a pound of l^^f P^^ P^/*^ made as directed (page 480), with which cover tliem, ornament ng the top with leaves, egg over hghtly, and bake about an hour and a half m a mo- derate oven, put half a pint of good gravy m with a funnel and s^jve Rabbits pliin boiled and served with onion sauce are also very excellent, make the sauce thus: peel and cut six large omons into very small dice put into a stewpan with two ounces of butter, pass five minutes over the fire, keeping it stii-red, add two ounces of flour, mix well, moisten with a pint and a half of milk, season with a little white pepper, salt and sugar, keep stkring over the fire until the onions are quite tender, and it becomes a rather thickish sauce, when serve over the rabbit. The remains of rabbits may be warmed and served with the above sauce, made into blanquettes, or minced as directed for turkeys or fowls. No. 200. Pigeon Pie. Procure four pigeons, but not trussed, and cut off the feet; have a nice tender rump-steak, well seasoned, which dip m flour and lay at the bottom of a buttered pie-dish ; place the pigeon over, elevating their tails to meet in the centre, season well with pepper and salt, place a piece of fat bacon over the breast of each bird, sprinkle a few chopped escha- lots over, have six eggs boiled, the yolks of which place in the dish, pour m half a pint of water, and cover the pie with a pound of half pufi' paste made as directed (page 480), ornamenting the top with leaves of paste, sticking the pigeons' feet in the centre, and brushing eggs lightly over the top ; bake about an hour and a half in a moderate oven. Lamb or veal may be used instead of the beef at the bottom, if preferred, and the whole of the eggs, each cut in four lengthwise, instead of the yolks only. No. 201. Pigeons in Compote. Put half a pound of lean bacon, cut into large dice, in a stewpan, with half an ounce of butter, pass a few mi- nutes over the fire, then have three pigeons trussed with their legs turned in- side, place them in the stewpan with the bacon, breasts downwards, let re- main until becoming of a light brown colour, moving them round occa- sionally ; add a tablespoonful of flour, move round until becoming a little browned, moisten with a pint, or a little more, water, mix well, add a good bunch of parsley, with a Ijay-leaf, thirty button onions, a little pepper and salt, let simmer three quarters of an hour, skimming weU, dress the pigeons upon a dish, with the bacon and onions round, reduce the sauce to a proper consistency, take out the parsley and bay-leaf, pour over and serve. No. 202. Stewed Pigeons with Peas. Proceed precisely ae in the last, but adding nearly a quart of very fresh peas with the onions and parsley, omitting the bay-leaf; dress the pigeons upon a dish, pour the peas and sauce over when ready to serve. GAME.—No. .203. Pheasants, Partridges, Grouse, Black Game, Woodcocks, etc., by the greater part of the population, are preferred plain roasted, which is, in my opinion, the best; but by way of change, and forG92 KITCHEN AT IIOMR. So ^^.'^^•^^.^"^S/^'' ''"y description of birds, I have given the tew toUownig simple receipts : ^i^en No. 201. Small Pheasants, the Miller's FAswir^M t?^o ^ i ...rr^ i f , roasting, thus it will be very crisp and keen n of'^h r ^11 1 f' ''r^'^^^ ^ ste^pan,^witli half ? pint ot milk, a small eschalot, a bay-leaf, an ounce of butter, and a little Ered to\:f' r'^' ^^'^^^^^^ ^""^ bay-leaf, pkce a pte e of butt^ied toast upon your dish, pour the sauce over, dress the pheasant upon tbe top, and serve; a httle gravy may also be served separate in a boat. No. 205. Pheasant with Cabbage. Procure a nice white-heart winter cabbage, which cut in quarters, and blanch tive minutes in boiling water drain quite dry, cut off part of the stalk, season well with salt, place it in a stewpan with half a pound of streaked bacon and a pint of broth, and stew gently for about half an hour ; then have a pheasant about three parts roasted thrust It into the cabbage whilst hot, and let the whole stew gently together half an hour longer; take out the pheasant and cabbage, squeezing it to the sides of the stewpan to extract the stock, dress the cabbage in pyramid upon your dish, with the pheasant upon the top, dress the bacon, cut in shoes around, slam the stock well, let reduce to half, pour round and serve. No. 206. Hashed Pheasant. From the remains of a pheasant, previ- ously served, make a hash in the following manner : cut it up into smaUish pieces and put them into a stewpan, with a little flour, half a glass of port wine, a little pepper, salt, and a bay-leaf, and sufficient broth (or water with a piece of glaze in it) to moisten it; let simmer very gently five minutes, take out the pieces, dress them upon your dish, pass the sauce through a hair sieve over, and serve. No. 207. A Plain Salmi of Pheasants, Cut off and trun well the best pieces remaining of pheasants, previously served, and put them into a stew- pan ; then in another stewpan put the bones and trimmings (broken up small), with an onion in slices, a little parsley, a bay-leaf, four peppercorns, and a glass of sherry, boil a few minutes ; then stir in a tablespoonful of fiour, and moisten by degrees with a pint of broth (or water with a piece of glaze), boil about ten minutes, keeping it stirred; when thick enough to adliere to the back of the spoon, pass through a tammie or fine sieve into the other stew- pan over the pieces of pheasants, warm altogether gently, not allowing it to boU, colour a little brown with half a spoonful of colouring (page 673), take out the pieces, dress in pyramid, sauce over, and serve with scippets of fried or toasted bread, cut in the shape of hearts, round. The remains of pheasants may be minced and served with eggs boiled five minutes, and the shells taken off, or made into boudins or croquettes as di- rected for turkey (page 687), as may any other description of game. No. 208. Grouse, Scotch Fashion. Plain roast the grouse, dress them upon toast on your dish, and serve with plain melted butter poured over them; they may also be dressed in any of the waj's directed for phea- sants, with the exception of being stewed with the cabbage; black game is dressed precisely the same as the grouse.KITCHEN AT HOME. 693 No. 209. Partridges a la Jardiniere. Have a plain rouud tin ci^^tte,, with which cut about forty pieces of carrot and turnip, each about the thick- ness of a quill, and half an inch in length, put them into a stewpaa with twenty button onions, two ounces of butter, and a teaspoonful of powdered su-ar • pass over a sharp fire until the vegetables become covered with a thm- nish glaze, when add a tablespoonful of flour (mix weU) and a pint of stock or gravv! let simmer until the vegetables are tender, keeping it weU skimmed. Roast two partridges rather underdone, which put into the sauce twenty minutes before serving, let simmer very gently, skim oflf all the fat, dress tlie birds upon a dish, pour the sauce and vegetables over, and serve. No. 210. Partridges with Cabbage. Proceed exactly as described for the pheasant, but using two bkds instead of one ; if convenient it would be a great improvement to lard the breasts of the birds with fat bacon. No. 211. Partridges Sauted with Mushrooms. Divide two par- tridges each into halves, beat them a little flattish, put two or three tablespoon- fuls of salad-oil into a flat stewpan, lay in the partridges, the inner side down- wards, first seasoning with a little pepper, salt, and chopped eschalots, place over a moderate fire, put a cover upon the stewpan, and let remain until of a light brown colour; remove the lid, turn the partridges over, and let remain until coloured the other side; then pour off a httle of the oil, add a table- spoonful of flour, turn round until well mixed, add a good glassful of sherry, half a pint of stock or water, and twenty small button mushrooms ; let sim- mer until the partridges are tender, and the sauce thick enough to adhere to them, having kept it well skimmed, season with a little pepper, salt, and sugar, if required, lay the partridges upon a dish, sauce over, and seiTe. The remains of partridges may be hashed or served in a plain salmi, pre- cisely as directed for pheasants. No. 212. Woodcocks, Downshire Fashion. Plain roast the wood- cocks as directed (page 407), catching theii" trails upon toast, upon which, when done, dress the birds upon a dish ; pour a thick melted butter (with which you have mixed the yolk of an egg and a little cream) over, sprinkle lightly with bread-crumbs, salamander a hght brown colour, and serve with a httle gravy round. No. 213. Woodcocks a la Chasseur. Roast two woodcocks rather underdone, catching the interior upon a large piece of toast; when done cut each one in four, and place in a stewpan, with the remainder of the interior, chopped small, add a little pepper and salt, a glass of sherry, a little chopped eschalots, parsley, the juice of half a lemon, and half a gill'of broth ; let sim- mer a few minutes, dish rather high upon the toast, sauce over, and serve. No. 214. Hashed Woodcocks. Should you have any remaining from a previous dinner, cut each one in four, or more pieces, chop all that remains in the interior, which mix with a small piece of butter, a spoonful of bread- crumbs, and a little chopped parsley, make six croutons in the shape of hearts from a piece of toasted bread, spread the above preparation upon each, and place a short time in the oven ; hash the pieces as directed for the phea- sant, dress in pyramid on a dish, with the croutons round, sauce over and serve.KITCHEN AT liOME. 694 No. 215. Snipes a la Minute. Put a quarter of a pound of butter in a stewpan over winch lay six snipes, breasts downwards, add a spoonful of chopped onions, one ditto of parsley, a littled grated nutmeg, half a tea- spoontul of salt, and a saltspoonful of pepper; set over a brisk fire seven or ten nimutes (according to the size of the birds), stirring occasionally then add the juice of two lemons, two glasses of sherry or bucellas wine, and a spoonful of finely-grated crust of bread ; let the whole simmer a few minutes dress the birds upon a dish, mix the sauce well, pour over and serve. No. 216. Plovers with English raw Truffles. Put a quarter of a pound of butter in a stewpan, over which place foflr plovers, breasts down- M^ards, and eight raw truffles, well washed, peeled, and cut into thickish slices ; add also two cloves, a bay-leaf, half a teaspoonful of salt, and a salt- spoonful of pepper; pass the whole ten minutes over a sharp fire, stirrino' occasionally, add half a tablespoonful of flour, mix well, moisten with a gifl of broth and a glass of white wine, let simmer ten minutes longer, skim well, dress the birds upon a dish, reduce the sauce, add a little sugar and the juice of a lemon, sauce over, and serve. No. 217. Wild Duck. Truss as directed (p. 688), rub all over with the liver, making it quite red, and roast twenty minutes before a good fire, then with a sharp knife cut eight incisions down the breast; you have put an ounce of butter into a stewpan with a quarter of a saltspoonful of cayenne, the rind of an orange, free froni pith, cut in strips, blanched in boiling water and well drained upon a sieve, and the juice of a lemon; warm over the fire, and when melted, but not oily, pour over the duck and serve. No. 218. Hashed Wild Duck. Cut up the remains of a duck or ducks into neat pieces, and put into a stewpan with half or a tablespoonful of flour, depending upon the quantity; mix well, moisten with a glass or two of wine, and sufiicient broth or water to make a thickish sauce, season well, add a little Harvey sauce, mushroom catsup, a little sugar and cayenne pepper; let simmer but not boil, take out the pieces, which dress upon toast, reduce the sauce, pour over, and serve. A Uttle colouring may be added if approved of. No. 219. Widgeons. Truss as for wild ducks, rub over with some of their hvers, chop up the remainder, which mix with a few bread-crumbs, a little chopped lemon-peel, chopped parsley, and an egg, with which stuff" the interior; roast nearly as long as for the wild duck before a very sharp fire, dress upon toast on a dish, and have ready the following sauce: put half a glass of port wine into a stewpan, with a teaspoonful of chopped eschalot, a little salt, pepper, and cayenne; boil a few minutes, add the juice of a lemon, and two ounces of fresh butter, sauce over and serve. Widgeons are hashed in the same manner as described for wild duck. No. 220. Teal, a neav Method. Procure four, diwv them, then put b;df a pound of butter upon a plate, with a little pepper, grated nutmeg, parsley, a spooonful of grated crust of bread, the juice of a lemon, and the liver of the teal; mix well together, and with it fill the interior of the teal; cover them with slices of lemon, fold in thin slices of bacon, then in paper, and roast twenty minutes before a sharp fire; take off the paper, brown the bacon, dress them upon a sHce of thick toast, letting the butter from the teal run over it, and serve very hot.KITCHEN AT HOME. 695 No 221. Tkal a I.A Sans Fa^on. Roast four teal ^^^f P^;^; P^^^^^^^^ 4t;;of apouad of ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^7]^ t^^M^^Xt^ -ce over, and serve. The remains of teal also make an exceUent hash. No 292 Larks a la Minute. Proceed as directed for snipes a la minut^ previoirsly stuffing them with their livers, as d rected for widgeons, Sii'^rw musbrooms a^t the commencement, and not letting them stew oo qSly or the bottom would become brown and give a bad flavour to the sauce; ten minutes is quite sufficient to stew them. No 293 Lark Pie. Cover the bottom of a pie-dish with thin slices of beef and fat bacon, over which lay ten or twelve larks previously roUed in flour season with a teaspoonful of salt, a quarter do of pepper, one of ca pped parsley, and on^ of chopped eschalot; ^ l^^^-l^^^, ^j;^ eiU of broth, and cover with three quarters of a pound of half pufl pa.te (p. 480); bake one hour in a moderate oven, shake weU to make the gravy in the pie form a kind of sauce, and serve quite hot. No 224. Jugged Hare. Put nearly half a pound of butter into a good- sized stewpan with ten ounces of flour, making rather a thmnish roux by continually turning over a slow fire until becoming of a yeUowish tinge, then add a pound of good streaked bacon, previously cut into good-sized square pieces ; keep stirring a few minutes longer over the fire ; you have previously cut the hare into nice pieces, throw them into the stewpan, and stir over the fire until becoming firm, when moisten with four glasses of port wine, and sufficient water to cover them ; when beginning to boil skim weU, season in proportion to the size of your hare, let simmer, add two bay-leaves, four cloves, and when about half done forty button onions, or ten large ones cut into slices ; let simmer until the whole is well done, the sauce requiring to be rather thick ; dress the pieces as high as possible upon your dish, sauce over, and serve. The remains are excellent either cold or warmed up again in a stewpan. If cheap and in season, a few small new potatoes are excellent stewed with it. No. 225. Another and more simple Method. Put a quarter of a pound of butter with a pound of bacon cut into dice, and the hare, cut into pieces, in a stewpan, set upon a moderate fire until the pieces of hare are be- coming firm, when add six ounces of flour, mix well, and moisten with suf- ficient water to cover it, add two glasses of any kind of wine and one of vinegar, season as above, let simmer until tender, keeping well skimmed; when done, and the sauce becoming quite thick, dress upon your dish, and serve as before. meat pies and puddings. No. 226. Rump Steak Pie. Procure two pounds of rump-steak, which cut into thinnish slices, season well with pepper and salt, dip each piece into flour, and lay them in a small pie-dish, finishing the top in form of a dome ; add a wineglassful of water, and cover with three quarters of a pound of half pufl" paste (page 480), egg over with a paste brush, and bake rather better than an hour in a moderate oven; serve either hot or cold.^^^^ KITCHEN AT HOME. which nut a lavor nf ih^Jv^ r ' ^'^°PP'-^ parsley, and eschalot, over IX proceed 1 ' thu fin'l' ^"1"'"'^' '^'"^ ^^'^^^^ing cSverVT;:SraS^& ' ^ of water! No. 228. Lamb Pie. Cut a smaU loin of lamb into thin chops which hshtlv rir^hrfornTo;" ^ ^•^^^^ potatotl CSdtgfhe^ '' ^^'^ ««ver with paste, and bake as whTi' P^-oper-^ay to cover these pies is to wet the edge of the dish, round which put a band of common paste, pressing it Ughtly on, wettino- the top and jommg the paste with which the pie is covered to it ^' T V'Y? previously observed, may also be made from the remains of any joints, first hashmg the meat from them, which cut into large slices and weU season; when quite cold fiU your pie-dish, building it in a dome two inches above the rim of your dish; place a bay-leaf over,"^ cover with paste, not, however, too thickly, and bake in a hot oven. Any kind of meat, game, or poultry remaining may be hashed and con- verted into a pie as above without much trouble, thus making a very excellent dish to serve to table. Or the remains of any description of meats may be thus dressed: lay a few slices of streaked uncooked bacon at the bottom of a pie-dish, over which put layers of the meat, seasoning weU be- tween, leaving a space between the meat and the dish all round, and not building It above the edge of the dish; then have some potatoes prepared as follows : put about a quarter of a pound of potatoes weU mashed into a basin, to which add three eggs, a spoonful of chopped parsley, a Httle grated nutmeg, pepper, salt, and half a pint of milk; mix well, strain through a colander, pour over the meat in the dish, bake habP an hour in a warm oven, and serve very hot. No. 229. Beef Steak Pudding. At home T can frequently make a very excellent dinner from a meat pudding, made as follows : Put one pound of flour upon a pastry slab, in the centre of which form a weU, in which put half a pound of beef or mutton suet, whichever is most convenient, add a teaspoonful of salt, and mix the whole with water into a stiffish paste, adding more flour to detach the paste from the slab, and make it dry to the touch ; then slightly butter the interior of a round-bottomed basin, of the size you may require, w^hich hne with two thu-ds of the paste, rolled to the thickness of half an inch; you have previously cut two pounds of rump-steak into slices, the thickness of two five-shilhng pieces, and as large as the palm of your hand, with a certain quantity of fat attached, or if no fat, add a few pieces separately, dip each piece in flour, and cover the bottom of your basin, over which sprinkle some pepper, salt, chopped parsley, and eschalots (which you have previously mixed upon a plate in the follow- ing proportions : two teaspoonfuls of salt, half ditto of black pepper, two of chopped parsley, and one or two of chopped onions or eschalots), then more meat, and seasoning alternately until the pudding is filled, add a Mineglassful or two of water, lay a bay-leaf upon the top, wet the edges of the paste, the re- mainder of which roll to the same thickness, with which form a lid, closing it carefully at the edges ; have ready boiling in a stewpan upon the fire a697 KITCHEN AT HOME. gallon of water, iu which stand your pudding, having previously well wrapped it up in a cloth, and let boil continually for three hours now and then add- ing a little more water to keep up the quantity ; when done, untie the cloth from which take the basin, pass your knife carefully i^ound between the puddino- and the basin, and turn over upon a dish lifting the basin carefully, and YOU will have an exceUent pudding, not one drop of gravy escaping until you have duo- in your spoon, which will cause it to eat much more delicate than by breaking the pudding on purpose to fill the dish with gravy when going to table, particularly if soup and fish are served before, and the pud- ding is kept half an hour waiting, the top pieces would then eat very dry and indigestible, being deprived of their succiUence. At home I never carve such a pudding with a spoon, but lightly cut the crust with a knife, cutting along the top instead of down, and laying a piece of crust upon each plate, taking the meat and gravy from the centre with a spoon, thus leaving the bottom until the last, which, if any remains, is excellent cold.* The above may also be either steamed or baked, in which case it wdl not require to be tied in a cloth; to steam it, place a quart of water in a mid- dling-sized stewpan, and when boiling stand in your puddmg, cover the stew- pan down close, and draw it to the corner of the fire, replenishing occa- sionally with more water; the pudding will require the same time cooking, and is served as before. If baked, the time required in cooking would of course greatly depend upon the heat of your oven, but it would require about two hours baking in a moderate oven, which is the best adapted. The pudding, when baked, may be kept entirely to be eaten cold. Should the onion or bay-leaf be objection- able to some, they may of course be omitted; observe, that by shaking the pudding gently, previous to turning it out upon your dish, you will mix the gravy with the flour upon the meat, thus forming, when the pudding is cut, a thinnish sauce, without having a greasy appearance. This veiylong and minute receipt will probably surprise many, but by thus entering into it, I have given at least ten receipts in one, as I make aU other savoury puddings precisely the same ; the following sorts most fi-equently. I sometimes introduce one or two mutton kidneys in a steak pudding, which, although a very old custom, is nevertheless a very good one. Mutton pud- ding is also very excellent, especially if made from the meat cut from the chumps of the loins, and made similar to the beef-steak puddings, not, how- ever, requiring quite so long a time to boil. Short mutton cutlets, cut with- out showing the bones, with slices of raw potatoes between, also make very excellent puddings, as also do cutlets of lamb, but in either case requiring an hour less time to cook. I have also frequently made very good puddings from veal, rabbits, poultry, and game, all of which are very acceptable for a change. Venison pudding is also very beautiful. I consider it a pity so few people make any experiments in cookery, which, like other arts, is amost in- exhaustible. Some people who have partaken of some of these puddings, previous to their being sent to table, have said they were sure they would not be approved of; but to my great satisfaction they have been totally deceived. For the veal pudding I cut slices (from any part of the leg) about the same * It would bo very easy to ascertain wlieu done, by riumiii£^ a packiug-nepdlc or sharp-pointed knii'& t'lirough, if tender it is done; this remark also applies to any de- scription of meat pies.G98 KITCHEN AT HOME. sue as the beef for steak puddings, and put them into a sautd-pan, over the bottom of which I have rubbed an ounce of butter, seasoning them with a little pepper and salt, addmg a little thyme, and a couple of bay-leaves ; about half cook and leave them in the pan until quite cold, then dip each piece in flour, lay them in the basin with a few slices of streaked bacon, finish the pudchng and boil It two hours. For young rabbits and fowls I proceed the sime, and cook the pudding the same time; but to the two last I frequently add a spoon- ful of currie-powder to make it palatable. For venison, I previously stew it well, except I have left the remainder of a haunch, which I convert into a hash making the pudding of it when quite cold; this pudding wiU require very httie more than an hour boiUng. I frequently also make puddings of various kinds of fish, of which one made from the fillets of mackarel is very excellent, the fillets cut into good shces, rather highly seasoned, and laid lightly in the pudding ; itwiU require an hour and a half boihng, and must be eaten very hot to be well appre- ciated. Eels also make a good pudding, by cutting them into pieces an inch and a half in length slantwise, and blanching them ten minutes in boiling water, to extract the oil, previous to putting them in your pudding, before making which dip each piece of eel in flour. SECOND COURSE, KITCHEN AT HOME. For the roasts, second course, in my Kitchen at Home, I must refer my readers to that series in the other department of this work, as it is impos- sible to explain them more simply; so also for the various methods of di-ess- ing vegetables (there so fuUy explained), from the most expensive to the most simple; and, to avoid repetition, pass over those two series in the second course, and commence a short series of simplified second-course dishes, with a few plain salads. No. 230. Salad of Cold Meat. This salad in France is very much in vogue, and very frequently made with the remains of meat from the pot-au- feu, but any meat, either roasted, boiled, or stewed, may be used. Cut your meat in sHces (with a httle of the fat) about the size of half-a- crown, place them upon a dish, with three eschalots chopped very finely, a spoonful of chopped parsley, one of chopped tarragon and chervil, and a httle salt and pepper, pour six tablespoonfuls of salad-oil and two of vinegar over, toss well together without breaking the meat, and serve either in a salad-bowl or upon another dish; the above proportion is for a pound of meat. Another method is to have as many sUces of cold potatoes as of meat, cut the same size, and after well seasoning the whole, dress them alternately round the dish, one resting upon the other; mix two spoonfuls of oil with one of vinegar, which pour over and serve. Spring onions, slices of beet- root, and radishes, may also be introduced. The remains of poultry may also be dressed in a similar manner. No. 231. Lobster Salad. Break up a lobster, obtaining as much of the flesh as possible, which cut into slices, have likewise two hard-boiled eggs also in slices, two anchovies filleted, and two cabbage lettuces, or any other salad cut up small; mix the whole well together with a fork in a basin, season with half a teaspoouful of chopped eschalots, one of chopped parsley, one offiQO KITCHEN AT HOME, and serve. Crab may be dressed precisely the same. when cold also make excellent salads. lettuces, rnf the fish into rather thin shces, have also two young cos leuucc., wWch separate into leaves and cut lengthwise, add a few leaves of tarragon rSe eS season with a little pepper and salt^ ^ :f t-- salad-oil, and two of vinegar, or according to ^^^^^ = into a salad-bowl and serve. The above salads are excellent lor dinner upon a hot summer's day. No 233 Potato Salad. Peel and cut ten middling-sized cold potatoes into siices and pTthem into a salad-bowl, season with a 1 ttle pepper, salt, a teas;oonfurof^h tarragon and cherv^, half ^ "o °^chopped e^^^^^^^^ lots, the same of chopped parsley, six spoonfuls of oil and two of vine|ar toss all well together without breaking the potatoes, and serve Cold haricot beans, French beans, and lentils, are also excellent, dressed in the above method. No 234. Plain Salad a la Francaise. Throughout France, but in France only, this simple style of dressing a salad is fully appreciated the sight of which refreshes the eyes and revives the appetite; I never heard (in France) any one say, after a copious dinner, this is too much and useless, but, on the contrary, every one reserves, if not an appetite, at least the shade of one for the approaching salad, the simpUcity of its seasoning and its trifling expense principally causing it to be thus popular and so freely par- taken of. 1 have never given a smaU party at home but my guests have been at all times anxious to partake of my French salad, which I simply make as follows: • / n I procure a quantity of salad of any description the most m season (all descriptions of salad being dressed in the same manner, one receipt will do for the whole), but my favorite salad being endive, that is the one I shall here describe. Take four or five heads of very white endive, detach all the green leaves, and wash each head well in a pail of cold water, but not leaving them in the water, or they would eat quite bitter, which, for my own part, I do not much .object to, but many persons do ; when clean cut each head in halves down the centre, cut off the* roots, which throw away, lay the endive in the centre of a clean cloth, which take by the four corners and shake until the salad is per- fectly dry; then put it into a convenient-sized salad-bowl, season with three saltspoonfuls of salt, two of white pepper, two tablespoonfuls of vinegar,, six of salad-oil, and one of tarragon and chervil chopped very fine, then stir up lightly with a spoon and fork, and when well mixed let each guest help themselves. Another method of dressing an endive salad, which, in the opinion of the generality of my guests, is the most preferable in point of flavour, is to rub the salad-bowl with a piece of fresh peeled garlic, then lay in the salad ; have three or four pieces of crust of bread, about the size of shiUiugs, let each' be well rubbed with the garlic, season and stir well together as before. Should any ladies, however, be going to partake of it, the bowl and crusts700 KITCHEN AT HOME. must not be so much rubbed, as too strong a flavour might be objectionable • th s last receipt ,s only applicable to endive, every other salad S n« ? ' cabbage lettuce, is plainirdresscd as in the'fi'rC^rS'nr^ rToi ess To make a profitable family salad, a certain quantity of cold roast steM^ed or boiled mea (which you might have remaining) ol poultry St be in troduced in either of the above salads, having previously cut it fn^o sites you niay also introduce a couple of hard-boiled eggs, cut in rings, with si c'el of beet-root, cucumbers, ripe tomatas, or even cold potatoes, but then a httle more vinegar must be added; from such a salad i small family may In the summer months make an exceUent meal. ^ No 235. Jelly of various kinds of Fruits. Having but little time to make very bright jellies at home, I usually simply make them as directed m the tew foUowmg receipts—they are excellent and full of flavour : when in a hurry 1 generally use isinglass, but at other times boil three calf's feet or two cow heels, in a gaUon of water, and when weU done pass the liquor througJi a sieve into a basin, and clarify the next day, by taking off" every particle of fat, and putting it into a stewpan; place upon the fire, and when boiling add a pint of water with which you have whipped the whites of six eggs, mixing the juice of four lemons and two ounces of lump sugar ; keep whiskmg over the fire until upon the point of boihng, when take from the fire, place the cover upon the stewpan, with a httle live charcoal, or a few live cinders upon the top, let stand twenty minutes, when pour it tlu-ough a jelly bag, pouring that which first runs through in agam, until running quite clear, when all has passed through, pour it into a stevq^an, and'reduce it over a sharp - fire to about a quart, when put it by for use, instead of isinglass, where indicated. No. 236. Orange Jelly, The bountifol supply and cheapness of this delicious fruit will enable almost any person to partake of this excellent entremet. Procure ten middling-sized oranges and two lemons, take the rind from three of the oranges and one of the lemons, as thinly as possible, which put into a basin, put a sieve over, through which squeeze the juice of the oranges and lemons, then put half a pound of sugar in a stewpan over the fire with a pint of water, and let boil until becoming a very thick syrup, when take it oS, and add the juice and rind of the fruits, cover the stewpan for a few mo- ments, when again place it over the fire ; as soon as boiling commences skim well, and add two glasses of water by degrees, which will assist its clarifica- tion, let boil another minute, when add an ounce and a quarter of isinglass, dissolved as directed (page 592), pass the whole through a jelly bag or fine cloth, and add a few drops of prepared cochineal to give an orange tint; when fill a mould, which place in two or three pounds of ice until set quite firm and ready to serve, when dip the mould in hot water to the rim, wipe the exterior, turn over upon your dish, lifting the mould straight, but gently off from the jelly. As the sizes of the oranges very much fluctuate, and some produce more juice than others, it would be better to try a little jelly in a spoon upon ice, to ascertain if of the proper strength, before filling your mould. If handy, the same quantity or a little more of reduced calf's foot jelly as in the last may be used instead of isinglass.701 KITCHEN AT HOME. No 23*7 Whipped Orange Jelly. This makes a very pleasing varia- tion without incurring any additional expense, being merely when the jelly is passed to put it in a bowl, which place upon ice, and commence whipping the icllv until upon the point of settmg, when pour it quickly into your mould 'which place upon ice until ready to serve, when dip the mould into warm water and turn the jeUy out. Orange jelly as chrected in either of the two last may also be served in the skins of the oranges by proceeding as directed (page 522), and serving them upon a napkin with laurel leaves between, in the same manner as oranges for a desSert. The remainder of an orange jelly may be melted again, poured into glass custard cups, set upon ice, and served upon another occasion, if sufficient; the remains of a clear one might be whipped and poured again into the mould. No. 238. Lemon Jelly. Proceed precisely the same as directed for orange, but omitting the oranges, and using the juice of eight and the rind of two lemons; this jelly requires to be kept quite white, and may be served either turned out of a mould, or in glasses, but not in the skin of the fruit, it being too bitter ; half a pint of bucellas wine may be added to the above. No. 239. Currant and Raspberry Jelly. Procure two pounds of fresh currants and a good handful of raspberries, which place in a clean cloth over a basin, fold the cloth up and press the juice through it with your hands, then add two or three wineglassfuls of cold water, and pass the whole through a jelly bag, make a thick syrup from three quarters of a pound of sugar, to which add two ounces of dissolved isinglass (or sufficient calf's foot jelly), mix the whole well together ; when the syrup is a little cool, taste if palatable, place a little upon some ice, and if strong enough fiU your mould, which place in ice until quite set and ready to serve, when turn it out as before directed. No. 240. Strawberry Jelly. Put a pint of water in a stewpan to boil, have ready picked a basket of fresh strawberries, and when the water is boil- ing throw them in, let simmer a minute, add the juice of a lemon, place the Hd upon the stewpan, and stand by until half cold, when run the jelly through a napkin or jelly bag, make a syrup and add the isinglass as above, but using less sugar, finish precisely as in the last. Either of the two lastjeUies are for a change also very excellent whipped as directed for the orange jelly. It is almost needless to mention that when calf's foot jelly is used not quite so much sugar will be required as if only the isinglass. JELLIES OF LiaUOKS AND SPIRITS. No. 241. Maresquino Jelly. Have, if any, a quart of rather firm calf's foot jelly, to which add when melted six liquor-glassfuls of maresquino, and two of brandy, pour in your mould, which set upon ice until firm and ready for use, when turn out of your mould as before and serve. If no calf's foot jelly, isinglass must be used instead, by dissolving an ounce and a half of isinglass, and adding it to a syrup made with the juice of two lemons, half a pound of sugar, and a pint of water, pass through a napkin or jelly bag, add two wineglassfuls more water, ydth. the maresquino and brandy, when partly cold place m your mould, and serve as before.702 KITCHEN AT HOME. Jelly made m either of the above methods may be flavoured with any other liquors (the quantity used depending principally upon taste), as also with rum, brandy, or whiskey, which last are more fit for a party of gentlemen. No. 242. Syrup of Almond Iced, a la Varsovienne, a substi- TUTE FOR Blancmange. Almost every ordinary cook is acquainted with the old method of making a blancmange, and the tediousness of its fabrication ■ so at home I make the foUowing substitute : blanch and pound in a mortar tour ounces of sweet and one ounce of bitter almonds, boil three quarters of a pound of sugar to a thickish syrup, put in the almonds, let infuse twenty minutes, then pass it through a tammie, add sufficient dissolved isinglass or calf's foot jelly to set it, with a glass of brandy or rum, place the above pre- paration in a bowl upon some ice, keeping it stirred until upon the point of setting, when stir in a pint of cream previously well whipped, and pom- it into a mould, let remain upon ice until ready to serve, when dip into luke- warm water and turn out upon your dish. The flavour of any kind of fruit may be used instead. No. 243. Pineapple Cream is what I now frequently make in the sum- mer months, using the West Indian pineapples, which may be procured remarkably cheap. Peel a small one and put the rind into a stewpan, with six ounces of sugar, and two wineglassfuls of water ; let boil until reduced to a very thick syrup, when pass it through a sieve into a basin, cut the remainder of the pine into very small strips, which put into the basin with the spup, have ready boiling half a pint of milk, in which you have dissolved rather more than an ounce of isinglass, in another stewpan have the yolks of five eggs, over which pour the nidk, mix well, and stir over the fire until it becomes a little thickish, but not boiling, when pass it through a sieve over the syrup, mix well together, place in a bowl upon some ice, keep stii-ring until upon the point of setting, when add three parts of a pint of cream, previously whipped, stir well in, fill your mould, which leave upon the ice until ready to serve, when turn it out as in the last. No. 244. Prussian Cream. Put an ounce and a half of isinglass, pre- viously dissolved, into a bowl, melt it, and add six glasses of any Uquor, and two of brandy, with six ounces of powdered sugar, let well dissolve, place the bowl upon some ice, keeping its contents stirred until upon the point of setting, when add three parts of a pint of whipped cream; fill your mould, and proceed as before. BOHEMIAN JELLY CREAMS. No. 245. Strawberry. Pick and pass through a fine sieve a pottle of very fresh strawberries, to which add the juice of a lemon, six ounces of powdered sugar, and an ounce and a half of dissolved isinglass (or suffi- cient calf's foot jelly to set it), put the above ingredients into a bowl, which set upon ice, keeping its contents stirred until upon the point of setting, when stir in three parts of a pint of cream, previously whipped; fill your mould, and proceed as before. For cherries, raspberries, and currants, proceed as for strawberries, but for apricots, peaches, apples, pears, quinces, &c., proceed as follows. No. 246. Apricot Bohemian Cream. Stone and cut into slices tenKITCHEN AT HOME. 703 tlipinipp of two lemons, and an ounce and ahali ot ismgiass, previoubi)' u SlviT IcI tWliole in a bowl, which set upon ice, keep stirring until unon the point of setting, when add three parts of a pint of whipped cream, ;rint ?rr mWd, wLh place upon ice, and turn out when ready to serve. Should your apricots be very ripe there would be no necessity to boil them, burm^ly rub them thi-ough a sieve, mix the lemon-juice, sugar, and ism- C:;:m^ o^l^achetTof any of the before-mentioned fruits are made in the same manner but until you have confidence m yourself, it Wd be better to taste for the sweetness, and try the stiffness by placmg a httle upon ice previously to finishing it. No 247 French Custard Cream. Have ready ten custard glasses, or small coffee cups, measure one of them ten times full of milk, which place m a stewTJan and set upon the fire until boihng, when add a quar er of a pound ot powdered sugar, and the rind of two lemons, free from pith, place the hd upon the stewpan, take from the fire and let infuse ten minutes, then in a basin have ready the yolks of eight eggs, with which stir in the milk by degrees, pass through a tammie and fill the cups; have ready upon the fire a large flat stewpan, containing water sufficient to cover the bottom two inches m depth, and just simmermg, stand in the cups, and let remam still simmering until the custards are quite fii-m, when take them out, let remain until cold, when wash the cups outside, dress them upon a napkin and serve ; any kind of flavour may be introduced into the above, but for No. 248. Coffee Custard Cream proceed as follows: make half a pint of strong coffee according to the usual method, add half a pint of thin cream or mdk previously boiled, sweeten to palate, mix with the yolks of eggs, pass through a tammie, and proceed precisely as directed in the last. No. 249. Coffee Custard Cream, White. Put a quarter of a pound of green Mocha coffee into a smaU stewpan, which place over a slow fire, toss- ing the coffee over frequently until becoming lightly browned, but not black, in another stewpan have boUing a pint of milk, take from the fire, let infuse ten minutes, placing the lid upon the stewpan, then mix with eight yolks of eggs, pass through a tammie, and finish as before. No. 250. Chocolate Custard Cream. Scrape half a cake of good chocolate, which put into a stewpan, and moisten by degrees with a pint of warm milk and cream, when well dissolved mix with the yolks of eggs, and finish as before. Any of the above custards may be put into common tart dishes, and set in a potato steamer, or slowly baked in the oven, should the above process be too tedious or inconvenient. Any description of Enghsh boiled custard may be made in the same man- ner, but instead of pouring it first into the cups, when the infusion is made, mix it with the yoDcs of eggs, and stir over the fire until thickening (but must not boU, or it would curdle), pass through a tammie, fill your cups or glasses, grate a little nutmeg over each, and serve when quite cold.KITCHEN AT HOME. cSstard I should coSe to o n i "1^"'^'/'"'' ' o^^it ^ the use of an essence wh oh T . ^ f . of neglect, is generally obtained by w 1 t«™"tes in another stewpan, have the yolks of eight e^T over tl fi i"^^'^"'^' ^^11 ^^^"i ™i-i»S by deSs sS wllh , In ', r tl^i^kening, when pass it through a tannnil info a bow?^ which place upon ice, or m cold water, keeping it stirred untU ouite cnkl when mix a gill of cream whipped very sti£f,%%our cups, sprhikT^^ ratahas over, and they are ready to serve F^iuiiie ciusnea By adding a little dissolved isinglass to the above when cooling any de scription of spirits or liquors may be introduced ^' ^ The cream may be omitted, it wiU then make a good plain custard. No 252. Cabinet Pudding. Well butter a plain round mould or basin round the interior of which stick a quantity of diied cherries, or Smyrn^ raisms, then about three parts fill the mould with sponge-cake, interspersing two ounces of ratafias, over which sprinlcle a good glass of brandy, then have ready the following custard: boH a pint of milk, in which infuse the rind of two lemons, free from pith, m a basin, have six whole eggs, which weU whisk with a quarter of a pound of powdered sugar, and add the milk bv degrees' pass through a tammie and fill up the mould, round the edge of which place a band of buttered paper, have a convenient-sized stewpan, with about two inches m depth of boihng water, place in your pudding, cover a sheet of paper over, and let simmer gently over the fire, keeping the stewpan covered down close untd the pudding becomes quite firm, by which time you should be ready to serve it, take out, detach the paper, and turn from the mould over upon a dish ; have ready the following sauce : put half a pint of melted butter into a stewpan, into which stir the yolks of two eggs, and add a glass- ful of brandy, with the juice of a lemon, and sufficient sugar to sweeten it, stir over the fire until becoming a little thick, when pass it through a tammie, sauce over the pudding and serve. No. 253. Bread Pudding. Procure four French roUs, the crumb of which put into a basin, with a pint of boiling milk, let remain until half cold, when add six whole eggs, with a quarter of a pound of currants, and one ounce of candied citron, cut into very small dice, mix the whole well together, have ready prepared as in the last a plain round mould, in which pour the above mixture, steam it as in the last; when done and ready to serve, turn from the mould, and serve with the same sauce poured over as before directed. No. 254. Ground Rice Pudding. Place a pint of milk in a stewpan over the fire, and when boiling throw in the rind of a lemon, cut as thinly as possible, and quite fi'ee from pith; take from the fire, cover the stewpan, and leave ten minutes to infuse; then in a basin have six ounces of ground rice, which mix smoothly with half a pint of coJd milk, take out the lemon- peel from the milk in the stewpan, pour in the mixture, and stir the whole over the fire until thickening, when take from the fire; add six whole eggs,705 KITCHEN AT HOME. six ounces of powdered sugar and a little grated nutmeg, mix the whole weU Z"S^-,\Jo ready, well buttered, a pudding-cLsh, into which pour the mCxture, and baJce in a moderate oven until set; serve hot. No 255 Rice Pudding. WeU wash six ounces of CaroUna rice in one or two waters, drain and dry it upon a cloth, and put it into a stewpan with a Dint and a half of cold miUc and a quarter of a pound of butter, place the stewpan over a moderate fire, aUowing its contents to simmer very gently until the rice becomes quite tender, when add six whole eggs weU whipped, six ounces of sugar, and a httle grated nutmeg; pour into a buttered pudding- dish, and bake in a moderate oven until set and nicely coloured; serve hot as ^^Sa^o, tapioca, semouHna, and vermicelli puddings are made very similar to the last, and served the same; they may of course be flavoured with lemon, any description of spice, approved of, or a couple of glasses of brandy, rum, noyeau, maresquino, or almost any description of wine, spirits, or hqueurs. No. 256. Macaroni Pudding. Have half a pound of macaroni, which boil in half a gallon of water untd becoming tender, when di-ain it upon a sieve ; have ready boiUng in a stewpan half a pint of milk, in which put the macai-oni (having previously cut it into pieces an inch in length), with a quarter of a pound of butter and the rind of a lemon free from pith tied in a a bunch; let simmer gently about twenty minutes, when take out the lemon- peel, and add six whole eggs, well whisked, with six ounces of sugar; have ready a pudding-dish weU buttered, into which pour the above preparation ; bake and serve as before. No. 257. Gateau OF Rice. Well wash half a pound of Carolina rice, which well drain and put into a stewpan with a quart of milk, a quarter of a pound of butter, and a few sticks of cinnamon; let simmer over a slow fire until the rice is veiy tender and the whole becoming thickish, when take out the pieces of cinnamon; add six ounces of powdered sugar and eight whole eggs, stir in quickly over the fire until becoming again thickish, when have ready a plain oval mould, well butter the interior, lay a sheet of buttered paper at the bottom, pour in the above, filling the mould to within three quarters of an inch from the rim, and place in a moderate oven, where let remain until set quite firm, when take from the oven, turn out of your mould upon a dish, and serve quite hot with a sauce over, as dii-ected for cabinet pudding. Gateaux of macaroni, vermicelli, &c., may also be made by the above direc- tions, preparing them as for pudding, but making the mixture as directed for the rice. No. 258. Fruit Puddings. As almost every description of fruit pudding is made in the same manner, I consider it would be entirely useless to enter into their details, so shall here content myself with merely giving a description of the apple pudding, which, although one of the most common, is in my opinion one of the best. Put a pound of flour upon your pastry slab, with which mix half a pound of beef suet, well shred and finely chopped, make a hole in the centre, in which pour nearly half a pint of water, mixing the flour and suet in by aegrees, and shaking the whole hghtly together, then take two thirds, which 45706 KITCHEN AT HOME. roll up into a ball, and with the rolhng-pin form it into a round sheet, nearly halt an inch in thickness; have ready a round-bottoraed basin weU buttered and floured, which hne with the sheet of paste, keeping it about an inch above the nm of the basin; have also ready sufficient apples peeled and cut m slices, with which fill the interior, adding a piece of butter the size of a walnut, SIX ounces of powdered or brown sugar, six or eight cloves, and a httle grated nutmeg; wet round the edge of the paste above the basin, roll out the remainder to form a lid of about the same thickness, lay it over the top, joining them well together, then tie the pudding with the basin in a cloth; have ready a good-sized stewpan over the fire, three parts full of boihng water, into which put the pudding, boiling it about an hour and a half; when done and ready to serve take it from the cloth, pass your knife carefully round the sides between the pudding and the basin, turn over upon a dish, lift the basin from it gently, and serve as soon as possible. Some people prefer the paste for fruit puddings made of butter, which is also very good; but in my opinion the suet paste is much lighter; the trimmings of puflf-paste, if any, would also make an excellent crust for a fruit. Puddings of gooseberries, cherries, currants, raspberries, plums, damsons, &c. are made precisely the same, but omitting the cloves, nutmeg, and piece of butter, and less boiling. No. 2^9. Pastry. For the making of good puff-paste I could not give a more simple receipt than that (page 479) in the other department, to which I must refer my readers, as also for half-pulF-paste (page 480), which will be found very serviceable in the making of pies or fruit tarts, the method of making which it is here my intention to describe, but for all other dishes of small fancy pastry, a great variety will be found in the Kitchen of the Wealthy, very simply explained, and requiring no greater convenience to make than what my Kitchen at Home will afford. No. 260. Short Paste for Fruit Tarts. Although I have above stated that the half-puff is very excellent for the covering of fruit tarts, I am also aware that very many persons prefer a short sweet paste, as such I have given the following receipt, leaving my readers to choose between the two, the process being the same for either. Put a pound of flour upon your pastry slab, with six ounces of butter, and rub them well together with your liands, then make a hole in the centre, in which put two ounces of powdered sugai-, two whole eggs, and rather more than a wineglassful of water; mis the eggs, sugar, and water well together, then draw in the flour and butter, shaking the whole well, and when dry work it together lightly with the hands. No. 261. Apricot Tarts. For tarts the apricots do not require to be too ripe. Procure about two dozen, or according to the size of your dish, split each one in halves, break their stones and take out theii- kernels, which blanch and skin, lay the apricots in your chsh, building them in the form of a dome above the level of your dish, and interspersing the kernels here and there cover them over with half a pound of lump sugar broken very small; have ready sufficient half-puff-paste (page 480), or the tart-paste just described, a band of which, the eighth of an inch in thickness, lay round the rim of your dish previously wetting it, then roll out a sheet of the paste large enough to707 KITCHEN AT HOME. cover the fruit, and a quarter of an inch in thickness, wet the band of paste upon your dish, and lay the cover over, in which prick a hole m each side between the fruit and the edge of the dish, forming a weU all round, and closing the paste weU at the edges, trim round with a knife, with which also decorate the edges, wet the top well with white of egg beat to a light trotii, over which sprinkle two ounces of finely-powdered sugar, sprinkle with water until the sugar is well dissolved (but not to run off), place in a moderate oven, and bake about an hour, keeping it a very light brown colour, serve when cold. No. 262. Greengage Tart. Procure a sufficient number of ripe green- gages, which put into your dish whole, giving them the form of a dome at the top, and if about two dozen covering them with six ounces of powdered sugar; cover with paste, and proceed exactly as described in the last. Any description of plum tart is made precisely in the same manner, as also are gooseberry, cherry, currant and raspbeny, cranberry, &c., and aU requiring about the same time and same description of oven. No. 263. Apple Tart. Peel and cut about two dozen russet apples in slices, which put into your dish, interspersing them with some lemon peel (free from pith) cut into strips, about six cloves, and a little grated nutmeg ; build the apples up in a dome to the centre of your dish, and cover over with half a pound of powdered sugar, then have ready half a pound of puff-paste made as directed (page 479), with which make a band a quarter of an inch in thickness, laying it round the rim of the dish, roU out the remainder of the paste to the tliickness of a quarter of an inch, and large enough to cover the fruit, wet the band of paste upon the dish with a little water, lay the cover gently over, pricking a hole with your knife at the top to let out the air, closing it gently at the edges, which trim neatly with a knife ; egg the top over with a paste brush, and place in a moderate oven to bake, which will take about an hour; just before taking from the oven sift a little sugar over, and let remain until melted, forming a nice glaze over the tart, which may be served either hot or cold. Brown sugar may be used for any of the above tarts if approved of, but I have given directions for the white, considering that the brown, although commonly used, frequently destroys the delicious flavour of some descriptions of fruit. The salamander may be used to brown it. No. 264. French Fruit Tart. Make half a pound of paste as directed (No. 1136, page 481), mould it into a round ball upon your marble slab, and roll to a round sheet a quarter of an inch in thickness, wet round the rims, turning the edge over to form a border half an inch in depth, which press up with your finger and thumb to about an inch in height, have ready about twenty greengages, or any other description of plums, split each one into two, and place them in the interior of your tart, shake some sugar over, and bake about half an hour in a hot oven; serve cold, shaking more sugar over at the time of serving. They may also be made with apricots, peaches, cherries, currants, raspberries, cranbemes or gooseberries, in the same manner; but if made of apples, the fruit must be previously boiled to a marmalade, or stewed in a stewpau with sugar and a small piece of butter until tender, pre- vious to putting them in the crust; fruit baked in these tarts is also very ex- cellent meringued as directed (No. 267) ; plain whipped cream with a little sugar IS very good for a change.70S KITCIIKN AT JIOME. No. 265 Plain Souffle Puddings. Put two ounces of butter in a stewpan, witli two spoonMs of flour, mix well together, then add half a pint ° if ill • 1 ^i^tle/alt, aii^ two ounces of sugar, upon which you have rubbed the rmd of a fresh lemon or orange, keep stirring over the fire until It thickens, but if becoming too thick, which will depend upon the flour add more milk, but if the contraiy, let reduce until forming a fine softish paste ; when stir m quickly the yolks of four eggs, when well mixed set by until cold; you have reserved the whites of the eggs, which, half an hour before serving, whip to a stiflish froth, and mix well but Ughtly with the other part of the preparation, pour the whole into a deep pie-dish, previously well buttered, and set it in a warm oven, when about half done cut an in- cision in the top and put again in the oven, when done shake powdered sugar oyer the top, glaze hghtly with the salamander, if any, and serve imme- diately. Better the guests wait a few minutes for the souffle than the souffle for the guests. No. 266. Souffle Rice Pudding. Well wash two ounces of Carohna rice, which when dry put into a stewpan with nearly a pint of milk, an ounce of butter, half the rind of a lemon, free from pith, a httle salt, and a spoonful of powdered sugar ; set upon the fire until boiling, when draw it to the corner, where let simmer very gently (or place the stewpan upon a trivet at a good height from the fire) until the rice is very tender, when take it from the fire, and beat well with a wooden spoon until forming a smoothish paste, when add the yolks of four or five eggs, mixing them well, pour the whites of the eggs into a bowl, whisk them until very stiff, and mix hghtly with the preparation ; have ready, buttered lightly, a deep pie-dish, pour in the mixture, and about a quarter of an hour before ready to serve place it in a moderate oven, serving when done, and the moment you take it from the oven. Half the above quantity may of course be made. Souffle of ground rice is made the same as the above, the rice, however, not requiring so long to simmer as when whole. As also are souffles of tapioca, semoulina, vermicelli, &c., changing their flavours according to taste, using vanilla, lemon, orange, orange-flower water, or a small quantity of any de- scription of liqueur. A few currants may also be mixed with any of the pre- parations, or laid at the bottom of the (fish, as also may any description of light preserves. No. 267. Fruits Meringued. Any description of fruits maybe served to table meringued by following the above directions. For apples, peel and cut six into slices, which put into a stewpan, with an ounce of butter, half the rind of a lemon, free from pith, cut into thin strips, with the juice of half a lemon, and a quarter of a pound of powdered sugar, or if the apples are per- fectly ripe not quite so much, place the stewpan over a moderate fire, tossing the apple over occasionally until quite done, half fill a pie-dish with them, then whip the whites of four eggs to a very stiff froth, with which mix very lightly a quarter of a pound of powdered sugar, and lay over the apples in the dish, shake a little sugar over and set in a slow oven until forming quite a dry crust; it had better remain in the oven a Uttle too long than not long enough, but be sure that the oven is not too hot when you put it in, or it would catch and become quite black, instead of being what it should be, a very light brown, or gold colour.709 KITCHEN AT HOME. Apricots, pears, &c., may be done the same, but omitting the butter; for either cover whilst still warm. m e ■ The above fruits also thus prepared may be covered with a souffle ot rice, or ground-rice pudding, and baked, they may be then served either hot or cold. No. 268. Snow Eggs are made with the whites of the eggs, thus : whip the whites of five eggs very stiff, to which .add (mixing lightly) five ounces of sugar; have boiling in a flat stewpan upon the fire a pint of milk, form pieces of the mixture with a table-spoon to the shape of eggs, and drop them into the boihng Tn^lk to poach; when set rather firm take them out with a colan- der-spoon, and lay them upon a sieve with a plate under to drain ; when all poached your milk will be reduced to about half; then in another stewpan put the yolks of three eggs, with a little sugar, and a few drops of orange- flower water, beat well together, then add the milk and keep stirring over the fire until forming a thickish custard, (but not allowing it to boil), when pass it through a tammie, dress the eggs tastefully in crown upon your dish, pour the custard over and serve. You may also poach six or eight very fresh eggs in water, with which you have added a little vinegar; when well set take out with a colander-spoon, drain them upon a cloth until cold, dress them upon a dish, or in a flat glass dish, pour a custard over, prepared as above, but with which, if handy, you have mixed a little whipped cream. For every description of omelettes I must refer my readers to the series of omelettes in the other department of this work. No. 269. Plum Pudding. Pick and stone one pound of the best Malaga raisins, which put in a basin, with one pound of currants, (well washed, dried, and picked,) a pound and a half of good beef suet, (chopped, but not too fine,) three quarters of a pound of white or brown sugar, two ounces of candied lemon and orange-peel, two ounces of candied citron, six ounces of flour, and a quarter of a pound of bread-crumbs, with a little grated nutmeg; mix the whole weU together, with eight whole eggs and a Uttle xmlk, have ready a plain or ornamented pudding mould, well butter the interior, pour the above mixture into it, cover a sheet of paper over, tie the mould in a cloth, put the pudding into a large stewpan containing boihng water, and let boil quite fast for four hours and a half, (or it may be boiled by merely tying it in a pudding cloth previously well floured, forming the shape by laying the cloth in a round-bottomed basin and pouring the misture in, it will make no difference in the time required for boUing;) when done take out of the cloth, turn from the mould upon your dish, sprinkle a Uttle powdered sugar^over, and serve with the following sauce in a boat: put the yolks of three eggs in a stewpan, with a spoonful of pow- dered sugar, and a gill of milk, mix well together, add a little lemon-peel, and stir over the fire untd becoming thickish, (but do not let it boil,) when add two glasses of brandy and serve. The above sauce may be served poured over the pudding if approved of. An excellent improvement to a plum pudding is to use half a pound of beef marrow cut into small dice, omitting the same quantity of suet. No. 270. Currant Pudding. Put a pound and a half of flour into a basin, with a pound of beef suet, shred and chopped very fine, and a pound of currants, well washed, picked, and dried, add a little powdered cinnamonKITCHEN AT HOME. or grated nutmeg, and mix well together, with four whole eggs, a quarter of a pound of brown sugar, and half a pint of milk, boil it as dh^cted for plum pudding either in a mould or tied in a cloth, but two hours would be suffi- cient; when done turn out upon a dish and serve quite plain, or with sauce The above mijcture divided in small puddings or dumphngs about the size ot apples boded about half an hour, and served hot to table with a httle powdered sugar over are also excellent. No. 271. Sweet Maccaroons. Blanch and skin half a pound of sweet almonds, dry them weU in your screen, then put them into a mortar, with a pound and a half of lump sugar, pound well together, and pass the whole through a wire sieve, put it again into the mortar, with the wliites of two eggs, mix well together with the pestle, then add the white of another egg, proceeding thus until you have used the whites of about eight eggs, and made a softish paste, when lay them out at equal distances apart upon wafer paper, in pieces nearly the size of walnuts, place some strips of almonds upon the top, sift sugar over, and bake in a slow oven of a yellowish-brown colour, they are done when set quite firm through. No. 272. Bitter Maccaroons, or Ratafias, are made similar to the above, but deducting two ounces of sweet and adding two ounces of bitter almonds, they are laid out in. much smaller cakes upon common paper, and baked in a much warmer oven; when cold they may be taken off the paper with the greatest ease. These cakes are very serviceable in making a gi-eat many second-course dishes. No. 273. Mince Meat. Procure four pounds and a half of kidney beef suet, which skin and chop very finely, have also three pounds of candied lemon and orange-peel, a quarter of a pound of citron, a pound and a half of lean cooked beef, and three pounds and a half of apples, the whole sepa- rately chopped very fine and put into a large pan with four pounds and a half of currants, well washed and picked, two ounces of mixed spice, and two pounds of sugar; mix the whole weU together with the juice of eight lemons and a pint of brandy, place it in jars, and tie down until ready for use; a pound and a half of Malaga raisins, well stoned and chopped, may likewise be added to the above. No. 274. Mince Pies. Have a piece of pufi-paste made as directed (p. 479), which roll out to the tliickness of a penny-piece, have also a dozen tartelette-paiis, which lightly butter, cut out twelve pieces with a round cutter from the paste, each the size of your tartelette-pans, lay them upon the slab, roll the trimming of the paste again to the former thickness, cut twelve other pieces, with which line the tartelette-pans, put a piece of mince-meat in each, Avet them round, place on the hds, pricking a hole with a pin in the centre, and close them well at the edges; egg over lightly, and bake about twenty minutes in a moderate oven. JiNJD OJ? KECliirTS FOU KITCHEN AT HOME.711 TO MAKE COFFEE IN AN ECONOMICAL MANNER. BY MY MENAGERE. After constant supplications to my menagere, I have obtained at last a valuable receipt of the method of making my coffee at home, which I must say she may well be proud of, havmg been continually complimented by my guests on account of its excellence. It was only by touching her vanity, and assiu-ing her that it was not to obhge me but the pubhc at large, that she permitted me to give it pubhcity, on the condition, however, that her name be appended. " Buy your coffee not over bmiit; grind it at home if possible. Have a middle-sized filter like ours, which holds a httle more than a quart, and came from Jakes' or Benham's, I forget which (but that is of httle consequence, as you merely want the receipt), pour about a pint of boiling water into the filter to heat it tlu'ough, then empty it, and put a quarter of a pound of ground coffee on the filter; then put on the pressor, and lastly the grating; then pom- about half a pint of quite boiling water over it, put the cover on, and let it drain through. " After three or four minutes pom^ by degrees a pint and a half more boihng water, and when well passed through pour it from the filter into a very clean stewpan; set it on the corner of the the, and when a little white scum rises to the surface (not letting it boil) pour it a second time over the filter, and when passed through pom- either into the silver cafetiere or the cups. Serve boiling milk or cream in two small jugs, and white or brovm, or sometimes candied sugar." After promising her a fine gown for her kindness, I gave her a pen to sign her name. " But stop," says she, " I forgot that for yom- breakfast the next day I use a system of economy which I think will please: as soon as I have poured the coffee from the coffee-pot, I put another quart of boiling water over it. This I find saves me an ounce of coffee by boiling it instead of water, and poming it over as before." (Signed) - Irma de L'Ombre."713 THE FOLLOWING IS A CORRECT COPY OF A MONSTER BILL OF FARE FROM A PAPER FOUND IN THE TOWER OF LONDON. the^IrcMnl'nil ^^'^/V^*^ ^l'"* ^^^^ ^^^^^ Mment into z %:r''''' - 204 Bitterns. 400 Hernsies. 200 Pheasants. 500 Partridges. 5000 Woodcocks. 400 Plovers. 100 Curlues. 100 Quails. 1000 Eggets. 200 Rees 4000 Bucks, Does, and Roebucks. 155 Hot Venison Pasties. 4000 Cold Venison Pasties; 1000 Dishes of JeUies. 2000 Hot Custards. 4000 Cold Custards. 400 Tarts, 300 Pikes, 300 Breams. 8 Seals and 4 Porpoises. At the feast the Earl of Warwick was Steward, the Earl of Bedford Trea- surer, the Lord Hastings Comptroller, with many noble oflficers: Servitors 1000, Cooks 62, Kitcheners, and 515 SculUons. For description of the above, read the introduction for French Pot-au-feu, page 649. 300 Quarters of Wheat. 300 Tuns of Ale. 104 Tuns of Wine. One pipe of spiced Wine. 10 fat Oxen. 6 WUd BuUs. 300 Pigs. 1004 Weathers. 300 Hogs. 3000 Calves. 3000 Geese. 300 Capons. 100 Peacocks. 200 Cranes. 200 Kids. 2000 Chickens. 4000 Pigeons. 4000 Rabbits. 4000 Ducks.NEW PAGODATIQUE ENTREE UlSIi, A LA SOYER.* The union which has been forced between the Children of the Sun and those of proud Albion has thrown some beneficial rays upon our Euro- pean domaSs^and costumes, and if they have not improved our manners and habits thcY have at aU events changed them. „ e I 1; true that we had. previously to this, reaped marvellous things from the "Celestial Empire;" but the EngUsh nation, always eager for novelty, coiild not be conZted with their {Ombres Chinoises) Chinese shadows but must possess them in reality. Since this astonishing conquest jou bave Chinese quadriUes, Chinese fashions, exhibitions furiously Chinese, and, toi certain, several mHhons of dollars, which are every bit as Chinese as the li- lusti-ious descendant of more than forty centuries, whom you are still expect- ing as a most extraordinary ambassador. I already perceive that your shoes, " jolies Jnalaises," change and diminish with great rapidity. Even now you appear to walk with difficulty ; really, if you continue this practice, you will, like the Mandarins' ladies, have veiy pretty feet for sitting, but very bad ones for walking. The intellectual part, which is covered with your splendid " blonde chevelure," wiU suffer as much as your httle feet; and it will be a contest be- tween your astonishing and gracious Amazons, who shall have their hair tiu-ned up first, in hopes to resemble your celestial sister and nuptial com- panion of the expected plenipotentiary. Your beautiful eyes, I hope, will re- main in their primitive purity; also that clear and rich tone of colour, which brings to mind those extraordinary fine visages clair de lune de Vantiquite. The island of Great Britain adds to and preserves this superb and almost ephemeric colour, unknown to the soil of the Continent. You may, nymphs of the ocean, let your nails grow in the fantastic man- ner of that captured country; that is, near an inch longer than our insignifi- cant custom in Europe, which is, they say, " a part of the world far from being civilized." I would also advise you to use with moderation the beaume Cremeux Houbigant, which wiU preserve them that beautiful vermeil, so greatly admired. But reflect for a moment, in giving full scope to your fashionable taste, you sacrifice a thousand chef-d'ceuvres, and entirely forsake our illustrious fa- vorites, Mozart, Rossini, Meyerbeer, Auber, Handel, and many others; be- cause you recollect that the harp, guitar, piano, &c., were not invented for the Mandarines: but setting aside all these little tribulations, while walkmg about with pain, you wDl have the gratification of hearing, " There goes a lady of the newest fashion." * Extracted from my " D61assements Culinaues," lately published by Jeffc, Bui'- lington Arcade ; a Second Edition of which will shortly appeal*.714 PAGODATIQUE ENTREE DISH. WhUe discoursing upon these trifling subiects I rUrl nnf • mous Epicurean, not very particular in f«li ' < Perceive an enor- litics, (which proves the^Sltv of LdW ^""f '^^^ ^'''^'^^ PO" centred in one person^ W^S^ wS.f ''"""'"^ ^''^^ accompUshments of the notice on the SleXe SpTI 1^^^^ t^^*^ result our satii-ic Boileau rniuh^:e\Z^^^^^^^ f ^^^--^d, as or entrde dish ?" ^^"^""^ yo'ir ^ew plat d'entree, suiSntV^Zria^^^^^^^ and perceived, to great an ephemeric voyage 1^0^ Afti ^ , "^"^ laboratory to undertake dialo^gue took pSbSwee'u; : " " ^^^^^ ^^^1^' f'^lJ^-^-g " There is the model of the dish ; what do you think of it, sir ?» "I perceive with pleasure," he very poHtely repUed, "that I have not lost ofiLo^vItion''" ' P^y^ S""^*^ ^^"^ originality, and possesses the "Allow me to take off the cover."PAGODATIClUE ENTREE DISH. 715 cc A1,1 wlmt is the use of those divisions, or compartments ?" * All £e e as Thave been informed by several celebrated travellers nmon^ wS your great diplomatist, Sir Henry Pott nger (to whom I had amongst wmcu you 5 introduced upon the occasion of his visit to the C& trie™ he 2 cSed wtt I had prerioudy heard fr„„ several SSoL mm—By the by. he haa honoured me by »«mg for a Srof them-here i. my album, aad see, there his autograph: —for four paeodatique ewfr^e dishes; this completes the service for the pre- sent but in a short time a complete service for first and second course can be easily manufactured at a reasonable price But to return to the subject. I was telhng you that those gentlemen had informed me that the Chmese have upon then- tables at their banquets, a profusion of fowls, and birds ot all kinds, served with sauce or gravy, a plate being placed before each guest, similar to the European fashion, surrounded by three or four smaU saucers, each containing different ingredients, spices and pickles, suited to the dish they partake of; each person takes a wing or fillet, that beingthe only part they consider eatable. They then cut it in small pieces, on their plates, and dip them into the different sauces, until they produce a favorite seasoning to their taste. It might not be to either yours or mine, but for all that, I do not blame them." . . " 'Pon my word, it is very curious and clever; by this mode your plate is free from incumbrance, a fault with which I always reproach our nation." " I have frequently heard of a ' Potage aux nids d'oiseau,' we call it in EngUsh, bird's-nest soup ; it is said to be of the most astonishing delicate substance." " I shall shortly have the pleasure of entertaining you upon that subject; we wiU now return to our new ' plat d'entree.' " Drawn by the frivolous fancy of fashion and folly of the times; why, I thought, should not I endeavour to make myself as ridiculous as any other person; I therefore submitted to the proprietor of a large china establish- ment a drawing, from which he executed with great taste this pagodatique table ornament. " The several advantages which it possesses are easily understood, one enfrSe may have four different sauces, four entries the varieties of sixteen, or of eight, by putting the sauce double, I mean two compartments fiUed with the same sauce, and preserve the entrSe as the Chinese do, au natwel. To add * To show plainly the interior of this dish, it has been dra\vn one size larger than it is in rcahty. These dishes are only to be had by applyuig to Mi'. Soyer, of the Reform Club, or at Mr. George Smith's, No. 57, Conduit Street, llegent Street, bemg the only mamifacturer.716 PAGODATIQUE ENTREE DISH. invite the appetoj Ihe reflate r «''"-'^« "i" "omeltaes scHp; 1.1! T and unernng discernment, that the sister twins, art and ITnt ^^^^^f^ employed in administering to his taste I must a so obsei-ve that from his profound knowledge of the rules of life he wTl always bear in mind that ; moderation is the goddess of hedth ' " ^ Very true! very true!" owl^all^h?*rSvi.f "'"J T^''^ ^^"^ appreciate that he Tr witLut ifl^ """^ P^'^'^T "^.^^^ a good state of health ; sure nf^l, / r '^V^""^ P^'"'^^'^ ^i^^' ^^1^ less the plea! sure of deffustahon; so true is this, that even the company of our best and andlloriT^';.*^' possession of riches and honours, ?he greatest celebrity and g ory, lose their charms where health is compromised; the most dehcate food loses its zest, the most melodious chords of music, and the greatest optical delights are evanescent, the beauties of nature are lost, and everything IS without charm, even the sun-yes, that sun itself, which pours life upon creation, importunes our wretched frame with his torrent of hght and uni- versal splendour; which proves that we ought profoundly to study those great agents of nature, which preside over our organic movements. Mowine us to use with moderation what our senses desire, is far from a meagre or redoubtable privation for the illustrious disciples of Epicurus; excess and want of experience have often been the cause of man falling into the greatest errors, which have been most pernicious to his health. From the celestial vault the indefinable power desires to guide us safely, and by following his divine lesson we shall not only enjoy extreme happiness, but obey the dic- tates of our great and wise Creator." "1 perfectly understand your argument, and have often recognized the profound truth of it. If it is not asking too much, would you be so kind as to name a few entries you would recommend for these compartments, and sufficient dinner for one or two ladies?" " It will give me much pleasure to do so, I will mention several: for in- stance, if a dinner for two persons, I would serve in the centre, Jilets de sole cl la Hollandaise, and in the four corners Deux Cotelettes d'Agneau aux Pois, Un Filet de Volaille, pique a la Puree de Champignons, Deux Quenelles de Lapereaux aux Truffes, Demi Perdreaux en Salmi. Escalopes de Ris de Veau aux Pointes d'Asperges, Quatre Rissoles aux Huitres. In the centre. Poulet printanier pique aux Cressons, Deux Cotelettes de Mouton k la Riiforme, Blanquette de FOets de Volaille aux TrufTes.PAGODATIQUE ENTREE DISH. 717 Centre. Deux Filets de Grouse a la Bohemienne., Deux Escalopes de Filet de Boeuf, sauce poivrade, One slice of Salmon en Matelote, Deux Croquettes de VolaiUe, k la Puree de Foie Gras, Un Eis de Veau pique a la Financiere. Deux Grenadins de Veau a la Palestine, Deux Boudins de Volaille k la Richelieu, Centre. Roast Duckling, Deux Eperlans frits k la Boulang6re, Salmi de Becasse. Deux Ris d'Agneau pique a la Puree de Clioufleurs. Uue Caille aux Feuilles de Vigne, Centre. A slice of Turbot a la Mazarine, Un Ailleron et Filet de Volaille k la Marengo, Deux Rissolettes a la Pompadour. " I can also give you a few plainer bills of fare for the same. Pommes de Terre a la Maitre d'Hotel, Carbonado de Mouton a la Proven^ale, Centre. Small Rumpsteak, Un Choufleur, sauce au beurre, Un Pigeonneau a la Jardiniere, Choux de Bruxelles a la Cr^me, Minced Veal and two poached Eggs, Centre. Half a broiled Fowl with gravy, Pomme de Terre a la Hollandaise, Un Filet de Boeuf, sauce tomate. " The sauces and garnitures of many of these may be varied; and as you see in some of the lists two entries only served, and the other two compart- ments filled with vegetables either plain or dressed, the centre remaining for something larger, either plain or dressed, according to the taste of different persons; but your good judgment will enable you to perceive clearly that the variations of which it is capable are almost without end. I beg also to ob- serve that the dish after having been placed an hour or two in a hot closet (as it is customary to do with all dishes previous to the dinner being served), it will retain the heat nearly an hour, without applying hot water, red-hot Centre. Deux Cotelettes de Mouton a la Soubise, Quatre Jerusalem Artichauts a la Bechamel, Slice of Cod and Oyster sauce. Minced Beef, Sauce piquante, Pomme de Terre frite, Centre. Stewed Oysters, Two Potatoes plain boiled. Stewed Rabbit and Onion sauce. Two Escalopes of Veal and Ham, Un Brocoli, Sauce au beurre.^■^^ PAGODATIQUE ENTREE DISH. ift^, ^r^'"*" "^/'""iJ ""^K^ ''^'"^y" produces a disagreeable elFect and is often the cause of a dinner being detained, as tbey must wait till the la " , T f'' "P't^?^ commences. This essential pirt" he repl ed added to Its elegance holds out most favorable prospects of Success ?o S beautifvU Pagodatique dish ; and I reaUy cannot see why in a drner of eiS or ten enMes the four corners could not be ornamented with such dishfs as hey would produce the most agreeable effects, for too great unifom^t; m a service is not very picturesque, and unfortunately alwayf employed nests ^ *° t° birds' " For the present I hope you will excuse me, as it is now five o'clock, and from SIX to eight I have several petits diners trh rechercMs, which requu-e ail my attention; but favour me with another visit shortiy, and then we will terminate our culinary conversation, without occupying our precious time about the eccentric Chinese, but will confine ourselves to their nests " ' You are quite right in mentioning it. I should be very sorrv to impor- tune you, for I know too well what it is to wait impatiently for a dinner and know it to be equally as bad for a dinner to wait for you." " Both are very bad, but the latter is almost unpardonable to a real gourmet. " It may be, but observe, that by making a hungry stomach wait you expose it to commit the greatest mjustice ; because that ungrateful organ wiU make one beheve that the minutes you are kept waiting before dinner are longer than the hours spent after." " Your argument is but too true, sir, and it will prove to you at the same time, that there are immense difficulties to be surmounted in our very difficult . and compHcated profession, independent of the trouble and tedious work which must be carried safely through the greatest anxiety." "Very true! very true! I wish you good afternoon; and before I leave London I shall do myself the pleasure of paying you another visit. Good day." " I can assure you, sir, you wiU be most welcome. Oh, by the by, I am sorry to call you down stairs again, I will be with you in half a minute; here it is, I beg your acceptance of this small brochure, it is a receipt for the most recherche dish that ever was invented, it is extracted from my gastronomic work now in progress." " Oh! I am one of your subscribers ; when will it appear ?" " Not before next season." " That's a long time." " Yes, sir ; but it is my intention to make an entire new work of it, and very different to any culinary work previously published. By that I do not mean to say it will be better, and perhaps not so good as many of them; but it win contain a large number of new receipts, written in a style which, I flatter myself, will tend very much to simplify the present system." "Let me see this receipt, but I require my spectacles—here they are.— ' La Cr^me de la Grande Bretagne, MacMoine but it is French, I am soriy for that." "Why, sir?" " Because my cook is Enghsh, and it will be very difficult for him to make, as he understands so httle of French," " Oh sir, if that is his only preventive it would be a pity to deprive you of having it, so here is an Enghsh translation of it. You are welcome to both, sir." " ' The Cream of Great Britain,'" oh! thank you ! thank you! I will readCULINARY INNOVATION. 719 it at home and then give it to him; but is it practicable at this season of the Quite as practicable at one season as another, for it is partly composed of flowers which bloom in all seasons." " Indeed! then I will certainly have it made." " I depend upon your impartial judgment; be so kind as to let me know what you think of that unique composition." " I will, without fail, and do myself the pleasure of writing you a note upon that subject. Good afternoon." " Good afternoon, sir." It has been reported to us, that as soon as he got home, he comfortably set himself in his arm-chair a la Bouariere, and appeared reading with great sm-prise, the receipt for THE CELESTIAL AND TEMUESTRIAL CREAM OF GREAT BRITAIN.* Procure, if possible, the antique Vase of the Roman Capitol ; the Cup of Hebe; the Strength of Hercules; and the power of Jupiter; Then proceed as foUoios.-— Have ready the chaste Vase (on the ghttering rim of which three doves are resting in peace), and in it deposit a Smile from the Duchess of Sutherland, from which Terrestrial Deesse it wiU be most graceful; then add a Lesson from the Duchess of Northumberland; the Happy Remembrance of Lady Byron; an Invitation from the Marchioness of Exeter; a WaUc in the Fairy Palace of the Duchess of Buckingham; an Honom' of the Marchioness of Domo; a Sketch from Lady Westmoreland; Lady Chesterfield's Conversation; the Deportment of the Mar- chioness of Aylesbmy; the AfFabihty of Lady JMarcus Hill; some Romances of Mrs. Norton; a Mite of Gold from Miss Coutts; a Royal Dress from the Duchess of Buccleugh; a Re- ception from the Duchess of Leinster; a Fragment of the Works of Lady Blessington; a Ministerial Secret from Lady Peel; a Gift from the Duchess of Bedford; an Interview with Madame de Bunsen; a Diplomatic Reminiscence from the Marchioness of Clanricarde; an Autocratic Thought from the Baroness Brunow; a Reflection from Lady John Russell; An amiable Word from Lady Wilton; the Protection of the Countess de St. Aulaii-e; a Seraphic Strain from Lady Essex; a poetical gift of the Baroness de la Calabrala; a Welcome from Lady Ahce Peel; the Sylph- Hke form of the Marchioness of Abercorn; a Soiree of the Duchess of Beaufort; a Reverence of the Viscountess Jocelyn; and the good-will of Lady Palmerston. Season with the Piquante Observation of the Marchioness of Londonderry; the Stately Mien of the Countess of Jersey; theCULINARY INNOVATION. Tresor of the Baroness Rothschild; the Noble Devotion of Lady., Sale; the Knowledge of the Fine Arts of the Marchioness of Lansdowne; the Charity of the Lady De Grey; a Criticism from the Viscountess of MelviUe :-with a Musical Accompaniment from the whole; and Portraits of aU these Ladies taken from the Book of Celebrated Beauties. Araalgamate scientifically; and should you find this Appareil (which is without a parallel,) does not mix weU, do not regard the expense for the completion of a dish worthy of the Gods I Endeavour to procure, no matter at what price, a Virtuous Maxtm from the Book of Education of Her Boyal Highness the Duchess of Kent; a Kiss fiw the Infant Princess Ahce • an Innocent Trick of the Princess Royal; a Benevolent Visit from the Duchess of Gloucester; a Maternal Sentiment of Her Royal Highness the Duchess of Cambridge; a Complhnent from the Princess Augusta de Mecklenbourg; the future Hopes of the Young Princess Mary; And the Munificence of Her Majesty Queen Adelaide. Cover the Vase with the Reign of Her Most Gracious Majesty, and let it simmer for half a centm-y, or more, if possible, over a Ffre of Immortal Roses. Then uncover, with the greatest care and precision, this Mys- terious Vase; garnish the top with the Aurora of a Spring Morning; several Rays of the Sun of France; the Serenity of an Itahan Sky; and the Universal Appreciation of the Peace of Em-ope. Add a few Beams of the Aurora BoreaHs; sprinkle over with the Vfrgin Snow of Mont Blanc; glaze with an Eruption of Mount Vesuvius; cause the Star of the Shepherd to dart over it; and remove, as quickly as possible, this chef-d'oeuvre of the nine- teenth century from the Volcanic District. Then fill Hebe's Enchanted Cup with a religious Bahn, and with it surround this mighty Cream of Immortality; Terminate Avith the Silvery hght of the Pale Queen of Night, without disturbing a Ray of the Brilliancy of the brightest Queen of the Day. Note. " We are authorised by the Author, to inform his readers, tliat even up to this moment, of finishing the printmg, no answer has been received from the Goimnet before mentioned, stating his opinions Avith regai-d to the Cream of Great Britain, on account, as we liave been informed, of his cook not having as yet been able to complete the Dish.—J. E. Adlard.Mayonnaise de Hcmard, (No 1C45.) Three Croustades of Bread for the Centre of Removes, garnish of Silver AttelettSB.Croustade for Filet de Bosuf a la Joan d'Aro, Croustade for the Poulardes (No. 418.) (No. 515.) Croustade for the Turkey a la Nelson, (No. 610.)The above attelettes are qtiite new, the four large ones heing used for flancs or removeSj and garnished as represented in the plate containiag the croustades. They may also be gai-nished with vegetables turned of a good shape, and lightly stewed. The one representing a dolphin is used to garnish dressed fish, but must always be fixed upon a croustade, either at the head or in the centre of the dish, but so as not to interfere with the carving. The one representing a shell, as well as the last mentioned, are also used for any kind of aiguilettes or hors d'oeuvi-es (page 161); the four smaller ones are to be lightly garnished with fresh fruits, and fixed upon the top of the jeUy, the moulds for which are entitled jeUy-moulds for attelettes; the heads of these last four smaller attelettes should be made with gold, to correspond well with the richness of colour of tlie jelly." Poulardes en Diademe."—See page 515.fGalantine alaVoliere, (No. 1012.) Salade de GrouBe a la Soyer, (No 1C38.)TABLE OF CONTENTS. ib. To render the Table of Contents more intelligible, the mere translation of all Comestibles and ingredients have been introduced. The translation of proper names would be useless; FOUNDATION SAUCES. Brown sauce - - . . Espagnole sauce - - . Brown sauce from all sorts of meat For thickening brown sauce without making a roux - - . Veloule - Veloute, a plainer way White sauce, or bechamel - Sauce Allemande (or German sauce blanche - Demi-glace - THIN SAUCES. Sauce au jus d'Estragon (tarragon) - Jsu d'Estragon clair (clear) Sauce au jus de Tomates au jus de Champignons (mush- rooms) demi-provenyale au jus Piquant (sharp) d'Echalotle d'Orange ritjBigarades (bitter oranges) Jus lie demi Currie . . aux Concombres (cucumbers) - Truffles Anchois (anchovy) fines Herbes - petits Navets (turnips) Olives- . 1 2 4 5 ib. 7 ib. ib. 10 ib. ib. 11 ib. ib. ib. 12 ib. ib. 13 ib. ib. 14 ib. SAUCES. Sauce aux fines Herbes piquante (sharp) Robert - . . _ Robert demi-provenyale 41'ltalienne . . _ h I'ltiiUenne (white) poivrade poivrade demi-provenyale a la Bateliere - . . a la Reforme iiu jus de Groseilles (currant jelly) ib. 15 ib. ib. 16 ib. ib. 17 ib. ib. 18 Sauce aux Tomates a la Tartare Papillote Sauce Sauce a la Diable - . . Corinthien - - - Provenyale chaude a la Muitre d'H6tel - a la Ravigote - . . a rindienne - - - Currj' Snuce - . . . Sauce Soubise Soubise (brown) a la Milanaise a la Financiere - - . nux Trufles aux Champignons (mushrooms) - a la puree de Trull'es a la puree de Champignons (mush- rooms) - P^rigueux Bechamel a la CrSme - au Supreme Veloute de Gibier (game) Sauce a la pure'e de Gibier (ditto) au fum^e de Gibier (ditto) Demi-glace de Gibier (ditto) Sauce matelote - . . Genevoise - . _ a la Beyrout - . . a IVssence de Poissons (of fish) a la HoUandaise (Dutch) Caper Sauce ... Lobster Sauce - . _ Oyster Sauce . . " . " another method - a plainer method Muscle Sauce - - . Melled Butter - . ' . " Anchovy Sauce Shrimp Sauce - . Demi Maitre d'H6tel Sauce - Fennel Sauce - . . Egg Sauce - . " _ " Lobster Butter Anchovy Butter - . " Maitre d'H6tel Butter . ' Ravigote Butter - 46 PAGE ib. • 19 ib. 20 ib. 21 ib. ib. ib. 22 ib. 23 ib. ib. 24 ib. ib. 25 ib. ib. 26 ib. 27 ib. ib. 28 ib. ib. 29 ib. 30 ib. ib. «» ib. ib. ib. 32 ib. ib. 32 ib. 33 ib. ib.2 TABLE OP CONTENTS. PAGE SAUCES AND GARNITUUES OF VEGETABLES. Puree de Choux de Bruxelles CBrussell sprouts) - . - 34 Suuce aux Choux de Bruxelles - ib, Hiuicots verts (French beans) 35 Petit Pois a I'Anglaise (peas) - ib. Petits Pois au Lard (ditto) - - ib. Puree de Pois vert (ditto) - ib! A hi Palestine (of artichokes) - 36 Palestine a la Bourgeoise - - ib. Palestine au maigre - - - ib. Puree d'Artichuuts (artichokes) - 3T Puree a la Palestine maigre - - ib. Navets Vierges (tuinips) - - ib. Ragout de Navets a brun (ditto) - 38 Puree de Navets a blanc (ditto) - ib. Puree Navets a brun (ditto) - 38 Sauce aux Chouxfleurs (cauliflower) 39 Puree de Chouxfleurs (ditto) - - ib. Mac6doine de Legumes (vegetables) ib. (brown) - - 40 Jardiniere (vegetables) - ib. Pointes d'Asperges en petits-pois - 41 Puree d'Asperges (sprue grass) - ib. Concetnhres a blanc (cucumbers) - ib. Concom jres a brun - - - 42 Puree de Concombres - - ib Epinard au Jus (spinach) - - 43 Blanched Mushrooms - - ib. Puree d'Oseille (sorrel) - - 44 Ragout aux jeunes Racines (young ve- getables - - - ib. de petits Oignons (onions) - ib. , de petits Oignons a blanc - 45 Garniture de fond d'Artichauts - ib. de Haricots blancs nouveaux ib. Gros Oignons farcis (beans) - - 46 Stewed Cabbage Lettuce - - ib. Chou braise and Choucroute - - ib. Stewed Celery for Garniture and Celery Sauce - - - - 4T Chouxfleurs for garnitures (cauliflowers) ib. Chicoree, or Endive Sauce - - 48 j4ppendix to the Sauces. Forcemeat of Veal - - - 48 Forcemeat of Rabbits - - - 49 Fowl - - ib. Game - - - 50 Whitings - - ib. Panada for Forcemeats - - ib. Forcemeat of Cod's Liver - - ib. Veal StulTmg - - - - 51 To prepare Cockscombs - - ib. To boil Rice - - - • - ib. To blanch Macaroni - - 52 Cror^iiettes de Pommes de Terre (pota- toes) - - - - ib. Glaze - - - - ib. PACE POTAOEs on soura. Clear light Broth, or first Stock - 63 Consomme, or clear Soup - - ib. Brown Gravy - . . -55 Potiige a la Victoria - - 56 Louis Philippe - - 57 Prince of Wales . ib. Comte de Paris - - 58 Princesse Royale - 59 Saxe Cobourg - - 60 Comtesse - - 61 Gresham - - - ib. Colbert . - 62 Clermont - - - ib. Macedoine de Legumes - 63 a la Jardiniere - . ib. Julienne - . ib, aux petits Navets a brun (turnips) 64 a la Printaniere - - ib. Jerusalem - - 65 Marcus Hill - - ib. aux pointes d'Asperges et OSufs poches (asiJaragus and poached eggs) 66 a la Brunoise - - ib, Nivernaise - - - 67 Palestine • - - ib, puree de Navets ("turn ips) - ib. puree d'Asperges (asparagus) - 68 Crecy - - - ib. pur6e de Choufleur (cauliflower) 69 puree de Concombres (cucumbers) ib pur6e de Pois verts (peas) - 70 Clear Giblet Soup - - - ib, Potage aux Queues de Boeuf (clair) (ox tails) - - - 71 aux Queues d'Agneau (lambs' tails) - • ib. aux Queues de Veau (clair) ^ (calf's tail) - - 72 a la Duchesse - - - ib. Clear Grouse Soup - - 73 Partridge Soup - - - ib. Pheasant Soup - - ib. Woodcock Soup - - ib. Hare Soup - - - 74 Potage clair a la Poissoniere (fish soup) ib. Grouse Soup - - - 75 Pheasant Soup - - - 76 Partridge Soup - - - ib. Hare Soup - - - - ib, Pur^e of all kinds of Game, mixed or separate - - - 77 Giblet Soup - - - - ib, Potage a la Reine - - - 78 a la Regente , - - ib. Soup Mulligatawny - - ib. Potage Queues de Veau a blanc (calves' tails) - - - '0 Queues de Veau a I'lndienno ib. Tete de Veau a I'Indienne (calf's head) - - 80TABLE OF CONTENTS. ib. PAGE Potage Queues de Boeul' a I'Indienne (ox tuils) - - • Queues de Boeuf a I'Anglaise aux Huitres (oysters) aux Filets de Soles (soles) a la Poissonniere d'Anguille (eels) - de Homard (lobster) a la Chaiioinaise - Pate d'ltalie au Vertnicelle a la Seraoule (semoulina) au Riz (rice) au Macaroni au Macaroni en rubans Turtle Soup - - - - Clear Turtle Soup - Mock Turtle Soup Method of cleaning Salt-water Fish, Turbot .... 90 Brill - - - - - ib. John Dory - - - ib. Cod-fish - - - - ib. Whitings ... 91 Haddocks - - - . ib. Salmon - . - - . 91 Soles . - - - ib. Mackerel ... 92 Red Mullets - - . ib. Gurnets - - - - ib. Herrings - - - . ib. Smelts . . . . ib. 80 ib. 81 ib. 82 ib. 83 ib. 84 ib. ib. ib. 85 ib. ib. 87 88 Method 0/cleaning Fresh-water Fish. Carp ... Pike .... Trout Tench .... Perch - - . Eels . . Lampreys - ib. 93 ib. ib. 94 ib. ib. poissoNS (fish). Turbotj to boil - . - 95 a la Creme (cream) . ib. sauce Homard (lobster) - 96 a la HoUandaise . . ib. Mazarine . - ib. en Matelote Normande . 97 en Matelote vierge - - 98 a la R61igieuse ' - . Jb. Creme (gratine) . 99* Poissonniere - . jb. Creme d'Anchois (anchovy) 100 Small Turbot a la Meunierj - ib. Turbot au gratin a la Provenpale - lol* Brill au naturel , . - ib. Brill a la pure'e de Cypres (capers) - a la HoUandaise aux Capres (capers) a la Meuniere sauce Homard (lobster) a la Billingsgate au gratin ... a la Creme d'Anchois (anchovy) Filets de Brill a la Juive en Matelote John Dor^e . - - . a I'Orle'annaise en Matelote Mariniere a la Cremiere en Ravigote a la puree de Crevettes (shrimps) Bateliere Creme (gratine) HoUandaise . Saumon (plain salmon) au naturel Crimped Salmon au naturel - Saumon en Matelote Mariniere a la Mazarine HoUandaise - Cardinal a I'Amiral en Matelote Saxone - a la Beyrout a la Pecbeuse a I'EcailRre a la Creme d'Anchois au gratin a la Proven9ale a la Creme (gratine) - Sole en Matelote Normande au gratin ... a la Poltaise a la HoUandaise aux fines He'rbes a la Maitre d'H6tel a I'ltalienne ... Soles plain fried ... Sole n la Colbert - Meuniere - . . Creme d'Anchois Filets de Soles en Matelote . au gratin - a la Maitre d'H6tel - HoUandaise Italienne - en Ravigote a POrUe a la Rel'orme aux Huitres (oysters) . Cod-fish au naturel Cabillaud aux Huitres (oysters) k la Bechamel . CoU^gienne Noble Dame Stewed Cod a I'Ecossaise Cabillaud entier a la Bourgeoise - a la Rachel - . . Slices of Cod a la Montefiore PAUB 101 102 ib. ib. ib. ib. 103 ib. ib. 104 ib. ib. 105 ib. 106 ib. ib. lor ib. ib. ib. 108 ib. ib, ib. ib. 109 ib. ib. 110 ib. Ill ib. ib. ib. 112 113 ib. ib. ib.' 114 ib. 115 ib. ib. ib. 116 ib. ib. 117 ib. ib. 118 ib. 119 ib. ib. ib. 120 ib. ib. 121TABLE OF CONTENTS. CabiUaud h hi Creme (grntinej Provenyule Juive - Hollandaise Salt Fish Salt Cod a la Maitre d'H6tel Salt Fish a la Bourgmestre Red Mullets a I'ltalienne a la Veiiitienne - Ravigote PAQE - 121 ib. - ib. 122 - ib. lb. - ib. 123 - ib. ib. Fillets of Mullets a la Montesquieu - 124 a I'ltalienne - ib. Veiiitienne - ib. sauce Ravigote - ib. a la Mazarine - lb. Whitings, to fry them - - 125 Whiting au gratin - - - ib. Whitings broiled - - - ib. a la Mattre d'H6tel - ib. Fillets of Whitings fried - - 126 a la Hollandaise - ib. a I'ltalienne - ib. Whiting a I'Huile (oil) - - ib. Mackerel - . - ib. a la Maitre d'H6tel - 12T Fillets of Mackerel a la Dumas - ib. Mackerel au beurre noir (black butter) ib. Fillets of Mackerel a la Venitienne 128 Dublin Bay Haddock a la bonne Femme ib. Dublin Bay Haddock, baked - 129 Common Haddock, plain - . ib. Haddock a la Maitre d'H6tel . ib. Walter Scott - - 130 Fillets of Haddock a la St. Paul . ib. Hollandaise - ib. Gurnets and Pipers - - ib. Roast Gurnet - - - - 131 Fillets of Gurnets en matelote - ib. a la Maitre d'Hdtel ib. a I'ltalienne - ib. Herrings broiled, sauce Digon - 132 plain boiled - - - ib. Boiled Herrings a la Creme - ib. Skate plain boiled - - - ib. au beurre noir (black butter) 133- a la Maitre d'H6tel - - ib. Smelts, to fry them - - ib. a la Juive ... J34 Boulangere - - ib. Atelettes d'Eperlans a la Menagere - ib. Buisson d'Eperlans (smelts) - ib. Flounders, water souchet . - 135 a la Greenwich - ib. plain fried . . ib. broiled - - ib. Plaice . - . - ib. Whitebait - . - 136 Sturgeon - . . - ib. k la Chanceliere - ib. Crabs Muscles Oysters PAGE - 138 ib. - 139 Shell Fish. Lobsters 137 Fresh-water Fish. ib. - ib. 141 - ib. ib. - ib. ib. - 142 Pike roasted a la Chambord Pike en matelote - a la Hollandaise - Small Pike a la Meuniere Pike with caper sauce a la Maitre d'Hotel - a I'Egyptienne Fillets of Pike a la Maitre d'Hotel ib. en matelote - . Jb. a la Meuniere - 143 Carpe en matelote ... j],^ a la G^noise - . Stewed Carp a la Marquise . - 144 Carp with caper sauce - . ib. Carp fried .... Tench en matelote . . ib. a la Bey rout - - - 145 Poulette - . ib. sauce aux Moules (muscles) . ib. fried or broiled - . ib. Perch a la Hollandaise . . 148 Maitre d'H6tel . ib. Small Perches en water souchet . ib. frits au beurre (fried in butter) ib. Trout plain boiled - - - 147 Trout a la Maitre d'H6tel . ib. Genoise . . . ib. Baked Trout - . - ib. Trout a la Beyrout - - ' . ib. Fillets of Trout a la Mazarine . 148 Eels fried . - . . ib. a la Tartare . - - ib. Spitchcocked Eels - - - ib. Stewed Eels - - - ib. Eels en matelote ... 149 Lampreys - - - - ib. Crawfish . . . - ib. hobs-d'ceuvres, or dishes to be banded round the table. Petits Vol-au-Vents a la Moiille de Boeuf (beef marrow) - - 151 aulaitance deMaquereau (mac- kerel) - - - 152 au foie de Raie (skate liver) ib. aux Huitres (oysters) . - ib. de Homard (lobster) - 153 Petites Bouchees a la Moelle de Boeuf ib. au laitance de Maquereau - ib. au foie de Raie - - ib. aux Huitres - - .154 de Homard - - . ib. a la Reine - - - ib. puree de Volaille (of fowl) ib. deGibier (of game) - - 1555 TABLE OF CONTENTS. PAGE Petites Bouch6es a la pur^e de Gibier 155 Petits Pates a la Pfttissiere - - ib. aux Hiiitres a la Patissiere 156 de Homard a la Patissiere ib. of Shrimps or Prawns a la Pilti.ssiere - ib. Rissoles aux HuJtres (oysters) - - ib. de Homard (lobster) - 157 of Shrimps - - - ib- de laitancesdeMaquereaiix (mac- kerel) - - - 158 de Gibier (of game) - ib. Volaille (of fowl) - - 159 Croustade de Beurre (butter) - ib. a la Dulce of York 160 Croquettes de Homard (lobster) - ib. Aiguillettes de Risde Veau (sweetbread) 161 (escalopes) aux Huities (oysters) ib. de Homard (lobster) 163 de filets de Sole - - ib. aux Huitres (oysters) - ib. de Homard (lobster) - 163 de Sole - - ib. de Volaille a la jolie fille ib. nEMOVES. Croustades of Bread for removes - 164 To obtain, lard, and dress a Fillet of Beef ib. Fillet of Beef i la Jeanne d'Arc - 165 a la Beyrout - 166 aujus d'Orange - ib. au jus de Toraate - ib. a la Napolitaine - ib. Strasbourgienne - 167 Napolitaine - 108 Milanaise - - ib. Bohemienne - 169 Romaine - - 170 Stewed Rump of Beef a la Flamande 171 aux Oignons glaces (onions) 172 a la Voltaire - - ib. Portugaise - - 173 Jeanne d'Arc - - 174 Beyrout - - - ib. Macedoine de legumes (of vegetables) . - ib. sance piquante (sharp) - ib. sauce tomate - - - 175 Stewed Sirloin of Beef - . ib. a la Printaniere - ib. Ribs of Beef a la Jean Bart - 176 Ux Tongues - . - 177 Loin of Veal a la Cunibaceres - ib. Macedoine de legumes (of vege- tables) - - - 178 - puree de Celeri - . ib, Strusbourgienne - - ib. Fillet of Veal a la Princiere - 170 Versaillienne - 180 Palestine Artichokes ib. Jardiniere - ib, Potfigere - - 181 Fillet of Veal aux petits pois (peas) ib. Neck of Veal a la pur^e de celeri - ib. Rouennaise - 182 Milanaise - - ib. Bruxellaise - ib. Breast of Veal - - - 183 aux pais fins a I'Anglaise (peas) ib. a la puree de Celeri - - 184 sauce tomate ■ - ib. Calf's Head - - - ib. au naturel - - 1S5 Half a Calf's Head a la Luxembourg 186 Tete de Veau en Tortue (calf head) 187 Calf's Head ii la Pottinger - 1S8 in currie - - ib- Saddle of Mutton a la Bretonne - 1^9 au Laver - - - ib. a la Polonaise - - ib. Marseillaise - - 190 roti, braise, a la Mirabeau (roast, braised) - - - 191 roti, braise, aux legumes glaces (vegetables) - - - ib. Haunch of Mutton - - ib. aujus de Groseilles (currantjelly) ib. a la Bretonne . - - 192 Polonaise - - - ib. Boh6mienne - - - ib. aux legumes glaces (vegetables) 193 Leg of Mutton a la Bohemienne - i!'. Bretonne - ib. au Laver - - ib. a la Provenyale - ib. Gigot de Mouton de sept heures (seven hours) - - - - 193 Necks of iNlutton a la L^gumiere - 194 Bretonne - 105 Neck of Mutton a la Bohemienne 195 Proven9ale - ib. Charte - ib. Breast of Mutton panee, grill^e, sauce piquante - - - 196 Saddle of Lamb aux petits pois a la Sdvigne ib. a I'lnJienne - - ib. Demi Provenyale . - 198 a la M6nagere - ib. Haunch of Lamb - 1!)9 Fore-quarter of Lamb a I'Hoteliere - lb. House Lamb aux pointes d'as- perges (sprue grass) - - ib. Ribs of Lamb a la Chanceliere - ib. Leg of Lamb a la St. John - . 200 aux pois (with peas) - ib. Boiled Leg of Lamb and Spinach - 201 a la Palestine ib. Roast Leg of Lamb a la Jardiniere - ib. Shoulder of Lamb a la Bruxellaise ib. Polonaise - ib. Pork. Leg of Pork sauce Robert - . 202 a la Piedmontaise - ib.TABLE OF CONTENTS. 6 TAOR Loin of Pork a la Bourguignote - 203 Neck of Pork a la Remouhule, a I'lndi- enne - . 203 a la Venitienne - ib. Roast Sucking Pig ... 204 Sucking Pig a la Savo^'arde - ib. Turkey a la Nelson . . 205 Godard - . 2O6 Cliipolata . . 2OT Small Turkej' a la Ducbesse . 208 Poularde a I'Ambassadrice . - ib. Poulardes en Diademe - . 210 a la Vicomtesse - . .211 Jeanne d'Arc . . ib. Jeune Princesse . . 212 Financiere - . 213 Varsovienne . . - ib. aux legumes printaniers (spring vegetables) . - - 214 legumes verts (green ditto) 215 Petits Poulets a la Warenzorf . . ib. Perigord ;i blanc - - 216 Macedoine de legumes - 217 a I'Indienne - - ib. au jus d'estragon (tarragon) 218 a la Marie Stuart - - ib. Petits Poussins a la Chanoinaise - ib. Petits Poulets a la Printaniere (spring chickens) - - .219 Tartare - - ib. Marechal . . 220 Goose a la Chipolata . - ib. stutt'ed with chesnuts - - ib. a la Portugaise - . 221 Ducklings aux olives - . . ib. au jus d'orange (orange-juice) ib. aux legumes printaniers (spring vegetables) . ib. a la Chartres - - ib. Haunch of Venison - - - ib. Doe Venison a la Corin- thienne - - - 223 Necksof Doe Venison a la Corinthienne 224 Necks of Venison a la Bohemienne - ib. Faisans a la Corsaire (pheasants) - ib. Garde Cbasse - - 225 trufF^s a la Piemontaise - 226 a I'Extravagante - - ib. Grouse a la Rob Roy - - - 228 Corsaire - - ib. Piemontaise - ib. Garde Cbusse - - ib. Of Black Cocks and Gray Hens - 229 Hare a la Mjicgregor - - ib. Levraut a la Coursiere (leveret) - ib. FLANCS. Fillet of Beef pique aux legumes i)rin- taniers (spring vegetaljies) - 230 Filet de Bceuf au jus de groseilles - 231 Fillet of Beef a la Beyrout - ib. J..angue de Boeuf a la Marquise (ox- tongue) - ib. T 1 -r^ PAQB Langue de Boeuf a la Prima Donna 232 St. Aulaire - ib. Jardiniere . 233 w * . ,• T, Milanaise . ib. Westphalia Ham, small - . ib. Loin of Veal a la Cambaf 6res . 234* Cremiere - ib. Noix de Veau piqud au Jus (knuckle of , veal) . . . a la Potagere . . 235 Palestine ... 23a aux legumes nouveaux (new vege- tables) . . ib. a la pur6e de Champignons (mush- rooms) - . ib. Prince Albert - . 237 Neck of Veal a la St. Claire - ib. Calf's Head a la Constantine - ib. Neck of Mutton demi Provenyale - 238 a la Soubise - . ib. a I'Alg^rienne - 239 a la Portugaise . ib. Loin of Mutton en Carbonade - 240 Carbonade de Mouton a la Bourguinote ib. Saddle of Lamb a la Bonne Fermiere 241 Shoulder of Lamb farci aux Truffles ib. a la Financiere - - 242 pur^e de pois vert (of green peas) ib. Maftre d'Hotel - - ib. Neck of Lamb aux legumes printaniers ib. aux petits pois (with peas) ib. a la Bruxellaise - - 243 Douariere - - ib. Maitre d'Hotel - ib. Petits Poussins a laMoskovite (chicken) ib. Ecarlate - . 244 Palestine " - 245 Venitienne - ib. Prince Albert - ib. au jus d'Estragon (tarragon) . 246 a la Chevaliere - - ib. Marengo ... 247 Ducklings aux petits pois au lard (with . peas) - - ib. au jus d'Orange - -248 Faisans a la Fontainbleau - - il). a la pur6e de Gibier (game) - 249 ti-uHes a la Piemontaise - ib. a I'Amiral - - - 250 Grouse .... ib. Chartreuse de Perdreaux (of partridges) ib. de Perdreaux a I'lmpfirial 251 de f erdreaux a la Moderne 252 Perdreaux a la Mecklenbourg - ib. pur^e de Gibier (of game) 253 truffes a la Perigord - ib. Levraut sauce poivrade (leveret) - ib. au jus de groseilles - - 254 Lapereaux a la Taverniere (labbits^ ib. Jardiniere - - 255 aux petits jwis (pea-x) - ib. a la Villageolse - - ib. Bourgmestre - 256 .iVnglaise - - ib. o7 TABLE OF CONTENTS PAGE paw chaud d'Agneau (lamb) - 256 de Mouton a I'Irlaudnise - 257 d'Esciilopesde Filet deBoeuf ib. d'Esculopes de Veau et de Ris de Veau - - 258 de Volaille (fowl) - 'b. Pigeonneaux - - 259 Lapereau (rice) - 260 Vol-au-vent - - _ " ' ? " Casserole de Rlz (rabbits; ^ aux queues d'Agneau (lambs tails) 2bJ queues de Veau (calves' ditto) ib. pieds d'Agneau (lambs' leet) ib. pieds de Mouton (sheep's ditto) 262 a la Napolitaine - ib. Polonaise a la Koroski 263 a la Royals - - ib, Cbevaliere - 264 ENTREES, OfBeef for Entries - ■ -266 Escalopes de Filet deBoeuf a la Reforme ib. Gotba - - 267 Portiigaise - 268 Nemours - - ib. Ostende - 269 pique a laChasseur 270 Other Entries of Fillets of Beef - ib. Aiguillette de Langue de Breuf en papil- lote (ox-tongue) - - 271 Turban de Langue de Boeuf a PEcarlate 272 Langue de Boeuf a la Jardiniere - ib Laugue de Boeuf, sauce piquante 273 Queues de Boeuf aux navets au brun (turnips) - ib. a la Jardiniere - 274 Queues de Boeuf (ox-tails) sauce aux cornichons (gherkins) - - 274 Queues de Boeuf en Currie - ib a la Sicilienne - 275 MarseiUaise - ib, To prepare and dress Palates of Beef - ib, Palates de Boeuf a la Ravigote - 276 Atelettes de Palates de Boeuf - - 277 Palates de Bosuf a la Vivandiere - ib. Turban de Palate de Boeuf au gratin - 278 Vol-au-vent de Palates de Boeuf - ib Palates de Boeuf en Papillote - - ib Turban de TSte de Veau en Tortue (calf's head) - - - 270 a la Maitre d'H6tel - - ib, Hollandaise - - 280 Poulette - - ib, Indienne - - - ib. Oreilles de Veau farci (calves' ears) 281 en Marinade - ib. Langues de Veau aux Champignons (calves' tongues with mushrooms) ib. Calves' Brains - - - "282 Queues de Veau k la Ravigote (calves' tails) • - - - ib. a la Poulette - 283 PAGE Of Sweetbreads - - " 283 Ris de Veau a la Santa Cruz (calls sweetbread) - - " piqu6 a la Turque ^ - 284 pique a la Financiere - 285 piquealapur6ed'Asperges ib. roti (roasted) - - il*' Caisse de Ris de Veau a la Ninon de I'Enclos ■ - - - 286 Escalopes de Ris de Veau au supreme ib. aux pointes d'Asperges 287 a I'lndienne - ib, en caisses - - ib. Atelettes de Ris de Veau - - 288 Blanquette de Ris de Veau aux truffes ib. Vol-au-vent de Ris de Veau - 289 Of Tendrons de Veau (of veal) - ib. Tendrons de Veau a la Noble Dame ib. a la Dauphine - 290 Cotelettes deVeau piques aux petits pois (with peas) - - - ib. Cotelettes de Veau en Papillote - 291 a la Sans Fayon - ib. Noix de Veau for Entries - - 292 Grenadius de Veau pique aux racines nouvelles (young vegetables) • ib. Of Veal Kidneys - - - ib. Veal Kidneys en Caisses - - 293 Boudin de Veau a la Legumiere - ib. a la Richelieu - 294 Of Mutton for Entries - - ib. Cotelettes de Mouton k la Reforme - ib. Vsconitesse - 295 Westphalienne 296 Provenyale - 297 Boh6mienne ib. Soubise - 298 Uurcelle - ib. aux petites racines - - 299 sauce piquante (sharp) - ib, a la Jardiniere - - ib, aux champignons (mushrooms) ib. aux navets an brun (turnips) - ib, Cotelettes de Mouton a la Palestine 300 aux pointes d'asperges (aspara- gus points) - - ib, aux haricots verts (French beans) 301 petits pois (peas) - - ib, choufleurs (cauliflowers) - ib, trufl'es - - - ib, a la Maintenon - - 302 sauce remoulade - ib. a la Financiere - - ib. Maitre d'H6(el - 303 Hollandaise - - ib, pane'e, grille (crumbed, broiled) ib. Of Cotelettes braised ... 304 Cotelettes de Mouton brais^es a la Mar- seillaise - - - ib. Carbonade of Mutton ... so,'} Poitrine de Mouton sauce piquante (breast of mutton) - - - ib, Rognons de Mouton a In brochette (shceps' kidneys - - * - ib.8 TABLE OF CONTENTS. PAGE Rognous a la Turlare - . 308 de Moutoii a la V6nitienne - ib. T>- J . '^""'•''^ cbampagne ib. Pieds de Mouton a la Poulette (sheep's le^i) - _ _ _ 307 Pjeds de Mouton a la puree d'oignons lb. Entries of Lamb. Pieds d'Agneau (lambs' feet) - - ib. furcis (stuffed) . 308 en marinade - . ib. cartouche - ib Oreilles d'Agneau a la Belle Fermiere (lambs' ears) - . . 3Qg Oreilles d'Agneau a la Marquise - ib. Ravigote - 310 Mattre d'H6tel ib. en marinade . ib. farcis - . jb. Queues d'Agneau a la Cremiere (^lambs' tails) - . . . Langue d'Agneau a la Persane . ib. Lambs'Brains a I'lnnocent . -312 Lamb's Fry - . - ib. Kis d'Agneau aux petits pois (lamb's sweetbread) - - . 313 Ris d'Agneau a la Cambayeres - ib. aux concombres (cucumbers) 314 a la Madone - - ib. Epigramme d'Agneau aux haricots verts (beans) - - . - 31.5 Epigramme d'Agneauaux petits pois (peas) ib. concombres 316 a I'Ancienne - ib. Cotelettes d'Agneau aux petits pois ib. poinlesd'asperges (asparagus tops) 317 haricots verts (beans) - . jb, aux racines gkic6es - . ib. jeunesoignons (young onions) - 318 a la Palestine - - - ib. Vicomtesse - . - ib. pur^e de truffes - - 319 puree de champignons (mushrooms) ib. pure'e d'artichauts - - ib. farcis aux truffes - - 320 farcis aux champignons - ib. Blanquette d'Agneau (lamb) - 321 Croquettes d'Agneau - - ib. Entries of Po7-k. Cotelettes de Pore a I'Indienne - 322 sauce remoulade ib. a la Siamoise - ib. Bolognaise 323 Jeune France ib. Filets de Pore a I'Hanoverienne - 324 Escalopes de Pore a la Lyonnaise - ib. Langue de Pore demi sale (pig's tongue) 325 Doe P^enison, or C/ievreuil. Cotelettes de Chevreuil a la Boheniienne 325 saute's sauce poivrade 320 PAGE 32« 327 ib. ib. 328 ib. ib. 329 Minced Chevreuil Of the Wild Boar - Of Venison for Entries Cotelettes de Venaison en demi-glace " aux olives au jus de groseilles (cur. rant jelly) . Hashed Venison - . Venison Pie Entries of Poultry. Turheys, Estomac de Dinde a la Turenne - 329 „ , , T^. , Jeune Comtesse 330 Escalopes de Dmde en blanquette . ib. p . . \ ^. , a la Belle Fermiere 331 Emincee de Dinde a I'ltalienne . ib Blanquette de Dinde au Jambon (ham) ib* Filets de Poulardes a I'Ambassadrice 332 Marie Stuart ib. Talma . 333 Russe - 334 Pierre le Grand 335 Dumas . 336 Blanc de Poularde aux concombres (cu- cumbers) . . . ib Cuisses de Poulardes a la Talleyrand de Perigord - 33T au Soleil - 338 a I'Ecaillere - ib. farcis aux petits legumes (vegetables) - 339 en fricuss(?e a I'HSteliere ib. a la Bnyonnaise - 340 Entries of Spring Chickens, Pullets, Fowls, (fee. - . - ib Filets de Volaille a la Sevigng (fowl) 341 Neva - . ib. saute au Supreme 342 aux truffes - . ib. a la Bechamel 343 aux champignons (mushrooms) ib. a la Bechamel ib. Filets de Poulet a I'Ambassadrice - ib. a la Strasbourgienne - 344 Filets de Volaille a la Duchesse - ib. Epigramme de Filets de Volaille a la Josephine - • . 345 Filets de Volaille aux concombres (cu- cumbers) - - - - ib. Fricassee de Poulet a la Chevulicre - ib. Ancienne 347 Spring Chickens. Petits Poulets Printaniers sautfe aux truffes (spring chickens) - - ib. Poulet Printanier braise a la Financiere 348 Petits Pouleta Printaniers sauce remou- lade (chaude) - • - ibTABLE OF CONTENTS. 9 PAGE Poulet Printnnier grille aux champig- nons conflts (pickled mushrooms) 349 Ciiisses tie Volaille truHes a la P6rigord ib. a lu Dino - - 350 braise aux concombres (cucumbers) - ib. braisg aux pois (peas) ib. en fricassee a I'An- cienne - - 351 a la Marengo - ib. Poulet a la Provenpale - ^ " Turban de Quenelles de Volaille a la Russe . - - - 352 Quenelles de Volaille a I'Ecarlate ib. aux concombres - ib. en demi deuil 353 a la York Minster 354 Pair de France ib. Silene - ib. Boudins de Volaille a la Richelieu 355 Sully - ib. Croquettes de Volaille aux truffes 356 au Jambon (with ham) ib. Rissolettes de Volaille a la Pompadour 357 Filets de Canetons aux petits pois (ducklings with peas) - - 358 Filets de Canetons a la chicor^e (with ib. endive) - - - - ib. Filets de Canetons a la mac(;doine de legumes (vegetables) - - ib. aujus d'Orange 359 farcis - - ib. Entries of Game. Hares. Filets de Li^vre sauce Reforme (hare) - 360 pique sauce poivrade ib. a la Bourguignote ib. marine en demi- glace - 361 Escalopes de Lievre a la Chasseur ib. Cotelettes de Lievre a la Dauphine 362 Turban de Lievre a la Peronne - ib. Babbits. Filets de Lapereau a la Valenciennes (rabbit)- - 363 Ecarlate ib. Turban de Lapereau a la Douariere 364 Epigrnmnie de Filets de Lapereau - ib. Filets de Lapereau a la Musulmane 365 Cotelettes de Lapereau aux petites ra- cines - - . - ib. Lapereau saute aux truffes . ib. a la Marengo 366 Rabbit Currie - . - ib. Fricassee de Lapereau - - lb. P/ieasanfs. Faisans au velout6 de Gibier (pheasants) 367 a la pur6e de Gibier - ib. Filets de Faisans a la Comte de Brabant 368 PAGE Filets de Faisans piques aux legumes (vegetables) - - - 368 Turban de Faisans en salmi - ib. Filets de Faisans a la Marquise - 369 Maintenon ib. Turban de Quenelles de Faisans - 370 Grouse. Grouse a la Commodore - - ib. Filets de Grouse a la Paoli - - 371 Chanceliere ib. Salmi de Grouse aux truffes - 372 Grouse a la Ailsa - - - ib. Turban de Quenelles de Grouse a la Moderne - - - 373 Partridges. Perdreaux a la Silene (partridges) - ib. grilles a la puree de Gibier 374 aux choux (cabbage) - ib. Chartreuses de Perdreaux - - ib. Filets de Perdreaux aux petits legumes 375 a la Florentine ib. Cotelettes de Perdreaux a la Bacchante ib. Douariere 376 Due de Chartres ib. Epigramme de Perdreaux a I'essence de Gibier - - 377 aux Champignons (mushrooms) ib. Turban des Filets de Perdreaux a la Perigord - - - ib. Turban de Quenelles de Perdreaux a la Berri . . . ib. W^ild Ducks. Filets de Canetons Sauvages a I'essence (wild ducklings) - 378 Syrienne - ib. aujus d'Orange - 379 au fumee de Gibier ib. Salmi de Canetons Sauvages aux truffes ib. Filets de Canetons Sauvages a la puree de Grouse - - - ib. Teal. Turban de Filets de Sarcelles a la Mo- derne - 3gQ Turban de Sarcelles a la Toulouse ib. Sarcelles aujus d'Orange (teal) - ib". a la Bateliere - - 381 mac6doine de 16gumes lb. puree de champignons (mushrooms) . ib. Woodcoc/cs. Filets de Becasses a la Lucullus - 382 Talleyrand ib. Imperial . 38310 TABLE OF CONTENTS, sienne (pigeons) - - ib. ib. PAGE 383 ib. ■ ib. 384 ib. - 385 ib. ■ ib, ib. ib, ib, 386 Turban do Biicasses aux champignons Stilmi de Becasses (woodcoclis) " - a 111 Joinville Entree de Becasses a la Comtesse B^^asses a la Perigoid a I'essence - - . a la Financiere - puree - Snipes or Bucassines Plovers. Plovers - . . _ Filets de Pluviers a la JMarie Antoinette aiix truftes champignons (muslirooms) ib. Filets de Pluviers a la Regence - ib. PMe chaud des Pluviers - . 337 Qteails, Quails - - - - ib. Cailles en mac^doine de legumes aux feuilles de vignes (vine leaves) - ib. aux petits pois (peas) - 388 Turban des Cailles a la Financiere - ib. aux concombres ib. a la puree de truffes 389 Quails for Vol-au-vents, or Pkt& chaud ib. Pigeons. Cotelettes des Pigeonneaux a la Pari- h. la Financiere ib. aux pois verts - ib. a la Suliman 390 Larks. Turban of Larks a la Parisienne - ib. aux fine herbes - 391 aux quenelles - ib. P&tt5 chaud de Mauviettes (larks) - ib. gratines - ib. Vol-au-vent de Mauviettes - 392 OF THE ROASTS FOR SECOND COURSE. Roast Turkey au cresson (watercress) 395 Turkey Barded - - - 396 Larded - - - ib, Dindonneau trufTe a la P6rigord (turkey) ib. farci - - - ib. Roast Turkey a PAnglaise - ib, Turkey Poults - - - ib. Chapon r6ti au cresson (with watercress) 398 Poularde a la DemidotF - - ib. r6ti a la Stiiel - - 399 Poulet r6ti (roasted) - ib. Spring Chickens - - - ib. h. la Forrester ib. Geese - - - - 400 Ducklings Canetons au vin de Madere Becasses a la Perigord au jus d'orange d'echulote Guinea Fowls - - . Pea Fowls - Pigeons - . . Quails .... Cailles a I'Eloise Pheasants ... Faisans a la Galitzine - Grouse - - . . a la Bonny Lassie Ptarmigans ... Ptarmigan a la Charles the Twelfth Black Cocks and Gray Hens Partridges ... Dun Birds Wild Ducks and Pintails fl la Chasseur Widgeons Teal- au jus d'orange Plovers ... Of the Woodcock Woodcocks a la Stiiel fumee de Gibier Piedmontaise Larks ... Snipes .... Hares .... Leverets .... Rabbits - SAVOURY DISHES FOB SECOND COURSE. The Boar's Head - - .410 Of the Boar's Head a rAntique - 411 Ribs of Beef a la George the Fourth 413 Bolingbroke - 415 froid a la Bohemienne ib. Filets de Boeuf farcis a la Dr. Johnson 416 Cold Ox Tongues - - - 4)T Tongue a la Lancret - - 418 Printaniere - . "ib. * Comedienne - . ib. Cold Ham - - - - 419 Fillet of "Veal a la Pontoise - ib. Cardinale - - 420 Loin of Veal au Jambon . - ib. Dame Blanche - 421 Galantine de Venn au Jambon . ib. Pat6 de Veau au Jambon . » 422 Cotelettes de Veau a la St. Garat - 423 Princesse 424 Ris de Veau h la Chinoise - - ib. Cotelettes de Mouton braise aux navels 425 Turban de Cotelettes de Mouton a la Fermiere - - - - ib. Carbonade de Mouton - - 425 Ballottins d'Agnenu a la de Bazan - 426 a In Catalanaise - - ib. PAGE - 400 ib. - ib. - 401 ib. - ib. ib. - 402 ib. - ib. 403 - ib. 403 - ib. 404 - ib. 405 ■ ib. ib. - ib. 406 ib. ib. 407 ib. ib. 408 ib, ib. ib. 409 ib. ib,TABLE OF CONTENTS. li PAGE Cotelettes d'Agneau a la Gelee - 427 froid a lii Princesse ib. Galantine de Dinde - - ^^ anx foies graa - 4 is a la Voliere - ib. Pat« de Dinde au blanc de Volaille - 429 Galantine de Poularde a la Persane 430 Pate de Volaille aux Truffes - - 431 Poulardes a la Mazap;i an - - i^- Banquiere - - 432 Poulets Printaniers a la Santa Cruz (spring cbickens) 433 a la Princesse Rojale (ditto) ib. Poularde a la Guillaume Tell (capon) ib. Chaud froid de Poularde - - 434 a la Pembroke 435 en mayonnaise - ib. Filets de Poulardes a la Nesselrode ib. Ravigote - 436 Petits Canetons en aspic (duckling) ib. Salade de Volaille (fowl) - - 43T Salade de Filets de Poularde a la Brunow ib. Poulets Printaniers a la Masaniello (spring chickens) - - 438 Moule d'Aspic a la Royale (mould) ib. Galantine de Faisan aux Truffes (phea- sants) - - 439 Faisans a la Voliere - ib. PSit6 de Faisans aux Truifes - ib. Filets de Faisans a la Prince George - 440 Chaud froid de Filets de Faisans - ib. Grouse - - - - 441 Galantine de Grouse a la Montagnard ib. Salade de Grouse a la Soyer - - ib. Perdreaux a la Downshire (partridges) 442 Galantine de Perdreaux a, la Voliere (partridges) ... 443 Pilte de Perdreaux (ditto) - ib. B^casses a la d'Orleans (woodcocks) . ib. Pate froid de Mauviettes (cold) - 444 Salade de Homard h. I'Indienne . 445 Mayonnaise de Homard a la gelee ib. Miroton de Homard a la Cardinale (lobster) - - - ib. Homard en Aspic (ditto) - - 446 Homard au gratin (ditto) - - ib. Crabs ..... 447 Coquilles aux Huitres (oysters) - ib. Salade de Filets de Soles - . ih. Filets de Soles aux Concombres - 448 Truites marinees en mayonnaise (trout) ib. Dame de Saumon marinee (slice of salmon) . . . ib. Galantine d'Anguille (eels) . - 449 VEGETABLES FOR SECOND COBHSE. Asparagus - - - .450 Asperges en petits pois (ditto with peas) ib. Sea-Kale - . . - 451 Celeri a la Moelle de Boeuf (marrow) ib. Wlevi a la Chetwynd - . 452 Salsilis a la Poulette - - - ib. PAGE Salsifls a la Moelle de Boeuf (marrow) 453 Fried Salsifls - - - ib- Concombres farcis en demi-glace - ib. a la creme - 454 Croustade aux Concombres - - ib. Vegetable Marrow - - ib- Jerusalem Artichokes - - 455 Cauliflowers and Brocoli - - ib. Choufleurs au Parmesan (cauliflowers) 450 Artichokes - - . ib. a la Barigoule - - 45T Artichauts a la Bordelaise - ib. al'Italienne - - 458 au Veloute - - ib. a la Bruxellaise - - 469 Peas . . . . ib. au Sucre Anglo-Frunjais - 460 a la Franfaise • ib. French Beans - - - - 461 sautes au beurre (butter) ib. aux fines herbes - ib a la Poulette - - ib. Brussels Sprouts sautes au beurre - 462 a la Maitre d'Holel ib a la Creme en turban de Concombres - ib. Spinach - - - - 463 aujiis - - - ib a la Francaise - - ib. au Sucre (sugar) - - 464 Endive au jus - - - ib. Sorrel - - - - - ib. Laitue'sbraisde alaPensionnaire (lettuces) 465 farcis - - - ib. Feves de Marais (Windsor beans) - 466 White Haricots (beans) - - ib. Haricots blancs a la Bretonne - 467 a la Maitre d'Hotel ib. Tomates au gratin - - - ib. a la Piemontaise - . 468 Mushrooms plain broiled - - ib. furcis - - - ib. Croute aux champignons - - ib. Young Carrots in their glaze . 469 Young Turnips in their glaze . - ib. Oignons Printaniers au Sirop doree (spring onions) - . ib. Macedoine de Legumes Printaniers (spring vegetables) . . ib, Pomraes de Terre a la Maitre d'H6tel (potatoes) - 470 sautees au beurre - ib. a la Lyonnnaise ib. Lentilles . . . .471 a la Comte au riz (rice) - ib. Truffles - - . . 472 Trufles au vin de Champ.-igne . ib. Croute aux Trufles - - . 473 Truffes en croustade a I'ltalienne - ib. demi Piemontaise - . ib. a la Dino ... 474. Omelette aux fines herbes - . lb. au Jamhon (ham) . ib'.12 Table of contents. Omelette aux Truffes ■ aux Cham[)ignons(miishroomi aux Olives a la Jardiniere aux Huttres (oysters) aux filets de Soles - aux Monies (muscles) de Homard (lobster) au Sucre (sugar) au Confiture (preserve) au Rhum PAGE 475 s) ib. ib. ib. ib. 476 ib. ib. ib. ib. 477 PAGE ENTIIEMETS. Observations upon Pastry Of different sorts of Paste - Puff Paste - - . . with Beef Suet - Half Puff Paste P&te a dresser - . . fine or Pate a foncer d'Office or Confectioner's Paste d'Amande (almond) Pastillage or Gum Paste - Vol-au-vents - . . . de Peches (peaches) - d'Abricots of Greengages de Cerises (cherries) de Poires (pears) de Pommes (apples) d'Oranges Gateau de Millefeuille a la Moderne (cake) - - . . Turban a la Creme aux Macarons amers Puit de Fruit aux Blanches Couronnes (well) Gateau de Pithiviers (cake) - Tourte d'Entremet a la Creme Marmelade de Pommes (apples) au Confiture (preserve) - Tartelettes praline'es aux Abricots de Peches (peaches) aux Cerises (cherries) - aux Groseilles vertes (green gooseberries) of Greengages - aux Praises (strawberries) de Pommes (apples) de Poires (pears) - of Cranberries - d'Oranges Fauchonettes a la Vanille - Dauphines .... Tartelettes ii la Pompadour Mirlitons aux Fleurs d'Orange aux Amandes au Citron Petits Vol-au-vents a la Chantilly (small) aux Abricots a laGelee mousseuse Petits Puits aux Pislacliios r Gateau fourre n la Creme 478 ib 479 480 ib, 481 ib. 482 ib. 483 ib. 484 485 ib. ib. ib. 486 ib. ib. 487 ib. 488 489 ib. 490 ib. 491 ib. ib ib. ib. 492 ib. ib. 493 ib. 494 ib. ib. 495 ib. ib. ib, 496 ib. ib. Portugaise Gateau fourre' an Confiture (preserve) 497 on d'Artois, aux Pommes (apples) ib Anglo-Franyais Petits au Confiture (small) (round) Petits Petits aux Amandes Petits Meringue' Patisserie d'Amandes a la Cond^ Turban de Conde a la Rhubarbe Petits Gateaux d'Abricots renverses Petites Bouchdes a la Patissiere Eventail aux Cerises (cherries) Petits Gateaux a la Royale A Flan of Puff Paste de Pommes a la (apples) Poires (pears) Flanc a la Creme pralinfe Pslte a Choux Petits Choux a la Creme - aux Amandes a la Comtesse en Gimblettes Petits Pains a la Creraiere Madeline au vin de Porto Genoises - - . fourrees a I'Orange aux Pistaches Darioles - - - Biscatelles Gateaux a I'Indienne (cakes) Gauffres aux Pistaches a I'Allemande a la Vanille - Flamande Casalesry Red Nougat Small Cups of Nougat Nougat d'Abricot (apricot) ib. 498 ib. ' 499 ib. ib. 500 ib. ib, 501 ib. ib, 502 ib. 503 ■ ib. - 504 ib. ■ ib. 505 ■ ib. ib. . 506 ib. ■ ib. 507 ib. ib. ■ 508 ib. ib. 509 ib. ib. 5J0 ib, 511 ib. Chataignes Croquantes (crisp chesnuts) 512 Amandes Croquantes . . jb. Meringues a la Cuilliere - - ib. Turban de Meringues . -513 glac6 (iced) .'514 Petits Meringues aux Pistaches - ib. Champignons en surprise - - ib. Biscuit manque aux Amandes - 515 au Rhum - - ib. Calf's Foot Jelly - . - 516 GeMe de Dantzic aux Praises (straw- berries) - - ■ 518 Maresquin aux Peches - ib. Noyeau aux Abricots - 519 Macedoine aux Fruits de belle saisoc - - ib. Bor.lure de Poires en gelee (pears) - 520 Gelee au Rhum - - - ib, Mousseuse 'k I'Eau de Vie - ib. demie chaude froide niarbrfe 521 fouettee aux Fruits - - ib. a I'Ananas - - "b.TABLE OF CONTENTS. 13 PAGl! Orange Jelly - " , " in the skins of the oranges ib. Gelee de Praises (strawberries) - 523 d'Abricots . ib. a la Bacchante ib. de Fleurs d'Orange au vin de Champagne - - " Pain de Fruit a la Russe - - j"- Creme a la Vanille - - " aux Pistaches - - ^26 a I'Ananas (pine-apples) - 526 aux Amandes - - I"' d'Orange - - " aux Praises (strawberries) - 52T d'Abricots - - - au Ponche (punch) - ib- au Maresquin - - - 528 Noyeau - - - ib. Cafe - - - jb. Caramel - - i''- Bavaroise aux Praises (strawberries) - 529 Pramboises (raspberries) ib. Abricots - - ib. Poires - 530 Pommes (apples) - ib. Pistaches - - ib. a I'Ananas (pine-apples) 531 Maresquin - - ib. Ponche (punch) - ib. Charlotte Russe - - - 532 Prussienne - - ib. Russe en mosai'que - - ib. Russe aux liqueurs - 533 aux Praises (strawberries) - ib. Gateaux aux Fruits de belle saison ib. Charlotte de Pommes au Beurre - 534 a la Confiture (preserves) 535 Chartreuse de Pommes (apples) - ib. Suedoise de Pommes (do.) - - 536 Pain de Pommes a la Russe - ib. Croquettes de Pommes - - ib. Pommes au Riz ... 537 Poires au Riz (pears) - - - ib. Abricots au Riz ... 538 Pommes au Riz en Timbale (apples) - ib. a la Trianon - - ib. Pommes Meringuees - - - 539 a la Vestale - - ib. au Beurre (butter) - - 540 Miroton de Pommes - - ib, Beignets de Pommes - - - 541 d'Oranges - • ib. de Peches (peaches) - - 542 d'Abricots - - ib. Croquettes de Riz (rice) - - ib. Creme au Riz - 543 Macaroni - - ib. Vermicelle - - ib. Creme Frite a la Piltissiere - - ib. Beignets Souffles a la Vanille - 544 Frangipane - - . - ib. Omelettes a la Celestine - - 545 Pannequets a la Confiture (preserve) ib. REMOVES. SECOND COURSE, PAGE Gateau Britannique a I'Amiral - 548 Hure de Sanglier glace en surprise (boar's head) - - - - 549 Cygne glac^ en surprise (swan) - 550 Jambon glace en surprise (ham) - 55) Gigot de mouton bouilli glac6 en sur- prise (leg of mutton) - - 552 Selle de Mouton a la Jardiniere en surprise (saddle) - - - 553 Cotelettes de Mouton glace en surprise ib. Haunch of Lamb glace en surprise - 554 Shoulder of Lamb glace en surprise ib. Cotelettes d'Agneau a la Reforme en surprise aux Champignons (mush- rooms) - - - - 555 Chapon en surprise glac6 aux I'ruits - ib. Petits Poussins en surprise a la Suther- land - 556 Dindonneau en surprise a la Gondoliers (tm-key) - - - 557 Peacock a la Louis Quatorze - 558 Faisans en surprise glace au Chocolat ib. Maniveau de Champignons glac^ en surprise ... - 559 Turban de Conde glace a I'Ananas 560 Bombe demi glace a la Mogador - ib. Cerito's Sultane Sylphe a la Fille de I'Orage - - - - 561 Gateau glace a I'Eloise (cake) - ib. Biscuit Mousseux glac6, on caisses (in cases) - - - » ib. SoufHe glace au Curajoa - 563 Ponding Souffle glace a la Mephisto- pheles - - - - ib. Brioche - . - - 564 Baba ... 565 Brioche au Fromage - - 566 frite au vin de Madere - ib. Nougat aux Praises (strawberries) 567 Croque en bouche - - . 568 Meringue Pagodatique a la Chinoise 569 a la Parisienne - - 571 Nesselrode Pudding - - ib, Pouding de Cabinet glac^ - - 573 Glace Meringue au four - - ib, Plombiere - - . . 573 Plombieres Mousseuses a I'Orange ib. Gateaux de Fruit a la Gelee d'Orange mousseuse (frothed) - - 574 Gateau Souffle a I'Essence de Ponche ib. 0/ large Souffles for Removes. Souffle a la Vanille - - - 57.5 Fleur d'Orange (orange-flower) 578 au Caf6 vierge (green coffee) - ib. ii. la Creme de Riz (ground rice) ib. au Citron - - - ib. Souffle au Macaroni - - 576 Tapioca - - 677 Rhum ... ib. Omelette Soufflee ^ - 6T814 TABLE OP CONTENTS, Omelette Soufflee a I'Antiqualre a la Cr^me • SouflQe au Gingembre (ginger) Cerises (cherries) - jus d'Orange et nu Zeste pra- line (burnt orange-peel) Biscuits SoufBds a la Cretne Fondue au Parmesan et Gruyere a la Napolitaine - - . Petites au Pate d'ltalie (simple method) - Petites (en caisses) au Stilton (la cases) - . . Ramequins ... Petits Ramequins au feuilletage Dlablotins au Gruyere Croquettes de Macaroni au Fromage PAGE 578 679 ib. ib. ib. 580 ib. 581 ib. ib. 582 ib. ib. 583 ib. APPENDIX. Aspic - . . . Mayonnaise a la gelee - . 587 aux fines herbes ib. en Ravigote verte - ib. ordinaire - . 5g8 a la Provenyale - . 589 Montpelier Butter - . ib. Forcemeat for raised pies - . ib. of Liver for game pies . 590 Sponge cake - - . - ib. Savoy Cake in mould - - 591 Biscuits .... 592 To clarify Isinglass - . 592 Glace Royale or Iceing - . 593 Chocolate Iceing - . ib. Sugar in grains To colour Sugar in grains Vanilla Sugar Lemon Sugar ... To clarify and boil Sugar Sucre file (sugar threads) Ice Cream Vanilla Coffee Chocolate Pineapple Lemon Orange Apricot - Strawberry Marmalade Apple Apricot Quince Apricot (transparent) Cherry Strawberry Raspberry Jelly Apple - . . . Quince - Currant and Raspberry Currant - To preserve Tomatas Table of the Wealthy. Service Pagodatique Bill of fare (diner pour dix personnes) Diner Lucullusian a la Sanipayo Bill of fare (Reform Club) Dialogue Culinaire between Lord M— H— and A. Soyer Description of Kitchen of the Reform Club, with sectional and ground plan, and numerous apparatus PAGE - 593 ib. - 594 ib. - ib. 59« - 59T 598 - ib. ib. - 599 ib. ■ ib. 600 ■ ib. 60 J • ib. ib. 602 ib. ib. 603 ib. ib. 604 ib. 606 60T 608 609 611 613 END OF CONTENTS TO THE KITCHEN OF THE WEALTHY.MY KITCHEN AT HOME. PAGE My Table at Home. Prefatory Address - Reference to Plaa of My Kitchen at Home - " " ■ Plan of My Kitchen at Home Reference to Plans of Bachelor's and Cottage Kitchens - Plan of the Bachelor's Kitchen Cottage Kitchen Bill of Fare for Eight Persons PLAIN JOINTS. Of the Choosing and Roasting of Plain Joints - - - " Sirloin of Beef Ribs of Beef - - - Rump of Beef - Baron of Beef . . - Round of Beef - - - Aitch-bone of Beef - Brisket of Beef - a la Garrick Haunch of Mutton Soyer's Saddle-back of Mutton Saddle of Mutton Leg of Mutton - - Shoulder of Mutton Loin of Mutton Neck of Mutton . - - Boiled Leg of Mutton Shoulder of Mutton Saddle-back of Welsh Mutton Haunch do. Saddle do. Leg do. Loin do. Neck do. Shoulder do. Lamb ... Fillet of Veal Loin of Veal Breast of Veal Shoiilder of Veal Neck of Veal Knuckle of Veal - Leg of Pork - SaltPork MADE DISHES. French Pot-au-feu ... 649 SOUPS. Julienne Soup ... 652 Mutton Broth - - - 653 Irish Mutton Broth - - ib, A very simple receipt for the Scotch Cock-a-leeky ... il). - 631 632 633 634 635 ib. 636 637 639 640 ib. 641 ib. 643 ib. ib. ib. 644 645 ib. ib. . ib. ib. ib. 646 ib. ib. ib. ib. ib. ib. ib. ib. 64T ib. ib. 648 ib. ib. ib. ib. Ox-tail Soup Ox-cheek Soup New Mock Turtle Soup Brown Mock Turtle Soup Mulligatawny Soup Giblet Soup Green Pea Soup - Winter Pea Soup Puree of Vegetable Soup Maigre Soup Onion Soup Maigre Vermicelli Soup Macaroni Soup FISH. PAGE 653 - 054 ib. - ib. 655 - ib. ib. - ib. 656 - ib. ib. - ib. ib. Turbot - 656 Turbot, the new French fashion 65T a la Crerae - - • - ib. •John Doree, Boulogne fashion ib. Salmon, Plain Boiled . ib. Sauce Matelote - ib. Cod Fish, Plain Boiled - ib. sauced over with Oyster Sauce ib. Haddocks - 658 Baked Haddocks . ib. Soles, Fried ib. the Jewish fashion - ib. Sole a la Meuniere ib. aux Fines Herbes - ib. Fried Whiting ib. Whiting au Gratin - ib. Red Mullets . . . 659 Mackarel - - - - ib. a la Maitre d'H6tol ib. Gurnets ... - ib. Boiled Gurnet ib. Herrings boiled with Cream Sauce . ib. Skate ... ib. Flounders ... - 660 PRESH-WATER FISH. Pike .... 660 Sauce Matelote - - ib. Stewed Carp - - . ib. Carp, Sauce Matelote - - ib. Truite a la Twickenham - 661 Burton - . ib. Tench, Sauce Matelote - ib. with Anchovy Butter - ib. Perch fried in Butter - - ib. Hampton Court fashion - ib. Eels, Fried ... 832 Stewed Eels, Sauce Matelote . ib. Gudgeons - - - ib. Escaloped Oysters - . - ib. Stewed Oysters - . - ib, Gratin of Lobsters - - - ib.TABLE OF CONTENTS, 16 SIMPLE H0R3-D (GUVKES. Rissoles of Oysters - - 0B3 Lamb - - - ib. Rocambole, or Croquettes of Meat, Game, or Poultry - - - ib. Lamb's Fry - - - ib. REMOVES SIMPLIFIED. Stewed Rump of Beef - - ib. with Onions - 664 Stewed Rump Steak with Oyster Sauce ib. Ribs of Beef a PHoteliere - - ib. Beef a la Mode - - - ib. Another method ... 665 Ox Tongue - - - ib. Loin of Veal with Stewed Celery • ib. White Sauce - ib. Dress Fillet of Veal for Remove - 666 Breasts and Necks of.Veal - ib. Half Calf's Head with White Sauce - ib. in Currie - ib. a la Vinaigrette - 667 broiled, Sauce Piquante ib. Large Veal Pie - - - ib. Saddle of Mutton a la Bretonne - ib. Leg of Mutton Basted with Devil's Tears ib. the Housewife's Method ib. Shoulder of Mutton, Savoyard's Method 668 a la Polonaise ib. Proven9ale fashion ib. Saddle of Lamb, Berlin fashion - ib. Leg or Shoulder of Lamb with Peas ib. with French Beans ib. Boiled Leg of Lamb with Spinach - 669 Neck of Lamb a la Jardiniere - ib. Lamb's Head Broiled, with Mince Sauce or Sauce Piquante - - ib. Loin or Neck of Pork a la Bourguinotte 670 Normand3' fashion ib. ib. ib. 670 ib. 671 ib. ib. ib. ib. 672 ib. ib. Pig's Cheek, a New Method Sucking Pig ... Roast Turkey ... Braised Turkey ... Capons or Poulardes Fowls with Mushroom Sauce Spring Vegetables Braised Fricassee Sauce Roast Goose ... Ducks . . . . a I'Aubergiste (or Tavern-keeper's fashion) - Simphfied Entries SAUCES. Melted Butter - - - 673 New and Economical Lobster Sauce ib. Lobster Sauce a la Creme - - ib. simplified - 674 Shrimp Sauce - ' - - ib. Ancho\'y Sauce - - ib. Oyster Sauce - - - ib. another way - ib. PAGE Caper Sauce - - . 074 To chop Onions, Herbs, &c. - ib. To make a Colouring or Browning from Sugar ECONOMICAL MADE DISHES. Fillet of Beef A new Steak . . . Fillet or Steak a la Mattre d'Hotel A new Mutton or Lamb Chop Veal Cutlets Pork Chops . . . Pork or Veal Chops Fried Hashed Beef . . . Remains of Salt Beef Ox Tails en Currie - . . Ragout of Ox Tails Ox Cheeks - Kidne3'S - - , - Calf's Head - - . . Brains and Tongue Veal Cutlets, the English Method Sweetbreads - . . Calf's Liver Stewed, French fashion Fried Minced Veal and Poached Eggs - Mutton Cutlets sautes sautes with Vegetables Irish Method Broiled Harricoed Ragout of Mutton en currie Mutton Currie . . . Pork Cutlets sautes aux Cornichons Sauce demi Robert - Hashed Pork - Pig's Liver ... Pig's Kidneys Black Puddings Excellent Sausage Cakes Pig's Feet MADE DISHES FROM POULTRY. Blanquettes of Turkey Boudins of Turkey Turban of Croquettes Minced and Grilled Turkey Devilled Turkey . - • Goose Hashed . . - Stewed Duck and Peas Duckling with Turnips Fricassee of Fowl or Chicken with Mushrooms Currie of Fowl, Oriental fashion Broiled Fowl - Fowl Sauted in Oil - Fricassee of Rabbits Gibelotte of Rabbits Currie of Rabbit Rabbit Pies Pigeon Pies Pigeons in Compote Stewed Pigeons with Peas 675 ib. 676 ib. ib. 677 ib. ib. 678 ib. ib. 679 ib. ib. 680 ib. ib. 681 ib. ib. 682 683 ib. ib. ib. 684 ib. ib. ib. 685 ib. ib. ib. 686 ib. 687 ib. ib. 688 ib. ib. ib. ib. ib. 689 ib. ib. ib. ib. 690 ib. ib. ib. 691 ib. ib. ib.17 TABLE OP CONTENTS. PAGE GAME. Pheasants, Partridges, Grouse, Black Game, Woodcocks, etc. - - (SOI Small Plieasants, tlie Miller's Fashion 602 Pheasant with Cabbage - ' - ib. Hashed Pheasant - - ib. A phiin Sahni of Pheasants - ■ ib. Grouse, Scotch Fashion - ib. Partridges a la Jardiniere - - 693 Partridges with Cabbage - ib. Partridges Sauted with Mushrooms ib. Woodcocks, Downshire Fashion - ib. a la Chasseur - ib. Hashed Woodcocks - ib. Snipes a la Minute 691 Plovers with English Raw Truffles - ib. Wild Duck - - - ib. Hashed Wild Duck - ib. Widgeons ... ib. Teal, a New Method - ib. Teal a la Sans Fayon 695 Larks a la Minute - ib. Lark Pie ... ib. Jugged Hare - ib. Another and more simple Method ib. MEAT PIES AND PUDDINGS. Rump Steak Pie - ib. Mutton Pie - - - 696 Lamb Pie ... ib. Beef Steak Pudding ib. SECOND COURSE, KITCHEN AT HOME. Salad of Cold Meat - - 698 Lobster Salad ... ib. Fish Salads - 699 Potato Salad . . ^ - ib. Plain Salad a la Franyaise - ib. Jelly of various kinds of Fruit 700 Orange Jelly - ib. Whipped Orange Jelly 701 PAGR Lemon Jelly - - - 701 Currant and Raspberry Jelly - ib. Strawberry Jelly - - - ib. JELLIES OF LIQUEURS AND SPITIITS. Maresquino Jelly - - - ib. Syrup of Almond, Iced a laVarsovienne, a substitute for Blancmange - 702 Pineapple Cream - - ib. Prussian Cream - - - ib. BOHEMIAN JELLY CREAMS. Strawberry - - - - ib. Apricot Bohemian Cream - ib. French Custard Cream - - 703 Coii'ee Custard Cream - . ib. Cotlee Custard Cream, White - ib. Chocolate Custard Cream - ib. Almond Custard Cream - . 704 Cabinet Pudding - - - ib. Bread Pudding - - . ib. Ground Rice Pudding . ib. Rice Pudding . - . 705 Macaroni Pudding - . ib. Gateau of Rice - . ib. Fruit Puddings - - - ib. Pastry - - - .706 Short Paste for Fruit Tarts . ib. Apricot Tarts - . - ib. Greengage Tart - - - 707 Apple Tart - - - ib. French Fruit Tart . . ib. Plain Souffle Puddings . . 708 Souffle Rice Pudding . . jb. Fruits Meringued . . - ib. Snow Eggs . . . 709 Plum Pudding . - - ib. Currant Pudding . . jb. Sweet Macaroons - . . 710 Bitter Macaroons, or Ratafias - ib. Mince Meat - . . . Mince Pies - . - ib. MISCELLANEOUS. PAGE ix xii xiii xvii xviii xix XX Description of the Composition of this Work Soyer's New Mode of Carving Directions lor Carving - . . . . Saddleback of Venison .... Directions for Larding - - - . . Braised Roasted Turkey, Capon, or Fowl Meat, Poultry, &c. . . . . . . Fish _ . Vegetables and Fruit . . . - " - " ^ib' How everything should he in Cooking . - . xxii Number ofStewpans and other Kitchen Utensils required, &c. x\iv Economical Mode of Making Coii'ee - - - 711 Monster Bill of Fare - . . . . " New Pagodatique EnMe Dish . . . ' The Celestial and Terrestrial Cream of Great Britain 712 7 3 19 ■47SOYER'S DIAMOND SAUCE. AN ENTIRELY NEW AND RELISHING SAUCE FOR COLD OR HOT MEAT, POULTRY, GAME, ETC., BY A. SOYBR, shortly be ready for sale, in Quart or Pint Bottles, and may be obtained at all the principal Italian Warehouses in the United Kingdom. A Second Edition of my Delassements Culinaires, containing tr- ^rll''' I'Orfge—R-evue Seria Biiffa—Le Mystere des Coulisses du Theatre de Majeste—Iribulation Domestique—La Reve d'un Gourmet—Le Plat d'Entre'e Pagodatique —La Crerae de la Grande Bretagne, will be shortly ready. Opinion of the Pi'ess on the above. " Not even the triumph of skill can satisfy the thirst of distinction of M. Soyer. His fancy takes a bolder flight, from the banquet to the ballet; leaving the batterie de cuisine, he seeks the aid of the press; and on his tirst entrance into the field of literature, a new pas de caractere heralds a new plat d'entree. Invoking inspiration in the names of Cerito and Warrender, our author caters for the toe of the danseuse and the palate of the epicure at one and the same time; and, not content with sketching the plot of a grand ballet and the bill of fare of a petit diner, the daring artist gives a receipt for ' La Creme de Grande Bretagnethe ingredients of which are nothing less than the gifts and graces of the most illustrious ladies of the land. " The title is flashed upon the dazzled eyesight of the reader in lightning characters, in- scribed upon the dark bosom of a thunder-cloud —significant of the brilliant play of wit within. " Soyer is as great in the kitchen as JuUien in the orchestra ; and his advent in the world of letters has raised the cook above the conductor —the baton yields to the s^oon''— Spectator.MADAME SOYER. INTRODUCTION TO HER POETBAIT, AND BIOGRAPHY. A general, indeed almost universal, interest has been evinced for the loss of the late Madame Soyer, by reason of her celebrity as an artist, whose close adherence to nature procured for her in France (from lier pictures ■which were exhibited in the Louvre in Paris) the famed name of the English Murillo. Her paintings evinced a great partiahty for the same subject, and a like boldness of effect and sentiment were introduced in all her composi- tions, though never having copied or tried to imitate this celebrated master.* The amiable character of a life but too short, induces me to give an engrav- ing from a portrait of herself, the finished touches of which were put upon the canvas but a few days previous to her lamented decease ; her career was one, while it lasted, of great success, and must, had it not been so fatally brought to a close, have resulted in the highest fame; as it was, crowned heads of many nations paid homage at the shrine of her talents, and the cultivated sensibility of the aristocracy of this and other civilized nations has at once appreciated her artistic excellences by the spontaneous expression of admiration upon the examination of her works. I feel, and am proud in the possession of such an emotion, most strongly —I trust not too much so,—upon this sensitive point. Such reasons, together with the fact that Madame Soyer being an English woman, are amongst my motives for giving here a short biography of her private and industrious life, which, although it appeared in nearly every journal of interest at the period of her unexpected death, will yet, I am assured, possess claims upon the sympathy of her countrymen and women. In the fullness of my own individual regard for her memory and of her rare gifts, and with a view to perpetuate a memorial of her extraordinary genius, I have for some while been adding to my collection, and at any expense, all those of her paintings which may come within my reach. The last purchase I made was No. 43 in the catalogue, a Buy-a-Broom Girl and Boy, from the celebrated Saltmarsh collection ; this, and many of her other works are to be met with in the galleries of men of the greatest taste and judgment. BIOGRAPHY. "August 29. Died in London, in her 29th year, Emma, the wife of M. Soyer, of the Reform Club House, Pall Mall. "Madame Soyer (formerly Emma Jones) was born in London in 1813. Her father died when she was only four years of age, and left her to the care of a fond mother, who sacrificed the prospect of an increasing fortune to de- * " Bat thouj^Ji in his manner, none of her works has the least subserviencv of imi- tation, or the stiffness of copy."—Times.2 vote her time entirely to tlio education of her child, who showed great incli- nation for study. The usual instructions were received with success, the French and Italian languages soon acquired, and music became a favorite amusexnent; in fact, it appeared that whatever was undertaken was of easy accomphshment. *' "About the year 1817, M. Simonau, a Flemish artist, pupil of the cele- brated Baron Gros, visited London, and brought with him some of his works, which were purchased by an antiquary, who advised him to open an academy for drawing and painting, which he did, and in a short time gained gi-eat celebrity. Mrs. Jones having heard of the fame of M. Simonau, went to him with her little girl, and wished him to give her lessons ; the extreme youth of the child at first made him hesitate, but at length he consented, and when Emma had been with him about six months, she showed such decided talent, that her mother proposed to remunerate him for the loss of all his other pupils if he would give his whole time to her daughter's instruction ; to this, after some consideration, he agreed, and every succeeding year her improvement was so great, that before the age of twelve she had drawn more than a hundred portraits from life with surprising fidehty. " During the same time she advanced wonderfully in music, under the eminent pianist, Ancot, who, at that time, was patronized by her Royal High- ness the Duchess of Kent, and was a great friend of Rossini and Weber—the last of these heard little Emma play a passage of his ' Der Freischutz' with so much execution, that he declared, in the most flattering terms, that she would become a brilliant star in the musical world. M. Ancot strongly recom- mended that she should adopt music as a profession ; and, as her mother feared that drawing would injure her health, his opinion was for some time adopted. Through the following circumstances, however, painting was fiuaUy chosen instead of music. Mrs. Jones (who, in 1820, had become the wife of M. Simonau) having gone to the continent for her health, young Emma one day looking out of a window at Dunkirk, saw some children blowing bub- bles, and immediately, with a piece of charcoal, made a sketch of the group upon the wall : the execution of this rude drawing evinced so much power, that it was at once finally decided by her mother and M. Simonau to adhere to the original intention of making painting her principal study, and that music should only be cultivated as an accomplishment. A few years after a picture from this sketch was sold at Liverpool for sixty pounds. " At an early age many original paintings and portraits bore ample testimony to the perseverance of the mother, the care of the master, and the genius of the young artist. " In 1836, MissEmma Jones was married to M. Soyer at St. George's church, Hanover square. " In 1839, tlie poor mother died, happy that her daughter had attained emi- nence by her talents, and enjoyed prosperity with the husband of her choice. But, alas ! the happiness of nearly six years was destroyed in a few hours ; Madame Soyer was taken in premature labour, and died on the same day, regretted by all who knew her. She was of a most amiable and cheerful dis- position, a kind friend, excellent and affectionate wife, too modest to set much value upon her works, leaving the palette to attend to her household duties. " The acuteness of her husband's feelings was painfidly increased by hie un- fortunate absence, being at Brussels at the time with the suite of the Duke of Saxe Cobourg-Gotha, who had seenM, Soyer in his culinary department at the Reform Club, and having greatly admired several of Madame Soyer's pictures,s did her the honour to subscribe for a print from her picture of the ' Young Israehtes,' which has since been dedicated, by permission, to his Serene Highness."* " The death of this lady'has been a source of great regret to all the lovers and encouragers of art. Cufolf at a moment when her reputation was about to make her fortune, and when, in spite of all obstacles, her merits were be- come known to her cotintrymen, it is a sad reflection that she can no longer enjoy the encomiums she so justly deserves, nor share in those rewards which M'cre about to be conferred on her. Besides an immense variety of drawings, sketches, and studies, she had painted upwards of 400 pictures, some of them ( f very high merit, and some of them which, when exhibited in the Louvre, obtained the highest meed of praise. No female artist has exceeded this lady as a colorist, and very few artists of the rougher sex have produced portraits so full of character, spu'it, and vigour, and that boldness and breadth of light and shadow which constitutes one of the highest triumphs of art. She was exceedingly clever in recognizing the character of those who sat to her, so that her portraits convey the mind as well as the features of the _sitters, their thoughts and sentiments. Her group, already mentioned, depicting Two Boys selling Lemons, has been recently engraved by Gerard of Paris, in mezzotint, and is a fine illustration of the talents of the deceased. It partakes of the style of Murillo ; but, though in his manner, it has not the subserviency of imitation, nor the stiffness of copy. There are a few of Madame Soyer's paintings at the Reform Club-house, which will well repay a visit from those who have a taste for genuine merit and real nature."—Times. The three following letters are selected from a numerous correspondence, as exhibiting at once sympathy for her loss, and admiration for her talents. " Gotha, le 4 Janvier, 1843. a monsieur alexis soyeh. " Monsieur, " Je vous suis tres oblige du dessin original fait du feue Madame votre epouse, ainsi que des gravures d'apres le tableau des jeunes Israelites, que vous avez bien voulu m'envoyer. " G'est avec beaucoup d'interet que j'adjoindrai k ma collection de dessins )es produits d'un talent aussi distingue que cehii de feue Madame Soyer. " En vous disant mes remercimens et en souhaitant que le temps adoucit votre grande et juste douleur sur sa perte prematuree, je vous assure encore de toute mon estime. ".Ernest Dug de Saxe-Gotha." " Cambridge House, le 21 Mai, 1846, "Monsieur, " Je suis charge de la part de S. A. R. Monseigneur le Due de Cambridge de vous remercier pour 1'envoi des trois tableaux, peints par feue Madame votre epouse, qui ont ete dftment admires et apprecies, non seulement par S>. A. R., le Due, mais aussi par Madame la Duchesse, ainsi que par ceux a qu il a 6te donue de les voir. " J'ai I'honneur d'etre, Monsieur, " Votre tres humble et obeissant serviteur, " Li; Baron de Knesebeck." * Geiitlemaji's Magazine.4 " Stafford House, Vendrcdi. " La Duchesse de Sutherland presente ses compliments k M. Soycr, et accepte avec plaisir ladedicace dela gravure* d'apresle tableau peint par feue Madame Soyer. " Elle a appris avec bien du regret laperte immense qu'il a faite." MEMORIAL TO THE LATE MADAME SOYER, THE CELEBRATED ARTIST. " The inauguration of a splendid monument, erected to the memory of Madame Soyer, whose name is so intimately connected with the genius of art, took place on Sunday, before a numerous and distinguished party, at Kensal Green Cemetery. The design, which is quite new, is by M. Soyer, her hus- band, and reflects the greatest credit upon that gentleman, who is so well known from his position at the Reform Club. It consists of a pedestal, about twelve feet in height, surmounted by a colossal figure of Faith, witli her right hand pointing towards heaven, and the left supporting a golden cross. At her feet, lightly floating upon clouds, are two cherubims, the one holding a crown over tbe head, and the other presenting a palm to a beautiful medal- lion of the deceased; the latter executed in white marble, and surrounded by the emblem of eternity. A palette and brushes, embellished with a wreath of unfading laurels, is gracefully placed beneath the medallion. M. Puyen- broack, of Brussels, one of the principal sculptors to his Majesty the King of the Belgians, has added to his fame by this new example of his talent. Although the figures of the monument are larger than Ufe, so light and elegant is their construction, that the observer might almost fancy they were leaving this terrestrial sphere, while the cherubims, poised upon the ascending clouds, convey such an idea of buoyancy, that one is led to believe that the heavy and solid stone (like the pure and eternal spirit of her who sleeps below) had taken its departure from earth, and was following that shade whose memoiy it was erected to perpetuate. We are informed that the palette and brushes, with the laurel and her initials, were sketched by the lamented artist the morning previous to her death, she being then in perfect health ; while the medaUion is from her portrait by M. Simonau, her father-in-law, and only master. " Amongst the parties present at the inauguration we perceived the fair Cerito, bestowing upon the shrine of her sister artist a wreath funcraire, made 'from a crown placed upon her head in La Scala, at Milan, before several thousands of her country people. Such feeling impressed all with the highest respect for that fairy child of Terpsichore, and deserves a distni- guished place in the history of art. The wreath, together with the palette of the artist, will be placed in a glass case, and fixed at the back of the pedestal. The inscription upon the pedestal will be simply the words ' To Her,' without any addition whatever."—Morning Post, 1844. EXTRACTS FROM THE PRESS. ^« L'Angleterre sera vengee par une femme de I'echec dont Messieurs F0O--0 sont tombes les victimes. Madame Soyer de Londres nous a envoye deux morccaux exquis; si nous pouvions disposer d'une couronne au plus digne, c'est assurement a elle que nous rendrions cct liommage ; ne pouvant pas presenter de lauriers, donnons lui la premi^;re place dans nos colonnes : poui-la correction du dessin, la vigueur, le modele et la puret6 du colons, ce * " La Ceres Anglaisc."sont la les qualites qui seraient envi^es par les plus habilcs de nos maitres Ss ce que U0U8 admirons par-dessus tout, dans sou sens le plus vrai, est a touche c?elicate, la douceur du coloris, toujours plem de souplesse et de naivete."—ifl Bevue des Deux Mondes. "Une Glaneuse, par Madame Soyer, de Londres. a passe inaper^u. Les critiques et le public se sont bien gardes d'en parler, parce que ce tableau, quoique renfermant de tres grandes quaUtes, ne plait pas au premier abord. Nous ne connaissons point Madame Soyer; nous ne pourrions meme dire si ce nom est un pseudonyme, ou s'H est veritablement celui de cette artiste. Ce qu'il y a de singulier, c'est que jamais aucune femme n'a pemt avec autant de verve, de chaleur et d'entrain. Madame Soyer (en supposant tou- iours que Madame Soyer soit une femme) est aux autres pemtres ce que Madame George Sand est aux litterateurs. Nous verrons plus tard si cette femme-peintre se soutiendra, et si ses productions prochames vaudront celles de cette annee."—La Capitole. " The appearance of a very beautiful engraving of tbe picture of ' The Jew Lemon-sellers' reminds us of the loss which art has sustained in the death of Madame Soyer. This gifted lady, better known, perhaps, as Miss Emma Jones, has been snatched away in the midst of a career, the opening success of which fully justified the most flattering anticipations of her numerous friends. Some of Madame Soyer's pictures exhibited here were the subjects of very general admiration, and such of our readers as visited the last exhibition at Paris (where Madame Soyer was even more popular than in England) will recall with pleasure her picture, in the style of Murillo, of ' The Two IsraeUtes,' which received so much praise from the French critics. The devotion of Madame Soyer to the art which she so much adorned by her talents is illustrated as much in the number as in the excellence of her works, which form the basis of a lasting and honorable fame. Although but twenty-nine years of age when she died, she had already painted no less than 403 pictures. Many of them are in the possession of the most distin- guished collectors in this country."—Morning Chronicle, KITCHEN OF THE REFORM CLUB. " We copy the following, by the Vicountess de Malleville, from the last number of the Courrier de VEurope. Without subscribing to the justice of all the writer's remarks, we think, as the opinion of an intelligent foreigner, that the article will be read with some interest. " ' We now quit the upper regions and foUow the secretary of the club, and the politest and most obliging cicerone in the world. Theatrically speaking, we have as yet only seen the stage and its sumptuous decorations from the boxes and pit; we now go behind the scenes, among the scene-shifters and the machinists. But unlike in a theatre, we see no naked walls behind the scenes—no tattered draperies—no floors strewed with sawdust. This flue apartment is the kitchen—spacious as a ball-room, kept in the finest order, and white as a young bride. All-powerful steam, the noise of which salutes your ear as you enter, here performs a variety of offices : it diffuses a uniform heat to large rows of dishes, warms the metal plates, upon which are disposed the dishes that have been called for, and that are in waiting to be sent aijove ; it tui-ns the spits, draws the water, carries up the coal, and moves the plate6 like an intelligent and indefatigable servant. Stay awhile before this octa gonal apparatus, winch occupies the centre of the plac Aiwnd you it water boils and the stewpans bubble, and a Uttle further on isTmoveab e furnace, before which pieces of meat are converted into sa.onry rc^t^,-Ze lve sauces and gravies, stews, broths, soups, &c.; in the distance are Dutch ovens marble mortars, hghted stoves, iced plates of metal for fish, and various com- partments for vegetables, fruits, roots, and spices. After this inadequate, though prodigious nomenclature, the reader may perhaps picture to himself a state of general confusion, a disordered assemblage, resembling that of a heap of oyster-shells. If so, he is mistaken. For, in fact, you see very Uttle, or scarcely anything, of all the objects above described ; the order of their arrangement is so perfect, their distribution as a whole, and in their relative bearings to one another, aU are so inteUigently considered, that you require the aid of a guide to direct you in exploring them, and a good deal of time to ciassity in your ramd all your discoveries. " ' The man who devised the plan of this magnificent kitchen, over which he rules and governs without question or dispute, the artiste who du-ects by his gestures his subalterns tricked out in white, and whose eye takes in at a glance the most difficult combinations in the culinary art—in a word, the chef by whom every gourmet admitted within the precincts of the Eeform Club swears, is M. Soyer, of whom it may justly be said that he is not more distinguished as a professor of the science of the Vatels and Caremes, than as a well-behaved and modest man. Allow him, therefore, to give you the history of his discoveries and improvements ; let him conduct you into the smallest recesses of his establishment, the cleanliness of which would shame many a drawing-room; and listen to him, also, as he informs you that those precious pictures which crowd his own parlour are from the pencil of a wife who has recently been taken from him by a premature death. Of this you might almost doubt till he again affirms it, for, judging from the poetry of the composition, and the vigour of the colouring and the design, you might swear that these pictures were the work of Murillo when he was young. " ' Let all strangers who come to London for business, or pleasure, or curiosity, or for whatever cause, not fail to visit the Reform Club. In an age of utilitarianism, and of the search for the comfortable, like ours, there is more to be learned here than in the ruins of the Cohseum, of the Parthenon, or of Memphis.' "—Chambers's Journal. "Workhouse Cookery,—The disclosures in the Andover Union have thrown quite a new light on the science of cookery, which not even the inspii-ation of a Soyer could have hit upon. That ingenious chef de cuisine has blended together pastry and politics ; with considerable skill he has invented a Creme d'Angleterre, consisting of charms borrowed from the female aristocracy; but those ingredients, imaginary and unsubstantial as they are, must be con- sidered as solids when compared with the materials used for constituting the dishes served up to the paupers in the Andover Union. Butter, according to the new poor law cookery, is made from the skimmings of grease pots, and parochial tea is made from boiling old leaves which have already had their strength drawn out of them. " A new cookery book, edited by M'Dougal, the master of the Andover Union, is evidently a desideratum in culinary literature, which even Soycr's universal genius has hitherto left unsupplicd."—Punch,THE GASTRONOMIC REGENERATOR. OPINIONS OP THE PRESS. THE TIMES. Tlic Gastronomic Regenerator.— Tlie Modern Cook.—"Any body cun dine," says the clever and prolbund author ol' the < Original,' " but very few know how to dine so as to ensure the greatest quantity of lieallb and enjoyment.'' The pith and truth of this remark are un- questionable ; and, indeed, we know nothing more painful than that utter disregard of the very first principles of gastroniuiiic science evinced by so many unprincipled and reckless individuals of the present day, wl)o eat as though the sole object of eating were to sustain life. Not that they take the best means for accomplishing even that ignoble end. The rules, whose observance renders eating a luxury and an art, also conduce in the highest degree to health. Sacrifices to Ceres and Bacchus, in the very act of the ottering, should have a sweet fragrance in the nostrils of Hygeia. Who shall aflix a boundary to the possible progress of an art? Let the vulgar do so, who, struck by apparent perfection, conclude at once that the force of genius " can no further go." We assert fearlessly that the limits of human creation and improvement are yet unknown. Least of all are they to be defined with reference to that great art which has been styled " the standard and gauge of human civiliziition,"' and which Montaigne, with less respect, denommated th« science de la gueide. Sceptics were they who, revelling at the table of Louis Xiy in the sauces of a Bechamel, or lingering at the board of the great Conde over the chejs dxuvre ol a Vatel—that illustrious martyr to a point of culinary honour!—or inhalin"- gently and delicately, and degustating slowly, and with mai-vellous discrimination, the exqui- site and qumtessential results of the vigils of an Ude, who refused, in their turns, to believe that the science professed by these great men could be capable of improvement, or was susceptib e ol higher elevation. Alas ! have we not lived to vote the resources of all ver- and rococo, and to behold the precious laurels that wreathed the temples of the culinary demigods of the ISth cenUiry, transferred by accl.-mation in the 19th to the mighty brows o a Careme and a Leauvilliers, a Soyer and a Francalelli-great names every one—poetizer.s fuller'tlTn nni r''. the larder sublime fire-worshippers, high priests of a kitchen luller than Druidical groves of deep and sacred mysteries ? irtists%o whon!''^ important volumes before us are characteristic of the distinguished m! / or M p owe l,em. Written, the one by a Frenchman, the other by an English- ^•e til h f "t*^ •» °f n»me, boasts of an Anglican origin), they diUer exr Jen Th^M ^^^V" "''^ '^"^ uninitiated may judge, they are equally S temotid nh, l7" '"-^ ^"^"^ i"»grHve and butiness-like fashion, Ob let Sh we ar fr'w' "'"'"'^ metaphor, ever keeping in view his main ncter a d no ilTon u r Tl' '1 P'itriotic, for he seeks to elevate the cha- kno vl ge'^TE m iS^ ^."F ""J.'°"T''' ^ t^e gastronomic Mffmvi . , ^ '"^ Gastronomic Regenerator" is a different persomure. He can vU ,i d'iI7r"^*'' ^T'^'-l '""'^y'"^ '"^ ^^-^ a?e crow : ll.n. , , he nandles with equal ability the quill of Pemisus and th,^ S^^'al '■''"'■'''^ '"'^^ ^^'^ f''™'^'- the achievements or\he la ter!1 a st a n^ r^ 1«> VV? 'r'' r^'y^'^^ "ot to be surpassed even in the oL ol Hoet ll hfReg^ner to^lul th ' ""'"h*""' 1'"'", ""^'^ '° recondi e page courtLl^Xnitv ^ here IS nothing to admire more than his matchless modesty, his imSnXe digreSJr '° ""^ '''' ""^^ ^°"<^'^-S i/ighly me.' 7oVa 'ZS^^S^ aCookery-book ? was a question continually put to my frame, and ro™^^^ f^'^ ^ ""'i" 'lonor to pLrvade i" ll>e midst ofasSi l'Lni,T"h" ""r ''"^^ ^"'"^'''^ "'"'"•y the .ro.oitlJ"orTLI:e;''tS;t:?:i'.S ^^^^"ton^allegoric.^ one of the noblest8 champions of literature, Shakspeare; when all at once my attention was attracted by the nineteenth edition of a voluminous woric: such an immense success of publication caused me to suy, ' Oh ! you celebrated man, posterity counts every liour of fume upon your regretted ashes!' Opening this woric with intense curiosity, to my great disap- pointment what did I see,—a receipt lor Ox-tail Soup I The terrifying ellect produced upon me by this succulent volume made me determine that my few ideas, whether culinary or domestic, should never encumber a sanctuary which should be entirely devoted to works worthy of a place in the Temple of the Muses." Why, then, great artist, transgress this noble resolution? Why commit a desecration which, indeed, is no desecration, save to your own pre-eminent and too fastidious judgment ? Ah, shall we confess it? It is the old story, familiar to the playgoing public, and to the printers of playbills. " The particular desire of several persons of distinction,'' and especi- ally of the ladies, to whose appeals M. Soyer informs us he could never turn a deaf ear, has dragged the sage from his retirement, and compelled him to do violence to a settled convic- tion and a holy purpose. Some idea of the sacrifice which M. Soyer was called upon to make by the entreaties of the ladies and the distinguished individuals adverted to, may be gathered from the history of the hero during the composition of his work. For ten months he laboured at the pyramid which the remotest posterity shall applaud; and during the whole of that period he was intent upon providing the countless meals which a living generation have already approved and fully digested. Talk of the labours of a Prime Minister or Lord Chancellor ! Sir R. Peel was not an idle man. Lord Brougham is a tolerably busy one. Could either, we ask, in the short space often months—ten " little months"—have written ' The Gastronomic Regenerator,' and furnished 25,000 dinners, 38 banquets of importance, comprising above 70,000 dishes, besides providing daily for 60 servants, and receiving the visits of 15,000 strangers, all too eager to inspect the renowned altar of a great Apician temple? All this did M. Soyer, and we back him for industry against even the indefatigable Brougham. That more than one of the 38 banquets were of the highest moment, and must at the time have engrossed the mind of their accomplished author, to the serious derangement of his literary avocations, admits of no question the moment we peruse one bill of fare which M. Soyer places before our dazzled and admiring eyes. A memorable dinner was given at the Reform Club, upon the 9th day of May of the present year, to a select party of ten highly-gifted connoisseurs; none of your gobble-and-gulp people, who, in their melancholy ignorance, swallow a potuge a la Comte tie Paris, or a rissolette d la Pompadour, with tlie same frightful nonchalance as a sailor will devour his pea-soup, or a rustic bolt his bacon ; but creatures of ethereal natures, devotees of what the painters call " high art;" men who feed their bodies only to give elasticity and vigour to their souls. The Uvier Lucullusian a la Sampai/o was ordered with a magnificent contempt of expense. No money was to be spared in obtaining the most novel, luxurious, and rare compounds that nigenuity could discover or gold procure. Stimulated by the anxious and repeated visits of a noble- spirited, and judicious guide, a Grove and a Jay, a Townsend and a Morel, a Slater and a Solomon, surpassed themselves in the quality of the viands they purveyed. One dish, the " B'lisson d'Ecrevisses Pagodatique au vin de Champagne d la Sampayo, cost something more lhan seven guineas-a trifle ! Two large bottles of Perigord truffles, value four guineas, were stewed with the ecr^oissesin champagne. We have no heart to proceed, lor the limited incomes! But to return to the incomparable dinner feuilles de vignes, and there was miroton de homard aux xn/s de plumer, and t_Der« ^^le Vany other dishes, too, enough as you would think to crown the happiness ot a cook, Td to satisfy the < mbit^ion of the proudest caterer in Christendom. You know not cook.. At oase 608 o ' The Regenerator,' the soft sigh of a Soyer falls painlully upon the reader s «i f Tr!d no wonder ! A brilliant' thought-one of those superb inspirations, the property of Menti with to and glori lamb' prisoned bird; then was there to De nraising in a j^..^..^ Uie pouched forcemeat upon the dish, the trullles in pyramid. Upon lhai.apwec9 truffle thHt bad been dug out of tbe graves, and a garniture of roasted ortolans. Stupendous thouchti we bave read of superior minds overcoming obstacles long deemed insurmountable, and bave gathered from tbe perusal strengtb for the difficult struggle ol life. Such strenglb find we here. "An ortolan," said Alexis Soyer, pondering on the difhcult and selt-ap- poinled task, "an ortolan can hardly be truffled, but I will undertake that a truffle shall be orlolaned He might have added, " 'Tis not in mortals to command success ; we 11 do more, Sumpayo, we'll deserve it;" lor great as tbe Regenerator's conception was, it was not destined to be realized. The elements were unpropitious, and the ortolans did not arrive in time from Paris, whence they bad been ordered. This, however, was tbe only failure. Everything else was to the turn, the minute. At seven o'clock tbe Severn salmon arrived alive, and by express from Gloucester. Ten minutes later it smoked upon the board. Happy Sampayo !—happier guests !—immortal Soyer ! We turn to the pictorial portion of this-notable book. After the agreeable portrait of the author, which faces tbe title-page, the first of tbe woodcuts that attracts attention is " Tbe Table of tbe Wealthy," with tbe motto, " Rien ne dispose mieux I'esprit humain a des trans- actions amicates r/u'im diner bien confu et artistemcnt prepare." A great maxim of diplo- macy ! How many treaties of peace and commerce bave owed tbeir conclusion to the mollifying efiects of a series of good dinners ! What numerous misunderstandings have been arranged and thorny points happily settled, less by tbe wisdom of tbe ambassador than by tbe ability of the ambassador's cook ! On a judiciously-compounded sauce, or a rati cuit a point, or tbe seasoning of a salmi, or the twirl of a casserole, may depend tbe fate of a crowned head,—tbe marriage of a prince,—tbe weal or woe of a nation. Is cookery, then, no art ? Truly is it—the highest, the noblest! A second plate, " My Table at Home," represents M. Soyer, in his foyers, presiding over a select party assembled round his hospitable and well-furnished board. Behold again the unrivalled gallantry of tbe country, and the individual finding a vent in a poetic and touching smile. " A gastronomical reunion, without ladies," says the chief cook of the Reform Club, " is a parterre without flowers, tbe ocean without waves, a fleet without sails." Talking of fleets, let us pass on at once to tbe Turkey a la Nelson, which deceased but much honoured bird is placed with its tail in the prow of a Roman galley, duly provided with anchor, sail, and all fitting appurtenances, and surmounted by fictitious ducklings, manufactured, as we are informed, but should never have divined, of the legs of fowls. Further on we have the Gateau Britannique a I'Amiral, a comely corvette of cake, coppered with chocolate, displaying wafer sails and sugar rigging, tossing upon waves of gelee d la Bacc/iunte,—her caiiva? swelling to a favouring breeze,—her sides dripping with wine and marmaliide,—her interior, even to the hatchways, filled with such a freight as none but Soyer could provide, and ]iii\kctgourmets thoroughly appreciate. It is whispered that upon this gallant ship Commodore Napier did fearful execution in the presence of his quondam foe and present friend, Ibrahim Pacha, when that illustrious individual dined with the Com- modore at his club. Assaulting tbe cralt with the fierce impetuosity for which the hero of Acre is so renowned, and thrusting his boarding-pike—bis spoon we would say—deep into the hold of the luscious craft, he destroyed in an instant Soyer's labour of a day. Timbers were stove in or out,—sails came down by the run,—masts went by the board,—and all was wreck, where a second before all had been symmetry and perfection. Nothing that relates to tbe kitchen or the table has been neglected or overlooked by the Regenerator. We have plans and drawings of kitchens of every description, from the matchless establishments of the Reform Club, with its ice drawers, slate wells, steam closets, tMins mane, and filty other modern refinements, to the unpretending cooking-places of the cottage or the bachelor. But perhaps the section of the book to be chiefly prized by the general reader and indillerent gastronome, is the short one relating to carving. Good carvers are almost as rare as good tenor singers. The proper dissection o( flesh and fowl is a matter ol high importance, rarely excelled in, but should be always studied. ^""l*! "^''PPen. m»ke no excuses, for they are only an acknowledg- n e t ol awkwardness. We remember to have seen a man of high fashion deposit a turkey 1 sway ,n the lap of a ady, but with admirable composure, and without ollering the h n n /''''I " 'r^'^'f 'J "^''■'''^ "^"^ the same time, and then .mietly m not ?o J','"."-'','' ^"■^''Z ^'«J""\> thank you lor that turkey."' To thosl who may not po«e,«s similar coolness, and the same stoical indillerence to the fate of ladies' IS! '"'''S'"'"'^"' Soyer's improvements in carving L lali^ " Nature, saj'H I to myself, compels us to dine more or less ouce a day ; each ol Ihoso10 Z ' nt ' •\°no'-HWe reader, subject to meet en tete-h-tete with a fowl, poulnrde duck pheasant, or other vohilile species; is it not l,ad enough to have sacrificed Unves of thos^ ««n«««x to satisfy our indefatigable appetites, wUhrt pumnrumrLarinA^^ atoms the remamsof our benefactors ? it is high time for theTedit o l^^Cnitv anK comfort ol qmet amilies, to pnt an end to tl,e mtssacre of those .nnocenL'' ^ Inconiparable benevolence ! Tenderest commiseration ! Perfect humanity ! " We will ^eacTedS;itohe^'''r' -^''M ^'^'^ Pl^i'-tl^'-opic progress of t'he century h ' leached the lu Chen and animal love is most intense in the vicinity of the stocknot What mor^^w II h'^'"" '^"'"^""y '""1 the liberal sentSe ts 7no m iL ^"""''^^^ the night! Incipient porkers sh. 1 no longe r pine away then: sweetness, and strive to toughen their crackling in anticfja r loa" ^'^'^^"'T- ^"'^ '^'"^^ "° '^^^^''^ t° '^ive up their%kins before tueir ghosts and some humaner process than a surleit of food, a deprivation of drink, and a gradual roasting near a scorching fire, will, let us hope, be discovered, to give to the livers of clucks that glorious expansion and pinguid richness so mucu appreciated by the epicure We will not despair of witnessing, under the dominion of M. Soyer, the introduction and use'of some instrument analogous to the guillotine, which by a stroke shall do its deadly necessary work: nay, might not advances lately made in Mesmerism be turned to good account in procuring painless death to those whom the feeling Soyer so beautifully calls our " bene- lactors ? A goose, in a state of coma, wonld be uncognizant oi the penknife that divides Us jugular ; calves and sheep properly subjected to the action of the magnetic fluid would pass Irom life into the larder without a struggle or a groan. Bnt to carving ! For joints our author gives most lucid directions, which, if properly studied, cannot fail to convert the merest tyro into an admirable carver. For game and poultry he has done more. He has in- vented an instrument, to be had at Bramah's, in Piccadilly, and with which printed direc- tions are given, by the aid of which the joints of birds are severed without the smallest detriment to their good looks. " Formerly," he says, " nothing was more difficult to carve than wild lowl, the continual motion (when alive) of the wings and legs making the sinews almost as tough as wires, puzzling the best of carvers to separate them ; my new method has quite aoulished such a domestic tribulation." For which, as well as for the many other benefits conlerred by him upon the human race and the brute creation, we beg to reiterate ourhumble hearty thanks to the talented author of ' The Gastronomic Regenerator.' THE MOJtZO'IH'C CHROIffZCI.E. Alexis Suyer, the Gastronomic Regenerator—Everybody who knows him, everybody who has sat belore his dishes, everybody interested in the promotion of the Rel'orm cause, or who likes to have a good dinner at home, has long since said in his heart " Why does not Soyer write a book about cookery ?" When Rel'orm was flagging, when Peel had it all his own way, before a country party was thought of, or a revolt "seemed possible, when the idea of the Whigs coming in was hopeless, and the party therefore needed consolation, what did Soyer do ? At that moment of general depression Alexis Soyer invented cutlets a la rtforme. He didn't despair, he knew the avenir that was before the party. Ha rallied them" round the ii vigorating t.ible, from which they rose cheered and courageous; flushed with victuals, their attack upon the enemy was irresistible (as under such circumstances the charge of Britons always is), and Uowning-street may be said to be the dessert of the dinners in Pall- mall. He is one of the greatest politicians and pacificators in the world. If they had him ill Conciliation-hall, even there they would leave off quarrelling. Look at his influence upon tlie diplomacy of our country I In this very day's paper appears an account of a dinner at (hat very Rel'orm Club which Soj'er loves, and which has stood as sponsor to the great cut- lets which he invented—of a dinner at which Lord Palmerston and Ibrahim Pacha had their bunds in the same dish of pilatf, and tlie maker of that dish was Alexis Soyer. To such u nobie and magnanimous spirit as Soyer's evidently is, such a meeting will cause pride and thankfulness indeed. It is a happy omen. They have eaten salt together, and the peace of the world is assured. How it was that Gibbon came to write the ' Decline and Fall;' under what particular circumstances Newton conceived the theory of gravitation ; how Scott invented his works, cfec, are historic anecdotes with which all persons interested in literature are familiar. It is always pleasant to know how and where a great thought came into the brain of a great man, and so it is agreeable to know how this cookery book, which all tlie world longed lor, was suggesled to Soyer. (See the Preface.) Surely Ihis preface is one of the most remarkable docnments (hat ever ushered any book inio the v\orld. Soyer has maile it a rule never to refuse anything in his power to the ladies (the rogue) !—and, amongst other favours, they usked him for a cookery-book- The request11 caused liini "n llirill of horror;" but being in a library in the midst of a hall, where be met with of Milton's iilleproricnl works, Loclvc's profound ideas, and several c/iefs (Cmitvre of that noble champion of lileratiire, Shakspeare, what should his eye turn to but a cookery- book closeted in such company ! " The terrifying eflect of that succulent volume" made him determine that he never would write a book of the culinary sort. What was the consequence ? The very determination not to write, forced him into "n thousand gastronomic reflections." Write he must, and it was sheer modesty that gene- rated the Regenerator. Mark the pleasantry upon the word " lost," the last word in the preface, and fancy Soyer lost in Paradise. Tempter ! if you had been in any such place, to what could you not have persuaded the first gourmand ! In fine, Soyer determined to write this book, because he justly " considered that the pleasures of the table are an every-day enjoyment, ivhich reflects good and evil on all classes" And when we remember that he has written the work in ten months, during which he has also supplied 25,000 dinners to the gentlemen of the Reform Club, and 38 dinners of importance, comprising 70,000 dishes ; that he had to provide daily for 60 servants, and to do the honours of the club to 1.^,000 visitors, one may fancy what genius and perseverance can accomplish. He sa3's he is " entirely satisfied with the composition, distribution, and arrangement of the volume." Elegit momtmentirm in fact. He has been and done it. He gives you his signature, his portrait e7i buste, and another full length, in which he is represented in his parlour at home (w iiere, in spite of his avocations, he has leisure to receive his friends and consume a most piodigious quantity of victuals), surrounded by a select society of private friends, dispensing to them some of the luxuries which he describes in his 700 pages. After a few prefatory observations about carving, for which he has invented a new and apparently successful, though unintelligible method—iibout larding, which he recommends to the English " middle classes"—the seasons offish and game, &c.—the utensils for the kitchen—Soyer plunges into sauces at once, as the great test of culinary civilization. The key-sauces are the White Sauce, No. 7, and the Brown Sauce, No. 1. They are the prin- cipia of the science—they are the sauces which Soyer daily and principally uses. If the reader suspects that we are going to transcribe the formula for the preparation of these sauces, be is disappointed. No; let those who want the sauce buy the book, and enjov both. ' ' ^ ' From sauces we go to "Potages or Soups" (and what are these, in fact, but diluted and agreeable sauce ?), commencing with the clear light broth, or first stock of soup, and pro- ceeding to a hundred delicious varieties—the Louis Philippe, the Jerusalem, the Marcus- Hill, the Princess Royal, &c. Nothing can be jnore delicate or worthy of a young princess than this latter little soup ; whereas the " potage a la com'tesse," beginning with " cut half a pound of lean ham with an onion," is of a much stronger charfftter. All these soups are flavoured with appropriate observations, as, for instance—" In fact it is much better for all h^k soups to be too thin than too thick." Louis Philippe soup, he says, should contain Brussels sprouts, bmled very green." Here is surely some wicked satire here. Irom soup we come to fish, as in the order of nature; thence to the hors-d'oeuvre and removes, to the flancs, the entrees, the roasts, the vegetables, the sweets, or the entremets, and the second-course removes. As the critic reads from page to page his task becomes absolutely painful, so de icious is the style, so " succulent" are the descriptions, and so pro- voking the hunger which they inspire. Every now and then you get anecdotes, histodcal and topographical allusions, &c. (See p. 472.) ■'6 , i. i i-ai How finely it is written ! " Will your excellency call to-morrow morning ?" Talleyrand's friend says nothing, but you see his rank at once,and when his excellency is^ne'Srince' of Benevent rings the bell and orders-some of his favorite dishes. There ^ an account liungeT ---fi^baux trulfes a la Sampayo, which makes one almost f^Xwith conker/'nU'"' '^""^"l ^^'^ the invention, not of Soyer the (Set'p 719 ) P°«t:-"The Celestial and Terrestrial Cream of Great BriTain '' sincVtheclliSonVeSmPcn'. ^^'^ ^'g^"'^^^ I^'-ahim Pacha last night, no Eastern prince wrbe br bi 4 awavfhur^^^^^^^^^ ever so entertained. Ardchit Ale^i.n. His Highness Pais S'tl "^^J^^ *° '^ecome -1—. ^^S^S^^lZ^i^^j:J^ incomparable volume. The dindonneau a la is a picture worthy ofTurne TtJ eS^avfn^ Ifl' f*he hero of Aboukir) is in waiting (and an eX'din/v nre ItH 1 >'"'"'°"''' ^^'""'^ « '"'^"y '""iJ12 most interesting worl< of nrt in (Iie volume, is tin, plate at p. 294. which renresentH of ihe mturul size a mutton cutlet, u pork cutlet, and u lamb cutlet. ThTsTt-tCZte of r 5 lets we should say—ia incomparable ' ^ °' TK£ momrxn-G post. ihlr "'''^^ rf,"" ^!"'^ "^^^""^ y^"^' l'"**' "bout the enlightenment of the aire - -^y ^^'^^ -^-^.,^0 which the „in,nll'"'" ^'".f '"'T "'■'^ T'" in relation to the preparation of food than to almost any other mat er. At present, in the middle of the nineteenth century, the generality of people in England have only roast and boil, after a fashion; and the e the culinary acquirements of tlie multitude find their extreme limits. Other., there are, indeed, who take a higher flight; they afiect soups and gravies, and even aspire to pat vegetables on their tables ; but in all these cases nothing can be more inartificial than the system pursued. Hot water is the chief ingredient, and pepper the condiment. Thus, for soup;—fry two or tbree slices of coarse beel in plenty or fat, boil it in water, and saturate it with pepper and salt, and your tureen is provided for. Of mutton broth we are not so sure of the process : but the decoction bus all tlie appearance of being composed of the eternal hot water stirred with a tallow candle, to give the necessary number of globules of grease on the surface, and ornamented at the top with a few floating particles of parsley. A grkvy in more frequent use is exceedingly simple. When a leg of mutton is roasted, the person miscalled a cook pours a teacupful of water over the joint, and the gravy is complete. Vegetables are only required to retain as much as possible of the fetid water in which they are boiled, and to be sunk as deep in melted butter as a river bound collier is in the sea, and they are considered "a dainty dish to set before a king." Such are a few everyday examples of the English practice of cookery—principles it evi- dently has none. In France they order these things diflerently. During a succession of revolutions, extending over a space of nearly sixty years, constitutions have been abandoned as soon as adopted; kings and nobles have been murdered; but La Cuisine has ever been held inviolate, and chel's deserving of the name have not ceased to be venerated. And what is the result ?—that in France, where the raw material is, with the single exception of veal, perhaps, inferior to ours, a dinner can be produced worthy of Lucullus ; in England, save under the superintendence of French artists, such a feat is plainly impossible. Surely, then, it behoves us to do what we may for availing ourselves, in their fullest extent, of the advan- tages we have received from nature, not perhaps by going the somewhat extreme length that we have hetird suggested, of establishing professorships of gastronomy in our universities, on the broad ground that domestic is as well worthy of being encouraged as political economy, but by profiting, to the best of our abilities, under the instructions of those who really under- stand the art in which we are so lamentably deficient. So desirable an object has hitherto been baffled by the popular prejudice that good cookery is necessarily unwholesome. It is no such thing. An accomplished cook is an accomplished chemist; he knows the several affinities of substances for each other, and not only balances these with the utmost exactitude, but even prescribes, with the same view, the particular description of wine proper to each stage of his banquet. We all remember the celebrated answer of Careme to George IV^, whose cuisine he superintended while that sovereign was regent. " Careme,'' said the prince, *• your cookery will be the death of me ; see how I am suffering from indigestion." " Sire," replied the professor, " I am innocent of the charge ; it is my duty to provide you with a dinner, the discretion to use it properly must originate with your ro3al highness." So true is it that the evil lies in the abuse and not in the use of good things. Another objection to elaborate cookery is the expense it is supposed to involve. Both the points have been satisfactorily met in the work before us. The many receipts furnished by M. Soyer, and they amount to nearly two thousand, afford evidence at once of careful study and of extreme delicacy. Everything gross is excluded, and the more nutritious portions of food are alone preserved, in such forms as to please the eye and the palate, without embar- rassment to the digestive process. Neither of these objects is attained under the ordinary English system. Huge joints offend the sight, and half-raw meat tasks the organs of diges- tion beyond their power, by presenting to them masses of unbroken fibres. To save trouble to the stomach the fibre must be destroyed by the action of heat, and this can never be effected by exposing food to the fire during only half the time that is necessary. Then, as to the expense of superior cookery, M. Soyer has taken the best means of refuting the error by showing that much improvement may be made without addition to the cost. In one portion of his book he provides materials for the dinner of an emperor; in the other, entitled, " My Kitchen at Home," he enables the smallest private family, or even the solitary bachelor, to live well on small means.13 It would be incompatible with our limits to discuss fally the two systems of tbe author, and tHb tain from any illustration of them would be unjust to him and unsat.slactory to he nUer We will therefore give one example of each-the mijgnificent and the s.raple ; •, ?1 hi first shall be a banquet served at the llelorm Club, on the 9th of May last to a Jrivate party of ten persons (see page 009), and for a dinner party for eight persons, at home ^Tf^'the Sie arrangement for a bachelor or a married couple, combining as they do, eWance wilb economy, we cannot give a selection ; because we would not ofter a brick as a specimen of the house; but we strongly recommend them to all who are tired of conven- tional dinners composed of everlasting chops and steaks. ^ Tr-^. In short the work of M. Soyer is one that cannot fail of being extensively read. If it be worth while to spend as much time as everybody does in eating, it is surely advisable to see that our time is not thrown away—that we live like civilized beings rather than New Zealand savages In this important point the system of M. Soyer is worthy ol praise, and we I'eel that we only anticipate our readers in thanking him for the labour he has bestowed in elucidating a pursuit that, in despite of twaddle, is at least one of the minor amenities of life. THE KOB.IO'XXI'C HEXtAIiD. We approach with all due reverence and respect the discussion of the important and mys- terious changes effected by the chemical action of that most potent of all galvanic agencies, whose resistless influence is acknowledged by sages, philosophers, and statesmen, and whose sympathetic vibrations find a response in every breast—thebaiteriede cuisine.' The Gastronomic Regenerator ; a New System of Cookery.' We have given both the titles, because in so deeply interesting a race, all parties from the Royal duke, whose gracious condescension sanctions the dedication in the title-page, to the humble artisan who snilfs the fragrant per- fume as he passes the area of the Reform Club, are entitled to start fair; and to the unini- tiated the pronomen would require a greater amount of consideration than accords with good digestion. For ourselves, we can only say, with the cockney lady in the play, " How delightfully unintelligible! how far-fetched ! how French!" But we have a shrewd guess that the impracticable title was designed, like some of his sauces piquantes, as a cabalistic whet or provocative to the teeming fancies and gustatory glories of the interior, and that pronounced with due emphasis and discretion bel'ore a meal, it would " create an appetite under the very ribs of death.'' The importance of a good dinner is become almost an axiom in morals and philosophy ; with ourselves it has been elevated to the rank of an article of faith. We cannot, therefore, too highly appreciate the labours of distinguished men who, like M. Soyer, sacrifice themselves to a sense of public duty, and present to an admiring and hungry world those treasures of gastronomic which are the very triumph of artistic skill. The ancient proverb has it that " any one can dine,'' to which modern political economy has added, " if he have the means,"—happily for the present generation they live in the third era of progressive advancement, when dining has become a science, and the good things which Providence has abundantly supplied to us are rendered subservient at once to health and refined enjoyment. M. Soyer tells us that nothing better disposes the human mind to amiable feelings than a dinner, bieii con^uet artistement prepare. How deeply grateful, then, should our countrymen feel who make dining the great business of life, and with whom a dinner forms the grand rallying point for every striking demonstration of pleasure, or business, or friendship, or charity, to one who in the proud humility of his unrivalled genius is content to rank a good cook only on the same footing as a wise counsellor ! We have been accus- tomed to vaunt of our liberty, our independence, and our unbounded wealth, but to our eternal disgrace be it recorded that, while we enjoy the fruits of their labours, we are silent on the subject of our obligations to the accomplished cuisinicr. The talent and research of a Vatel, a Careme, and a Bechamel have done much to place us on an equality with our more fastidious and artistic neighbours, the French—it remained for a Soyer to consummate the good work, and place the golden atelette upon the croustade of the dindoimeait d la Nelson. M. Soyer has evidently a just appreciation of the dignity of the science of which he is so distinguished a professor; with a mind comprehensive enough to grasp all the most intricate and diiEcult combinations of the culinary art, he is above the littleness of discarding his guests because they may add salt to their soup, contenting himself with the sage maxim that " it Is the duty of the cook to season for the guests, and not the guests for the cook." And verily, if all our cooks were such top'' Soyers, it would be downright heresy to " paint the lily or add a perfume to the violet." Since we read the work we have been tempted more than once to renounce our honest convictions, and sell our party for a mess of potuge a la Juiienne. We had no idea that so much good could emanate from the Reform Club, and lived in the belief that their dinners were us dull as their dogmas, and their pdt6s as indif-14 remlevs will be nutumlly anxious to learn the 2 inTc.u^. nf h i','^ 'lei^artment. Our rel ections tluU crowd tbe volunie-what powerri S„cv IuLh^ ''^ ffustronomic and but for the balm of discursiveness which has n frrec7ou?^^^^^^ "! ."'^'''^ we should have given it the prominence it desSrobtainrin *° ^''"""'^ whom honour is due,-;,/„c. an, dumes-it ise rec uLst o IZ^'f"""'' "°!?°" ^^'^'^ particularly the ladies, to whom I have always Ce it a ru 1 n«Z ''f'""^ power." Never was there so touchin-r a tribute of hnm ,1 '"^"''^ anything in my lan.tryof his countrymen so stril<ing"y or s^L^^^^^^^^^ "^f ""'^i' P'°verbial gal- time withheld our readers from a i een into the^nl.H.l^ exemplified. But we have all thi^ have rambled through thegreaLr TonZTt^ tr^^^^^^^^^^ ^^^^ recipe an epic, every dish a picture, and every sauce a stn v w , ^"'^ ''"'^ «^'"y glories of the diner LnnullLur. the most ^^Z-cl/d n.t e^er drXd' t?' ^''^ ^^^r.e the .Brilannique a I'amiral, the ortolaned rUe'Uth So,Vr ' ?Tf"''^"^ fates forbid, and tlie more unpretending but not less vnlnJ i« ,7t , Plome," redolent of savoury and appetitlzhie streims tltu °' " My Kitchen at middle and humbler classes/ All ar*;'ex S ^n^^^^^^^^^^ -i-b of the who roamed over half the globe in search of happines, but khted on . \ have sat down contentedly^ ordered a new dish freverv chv in th ""i"'"" ^"^''l thought of returning to the hnppy vallev tLTreJZL. ^ ^'T'' "''""'loned all which is stopped by the ^/.....i'^ /.S^f a^ rving l^^ ranZ^^^ ^° the coup de grAce to cookery, rath/r unaccountably, bu h a'rti J?"^, first chapter; and our author, after reierring to th^e' tri o ''o^ct 1 ^ ^""''V'.''^ more or less colossal, and when all eyes are fixed unon vn.TwUh .^l ^- . ^^Pl'et'tes instructions with the following curious histoSclecdote (selp xm "^'^"'^ ^''^ And then loUow some very sage reflections upon the necessity of dinino- « i a day," and a pathetic appeal to the mangl'ers" not to tear to atom! IT benefactors; and with this flourish of the knife entL-directions rrcivin^'^whi^ extremely brief and simple, and which are wound up with the hint spI?^" ^; T'^J"? even experienced carvers that nothing is more creditabTto a ca ve^ hilT '° meat, game, or poultry fit to reappear at table in an invSg state """^ " °* One extract more, and we shall terminate our nleasiiiff labours nrpm!=in,r+>,of „ i ^■ has been made more with a view to novelty than'from any wan ol'more S^^^^^ live materials. The/../are is with reierLce to the F^ZtpotZ^J/^t^;^^^^^^^^ """" But here we must pause, or we are almost cloyed with sweets and dainties With the best appetite and inclination m the world, we are reluctantly compelled o ub'cribe to our artist's doctrine, that a man can dine but once a day, and our litermVlv.nnnprh u already a most seductive and profuse one. We purposed givin°"thfredJeT£ f^ ffa'^ed pot-au-feu, but we presume .lis already, or shortly will be, in the hands of all the woTd and If any of our readers have not yet made up their minds, we advise them to send wTthont loss of time to Simpkin, Marshall, and Co. ^"'^"'it THE acoRirznrG advertiser,. frreat^mnltrnn"'" R^fo™. Club and its matchless «.m«e, under the direction of that great master ol his art, Alexis Soyer, have gone to the uttermost ends of the earth To render that fame imperishable, Soyer has composed his ' Gastronomic Regenerator,' a work which IS destined to throw all others, from the time-honoured Mrs. Gla^ to the Tearned h-ustache Ude, into the shade. The former, most loveable in her way, will henceforth only be remembered lor her one receipt, "first catch your hare," &c.; the piquancy, the ntilc Jt c/Mfce characteristics of Soyer, like one of his own chyle-begetting and renowned sauces, entirely neutralises, absorbs, swallows up the greatest effort of Ude. Tempos cdax rerum ! boyer is a wit and a wag of the first water ; hence a perusal of the introduction to the goodly volume before us acts as a whet. " Laugh and grow fat" is an old and a true adage; read boyers introduction, and the veriest valetudinarian will afterwards sit down and eat I'ike a man ! boyer's experience has been v.ist—magmjiquc ! hear, on the important head, what he tells his readers:—" During the last ten months I had to furnish 25,000 dinners for the gentlemen of the Reform Club, and .38 dinner parties of importance, comprising above 70,000 dushes, and to provide daily for 60 servants of the establishment, independent of about 15,000 visitors who have seen the kitchen department in that lapse of time.'' Authors frequently assign u reason for writing; Soyer, in this respect, is not behindhand; in his preface he15 sHj's;—" At the request of several persons of distinction who have visited the Reform CI ub, particularly ladies, to whom I have always made it a rule never to refuse anything in my power, for, indeed, it must have lieen the fair sex who have had the majority in this domestic argument to gain this gastronomical election. Why do you not write and publish a cookery- booli ? was a question continually put to me. For a considerable time this scientific word caused a thrill of horror to pervade my frame, and brought back to my mind that one day being in a most superb library in the midst of a splendid baronial hall, by chance I met with one ol Milton's allegorical works, the profound ideas of Locke, and several c/iefs d'miivre of one ot the noblest champions of literature, Shakspeare ; when all at once my attention was attracted by the nineteenth edition of a voluminous work. Such an immense success of publication caused me to say, ' Oh, you celebrated man, posterity counts every hour of lame upon your regretted ashes !' Opening this work with intense curiosity, to my ffreat disappointment, what did 1 see,—a receipt for Oxtail Soup ! The terrifying effect produced upon me I)y this succulent volume, made me determine that my few ideas, whether culinary or domestic, should never encumber a sanctuary which should be entirely devoted to works worthy of a place in the Temple ol the Muses." That section of the work entitled " Sover's new mode ol carving Cworthy of the deepest attention; is thus ushered in ■—" You are all aware, honorable readers, of the continual tribulation in carving at table, for appetites more or less colossal, and when all eyes are fixed upon you with anxious avidity. Very few persons are periect in this art, which requires not only grace, but a great deal of skill Others become very nervous ; many complain of the knife which has not the least objection t 1/™'f ""f'?,' °[ '"y- '=«P°".pheasant, or poulard is not young and consequently not of the best quality. You may sometimes be right, but it certS^^^ften happens that the greatest gourmand \, the worst carver, and complains sadly Sn/S very long process, saying to himself "I am last to be served, my diLer will be co d » ;o:s^S"h:LSf^';^r:2-^-to& work is, in short, one suited to the palace o the p fnce and the cotWe Tn. ^l^*' two thousand practical receipts it contains, adapted to the incomes o^^^ 7^^ eaten by a "committeeof taste," who have pronounced a veid.rtTn fhiir r 1""^'"^^'''^^e ^'"'^ priately dedicated to his Royal Highness the Duke of rnmhrrn^ \ li ""^T' " "W^"' more valuable by its numerous well-exLuted i lu"^ ''f the volume is rendered THE GIiOBX:. Lc|^=,^ -ZSS Pach^Zr^SiSr^'^^- standtfbut'';ri:;,itg*;":Li"'rLrVars r°'f' i'^'^^.-""'^ -^^ing tactics, and talk iheprhnum mobile o^mankind F^^ {''^ I'arliamentary but Alexis Soyer knows it is the saucepan Whe^ N , '''r*'. """"^''^ of the Legion of Honour," MoreaurTdicuied U by nrnni' 7 "''^V*"^'"' '"^ti^ctio, on hi. cook. But we beg to propose some " Soyer 'te JZ^ ? T^Z " ""^"''"''^ 'nonnenr Have we not had a " Hudson testimonial '"-a e we no f ' T'"'°.'' ''"^ J"'^" "I'- Jones testimonial ?"_to recompense, amongst other I^L ti f'^'''"'''* "^''^ \" Lambert mother earth, called the Royal Exchange ^ What then ?h' .1 ^^""^ ^•^'^^ ' '""'i "PO" reared hat light fabric of a Pyramid a fU^ahZ paniT ' \ '"^n ^ho less looked down last Friday evening, as they hTd vert n-nnH 7 l^T^^' '^""^"^'"^ '"o^bt- have seen Pyramids any day these tvvo or three thonZ,fi T" *° d°'-«'nce they might could see a Pyramid with "an elegant orP^m ^7' T'"'"' "ot everyday they of that again .<a bighly-fmTshed^o t t of tirXS io^ "'^ ""'l °« toP father Mehemet All, carefully drawn on a round shape o ' .Un?"/^'';, ^^""''^'"^ J he veracious chronicler to whnm snape oi satin carton." ' ™id .„„,,, „o, w,„l„X "me oT tZt JLTrS''^ 'r l"«">l>". -Web Ibe 4816 carefully took oft' the portrait ew carton in his hands to admire it; and after showing it to several of his suite, he alFectlonately placed it in his bosom near his heart, with the inten- tion of never parting with it again. But what was his astonishment, on looking at the spot where the former portrait had been deposited, at seeing in the cream, us under a glass, the portrait of himself, as highly finished, and as striking a likeness as any miniature painter could have produced, and surrounded by a gilt-like frame! Monsieur Soyer, having been sent for by the party, was higl^ly complimented by his Highness through his interpreter, who desired to know where and how he could procure such a likeness of his father, and how was his own so correctly drawn in the cream? 'Please tell his Highness,' said Monsieur Soyer to the interpreter, ' that both were executed from the original sketches drawn by our celebrated artist Horace Vernet, whilst in Alexandria. The portrait in the cream is drawn on wafer-paper, which, placed on the damp jelly, representing the glass, dissolves, and nothing remains but the appearance of the portrait drawn in light water- colours. The imitation of the gilt frame is made with^ eau de vie of Dantzic, and gold water mixed with jelly, the gold leaf of which forms tha^lrame. After having been thanked by the Pacha, the pyramidal cream of Egypt was ortoed to be shown to each guest, by sliding it from one to the other round the table (which was more than 250 feet), to the great satisfaction and admiration of every one present. Though everything was eatable in it, this magnificent dish was respected, and remained untouched, but every one tried to partake of the fruit which surrounded this extraordinary and appropriate culinary wonder." The above is given chiefly for the benefit of our Paris contemporaries, who do us the honour to mention that " le Globe nous fait connaitre les eti-anges discours qu'ils ont, I'un at Vautre (Lord Palmerston and Sir C. Napier), 9-eczfc'« a cette occasion.'' Waiving the question whether there was anything " strange" in either speech we beg our Paris con- temporaries to observe that their compatriot, Monsieur Soyer had effected a most skilful diversion from all delicate topics whatsoever. " Segnitus irritant animos demissa per aures Quam quae sunt oculis subjecta fidelibus.'' Ibrahim Pacha's interpreter, it now appears, had other things to do than to interpret either political retrospects or prospects, as touched by the several speakers. And surely it mieht soften the hearts of our jealous friends about the Palais Royal, to see how large a part of the triumph of the day was, in fact, a French triumph Would we could stop here But truth compels us to say that our ally. Monsieur Soyer, forces us, m the sequel, to teel strange doubts of his thorough devotion to English interests. "The next dish which much amused his Highness was the one entitled ihs Oateaii Britannioue d I'Amiral, being the representation of an old man-of-war, bearing the English and E-yptian flag drawn on rice-paper, the ship being filled with ice mousseuse aux peclies, and loaded with large strawberries, cherries, grapes, and bunches of currants, being so placed on the table that the brave and gallant Commodore Napier had to help from this cargo the mustrious stranger, who did not cease smiling. During that process the moisture and lir Jthe cef which gradually melted, saturated the hull of the vessel, which was made of a kind of delicate sponge cake. Whilst the gallant commodore was m the act of helping the remains of the ice, the%hip gave way, and formed a complete wreck, which caused great hilarity among the company who were close enough to witness the scene » ThP mW mi<rht form a most fertile text for sinister inlerences, if we possessed the The above mi nt lor Paris contemporaries. We content ourselves with ex- talentmthat line^^^^^^^^ Soyer never has been, and we hope never will be ^''f'^d witftt char;; of the Navy, in addition to that of Chef de Cuisine at plrnrm C Sr We have no objection to his y,..Mmg gateaux Britanniques,^■\^^ch " giye way^' in t. heat of action ; but we desire to see no briocke of his contriving in the Mediterranean. THE svm. Who has not heard of the ^ineoi ^^l^^j^^J'l^^^^^^ Alexis Soyer, ^-^^^Zf:^,Z:%^4\'^^^^ ^''h'- ^^'f Pacha ? „7 the m^tho^^ he employs to produce those results which astonish persona, and informing us ol tl^^ nneinou» v v destined to produce a and delight the world. If we ""^ta|e not th^ book o^^^^^^^^^^ y unscientific school revolution in thel^'tcbensof Engla^^^^^^^ J'^^ ,^t,„eting from tnSif»|^^ l-^ii^pl^^^^^^^ he treats:17 •* During the last ten months, I had to furnish 25,000 dinuers for the gentlemen of the Reform Club, and 3S dinner parties of importance, comprising above 70,000 dishe.*, and to provide daily for 60 servants of the establishment, independent of about 15,000 visitors wlio have seen the kitchen department in that lapse of time.'' The result of that experience we have in (his volume. He gives us bills of fare for parties of all sizes, from a coronation banquet to a bachelor's snug party in chambers. He also gives us plans of kitchens of all sizes, from the magnificent gastronomical laboratory of the Kefuim Club to my " Kitchen at Home," which is suited to the means and requirements of the solitary bachelor. Let all those who are tired of the eternal roast and boiled, alter- nating with chop and steak—who think that mutton broth is ^not the only potage in the world^—that there are methods of dressing fish other than plain boiling and frying, and other sauces than melted butter—purchase M. Soyer's book. They will find that it is indeed that which it professes itself to be'—a Gastronomic Regenerator. BX.ACKWOOD'S TaAGAZlNS. Cookerxi and Civilization, It is only after passing through an ordeal cruelly insidious, tolerably severe, and rath«!r protracted, that we I'eel conscientiously entitled to assert our ability to dine every day of every week at the Reform Club, without jeopardy to those im- mutable principles which are incorruptible by Whigs and indestructible by Rats. A -ineer, perhaps, is curling with "beautiful disdiiin" the lips of some Conservative Achilles. Let us nip his complacent sense of invulnerability in the bud. To eat and to err are equally attri- butes of humanity. Looking at ourselves in the mirror of honest criticism, we behold features as unchangeable as sublunary vicissitudes will allow. " Time writes no wrinkles on our azure brow." Witness It! ye many years of wondrous alternation—of lurid tempest and sunny calm—of disastrous rout and triumphant procession—of shouting paean and wailing dirge—witness the imperturbable tenor of our way ! Attest it, thou goodly array of the tomes of Maga, laden and sparkling, now as ever, with wisdom and wit, science and fancy ! —attest the unwavering fidelity of our career! All this is very true; but the secret annals of the good can never be free from temptations, and never are in reality unblotted by peccadilloes. The fury of the demagogue has been our laughing-stock—the versatility of trimming politicians, our scorn. We have crouched before none of the powers which have been, or be ; neither have we been carried oil" our feet by the whirlwinds of popular passion. Yet it is difficult to resist a good dinner. The victories of IMiltiades robbed Themistocles of sleep. The triumphs of Soyer are apt to affect us, " with a ditterence," after the same fashion. There was, we remember, a spirit of surly independence within us on visiting, for the first time, the " high capital" of Whiggery, where the Tall at present, " New rubb'd with balm, expatiate and confer * Their state affairs." To admire anything was not our mood: " The ascending pile Stood fix'd her stately heighth ; and straight the doors. Opening their brazen folds, discover, wide Within, her ample spaces, o'er the smooth And level pavement." And as these lines suggested themselves, we recollected who the first Whig is said to have Ijeen, and whose architectural glgries Milton was recording. We never yet heard a Radical disparage a peer ol the realm without being convinced, that deep in the pocket, next his heart, lay an mcautious hospitable invitation from the noble lord, to which a precipitate answer in the affirmative had already been dispatched. Analogously, in the n airni icent Hn'unmitk:.b 7' gingerly, it seemed to'us that TSey ed an unmistakable monument of an innate predilection for the splendours and comforts the IZIT T:£rf:i:f^'' -proud aristocracy.- This was b'efore dinner^;Twe Ve ^ hungry, 1 o tell all that happened to us lor some hours afterwards, would, in fact force us SuL"p1"; ° °" if r T'^ ^l^"" '^'^'f °f ^hich is prompting these observations Suffice ,t to say, that when we again stood on Pall-Mail, a bland philanthropy of sentiment' embn.c ng ml races, and classes, and sects of men, permeated our bosom. Whence came Nnr^f rr'?l'""'"8 ^^''^ l"'™' custom is, very innocent of wine ? Nor could ,t be the seductive eloquence of the company. We hud iIph roZ^^^^ vituperated ,n argument by the Liberator. Oh, yes ! but we had been f;d by the Re.ener "to/ To us, then, on these things much meditating-so Cicero and Brougram lov5 to wri e-18 many of. the speculations in which we hud indulged, and of the principles which we had advocated, were obviously not quite in harmony with the views long inculcated by us on a docile public. Suddenly the truth flashed across and illuminated the perplexity of our pon- derings. We were aware that, early in the evening, a much milder censure than usual upon some factious Liberal manoeuvre had passed our lips. This toolc place just about the fourth spoonful of^soup. The spells were already in operation under the shape of " potagc a la Marcus Hill." There is a fascination even in the name of this " delicious «oup"— such is the epithet of Sojer—which oui renders will better understand in the sequel. Again it was impossible to deny that we had hazarded several equivocal observations in reference to the Palmerstonian policy in Syria. But it was equally true that such inadvertencies slipped from us while laboriously engaged in determining a delicate competition between " John T)or6e A I'Orliannaise''nnA " satnnon a la Bei/ruut." A transient compliment to the influence at elections of the famous Duchess of Devonshire was little liable to ol)jeclion, we imagined, during a playful examination of a few " aiguillettes devolaille a lujolie fdle." More questionable, it must be admitted, were certain assertions regarding the Five Points, enunciated hastily over a " neck of mutton a la C/iarte." No fault, however, had we to find with the; utting facetiousness with which we had garnished "cotelettes d'agneau a la riforme en surprise aux c/iainpignons.'' The title of this dish was so ludicrously applicable to the consternation of the remnants of the Melbourne ministry—the cutlets of lamb—in finding themselves outrun in the race by mushroom free-traders, that our pleasantry there- anent was irresistible. It was difficult, at the same time, to justify the expression of an opinion, infinitely too favorable to Peel's commercial policy, yielding to the allurements of a " turban des cailles d la financiere." And, on the whole, we smarted beneath a con- sciousness that all our conversation had been perceptibly flavoured by "filets de becasses d la Talleyrand." The result of these reflections was, simply, an alarming conviction of the tremendous influence exercised by Soyer throughout all the workings of the British constitution. The causes of the success of the League begin to dawn upon us, while our gravest suspicions are confirmed by the appearance, at this peculiar crisis, of ' The Gastronomic Regenerator.' What patriotism can withstand a superabundance of untaxed food, cooked according to the tuition of Soyer ? How can public virtue keep its ground against such a rush of the raw material, covered by such a " Imtterie de cuisine ?" Cobden and Soyer, in alliance, have given a new turn, and terribly literal power, to the fable of Menenius Agrippa. " There was a time when all the body's members Rebell'd against the belly." Such times are gone. The belly now has it all its own way, while " The kingly-crowned head, the vigilant eye, , The counsellor heart, the arm our soldier. Our steed the leg, the tongue our trumpeter," are conjunctly and severally cuffed or bunged up, or broken, or stifled, unless they are perpetually ministering to the service of the great cormorant corporation. It is mighty well to talk of the dissolution of the League. The testament of Cajsar, commented on by Mark Antonv, was eventually more fatal to the liberties of Rome, than the irrepressible ambition which originally urged the arch-traitor across the Rubicon. ' The Gastronomic Regene- rator,' in the hands of every housewife in the country, is merely to convert the most invincible portion of the community into a p-rpetual militia of free-traders. All cooks proverbially encourage an enormous consumption of victuals. The study of Soyer will infallibly transform three fourths of the empire into cooks. Consequently, the demand lor every variety of sustenance, by an immense majority of the nation, will be exorbitant and perennial. No syllogism can be more unassailable. We venture also to afliim that the udgment of posterity will be rigidly true in apportioning the endurance of fame which t ie conflicting merits of our great benefactors may deserve. It is lar from unlikely tliat the glories of a Peel may be disregarded, forgotten, and unsung, when the trophies ol a Soyer, still odorous, and unctuous, and Iresh, shall be in everybody's mouth. The 'Gastronomic Regenerator' has not assumed his imposing title without a lul appreciation of the dignity of his office, and the °'. ^^'^^''if „ J"^*^^^ craceful "dialogue culinaire" between Lord M. H. and himsell, illustrate, the gr.in.l doctrines that man is a cooking animal, and that the progress of cooking is of civilization. There is something prodigiously sublime in the words ol the noble inter- t:Z^l!Z he declares," Read hi'story: and you see that in -^IS^-I.-^. ^^^^^^^^^^^^^ nations the good which has been done, and sometimes the ovd, has been ah ajM'rrc«^ or followed by a copious dinner." This language, we presume, must be ' " ' CTeat scale as aDplitable to the most solemn and momentous occurrences in ti.e lusl .ry of foTernmente a J'iia^ Not that we can e.xclude it from individual biography. Dene-19 volence we have always regarded as a good sauce, and have often observed it lo be an excellent dessert. The man who tucks his napkin under hia chin immediately after con- ferring a benefit on a fellow-creature, invariably manifests marvellous capabilities for di- gestion; and, on the other hand, the man who has dined to his own entire satisfaction, if solicited in the nick of time, will frequently evince an open-handed generosity, to which his more matutine emotions would have been strangers. But—to reverse the picture—any interruption to the near prospect of a " copious dinner" is at all times inimical to charity; while repletion, we know, occasionally reveals such unamiable dispositions as could not have been detected by the most jealous scrutiny at an earlier period of the day. Nations are but hives of individuals. We understand, therefore, the noble lord to mean, that all the history of all the thousand races of the globe concurrently teaches us that every great event, social or political, domestic or foreign, involving their national weal or woe, has been harbingered or commemorated by a " copious dinner." Many familiar instances of this profound truth— some of very recent date—crowd into our recollection. But we cannot lielp suspecting a deeper meaning to be inherent in the enunciation of this "great fact." Copious dinners are, as it strikes us, here covertly represented as the means of ell'ecting the most extensive ameliorations. To dine is insinuated to be the first step on the highway to improvement. In the consequences which flow from dining copiously, what is beneficial is evidently stated to preponderate over what is hurtful, the qualilying " sometimes''being only attached to the hitler. In this respect, dinners seem to ditter from men, that the evil is more frequently " interred with their bones," while the'" good they do lives after them." This is, assuredly, ringing a dinner-bell incessantly to the whole universe. We have ourselves, not half an hour ago, paid our quota for participating within the last week in congratulatory festivities to two eminent public characters. The overwhelming recurrence, in trutli, of these enter- tainments, drains us annually of a handsome income; and, reading as we do daily in the newspapers, how every grocer, on changing his shop round the corner, and every professor of dancing, on being driven by the surges of the Utilitarian system up another flight of stairs, must, to felicitate or soothe him, receive the tribute or consolation of a banquet and demon- stration, we hold up our hands in amazement at the opulence and deglutition of Scotland. What shall become of us, driven further onwards still, by the impetus of the ' Gastronomic Regenerator,'we dare not fortell. The whole year may be a circle of public feasts; and our institutions gradually, although with no small velocity, relapse into (he common table of Sparta. But never, whispers Soyer, into the black broth of Lycurgns. And so he en- snares us into the recognition of another fundamental principle, that the simplicity of Laconian fare might be admirably appropriate for infant republics and penniless helots, but can afford no subsistence to an overgrown empire, and the possessors of the wealth of the world ! Thus cookery marks, dates, and authenticates the refinement of mankind. The Cheops who watched, with an imperial dilatation of his brow, the aspiring immortalitv of the pyramids. Both in acting so diiierently, are the slaves and the types of the circumstances ol their position. The functions in the frames of both are the same • but these functions curiously follow the discipline of the social situation which directs and regulates thei de- i? • °^ °"'y - counterpart, in its simplicity or compll cat.on. Its rudeness or luxury, of the economy of the state. The subjects of patriarchs ind despots may eat uncooked horses with relish and nourishment. The denizens of a polit3 s s em whose every motion is regulated by an intricate machineiy, in which he S of afl he myriad wheels in motion are indented with inextricable multiplicity " confusion in^o each other, perish under any nurture which is not as intricate pnm.Lv « ? , confused. What a noble and comprehensive science is thirJL' tlonomyf ' 'Are you not also," says the philosophic Soyer, in the same interestino-dialoe-,,p w „f opinion with me, my lord, that nothing better disposes the mind of ma fto ami y K and deed, than a dinner which has been knowingly .elected, and artist cany Sed"'r ^^ answer is most pregnant, " It is my thinking so," replies Lord M H ' wh.Vh .? " , made me say that a good cook is asLefnl as'a wise liin'ten'' B;h"ord tothal SnVltS nil cose we are carried I The loaves and fishes in the hands of the Whia"\Z 'iZ.. i r u r Club to dress them I Let us banish melancholy, and dJhe awa^'d f Th ", 'n '° propensities of a foreign secretary are happily in^ocuo s T^ie rui onr/nf „ . " like the idle wind which we regard not. Protocols and trea ies noTe, nH . are henceforth disowned by diplomacy. The figure of Bd nnir vifh" ''^''''"''^f^''' " Surveys mankind from China to Peru ;"20 I'mi^ he"- fe^t, and a cloudless sky overhead, smiles on the count- less mil ions of the children of earth, chatting fraternally together at the round lable of T;'/ ^"^-^ """^ °^ ^l^^ '^^y ^^^-^^^ ^he impress of sucL an un ge on our currency Of course, it will be understood that we are entirely of the same m n I abstractly as M. Soyer and Lord M. H. The maitre de cmsine appears to us un- questionably to be one of the most important functionaries belonging to an embassy. Peace or vvar, winch it is scarcely necessary to interpret as the happiness or the misery of two great countries, may depend upon a headache. Now, if it were possible, in any case, to tiace the bilious uneasiness which may have perverted pacific intentions into hostile designs to Uie unsitilful or careless performance of his momentous duties by the cook-legate; no punishment could too cruelly expiate such a blunder. W^e should be inclined to ^propose tdat the brother artist who most adroitly put the delinquent to torture, should be his suc- cessor, holding office under a similar tenure. It may be matter of controversy, however, at once whether such a system would work well, and whether it is agreeable to the pre- valence of those kindly feelings which it is the object of M. Soyer, and every other good cook or wise statesman, to promulgate throughout the human family. Tlie publication of 1 tie Gastronomic Regenerator' inspires us with better hopes. The tyro of the dripping-pan will be no more entitled to screen himself behind his imperfect science or neglected education, than the unlettered criminal to plead his ignorance of the alphabet as a justification of his ignorance of the statute law whose enactments send him to Botany Bay. The rudiments and the mysteries—the elementary axioms and most recondite problems—of his lofty voca- tion are unrolled before him in legible and intelligible characters. The skill which is the oflspring of practice, must be attained by his opportunities and his industry. And if " Fame is the spur which the clear spirit doth raise," it might, we trust, satiate the most ravenous appetite which ever gnawed the bowels even of a cook, not merely to secure the tranquillity of the universe, but to save his native land the expense of armies and fleets, and turn the currents of gold, absorbed by taxation, into the more congenial channel of gastronomical enterprise. The majestic and far-spreading oak springs out of the humble acorn. In future ages the acute historian will demonstrate how tlie " copious dinner" which cemented the bonds of eternal alliance between vast and consolidated empires, whose people were clothed in purple and fine linen, lived in habita- tions decorated with every tasteful and gorgeous variety which caprice could suggest and affluence procure, and mingled the physical indolence of Sybaris with the intellectual activity of Athens, was but the ripe fruit legitimately matured from the simple bud of the calumet of peace, which sealed a hollow truce among the roving and puny bands of the naked, cityless, and untutored Indian. So, once more, the perfectibility of cookery indi- cates the perfectibility of society. The gallantry of Soyer is as conspicuous as his historical and political.philosophy. He would not profusely " scatter plenty o'er a smiling land" solely for the gratification of his own sex. The sun shines on woman as on man ; and when the sun will not shine, a woman's eye supplies all the light we need. The sagacious Regenerator refuses to restrict to the lordly moiety of mankind a monopoly of his beams, feeling that, when the pressure of mortal necessity sinks his head, fairer hands than those of the statesnimi or the warrior, the ecclesiastic or the lawyer, are likely to be the conservators of his reputation. " Allow me,'' he remarks, " to suggest to your lordship, that a meeting for practical gastronomical purposes, where there are no ladies, is in my eyes a garden without flowers, a sea without waves, an experimental squadron without sails." " Without the smile from partial beauty won. Say what were man ?—a world without a sun I" The harrowing picture of desolation, from the pen of M. Soyer, may be equalled, but cannot be surpassed, by a line here and there in Byron's ' Darkness.' The sentiment, at the same time, sounds oddly, as it issues from the penetralia of a multitudinous club. Our notion has hitherto been, that a club was an invention of which a principal object was to prove that female society was far from being indispensable to man, and that all the joys of domesticity might be tasted in a state of single-blessedness beyond the precincts of home for a small annual payment. A thorough .going club-man would very soon drive a coach and four through the Regenerator's polite eloquence. For instance, a garden without flowers has so much the more room for the growth of celery, asparagus, articliokes, and the like. There could not possibly be a greater convenience than the evaporation or disap- pe<irance of the waters of the ocean ; because we should then have railways everywhere, and no nausea. Sails, likewise, are not requisite now-a-days lor slii|is ; on the contniry, steam-vessels are so evidently superior, that the sail-muker may as well shut up his shop. The flowers of a garden are an incumbrance—the waves of the sea are an impediment—the sails of a ship are a superfluity. Garden, seo, and ship would be better wanting flowers.21 waves, and sails. On the same principles a club is preferable to a family fireside, and the lot of a bachelor to the fate of a Benedict. M. Soyer, speaking ex cathedrd from the kitchen of the Reform Club, would find it no easy matter to parry the cogency of this reasoning. He forgets, apparently, that he bares his breast to a most I'ormidable attack. What right have MEN to be cooks ? What hypocrisy it is to regret that women cannot eat those dinners which vpomen alone are entitled, according to the laws of nature and the usages of Britain, to dress ! Be just before yon att'ect to be generous ! Surrender the plajp, and the privileges, and the immunities, which are the heritage and birthright of the petticoat! Hercules with a distaft'was bad enough ; but where, in the vagaries and metamorphoses of heathen mythology, do you read of Hercules with a dishclout' VVliat would the moon sixy, should the sun insist on blazing away all night as well as all day ? Your comparisons are full of poetry and humbug. A kitchen without a female cook—it is like a flowerless garden, n vvaveless sea, a sailless ship. A kitchen with a male cook—is a monster which natural history rejects, and good feeling abhors. The rights of women are scarcely best vindicated by him who usurps the most precious of them. There will be time to complain of their absence from the scene, when, by a proper self-ostracism, you leave free for them the stage which it becomes them to occupy. These are knotty matters, M. Soyer, for digestion. With so pretty a quarrel we shall not interleie, having a wholesome respect for an Amazoniaa enemy who can stand fire like salamanders. To be candid, we are puzzled by the sprightli- ness of our own fancy, and do not very distinctly comprehend how we have managed to involve the Regenerator, whose thoughts were bent on the pale and slim sylphs of the boudoir, in a squabble with the rubicund and rotund vestals who watch the inextinguishable flames of The Great Hearth. This marvellous dialogue, from which we have taken with our finger and thumb a tit-bit here and there, might be the text for inexhaustible annotation. It occupies no more than two pages ; but, as Gibbon has said of Tacitus, " they are the pages of Soyer." Every topic within the range of human knowledge is touched, by direct exposition or collateral allusion. The metaphysician and the theologian, the physiologist and the moralist, are all challenged to investigate its dogmas, which, let us forewarn them, are so curtly, positively, and oracularly propounded, as, if orthodox, to need no commentary; and if heterodox, to demand accumulated mountains of controversy to overwhelm them. For he, we believe, can Woodcock a la Stael,'' and " Filets de Ba?uf farcis a hi Dr. Johnson." The constitution of English cookery is precisely similar to the constitution of the English language. Both were prophetically sketched by Herodotus in his description of the ar mv of Xerxes, which gathered its numbers, and strength, and beauty from "all the quarters m the sliipman s card. That imperishable mass of noble words—that glorious tongue in which Soyer has prudently written ' The Gastronomic Regenerator,' is in itself an un- equalled specimen of lelicitous cookery. The dishes which furnished the most recherch6 dinner Soyer ever dressed, the Diner Lucullusian a la Sampayo." being resolved into the chaos whence they arose in faultless proportions and resistless grace, would not disclose elements and ingredients more heterogeneous, remote, and altered from their iirimal nature, ^ n !ff r fF *° °^ '■'^^ sentences in which he tells us of thi fT A thousand years and a thousand accidents, the fnllv h?. f ^^"^ '''5'"?,' '"^''""ity. the most delicate wit and most outrageous folly h ^y^h^en co-operat.ng in the manufacture of the extraordinary vocabulary which has enabled the Regenerator himself to concoct the following unparalleled receiutfoiTl e Celestial and Terrestrial Cream of Great Britain. (See p 719 ) '^""-'^^ '°' ^ '"^ Hall a century hence, when the simmering over the roseate fire is silent, may we with c'J.StTm'agiEnV"^^^^ °" l^a,py consummation of the conception's^oPhiAi.:.;!^ The Regenerator is too conversant with universal historv not fn I nn,,, ili.,f i.; i i • crossing the Tweed northwards, approaches a pe^e rnore llm.; pnnciides than any other inhabitants of these Fortunate L pt ^^^^^ un nmental care, may deserve the opprobrious title of perfidious Alb on Scot Mnd ^'< S^^^ " '•>'i""fl '' 'l where it did?")—was ever the firm IVienH nf aidioii. Scotland—(" Stands Scotland were ince.ssantly fighting we ^rj Sst nflv "lini" ^^'^f ""r ^""t'^"-" cousins noblest families were ScTby the d'S^^^ ^^^ "'^ ^T""^- ""^^ adopted land of Mary. Fo I ur£Tn nt™^^ f"-' P^o^dest blood of the everv ,rpn\\^ .r.,.rt..„„.J"l.. J.-^^^^^^ uninteiuiptedly was maintained an interchange of32 beneficence which are grutefiil to this hour in the nostrils and to the pulate of orincp and peasui.t Nay, we shrewdly conjecture that Home time-honoured .ecreti stflUwell wUh^^^^^ 01 which the memory has long since perished in their birthplace. Boastful we mav not suller ourselves to be. Bat if M. Soyer ever heard of, or dressed, or hJired preciseW^^^ <'Tn^rr'' T" u^f 'f n "^'^ " ''^'■y '^i^^^'^ °f acquaintances as Lamb-tonsty, we shiiU start instantly from the penultimate habitation of Ultima Thule commonly known as John O Groats House, expressly to test his veracity, and Rratify our vBracity. Perhaps he may think it would not be too polite in us to transmit him the receipt Not for a wilderness of Regenerators! Could we unfold to him the awful legend in con- nexion with It, of which wo are almost the exclusive depositaries, the cap so liRlitly lyina on his brow would be projected upwards to the roof by the instantaneous starting of hii* hair The Lust Minstrel himsell, to whom it was narrated, shook his head when he heard it, and was never known to allude to it again ; in reference to which circumstance, all that the bitterest malice could insinuate was, that if the story had been worth remembering, he was not likely to have forgotten it. " One December midnight, a shriek"—is probably as far as we can now venture to proceed. There are some descendants of the parties, whose feelings, even alter the lapse of five hundred years, which is but as yesterday in a Highlander's genealogj-, we are bound to respect. In other five hundred years, we shall, with more safety to our- selves, let them " sup full of horrors." 'The Gastronomic Regenerator'reminds us of no book so much as the Despatches of Arthur Duke of Wellington. The orders of Soyer emanate from a man with a clear, cool, determined mind—possessing a complete mastery of his weapons and materials, and prompt to make them available for meeting every contingency—singularly fertile in conceiving, and fortunate without a check in executing, sudden, rapid, and diflficult combinations—overlook- ing nothing with his eagle eye, and, by the powerful felicity of his resources, making the most of everything—matchless in his " Hors-d'oeuvres"—unassailable in his " Removes''— impregnable in his " Pieces de resistance"—and unconquerable with his " Flanks." His directions are lucid, precise, brief, and unmistakable. There is not a word in them super- fluous—or off the matter immediately on hand—or not directly to the point. They are not the dreams of a visionary theorist and enthusiast, but the hard, solid, real results of the vast experience of a tried veteran, who has personally superintended or executed all the operations of which he writes. It may be matter of dispute whether Wellington or Soyer acquired their knowledge in the face of the hotter fire. They are both great Chiefs—whose mental and intellectual faculties have a wonderful similarity—and whose sayings and doings are characterized by an astonishing resemblance in nerve, perspicuity, vigour, and success. In one respect M. Soyer has an advantage over his illustrious contemporary. His Despatches are addressed to an army which as far outnumbers any force ever commanded or handled by the Hero of Waterloo, as the stars in the blue empyrean exceed the gas-lamps of London—an army which, instead of diminishing under any circumstances, evinces a ten- dency, we i'ear, of steadily swelling its ranks year by year, and day by day—a standing army, which the sirong hand of the most jealous republicanism cannot suppress, and which the realiziition of the bright chimera of universal peace will fail to disband. Before many months are gone, thousands and tens of thousands will be marching and countermarching, cutting and skewering, broiling and freezing, in blind obedience to the commands of the Regenerator. " Peace hath her victories no less than those of war." But it is not to be forgotten that if the sword of Welington had not restored and confirmed the tranquillity of the worid, the carving-knife of Soyer might not have been so bright. The confidence of Soyer in his own handiwork is not the arrogant presumption of vanity, but the calm self-reliance of genius. There is a deal of good sense in the paragraph which we now quote. (See p. xi.) It seems a childish remark to make, that all salts do not coincide in their saUness, nor sugars in their sweetness. The principle, however, which the observation contains within it, is anything but childish. It implies that, supposing the accuracy of a Soyer to be nearly infallible, the faith in his instructions must never be so Implicit as to supersede the testimony of one's own sentes, and the admonitions of one's own judgment. It is with the most poignant recollections that we acknov\ledge the justice of the Regenerator's caution on this head We once, with a friend who shared our martyrdom, tried to make onion soup m exact conformity with what was set down in an Oracle of Cookery, which a foul mischance had i.laced across our path. With unerring but unreflecting fidelity, we filled, and mixed, and stirred, and wr.tched the fatal caldron. The result was to the eye inexpressibly alarm- inc- A thick oily fluid, repulsive in colour, but infinitely more so in smell, lell with a flabby, heavy, lazy stream into the soup-plate. Having swallowed, wilh a Laocoonic con- tortion of countenance, two or three mouthfuls, our individual eyes wandered stea thily towards our neighbour. Evidently we were fellow-suflerers; but pride, which has oc- ca^oned so many lamentable catastrophes, made us both dumb and obdurate in our agony.23 SIowlv aiid<.adly, at lengthened intervals, the spoon, with its abominable freight, continued to mL sLt voyages from the platters to our lips. How long we made fools of ourselves t iHSnece sary to calculate. Suddenly, by a simultaneous impulse, the two windows of the room favoured the headlong exit of two wretches whose accumulated grievances v.ere heavier than they could endure. Hours rolled away, while the beautiful face of Winander- mere looked as ugly as Styx, as we writhed along its banl<s, more miserably moaning tnan Se hopeless beggar who sighed for the propitiatory obolus to Charon. And from th^it irrevocable hour we have abandoned onions to the heroines of tragedy. Fools, in spite ot all warning, are taught by such a process as that to which we submitted. Wise men. take ° "Nature, says I to myself'—Soyer is speaking—"compels us to dine more or less once a dav " The average which oscillates between the " more" and the "less," it requires considerable dexterity to catch. Having read six hundred pages and fourteen hundred receipts Ihe question is, where are we to begin ? Our helplessness is confessed. Js it Dossible the Regenerator is, after all, more tantalizing than the Barmecide ? No—here is the very aid we desiderate. Our readers shall judge of a " Dinner Party at Home. (See p. 636.) j , r ■ We shall be exceedingly curious to hear how many hundred parties of eight persons, upon reading this bill of fare in our pages, will, without loss of time, congregate in order to do it substantial honour. Such a clattering of brass and brandishing of steel may strike a new government as symptomatical or preparatory of a popular rising. We may therefore reassure them with the information, that those who sit down with M. Soyer, will have little thought of rising for a long time afterwards. We have introduced ' The Gastronomic Regenerator' to public notice in that strain which its external appearance, its title, its scheme, and its contents, demand and justify. But we must not, even good-humouredly, mislead those for whose use its publication is principally intended. To all intents and purposes M. Soyer's work is strictly and most intelligibly practical. It is as full of matter as an egg is full of meat; and the household which would travel through its multitudinous lessons must be as full of meat as the Regenerator is full of matter. The humblest, as well as the wealthiest kitchen economy, is considered and in- structed ; nor will the three hundred receipts at the conclusion of the volume, which are more peculiarly applicable to the " Kitchen at Home," be, probably, the portion of the book least agreeable and valuable to the general community. For example, just before shaking hands with him, let us listen to M. Soyer, beginning admirably to discourse of the " Choosing and Roasting of plain Joints." (See p. 637.) How full of milky kindness is his language, still breathing the spirit of that predominant idea—the tranquillization of the universe by "copious dinners!" He has given up " basting" with success. Men may as well give up basting one another. Nobody will envy the Regenerator the bloodless fillets worthily encircling his forehead, should the aspira- tions of his benevolent soul in his lifetime assume any tangible shape. But if a more distant futurity is destined to witness the lofty triumph, he may yet depart in the confidence of its occurrence. The most precious fruits ripen the most slowly. The sun itself does not burst at once into meridian splendour. Gradually breaks the morning ; and the mellow light glides noiselessly along, tinging mountain, forest, and the city spire, till a stealthy possession seems to be taken of the whole upper surface of creation, and the mighty monarch at last uprises on a world prepared to expect, to hail, and to reverence his perfect and unclouded majesty. THB laOB.XrXIl'G POST. Cream of Egypt I'Ibrahim Pacha. The novelty of the bill of fare which appeared in our columns of Saturday last relating to the banquet given to his Highness Ibrahim Pacha bv the memViRrs of ihp. Rp.fnrm Clnli tho Hnv ni-fivinni hjivintr cin>'o Uaa„ ♦„,,;„ „r ._ i ,fj,,,,„ u.oiioi) ocivcu uii luai, ui.<-aoiuii. i uK lusi,, eniiueQ " Cream 01 Jigypl a 1 Ibrahim Pacha," and composed expressly for the occasion by M. Soyer, the chef de cuisine of the club, was the admiration of the whole company, and especially so of the Pacha, who as soon as it was placed before him, quickly perceived the honour intended to be conferred upon him. This dish consisted of a pyramid about two feet and a half high made of liRlit meringue cake, in imitation of solid stones, surrounded with immense grapes and other fruits, but representing only the four angles of the pyramid through sheets of waved sugar to show, to the greatest advantage, an elegant cream a Caiianas, on the top of which was resting a highly-finished portrait of the illustrious stranger's father, Mehemet Ali carefnllv drawn on a round-shaped satin carton, the exact size of tlie top of tho cream. The nortrait was immediately observed by his Highness, who carefully took it up, and, after showing It24 E::>=^^aSnti^,l?:i^,;^ion^2^eir't? Highj^e.. astonishment, finished portrait of UiJeU, «urrou'nd d by f ver; cl ef. iTexe^ ''"''•^ '^i^'"^'^'' hiiving lieen sent for by the uartv w,« hi„-hi.,^ C'lreiiiiij-executed frame. M. Sever. interiLter. The PaciS deL'e I' know L7h^ "'s'^"'^^^' ^'^^""^b^his of his father, and how his own ^^'as lo cTrZiW rt Procure such a likeness Highness," says M. Soyer to the nterpreter " tiu^^^^^^ "'""^ \ /' ^ell his sketches drawn by our celebrated arti^Hora^e Ver ej I5,ikt 1^^!""^^ 1.. the cream is drawn on wafer-naper, which beint nf,V^H L n I'^rfait to e.ci, e„.„ b, .,Mi„^ it fromto\ro:,;" Sb'.'.fb'ir'° """" Placed on the L K r '"'^"' '^v™''' ^^T'"' ''"'^ ^""^"t^- It ^^as so placed on he table that Commodore Napier had to help from this cargo the illustrious stmjiger, who appeared much amused at the incident. The moisture and^Iiquor of tie ice Sote mirtfr'''' 1 ''''''' "'^^'^'^ ^-"^^ °^ - kind of del c t^ sponge cake. While the gallant commodore was in the act of helping the remainder of tie r„'±'. ''h^''' ^'''l '"'^ '^"'■"'t'l* """'P^'^'^ -^''"^^ ^^'^'^ gLt hilarTty among the company who were close enough to witness the scene. ^ " s NEWSPAPERS, &c. IN WHICH M. SOYER'S WORK HAS BEEN NOTICED. AthenfBum. Bell's Life, Blackwood's Magazine. Britannia. Brussels Herald. Builder. Chambers's Journal. Colburn's New Monthly. Court Journal. Courrier de I'Europe. Douglas Jerrold. English Gentleman. Era. Examiner. Glasgow Constitutional. Globe. Guardian. Hood's Magazine. Illustrated News. John Bull. Journal des D^bats. La Mode. Literary Gazette. Liverpool Chronicle. L'Observateur Franfais. Morning Chronicle. Morning Herald. Morning Post. Musical World. Naval and Military Gazette. Observer. Petit Courrier des Dames. Pictorial Times. Punch. Satirist. Sharpe's Magazine. Spectator. Sun. Sunday Times. Tablet. Times. Weekly Chronicle. Windsor and Eton Journal. C. ANU J. ADI.ARD, I'KINTKRS, BARTHOLOMEW CLOSE.II