MUCOUS MEMBRANE OF THE STOMACH. 341 chronic, more properly than an acute one; and, in many cases even where the principal inflammatory symptoms have been re- moved, a sponginess, redness, and increased sensibility remain, with the discharge of a thin discoloured mucus; and, in every instance where any of these membranes have been violently in- flamed, the part continues long weak, and liable to be again af- fected from the slightest cause*.” Inflammation has the effect of debilitating the mucous mem- brane, so that it is apt to be renewed by a slight cause. Thus, those who have been repeatedly afflicted by dysentery, after having recovered from the original and more dangerous inffam- mation, if exposed to cold and moisture, discharge by the anus a white clear liquid. Over-excitement is also apt to occasion a discharge from a mucous membrane that had been previously weakened by re- peated inflammation. Thus, those who have repeatedly had gonorrhoea, are subject to discharges from the urethra a day or two after matrimony, which leads to ill-founded suspi- cions. The husband, conscious of not having hatl for some time connexion wdth a woman of u suspicious character, sus- pects the fidelity of his wife, and she, on the other hand, is apt to suspect her husband. Both parties are thrown into a state of great anxiety and alarm, which is very groundless; for the di.s- charge does not possess a virulent quality, lx?ing merely the con- sequence of over excitement of a membrane, weakened by pre- vious repeated inflammation. What is remarkable, some patients are subject to such dis- charges at particular times; in others it ap|x?ars at very dis- tant periods. Thus, a man who has had repeated gonorrhoea in youth, is subject, even in old age, to an occasional discharge from the urethra. There is another circumstance in the history of inflammation ot mucous membranes, which well merits attention, viz. that it is often difficult to distinguish the primary from the secondary disease. • Medical Coniiminicatious of Loudon, vol. ii. p. 200.