OF THE SAC OF A HERNIA. 70 through whicli the bowel has been protruded *. The sac is not exposed to the same degree of compression in all parts; hence the neck, when compressed by unyielding tendinous fibres, is much narrower than the body of the tumour ; and, on the other hand, if the bowel be lodged within the inguinal canal, the tu- mour is small, and is in every part of uniform diameter. In short, the form and size of the mouth of the sac correspond >vith that of the parts through which the protrusion has taken place, and the bulk of the tumour with the degree of resistance which is opposed to its extension. It also merits notice, that, owing to a change in the position of the hernial sac, the narrowest part of it may not be its mouth ; and sometimes the body of the sac is contracted in one or two different places, so that, in the progress of the disea.se, the sac on many occasions, undergoes a change of form. The hernial sac, being formed by the peritoneum, is liable to all the organic derangements of a similar description, becoming occasionally thicker or thinner. The pressure of the tendinous aponeurosis upon the mouth of the hernial sac, has frequently the effect of occasioning a thickening and induration not only of the sac, but also of the cellular substance which covers it, and to these effects the pres- sure of the truss contributes ; and thus, as Arnaud has well ob- served, the neck of the sac is rendered as it were callous ; and, according to Scarpa, this hardening and constriction of the neck of the sac is nearly an inch in breadth in some cases. When the mouth of the sac has attained such a morbid de- gree of thickness, anotlier protrusion sometimes takes place at the side of it; thus an appendix is formed at the side of the ori- (nnal sac. There are some hernise which have no sac, as where the caput caecum coli or bladder of urine is protruded. As the caput caecum coli and colon, on the left side, adhere loosely by cellular substance to the iliac and lumbar muscles; therefore, when these portions of the larger intestine are pro- • Vicl. J. Clouuet on the Varieties in the Form of the Sac ; Reclierclies sur les Causes et I’Anat. dcs Hern. Alxl.