OF THE DISTOMA IIEPATICUM, ‘224 the union of which the ta;nia was formed, and called them Cu- curbitlni. It is more probable, however, that, instead of their foi-ming the taenia, it is the disorganisation, as it were, of the taenia that gives rise to them ; as they appear to be merely de- tached articulations of the Tcenia solium. Very often they do not exactly resemble the articuli observed in the entire worm; thus one of the lateral oscula may be closed up, or one side may be much more prominent than the other, &c. May this be ex- plained, by supposing that a new specific action must have taken place hefiyre the detachment of any considerable portion of the animal ? As neither Bremseb nor Rudolphi have given any plate of tliese separate articuli, I have subjoined an accurate representa- tion of several which were passed by a female. It is very re- markable, that each of these portions seemed to enjoy a com- plete and separate existence. They coiled themselves up on being touched, and even ascended some way on the sides of the vessel in which they were contained. I have added a more particular description of them, which was furnished to me by that excellent naturalist the Reverend Dr Fleming. “ The white flat bodies, transmitted for examination, selected, as you state, from about two hundred, varied in length from three to seven-tenths of an inch, and were in breadth about two- tenths. They were transversely wrinkled, with one extremity thin, narrow, and a little rounded ; the other thicker and broader, with its margin even, concave, or sub-bifurcated. A tubercle, with a depression in the middle, occurred on the margin of one side. All the characters, indeed, which these bodies exhibited, intimated, in a decided manner, that they were detached joints of that formidable inmate of the human body, the Tcenia solium. The narrow, or anteal extremity of some of the specimens, when examined by the microscope, exhibited evident marks of lacera- tion. In one example, tliere was an adhering fragment of a second joint, bearing a great resemblance to the lower segment in tlie middle of the figure in the sixth plate of Rremser’s Atlas. In one of the joints I ob.served many eggs, similar to those which Rudolphi has figured (magnified) in the ninth figure of the third jilatc of his Synopsis Entozoorum, as belonging to Tamia