ON THE ALlMENTAllY CANAL. 5 The first class explains the morbid effects which have resulted from hurtful substances swallowed by design or accident. The second comprehends the nature and distressing conse- quences of the displacement of a part of the alimentary canal. The third class gives a description of the Worms that occa- sionally infest the human alimentary canal: And The fourth is dedicated to an explanation of the organic affec- tions peculiar to the coats of the alimentary canal. Before entering into detail respecting these various organic derangements, it may not be improjier to premise sou>e gene- ral observations on the subject. The greater part of the diseases of the alimentary canal, in- cluded in the above five classes, tend to obstruct the passage of the aliment to a greater or less degree, creating, in some instan- ces, a permanent, but in others only a temporary obstruction. The permanent obstruction, the effect of organic disease, is of slow growth, but constant in its operation, and Incomes greater and greater, either from the gradual increase of the con- cretion or tumour causing it, or from the gradual approximation of the opposite sides of the canal; whereas the obstruction from spasm comes on suddenly, is generally of simrt duration, and the spasmodic contraction frequently goes off spontaneously, or after the exhibition of proper remedies. But on some occasions, the spasnuxllc contraction is not re- moved during life; aiid upon dissection we find the affected muscular coat of an unnatural hardness. There is in some constitutions a remarkable disposition to dis- eases which obstruct the alimentary canal. I have met with seve- ral patients who have been so unfortunate as to labour under two very different causes of obstruction at the same time, or in succession. The symptoms originating from very different causes of ob- struction, are in some respects similar; the patient suffers itiuch from a sense of tightness, pain, and soreness in the diseased part. It the mucous membrane be much irritated, the mucus, vhich is secreted in extraordinary quantity, instead of being