496 ACUTE INFI.AMMATION OF THE ordinary quantity, or the absorbent vessels of tbe membranes cease to perform their functions with their usual activity; hence a dropsy follows: on many occasions, the dropsical fluid con- tains a number of hydatids. T. he quantity of pus secreted by the vessels of serous mem- branes is, on many occasions, very considerable, in some cases of peritonitis, pleuritis, pericarditis, and of injuries of the head. When purulent matter is contained within the .sacs formed by the serous membfanes, it very rarely happens that there is any degree of ulceration of the affected membrane. OF THE ACUTE INFLAMMATION OF THE PERI- TONEAI. COAT OF THE ALIMENTARY CANAL. If a serous membrane be slightly irritated, its vessels pour out serum; if further excited, inflammation follows, together with adhesion ; but if adhesion does not take place, pus is fre- quently effused. Peritonitis is acute or chronic, and occurs as a primary or se- condary disorder. In the former, it is to be imputed to the usual causes of inflammation ; in the latter, to rupture, or stran- gulation of a portion of the intestine. Serous membranes, when inflamed, become thicker, softer, and of a brilliant scarlet colour, from the number of their capillary vessels that are filled with arterial blood. The corresponding veins are also distended with blood, and the redness of the in- flamed part is often increased by an effusion of blood into the cellular substance under the peritoneum, in the form of streaks or patches. But I have seen the peritoneal coat of the intestines of a sea-green colour, when its vessels were much gorged with blood, and when coagulable lymph had bc*en at the same time effused. These membranes also lose their natural thinness, lustre and transparency, and become opaque; the bloodvessels are much distended, and red points or patches appear on the in- flamed membrane. In acute inflammation of ten or twenty hours’duration, there i.s seen on dissection an effusion of lymph, the thickness of