14 OF EXTRANEOUS BODIES uneasiness. Notwithstanding the remedies prescribed, the pain continued. Eighteen years afterwards the patient ]ierceived a hard substance, which proved to be a small bone. It was cut upon and extracted, and the j)atient was cured. In this case, the bone, which had been retained for a long time, had created an ulceration of the rectum, and a sac had been formed, in which the bone had been lodged. A pin, fish bone, or other sharp body, may excite an inflamma- tion of the intestines, or may perforate them, and occasion a Tympanites Abdominis ;—as in the following case, which af- fords a good illustration of the consequences of local inflammation in the intestines, which had been occasioned by two pins, tied together with their points in opposite directions, which the patient had swallowed in soup, and from which, during his life, he had suffered the most excruciating torture, especially while riding on horseback. The pins had pierced the intestine, and the air escaped from the intestines by a hole, about the size of a goose quill. On laying open this part of the intestine, after death, the pins, which had been seen projecting, were found tied firmly to each other, of the same size, but with their points turned the reverse way. Each of the pins measured in length exactly one inch and three-eighths of an inch. Both pins were of a black colour on the surface, and, when examined by a magnifying glass, seemed rougher than^new pins, and somewhat rusted. The bowels of the belly adhered slightly to each other, in different places, and had lost their natural colour and smooth- ness. The small intestines were thickened, and of a deep-pur- ple colour, approaching to a black, and were enlarged consider- ably beyond their natural size. About two pounds ^of foetid pus were found in the cavitv of the abdomen. On the left side of the body, the jejunum had contracted two preternatural ad- hesions with the mesocolon. These adhesions were formed by two smooth and tough cords, like ligaments, each about the size of a goose-quill, and had the cflect of considerably straiten- ing the gut.