358 ON THE STRICTURE OF THE GULLET. on the Introduction of an instrument, it passes more readily into the sac than against the stricture; hence there is no chance of dilating it. UjK)n dissection, it was found that a common probe could scarcely be passed through the constricted part of the gullet. When the stricture is seated near the cardia, and when there has been considerable dilatation of the gullet above the stric- ture, the disease has been mistaken for an organic derangement of the stomach, as the patient suffers pain in the region of the stomach, and what is taken, is rejected. 2d, Ulceration below the stricture sometimes, according to ^ir E. Home, takes place, and, by extending upwards, some- times destroys the stricture, and this he imputes to the efforts of retching, which frequently comes on. A bougie, introduced in such circumstances, will in general have its point entangled in the ulcer ; and, where so skilfully directed as to go down into the gullet, it will meet with a difficulty whilst it is passing the commencement of the ulcerated part of the oesophagus, and an- other impediment where it leaves the ulcer, and enters the sound portion of the oesophagus below. 3d, From the continuance of the ulceration of the gullet, an aperture is formed, and the matter getting into the trachea, proves fatal in a very short time, as in the following case:— I attended, for three years, a person who laboured under a stricture of the middle of the gullet, during the whole of which time he was incapable of taking as much food as was .sufficient to allay his hunger. The patient was a letter-carrier, and therefore had been ex- posed to the inclemency of the weather. The disease began like a common sore-throat: he had a slight pain in the part, and swallowed with difficulty. He had frequent hawking and spitting, probably owing to the neighbouring parts being in an irritable state, and secreting an unusual quantity of mucus. The .soreness soon went off, but his voice became much wi-aker, and the difficulty of swal- lowing gradually increased. He idso breathed with difficulty, especially upon attempting to swallow, and a part of his food was commonly returned.