CHEMICAL ANALYSIS , 38 four grains, chiefly consisted of fine silicious sand, with very slight traces of sulphate of lime. “ The part dissolved was found to be phosphate of magnesia, with a little phosphate of lime, as the precipitate with ammonia was almost entirely redissolved by oxalic acid. “ This concretion, therefore, seems to consist of animal mat- ter, amrnoniaco-magnesian phosphate, a little phosphate of lime, slight traces of sulphate of lime, and some silicious sand. “ No. II.—This concretion, of a pretty regular oval figure, is rough and pitted, of a light brown colour, with black shining spots, compact, and just sufficiently hard to resist the impres- sion of the nail. Internally the structure is earthy, and there is a very indistinct appearance of layers and nucleus. Its cohesion is such as to admit of its being cut into slices; and when broken, a slight fibrous appearance, with a few glittering particles, presents itself. “ Before the blowpipe, it behaves like the internal part of ihe last concretion ; ten grains yielded 5 2 grains of greyish ash. “ From trials similar to the preceding, this concretion seems to be composed of some fibrous matter; of phosphate of lime and amrnoniaco-magnesian phosphate, nearly in equal quantities ; of slight traces of sulphate of lime, and of a little silicious sand. “ No. III.—This hair-ball, in size nearly as large as a com- mon orange, and to appearance perfectly spherical, is covered by a dark brown, almost black, crust, which is very thin, slightly shining, rough, and easily scratched by tlie nail. Beneath this crust is found brown hair, most intimately matted together. “ The crust, not indeed quite freed from hair, when heated, emitted the smell of animal matter and of ammonia, and neither inflamed nor swelled ; and was at length reduced to a brown ash, 5'3 grains of wliich were obtained from 10 grains of the crust. “ This ash I found to contain ammoniaco-magnesian phosphate, phosphate and carbonate of lime, slight traces of sulphate of s<xla and potash, and some silicious .sand, not to mention the animal matter present, which appeared to be hair.” When this sheet was about to be sent to press, Mr Dick,