513 OF PEKITONITIS. “ Case. A mail) aged lO, was aftec'ted with enteritis in the usual form, for which he was treated in the most judicious man- ner by a respectable practitioner. On the fifth day the pain ceased ; the pulse was 140, and extremely feeble and irregular; his face was pale, the features were collapsed, and his whole body was covered with cold perspiration ; his bowels had been moved. In this condition I saw him for the first time. Wine was then given him, at first in large quantities, and, upon the whole, to the extent of from two to three bottles during the next twenty.four hours. On the following day his appearance was improved; his pulse 120, and regular; the wine was con- tinued in diminished quantity. On the third day his pulse was 112, and of good strength, and in a few days more he was well. “ In such a case as this, there could be no doubt as to the only practice that could be adopted ; but there are cases in which, at a particular period of the disease, wine is given with much advantage, though the symptoms are much more ambi- guous, and it is diffici^lt to decide upon the practice which ought to be followed.” ‘ 16^A, That chronic jieritonitis is a disea.se by no means un- common, and which, though sonietimes a consequence of the acute form, or of measles, or scarlet fever, generally supervenes, without any obvious cause, and most frequently in debilitatctl constitutions, and in those advanced in life. It is very insidious in its progress, variable in the urgency of its symptoms, and very frequently fatal. \1thy That the more usual symptoms of chronic peritonitis are, a degree of tenderness, or pain, in some part of the belly, which is increased by pressure, motion, and the erect posture, and accompanied with impaired appetite, loss of strength, list- lessness, distension of the intestines with air, occasional vomiting, and constipation ; but that, in some cases, the earlier symptoms are so slight, as not to attract the attention of the patient, until he becomes considerably emaciated. There is diarrhoea, or con- stipation, frequent pulse, with a degree of hectic blush on the cheeks; and, on an attentive examination, a certain degree of uneasiness and tenderness of the belly on pressure is perceptible. K k