182 or DIAPHRAGMATIC HERNIA. ing and expectoration. He was bled, blistered, and purged freely; but died in eight days. Upon dissection, nothing unusual was discovered in the brain. I’lie lungs, on the left side, were found in a state of collapse, and adhered to the transverse arch of the colon, which, together with the omentum, had passed into the left pleura, and forced the pericardium and heart over to the right side of the chest. The arch of the colon was much distended, and of a livid colour. Even when there is an aperture in the diaphragm, life may be continued for a number of years. I have given the histories of two persons, who in all probability were born witli such a malformation, as the aperture in the diaphriigm did not seem recent. One of the patients experienced no inconvenience, until a short time before death, but the other suffered much from obsti- nate constipation and impeded I’espiration, for many months be- fore he died. Of Obstruction consequent to displacement of Bowels within the Abdomen. Two remarkable cases of this description occurred to my fa- ther; in the former, a patient died of three days’ illness, with all the symptoms of ileus.- Upon opening the body, about a foot, or more, of the intestinum ileum, was found of a black colour, and lying at the right side. It was found that the appendix vermi- formis had passed over the bowels, near to the root of the meso- colon, and was entangled in the mesentery, on the under side; in the latter, the patient died with similar symptoms, in three days. Upon dissection, the intestines were found adhering slightly to the peritoneum, and could not be drawn out without tearing them. The caput crccum coli. Instead of lying upon the os ileum, was turned upwards, and applied to the liver and crall-bladdcr, to which it adheral. The intestinum ileum, in- stead of opening upon the left side, passed behind, and oi>cnetl uj)on the right; the consecpience was, a great accumulation of fa.‘ccs, and an extraordinary distention of the caput ccrcinn coli; and such a degi cc of pressure was made upon the colon, as im-