392 OF DYSENTERY. ber of the body, foul tongue, bitter taste in the mouth, nausea and vomiting. These are succeeded by symptoms denoting a derangement in the functions of the intestines, as flatulence, diarrhoea with griping, followed by tenesmus, pain in the region of the colon, and the discharge of a white viscid ropy mucus, mixed with a suetty substance, or tinged or streaked with blood. Very little f'aeculent matter passes off*, and it comes away as hardened balls or scybala, mixed with blood, and with a pain- ful descent of the bowels accompanying every evacuation ; and, in some cases, the rectum is inverted. There is often little or no fever at the commencement of the disorder, but in others the pulse is quick and full, and, in the young and plethoric, there is flushing of the face, and redness of the eyes, with acute headache and fever, as the disease ad- vances. In acute cases the fever is sometimes a synocha, skin hot and dry, but generally a well marked typhus; and sometimes an intermittent, which assumes the tertian type. In the course of this form of the disease, which is of various duration, sometimes proving fatal in a few days, and at other times lasting for months, pure blood, portions of a cheesy-like substance, coagulable lymph, and even portions of the villous coat, have been discharged by stool. In the most acute form, called the Malignant Dysentery, the earlier symptoms are tremors, great heat and anxiety, very acute headach, excessive thirst, dry scaly skin, acute pain in the al>- domen, which is aggravated by pressure, with small hard pulse, tongue of a bright red colour, nausea and vomiting, and great prostration of strength, which often amounts to syncope. Notwithstanding the constant desire to go to stool, very little is pa.ssed. This is generally green, in the earlier stages of the disease, and exhales a peculiar faint odour; but, in the more advanced stages, it becomes black, is streaked or tinged with blood, or ])ure blood is discharged, which is remarkably ffetid, and so acrid that the anus becomes inflamed, and even exco- riated ; and, in noine ca.ses, considerable masses of coagulated bl(K)d have been discharged.