OF SCIRIIIIUS AND CANCKR. 464 bottom of the stomach was full of the same kind of blackish matter he had vomited ; a considerable degree of inflammation and scirrhosity appeared about the pylorus; on the anterior part was a small hole, perfectly circular, and on the outside of the posterior were a number of black tubercles. The intestines were considerably inflamed, and almost quite empty.” Vomiting of black matter has been supposed to be characteris- tic of cancer of the stomach, but this is an erroneous opinion, a.s vomiting of a similar fluid has occurred where there was mere- ly a thickening of the mucous coat of the stomach. From the above statement, it is evident that there is great va- riety as to the symptoms of this disease, and much uncertainty as to the diagnosis between this disorder, and chronic inflamma- tion of the stomach. Some suffer slight pain ; others only com- plain of a sense of weight and constriction, with a degree of ten- derness on pressure in the epigastric region ; but others bear pressure without inconvenience. In short, unless the scirrhous pylorus can be felt by the hand, there are often no symptoms of the disease, except a pale sallow complexion, emaciation, and great prostration of strength. It also seems necessary to apprize the reader of the possibility of mistaking a scirrhous pylorus for scirrhus of the colon, or for enlarged mesenteric glands, or foi a concretion within the colon. Some patients have suffered only a sense of constriction and uneasiness, after meals, who had ex- tensive cancerous ulcers of the stomach; whilst in others, who have been much afflicted, after meals, with pain in the region of the stomach, and acid eructations, the mucous membrane of the stomach has been found merely softer and redder than in the healthy state. I shall here add an account of the appearances discovered on the dissection of Napoleon Buonapaiite, with which I wa.s favoured by my friend Dr Shoktt. It is certainly remarkable, considering the extent of disease of the stomach, how slight a degree of emaciation luul taken place.