199 OF WORMS CALLED HYDATIDS. Hydatids are of very different sizes; some are not larger tlian a millet-seed, others are equal in bulk to an ox’s bladder. The coats of hydatids are generally thin and semitrans- parent, although sometimes so thick as to be perfcxitly opaque. The habitat (to make use of the expression of modern na- turalists) of hydatids is also different. They have been dis- charged by vomiting, and by stool • ; frequently they are at- tached to the peritonamm, and es|K*cially to that part of it which covers the liver, or they are imbedded in that organ, or attached to the kidneys or to ovaria, or some })art of the ahmen- tary canal, or lodged within the brain. Hydatids have also, though more rarely, been found in the cellular membrane, likewise l)etween the muscles, and some- times, though still more rarely, within the bones. There formerly existed a great variety of opinion resjx?cting the nature of hydatids. Naturalists _now seem to agree that they belong to the animal kingdom, and constitute a genus of animals, of which there ju-e several species; but sufheient observations on recent or living hydatids, have not yet been made, to enable us to draw up ge- neric or specific characters •!■. Hydatids, like intestinal worms, are incapable of indejx;ndent existence, and therefore exhibit a contractile jxjwer only when examined immediately ujwn being discharged from a living ani- mal. The remaining for many hours within the dead hotly, generally deprives them of the principle of life ; and hence all specimens of hydatids are not observed to contract, and such as retain the power of contraction for some time after being expel- led, may be consideretl as unusually tenacious of life. Purulent matter, which is sometimes lodged within the same viscus, also proves fatal to hydatids ; and in this case, of course, they show no contractile power. • Vide Philosoph. Trans. Vol. xxii. + The generic name of Hydria has been proposed, but no character of the genus has been established. It seems not improbable, that the hydatids of the human body must form a separate genus, distinct from the hydatids of sheep.