226 OF INTESTINAL WORMS. Plate I. appended to my book on the Morbid Anatomy of the Brain. I have no doubt that the coats of hydatids, like those of se- rous cysts, are converted into bone; and there are two remark- able specimens in the Anatomical Museum of the University of Edinburgh, which afford striking illustrations of this observa- tion ; the one is taken from the brain, the other was connected with the kidney. The former preparation is thus described in the Catalogue of the Museum, p. 149 :— “ Dura mater, slightly thickened, adheres, by means of a vascular membrane, to a tumour covering upper and late- ral surfaces of anterior and middle lobes of left hemisphere of brain. Falx cerebri elevated towards left side. Tumour, formed by an osseous sac, of an oval form, seven inches in length, from before backwards, nearly three in breadth, thin at margins, an inch in thickness at centre. Outer surface convex, composed of a thin plate of bone, and covered by a fibrous membrane. Inner surface in contact with pia mater, concave, and in some parts cartilaginous ; but chiefly formed of thin os- seous scales, invested by a thick, fibrous membrane, in several places extremely vascular. Cavity of osseous sac, which con- tained several ounces of serum mixed with portions of choleste- rine, is lined by a smooth, delicate membrane, studded with white, irregular, resplendent spots. Pia mater and structure of brain of their natural appearance. Patient, a boy, subject to epileptic fits. Fell from a window and fractured his skull three days before death.” The latter preparation is thus described in the Catalogue of the Museum, page 206 :— “ Large cyst, nearly of the form, and which occupied situation, of right kidney. Cyst osseous, in some places car- tilaginous, imperfectly subdivided by septa of a similar struc- ture, and lined by a fine smooth membrane. It containetl about ?,xviii. of a serous fluid, mixed with a large quantity of cholesterine, several masses of which were of the size of l)cnns. Ureter obliterated. Renal artery extremely contracted. Vena cava inferior firmly attached to the cyst, which intimately udhc-