rio C H K A f I c A r, A X AI, Y SIS “ To obtain tile fibrous matter more pure, it was digested for a considerable time, about three days, in diluted muriatic acid. The solution thus formed was of a light-yellow colour, and was found to contain phosphate of lime, and the ammoniaco-magne- sian pliosphate in abundance. “ The fibrous matter, well washed and dried, was of a very light-brownish hue, soft and shining, and in appearance not un- like tan. It was not affected by concentrated muriatic acid, even when boiling. Cold sulphuric acid produced no change; but when heat was applied, the acid became black, sulphurous acid gas was disengaged, and the fibrous matter appeared cleared. Nitrous acid immediately reddened it, and, when heated, nitrous gas was copiously evolved, and a reddish solution formed, which evaporated, left a yellow, transparent, slightly adhesive, bitter acid substance, reddening litmus, partially soluble both in water and alcohol, not precipitated by muriate of lime, fusible and vo- latile, and the fumes of an oleaginous odour. Potash-ley acted |X)werfully on the fibrous matter, and, assisted by heat, readily formed a solution of a light-greenish hue. When heated, it burnt like the impure fibrous matter, intermixing, affording much smoke, but destitute of ammoniacal odour, and most like that from vegetable matter, yielding a bright flame, and leaving very little ash. “ Such were the experiments I made on this concretion, and from these it appears to consist of a peculiar fibrous matter, in- soluble both in water and alcohol, and both menstrua, excepting nitric acid and potash-ley, of a little yellow colouring matter, soluble in water, of ammoniaco-magnesian phosphate, phosphate of lime, traces of - carbonate and-sulphate of lime and iron, and of silicious sand, 100 parts may be said to consist of alwut 78.0 Fibrous matter- .5 Yellow colouring matter. 21,5 Saline matter. “ No. 2.—This, and the following, were very .similar in appearance to those alvine human concretions so well describi’d