OF INTUS-SUSCEPTIO, G2 nnicli liquiil as in a stale of lieallli, togetlier with the sudden appearance of a hard tumour on the left side of tlie abdomen, and which is painful on pressure, afford a strong presumption of the existence of an intus-susceptio. The nature of the dis- ease can be discovered for certain, when a tumour is suddenly formed on tlie left side of the abdomen, and which is occasion- ed by a part of the arch of the colon passing into the sigmoid flexure of that bowel, or when the invaginated portion comes within the reach of the finger passed into the rectum, or where it appears externally. The symptoms and progress of the inflammatory species of the disorder were well marked in the case of an infant treated by my father, and that distinguished surgeon the late Mr An- drew Wood. “ I was informed by his nurse, that the child had had a very large stool, which came away suddenly, after a good deal of straining; the child seemed to be in great pain, and cried incessantly for a considerable time. In a few hours the pain somewhat abated, and he seemed to have a strong desire to go to stool; but, notwithstanding repeated efforts, he passed no- thing but slime, slightly streaked with blood. “ Various laxatives and clysters also were prescribed, but in vain. This is one of the most unequivocal symptoms of intus- susceptio. Having observed that but little could be thrown up, I was struck with the suspicion (which I mentioned to Mr Wood) that it was probable, during the effort at stool, one part of the intestine had passed downwards within the other, so as to produce the intus-susceptio. “ The strongest purgatives did not move him, and that above not one-fourth part of the quantity which a child is capable of receiving could be thrown up by the anus. “ This last circumstance shewed likewise that the intus-sus- ceptio was near to the anus. “ llcpeated attempts were made to replace the intestine by means of clysters, but the resistance could not be overcome, and the child died in sixty-eight hours. “ A very extensive intu.s-susceptio, accompanied by a great 1