480 OF EFFUSION OF BLOOD “ I have seen a good many cases of arterial haemorrhage from the rectum, and they presented some facts worthy of being recorded. The discharge is usually at first considered as hae- morrhoidal, and docs not excite any apprehension, especially as the quantity of blood lost is often not great. But after some time, the patient begins to look pale, haggard, and exhausted; palpitation and breathlessness are excited by any exertion, fre- quently with attacks of giddiness, and a sense of severe throb- bing in the head, and sometimes there is anasarca of the legs. The pulse becomes small and frequent, and is excited to the highest degree of frequency by very moderate exertions, perhaps by walking across a room. He becomes more and more ex- hausted, till he acquires all the appearance of a person sinking under the advanced stage of some deep-seated disease. During this time, he probably complains of nothing except extreme weakness ; and says he is sensible of no disease, except a degree of piles, which bleed regularly, but in no great quantity. On ! examining the parts immediately after he has been at stool, or \ on making the extremity of the rectum protrude by means of a j stimulating injection, a small fungous mass is discovered within the verge of the anus, on the apex of which a minute artery is seen bleeding per saltum. The remedy is simple and effectual, and consists in taking up the bleeding point with a tentaculum, and tying it, so as to include a part of the fungus. It is not necessary to go to the base of it; and in this manner much irri- tation is prevented, while the cure is equally effectual. The patient soon begins to recover strength, and it is astonishing with what rapidity every appearance of disease vanishes. It is difficult to say what is the source of the alarming character of the symptoms in these cases; whether the greater permanency of the discharge,—or that there is more exhaustion from the ■ loss of arterial than venous blood ; for the quantity of blood lost ’ is often not so great as, certainly not greater than, is often lost - from haemorrhoids for a length of time, without any effect upon the general health. When the ligature does not entirely com- - mand the haemorrhage, the free application of the nitrate of sil- ver is often very beneficial. The affection is, upon the whole.