OF AIJiUMINOUS DEPOSITION 490 and rarely larger than a walnut. Such a diseased liver some- times weighs from 10 to 20 lb-avoirdupois. The incrca.se in the size of the bowel is by no means in a ratio to the increase of its weight, as albuminous matter is much heavier than the substance of the sound liver. The peritoneal coat that covers those tumours, is found to be of an unusual thickness. Tumours of a similar description, and of different sizes, are found throughout the substance of the liver. I have seen such tumours connected with the mucous mem- brane of the womb, and also with that of the urinary bladder. A thin fluid, like recent coagulable lymph, is sometimes found in the centre of albuminous tumours ; these, when mace- rated in water, become soft and flabby ; and when viewed, even with the naked eye, appear, in some cases, perforated with a number of apertures. When albuminous matter is deposited in one part of the sub- stance of the liver, I have generally remarked, that another por- tion of the gland is of the consistence of jelly. Is it not pro- bable, that the portion of the liver i*educed to a state of jelly, had undergone the same change, as occurs in other tissues be- fore they are absorbed ? The substance of the liver between the tumours is of diffe- rent shades, of yellow or of green. In this, as in most other species of enlargement of the liver, the smaller biliary vessels in the hepatic substance of the gland are enlarged, the bile is of a darker colour, and thicker consis- tence than usual, probably in consequence of the pressure of the enlarged liver on the biliary ducts. The glands in this disease are of the size of a filbert nut, and sometimes of a walnut, have broad bases, and are to the touch not unlike inspissated albumen. In the mesentery, they sometimes have attained the size of a small orange.* • For an excellent case of this description, vide Catalogue of the Mu- seum of the University of Edinburgh—Absorbents diseased. “ Whole ol mesenteric glands much enlarged, and compressing each other. The larger tumours conii)osed of several glands of a pink colour, slightly vascular, and of a uniform pultnceous consistence, enclosed in distinct cartilaginous cysts.