OF THE GULLET. 325 Climate may be stated not only as an exciting but as a modi- fying cause of inflammation of the mucous membrane of the larynx, trachea, and intestinal tube: hence the frequency of croup in spring in this country, during the prevalence of the east wind, and hence the peculiarities of the dysentery of tro- pical climates. In the disease called by the French Diphej'ite, which is some- times epidemic in this country among children, the mucous membrane of the fauces and gullet is primarily affected, and the disease sometimes extends to the stomach or to the larynx. Dr Cheyne informs us, that, in a disease very similar to this, the mucous membrane of the gullet was of a deep red co- lour, and highly vascular *. This very fatal disease is different from croup or scarlet fe- ver : it is distinguished from the latter, by the absence of ulce- ration, and from the former, by the absence of pure idiopathic inflammation. In this disease, there is little general fever, but great loss of strength, and disposition in the blistered parts to run on to gan- grene. When the disease extends to the stomach, it occasions great tenderness in the region of that organ ; vomiting, and, in sonte cases, diarrhoea, and even excoriation of the anus. The disease begins by redness of the tonsils, without swelling or ulceration ; they are coveretl by white aphthous crusts, which often drop off spontaneously, and these crusts are rapidly re- produced. There is often sjx>nginess and bleeding of the gums. The disease often proves fatal, by extending to the larynx. Mr Mackenzie of Glasgow has given a good account of this disease: an excellent history of it has been given by Professor Hamilton ; also by Dr Abercrombie, and by Bretonneau, in his book entitled, Des Inflammations Speciales du Tissu Muqueux. By inflammation, and also by ulceration, mucous membranes acquire a morbid sensibility which occasions spasmodic contrac- tion of the neighbouring muscles, and the most alarming conse- quences. If the mucous membrane of the larynx be the seat Vide Dublin Hospital Keports, vol. iv.