IN THE ALIMENTARY CANAL. ]5 A fish bone sticking in any part of the Alimentary Canal proves, according to the late Dr Gregory, an exciting cause of stricture, as in the following case, communicated to me by the Doctor:— “ Sir, “ Inclosed you have a small fish bone (supposed of a floun- der), which was found to-day in the coats of the rectum, about three inches above the anus of a gentleman, set. sixty-eight, who h.ad long been very healthy ; but for three or four years had been subject to frequent severe attacks of pain in his left flank, and obstinate costiveness, alternating with diarrhoea. He had an attack of this kind on Tuesday last, 25th April 1809, whicli did not yield to repeated doses of oleum ricini (his usual metli- cine), nor to clysters, two of which were thrown up that night, with little or no effect. No vonfiting; pulse sixty ; skin cool all that day, and till pjist midnight, as Dr Kerr, the Staff-Phy- sician assured me. “ A quarter before nine yesterday morning, the symptoms of inflammation were plainly marked ; pulse an hundred and ten, and strong; skin hot; no vomiting, no stool; pain more severe, and, as usual, increased on pressure. He was bled im- inetliately to ^xvi, and got every hour a tea-cupful of a strong decoction of senna with tamarinds. No buffy coat on the blooil; no vomiting ; no stool from the senna.—Eleven o’clock. Abdo- men growing tense ; pulse one hundred and thirty-two, weak ; extremities growing cool. By two o’clock, pulse not to be felt at the wrist; head still clear ; no vomiting ; one small, thin, very foetid stool. He died twenty minutes jiast four. Abdomen before that time much swelled ; much more after death. Open- • In the Medical Essays and Observations from Members of the p'rench Academy, translated by Dr Southwell, vol. i. p. 285, the case of a lady is described who had swallowed the bone of a carp, which stuck in the lo^er part of the gullet. It occasionally created vomiting when she attempted to swallow. She died fourteen months afterwards. On dissection, a stricture was found to be so complete, that at the part affected, the caliber of the gullet was scarcely a line in diameter.