118 FOllMATION OF THE INGUINAL CANAL. age of puberty, so much the longer does the inguinal canal be- come. “ It may here be worth while to inquire, how the canal comes to be formed, and what changes take place on the neighbour- ing parts; As I have already mentioned, the upper and lower openings of the fcetal ring are opposite to each other, and so very little distant the one from the other, that there is hardly a palpable space between them. The ring is placed just in con- tact with the tubercle of the pubes. From this fact, it must at first sight appear, that the lower outlet is, in the foetus, in the same spot which it is afterwards to occupy in the adult. In proportion, therefore, as the foetal ring is changed into the adult canal, it is the internal orifice which changes its position; it is the upper opening which mounts towards the spine of the ilium. We may from this very readily understand, that it is Jrom the gradual extension of the transversalis fascia, in that direction, that the cord comes to be inclosed in a canal. A very simple contrivance gives a very clear idea of the manner in which the inguinal canal is formed. Let any one take two slips of paper of the same length, and cut two small holes in the centre of each ; let him then lay these holes opposite to each other, and pass through them a quill or pencil-case. When he has done this, he has a very good plan of the state of parts about the groin in the foetus. If he now hold the papers opposite him, and then pull to a side the one nearest to himself, he will find, that, by doing this, he comes to lay the quill between the pieces of paper in the same way that the spermatic cord, by the ex- tension upward and outward of the internal orifice of tlie ring, comes to be lodged in a long canal. And he will alsti see, that the length of the canal must vary according to the greater or less extension of its posterior side. “ In the very early period of file, the cord passes through a mere aperture; and be.sides, there is an open communication l)ctwc€n the tunica vaginali.s and the belly. From these cir- cumstances, therefore, a portion of gut is forced down along the cord, forming congenital hernia ; or, if the tunica vaginali.s bo ob- literated, a new peritoneal sac pa.sses ihrougli the ring by the