304 OF UUl'TURF OF A I’ART OF was ruptured from the action of vomiting. The patient 1‘elt something give way internally, and experienced very acute pain, and a sensation as if a liquid had escaped into the cavity of the chest, which, upon dissection, was found to be the case. A similar case was communicated to me by Dr Caumiciiaei, Smyth. Boerhaave makes mention of the case of Admiral 'Wasse- NAER, who died in attempting to vomit. Upon dissection, it was found that the lower part of the gullet had given way, in consequence of which the food he had taken got into the cavity of the thorax. The rupture of the stomach is still more frequent than that of the gullet. „ The stomach of quadrupeds has been ruptured from over- distention by food, or from air generated from the food, even when its coats have been perfectly sound. Many instances of rupture of the heart have been recorded by Morgagxi *, Haller f, Portal +. I have seen several examples of it ||. The coats of the intestines have been frequently ruptured in consequence of external violence ; and, where there was no pre- vious disease in their coats, I have met with two cases of rup- ture of the duodenum from the above cause. One of the pa- tients was crushed by the wheel of a cart against a post; and died on the following day. On dissection, five pounds of fluid blood were found within the abdomen, and the liver was also lacerated. The second case was that of a groom who received a kick from a horse. It occasioned excruciating pain in the belly, which was increased on pressure; vomiting followed, and remark- able collapse of features. The pulse was slow and very feeble. He died in forty-two hours after the receipt of the injury. When the body was examined, there were no marks of external vio- lence upon any part of the integuments, or in the cellular sul)- stance, but internally there appeared peritoneal inflammation, • Epist. 27. and (54. t Element. Fhys. 4: Mem. de I’Acad. des Scien. 1784 II There is an excellent case in the Edinhiir^h Anatomical Mu.sctim.