315 ON THE MUCOUS MEMBRANE. Tliese circumstances have thrown much ambiguity over the description of morbid appearances, which is very much to be regretted, as disease gives a peculiar colour to the mucous mem- brane of the alimentary canal. Within these few years, this great obstacle to improvement has been removed by that distinguished artist Mr P. Syme, by the publication of his accurate illustra- tions of the Wernerian System of the colours of minerals. I have availed myself of Mr Syme’s book, and, by carrying it with me when the bodies of persons who have died from different dis- eases, or from external injury, have been examined, I arrived at a much more intimate acquaintance with the colour of the mu- cous membrane of the stomach and intestines in different diseases, than could otherwise have been obtained. For the sake of brevity, the various appearances of the mu- cous membrane, discovered upon dissection, have been arranged in a tabular form. In the subjoined table, notice has l)cen given of the colour of the mucous membrane of the cardiac and jiyloric jxjrtions of the stomach, and of the colour of the mucous membrane of the larger and smaller intestines, in those diseases which occasion the most remarkable deviations from the healthy colour of the mu- cous membrane, as inflammation, lx>th the common and the dy- senteric. The colour of the mua)us membrane of the alimen- tary canal has also been described in phthisis pulmonalis, fever, &c. To point out more clearly the colour of the- healthy mu- cous membrane of the alimentary canal, the table contains a description of its colour in different caes in which death has been occasioned by external violence. The sex, age, and inter- val between death and the post-mortem examination has also been given, as these different circumstances may influence the colour of the membrane. It also merits remark, that the greater number of the dissec- tions were made during the months of winter and spring, when the temperature of the atmosphere did not generally exceed 50° Fahr., and when there was no reason to suppose that putre- faction had ^produced an alteration of colour in the mucous membrane.