( 357 ) CONSEQUENCES OF THE PERMANENT ORGANIC STRICTURE OF THE GULLET. These are various: The part of the gullet immediately above the stricture is, in most cases, prodigiously enlarged and ulcerated. A remarkable instance of this enlargement above the stricture was sent to me by Dr Melville of St Andrew’s, with the his- tory of the case. He observes, “ that the enlargement above the stricture was so great, that the patient could retain nearly a pint of nutritious liquid, composed of eggs, milk, and sugar, for ten minutes, conversing with his friends during that time.” The. stricture is, in this stage of the disease, incurable ; for, up- diseases, whicli produce nearly the same sjTnptonis; and therefore, when the cases are not accurately examined, may be mistaken for stricture. “ One of these is a thickening of the coats of the oesophagus, which ex- tends to the surrounding parts, and in the end generally liecomes cancerous, or, in other words, an incurable disease; the other is an ulcer on tlie lining t)f the oesopliagus: tliis last is commonly a little below the seat of stricture, and is upon the posterior j)art which lies upon the vcrtebne of the neck. Both of these produce a dilHculty in swallowing, and in their early stages are only to be distinguished from stricture by an examination of the bougie; when the disease is more advanced, the other symptoms which arise sulli- ciently explain the nature of the disease. “ When a bougie is passed, with a view to determine the nature of tlie complaint, and it passes down to the distance of eight inches, measuring from the cutting edge of the front teeth in the ujiper jaw, the surgeon may bo sa- tisfied that it has gone beyond the u.sual state of stricture; and if it is brought back mthout any resistance, he may conclude that the aperture of the (Dsophagus considerably exceeds the size of the bougie which had been used. But if the bougie stops at the distance of (ij inches, or even lower, he is to retain it there with an uniform steady pressure for half a mi- nute, so as to receive on its point an impression of the surface to which it was opposed. If the end of the bougie retain its natural form, or nearly so, and there is an indentation like the mark of a chord on its side, whether all round or only partially, he may decide that the disease is a stricture; but if, on the other hand, the bougie passes without any difficulty to the distance of 74 inches, and, when brought back, the point has an irr^:pilar jagged sur- face, it is equally clear that the disease is on ulcer on the posterior surface of the oesojihagus,” Vid. Sir E. Home’s Pract. Obs. on Strictures, vol. ii. j). 397. 2