43 or INTESTINAl, CONCRETIONS. My father, in a personal interview with the above patient, learnt that he had laboured under acute pain in the belly for seven years ; and that about five years ago, he had passed three cxcrementitious-looking concretions, after which a tumour was observed between the ribs and ilium of the left side. He therefore wrote the following letter to Sir A. Douglas. “ Edinburgh, Nov. 28. 1768. “ Siiij Having carefully examinetl and considered Mr M.’s case, I am altogether certain that his complaints proceed from a concretion lodged within the left side of the colon, of the same kind jtrobably with those he passed some years ago, and of which I have in my }X)Ssc.ssion about thirty, taken from differ- ent patients. “ As it is impossible to retich it from the anus, so as to ex- tract it with a pair of forceps, the patient should carefully ob- serve the following directions, by which it is hopeil he may in no long time pass the concretion, or bring it past the turn of the colon into the rectum, so that it may be got hold of with an in- strument, and extracted. “ He ought to take every night, at bed-time, a tea-spoonful, or as much of the lenitive electuary, as shall lie found sufficient to procure one loose stool; and in the moming a clyster, com- posed of an English pint of warm milk, to which two tabic- spoonfuls of olive oil arc to be added ; and this should Ik; re- tained for an hour, if possible, by lying in Iwd, with the but- tot'ks raised by pillows. “ When he goes to stool, he ought, with his hand, to push the concretion downwards as far as he can, without raising con- siderable pain, and to sit over the steam of hot water, making efforts longer than is commonly necessary ; and even when he is not at stool, he ought frequently through the day to work it downwards w’ith his hand ; and by squeezing as if he were at stool, or by putting his finger, or a feather, into his throat,-to occasion such an effort as is made when we vomit. “ Once in ten days, or oftener, he should take a purgative, and on fhe evening of that day a laxative clyster; and when