13 IN THE ALIMENTARY CANAL. time within the stomach, it imtates the villous coat of that or- gan very much; and in some cases is contained in a sac within the stomach, from which it cannot be dislodged, and proves a constant source of irritation and pain. A pin, or other sharp substance, getting into the stomach, may occasion vomiting of blood, by wounding some of the larger bloodvessels of that very sensible organ, which is very amply supplied with blood by various bloodvessels, and which very freely communicate with each other. A case occurred some time ago, in this place, in which the patient’s death was imputed to a prune stone which he had swal- lowed, and which had occasioned a very great discharge of blood from the stomach. The stomach has been jxjrforated by sharjvpointed bodies, as by pins and needles ; and these have escaped from it into di.s- tant parts of the body, as into the muscles of the neck, into the ureter * or bladder of urine "f. Dr Cakmtchael Smyth inform- ed me of the case of a woman who swallowed a number of pins, some of which were thrown up from her stomach, whilst a con- siderable number were afterwards taken out at a wound in her side, where a seton had been put. Extraneous substances which have been swallowetl, by per- forating the rectum, near to its termination, have been found to operate as a cause of Fistula. My father furnished me with a case of this description. He was requested to visit a gentleman, who had for a long time complainetl of an acute degree of pain around the anus ; this’was followed by inflammation of the part, and a collection of pus. An incision was made, in order to give a discharge to the fluid ; and one of the bones of the head of a fish was discovered sticking in the bottom of the abscess. Upon the bone being extracted, the patient in a short time recovered. IMy father was consulted by another gentleman on account of a large flat tumour in the cellular substance above the sphiRC- ter ani, between the coats of the rectum, which created much • Vid. Jul. Csesar, Claudiu Resp. Med. 40. t Vid. Plater, Tom. III. Lib. II. Cap. 10. De Mictione; also Diemer- broek, Lib. Anat. Cap. 173.