MILT-LIKE TUMOUR OF THE STOMACH. 421 succeeded by inflammation and swelling. Leeches and cata- plasms were applied. Four weeks ago the ulceration commen- ced, and the pain has subsequently been easier. Dissection.—The integuments were removed, and, as it was discovered that the tumour had extensive adhesions, the whole mass was dissected from the abdomen, and laid upon the table. After removing the small intestines, the ascending and descend- ing colon, the spleen and the kidneys, all of which were natu- ral, the diseased structure, with its connections, became ap- parent. The tumour involved the stomach, liver, pancreas, duodenum, and the transverse arch of the colon. The sto- mach was laid open, and its villous coat presented a high de- gree of vascularity and thickening. ’ Towards the pyloric ex- tremity a number of vascular fungi were observed, and, on pass- ing the hand under these, in the direction of the external ori- flee of the tumour, the finger passed through a .sinuous cavity, and presented at the external o|)cning. The tumour itself exhibited, towards its circumterence, a cartilagiimus structure, but its centre was sloughy, and yielded a highly ofl’ensive fetor. The liver was enlarged, arul contained a numl)cr of circum- scribed white tubercles, of the magnitude of nuts and walnuts, the texture of which was soft, and yieldetl a milky fluid on pressure. Similar tubercles, of less size, pervaded the mesen- tery and omentum. The cavity of the alxlomen conUiinetl about two or three pounds of bloody scrum. In another case of milt-like tumour of the stomach, there were the following symptoms :—The })atient’s countenance was pale, and he was emaciated ; the alxlomen was tender in the epigastric region. Sometimes he vomited after every meal, but at other limes there was no vomiting for two or three days. He had occasional diarrluca, with tormina; pulse and tongue were na- tural. The degree of pain which attends the anomalous tumour, or kmgus hamiatodes, is greater than that originating from the milt-like tumour. Professor Bukns of Glasgow', who has given a very faithful delineation of that formidable disease, has ob- served, “ Some degree of pain, generally shooting, sometimes deep and gnawing, is early perceived.”