MUCOUS MEMBRANE OF THE STOMACH. 343 qualnted with a lady who died three days after she had drank cold water, when much overheated, after having had the symp- toms of gastritis. Hallee has described a similar instance. His patient was immediately seized with acute pain in the stomach, accompanied by fever ; he became delirious, and died in fifteen days. Upon dissection the stomach was found inflamed, ulcerated, and gan- grenous in some places. The usual symptoms of inflammation <)f the stomach, which has not been occasioned by an acrid poi- son, are considerable fever, burning pain in the region of the stomach and throat, vomiting, u{X>n taking even the mildest food; and the bowels are generally loose. These symptoms are in some cases accompanied by some degree of difficulty of breath- ing and cough. When the acute inflammation of the mucous membrane of the stomach does not originate from so obvious a cause, it is usually accompanied by redness of the lips, and edges of the tongue, acute pain in the region of the stomach, accompanied by a scn- .sation of heat in that organ, by a great desire for cold drinks, nausea, retching or vomiting, by a small, quick and compn^ssible pulse, and sometimes by hurried breathing. If the disease does not prove fatal in a short time, great emaciation follows, as in the subjoined case, which lately occurred, and which might readily have lx;en mistaken for inflammation of the stomach. The j'latient, six days prior to his death, while sweating, hatl drank largely of cold beer; and, in a short time, was seized with swelling and acute pain in his belly, which, on the following day, were succeeded by constant vomiting. Pulse 80, small and weak; respiration quick and laborious. His bowels could not he moved at first. At length a purgative clyster was adminis- tered, which occasioned bloody stools. The vomiting continued until death. The stomach was sound. The smaller intestines were of a dark livid colour, and adhered to each other. An irregular ulcer, about an inch in breadth, which had destroyed the mucous membrane, was found about tw'o inches from the ileo-colic valve. The larger intestines were sound.