OF THE CAUSES OF HERNIA. 73 state, is firmly bouiKl down by the pei-itoneum, as the caput caecum coli, sometimes gets into the hernial sac. The peritoneum passing between the rectum, vagina, bladder of urine, and abdominal muscles (which is well calculated to ad- mit of the free distention of the bladder and uterus), may have a share in facilitating the displacement of the intestines at the inguinal or crural apertures. Dr Campek is of opinion, that the relaxation of the mesentery concurs with that of the abdominal muscles in giving a disposi- tion to hernia. Debility in the parietes of the abdomen is sometimes induced during the progress of life, by impro|)er diet, a sedentary life, a long train of bad health, the abuse of nuxlicine, or by a long residence in warm climates. Debility of the parietes of the abdomen is, independently of an unusual structure |)eculiar to some families, hereditary, de- scending from father to son, and even to the grandson. Where there exists such a debility in the parietes of the ab- domen, we sometimes meet with .several herinsc in the same in- dividual, as in the following case, which fell uiuler the observa- tion of my father. Mr J. 11., fifty years of age, has had IVom his infancy an umbilical hernia ; when about four years old, he received a blow on the groin, a bul)onocele immt'diately follow- ed, and about eight years afterwards a hernia took place in the other groin, and without an evident cause. When there exists a degree of debility in the parietes of the abdomen, we sometimes meet with two or more hernia; in such individuals. 3d, External violence in some cases give rise to local de- bility of the parietes of the abdomen. I had occasion to exa- mine a sailor who had a swelling of the two uppermost lumbar vertebrae, and upon the right side of the spine there was a tu- mour about the size of the fist. I supposed, before examining into the history of the patient, that he had a lumbar abscess, but, on pressure, perceived that the tumour communicated the same sensation as a hernia, and I readily reduced the tumour.