^3()8 OF STRICTURE OF THE RECTUM. • Vific Observations on .Stricture, page 549. M Edition. phatic glands of the neck, lias been removed by mercurial fric- tion, as by pills composed of camphor, aloes, and calomel. Hover entertains doubts as to these cures, on the ground that even external swellings of the glands of the neck have sel- dom been resolved. From what I have seen, I have no doubt as to the occasional resolution even of chronic swellings of the lymphatic glands of the neck, providing that very powerful re- medy, iodine, be judiciously employed. From the great analogy between strictures of the urethra and those of the gullet, these diseases should he treated upon the same principles, by bougies, or by the elastic gum catheter. An attempt has been made to dilate a stricture of the gullet, by desiring the patient to attempt to swallow an ivory ball, in form like an olive, to which a string is fixed for the purpose of withdrawing it. But it does not suffice for the purpose. The bougie is a preferable instrument, and has often been used with success, when employed before the stricture has much increased, in consequence of a thickening and alteration of structure of the coats of the affected part; it then becomes necessary to employ the kali purum, or nitrate of silver. Sir E. Home observes, “ Whenever consulted in cases of stricture of the oesophagus, recourse has been had to the use of the bougie, and if that mode of treatment failed, to the applica- tion of the caustic. In some instances the use of the bougie has answered, in others it has failed*.” I have already had occasion to make mention of the operation which had been proposed by my father, for the extraction of in- testinal concretions (vide page 48). A modification of that ojx*- ration has been adopted by Mr Freer of Birmingham and Mr Pring of Bath, for the relief of strictures of the colon. “ An artificial anus is formed just above the sigmoid flexure of the colon, in cases of absolute obstruction of the intestinal ca- nal below this seat. This operation has been performetl by Mr Pring of Bath, on an adult woman, with complete success; and by Mr Freer of Birmingham, on a man, where the failure of it to preserve life appears very clearly to have been owing to