812 REDNESS OF THE MUCOUS MEMBRANE membrane of the inverted bowel assumes the cx)lour and con- sistence of the skin. Qthy Irritation from intsstinal worms gives rise to redness of the mucous membrane, and also to the secretion of a red jelly, which may be mistaken for the effects of inflammation, though the redness does not originate from such a cause, but from an uncommon determination of blood to the irritated part. Ithf The innermost coat of the stomach has sometimes ac- quired a red colour, in diseases connected with debility, when these have shewn no previous symptoms of inflammation. I ob- served this red appearance in a very striking manner in the body of a young woman who died from diabetes, whose body I exa- mined at the request of my late worthy colleague Dr Duncan, and who published it in his Annals of Medicine, vol. viii. p. 392. Since that period, I have observed similar appearances in the bodies of persons who had died from other diseases, and where there was no reason to suspect inflammation to be the cause of the redness. Sth, In the former edition of this work, I have described the case of a lady, who discharged by the anus, at different periods of her life, considerable quantities of coagulable lymph. The effusion of coagulable lymph has been stated by some authors to be one of the most certain indications of acute inflammation ; but, in this case, the pulse was not accelerated, nor had she pain of the abdomen, or any other of the usual concomitant symptoms of inflammation of the intestine. A certain degree of putrefaction also communicates a reddish colour to the mucous membrane of the stomach and in- testines, which may be mistaken for the effects of inflammation. This circumstance gave rise to the suspicion, that PrinceCHARLEs of Sweden, the predecessor of Beknadotte, had l>een poisoned by a .slow vegetable jx)ison, similar to the aqiui tofana. The prince had been seized, after having partaken of a pie at an inn, with violent vomiting, lo.ss of appetite, and frequent colic. But, upon reflecting on the liistory of the case, it was evident that he had died from ajioplexy. He had suffered much from acute headache and giddinc.ss, and fell from his horse during a