SY3IPTOMS OI’ HYDATIDS. 221 Tliat hydatids are not peculiar to any one part of the human body, but are most commonly connected with the invest- ing membranes of the liver, ovaria, or kidney ; and they often escape from the first of these bowels into the stomach, intestines, cavity of the abdomen, or they are discharged externally. 2d, That there is no resemblance between the hydatids which arc peculiar to quadrupeds and those of the human body, which is obvious by instituting a comparison of the preceding descrip- tion of the hydatid of the human body with those of quadru- peds, which have been published by IlAnTMAXXUs*', Tyson-}-, Pallas J, Schuoeder ||, Fontan §, and Sir E. Home 8d, That, as the smaller hydatids adhere to the inner surface of the larger, the larger hydatids may be called pregnant; or that these animals are multiplied like some vegetables, by the adhesion of the smaller hydatids to the coats of the larger hy- datids. ^th, That the coats of the bowels containing the hydatids are much more frequently destroyed than when water only has been collected within these; hence the hydatids csca[K- from their original situation, and sometimes find their way, by unnatural passages, into the intestines, urinary or biliary canals, into the windpipe, &c. or are discharged externally. The above observa- tion, which occurs in the first etlitionof this lx)ok, has l)cen con- firmed by subsequent observations, and especially by those of Merat, in the Diet, des Scien. J/t’dic. t, xvi. p. 139 ; and it ap- pears from what has been stated in the Memoirs of the Royal Academy Sciences, for 1777, p. 212, that the sac containing the hydatids sometimes bursts within the body, which is indi- cated by the patient fechng a something give way, and by chro- nic inflammation of the peritoneum. 5th, That many patients rtx’over upon the discharge of the hydatids. 6th, That hydatids may, when floating within the cavity of the abdomen, be discharged through an artificial opening made • Vid. Mis. Nat. Cur. Dec. 2. An. 4to. + Vid. Phil Trans, for 1795. + Vid. Phil. Trans, for 1091. § Vid. Misc. Zoolog. H Vid. ScHROEDER dc Hydatid. ^ Vid. Opus Scelti, tom. 6.