404 OF SCROFULOUS ULCERATION an inch in diameter, were found on the posterior part of the colon, communicating with the cavity of the abdomen. The contiguous coats of the gut were remarkably thin; the inner, and a portion of the middle coat, having probably been removed by ulceration. The only other morbid appearance observed in this case, was that of the intestines adhering to each other by means of lymph. The complete erosion of the intestine, and the consequent effusion of acrid feculent matter which excited this inflammation, had probably taken place a short time only before death. The general symptoms were of two months duration, whilst the more violent enteritic symptoms lasted only about two days. In the eighth case, the erosion was in the rectum, four inches from the anus; and a large quantity of faeces and of a gaseous fluid, was found in the cavity of the abdomen. In the ninth, there was very extensive effusion of lymph on the peritoneum; and there were several large ulcers on the mucous coat of the ileum, near its termination in the coecum. At one point, the coats of the gut were completely eroded ; and, at another, the peritoneal coat alone remained. In the cavity of the abdomen was found a sero-purulent fluid. In the tenth case, feculent matter, and air, were found in the cavity of the abdomen; but neither lymph nor pus had been effused. There was a large ulcerated aperture in the rectum; and, above this, the coats of the intestines ^Yere much thickened, and the mucous membrane deeply ulcerated. In three of these cases, extensive ulceration took place im- mediately above a stricture of the intestine. In the first case, the contraction might be termed the remains of a stricture; but, in the third and fourth, the coats were so thickened, and the canal so contracted, as scarcely to admit the point of the little finger. In the other case, there was no apparent stric- ture; but tile intestines were completely matted together by lymph, and ulceration had occurred in the termination of the ileum, near the ileo-ccecal valve. In the greater number of instances, ulceration begins in the mucous coat, and extends outwards, but in a few instances it follows the opposite course. Thus, I met with a case in which