211 SYMPTOMS or HYDATIDS. The patient enjoyed perfect health for ten or twelve years af- terwai’ds. Case III- My Fatlier was consulted by a woman, 40 years of age, who had a large swelling within the left side of her belly, which resembled a dropsy of the ovarium; but as she had suf- fered more pain in it than is common in that disease, he suspect- ed that it might be owing to a cyst full of hydatids. About a fortnight afterwards, the tumour subsided during the night time, and the patient told him that she hatl passed several watery stools with skins in them. Case IV.—Mr D. C., about 30 years of age, consulted my Father, on account of a lai-ge tumour within the left side of the belly, in which there was the fluctuation of a liquor, and as there had been no symptoms of inflammation and suppuration, he supposed it to contain hydatids. Several months afterwards, in the year 1775, he was again called to the patient, along witli his surgeon, the late Mr John Baleouu. A tumour, in a state of inflammation, was projected between the 12th rib and os ileum of the left side, ami there was an open- ing of the skin, at the point of the tumour, through which it seemed probable that the contents of the tumour would soon be dis- chai’ged. It was therefore agreed to enlarge the opening in the skin, and, u|X)n introducing the finger into tlie wound, and pressing on the abdomen, the fluctuation of the liquor in the cyst was distinctly perceivcil. An incision was therefore made into it, and 4 lb. of hydatids were dischaiged. The orifice closed in a few weeks, and the patient considered himself for several years as cured. But after a time, the patient said tliat he began to feel another tumour forming within his belly, in nearly the same place as the former; and a tumour ac- tually formed, wliich gradually increased in size, but did not give much uneasiness, or prevent him from following business. TIk? tumour still continued to grow larger, and in the year 1794, my Father was again desired to visit the patient along with his surgeon Mr Dewar.