171 OF THE VAGINAL HERNIA. Strangulation sometimes takes place during labour, as Dr Smei.lie has observed*. Sir A. Cooper has described the appearances upon dissection of this kind of hernia. The hernial sac was observed between the rectum and under surface of the bladder and prostate gland. The lower part of the tumour did not reach the skin. OF THE A’AGINAL HERNIA. This hernia is most common amongst women who have had several children, and generally is perceived projecting into the upper and back part of the vagina, and sometimes, according to Sandifort*!*, at the orifice of that canal. This hcmia, which becomes larger and tense in the erect, and disappears in the recumbent |K>3ture, liears a strong analogy to the perineal hernia; for in both, the protrusion takes its origin in the same situation. The intestines generally form the contents of the tumour, and sometimes, though rarely, the blatlder of urine; and as, in the former case, though the bladder lie not protrudul, it is afi’ected from its vicinity to the hernia. The bladder of urine sometimes forms a prominent tumour at the lateral or posterior part of the vagina in virgins, and still more frequently in married women, when that canal has been reduced to a state of relaxation by rcjx;ated pregnancies at short intervals. As the os uteri is pushed forwards, and the vagina is in part with the finger, that the reduction was completed, the edges of the wound in the linea alba were brought together by sutures. After the operation the pulse was scarcely jierceptible, the extremities were cold, and the jwtient was sick, throwing up again immediatel}’ whatever she swallowed. In about two hours the pulse was somewhat stronger, and the extremities were wanner ; but the restoration of the vital powers was imperfect, and, after some hours, they again began to fail, and the poor woman died. • Vide his Cases and Observations in Midwifery. t Vide Obs. Anat. Pathol, lib. i. cap. 4. Vid. also Christian’s Observa- tions on the Retardation of delivery by fulness of the bladder (Hdin. Med. and Surg. Jour. vol. ix.); also Sir A. Cooper on Hernia.