CONTRACTION OF THE MUSCULAR FIBRES. 247 for a little while quiescent, agadn intrcxlucecl my finger slower into the wound, when I felt the stone above the pubis held in the contracted folds of the bladder. On attempting to hook the stone, it fell down to the lower and anterior part of the blad- ber. I then put my finger upon it, passed along the finger a small lever, which I had gt)t made for the occasion two days before the operation, and, with the assistance of another finger in the rectum, easily turncxl out a rough stone, the size of a French olive.” That very experienced surget)n Sir A. Coopek, has also observed, “ I have seen a difficulty arise in jx-i forming this ojk-- ration, from a partial contraction of the l)ladder, by which the stone has been firmly embniced, so as to imjxxle the use of tlie forceps. This arises from the sudden csc-ajx,* of the urine which the bladder contained previous to the operation. The fundus of the bladder, and half of the organ near to it, embrace the stone closely ; the forceps are passed into the anterior }>art of the blad- der, and opened at its cervix; but, in attempting to seize the stone, only one of its extremities is nipped by the forceps, which slip from it immediately the surgixjn tries to extract the calculus : this occurs several times, until the patient becomes exhausted, when the contraction of the bladder subsides, and then the stone is readily seized. In such a ca.se, the Hat forceps answer lx?st, gliding most easily over the stone. If the patient does not retain his urine for a long }X‘riod before the ojx?ration, this diHiculty seldom occurs.” The cases described in the London Medical Gazette for Febru- ary and March 1829, which occurrtxl to Mr Key, are equally in point. In the first case, “ on the introduction of the forceps, the size and situation of the stone occasioned fresh obstacles. Neither the blade of the instrument nor the finger could, without force, be insinuated between the stone and the bladder, which was firmly contracted around it. When at length the stone was grasped by the forceps, it appeared much too large to be withdrawn by the opening, and Mr Key, without releasing it from the instrument, cautiously enlarged the incision. Still, however, the calculus was