240 CAUSES OF SPASMODIC liave been supposed to give rise to a morbid sensibility, or to wliat has been called the nervous temperament. The chief of these causes have been summed up by Dr Guegory, in the fol- lowing paragraph in his Conspectus Medicina?, vol. i. p. 389:— “ Habitus corporis nimis sentiens, et nimis mobilis, homines spasmis opportunos reddit; hinc malum foeminis, infantibus, debilibus, luxuriosis, desidibus, sanguine plenis, famih'are.” Much light has lately been thrown upon the influence of the brain over muscular contraction, and on the properties of the muscular fibres, by Nysten, Wilson Philip, C. Bell, Ma- JENDiE, Rolando, Fodera, and Flourens, to whose works I beg to refer the reader, as these subjects are too extensive to be discussed in a book of this description. The very intimate connection existing between the nervous and muscular systems, renders it probable, that, in every case of spasmodic contraction, the nervous system is primarily af- fected. The spasmodic contraction of the passages for the food is generally e.xcited, in consequence of the application of a local stimulus, as by acrid ingesta, flatulence, acrid bile, an extra- neous body, by a calculus in the intestines, gall-ducts, or urini- ferous passages, a tumor, or by worms, or by inflammation, the poison of lead, exposure to cold, by dentition, and even by violent emotions of the mind. Spasm is likewise excited not only in the part to which the irritation is more immediately applied, but also in the more re- mote parts, in consequence of the application of a stimulus. Thus the spasmodic stricture of the urethra has been sometimes occasioned by the irritation of chirurgical operations, or by frac- -ture or dislocation of the extremities, and by dentition. The effects of local stimuli upon persons of different consti- tutions are very different. Thus, some have a call to make urine, when but a few ounces of that fluid is collected within the bladder, but others not until the bladder has been con- siderably distended, by a pound or more of urine. This is to be attributed in jiart to the different degrees of irritability, and also to the influence of habit. Another proof of the dif- ferent degrees of sensibility of the bladder, is, that the injection 3