162 OF congenital hernia of the male. As life advances, in consequence of the omentum being elon- gated, it gets into the hernial sac, which originally contained only a portion of the small intestine. The late Mr A. Bcjens communicated to me a case, which forms an exception to the above observation. He met with an instance in a new bom child, of the omentum, which had pre- viously adhered to the testicle, being dragged from the abdo- men along with that organ. It sometimes happens, as in a case related by Mery, in the Memoirs of the Academy of Sciences at Paris, 1701, that the omentum which had been displaced has involved the testicle, which led the surgeon to suppose that the patient was afl9icted by a sarcocele. There is often likewise an adhesion between the protruded omentum and testicle. Wrisberg has described several cases, in which the patients affected by this variety of hernia, which was reducible, suffered the most excruciating pain, during the reduction of the hernia: the pain was found to have originated from a preternatural ad- hesion between the testicle and the omentum. Dr Wrisberg and Mr Pott also make mention of the in- timate connection between the protruded bowels and the tes- ticle, and also of the difficulty of disuniting them. If the testicle, before it has reached the scrotum, contracts an adhesion with the other viscera of the abdomen, it may re- tard or may prevent the descent of the intestines. When the testicle has descended no lower than the Under Abdominal Aperture, it sometimes happens that the intestine slips past it into the scrotum ; and, in a case described by Reichel, the testis sticking at the under abdominal aperture strangulated a portion of the ileum of a boy, whose scrotum was empty. Mr Pott met with two such cases; and the patients could not wear a bandage, on account of its pressure on the testicle. In this species of hernia, the displaced bowels pass into the vaginal coat of the testicle, which is involved by the protruded parts. It may not be improper to add a circumstance respecting