OF THE ANATOMY OF THE 101 ANATOMICAL DESCRIPTION OF THE INTERNAL PARTS IN THE MALE. Upon removing the peritonceuni, which lines the abdominal, iliacus internus and psoas muscles, the umbilical arteries, changed into ligaments, and the urachus come into view. The spermatic vessels are also exposed, as these sweep along the brim of the pelvis, over the surface of the iliacus in- ternus muscle; and upon reaching the upper abdominal aperture, the vas deferens is added. The spermatic cord, thus formed, passes obliquely downwards and forwards, along the lower margin of the internal oblique and transverse muscles of the abdomen, in its course receiving from the internal oblique the cremaster muscle: then, at the under abdominal aperture, it suddenly forms an angle, which covers the insertion of the outer tendinous column of the external oblique muscles into the pubes, and then passes di- rectly into the scrotum. This peculiar course of the spermatic cord has been very faithfully represented by Vesalius, in the wooden plates affixed to his book; and also by Albinus. It was reserved for Sir Astley Cooper to detect and describe the upper abdominal aperture, which may be per- ceived by introducing the finger into the under abdominal aperture, and by pushing it upwards in the direction of the anterior spinous process of the ilium. The borders of the upper aperture may then be perceived about an inch nearer to the anterior superior spinous process of the os ilium than the under aperture, and by the fascia transversalis. The inguinal canal of the adult follows an oblique course, and rather more than an inch intervenes between the upper and under apertures of that canaL The upper part of this inguinal canal, called upper abdominal iniemal aperture, is formed by the transverse and internal oblique muscles, and the fascia trans- versalis ; and the external or lower abdominal aperture is formed by the dis- union of the tendons of thie external oblique muscle. OF THE FASCIA TRANSVERSALIS. Upon removing the peritonaeum, a thin fascia, called by Sir A. Cooper the Fascia transversalis, is seen lining the abdominal muscles. It lines the under part of the transverse muscle of the bell}', is connected with the inner or posterior part of the crural arch, and then ascends for four or five uiches along the transversalis muscle of the abdomen, on the internal surface of which it is gradually lost. The upper abdominal aperture is formed by a kind of ojjening in the fascia