330 El'l’liCTS OF SWAI-LOWINC; of the artificial sulphurcts of arsenic, I was therefore induced to make the following experiments with arsenic in its metallic state, and also with the artificial sulphuret. I was fully aware of the rapidity with which the metal is con- verted into an oxide by exposure to the air. I therefore en- deavoured to provide against that in making my experiments, by breaking down large pieces of the metallic arsenic (which Professor Bniocs of St Andrew’s prepared for me, by sublima- Oon from the white oxide of the metal), and immediately mix- mg it with the extract of gentian ; and, as soon as the mixture was made, giving it to the animals. Experiment 1—I gave a dog, which I had kept fasting for twelve hours, two grains of the metallic arsenic in fine powder, mixed with the extract of gentian. The only effects of it were a slight purging, of a slate-coloured matter, and the discharge of a great deal of urine. Experiment 2.—Four grains of the metallic arsenic, mixed with the extract of gentian, were given to a dog that had been kept without food for twelve hours, involved in a piece of boiled beef. In the course of two hours, the dog vomited a quantity of a dark slate-coloured matter, which, being hungry, he licked up again and swallowed. Five hours after the metallic arsenic had been taken, I saw the dog ; he then seemed quite well. About an hour afterwards, he became very sick, and vomited up a good deal of bilious-looking fluid, and had also a slight bilious purging ; after which he ate a quantity of boiled beef. Dr Duncan jun. was so polite as to examine the metallic arse- nic I had used in this experiment, and was of opinion that it was very slightly oxydated. 1 therefore repeated the above experi- ment ; and, for the purpose, selected several large pieces, of the metallic arsenic; reduced these into a fine powder, and imme- diately gave four grains to a dog. The arsenic produced no other sensible effect, excepting occasioning a very considerable discharge of urine.