29 OF INTESTINAL CONCRETIONS. rough to the feel, destitute of polish, and capable of being scratched by the nail. Internally the concretion consisted very uniformly of fine greenish-yellow fibres, closely and compactly Interwoven in all directions, without any appearance of layers, .and this part was soft, easily compressible, and slightly elastic. “ The following experiments were made on the internal part chiefly, though never separated entirely from the external crust; “ When heated it afforded much smoke, which had a strong ammoniacal odour; it entered into a state of semifusion, and, in- termixed, took fire, burnt with a bright flame, and continued to emit ammoniacal fumes. From 20 grs. 4.3 grs. of a light- brownish ash were obtained. This ash, digested in water, did not yield any saline matter. “ Treated with muriatic acid, it effervc*sced slightly, after several hours; 1.7 grs. remained undissolvt*d, which consistetl chiefly of silicious sand, with traces of sulphat of lime. ‘‘ The muriatic solution yielded ammoniaco-magnesian phos- phate, and phos))hate of lime, traces of carbonate of lime, and also of iron. “ Forty grains of the concretion were macerated in two ounce measures of water, for about twenty-fbur hours. The filtered liquor, of a light straw-yellow colour, was divided into two equal parts; one part, evaporated to dryness, afibrded about 1 grain of a light-brown coloured matter; the otlier part was tried with some re-agents. It was not altered by a solution of corrosive sublimate. A slight white precipitate was pnxluced by acetate of lead. Nitrate of silver darkened the colour of the liquor; dark-brown flocculi in a short time fonned and subdi- vided, and the supernatant fluid was rendered colourless. Hence it appears that the colouring matter taken up by the wa- ter is vegetable substance, capable of being precipitated by ace- tate of lead or nitrate of silver, which appear to act the part of mordants. A second digestion was performed, with an equal quantity of water, but no farther solution was effected. It was next digested with alcohol, and nearly with the same result; the alcohol only acquired a just perceptible greenish tinge, and af- forded, when evaporated, a residue far too minute for examina- tion.