149 DIAGNOSIS OF CUURAL HERNIA. • Vide Date I. -f- Vide Plate I. ^ Vide Plate II. so as to prevent the return of blood; thus the varix, by dis- tention, is rendered more prominent. On account of the small size of the crural aperture, and un- yielding nature of its parts, considerable pressure is made upon the neck of a crural hernia, which is sometimes succeeded by thickening and induration ; and, for a similar reason, the mu- cous and muscular coats of the displaced intestine have been, in some cases, ulcerated on the side next to the edge of Gim- Itfrnat’s ligament. There is also less chance of returning the contents of a crural than of an inguinal hernia, and strangulation more speedily takes place in the former than in the latter; this jxiints out the danger of jx)Sl|Mming beyond a few hours the ojieration af- ter the symptoms of strangulation appear, and when venesec- tion, the warm bath, and a tobacco clyster, luve prpved of no avail. Where the internal edge of the ligament of Gimbernat proves the cause of the stricture in the crural hernia, 1 have always rccommendeil the incision of that ligament, with a view to remove the stricture; though fully aware that the obturator artery sometimes is placed nearly around the neck of the sac. It is well known that the division of a very small part of the crural arch generally suffices for the removal of the stricture But, if the incision be unnecessiirily extended upwards, and to- wards the anterior and superior spinous process of the os ilium, the epigastric artery will probably be divided • : if the incision be made upwards, provided the patient be a male, the spermatic cord may be injured -f*; and if it be so, death may probably ensue, as happened in a case treated by Arnaud, from hemor- rhage from the spermatic artery into the abdomen. I have already stated, that the instances in which the obtura- tor artery runs on the pubal side of the hernia, are about one in twenty This circumstance, therefore, does not afford a well grounded argument against the division of the crural arch for the relief ,of a strangulated crural hernia. I used in my lectures also to observe, that, even when the obturator ar-