INTERNAL INGUINAL HERNIA. 134 rosis of the external oblique muscles, and the transverse and internal oblique muscles, pass over the neck of the tumour, and prove the cause of the strangulation, while the epigastric artery is situated, in respect to the hernia, as in the more com- mon inguinal hernia. During my last eight courses of surgical lectures, I have ex- hibited a rare kind of inguinal hernia. I was desired l)y the late Dr J. Anderson to visit a patient who had this kind of her- nia, which was strangulated. An operation afforded no relief. Upon dissection, a tumour, about the size of an orange, which was filled by a portion of the colon and omentum, was found within the upper abdominal aperture. The bowel had passed through the inguinal canal, and appeared beyond the under ab- dominal aperture. All the symptoms of strangulated hernia con- tinued, though the external tumour could be reduced, and the finger passed into the under abdominal aperture. Upon dissection, the bowels included within the internal tu- mour could not be withdrawn before opening the hernial sac. The contents of the tumour were of a deep purple colour, much thickened, and in a softened state. An account of a case very similar to the preceding, has been very lately published in the Medical Gazette, vol. i. page 485, by that celebrated anatomist, physiologist, and surgeon, Mr Charles Bell. It is stated, “ On looking at the inside, however, it was seen that the portion of gut had carried the neck of the sac before it into the abdominal cavity ; and the duplicature of the perito- neum, which has been described, being unfolded, had formed a new sac for including the knuckle of intestine, on the inside of the abdominal muscles. Thus the fold of the intestine was pushed through the external abdominal rings, through the sper- matic canal, and through that part which is described to he an internal ring (hut of which ring no trace could he seen), and was reduced with the abdominal muscles; hut not within the abdominal cavity. The neck of the sac had been torn off from the internal ring, in the cfl'ort of reduction, l.ut continued to grasp the included portion of gut.”