OF THE ALIMENTARY CANAL. 399 lent pain at the stomach, sickness, and vomiting, which symp- toms continued great part of the night. Next morning, between eleven and twelve o’clock, I found her, though still in bed, cheerful, and neither complaining of sickness nor of pain ; but her pulse was extremely quick, with considerable tension and tenderness of the prsecordia and abdomen, which shewed that her illness was of a more serious nature than her relations ap>- prehended; and detennined me to call again in the evening. I ordered for the present an emollient glyster, the pnecordia and abdomen to be fomented, and a camphorated saline draught, with the addition of about twenty grains of an absorbent pow- der, and three or four drops of the tinct. opii. to be given every four hours. But this, and every thing else she took, was im- mediately thrown up; yet she passed the day tolerably well, expressed great relief from the fomentation, and in the evening was in good spirits, until about nine o’clock when she Ixxamie suddenly restless, and with uncommon eagerness anti anxiety desired to be rai.sed up in bed, spoke in a strong voice to one of her sisters who was assisting her, anti instantly fell back with- out sense, motion, or the least appearance of life.” When the stomach or intestines become the seat of .scrofula, all the coats of the affected part aetjuire an unnatural thickness. I have seen the coats of the stomach half an inch thick, and in- stead of being heavier and harder, and indurated, as from scir- rhus, they become softer, and more of a spongy consistence. I have been able to trace the whole progress of the disease. An oval yellow spot appears in the mucous membrane; this is sur- rounded by a red ring, which consists of very minute blood- vessels. The yellow spot, in the progress of the disease, is destroyed by ulceration, and afterwards the muscular coat, j The red ring becomes broader, and at length the peritoneal i coat gives way, and the rent in it is alxjut half the size of that ( in the mucous or muscular coats. There is another peculiarity in this organic derangement i which distinguishes it from cancer ; it is not limited to the car- i dia or pylorus, but affects the whole of the stomach, and instead