60 OF IXTUS-SL’SCFl'TH). or five intus-susceptions at the same time; sometimes there is a much greater number. These intus-susceptions are sometimes all in the natural direction; in other instances, some are in the contrary direction; but, in full grown persons, such an ap- pearance seldom presents itself. The extent of the intus-susceptio, or of the quantity of intes- tine received within the other, varies from one or two to eight, ten, nay twenty inches. Intus-susceptio is rather more common in the smaller than in the larger intestines, but most frequent at the termination of the ilium in the caput caecum coli, owing probably to the un- equal size of these bowels. The caput coli has sometimes been found within a part of the arch of the colon, or one part of the arch of the colon within another, or the under part of the sigmoid flexure of the colon within the rectum, or the caecum, and whole of the colon some- times pass through the rectum, forming an external swelling, or procidentia ani. In a case in the museum, the transverse arch of the colon of a child is contained within the sigmoid flexure of that bowel; and, in the case described by Mr Whately, Phil. Trans, vol. Ixxvi., the invagination began at the conjunction of the ilium with the colon, and carried with it the caecum and its appendix. The ilium was lodged within the colon, and the as- cending, transverse, and descending colon of the left side, passed into the sigmoid flexure and rectum. The valve of the colon passed as low as the anus ; hence when the patient was at stool, he only emptied the ilium. The muscles of children being more irritable than those of the adult, the intus-susceptio is more frequent in early life, though generally less dangerous, on account of the greater laxity of fibre, and slighter degree of stricture, swelling, and inflam- mation ; whereas, to grown persons, the disease is more cer- tainly and more immediately fatal, the greater rigidity occasion- ing a more obstinate spasm, which is often followed by inflam- mation, swelling, and the accretion of parts; indeed, the union between the containing and contained parts, is in some cases so intimate, that the included intestine cannot be witlidrawn,