ON THE AIHMENTARY CANAL. s The alimentary canal of an animal designed to live partly on vegetable and partly on animal food, holds a middle place between that of a carnivorous and graminivorous animal. In ihis class man is included, and when the individual reaches to maturity, the alimentary canal is generally between thirty and thirty-six feet long. The food is carrietl through this long and circuitous route by a series of powerful muscular fibres, which constitute one of the coats of the alimentary canal; and perform their office so accu- rately, as to propel the contents contrary to their gravity, and even to push forward air or quicksilver. To this effect, the muscles of the walls of the belly, and that muscle between the belly and chest, called Diaphragm, essentially contribute. The muscular coats also produce the peristaltic and antiperi- staltic motion, which is kept up by the stimulus of the food. Thus, the various parts of the contents of the idimcntary canal are intimately united, by which some are dissolved, others enter into new combinations; and thus also, the alimentary ma.ss is pre- sented to the lacteal vessels, which take their origin from the in- ner surface of the intestines. The discharge of that part of our food which is useless, is accomplished by the muscular contrac- tion of the coats of the intestines. Without the addition of other coverings licsides the muscular coats, the alimentary canal would be exjx>sctl to be torn ; there- fore, the membrane calletl Peritoneum, which fixes the alimentary canal to the back-bone, is continued over the stomach and inte.s- tines, forming their external covering; and by the addition of this covering, the alimentary canal is enabled to resist over-dis- tention, from air or faeces. There is still another property, which is indispensably neces- sary to the alimentary canal, viz. a power of accommodating its capacity to the quantity of its contents. This is provided for by the elasticity and expansive power of all the coats, and owing to the introduction of a quantity of loose cellular substance between the muscular and villous coats, and also by the loose manner in which the stomach and intestines are fixed to the body. Lest the alimentary canal should be injured by the aci'imony