234 OF SPASM AND PALSY. T.O the spasmodic contraction of the latter description of muscles, of which little or no mention has been made by Sau- vages, Cullen, or by that very learned and voluminous au- thor Dr Mason Good, it is my intention to limit the attention of the reader at present; and my prescribed limits do not per- mit me to indulge in so wide a range as to consider the spas- modic affections of all the involuntary muscles, but only those proper to the passages for the food. In discussing this sub- ject, which must be admitted to be of peculiar interest in an anatomical, physiological, and pathological point of view, it is proposed to endeavour to discover the source from which this unnatural contraction of the muscles proceeds, to trace its pro- gress and consequences, taking, at the same time, notice of its effects in occasioning a derangement in the functions of the part more immediately affected, and also in deranging those of the animal economy at large. Such inquiries are essential to our present purpose, as indi- cating the means best calculated to remove the cause of the symptoms, and of all the mischief. Before advancing to my more immediate object, it seems necessary to advert gene- rally to the peculiar distribution and mode of action of the muscles, which bring about such a morbid contraction of the muscles proper to the passages for the food, the bile, and the urine, concerning the existence of which anatomists of the highest distinction are not agreed. For instance, the existence of the muscular fibres of the gall-bladder and gall-ducts, those of the ureters and urethra, and those forming the sphincter of the bladder, has been denied by authors, whose great name and extensive information have given great weight to their authority. Andre/B, Dissertatio de Constitutionis revi uostri spasmodicoe quibusdain momentis, in 4to. Erfordeae 1797* Marx, Dc Spasmis. Hal. 1765. BOEH.MER, dc Spasmoruni, &c. 1762, Hal. Cooke on Nervous Diseases, 2 vols. FARRicn de Spasinod., &c. Hamilton on Turgatives.