384 ULCERATION OF THE INTESTINAL TUBE, i parently from great debility ; in others, the chronic assumes the acute form ; and, it sometimes happens, that patients af- flicted by this disorder die of diseases of the brain, consequent to the original disease. Ulceration of the mucous membrane is to he considered as a very dangerous disorder; for, though it may not prove imme- diately fatal, it proves gradually so, and without inducing ileus: this happens from the gradual exhaustion occasioned by the derangement in the functions of the alimentary canal. The food is imperfectly digested, or passed unchanged. The intes- tines are reduced to a very irritable state, and there are frequent evacuations of the faeces, or, combined with this state, there is a . considerable discharge of vitiated mucus, mixed with blood or i pus. It may be difficult to distinguish these admixtures with the { faeces, when the disease is seated in the smaller intestines, the '■ faeces being mixed with ill-digested food. ! Lastly, The inflammation of the mucous membrane is often | of considerable duration before the peritoneal coat is affected, j but many patients at length die from extensive peritonitis, or | from erosion of the coats of the intestine. Ulceration is sometimes propagated to a greater or less ex- tent, to the subjacent cellular coat; also to the muscular and peritoneal coat, and occasioning perforation. If the adhesive process has preceded, preternatural communications are esta- blished between neighbouring parts, as between the gullet and windpipe, between the gullet and lungs, between the gullet and thoracic aorta, between the stomach and parietes of the abdo- men, between the stomach and great arch of the colon, between the stomach, diaphragm, and cavity of the chest, between the stomach and colon, and between the different turns of the smaller •• intestines. Perforation generally extends outwards, the mucous coat be- ing in the first instance eroded ; but sometimes it takes an oppo- site course, the peritoneal coat being in the first place perforated. This takes place occasionally from collections of pus on the .3