OF POLYPI. 1*24- Tills kind ot' polypus, when divided, is found to be solid, and in some places fibrous : it resembles, in colour and consistence, the unimpregnated uterus, and is pierced with numerous blood- vessels. There are a few small cavities in some of these tumours *, w'hich are filled with lymph f. There is a variety of this species of jxilypus,"Which consists o( a number of distinct lobes of different sizes ; and when a sec- tion is made of such a polypus, a small cpiantity of a fatty sub- stance is found intermixed with the inspissated lymph. In the Museum of Edinburgh, a very excellent specimen of this kind of polypus is preserved, which grew by a narrow root from the membrane of the pharynx, and which filled and dis- tended to a great degree the whole of the oesophagus ;J:. In the old and debilitated, this kind of polypus sometimes assumes a malignant aspect, becomes rough on the surface, bleeds frequently and profusely, discharges a foetid, sanious fluid, becomes also extremely painful, ulcerates, and is at length converted into a genuine cancer. There is a third and rare kind of polypus which is soft, in co- lour resembling coagulated blood, and which discharges blood even upon being slightly touched. In the old and debilitated, this kind of polypus frequently degenerates into cancer. Before proceeding to describe the symptoms occasioned by jxjlypi, it may not be improper to observe, that those tumours grow much more frequently from the mucous membrane of the nose, pharynx, and uterus, than from that of the gullet, stomach, intestines, or bladder of urine, which illustrates the following- observation of Dr C. Smyth |] :—“ There is great reason to be- lieve that the structure of the mucous membranes is some- what different in different parts, according to the various pur- poses of the animal economy.” • Vid. Plate XIII. of iny Thesis De Dysphagia. f Vid. Plate XIII. of my The.sis, fig. 1st, 3d, and •1th. J Vid. P'igure of this polypus in the Edinburgh Physical and Med. Lite- rary F.ssays, Vol. III. II Vid. Lond. Med. Coinniunic. Vol. II. p. 20fi.