FROM MALCONFORMATIOX. 137 pillars of the inguinal canal. Wliere the inguinal canal is im- perfectly formed, it is generally owing to the incomplete exten- sion of the posterior or internal side of the ring. “ Where this happens, the internal orifice of the canal is brought nearer to the pubes than it ought to be, but when the imperfection is produced by a premature separation at the ex- ternal pillars, then, by dissection, we find the internal orifice in its proper place, but the external outlet is removed from the pubes. “ In the first instance, when the herniary tumour protrudes, it lies just over the tubercles of the pubes, and follows the course of the spermatic cord into the scrotum, while in the latter it lies nearer to the spine of the ilium, and is seated just over the cru- ral foramen, and by extension, descends along the thigh, coun- terfeiting the appearance of femoral hernia. “ T^y attention, however, it is readily distinguislied from tlie latter, by being felt lying over the crural arch, and on the outer side of the tubercle of the pubes. “ When the bowels follow the course of the inguinal canal, the epigastric artery is situated nearer to the symphysis pubis than the hernia; whereas, when the Iwwels do not follow such a course, but pass only through the under alxlominal aperture, then the epigastric artery is situated nearer to the anterior spi- nous process of the ilium than the hernia.” In the same patient, we sometimes meet with two, three, or even a greater number of inguinal herniae, and all of the same kind * ; or a patient has a common inguinal hernia on one side, and a ventro-inguinal hernia on the other; or the same patient is afflicted by crural herniae, and also by pudendal hernia. In those cases Avhere it is extremely difficult to determine, when there are symptoms of strangulation, to which of the her- - niae they are imputed -f-. I have also seen the opposite sides of the neck of a scrotal • Sir Astley Cooper met with a case in which there were six ventro- inguinal hernise. Page f>2., 1st edit. •{• Vide Sir Astley Cooper’s 1st Part, page 27.