499 OF PERITONITIS. consequence of a strangulated hernia, or ot ulceration or rupture of the intestines ; or of cutaneous disorders having been sudden- ly repelled. When I was lately at Harrowgate, Mr Richaedson informed me, that he had seen many instances of peritonitis, which had been induced in persons afflicted with cutaneous dis- orders, with bathing too soon in Harrowgate water; and that he had seen much relief obtained, after bleetling and blistering, by the use of tepid baths, which restored the cutaneous disease. The subsequent statement has been deduced from between forty and fifty cases, in which the symptoms and post-mortem appearances were accurately observed. The morbid sjx?cimens of a very considerable number of them are preserved in the Ana- tomical Museum of the University ot Edinburgh. The majority of the patients were females. None ot them were below the age of ten, few below that ot twenty, few above fifty, and none above that of sixty-seven years. In eight of the males the disease was far advanced. Among these there were four ca.ses of complete erosion, and three ot stricture of the intestines. The intestines were much diseased in eleven ot the females; there were five cases of erosion, and three of stricture. In three males, the inflammation of the intestines had appa- rently not proceeded farther, than what used to be termed its adhesive stage. In these cases, the peritoneum was thickened, had lost its healthy semi-transparency, and its glistening sur- face ; it appeared unusually vascular, and of a red colour. Ge- nerally this appearance did not equally j>ervade the whole of the membrane, but was more apparent in some places than in others. The vascularity of tlie peritoneum may not have been apparent from the effiision of coagulable lymph on its surface, into which a quantity of bloodvessels passed from the inflamed membrane. The effused lymph, in some places, was organized and vascular, thick and tough. In two cases, the effusion of lymph was con- fined to the peritoneum, lining the parietes of the abdomen ; in the third case, the effusion ec]ually pervaded the whole of the membrane. The other coats of the intestines were also fre- quently found thickened. I i 2