307 THE ALIMENTAKY CANAL. I subjoin a remarkable case of the above kind, which liap- pened to a young man, whom I attended along wdth Dr Forbes of London. This patient suffered much from pain around the navel, and tension of the belly, and passed at different times in- voluntarily several green stools; and what he vomited was of the same colour. His pulse inerea.sed to 140 in a minute, and his tongue w.as white. Ten ounces of blood were immediately taken from the arm ; he was put into a warm bath, six grains of calomel were ad- ministeretl, and a large blister wtus applietl to the abdomen. Notwithstanding the above remedies, his pulse did not fall below 100 in the minute, and his tongue continued white and drv. In the course of a few days, a considerable quantity of well formed pus issued from the navel, through which a probe could be passed downwards for three or four inches. The ab- domen was extremely hard, and did not yield to pressure. Hectic fever followed, and the pulse was commonly upwards of 140 in a minute, and weak. The stools were foetid, and involun- tary (which they had indeed been during the greater part of his illness), attended with most excruciating pain as they passed per anum. The pulse was less frequent, and his appetite l>egan to improve, as the purulent matter continiu'd to discharge. lie became weaker every day, his breathing l>ecame lal)orious, and be at last was convidsed, ami jierfectly insensible, before death. Upon dissection, the peritoneum lining the abdominal mus- cles w’as found to be much thicker than usual, and to have formetl adhesions with the omentum. The convolutions of the ileum were of a leaden colour. On raising the peritoneum, a preternatural passage was discovered, which readily admitted the point of the fore-finger, and was filled by a quantity of a yellowish fluid, very much re- sembling bile. It stretched upwards over the left psoas muscle, and over the left kidney. When the largest and uppermost end of this preternatural canal was fully exposed to view, it was found that the jejunum opened into it; and in the jejunum there was precisely the same kind of matter as in the under part of the preternatural canal. u 2