133 INTERNAL INGUINAL HERNIA. comes larger, and the under abdominal aperture is extended, the inguinal canal becomes shorter, and loses its oblique di- rection. The tumour, to a certain degree, changes its place, in consequence of the extension of the upper abdominal aper- ture. The upper part of the tumour, which had an oblique direction in respect to the body of it, becomes perpendicular in respect to the body, the upper and under abdominal apertures being nearly opposite to each other; hence the necessity of ac- commodating the form of the pad of the truss to the stage of the disease. It is unnecessary to describe the common inguinal henila of the female, as the round ligament of' the uterus bears to the hernial tumour the same relative situation as the spermatic cord of the male. Scarpa, and Mr Jui.es Cloquet, have described at conside- rable length the thickened state of the mouth of the hernial sac. Ci.oQUET states, that there may be more than one opening into the principal protrusion, and also that the original sac some- times shrinks, and is connected with a subsequent and larger one. Internal Ingvinal Hernia. In the second motlification of inguinal heniia, tlie bowels oc- cupy only the space between the upjier and under alxiominal apertures, or are engaged in the upper abdominal aperture only. The tumour is of small size, and rounded, and elevates the upper portion of tlie inguinal canal. I have seen an external converted into the internal ingruinal hernia, by wearing an ill-made truss, which, by pressing only upon the under abdominal aperture, had induced the accretion of the opposite sides of the sac ; but that part of the inguinal canal,' between the under and upper abdominal apertures was not ob- literated, and being filled by the protruded bowels, the patient, instead of being relieved, incurred even greater risk of strangul.a- tion, than when the bowels had passed also through the under abdominal aperture. In this case the tumour is small, lies upon the spermatic cord, and is covered by the cremaster muscle: the tendinous aponeu-