THE ALIMENTARY CANAL. 305 and a small circular aperture in the jejunum. Opposite to the place where the injury had been received, there was also an ef- fusion of a considerable quantity of a dirty-coloured serum into the cavity of the abdomen. The coats of the intestines have also been still more frequently destroyed by ulceration, or they have given way in conse- quence of a mechanical obstruction to the progress of their contents from alvine concretions, organic strictures, &c. As soon as the rupture of the stomach or intestines takes place, syn- cope follows, and the patient sinks rapidly,—excepting when the stomach or intestines adhere to the parietes of the abdomen, as often happens in strangulated hernia. In such circumstances, the contents of the bowels are, in some instances, discharged through the aperture for a time, and afterwards resume their former route. The pathognomonic symptoms of rupture of a part of the intestinal tube, by external violence, are, a remark- able degree of collapse, and prostration of strength, coldness, paleness, and sinking of the pulse consequent to the injury. The symptoms above mentioned exist only in cases of rup- ture of the intestines, where there is also great effusion of blood into the abdomen. There is also fa*cal effusion, very acute pain, and the want of passage in the bowels, denoting acute pe- ritonitis. July 2. 1811, I visited, along with the late Dr Graham of Dalkeith, a lady who was reduced to a very miserable state, in consequence of a fistulous orifice at the right side of the navel, through which jmrt of her food, air, a proportion of the faeces, bile, and purulent matter passed. The bowels were rather torpid, and the stools had not the usual colour. Her belly, though much swelled, was not painful, even when rudely pressed, and there was no peculiar hardness jDerceptible in any part of it, or in the region of the liver. Her appetite was pretty good, and the pulse about ninety-six in the minute, and equal. In November following, she was seized with acute pain in the stomach, which was much increased on pressure, and attended with constant nausea and sickness, followed by an intolerable pain U