INFLAMMATION OF THE MUCOUS 326 of inHammation, owing to the thickening of the secreted mem- brane, and the contraction of the muscles, life is in imminent danger, and an opening into the windpipe becomes necessary for the continuance of life. The extreme case is that of hydrophobia, the spasms in the throat and larynx being excited by the application of the mild- est fluids, and, it would seem, even from the contact of the air. The duration of spasm, excited by irritation applied to the mucous membranes, is no less remarkable than its intensity, va- rying from a few hours to many days, months, or years, and at length, in some cases, subsiding without an obvious cause, or laying the foundation of permanent obstruction. The symptoms of inflammation of the gullet are, acute pain in the seat of the gullet, extending upwards to the ears, and downwards to the stomach. The patient suffers very acute pain whilst attempting to swal- low, accompanied by the rejection of the food and the contents of the stomach, a very profuse discharge of vitiated mucus, and saliva, and, in some cases, a discharge of pus. The patient has also a sense of a ball and stoppage in the throat. There have been instances in which the sensibility of the gul- let has been so great, that convulsions have been excited by swallowing the saliva, so that the patient was under the necessi- ty of sitting up in bed, with his head inclined forwards, in or- der that his saliva, which is secreted in larger quantities than usual, miffht flow out at the corner of the mouth. The inflammation is rapidly communicated to the other coats of the gullet, by which they adhere to each other; this proves an additional obstacle to deglutition, as, in the healthy state, the internal coat is loosely connected to the muscular coat, by which the mucous coat may be considerably extended, which tends to facilitate deglutition. Besides, in consequence of the continuance of the inflammation, an adhesion occasionally takes place between the gullet and neighbouring parts. This has sometimes been followed by erosion. Thus an aneurism of the arch of the aorta sometimes has burst into the gullet, or pus has passed from the gullet into the windpipe.