HERNIA OCCASIONED BY THE 176 My learned colleague Dr Bai.lixgall shewed me a striking case of the description above alluded to, and was so polite as to send me the history of his patient, wlio had laboured for some time under strangulated hernia. “ The hernial tumour, which was situated on the right side, was of large size, inflamed, and some- what cedematous. I immediately proceeded to the operation, and on laying open the hernial sac, it proved to be of the congenile kind, consisting partly of omentum and partly of intestine. Of the former, I am told by some of my friends who were present at the operation, that a considerable portion was cut off in a gangre- nous state, although this I do not myself recollect. Of the in- testine a large portion was found protruded, and more came down after the stricture was relieved, but the whole was with some little difficulty returned ; and, although considerably discoloured, its appearance did not lead me to anticipate any thing like slough- ing or ulceration. “ Matters went on favourably for about a week, when, in dres- sing him one morning, a burst of feculent matter unexpectedly took place from the upper extremity of the incision, nearly op- posite to the external orifice of the inguinal canal. From this point more or less feculent matter continued to discharge daily for some weeks, when an abscess formed a little above this aperture, and, on plunging a lancet into it, a quantity of puru- lent matter, mixed with faeces, was dischai’ged. From this time the faeces found their way more readily through the new orifice, and the original wound closed. The patient had a continued discharge from this artificial anus, sometimes of a mucous appearance, at other times more of a bilious cha- racter, and frequently feculent, but always limited in quantity, the great bulk of the faeces passing downwards, in the natural way, by the rectum. He enjoyed, in other respects, tolerable health, his appetite good, and functions natural; but he had always a sallow unhealthy complexion. He went at last to his home, in the outskirts of the town, when, after a time, the ar- tificial anus entirely closed. He did not, however, regain his strength, but died emaciated and dropsical, about sixteen months from the date of the operation.”