218 OF THE CONCOMITANT tumours. The discharge continued u|M)n coughing, or any ex- ertion ; no appetite; frequent singultus; puiiform discharge, with hydatids, from tumour. Patient died exhausted. Peritoneum of parietes of abdomen thickened ; inner surface rough, and covered by shreds and flakes of .soft blackish matter. Smaller intestines adhered to each other, and were covered by a thin transparent membrane, resembling the mesentery, which was intimately agglutinated to them. In the cavity thus formed by this membrane and the abdominal peri- toneum, there was one pound of thick dark-coloured fluid; and between the rectum and bladder several concretions apparently of an osseous character. Liver much diminished in size ; and, on the convex surface of right lobe, there was a large round sac co- vered by the peritoneal coat of the viscus, containing a limpid fluid, and numerous large spherical hydatids, some transparent, some opaque, and some collapsed. Case XII.—This case occurred to my late much esteemed friend and venerable colleague Dr Duncan, whose account of it is subjoined, with the history of the appearances, after death, by myself, which fully explained the most remarkable circum- stance in the history of the case,—the disappearance of the tu- mour in the right hypochondrium in the horizontal position. “ March 18. 1807.—John Brown, aged 38. The whole abdomen is very much enlarged, and affords to the touch a dis- tinct sense of fluctuation. When in the erect posture, there is observed, about the upper part of the hypochondriac, and ex- tending over the greater part of the qjigastric region, a large circumscribed tumour, possessing evident fluctuation, which sub- sides immediately on his assuming the horizontal posture, when an uniform tense swelling occupies the whole abdomen. Pres- sure ap{)lied under the margin of the false ribs, on the right side, excites so considerable a degree of pain as to cause him to wince under it. “ The skin over the whole lw)dy, and the tunica adnata of both eyes, are of a deep yellow colour. The urine of a very