132 DISSECTION OE THE HERNIAL TUMOUR. malic vessels enter the testicle; but sometimes the hernial sac splits the cord. In a case which occurred to my father more than forty years ago, the hernial sac disunited the different parts of the spermatic cord : The vas deferens was found ujxjn the fore part of the tumour, the spermatic artery and vein behind It. In a case described by Camper, the spermatic artery and vein were found before, and the vas deferens behind, the tu- mour. The degree of separation of the parts of the cord is pro- portioned to the bulk of the hernial tumour. The stricture, according to Sir Astley Cooper, in recent and small hernim, is most frequent in the upper aperture, and occasioned by the internal oblique and transverse muscles ; but in hernias of large size, and of some duration, at the under aperture. The strangulation may be seated between the upper and under apertures, or at both apertures, and sometimes, though rarely, it is occasioned by a thickening at the mouth of the hernial sac*. The varied seat of the stricture points out the necessity of the most minute examination into every circumstance of the case. As the under abdominal aperture is composed of tendinous fibres, little benefit can be expected from those remedies which induce relaxation, tendinous fibres being incapable of relaxation ; but an internal stricture produced by the transverse or internal oblique muscles, may be removed by such means. In consequence of the duration of an inguinal hernia, the bowels descend into the scrotum, and as a scrotal hernia be- • My grandfather observes (Vide quarto edition of his works, j). 562), “ Af- ter the bowels are reduced in apjiearance, the surgeon ougiit to search with his finger, lest there be any contracted ringlet, cross bars, or pro<luction of the peritoneum above the ring of the muscle, which might continue the stran- gulation. “ Such strangulating rings are most frequently to be met with in people who have long worn trusses, which have pressed the sides of the sac toge- thcr.” Bertmanui asserts, “ that the transverse and internal muscles sonu-tiines produce strangulation, and constitute a tumour of an inch or two in length.”