87 OF A STRANGULATED HERNIA. Of the Symptoms of a Strangulated Hernia. There is a strong resemblance between the symptoms of this disease and those of inflammation of the intestines excited by other causes: the urgency of the symptoms depends in some measure on the age, sex, and constitution of the patient, the kind of hernia, and the particular bowel wliich has been stran- gulated. Anxiety, restlessness, a sense as if a cord were drawn tightly around the belly, acute pain at the site of the tumour, which extends in a short time over the whole abdomen, and is much increased by pressure, together with costiveness, are the earliest symptoms when a part of the intestine has been dis- placed : rapidly succeeded by hardness and cpiickness of the pulse, which generally rises to 100 or 130 in the minute; but sometimes it has been slower than usual, even when the patient is in the most imminent danger. Dr Baillie has observed, “ that the pulse is by no means an infallible index of the state of the protruded intestine. The pulse is sometimes, in such a case, not increased in frequency beyond the standard of health ; and yet the inflammation of the bowel has been discovered afterwards, by the operation, to be very great. In a case recorded in vol. i. p. 44. of the Medical Gazette, strangulation had taken place without the usual symp- toms of inflammation, and, upon dissection, the protruded jx)r- tion of intestine was of a deep red colour. This is an import- ant practical observation, becau.^e it shows that the degree of inflammation is not to be judged of from the pulse, and teaches that the operation should not be delayed, after the pro- per efforts for reducing the rupture have failed, because the pulse may happen to be little, or not at all, accelerated. If the stricture be not removed, nausea, retching and vomit- ing speedily follow; and if a cathartic is given to procure a stool, it aggravates the symptoms, and is speedily rejected. The abdomen and tumour become tense, hard, and very pain- ful, especially when pressed, or on coughing, sneezing, or vo-