500 OF PKUITONITIS. The clifiereiil turns of the intestines are frequently aggluti- nated to each other by the effused librine. Generally the mu- cous coat was vascular, and of a red aj)[jearance ; but, in one case, it was natural, though the parietal peritoneum was covered with lymph, and the external surface of the intestines bore marks of h\gh inflammation. A serous fluid, containing shreds of lymph, was generally effused into the abdomen. There were also occasional deviations from the usual appear- ances. Thus, in one case, there were numerous steatomatous- looking tumours on the peritoneum, and the membrane was of a darkish-red colour, apparently from effusion of blood into the cellular tissue beneath. The peritoneum was occasionally stud- ded with tumours of a more dense structure. In one case, the external surface of the parietal portion of the peritoneum was covered with fibrine, in consequence of a large abscess, filled with purulent matter, having been situated betwixt it and the abdominal muscles. The other abdominal viscera were also fre- quently affected. The omentum w'as sometimes thickened, in- durated, and adherent to the peritoneum, and occasionally con- tained small firm steatomatous tumours, or cysts filled with a serous fluid. In one case, the liver was diminished in size, hard, and of a mottled appearance, whilst the spleen w^as much enlarged. The liver also frequently adhered firmly to the stomach and ad- jacent convolutions of the intestines, by means of lymph effused on its peritoneal surface. The spleen w'as occasionally of small size, and covered by a similar adventitious membrane. The inflammation was occasionally limited to the smaller in- testines. The serous membranes of the thorax were occasionally sym- pathetically affected. ^Ve sometimes meet with serous effusion into the cavity of the abdomen, and at the same time consider- able serous effusion into the cavities of the pleura;. The mesenteric glands, in several cases, were enlarged, and often contain cheesy, and occasionally earthy, matter. In some instances the gland.s were in progress towardt suppuration; in others, completely suppurated. The smaller intestines were sometimes much distended with