Ol' SCllOFULOUS ULOEIIATION 106 I’owerful emetics, drastic purgatives, and also the scorbutic diathesis, have sometimes caused an effusion of blood from tlie vessels of the intestinal tube, without any breach of surface, or lesion of the part. Mr Howship informs us, that, in one instance, he had seen a continued bleeding from the intestines, which at last terminated fatally *. He imputed this disorder to a scorbutic habit of lx)dy. The same author has published a very striking example of hae- morrhage from the villous coat of the stomach and intestines. “ In no part of the intestinal canal w'as any trace of disease found, with the exception of an apparently relaxed state of the whole villous coat, and a change in its colour.” Blood has frequently been discharged by the dysenteric, without any ulceration, sometimes from the vessels on the villi of the stomach or intestines, though more frequently in conse- quence of ulceration. Such discharges as the former are not dangerous, except when they are,excessive; but those connected with an'ulcerated surface.are to be regai*ded with suspicion, and frequently afford a very unfavourable prognosis. When the stomach is ulcerated, blood is discharged, not only by vomiting, but also by stool. It may also be observed, that, in cases of dysentery, the blood effused occasionally coagulates wdthin the gut, and is discharged in a solid mass? of the form of the cells of the colon. This is illustrated by fig. 15. plate IV. The blood discharged is generally of a dark brown colour, like coffee grounds, and was hence called by the older writers Bilis atra. That the fluid discharged is not bile but blood, may be proved by dissection. The stomach or intestines have been found much diseased, and the very points whence the blood had issued may be sometimes detected. Besides, this dark coloured fluid which is discharged, has not the same bitter taste as bile. This discharge of blood by the anus, may also be owing to a This is uot a very rare octurrcuce.