CAUSES OE SPASMODIC 248 too large to pass through it; but, being soft and friable, it soon broke under the pressure of the forceps, and many fragments were extricated, leaving behind them larger pieces, which, ow- ing to the firm contraction of the bladder, and the almost con- vulsive struggles of the patient, could not be removed.” Mr Key, therefore, gave the boy fifteen drops of laudanum, aiul proceeded to inject warm waterfreely into the bladder. This pro- duced the effect not only of mechanically distending the cavity, but also (f causing the muscular coat to relax. “ Syringeful after syringeful was thrown in, each making way for the more free introduction of the forceps, and the removal of portions of the cal- culus, until, at length, by the alternate use of the syringe and forceps, the whole was removed.” In the latter, there was a contraction in the middle of the bladder, so that it was very difficult to extract a large stone which was lodged in the sac next to the fundus. It was stated to me as a strong objection to my observations on the contraction of the bladder, that that organ does not pos- sess the power of completely discharging its contents, and an ex- periment was cited in proof of that opinion. A gentleman in- formed me that, after having discharged his urine, he had im- mediately afterwards passed a catheter into his bladder, and drawn off* some urine. Such an experiment is not, in my mind, conclusive : it affords only an instance of the imperfect contraction of the bladder of the individual The bladder cannot be regarded, in its sound state, as such an nactive reservoir: it is an organ of much sensibility, and, by the very peculiar arrangement of its muscular fibres *, capable of contracting in a healthy person to such a degree as to expel very nearly the whole of its contents. Experiments upon living animals and pathological observation confirm such an opinion ; and if the bladder be still further stimulated, ashy cutting into it, the con- • Vide de8crij)lion of courHC of these muscular fibres of bladder, in my Klements of Anatomy, voL ii. p. 155-ti, Plates VIII. and IX.