OF HYDROPHOBIA. 261 vessels, and small ramifications of vessels were observed running parallel to the fibres in the cellular structure connecting the fibres. The fourth, fifth, sixth, and seventh cervical nerves were next exposed, and the vascularity of their sheaths was strikingly evident, as well as the ramifications of bloodvessels, highly injected, between the fibres of each nerve. Some of them were so much altered in character as to resemble muscular fibre. Their external surface was almost scarlet, while the internal was of a pink colour, and the vessels could be distinctly seen by means of a small magnifying glass. 1 he dissection was continued down the arm. The branches of the cutaneous nerves upon the inner side of the arm, leading up from the cicatrix, which had been painful, presented the same appearance above de- scribed. The deep seated nerves were not inflamed. The first ab- sorbent gland, at the inner side of the elbow, and the absorl>ent glands leading to the axilla, together with the axillary glands, were examined, but presented no deviation from health. The cicatrix, which had been painful, was very va.scular, and this and another had a small jxirtion of gelatinous substance effused in the cellular membrane under them. The others presented no such appearance. ^ The lining membrane of the mouth, underneath the tongue, was much inflamed. 'I'he fauces, uvula, and pharynx were in a high state of inflammation, jiarticularly the pharynx. The oesophagus, especially near the cardia, was very vascular. The lining membrane was here almost completely denuded, for the space of six or seven inches; what did remain, peeled off’, like the cuticle of a blistered surface. Some patches of inflamma- tion were seen on the internal surface of the stomach. The in- testines were natural, but distended with air. The other viscera were healthy. The larynx and trachea were inflamed, as was the pleura. The lungs were in a state of extraordinary conges- tion. Spine.—The bodies of the third, fourth, and fifth cervical ver- tebras were raised from the fore part, and the theca vertebralis was found covered with injected bloodvessels. The medulla spina-