167 OF VENTRAL HERNIA. Most authors have imputed the ventral hernia to the relaxa- tion of the muscular fibres of the parietes of the abdomen. But as this kind of hernia is often induced in young people by severe muscular exertion, as in lifting weights, leaping horses, dancing, and from violent vomiting, and as the patient at the moment experiences a sense of laceration, it appears pro- bable that it has been occasioned by a rupture of some of the muscular and tendinous fibres, more especially when it is the immediate consequence of muscular exertion; for there is no reason to conclude that the unnatural size of the small open- ings, which give passage to the small bloodvessels and nerves of the parietes of the abdomen, ever gives passage to the contain- ed bowels; more especially as there are no such apertures for the bloodvessels at the linea alba, at which the bowels are most frequently protruded. Such is the opinion which I formerly published respecting the most frequent cause of this kind of hernia, and I wa.s much gratified by observing that Mr A. Cooper and Mr Lawrence* entertained a similar opinion, and that the latter gentleman had detected the rupture of the recti muscles. Ventral hernia; are very seldom strangulated. Some excep- tions, indeed, to this observation occur in the writings of Petit, Littre and Sir A. Cooper. The latter very eminent surgeon has made mention of strangulation of a hernia, which was placed in the linea semilunaris. Mr Hammond has published a case (Medical Gazette, vol. i. p. 370.) in which, on account of tlie enormous thickness of the parietes of the abdomen, the nature of the disease was not dis- covered during the life of the patient. In some old people we meet with large tumours in the belly, owing to the weakness or partial absorption of the parietes : but such tumours scarcely merit the appellation of hemiae, for the bowels are not protruded from their proper cavity. Such tumours have sometimes protruded externally,Jand have attained a very large size, and have been called by Petit • Vide Second Edition of his Treatise on Ruptures, p. 442.