OF THE DIAGNOSIS OF INGUINAL HERNIA. 139 condensed cellular substance, communicates to the touch nearly the same sensations as an omental hernia. If a patient, with masses of fat so situated, had been seized with colic and vomit- ing, and had been at the same time much constipated, recourse might have been had to an operation, for pressure does not alter the shape or bulk of such tumours. The history of the progress of the swelling unfolds the na- ture of it. 2d, The testis, when arrested in the untler abdominal aper- ture, forms a tumour not unlike to an inguinal hernia, more es- pecially as the testis is not fixed in its place. A swelling in the groin, originating from such a cause, may be discovered by the want of the testis in the scrotum, and by the very peculiar sensation which pre.ssure on the testis creates. The case becomes much more puzzling when a turn of the intestine sli])s down behind the testis, sticking at the groin. 3d, A polypus contained in a cyst growing from the sperma- tic cord, bears a strong resemblance to an inguinal hernia. 4th, Crural or pudendal hernia has sometimes Iwen mis- taken for the inguinal. The diagnosis is f'oundetl u|x)n the si- tuation of the neck of the tumour; if the neck be placed above the margin of the crural arch, the tumour is an inguinal hernia, if under it, a crural hernia. The pudendal hernia, situated in the middle of the labium, may be distinguished from the inguinal hernia by being placed on the inner side of the ramus of the ischium, and may be traced as fai‘ as the vagina extends : besides, there is no swelling in the course of the round ligament of the uterus from the groin. 5th, An inguinal hernia bears a considerable resemblance to a hydrocele, especially when the hydrocele extends within the inguinal canal, or when the serous fluid within the hernial sac is in large proportion to the other contents of the tumour, a ^ fluctuation may be perceived in that part of the hernial sac. The fluctuation and pellucidity of the tumour have been supposed to be characteristic of hydrocele ; but neither of these symptoms are perceptible in a hydrocele of some duration, from the thickness