PARTS CONCERNED IN ABDOMINAl- HERNIA. 107 few fibres of the fascia transversalis, and by tendinous fibres from tlie inser- tion of the opposite recti abdominis muscles; the central part consists of the combined tendons of the internal oblique and transverse muscles, and externallv and Interiorly, it is composed of the pubic jiortion of the fascia lata. From the above description, it follows, that the bowels only can be pro- truded through the cxiiral aperture- The crural canal ends at the opening in the cribriform fascia, and the descent of tlie bowels is reaistetl at the upper part of the crural canal, by condensed cellular membrane, which tills the crural aperture, and also by one or two lymphatic glands, which are in the same situation. The hernial sac forces before it this cellular membrane, termeil fascia propria, and frequently a small gland. If the crural hernia shall increase in siae, it bursts through a portion of the sheath in contact with the femoral vein, or dilates one of the openmgs in the cribriform fascia; and, if it protrudes still farther, it is reflectal upwards over Poupart’s Ligament, at an acute angle with the crural canaL OF THK FASCIA I.ATA OF THE THIGH. As the FASCIA LATA of the thigh is intimately interwoven with the fascia* of the muscles of the abdomen, and as a knowledge of the relation and con- nection of these fascia* is necessary to the explanation of the nature of her- nia, I subjoin a description of the fascia lata. All the muscles of the thigh are covered by this strong tendinous aponeu- rosis, which takes its rise from the outer roundeil portion of the crural arcli, from the spine of the ilium, and from the ramus, body and spine of the pube-s and behind from the sacrum, coccyx, tuberosity, and ramus of the ischium. The &scia lata is fixed to the tendon of the gluteus maximus and fascia of the gluteus medius muscle : it is covered by a thin subcutaneous cellular membrane, fat, and by the superficial lymphatic vessels, nerves, in- guinal glands, and by the vena sajihena major. Beneatli the crural arch (supposing the body to be erect), an oval-shaped depression may be perceived on the fore and rather inner part of the thigh, and also on the surface of the pectineus muscle, which muscle is bounded, except at its inner edge, by a weU-defined tendinous border. The situation of the above mentioned depression merits notice, as marking the situation of crural hernia. In the fescia lata, there is an aperture through which the vena saphena major passes, to join the femoral vein, the borders of which aperture are covered by fat, cellular substance, and lymphatic glands. Tlie fascia lata has been described as being composed of two distinct portions: one of which covers the upper and outer part of the thigh, and is connected