OF THE STOMACH. 461 are regular, and the symptoms so obscure as to be scarcely dis- tinguishable, while in others they are nearly similar to those of dyspepsia, and the disease is slow in its progress. The above remarkable fact may probably be owing to diseases of a different description being mistaken for cancer, as the genuine cancer is always accompanied by acute lancinating pain, when the disease has made some progress. Many afflicted by this dis- order have intervals of ease for weeks, who occasionally suffer much from acute pain in the stomach, and severe vomiting. In the prepress of the disease, the intervals of case become much shorter, and in consequence of the acute pain and im- perfect nutrition, the patient dies at length completely ex- hausted. The following case, written by Mr Tytleu, surgeon, con- veys a very impressive and correct idea of the nature, progress, and consequence of scirrhus of the pylorus, when the disease has assumed an aggravated form :— Augiist 18. 1781.—“ J. 11. fctat. 58, of a thin spare habit, and tender constitution. During all his life has been distres- setl with the heartburn, and, of late years, this has l>cen accom- panied with excruciating pains in his bowels, borlmry'gmi, acid eructations, costiveness, and indigestion. Acrid Huid, colour- less and thin as water, frequently runs from his stomach for hours together, and never fails to increase his complaints. This symptom is of a long standing, and generally accompanied with an inci'ease of costiveness. Has occasionally a voracious ap- petite, and irresistible longing for particular kinds of food, which he knows he cannot digest. Such as salt and smoke- dried salmon, hams of all kinds, dried fish, rich sauces, melted butter and vegetables, which never fail to increase his heartburn, and pain in his bow'els, even though taken in very small quantity. About two months ago, his symptoms suddenly became more violent, without a cause, the discharge of water from his sto- mach by the mouth became perpetual, and continues so, inso- much, that a large basin is filled by it once in twenty-four