OF INTESTINAL WORMS. 227 red to concave surface of liver, through the medium of ligamen- tous laminae investing the cyst. Liver granular; considerable effusion of pus over inflamed peritoneal coat. Left kidney was soft, white, and much enlarged ; its infundibula contained se- veral small particles of cholesterine; left ureter much enlarged. Margins of lungs slightly emphysematous. Hypertrophy of left ventricle. Patient a weaver, ast. 38. Symptoms :—Gene- ral uneasiness; swelling and tension of abdomen ; oedema of lower extremities, extending to scrotum; constipation ; dys- pnoea in recumbent posture; slight dry cough ; urine scanty and albuminous. Symptoms of four months’ duration. Had a similar attack sixteen years before.” But I cannot subscribe to the above opinion as to the origin of tubercles. It is adverse to my observations upon tubercles, which I have examined in all their grades, and of different sizes, on many occasions, and when attached to different serous membranes. They have appeared to my unassisted as well as to my assisted eye to be solid, and to bo the products of inflam- mation. If the tubercles be .seated in the lungs, or connected with the peritoneum, or bowels of the abdomen, there is generally, as in other cases, an effusion to turbid serum in these cavities, and shreds of coagulable lymph shooting through it in various di- rections ; and, when tubercles are found in the lungs, some part of them is frequently found more or le.ss condensed. Be- sides the symptoms which precetle death, are those originating from an inflammatory action, as quick or hard pulse, acute pain in the affected jxu t; and, in the case of the abdomen, ten- derness, increased by pressure. In support of the above opinion, it may be observed that the application of a stimulus gives rise to tubercles. My learned colleague Dr Alison, sent to the Museum two speci- mens of the lungs of rabbits, in which tubercles had been pro- duced by a small quantity of mercury injected into the wind- pipe. The animals were killed eight days afterw'ards. Lach tubercle contains a minute globule of mercury. Hydatids are frequently lodged within the lungs, liver, spleen, p 2