332 EXPERIMENTS WITH THE He favoured me with the following report, which I subjoin in his own words. “ Having procured two dogs, I gave to one of them two grains, and to the other one grain of the black oxide of arsenic ; and having confined them in separate apartments at eight o’clock in the morning, I did not examine them again till twelve. Their natural pulse was in the former seventy-six, in the latter eighty-two. “ At twelve I found that vomiting and pur^ng had now come on in the former of these, the nature of which appeared to me to consist principally of bile, often mixed with blood ; indeed the latter was voided almost pure; frequent frothing at the mouth, of a bloody hue. “ Pulse 130, small, hard, and very irregular; shiverings in a short time began to affect the animal, which continued, with very little abatement, till death, accompanied with frequent moaning: the eyes were inflamed, but very much sunk. At this time I observed an increased secretion of urine, rendered evident by an incessant discharge from the bladder, of a dark colour, and emitting a very offensive odour. “ At two, I found the animal nearly in the same state. The vomiting and purging had increased both in severity and in fre- quency ; it expressed the greatest anxiety ; respiration was per- formed with difficulty ; pulse 140, or upwards, small, thready, and often intermitting. “ At four o’clock I again saw it: The limbs were now af- fected with tremors and cramps; the vomiting and purging had now almost ceased; low delirium and insensibility had super- vened. Pulse scarcely perceptible. The increased discharge of urine still continued, which seemed to be involuntai'y. In a short time after the dog expired. “ Upon dissection, the following phenomena were observed : “ The pharynx, and superior part of the oesophagus were in- flamed, much corroded, and covered with a viscid, glairy mu- cus*. The gall-bladder was enormously distended with re- • Mr (JiiAHAM sent me Uic stoiniicli ami intcHtines of tlie dog, which I examined with care, and found quite empty, and jirodigioiisly contracted.