OF THE VARIETIES OF CRURAL HERNIA. 145 of the tumour, it extends laterally, the transverse being the longer diameter. This kind of hernia sometimes attains a con- siderable bulk ; .ray Father met with a case in which the her- nial tumour was in size equal to both his fists. In this variety of hernia, the sac is remarkably thin, so that the vermiform contractions of the protruded intestine are visi- ble ; the neck of the tumour forms nearly a right angle with its In the seventh variety of crural hernia, the protruded bowels primarily enter the sheath of the lymphatic vessels, and then pass through holes for the transmission of lymphatics in the cribriform fascia, and in the falciform process. The tumour is in a great measure immoveable, and bears a very strong resem- blance to an enlarged inguinal gland. The history of the tu- mour, its situation, and its appearance in the erect, and disap- pearance in the recumbent posture, distinguish this disease. The eighth variety of crural hernia cannot be distinguished by an external examination. In this, the obturator artery arises from the same trunk as the epigjistric artery. The common trunk being an inch long, the obturator artery, in its course to the obturator aperture, encircles the neck of the hernial tumour on its pubal side. I have met with three cases of this descrip- tion. On account of the small size of the crural ring, and unyield- ing nature of the surrounding |iarts, considerable pressure is made on the protruded bowel, and it is more difficult to return the displaced parts than in inguinal hernia?. The stricture very often causes acute inflammation ; and hence the contents of the sac are frequently covered by coagulable lymph, which con- nects them together, or to some part of the sac. The effusion of coagulable lymph is not limited solely to the inner serous surface. I have seen so great a degree of inflam- mation excited, that the outer surface of the hernial sac was cou vered by a crust of coagulable lymph, nearly one-fourth of an inch thick. In some cases, the cavity of the protruded intes- tine has been in part filled by coagulable lymph. The hernial sac, in this species of hernia, is subject to chronic K