IN THK I.IVER, &C. 191 Tlie glands are often filled with a fluid like cream, at otlier times with a white curdy substance. This disorder is sometimes combined with thickening and ul- ceration of the mucous membrane of the intestinal canal. Albuminous tumours, in some cases, increase rapidly in size, irritate the mucous membrane to a great degree, and give rise to the discharge by stool of a considerable quantity of ropy mucus. I have a specimen taken from the body of a woman of sixty years of age, who, during the greater part of her life, enjoyed good health. She was suddenly seized with difficulty in swal- lowing and breathing, and expectorate<l a good deal of ropy mucus. From the duration of the disease, she became much emaciated. In consequence of a sense of immediate suffocation, she frequently got up from bed. That distinguishcxl surgeon Mr Liston endeavoured to relieve her, by jiassing a flexible tube into the gullet: this was accomplished with difficulty, on account of several tumours of different sizes which cncircleil the pharynx, and one of them, about the size of a walnut, was found, on dissection, in the immediate vicinity of the larynx.* Similar hard white tumours are frequently found in the rectum, and there is reason to suppose they do not create much uneasiness, till they have attained so large a size as to straiten the caliber of the intestine, or become ulcerated. Albuminous tumours have, in some cases, completely ob- structed the biliary ducts, and occasioned fatal jaundice. In two cases of this kind, Dr Duncan was so obliging as to analyse the contents of the gall-bladder, and found that the fluid possessed very different qualities from bile; for 3i. of it contained only four grains of a substance like the white of an Peritoneum in many places vascular. Ijiver was soft and enlarged; pancreas surrounded by enlarged glands; glands in lesser omentum enlarged, and of a soft purulent consistence ; cervical and inguinal glands similarly affected : spleen tuberculated; transverse processes of cervical vertebrae enlarged. Patient, a female, aet. 3?. Si/mptoms :—Countenance pale; permanent con- traction of muscles of neck, with subsequent projection of cervical vertebrae; great thirst; oedema of lower extremities; irregular tumour perceptible in loft hypogastrium, painful on pressure; much emaciation.” • It is doubtful whether this was not a case of medullary sarcoma. 1