53 OF intestinal concretions. dissolving the stone within the intestine by any medicines given internally. It is surely much to be desired, that other cases, equally fa- vourable as those above described, might occur to a judicious and experienced practitioner, for bringing this operation, pro- posed by my father, to the fair test of experiment. I consider this as an object of great importance, not to the profession merely, but to the general interests of humanity; and entertain the hope that my researches, and the collateral information fur- nished by my friends, may contribute to extend this useful branch of the healing art, and to pave the way for the removal of intestinal concretions, which, when retained within the intes- tines, waste the vigour of the frame *, and abridge the jjeriod of human life. Before concluding, it may not be improper to mention some of those cases which may most readily be mistaken for intestinal concretions lodged within the intestines. The organic derangements which may be most readily mis- taken for intestinal concretions, are indurated faeces, tumours of the omentum or mesentery, incipient dropsy of the ovaria, and an unusual position of one of the kidneys. To throw farther light on these organic affections, I have subjoined the following cases: Cask I.—I was requested by the late Dr Kilgouu of Mus- selburgh, to visit a man of 73 years of age, who was then much emaciated, complained of very acute pain in the abdomen, which was much increased on pressure, and who had had no passage for several days His pulse was quick and hard. The relations of this patient informed us that he had been for many years subject to costiveness and stomach complaints. Several hard substances were distinctly perceived by the touch, a little above the left os ilium. His relatives said that these hard substances • My grandfather, in his description of the case of a boy afflicted by this disorder, has observed, “ that his parents asserted he was scarce of so large a stature, after six years of his disease, as he was at the beginning of it.”— Vide his Works, p. CC7. 2