OF POLYPI IN THE STOMACH. 429 i “ On examining her body after death, the stomacli was found to have fallen down as low as the navel; upon opening it, there I appeared a tumour adhering by a neck to its villous coat. The I surface of the tumour was smooth, and the body of it so fiinv, I solid, and tough, that it was cut through with some difficulty.” The section of this polypus exhibits an uniform substance. The stomach was much enlarged, and of an unusual figure. Polypi have been .sometimes found within the intestinal canal, especially in the large intestines. I had occasion to sec a case 1 in which a polypus in the sigmoid flexure of the colon filled up 1 the cavity of that intestine so completely, as hardly to give pa.s- ; sage to a goose’s quill. In another case, the middle of the arch of the colon was nearly i filled with a spongy excrescence. llnoDius has made mention of a similar case* ; and Fanto- I Nus has observed, that he found within the colon of a dysenteric i patient, a polypus, of a pound weight, eight inches long, and I connected by a narrow peduncle. These polypi create colicky pains, by obstructing the intes- 1 tines, and impeding the progress of the faeces. Portal makes mention of two cases in which he found t polypi within the colon, which almost entirely plugged up its I canal, and which were connected to it by narrow nc'cks-f*. Both persons suftered severely from j^ain in the intestines, ii had frequent vomiting, were subject to obstinate costiveness of It considerable duration, and died of marasmus. The portions ' of intestines above the tumours were much dilated. Such polypi have, in some cases, been discharged by stool, f after occasioning the symptoms above enumerated J, but often i the patient obtains only a temporary relief; for there are gene- I rally more polypi w'ithin the intestine ; and, in consequence of > the enlargement of these, the intestinal canal is again obstructed. C Portal has related a case of this kind ; the polypi proved the t cause of death ; and, upon dissection, several of them, of diffe- 1 rent sizes, were found within the colon. • Vide Act. Hafn. vol. iv. p. 1. &86. t Vide PoHTAi., Anat. Med. tom. v. p. 243. + Ibid.