86 OF THE SYMPTOMS niation; the turns of the displaced intestine adhere to each other more or less intimately, or with the hernial sac. The part of the intestines nearest to the stricture is found to be most inflamed. Above the stricture the intestines are much dilated, and occupy the greater share of the cavity of the abdo- men, but those beneath it are considerably contracted. The part more immediately compressed, has the appearance as if a cord had been put around it very tightly, and is gene- rally somewhat of a purple or leaden colour: this stricture may cause considerable permanent contraction of the intestine; the mucous coat, at the part more immediately compressed, is gene- rally ulcerated. The protruded intestine is thereby readily rup- tured, and this happens more especially in crural hernia of a small size. The leaden colour is not an infallible index of mor- tification ; for even the intestines, when of such a colour, some- times retain their usual texture, for the distention of the smaller veins under the peritoneal coat, from the great pressure made by the stricture, is the cause of the dark colour of the inte*s- tines. Thus, the protruded intestine assumes a deep purple colour, though by no means gangrenous, and does not tear, though repeatedly handled rudely, and even pinched by the for- ceps, employed for anatomical purposes *. In some instances of crural hernia, I have remarked an effu- sion of coagulable lymph, not only on the surface, but also with- in the protruded intestine, which almost completely obstructed its cavity. The tendinous fasciag covering the hernial tumour seldom partake of the inflammation, a circumstance which is worthy of recollection, as the surgeon, during his operation, discovers, from the redness of the hernial sac, when he has cut down to it. ration does not hold true with respect to Scotland : for, by the returns from the northern districts, it does not appear that hernise were more frequent in these than in the more southern recruiting districts. • A more full description of the effects of inflammation of the intestines is given under the head, of the Organic Derangements proper to each of tha Coats of the Intestines.