OF intestinal concretions. 39 (who gives a valuable course of Lectures upon Veterinary Sur- gery), shewed me a number of intestinal concretions which he had extracted from horses. He informed me he had found twenty of tliese in a miller’s horse. Some of these were of a large size, one weighed twelve pounds; the majority of the larger are of an oval shape, but the smaller are irregular. The larger were tuberculated on their surface, and internally had the same structure as those taken from the human body ; and they are generally buried in the caput cwcum coli. Mr Dick, who had never heard of Dr Wollaston’s observations, told me that these concretions were comjxjsetl of the husk of the oat or of barley, mixed with a greater or less projwrtion of sand ; and added, that they generally have as a nucleus, a piece of a nail or bone, or a small pebble. Concretions of a different kind are sometimes found within the intestines of persons who had dietl from dysentery ; and these are formed of tlie Jibrinc of tlu' blood. A very remarkable specimen, which is represented by Plate III., fig. 1., is preservetl in the Museum of the University, in which the mass of fibrine is of very large size, and had taken a mould of the cells of the colon. I have had tx:casion to see, in several instance.s a con- siderable quantity of fibrine passtxl along with the faeces, in the form of cylinders ; and sometimes it assumes an aiborescent ap- |)earance. It also frequently happens, that a (juantity of a sub- stance resembling spcrtnficcti, probtibly stearrhcea, is discharged by those who have concretions within the intestines. Cotxcomilant Symptoms. Intestinal concretions have, on many occasions, for years, proved a source of much irritation and derangement of the functions of the aliinentarv canal, and also to those of the neighbf)uring parts. They give rise to tension, to more or less pain in different parts of the intestines, and to occasional looseness, nausea, and vomiting. ■* The pain in the bowels is, in some cases, fixed to one part, is much more severe upon one occasion than another, especially after taking acids, or food of difficult digestion.