20 OF ALVINE CONCRETIONS. very unequal surface, whilst others seem to be made up of a congeries of smaller calculi. This may be proljably owing to the additions made to the surface of the calculus during the o time it remains fixed within a certain portion of the intestinal canal. Thus a concretion which had been moveable becomes fixed, from the convexities on the surface being adapted to the concavities within which the concretion has been lodged. Some such concretions impress each other, as was the case with those which Dr Duncan lately sent to the museum. This specimen, which he received from Mr Torbet, weighed twelve and one-fourth ounces, consisted of three parts, and occupied a considerable share of the colon, measuring at its greatest circumference seven and a-half inches*. Some alvine concretions are perforated by a number of small holes, like some corals. The smaller concretions are of a somewhat oval or spherical shape, and a little flattened at the sides, which is probably occa- sioned by the friction and pressure of one concretion upon an- other. My grandfather has observed, when describing a case in which several concretions were passed, “ That the largest of these five balls, which was the first voided, is five inches in circumference, and something globular, but with several prominences, and flat surfaces. Most of the flat parts had a smooth shining tartarous thin coat; the rest of it was more rough, and of a spongy ap- pearance. The two last brought away are less in bulk, and without so much tartarous crust; the two small ones are all co- vered over with a shining tartarous crust, which, in several places, is prettily variegated with different shades of an ashy colour. One of them has some resemblance in shape to the shell of a tortoise ; the other, or smallest, may be compared to two pyramids, joined by a common base -f*. • A full account of the symptoms occasioned by this large concretion, which consists of tiirce jiieces, is given in the Edinburgii INIcdical and Sur- gicai Journal, vol. xxiv. p. 87, &c. Vld. Quarto Edition of his Works, p. 6GH.