OF STIUCTUIIE OF THE INTESTINES. 362 before opening the abdomen. The small intestines were found distended to a very great degree, and contained a large quantity of semifluid focal matter. The valve of the colon was in an indurated state, and the passage through it could only admit the little finger. The large intestines were collapsed and empty.” Above the stricture, the coats of the intestines are frequently inflamed and ulcerated. In the cancerous stricture of the intestinal canal, there is not only a very great degi-ee of thickening of the coat, but also tu- mours of different sizes, of a malignant nature, which tend still farther to lessen the aperture through the stricture. The appearance of stricture in the rectum has been so faith- fully described by Dr Gregoky, (see p. 16. of this volume,) as to supersede the necessity of further description. Stricture in the intestines gives rise, in its earlier stages, to colic pains, to costiveness, alternating with bilious diarrhoea. After some time, solid faeces are very rarely passed, and only after a great effort; and these are by no means of the natural size, being generally not thicker than a common sized writing- quill. A purgative affords but temporary relief. The stricture, in some cases, occasions an inflammation of the intestines. Rupture of the intestines above the stricture sometimes takes place; and, when this has happened, the patient is suddenly seized with very acute pain in his bowels, like that occasioned by a strangulated hernia, followed by the sudden sinking of the pulse, by cold sweats, syncope, and in four or five hours death. The following are examples of this disease. In the first case there was a complete stricture of the ileum near to its termination, where it was so much contracted that even water would not pass through the constricted part. In the second case, the left side of the colon was found to be indurated and contracted, so that the little finger could scarcely be passed through it. The cavity of the abdomen was filled with feculent matter, which had escaped through an ajxTture in the intestine immediately above the stricture.