504. SYMPTOMS or in consequence ot the extension of tlie inflammation. As the peritoneum lining the abdomen is inflamed, the movements of the body and the action of the diaphragm and abdominal muscles occasion pain. For a similar reason, hiccup and vomiting sometimes take place, and often a peculiar spasmodic action, like the belshing of wind, continues for a considerable time without interruption, and accompanied by acute pain ; and, on some occasions, there is acute pain during micturition, and diminution or almost sus- pension of the secretion of urine ; and, in the ca,se of a female patient, there were frequent calls to make urine, which was voided frequently in small quantities, and with great pain. The fundus uteri was found much inflamed. In the progress of the disease, the pain is sometimes consider- ably aggravated in particular regions, in consequence of the pro- pagation of the inflammation, or of a sudden increase of it, where it originally existed. Towards the fatal termination of this inflammation, the fea- tures become collapsed, and the strength much depressed ; the breathing more difficult, the vomiting more frequent; the acute pain in the belly abates, whilst the swelling increases; the pulse sinks, becomes very quick and irregular, which is rapidly suc- ceeded by hiccup and death. Towards the termination of the disease, the sensorium be- comes much affected, occasioning wildness of expression, inco- herence in conversation, and delirium. It is a remarkable fact in the history of peritonitis, that the activity of the disease may subside, leaving the patient in an apparently convalescent state, with all the functions of the ab- dominal bowels in a healthy state, while most extensive disease remains. This may be unsuspected until the disease assumes a fa- tal character, either suddenly or gradually undermining the health of the patient. Such is the usual train of symptoms. There are certain ex- ceptions to these which merit attention. It has been already observed, that constipation is a usual