ON THE EFFECTS OF OPIUM. 338 dually paler towards the pyloric orifice, where it was nearly of the healthy hue. Upon the cardiac portion of the stomach there were a number of dark-like coloured spots, about the size of a pin’s head, of the colour called by Mr Syme arterial red, and here and there large blotches of a similar colour. In a case described by Mr Stanley, in the Transactions of the London College of Physicians, vol. 6th, the stomach was not inflamed. Mr Reid, assistant to Dr Hope, made a number of experi- ments upon the contents of the stomach, and informed me that he could not detect the laudanum, by the nicest tests, in the con- tents of the stomach. This is a fact worthy of particular notice, because there could be no doubt that this person’s death had been occasioned by the quantity of laudanum she had swallowed, —and it had been so completely extracted from the stomach by Reid’s apparatus, that it could not be detected. The subjoined is Mr Reid’s own statement of the experiments he made upon the contents of the stomach:— “ About six ounces of fluid were obtained after collecting the remaining contents of the stomach, and washing it with rather more than four ounces of water. I suspected from its odour and appearance that opium had been taken, though not aware at the time of the nature of the poison that had been swallowed, the smell being very similar to what I had previously observed in a case of poisoning by laudanum, that I had been called to ex- amine some months ago. In this instance, however, the odour resembling that of opium was so exceedingly fmnt, and so weak, compared with that of the other contents of the stomach, that I did not feel satisfied that there was any present. Decomposition, indeed, had already commenced, and in a few hours after the liquid had been filtered, the putrefactive smell was so strong that nothing else could be perceived. “ After filtration, the fluid was quite transparent, but had a slight tinge of rod, and similar in appearance to water tingetl with a small quantity of the colouring matter of the blood. It was slightly alkaline, and a stre.am of sulphurettc'd hydrogen, passed through a small portion of it with the usual precautions, gave no indications of the presence of any metallic siilt.