WHITE OXIDE OF ARSENIC. 335 Tliere is, iiowever, mucli variety as to the time in which ar- senic proves fatal, as that depends upon the quantity of tlie poison whicli has been taken, upon the poison being in the me- tallic state, or oxydized, aiul also upon the age and constitution of the individual. In general, twenty-four or thirty hours elapse before it proves fatal, as vomiting generally takes place; and from thirst, ami heat in the gullet and stomach, the patient drinks largely, which dilutes the |X)ison. In short, the symptoms occasioned by this mineral are similar to those of very acute inHammation of the stomach and intes- tines, which is very rapidly followed by gangrene. In other instances, arsenic produces a great degree of spas- modic contraction in the cardia, which prevents the {latient from vomiting, though he is hara.s.setl by an excessive sickness. The stomach thereby becomes so much distended by air, as in some instances to be in great danger of bursting; and when an intrument is introiluced, in order to drain olf the air, it rushes out with a loud sound. Arsenic, when given in a dose not sufficient to destroy life, generally produces effects that render death desirable; such as constant pain in the stomach ami Inrwels, and tremors, which terminate in palsy and lingering hectic *. Some patients wlio have survived the taking arsenic, are af- flictetl with ill-conditioned ulcers. Even the fumes of this mineral are deleterious "f*. Arsenic produces, in manufactories in which the labourers are exjxrscxi to its fumes for many years, the greatest degree of emacia- tion. knife witij so much care as to remove the arsenic from the groove in the blade, which is left for assisting us in opening the knife. The same day, after dinner, he cut an orange with the .same knife; in the evening he became ex- tremely sick, and continued so during the whole night; he was also thrown into a violent sweat. • Vide a very instructive case drawn up by Du Haen, Ratio Me- dend. voL liL p. 113. t Vid. Van Swieten, Comment, vol. ii. p. 715.