THICKENING OF THE MUcOUS 350 latinous substance, mixed with coagulable lymph, adhered very intimately to the villous coat of the sigmoid flexure of the coloij and the rectum; above the sigmoid Hexure, the intestine had given way, and the ruptured part was covered by the same kind of jelly. In this case the rectum was considerably constricted for the space of four inches. In some hernia?, coagulable lymph nearly fills up the pro- truded portion of the intestine. Coagulable lymph has some- times been discharged in the form of cylindrical tubes; or it bears some resemblance, in form, to the ramifications of the bloodvessels, and has been mistaken for worms. But, in other instances, the coagulable lymph which fills up the intestines is not discharged : it continues to plug up the intestinal canal, and proves the cause of death, as in the following case, for which I am indebted to the late Dr Walter Graham of Dalkeith ; “ Dalkeith, May 24. 1808. “ In the beginning of January last, I was requested to visit James Young, eleven years of age, on account of a swelling of his belly. “ Upon examination, the abdomen was found tense, consi- derably swelled, and an evident fluctuation was to be felt. He complained of a fixed pain in the left side, aggravated by the slightest motion, as stooping, or making a full inspiration, &c.; was troubled also with occasional headache; pulse, for the most part, quick, but weak, belly bound, tongue dry, and he com- plained much of thirst; urine very scanty. He ascribed these symptoms to a fall upon bis left side, from the height of about six feet, which happened seven or eight weeks before; after which he always complained of a pain in that side, and the ab- domen was observed gradually to increase in size. He was or- dered digitalis with calomel; after a continuance of which, for abotit the space of a month, the fluctuation disappeared, and the swelling gradually diminishetl, but, with the pain, still continued in a degree. A peculiar hardness was now to be felt all over the abdomen ; his appetite failed, which before had Ix*cn keen,