OF RUPTURE OF A PART OF 306 and swelling in lier right side, which was painful on pressure, and extended towards the navel. She continued in this state for several months. At length the tumour became discoloured, and an obscure fluctuation was perceived ; a poultice was there- fore applied, and the matter pointed at the right side of the navel, which induced Dr Graham to make a small puncture with a lancet into the most prominent part of the tumour, with the view of preventing the matter from getting into the cavity of the abdomen, upon which a quantity of well-conditioned pus was discharged. The pain in the right side still continued. In the course of a week, matter escaped at two other ori- fices; one in the navel, and the other on the right side, and through these also the bile and food passed. About eighteen months afterwards, she had acute pain, especially in the region of the liver, which stretched towards the navel, where a dark-coloured tumour, about the size of a chesnut, presented itself; a poultice was applied, and soon afterwards a biliary calculus, of a large size, was discharged through one of the orifices above described : and in the course of nine days afterwards, two concretions, in all respects similar to the former, were discharged; these concretions, before their escape, created the most excruciating agony. As soon as the biliary calculi had passed, the pain subsided, the patient’s health began to improve, and the orifice of the sinus became much less, and now would admit only a common sized probe. The bile, and a part of the food, still continued to pass through the false passages. Though foreign to the present subject, it may not be impro- per to add, that this lady, eighteen months ago, after having had the sensation of insects moving within the bladder, dis- charged, along with her urine, the larvas of insects alive, such as have been described and represented in the Edinburgh Me- dical and Surgical Journal, vol. vii. There is still another way in which life has been protracted, even though a portion of the intestinal canal has been ruptured, viz. by a layer of coagulablc lymph surrounding the ruptured orifice.