257 OF HYDROPHOBIA. severe struggles she had undergone. At this time it was very apparent, that the glare of a candle, or any bright object, im- mediately caused the convulsions. I asked if she thought she could take a bit of bread soaked in wine; to which she answered, that it would not be amiss. Some little bits she afterwards got over, and the remainder of the draught. Eleven p. M. all the symptoms were more violent; still, however, she was distinct; seemed at first very uneasy at my approach, as she dreaded another dose ; was immediately startled, and convulsed when a candle was brought before her; said she could not liear the sight of it; when offered a bit of bread with wine, 2ntreated it might not be insisted ufxm, as she was sure it would not, did we know the painful struggles it occasion- ed her. Her pulse was not to lie felt; breathing more cut or interrupted; tongue white, and much viscid saliva appeared to have collected about the fauces; a cough, or some motion betwixt that and hiccup, became much more frequent, and at times caused such a noise as might, by a lively imagination, be compared to the barking of a tlog. An emollient injection was ordered ; and after the oj)cration of it, an aiUKlyne and foetid one. The former was administered, but immediately returned without any foeculent matter. She had had no stool since ad- mission, though she had passed a small quantity of urine. The anodyne injection she could by no entreaty be made to receive. During the night she had no sleep, but tossed about perpetually in great agony, frequently delirious, and affected with convul- iions, extreme anxiety, and sense of instant dissolution. At nine a. m. all the symptoms seemed aggravated ; she had often short paroxysms of universal convulsions and tremor. The pulse was not to be felt at the left, and hardly at the right wrist; about 120: she often tossed alwut; starting up in bed, and threw herself down again ; the catching at her breathing was in- cessant ; often recovering, however, she presently recollected her- self ; said she had no pain, and, notwithstanding her seeming igony, could specify no particular distress. She asked for a nonthful ol cold water, which she got over in part, with vio- ent struggles, and immediately cried out she was gone. She 11 L