177 ELONGATION OF THE OMENTUM. “ On dissection, several pounds of serum were found effused into the cavity of the abdomen ; the liver and mesenteric glands were found extensively diseased, and full of hard cheesy-looking tubercles. A very large indurated gland, full of the same cheesy- looking matter, was situated without Poupart’s Ligament, and many of the same kind within it. The ileum was found adhe- rent to the parietes of the abdomen, opposite to the cicatri.x of the artificial anus, and below the |X)int, which was about six inches from its termination in the colon, the calil)er of the intestine appeared rather contracted. At the same j>oint also, that is to say, opjxjsite to the artificial anus, a prcimgation of the omentum, in the form of a varroio-pointcd dip, xcas found attached, and an adventitious band, al)out two inches long, with a tubercular mas.s in the centre of it, was found passing from a ffexure, in the lower part of the ileum, to the caput coccum coli, and, ujx)n a minute exainination, it was found that a fine probe could be passed through the artificial anus. “ I was anxious to have made a niore minute examination of the parts, but was prevcntctl.” Queen Street, 1 18/A March 1826. J The following remarkable case of internal strangulation was communicated to me by Mr Liston. “ James Black, ?et. 64, had a good recovery after the opera- tion of lithotomy. Nearly six weeks after its jicrformancc, he was seized with obstruction of the bowels, vomiting, hiccup, &c. &c. Various medicines by the mouth were tried, as well as large injections by means of Mr Read’s syringe, but without effect. “ On dissection, an old, and remarkably dense adhesion, about the thickness of a person’s fore-finger, was found passing from the upper part of the mesentery to the rectum, separating the bowels into two portions. The stomach, and upper part of the small intestines, were distended and infiamed. The rest of the canal was empty, and sound. I may add, that this patient had suffered from several severe attacks of ileus.” M