CONTRACTION OF THE MUSCULAR FIBRES. 249 traction is, in many instances, perfect. With the view of deter- mining this point, I prevailed upon a butcher, before killing a sheep, to pass his knife into the bladder of the animal. Upon examining the bladder, it was found contracted into a small hard ball, and its cavity was completely obliterated ; and lest it might be said that this contraction took place during the struggles preceding death, the bladders of other sheep that had- been killed in the usual way were examined, but were not con- tracted in a similar manner. The complete contraction may be induced by the irritation of a stone within it. I have in my possession a specimen, in which the bladder was so much constricted that it would hold but very little urine. There is a groove ujwn the surface of the stone, through which the unne passed to the urethra, and which had been rendered deeper by the catheter, which had been employed in the earlier part ol the disease, when this patient laboured un- der a suppression of urine. Professor Hussel was so |x>lite as to favour me with a draw- ing, from a preparation in hi.s fjossession, in which the bladder of urine had been contracted, like an hour-glass, upon a stone, which filled both com|)artments, and also a part of both ureters! There are other medicines which are useful in resolving spasm of the canals for the food and urine. The tinctura muriatu ferH, as a means of removing spasm )f the urethra, was introduced into notice by Mr Cline. He irescribed ten drops every ten minutes in a glass of water, until he urine came away in a stream. When administered in the node above mentioned, it powerfully affects the stomach, and, rom sympathy of other parts, produces syncope, or a very near’ pproach to it. Camphor is of peculiar efficacy in spasmodic disorders, when dmmistered in large doses, according to Hoffmann and *1NEL. The former laborious physician has related the case of a hy- oc londnac, who, when in a very despondent state, on account