( 361 ) OF STRICTURE OF THE INTESTINES. Strictures of the intestines bear an exact resemblance to tliose of the gullet, which have already been described, with the exception that they are sometimes of greater length. I liave seen the ileum contracted for seven inches. Strictures are more frequently met with in the colon and rec- tum than in the smaller intestines; I have seen the natural caliber of the colon so much reduced by this disease that it would give passage to a goose quill only. In consequence of stricture, the parietes of the abdomen are so much distended, that the recti muscles are separated for stmie distance from each other, and this separation is obvious during life, of which the subjoined case is a gootl example “ M. L., net. 52.—Abdomen very much distended, ahd reso- nant on percussion ; the patient always suffers acute pain, which is increased somewhat by pressure ; bowels much confined; urine high coloured, and passed with pain. Says that she some- times swells up suddenly, and that the distention gives her acute pain. When the abdomen is in this state, the direction and size of the large intestine is easily and exactly traced through the extremely thin parietes of the abdomen. Ri.*cti muscles felt apart from each other to the distance of six inches; pulse 112, small and weak ; cannot sleep, and has scarcely any appetite ; is much emaciated. The present symptoms occurred first nine months ago, since which time the catamenia have never appeared. “ (Jan. 8th) One stool, dark coloured and scanty, from a pur- gative and enema given yesterday ; swelling and pain of enema continue ; feels very weak. “ (9th), Died in the course of three days. “ Inspection 24 hours after death.—Abdomen was more dis- tended than during life, and the linea alba was much widened towards the centre of the abdomen. The recti muscles were fully three inches apart. At the pubes, the linea alba was of Its usual size, but the sternal extremity was about an inch in breadth. 1 he recti muscles were thin, and much expanded