322 INFLAMMATION OF THE MUCOUS MEMBRANE other coats of the aff'ected part, which may be readily separated from each other, owing to the serum which is effused between them. The muscular fibres appear, in consequence of inflam- mation, like fine strise. By chronic inflammation, the mucous membrane of tlie sto- mach acquires a partial reddish colour, inclining to yellow: it is tougher than during health, and rougher on its surface, which may be readily distinguished by drawing the finger along it; and a part of it assumes somewhat of a fungous appearance. The redness induced by inflammation has sometimes gone off after the lapse of twenty or thirty hours. This is not the re- mark of a superficial but of an acute observer, Professor Hor- ner of Philadelphia, who has directed much attention to this very important inquiry. He observes, “ The traces of acute inflammation are in many cases very fugitive, and entirely dis- appear upon death, because the local irritation which attracted the blood and accumulated it, having ceased, the blood aban- dons that part, and retires towards the centre of the circulation. We can seldom tell by the appearances, twenty-four hours after death, the quantity of blood which has penetrated an inflamed membrane, as the peritoneum, the pleura, the cellular and mu- cous membranes, the skin, &c. The eruption of measles and the redness of sore throat disappear on the death of the patient. We are not, however, to infer from these circumstances that the mere afflux of blood to a part constitutes inflammation ; on the contrary, it is attended with a dilated condition of the vessels, independent of this afflux, for, if death occur during the height of the measles, the eruptions may be made to re-appear by in- jecting the vessels. Bichat has very properly ob-served, that in inflammation we should distinguish between acute and chro- nic affections, because, though tlie bkxKl readily vanishes from the former, yet it will remain in the latter, because it has com- bined with the diseased organ. Hence, induration, suppura- tion, and vitiated .secretions are satisfactory signs of inflamma- tion of a part.” Bichat has added, that if the inflammation be chronic., the apfK-arancc of inflammation does not go off, as the bhxxl con- tinues within the vessels.