OF MUCOUS MEMBRANES. 441 by it, and had recourse to the semi-erect posture, like one in a paroxysm of asthma. In a consultation, it was agreed that ex- tirpation should he speedily resorted to, for the following rea- sons : The tumour, though fixed, was at first moveable; from its rapid increase the patient must in a short time have died from inanition or strangulation; the operation would at the least produce a temporary alleviation : And a case occurred lately, in which a similar tumour was removed with success. “ 21st, Betwixt the hours of one and two p. m. the tumour was removed by incision, after being freed from its attachments to the gum and tonsil on the right, and the cheek, gum, and tonsil on the left side. The velum and uvula were removed along with it, which ex|x>sed to view a tumour nearly as large as the first; they were connected at their bases, and seemed to be only one tumour with two lobes. This posterior lobe hung, from its attachment behind the velum, down into the pharynx. The effusion of blo(xl from the wound was trifling; the pulse 120, and weak. Feeling weak and much exhausted, she was put to bed, with the intention of waiting till she became strong- er before any thing further should be attempted. “ The tumour being cut into, was found to be of the sarco- matous kind; very like gristly fat in texture, but of a rather whiter colour. “ About an hour after being put in bed, the patient was alarmed by an CK)/,ing of blood from the wound ; this increasetl very fast, and before assistance could be got she had lost a great quantity of blood. She had swallowed a considerable quantity of the blood ; had little sleep during the night. “ On the 22d she complained much of sickness, and a burn- ing pain in tbc region of the stomach, and vomited some dark grumous matter. She swallowed with ease, and spoke tolerably well. Pulse frequent and weak ; slept a little. She obstinate- ly refused to take any wine. “ 23d, She vomited some more of the dark grumous matter; and passed something similar by stool, which greatly relieved the cardialgia. Took some beef-tea and panada for food ; slept well. The wound had a putrid disagreeable smell. She be-