48 OF INTESTINAL CONCRETIONS. by the peritoneum, but connected by cellular substance only to the muscles, if an incision be made on the posterior part of' it, between the twelfth rib and upper part of the ilium, or imme- diately above the ilium, the colon may he opened, without open- ing into the cavity of the belly; and the wound, I have little doubt, could .be cured without much danger, especially as, in the course of last year, I have seen it in one case wounded by a pistol ball, and in another eroded at this very place; and yet in both the openings were healed soon *. • As the success of the cases related in the London Medical and Physical Journal, vol. xlvi. p. 72, &c. in which an artificial anus was formed by an in- cision into the colon a little above its sigmoid flexure; and as an extensive intusceptio was removed after having opened the containing intestine, {vide Hufeland’s Journal for Feb- 1825), may turn the scale in favour of the mode of operating which was adopted in these cases, I have subjoined the subsequent narrative communicated by Mr to Mr Benjamin FonuEs, as a counterpoise. “ 29. Drummond Place, April 1826. “ Sir,—The patient I mentioned from whom the alvine concretion was extracted, was a man about 38 years of age. For more than twelve mouths, by his own account, he had been distressed with bowel complaints, frequent gripes, and costiveness,—^for which he had been ordered a variety of laxa- tives, clysters, &c. which, in general, produced watery, fetid evacuations, and gave temporary reliefi He was considerably emaciated, but could walk six or seven miles. When I examined his belly, he pointed to the right side of it; and about three inches from the navel obliquely outward, there he said he had the most pain. At first I took it for an enlarged lymphatic gland, about the size of a goose’s egg; but it had quite a diflferent sort of feel from that of an hardened gland. From all the symptoms, and repeated examinations, of the affected part, I concluded that it was what it turned out to be; and I told him that it was too large and hard ever to be expelled by laxatives and that the only way that I could rid him of it, was by an operation, fully more doubtful than cutting for the stone; he then told me that he was willing to take his chance at all peradventures. The operation was done in manner following:—An assistant, with one hand on each side of the tumour, pinched up the skin and teguments, so as to keep the lump steady and prominent. After this, an incision waS made, the full length of the tumour, through the skin and cellular substance, so as to lay bare the gut; the last incision was made through the intestine cross-ways, then with the two forefingers within the gut, like forceps, the tumour was extracted. In less than twenty-four hours the patient was seized with violent abdominal pains and vomiting, and died.—In this case, if I had opened the tumour by 5