FOUMiVTION OF THE INGUINAL CANAL. 119 side of the cord. As, however, the parts are more dilatable in the young than in the old person, so is hernia, cateris paribits, more readily reducible in the former, and, consequently, less dangerous. The gut, in the first instance, in the young sub- ject, passes through a simple rhig; but if the hernia be allowed to remain, then, in many cases, the upper orifice, ascending to- ward the spine of the ilium, as it ought to do, comes in the end to lodge both the hernial sac and the spermatic cord in a com- plete canal; and this will })robably l)c found to be the reason why surgeons believe that hernia does often take place along the canal. They sec a herniary tumour in advanced age, lying in the oblique course of the canal; but they forget to inquire when the protrusion took place, and what was the original apix?arance of the tumour. “ Were they to trace their cases to their origin, they would most probably ascertain, that, in the first instance, the hernia had appeared in infancy, that it had been less oblUjue at heg^inning, but imperceptibly become more and more so. 1 s|^eak from what I have seen in several instances. Ainong a considerable nunil>er of patients in whom the hernia was lodged in the canal, and of some of whicli I have casts, I have uni- formly, by applying to the friends, ascertained that the rupture had taken place in infancy, and had slowly assumed the oblique direction. Some of the nurses have even said, that when, im- mediately after birth, they attempted to return the gut, they found that it had passed through a hole, alx>ut large enough to admit the tip of their little finger; but when the child was older, they found it run more to a side. “ In the advanced stage of hernia, tire parts are brought into precisely the same state they vvere in when the disease be- gan. In the congenital hernia, or in the common inguinal herrua taking place in a very young child, tlie sac passes through a mere aperture; then, in time, we have seen that, owing to changes which this opening undergoes, the gut comes to be lodged in a fully formed canal. This continues till the tumour becomes large, when the posterior side of the canal is, owing to the pressure, slowly absorbed ; and again the up-