]\riLK-LTKE TUMOUR OF MUCOUS MEMBRANE. 415 same consistence, but rather softer; has an irregular surface, and is covered hy a thin membrane, upon which there is a number of vessels filled with blood. This sjxjcies of tumour very readily falls to pieces, and mixes in part with water, forming a turbid mixture; and it becomes somewhat hardened by being put into strong spirits. It ad- heres but slightly to the organ from which it grows, by'a num- ber of small processes, which insinuate themselves into the thickened villous coat : after the tumour has been detachctl, the villous coat of the diseased bowel assumes somewhat of a honey-comb appearance, and it is besmeared with several drops of blood, derived from the vessels which supplieil the tumour having been torn. The bowel from which such a tumour grows, betrays marks of inflammation externally ; there is evidently an unnatural determination of blood to the seat of the disease, the bkxxl-vcs- sels upon the peritoneal coat, being not only larger, but also more numerous, than in the healthy state. The neighbouring lymphatic’glands also partidpatc in the dis- ease, being much larger than in the healthy state; and they arc filled with precisely the same milt-like matter. In a case which I had occasion to examine, the blatlder was filled with the milt- like matter, and one of the lymphatic glantls at the side of it had attained the size of the fist, so that I at first supposed tliere had been a morbid contraction in the middle of the blad- der ; but found, upon opening it, that there was no commu- nication between the cavity of the bladder and the swelling con- nected with it. There is another peculiarity in the disease, viz. the emission of a very remarkable and offensive foetor: the organ containing such a tumour is as much discoloured, and emits as foetid a smell, as the same bowel which had been exposed to the air for several days. The veins distributed on the mucous membrane, in the vici- nity of the tumour, are considerably enlarged and distended with blood.