STOMACH AND INTESTINES. 273 and, like other muscular constrictions which take place during life, goes off in the act of dying. If the above observation be admitted to its full extent, it seems probable, that such a contraction would have been observed by all accurate anatomists ; whereas Dr S. Soemmering, perhaps the most distinguished anatomist of the day, does not consider the contraction at or near to the middle of the stomach, to be natural, but the product of the pressure of stays ; and has add- ed, that there is no trace of such a constriction in the middle of the stomachs of children ♦. The same author has described a comtriction near to the py- lorus as the natural form of the stomach, which I Iiave also ob- servetl; and, in some cases, a.s De Haen has justly remarked, the stomach has been constricted in several places^ so as to re- semble the colon. There are other arguments hostile to the opinion of Sir E. Home. There is no muscular band appropriated to that pur- pose, and a constriction fretjHently takes place in other organs of the boily similarly constructetl as the stomach, but subservient to a different pur[X)se, as the gall-bladder, biliary ducts, the ure- ters, bladder of urine, urethra, the uterus, anil vagina. This temporary constriction, as in the case of the urethra and gullet, has sometimes paved the way for the jx;rmanent organic stric- ture. Lastly, a spasmodic constriction at or near to the middle of the stomach, is, according to the statements of Morgagnm, Sir E. Home and Nacuaut, a source of deranged digestion, and accompanied by great distention of the stomach. The last named author has described a case, in which the left pouch of the stomach had been much distended, descended as low as the os ilium, and contained about two pints of brown- ish matter, mixed with pus, while the mucous membrane was of an unusual softness, and discoloured. There was an aperture in the intervening indurated mem- brane, about four lines in diameter. • Denkschrif des Akad. d. Wisseiisch. z. 3Iunchen, toin. viii. S