82 OF CHIIONIC HERNIA. part, and covering in part the intestines, frequently forms a part, or the whole of the contents of a hernial sac. Such a her- nia has generally a broad basis, is to the touch soft, unequal, and incompressible, not enlarged by coughing, not painful, and with difficulty returned, as the protruded omentum takes the shape of the aperture through which it has passed. The pa- tient has a sense of dragging-down pain in the tumour. If the hernial tumour contain a portion of intestine, and of omentum, the symptoms are usually of a mixed nature. When the omentum becomes much enlarged, in consequence of having been protruded for a long time, it presents an obstacle to the reduction of the contents of the hernial sac ; which, however, very often proceeds from an adhesion of the displaced parts to the hernial sac. The omentum of children being very thin and transparent, constitutes, when protruded, a tumour, which bears a strong re- semblance to a hydrocele. Protrusions of the omentum are always to be regarded with a suspicious eye, as facilitating a protrusion of the intestines. In order to return the omentum, it is necessary, as Mr Pott has observed, “ to follow it with the finger to the last.” The omentum sometimes forms a complete, or only a partial, envelope to the protruded intestine, rendering the whole, or only a part, of the tumour, soft, unequal, and incompressible. Where a part of the tumour is uncovered by the omentum, it is elastic and compressible, and the motion of the air passing from one part of it to the other is perceptible, whilst the rest of the same tumour is doughy, soft, and almost incompressible. From the slight pressure made on the intestines by the mar- gin of the aperture through which they have been protruded, their functions are in some cases but slightly impaired, except when the hernial swelling attains a large size. But even when the contents of the hernia have been returned into the cavity of the abdomen, it sometimes happens that the functions of the alimentary canal are much impaired, and the patient suffers from a degree of squeamishness, slight colic, in- digestion, and coirstipation.