516 Ol' TUUEKCLES hering on both sides to the lungs, but more to the left than to the right; extending ’posteriorly around the curvature of the curr- ta, and itiferiorly involving the pericardium*. On more minute examination, the lower portion of the trachea, with its divisions into the bronchiae, the arch of the aorta, with the vessels to which it gives origin, the pulmonary artery, with its divisions, and the descending vena cava, were all found imbedded in the tumour ; but none of these, except the left branch of the pul- monary artery, was in the least compressed. The left lung was interspersed with small cartilaginous points, some of which had proceeded to suppuration; and the lung ap- peared injured in its texture. The right lung was perfectly healthy. The pericardium was studded with small tumours, of car- tilaginous consistence. There was some serous fluid in the abdomen. The liver was a little indurated and enlarged, the spleen soft, and covered ^vith the same cartilaginous-looking substance as the tumour above described. All the other viscera were healthy. The fluids taken from the brain, thorax, and abdomen, coa- gulated on the application of heat; the fluid from the brain was slightly coagulable; in that from the thorax the precipitation was greater, but the fluid from the abdomen contained the greatest portion of coagulable matter. Tubercles of the peritoneum give rise to a slow, insidious, and generally fatal disease, which begins by tenderness and dis- tention of the abdomen, accompanied with nausea and vomiting. The appetite is generally inordinate; there is a languid ex- pression of countenance, the features are sharp and contracted ; there is undue sensibility to cold, together with a regular but frequent pulse. The body is generally costive, but sometimes in the opposite state: there is swelling and tenderness of the • I have often seen the bronchial glands forming a large sarcomatous tu- mour, in which the original dark matter of the glands was dispose<l in an ar- borescent form.