242 CAUSES 01' SPASMODIC degree of globus hystericus, are subject to this kind of constric- tion, when exposed to a stream of air; and also, when the air is highly charged with the electrical fluid, as before, or during, a thunder storm. This kind of obstruction, which is only tem- porary, either goes off spontaneously, or yields to the bougie, but is apt to return. By particular poisons, especially that of hydrophobia, the muscles acquire a morbid sensibility ; and, when reduced to that morbid state, their contraction is excited by causes which, in other circumstances, exert no influence over them. Thus, after the bite of a mad dog, the muscles of the pharynx are thrown into immediate and violent contraction, by the sight or noise of water, or by the application of a drop of water to the mouth. Trismus and Tetanus have also been occasionally induced by irritation of different descriptions, as by a bite *, from a wound of a finger-f-, from inflammation of fauces from amputation and from burns ||. A certain degree of spasm is the usual concomitant of a per- manent contraction of the gullet, intestines, and urethra, occa- sioned by a thickening of the coats of these canals, by inflamma- tion of their mucous membrane, and also by other organic dis- orders of these passages; and it proceeds, on many occasions, to a most alarming height, creating, in the case of the pharynx and larynx, great difficulty in breathing, in the case of the gul- let, great difficulty in deglutition, and in the intestines, most ob- stinate constipation. The case described by Mr Kercared£C is a strong example of the violent symptoms occasioned by spasm of the muscles of the pharynx, larynx, and gullet, which sometimes accompanies organic diseases. It proceeded so far as threatened suffocation, • Lazeeetto, Edin. Med. and Surg. .Journal, vol. xiii. Taunton, Med. and rhys. .Journal, vol. xxxvii. fNocK, Lond. Med. Obs. and Inq. vol. i. Curtis, Med. Cliir. Tran.s, vol. vii. Nayler, Med. and I’liys .Jour. vol. x. Brown, IMed. .and Phys. .Tour. vol. xix. IIowsuip, Med and Pliys. Jour. vol. xxii. X Morrison on Tetanus. § Dickenson, I.ond. Med. Kepos. vol. i. II Wayte, Edin. Med. and Surg. Jour. July 1821.