OF FISTULA IN ANO. 486 is often mixed will) blood. Beside the al)ove symptoms, there are fever and marasmus; and, upon an attentive examination, a tumour may, in some cases, be perceived in the region of the stomach. Abscess in the upper part of the intestinal canal is generally characterized by long-continued and obstinate colic, bilious diar- rhoea, and the occasional mixture of purulent matter with the stools. Such abscesses, whether seated deeply or not, commonly ter- minate in fistula ; sometimes the abscess bursts outwardly, and establishes a red callous orifice near to the anus, with a narrow canal extending along the coats of the rectum ; at other times, the abscess, after destroying the c.ellular substance surrounding this intestine, gives way through a small aperture into the gut; and not unfrequently the abscess has both an external and an internal opening. The first case has been denominated the ex- ternal ; the second, the internal blind, or incomplete ; and the third, the complete fistula. Fistula in ano gives rise to considerable swelling around the buttocks, together with a circumscribed hardness of the part affected. The disease is attended with considerable pain, some- times with fever, when the inflammation is violent. When the patient is of a bad habit of body, the cellular and adipose substances slough as in carbuncle; the skin as- sumes a purple colour, though the tumour be not so large as in the usual kind of fistula ; and in this erysipelatous variety of the disease, the quantity of purulent matter is small in propor- tion to the size and extent of the tumour. The following symptoms are commonly observed, when ab- scess is about to be formed in the vicinity of the anus ; The patient has a frequent desii'e to go to st(M)l, is commonly costive, and has sometimes slight strangui’y; in the vicinity of the anus, there is considei'able pain, which is much increased by walking, or any kind of exercise. On examination, in (he neigh- bourhood of the anus, a considerable swelling is observed, of a red colour, and hard to the touch.