OF THE ABDOMINAL HERNIA. 99 The subsequent description supposes the body to be in the erect posture, and in the healthy state. In the fore and lateral parts of the parictes of the abdomen there are three distinct strata of muscles; which, being subser- vient nearly to the same functions, I shall dcsoril>e in the order in which they are presented upon dissection. OK THE SDPEREICIAI. F.^SCIA. Upon removing, with care, the akin ot the belly, a thin iascia, or rather ineml>rane, which is cellular externally, and comjiact internally, presents it- self: this has been said by some to take its rise from the inferior part of the tendon of the external oblique muscle, and has been describetl by Cam- I'ER. This fascia adheres loosely to the tendon of the external oblique muscle. It rarely exhibits a fibrous apiiearance in the adult, and the fibres, when distinct, pass in a transverse direction with respect to the abdomen. These fibres do not resemble tendinous fibres, t>eing neither to the eye glistening, nor communicating to the touch the same dense feeling as a tendon. This membrane is proportionally thicker in the fa’tus. This fascia, which has always ap)>eared to n>e to consist of condensed cel- lular substance, covers the spermatic cord in the male, and the round liga- ment of the uterus, and also some of the inguinal glands of the upper ami under cluster; and may, in some subjects, at the upj>er part of the thigh, be divided into layers, between which some small lymphatic glands are placed. In a few cases, it may be readily traced for six or eight inches down the thigh. Beyond the crural arch it is connected to the subcutaneous membrane of the thigh. This iascia adheres internally to the tendon of the external ob- lique, and descending nearly an inch over the crural arcli, is firmly imited, on the iliac side, to the falciform process of the fascia lata. In some cases of scrotal hernia, the fascia attains a considerable thickness, and forms the sub- cutaneous covering of the hernial sac; in others, it adheres so intimately to the coverings of the hernial sac, that it is impossible to separate it from the subjacent fascia.