OF THE SITUATION OF THE ARTERIES 12() I have made particular mention of all the varieties as to the origin and course of the epigastric and obturator arteries, and of their branches, which have fallen under my observation, as these arteries are of considerable size, and when divided, in the time of performing the operation for crural hernia, have poured out so much blood as has proved fatal; for, on account of their deep situation and retraction, it is extremely difficult to secure these by ligature. Even wounds of the smaller branches of the epigastric artery sometimes prove fatal. Dr Carmichael Smyth* has related the histories of two such cases, and makes mention of other similar cases which were communicated to him, in which the patients lost their lives, by a wound made in the epigastric artery, in performing the opera- tion of tapping for dropsy in the belly. There is another artery, which, from a variety as to its mode of distribution, may be divided in performing the operation for the crural and inguinal herniae. I allude to the arteria circumflexa ossis ilii, which takes its rise within the pelvis, from the anterior iliac artery, and oppo- site to the epigastric artery. I have seen a branch of this artery nearly as large as the epigastric, pass under the crural arch, about two inches from the symphysis pubis, and it then divided into branches, which were distributed upon the symphysis pu- bis, and the fat and skin over the crural arch ; whilst other small branches were distributed upon the ilial portion of the fascia lata of the thigh. There is still another artery which is liable to be wounded in performing the operation for crural hernia, according to the method proposed by Mr Gimberxat. No author with whose w'orks I am .acquainted, has taken no- tice of this fact, and, therefore, I thought it worth while to give a representation of it. Vhle Plate II. fig- 2. The artery to which I allude, is usually a small branch of the epigastric, which swe-eps along the inner surface of the cru- ral arch, and along (iiMBKUNAT’s ligament, and is ultimately joined with the obturator artery. 'I'lns artery is sometimes of • Vide 1,011(11)11 Mcil. Coiiiiiiuiiic. vol. 2d, publislicd