SYMPTOMS OF HYDATIDS. 213 larged lymphatic gland, which lay over the common duct, had probably contributed. Case VII.—In the year 1783, my Father was consulted by Mr , 12 years of age, who had a swelling in the upper and right side of his belly. The swelling gradually increased very considerably. In the under part of the swelling, the liver was found in a sound stata At last the fluctuation of a liquor above the solid part of the tumour became very obvious. As the patient had not lost his appetite for food, had no fre- quency or fulness of pulse, no bilious disorder, no symptoms of inflammation, suppuration, or of scirrhus in the liver, my Father imputed the fluctuation which he perceived, on apj)lying one hand to the upper part of the tumour, imd striking it with the other, to hydatids, contained in a sac above the liver, between it and the diaphragm ; and the gradual descent of the Innly of the liver, to the increase of the sac containing the hydatids. As the tumour contiiuuxl to increase in size, my Father proposeil to tlie late Mr William Inglis and Mr F. Dewau, surgeons, who were now calletl in, to make an incision into the sai-, whicli was agreed to, and jierformed with much caution. The peritoneum lining the containing parts was found to ad- here to the cyst, which, from the long continuance of the swel- ling, was formerly sus{)ecLcd. Upon dividing the external coats, a tliick but soft semi-ofiake membrane presented itself, and on cutting this, 8 lb. of a clear liquor were discharged, but no small hydatids. On examining the soft membrane within which the liquor had been contained, it proved to be of the same structure as other hydatids, and the coats were somewhat thicker than any of these, owing probably to its greater size. My Father now laid hold of the large hydatid with his fin- gers, and by pulling it gently, he detached tlie whole of it from the tough, external coat, formed by the peritoneum, which .in- closed it. After the operation, the wound was carefully covered by pledgets, and thick compresses, over which a broad flannel rol-