OF INTESTINAI, CONCRETIONS. 46 The following continuation of the case was drawn up by tlie late Dr Mitchell of Dundee, and sent to my father. “ Dundee^ 8th Dec. 1772. “ On the 24th April 1769, at ten in the morning, Mr M. cojnplained of a most violent pain about the pit of his stomach. His pulse, though not quicker than it commonly is in people in health, was small, weak, and unequal, and his skin covered with a clammy sweat. “ He had for several years complained of a hard tumour in the left side of his body, under the margin of the ribs. “ Two days ago this tumour had descended to the left groin, where it was still to be felt through the parietes of the abdomen, though not quite so distinctly as formerly." On the 23d, from a purging medicine he had taken, he had a copious stool. “ In the morning of the 24th, he took three grains of opium, which he soon after vomited, along with some green dark-coloured bilious matter. “ He continued to vomit the same sort of stuff, with every thing he took, till his death. At nine in the evening he became very weak, his breathing difficult, pulse hardly to be felt, still sensible, and wishing anxiously for death, which happened about an hour after. The body was opened a few hours after his death. “ Upon laying open the cavity of the abdomen, there ran out about a pound, as far as could be guessed, of thin, white, foetid matter, in every respect resembling pus. The small intestines occupied the whole anterior part of the abdomen; so that, till they were removed, nothing else could be seen, except a small jxirtion of the colon, towards the left os ilium. The portion of the colon mentioned, contained in its cavity the hardness for- merly felt through the teguments of the abdomen. “ The surface of the small intestines, especially towards the epigastrium, was covered with a thick well-concocted pus. The contiguous convolutions of the intestines were glued together. The right side, as also the transverse part of the colon, were of a very red colour, and covered by many turgid bloodvessels.