C'HK.MICAI, ANALYSIS ^6 a slight cloudiness,'which, from the action of oxalic acid, ap- peared to be phosphate of lime. The smell afforded l>y the concretion, when heated, indicated that the green colour depended on the presence of vegetable matter, and this indication was confirmed by the effect of ar» alkaline ley. When the bezoar, in powder, was digested in a solution of potash, it became colourless, and the solution w’as pretty strongly tinged green. “ From these results, this bezoar seetns to con.sist of carbo- nate of lime, with slight traces of phosphate of lime, and green vegetable matter. The quantity of the concretion I examined was too small to allow the proportions of the ingredients being ascertained- “ No. 2.—This concretion was of an irregular globular form, with a slightly concave base. Its surface was irregular, smooth, slightly shining, and of a nut-brown colour, with light-brown spots, and incrustations. It was soft, just sufficiently hard to re- sist the nail, and compact. From a fracture, it appears to lie composed of concentric layers of finely radiated shining matter. “ Heated before the blowpipe, it emitted the smell peculiar to animal matter in combustion; did not inflame; blackened, and, strongly heated, became Avhite, and phosphoresced, yet still retained the original structure: 3.5 grains, thus treated, afford- ed 2.7 grains fixed residue, which was found to consist of phosphate of lime, and of a very little carbonate of lime. A small portion of the bezoar was heated in a glass-tube, and it afforded water in considerable quantity, that did not affect either litmus or turmeric paper. Thus this bezoar seems to consist of hydro-phosphate of lime, with traces of animal matter, and carbonate of lime, very analogous to one species of urinary calculus. 100 parts may be said to be composed of 78.5 Phosphate, with a little Carbonate of Lime. 21.5 Water, with a little Animal Matter. “ No. 3.—This specimen, which passed for a true bezoar, but which I believe to be an artificial composition, w'as of an irre- gular spherical form, smooth surface, light impure greenish co-