Ol' TMi: ANATOMY OT THE 102 ILIO-ABDOMIXALIS MEDIUS, oil OBI.KiUUS AliUOMlXIS IXTEIINUS. This nuiscle arises Ironi a considerable part of the spine of the ilium, from the fascia lumborura, and from the external third of the crural arch. Erom these origins tlie fibres describe a radiated course upwards; and, at the linea semilunaris, the tendon is added; this divides into two layers; one of which joins that of the external oblique, and forms the fore-part of the sheath of the rectus muscle; the other joins that of the transverse muscle, and goes behind the rectus, forming the posterior part of the sheath, till about half way between the navel and os pubis. Where the tendon of the internal oblique passes in front of the rectus, and above the pubes, it is inseparably united to the tendon of the transversalis. These conjoined tendons immediately above the pubes, however, are situ- ated bdiind the rectus muscle; are fixed into the pectineal line, and assist in forming the ligament of Gimbernat, and are fixed to the fascia trans- versalis. They form the inner edge of the upper abdominal aperture, sup- port the spermatic cord before it leaves the inguinal canal, and resist di- rect protrusions of the bowels. This muscle is fixed into the linea alba, the cartilages of the false ribs, and the cartilago-ensiformis. TRANSVERSALIS ABDOMINIS. This muscle arises, by tendinous and^fleshy slips, from the inner surfaces of the cartilages of the seven lower ribs,—by tendinous slips from the middle division of the fascia lumboruin, and posterior part of the crest of the os ilium, and by fleshy slips from the anterior half of the crest, and from the iliac half of Poupart’s Ligament. The tendon passes behind the rectus muscle, along with the i)osterior part of the tendon of the internal oblique, to be inserted into the edge of the en.siforin cartilage, linea alba, pubes, and pectineal line. Giaibeunat has accurately described the course of the spermatic cord. RECTUS abdominis. This muscle arises by a broad tendon from the upi)er and fore part of the 08 pubis, ascends, becomes broader and thinner above the navel, and is in- serted by three slips into the ensiform cartilage, the costo-ziphoid liga-