elongation of the omentum. 175 but the coats of the intestine had not lost their usual firmness ; and did not tear, even upon being rudely handled. The vessels of the villous coat of the ileum of the three por- tions, surrounded by the preternatural processes of the omen- tum, were much distended by blood, and were covered by thin layers of coagulable lymph. My Father met with an instance, more than forty years ago, in a case of congenite hernia on the right side, in which an unna- tural process from the omentum was the cause of strangulation. The hernial tumour was as large as a goose’s egg: it was tense, and felt as if it contained a portion of intestine, and also of omentum. The testicle formetl the lower and back part of the tumour. All the usual methods were employetl, with the view of remov- ing the disorder, but in vain ; an operation was performed by that excellent surgeon Mr Bekjamik Bell. The intestines within the sac, which were found of a dark colour, were readily replaced. A part of the omentum, which had attaineii an unnatural bulk, and was found adhering to the spermatic cord above the testicle, and to the hernial sac at the under abdominal ajxjrture, was cut off, as it could not be reduced. The patient died thirty-eight hours after the o|)eration. On dissection, all the intestines were found of a dark colour, and much distended with air. A {xirt of the ileum which had been within the sac was contracted and thickened. The omen- tum adhered to the peritoneum, above tlie under abdominal aperture, and a process of omentum passed around some turns of the ileum, and grew to the mesentery, forming a complete circle around the displaced intestines. In cases such as the above, the cause of the strangulation be- ing internal, cannot be removed. It merits mention, that the ring formed by the omentum, Avhich embraces the intestine, is, strictly speaking, rather a membi*ane attached to the omentum than a portion of it; it is more firm, has no fat appended to it, and bears a greater re- semblance to the peritoneum than to the omentum.