SYMPTOMS OF HYDATIDS. 217 first sac, and this tumour, when cut into. This sac was found to contain numerous hydatids.” The greater part of the left lobe was converted into an enor- mous sac, similar externally to the former, occupying the thorax, adhering to, and pushing up as far as the third rib, especially on the left side of the diaphragm, which was very thin, and with difficulty separated from it. In a case described by Dr Foart Simmons ♦, there was an aperture in the diaphragm, through which hydatids passed from the abdomen into the thorax ; and, in a case by Collet, hydatids originally formed within the liver were discharged by coughing. This sac was found, when opened, to be lined with a delicate membrane, similar to that of the jirst sac, but exhibiting no cauliflower protulxjrances. Within it was contained a large quantity of serous-like fluid, and an immense number of hydatids of various magnitude's and colours. “ The gall-bladder and gall-ducts were very much enlargexl, “ The other abtlominal viscera were much dcrangi'd in situa- tion, but quite natural in structure, excepting the left kidney, which was much enlarged, and very flaccid.” The following case, which I had occa.sion to nu*et with, af- fords additional evidence of absorption and ulceration of the sac containing hydatids. Case XI.—Patient a male, a;t. 45. S^iptoms.—Abdo- men fluctuating, tense, and painful, especially in region of um- bilicus. Soft tumour of the size of a hen’s egg, at low’er part of sternum, in the direction of linea alba, receding on pressure, and causing no uneasiness; constipation ; oedema of inferior extre- mities ; diarrhoea with tormina; quantity of urine small. The tumour in abdomen gradually increased, the surface of which ulcerated, and its contents were discharged externally. It con- tained nearly a gallon of purulent matter, with innumerable hydatids, varying from half an inch to an inch in diameter, and large of the delicate membi'ane usually found in such • Lond. Med. Comniunic. voL i.