•i74- ULCKUATION OF THK STOMACH. Certain kinds of j'ood occasion cutaneous eruptions; and if these eruptions be suddenly repelled, the functions of the ali- mentary canal, and the general health, are much impairtni. Ac- cording to Mr Plumbic, porrigo, scrophulus, urticaria, herpes, thrush and boils, are symptomatic of deranged digestive organs; and Alibert has also remarked, that inflammation of the dif- ferent Internal organs is frequently the sequel of repelled dartre squameiix of long duration. It is important to keep these facts in view in the treatment of dyspepsia, diarrhoea and dysentery. Although chronic be a consequence of the more acute inflam- mation, there is every reason to conclude that the mucous mem- brane of the alimentary canal has occasionally fallen into a chro- nic state of inflammation, when the more acute form of the dis- ease has not preceded it. Chronic inflammation has sometimes given rise to consider- able thickening of the rugae of the stomach. There are many causes which may induce this chronic inflam- mation of the mucous membrane, as acrid food, or food of dif- ficult digestion; and the less acrid poisons, or concretions, or other extraneous bodies lodged within the alimentary canal. Fever has also occasionally induced this low state of inflam- mation of the mucous membrane of the stomach, or more fre- quently of the mucous glands of the intestines. Scrofula, cancer, polypi and other tumours, which grow occa- sionally from the mucous membrane, may also give rise to a low degree of inflammation of the mucous coat. Morgagni has very ably described the chronic inflammation of mucous membranes, and its usual consequences. He states, “ that the Intestines have become .sphacelated, independent of preceding inflammation Upon dissection, the capillary vessels of the mucous mem- brane are not distinctly .seen filled by arterial blood, as in the more acute inflammation. It is universally of a red colour, or spotted with red patches, and there arc frequently minute cx- travasated portions of blood beneath it. • Vid. Cookf’h Morg.ngni, vol. it. p. f»7.