174 . HERNIA OCCASIONED BY THE In this person there was a great tendency to the formation of these unnatural processes, for, besides the unusual process of omentum passing around the intestine, there was also a vessel from the mesentery of the size of a small goose-quill, passing around, and constricting the intestine: it was distended by dark-coloured blood, to which an oval-shaj:>ed body, of a deep- purple colour, about the size of a dried bean, was attached. I have made the more particular mention of this latter cii- cumstance, as it seemed to me to afford an illustration of the manner in which these unnatural elongations of the omentum (which do not in structure resemble the healthy omentum), are formed; and shewed that, in this case, the intestines had not been protruded through an aperture in the omentum. In the second instance, the patient had been for many years occasionally constipated, and suffered much from pain in his bowels and vomiting, followed by quick pulse. He was bled, and was considerably relieved. He speedily relapsed, and the constipation could not be obviated by the most drastic purga- tives. The constipation at length amounted to such a pitch, as to induce inflammation of the intestines, which proved fatal to him. Upon examining the body, the omentum, to which a very small quantity of fat was appended, was found covering the whole surface of the great and small intestines, and was firmly fixed down to the bladder of urine, by means of a number of short and firm processes, also to the left side of the colon, and to the sigmoid flexure of that bowel. After tearing asunder the preternatural adhesions which the omentum had contracted, it could not be turned up in the usual manner, on account of three different bands, which jxissed between the different turns of the ileum ; the.se encircled the in- testine.s, and made considerable pressure on them. The intes- tines, alKJve the constricted portion, were much dilated, whereas the portion beneath seemed somewhat less than usual. The greater part of the omentum and intestinal canal were of a leaden colour, and here and there of a chocolate colour;