OF THE CONCOMITANT 220 “ The gall-bladder contained but a small quantity of bile; and, from being contracted in several places, had an irregular figure, and scarcely exceeded, in size, that of a child’s at birth. “ The adjacent parts betrayed marks of previous inflamma- tion. The stomach and great arch of the colon were more inti- mately united than usual by the omentum, and there was also a strong adhesion between the liver and the kidneys. “ All the parts adjacent to the liver, more especially the kid- neys, were tinged of a deep yellow colour.” Case XIII.—In this case there was a large collection of hy- datids in the abdomen, which were removed by operation, and the patient obtained a complete cure. Patient a male, mt. 44.—A tense, elastic, colourless, and somewhat painful tumour, extending from os pubis to a little above the umbilicus. Unusual fulness in direction of riglit colon, relieved by discharge of flatus; emaciation, with oedema of lower extremities ; pulse feeble ; tongue foul; no appetite ; torpor of bowels; urine diminished in quantity ; no unusual thirst; restlessness. Tumour in abdomen appeared seven weeks ago, and has gia- dually increased since ; friction giving temporary relief. Occa- sional tormina of bowels; sense of diminution of tumour after evacuation of faeces and flatus; distinct fluctuation in tumour ; quantity of urine now natural. About a month and a half af- ter admission, an incision was made through integuments of ab- domen in the direction of left linea semilunaris. Upon the in- troduction of a trochar, a quantity of yellowish fluid was dis- charged ; and the wound being dilated, several hundred hyda- tids, of various sizes, escaped along with a quantity of the yel- low fluid. This operation, whicli was performed by the late Dr Hay, was followed by complete relief. CONCLUSION. The preceding history of hydatids, and of their eflivls upon the organs within which they arc lodged, seems to me to have established the following proposition?.