11 ON THE ALIMENTARY CANAL. the gullet, or some other part of the alimentary canal, and have given rise to various disagreeable consequences. A sharp b<xly, sticking in the gullet, has sometimes proved the cause of convulsions. Bartholin * has related the case of a young woman who was thrown into convulsions, by a small portion of glass sticking in her gullet. Notmthstanding the muscular structure, the elasticity and expansive power of all the coats of the gullet, and more espe- cially of the innermost coat, and the quantity of mucus by which the gullet is besmeared, pieces of our food are sometimes detain- ed in their passage to the stomach for a time, and occasion much pain, anxiety, and a sense of suffocation. In these circum- stances, it is not necessary at the moment to endeavour to push the substance into the stomach, unless tliere be a risk of imme- diate suffocation ; because, by remaining within the gullet, being lubricated, softened, and perhaps partially dissolved, it will pro- bably slip down into the stomach. It sometimes happens, that when the extraneous body stick- ing in the gullet is of considerable bulk, and when it is not soon dislodged, it presses so much upon the windpipe as to interrupt the breathing. Mr C. Cheyne of Leith was so obliging as to send me a (juadrangular piece of hard cartilage, which he took from the gullet of a woman who was choked by it, and the subse- quent account of the case. “ Upon cutting into the gullet and windpipe, it was found fixed in the gullet by two of its angles pressing upon the sides of it. One of the angles pro- truded a few lines above the gullet: it was fixed so as not to press upon the windpipe; but, distending the gullet in a great degree, its removal was not difficult. When taken out, it mea- sured exactly two inches and a half in length, and one and three fourths in breadth.” WiEiius has related the history of a patient who was suffocat- ed by an egg which had stuck in the gullet *f-. • Vid. Cent. V. Hist. 66. t Vid. Tonf. 1. Mem. de I’Acad. Chir. Paris.