116 FORMATION OF THE INGUINAL CANAL. that has been lately written upon the anatomy of the parts con- cerned in the inguinal and crural herniae, there is a branch of the subject which has not yet been explained to the medical world,—1 mean the gradual formation of the Inguinal Canal. Having found that the late Mr Ali.an Burns of Glasgow had devoted a great deal of attention to this branch of the sub- ject,' 1 requested of him to favour me with his observations; with which request he readily complied, and, by his permission, 1 have inserted these in his own words. “ In the foetus, or new-born male, we find that the tendon of the external oblique muscle, at its inferior and anterior part, separates into two pillars, which leave between them an irregu- lar opening, through which the cord passes. One of these pil- lars runs below the cord, the other above it. Both pillars tend obliquely downward and forward, inclining toward the crest of the pubes, where one is completely lost, the other in part implanted. That fold which passes below the cord is com- pletely implanted into the tough ligament which covers the tubercle of the pubes. The other pillar, when it reaches the pubes, separates into two bands; the posterior, or deeper- seated, is inserted along with the lower pillar into the tubercle of the pubes, and even extends to the opposite side. The other, and by far the most important fillet, winds obliquely inward, then bending backward between the penis and the cord, it at last incorporates itself with the fascia covering the heads of the triceps longus, the gracilis, and flexor muscles of the leg, and in somje cases it can be traced much farther, and reaches even to the tendon of the gluteus maximus, to which it is attached. This slip, from the upper pillar of the canal, is always insepara- bly joined to the fasciae covering the cremaster; indeed, it may perhaps most properly be described as a part of Camper’s fas- cia, attached to the ring. I thought that this structure had not been noticed by any author. I find, however, that it has not escaped that indefatigable anatomist Camper, who deli- neates it very accurately in his plate. It is easiest detected by slitting up Camper’s fascia, by which I mean the sheath of the cremaster, till we come near to the ring. When wc have done this, if we tlien insinuate the point of the finger into the lower