90 OF THE STATE OF THE HERNIA “ The patient was middle-aged, and about two years and a half ago, during the delivery of her fourth child, a small and painful tumour suddenly formed in her left groin. The mid- wife in attendance, applied a common cataplasm to the swelling, which in a few days suppurated. I have not learned that the functions of the alimentary canal were at this time materially impaired, but when the abscess burst, feculent matter was dis- charged along with the purulent matter. The food was not fully digested, some of it escaped by the opening at the groin, in a half-dissolved state. She became much emaciated, and the debility increased, yet the ulcer in the groin slowly closed, and in the course of less than a couple of months was completely healed. Afterwards, she regained her health, and passed her faeces naturally. “ The patient still continued sickly, and after fatigue she was attacked with the usual symptoms of inflammation of the bowels, which in a few days proved fatal. “ On examination, the peritoneum and intestines were found coated over with lymphatic exudation, by which the convolu- tions of the latter were glued to each other. This crust was about a line in thickness, and straw-coloured. When examined, the peritoneal coat was finely painted with bloodvessels. The surface of the small intestines was more affected than that of the large. Besides the lymphatic exudation, there was a quan- tity of thin purulent matter mixed with pus, lodged in the pel- vis. Above the middle of the ileon, the canal of the gut was much enlarged, and the coats of the intestine were considerably thickened. Below this point, the diameter of the gut was re- duced. Between the dilated and contracted parts of the gut, a portion of the ileon had protruded through the left crura foramen, along with a portion of thickened omentum, which lay behind the intestine. The whole diameter of the gut was not displaced. About four-fifths of it, however, were protruded ; hence the direct passage from the part of the intestine above the protrusion into the part below it, was not larger than the dia- meter of a goose-quill. Just in contact with the herniated por- tion of the gut, the upper end was ruptured. Through this