236 OF SPASM AND PALSV. in the same manner, the bladder is capable of containing 6 lb. or 8 lb. of urine, and in a short time, the whole of it, excepting a few drops, may be expelled. In forming an estimate as to the degree of muscular contrac- tion, we must not, as Magenihe observes, “ confound muscu- lar contraction with the modifications which it suffers in dis- eases, as convulsions, spasms, tetanus, wounds of the brain, &c.; we must also take care not to confound the contraction of which we are speaking, with the phenomena that the muscles present some time after death.” By the contraction of the muscular coat of the alimentary ca- nal, their contents are pushed onwards, and this contraction is speedily followed by relaxation ; thus the coats of the alimen- tary tube are rendered subservient to their particular purpose. But when these passages are spasmodically contracted, there is, at least for a time, no degree of consequent relaxation. A spasmodic contraction occasionally takes place through the whole of the muscular coat of the stomach or intestines, but more fre- quently it is only partial, or proper only to certain portions of the muscular coat. The partial is more frequent than the general contraction of the hollow bowels, and is various as to its extent; in some in- stances so much so, that the stricture does not exceed a few lines in breadth. Some very interesting circumstances regarding this partial contraction merit particular notice, from which it may proba- bly be inferred, that certain portions of the muscular coat are much more irritable than others. For example, the spasmodic , constriction of the gullet most frequently happens at the con- ; nection of that tube with the pharynx ; the cause of which can- not be explained on the principles of anatomy, as the .same > structure pervades every part of that mnsculo-mcmbranous canal. The stomach is sometimes contracted in or near to its middle, dividing the cavity into cardiac and pyloric portions, which arc ' attain sometimes subdivided into two or three distinct siics, so that it somewhat resembles that portion of the intestinal tube called the colon. (