OF PUERPERAL PERITONITIS. 510 Constipation takes place in the earlier stage, but afterwards the body becomes loose, and the lochial discharge is vitiated or ceases. In consequence of peritonitis, ulceration sometimes follows: the mucous and peritoneal surfaces of the bowel directly com- municate, and form tubes, which communicate freely with each other, and with the thickened and ulcerated peritoneum, by nu- merous openings. Dr George Gregory has described a spe- cies of chronic peritonitis occurring in children, and giving rise to symptoms resembling taljes mesenterica, and which induces thickening, and finally ulceration of the peritoneum, and the secretion of matter, called by him scrofulous. From what has been stated regarding peritonitis, it follows, 1^^, That this is a frequent and dangerous disorder, which assumes different shapes, and is modified by pregnancy. That the acute is a primary or secondary disorder, and that it sometimes passes into the chronic; that the former is fre- quently of two or three days’ duration, but the latter of as many weeks, or even months. That the inflammation, in the greater number of in- stances, primarily commences in the peritoneal coat, but is sel- dom limited to it; though sometimes it originates in the mucous coat, and is propagated speedily to the other coats, until, in the progress of the disease, all the coats are at the same time im- plicated. Wi, That peritoneal inflammation is an invariable conse- quence of perforation of the intestinal tube, unless when arrested by adhesion, and obliteration of the aperture. 5</t, That this inflammation is occasionally limited to a cer- tain portion of the smaller or larger intestines, but is more fre- quent in the latter ; but that, in the progress of the disorder, it frequently extends to the peritoneum lining the parietes of the abdomen, or to that of the stomach, kidneys, or bowels of the pelvis, or occasionally even to the pleura. That the symptoms vary somewhat according to the seat and extent of the inflammation of the peritoneum. 1th, 'I'hat inflannnation of the intestines may prove fatal, without their Wmg obstructed. This, it may be observed, on-