OF INTESTINAL CONCRETIONS. 47 “ The middle of the transverse portion of the colon, and also its sigmoid flexure, were somewhat dilated, “ The concretion was perceived within the left side of the colon, which was redder than usual. After cutting into it, a concretion, of an ii-regular figure, about four inches in diameter^ with many rough knobs and prominences on its surface, was extracted, which, when washed and dried, weighed, the day after, 5yj and 9v. “ The whole track of the great intestines above the concre- tion was filled with thick pieces, of the consistence of stiff* clay. The sigmoid flexure of the colon was less conspicuous than usual; for this intestine descended almost directly from the spleen to the os ilium, where it made a short turn to the right, and was afterwards continucrl downwards into the pelvis, to form the rectum. The colon, on this left side, adheretl to the kidneys, and more firmly than usual to the mu.scles and |K*rito- neum ; so that an incision might have been made into the gvty without penetrating into the abdomen *. The existence of this concretion, and its situation, was seen as you predicted. T/ie incision of 'the colony which you used to recommend in your Lcc~ tures, could in this case have l>een easily performed; and, had it been attempted in time, might have saved the patient’s life.” Case II.—An elderly woman, who had been for many years afflicted by alvine concretions, consulted my Father, at the suggestion of Dr Hall of Jedburgh. I have inserted only that part of my Father’s letter to Dr Hall, w-hich relates to the mode of extracting the concretion from the intestines. “ If they shall, by increasing, or by change of place, obstruct and stop the passage entirely, it is, I apprehend, possible to save the life of the patient, by taking them out by an operation. For, as the colon is, on its back part, not covered • If there be an enlargement of the right lobe or right kidney, the opeA- tion should not be performed on the right side; and a similar objection may be proposed to it on the left side, when the left lobe of the liver, or left kid- ney, is enlarged. 4