442 OF medullary sarcoma came quickly stronger, and continued entirely free from pain. The caddis was removed from the wound on the 26th, and the mouth was ordered to be washed with a watery solution of myrrh. Was able to sit up out of bed on the 27th ; her Ijelly being bound, she had four grains of calomel, which relived her. The pulse was good; she slept well, and was still free from pain, and amending. On the 29th, she was able to walk about the house without support. Her appetite and sleep were good. She breathed easily by the mouth and right nostril. The discharge from the wound, which for the first two days after removing the cad- dis smelled considerably, had become free from fetor. “ December 3d, The face, especially the left side, was much swelled, and occasionally flushed. The tumour behind the velum had increased much. Externally a small conical tumour, hard and immoveable, was observed projecting from below the mastoid process of the left temporal bone. She began to hear less distinctly, and was frequently seized with faintness : was conflned to bed. “ On the 4th took an opiate to relieve the pain. She dozed much during the day, but had little sleep at night. Difficulty of breathing returned during sleep. Being costive, she had two drachms of castor oil, which operated several times, al- though part was rejected by vomiting. The pulse w'as 120, full, and pretty strong. She was relieved by the purgative. “ The tumour behind the velum and the base from which the anterior one was removed, increased rapidly ; and the ul- cerated surface discharged a foetid clear matter, which became the less foetid the smaller the quantity. “ The tumours increased rapidly, and of consequence respi- ration and deglutition were proportionally more difficult. She dozed constantly, unless when tormented with pain. As soon as she at any time fell asleep, her breathing became more labo- rious ; the difficulty increased with every breath she drew; she awoke almost suftbeated, and stared wildly around her : after drawing a deep sigh or two, she breathed short, was bedewed with perspiration, and only recovered to a distressful repetition of such paroxysms.