238 OF SPASM AND PALSY. form several sacs. We frequently meet with different portions of the bladder contracted around small stones; and the constric- tion is so very great, that the passage between the open cavity of the bladder, and the cyst containing the stone, is remarkably small. I have seen it of so small a size, as only to be capable of containing a hog’s bristle. There is no peculiar portion of the bladder in which these cysts are found, nor is there any peculiar muscular apparatus which is adapted to bring about a contraction around the stone. Therefore, the muscular fibres of the bladder are of so irritable a nature, and so disposed, that they are capable of contracting around any stimulating substance which is applied to any part of the bladder. The late Mr Allan informed me, that he had met with an instance, in which there were two stones lodged within the bladder. One of these was readily removed by the forceps, but the other could not be extracted at the time. It therefore occurred, that, as the groping for a considerable time with the forceps in the bladder proves extremely dangerous, it would at the moment be more prudent to desist from further attempts to extract the stone, which was then very firmly grasped by the contracted portion of the bladder, and that the stone would probably come away of itself along with the urine, in consequence of the subsequent relaxation of the contracted part of the bladder. This accordingly happened, and the pa- tient recovered *. A contraction sometimes takes place in the middle of the blad- der, so that that organ somewhat resembles an hour-glass. I have had occasion to meet with two instances of this description. Both patients were of the same age, six years old, and both were afflicted by stone of the bladder, for which they under- went an operation. The one was cut according to the lateral method, the other by the high operation, by my colleague Dr Ballingall. Both died after the operation; the one, who had undergone the lateral ojicration, survived it four days; the other, who un- derwent the high opcratioti, died in the course of thirty-two • Vidu Deschami’S, Traite de l't)pcration de la Taille, t. iv. 1