or SClllHHUS AND CANCER 470 The patient at first has distention cff the bowels; and more frequent calls to go to stool than usual, so that the earlier symptoms of the disease may be mistaken for diarrhcea. Some difficulty and pain also occur during the passing of the faeces, which are of a thin consistence, mixed with frothy mu- cus, or tinged with blood : hence the disease may be mistaken for colic, or dysentery. When the disease is more advanced, very acute lancinating pain is felt at some particular part of the belly; and when the patient is at stool, flatus passes through the diseased portion of the bowel with a hissing sound and tremulous motion, and a tumour is, on some occasions, perceptible, which is painful on pressure. In some cases, by carefully examining the quantity of fluid which may be thrown up through the anus, a probable conjecture may be formed of the seat of the disease. But, generally, it is by no means easy to determine by the symptoms, in what particular part of the canal the disease is seated, unless it be within the reach of the finger, or of an in- strument. The faeces ai*e discharged only in small quantities at a time, they are generally thinner than natural, and, when solid, are much narrower than in health, and mixed with a frothy slimy mucus, or with blood, and the patient becomes much emaciated. The pulse, at this period of the disease, is quicker and feebler than in health. The disease generally follows a slow but unin- terrupted course. Only a small quantity of fajces is discharged as the intestine becomes more constricted, which is soon followed by swelling of the belly, considerable distention of the intestines, and very acute pain. The pain and distention increase, and are followed by occa- sional vomiting, which bccoines more and more frequent. Inflammation generally follows, unless a stool can be jrrocured. A slimy mucus, tinged with bile, which is discharged, in- duces the friends of the patient to expect a recovery. If the patient docs not die from the more immediate effects of