OF THE rilEDlSPOSING CAUSES OF HERNIA. 75 I met with a singular instance of monstrosity in a lamb, the heart and lungs of which were on the outer side of the ribs. The navel, and the inguinal canals, are occasionally, at the pe- riod of birth, of an unusual .size; and hence the bowels are fre- cpiently protruded. There sometimes exists an unnatural enlargement of the in- guinal canal at the period of birth, and this I have seen in dif- ferent members of the same family. Children often outgrow this; and the same observation ap- plies to horses. For the same reason, hydrocele of considerable extent, and passing within the inguinal canal, is a frequent precursor of an inguinal hernia. The parietes of the abdomen are occasionally imperfect at the fore or back part. The deficiency of the fore-part of the ab{lomcn is most fre- quent. My colleague. Professor Hamilton-, has several such specimens in his museum, and he has met with others in his extensive practice, in which there was a deficiency of the parie- tes of the abdomen around the navel, the bowels of the abdo- men being in those cases supinirtcxl only by the })eritoncuin, formed a prominent tumour. The jK'ritoneum generally bursts in a short time, and the child dies immediately. Mougaoni has published a case, in which a child lived for thirty days with such a tumour, as large as the fist, in the fmnt of the Ixdly. The malconformation has sometimes been limited to the aper- tures through the abdomen, thereby producing varieties in the inguinal and congenital hernia?, which are described under their proper heads, in a subsequent part of this volume. A malconformation has been sometimes observed in the back as well as the fore part of the body. My Father was desired, along with Dr Farquharson, to visit a boy six months old, in whom both kidneys passed through lai-ge apertures in the muscles of the loins, and were covered by the common integuments only ; and the apertures were so large that the kidneys could be easily reduced, but were with difficulty retained within the abdomen.