212 ON THE CONCOMITANT An acute inflanimation Inul taken place, in the same place as formerly, which was followed by suppuration. The tumour soon burst, and discharged several pounds of a turbid milky matter, in which there appeared to be portions of hydatids. Two days afterw’ards, feculent matter was discharged from a hole that had been eroded in the left side of the colon. This, not- withstanding the opening, healed in a kindly manner, and the patient enjoyed good health for several years afterwards. He died from a very different disease. Case V.—The abdomen of a man,^ 28 years of age, swelled greatly, ow'ing, as was supposed, to ascites. There was an un- natural opening at the umbilicus. On enlarging, and perforating likewise, the containing parts with a large trocar, about 60 lb. of hydatids were discharged r and the late Dr Bate, physician in Montrose, informed my Fa- ther, by letter, that the swelling was gone, and the patient had recovered. Case VI.—About thtrty years ago, the late Mr William Andekson, surgeon in Edinburgh, carried my Father to visit a man, 40 years of-age, who bad a swelled liver, which was fol- lowed by ascites, jaundice, and the discharge of hydatids by stool, and who died in the course of six weeks. My Father ex- pected to find a sac with hydatids attached to the stomach or intestine, and communicating with them ; but instead of this, the outer part of the sac containing the hydatids was found en- tire, and did not adhere to the alimentary canal. On open- ing the cysti the concave part of the liver was found wasted to a considerable depth, and at the bottom of the cyst the branches of the biliary ducts were seen without dissection, bare, and greatly enlarged, with a number of holes in their sides, through which the hydatids had passed into the ducxlenum. The great enlargement of the biliary ducts was probably pro- duced by the irritation of the hydatids, and by the mc'chanical ,)bstruction caused by the pressure of the hydatids upon the lower ends of the biliary clucl.s, to which the pressure of an cn-