38G OF GANGRENE OF ALIMENTARY CANAL. the slate-colour of the protruded intestine, together with the loss of the shining and semitransparent appearance of the surface, is more to be dreaded than the dark colour, excepting when it is conjoined with the disorganization of texture, foetid smell, and other unequivocal symptoms of gangrene. It is by no means my intention to enter into the history of fecal fistulae, which often are consequent to strangulated hernia, and by which an unnatural anus is established. I shall content myself by stating, that the unnatural anus is sometimes con- genital, or the consequence of wounds with loss of substance, of inflammation, abscess, and strangulated hernia. When an artificial anus has been established, it is necessary that it should be opposite to that part of the abdominal parietes through which the contents of the intestines are to pass; that the in- testines should admit of being kept in that situation ; that it be fixed in the opening, and that a free communication be kept between this aperture and that in the bowels. Lastly, it is requisite that an adhesion be formed to the neighbouring parts. * Gangrene occasionally very speedily follows an inflammation of the mucous membrane. Mr Watson, surgeon, sent to me lately a very remarkable instance of the above fact, together with the annexed history. Thomas Alexander, aet. 43—April 3. 1829. Complained of severe and constant pain of abdomen, increased by pressure, and accompanied with diarrhoea and tenesmus. Pulse 120, weak, —has the appearance of being much exhausted. About four months previously he had been ill of fever in Queensberry House, since which he has been in a weak state, and unable to walk without crutches. Has long been addicted to the free use of spirits. A blister to the abdomen, some castor-oil, and a diaphoretic mixture with opium, were ordered. This treatment was persevered in, and the symptoms, par- • Vide an ingenious method of curing an unnatural anus in Dr Dorset’s Elementii of Surgery.