54 OF INTESTINAI. CONCRETIONS. luid been distinctly felt by Mr Cukningham, surgeon at Tra- nent, and also by themselves, for eight or ten years. Venesection and large doses of purgatives were prescribed, but in vain, and the patient died in six days after I visited him. His body was opened by my assistant Mr Fyke, in the pre- sence of Dr Kilgouk, and of myself. All the viscera of the ab- domen were found in a sound state, excepting the segmoid flex- ure of the colon, on which there were several black spots, and which, on being opened, was found to contain faeces very much indurated, but no proper intestinal concretion. For the following singular case I am indebted to the late Mr Bryce. “ October 24. 1815.—J. S. aetat. 8., about four months ago was attacked with pleunsy, for which the usual remedies were had recourse to, with success. Immediately after this, there was accidentally discovered in the 'right iliac region, a circum- scribed tumour of very considerable magnitude, which gave slight uneasiness on handling it. The tumour seemed somewhat moveable, and was at times more distinctly felt than at other times. A course of laxatives \yas administered, without any ef- fect on the tumour; mercury was also used to considerable ex- tent, both by frictions and inteimally, with as little effect on the tumour. During these courses, however, the pulse was consi- derably more frequent than in health, and the strength was di- minished. There was considerable emaciation, and frequent fe- verish fits; all w'hich symptoms seem to have strengthened the opinion of the attendants, that the tumour was either in the glands of the mesentery, or within the cavity of the intestines, and gave great anxiety regarding the event. About the begin- ning of October 1813, when the mercury had been some time given up, and the bowels were regular, and the cliild was gain- ing strength, he was suddenly seized with a fit, during which he could not articulate, and after which he had evidently lost the jKJwer of voluntary motion of the right arm and leg, to a con- siderable degree. After this the child became dull, had freejuent vomiting, stupor, and tlie other symptoms of hydrocephalus.