OF DYSENTERY. 393 Tlie discharge of this matter affords a momentary relief. The patient daily becomes weaker and weaker; his food passes through the alimentary canal unchanged ; the breath be- comes foetid, the tongue black and dry, or covered with aphtha?; vibices and petechise appear, and what is passed is sanious, foe- tid, and black: this state is the prelude of death, the bowels being then in a state of gangrene. In cases that are slow in their progress, and when the patient is much weakened, the stools, according to Dr Alison, though liquid, often become nearly natural before death. Perforation sometimes takes place in consequence of dysentery, and in that case the disease proves speedily fatal, by leading to acute peritonitis. There have been some epidemic dysenteries, as that described by Maruuet, which tx:currcd at Nancy in 1734, in which the inflammation of the intestines has been still more strongly marked by violent pain in the stomach and intestines, which is much aggravated even by the slightest pressure, by a burn- ing heat, extending from the throat to the anus, by redness and dryness of tbe tongue, by hard and contracted pulse, by vomit- ing, and the very rapid progress of the disease, which proved fatal in ten or twelve hours; and the mucous glands of the in- testines are much enlargetl and filled by a cheesy substance, or ulcerated. According to Sir J. Maogrigor *, Annesley, and others, who have more recently written on the Tropical Dysentery, there are two modifications of that disease. The former, or mild, is limited chiefly to the rectum and contiguous portion of the colon; but the latter, or more severe, extends not only through the larger, but also occasionally to the smaller intestines, as in the Epidemic Dysentery, which prevailed in autumn 1828 in Edinburgh ; but it also assumes a chronic form, and, in India, is sometimes combined with a diseased liver, and hence has been called the Hepatic Dysentery; which, it may be added, was sometimes observed by Dr Chey ne to be that which was so pre- valent in Ireland in the year 1821. In short, the peculiarities of dysentery are,'— • Medical Sketches of the Expedition to Egypt from India. Lond. 1804.