6 or ORGANIC dekanokmknts cl niilcl fluid, becomes thin, of a light green or yellow colour, and acquires an unnatural acrimony, so as sometimes to ex- coriate the neighbouring parts. It is either discharged in con- siderable quantity from the mouth, by hawking, or passes down, and is discharged along with the faeces. Those mucous glands, and their ducts, which are situated above the seat of the obstruction, being much irritated, ac- quire an unnatural size, whilst those under it are not at all af- fected. The above symptoms are occasionally aggravated by the in- fluence of cold ; by which, from the irritable nature of the pa- tient’s constitution, an unnatural local spasmodic contraction is sometimes excited. The constitution is at first but little affected, but, with the duration of the obstructing cause, the digestive powers become ultimately much impaired. The patient loathes his food, and what is taken becomes acid ; he loses his spirits, and is occasion- ally very costive, but at other times is much weakened by a bili- ous diarrhoea. He becomes weak and emaciated, with' a quick pulse; and, after a time, suffers very great pain, owing to the distention by air. The Air accumulated within the stomach and intestines sometimes distends these organs to such an uncommon size, that the convolutions of the intestines may be distinctly traced through the parietes of the abdomen. I have seen the .stomach and intestines distended to two or three times their natural size, and sometimes even ruptured by the unnatural distention. It has been matter of dispute among physiologists, from what source the air is derived. It is not compatible with the object and limits of this volume to enter at large into this question, which has affbrded matter for much controversy. I shall therefore only observe, that, so far as I can judge, a part of it is swallowed, a part is formed by secretion, and a })art is generated by fermentation. As we sometimes meet with cases, where the distention, al- though so considerable as to cause great pain and uneasinc.‘«s, yet