OF PAl-SV OF THE GULLET. 291 of his life, had been exposed to iiiany hardships, and to much cold, damp, and rainy weather. He also regained in a degree the power of swallowing by means of electricity, and other sti- mulating remedies. The following cases of palsy of the gullet were communicated to me bv Hr Cahmichael Smyth :— “ Case I.—J. B. a country lad, 19 years of age, was, in the beginning of March 1786, seized with shivering, and pain at the pit of the stomach, which extended down the left side, and was accorapanicHl by a slight degree ot ditticult breathing, al- though without any cough. About fourteen days after this at- tack, he complained of palpitation at the region of the heart, which was most severe when he was in bed, or in a recumbent posture. His ap|)etite was good, his Ixxly regular, and his sleep natural. Had always l>een subject to wind in his sto- mach, though more so since his present indisposition. About a month after the commencement of the alxjve symptoms, he perceived that he swallowetl with difficulty meat, bread, or any solid food, although bmth, milk, porridge, or other liquids, rea- dily passed into the stomach. “ About the middle of May, the difficulty of swallowing in- creasing, he took nothing but lic|uids, and livetl chiefly on milk, to which a small quantity of rum was (K-casionally added. The pain at the pit of the stomach continued only for three weeks, but all the other symptoms above described, viz. the difficulty of breathing, palpitation, and flatulence, owing to which his stomacli at times was greatly swelled, with a sense of heat in his throat, had gradually increased. He complained likewise of being occasionally chilly or hot, and of a constant perspiration, piirticularly in hands and arms, and of a pain in his left side, with which he had been seized about a week before. “ He was ordered a cordial and volatile mixture, and volatile liniment to be applied externally to his throat. “ On the morning of the Ibllowing day, he swallowed some milk porridge, and gruel; that evening he had a blister put up- on his back, and, on AVednesday, he ate some meat and bread. T 2