OBSERVATIONS ON SEROUS MEMBRANES. 495 tearing the pleura, hut the animals did not seem to sufter from it. It is also remarkable, as Dr Carmichael Smyth has ob- served, in his pajier on the different kinds of inflammation, “ that, though not very sensible to the usual stimuli, they (se- rous membranes), are affected in a singular manner by the air; a stimulus which has little or no operation on other parts of the body endowed wiih the highest sensibility But several cases are recorded of patients having survivetl even the operation of gastrotomy. Serous membranes, when inflamed, become exquisitely sen- sible; and it is not a little remarkable, that Baron Hallkh, who was no less distinguished for his talents than his industry, and who also had devoted much attention to pathology, should have entertained a different opinion ; he endeavouretl to prove that the intercostal muscles are the seat of pleurisy,—an opinion which is contradicted by all the phenomena of the disease, and by the dissection of those who have fallen victims to it The serous membranes are liable to several organic derange- ments, and especially to inflammation and thickening. All serous membranes are not equally liable to inflammation : thus, the peritoneal coat of the intestines is much more liable to inflammation than that }x>rtion of the same membrane which lines the parietes of the alxlonien. The inflammation is induced by slight causes. This obser- vation ajiplies to all serous and synovial membranes, as an in- stance of which, inflammation of these membranes is often re- newed by so slight a cause as exposure to cold. Their vessels, from piu-ticular causes, secrete purulent matter, or a gelatinous fluid, or coagulable lymph -f*, or a substance which forms the basis of cauliflower excrescences, cartilage, bone, or of earthy concretions. The limpid fluid, which, in the healthy state, moistens only the inner surface of serous membranes, is either secreted in extra- • Vide London Medical Communication.s, voL ii. p. 200. t Such was the name given to it bj Mr Hdnteh. I have called ilfibrine. The foreign authors describe it under the name of Albuminous Deposition.