t OF STRICTURE OF THE RECTUM. 36.') t nic gastro-enterite, and by others to an organic obstruction. I Dissection proved the latter opinion to be correct. A stricture !was discovered about six inches from the extremity of the rec- tum, by which the cavity of that portion of intestine had been obliterated ; and, above the stricture, the rectum and colon were very much distended, and in .some places sphacelated and per- forated, so that the beces passed into the cavity of the pelvis. Traces of inflammation were discovered in various parts ol‘ the intestines. Stricture of the rectum is often confounded with other disor- ders, such as chronic diarrhoea, dysentery, hannorrhoids, and with excrescences produced by the protrusion of the inner coat of the rectum ; which excrescences are painful to the touch, and discharge a conconsiderable (juantity of fietid mucus. Such excrescences are external, or they Itecome so when the patient goes to stool; but the cancer tloes not protrude. When the finger or instrument is passed between the excrescences and the skin, the instestine is found smooth. The rectum is cli’ar, and free from disease above. When the stricture is owing to cancer of the rectum, the pa- tient suffers not only acute }Miin at the time of voiiling the fa’- ces, but also a constant sense of heat and burning pain in the rectum. A total retention of faeces follows ; the belly is much swelled ; the air is distinctly heard passing from one convolution to an- other ; there is acute pain in the belly; the stomach is affectetl, and vomiting follows. In other cases the patients seem to die exhausted by acute pain they suffer, and from mere debility. Another consequence of stricture of the intestine is gangrene * of the intestine, as in the three following cases:— In the first, the cavity of the ileum was enormously dilated, i till within three feet of the caput cfecum coli, where the canal was considerably contracted ; and, about a foot farther down, it was again contracted, so as scarcely to admit a goose quill. The portion of the intestine between the two strictures was gan- grenous, and contained hardened faeces. i I 1 I I