OF THE CONCOMITANT 216 the left side; was uniformly rounded, Immoveable, firm, and elastic. The veins of the integuments covering it were tortuous and enlarged. There was also felt a general hardness along the right side of the belly. General health and spirits little im- paired, though she had become considerably emaciated of late, I’ulse 90; heat and respiration natural; mouth dry; tongue clean ; appetite and digestion good. Urine at times rather scanty ; very dark coloured, and tinged linen of a deep yellow. Six years and a half previously, had a tumour of the size of a tea-cup, which was for about a year and a half stationary ; had had pain of the right hypochondrium, shooting to the right shoulder, and more lately oedema of the legs. General swelling of belly had come on gradually. She lingered for six weeks under Dr Home’s charge. “ Dissection.—The integuments of the abdomen were found to be very thin over the large tumour in the epigastric region, which was filled by a large quantity of yellowish limpid fluid. The sac containing this fluid being laid open .from end to end, was found to consist of two coats, the external of a dense and firm texture, the internal thick but very tender, of a light yel- low colour, very elastic, and adhering loosely to the external cyst. “ From the inner surface of this internal membrane, there were numerous distinct masses, of a cauliflower appearance, va- rying much in size, of a beautiful whiteness on the surface, and were yellow and gelatinous internally. “ The fluid in this sac appeared to contain numerous very minute hydatids. This tumour was situated within the sac of the peritoneum, and adhering pretty generally to that mem- brane. “ The tumour was entirely connected on one side with the left lobe of the liver. The tumour which was during life felt at the umbilicus, was found to consist of two lobes, a larger and a smaller, of the same appearance as the former tumour, to which it was connected by a production of the left lobe of the liver, but no communication subsisted between the cavity of the