SPASM OF TMK GULLLIT. 267 mediately alter eating or drinking, none of the food was eject- ed, but only the black coloured matter. At the beginning of May, his memory became greatly impaired; at which time, though much reduced, he was still able to sit up and walk about. He was also often troubled wnth acute pain in both el- bows, or in the left shoulder; these came on suddenly, and were not removed until he became warm in bed. He continued in this way till he died, greatly emaciated, on the 26th of IVfay. About a month previous to death, the probang was introduced, and passed nearly as easily as it did when first used. “ Dissection.—The cartilages of the ribs were os.sified. The cavity of the thorax contained aliout 1, jxiunds ot serous fluid. The lungs collapsed, were free from adhesions, and in other respects perfectly sound. The fiericardiuiu containetl a lew ounces of a similar fluid. The heart was free from diseast'. On opening the abdomen, the stomach appeared greatly dis- tended ; the right lobe of the liver, from its superior etlge, to a considerable extent downwards, was attached to that part of the stomach lying under it by strong adhesions, so that it was impossible to separate the one from the other, without lacera- tion of their substance. The stomach being opened, was found to be filled with the same dark-colouretl fluid that he voiniteil previous to death. The internal part of the stomach, to the extent of more than a hand-breadth over which the liver ad- hered, was in a state of fungous ulceration, with elevated and irregular edges. The contiguous parts were not inflamed, nor did the coats in the other parts of the stomach appear disea.sed. The pylorus was contracted, and that part of the stomach im- mediately above it enlarged, in the form of a pouch. The ori- fice of the cardia was perfectly free, nor could the least appear- ance ol' stricture or disease be traced through the whole extent of the oesophagus. The small intestines were distended with flatus, and none of the matter found in the stomach could be traced in them. The great arch of the colon was contracted, and filled with hard scybalte. The liver, except in its adhesions to the stomach, was in a natural state. The gall-bladder was