SPASM OF THE GULLET. of the gullet continued through the whole course of a long- life. A very singular and very obstinate case of a similar descrij)- tion occurred in our Hospital, in 1792, under the charge of the late Dr Rutherford. The patient lived for three years after recovering the power of swallowing, and enjoyed a tolerable share of health. She died in consequence of inflammation in her lungs. The state of her gullet was very accurately examined by Dr Rutherford, who found it perfectly sound. To illustrate more fully the symj)toms of Spasm of the Gul- let, I have subjoined the history of a case of that description, which was attended by my Father, Drs Wardrof, Keith, and Mr G. Bell, and for which I am indebterl to Dr Keith. In this case, the stomach was also much diseasetl. “ October 10, 1810.—A. B. a;t. 4-5, has laboured for about two years under occasional tits of dyspepsia, which he a.scril)es to his sedentary mode of life. For some months past, has had slight, though not constant, ditticulty in deglutition, and pain about the middle of the sternum, which only is felt after swal- lowing, or drawing a full inspiration, or in running, &c. “ 16th. During breakfast, observed, that, on attempting to swallow bread along with his tea, it stops in the oe.sophjigus for a few seconds; a rumbling noise, as if from the discharge of wind, is then heard, and immediately after the food passes into the stomach. These effects are most perceptible at breakfast. “ 17th. A probang was introduced, but in its progress was stopped, when aliout half-way down the oesophagus; a large bougie was then passed, and a stricture felt distinctly. “ 19th. The probang was again introduced, and with some difficulty surmounted the stricture. The introduction produces slight pain, which soon goes oft’, but he still swallows with much difficulty. The probang passed till the 28th. It was then attempted to retain a circular probang, of half an inch diame- ter in the stricture, but the great uneasiness it produced im- mediately forced it out. Such a probang was passed with ease