MEMBRANE OE THE ALIMENTARY CxVNAL. 34-7 SECTION IV. OF THICKENING OF THE MUCOUS MEMBRANE OF THE alimentary CANAL, Having described the nature of the acute inflammation of the mucous membrane of the alimentary canal, we shall now proceed to consider some of its consequences. One of the most common consequences of inflammation of the mucous membrime, is thickening, which is various in de- gree and extent, being on some occasions slight and limitetl to a small portion of the alimentary canal; but, in other in- stances, the part affected is much straiteni'd, and a considerable portion of the canal is constricted. The thickened mucous coat is generally softer, but is sometimes harder, than the sound membrane. This thickening occasions what has been called the Injiavimalory Stricture. The degree of stricture varies. —In the mildest form of the disease, the inflammation is lihiited to the mucous coat. The piirietes acquire greater thickness, and the obstruction to the canal is more considerable; and when the inflammation not only affects the mucous membrane, but also the subjacent cellular coat, the cells are filled up by coagulable lymph. Thus it acquires a morbid degree of density, and thus the caliber of the affected part is still more diminished, to which the thickening and contraction of the muscular and peritoneal coats very much contribute; and these, owing to the con- traction of the muscular coat, look as if impressed by a small cord which had been very firmly tied around them. The peritoneal coat possesses no degree of contractile power, but the muscular coat, to which it firmly adheres, in consequence of inflammation, being partially contracted, draws inwards the peritoneal coat; so that the place of the stricture may be readily detected without opening the intestine; for it looks as if it had been impressed by a cord very rapidly drawn around it. The inflammatory stricture may be frequently traced to an obvious cause. It proceeds from external violence, from acrid sub-