344 ACUTE INFLAMMATION OF THE MUCOUS The following case is a good illustration of the nature of the combination of this disease with inflammation of the mucous membrane of the intestines :—The patient, a man of fifty-five years of age, had a dry and furred tongue, little or no appetite, much thirst, and his pulse was about 96, and feeble. He had tenesmus and occasional bloody stools. He died in the course of six weeks. The mucous membrane of the great left sac of the stomach was found of a deep-blue or blackish colour, and considerably thickened; and, upon being minutely examined, the black colour was observed to consist of an aggregation of black spots, which assumed an arborescent figure. The sub- mucous cellular tissue was filled with blood. The spleen was large and hard, and there was melanotic matter in its substance. The mucous membrane of the caput coli was in the same state as that of the stomach, and it was ulcerated. The ulcers were of various forms and shapes ; some were as large as a shilling, and others were as small as a pin head, and these were surrounded by a dark vascular areola. By a reference to the works of Morgagni, Lieutaud, Stork, and other distinguished writers, it appears that the symptoms of this disease are by no means uniform. They vary much in degree, amounting, in some instances, merely to anxiety and sense of fulness in the stomach, with frequent vomiting of a brown fluid ; but, in others, great thirst, and a burning sen- sation in the region of the stomach, together with hiccup and difficult breathing, have occurred ; and, on the other hand, ac- cording to Frank and De Haen, inflammation of tlie stomach is not characterised by any of the usual symptoms. May it not be inferred from the latter observation, that the red spots which frequently occur on the healthy mucous mem- brane of the stomach have been mistaken for the effects of in- flammation of that membrane ? According to Buoussais, gastritis, combined with inflam- mation of the mucous membrane of the intestines, is the cause of all fevers,—an opinion adver.se to the appearances exhibitetl by j)ost-mortem examination, as the mucous membrane is not always inflamed in febrile disorders.