278 TEMPOllARY SPASMODIC CONTRACTION The mere contortion of the intestinal tube has occasionally so far impeded the progress of the faeces, as to occasion very con- siderable enlargement of the intestines. I met with a case in which a man of forty years of age had, before death, suffered most excruciating pain in his belly, which was not increased on pressure, and no stool could be procured either by active purgatives or clysters. The sigmoid flexure of the colon was twisted from left to right; whicli twisting could not be readily disengaged, and was renewed upon my ceasing to raise the intestine; it had proved so complete an impediment to the progress of the faeces, that the rectum was quite empty. Upon dissection, theiwhole of the abdomen seemed as if filled by three turns of the colon, of unusual size, disposed somewhat in a vertical direction. A great degree of contraction of the intestine has been ob- served to take place in consequence of low diet. Such has been .observed in some Catholic countries where individuals, as a pe- nance, submit to very poor and scanty food. This circumstance has been mentioned by Mokgagni, who states that Scaiipi, when a young man, took very little food, and abstained for seve- ral days from drinking even water. He became most obstinate- ly constipated, and was affected by piles^ A most remarkable example of abstinence, during two years and eight months, has been lately recorded. The body was examined by Drs Rollando and Gallo of Turin. The serous membranes were dry, and like parchment. The stomach was displaced and contracted like the colon The jejunum and ileum, and transverse colon, were also much con- tracted. The membranes of the intestinal tube were tliickencd and callous, and the sigmoid flexure of tlie colon was comjffete- ly obliterated. The mucous membrane of the stomach and in- testines was softened. Several excrc.sccnces were attached to the mucous membrane of the rectum *■ In the cases above referred to, there- was no a})pearancc of peritonitis. • Vide London IVIedical and Surfffcal .Tournal, l»y Dr lirrs, for March I