OF SPASM AND PALSY. 237 A spasm which had been at first partial, in some instances becomes general over the whole muscular system ; and it passes with great rapidity from one part to another. Tliere is great diversity as to the duration of spasm ; it is either permanent, re- mitting, intermitting, or periodical, and sometimes is so very slight as to create only a kind of tremulous motion of the part affected, but at other times it is very intense. It may be also remarked, that the intensity of the contrac- tion varies in different parts of the body, as much as its dura- tion. Thus the spasmodic contraction of tlie stomach is of short duration, but that of the gullet frequently lasts for many weeks or months. This contraction of the middle of the stomach has been no- liced by many anatomists. Mr William Cowper has described, (in his explanation of Ills 34th plate), what he has named “ ixi>o bunches in the lower part of the stomach,” and Schxeider and Blassius have made nention of cases, in which the stomach has been divided into hrcc sacs. Sir Everard Home has also described the con- raction in the middle of the stomach as taking place “ whilst he process of digestion is going on.” “ The contraction in the niddle of the stomach was probably the cause of death, as no )ther appearance of disease was met with : the bexly was ex leedingly emaciated*.” The spasmodic contraction probably akes place at the moment of death, for, after the lapse of 24 lours, it goes off, unless it be the effect of disease; which iolds true, also, wth respect to the intestinal canal, the .mil •ladder, and bladder of urine. ^ The contraction in the middle of the stomach does not inva ■ably go off; for in this, as in other instances, the tempo'- ^y stricture sometimes lays the foundation of a perraan^t Stricture sometimes takes place in the lower portion of the nailer intestines, but much more frequently in the lower por- on of the larger intestine. ^ In a few cases the bladder of urine is so contracted as to Lectures on Comparative Anatomy, vol. iii. p. 138.