418 MILT-LIKE TUMOUll OF THE STOMACH. willi the sulphuric acid. He at the same time complained much of uneasiness and sickness at stomach, and restless nights; his body was open, and his pulse, which beat about eighty times in a minute, was small and feeble. It was obvious that there was some organic disease in the abdomen. “ The region of the liver and stomach were minutely exami- ned, without discovering any trace of disease. “ At this time Dr Monro senior, was called into consulta- tion with Dr Thomas Anderson. The former said, that he thought he perceived a swelling towards the left side of'the sto- mach. Pulse 88, and regular in his body. After taking into ) full consideration all the circumstances of the case, it was deter- j mined to put our patient on a mild and protracted course of j mercury. I “ Diarrhoea succeeded, and the mercury was given up; not- withstanding which, and the use of opium and astringents, it continued for some time to be very troublesome. After a short time the severity of his complaints abated, and he acquired an increase of strength, by which he was enabled to leave his room. He was also permitted to take a small portion of animal food, which was not followed by any painful sensation in the stomach ; but as the quantity of food taken at any one time was very small, it is rather to this than to any other cause that the ease he now enjoyed after meals was to be attributed. In the beginning of the month of May he became worse, and on the 11th of the month Dr Gregory was joined in consultation with the gentlemen before mentioned. At this time, as the patient was much distressed with slight diarrhoea, every discharge per anum being preceded by severe griping, it was determined to try the effect of some simple aperient medicine. Magnesia, with lemon-juice, was recommended, which produced no great alleviation of the pain ; in addition to that was added a large dose of opium, combined with conf. catechu, administered at bed-time, and occasionally, also, in llie course of the day, when ’ it was rendered necessary by an increase of the pain. ! “ In addition to the symptoms noticed I ought to have ad- ded, that about this time he was much troubled with saliva