402 OF SCROFULOUS ULCERATION gion of the stomacli, and a feeling of inability to swallow. SIm? then felt, according to her own account, ‘ as if every thing went half-way down, and then came up again.’ Nothing would stay upon the stomach, not even an opiate pill. The bowels were always pretty regular. When I was absent from Edinburgh for a few days, diarrhoea suddenly came on, from which time the vomiting ceased. The diarx’hoea gradually subsided, but the pain in tlie region of the stomach increased. The pain was pretty constant, and was greatly aggravated by taking any thing into the stomach. Opiates were administered witliout any relief. She became much exhausted from pain, want of sleep, &c., but died rather suddenly, after having fainted several times, and passed some blood from the rectum. Her illness altogether lasted for about six months. “ Inspection after death.—The left lobe of the liver formed its largest half, and occupied the place of the stomach. The under surface of this lobe was found adhering to the stomach by a cii*- cular adhesion, about four inches in diameter. The stomacli was easily detached from the liver, when it was found tliat the circular portion of it included in the adhesion formed an ulcerated opening, communicating with a large abscess of the liver. By this large communication, the abscess and stomach formed one cavity. A large quantity of gruraous blood occupied the sto- mach and intestines. “ Remarks.—The above case shews the difficulty of ascer- taining the nature of organic abdominal disease before death ; and how well the symptoms are often explained by the apjiear- ances on dissection. “ In this case, the vomiting, irritability, and deranged func- tion of the stomach, at the commencement of the disease, are well accounted for, by the stomach having been compressed and inflamed, from the pressure and adhesion of the hepatic tumour. The diarrhoea must have been caused by the bursting of the abscess. After this, the compression of the stomach being re- moved, any thing swallowed was retained, but caused great pain