309 THE ORGANS WHICH CONTAIN THEM. A lady was supposed to be in labour, and the Doctor was sent for to deliver her. The pains were at first very slight. After some time, a bleeding came on, which led the Doctor to examine the parts. He found the os tinea; a little dilated, and discovered that the uterus was filled by hydatids. The bleed- ing continuing, he was induced to endeavour to remove the hy- datids, which he accomplished, and brought away a basinful of these. The lady got well in a few days, and afterwards had four very healthy children. Thus the cause of the tumour is removed, which is not effected by opening a fixed dropsical cyst. In many cases where there has existed a swelling of the belly, it has suddenly disappeared upon the discharge of hydatids, by vomiting and purging. After a time, should another such tu- mour begin to form^ as in Cases 2d, 4th, and 6th, in these cir- cumstances, though it is by no means certain that the sac and the containing parts adhere to each other, if the tumour be sttv- tionary, it may even, in some such cases, Ik; advisable to punc- ture the sac with a large trocar, and empty it of some, or of the whole, of the hydatitls ; or, if this cannot bo accomplished, to in- ject into it the smoke, or the infusion of tobacco, or a very weak solution of caraphoi-, or to give mercury, or some other substance which may kill the hydatids, but which is not dangerous to the patient. Prudence, however, suggests the propriety of endea- vouring to ascertain, by experiments upon animals, the effects of those liquors which are to be used as injections. The effect of the smoke of tobaexo, in Case 8th, in which hy- datids were lodged in the lungs, is an inducement to the prose- cution of such experiments; and there is even reason to sup- |X)se, that camphor, turpentine, and some other substances, which are very destructive to worms and insects, and which are readily and safely absorbed in such quantity as to communicate their taste and smell to the blood in the human body, might, in cases of hydatids, be of use when taken into the stomach, or even when applied to the skin of the patient. O