201 OF WORMS CALLED HYDATIDS. This kind is often found in the choroid plexus of the lateral ventricles of the brain, in cases of apoplexy and hydroce- phalus. There is a sixth, though very rare sort of hydatid,'which also, so far as I know, has not been described. In this, the hydatids are united laterally to each other. I have met with only two examples of this variety of hydatids, and in both they were con- nected with the liver. There were, at the same time, a greater number of hydatids of different sizes attached to the peritonai- um, and floating about in the general cavity of the abdomen. One of the patients, a boy, was suj)|X)sed to labour under as- cites, his belly being enormously swollen, his breathing much o])pressed, anil he was not relieved by an erect jx>sture. The superficial veins of the abdomen were greatly enlarged. During nine months before death, he had severe pain in the right hy- pochondrium, and a considerable partial tumour was observed in his belly, which increased with great rapidity for ten day.s before his death. Upon dissection, about 41b. of a fluid like tar ran out of the abdomen. A large hydatid was found ad- hering to the convex part of the liver; and six others were found adhering to this. The stomach was displaced, the pylo- rus being as low down aS the brim of the jK'lvis, and the greater share of the intestinal canal lodged within its cavity. The watery fluid • contained in hydatids, is generally trans- parent and coK -less, is to the taste slightly salt, and in some instances, a part of it is coagulated by heat, or by the addition of acids, or ardent spirits. In some cases, the contents of the cyst are tinged with yel- low, which is probably owing to an admixture of bile, exuding after death; for the yellow colour is observed only in hydatids which are connected with the liver and gall-bladder. There are also tumours, the contents of which seem to be • According to Dr John Hunter, this fluid contains very small hyda- tids, of different sizes, the largest being jjgth part of an inch in diameter, ami the smallest being less than a red globule of the blood. Vid. Trans, for the Improvement of Medical and Chirurgical Knowledge, voL i. p. 38.