OF extranfous bodies 12 Mr Foksteh of Hull sent my father a sole, which, by jump, iiig into the throat of a fisherman, while he was endeavouring to secure it with his teeth, killed him. In the same manner, many cattle have been suffocated by a turnip or potato sticking in the gullet. Fven coagulated blood produces the same effect. I am ac- quainted with a gentleman who had nearly lost his life in the following manner. On account of an inflammation in the upper part of his pharynx, scarifying had been recommended. That operation was unskilfully performed, a very large quantity of blood was discharged, which rapidly coagulated, and by which he certainly would have been suffocated, had not a friend thrust his fingers into the throat, and extracted the ma.sses of coagulat- ed blood. , 4 But flat bodies, such as pieces of money, do not occasion in- stant death when lodged within the gullet; for they,do not press much upon the windpipe, nor do they prevent fluids from get- ting into the stomach. There is a specimen of this description in the Museum of Edinburgh, from which I published an engraving in my Thesis. A halfpenny had stuck in the gullet of a boy, which he had been attempting to swallow ; it remained there for three years, and possibly would have remained there for a much longer |)eriod, had he not been seized with consumption, which proved fatal to him. Upon dissection, the gullet w'as found closely embracing the halfpenny, and considerably expanded by the piece of money. A halfpenny stuck in the gullet of another boy for "six months, and was afterwards extracted by his father, with the blunt hook which is represented in Tab. IV^ Fig. 1. of my Thesis. When an extraneous body has been detained at the origin of the gullet, a sac is, in some cases, formed of some length, which, passing down behind it, proves an additional impediment to the descent of the food, of which I met with a remarkable example. But all danger is not over when the extraneous body has got- ten into the stomach or intestinal canal. When an extraneous substance has been retained for some