286 OF SPASMODIC STUICTUllK In the other sj)ecics of stricture produced hy a contraclioji ol tlie sphincters of the anus, the contraction is found, upon ex- amination, to be at the anus, or tlie very lower extremity of the rectum. The inner membrane of the rectum is discovered to be sound, and the general health is not impaired.” I shall conclude this section, by subjoining a case of spasm ol various parts of the body. The patient was about fifty years of age. Oct. 23.—His lower jaw is firmly shut by the contraction of the temporal and masseter muscles, and scarcely admits the point of a quill. The muscles of the back of the neck, trunk, and lower extremities, are firmly and permanently contracted, by which the body is bent backwards. The legs are also pulled back, and the knees, feet, and toes, are firmly and per- manently extended. The body rests upon the shoulders and legs, the breech being elevated from the bed. The muscles on the fore part of the trunk are also firm, hard, and contracted, as are also those of the anterior part of the thighs. At the in- terval of every few seconds, he is subject to severe painful spasms of the muscles of the whole body, with the exception of the arms, muscles of respiration and deglutition. Pulse 88 ; feeble ; no passage of bowels for the last four days. Tongue foul, so far as it can be seen. The surface is covered with a clammy sweat. Six days ago he was attacked with pain, fol- lowed by spasm of the muscles of the lower jaw. The muscles of the trunk and legs were then similarly affected at the inter- val of every few minutes, but the back, legs, &c. have been in their present state for the last four days only. No wound or other injury can be detected. He got himself wet some days previous to his illness. Has been somewhat relieved by the use of purgative and oc- casional anodyne draughts. 27th.—Pulse towards 100, and full; pretty copious alvine evacuation, in part lumpy and dark coloured, with tcmjwrary relief to some extent of spasm, which occasionally remits. 28th. I’ulse alHJUt {)(), less full ; .surface warm ; gentle ftor- spiration; spasmodic affection continues, particularly that of