94 OF DIVEUTICUI.A FTtOM THE INTESTINES. and those formed consequent upon the protrusion of the intes- tines. The preternatural appendices occasionally found within the sac of a hernia are generally formed as stated by my grand- father, viz. by the gradual eloagation of the side of the intes- tine, and probably also by the addition of new matter. When a knuckle has been pro'truded, the distention and ver- micular motion of the intestines favour the return of the bowels into the abdomen. But after the partial adhesion between the hernial sac and its contents, the vermicular action of the intes- tine cannot have the same effect; the part adhering must be stretched more and more, and in gradually extended into a cul de sac of some length ; more especially in those hernias in which the intestines pass through a narrow canal with unyielding sides, as in crural hernia. There is also a species of appendix different from any of the preceding; it has a much thinner covering, is of a globular form, and is shorter and wider. It seems to me to be formed by a protrusion of the mucous membrane, through the other coats of the intestines. A specimen of this variety was sent to me by Dr Cheyne of Leith, who found it connected with the middle of the rectum of a patient who died from acute inflammation of the intestines. The symptoms occasioned by such diverticula included with- in the hernial sac, are in some instances somewhat different from those occasioned by stricture made upon a protruded turn of intestine. My grandfather has observed, “ that, instead of an entire piece of intestine being thrust out, one side of a gut has been stretched out into an appendix caeca. When this happens, the ingesta will not be stopped in their passage towards the anus, and the patient will go to stool, even though a strangula- tion of the liernia should come on: whereas, when the whole diameter of the gut is straitened by a strangulation, the ingesta will be stopped at the hernia, after the guts below it arc emp- tied ; the patient passes no more fa?ces, and the ingesta regur- giU'ite towards the stomach, and are vomited.” But wlien the diverticulum only is contained within a hernial fl