THE COATS OF THE ALIMENTARY CANAL. 231 cases contradicted each other, each having presented to his reader a different portrdt of the same organic derangement. Distrusting the results of partial observation, I have endea- voured, by a careful examination, and comparison of various specimens of organic derangements, preserved in the large mu- seum of morbid anatomy, which was formed by the industry of my Father, and has of late been very much extended, to correct (as Sir Joshua Reynolds has recommended) “ what is erro- neous, to supply what is scanty, and to add, by my own obser- vation, what the industry of my predecessors had yet left want- ing to perfection.” There have been two very different plans followed by authors in treating this subject. By the one, all the organic diseases of the pharynx and gullet are described under one head ; those of the stomach under another; and those of the intestines under a third. But such a plan seems to me liable to many well- founded objections. By the other plan, the organic derangements of the mitsctdur coat of the pharynx, gullet, stomach, and intestines, are described in one chapter ; those of the cellular coat in a second ; those of the rmiccms coats in a third; and tliose of die peritoneal coat in a fourth : or that motle is pursued which Dr Cakmichael Smyth * has adopted in his invaluable Essay upon the DifftT- ent Kinds of Inflammation. There are many advantages peculiar to the latter mode of pro- secuting pathological inquiries. It points out how far organic diseases are modified by the structure, function and situation of the part affected; and saves much unnecessary repetition in the description. This method of distributing the subject into parts is not ar- tificial and arbitrary, but rather natural; for it has an im- mediate reference to the manner in which many organic de- rangements take their origin ; these being limited at first to one of the coats of the alimentary canal, and being propagated to the other coats only in consequence of their continuance. It is • Vid. Loudon Medical Communications, vol. ii. I./ond. 1790.