OF STRICTURE OF THE RECTUM. 370 by iny finger, to tlie extent of the external incision. Tlie peri- toneum being now laid bai*e, a small opening was made in this membrane, which was enlarged to the extent of between two and three inches. The patient being greatly agitated, and the diaphragm and abdominal muscles thrown into violent action, a considerable protrusion occurred at this time of the small in- testines from the superior part of the wound : these were, how- ever readily replaced. The colon was thus freely exposed a little above its sigmoid flexure, at which place I made an inci- sion into it of about an inch and a-half in length : this incision was made on the left side of the gut, in order to avoid some small branches of the inferior mesenteric artery, which were dis- tributed on the right. The contents of the bowels were im- mediately expelled with great force to a considerable distance : as the faeces escaped, the gut collapsed, and began to subside from its place: a ligature w'as therefore passed through it at the lower part of the opening, the apposition of which to the exter- nal wound was then preserved until the bowels were copiously evacuated. The obstruction could not be felt by the finger, introduced through the wound : no attempt was therefore made to overcome it in this direction. The opening in the gut was attached to the external wound by four sutures, one on its su- perior and inferior margins, and one on each side; and the wound of the integument was closed by two sutures above, and one below, the opening of the intestine: it was then dressed with sticking-plaster above and below the opening into the gut, and this latter place was covered by a light compress ; the pa- tient was then put into bed.” It is necessary to refer to the original account * for that part of the history of the case which relates to it immediately subsequent to the operation. Nothing, however, very remark- able occurred : the most serious symptom was erysipelatous in- flammation of the skin of the abdomen, which might, it seems probable, be attributed in a great measure to the agency of the faeces, which were particularly noxious, from having been re- • Published in the London Medical and Physical Journal, for Jan. 19*1.