]VIII/r-LIKE TUMOUR OF THE STOAfACH. 417 there are cavities, of different sizes and forms, within the tumour, full of a fluid tinged with blood. The disease I have been endeavouring to describe, appears only in advanced life; but the anomalous tumour is, in many instances, a disease of infancy, of childhood, and of the meri- dian of life. The following is the history of a case of this disease occurring in the stomach, which was drawn out, at my request, by Dr Andkksox of Leith. “ Mr , about fifty-six years of age, of slender make, temperate habits, and subject to no hereditary com})laint, en- joyed uninterrupted good health, till towards the close of the year 1808. On the 13th of January 1809, immediately after dinner, he was attackcil, without any evident cause, with sick- ness and vomiting; in the cour.se of which he ejected eight or ten ounces of coagulated blood, of a Horid red colour. The .sickness soon left him. During the summer of the same year, he had acquired a sickly and rather emaciated appearance; notwithstanding which he thought himself in jx?rfect health. About the end of summer, he Ik'gan to exjxuience a degree of uneasiness and pain in his stomach, soon alter his meals, which he imputed to impaired digestion ; and, of his own accord, re- stricted himself to a milk diet, lly spare diet, he began to ex- perience so great a release from the painful sensation in the re- gion of the stomach, as to flatter himself that he was cured, and therefore resumed his former mode of living. “ About the commencement of the present year (1810), in consequence of a lameness, he was confined to his sofa, during which he evidently lost flesh. “ About the middle of the month of March, the uneasiness arising from distention of the stomach was much increased ; and, within a few' days, he experienced a fit of rigour, succeeded by increased heat of the body, which attacked him regularly about two o’clock of the afternoon, and continued till between five and six. He suffered five such paroxysms in as many suc- cessive days. These yielded to the Peruvian bark, combined D tl