294 OF palsy of the stomach and intestines. tion to tlie above general remark, and adds, that his patient for some time before liis death liad complained much oi' a sense of weight and fulness in his stomach, which, upon dissection, was found very much distended, though the passage through the pylorus was free. The distention of the stomach is occasionally very consider- able, and accompanied by displacement of this organ. I have seen it placed vertically, instead of across the body; and the pyloric orifice lay below the navel. The distention has sometimes proceeded so far, that the cause has been supposed to be dropsy of the belly. Bonnetus has made mention of such an instance, and most unfortunately the patient was tapped, soon after which he died. Palsy of the stomach is characterized by languor, paleness of countenance, lips and tongue, sense of weight in the stomach, want of appetite, imperfect digestion, considerable distention, and frequent eructation of wind. Hysterical women are liable to very considerable disten- tion of the stomach. Dr Burns of Glasgow has most ably de- scribed different modifications of this nervous disorder. He observes, “ It is usual, during some part of the paroxysm, for the stomach and bowels to seem prodigiously inflated, and feel very hard; but in an instant, and without any evident dis- charge of flatus, the inflation vanishes. This tumefaction, how- ever, is often apparently increased by the spine being bent back, and the abdomen protruded. The paroxysm does not go off by much eructation, but often by ineffective efforts to vomit. It is usually accompanied with distressing feeling of stuffing, particularly after eating. Sometimes paraly.sis of particular members or organs suddenly takes place, and as suddenly goes off; one side may be affected, or the sphincter of the bladder or the tongue, or pharynx, may be paralytic, and continue so for many hours. The patient cannot speak, and, although tor- mented by thirst, cannot swallow, but s|->ontnneously these symp- toms go off for a time ; and amrsthc.sia generally exists as long as the disea.se lasts, and particularly in the lower extremities. Sometimes the patient for a long period cannot sit up without