THICHOCEPIIALUS HOMINIS. 190 • This worm lias been frequently found adhering to the smaller and also to the beginning of the larger intestine, and I happen- ed to see it expelled along with the faeces. It coiled itself up, and died in a few minutes. Different authors vary in their opinions respecting the anato- my of the worm. According to some, the animal has a probos- cis, which it can eject at pleasure ; according to Goetze, that is the penis of the animal. ■ The stomach and intestines form a long canal, which pro- ceeds from the head to the extremity of the worm, and is largest at its beginning ; is much smaller at the tail of the ani- mal. The ovarium, which frequently contains ovula, and a limpid fluid, is a convoluted canal, and similar to that of the female Ascaris vermicularis. Besides the species of worms already treated of, others of a very different description have been occasionally discharged by stool. I allude, in particular, to caterpillars, or the larvas of in- sects *. • I sent, for examination, several specimens of them to Dr Leach, who favoured me with the subjoined report. “ They are all the larvae of insects, as follows : “ No. 1, The ova of the Musca vomitoria—My friend Donovan inform- ed me, that he had seen the larva of this insect in the intestines of a body in Windmill Street) in a state of putrefaction. The eggs, most probably, were deposited at the mouth, or anus, and the larvae had found their way thither on their hatching, which soon happens. “ Nos. 2, 3, and 4, larvae of three unknown species of coleopterous in- sects. No 3. is figured in the Medical Journal, vol. viii. p. 48. fig. 8. I am pretty certain that it is what the farmer terms the Wire-Worm. Of whai insect it is the larva will soon be made known, as Sir J. Banks, at this time, is breeding a great many, in order to ascertain this important fact. “ No.s. 5 and 7, The larvae of Papilio Brassicm, or some species much allied to it. “ No. C. Pupa of some musca.—Species unknown to me.