334 EFFECTS OF SWALEOM^NG THE iitomacli; this is rapidly followed by gangrene, which, as two preparations in the Museum of Edinburgh shew, is not limited to the internal surface of the stomach, but extends to all the coats of that organ. Upon ojiening the stomach, we sometimes meet with the poison adhering to the villous coat of the stomach, and the ar- senic is found in its metallic state. According to Dr Baillie, the stomach is sometimes lined by coagulable lymph. In some cases the stomach has been eroded ; and these ero- sions differ materially from those occasioned by the gastric juice, or by most species of ulceration; for they resemble the perforations made by a pointed instrument, and are surroundc*d by inflammation. The villous coat of the small intestines has been, in some coses, found- inflamed and thickened. When a considerable quantity of this poison is taken, the tongue swells, and a sensation of burning extends along the gul- let : this is followed by a sense of constriction in that canal, acute pain in the stomach and bowels, which is aggravated by pressure, and by vomiting and purging of a very viscid ropy mucus, in many in.stances tinged by blood, and which continues, in many cases, for several hours. The pulse is quick and irregular, and in a few hours be- comes still quicker and more irregular. The breathing is also much affected ; it is laborious, and the pulse now becomes slow. Convulsive twitchings of the muscles of the limbs, faintings, and cold sweats follow, which are the pre- cursors of death ; this, in some cases, has taken place in four or five hours after the poison has been swallowed. Wepfer* has described the ca.se of a boy who died in two hours •)•. • VW. Cicut. Aq. Hist. c. xxi. f As a striking proof of the small quantity of the white oxide of arsenic by which some constitutions are affected, it may not be improper to add, that I lately visited a gentleman who ha<l mixed uj) with his pen-knife some of tlie white oxide, as a poison for rats. He had not wiped the blade of the