4CUTE PERITONITIS. 505 symptom, but occasionally the constipation alternates with slight attacks of diarrhoea, which are generally, however, but of short duration. On the other hand, diarrhoea, with tormina and tenesmus, are sometimes the principal symptoms of the disease. The stomach is almost always much disordered, with constant headach, and occasionally there is fixed pain in the region of the epigastrium. When the bowels are easily moved, it sometimes happens that the fteces are evacuated with violent pain; and sometimes af- ter the disease seems subdued, the operation of a ))urgative is immediately followed by a renewal of the symptoms in all their original violence. In the milder form of this disease, the menstrual discharge is generally suppressed, but, in one case, the menses appeared re- gularly every fortnight. Peritoneal inflammation is sometimes very much relieved in consequence of the apj^earance of an eruption all over the skin of the abdomen. I had occasion to visit an elderly hwly, who was seized with all the ordinary symptoms of acute |X'ritoneal in- flammation, after exposure to cold and damp. Upon the invasion of the disease', twenty leeches were applied to the abdomen, and afterwarils a large blister. I was desired to visit her, on account of the cutaneous erup- tion, which she informed me had remow'd the acute pain and tenderness in the Ixjwels, as soon as it ajqxared. The disease sometimes assumes somewhat of the typhoid type, as is indicated by the great prostration of strength, small contracted wiry pulse, anxiety, and tx;casional delirium. Lastly, the symptoms of acute peritonitis are sometimes con- sequent to rheumatism. From what has been stated as to the nature of this acute dis- ease, it is obvious that the lancet is the most powerful remedy in tlie earlier stage of the disease ; and the quantity of blood to be drawn must be varied, according to the severitv of the symptoms. When the more acute symptoms have been re- moved, leeches and blisters should be applied to the pained part. Purgatives are also useful when the effusion has taken place.