IN RESPECT TO HERNIA. 125 1803), 1 have stated that I had not observed such a deviation from the usual distribution of the arteries in above one of 25 or 30 cases; and, according to subsequent observation, such a dis- tribution of arteries occurs in one of 20 cases.* 1 have also ob- served, that the short division is as common as the longer; and as the obturator artery is only in danger of being divided by Gimbernat’s operation in the latter case (indeed Mr Cooper asserts, that he had never met with the obturator artery passing around the neck of the hernial sac) \ hence such an unusual dis- tribution of the obturator artery does not form so material an objection to the operation for crural hernia, performetl according to the method of Gimberkat, as has been sup|X)se<l. There is still another variety as to the distribution of the epigastric and obturator arteries. 'I'liese arteries, in some cases, come oft' from the anterior iliac artery by separate trunks; and the obturator artery passes around that jwrt of the crural arch called Guiueknat’s Ligament, and is attached to it by cellular t substance. When this iiapjx'ns, the obturator artery, by the (descent of a portion of the intestine through the crural ring, is pressed upon the very jwxrt of the crural ju-ch divided by Gim- :i BERNAT, in his operation for crural hernia. I I have seen the obturator artery sent oft' from the external I iliac artery, about an inch and a half above; and in others, i about an inch below, the epigastric artery ; in still other examples, y even on the outer side of the pelvis, from the superftcial femoral ' 1 artery, in which case the artery ascends along the pectineus I muscle, and enters the pelvis at the crural aperture. The ar- ; tery in this case is placed behind the crural hernia. ■ Velpeau, one of the most distinguished anatomists of France, has ob- served, “ II y a long-terns deja que les anatomistes ont fait remarquer cetle origine commune des arteres 6pigastrique et obturatrice ; mais, ce n’est que ; depuis Moneo qu’on a essay^ d’etablir dans queUe proportion ces cas se ren- .4 ' contraient. Ce chirui^en c61ebre pense que cette anomalie se voit uue fois sur vingt; Burns dit I’avoir remarqu6e plus de trente fois; Hesselbach la regarde comme assez rare; Scarpa, Lawrence admettent qu’elle peut avoir lieu une fois sur dix ou quinze; M. J. Cloguet, une fois sur cinq, et F. Meckel avance qu’elle est presque aussi frequente que I’etat normal. Nos propres observations nous porteraient a partager I’avis de Monro.”—— Vide Traite d’Anat. Chirurg. Paris, 1826.