OF PALSY OF THK GULLET. 292 “ He was ordered, two days afterwards, to take five j»rains of the pil. ex myrrh, compos. Phar. Lond. every night at l>ed- time, and had a caustic put on his left side, wliich entirely re- moved the pain, and relieved his breathing. “ In a few days, he completely recov^cd.” Case II.—“ James Bull, a soldier, aged 32, applied for admission into the Middlesex Hospital, on Thursday the 11th January 1785. He gave the following account of his com- plaints. “ That, on the Sunday preceding, he went to bed in his usual health ; about three o’clock in the morning he awoke, and being thirsty, got out of bed to drink some water, which was in the room, but, to his great surprise, found he could not swallow it; he then tried to swallow some milk and water, but with no better success. He said, that except having lost the power of swallowing, he was in other respects in perfect health, and felt no inconvenience but faintness and hunger, excepting when he attempted to swallow; and that upon doing this, he was in danger of suffocation, the liquor being forced back immediately through his nose and mouth. This I found to be strictly true, as I made him try to swallow a little milk in my presence. “ Upon examining the fauces, there was no preternatural ap- pearance, only that the velum pendulum palati, tonsils, and posterior part of the pharynx, seemed uncommonly pale and flaccid. “ The probang passed readily into the stomach, a proof that there was no mechanical obstruction or stricture in the gul- let. “ He had a clamminess in his mouth, with a hawking and spitting of phlegm. Upon the whole, it was apparent that the patient’s complaint was a palsy of the gullet, and this was still farther confirmed, by remarking, upon a closer inspection, that his mouth was drawn a little to the left .side. He was ordered to have a broth clyster immediately, and likewise to have his throat fomented with warm spiritous fomentatioas, and after- wards a large sinapism to be applied. In about two hours, he