129 OF INGUINAL HERNIA. tier ihc edge of the transverse muscle. The protruded bowel passes between the two portions of the transverse fascia, and under the margin of the transverse and internal oblique muscles, in front of the spermatic cord. The tumour is placed obliquely, or it proceeds obliquely downwards and inwards between the upper and under abdominal apertures, and at length passes through the under abdominal aperture, frequently extending downwards, creating in the scrotum a tumour of considerable miignitude, called a Scrotal Hernia. But when the disease has been of some duration, the upper ajierture is considerably ex- tended, so as to be nearly op|)osite to the under abdominal aperture, by which the canal loses its original oblique situation, and becomes nearly direct. A second hernia is sometimes formed at the pubic side of the first. In the second modification of inguinal hernia, the tumour is not external to the parictes of the alxlomen, and the tumour is confined either to the upjjcr alKlominal ajK'rture, or to that part of the inguinal canal which intervenes bctwt'cn the upjxjr and umlcr abdominal apertures. The third modification of inguinal hernia is widely diflercnt from either of the preceding. The tumour apjjears in the seat of the under abdominal ajaTture, but is not placeil obliquely ; for the displaced bowels have not followed the track of the in- guinal canal, but have passed directly through the under abdo- minal aperture only : hence this has very properly been named the Ventro-Ing^iinal Hernia. The fourth modification of inguinal hernia is the effect of malconjbrniaiion of the inguinal canal. The small tendinous fibres which connect the upper and under tendinous columns of the tendon of the external oblique muscle being wanting, the inguinal canal is imperfectly formed, and consequently, when the bowels protrude through such an inguinal canal, the hernial tumour has neither the common form, nor does it occupy the exact situation of an inguinal hernia.