OF CONGENITAL HERNIA OF THE FEMALE. 165 strictured by this fillet. There was also a very obvious nar- rowing at the part where the sac escaped from the deficient ca- nal. The stricture was formed by the interlacing fibres of the external oblique; a fact which proves that the deficiency of the canal does not depend on the want of these fibres. “ In congenital inguinal hernia the risk is, that we mistake the disease for crural hernia. It has been seen, that the tumour in the former, owing to the imperfect state of the anterior wall of the canal, comes, in the majority of cases, by separating the fibres of the oblique aponeurosis, to place itself, in so far as re- gards the course of ihe swelling, in the situation of a crural hernia.” There are many examples within my knowledge, where this mistake was never discovered till after the operation had been performed. Generally it is unpardonable in a surgeon to con- found the one disea.se with the other. He can never, indt'ed, be excusable, unless where the parts arountl the sac are so swelled and diseased, that there is ik) |x>ssibility of distinguish- ing Poupart’s Ligament. In congenital inguinal hernia in the female, 1 have found that the tumour, when it descended along the thigh, lay above the adipo-glandular fascia, so that it was more defined and sii- perficial than in crural hernia. Where the deficiency of the canal was great, and the hernia large and reducible, I have found that the finger could be made to follow the bowels, and so could be turned into the crural fo- ramen. Dr Thomson has noticed the same fact, which, I would ob- serve, has never, to my knowledge, been pointed out by any author ♦. Experience has not yet determined whether these diverticula which are observed in the female, are closed, like the canal through which the testis passes. : • It may be proper to add, that the case described by Mr A. Burns un- der the head of Inguinal resembling Crural Hernia owing to malconforma- tion of the Ingviinal Canal, was also a Congenite Hernia, but very different from the above.