144 OF THE VARIETIES OF CRURAL HERNIA. In this instance, the obturator artery passed between the herniae, and encircled the tumour next the os ilium. Mr Burns observed, “ That, in a person afflicted by this va- riety, in whom the obturator artery comes off by the short ori- gin from the epigastric artery, the former vessel will to a cer- tainty encircle the pubal side of the neck of the ilial sac. If, however, the obturator artery and the epigastric continue con- nected for a considerable distance from their origin, and if one herniary tumour pass into the sheath of the vein, and another escapes into the common sheath of the lymphatics, then both sacs will be trjinsversed on their upper margins by the obtura- tor artery, and the tumour in the lymphatic sheath will like- wise have the same vessel on its pubal side. I have never seen this variety in the course of the obturator artery, but I dissect- ed the body of an aged woman last summer, in which I found one sac in the sheath of the lymphatics, and another in the sheath of the vein. In this subject, the obturator and epigas- tric arteries came off by a short trunk from the external iliac, and the obturator in its way to the thyroid foramen, encircled the neck of the sac contained in the venous sheath. This new variety of arrangement of the ohturatoi' artery shows^ that the general opinion respecting the safety of cutting toward the piir- bes, in those cases where the conjoined trunk of the epigastric and obturator is short, is not wellfounded. In this female we have seen, that, although the common trunk of these vessels be very short, yet, from the ilial tumour descending into the sheath of the vein, the neck of that sac is encircled by the obturator artery.” The sixth is a frequent variety of crural hernia. The displa- ced bowels, in the first place, descend in a direction perpendicu- lar to the abdomen, and lie over the pectincus muscle ; the tu- mour is therefore very moveable. In consequence of the con- nection of the falciform process of the fascia with Poupart’s ligament, and the duration of the disease, the tumour is fre- <|ucntly rcHcctcd over the crural arch, and is covered liy the su- perficial fascia, skin, and cellular substance only. J'rom the great loosenes.sof the lellular substance at the sides