100 OF THE ANATOMY OF THE COSTO-ABDOMINALIS, OR EXTEBNAI- OBLIQUE MUSCLE OF THE ABDOMEN. This muscle originates by eight, sometimes by nine heads, which are near- ly triangular, from the eighth or ninth lowest ribs, and not at a great dis- tance from their cartilages. The upper digitations adhere to the origins of the serratus anticus major, and the low'er to those of the latissimus dorsi. All the heads adhere to the neighbouring intercostal muscles. The different heads of the oblique muscles are greater in breadth than in thickness. The fibres of those of the middle pass obliquely downwards, and from be- hind forwards, and those of the under part are nearly vertical. The upper part of the muscle passes nearly transversely across the body, and is connected by its tendon to the lower part of the larger pectoral mus- cle. By the union of the tendons of the external and internal oblique and transverse muscles of opposite sides, a white line is formed in ^he middle of the belly, extending from the cartilago-ensiformis to the pubes, and is termed Linea alba. The larger fibres of the tendinous aponeurosis attached to the lower por- tion of the external oblique muscle, descend obliquely inwards and down- wards, and are disposed in a parallel manner in respect to each other, and these are united together by means of many thin tendinous fibres, which take their rise from Poupart’s Ligament; and it merits notice, that these smaller connecting fibres are by no means equally manifest in every instance, being in some persons very small and flattened; but in others distinct, thick, and rounded cords: and in old hemiae, they sometimes become very large, make a distinct impression on the hernial sac, and are continuous with the fascia propria of Cabiper •. Sometimes these connecting fibres are entirely want- ing. The under part of the tendon of the external oblique muscle is stretched between the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium and the symphysis j»ubis, and extended over the flexor muscles, femoral artery, and vein and accompanying nerves. This part of the tendon is thicker and stronger than any other part of the tendon; it is apparently folded inwards, and somewhat rounded, especially towards the ossa pubis, and has been described by some under the name of Poupart’s Ligament. Mr Gibibernat has described the tendon as doubled inwards, forming a VMc Plate* of InRUlnal HcmUc by Campsr.