123 OF THE 8ITUATIO>i OF THE AllTEKlES. therefore be first behind, and then on the pubal side of the most common kind of inguinal hernia- But the epigastric artery is also sometimes situate on the op- posite or ilial side of the tumour, as has been observed by De- sault, Chopart, Sabatier, Camper, and Uougemont. The epigastric artery does not always take its rise from the same part of the anterior iliae artery within the jielvis. I have seen the epigastric artery and internal circumflex of the j^elvis come off’ from the anterior iliac, by a common trunk within the pelvis, and very near to the crural arch. The epigastric artery sometimes arises from the pudic artery; I have also seen it arising from the arteria profunda feinoris. In some cases, a branch of the epigastric artery passt's through the inguinal canal, and anastomoses wiili a small brancli sent off’ from the femoral artery. When the epigastric artery takes its usual origin from tlu- anterior iliac artery, its smaller branches, in some cases, pass along that part of the crural aich calletl Gimbernat’s Ligament, in their course to the symphysis pubis, i I have a specimen in which the epigastric artery takc»8 its rise from the obturator, and posses upwards and inwards to the rec- tus muscle. Besides the epigastric artery, there is anotlier artery which is li in ditngcr of being wounded in performing the operation for 1 crural hernia. I allude to the obtur.ator artery, which com- i monly arises from the posterior iliac aiTery; but sometimes takes I its origin in common with the epigastric artery from the anterior iliac. The trunk common to the obturator and epigastric arteries ii is sometimes a quarter of an inch in length ; in other instances, li it measures from an inch to an inch and a half (see Plate II.); I and I have met with it of all intermediate lengths. If the common trunk be only a fourth of an inch long, the 0 obturator artery runs on that side of the sac which is next to t the anterior spinous process of the ilium, and cannot be dis- ( placed, being firmly bound down by cellular substance, and, t therefore, cannot be injured in that kind of crural hernia in I