170 OF THE PERINEAL HERNIA. But, in consequence of the duration of the disease, a tumour frequently appears in the perineum, on one side of the raphe, the bowels having passed (if the patient be a male) between the rectum and bladder, between the levator ani and sphincter muscle, or between the fibres of the levator ani. In the female, the protrusion takes place between the bladder of urine and the vagina. Scarpa, has published an interesting case of this kind of her- nia, which was occasioned by an effort made with the legs apart, when the body was bent forwards: it was about the size of a small nut. The tumour suddenly appeared at the right side of the anus, and gradually became larger, though the patient wore a truss. The tumour, which was situated at the right side of the rectum and bladder, protruded on the same side of the anus, the tuber ischii and coccyx. The hernial sac was co- vered by a portion of the levator ani. The tumour, when internal, may be discovered from the rec- tum ; when external, it becomes more evident while the patient is standing, becomes less upon pressure, and in the recum- bent position. Sometimes this kind of hernia is accompanied by bearing down pains, and has been mistaken for a prolapsus uteri. The intestines generally form the contents of the hernia, and sometimes the bladder of urine; and hence there is some va- riety as to the symptoms. The bladder of urine is always more or less affected by this kind of hernia ; as it is pressed upon, and irritated by, the pro- truded intestines *. ■ Mr Brodxe has described a case (London Medical and Physical .Journal), in which two yards of the smaller intestine, in a high state of inflammation, with a considerable portion of the mesentery, protruded through the anus. The displaced parts could not be reduced. Under these circumstances, lilr Brodie made a longitudinal incision of the linea alba, about two inches in length, below the umbilicus. The incision was continued through the peri- toneum into the cavity of the abdomen; and the fingers being introduced at this opening, by gently pulling the small intestine, that portion of it which had protrudeil through the slit of the rectum was readily drawn back in. to the abdomen. It having been ascertalnod, by examining the rectum