451 OF THE ALIMENTARY CANAL. are separated from each other by cartilaginous septa of different thickness ; but I have never seen cysts filled with a bloody fluid, similar to those which so frequently are observed in cancer of the mamma or testicle. The cavity of the stomach is very much diminished by a scirrhous thickening of its tunics; and most frequently the dis- ease is limited to the cardiac and pyloric portions of the organ, and sometimes the same disease extends to the neighbouring parts. In a specimen in the Museum of the University, the stomach is small, and the pylorus scirrhous, above which, there is a tumour apparently composed of tubercles, similar to those found in the liver of the same patient. Above the tumour, a portion of the stomach is ulcerated and elevated. The patient, a female, aet. 51, had laboured under tiibcrculatcd liver; the tubercular masses were scirrhous, white, fibrous, somewhat granular, and unencysted. The larger jx>rtions seemed to be formed by the aggregation of small round tubercles. The rugae of the stomach generally are much thickened, and frequently a number of tumours grow from them. In many cases, the disease is generally slow in its progress, and a considerable time elapses before the scirrhous tumours have attained so considerable a bulk as to obstruct the cardiac or pyloric orifices of the stomach. But, in other cases, the progre.ss of the disease is much more rapid, ami it speedily proves fatal. In some cases of scirrhous stomach the adhesive precedes the ulcerative process; thus life is maintained, though the coats of the bowel be destroyed by ulceration. If the scirrhus be so situated as to interrupt the passage through the alimentary canal, as at the cardia or pylorus, the parts above the stricture generally become prodigiously enlarged, and at first much thickened, but after a time they become thin- ner, and even ulcerated, and at length perforated, by which a communication is established between the seat of the disease and the neighbouring parts. There is in some constitutions so great a tendency to scirrhus, that the disease extends to the F f 2