434 OF FUNGOUS TUMOURS could be seen upon examining the throat, and the disease was supposed to be spasmodic, Uf, This patient liad had a convul- sive action of the muscles of the throat, and, on attempting to swallow food, was threatened with suffocation: such attacks were at first only occasional, 2d, The patient became more and more emaciated, and (as in a case which fell under my own no- tice) there was considerable salivation. The breathing became much oppressed, A hissing noise was heard during inspiration. The difficulty in swallowing became greater and greater, and, when she did swallow, she was obliged to lie down in bed *, Dr Baillie has described a case of fungus of the pharynx, which, when cut into, appeared to have a fibrous structure, dis- posed in some measure at right angles to the inner membrane, upon which it was formed : it was ulcerated on its surface. Razoux has described what he calls a Fungous Tumour. “ Nous trouvames une espece de fungus d’un pouce et demi d’epaisseur, qui bouchoit exactement Torifice inferieur de I’esto- mac; c’etoit une excroissance formee par plusieurs couches Tune sur Tautre, qui partoient toutes du pilore, comme d’une racine ou d’un pedicule commun, ct venoient s’epanouir sur la surface de I’estomac. Ce fungus etoit compost de cinq k six couches ass^s distinctes d’une substance membraneuse et charnue; elle etoit dure en certains endroits, et paroissoit presque calleuse-)-.’’ In ten cases, my Father found the mucous coat of the stomach or of the intestines in a fungous state, when before death there had been a discharge of a large quantity of black bile. When the mucous coat has been reduced to this condition, it assumes a pulpy appearance, is much softer, thicker, and redder than usual, and very irregular on its surface. The distinction between the sound and diseased part is gene- rally very manifest, the latter having at its edges a puckered appearance. These fungous tumours sometimes pass across the bowel • I have seen several cases, in jMitients advanced in life, of tumours of the pharynx, where similar symptoms existed. The tumours were medullary sarcoma of various degrees of consistence. + Vide Tables Nosol. &c. p. 1