DIAGNOSIS OF CUURAL HERNIA. 148 sac, the size of a hen’s egg, and containing a quantity of hyda- tids, which was removed from tlie upper and outer parts of the thigh. Lumbar abscess may be very readily mistaken for a crural hernia; as it becomes larger when the person coughs, and also more tense in the erect than in the horizontal posture. The characteristic symptoms of lumbar abscess are inflamma- tion in the side or loins, followed by symptoms which indicate the formation of purulent matter, viz. pain, increased on mo- tion, with slow and gradual increase of the tumour, the limits of which are not well defined; fluctuation of matter felt, on alternate pressui’e being made on the loins, or lower part of the abdomen, and upper and inner part of the thigh when the swel- ling is examined alternately in the erect and horizontal posture. A crural hernia of a large size, or when reflected upon the crural arch, is often placed obliquely, as such a hernia covers the under abdominal aperture, and its neck being compressed, and somewhat resembling the spermatic cord, it may be mis- taken for an inguinal hernia. A crural hernia is sometimes reflected upwards and outwards, sometimes upwards and inwards. In order to ascertain the nature of the hernia, it sometimes becomes necessary to press downwards the reflected part of the swelling; and by grasping Poupart’s ligament over the cru- ral aperture, the herniary tumour may be traced to the cru- rabaperture. But this cannot always be done when the dis- ' ease has been of some duration; as, during the progress of the disease, the tumour may be retained in its unnatural situation by adhesions. A circumscribed vari.x or swelling of that part of the femoral vein which is next to the crural arch exjiands when the patient coughs, becomes much less in the recumbent, and expands in the erect jwsture, and hence has been mistaken for a crural hernia, to which it may bear a strong resemblance. A swelling occasioned by such a cause, may be discover- ed, by making pressure upon the vein above the crural arch.