OF THE intestinal CANAL. 277 died from this cause, after having suffered for five days most severely, from obstinate constipation, acute pain in the bowels, and bilious vomiting. No other morbid appearance was dis- covered than a very great enlargement of the smaller intestines. Ileus often proves fatal by inducing inflammation of the mus- cular coat, but that inflammation has been detected by a post- mortem examination, when, before death, there had been no symptoms which led to a suspicion of its existence. This inflammation is not characterised by the extreme ten- derness of the abdomen which accompanies jieritonitis. It is projjer also to repeat the observation already made in the chapter on hernia, that the state of the pulse is not an un- erring index to the state of the intestines, us an intestine has been found inflamed when the pulse before death had been little affected ; and hence if the larger intestines be sound, a passage may be procured by purgative clysters, whilst tlie inflammation of the smaller intestines is proceeding rapidly to its fatal temii- nation. An inflammation beginning in the muscular coat may be ra- pidly propagated to the other coats ; or the {x?ritoneal or mucous coat may be the primary seat of disease, and hence the great variety observed in the symptoms. Spasm of the intestines also sometimes proves fatal, more especially to children, by paving the way for intus-susceptio. The intestines of children being much more irritable than those of adults, are very frequently alternately contracted and dilated ; the contracted part passes within the larger adjoining portion, occasioning the disease called intus-susceptio. I have, during the examination of the Ixxlies of children, and more especially of those who were victims of diseases of the spinal cord, detected several such intus-susceptions in the same body. Intus-susceptio takes place in the act of dying, or some time before death : in the former case, the included may be rea- dily withdrawn from the including portion of intestine ; but in the latter, that cannot be done, as the included and including portions of intestine arc fixed to each other by it.