263 SYMPTOMS OF HYDROPHOBIA. as upon going into the cold-bath ; in others, there is a severe struggle for breath, which is interrupted by deep sighing and sobbing. The patient has a great dread of water, or any other fluid, even though he suffers much from thirst, and heat of his gullet and stomach. Upon attempting to swallow, the greater part of the fluid is rejected through the nose, and the greatest anxiety, spasms, a sense of strangulation, and a loss of sense follow. Though fluids are rejected, solids pass down in some cases. The thirst and internal heat increase with the desire to drink ; and the patient, incapable of swallowing bis saliva, spits it out, and suffers much from a dryne.ss of the mouth and throat. So great is the horror for water, that even the sight of a fluid, or of a looking-glass, or the noise of water ptiured from a tea-pot, throws some patients into strong convulsions. I visited a patient to whom this happened, notwithstanding which, she had so much resolution as frequently to attempt to drink, and often succeeded, but in a few minutes afterwards the aversion to liquids returned as strong as ever; and she at last died while endeavouring to swallow. In some cases the patient falls into a state of melancholy, his memory fails, and he falls into a soporose state ; but there are other instances in which there is great mental irritation, wild- ness and redness of the eyes, frothy saliva in the mouth, and anxious and timid expression of the countenance. The least noise is offensive, as the ojx?ning or shutting a door; a bright light, or even sometimes the sight of any thing white, gives uneasiness. Fever comes on, with quick but low pulse, and this is follow- ed by delirium ; and the patient, bereft of reason, attempts to bite his nurse, and even his dearest friends. Some have lucid intervals, during which they are sensible, melancholy, and resigned to their fate, and warn the bystanders of tbeir danger. After a time the agitation and delirium increase, with the convulsive twitchings of the muscles, and difficulty in breath- ing ; the pulse throbs violently, cold sweats follow, and the