337 ON THE EFFECTS OF OPIUM. V My Father’s numerous experiments upon opium have led liim to a different conclusion. He supposes that opium not only affects the nerves to which it is primarily applied, but is also absorbed; and being then mixed with the blood, proves fatal, by its sedative powers upon the nerves of the heart and blood- vessels, and off the whole nervous system.* In the case of a young woman who had destroyed herself by drinking a wine-glassful of laudanum, I observed a numbci of small red sjiots upon the villous coat of the stomach. Beck, in his Elements of Medical Jurisprudence, which con- tains a large store of very important information on the effec-ts of various poisons, has observiHl, “ Although the cases of death by this ]X)ison (opium) are numerous, yet the examinations have been few and imperfect.” In these circumstances, I subjoin the history of a ca.si‘ which fell under my own notice. The patient, as far as could Ik- learnixl, had swallowixl alK)ut 3v’|. of laudanum. In the course of four hours she died, after having been for some time in a state of coma; although Reid’s stomach pump had In'cn employed, by which a consider- able portion of the contctits of the stomach had l)cen evacuated. The body was examined nlx>ut thirty-six hours after death. The countenance was livid and swollen, probably, in part, ow- ing to position. The blocxl was quite Huid. 'I’he ve.ssels of the brain were a little more turgid than usual. The stotnac.h was distended by air, and, upon lK*ing opencxl, a gocxl deal of vi- tiated, brownish coloured, viscid mucus was found adhering to the villous coat. The contents of the stomach had a sweetish smell, and there were several lumps of a white substance like coagulated milk. The stomach was then put into a large bottle half full of wa- ter, and well washed, to be preserved for a more minute exa- mination. The mucous membrane of the cardiac portion of the stomach was of the tile-red of Mr P. Syme, and the colour became gra- • t ide Edinb. Med. and Phys. Essavs, voL iii. p. 292. Y