463 OF THE STOMACH. x?atcry discharge would stop altogether, but about an hour af- ter dinner, it began with great violence, and he cried incessantly from the pain in his bowels. In a little while after the vomit- ing came on, and continued, witli very short intervals, till bed- time ; and for the last five or six weeks, scarcely ever left him, night or day : But what ease he had was always in the fore- noon. From the beginning of September, the vomiting was al- ways of a blackish-brown colour, as if more of the dark-coloured matter had been lodged in the stomach, except when he threw up his food, immediately after eating, which frajuently hap- pened. “ (ith.—Discharge from his stomach considerably incrciised, and the burning pain in his breast is very severe. Cannot swal- low the mildest lujuid without much uneasiness. “ His costiveness increased so much, that, after the beginning of October, no purgative whatever had the le;ist impression on him, and it was found necessary to give him an injection every night, which invariably produced a stool about half an hour af- ter it Mils administered. Many laxatives Mere trk“tl ; 01. Kicin. to the (juantity of ^iv. jkt diem, [)urging salts of every kind, tinctures, and at last strong stimulants, all to no purjx)se. “ On the 27th, 1 was called in a hurry. 1 founil him very much emaciated^ and in the last degree of Meakness, but con- stantly rackenl M’ith the most excruciating pain, making rejieated attempts to vomit, but nothing came up. On a sudden, the pain of his boMcls increasexl to the last degre>e of torture, and, though he had the most violent retching, never threw up again. In about a quarter of an hour after my arrival, he became de- lirious, and his speech inarticulate; but every now and then making signs to be lifted up that he might try to vomit. Thus I he continued all night, and expired about nine in the morn- I ing. “ On dissection, the pelvis was quite full of a thin dark- ! coloured hquor, which likeivise overspread the intestines, inso- I much, that we filled a large basin with it, to the quantity of t about two Scots pints. The acid smell was intolerable. The