255 PASSAGES FOR THE FOOD. she could call up sufficient resolution, she carried the cup hastily to her mouth, turning away her eyes, and then gulped down the contents with inconceivable rapidity, amidst violent convulsions of the muscles of her face, throat, and upper part of her body. For some time afterwards, she continued much agitated and convulsed, with efforts to retch, much sobbing, and frequent anxious respiration. She talked in the intervals with great un- concern of the wound of her hand, but complained much of the pain of her shoulder; at the same time insinuating, that it was only a rheumatic pain, to which, it st-ems, she had been formerly subject. Pulse 102, somewhat sharp, but not strong; skin very warm, but moist; tongue white and clammy ; she still com- plained of thirst, but had no headach, or uneasiness about her throat. “ About eleven on Sunday, her Itxrks were extremely wild, at the same time expressive of great horror. When spoken to, she was immediately affected with convulsive motions about the throat, which precluded any utterance. Hy degrc*es .slie re- covered the use of speech; said she had no pain, but extreme thirst; her tongue was white and clammy ; pulse, at first, above 100, presently, however, it sunk to somewhat abt)ve 80. When [Irink was offered her, the convulsions in the throat were imme- diaielv induced ; her Ux>ks and gestures were still more expres- sive of distress; however, she was persuadt*d to try to take a little gruel out of a sjxxjn. This, after various efforts, she snatched at suddenly, and gulped down, with seemingly great pain and distress, and violent agitation of all the muscles of her face and throat. Such paroxysms were frequently renewed by the mention of any liquid, or any question or object which caused any sort of surprise. But all the while she was com- pletely sensible, and in the intervals of the fits gave a distinct account of her previous atuation, and seemed much affected with the distress of a patient that lay opposite to her ; expressed also her gratitude for the kindness that was shewn to her, and her resolution to attempt whatever might be judged proper for her recovery. “ The external fauces were well rubbed and covered with