225 OK FASCIOLA HEPATICA. crateriformis. The circumstance of these joints separating, and being voided in their detached state, is not peculiar to the Trnnia solium. Three months ago, I witnessed the album graecum of a dog covered with the separated living joints of the Tania cu- cumerina^ The worms above described are different from any which are found in the earth and waters, and h^e only within the hu- man body. I have seen such worms passcKl alive, but they died in six or eight minutes, after having made several convul- sive contortions. Hydatids are found not only within the intestines, but also in other parts of the body ; but there are certain worms which are found only in certain situations, ’as the Filaria papiUosa in the aqueous humour of the eye of the horse in Asia, the Dra- cuncnlus, or Filaria medinaisis, in the cellular substance under the human skin, and the Fasciola hcpatica in the gall-ducts; in the.se situations they live and grow, but they speedily die w’hen removed. The joints of the tamia do not seem, from what has been above statc^l, to be capable of an indejxndent existence. Climate also seems to give a pretlisposition to certain kinds of worms; thus the Ttenia solium is not unfrequent in Ger- many, France, Italy, and llritain, whereas the Ta*nia lata is more common in Russia, Poland, and Sweden. The Guinea ■worm never occurs in this country ; I have seen it, but it was imported ; and the worm proper to the aqueous humour of the horse has never been observed in Britain. Among the pre- disposition to w'orms may also be mentioned the period of infancy, and a damaged state of the functions of the alimentary canal. The Tanise Lumbrici and Ascarides not only give occasion to the symptoms which have been above enumerated, but also occasionally to different nervous disorders, as chorea, epilepsy : lumbrici sometimes have proved fatal, by perforating the coats of the intestine. Tubercles in their commencement have been said to be hyda- tids. This opinion seems to gain weight from figure 2d of P