420 MILT-LTKE TtTMOUR OF THE STOMACH. the })rincij)al mass several laminar projections issued. The structure ot the tumour was fibrous, and in consistence and ap- pearance much resembled the substance of brain. To me it ap- peared an example of the medullary sarcoma, so well described by Mr Abernetiiy. But of the more particular appearances and structure of this tumour, I forbear to add any further de- scription, as the preparation itself is now in your possession. “ There were three or four small ulcerations on the surface of the tumour. “ T am, dear Sir, yours most sincerely, “ CiiA. Andersox.” The most remarkable circumstance in the preceding case, was the slight degree of pain in the stomach which the patient suf- fered, and which seems to me to be connected with the situation of the tumour, which did not obstruct the pylorus. It may not be improper to add, that I had occasion to visit, along with Mr Allan, surgeon, a man who was afflicted with the same disease, in his bladder of urine, and who, for ten months before his death, suffered the most excruciating agony, and was often convulsed. My father, many years ago, met with a similar tumour in the bladder of urine. The following is a good example of the milt-like tumour of the stomach. John Leishman, set. 35, was admitted into the Royal Infir- mary on the 22d December 1824, emaciated and hectic. The umbilical region was occupied by a large tumour of a livid co- lour, discharging a foul greenish matter from an ulceration in the centre, and a second smaller point below, and accompanied by inflammation and extreme sensibility of the surrounding in- teguments. For several years he was addicted to habits of intem|ierance, and, after a debauch, experienced pains in the stomach of a few days duration. In April 1824, the.se became more }x?rmanent, but no distinct account of tbeir nature could l)c obtained. Four- teen weeks prior to admission he became suddenly afiected with intense pain in the umbilical region, which, in four days, was