279 OF THE INTESTINAL CANAL. The distention of the intestines consequent to constriction, is in some cases very great. Mr Collins* has published the ac- count of a young woman, who suffercKi much from very acute colic, after which a small circular tumour appeared in the right side; it gradually increased in size, so that at length it attained the size of a quart basin in its centre, and on each side it was about the size of the arm. Mr Young has given a more remarkable case in the Philoso- phical Transactions, vol. xxxix. A girl, sixteen years of age, had a hard swelling in the left side of her belly, which gave her intense pain. After twelve hours, the tumour subsided s|X)Utanc- ously, but it returned and disappeared at first every three months, for several years, until she was marritxl, which took place when she was thirty-five years of age. She had one child. At length a nurse administered a large dose of jalap, which operated violently, removtxl the swelling, then the size of two fists, from the side. This was succeeded by tenesmus, great pain in the rectum, and retention of urine. Mr Young’s assist- ance was at this period required, who discovered a hard sub- stance within the sphincter, and which he removed, ami curetl his patient. Various species of colic have been enumerated by authors : the Colica stcrcorea, flatulenta, jiictonum, spastica, biliosa, acci- dcntalis, plilogistica, scirrhosa, herniosa, dysenterica, ciilculosa, verminosa, hmmorrhoidalis, arthritica, scorbutica, nephritica, and hcpatica. Much pains has been taken to point out the characteristic symptoms of these different kinds of colic, and also the place of the amtraction of the intestines. . The colica stcrcorea is said to be distinguished by the sense of weight and fulness in the bowels, and by the constipation which has preceded it. The colica flatulenta, by the intestines being much stretchetl by air, by their elastic feeling, by the rumbling which the air passing from one pai't of the intestines to another creates ; by Edinburgh Medical Journal, vol. i.