183 OF DIAPHRAGMATIC HERNIA. pcdcd the progress of the feces, and led to gangrene of that bowel I have also seen strangulation occasioned by a portion of in- testine passed under the appendix verniiforinis, the extremity of which had been fixed down by unnatural adhesions. The pa- tient, before dcatl), had the usual symptoms of strangulated her- nia. A case of that description occurred to my learned col- league Dr G UAH AM. OF HERNIA OF THE CAPUT CtECUM COEI. Owing to an unusual looseness of that portion of the ix-rito- neum which fixes down the crecuni, together with unusual laxi- ty of the parietes of the abdomen of the right side, the cacum has been detected by Mr J. IIuvteh and Scahca within a scrotal hernia. Sc ah pa has accurately tlescrilx'd various de- grees of hernia* containing the coecum. In the first, the fold of peritoneum which fixes down the caecum to the loins, had passed down within an inch of the under abdominal aix*rture; in another, the whole coecum was within the hernial sac, toge- ther with the appendix vermiformis, and origin of the colon ; and, in a third scrotal hernia, the ccccum, the origin of the co- lon, and termination of the ileum, were contained in the hernial sac. The lamina* of the peritoneum, which fix down the ca*- cum coli, formed a part of the hernial sac. In consccpiencc of the accumulation of fa*ccs in the protrudc*d intestine's, there was a degree of atony and enlargement of the displaced bowels. It is impossible to reduce such a hernia, as the natural attach- ments of these bowels constitute a part of the hernial sac : hence they arc fixed to the bottom of the scrotum, excepting where the cul de sac of the coecum only is protruded, which is not fixed down to the hernial sac. Mr I.auuexce has made the followingjudicious remarks on this kind of hernia: “ These descents,” says he, “ must take place gradually ; the displace- ment of parts, connected as the coecum and colon arc in their natural situation, must be a slow process, and consequently her- nia, formed suddenly by any accidental cause, cannot be of this kind.” • I have extracted these cases from a copy of his Lectures, written in the year 1773.