OF INTESTINAT. CONCRETIONS. 35 In the Edinburgh Medical and Surgical Journal, vol. xxiv. an account is given of several experiments which were made by Dr E. Turnek, upon a very large intestinal concretion, which has confirmed the observations of Dr Wollaston, as to the nature of the principal ingredient of intestinal concretions. I have observed also in intestinal concretions, portions of the skin of the seeds of oranges, or of nuts, and portions of wootly substances, probably the stalks of fruit; and one of them con- tains a small portion ol glass. Dr Kennedy of Glasgow met with a human intestinal calcu- lus, which, upon being analysed by Dr Urk, provctl to be in its composition very similar to ambergrease ♦. The three following concretions, denominated Dezoars, were examined by Dr John Davy, at my reijuest: “ No. 1.—This concretion was of an oval figure, much com- pressed at lx)th its extremities. Its external surface was slight- ly irregular, but smooth, and jxwses.scd of sonie lustre. Its co- lour approached light olive green, anti blackish streaks made their appearance in tliffercnt parts. The fresh fracture was earthy and dull, not unlike that of chalk. Its colour was much lighter than the exterior, and resembled light apple green. It was friable, and easily scratchetl by the nail. From a large transverse fracture, it ap|}ears to consist of concentric lamella.', round a small nucleus. It had no j>erceptible taste or smell. “ Heated before the blowpipe, it became of a light brown colour, and emitted a slight smell, similar to that from vegeta- ble matter in combustion, but it did not inflame, nor appear di- minished in bulk ; by a continuation of the heat it was renderetl white, similar to quick-lime. “ A small portion of the bezoar, introduced into diluted mu- riatic acid, effervesced briskly, and, in a short time, with the exception of the colouring matter, very minute in quantity, was perfectly dissolved. Ammonia added to the solution, produced^ • Vid. an excellent account of Intestinal Concretions, by Dr Kennedy, in Dr Johnson’s Medico-Chirurgical Journal for September 1817- c 2