LIKE ALBUMEN IN THE CELLULAR TISSUE. 489 of bees-wax and tallow. On putting the albuminous matter into an acid, or alcohol, it becomes considerably harder, and not unlike cartilage in its texture and colour. The mucous coat is also considerably thickened ; and is some- what like white leather that has been soaked in boiling water. The liver, uterus, or testes, when affected with this disease, acquire an uncommon size, except when the tumour has a long and narrow neck; and upon their surface, and also in the sub- stance, there are deposites of albuminous matter. When the al- buminous substance is deposited in the substance of the liver, testes, or lymphatic glands, it completely destroys their organi- zation. I received from the late Dr Barclay a uterus, which, in consequence of this disease, was as large as when in the gravid state, and its parictes were fully an inch thick. It was lined with a layer of coagulable lymph, and contained several irregular shaped masses, of different sizes, and of a white colour. Dr Barclay informed me, that this uterus, sent to him from a distant part of the country, had been mistaken for a dropsical ovarium, and an attempt made to puncture it; the patient sur- vived the operation only three days. The veins in the submucous cellular membrane of the ali- mentary canal are often much enlarged in such cases. Suppuration sometimes, though very rarely, takes place in the centre of this albuminous matter. The matter is not well- conditioned pus, but a thin sanious fluid, in which there are a number of irregularly shaped white masses. The black sub- stance of melanosis is sometimes intermixed with the albumi- nous. I have had various opportunities of examining this disease in the liver, and subjoin a short account of the appearances it assumes. This disease appears on the surface of the liver in the form of small round tumours, which in colour and consistence resemble pressed curd. The organ does not retain its usual form, but becomes much thicker at its edo^s O The tumours are circumscribed, flattened, of different sizes. 3