PAllTS CONCERNED IN ABDOMINAI< HERNIA. 105 transversalis, resembling tlie mouth of a funnel, as the cellular edges of the fascia are prolonged along the spermatic cord, in a conical form; under the name/oicia infundiftM/i/ormis. This fascia must be removed before the upper abdominal aperture can be distinctly seen. Scarpa has particularly described a slight depression in the peritonseum, which marks the passage of the spermatic cord, and which depression, when extendeil, forms the hernial sac. Mr Lawrekce has given the following very distinct account of Mr J. Cloquet’s observations on this department of anatomy ; “ Mr Cloquet, who has investigated very minutely this jiart of the sub- ject, describes certain appearances in the cord, connected with tins peritoneal depression, and explained by him as vestiges of foetal structure. He has found them in male subjects of all ages, and almost as fretjuently in the old as in the young. The slight depres.sion of the peritonaeum sometimes ad- heres simply to the cord by a dense cellular tissue, in the form of a slender filament, which is soon lost in the cellular substance of the spermatic vessels. Or there may be a long whitish fibro-cellular cord, which can be traced to tlie tunica vaginalis. Such a cord, instead of being solid, may present oblong serous cavities, two, three, or four in number, separate*! by contracted inter- vals, admitting of inflation, and either ending by a blind extremity, or com- municating with the cavity of the tunica vaginalis. Sometimes there is an elongated cavity, measuring an inch, or an inch and a half, extended towards its end, and connected to the peritonmum by a narrow neck, which may be either solid, or perforate*! by a fine oj>ening. The peritonmum exhibits a manifest cicatrix at the point of attachment. The sides of the cavities above described are smooth, and moistonetl by a serous secretion, which nmy in- crease in quantity, and form encysteil hydrocele of the cord. Not unfrequent- ly the tunica vaginalis, contracted to a slender tube, ascends in front of the cord, nearly to the abdomen, and joins the j)eritomeum by means of a .small solid stalk. In all the cases just enumerated the cavity of the tunica vagi- nalis is distinct from that of the peritonseum; but they may be connected, either by a narrow canal, with contractions at intervals, or by a shorter and larger communication.”—Rccherches Anat. p. 39; note ii. and pi. iv. This fascia serves tw’o important purposes : it both shuts up the direct pas- sage into the cav-ity of the belly, behind the upper abdominal aperture, and, by tlividing into the ilial and pubal portions, forms in a great measure the upper abdominal aperture. This transversalis fascia is so dilatable, that, in hernia of some standing, the upper aperture is nearly opposed to the under aper- ture. In the foetus, the upper and under abdominal apertures are in contact, so that the spermatic cord passes directly through the parietes of the abdomen. The internal or posterior part of the crural arch is always distinct. It is marked by a white line in the tendon, which extends from the anterior spi- nous process of the os ilium to the liuea ilio-pectinea, and feels like a tense 3