OF THE RECTUM. 285 The attacks of colic become more frequent and more severe, and are, on many occasions, accompanied by tenderness in the abdomen, and it now is very difficult to administer a clyster. The nature of the disease becomes still more obvious on pass- ing up the finger or a bougie. The dilatation of the larger intestines is, on some occasions, very remarkable. Above the seat of the constriction, the bowel is sometimes twice its healthy caliber. Lastly, Spasm of the sphyncter ani has been observed in }x?r- sons who seemed, at the moment of the attack, to be in good health, and to have been occasioned by no obvious cause. Dr Baillie has published the following very correct portrait of this disease :— “ This case is very different in its nature from the usual stricture of the rectum, and it is of considerable importance that it should be distinguished from it in practice. In the one case, the prognostic would be favourable, and in the other case, it would, in general, be very much the contrary. U}K>n a slight degree of attention, the two cases might be confounded; but, when accurately examined, they niay, at all times, be clearly distinguished from each other. In both eases, the fax;es will be found to Ihj flattened in their shape, small in their size, and, in some degree, serpentine or twisted ; but the other symptoms will be found to be very dif- ferent. In the common stricture of the rectum, the situation of the stricture is generally two or three inches above the outer sphinc- ter, and there is a sound capacious portion of the bowel between the stricture and this sphincter. At the seat of the stricture, the coats of the rectum are felt to be more or less thickened, and not uncommonly, in the cavity of the stricture, there is a hard irregular ulcer. Although this disease has, in its earlier stages, little influence upon the constitution, yet, when it has made a farther progress, the powers of the constitution become v'ery much weakened, great emaciation generally takes place, and the patient is des-