SYMPTOMS OF HYDATIDS. 215 conghing, and a sense of suffocation, which continued for two or three minutes*. For eight months afterwards, he occasionally coughed up hy- datids. The disease began when he was fourteen years old. We recommended to him to smoke tobacco, and to draw the smoke as deep as he ctmld into his chest. He did so; and, du- ring the following eight years, had no return of his disorder f. Hydatids have frequently been accumulated, in considerable quantity, within the cavity of the abdomen, and have proved an imjKjdimcnt to the passage of the faeces, or even to delivery. Case IX.—In this case a man of middle age had been afflicted by a dropsy of the belly, and jaundice for some time, when three or four tumours, of different sizes, apjxiared in different parts of the parietes of the abdomen. These, when pressed, evidently contained a fluid. The patient lived only for a few months. Upon dissection, the above mentioned swellings were found to be hydatids adhering to the peritoneum lining the lx?lly. There were at least an hundretl hydatids, of different sizes, within the cavity of the abdomen, some of which adhered to the liver ; the others were floating loose in the large quantity of wa- ter which filled the belly. Case X.—This case was treated by my learned friend Ur Home, in the Royal Infirmary, 5th November 1807. Two large distinct moveable tumours were perceived, considerably elevated above the surface of the abdomen of a woman. One occupied part of the umbilical region, and rose a little above the umbilicus, was circumscribed, hard, unequal, and somewhat moveable. The other w’as seated in the epigastrium, towards • Mr Brodie of London, (Medical Gazette, vol. i. p. 334.) has describeti two cases in which cysts apparently connected with the liver considerably elevated the inferior ribs. The cure was accomplished by a puncture with a flat trocar, introduced below the margin of the ribs. ■}• Maktinet of Paris lias also published a case of hydatids of the Uver, cured by operation.—Yule Med. Chir. Review for 1828, p. 459.