426 OF rOLYTl OF THE GULLET. knife *. She supposed that she again laboured under the same disorder, but she was mistaken, the swelling in the pharynx be- ing perfectly hard, and occasioned by an enlargement of the anterior parts of the bodies of three of the cervical vertebrae. OF POLYPI OF THE GULLET. A very remarkable case of this kind is preserved in the Mu- seum of Edinburgh, of which the following is the history “ James Davidson, aged 68, was admitted into the Royal Infirmary, April 9-1763, for the cure of a polypus in his throat. “ Upon examining his throat, there was nothing preterna- tural perceived ; but, on giving him a vomit, or irritating the fauces, so as to make him retch, a large fleshy excrescence «'as thrown up into his mouth, as far as to his fore teeth, consisting of four different fangs, joined together by one common root. These were of a pretty firm fleshy texture, possessed of a good degree of elasticity. He could hardly allow them to remain half a minute in his mouth, as they shut up the larynx, and thereby entirely stopt his breathing. • Polypi may be also removed by ligature. In my thesis De Dysphagia, I have observed, “ Levret polypos uteri ac vaginae ligatura cxcidendas sua- det; illi tamen videbatur modum operandi, quern descripsit, non posse adhi- beri ad polypos in gutture natos tollendos. Q,uum vero patri meo videbatur, polypos, in locis praecipue arctis sitos, exscind! aut fordi)e evelli non posse, sine grave injuria partibus vicinLs illata, haemorrhagia enormi, ac turnons renascendi periculo, ob radices ejus relictos, ligaturam, in omni fere casu, excision! aut evulsion! praetulit; atquc per triguita annos elapsos, varies inodos quibiis secundum tumoris situm, adhibori possit, auditoribus suis in cadavere demonstravit, argento nitrate postea polypi radici admoto, atque variis cxemplis aegrotantium illustravit, in quibus, cxitu secuudo, oiwratio sic instituta ernt. “ Inspiciat lector Tab. III. fig. 2., Tab. VI, XII, ct XIII. ul tumoruiu naturam, instrumenta his tollcndis adaptata, atquc operandi modum intel- llgat.” + Vide Edin. I’liysical and liitcrary Essays, vol. iii. p. 02r».