423 OF POLYPI. again ; hence it is important in performing any kind of opera- tion upon a polypus, to endeavour to reach its root, and, if pos- sible, to remove it entire. Richter has described a variety of this polypus, which is tough, of a pale colour; and there is a viscid secretion from its surface *. The secon^l,;kind of polypus is generally a small circumscribed fleshy tumour; .sometimes it has a narrow, and sometimes a broad basis, of an oval or pyriform figure, of a red or dark purple colour, perfectly opaque, of a fleshy consistence, knobby and unequal on the surface, hard to the touch when w'ithin reach, not easily torn, nor moveable on Iflowing the nose, apt to' bleed when touched, not at all affected by vicissitudes of the weather ; sometimes is stationary, then grows rapidly, and attains a large size; becomes very painful, and sometimes it discharges a bloody mucus. The tumour is covered generally by a thin and vascu- lar membrane. This kind of polypus often grows from the jxisterior nare.s, from the pharynx, gullet, stomach, intestines, and uterus. Such tumours arc generally accompanied by shooting pain. In persons considerably advanced in life, anti of a broken con- stitution, we frequently observe that .such tumours become can- cerous, and more esfiecially when much irritated or lacerated. There are, in some cases, rcjieated di.scharges of blood from the tumour, by whicli the patient’s strength is much exhausted. Polypi, in many cases, fill up the cavity in which they exist, and sometimes extend beyond it ; and the jiroje'cting part expands to a much greater size than the body of the tumour. Owing to the continued pressure of the tumour, the membrane of tbc cavity ulcerates, and the neighbouring bones are sometimes destroyed; thus, when the investing membrane of the ossa sjxingiosa of the nose is destroyed, the hones become carious, for they cannot, on account of their thinness, exfoliate. Sometimes the bones of the nose have been disunited, polypi growing within it. • This kind is most freqnent in the nose, and is rather an elongation or relaxation of the mucous membrane of the nose, than a polvpus. by large