OF THE STOHACll Oil INTESTINES. ;395 pecially by this latter named author, who relates many cases which fell under his notice; and from these, it appears that the perforation is not the result of an ulcerative process, but of the solvent power of the fluids. This morbid derangement is sometimes limited to a part of the stomach; but, in other instances, it pervades the whole of the intestines. It is not peculiar to any period of life, and, as far as I know, is most frequent during infancy. I believe the disease to be more frequent in the intestines than in the stomach. The diseased organ is considerably enlarged, and its coats are thickened; they do not possess their usual firmness, but feel soft and pulpy ; though not of a dark colour, they are not dilatable, emit a very peculiar sweetish smell, and arc very easily torn. A quantity of dark coloured and very offensive bile is lodged within the intestines. The mesenteric glands are enlargeii, and sometimes ulceratetl. In order to throw light on the nature of this rare organic de- rangement, I subjoin the following case :— “ 8th October 1809-—A gentleman, let. 48, who was much emaciated, and with a weak, though regular pulse, consulted my father, along with Dr SakdeHs, on account of uneasiness in his belly, accompanied by occasional heartburn and vomiting, and he had generally five or six liquid stools every day, after which he felt easier. “ His stools were sometimes slimy, ajid streaked with blood. The diarrhoea was succeeded by obstinate costivenes.s, and great oppression. “ There was no swelling nor tension in any part of his belly, though he suffered pain upon pressing it. He had been in the above state for the last twenty years of his life. “ About eighteen months ago, he became extremely costive, and continued so for nine days, notwithstanding the use of the most powerful purgatives, after which he was seized with a very copious diarrhoea, with heartburn, and occasional vomiting. ! “ By the use of camphor, combined with opium, his diarrhoea I 1