69 AFFLICTED BY HEllNIA. being ruptured, and by some who suffer little from it being ig- norant of the nature of their rupture, and also by the diversity as to the mode of life of different nations. Definition of Hernia. From the great variety in the situation of hernia, and the contents of the tumour, it is difficult to define this disease in a manner which is unexceptionable. A hernia may be defined to be a tumour, unconnected with a wound, and produced by a bowel, or part of a bowel, which is not situated in its natural place; and the tumour may be either external or internal *. The hernial tumour generally is extermd to the cavity with which it is connected, and formed by the protrusion or prolapse of a bowel from the cavity within which it was originally lodg- ed, through a natural opening, preternaturally dilated ; hence such swellings appear at the groin, scrotum, labia pudendi, bend of the thigh, and navel. The protruded bowels are generally included within a sac, which is formed by the elongation of the membrane which lines the cavity from which the protrusion has taken place; hence the impropriety of the term Rupture. The peritoneum, which lines the abdominal muscles, being a thin and dilatable serous membrane, is readily pusht*d before the bowels, when these are displacetl. This protrusion is gra- dual or sudden, and the tumour, in the progress of the disease, frequently becomes larger, especially in persons of a relaxed ha- bit, or in those who earn their bread by the sweat of their brow. The sac is at first moveable, but, in the course of short time, contracts adhesions with the neighbouring parts, and hence cannot by pressure be returned into the abdomen. The form and size of the hernial sac depend upon the part “ The definition of hernia, given by Boerha^we in his Prselectiones Aca- demicae, of which Haller was the editor, is a very good one. “ Hernia—Ita vocaimis partium niollium ex merabranis cavis coercenti- bus dislocationes in aliena loca, ut adpareat esse quasi luxationem partis mollis.”—Vid. tom. vi. p. 51.