formation of the inguinal canal. 117 orifice of the canal in the adult, or ring in the child, we find that we are by this fillet prevented from carrying the finger to- wai’d the pubes. “ This part of the canal merits peculiar attention; for who- ever is ignorant of the position and connection of this produc- tion from the upper pillar of the ring, can possess only a very confused notion of its action in disease. “ When we have examined in the very young subject, the structure of the external orifice through which the cord passes, we have seen all that is most worthy of notice; for, in the \ery early part of life, the inguinal canal is not formed : In proof of which, take a new-lxirn male, in whom the tunica vaginalis com- municates with the cavity of the abdomen, and make a punc- ture into the former, through which one of the blades of a pair of scissors is to be introduced, and passed into the belly ; then all that ^xirtion of the tunica vaginalis, which is above the punc- ture, is to be snipped through. By doing this, we lay the ab- domen and tunica vaginalis into one; and we at first glance perceive whether the cord, at this early period of life, passes in an oblique direction between the muscles and transvcrsalis fas- cia. “ I have never observed the cord in any obvious degree ob- lique in its course; in an infant at birth, it runs in a straight I line from the psoas muscle to the bottom of the scrotum. i“ It passes through a mere aperture. “ When, however, we take a subject even a month old, and treat it in the same way, we find then a very apparent obliquity Iin the course of the cord. As, however, it is very rare to meet with an infant of that age, in whom the tunica vaginalis re- mains pervious, we may, where its canal is obliterated, by sliL ting up Camper’s Fascia, and entering the blade of a sharp- ^ pointed pair of scissors into the lower outlet of the canal, pass ) it up till it appears in contact with that part of the peritoneum which invests the cord at that spot where it passes from the ab- domen. If we divide completely what is between the blades, » we expose fairly the degree of obliquity of the cord. “ If we examine, in a similar way, subjects of different ages, ■» we find that the older they become, till they arrive near the 4