89 OF THE DISPLACED BOWELS. The hernial sac becomes tense, from the effusion of serum within it. When the external parts are gangrenous, there is much rea- son to apprehend gangrene of the protruded intestines, though this rule is liable to some exceptions. The intestines, within a strangulated crural hernia, have mor- tified in so short a space of time as twenty hours: when in that state, they are tender and flabby; and, when handled, tear like a piece of wet paper. There are also frequently vesications upon the protruded parts, in the veins of which the blood is coagu- lated. When the constriction has been very considerable, as in crural hernia, the intestines sometimes give way above the stricture, and their contents escaping into the cavity of the abdomen, occa- sion death in a short time. The alxlomen of those who have died from gangrene of the contents of the hernial sac, is gene- rally much distended by a turbid fluid, through which shreds of lymph pass in different directions. The intesliries above the strictured part are in a high state of inflammation, often par- tially gangrenous, and much distended. The gangrenous pro- truded portion of intestines generally adheres to the parietes of the abdomen, to the neighbouring bowels, and to the hernial sac. In treating of mortification of the intestines, I have particu- larly described a case, in which the contents of the intestines were for sevenU weeks dischargetl tlirough an unnatural open- ing upon the surface of the abdomen, the intestines having con- tracted an adhesion with their parietes, by which the faxies did not get into the cavity of the alxlomen. Life has sometimes been protractetl, even when mortification has taken place in a strangulated intestine, where the faeces pass through an aperture in the protruded intestine, by the adhesion of that part of the intestine above the displaced portion with the parietes of the abdomen. After a time, in some cases, the unnatural aperture closes, and the faeces are discharged in the natural way. "* I have subjoined the history of a very excellent case of the above description, which was sent to me by Mr A. Burns.