OF ALVINE CONCRETIONS. 2i Number and External Colour Concretions. There are very seldom above two conerctions within the in- testinal canal. My father, however, perceived, by the touch, within the arch of the colon of a boy, who was much emaciated, twelve concretions. A very considerable number of concretions has been found within the stomach. Lazoni met with ten ; and Bilguer has related the history of the case of an old man, in whose stomach he met with thirty calculi of different sizes. The colour of the smaller concretions differs from that of the larger, the former having no external coating. The colour of the surface of thirty-five of the smaller con- cretions in the Museum of Edinburgh, is nearly the same, resembling that of bad yellow ochre of iron ; whereas most of the larger calculi arc encrustetl by earthy matter, of a coffee- colour, and purple, and others by white matter, which seems to have been deposited in thin successive layers. Structure of such Concretions. All the human alvine concretions which were collected by my father, are (with one exception) similar as to structure ; all are more or less porous, and somewhat like to dried s{x>ngc ; and, when examined by the aid of a magnifying glass, seem to be made up chiefly of a number of very small fibres, intimately in- terwoven with each other, like those in a beaver hat, or in chamois leather; and the interstices between the fibres arc filled up by earthy matter. There are small holes on the surface of a few concretions, which pass for about half au inch into the substance of the cal- culus ; and in one of the specimens there were twelve cavities, of a cylindrical form, which penetrate as far as the very centre of the concretion, and are filled w ith a ^^scid mucus. When the urine gets access to an intestinal concretion, as hap- pened in the case of a child (which Mr Liston lately shewed me), whose rcctimi communicated with the bladder of urine, the intestinal concretion is encrusted by a substance, to the eye similar to that of urinary concretions. 2