OF PALSY OF THE STOMACH AND INTESTINES. 295 feeling a distressing sense of failure, sinking or dragging, in the upper part of the abdomen, and near the chest; or she has more temporary attacks of strong sensation, of depression and faintish- ness, as if she were going to die, and yet the pulse is not af- fected.”* It may be proper to add, that it is sometimes difficult to de- termine, whether the abdominal bowels or the brain be tlic pri- mary seat of the disease, as these act and react upon each other in a very remarkable manner. Tlie different abdominal bowels also influence each other, and thus very complicated and very dangerous maladies are inducetl. Palsy of the iniestines, of various degrees, is generally combined with over-distention, originating from the obstruction to the passage of their contents, or it may proceed from inffam- mation of the muscular coats of the intestines causing them to become softened, and to lose their contractile jx)wer. The functions of the intestinal canal arc ini|)aired, not only by diseases of the nervous system, and especially of those of the spinal cord, but also by a disordered state of the functions of the liver and stomach. I’alsy of the intestines is, on many occasions, the earlie.st symptom of organic disease of the brain, and e.sjx;cially of water in the head, of which I have given several examples in my treatise on the Morbid Anatomy of the Brain ; but, at the same time, I have met with many examples of constipation, more es- peciiilly in ladies, which did not seem to be detrimental to their health. Some of these had no passage’ for eight or ten days, or even for three weeks. Palsy of the intestines is also an occasional sequel of palsy of other parts of the body. A striking instance of this kind occurred to Dr Hdntek. The costiveness, he observes, “ gradually increased, so that at length the bowels were emptied only twice in two months, while she (the patient) was eating heartily all the time, and had no .sensible excretion, besides the common quantity of urine, and a continued spitting of saliva. During the last twelve days of • Vide Burns’s Principles of Midwifery, 7th edit. p. 657.