INTO FATTY SUBSTANCE. 301 downwards to the edge of the ilium. Pulsation is felt on the inner margin of the tumour, close to the umbilicus, at which part pressure causes pain, and likewise hard labour, or exercise. “ Since the appearance of the tumour, he has had constant dyspnoea, which is much aggravated after meals; and he thinks that his urine is rather diminished in quantity. Bowels gene- rally regular, but at present they are rather constipated. Pulse 106, firm ; tongue clean, moist; appetite gcx)d ; has occasional sudden starting from his sleep during the night. States that, about two months ago, he had acute pain in left lumbar region; and three weeks subsequently he first per- ceived a small tumour in the region of the left kidney, which has gradually increased in size, and approaches more towards the anterior part of abdomen. “ Ascribes his complaints to having caught cold whilst attend- ing his three children, who each successively had fever. “ Has been leeched and blistered without relief. “ 22d.—Abdominal attection the same, but has felt for some days weaker ; appetite impaired ; more irritable ; constipation ; pulse 104; has had cough since admission; Inemorrhoids in shape of small external tumours. “ —Much heat and thirst during the night; at present, pulse 120 ; tongue white, much thirst; erysipelatous affection of right side ; leech-bites of right side inflamed. “ ^oth.—A better night; countenance very pale; erysipelas rather less; much thirst; pulse 112, and very weak. “ 26^/t.—Slept better; medicine operated; erysipelas rather less; abdomen less painful; some dysuria felt this morning for first time ; pulse 108, small; feels better; cough easier. “ Hor. 8va.—Erysipelas increasing, with tendency to suppu- ration. “ 28th.—About 9 o’clock p. m. was seized with violent pain of left side ; pulse 140; great debility ; severe dyspnoea ; a draught of ether and laudanum gave much rehef. The same pain oc- curred twice during the night, not eased by the draught; deliri- ous ; sank gradually, and died at nine this morning. Extensive adhesions were observed between