258 OF HYDROPHOBIA. was, however, prevailed on to swallow a bolus of op. gr. ij,, camph. gr, xv. This occasioned a similar paroxysm to that which had been induced by the water. “ Some time after, when she had become more quiet, she was put into a warm bath. This caused no particular distress, and she remained free from convulsions while in it. Unfortunately she seemed to sink so fast, and grew so faint, that the time could not be protracted beyond fifteen minutes. She was re- placed in her bed, and presently became more agitated than be- fore the bath ; but, as soon afterwards too many visitors had got into the apartment, she became much more delirious, restless, and convulsed. About one p. m. a second bolus was ordered, and, though with much horror and reluctance, she got it swal- lowed, and after it a spoonful of wine, and apparently with more ease than the former. Nor were the succeeding convulsions either so violent, or so long continued. In less than half an hour, however, they returned ; her delirium increased to frenzy ; she struck at her attendants, so that it was necessary to confine her arms by means of a jacket. It was said that she then at- tempted to wound her attendants by biting; however, in a few minutes after, the convulsions becoming more general and .se- vere, she expired a few minutes before two. “ The body was examined forty-eight hours after death. “ Though so considerable a time had elapsed between her dissolution and the examination of the body, not the smallest symptom of putrefaction had made its appearance. “ The fauces, larynx, and pharynx were found in a state per- fectly natural; there was not the least vestige of inflammation, suppuration, or even abrasion ; no unusual collection of saliva. The (esophagus was examined during its whole course, without any morbid appearance being discovered. T.he stomach was contracted to a very small size; and upon opening it, the smell of the camphor she had swallow'ed before death was distinctly perceived. The cardia was .slightly tinged red, from the small quantity of conserve of roses she had taken ; but on wiping it clean, it appt*arcd, as well as the rest of the stomach, perfectly