OF THE PARTS CONCERNED IN HERNIA. 101 canal for the spermatic cord in the male, and for the round ligament of the uterus in the female. Poupart’s ligament is sometimes double. I have seen ttco such ligaments on each side. When such is the case, the one ligament is generally fixetl about a line above the tubercle of the pubes, and the other is found in its usual situa- tion. About an inch, or a little more, from tlie symphysis pubis, the tendon of the external oblique muscle is generally divided into an upper and under column; but, in some instances, the division takes place at a greater distance from the symphysis pubis. Between the tendinous columns a space inter- venes, which is somewhat of a triangular figure, caUed Lower Inguinal or Lower Abdominal Aperture. These tendinous columns are considerably smaller in the female than in the male. Through the under abdominal aperture in the male the spermatic cord passes; and, in the female, the round ligament of tlie uterus. There is no direct opening into the abdomen, the passage being shut up by the internal oblique and transverse muscles, and by the fascia transversalis. The under abdominal aperture is somewhat curvetl above, angular below, and directed obliquely downwards and inwards The base of the angle be- ing towards the pubes. The sides of the under abdominal aperture are thicker than its upi>er or under i>art, being fonne<l of the straight fibres of the tendon; whereas the thinner tendinous substance, which connects the thicker fibres of the ten- don, forms the U]>])er part of the aperture. In the male, the under inguinal aperture is about an inch in length; but, in the female, it is rather longer, and also narrower. The size and figure of the lower abdominal ai>erture vary somewhat in different individuals; in some the spcmuitic cord is closely embraced, but in others, the tendinous columns which form it, are sejiarated to an unusual distance. A thin fascia is attached to the margin of the under abdominal aperture: it iwsses downwanls, and thus, by embracing the s{>ormatic cord, proves, in some measure, a barrier against hernia. This fascia has been represented by Caupeu in one of his excellent en- gravings, and has generally been called the fascia propria of Campeb. The external oblique muscle is inserted into the linea alba,—into the two anterior thirds of the crista of the os ilium,—into the anterior superior spinous process of that bone, and, by the superior pillar, into the os pubis of the same and of the opposite side. The inferior pillar of the under abdo- minal aiierture, at.its insertion into the tubercle of the pubes, sends off fibres, which are curved upwards. These give additional strength to the coiia joined tendons of the internal oblique and transverse muscles, and also assist in the formation of the triangular fascia, which strengthens this part of the abdomen, and presents an obstacle to the formation of ventro-inguinal heniia.