MEMBRANE OF THE AEIMENTARY CANAL. .349 The patient, a lady between thirty and forty, suffered much from pain under the ribs of the right side, which was increased by pressure, and from headaches attended by great dejection of spirits, drowsiness, obstinate costiveness, and a diseased secretion from the internal surface of the intestines. The complaint in her bowels, and the diseased secretion from the surface of some part of the intestinal canal, seemed to ori- ginate from a strong purgative medicine which had been given to allay a febrile attack with which she was seized after lying in; it succeeded in removing the fever, but the secretion of her milk, which had been previously abundant, also ceaseil. Her bowels were then altacketl; anil, for three or four years, at the Interval of two or three weeks (sometimes more fri-quent- ly), she passed by stool, after considerable griping, pain, and straining, attended by a sense of weight and pressure in the rec- tum, a kind of whitish very viscid jelly, mixed with shreils of coagulable lymph, and in such quantity as nearly to fill the half of a common-sized chamber-jx)t. After the evacuation, which could oidy Ixi protluced by the aid of considerable doses of castor oil, she felt much relieved. In the course of eight or ten days, she was generally again seized with pain in her Ixjwels, which was succeetled by very violent headache, often by nausea and vomiting. In consequence of these very severe attacks, she suffered greatly in her heidth, having frequent cold fits, .similar to the attacks of an ague, terminating in a hot fit and {xjrspiration^ but without much alteration in the pulse, or other febrile symp- toms. Her bowels were always costive. There was nothing pecu- liar in the feculent matter, excepting the jelly above mentioned. I have seen the greater part of a portion of the intestinal canal, which had filled the sac of a crural hernia, filled up with coagu- lable lymph *. In the collection of the late Mr A. Bdens of Glasgow, there was a specimen taken from a child, where the same Idnd of ge- • Vide Plate XIV. fig. 2. of my Essay on the Morbid Anatomy of the Gullet, Stomach and Intestine.