50 OF INTESTINAI- CONCRETIONS, “ Before, however, recourse is had to the operation, let a trial be made of the following means : “ 1. Let her take, every day, a quarter of an ounce of Cas- tile soap, in pills, and of castor oil. “ 2. Once or twice a-week, let her take a purgative, com- posed of sal glauber ^i, sugar half an ounce, and the same of sallad oil and whey Ibss. or Ibj. “ 3. Three times a-week let her get a clyster of an English quart (chopin) of water, in which an ounce of linseed and half an ounce of Castile soap have been infused for two hours. “ 4. Let her foment the belly, and take the above clyster when she suffers much pain. “ 5. Let her diet consist of loaf-bread, milk, whey, broth, soft eggs, butter, a bit of light dressed meat; and if she takes porridge, let her melt a good deal of butter in it In the following extract from a letter of Dr Hall, the sequel of the case is given. “ For half a year after she had your advice, and whilst she continued to employ the medicines, &c. prescribed, she acquired flesh and strength daily, and the concretions remained stationary; but having, in consequence of finding herself so much relieved^ neglected since then to employ the same course, I found, upon being called to her a week ago, a great increase of her com- plaints ; her strength much impaired, her body emaciated, and the balls, in point of size, much increased ; and these accompa- nied Avith febrile heat, &c. irregular belly, and frequently excru- ciating pain. Sensible, however, as she seems to be of her dan- gerous situation, she declares, even although a total stop should be put to all alvine excretion, a resolution of not submitting to any operation. Your most humble servant, “ li. Hall. Jedburgh, 8th May 1789.” • I conceive it might be prudent for a patient alTlicted by an intesti- nal concretion, to abstain from tlie use of the oal, otherwise llie concretion iniglit probably become larger, and therefore would not so readily be dis- charged by the anus.