OF MUCOUS MEMBRANES. 437 i In the light lobe of the liver there are two scirrhous tubercles. The left lobe adheres to the cardiac extremity of the stomach ; and at the attached extremity, there is a tumour, the centre of ' which is occupied by a sloughy, fungoid mass, extending I through an aperture into the stomach. Symptoms : Countenance I exsanguine, tenderness in epigastrium, vomiting, alternate con- I stipation and diarrhoea, and emaciation. Patient a female, aged ' forty-six. In case second, at the cardiac extremity of the stomach there i is a large medullary fungoid tumour, of a light straw colour, 1 covered by a delicate vascular membrane. The serous membrane of the diaphragm was much thickened, and intimately adliered I to the left lobe of the liver, and to the stomach. The patient, a ’ man of seventy-three years of age, had a sense of constriction in . the throat, combined with difficult deglutition, which was relieved ! by the use of the probang. He also had cough, constipation, ' latterly diarrhoea, and became mucb emaciated. In case third, t|ie patient, a man aged forty-four years, oom- I plained of pain in tlie right hy|xx:hondriac and epigastric re- I gions, which is much increased by pressure. There is consi- derable hardness and swelling in the upper part of abdomen, I with tension and elasticity in the lower. Suffers much from E nausea and retching, when the epigastrium is pressed up- 1 on. On examining the abdomen, immetliately under tbe false E ribs of the right side, tliere can be distinctly felt two hard cir- t cumscribed tumours, each apparently about the size and shape I of a widnut. His urine is passed without difficultv, but only in ! small quantity. Appetite impaired. Has difficult breathing, 1 accompanied with cough. Has much thirst. Tongue white. : Bowels slow. Pulse natural. Headach sometimes severe. “Says, I that, about five weeks ago, he felt frequent sharp shooting pains i in the epigastrium, which were followed by the gradual enlarge- 1 ment of the parts.” An opening medicine was ordered, also a sinapism to the epi- j gastrium. Eighteen leeches next day were applied, with much abate- 1 ment of the pain in epigastrium ; but it is now felt in the lower 3