235 OF SPASM AND PALSV. In attempting to decide upon the opposing faets and discor- dant opinions upon the subject, an appeal to minute dissection ind to experiments utwn living animals, was requisite; from, ivhich it appears, upon a review of all the circumstances, that 2very part of the passages for the food, the bile, and the urine, possesses a muscular structure, and is endowed with a muscular power of action. It is no doubt true, that the fibres of the muscular coat are not equally large; but in the }»ssages for the food, in the pharynx, gullet, and stomach, they are quite abvious; whereas the longitudinal fibres of the intestines of many individuals are so small as to escape our most minute in- i^estigation ; and, with regard to the uriniferous canals, it niay be added, that muscular fibres are in many |K'rsons obvious at the connections of the ureters and urethra with the bladder of urine, but invisible in other portions of the same canal. No less contrariety of opinion exists as to the varied motle of action, and extent of action, of the muscles pro|>er to the passages for the food, the bile, and the urine, which prolnibly have a reference as much to the disposition • as to the magni- Lude of the muscular fibre. On the theories as to muscular contraction, it is not my in- tention to expatiate, but merely to state a few circumstances regarding it. The muscular coats of the alimentary canal jx)ssess a great and very perfect degree of muscular power. Those of the sto- mach and intestines may be contracted to a great degree. The latter contract in so perfect a manner, as to propel air, and even quicksilver, through tlie alimentary tube, contrary to its gravity. According to physiologists, a muscle is capable of contracting itself to a third of its length; but there are several muscles of the human body which contract to a much greater extent:—Thus the sphincter oris may be extended, so as to include all the fingers, and the next moment it may be contracted upon a needle; and, • See my Father’s obseirations on the advantages which are derived from the oblique direction of the muscular fibres, and Sir E. Home’s observations on the distribution and mode of action of the muscles of the heart.