49 OF INTESTTXAI, CONCBETIONS. “ If, therefore, those balls are not passed by stool, nor moved from their present place by the medicines, and the pains grow intolerable and wasting to her; or if there shall happen a stoppage of the fscces through the canal, by these balls enlar- ging, or changing place with respect to each other, I would re- commend that an operation shall be performed in the following manner: “ Let an incision be made from the twelfth rib, at the distance of two inches from its point, directly downwards to the top of the os ilium. Then cut slowly, and with great caution, inwards and forwards, till the back of the colon is laid bare for a little way. Then, with one hand, press on the forepart of the tumour, and, with a finger of the other hand, try whether you feel the tumours within the colon. If you think you do, make a very small hole in the colon, and introduce a jwobe; and, by that means, make it certain that the balls are there by touching them with it. Then, with the greatest caution, enlarge the incision as much as is necessary, for introducing a pair of forcejis, such as are used in lithotomy, for laying hold of, and extracting them. After they are extracted, and the fajces that may be collected there are pressed out at the wound, let the sides of the incision be pre-sscxl together, and let the external part of the incision be stitched, by sutures passed through the skin, at the disUmce of a finger- breadth from each other. Cover the stitches and incision with straps of adhesive plaster, and with thick pledgets spread with ceratum simplex, and with a compress and bandage, so as to ex- clude tlie air. caustic, I am persuaded the patient would have had a much better chance of recovery: but the man was extremely anxious to have the operation tried. —I mentioned to you that I had ditferent cases, where a gut was opened in consequence of an abscess, and where the faeces were discharged at the open- ing for weeks; yet the patients got welL In one case, a woman, six months gone with child, had an opening as above mentioned, got well, and was safe- ly delivered. From these instances, I am led to think, that Nature, in her slow way, with the assistance of caustic, would do better than the knife in alvine concretions, such as the one here mentioned; but I must refer to Dr Monro, who has had much more experience in these matters than I could have had.” D