467 OF THE STOMACH. “ Near to the pyloric extremity of the stomach, the coats of that viscus, and of the colon, were ulcerated, so that a large opening led from the one into the other. The aperture was about three inches in diameter. It was surrounded by thickened and indurated margins. The whole diameter of the colon was very much diseased. It was thickened, indurated, and ulcer- ated. The ulcerated surface was mottled, and covered by a very foetid sanies ; and from the interstice.s, dark purple shreds of diseased cellular membrane depended. The ulcer had a most unhealthy look, yet it did not present the true characters of car- cinoma. It was an ulcer which is not rare in the stomach, but it does not seem to be accurately distinguished from cancer of that viscus. The pylorus was somewhat thickened, but shewed no carcinomatous bends when cut. The opening from the sto- mach into the duodenum was large enough to allow the thumb to pass with ease. The small intestines were healthy, and quite empty. The lower part of the wlon and the rectum contained some purulent matter. “ This case I consider valuable. In scirrhous pylorus, fewjja- tients escape most distressing vomiting. In these, however, dis- section has shewn a reduction of the opening, leading from the stomach into the bowels. In the present patient, there was no vomiting, a circumstance wliieh may have arisen fron> the ready passage of the food from the stomach into the colon. I do not believe that much could pass through the pylorus, l>ecause, on the contraction of the fibres of the stomach, the food would escape with more facility by the ulcerated opening into the co- lon, than it could by the pylorus. The latter is provided with a sphincter muscle, the action of which could never be over- come as long as a free outlet remained for the food through an opening not defended by a muscle. That little really passed by the pylorus, is clearly proved, by the empty condition of the whole track of the small intestines. We cannot wonder that in this patient the emaciation and debility were extreme. Inde- pendently ol the efl’ects of the ulcerous secretion in weakening the body, little nutrient matter could be absorbed from the G g