79 OF CHRONIC HERNIA. an opinion is incorrect; for though the sac seems to be wanting, it is not so : tlie deception proceeds from the very intimate union between the sac, the adjacent cellular substance, and fat. The bond of union between the sac and the neighbouring parts is more or less intimate, and de|)ends, probably, upon the degree of inflammation which, when extreme, occasions the firm consolidation of the sac with the neighbouring parts. This ad- hesion of the sac prevents its return into the abdomen. In some cases the hernial sac has attained the consistence of cartilage, and even of bone. Should the chronic hernia be scrotal, the connecting fibres of the tendinous columns of the under abdominal ai>erture attain an unnatural thickness, atid make an impression upon the her- nial sac *. The figure and direction of the ajiertures through which the sac has passed, undergo a remarkable change in the progress of the disease; their size is increased, and their direction and figure altered. The tendinous aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle, when a hernia? has bc*en of considerable duration, loses some- what of its natural elasticity. It is relaxetl, and this relaxation is the more considerable the larger the hernia'. The ramifications of the blootlvessels in the vicinity of the hernial tumour become somewhat enlarged : this is remarkable with regard to the branches of the external pudic arterv, which pass over the fore-part of a scrotal hernial sac. When a scrotal hernia has been of considerable duration, the fibres of the cremaster muscle become much enlargetl, and on some occasions attain an unnatural rigidity and hardness, and they are firmly united to the under abdominal aperture. The coats of the portion of intestine which has been lodged for some time within a hernial sac, sometimes acquire an un- natural thickness, in the same manner as the muscular fibres of the heart or bladder of urine become much thicker and strong- er when the blood or urine does not find a ready exit. • Vide Camper’s F-ngravings of Hemise.