ULCERATION OF THE STOMACH. 373 case related by Dr Gartshore ♦ ; but the ulceration generally follows the opposite course. I SECTION VI. OF CHRONIC INFLAMMATION AND ULCERATION OF THE MUCOUS MEMBRANE OF THE STOMACH. This department of the subject merits peculiar attention, on account of the frequency of chronic inflammation and ulcera- tion of the mucous membrane; the difficulty of detecting the disease in its origin and progress, and its fatal tendency if it be not arrested. It is also to be taken into account, that this, like otlier de- rangements of the functions of the stomach, leads to a derange- ment of the functions of other viscera of the Ixxly, and that the inflammation frequently extends from its primary seat, the mu- cous membrane, to the other coats of the stomach. Acute inflammation of the mucous membrane of the intesti- nal canal is more frequent than the same disease in the sto- mach; whereas, it has been asserted by Hroussais, that chro- nic inflammation of the mucous coat of the stomach is equally frequent, and perhaps more so, than that of the mucous mem- brane of the intestinal tube. There is as remarkable a degree of sympathy between the mucous membrane of the alimentary tube, as between that of the skin and the mucous membrane which lines the bronchi. • The body, in this case, was examined by Mr Hunter, whose interesU ing account of the dissection is subjoined. “ On laying bare the oesophagus through its whole course, I found, that, where it passes below the di\Tsion of the trachea, the surrounding parts were thickened or diseased ; and I there found an abscess which led into the cavity of the oesophagus. I then cut out a considerable portion of the oeso- phagus, both below and above this diseased part, with a part of the trachea, and also a portion of the descending aorta. I could easily pass one linger downwarvls, and another upwards, till they met; so that there was no stric- ture or closing of the oesophagus, although I could plainly feel an irregula- rity on the inside at this part, where the disease appeared externally.”