OF H^MOllRHOIDS OH PILES. 476 other parts of the intestinal tube,—an opinion confirmed by an observation of Delatouii, who states, that one of his patients had several haemorrhoids of large size, from which blood issued per saltum, on every contraction of the sphincter ani muscle, a statement confirmed by Montegee, who met with two in- stances, in which the blood spouted out of haemorrhoids in a continued stream*. I attended a case, in which the veins of a part of the villous coat of the stomach attained a great size; one of these gave way, and a large quantity of blood escaped. The veins of the larger intestines are also sometimes varicose. “ J’ai vu,” says Petit, “ tout I’interieur du rectum variqueux, jusqu’a rS du colon -f*.” Haemorrhoids are largely supplied with blood; hence, they appear larger and more elastic during life, and become more tense, during^what has been called the haemorrhoidal paroxysm. When several piles co-exist, one of them is generally harder than the others, and the most recent is generally painful and inflamed; but those which have existed for some time are soft and shrivelled, and not at all painful. The varicose haemorrhoid is at first soft, and of a dark purple colour, but it gradually becomes firmer, owing to the thicken- ing of the coats of the veins which form it. Piles do not enlarge equally in all directions, but extend in a transverse direction, so as to acquire the shape of an olive, placed transversely. After the disease has been of some dura- tion, the enlarged veins give way, from an absorption of their coats, and discharge serum and blood; and thus the tumour becomes hard and chronic. After the haemorrhoidal paroxysm, the serum of the blood escapes through the small ulcerated apertures in the distended veins more freely than the fibrine which is retained. The blood which has coagulated within the pile, in process of time is absorbed, and the thickened coats form a colourless • Vide Diet, des Scienc. Med. tom. 20. p. 43. t Vide Op. Posthum. tom. ii. p. 83.