37 OF INTESTINAL CONCTIETIONS. lour; fracture and texture chalky; soft, full of small air-holes, and both scented, and externally partially gilded. From the experiments made on it, it appeared to be carbonate of lime, coloured by a little vegetable matter. The small cavities it con- tained ; its uniform earthy structure, without any appearance of successive depositions, its gilded surface, and perfumed state, are circumstances all favourable to the notion of its l>eing au ini|X)sture.” ‘‘ Of the three following concretions, two were found in the in- testines of horses; and the other, a hair ball, in the intestines also, but of what animal is not known. Of neither of these has the examination been minute, and it has been chiefly con- fined to the earthy part; “ No. 1.—^This concretion, obtained from a horse which belong- ed to a distillery, and had been fed on grain, was of an irregu- lar oval figure, with an uneiiual and slightly undulated surface. It was soft anil clastic, and readily yielded to pressure; smooth, and, from very fine projecting fibres, just visible to the eye, it had a velvety feel; its colour was light and dull brownish ; and it jrassesscxl no lustre. From a section that had been made, it appeared to consist of difierent kinds of matter, arranged in ir- regular concentric layers; thus, towards the surface, brown fi- brous matter, with two or three layers of a greyish, hard, and slightly crystalline substance, chicHy prevailed; and towards the centre layers, apparently earthy, of different shades of colour, whitish, brownish, and greenish, most predominated. “ The external fungus-like matter burnt with a bright flame, emitted the smell of vegcUxble matter, and ten grains of it afforded two grains of ash. “ The internal part, when heated, did not inflame, emitted a strong ammoniacal odour, and afforded 4-8 grains of grey ash. “ This ash did not yield any saline matter to water, in whicJi it had been digested. “ It did not effervesce with dilute muriatic acid, but the greater part was quickly dissolved ; the residue, weighing only