487 OF FISTULA IN ANO. In a few days a pimple appears, and also a fluctuation may be perceived, where the hardness and redness were; and in a short time the tumour bursts, forming either a complete or in- complete fistula; and after the matter escapes freely, the acute pain in the part, and the symptomatic fever, considerably abate. If the fistula be complete, the swelling, in some cases, sub- sides a little, after the faeces have been voided, as the contents of the abscess pass through the fistulous canal into the rectum. But the communication with the gut is, in other instances, very narrow, and oblique, and can only be discovered by injecting water through the external orifice of the fistula; or, on intro- ducing a flexible probe through the fistulous canal, which may be made to pass into the rectum. It frequently happens that the principal fistula has several branches. When the disease has been neglected, there are sometimes se- veral external openings, but, even in this case, the communi- cation with the rectum is generally small and indirect. The fistula sometimes produces dysuria, or retention of urine, obstinate costiveness, and sometimes even prolapsus ani. In some cases, the ulcerated opening at the side of the anus becomes daily larger, as the liquid contents of the rectum pass through it, and gangrene sometimes takes place around the anus, which proves fatal. In children, twelve or twenty-four hours after birth, the cel- lular tissue of the legs or arms and face has been sometimes in- durated, the soft parts become partially firm, and dense, and swelled, and the skin of the affected part assumes a red or pur- ple colour, with more or less depression. The pulse is quick and small, the breathing very difficult, and the child dies from suffocation on the second or third day from the invasion of the disease, and some linger on until the eighth or ninth day. For a more particular description of this remarkable affection, the reader is referred to the works of Drs Underwood and Burns, who have described this disease under the name of sTcin bound; or to the writings of Leger, and other French authors, who have called this disease the compact cBdema.