106 OF THE ANATOMY OF THE cord when the limb is extended ; but, when the thigh and leg are raised to nearly a right angle with the body, the internal edge of the crural arch is thrown into a state of relaxation; wliich position is favourable, not only to the disjilacement of the bowels, but also to the replacing of them when protruded. The internal or posterior margin of Poupart’s Ligament is inti- mately interwoven with the tendinous fascia whicli covers the iliacus inter- nus and psoas magnus muscles. This is connected to the crista of the ilium, the fascia transversalis and fascia lata, to the linea ilio-pectinea and ligament of the pubes. Thus, Poupart’s Ligament is firmly bound down, and the bowels can be protruded only through the crural aperture. OF THE CRUllAL APEBTURE. Upon opening the abdomen, and removing the peritonaeum, which adheres loosely to the upper abdominal and crural apertures, the crural arch, and parts connected with it, come fully into view. The space on the ilial side, between the anterior superior spinous process of the os ilium and the anterior iliac artery, is occupied by the iliacus intemus muscle, crural nerve, and psoas magnus muscle. The anterior iliac vein is placed on the pubal side of the artery; and on the pubal side of the vein, the aperture called Crural. The crural aperture is bounded on the ilial side by the anterior iliac vein, and on the pubal side by the ligament of Gimbehnat, or crescentic arch. The fascia iliaca, after having covered the iliac and psoas muscles, passes behind the iliac vessels, and is continuous with the ilio-vesical fa.scia, and in- feriorly and behind, at Poupart’s Ligament, with the fascia transversalis, from the spine of the ilium to the femoral artery. The crural aperture, at its origin, is somewhat of an oval shape; its pu- bal side is formed by Gimbemat’s Ligament, and its iliacal side is bounded by the anterior iliac vein and strong tendinous fibres connecting the fascia iliaca and fascia transversalis; behind by the pubes and pectineal portion of the fascia lata. Upon comparing the size of this pai't of the crural a|>erture, I discovered that it is c(msideraily larger in the female, owing to the greater width of the bony part of the female pelvis, and smaller size of the iliacus intemus and psoas muscle, and greater narrowness of Gimbcrnat’s Ligament Although the ligament of Poupakt adds considerably to tlm strength of the upper part of the crural arch, yet, after the removal of the ligament of Pod PART, the crural arch still remains, although diminishc<l in strength. The ligament of Gimueiinat is formed superiorily and internally by a