378 ifLCEIlATION OF THE INTESTINES. centre of a medullary sarcomatous tumour of considerable size, which occupied the whole of the smaller curvature of the stomach. According to some authors, the seat of the inflammation and ulceration may be detected by the symptoms; thus, indigestion is said to characterise the disease in the mucous membrane of the stomach and duodenum, liquid faeces in the smaller intes- tines, and indurated faeces, or faeces passed in the form of scy- bula, the inflammation of the larger intestines. But it does not appear to me that we have as yet arrived at such perfection in the diagnosis. A very short time ago I met with an instance, which, in com- bination with other instances, warrant such a conclusion. A man to all appearance in perfect health, drank largely of cold beer whilst he was in a profuse perspiration. In the evening of the same day he was seized with acute pain in the bowels, after which his belly became much distended; to relieve which he took a dose of salts and senna; but without relief; they did not even procure a passage. On the following day the pain became more acute, and he had occasional vomiting. On the next day the symptoms were still more urgent, and he had as yet no stool. A purgative clyster was administered, which occasioned several copious bloody evacuations. Next day the purgative clyster was repeated, which caused tenesmus, with frequent discharge of blood, but no faeculent matter. Pulse 80, small and weak. Tongue foul. The distention of the belly, vomiting, and constipation con- tinued, and could not be removed by any means. His breathing became quick and laborious; and he died on the 5th day from the attack. Upon dissection, no morbid appearance could be discovered in the stomach. The smaller intestines were of a dark livid colour, adhered in many places to each other, and were much distended by fluid faeces, within about two inches from the ilco-colic valve, where there was a large irregular ulcer, which occupied its whole circumference, and had destroyed the muscular and mu- cous coats.