OF DIAPHRAGMATIC HERNIA. 181 When the transverse arch of the colon passes through tlie left sac of the diaphragm, it often displaces the heart, as in the fol- lowing case. A man of middle age was suddenly seized with acute darting pain in his belly, accompanied with nausea and vomiting. The abdomen was not tense, but painful on pressure in the region of the navel. Pulse 112. Had had no passage for eight days, though various purgatives had been given. By the use of the lancet, and more jwwerful purgatives, a free jiassage was pro- cured, and he was relieved. Four months afterwards, he was seized with symptoms de- noting an affection of the brain, together with difficult breath- “ The body was opened the following morning, and although only twenty two hours after death, it was unusually putrid. “ The bowels were much dislendetl with air, and the drink she had swal- lowed was effused into the cavity of the abdomen. “ This I found to arise from an opening through the coats of the sto- mach, nearly in the middle of its great curvature. “ On examining the intestines, 1 found a large portion of the colon had passetl through an 0]>ening in the middle of the left side of the diaphragm, in- to the cavity of the thonix ; and lay behind the heart and lungs. “ This tumour exceeded the size of a j)erson’s fist, and appearetl to bo strangulated ; for all the bloodvessels were turgid, as if they ha<l been inject- ed, and the gut was with difficulty drawn liack into the cavity of the abilo- men. “ On examining the ojiening through the diaphragm, I found it surround- ed by a callous ring, and to have every apiiearance of having been of long standing, or more probably an original defect. “ A thin pellucid membrane was connected with jiart of the edge of the ring, and a sort of process from this membrane extended along the tumour, into the cavity of the thorax. On examining, it appeared that the bowels had not been forced through the diaphragm, at the side of the esophagus, the vena cava inferior, or aorta, but through a preternatural aperture in the diaphragm, into the left side of the thorax.” From the symptoms which precedeil the death of this woman, and the his- tory of the appearances discovered upon dissection, it seems probable that the violent exercise she had taken had forced more of the colon through the preternatural aperture in the diaphragm, which brought on strangulation. The aperture was of an oval shape, and, though now considerablv shrunk, from having been dried, still measures two inches and a-half in length, and an inch and a-half in breadth.