477 OF HEMORRHOIDS OR PILES. tumour. When such varicose tumours do not discharge blood, they have been called blind piles. OF THE SYMPTOMS. There are certain general, as well as local symptoms, which precede the appearance of piles. The general symptoms are, fulness of the system, hardness of the pulse, impaired digestion, frequent inclination to pass urine, and to go to stool, and a discharge of mucus from the rectum. The local symptoms which precede piles, are a sense of weight and numbness about the os sacrum ; a pricking or stinging at the lower part of the rectum, with morbid sensibility of the bladder and urethra, of two or three days’ duration. After the evacua- tion of the faices, a little blood, of a bright colour, is discharged ; in a short time, a small tumour appears, which speedily attains, in many instances, the size of an olive, or lilbert nut, and has a distinct neck. The surface of the tumour is besmeared with a fluid, which is often tinged with the blood, that oozes from its surface. Piles often disappear for a time, and, after their re-appear- ance, are more solid and firm to the touch ; and especially when, to a certain degree, they are strangulated by the spasmodic con- tractions of the sphincter ani. Besides the symptoms already enumerated, the patient com- plains much of tenesmus, of a sense of weight, compression, and pain in the fundament, extending to the back and loins, which is much aggravated by walking, riding on horseback, or even by sitting on a hard chair. Piles being, on some occasions, much compressed by the sphyncter ani, become inflamed; they induce heat of skin, thirst, general restlessness, fever, and the discharge of acrid mucus from the rectum, which soils the linen, and prove a cause of ex- treme torture when the patient is at stool. The spasmodic contraction of the sphyncter ani sometimes induces strangu- lation and gangrene of the pile. We are informed by Mr Howship, that Mr Heaviside met with two mstances, in which haemorrhoids became inflamed, and were so violently strangula-