^MUCOUS GLANDS OF THE INTESTINES. 521 But even when inflamed, they are not affected in the same de- gree as the rest of the texture, so that while the mucous coat is destroyed, they still remain organized. It is only in the highest degree that they partake of the common ruin In several of the organic derangements which have been already described, the raucous glands are much enlarged, in- flamed, and ulcerated, and more especially in dysentery, in fever and phthisis pulmonalis. There is every reason to suppose that the mucous glands are the primary seat of scirrhus and cancer, diseases which are observed in such parts of the alimentary canal, as are most largely supplied with these glands. It has been above observed, that cancer begins in these fol- licles, and, in proof of it, their enlargement is sometimes ac- companied with that burning pain in the stomach, which is so characteristic of cancer. The enlargement of these mucous glands, and the symptoms thereby occasioned, have been described at great length, by Roedereh and Wagleb, in a treatise, entitled De Morbo Mucoso, and these authors liave also fully explained the ana- logy which they suppose to exist between the morbus mucosus, intermittent fever, and dysentery. There are also instances in 'Thich the mucous glands are much enlarged, where there are no traces of any disease of the intestinal coats. When the mucous follicles of the stomach become much en- larged in the above diseases : the enlargement is either general or partial, and, on minute examination, a cavity may be ob- served in the centre of each. The symptoms attending this morbid state have been very ably described by Dr Stark, whose statement is subjoined : “ A woman, aged 27, was, after an irregular intermittent, seized with severe purging, accompanied with excruciating pains of the bowels. What she voided was a thin olive-colour- ed fluid, with many small portions of a clear glutinous substance • Vide Principles of Surgerv, vol. i. p. 55. London, 1829. 2