OF THE ANATOMY OF THE 108 with the larger share of the crural arch, between the anterior spinous process of the os ilium and tubercle of the pubes, and may be called ilial portion; the other, which arises from the pubes, may be called jnthal portion. The ilial portion passes over the sheath of the femoral bloodvessels, and divides into two lay- ers. The pubal portion covers the pectineus and gracilis and adductus muscles, passes behind the sheath of the femoral bloodvessels and crural arch, and is firmly interwoven with the fascia iliaca. Where the iliac part of the iascia lata ceases to be united to the crural arch, it forms a fold of the shape of a sickle, the concavity of which looks downwards and inwards: this fold was first described by Mr A. Burns, and called by him The Falciform Process of the Fascia lata; and it covers that portion of the femoral artery and vein which is found immediately under the crural arch, and the under jiart of the iliacus internus and psoas muscles. The other, or pubal part, which is thinner than the ilial portion of the fascia, arises from the pubes, covers part of the pec- tineus and triceps muscles, and is united with the ilial part, beneath the vena saphena major, where that vein joins the femoral vein. The depression formed by the falciform process, is filled by the termina- tion of the saphena major vein,—by one or two of the deep inguinal glands, —also by a portion of the superficial fascia of the thigh, and by the cribriform fascia. The cribriform fascia resembles condensed cellular substance ; it extends from the crural aperture to the lower part of the crural sheath, and is united at its sides to the iliac and pubal portions of the fascia lata. The anterior crural artery and vein are closely invested by the same kind of cellular membrane as the other large bloodvessels. The iliac portion of the fascia lata, which is dense and thick near to the ligament of Poupart is divided into two layers, the external of which is con- tinuous with the superficial fascia of the abdomen, and the intenial with the fascia tranversalis. From the preceding description, it is obvious that, in crural hernia, the bowels are protruded only through the upper crural aperture, which aper- ture is the banning of a species of canal commencing there, and termi- nating at an opening in the cribriform fascia, surrounded by a layer of con- densed cellular substance which fills the opening, and one or two lymphatic glands, opposite the descent of the bowels. The hernial sac pushes this cellular membrane, termed Fascia propria, be- fore it, and fre<iucntly a small lyni[)hatic gland, and enters the cniral canal, which is closed by the cribriform fascia.