56 OF CALCULI OF THE TONSILS. Three cases of this disease occurred to Mr Wilson, surgeon at Beith, and were transmitted to me, along with the calculi, by the late Mr Allan Buens of Glasgow, Two of the patients, members of the same family, were far advanced in life, and had laboured under the disease for many years, which occasioned coughing and difficulty in swallowing; and at length the calculi were discharged, after having excitc*d a considerable degree of suppuration in the tonsils. In justice to Mr Wilson, I have subjoined his account of the cases. “ 9,^th January 1805. “ Case I,—A man about seventy years of age has been troubled for twenty years (the disease began when he was fifty) with a frequent inflammation and suppuration in the posterior part of the fauces, ujx>n the right side; so frequently, indeed, that scarce three months ever elapsed without a severe attack of it. During the intermission, the patient found an uneasiness in the spot, which he was taught to believe proceeded from an en- largement of the amygdala. I saw him about five weeks ago ; his throat was then highly inflamed and swollen, more especial- ly on the right side, from whence the tumour stretched almost entirely across to the opposite side. I used the common remedies without the smallest benefit. At last, after twenty years’ suffer- ing, the tumour burst, when, besides a puriform discharge, a concretion came away.” “ Case II.—Ann Welsh, aged fifty-eight, sister of the for- mer patient, had frequent attacks of inflammation and suppura- tion in her tonsils, after exposure to cold. “ From the commencement of her complaint, she thought she felt a lump on the left side of her throat, and this by de- grees increa.sed ; so that, in about a year afterwards, the skin was seen protruded before it at the upper part of her throat. “ The next attack was more violent than the preceding; the tumour gave way, and matter was discharged; the pus con- tinued to be discharged through eight small ajiertures, and con-