COLOUR OF THE MUCOUS MEMBRANE. 320 From these tables it may be inferred, tliat the healthy mu- cous membrane of the stomach and intestines is of the colour called by Mr Syme Ash-grey. The mucous membrane which lines the gullet is covered by a thin layer of cuticle, which I have particularly described, and represented by an engraving, in my thesis De Dysphagia, but I have never been able to trace this cuticular lining beyond the cardiac orifice of the stomach,— an observation which has been confirmed by the subsequent dissections of Sir E. Home and Beclard. In the stomach and intestinal tube there are a number of vil- li, concerning the size and form of which many discordant opi- nions have been published, and which I believe to be different in form in different parts of the human intestinal tube. The late Beclard has compared the form of these villi to leaflets or minute plates, which are pellucid to a certain degree, and placed so immediately in contact, as to resemble a tufted pile. He describes the breadth of those of the duodenum as exceeding their length, those of the jejunum as being long and narrow, and those at the end of the ileum as laminated. The villi of the larger intestines are by no means so prominent as those of the smaller. There are also a number of mucous glands of an oval or spheroidal form in the stomach, and also in the whole of the in- testinal tube. These are most abundant and largest in the duo- denum, termination of the ileum, and caput coecum coli. By inflammation these glands are much enlarged. The fluid secreted by these glands varies somewhat in the gullet, stomach and intestines. The mucous membrane of the alimentary canal is largely supplied with bloodvessels, which form a very intimate net- work u{x>n the mucous membrane, and enter the villi. OF THE COLOUR OF AN INFLAMED MUCOUS MEMBRANE. It wa.s an old but incorrect opinion, that a mucous membrane, when in a state of inflammation, is necessarily of a red colour. I have endeavoured to controvert this opinion, in the first edition of this book, and have enumerated cases of inflammation