OF THE INTESTINAL CANAL. ‘283 trlvcs the faeces somewhat of the same flattened appearance as O an enlarged prostate gland. Spasm of the rectum, according to Hoffman and G. C. Schmidt and Desault, is also sometimes the immediate eiiect of metastasis. This amsttiction of the rectum may proceed from low diet, and from the want of the stimulus of distention; and, iiccord- ing to Hoffman, the suppression of the hannorrhoidal dis- charge has occasionally iK.'on succeeded by a contraction of the rectum, which occasioned death; and, upon dissection, the rc>ctum was found contracted to about the size of the Anger. Many other causes of otuistriction of ll»c rectum have been enumerated in tlie preceding pages, as extraneous Ixxlies lodgetl in it, prolapsus ani, Inemorrhoitls, and fistula aui, ;uad the o|ie- ration for the cure of the latter dwt)riler. Inflummatiou also proves a cause of a s})asmodic contiaction of the rectum. I have seen a remarkable degree of contraction of tlve rectum where that bowel had been wounded during the pt'rformunce of the lateral operation of lithotomy. The tem|x)rary i-onstric- tion of the gullet frequently has laid a foundation for tire ]x;r- manent constriction : the same bolds true in respect to the rectum. A spasmodic contractiou of tlie sjrbyncter ani muscle is induced by constipation ; and more especially in women of an irritable habit of botly, by trivial causes. Constipation is succeeded by painful sensations at the verge of the anus, which go off after a short time, and do not return until the cause of the irritation is again applied. A spasmodic contraction of die sphyncter ani muscle is some- times antecedent or consequent to stricture occasioned by orga- nic disease of the coats of the rectum, and also by irritation ap- plied to the neighbouring parts, as by that of gonorrhoea, when the disease is in its inflammatory stage; in proof of which, the painful sensations in the rectum have been removed immediately by the discharge of blood from the urethra. Spasm of the sphyncter ani has also been sometimes occa- sioned by the .over distentiorr of the bladder of urine.