222 OF THE DISTOMA HEPaTICUM, in tlie parietes (as in Case 13Lh), and that, even when adhering to one of the bowels of the abdomen, they may be removed with safety by incision, providing there exists an adhesion between that viscus and the parietes of the abdomen, as in Case 7th. Of the Distoma hepaticum, or Fasciolfi hcpatica. This worm is found in the liver and gall-bladder of man, but chiefly in some of the lower mammalia. It has been long known, and was classed by Linn.«us in the genus Fasciola, and by Goezius in the genus Planaria. Of the eighty-one species of the Distoma described by Ru- DOLPHi, the hepaticum is the first. Bremser asserts that there are above 140 species of distoma. Its common name in this country is the Liver-fluke. Its shape is somewhat oval ; its surface is smooth, and its neck is somewhat conical, and very short. The pores are rounded, and the ventral is the larger of the two. The Distoma hej)aticum varies considerably as to size,—from one line in length, and one-third of a line in breadth, to an inch in length, and six lines in breadth. Its colour is either a dirty white, or a light yellow, or approaching to green, or brownish. Those which are found in the human body are of a very small size, varying from one to four lines in length, and from half a line to a line in breadth. The anterior pore or sucker is round, with a conical neck; is generally directed obliquely downwards; is less than the one situated in the ventral aspect, and is of a dirty white colour. The posterior or ventral sucker is a little projecting; is situa- ted in the broadest part of the belly, and is larger than the one already described; its direction is not uniform. Both extremities are obtuse. Rudoi.piii .states that there is a considerable jirojection (cirru-s) between these two pores. The alimentary canal arises from the anterior j)ore, and .soon divides into innumerable small branches, which seem to anasto- mose freely with each other at the sides of the worm. They contain a substance of a dirty yellow or orange colour, which