SYMPTOMS OF STRICTURE. 354 now feels a degree ot‘ pain, and when he takes food, a sensation as if it were stopped at the lower part of the gullet. If he tries to overcome the resistance, by taking down a second and third morsel, all are brought up again with violence. He lives chiefly on milk, with bread softened in it, and this passes pretty easily down into the stomach ; and, after getting down, is well digested: he is rather costive, and has lost his flesh and strength, but has no other complaint.” 1798, Jan. 15.—My Father imputed the above symptoms to stricture, and thickening, in lower end of the gullet. He therefore prescribed mercury, extract of cicuta, and oc- casional purgatives, together with low diet. By the above re- medies the patient was considerably relieved. Oct. 1. 1789.—Mr M twenty years of age, has from in- fancy had difficulty of swallowing, especially solids. Repeat- edly he has had an inability of swallowing. No tumour is dis- coverable, although the stricture is just under the cricoid carti- lage. Two years ago, he suffered acute pains in his abdomen, like colic. Looks pale. Pulse 84. Dr William Cullen, and my Father, supposed that this gentleman laboured under an original straitness of gullet, with uncommon irritability, and at times spasm of the canal. Cicuta was recommended, with the occasional use of purga- tives, opiate clysters, and frictions with anodyne balsam. I saw the following case along with the late Dr Gregory and my Father, and at the time wrote the subsequent history of it. “ August 26. 1805.—Reverend Mr G , aged 58 years. Since March last has had constant difficulty in swallowing, which has gradually increased to such a pitch, as to prevent him from swallowing solids without the utmost difficulty. “ He complains of a dull pain at the under end of the breast- Inme, whicrh is much increased by swallowing even liquids, and when he attempts to swallow solids, the pain becomes very acute. “ I saw him attemjR to swallow a glassful of wine and water ; the fluid lay for two or three minutes in the under part of his gullet; then a part of it |)a.ssed down with a gurgling sound, like that of water j)assing through a straitened canal. After his food has got into the stomach, it is never rejected.