462 or SCIRllIIUS AND CANCER hours, and he gets very little rest in the night. This liquor is of so acrid a nature, that his lips, palate, tliroat, and probably the oesophagus, are swelled and ulcerated. He is distressed with frequent vomiting, excessive thirst and costiveness, which is removed by doses of salts, which generally abate his symp. toms for a few days. Emetics and the use of Tinct. Sacr. procured him long in- tervals of case for a number of years. What he throws up at present is exceedingly acid, and so hot, that, during the opera- tion of the vomit, he feels as if a live coal were in his breast. Pulse weak, but slow and regular. “ In summer 1779, after a severe paroxysm of his disorder, he was suddenly seized with a vomiting of thick dark coloured mat- ter, resembling coifee grounds, which continued about twenty mi- nutes, accompanied by great prostration of strength, paleness of the face, &c. But these symptoms soon left him after the vomiting ceased. By a dose of salts and manna, a considerable quantity of the same dark-coloured matter were discharged, and after thafhis complaint abated for several months. “ August 20.—After a severe paroxysm of his stomachic disorder, he fainted when walking in the fields, and immediately threw up a large quantity of the same kind of dark coloured mat- ter that he had vomited two years before. Continued very weak and feverish all day, and at night took of laudanum gutt. xx. which seemed at first to give him some relief; but about mid- night, the vomiting returned with much greater violence than at first, insomuch, that he lay for some time without sense or motion, was so weak as to be unable to rise, or even turn him- self in bed after he recovered from the faint, and could take no sort of nourishment. At the same time, the pains in his bowels were most excruciating, and the discharge of clear matter from his mouth perpetual. “ The discharge of clear matter and the vomiting never left him a single day (though sometimes better and worse), from August 18th to the time of his death, which happened the 28th of December following. Some days, in the forenoon, tlie