314 OF THE EFFECTS OF POISONS There is a more difficult case, which deserves notice. If a corrosive substance be injected into the anus, well marked in- flammation is excited. Orfila made several experiments in order to determine the effect of injecting poisons into the anus. Several dogs were hung, and, a short time after-death, a quantity of corrosive sub- limate, in the form of powder, and in small fragments, was in- troduced into the rectum. On examination, the mucous coat of the intestine near the anus was found of a rose colour, but, immediately above, the rectum was of its natural colour, so that there was a dis- tinct line, of demarcation between the parts to which the subli- mate had been applied, and those which had not been in contact with it. On the same experiment having been performed upon a living dog, an intense redness was observed, which extended eight inches, gradually diminishing in intensity, and left no dis- tinct line of demarcation. Similar effects were produced with arsenic. Verdigris, however, left no trace of demarcation or corrosion on the rectum of the dead dog, while it ulcerated the living parts. The sulphuric and nitric acids produced no other effect than their chemical one. Dr Taetra found that he could produce on the dead, as well as on the living body, that yellow orange colour which is the characteristic of nitric acid. Lastly, Orfila ascertained, that, when these poisons were introduced into the alimentary canal, twenty four hours after death, they did not induce redness or inflammation. 10^/i, The want of a proper test by which inflammation may be discriminated from the natural or accidental conditions of mu- cous membranes, has tended to throw considerable obscurity and doubt over this branch of the subject. A nomenclature of colours, illustrated by suitable examples, was a great desidera- tum in the description of morbid appearances; because an ob- ject has been by one author describetl as being of a certain colour, which has been mistaken by another for a different tint; and the names of colours has been frequently misap- plied, or indiscriminately given, which has led to much dispu- tation.