OF INTESTINAI. CONCRETIONS. 31 by Dr Thomson; and, consequently, it will be unnecessary to detail their external characters; and, as to the sensible pro- perties of this, I have merely to mention, that it was of a light- brown colour, that it had a slight bilious taste, but no smell. “ When heated, it became semifused, enlarged in bulk, emit- ted much dense smoke, with the smell of vegetable matter, and perfectly free of ammoniacal odour ; burnt with a brilliant Hamc, and left a very voluminous coal, which, incinerated, af- fordt>d a brownish ash ; 7 grains of which were obtainetl from 10 of the concretion. “ This ash was found to consist of phosphate of lime, a small pro}X)rtion of carbonate of lime, and a little silicious sand. “ Twenty-nine grains of the concretion were macerated in an ounce of M'ater for twenty-four hours. The water acquireil a pretty dark yellow colour, fa*cal smell, and bitter taste. This infusion, after filtration, was dividetl into two equal |>arts ; one part was evajwrated to dryness; it aflbriletl 2 grains of brown matter, which was bitter, and partially soluble in alcohol; it ap- ju'ared analogous to the colouring matter of faeces, for it had not the peculiar bitter of bile, and it had the faecial smell. The other half of the infusion was Ixnled, but without any change beins: occasioned ; solution of corrosive sublimate had no cf- feet. Acetate of lead protluced a brown precipitate, and the supernatant liejuid was left colourless ; nitrate of' silver ojx?rated similarly, the precipitate only being a little darker. Infusion of nut-galls had no effect. A slight turbidness was produced by muriatic acid. These results are agreeable to the idea that the matter taken by the water is the bitter-brown colouring matter of faeces, with a little mucus. “ The undissolved part of the concretion was ne.xt digested in an ounce of alcohol; the solution fonned was of a greenish colour; to extract all the soluble matter several digestions were required. The alcohol being driven off bv distillation, 5 grains of a greenish-brown matter were obtained. This substance readily fused when heated, and, below a red heat, rose in dense fumes having a resinous smell, the heat being increased, it dark- ened and took fire, burnt with a brilliant flame, and the ash it