522 OF THE ORGANIC DISEASES OF THE floating in it; they somewhat resembled drops of oil; her pulse beat commonly about 90 in a minute, and was small; her tongue was commonly dry. No considerable remission having happened, she died in about six weeks after the purging began. “ A man, aged 56, some months after a tedious fever, in which his strength had been greatly impaired, was seized with a purging, which, though sometimes violent, frequently remit- ted, but never wholly stopped. Pain of the bowels commonly preceded each fit of purging ; what he voided, in the begin- ning, had been often mixed with blood, but afterwards it was mixed with small masses of a clear glutinous substance, coagu- lable by heat, or by alcohol, and sometimes it wholly consisted of that substance. Part of the food, especially liquids, passed through the body unaltered ; his pulse beat about 90; his tongue was dry. The disorder was constant and violent for above a month before his death, which happened in eleven months after the purging began Dr Abercrombie’s cases 96 and 97, appear to me to be good illustrations of ulceration of the mucous glands of the in- testines -f-. At page 332 of this work, I mentioned a disease, denomi- nated by Dr W. E. Horner, of Philadelphia, Infantile Folli- cular Inflammation of the Gastro-Intestinal Mucous Mem- brane. He has described it as being “ entirely American,” and as proving fatal annually to 200 or to 270 infants in the city of Philadelphia; and adds, “ that it may be considered to in- crease proportionably to the approximation to the Equator.” In this disease the alvine discharges “ cease to be natural and well-elaborated faeces; but consist in articles of aliment dis- charged in very much the same state in which they were swal- lowed ;—in the mucus of the bowels in unusual quantities, fre- quently tinged in places green by bile, and holding, if the child have been fed on milk (or small masses of food), the pieces of curd or f(X)d in clusters, in the mode of their connexion resem- • yide Stark’s Works, ]i. «. t Vide his Ilesc.nrclit’s on Diseases of llie Sloniaeli and Inlesliiial Canal. Edinburgh, 1828.