389 OF DYSENTERY. bad previous to the attack of dysentery, fibrine is frequently deposited in a tubercular form, beneath the peritoneal coat. According to Dr D. Monro, when the disease has proved fatal in a short time, the stomach, and the great and small in- testines, have been frequently found with a greater or less de- gree of inflammation: in old cases, when the patient has been attacked with a sharp pain in the belly before death, I have seen the rectum, colon, and stomach with black gangrenous spots. On an accurate examination, these black spots were found to be owing to black blood diffused through the cellular mem- brane, situated between the fine internal villous and the muscu- lar coats of the intestines; and in the middle of these black spots there was generally more or less of an erosion of the vil- lous coat. On raising the villous coat which covered these black spots, it appeared fine and transparent, though the cellultir membrane below was black; and on dissecting away this black cellular membrane, the muscular fibres of the gut appearetl of their natural colour. From what Dr D. Monro remarks, of black and livid spots appearing on the internal surface of the great intestines, of black or bloody fluids being diffused through the cellular membrane, and of the villous coat appearing transparent, when raised from this black cellular membrane in places where it had not been eroded, I think there is no doubt but that the erosions of the villous coat are occasionetl by suppuration of these inflamed parts of the cellular membrane, or by a kind of gangrene or ulcer in it. There may be observed, in some cases, on the inner side of the lower part of the colon, and upper part of the rectum, a number of little tubercles, or excrescences, which resemble the smallpox pustules at the height of the disorder, but differ from them in this, that they are of a firm consistence, and without any cavity. These tubercles are sometimes cleft on their surface, and somewhat resemble small warts. This appearance is only ob- served in the camp dysentery.