OF THE PUOGNOSIS OF HERNIA. 97 As the portion of intestine above the stricture generally ad- heres to the peritoneum at or near to the under abdominal aperture, when the protruded intestine becomes gangrenous, and gives way, its contents are not effused into the cavity of the ab- domen, but are discharged externally Even when, in consequence of gangrene, the protruded por- tion has given way, a union has been accomplished between the detached orifices of the bowel (as Scarpa has observed), by a funnel-shaped membranous canal, formed by that part of the peritoneum which constitutes the neck of the hernial sac. Protrusion of the omentum is to Ihj regardc^d with suspi- cion ; for when the omentum is recently protruded, it cannot be readily retunied, as it adapts itself to the shape of the parts through which it has passed : when it has Injen long displaccxl, it becomes irreducible, on account of its increased bulk, and readily contracts adhesions to the sac: l)esides, it enlarges the inguinal canal, and often paves the way for a [irotrusion of a portion of intestine. Owing to an adhesion of the omentum to the neck of the hernial sac, pressure cannot be applied with ad- vantage. In these cast's, the apertures are commonly so much enlarged, as to preclude all danger of strangulation. If the bowels cannot l>e immediately returnetl in acute hernia, there is always great danger, as inHammation and its fatal con- sequences so quickly and so certainly follow. In chronic her- nia, the complaint has been known to terminate fatally, from stric- ture of the intestine, when very little jwin or inflammation ex- isted, and where the medical attendants had, from such circum- stances, been lulled into a fatal security. Before concluding these general observations on hernia, it seems necessary to add, that an inflammation of the bowels within the abdomen may be mistaken for inflammation occasioned by the strangulation of that portion of the intestine within the hei^ nial sac. • Vide Case by Sir A. Cooper, P. i. p. 35. Desault, Paris Journal, vol. ii. and others. G