OF THE INTESTINAL CANAL. 281 A languid, dejected, or maniacal expression of countenance, nausea, slight oppression in the region of the stomach, arc the earlier symptoms of the Colic of Poitou. In this form of colic, the pain is more fixed than in colic originating from other causes. In some cases, the pulse is small, the skin cold and clammy to the touch, and the patient feels extremely weak, so that he totters when he walks. There is a want of appetite; the food that is taken is imperfectly digested, and all tlie symptoms are aggravated by exposure to cold, or by getting the feet wetted. On some occasions, diarrhoea comes on, which affords considerable relief for a time. In the progress of the disorder, the const!jiation Irecomes more obstinate, and the retraction of the ]mrietes of the abdo- men in the region of the navel considerably greater. There is also giddiness, dimness of sight, and much more acute pain at the pit of the stomach. The patient becomes more costive as the sickness, bilious vomiting, and jiain in the Irowels, increase. Upon the vomiting ceasing, the pain aliates, and hiccup comes on ; but the pain six)n returns, and often extends to the region of the navel, to the back and loins, and even to the legs, the muscles of which are in some cases painful on pressure. The pathognomonic symptoms of the Colic of Poitou are, the acute twisting pain about the navel, which is not increased, but rather diminished, on pressure, the dragging inwards of the parietes of the abdomen, which, when pressed, feel hard or knotty, tenesmus, and obstinate costiveness. The sphincter muscles of the bladder and anus are, in some cases, much contracted, and prevent the discharge of the fseces, the introduction of a clyster-pipe, and the passage of the urine. The above symptoms are generally of several days’ duration. Towards the conclusion of the disease, the patient suffers exces- sively from griping, has a disposition to go to stool, and dis- charges a quantity of faeces in the form of hard balls, like sheep’s dung, mixed with a viscid mucus, or blood.