OF THE AI.IMENTAllY CANAL. 323 This inflammation docs not extend along the surface ot the membrane, but penetrates deep into the cellular coat, and is speedily followed by ulcers of an oval or rounded form; the edges of which look as if they had l)een gnawed by an animal; an appearance produced by the absorption of a jx>rtion of the subjacent cellular substance. The membrane intervening between the ulcers looks healthy. Ulceration is often observed in the smaller intestines of the phthisical, and, if the disease be of long duration, the larger in- testines also partake of the disease. Ulceration akso sometimes affects the mucous follicles; and, in consequence of the progress of the ulceration, which will Ik* more fully described in a subsequent chapter, an ajxjrture is formed through the muscular and {X'ritoneal coats. It may in this |)lace be adderl, that these ulcers sometimes ci- catrise. Lastly, the mucous membrane of the stomach may be in a state of chronic inflammation, without presi'nt'mfr a (lijf'erent ap- pearance from the sound stomach *. In short there is a danger of mi.staking ordinary vascularity of the stomach for the indications of slight inflammation. There exists in some constitutions a great predisposition to inflammation of the mucous membranes, and it is excited by very slight causes, as variations in the temperature of the wea- ther. This predisposition is hereditary, descending from father to son, and even to the grandson. I have been consulted by the different members of a family in whom such a predisposition existed in a most striking man- ner. The father had long lieen liable to obstinate cough; se- veral of the children had croup in early life in a very severe form, and, at more advanced periods, the females suffered much from leucorrhcea, and the males from repeated and very obsti- nate attacks of gponorrhoea. The inflammation of the mucous membrane of the alimentary canal is more frequently partial and symptomatic than idiopa- • Vide Table.