448 OF THE DEPOSITION OF CARTILAGE AND BONE. or colon. Cartilaginous formations generally appear in the shape of small irregular tumours, which grow from opposite sides of the part affected, entrench upon the cavity of the rectum, and act somewhat like valves. De Haen has described an osseous deposition in the sto- mach *. Dr Short *f* described a bony deposition in the colon and rectum. A well marked case occurred to Dr Webster in which an osseo-cartilaginous tumour was attached to the vicinity of the pylorus, one of its extremities passed like a stopper into the py- lorus, and prevented the egress of the contents of the stomach, in which there were some marks of inflammation. The deposition of bone within the womb has been described by Baillie, Lettson,|| and Mackie.§ This organic derangement seldom proves fatal, until it has made considerable progress, and involved all the coats of the part affected. As the ossification of muscles is much more fre- quent than t*liat of mucous membrane, I am disposed to con- clude, that the disease in the alimentary canal begins in the mus- cular rather than in the mucous coat. This species of disease causes constriction, and gives rise to considerable expansion of the parts above the seat of the disease. Symptoms of inflamma- tion in the mucous coat, and sometimes ulceration of a malig- nant species, which is frequently succeeded by erosion, and con- siderable destruction of the neighbouring parts, occasionally take place. more remarkable case in these words : “ Pharynx cum oesophago quatuor pollices supra cardiam prseter naturam angustato, et in cujus superficie in- terna, undecem lineas infra hanc angustationem, concrementum osseum unum et dimidium pollicem longum, decern lineas latum haeret. E. quinquage- nario.” • Vide Rat. Medend., tom. iv. cap. 1. •f Vide Short, Edin. Med. Essays, vol. iv.; also Com. Lcipsic, tom. xx. p. 317; also Gion de Letter, tom. xxi. p. 143. J Vide Dr .J. Johnson’s Medico-Chir. Review. New Scries. Vol. viii. 1828. II Mem. of Med Society, vol. v. § Med. and Phys. Journal.