MILT-LIKE TUMOUR OF THE STOMACH. 419 i 1 rushing into the mouth, which, from the frequency of spitting, I occasioned much trouble. The ptyalism he thought increased I wljen the dose of opium was diminished, ! “ Under the use of these medicines, I had the mortification I to find that my patient experienced no alleviation of his suf- j ferings, which, on the contrary, gradually increased, j “ During the mild and serene weather of the summer, my I patient acquired so much strength as to be able to leave his room and go into the garden; but, in a short time afterwards, 1 I observed my patient’s strength gradually sink, and his bad ■ symptoms daily increase. Towards the end, his stomach would receive but small quantities of food at a time ; the troublesome diarrhoea became more frequent; his pulse became a little quick, ranging from 90 to 100 strokes in a minute, and very feeble. During the whole course of the complaint, the heat of the skin never rose above the natural standard ; he had no hec- tic sweating, and his tongue was at all times perfectly clean and moist. The emaciation, however, proceeded by slow degrees, reducing him very gradually till the 25th day of August, on the evening of which day he expired. “ On laying open the abdomen, I was struck with t^ic healthy appearance which its contents presentee!. The intestines looked healthy. In tracing them from the pylorus down to the rec- tum, a turn of the ileum was observed to be covered with a slight and dift'nserl redness extending to the sigmoid flexure of the colon, and beginning of the rectum. Two constrictions of the great intestines were observed, by which the capacity of the gut was diminished to one-third of its usual size. “ On taking the stomach into my hand, I was struck with its firmness and thickened feeling; and, on grasping it more particularly, I found an unmual largeness^ as if of a tumour, in its substance, situated at the greatest curvature, near to the ix)lnt li'here it ioacties the spleen. Having removed this organ from the body, and slit it open, I observed a large tumour situated on the villous coat, above the surface ot which it projected. It was of a regular round form, measuring about four inches in diameter. From D d 2 I