WHEN GANGREI«JE HAS TAKEN PLACE. 91 vent, which was a few lines Fin length, the feculent matter, which was found in the pelvis, had escaped. At the mouth of the sac, on the fore part, the gut adhered to the peritoneum, and here there was very considerable thickening, and matting of the coats of the intestines. That part of the gut exterior to the abdo- men was consolidated witJi the integuments at the top of the thigh, and over the point where this consolidation was formed, a pretty extensive cicatrix was found. It marked the place where the ulcer had been situated, through which the feculent matter had formerly been dischargetl.” This case proves the danger of a disordered state of the bowels, even after a patient has esca|)ed the imminent risk of death arising from a mortification of the protruded intc'stiue. In a case related by Scarp.\, the patient diwl, in conse- quence of having eaten cray-fish, a year after recovery from a mortification of the intestine. Scarpa, M.\nchart, Moraud, and other authors on hernia, have recorded many instances in which the fa?ccs were dischargetl, for several days, through a mortified portion of intestine within a hernial sac, and after- wards followed their former route. According to Scarpa, a breach in the intestines is not re- paireti by reunion of ^the orifices of the uppc*r and lower portions of the bowel; but by a funnel-sha{)ed membranous canal, formed out of the remains of the hernizil sac, which at an early stage adheres to the j^eritoneum about the neck of the sac. When the mortification is limited to a portion of the pro- truded intestine, a cure is not always accomplished; for the in- flammatory action, which is propagated rapidly from one part of the intestines to another, has an effect in deranging, or rather suspending, the action of the intestines; hence these become much distended by fieces, which prove an additional and con- stant source of irritation, and the gangrene, therefore, spreads ■* rapidly from its original seat. In the case of an artificial anus, the nearer the aperture is to the rectum, the greater the chance of cure; for if the open-