412 or Alll ACCUMULATED WITHIN THE viclcd with an apparatus, which was contrived by my Father, for withdrawing the air from the stomach. An acid fluid is very frequently generated by the glands of the mouth and throat, when the functions of the stomach and intestines are deranged. Dr Prout says, he found that muriatic acid was generated in the stomach of the inferior animals, and occasionally other acids. The author above alluded to detected the presence of combustible acids in the stomach, and expresses his belief that these were derived from the food. He also observes, that occasionally the stomach secretes a combustible acid in a free state; though” says he, “ I think it more frequently happens, that some salt containing a combus- tible acid, e.g. the acetate of soda, is actually secreted; and that this, by being decomposed by the free muriatic acid, gives ori- gin to the apparent presence of free acetic acid Prout also found, in a remarkable case of disease, that the acetic acid seemed to be formed not only in the stomach, but by the salivary glands. The breath of the patient smelt strongly of vinegar. Dr Baillie has described “ an affection of the stomach, in which the digestion is very imperfect, and in which considerable quantities of a transparent viscid mucus is formed. This often produces nausea, and is occasionally brought up by vomiting. According to my experience, this condition of the stomach has been frequently little benefited by medicine, but sometimes I have found the tincture benzdes composita of considerable use. A drachm of it may be taken mixed with water, and some mu- cilage of gum acacia, three times a day. There is anoiher af- fection of the stomach less common than the former, but far more serious, viz. where a large quantity of a fluid like co- coa is vomited. A quart of this fluid will often be thrown up at a time, and this will frequently be repeated for many days together. This condition of the stomach is sometimes connected with a diseased state of the liver, but sometimes it is independ- Vid. PliiL Mag. ami Annual Register for August 1825.