OF STllICTUHE OF THE RECTUM. 364 which was situated an inch and a half from the verge of the anus. There was an ulcer alx)ve the stricture, which penetra- ted the coats of the intestines, and the faeces had got into the cavity of the abdomen. The patient, a soldier, had long laboured under diarrhoea, particularly during the night, accompanied with violent tenes- mus. The patient formerly laboured under dysentery, and had still diarrhoea and tenesmus. Nine hours before his death, he was seized with violent pain on the lower part of the abdomen while at stool. He continued in this state, shrieking with the agony he experienced, and gradually becoming faint and more faint until eleven o’clock in the forenoon, he expired. Dissection, twenty-^bur hours cffter death.—The body was not emaciated ; abdomen tympanitic. On opening the ab- domen, a quantity of thin feculent matter was found in the in- testines. On further examination, a large ulcer in the rectum Avas discovered opening into the abdominal cavity; beneath it the intestine was so contracted, and its coats so thickened, that the point of the little finger coidd but with difficulty be admitted. Above this ruptured portion of the gut there were several ulce- rated ]X)lnts on its internal surface, where the mucous membrane Avas destroyed, and its other coats greatly thickened. The great intestines Avere very much inflamed, more espe- cially the caput coecum coli. The outer surface of this last [x>r- tion of the alimentary canal Avas very vascular, but there was no effusion of lymph here, nor on any other part of the perito- neum. There Avas likewise great vascularity evident in the omentum. The symptoms of stricture of the rectum are in some in- stances equivocal. Very different opinions were entertained as to the nature of the disease, and the cause of the nausea, vomiting, great ten- derness of the abdomen, and obstinate constipation, under Avhich that great actor Talma for some time laboured before death. He frequently went in great haste to the watcr-closc't, expecting a copious .stool, but on making the attempt, nothing but air and very licpiid fa-ces were discharged. It had been imputed by the partisans of Broitssais to chro-