180 OF DIAPIIRACxMATIC HEIINIA. This kind of hernia has been said to be more frequent on the right than the left side. Tliere is a preparation in the Museum, in which this kind of hernia was found in the body of a child, and connected with original malformation. A part of the posterior portion of the diaphragm was deficient, and the stomach, and the small and greater portion of the larger intestines, were lod- ged within the left side of the chest. The displaced bowels were not contained in a sac. If there be a hernial sac containing the displaced bowels, we must suppose that the fibres of the diaphragm have yielded, in consequence of the pressure of the abdominal bowels against it, and which' push before them the peritoneum. Dr Macaulay* found the liver in the right side of the chest. The bowels pass in general through the muscular part of the diaphragm. When this hernia is congenital, the child exists but for a short time ■)*. There are a few exceptions to this remark. Some persons have lived for several years, with an unusual aperture in the diaphragm, which is probably to be imputed to the aperture being of small size; but upon a violent effort being made, a part of the intestine is forced through the unnatural opening in the diaphragm, and is strangulated, as in the sub- joined case §. ' Med. Obs. and Surg. of London, vol. i. t FoTHEaGiLi,, Phil. Trans. voL xliv. § “ The patient, a young woman, twenty-two years of age, had been oc- casionally subject, during the greater part of her life, to pain in the left side, under the false ribs. This was generally succeeded by pains throughout the whole belly, resembling colic pains, and was attended with some degree of costiveness. “ These complaints commonly wore off in a few days, and she was not subject to them at the period of menstruation. Having danced violently on Saturday evening, she was seized on the Sunday morning, in the manner be- low described. In the afternoon, she was seized with a violent vomiting, and with excruciating pain in the side and belly, which lasted during th» whole night. A clyster was given about ten o’clock, which procured a con- siderable discharge of faeces, but without any relief “ She wa.s never observed to have any shortness or difficulty in breath- ing, and lay alike well on both sides. “ The patient soon after died.