329 EFFECTS OF CAUSTIC ALKALI. in twenty-five minutes after taking the alkali. The mucous membrane of the stomach was found of a deep-red colour through its whole extent. Dr Mollison was so polite as to permit me to examine the gullet of a young woman who had died from taking the aqua potass®. At the time the alkali was swallowed, the patient suf- fered very excruciating pain in her throat and stomach, which gradually subsided, and was followed by some degree of diffi- culty in swallowing, which increased until she died, after the lapse of ten months. In this instance the parietes of the gullet were very much thickened and indurated, and the gullet itself was lined by a dense layer of coagulable lymph, which extended as low down as the cardiac orifice of the stomach, and had al- most completely closed the gullet, so that, three months before death, even liquids did not pa.ss through it. The }wtient, du- ring that time, was supjx>rted by nutritious clysters. OF THE EFFECTS OF SWALLOWING ARSENIC AND ITS OXIDES. This subject has engaged the attention of many distin- guished writers upon medical jurisprudence. I shall therefore confine myself chiefly to the statement of the results of a few experiments, which I made some time ago u]X)n animals with arsenic, and its different oxides, and to those effects iqwn the human gullet and stomach which I have seen. The effects of arsenic, when taken in its metallic state, or as an oxide, are extremely different; the latter being highly poi.son- ous. We are well acquainted with the effects of some of the oxides of arsenic, but not with those of the metal itself*, or with those • Mr Rexault did not make experiments with the metallic arsenic, because, he observes, “ Ce n’est pas qu’il suit difficile d’obtenir Tarsenic pur et complotement depouille d’oxi^ne; tout la difficulte git dans la promptitude avec laquelle il enleve ce principe a I’atmosphere, ce qui rend extremement incertaines les experiences que Ton tente avec ce metal sur les animaux vi- vans.—Vid. Experiences sur les contre-Poisons de 1’Arsenic.