298 OF INFLAMMATION OF MUSCI-EfS. comes, on some occasions, inHamt'd, in consequence of an inflam- mation, which had begun in the mucous or peritoneal coat, being propagated to the muscular coat, the fibres of which become hard and white ; this state of the fibres is often combined with a de- gree of contraction, which is permanent, owing to the effusion of coagulable lymph. In this case, the muscular coat has a morbid degree of sensi - bility, or is thrown into violent contraction, by the faeces pass- ing along it; hence persons with this inflammation are very liable to colic, or they have an evacuation very soon after meals. The effects of this inflammation in the extremities of the body are very obvious ; they become of a redder colour, as may be readily seen, by applying any irritating substance to the inte.s- tines of a fowl, or to the muscles of the extremities of frogs. The colour of an inflamed muscle is not uniform. The mus- cles of the extremities acquire somewhat of a brown colour, or even a dirty yellow colour, and a good deal of serum is lodged in their interstices, but those of the intestines become white. The fibres of an inflamed muscle become softer and are more easily torn : at the same time they lose, to a certain degree, their contractile power; and in the more acute instances, pus is formed within the substance of the muscle. The inflammation is generally limited to a few of the muscles, but there are excep- tions to this remark. I have preserved a specimen of the biceps flexor cubiti, containing an abscess, and it is remarkable that a similar abscess was found in the greater number of the muscles of the body of the individual. Abscesses of the substance of the heart are described by va- rious authors, as by Massa, Fanton, and Laennec ; and Morgagni * and Laennec describe abscesses on the inner sur- face of that organ. The latter author has stated, that one ab- scess was an inch long, half an inch broad, and more than four lines in depth in its middle. A .specimen of a large abscc-ss of the septum of the heart is preserved in the Museum of our University: it communicates with the left ventricle. • K])isl- xxiv. art. 17. Mcdico-Cliir. Trans, vnl. vii. i>. 323-