SPASM OF THE GULLET. 269 “ My attention was first particularly drawn to the disease by the case of a lady, forty years of age, who had been under treat- ment more than a year, for what was considered a stricture of the oesophagus, accompanied by all its usual symptoms. Va- rious courses of medicine, and the frequent use of bougies, had been employed without benefit. I scarcely know what induced me to propose, instead of the bougies, an egg-shaped silver ball, attached to a handle of silver-wire, to be passed occasionally through the stricture, which felt to be at the distance of about four inches below the pharynx ; and, to my astonishment, the affection was completely removetl, by four or five applications of this in.strument. The patient continued well for more than a year, and then had a return of the complaint, which was re- moved in the same manner; and she had afterwards several slight returns of it, which always yielded readily. Lastly, In the case of lock-jaw, which I had occasion to meet with, the patient, towards the termination of the disca.se, was seized with a sense of stricture across the lower part of the chest, and great difficulty of breathing, followctl by loss of jx)wer of swallowing; and these symptoms being followed by sj)a.sinsof the muscles of the legs and arms, he became insensible, and died in twent^’-four hours. In a former work, the Morbid Anatomy of the Ilrain, I en- deavoured to ]X)int out the influence of nervous irritation in de- ranging the functions of the stomach. Since the publication of that book, I have seen additional proofs of that fact, and more especially in the case of a man I visited along with Dr Saun- ders, who, for several days before death, was afflicted by jicr- petual vomiting, which could not be checked by any means. The food had undergone very little change within the stomach. These symptoms were followed by ajx)plexy. DrsBREscHET and MylneEdwards have lately endeavoured to prove that mechanical irritation, applied to the lower parts of the eighth pair of nerves, produces the same effect as the cutting out a portion of the nerve. Dr Philip, in a late paper, madt mention of several circumstances which invalidate such an opi- nion. He observed that a certain quantity of digested food will