TUArOURS OF THE CELI.ULAR SUBSTANCE. 493 Pus also is frequently found, as a consequence of chronic in- flammation, in the cellular tissue. Blood sometimes is effused into the cellular substance, inde- pendently of external violence, as in purpura and sea scurvy, and gives rise to hard and livid tumours. Blood also is ef- fused into this tissue in some bad cases of ague, and of remit- tent fever. Air also sometimes fills this tissue. It is cither se- creted, or it proceeds from a rupture of the larynx, windpipe, or lung. Difierent kinds of tumours are occasionally lodged in the cel- lular substance. Mr Abernethy has described vascular sarcoma as being im- bedded in the subcutaneous cellular tissue; and inclosed in a thin capsule, formed of condensed cellular substance. The different species of encysted tumours and cysts, filled with fluids of different kinds, as pus, serum, blood, melanotic fluid, or a mixture of these, have been often observed in this tissue, and these cysts arc, in all respects, similar to serous mem- branes. Hydatids have occasionally been found in the cellular tissue.* I have never seen, in the cellular substance of the alimentary canal, encysted tumours, containing a white chalky-like sub- stance, or steatomatous, or meliceritious matter. Various odier kinds of tumours have bet'n occa.sionally met with in the subcutaneous cellular substance. Many attempts have been made to classify such tumours, which, though hitherto by no means completely successful, have proved of some use, and drawn the attention of medical men to this important subject. Much, however, yet remains to be done; the inquiry is very far from being exhausted, and will amply remunerate any one who directs his attention to this very important branch of investigation. • There is a good specimen of this disease in the Museum of the Univer- sity. Vide Catalogue. Tumours.—“ Large cyst, removed from upper part of the thigh. It contains, inclosed in imperfect membranes, numerous hyda- tids ( Cysticerctis cellulosus, R.J several of which contain internal granulations. Parietes of sac, cai'tilaginous and lamellated. The tumour adhered to the lower part of the tensor vaginae femoris.