34 CHEMICAL ANAI,YSIS in potash, approached it one step nearer to woody matter, but it widely differs in the effect which heat produces, intermixing, not retaining, its form like wood. “ The resinous matter which the second contains may be also peculiar ; but for this to be satisfactorily proved, farther experi- ments are yet required. “ Their analysis throws, if any, but a very imperfect light on their formation. The most probable conjecture appears to me to be, that they are produced from the'remains of the ingestOy during their stay in the large intestines. Thus there would be no difficulty in accounting for the saline ingredients, all of which exist in the faeces ; neither would there be any difficulty in imagining the formation of the resinous substance fmnd in No. 2, and it is easy to conceive, and most natural, that the fbrcnis matter, like the saline, is derived from the food. In opposition, it may be said, that the fibrous matter is a new sub- stance, which is granted; but yet it may be contained in vege- tables, and it would be desirable to examine those in most common use with this object in view. The idea of the forma- tion of these fibres in the intestines, from chemical changes there taking place, is difficult of conception, and the idea of their secretion still more difficult. “ It is to be regretted, that no clew is derived from analysis, as to their removal, during the life of the patient. Their size, in general, is so great, before they create afflicting symptoms, and their solubility, even in the most active menstrua, so little, as to banish all hope.” I used to mention the above opinion of Dr J. Davy, as to the nature of the human intestinal concretions, in my lectures. In the year 1814, I gave the half of one of these hu- man intestinal concretions to my very intelligent pupil Dr J- SiLVEiiiA. Dr Marcet informs us (P. 138. of his valuable Essay on the Chemical History and Medical Treatment of Cal- culous Disorders, London, 1819), that Dr Silveira presented it to him, and that he shewed it to that acute philosopher Di- Wollaston, who, profiting by a hint of Mr Clift, found it to consist chiefly of the beard of the oat.