ON THK CONCOMITANT 214 Icr was applied, in order to exclude the air, and to keep the <;p- posite sides of the cyst contiguous. In a few days the patient became feverish, he suffered much from thirst, his pulse was quicker than common, and there was a discharge of purulent matter from the sore, a sufficient proof of previous inflammation in the sides of the cavity. ' The cure was comjolcted within ten weeks. I have seen the patient frequently since the operation. He has had no return of the complaint. He is now forty-nine years of age, and enjoys perfect health, and is one of the stoutest men in Edinburgh. It may be worth while to observe, that in this Case, and in Case IV. no bloodvessels were visible on the proper coats of the hydatids, nor in two other such cases, in which the bloodvessels of the cysts which contained the hydatids, were of large size, and had been filled with a coloured size injection. In all these four cases, no part of the liquor which the hydatids contained cocLgulated, when ardent spirits were mixed with it, or by boil- ing it: from which it appeal's, that the liquor contained within the hydatid is materially different from that of a common dropsy of the belly, or that of the ovarium. I Case VIII.—I had occasion to visit a man, 32 years of* age, along with my Father, in 1801, on account of a pain in the right side of his breast, behind the mamma, which was not re- moved by bleeding, nor by the application of a blister. He had no oj)pression or difficulty in breathing, and could sleep on either side, or on his back, and his pulse was not at all affected. He was relieved by coughing up portions of hydatids, and al- so entire hydatids, some of which were of the size of a hazel-nut, and others as large as a walnut, and he sometimes coughed up these in such quantity as would have filled a pint bottle. The larger hydatids contained a clear viscid liquor, and the smaller ones a yellow li{|uor, which he said had a bitter taste. A few days before coughing up the hydatids, the patient suffered very acute pain in the brea.st, which he compared to that of a pointed instrument entering his breast; and for two or three minutes before the hydatids were discharged, he was seized witli violent