259 OF HYDROPHOBIA. .sound. The whole abdominal viscera were in a natural state; the larger intestines alone being distended by flatus. “ The thoracic viscera also were in a state unusually sound. No adhesions between the lungs and pleura costalis. No mor- bid appearance whatever in the lungs themselves. The heart not more distended with blood than usual, and the blood in a coagulated state.” Inflammation of the pharnyx is also an occasional concomitant of hydrophobia. This inflammation, in some cases, extends down to the gullet and stomach *. The inner membrane of the pharynx is also thrown into folds, so that the inner surface of this organ bears a resemblance to the inner surface of the intestine, which appearance is probably produced by the spasmodic contraction of the muscular fibres of the pharynx ; and from this cause also, the amygdala? are much compressed and forced outwards. Sauvages has informed us, in his Dissertation sur la Rage, that the bodies of those who have died from hydrophobia do not putrify so soon as usual. According to Dr Baillie, the inner membrane of the pharnyx, gullet, and stomach, is much inflamed, but is not thickened. The inflammation, he has adder!, “ is not very ohserv'able.” • Tlie following authors have also remarketl the inflammation of the pharynx, gullet, and stomach, viz. Dr Baillik •, Morgagni t, Ors Bab- iNQTONt, Feuriar 5, Tavry I, Mahcet Powel Mr Borret ft. Dr PiNCKARD W, Sir Astlky Cooper §i, in a rabid dc^, and Dr Beddoes. Sometimes the inflammation has been stated by Drs Beddoes and Rush to affect the larynx and trachea; and the muscles of deglutition and speech have been observed by the latter II to be suffused by blood. But in none of the authors quoted, is there mention made of the spasmo- dic contraction of the construction of the pharynx. • Morbid .\natomy. t Vide Letter vlU. .\rt. 25. ‘ Med. Communic. voL L S Med. Facts and Obs. voi. i. | Vide Mem. de r Acad, des Sciences, u London Medico.Chir. Transact, vol. i. «« London Med. and Phys. Journal, voL xx. p. 209. it London Med. and Phys. Journal, vol. xxi. p. 271. Ibid. p. 59. Vide Med. Records .ind Researches, p. 136. || Vide London Med. and Phys. Journal, vol. XX. p. 36U 11 2