360 OF THK CONSTRICTION OF THE STOMACH. hernia. This stricture occasions inflammation, which destroys, according to Mr Travers, the contractile jwwer of the coats of the intestines; hence, even when the strangulated portion of in- testine has been set free by the skill of the surgeon, and has been returned into the abdomen, it does not resume its healthy functions; the bowels continue torpid, and death follows in a short time *. Morgagni gives a case of sudden death from gas- trodynia. In one, the i^atient died in three hours. The sto- mach was found distended to an extreme degree, and somewhat inflamed. Before concluding this department of the subject, it may not be improper to observe^ that organic diseases of the neighlxiur- ing organs have sometimes created acute pain and heat in the stomach, which may be supposed to be connected with that or- gan. This observation is illustrated by the following cases in the Museum of the University :— A man, after an attack of fever, was seized with pain in his left side, and afterwards by nausea and vomiting; and die could not bear pressure upon the epigastric region. He had also occasional diarrhoea, but generally was costive. In this state he lived for four months. Upon dissection, the serous membranes of the thorax and abdomen were found much thickened and tubercu. lated, as also the greater part of the smaller intestines. In the second case, a man, fifty-two years of age, had labouretl for about a month under bad appetite, pain and heat in his stomach, which were not increased on pressure, and frequent vomiting after meals. He had also frequent calls to make wa- ter, which w'as mixed with blood and jius, and it became neces- sary to draw off his u?;ne by the catheter. A tumour lodged within the bladder could be distinguished from the rectum. Upon dissection, a number of soft white tumours, resembling medullary sarcoma, were found attached to the peritoneum and omentum. Water was found within the belly, and the bladder was much diseased. • Vide an Inquiry into tlic Process of Nature in Ucp.airing Injuries of llie Intestines, ]i. 221. London, 1812.