439 OF MUCOUS MEMBllANES. In one of the specimens in the Museum, the mucous mem- brane of the stomach is ulcerated, and there were melanotic depositions on it; and there is a large irregular opening in the stomach communicating with the centre of a medullo-sarcoma- tous tumour of considerable size, which occupied the whole of the smaller curvature of the stomach. Medullo-sarcomatous tumours, of a harder description, some- times grow from the mucous membranes. I have in my posses- sion a specimen of this description, which grew from the pha- rynx, and proved fatal, by obstructing respiration and deglu- tition *. I received from my late pupil. Dr George Wylie, of Pais- ley, the following valuable communication ;— “ Roskanne Gray, aged eleven, of a lively disposition, rud- dy complexion, with dark hair and eyes. “ During the earlier part of the spring of 1810, this girl was much ex[X)sctl to cold whilst sitting at work, and constantly complained of a chilline&s. About the end of March she com- plained of a pain in the head, and especially in the left car, ac- companied by giddiness, which were much increasetl by exer- cise. She l)ecame weak, and of unhealthy appearance, and for three weeks in April was confined to bed. During the sum- mer months, she was now and then so free from her complaints, for a few days at a time, as to Ire able to stir abroad. “ About the middle of August, her relations first observed that she spoke less distinctly. “ About the end of September I first saw her. She complained of pain in the head and left ear, and giddiness; her deglutition and speech were impaired ; the mouth was a little distorted to the right; she breatlied none through the left nostril; heard less distinctly with the left ear; and the eye of that side was so full that the eyelids could not completely cover it, yet she saw equally well with them both. She was much emaciated ; had little appetite, and was costive; pulse small, frequent, and weak. Medullary sarcoma differs considerably in colour, consistence, vascula- rity and form in the greater number of cases.