159 OF HERNIA OF THE LINEA ALBA. situated in the navel, and which was i-emoved by the applica- tion of the sulphat of copper. A large collection of hydatids within the liver, or hydatids growing from the surface of that organ, sometimes give rise to a tumour at the side of the navel, whicli, by the inattentive, may be mistaken for an umbilical hernia. OF HERNIA OF THE LINEA ALBA. I have seen a few instances of hernia in the Linen alba. The tumour had an oval flattened appearance, and a short neck. I have never seen such a hernia strangulated. Though the commu- nication between the abdomen and the hernial sac Im? generally narrow, the form of the neck of the sac is oval and narrow. According to Scaupa, the hernia of the lAnea alba very fre- quently forms so near to the aponeurotic margin of the umbilical ring, that it has been supposed by surgeons in general to be a true umbilical hernia. In other cases, this hernia appears above or l)c- low the umbilicus. Tlie first, however, or that above the umbi- licus, is more fit?quent than the second, on account, as I suppose, of the Linca alba hom the cartilage to the umbilicus be- ing naturally broader and less resistant than the other portion of the same aponeurosis, extending from the umbilicus to the pubes, because the recti muscles, as they descend, converge towards each other. The superior portion of the Llnca alba, is un- doubtedly that rchich yields more than the Inferior portion to the impulse of the uterus and of the abdominal viscera pushed towards the diaphragm; and in women who have had many child- ren, if we examine carefully the superior portion of this apo- neurosis, and place it opposite to the light, it is found to be ir- regular, thin in some places, and transparent; in others wasted, and disposed to separate longitudinally or transversely. And, in hernia? of this species, a fissure in the Llnea alba is constantly met with, sometimes longitudinal, sometimes transverse, through which the hernial sac has protruded, containing the intestine and omentum, or more commonly omentum only. Some per- sons are so predisposed to this disease, from the tendency which the Llnca alba has to separate, that several hernia: have been