FORMATION OF THE INGUINAL CANAL. 121 primarily taking place in the adult, by the internal orifice of the inguinal canal. “ Although, for the reasons above stated, hernia cannot of- ten, if ever, take place l)y the upper orifice of the inguinal canal; still, were there not some contrivance devised, it might happen, by bursting the posterior side of the canal opposite the lower orifice. “ The posterior side of the inguinal canal is formed, as was first demonstrated by Sir A. Cooper, by the transversalis fas- cia, which is thin anil dilatable, and therefore, independent of assistance, affords but a trifling barrier to protrusion. Na- ture has not, however, neglected this |xfmt; for, opposite to 1 the inferior opening, she has strengthened the posterior side, i by a set of inflected fibres., which arise, as described by Cam- I PER, from the foldeil-in lower pillar of the oblique muscle, and run upw'ard, expanding over that portion of the transversalis t fascia, opposite to the lower outlet. This affords one securi- j ty; but Nature seems peculiarly solicitous about defending 1 this opening, and has therefore bound the two pillars firmly ) together, by cross slips, and made to arise from the upper I one, a fasciculus of fascia?, which, by winding round the top of il the thigh, must, in those motions which would endanger the i parts, be made closely to embrace the cord, adapting thus, in 1 a most accurate manner, the size of the lower outlet to the size 1 of the cord. “ We thus see, that, 6^ the posterior xcaJl of the canal, iri- ' guinal hernia is, in the adult, prevented from tal-ing place ' through the upper orifice; and that, by the peculiarity of the mechanism of the lower opening, ventro-inguinal hernia can- not occur, except where, by violence, the posterior side of the canal is burst, or the cross slips torn, by which the fillet, from - the upper pillar, would come to lose its effect. “ When hernia has taken place, the very objects which for- j nierly had a tendency to prevent its accession, are now so far I changed in their action, that they present obstacles to the re- ! placement of the gut. If the hernia has occurred in a young subject, where the canal is not formed, or in an adult, in whom