147 DIAGNOSIS OF CRURAL HERNIA. The hernial tumour commonly appears suddenly after some violent exertion, as after raising a heavy weight, or from a fit of coughing, or vomiting, and increases or diminishes in bulk by pressure, or when the patient goes to bed. In many cases of crural hernia, the tumour is so small, that an opinion is formed respecting the nature of the disease, rather from the concomitant symptoms than from the appearance of the tumour. Symptoms of strangulation coming on, remove all doubt re- specting the nature of the case. Notwithstanding these and other marks of distinction, crural hernia has been mistaken for scrofulous enlargement of the in- guinal glands, or a venereal bubo, for a hernia. At the Dispensary, I met with a case which at first sight was puzzling. A girl, about fourteen years of age, had a swel- ling in her groin, which was extremely painful upon l>eing touched, and which she said had apjieared very suddenly. U|>on examination, I perceived that the swelling was not situated exact- ly over the crural ring. This swelling did not occasion sickness or costiveness. This determined the nature of the disease, which was treated as scrofulous. Mr Else met with a crural hernia placed behind a swelled suppurating lymphatic gland of the groin. In such a complicatt'd case, the surgeon may wound the intestine in opening the abscess. The diagnosis becomes still more difficult, if suppuration shall have taken place in the en- larged lymphatic gland, and also when the hernial tumour is composed of several small sacs, (Vide fig. 3d. of Plate 13. of former edition); or when an empty hernial sac or hydatid co- vers the more recent hernial tumour, or w'hen the displaced intestine is included in a double sac, (Vide Plate 12. fig. 2d. of former edition.) A quantity of fat, or a collection of hydatids on the inner* side o[ the groin, bears some resemblance to a herniary tumour, as the watery fluid within the elastic coats of the hydatid, commu- nicates to the touch nearly the same sensation as a protruded portion of intestine. In the Museum of the University of Edinburgh, there is a K 2