164 OF CONGENITAL HERNIA OF THE FEMALE. both sides, but sometimes on one side only, which passed over the round ligament of the womb. According to Campeu, the above-mentioned canal was open in three of fourteen female infants after birth ; and he adds, that he had discovered traces of it in .women after delivery. Wrisbeiig observed the canal of different sizes, and open in nineteen out of two hundred children. Le Cat observed it of the size of a goose quill in a woman of forty-six years of age. The late Mr A. Burns, in two cases of ascites, found this canal so much enlarged, as to admit of the introduction of the thumb. I subjoin a letter which I received from that able surgeon, de- scriptive of the congenital hernia of the female. “ I have now examined seven cases of this kind, and in six have found the anterior side of the inguinal canal deficient. The instance in which I found this species of herniary sac not conjoined with imperfect formation of the inguinal canal, was in a girl aged thirteen years. Although I have once met with a congenital hernia without deficiency of the anterior side of the canal, yet I have never had occasion to notice any case in which this deficiency existed, and was not complicated with congenital hernia. “ In one of the subjects with congenital hernia, the sac did not escape from the canal; in five, it had, from the peculiar state of the canal, descended along the thigh, assuming to a great degree the resemblance of crural hernia, and in one it was bound down by the superficial aponeurosis of the external oblique. In this person, tlie oblique aponeurosis had come in reality to supply the place of the anterior side of the canal; it was so strong, that it resisted the passage of the tumour down along the thigh; it led it down to the upper part of the labium pudendi. “ This was not the only peculiarity of this ca.se; for the tu- mour, in its course to the labium, insinuated itself between tlic fillets of the upper pillar of the canal, and at that point was