OF INTESTINAL CONCIIETIONS. 55 which terminated in death on the 22d October. On opening the abdomen, the intestines appeared in a perfectly natural state. On removing these from the right side, the caput coli was found higher up than usual; and partly behind and be- tween it and the groin was felt the tumour which had occasioned so much anxiety to his attendants during his life. It was be- hind the peritoneum, which being removed carefully, a kidney of three or four times the natural size was brought into view. It was in a perfectly sound state. The ureter was very large, issuing from the pelvis of the kidney, but soon contracted to its usual size. It ran directly across the psoas muscles, and was inserted into the bladder about the usual place. On examining the left side, there was not a vestige of kidney nor of ureter. The bladder was moderately distendetl, and reached to the up- per end of the kidney in situ Of Calculi of the Tonsils. This section is supplemental to the former, and is descriptive of those calculi which occasionally have been contained within the tonsils, and also of the concomitant .symptoms. This disease is by no means frequent; in proof of which, those rich repositories of |>athological knowletlgc, the Letters of Mougagki, the Descriptive Catalogues of the Leyden and Ber- lin Anatomical Museum, by Drs Sandkort and Walter, the Anatomic Medicale of the learned Dr Portal of Paris, the Nosologia Methodica of Sauvages, the Chirurgia Hotlierna of Callisen, the Nosographie Chirurgicalc of Richerand, and the Pathologie Chirurgicale of Lassus, do not aHbrd any infor- mation respecting this subject. Even in Schuuig’s Lithologia, a book professedly written on calculi of different parts of the human body, mention is made but of two examples of this complaint, and these are borrowed from KentmANNUS de Calcul., and from Nicol Blegny, Zo- diac. Med. Gallic, an IV. and V. Febr. Obs. 4. Dess AULT* has made mention of calculi of tlie tonsils, and says they are produced by a collection of mucus and lymph. • Vide voL i. p. 461; translation of his works by Turnbull.