OF UMBILICAL IIEIINIA. 158 from the other ; hence the necessity of laying open the hernial sac with great caution. Portions of the sac have sometimes been removed by absorp- tion, so that the contents of the tumour adhere to the skin; and the part of tlie displaced bowels, which have passed through the sac, has been strangulated at the aperture. As the omentum covers a part of the intestines, and is un- attached at its lower part, it generally forms a considerable share of the contents of an umbilical hernia of the adult: as it is generally kept in immediate contact with the same part of the sac, it frequently adheres to it, whereby the return of the contents of the hernial tumour is prevented ; and there are even instances in which the omentum has produced the strangulation of the displaced portion of intestine. Dr Akeiicrojibie met with an instance in which the omentum strangulated the intestine: “ On laying open the hernia, no- thing presented but a mass of omentum, in some places inflamed, in others partially suppurated. On cutting into it, it was found to form a sac, in which was contained a small turn of the ilium strangulated and gangrenous. The stricture was produced by the neck of this sac of omentum, which formed a ring nearly as thick and as firm as the umbilical ring, which had been divided in the operation. The intestine adhered to the omentum in se- veral places.” In some instances, a turn of the ilium alone has been found in the hernial sac, or the transverse arch of the colon. The bowels in this kind of hernia very frequently contract adhesions to each other, and to the hernial sac, so that it becomes impossible to reduce the tumour. In some corpulent women the hemial sac is enveloped by the subcutaneous fat, so that the tumour is concealed, though external to the abdominal mus- cles. Tumours and abscesses, external and internal to the parietes of the abdomen, in tlic region of the navel, may bo mistaken for umbilical hernia. Sometimes a tumour grows from the navel, which somewhat resembles an umbilical hernia. I met with a case of this de- scription, in which a tumour, the colour of a strawlterry, was