I 3G(j OF STTUCTUIIF. OF THF. KF.CTUM. In the second case, the intestines were much distended and thickened. The ileum, near to its termination, for the space ol‘ five inches, was surrounded by the omentum, which was twisted like a cord, its superior extremity being attached in its usual situation, while the inferior was attached to the mesocolon, near to the coecum. The strangulated portion of the intestine was of a dull red colour, and in a state of gangrene. Above the stricture there was some appearance of slight ulceration, and the mucous membrane was covered by a fluid, like pus. In the third ca.se, gangrene had taken place, to a very great extent. The omentum was destitute of fat, black, and gan- grenous. The whole intestinal canal was completely mortified, especially the great intestines, which were much distended. There was a large aperture in the ileum at its commencement, apparently from that portion of intestine having been in a com- plete state of sphacelus. The ileum, at its termination, was impervious ; and the intestine immediately above this was enor- mously distended. It may not be improper to remark, that it not unfrequently happens that there are the most violent symptoms, indicating very serious inflammation of the intestines, whilst, on dis- ection, very little morbid is perceptible. Thus, a male pa- tient was afflicted with the most violent enteritic symptoms, and subsequently with vomiting of stercoraceous matter, indi- cating that either stricture or intus-susception had occurred. He died greatly exhausted ; and the only morbid appeai-ances which presented themselves were enormous dilatation of the small intestines; and the termination of the ileum and the coecum were found of a green colour, with .several dark spots on their external surface. There are seven other kinds of stricture, one of which is oc- casioned by the elongation of the mucous membrane, so that it is thickened, stretched across the gullet, or some other part of the alimentary canal. There is no concomitant disease in the coats. Dr Baillie has described this disease, and informs ns, “ that it is slow in its progress, for the person in whom it tcnik jilacc had been for many years aftected with a difficulty in