OF CONGENITAL HERNIA OF THE MALE. I6l There is frequently a stricture in the middle of the canal through which the testes pass ; thus the protruded intestines arc much compressed at that place, and sometimes strangulated. Pelletan has made a similar observation in his case : there was a narrow aperture between the hernial sac and the tunica vaginalis. In a case of this description which I dissected, there was a stricture in the middle of the canal: and the part of the omen- tum had got beyond the constricted part of the canal, which had attained an unnatural bulk. The canal for the testes has Iwen sometimes observed to be contracted at its upper, and also in its under parts, and some- times, according to Dr Wrisheug, in two different places at the same time. Sometimes the testicles are detainctl in the groin, and have been mistaken for an inguinal hernia, and upoti that supposi- tit)n trusses have been worn. The size and figure of this hernia is various, and depends u{X)n the situation of the stricture in the canal. Should the stricture be seated near to the under part of the scrotum, the hernial tumour assumes an oblong figure, and is equally large in its up})er as in its under part: the tumour passes out perpendicularly from the abdomen; because in a child at birth, the spermatic cord does not pass obliquely through the parietts of the abdomen, as in the adult, but passes directly through these; and hence the peculiar shape of the herniary tumour. Lobstein has described a case of congenital hernia, in which the tumour descended as low as the knee. The sac of the congenital hernia sometimes acquires a pre- ternatural thickness ; but at other times it is of an unusual thin- ness. Mr Aunaud relates a case, where the sac waj so thin that he divided it, in making the incision through the skin, and with difficulty could find it out afterwards. The sac, which is of an oblong figure, is covered by the cremaster muscle, and the thin fascia of the abdominal muscles. On account of the greater shortness of the omentum of children, that organ is seldom contained within the hernial sac.