CONTRACTION OF THE MUSCULAR FIBRES. 241 of tepid water into the bladder has sometimes alleviated the excruciating torture occasioned by stone in this organ, when the inner mucous membrane, perpetually irritated by the stone, was probably in a state of unnatural excitement, or chronic inflammation-, whereas, on the other hand, the introduction of an instrument into the bladder, or even of tepid water, is to others intoleralile, and a source of excruciating agony or faint- ino-. It may be also remarked, that the severity of the symp- toms of stone in the bladder of urine is by no means propor- tioned to the roughness or smoothness of the surface of the stone. I have repeatedly seen those stones, which, from the extreme roughness of their surface, are called mullierry, ex- tracted ; and these did not, before the operation, excite greater uneasiness than a stone with a perfectly smtxjth surface. It may be added, that there are several well authenticated cases upon record, in which the coats of the bladder, and of the pelvis of the kidney, had so far lost their natural irritability and sen- sibility, that a stone has been found within these organs after death, when there was not even /Ar viost distant suspicion during the life of the patient, of the existence of such a cause of irritation *. A spasmodic contraction of the urethra is occasionally consider- ably aggravated by ditt'erent causes, and more esjXM.ially by cold, and also by an attempt to pass a metallic instrument which has not been previously put into tepid water, or by an attack of in- flammation, or by excess in wine or spirits. In the same manner, those afflicted by stone in the bladder of urine are liable to pa- roxysms of pain, after walking or riding. What has been above stated applies also to the gullet. The muscular fibres of the gul- let, even though not inflamed, sometimes become much mure irritable than common, especially in women of a debilitated habit of lx)dy. Hysterical women are also subject to spasm of the gullet, to which, the great distention of the stomach by wind contributes. Even young women, in whom there is no • Vide Cooke’s Edition of Morgagni, vol. ii. p. 375 Boneti, Sepulch. Anat. lib. iii. sect. 24—Shenk. De Vesic. Urinaria, obs. 269. Q