Ol' DYSKNTEKV. 390 Dr D. Monko, in his account of the diseases most frequent in tlie British Military Hospitals in Germany, has mentioned the case of a woman who died of the dysentery, where the intestines, and especially the colon and rectum, were inflamed, and the in- ternal surface of the great intestines mortified, and contmned little vesicles full of a putrid foetid liquor, numbers of which she had evacuated by stool, some days before her death. An ap- pearance somewhat similar to this he mentions in a patient who died of a violent diarrhoea in the beginning of the year 1766, in St George’s Hospital. On examining the body, there was a great number of small prominences found on the internal side of the colon and rectum, with erosions of the villous coat in the middle. On squeezing these prominences, a number of vesicles con- taining a mucous or gelatinous fluid, some of the size of millet- seeds, and others larger, came through the eroded parts of the villous coat. Ulcers of the mucous membrane sometimes cicatrize. The steps of this process have been described by Dr D. Monro, by Petit, Serres, and Dr Bright. The first step of the process is the fixing down of the loose margin of the ulcerated surface to the muscular coat by fibrine, which forms a prominent ring, with a depressed suH’ace corresponding to the centre of the ulcer; and the fibrine at length draws together the edges of the mucous membrane which had been ulcerated, and gives a puck- ered appearance to the peritoneal coat , through which the fibrine bloodvessels pass in different directions. The canal of the intestines has been stated by Rhodius * to have been sometimes obliterated, in consequence of the adhe- sion of its opposite sides, when there has been an extensive ul- ceration from dysentery j-. Scirrhous tumours have been described by Meckel, as being sometimes found within the colon in cases of dysentery "f". • Vid. lliioiHUs, Miss. Cur. (Jbs. .>08. ■f 1 have observed tile aj)|)eiulices epiiiloka.- of the colou and rectuiu much rnlarged in cases of dysentery.