80 OF CHUOXIC HERXIA. The omentum included within tlie liernial sac often contracts an adhesion to the body or neck of the sac, and proves not on- ly an obstacle to the reduction of the hernia, but also renders it impossible, by pressure to prevent the other bowels from sliding into the hernial sac, or it adheres to the protruded intestine, or to the testicle in the congenite hernia, and causes, as in the case of ZiMMEiiMAN, very acute pain when the omentum was re- placed. The protruded portion of omentum in some cases becomes very bulky and lobulated, and at the same time so much in- durated, that it has been supposed by some to be scirrhous. Suppuration is another, though very uncommon, state of the protruded omentum. Transverse bridles have sometimes, though very rarely, been observed passing across the sac. The bloodvessels, and also the lymphatic vessels of the pro- truded portion of intestine, often acquire a very unusual size. My father, while prosecuting his studies at Berlin, having pro- cured the contents of a large chronic hernia, in which the lac- teal vessels of the protruded intestine and mesentery were con- siderably enlarged *, was enabled to fill these vessels with great success with quicksilver; and these preparations attracted the attention of his pupil. Professor Soemmering, so much, as to lead him to make particular mention of them in his Treatise on the Diseases of the Lymphatic System. Of the Symptoms and Consequences of Chronic Hernia. When there exists a predisposition to hernia, it proves less dangerous, though a more tedious disorder, than where there is no such predisposition; therefore, in my Observations on Crural Hernia., I arranged herniaj under two great classes, the Chro- nic and the Acute Heuni*. These are no doubt the extreme cases, and there are many intermediate shades. Where, for example, debility of the parietes of tbe abdomen exists, the howels are gradually protruded through a dilated Vide Engravings oftlic.se in Fyfe’s Anatomical Plates.