ULCERATION OF THE INTESTINAL TUBE. I responding mucous glands ai’e only inflamed. But if the patient recovers from the fever, and dies afterwards with colliquative diarrhoea, the mucous membrane is often more extensively ul- cerated, and the mesenteric glands are tuberculated. Dr Alison sent a valuable specimen to the Museum, of the thickening and chronic ulceration of the mucous mem- brane of the descending colon and rectum. Some of the me- senteric o'lands were filled with a white fluid like milk. There O were also several ulcerated cavities in the upjier lobes of both lungs, chiefly in the right, with much condensation by tuber- cular infiltration, and general oedema of the lungs. The pa- tient had diarrhoea for several months, at first unattendeol, subsequently attended, with jiain and tenderness, which again somewhat abated ; and, for some weeks before death, his stools were generally copious, but light coloured, and passed with te- nesmus. He had for some years been subject to cough and shortness of breath, since the receipt of a severe injury of the chest. Latterly the breathing became diflicult, expectoration copious and purulent, pulse quick and feeble. When the ulceration is in the rectum, the patient has a con- stant degree of tenesmus, voiding at the same time very scan- ty stools, which chiefly consist of a pituitou.s matter; he has frequent calls to make water, and several other symptoms, t which are very similar to those of stone in the bladder of 1 urine. Together with ulceration of the mucous membrane of the '( intestines, we sometimes meet with tubercles. Dr J. Hunter informs us, that he very frequently met with 1 these tubercles in the intestines of p>ersons who died in Jamaica > from dysentery. He describes them as pustules, though they contain no pus. Each pustule was at first small and gradually enlarged, until it attained the diameter of one-fourth of an inch, after which they burst, and discharged a cheesy substance. In short, chronic inflammation of the mucous membrane of < the stomach is a dangerous disorder ; some sink gradually, ap-