OF CALCUl.I OF THE TONSILS. 57 tinued open for about twelve months. At the end of this jie- riod, being about three years from the commencement of the at- tack, I perceived, by the probe, a concretion in the tonsils. I made an incision into the tumour, but so much blood was lost that the patient fainted ; so that I could only break off a por- tion of the calculus. By the use of emollient gargles for four- teen days, the cyst gave way, and the calculus was discharged into the mouth. The ulcer then healed rapidly. “ In both of the preceding cases, the attacks of inflammation • and suppuration were at first extremely frequent, but the sores healed readily. But as the disease advanced, matters were re- versed ; the intervals of case were longer, but the cure of the idcers was more protracted. “ The .sores seldom remained open for above four or five months. The patient, whose case has been first described, la- boured under the disorder for twenty years, and, during the last attack, the throat was not in the slightest degree inflamed.” The same gentleman communicatetl to me the history of a third case, which continued for alK)ut three years, when a stone, about the size of a bean, was discharged. It was remarkable that this person was a relative of the former patient. The calculus which had been Uxlged in the tonsils, which KkntmANNUS has describt'd, wa.s, in some resjxjcts, similar to those which were sent to me. He describes it as “ gypseum, simillimum tophis, qui intra digitorum articulos chiragra laborantibus accrescere solent.” There is no mention made of any chemical exjx*riment ha- ving been made upon the calculus. The three calculi sent to me were of the same pyriform shape, unequal on the surface, which was of a dirty olive colour, seem- ingly owing to the pus, in which the calculi had been so long imbedded, having dried upon the surface of the calculus, and to the touch somewhat harder than chalk. Internally the calculi had a dirty opaque white colour, which, towards the centre, was slightly tinged by yellow, and, towards the circumference, w'ith a dirty-green colour; and the section exhibited a few con- centric layers of a more brilliant white colour than the rest of