280 TEMPORARY SPASMODIC CONTRACTION the pain in the belly changing its place, and by the relief which the discharging the air upwards or downwards gives; and by the constipation. This species of colic has sometimes been said to be the cause of umbilical hernia. Bilious colic is preceded by headache, nausea, and sometimes by fainting ; it is supposed to be distinguished by the acute grip- ing pain it creates, though the abdomen be not tense; by the tongue being covered by a yellow fur ; by there being consider- able thirst, and often a short dry cough, bilious vomiting, and con- stipation; by its exacerbations and remissions, by the pulse being somewhat accelerated, and by its tendency to pass into cholera or enteritis. The symptomatic colic is distinguished from the idiopathic by the previous history of the case. It has been supposed to be possible, from the symptoms, to discover the seat of the unnatural contraction of the intestines. Thus, pain in the navel has been supposed to be characteristic of contraction in the jejunum or ileum : Nervous oppression, tor- por, inclination to sleep, when the stomach is empty; occasion- al distention of the abdomen, pain in the right side, which is occasionally very great, and which stretches to the back, and oc- casionally to the top of the right shoulder, and which changes its place upon the expulsion of air, slight yellowness of the eyes and countenance, with an irregular and soft pulse, to indicate contraction of the duodenum : and pain in the right side, stretching upwards to the region of the liver, to indicate contrac- tion of the caput caecum coli. Sauvages * has made, what appears to me, a very just ob- servation respecting the diagnosis of the different kinds of colic. “ Cum intestinum tenue et crassuin diversas scxlcs occupet, ct diversis visccribus abdominis conliguum sit, difficile est ex sensu icgrotantis partem affectam determinarc, ct errare in hoc, as.sig- nando, (luotidlanum e.st.” Besides, ihougli the scat of the con- striction could be a.scertainc<l, that circumstance docs not alter the method of treatment. * Vid Nosol. Method, vol. ii. j>. !)!», quarto edit.