356 ON THE STRICTURE OF THE GULLET. From what has been stated in the preceding cases, it follows, that some of those who have been afflicted by organic stricture, have generally what they call a narrow swallow from their birth, which increases to such a pitch as to create difficult deglutition. The attempt to swallow proves a source of much irritation; the patient has what he calls fits of choking, especially when he does not swallow witli great caution, and perceives even fluids stop at a certain part of the gullet; a gurgling noise is then heard, like water passing through a very narrow channel, and a part of the fluid, after being detained for two or three minutes, gets down; the remainder is rejected, and escapes through the nose and mouth, or passes into the windpipe, and occasions violent coughing. A very great exertion is required to swallow solids, and, du- ring the effort, many patients suffer from difficult breathing, and some even are convulsed. Any irritation adds very much to the difficulty of swallowing, which is probably owing to spasm in the muscles of the gullet being induced. The small quantity of food which passes the constriction of the gullet, being inadequate to the nourishment of the patient; lie becomes extremely thin, weak, and very irritable ; and the constriction becoming daily greater, he at length dies from in- anition. It sometimes happens, that the progress of the stricture is arrested by pregnancy. I had occasion to attend a wo- man with a stricture in her gullet, who became pregnant, and suffered much less from her disease during the months of her pregnancy than she had done before that period ; but after delivery, she swallowed with greater difficulty; at length the obstruction in the gullet became so considerable, that very little of her food reached the stomach, and she died in a few months from inanition. The nature of the disease can only be ascertained by the in- troduction of the probang *. • Sir E. Home ha-s observed, “ This part of the oesophagus (viz. that pjirt immediately behind the cricoid cartilage of the larynx), is liable to two other