OF THE RECTUM. 473 does pass beyond the stricture, it is retained longer than usual, and conies away in small quantities at a time. When ulceration has taken place, the administration of a purgative adds much to the patient’s sufferings, as the liquid fseces in passing over the ulcerated surface ereate very acute pain. In some cases, liquid stools only are discharged, and involunta- rily, owing to the sphincter ani being paralyzed. In the advanced stage, a considerable quantity of ropy mu- cus, with an admixture of ichorous or purulent matter, is gene- rally discharged along with the faeces; and, during the effort, the patient suffers the greatest torture. The nature of the disease may frequently be discovered by introducing the finger into the anus; but the practitioner ought to be on his guard lest he mistake for scirrhus of the rectum, an enlarged prostate gland, or a cancerous uterus. Upon introducing the finger within the rectum, there is often much difficulty in passing it upwards, on account of the tu- mours which have been already descrilied. Some patients afflicted with this disorder have difficulty in ma- king water, or retention of urine. Scirrhus of the rectum generally terminates fatally, in con- sequence of the retention of the ffeces, tymj^anites intestinab’s, and subsequent peritoneiU inflammation. When there are fistulous openings between the vagina and neck of the bladder, the more fluid part of the fseccs passes through these canals, which are thereby much irritated and in- flamed. The symptoms of scirrhous rectum and piles, being some- what similar, it may not be improper to add, that the rectum is most commonly scirrhous in its whole circumference, and at about two or three inches from the anus; hence the fseces, which are not of their usual size, are discharged with much pain and difficulty ; but the uneasiness from piles is most severe whilst the tumours are protruded] externally, and compressed oy the sphincter ani. In other circumstances the patient’s suffer- ings are inconsiderable.