ON THE PARTS CONCERNED IN HERNIA. 115 very readily be mistaken for a swelling of the lymphatic glands, as a crural hernia may exist at the same time as a swelling of these glands: hence the surgeon must judge of the nature of the disease, by the history of the symptoms, as much as by the knowledge he gains by examining the tumour with his fingers. As the inguinal lymphatic glands lie over the crural aperture, a?dcnia of the limb of the affected side may be pro- duced, by wearing a truss for the cure of the crural hernia. 21^/, That the coverings of a crural hernia vary according to the situation of the tumour. b'rom the connection of the fascia lata with the tendon of the external oblique muscle, it is obvious, that, if the thigh be extended, the crural arch must be put u|X)n the stretch ; and, on the other hand, when the thigh is rotatetl inwards, and raised nearly to a right angle with the Ixxly, the crural arch is relaxed; hence the pain which the extending the thigh creates in some cases of crural hernia. ^d. That, in many cases of crural hernia, the stricture is so coni))lete, that the surgwMi finds great difficulty in introducing even the nail of his finger as a director. On account of the si- tuation of the epigastric artery, and (K’casionally of the obturator artery, in respect to the hernial tumour, the division of the tendinous fibres is made with the greatest safety on the pubal side of the tumour. That as, in our erect jxKture, the bowels gravitate di- rectly against the crural aperture, there is less chance of re- moving a crural than an inguinal hernia, by the use of a well- made truss. 25/A, That the umbilical ring may be slit up in any part, without the risk of wounding any bloodvessel of importance. That, in ventral herniae, there must be a separation or rupture of some of the muscular fibres of the parietes of the abdomen. Such is the account of the parts concerned in Hernia, and such the inferences from it, which I have for many years past delivered in my course of Lectures. Notwithstanding all _ H 2