502 or TEIUTONITIS. In the second patient, the peritoneum, abdominal muscles, and integuments were apparently entire. The peritoneum, es- pecially of the intestines, was highly vascular, and covered by coagulable lymph. The intestines closely adhered to each other. About the middle of the jejunum, there was a round aperture, sufficient to admit a man’s thumb; “ this was surrounded by a smooth brim and puckering of the adjoining part of the gut.’ A considerable quantity of serous fluid was effused into the cavity of the abdomen. The patient had received a violent kick from a horse, above, and a little to the left side of, the umbili- cus. This was followed by excruciating pain over the whole of the abdomen, increased by pressure, and relieved neither by opiates, bleeding, nor fomentations. Spasms of abdominal mus- cles and vomiting followed, together with great anxiety. The pulse at first was low, it gradually rose, and becoming such as is usual in enteritis. The patient died forty-three hours after the receipt of the injury. In the third patient, a lad of sixteen, the abdomen was swollen, crepitated, and contained a great deal of offensive air; and lb. v. of fluid blood was found in the cavities of abdomen and pelvis. The intestines were of a red colour, as if dyed by the blood. There was an extensive laceration of the duodenum, the gut being almost divided, three inches from the pylorus. The sur- rounding parts were of a dark-red colour. The stomach was empty, and of its natural appearance. The upper part of liver was extensively lacerated, and numerous coagula were dis- persed through its substance. He received a severe injury of abdomen, by having been crushed between a post and the wheel of a cart. This was followed by severe pain of abdomen ; coun- tenance was pale and anxious; pulse cnteritic, and abdomen swollen. Spasms of abdominal muscles, together with extreme restlessness and vomiting, followed. The patient died comatose. In these cases, the pain ceases, coldness of the extremities, and clammy sweats follow, and the pulse intermits before death.