INFLAMMATION OF THE ALIMENTARY CANAL. 311 Sd, In cases of sudden death, the mucous membrane of the stomach and intestines frequently is of a red colour, especially if immediately before they have been in good condition. An examination of the stomvachs of persons who have been killed by hanging, cannot be considered as a criterion upon which a judg- ment should be formed as to the colour or texture of the mu- cous membrane in its sound state. I have had occasion to examine the bodies of several of those who have forfeited their lives to the violated laws of their coun- try, but have not observed a uniformity of appearance in the mucous membrane. The stomach was generally of that colour which has been called by Mr P. Syme Tile Red. According to Dr Yellowly, who has also devoted much at- tention to this subject, “ the mucous membrane of the stomach of five executed criminals was of a red or crimson hue^ and this colour was most marked on the first day, and soon afterwards, but at irregular intervals, became very obscure.” It has been stated by some eminent authors, that when death is sudden, the mucous coat of the stomach is afterwards partially dissolved ; but in the majority of instances which I have exa- mined, it was not acted upon in the slightest manner. Further, even in the most healthy stomach, the capillary ves- sels of some portions of the mucous membrane are found to be partially distended, which gives rise to those red spots which are sometimes observed, and this is owing to the coats of the blood- vessels retaining their power after the action of the heart has ceased. 4^^, The peculiar position of the body has also an effect upon the colour of the mucous membranes of the stomach and intes- tines, as the blood accumulates in the vessels of the most depen- dent part, or it even transudes in a few cases. 5th, An examination of the mucous membrane of an inverted womb or rectum, does not convey a correct idea of the colour. The displaced parts being irritated, the blood is determined to those parts, whilst at the same time the return of the blood is more or less resisted through the veins, which being more or less distended, give the coats of the displaced portion a pur- plish colour. If the prolapsus be of long duration, the mucous