OF SPASMODIC STRICTURE 284 A peculiar disposition to this painful and temporary spasmo- dic contraction of the sphyncter ani muscle has been stated by Mr Copland to arise from this muscle being unusually broad, so that it embraced the extremity of the rectum for two or three inches. Spasm of the sphincter ani muscle is often followed by a low degree of inflammation of the mucous membrane, by which it contracts an intimate adhesion with the adjacent coat, and ulti- mately forms a kind of fold across the rectum, which, by be- ing covered by a layer of coagulable lymph, adds considerably to the contraction of the rectum. A stricture of the rectum is not easily detected in its earlier stages, excepting by a very minute examination ; and I believe it has been frequently mistaken for dyspepsia; the more espe- cially, as many patients, labouring under this affection, have a pale complexion, a bilious appearance, acidity of the stomach, flatulence, and as considerable relief is given by the use of magnesia and rhubarb, and other purgatives. The earlier symptoms of stricture of the rectum are, in many instances, so slight as not to attract the attention of the patient. Stricture of the rectum has also been mistaken for a gra- velish disorder, on account of the pain it sometimes creates during the passage of the urine, and in the loins, perineum, and extremity of the penis. The bowels are at first more torpid than usual, which is ac- companied by a certain degree of uneasiness in the region of the os sacrum, Avhich scarcely amounts to pain. These symptoms are removed by purgatives. After a time, the attention of the pa- tient is directed to the nature of his disorder, the functions of the stomach being much deranged, and owing to obstinate con- stipation, there is a necessity of repeating the purgative. In the progress of the disorder, in consequence of the accu- mulation of feces, oppression of the stomach and considerable flatulence follow, together with headache, tenesmus, colic pains, and tension in the course of the colon. A gentle diarrhrea is sometimes consequent to the alx)vc symptoms, and affords, for a time, considerable relief.