COAT OF THE ALIMENTARY CANAL. 497 which varies according to the degree of the inflanunation, from a line to a quarter of an inch. When recently effused, it is always soft, and of a light yellow colour. This fluid coagulates, on account of the quantity of albumen it contains, so that, if alco- hol be added to it, it becomes opaque, white, and shrivelled. In such instances, there are distinct projections from the sur- face of the lymph ; in others, particularly the pericardium, it assumes the form of Brussels lace. The cavities lined with fibrine, generally contain a turbid se- rum, which is effused from the capillary vessels; this is yel- lowish or greenish, homogeneous, and semi-transparent, through which, films of fibrine of different sizes shoot in different direc- tions. When the contiguous surfaces of serous membranes have been inflamed, as the pleura costalis and pulmonalis, they sometimes adhere intimately to each other, and bloodvessels pass through the bond of union. In a short time, the lymph becomes more opaque and firm, and at length organised, and is said to form a Jahe membrane, or membrane of adhesion. There are many causes which induce this inflammation, of which the action of the external air is the most remarkable ; and when the air gets admission to such membranes, the wound proves very dangerous ; hence a great danger of wounds pene- trating the cavities of the belly, or chest, joints, or the opening of the bursae mucosae. The baneful effect of the influence of the air has been proved at great length by my father, in his treatise on the Bursa; Mu- cosjB, which suggested to him the means of preventing its ad- mission, in performing various operations of surgery, which me- thod has now received the sanction of surgeons in general. This inflammation is extremely apt to spread from one part of a serous membrane to another; and also to neighbouring mem- branes, though they be of a different structure. Thus, it often happens, that the peritoneal coat of the intestines is inflamed, in the first instance, and this inflammation sometimes extends to the parietes of the abdomen, or even to the muscular or mucous coats of the intestines.