200 OF womrs called hydatids. The hydatids found ui human bodies, arc different from those of quadrupeds. Of the human hydatids, there are the following kinds. 1^^, Where there is only one large hydatid of a globular form, contained within a cyst *. 2J, Where there are several hydatids within the same cyst, of different sizes and colours, some being of a pearly, and others of a straw or amber colour *|*; and some of the larger of these are found to contain others. A thli'd kind of hydatid has been also described, but this is rare. The figure in Plate IV. of the hydatid, was taken of this kind ; it is of the size of nature. There were sixty or se- venty such hydatids floating in the abdomen of a person who died from ascites. In this variety, a number of hydatids have been inclosed one within another, like a nest of chip-boxes. The fourth kind may be called the cellular hydatid, as it is pe- culiar to the cellular substance of the muscles. The cyst of this kind is of a considerable thickness, and consists of several dis- tinct layers, which sometimes acquire a cartilaginous hardness. There is a fifth kind of hydatids, which, from being compres- sed together, and forming a substance about the size of a gar- den pea, has been mistaken for indurated lymphatic glands. This kind has not, so far as I know, been described. The hydatids are firmly united to each other by a very adhe- sive mucus, and by a thin membrane, besides which, each of them is enveloped by its own proper capsule. These hydatids are very small, being about the size of the ovula in the ovaria of fishes. ■ Vide Case VII., in which eight English pints of fluid were conUin- ed within a large hydatid; tliere were no small liydatids within it, and the whole of the inner surface of the hydatid was perfectly smooth. + Vide Case IV. The cyst of the hydatid contained four pints of water, and a great many hydatids of difl’erent sizes, some about the size of a nutmeg, otlicrs as large as a billiard-ball, floated loose within the largest hydatid; and within several of the larger hydatid.s theie were clusters of small spherical bodies grouped together, which adhered to their inner sides.