140 OF THE DIAGNOSIS OF INGUINAL HEUNIA. and tenswn of the vaginal coat, or from an admixture of coagu- lated blood with the effused fluid. The hydrocele of the vaginal coat is an uniform swelling, which begins in the lower part of the scrotum, and gradually extends upwards to the under abdominal aperture: the sper- matic cord above the tumour may be perceived of its natural size above, but with difficulty behind the tumour. There is no derangement of the functions of the alimentary canal; and the bulk of tumour, which has an uniform feeling when pressed, does not vary in different portions of the body. 7th, An inguinal hernia may be mistaken for an enlargement of the veins of the spermatic cord. This kind of tumour, like a hernia, increases in bulk on coughing, becomes much less when the patient lies on his back, and sometimes can be pressed into the abdomen; the swell- ing begins in the lowest part of the scrotum, and ascends gra- dually. The above diseases may be distinguished in the following manner. In both cases, the tumour disappears whilst the pa- tient is in bed. If pressure be made whilst the patient is in that situation, upon a hernia, the tumour does not reappear when the patient gets up; whereas, if the enlarged spermatic veins cause the swelling, in consequence of the pressure impeding the return of the venous blood, and not interrupting the flow of blood by the spermatic arteries, the tumour attains a consider- able bulk. 8th, A scrotal hernia which sometimes originates from exter- nal violence, may be mistaken for the effusion of blood within the vaginal coat, or within the body of the testis. But in the latter case, the tumour does not become larger upon the patient coughing, is accompanied by sense of weight, and communicates a very peculiar sensation when pressed : tlic spermatic cord at the under abdominal aperture is not involved in the swell- ing, and the skin over the tumour has a red colour. Upon the whole, the inguinal hernia may be distinguished from other swellings at the groin, by attending to the origin and progress of the disease; by observing that the swelling is f.