440 OF MEDULLARY SARCOMA On looking into the mouth, a tumour was observed to be situat- ed partly behind, and to the inside, of the backmost grinder on the left side of the upper jaw; its base extended to the gum before, and to the velum palati behind, stretching to the right as far as the suture which joins the palate bones. It was about the size of a small nutmeg, and had a groove or depression alongst its middle from before backward. When pressed it was slightly elastic, and had so much the appearance of an abscess as to be repeatedly mistaken for one. It was a little moveable; and when moved, gave a sensation similar to that felt from mo- ving a small hard steatoma. “ Laxatives were prescribed, which greatly amended the ge- neral health. “ The patient was not again brought to me till the 13th of November. The tumour had increased rapidly, and had be- come as large as a pippin, was immovable, and so completely filled the fauces, that liquids were swallowed with great difficul- ty. It was connected with the gum of the backmost grinders and the tonsil of both sides, and completely hid the velum and uvula. It was larger on the left side, and, from its great pro- jection, depressed the root of the tongue, so as to give the ap- pearance externally of a tumour above the pomum Adami. By depressing the tongue with a spatula, the uvula was seen to be pushed toward the right, and depending from the posterior part of the tumour. The right half of the tumour -was firm, the larger or left half was a little elastic. On the 16th, a small oblong superficial ulcer appeared on the fore part of the tumour; a second was in a few days formed by the pressure of the under molaris of the left side; neither of these gave any pain, and they discharged very little; the first healed in a short time. More than the usual quantity of .saliva was secreted ; and, from the difficulty of deglutition, it almost constantly ran from the mouth. “ On the 20th the tumour was observed to be larger; and the patient breathed and swallowed with extreme difficulty. Inspiration became more difficult in the horizontal posture, es- pecially during sleep, and she was frequently awaked suddenly