SYMPTOMS OF HYDATIDS. 219 lark yellow appearance, and linen, when immersed in it, is very leeply tinged. The alvine excretion is said to be of a white ;olour, and rather thick Consistence. “ Appetite in)paired, occasional sickness and inclination to ?omit, cough, expectoration, great dyspnrea, which is always nost severe in the morning, and is induced on stooping forward, ar making any exertion. “ Pulse 100, tongue white, great thirst, heat nioilerate, urine very scanty, belly costive. “ Dissectim.—The dropsical water in the nlxlomen wa.s as lark colouretl as the urine of the patient was on his admission, ind gave a deep yellow tint to a cloth immersetl in it. The mpregnation from bile had, indeed, gone farther than in any iase I recollect to have seen; for the cartilages of the ribs were .•oloured by it to the centre. “ The surface of the liver had somewhat of a mottled gTi*cn colour, very like to many marbles, and more especially to the Portsoy serpentine. The substance of the liver had also the iaine appearance, with the exception of the centre of the right obe, which was rather of an olive or dirty yellow colour. “ The liver was of an uncommon size, and the convex surface ivas more prominent than usual towards the middle. This was lot owing to any disease in the glandular |)art of the organ, but :o a sac of a yellow colour, and of the size of a large orange, :hough of an oval shape, and irregular in its surface, situated in the region of the porta^ of the liver. “ Over this sac, which was filled with hydatids, the vena por- tarum, the hepatic artery, and its great branches, as also the he- patic nerves, which were much larger and much harder than Lx>mmon, passed; and the branches of the hepatic nerves could be distinctly traced along the gall-ducts. “ The hyiJatic, cystic, and common ducts were so much stretched in their course along the surface of the large sac, as scarcely to admit of air to pass through them. The ductus communis was much enlarged in the portion not compressed next the liver.