172 PUDENDAL INTESTINAL HERNIA. filled by the tumour, such a hernia bears a strong resemblance to the retroverted uterus. If the intestines be protruded between the uterus and rectum, the tumour appears at the back part of the vagina, low down ; but if the protrusion be between the womb and bladder, the tu- mour lies at the fore part of the vagina, and towards the os uteri, and creates difficulty in passing the urine, which is in- creased by the erect, and diminished by a recumbent posture. In this case, upon introducing the finger into the vagina, a large fluctuating tumour is found within it, which disappears upon pressure. After the urine has been discharged, the supe- rior part of the vagina is felt flaccid. In some cases, the projecting bladder of urine within the mouth of the vagina is said to have proved an obstacle to de- livery. The membrane of the vagina forms the external surface of the swelling. PUDENDAL INTESTINAL HERNIA. This kind of hernia also resembles the vaginal, for the dis- placed parts pass along the surface of the vagina, and protrude, as in the case of the hernia above described, between the fibres of the levator ani muscle: the tumour is situated in the middle of the labium, and may be felt extending along the side of the vagina, by an examination per vaginam. A pudendal hernia sometimes contains a part of the blad- der. The late Mr A. Burns has informed me, that, since Sir A. Cooper’s books on herniae were published, he has met with two examples of that species of hernia in the living subject. In both cases, the bowels were reducible, and the diseases coin- cided, in every point, with Sir A. Cooper’s description, except in regard to the position of the tumour. In the cases examined liy Sir A. Cooper, the tumours were lodged between the folds of the labium, “ above a line drawn from the orifice of the va- gina outwards;” whereas, when Mr Burns’s patients were standing, the tumours appeared like pretty firm balls in the la- bium, behind or below a line drawn from the orifice of the va- gina outwards.