ULCERATION OF THE INTESTINAL TUBE. 381 purated. The lungs, liver and mesenteric glands were also tu- berculated. The patient had been afflicted, during two years, >vitli occa- sional pain in his belly, diarrhoea, and ultimately by hiccup and vomiting; and, in the progress of the disease, became very much emaciated. Ulceration of the intestinal tube, with tubercular deposi- tion, is not funfrequent in phthisis pulmonalis; and, what is very remarkable, in a case preserved in the Museum of the University, there was extensive destruction and cicatrization of the mucous membrane oi the caput coli, notwithstanding which the patient had not laboured under diarrhoea for a year previous to death. When ulceration is combined with stricture of the intestinal tube, before death the patient has sometimes the usual symp- toms of ileus. Inflammation of the mucous membrane of the intestines is frequently accompanied by stricture. One of the most striking instances of this description occurs in the Nouvelle Biblio- theque Medicale. A young woman had not passed faeces for more than six months. The belly swelled, especially at the navel; she suf- fered very excruciating |iain, whicli extended upwards to the seat of the stomach. The jiain became still more acute for ' eight days before death. On opening the body, the intestines, no longer retained by the abdominal parietes, burst, and gave issue to facal matter, that was projected with considerable force. The liver adhered to the arch of the colon; the stomach and small intestines were completely empty, and their bloodvessels injected ; the large in- testines were enormously distended, and included from thirty to forty pounds of a matter resembling dry mud; the rectum was inflamed and thickened, and its carity was interrupted, about three inches above the anus, by a kind of transverse fold, pierced in the centre by an orifice, into which the end of the little finger could scarcely be introduced. When there is considerable inflammation, a part of the mu- cous coat is detached and passed by stool.