SPASM OF THE OULLET. 266 several times beyond the stricture, but a considerable resistance was felt in withdrawing it. The patient was not relieved till the 9th of November. “ Still complains of difficulty of breathing on any slight ex- ertion, and of constant pain about the sternum, stretching to the clavicles, which were much increased by a full inspiration. Soon after, being under the necessity of taking a short journey, during which he was exposed to cold, he was attacked by a slight quincy on his return ; this increased all his symptoms of dysphagia, and prevented the introduction of even the smallest instrument. During a few days he used a mucilaginous mix- ture, with opium, and the symptoms remitted, and the probang passed as before. “ The instrument was now only used once a fortnight. About the end of December he was attacked with acute pain, tumefaction, and inflammation, in the superior part of the joint uniting the metatarsal bone with the first phalanx of the great toe of the right foot, for which he could assign no cause. By the use of leeches, saturnine applications, and blisters, the pain, swelling and inflammation, were nearly removed by the middle of January. “ He had then-a slight febrile attack, wliich lasted only two days, and left him in a better state of health than he had expe- rienced for some months past. “ In about a week he had a second similar attack, which also suddenly disappeared in the course of two days, but left him much debilitated. On the 10th of March, he vomited a con- siderable quantity of a dark-coloured mucous fluid, which was very fetid. This kind of fluid was occasionally rejected. About the beginning of April his appetite almost entirely failed him ; he was troubled with constant flatulence, and acidity in the sto- mach. There was also considerable tension in the epigastrium, and pressure here produced much pain and singultus; but at other times he felt no pain in the stomach. To remove the op- pression of the stomach, he used to excite vomiting, by which a (piantity of thin, black, mucous matter was with diftlcull}'brought up, with considerable alleviation. If he excited vomiting iiii-