27 OF intp:stinal concretions. It is incumbent upon us, in the prosecution of science, to re- ceive the opinions which have been handed down to us with much respect, but not without much caution and circumspec- tion ; and especially such as relate to the science of chemistry. By suffering these to pass unexamined, by neglecting to weigh the evidence by which they are supported, we are incapable of separating those which are plausible from such as are the result of much patient inquiry and experimental research. In these circumstances, I thought it of great moment that the large collection of alvine concretions formed by my father should be examined by several distinguished chemists, I ap- plied to my ingenious colieagiie Dr Duncan, in the first in- stance, who informed me that intestinal concretions consisletl principally of woody fibre,—an opinion which he adopted from the characteristic smell evolved, by burning jiortions of these concretions upon hot iron. In the former edition of this book, the results of the elalw)- rate analysis of Professor T. Thomson of Glasgow were pul>- lished at large : the following is the sum of it: “ 1. At first these secretions swim in water; but that is owing to the numerous jwres filled with air which they contain. Accordingly, they soon sink to the bottom, and remain there. “ 2. When left in cold water they soon cx>mmunicatc a brownish tinge. The water was found to have taken up the following substances ;—1. Albumen, which was separatetl in white flakes by boiling the water. 2. A brown substance, which I consider as )‘>eculiar. It dissolved at first in water, but l>e- came nearly insoluble, by the slow eva|X)ration of'the liquid. It dissolved in alcohol. It approached most nearly in its properties to vegetable extractive, but the quantity which I obtained was too small for an exact examination. 3. Common salt, which crys- tallized when the water was allowed to evaporate spontaneously in an open vessel. 4. Phosphate of lime, which was precipita- ted by ammonia. 5. Sulphate of soda, in a very minute pro- portion. 6. Perhaps iUso sulphate of lime ; but the quantity of this salt must have been very small.