254 SPASMODIC CONTllACTION OF surrounding teguments still remaining, she was advised to pom- salt-water on the hand, which she did for some weeks, with the effect of removing every degree of fulness. During the whole of this period, she used no internal medicines; and, after reco- vering from the tremor into which she was at first thrown, she seemed to entertain no apprehension of any dangerous conse- quences from the bite. “ She continued free from any complaint, except occasionally a slight pain in the above mentioned knuckle, till Thursday evening, the 13tb of September, when she was affected with a severe pain, stretching from the knuckle to the cicatrix of the sore, and from that along the ulna and outer part of the hume- rus to the shoulder. Much about the same time, she was seized with a cold shivering, followed by heat, thirst, sickness at sto- mach, and other febrile symptoms. These, during the night, were relieved by a profuse sweat, which continued during the greater part of the Friday following ; but, towards the evening, she'psrceived an unusual difficulty both of articulating and of swallowing, although she felt no pain or uneasiness about her throat. It would appear that she passed a very restless night between the 14th and 15th, being tormented w-ith an excessive thirst, but incapable of swallowing, without experiencing violent convulsions. “ On the Saturday morning these symptoms continued, and she complained much of the pain stretching along her arm, and shoulder. She was brought into the hospital about seven o’clock in the evening, and had immediately a draught with fifty drops of laudanum. She appeared much agitated and flut- tered by the smallest noise. Her looks had a strange mixture | of wildness and timidity. She was perfectly sensible, but found j great difficulty on attempting to speak, though, after some ef- | forts, she was able to articulate distinctly, and her words were then uttered with extreme rapidity. On proposing to her to | swallow any liquid, she appeared much frightened ; and though, I on repeated requests, she consented, yet the sight of the fluid j never failed to excite strong symptoms of abhorrence, and con- vulsions of her face and neck. After waiting some time, till