Sl’ASMOniC CONSTRICTION OF THE 274 Tile mucous membrane of' the pyloric sac was somewhat thickened. A malignant ulcer was discovered when the intervening membrane was divided. The patient, a lady of fifty years of age, had, for many years, laboured under what are called stomach complaints. In the year 1822, a tumour appeared in the region of the stomach, ex- tending to the left os ilium, and she occasionally discharged, by vomiting, foetid dark coloured fluid. By various remedies, she got somewhat better; but the symp- toms returned with increased severity. During the year 1826, the tumour became more apparent, and more tender on pres- sure. The lady became very weak and emaciated; she could retain no kind of food on her stomach, and died soon after- wards. According to Lobstein, spasmodic vomiting is occasionally connected with an inflammation of the semilunar-solar ganglion. This may be a frequent cause of vomiting, as injuries done to the spinal cord frequently give rise to inflammation of the mucous membrane of the bladder of urine, and also to the discharge of pus along with the urine ; and, in the opinion of some writers, those wandering pains in the stomach, to which hypochondriacs are liable, are to be imputed to a low degree of inflammation of the nerves of the stomach ; and it may be added that, in differ, ent kinds of neuralgia, an inflammation of the nerves has been detected in some cases; whereas. According to Broussais, gastralgia and gastrodynia are to be imputed to the inflamed state of the mucous membrane of the stomach. Such seems to me to be too limited a view of the subject, as gastrodynia may originate cither from the stomach licing nearly empty, or too much distended ; in proof of which, in the former case, it is relieved by taking food, and in the latter, by absti- nence, or taking food only in small quantities. Besides, pain in tbc stomach is often sympathetic, and the concomitant of diseases of the duoilcnum, colon, rectum, liver, kidney, womb, and brain, or of gout.