120 FOEMATION OF THE INGUINAL CANAL. per and lower orifices are brought opposite to each other. Again, the hernia resembles, in its appearance and course, the incipient tumour. “ If the view which I have given of the mode of formation of the inguinal canal be correct, it will lead to this conclusion, that we ought, in every case of hernia in a young child, most sedulously to prevent the descent of the gut; and, if possible, to return also the sac, where it is not congenital rupture; for if we do this, we bid fair to cure the disease, by allowing of the extension of the posterio?- side of the canal along the cord. This observation leads me to a review of the influence which | the different parts of the inguinal canal have in preventing the accession of hernia. i “ In the very young child, there is no security against her- ^ nia, except what arises from the cord filling the aperture 1 through which it passes. This is generally sufficient; for the infant is exposed to few of the exciting causes of the dis- j ease. ' “ When, however, the child advances in years, in the course J of its amusements, and afterwards of its business, it is more and more exposed to the causes of hernia. “ Nature has, however, wisely provided, that, in proportion to the danger, the security should be increased. The posteri- or side of the canal overlaps every day more and more the an- terior side: consequently, when the canal is completed, any pressure against the posterior side, tending to produce hernia, j has the effect of laying that side more firmly in contact xoith j the cord; of forcing the latter steadily against the anterior side, ' where the fibres of the transversalis and internal oblique muscles I react upon it. Thus a most perfect valve is formed, and where j the posterior side of the canal is fully extended, it is impossible that inguinal hernia can take place. “ I have already attempted to show, that, where the gut has passed down in infancy, it may in the end come to be lodged in a canal; but this is very different from a hernia passing along the canal for the first time in an adult, lly the overlapping of ; one side of the canal over the other, hernia is prevented from