OF MELANOSIS OF IIIE STOMACH. 445 I a conclusion, it may be remarked, that melanosis is, in some instances, a very extensive disease, and common, at the same time, to the bones as well as to the soft parts of the head, tho- rax, abdomen and pelvis *. Two striking illustrations of this fact are to be found in the Museum of the University. The cases occurred to my learned colleagues Drs Home and Alison. In the first case, the patient, a male, aged fifty-one, had for- merly a painful disease in the right eye, for which it was ex- tirpated ; afterwards he suffered severely from rheumatism ; and, a month before death, he had had severe pleuritic symptoms. Upon dissection, a number of black globular bodies were found in the cellular tissue, between the jiectoral muscle and third and fourth ribs of left side, some adhering to the periosteum. Similar bodies were imbeddetl in the subcutaneous cellular tissue of the chest and abdomen, and among the fibres of the in- tercostal muscles. The substance of the rib itself, and sternal jjortion of the clavicle, were completely black, but, in other re- spects, natural. The pleura was studded with similar Inxlies, many of them congregated, so as to resemble clusters of purple grapes. Some had long slender necks, like pcxlunculattxl poly- pi ; most of them were jet black ; some were of a deep purple or reddish colour; and others contained portions of white mat- ter. Several black tumours were connected with the lungs; and some small ones were seen under the mucous membrane of the bronchia, in the pericai'dium, substance of the heart, liver, spleen, kidneys, peritoneum, omentum, skull, and on the peri- cranium *f-. In the second case, the ovaria were greatly enlarged; their surface had a shining mottled appearance, from deposition of small lobules of melanotic matter, of a uniform black colour, and soft consistence; beneath the peritoneal coat the cellular tissue was condensed and vascular. In various parts of the body, small encysted tumours, containing dark pulpy matter, 111 this disease the bones are affected almost invariably through the medium of the periosteum. t See Edin. Med. Chir. Trans, vol. i. p. 204.