rAllTS CONCERNED IN ABDOMINAL HERNIA. 103 meiit, and into the cartilages of the fifth, sixth, and seventh ribs. The muscle is contained in a distinct sheath,—the anterior part of which is formed by the tendinous aponeurosis of the external oblique, and interior layer of the in- ternal oblique muscle,—and the posterior by the conjoined tendinous sheaths »)f the internal oblique and transverse muscles. In the course of this muscle to the umbilicus, three tendinous lines jmss across it; and between the navel and the ossa pubis there is a portion of tendon which extends only half way across the muscle. The pyramidal muscle arises from the broad and fleshy anterior to the rectus, tajiers obliquely upwards and inwards, and is fixed by a tendon into the linea alba, about three inches above the symphysis pubis. This muscle, behind, is in contact with the fascia transversalis, and is in front covered by the anterior sheath of the rectus muscle. The muscles of the parietes of the abdomen, besides compressing tlie hol- low bowels included within them, and also the bowels of the pelvis, and ex- pelling their contents, tend to bend the body to a side, and draw the ribs di- rectly downwards; or, if the thorax be fixed, the jwlvls is drawn upwanls: by their continued action ; likewise the heels may be thrown over the head. It may be proper to add, that the internal oblique muscle of the right side co-operates in its action with the extenial oblique of the left side. The tendi- nous sheath of the rectus muscle jireserves that muscle in its proper place, when the body is bent. CKE.MA8TF.R MUSCLE. Difterent accounts have been published by different authors of the origin of the Cremaster Muscle. This muscle varies in its origin and size. In general, it arises from a por- tion of the internal surface of the ilial thinl of Poupart’s Ligament and con- tiguous fascia transversalis; often from the inferior edge of the internal ob- lique; and sometimes from the transversalis muscle. It extends over the spermatic cord, generally on its ilial side, as far as the lower abdominal aperture, where the fibres of the muscle surround it. After the fibres of the cremaster muscle have passed beyond the under abdominal aperture, they are covered by the fiiscia propria of Camper. The fibres of this muscle are inserted into and expanded upon the outer surface of the tunica va^nalis testis; and, in some subjects, a few of the fibres of this muscle may be traced into the dartos muscle. Some of the fibres of this muscle pass around the cord, and ascend, in order to be fixed to the symphysis pubis; but thia as- cending portion of the muscle is sometimes wanting.