STOMACH AND INTESTINES. 271 father was consulted by a gentleman who suffered the most excruciating torture in his stomach and bowels, after having eaten a large quantity of nuts. The most acrid purgatives were given in vain, and at length relief was given by a tobacco clyster. Many oxen, horses and sheep, have died from devouring a large quantity of young clover. The air generated in the above cases leads to the spastic constriction of the orifices of the stomach, and to great distention of that organ. Pigs are occasionally so voracious, as to eat such a quantity of food as occasions great distention, and rupture of the stomach. I had occasion to see a patient, at the Dis|)ensary of this city, who had so very voracious an appetite, that I was led to inquire particularly into her history. She stated that she had l)een de- formed at birth, and did not menstruate at the usual pe- riod. When about eighteen years of age, she suddenly became giddy, was seized with nausea and vomiting, and fluttering at her heart. She was somewhat relievixl by vomiting. She had frequently such attacks. Borly in general regular, though some- times she had bilious diarrhoea. Her urine, which was always voided with difficulty, was occasionally white and thick. Her ap])etite became inordinate. Her usual footl was oatmeal por- ridge, and of this, the mother said, she used to take about .?f.r English pints per dap., and about a bottle of jx)rter ; but from what her neighbours stated, and a seeming di.sposition on her part to conceal the quantity, I am apt to suspect that the mother’s account is rather under the truth. She generally re- jected a part of her food : and as soon as the vomiting cea.sed, her desire for food returned so violently, that she was unable to re- sist it. A spasmodic affection of the pharynx often prevented the food from reaching the stomach; she was then tortured by the most intolerable hunger. The catamenia became very pro- fuse, and continued for a week, and were succeeded by leucor- rhoea. Pulse about 80. Had a disposition to sleep. Her appe- tite became still more voracious. The catamenia ceased about eight months before she died, which seemed to have been occa- sioned by apoplexy. I was present at the dissection of the Ixxlv. The dura mater