478 OF HAEMORRHOIDS OR PILES. I tod by the spasmodic contraction of the sphincter ani, that the parts underwent a spontaneous mortification, and a radical cure took place. Those afflicted with piles generally pass, at certain times, more or less blood, which affords relief, but some piles bleed so pro- fusely, as to induce great weakness, or even endanger life. If the bleeding from the pile be stopped, the patient oc- casionally suffers from vertigo, headach, and other symptoms, which indicate an unusual determination of blood to the head. Active haemorrhage is characterized by a full pulse, and acute pain, increased heat, tension, and weight at the anus: these un- pleasant sensations are relieved by the loss of blood. Passive discharge of blood is the sequel of the former, and occurs in persons of a debilitated frame of body, who have a weak pulse, and it is not preceded by tension, nor heat around the anus, but is the result of the laxity of the vessels produced by repeated attacks of the disease, or by rupture of vessels. External piles, in consequence of repeated attacks of inflam- mation, become hard and solid tumours, and generally may be removed by the knife, or ligature, without much risk of hasmor- rhage; and, if they be not removed, they sometimes cause ul- ceration and even prolapsus ani, but profuse bleeding sometimes follows the excision of internal piles; and it may be added, that the application by the ligature occasionally gives rise to acute colic, and even to tetanus. If the cut be made into the substance of the pile, if the knife be ever employed, the incisions should be made in the sound part of the rectum in the vicinity of the pile. CONSEQUENCES OF PILES. Piles are sometimes followed by prolapsus ani. Another consequence of piles is, that fissures are observed in the pile, and its membrane is ruptured in consequence of the passage of the indurated faeces. This is sometimes not accompanied with pain, or at first only with a slight degree of it, but afterwards ui>on going to stool, the patient labours under very acute pain.