OF THE ACUTE HERNIA. 85 ed by a sudden protrusion of some bowel, or part of a bowel, in consequence of the great pressure of the diaphragm and ab- dominal muscles, as during the acts of raising, and carrying heavy weights, or in running or leaping, coughing, in the for- cible expulsion of the urine in cases of stricture, in straining at stool, or during parturition *. During such extraordinary exertions, the abdominal muscles are thrown into violent contraction. The descent of the dia- phragm during inspiration, necessarily pushes the bowels agmnst the elastic peritoneum ; and the parietes of the abdomen, inca- pable of resisting the impelling cause, give way at the weakest part, where the various cords and vessels pass through them. The greater frequency of hernia on the right side has heen long noticed, and is to be imputed to the more frequent employment of the right side, and not to any difference as to size between the right and left inguinal canals. Immediately after the violent effort, a small, hard, and pain- ful tumour presents itself, and the patient has the sensation as if something had given way. Should it be impossible by pressure, and other means, to re- move the swelling, the progress of the symptoms is rapid, like those of enteritis. The stricture may obstruct merely the pas- sage through the protruded intestine, or it may l>e so great as to impede also the flow of blood through the bloodvessels of the prolapsed bowel; the former is called the incarceration, the latter the strangulation of the bowels. There are no infallible diagnostic symptoms which distinguish the incarcerated from the strangulated state of the bowels, except the greater rapidity and violence of the symptoms. Of the Appearances on Dissection, when death has been occa- sioned by a Stranffidatcd Hernia. The peritoneum and intestines betray marks of acute inflaih- • It has been stated by Blumenbach, that hemise are more frequent among pie inhabitants of the Alps than in other countries; but this obser-