336 KFFECTS OF OPIUM, Copper produces nearly the same effects as the white oxide of arsenic, as we sometimes have occasion to observe, when food is prepared in copper vessels that are imperfectly coated with tin ♦. The external application of the white oxide of arsenic is not unattended with danger; for, when applied to an extensive can- cerous sore, in the form of ointment or solution, it occasions acute lancinating pain, attended by giddiness, great thirst, quick- ness of pulse, cough, general anxiety, and difficult breathing f. Mr Renault found that, when applied to the skin of a dog which had been divided, it sometimes proves fatal In the Museum of the University, a specimen is preserved of a stomach containing mucus and king’s yellow, portions of which adhered to the mucous membrane, which was of a bright red colour ; in several spots ecchymosed, and slightly abrased. The patient, when in a depressed state of mind, swallowed two ounces of king’s yellow in small beer. Symptoms :—Intolerable heat of abdomen, thirst, vomiting, and coldness. He died eighteen hours after taking the poison, ON THE EFFECTS OF OPIUM. The frequent and often salutary use of opium as a medicine, has rendered us familiar with it, and well acquainted with its operation on the animal economy. Different opinions have been entertained respecting its mode of action; but as this subject is foreign to the present inquiry, I shall content myself with stating, that, according to Dr Whytte, it affects the body by the medium of the nerves only; but, according to Fontana, by the medium of the blood. • Vid. Blank’s Diseases of Seamen, p. 208. Percival, Med. Trans, vol. iii. p. 80. •{■ Dr Mead, in his Treatise on Poisons, has made mention of a case in which the external application of arsenic proved fatal. * Vide also Crantz, Mat. Med. tom. iii. jt. 25. In the Leipsic Com. for 1793, vol. XXXV. p. 242, there is a case mentioned, where arsenic, ajiplied to the vagina, created almost immediate sickness, and prodiice<! death in twentv-four hours. :t