OF INTESTINAL CONCRETIONS. 41 Upon the alvine concretion changing Its place, and passing down Into the sigmoid flexure of the colon, or Into the rectum, it creates excruciating torture in the region of the pelvis and fundament, and the bowels become obstinately constipated, and much distended, from the passage being suddenly interrupted. An intestinal concretion lodged in the rectum, only a little way above the sphincter ani, sometimes creates much pain while tlic patient is sitting; and the pain becomes still more excrucia- ting upon his going to stool. When the rectum has become very much distended, in con- sequence of the intestinal concretion, this last is sonietimcs dis- charged along with the feces; or may be readily extracted by the forceps; and when there are two or more concretions, u|xm extracting one of them by the forceps (which are used for ex- tracting calculi from the bladder of urine), the others are com- monly discharged along with the feces. My grandfather has made mention of the case of a man, (quarto edit, of Works, p. 6G6), “ who had no excretion of feces for several days; and often he could scarce make any water, and that only in drops. During two days fefore our visit, the tenesmus was constant, and he felt something hard within the rectum, near to the anus, whicli he and several others had endeavoured in vain to bring away with their fingers. On ex- tracting this substance with a forceps, such as is used for ex- tracting stones from the bladder, he was much easier than lie had been for a considerable time. Next day he passed tw-o other balls ; and on each of the two following days, a ball, w hich he could not force out at the anus, was extracted with the for- ceps.” My father received from Mr R. IVIarshall of Peebles, from the late Mr Mein of Dunse, and Mr Goodsir in Largo, con- cretions which were extracted in the same manner as by my grandfather. Mr Goodsir’s patient had laboured for many years under vefy acute pain in the region of the stomach; and at length passed, in the course of two or three weeks, nine concretions, some of V’hich w'ere as large as a hen’s egg.