CONTRACTION OF THK MUSCULAR FIBRES. 24JJ when the patient attempted to swallow. After spitting up a few morsels of her food, she could swallow it tolerably well. These attacks were periodical, and were succeeded by sore throat, and almost complete dysphagia, and nothing passed down excepting when she lay almost in a horizontal position. The difficulty in swallowing was succeeded by difficulty in inspiration, which could not be removed, and she died in the course of three months. Upon dissection, the mucous mem- brane of the pharynx was found covered by vegetations of a cauliflower appearance. The mucous membrane of the larynx was red and swollen. I have above described spasm of the rectum, wcasioned by intestinal concretions impacted within that bowel. This spasm, combined with organic disea.se, cannot, in some instances, be obviated for a considerable time, and hence the pa- tient is most obstinately constipated for months. A well marked illustration of the altove fact is given in the Nouvelle Bib. Med. A female, at birth, could not pass her meconium, but a passage was afterwards procured. After she menstruatetl, she enjoyed good health for two years, got fat, and supposed her di.sorder removed. But after some time, she perceived a prominent tumour on the left side of the navel, which j)roved a cause of very acute pain, and was followed by insuperable costiveness, swelling and hardness of the abdomen, to remove which, the patient took an ounce of castor oil; violent colic, vomiting, and hiccough fol- lowed, and she died after most severe siiftering of eight day.s’ duration. An incision had been scarcely begun in the linea alba, when the integuments gave way ; the large intestines, which were enor- mously distended, and which contained upwards of thirty pounds of hardened fa'ces, protruded and burst. The rectum was found inflamed and thickened, and a trans- verse fold passed across it, in the centre of which, there was an orifice, which scarcely would admit the point of the little finger. The spasm of the alimentary canal, of the biliary and urini-