ULCEllATION OF THE STOMACH. 376 fore it has excited niucli alarm on the part of the patient, or of his medical attendant. The disease has also occasionally been very much aggravated by improper treatment. If the disease be mistaken for dyspep- sia, wine, spirits and aromatics are prescribed, to promote di- gestion ; but if the symptoms originate from chronic inflamma- tion of the stomach, they increase the patient’s sufferings, and have occasionally converted the chronic into the acute inflam- mation : This is mitigated by the application of leeches, or a blister to the region of the stomach, and by the strictest anti- phlogistic regimen. In short, where there is loss of appetite combined with nau- sea, acidity, and other dyspeptic symptoms, pain at the pit of the stomach, followed by thirst, red tongue, and quick pulse, it is probable that these symptoms originate from inflammation of the mucous membrane of the stomach. According to Dr Broussais, “ Most cases of dyspepsia, gas- trodynia, pyrosis, cardialgia and bulimia, are the efiects of chronic gastro-enteritis. Bulimia is the effect of a chronic gastro- enteritis, with predominance of irritation in the stomach and duodenum. This phlegmasia may exist in a degree that per- mits the assimilation of a quantity of aliment far greater than is necessary for the wants of the system. Hence result ple- thoras, obesity, and, sooner or later, the establishment of a great irritation in the brain, the joints, the kidneys of the heart, or, in short, on any point where accidental stimulation is more than commonly applied.” But I cannot adopt the sentiments of Broussais. Some of the cases of dyspepsia, gastrodynia, and pyrosis, are the effects of chronic gastritis; and in favour of such an opinion, it may be added, that the greater number of stomach complaints are re- moved by stimulants. It seems to me to be extremely probable, that the very pe- culiar symptoms which accompany many of the derangements of the functions of the viscera, are to be imputed to a morbid action of the great sympathetic nerve ; but, on account of the very limited and imperfect state of our knowledge of the na-