96 OF DIVERTICULA. of life, proves more dangerous than when it occurs during in- fancy or old age; for, in the former, there exists no predispo- sition to the disease, and the aperture being small, the displaced bowel must be much compressed and twisted, and sometimes is strangulated at the moment of its displacement; inflammation therefore immediately follows, which runs high, and terminates speedily in mortification; whereas, the relaxation of infancy and old age, which gives a predisposition to hernia, proves, to a cer- tain degree, a safeguard against strangulation and its conse- quences : besides, the circulation being languid, there is less disposition to inflammation. The danger of hernias depends on the size of the aperture through which the bowels are protruded, the cause, the con- tents of the tumour, and the kind of hernia. The femoral hernia proves to men most dangerous, as the same aperture is not equally capacious as in the female: on a similar account, the inguinal hernia, to which men are most exposed, proves more dangerous to the female. The sex of the patient, therefore, should be taken into consideration. The size of the hernia, also, has an influence upon the pro- gnosis; hernise of considerable size being much less formi- dable than small recent ruptures, there being much less risk of strangulation, on account of the weakness and size of the aper- ture through which the bowels have passed; the aperture gives way on slight pressure being applied, and the bowels are not so much compressed, and hence less liable to inflammation. According to Breschet, there is a chance of recovery, even when the intestines have been nearly opened by ulceration ; and also even after a few spots have ajipearcd gangrenous. The case is not hopeless when gangrene has seized all the coats of a small portion of the larger intestines ; but, when the same disease is seated in the smaller intestines, the chance of cure is less. In some such cases, a part ot the fax:es is dis- charged through the mortified part, tlie quantity ol which, ac- cording to Louis,* becomes gradually less, and the aperture, after a time, closes, and the patient recovers. • Mem. Bur la Cure des Ilernics Intestin avee (Jaiigrcne.—Mem. dc I’Acad. de Cliir. tom. iii.