OF infi.ammatiox of 484 eases, from extraneous bodies accidentally swallowed, or from external injury. Tubercles, and other tumours, in the cellular substance, sometimes inflame and suppurate. Considerable abscesses frequently form in the neck, and particularly when situated beneath the deep cervical fascia, im- pede, to a great degree, deglutition and respiration. The late Mr John Bell gave me an excellent specimen of this disease. The patient, a man of middle age, had a deep scrofulous abscess occupying the right side of the neck, displacing the tra- chea, and causing slight difficulty in swallowing and breathing. The tumour increased gradually, became very painful, pro- truded into the fauces, and almost entirely occupied the pha- rynx. An incision was made into the lower part of the tu- mour, and about lb. iij. of purulent matter were discharged ; the respiration and deglutition became easier, and the internal swell- ing disappeared. Hectic symptoms supervened. Eighteen days after the incision, the internal swelling gave way, and discharged its contents into the pharynx. A short time only had elapsed, when it was observed, that all the injesta passed into the cavity of the abscess, through the ulcerated apertures in the pharynx, and compressed the oesophagus. Attempts were made to sup- port the patient’s strength by injecting nutritious fluids through a catheter into the stomach, but he gradually sunk from inani- tion. Upon dissection, the pharynx was found much ulcerated, and the abscess communicated with the oesophagus. In a remarkable specimen in the Museum of the University, all the cellular substance around the trachea and gullet was much condensed and infiltrated with a mixture of pus and se- rum, which compressed the gullet to a very considerable degree. The mucous membrane of the larynx and trachea was found to be ulcerated; and, on the right side, the windpipe is perfo- rated by an oblique fistulous opening of considerable size. During a violent fit of coughing, in consequence of pus ha- ving passed into the windpipe, the patient died. In another case, an abscess, of a few day’s duration, which