OF MELANOSIS OF THE STOMACH. 446 were seated in the subcutaneous cellular tissue. The perito- neum lining the parietes of the abdomen was of a dark colour, from an irregularly striated deposition of melanotic matter. The omentum was similarly diseased ; and also the cellular tissue of the mesentery, peritoneum of intestines, kidneys, liver, spleen, pleurae, lungs and pericardium. The sternum, anterior portion of ribs, parietal and occipital bones, with inner table of skull, were black, brittle, and softer than usual. There were dark striae on the membranes at the base of brain. Patient, aged forty-two, bad had ten children. The symptoms during life were the following;—A circum- scribed moveable swelling occupied the lower part of the abdo- men, which was painful on pressure. There were several small, slightly painful, tumours, perceptible beneath the integuments of abdomen ; the patient also suffered severely from lancinating pains in the loins, abdomen, and extremities, which were increased by motion, and during the night; she had also febrile symptoms, and ultimately hectic; urine scanty; amenorrhcea; had occa- sional dyspnoea ; copious expectoration ; and occasional vomit- ing of dark coloured matter. The above symptoms were of ten weeks’ duration, and followed exposure to cold. In short, this disease is common to all the parts of the body. The black matter assumes different shapes, being deposited on the surface of the different membranes, in the form of tu- mours, of various sizes, some of which are encysted, but others have no distinct cyst; and it also appears in a state of infiltra- tion in various organs. I have also seen melanotic tumours on the surface of the body. In one of these instances, the patient was an old woman, of a dark sallow complexion, and there was every reason to suspect that her liver was diseased. There are no symptoms which are peculiar to melanosis of the internal parts of the body • The disease is not uncommon in old grey liorses; but I have not seen it in other quadrupeds.