CAUSES or SPASMODIC 24(i tion, and you suggested tlie propriety of tliis ))ractice. My ob- jections to the tobacco clyster are, that we can never exactly know the extent of its influence on the system ; a quantity which, in one person, will produce little effect, will, in another, depress the powers of life to a dangerous degree; and, as far as my ex- perience goes, patients with strangulated hernia, who have re- ceived the tobacco-clyster, previous to being subjected to an operation, never recover so well as those to whom it has not been administered. I should therefore give the preference to the opium. “ On the 31st of last month, a boy, three years and a half old, presented himself with stone in the bladder. From the irrita- bility of system incident to this period of life, from the rectum being prolapsed immediately on the sound being introduced in- to the bladder, and from the obstruction which I experienced in passing the instrument through its neck, when this viscus was empty, I was prepared for some difficulty in the extraction, and therefore judged this to be a proper case for the trial of the opium. I ordered the patient to be placed upon a milk and vegetable diet, to be immersed in the warm-bath at bed time, for several nights in succession, to have five minims of lauda- num each night, and his bowels to be kept freely open by laxa- tives. The rectum was washed out with tepid water, on the morning of the operation, and two hours before cutting he had a draught, containing fifteen minims of laudanum. “ On the 6th of June, I performed the lateral operation with the knife; and, on passing my finger into the bladder, readily felt a stone, but I had no sooner introduced the forceps than it disappeared. This repeatedly occurred; and it is worthy of remark, that if I withdrew my finger for a minute, on again introducing it I readily felt the stone; but when I moved my finger freely within the cavity of the bladder, it was as effectual in exciting spasmodic action, as when the forceps was intro- duced. I changed the posture of the patient, and injected some tepid water, but with no advantage. I now ceased to introduce anv metallic instrument, and after the bladder had remained