272 SPASMODIC' (’OXhTKICTIOX OF THF was of a dark purple colour, and the pia mater and arachnoid coat were much thickened, and adhered to each other very firmly; and the medullary substance of the brain was of tlie colour of liver. The stomach and intestines were examined with the most scrupulous attention, and xi'cre found to be in every respect in a healthy condition. Very various degrees of distention of the stomach have been observed : it sometimes is so great that the stomach fills the greater share of tlie abdomen, and conceals, in a great measure, the intestines; and the distended stomach instead of lying across the body, is frequently placed nearly in a vertical direction ; and further, the distention is not accompanied by hypertrophy of the muscular coat, as sometimes takes place in respect to the heart and gullet, but by attenuation of the coats. According to Andral, distention of the stomach is some- times accompanied by whiteness, softening, and abrasion of the mucous membrane, which was probably the effect of chronic in- flammation, as anorexia, constant pain in the region of the py- lorus, and a voracious appetite preceded death. It remains to be considered, whether a constriction of the middle of the stomach invariably takes place during the diges- tive process, or whether it be the result of spasm. The latter seems to me to be the more probable opinion, and for the fol- lowing reasons: A partial contraction at or towards the middle of the stomach, has been sometimes observed in some persons who have suffered a violent death, and also in those who, during life, had laboured under a derangement in the functions of the stomach. But such a contraction in the middle of the stomach is not uniformly observed even when the body is examined before it is cold. Wepfer has made mention of it in his examination of the stomach of a woman who had been executed on account of the murder of her child; but my dis.seclions of executed cri- minals have not led me to make a similar remark. vVccording to Sir K. Home, the contraction at or near to the middle of the stomach constantly takes j)lace during the f)iocess of digestion,.