511 OF PUERPERAL PERITONITIS. ly occasionally takes place, as is proved clearly by the subjoined interesting case, published by Dr Marshall Hall. “ A man, aged fifty, had acute pain in the hypogastric re- gion, with frequent desire and difficulty of voiding his urine. After some relief during the night, his complaint was renewed on the following day, and, after the operation of a dose of castor oil, it increased to such a degree as to produce writhing of the body, with urgent ineffectual attempts to void urine; the pulse natural. Relief was obtained from the warm bath, after which urine was voided. (3d day.) Pain and dysuria continued, and the pain extended more generally over the abdomen; the blad- der was found empty by the catheter; pulse nearly natural. (4ith day.) There had been copious evacuations by stool; some high coloured urii\e passed ; pulse 90, and soft; tongue white. (5th day.) Pain returned after a saline purgative, which ope- rated scantily ; it was now chiefly referred to a spot on the left iliac region, increased by pressure, but also attended with a more general pain over the abdomen ; great restlessness, and much flatus in the stomach ; a little vomiting for the first time on taking any thing, but no continuetl nausea or retching; pulse 96 ; in the evening 84, soft and regular. (6th day.) The chief pain had shiftetl to the right iliac region,—the former pain in the left having now ceased ; pulse 124, and small; feature collapsed ; body cold ; died at 4 p. m. “ Inspection —Much exudation and adhesion over the surface of the bowels; the ileum, ececum, and colon, were injected with numerous vessels in some places, so as tc» acquire a dark colour ; but the texture was firm and entire. The appendiculse pingue- dinosae were injected and covered with a viscid effusion, com- municating the appearance of a mass of disease. The external and posterior portion of the bladder appeared also a little in- jected ; the other viscera were natural.” In the above case, die dysuria was probably connected with the inflammation of the peritoneal coat of the bladder of urine. 8th, That hardness, tension, and enlargement of the abdo- men, and tympanites intestinalis, in the advanced period of the disease, are bad symptoms, as indicating extensive adhesion,