GENEKAL OBSERVATIONS of its contents, and in order to facilitate tlieir passage, the inner- most coat, called, from its resemblance to velvet, Villous, is moistened and besmeared by a considerable quantity of a mucous fluid, which is derived from a number of glands, imbedded in the cellular substance uniting the muscular and villous coats. The bile and pancreatic liquors are added to the bolus of food during its course through the alimentary canal, in order to produce the necessary changes upon it, and to stimulate the coats of the intestines to their proper functions. Such being the complex structure, and complex functions, of the alimentary canal, it follows that it is much exposed to dis- ease. The aliment may be of a noxious quality, and various hurt- ful substances are occasionally swallowed along with it by acci- dent or intention ; besides, as the canal is of considerable length, and at the same time moveable, it is apt to be displaced. The coats of the alimentary canal, being of a different struc- ture, are subject to diseases peculiar to each, as has long ago been observed by Dr Carmichael Smyth *. The p'eritoneal coat is subject to those of other serous membranes; the muscular coat to those of other muscles; the cellular coat to those of the cellular substance ; and the villous coat to those of other mucous mem- branes. Moreover, the mucous glands of the alimentary canal are liable to the diseases of other glands of a similar structure, which perform a similar office. Independently of those various sources of organic diseases in the coats of the alimentary canal, the bile and pancreatic liquor are sometimes so much altered in their nature, as to be incapable of producing the necessary changes upon the food, or of rousing the coats of the alimentary canal to their due func- tions. The ORGAKic DISEASES of the alimentaiy canal, investi- gated in the following pages, may be included in the four follow- ing classes : • ViJ. London Med. Communications, Vol. II. p. 170-