22 or THE STllUCTUllE The external crust of the larger concretions seldom exceeds two or three lines in thickness, is deposited in layers, and, when dry, is friable, and apt to split and crack off'. In some of the specimens, the external earthy crust covers only a part of the calculus. Upon making a section of most alvine concretions, they are found to be composed of distinct layers of a yellow or brown colour; but, in some concretions, the layers do not pervade every part of the calculi. In four or five of the concretions there are no layers observed. Some concretions which are found in the deer, form an exception to the above observation; for some have a radiated structure, like biliary calculi. The lamellje, which are about two lines in thickness, are ge- nerally of a lighter colour than the rest of the calculus, but sometimes darker. The external form of the calculus seems to determine the course of the layers. If the calculus t>e of an oval shape, the component layers of it follow a similar direction ; but if the surface of the concretion be irregular, the layers are disposed so as to correspond in their course with the irregular surface. The lamella?, upon a minute examination, do not form one continued line, as in biliary or urinary calculi. In the centre of the concretion, a prune, or a cherry-stone, or a small piece of bone, piece of cinder, glass, or a biliary calcu- lus, is generally found. Within some alvine concretions there are cavities, filled by small grains of sand, and fixed to each other by several small fibres. From what has been stated as to the structure of alvine con- cretions, it is probable that these substances are frequently form- ed upon an extraneous body ; and also that they increase in bulk, in consequence of the deposition of successive strata. I received from Dr Henry of Manchester a concretion which had been lodged for some time within the intestines, which he discovered, upon analysis, to be corn|X)scd solely of magnesia, which the patient, during his life, took in very large (|iianfi- ties.