OF PERITONITIS. 501 air, and frothy faeciilent matter; and, in some cases, the simdler intestines were considerably dilated, except the termination of the ileum, which was so contracted as scarcely to admit the point of the finger. In this last instance, it is to be presumed that the contraction, had taken place but a short time previous to death, as the intestines apj>eared to be only highly vascular and adhe- rent to each other; the only peculiarity in the morbid appear- ances being, that the peritoneum was remarkably dry. In one case, the coats of the whole of the intestines were much thickened, as also those of the stomach, the cavity of which was considerably contracted ; in this case there was Jb'viii of scrum in the cavity of the abdomen. I subjoin three cases of violent jjerltoneal infianunation, pro- duced by external injury. In the first of these, the patient was eighteen years of age. The Intestines were distended with flatus, vascular, and of an intermixed dark-green and red colour. The cavity of the pel- vis was filleil with a large quantity of dark blootly urine. The symphysis pubis was separated; the right os pubis was frac- turc<l in two places, near its symphysis, and at its junction with the ischium. The right sacro-iliac synchondrosis was also se- parated for about an inch. A sound jiassed into the urethra, entered the cavity of the jKdvis, the bladder being entirely separated from the membranous }H)rtion of the urethra, clo.se to the prostate gland. A wheel of a loaded cart had passed over the perineum, symphysis pubis, and right iliac region. The .symp- toms were, the lower part of abdomen, the perineum, and upjier part of thighs, much swollen. The scrotum much distended with extravasatetl blood. The patient suffered intense pain, much increased by pressure, especially on the lower part of ab- domen. There was no discharge of urine. A quantity of fluid, similar to the effusion into the cavity of the pelvis, was drawn off by the catheter. No alvine evacuation. Delirium followed. There were gangrenous spots on the perineum and upper part of thighs. On the third day after receipt of the injury, the pa- tient died.