MEMBRANE OF THE ALIMENTARY CANAL. 351 and he was much troubled with nausea and vomiting. In this state he passed ten or eleven weeks, at the end of which he was much emaciated. The umbilicus, and about an inch of the in- teguments around it, became painful, slightly elevated and in- flamed. A solution of the acetate of lead was applied, but the inflammation still continued to increase for about six weeks, when the pain became so severe that I deemed it expedient to apply a poultice. In ten days the tumour burst externally, and from the opening, a large quantity of a yellow, thickish, and fetid fluid escaped; and from it the feces, or rather tlie un- changed alimentary mass, continued to be discharged during life. From the first appearance of the inflammation, his stomach was observed to swell very much ; and his belly was so bound that a stool could never be procured but by the administration of very large doses of calomel, or some other purgative ; and for several days immediately jireceding the bursting of the tumour, the constipation continued so obstinate as to resist the action of repeated enemata purgantia, and very large doses of calomel by the mouth. “ The emaciation and debility increased to an extreme degrtn?, until his death, which happenetl on the 7th instant. “ Having obtained permission to open the hotly, the following were the appearances on dissection:— “ Upon cutting into the alxlomen, a large quantity of a dis- agreeable fetid gas escaped, and a quantity of a yellow fuetid fluid was found floating among tlie viscera. The omentum was very much thickened, inflamed, and ulcerated. The liver aiul spleen were greatly diminished in size, the former not exceeding that of a natural kidney, and as hard as a piece of tiu-nip. The gall-bladder was very much thickened, and contained little or no bile; the pancreas was very much diseased; the stomach was also much inflamed, thickened, and ulcerated. About an inch below the pylorus there was a small hole, out of which tlie feces, or rather, as before stated, the indigested aliment passed; as after eating or drinking, upon motion or coughing, it was dis- charged by the umbilicus very little changed. The remainder