OF DIFFERENT HERNI-®. 71 truded, they retain their posterior and lateral attachments; hence the hernial sac incloses the protruded bowel anteriorly and laterally, but the bowel itself is- fixed behind to the scro- tum. In abdominal herniae, the bowels are generally protruded through what may be called natural openings, and there are, also, herniae of the belly, which appear where there is no natu- ral opening; and, in these cases, there is generally a rupture of the fibres of the muscles which constitute the parietes of the belly. The different herniae hav’e l>een named from their situation, or from the contents of the hernial sac; lienee the terms Exom- phalos or Umbilical Hernia, Bubonocele or Inguinal Hernia, Oscheocele or Scrotal Hernia, Merocele or Crural Hernia, Her- nia of the Pei’ineum, of the Foramen ovale, and the Ischiatic Rupture. When the hernial sac is filled by a jxirtion of the intestines only, the tumour has been called Enterocele ; and when the omentum is also included within the sac, the term Entcro-Epi- plocele is used ; and the terms Gasteroeele, Hepatoc-elc, Spleno- cele, Hysterocele, Cystocele, are employed, when the stomach, liver, spleen, uterus, or bladder of urine, form the contents of the hernial tumour. The mesentery lieing longer than the mesocolon, the smaller intestines are more frequently displact'd than the larger, to which the vicinity of the ilium to the inguinal and crural apertures al- so contributes. A part only of their circumference, ora diver- ticulum from the intestines, sometimes fills the hernial sac. The arch of the colon being the more moveable portion of the larger intestine, is more frequently found within a hernial sac than any other portion of the larger intestine. The term Congenite has been used when the bowels are con- tained within the same canal as the testicle, and also as expres- sive of the period of life at which that kind of hernia generally shews itself. ■* Besides the External Hernia? there are also Internal Herniae, ot which there are the following varieties : l,y/, There is an