427 OF rOl-YPI OF THE GULLET. “ This polypus had, for several years, prevented him from swallowing any thing without much difficulty ; neither could he [ breathe so freely, nor speak so distinctly as usual; it likewise I occasioned a cough, which frequently forced the polypus into I his mouth. “ On the 15th of May last, while Mr Dallas attended the j Infirmary, the result of a consultation was, that bronchotomy I should be performed, to enable the patient to breathe by the I opening made in the trachea, till such time as I should get a I noose cast on the polypus. This method of cure, suggested by ' Dr Monro junior, was the most rational; for the extracting of i it would have been improper, because the ha?morrhagc could ( not have been stopped, besides the danger there was of pulling 1 away the inner coat of the oesophagus. “ By means of a ligature passed through a hollow ring, to X which a long stalk was connected *, a large part of tlie tumour V was removed, which was discharged by stool.” The sequel of the case was publishetl by my Father. “ The t patient died in the Iloyal Infirmary, in April 1765, to which lie I had returned, a few weeks before that, very feeble and ema- ciated ; as, for several months past, he had not been able to I swallow any solid foot!, and even swallowed fluids with much 1 difficulty. “ The ix)lypus had not, however-, bet'u seen by the surgeons 1 who had examined his throat. “ On dissecting his body, the oesophagus was found to be j greatly dilated by a very large fleshy excrescence or polypus, I which grew out from its fore part, by a .single root, about three V inches lower than the glottis, but was split, at its under part, H into several lobes, the largest and longest of which reached t down to the upper orifice of the stomach. “ On viewing this figure (alluding to the figure in the Phy- 5 sical and Literary Essays, Vol. III.) it is evident, that when, by i the effort of vomiting, the polypus appeared in his mouth* its • For a more particular description of the apparatus, vide Edin. Msd. •i liiterary Essay, voL iii. i