H h 2 INFLAMMATION OF THE CELLULAR TISSUE. 48S the severity of the inflammation, which increases the size of the swelling. The nature of this inflammation was not unknown to Galen who has given a faithful description of it in his chapter De Tii- moribus, but he has not mentioned its frequent termination in suppuration, or its more rare termination in gangrene. The symptoms enumerated by Galen are aggravated before the ves- sels of an inflamed part secrete pus; and when suppuration has taken place, the pain and heat abate, a sense of weight and heaviness is felt in the part, the symptomatic inflammatory fe- ver moderates, and the patient is affectetl with rigors, after which a sweat breaks out. Inflammation of the cellular substance does not always ter- minate in suppuration, but often in an cft’usion of lymph, which occupies the cellular substance, and often forms the bases of tu- mours. It is unusual for acute inflammation in the cellular substance to pass, unattended with |iain, into the chronic; and the first intimation of this is, the apj'>earance of a collection of purulent matter, forming what has been called chronic abscess. It may, however, be remarked, tliat such abscesses often oc- cur without having been precedetl by pain, or any other indica- tion of inflammatory action. Another form of inflammation of the cellular substance has been described by Kirkland, Willan, and others, under the name of phlegmonokl erijslpelas. The swelling is diffuse, doughy, inelastic and compressible, and accompanied with deep- seated pain, sense of weight, and tension of the skin. Abscesses frequently form in the cellular substance, in the immediate vicinity of different parts of the alimentary canal, or in the cellular substance between its component coats. Abscesses have been observed in every part of the alimentary canal, as the result of inflammation, originating in organic dis- • “ Hoc phlegmones nomen Grsecis dici consuevit, de camosis partibus, majoreui in molem, cum tensione, renixu, dolore pulsatorio, calore et ru- bore extuberantibus.” Vid. Galev, De Tumor, prseter Natur. Lib. i. cap. 11.