EFFECT OF HYDATIDS UPON 208 short time longer, they probably would have got into the lungs, as the diaphragm was extremely thin opposite to the sacs of the hydatids: the hydatids might also have got into the branches of the trachea, and been discharged by coughing *. In the same manner, hydatids formed in the substance of the kidneys, have worked their way out of the pelvis of that organ, and have been discharged with the urine. As hydatids seldom prove fatal when they have found an outlet, and as there is a disposition in nature to discharge hyda- tids from the body, an attempt should be made to assist or to second the efforts of nature by art. In the first place, a tumour filled with hydatids, situated in the extremities, or on the external suiface of the body, may be with safety removed. Hydatids lodged within the cavities of the body may also be extracted, providing the organ containing these has contracted an adhesion with the containing parts, as was done in Case 7th, with complete success. Pi.ATER-|* has related the case of a young woman who had a tumour in the right hypochondrium, which was very painful, especially when she lay on the left side : it at length burst, and a large quantity of a serous fluid was discharged, besides a num- ber of hydatids, after which the patient obtained a complete cure. Guatanni’s I testimony is equally strong. He has related a case in which the parietes of the abdomen over a tumour in the region of the liver became very thin, and the tumour, in conse- quence of violent coughing, at length burst externally, and 300 entire hydatids, together with a quantity of a serous fluid, were discharged. The opening remained fistulous for some time, but at length closed, and the patient recovered. In the same manner, when hydatids have been accumulated within the uterirs, these may be removed from it, as was done by Dr Kn-ooua of Musselburgh, witli perfect success. • Vide Note at tlie end. * Vid. Ol)!*. Select. Munli.s»a, 01)S. xviii. ]). 44. i Vid. Guataxni, de Extern. AneuryMiiat. p. 119-