244 CAUSES OF SPASMODIC ferous passages, occasioned by spasm of the muscular fibres pro- per to these passages, may be obviated, to a certain extent, by antispasmodic remedies, and even when it is combined with or- ganic disease. When much pain and irritation exist, the detraction of blood, and the use of a tepid bath, should precede the use of opium, and other antispasmodic remedies. Spasm is often combined with inflammation, and more especially when the bladder is spasmodically contracted by the irritation of a stone lodged within it. If the patient be young and plethoric, the lancet proves highly beneficial; but if he be far advanced in life, and of a debilitated habit of body, in consequence of having been long afflicted by stone, or some other disease of the bladder, leeches are to be preferred. If leeches cannot be procured, the application of cupping-glasses to the loins has the effect of faci- litating the introduction of the catheter, when its progress has been impeded by a spastic constriction of a part of the urethra. If the spasm be seated in the neck of the bladder, ureter, or urethra, the application of a number of leeches to the perineum is useful, together with the warm water clyster, and the liberal use of warm diluent and demulcent liquors, as linseed tea, or the decoction of althea; thus the acrimony of the urine is miti- gated, and the spasm removed. In the gall-stone jaundice, the patient experiences great re- lief from bladders, filled with warm water, applied to the pit of the stomach. Of all antispasmodic remedies, opium is uti- doubtedly the best, and it is to be given by the mouth, or in the form of clyster, and in large doses. This remedy is of sin- gular efficacy in spasmodic attacks of the gullet and intestines, in the gall-stone jaundice, and in the case of small stones lodged within the bladder of urine. Its antispasmodic vir- tue is very much increased, when combincnl with the warm bath, the temperature of which ought to be about 96^ of Fabr.; and it is necessary that the patient should remain in tlie bath for nearly an hour, in order that the remedy may have its full effect.