OF THE ALIMENTARY CANAL. 313 review of his troops, some days before his death. His body had not been examined with care, and not until the lapse of some time; and I am persuaded that the reddish colour of the mucous membrane of the stomach was to be imputed to the ef- fect of incipient putrefaction. It may often be difficult to distinguish the spots produced by putrefaction from those which are frequently observed in the healthy stomach. Mahon has furnished a criterion. He states, that, if the stomach shall retain its natural colour, and the spots on it are marked with red, whilst the borders of the ulcers arc livid pale, putrefaction is the cause of the change of colour. It may be also remarked, that an infusion of re<l jwppy, or tincture of cardamom, gives a red tinge to the mucous mem- brane of the stomach, which may be mistaken for the effeet of inflammation. Fodere informs us, that a person at Chalon, soon after his recovery from a severe indisposition, died very suddenly, after the operation of a gentle laxative. A rumour spread abroad of his having been jX)isoned by his apothecary. His body was carefully examined after death, and the gullet and inner membrane of the stomach were found re<l, and in some places livid. Dr Varner entertained douhts as to the suppo.sed cau.se of this person’s death; and, having learnetl that the decc*ased had been in the habit of drinking considerable quantities of the in- fusion of the red poppy, made several experiments with that infusion upon dogs, from which he was convinced that tlie red colour of the mucous membrane of the stomach in this person was to be imputed to the effect of the infusion upon the sto- mach. The infusion of the red poppy communicates a deep red colour to the mucous membrane of the stomach of a dog. The numerous observations of my late pupil Mr Swan, have proved, in the clearest manner, that the insertion of a piece of gamboge, or the oxyde of arsenic, or the rubbing mercurial ointment on the back of a dog, after shaving off the hair, com- municates a red colour to the mucous membrane of the stomach and intestines, and that the mercury occasions an inflammation of the great sympathetic nerves.