382 ULCERATION OF THE INTESTINAl, TUBE. It merits peculiar notice, that when even a thin band of the mucous membrane has been destroyed, so that the muscular fibres are exposed, obstinate costiveness follows. Dr Duncan had lately an instance of this description under his charge in the Clinical Ward of our hospital. His patient had all the symptoms of ileus, and his death seemed to have been occasioned by that cause. Upon dissection, a complete circle of a portion of the ileum, the breadth of which, of the breadth of two fingers, was found denuded of its mucous coat, and the muscular fibres of that portion were as apparent as if they had been exposed by careful dissection. It was remark- able, tliat the contents of the intestines, above and below this portion of the ileum, were different from each other in colour, smell and con^stence. The ulceration of the mucous coat is sometimes observed to be combined with the formation of tubercles under the peri- toneal coat. I had occasion to see an instance of this kind. The patient had been much exposed to cold and hunger, and had suffered very severely from nausea and vomiting. He had had frequent watery stools, and fever accompanied by delirium.* In a preparation in the Museum there was extensive thicken- ing and contraction of arch of colon. The mucous membrane was of a dark colour and firm texture. Several ulcerated open- ings communicated ^vith small sacs on the exterior of the in- testine, which terminated in the cavity of the abdomen. The patient had laboured under tenesmus and tormina, and had fre- quent liquid stools, tinged occasionally by blood. When the mucous membrane is ulcerated, the mesenteric glands are always swollen. My learned colleague Dr Alison, who has devoted great atten- tion to the morbid appearances which are discovered in cases of fever, informed me, that when a patient labouring under fever dies with an affection of the bowels, some of the mesenteric glands of the intestines are generally ulcerated, but the cor- • Vide Catalogue of the Anatomical Museum of Edinburgh, No. 61. 2