400 OF SCROFULOUS ULCERATION ot being limited to a certain portion of tlie intestines, affects the whole intestinal canal. Upon making a Section of the diseased intestines, we cut through a substance of an uniform consistence, which some- what resembles the white part of the skin of an orange, and a great many bloodvessels are distributed through it. The coats of the diseased part are rarely of an uniform thick- ness, being generally thicker towards the right side of the sto- mach, where I have seen them half an inch in thickness. In some ca.ses, we observe small conical swellings growing from the villous coat of the stomach ; and upon the same coat there are generally patches of a florid red colour: the stomach always contains a quantity of a very viscid mucus. Ulceration follows the unnatural thickening of the coats of the part affected, and is very peculiar. The size of the ulcer varies from that of a sixpence to that of a crown-piece, its form commonly circular or oval. The perforation, or opening through the peritoneal coat, is by much the smallest, and seems to be produced by sudden rup- ture. The edges of the ulcer are found well defined, somewhat thickened, rounded, and sometimes hard, a proof of its long standing. In the stomach, the disease is confined to the mucous and muscular coats, and the peritoneal is always free from dis- ease. The appearance of the ulcer is widely different from that of cancer, which has a ragged and uneven surface, and which is al- ways accompanied with acute pain and other symptoms of alarm ; whereas, in this case, there is no indication of the internal mis- chief, nor symptoms of uneasiness, nor any warning of approach- ing danger until the fatal catastrophe. The bursting of the stomach is immediately followed, and may be distinguished, by the vomiting ceasing, whilst there is a considerable degree of distention of the abdomen, and by the entire failure of the pulse, the patient, making no complaint either of pain or sickness, but of lowness, anxiety and restless- 1 ness.