403 OF THE alimentary canal. from the stomach and abscess having formed one cavity. Tlie sudden death of the patient was occasioned by internal hasmor- rhage from the parietes of the abscess.” Perforation of the intestinal canal, especially at the termina- tion of the ileum, is more frequent than that of the stomach. If the aperture or apertures be in the stomach, the contents of that organ occasionally escape into the cavity of the abdomen ; in which case, peritoneal inflammation very speedily follows. There are various causes which occasion perforation of the stomach or intestines. The stomach or intestines have been perforated by shaiqi Ixxlies swallowed, or by intestinal worms. I have met with sixteen cases of evasion of the intestines. In one case, the transverse arch of the colon was found in a scir- rhous state, and there were numerous deep ulcers in the mucous membrane, some of them communicating with the'cavity of the abdomen, in which a large quantity of pus was found. In another specimen, there are exactly the same morbid a|v pearances. The patient imputed his disorder to a blow on the alxlomen. ■ In a third case, in which there was a considerable quantity of faeces in the abdomen, there was an effusion of lymph on the peritoneum, and several gangrenous sjx)ts on the ileum ; the mucous coat of the ccecum, colon, and rectum was thickened; and, in many places, the coats of the intestine were completely eroded. . j In a foimth case, there were gangrenous sjx)ts on the termi- nation of the ileum ; and, at this place, the coats of the intestine ^ were completely destroyed by ulceration. Serum was effusetl into the cavity of the abdomen. ' . ... In a fifth case, there was a small ulcerated aperture in the il middle of the jejunum, and the mucous coat at the termination 1 of the ileum was slightly ulcerated. In the sixth case, there was a considerable quantity of liquid ■a feces in the abdomen. In the seventh case, two lai'ge ulcerated apertures, each alxmt C c 2