454 OF SCIllllHUS AND CANCER “ Tlie patient, an old lady, had had sore throat twenty years ago, and before recovering from it she had (to employ her own phrase) strained her throat, and soon afterwards she felt pain and difficulty in swallowing, which has increased till she could swallow liquids only, and these with difficulty. She suffered acute pain in her throat, and felt as if it was much swollen. Her voice was much affected, and even speaking was painful to her. “ She died, at length, completely exhausted. “ Upon examining her throat, the bottom of the pharynx, and beginning of the gullet, were found to be thickened, and so much constricted, for the length of an inch, as scarcely to ad- mit a goose-quill. The internal membrane of the whole right side of the cornu of the thyroid cartilage, to the top of the gul- let, was eroded, and a hole was found in it which led to a sac, on the right side of the larynx, extending down to the thyroid gland, part of which was corroded, and the corrosion seemed to be of a cancerous nature. “ The matter from this sac had probably got into the pha- rynx by the hole above mentioned, which was a little below the upper and posterior process of the thyroid cartilage. The right arytenoid cartilage was much thickened, and the back part of the cricoid, yet the arytenoid cartilage was moveable upon the cri- coid. The root of the epiglottis was also thickened. A small white indurated point was observed on each of the ligaments of the larynx.” Scirrhus and cancer, beginning in the neighbourhood of the gullet, sometimes extend to it, or from the gullet to the neigh- bouring organs. I had occasion to visit an old lady, whose under lip, uvula, and pharynx, had become scirrhous. The scirrhus, which had begun in the gullet, extended to the diaphragm and the stomach. The following appearances were discovered on dissection :— The gullet was preternaturally enlarged, thickened, and hard, and, for the space of an inch, so much contracted, as scarcely to receive a goose’s quill. Three scirrhous masses, about the size of olives, imbedded in