Ol' PALSY OF THE GULLET. ^90 cular fibres of the gullet be incapable of’ propelling the food through the gullet, yet they are not unsusceptible of the sti- mulus of distention, and may be excited to an inverted action. During the effort of swallowing, the whole bodily frame is much agitated, and in some instances violently convulsed; on other occasions, the patient perceives, in the first instance, a difficulty in swallowing solids only. The throat exhibits nothing uncom- mon, excepting paleness, and flaccidity of the velum pendulum palati, and tonsils. The only certain means of detecting this cause of difficult deglutition, is to pass a probang into the stomach, which, in the case of palsy of the gullet, is easily done, there being no me- chanical obstruction. Palsy of the gullet is generally combined with palsy of some other part of the body; but local palsy is comparatively rare ; therefore I subjoin the following cases as illustrations of the nature of that form of the disease :— Case I.—An officer of the army, upon his return from the West Indies, where he had had the Yellow Fever twice in the course of one year, consulted me on account of a difficulty of swallowing. He was much reduced, had in part lost the power of deglutition, and had become so irritable, that the attempt to swallow occasioned violent agitation, and sometimes hysterical fits. Only a small part of what he endeavoured to swallow passed into his stomach, the remainder being immediately rejected through the mouth and nose. A probang passed readily through the gullet, but it gave him much uneasiness. Recourse was had to nutritious clysters, and by these he was for some time supported. Electricity was also employed, and, by means of it, he soon became capable of swallowing with considerable ease; for some time he could only swallow, while sitting upon the electrical stool.- By the continued use of electricity during four months, and by means of regular exercise, and cold bathing, he got well. Cask II.—I had ocea.sion to visit a captain of a trading vessel, afflicted l)y |)alsy of the gullet, who, during the greater part