250 CAUSES OE SPASMODIC ot the death of his wife, was attacked by spasmodic constriction of tl)e larynx, and top of the gullet. He could neither speak nor swallow, and breathed with difficulty. The spasmodic con- striction of the gullet continued with great obstinacy; and if, by any chance, a portion of food slipped over the pharynx, it was immediately stopped, and prevented from entering the sto- mach. The patient was advised to take a mixture, containing 30 grains of camphor, with some olive oil, at intervals ; but, by some chance, he took it all at one dose, by which he was com- pletely cured. PiNEi. prescribed a camphorated liniment, consisting of a drachm of camphor to an ounce of olive oil, as a remedy for a , woman of sixty years of age, whose gullet was affected by spas- modic contraction, of six months’ duration. The patient took the whole of the liniment at once, and was thereby cured. Blisters, and other external applications, are useful in the spasmodic contraction of the urethra and stomach; but their effect is far inferior to the remedies which have been already mentioned ; and, it may be added, that, though blisters some- times produce strangury, they remove the spasmodic contraction of the urethra. From what has been stated above, as to the spasmodic con- striction of the muscular coat of the passages for the food, the bile, and the urine, it follows. First, That, though a muscular structure be not equally ob- vious in the different portions of the passages for the food, the bile, and the urine, yet they all possess the peculiar characteris- tic feature of the muscular fibre, a contractile power, upon the application of a stimulus, and are also under the influence of antispasmodic remedies; and, therefore, they are to be con.si- dered as parts of a muscular structure, and endowed with a muscular contractile power, even though muscular fibres be not distinguishable by our imperfect senses. Second, That there is no peculiar arrangement of muscular fibres of the stomach, or bladder of urine, which is adapted to produce a partial contraction in any particular part of those passages.