388 OF DYSENTEUY. surface. In these thickened portions, ulceration follows, if tlie patient lives long enough. Where the patient is not very speedily cut off by the disease, the inflamed portions of-the mucous membrane are covered by fibrine, and the farther effusion of this .substance is preceded by an inflamed areola: in some instances, the whole colon is some- times lined by a layer of fibrine. The affected part is at the same time thickened and irregu- larly contracted, and frequently slight traces of inflammation may be observed on the peritoneal surface. In a short time the mucous membrane under the fibrine be- comes ulcerated to a greater or less extent. Its villi having been destroyed, the fibrine is frequently detached, and dis- charged by the anus. The ulcers gradually increase in depth and extent of surface ; so that, in many places, the whole of the mucous membrane is destroyed. The ulcers are surrounded by dark coloured elevated areolae, and some of these occasionally appear as in a state of cicatrization, the intervening portions of the mucous membrane forming irregular vascular prominences. The diseased intestines generally contain a good deal of mu- cus, or a muco-purulent fluid, mixed with blood. In those cases in which blood has not been passed for some time previously, the mucous membrane is found much thickened, of a dark co- lour, and of a firm texture. In severe and protracted cases of dysentery, all the coats of the intestine are destroyed, so that their contents escape into the cavity of the abdomen. Where the inflammation has extended to the muscular and peritoneal coats, lymph is effused on the latter, and the convolutions of the intestines are agglutinated to each other. Sphacelated portions of the intestines are rarely observed. Although the disease is generally confined to the larger intestines, the smaller are sometimes involved, and parti- cularly the termination of the ileum. The mucous follicles are usually enlarged, and especially those of the rectum, which sometimes form small vesicles. Lastly, in the debilitated, and in those whose health has been