OF hvdiiopitobia. 25C lint, soaked with the following spirit, sp. vin. cainph. § ss. aether, laudan., a. a. 3ij.; and the following draught was ordered, camph. 9i, aeth. 3i, laudan. gtt. lx. aq. hord. q. s. One-half of this was got over with great difficulty. Her pulse became much slower and weaker. Some time after she got the remainder. Three p. m. she was nearly in the same state as before. She was persuaded • to swallow some morsels of bread, soaked in milk. In the course of the afternoon she was moved into a more convenient • apartment, as she seemed manifestly more agitated by the ap- pearance of many persons around her. She only got another j draught. Eight p. m., when I saw her, she appeared to be ex- tremely distressed and disturbed. Answered, after the convul- sions were subsided, with haste, and seemed rather confounded ; presently, however, was soothed, and spoke quite rationally; 1 lamented her own situation. When asked if she was in pain, i replied, no; what particular uneasiness she had—Do you not see.^ seemingly referring to a certain degree of strangulation and in- terruption of breathing betwixt a hiccup and cough. Her pulse was feeble and quick. Her skin cool; tongue as before. Af- ter a short while, she expressed great gratitude for the attention that was paid her; prayed fervently that she might be en- abled to endure, with patience and resignation, the trial to which she was subjected, till it should please the Almighty to release her from her sufferings, and that no unguarded expression might escape her, that could convey want of the most perfect submissfon to His will. “ She said that she thought she could now try to swallow; a spoonful of milk was given, which she swallowed with the usual convulsions. Soon after she remarked, that it was not that but her medicines which she required. A spoonful of her usual draught was given, Jmt the convulsions were now much more: violent; her breathing was more interrupted, long intervals be- ing observed betwixt each successive inspiration, and her pulse sinking so low as hardly to be felt. By degrees she recovered; and being raised again, she herself proposed to take another spoonful; this was accompanied with less commotion than be- fore ; but she then requested to be allowed some rest after the j i