f 422 REPORT ON MIDWIFERY^ ETC. mified foetus expelled after the birth of a full-term child. Dr. Barnes (ibid.). Atelectasis of the lungs is discussed in ‘ Klinische Beitrage z. Gynakol.,’ 1865, by Betschler. Congenital hypertrophy and prolapsus of the tongue. Dr. Lgouest (‘Journ. f. Kinderk.,’ xliv, 1865). In- version of the urinary bladder'through the urethra, with large prolapsus of the rectum in a female child. Dr. Beatty. A case of dilated kid- neys in a child; congenital hydronephrosis. Dr. Broadbent (‘ Pathol. Trans.,’ xvi, 1865). The subject of congenital goitre is treated of by Alex. R. Simpson (‘ Glasgow Med. Journ.,’ 1866). Prof. Raff-Mattei (‘Journ. de Brux.,’ 1865) calls attention to the frequency and causes of simple congestion and hcemorrhage of the supra-renal bodies of the foetus. He examined the bodies of ninety children—some foetuses, some newborn, some under a month old. Of these, seventy-five exhi- bited either congestion or apoplexies in the supra-renal capsules. The frequency of this condition is explained by the pressure exerted upon the child during birth, after the escape of the liquor amnii. The deviations of the base of the skull in chronic hydrocephalus are described by Prescott Hewitt (‘St. George’s Hospital Reports,’ 1866). His researches have an important bearing upon diagnosis, and possibly upon obstetric practice. The deviations of the vault of the skull are obvious enough ; those of the base less so. The most interesting of the latter is that of the orbitar plates, which are either driven downwards, presenting a plane surface oblique from before backwards, or they may be perpendicular, or even convex, bulging into the orbit, so as to reduce it to a mere chink. This deviation is associated with dropsy of the ventricles. On the other hand, in arachnoideous dropsy the fluid is limited to the upper and lateral parts of the surface of the brain, and therefore cannot press upon the bones at the base. The orbital devia- tion may be recognised during life; the eyes, more or less driven out of their sockets, have a marked downward direction; a great part of the pupil is hidden beneath the lower lid, and the white of the eye is much more uncovered than usual. This is the mark of ventricular dropsy. The next important deviations are those of the middle fossae. These are most marked in the lateral regions, where, by the bulging out of the bones, the base in some cases undergoes extension and strange alterations. Sometimes a large pouch bulges outwards, and, projecting outwards into the region of the cheek, gives the appearance of the child’s cheek being blown out. Attention is directed to an essay on osteogenesis imperfecta, by Dr. Bidder (‘Mon. f. Geb.,’. 1866), as illustrating the subject of diseases of the bones in the foetus. Dr. Wilson relates the following case (‘ Glasgow Med. Journ.,’ 1866). In a child aged nine months the head measured twenty-three inches in circumference, gradually enlarged from chronic hydrocephalus. At three different times thirteen ounces of clear serum were drawn off, by tapping, from the anterior fontanelle. Tumi pressure was kept up during and after the escape by an elastic bandage. Result not stated. On the diaguosis, prognosis, and treatment of hydrocephalus. Dr. Henry Kennedy (‘Dublin Obstet. Soc.,’ 1865).—He calls attention to the similitude of the symptoms with those of typhus. In treatment he insists upon early application of leeches to the neck ; the use of calomel