68 REfORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. * ‘ Gaz. Med.,’ 37, 1866. which, transmitted to a second child, produced in each arm three pus- tules, which also were developed slowly, but became remarkably large. Some of the matter was also injected into the lymphatics in the neck of a mare. Eight days afterwards there was a superb pustular eruption in the mammary and inguinal regions, and on other parts of the body, the matter from which was successfully transmitted to an ox and a child. In some remarks on the conditions which regulate the development of primary vaccinia, M. Chauveau* sums up his memoir in the following conclusions:—i. Vaccinia in the horse must be divided into natural and spontaneous, and artificial—accidental or experimental. 2. Natural or spontaneous vaccinia shows itself on the skin of horses in the form of a general pustular eruption ; but often is almost confined to a small extent of surface, as the naso-labial region or the heel. 3. Artificial or accidental vaccination, the result of the inoculation of virus from animals having natural vaccinia, presents itself in two forms, local and general. 4. The local form of artificial vaccinia arises from the insertion of vaccine matter in the surface or in the superficial layers of the dermis, and its germination, without true incubation, on the spot. Hitherto it has not been seen in the horse to be accompanied with a secondary eruption on other parts of the body; but, still, it has a general influence on the system. 5. The characters of the general form of artificial vaccinia are completely identical with those of natural vaccinia or horse-pox. 6. The general form is never attended with the development of signs of vaccination at the points where the matter has been inserted, and the eruption does not appear until after an incubation of 8 days at least. 7. Tor the development of general vaccinia, the inoculated virus must enter the system without passing through the skin. 8. This is verified by—(a) the injection of vaccine matter into the lymphatics ; ('b) its injec- tion into the blood-vessels ; (c) by introducing it into the circulation by an absorbent surface other than the external integument. 9. The development of general vaccine is independent of the quantity of virus used, provided that quantity be appreciable. 10. The source of the virus is equally indifferent; general vaccinia may be produced with matter derived from the horse, from the cow, or from man. 11. The sex of the animal has no influence in the development of general vaccinia. 12. Age, on the contrary, appears to have a marked influence. 13. The local germination of vaccinia, in cases of cutaneous inoculation, does but imply a want of general absorption of the virus. In spite of its special affinity for the skin, it enters the circulation, and, if a general eruption be not produced at the same time with the local one, it is probably because, at the time when it should appear (the 8th day, or sooner) the skin has become insusceptible of developing an eruption. 14. If this explanation be correct, the want of power of cutaneous inoculation to produce general vaccinia cannot be regarded as absolute. 13. As the comparison of natural or spontaneous with artificial horse-pox reveals no essentially different characters between them, speciality in the mode of manifestation cannot be taken as proof of the spontaneous origin of the former. 16. This community of character furnishes, not a direct demonstration, but a well-grounded probability, of identity of origin