REPORT ON SURGERY. 346 the recurrence of the sloughing. For this purpose Dr. Packard has found nothing so good as sugar, which, being a hydrate of carbon, does not give up any oxygen to the tissues, and which is well known for its preservative powers in the case of meats and fruit. It may he applied either in the form of syrup, or, better, the wound may be covered with a thick layer of powdered white sugar. A mixture of pulverized char- coal with the sugar answers very well when the odour does not imme- diately disappear after the cleansing. Coal oil, turpentine, or any other carbo-hydrogen, if pure, would answer, but the sugar is less offensive and does not give pain. Sugar seems also to act as a prophylactic, and should he applied to wounds not yet sloughing in wards visited by the disease. It is possible that the cleansing may have to he repeated, but usually one application suffices when the whole surface can be got at. In order to prevent the spread of the disease by contagion, no wound should be dressed with the things which have been used for another. In the ‘ Amer. Journ. of the Med. Sc.,’ Jan. 1863, p. 274, is a paper by Dr. Bartholow, United States Army, extracted from the ‘ Cincinnati Lancet,’ on the subject of hospital gangrene. He divides hospital gan- grene into 2 forms—the true, transmissible by contagion, and in which the local lesion precedes the constitutional or typhoid symptoms ; and a second, the “pseudo-gangrene,” in which the sloughing depends on the constitutional cachexia dependent on some of the many depressing influences to which soldiers in the field are liable; in these cases the variety and extent of the local lesion will depend on the degree in which scorbutus and malaria have vitiated the blood. In the pseudo- gangrene the sloughs are never so extensive, the boundaries between healthy and diseased textures are more clearly marked, there is a less vivid inflammatory zone around the slough, and the gangrene spreads more slowly and equably. In the first form we may rely on topical applications, escharotics, the actual cautery, &c., the disease being originally local, while in the second form topical medication is of sub- ordinate importance, the chief point being to correct the constitutional dyscrasia. The local form of gangrene can he treated efficiently by carefully dissecting off the sloughs and cauterizing the exposed surface with bromine (though the author rather dissuades its use on account of the intense pain it produces), or nitric acid, or permanganate of potash, or chloride of zinc. But he holds the oil of turpentine to be much superior, since it will, as he says, dissolve out the sloughs and change the action of the tissue. The turpentine is to be applied on a piece of lint cut to the exact size and shape of the sore, and steeped in the oil. The borders of the wound are to he defended with sweet oil. Appendix. “ Successful Operation in a case of Subclavian Aneurism.” By A. W. Smyth, M.D., House-Surgeou, Charity Hospital, New Orleans, La. (From the ‘New Orleans Med. Record,’i, No. 1, May 15, 1866).—“Wil- liam Banks, a mulatto, born in the State of Florida, in 1832, was admitted into the Charity Hospital, New Orleans, La., on the 9th of