161 APPLICATION OP THE GRAPHIC PROCESS. confirmed by the much more extended observations of that author, as well as by those of numerous other observers ; and there is now, we believe, no doubt felt about the matter. Even those who originally charged the instrument with the manufacture of secondary elevations in the pulse-curves, which were not due to arterial movements, but simply to the oscillations of the writing-lever, apipear to be convinced of its accurate working. On the other hand, the cardiograph of Marey is open to serious theoretical objections, which have been well stated by MM. Onimus and Viry * in their papers which we shall presently analyse, and it appears doubtful whether better clinical results will not be obtained by the application of Marey’s sphygmograph over the heart itself (where it is desirable to directly explore that organ), but the ques- tion is not yet decided. The first place must be given, in the history of sphygmographic progress, to the important treatise of Dr. O. Wolff f The following is a sufficient analysis, for present purposes, of this work : All the tracings of the pulse, as obtained by Marey’s sphygmograph, agree in some properties relating to the ascent, the descent, and the vertex of the curve, and they represent, taken as a whole, an uninter- rupted series of gradually changing curves, commencing with the normal pulse in health and terminating with the pulse which is affected by pathological conditions of the highest order. The curves were produced on blackened paper, great care having been always taken that the friction between the tracing point and the paper was reduced to a minimum ; they were fixed afterwards by means of alcohol or oil of turpentine. More than 40,000 observations have furnished the ma- terial for this investigation. I. The pulse-curve of the arteria radialis.—The sphygmograph was generally applied to the artery in the space between the eminentia carpi radialis and the perceptible spine of the radius. A difference between the tracings, obtained from the radial artery of the right and of the left arm, does not exist if both limbs are in equal healthy or pathological condition. 1. The curve of all normal radial pulses, without exception, is distin- guished by its exquisitely tricrotic character, and is principally varied by the influence of frequency and intensity of the heart’s contractions, both of which are dependent on age, state of nutrition, and the condition of the arterial tube. The descending part of a pulse-curve is the most important one. It shows two negative waves or incisures, each of which is followed by a positive wave or ascent; the latter, as forming parts only of the whole curve, are called secondary waves, and the second incisure and second ascent bear respectively the name of great incisure and great ascent. A less essential ascent occurs sometimes at the bottom of the great incisure. a. The normal radial pulse in middle ape, as regards the intensity, is either large or middle or small. Allowing the sphygmograph to * ‘Robin’s Journal de l’Anatomie et de la Pliysiologie,’ Nos. 1 and 2, 1866. t ‘ Cliaracteristik der Arterien Pulses,’ Leipzig, W. Engelmann, 1865. 11