CEE-EBEO-SPINAL MENINGITIS. 57 profoundly prostrate and indifferent to external impressions that he is incapable of replying to questions, he frequently utters piteous cries of pain. At night he sleeps little, usually wanders quietly, and is often subject to hallucinations. At any moment his life may be imperilled, either by secondary affections of the lungs or other vital organs, or by a recrudescence of the primary disease. “ As complete consciousness returns, and the patient resumes his relations with the external world, he may either find that in the course of the malady he has become paralysed, or that his sight or hearing are destroyed, or, on the other hand, he may be so exquisitely sensitive that light and sound are intolerable, and all other external impressions painful. Even if he escapes these consequences, he is left in a pitiable state of muscular weakness and exhaustion, from which he very slowly recovers. “ The above description is completely applicable to those cases only in which the tendency to an early fatal termination manifests itself in the violence of the symptoms of invasion. Other cases are met with iu which, although the evidences of cerebral disturbance are, from first to last, confined to sleeplessness and night-wandering, the subsequent development of the disease is similar. In these cases the dangers and liabilities to which the patient is exposed are as serious, and the progress as tedious and exhausting, as in the others.” The headache and vomiting which almost invariably precede the occurrence of delirium (for a few hours only) are called by Sanderson “symptoms of invasion,” and he points out that at this time there is no special localisation of the pain at the back of the head. An important fact which stands out in his observations is, that the contraction of the muscles at the back of the neck, which has been so generally noticed, never in any case was so great as to deserve the name of tetanic. It appeared as if the attitude of the patient (with the trapezius contracted and the head drawn back) was merely the consequence of the severe pain in the muscles, the patient maintaining this position to ease him- self ; and this idea was borne out by an analogous attitude evidently intended to relieve painful abdominal muscles, &c. Sanderson thinks it of the utmost importance to note that, in some patients whom he saw early in the first stage (the day following delirium), there was not a trace of retraction of the neck, or of stiffness, or anything else remarkable in the muscles. The apathy or stupor into which the patient generally passes after the initial stage (with, usually, a transition period of violent delirium) is remarkable for its duration. Thus, in six patients, in whom there was violent delirium at the outset, the patients subsequently remained in a state of complete indifference to external impressions for periods vary- ing from 7 days to 5 weeks, or a mean duration of 19 days. In one case, in which stupor followed the initial stage without preliminary delirium, the apathetic state lasted 5 weeks ; the patient frequently talked inco- herently, and gradually became more and more emaciated. In several children the condition was undistinguishable from that of acute tuber- culous hydrocephalus. Several of the adult patients could be roused sufficiently to answer some questions. All through the apathy the