REPORT ON SURGERY. 194 needle through the tissues near the vessel in such a manner as to compress it. The needle may be used in one of three different manners:—i. Either the needle may be passed in and out over the mouth of the vessel so as to compress it, as a flower-stalk is fastened to the lappet of a coat; or, 2, after the needle has been passed in this way perpendicular to the course of the vessel, it may be turned through a quarter of a circle before its end is buried in the tissues ; or, 3, after the needle has been passed under or over one end of the artery, its point being still left outside the flesh, the loop of a silver or silk ligature may be cast over the point, and its other ends over the shaft of the needle, and twisted so as to compress the vessel between itself and the needle, the end of which is then thrust into the flesh. In all the plans either the end of the needle must project from the wound or, more commonly, a string connected with it must so project, and the ends of the noose of wire must also be drawn out of the wound. After a certain number of hours, varying from 6 to 48 or 72, according to the size of the artery, the needle is withdrawn by drawing on its end, or on the string attached, and this frees the loop when the latter is used. There is then no foreign body left in the wound, and Prof. Simpson gives a number of cases to prove that the latter may often, even in a considerable amputation, unite by first intention, which he justly asserts to be an impossibility under the common method, and also to show that wounds heal more rapidly and more kindly after acupressure than when the ligature is used. The method is applicable, not only as a haemostatic in surgical wounds, but also (1) as a precautionary measure in operations, which may be made comparatively bloodless by previously passing a needle under and compressing the chief artery or arteries leading to the part; (2) to compress the artery leading to an aneurism, after it has been exposed by the necessary incisions; (3) to secure the vessels in the pedicle of the tumour in ovariotomy. We must refer to Sir J. Simpson’s work for the details of these matters, which, no doubt, are known to most of our readers, our main object being to quote the experience of those who have endeavoured to follow out the recommendations of the author. Prof. Pirrie relates his experience of the method in the ‘ Med. Times and G-az.,’ July 1 and 8, 1865. After giving a minute account of the various methods in which the needle may be employed, he proceeds to tabulate 13 cases in which he has used it, viz., 6 amputations of .the thigh, 1 of the leg, 3 of the breast, 1 excision of the elbow, 1 castration, and 1 wound. Prof. Pirrie declares, in the first place, his conviction that acupressure is a perfectly reliable surgical method of checking haemorrhage. It also appears to him to have the advantages of being the quickest, the easiest of application, and the safest means yet devised for that purpose. “ That the vessels in a large amputation,” says Prof. Pirrie, “ can be acupressed in a much shorter time than they can be ligatured, I am perfectly satisfied, and in cases where every drop of blood is precious it seems to me, that to do all that can be done to preserve life, as far as saving of blood has influence, it is the duty of the surgeon in all