REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. loo the injection was passed into the carotid towards the brain. In ano- ther series they injected into one carotid towards the heart, so that the seeds might be carried to the brain by the other carotid and by the verte- brals ; in the majority of these latter experiments the embolism did not take effect in the brain, but in the arterial system of one or more of the other viscera. On another occasion they injected into an axillary artery, and on another into a crural artery. The results obtained by these experimental proceedings, and the remarks made on them by the authors, are of such a high interest and importance that no mere ana- lysis can supersede the necessity of studying their work. It will be better to state here the general results, as given in the resume with which the authors conclude. After remarking that their investigations were not intended to explore the pathology of all forms of ramollisse- ment, and that they had designedly omitted any examination of inflam- matory softening, they say—“ Experiments on animals have enabled us to produce, by means of artificial embolisms, softenings of the brain identical with those which are seen in man, and to follow the process in its different stages. We have thus been able to study the hyper- semia of the commencement, the necrobiotic degeneration which suc- ceeds, and finally the production of connective tissue and the formation of the plagues jaunes which belong to the third stage of ramollissc- ment Eollowing the advice of M. Yulpian, who had already produced in a dog well-defined softening of the cerebellum, we were able to make experiments which, as they did not suddenly kill the animal, allowed us to follow the morbid process in its whole development, and to compare with it the embolisms which in many of our experiments were simultaneously produced in the viscera. We have established— that a manifest congestion is always produced in the parts to which the obliterated artery is distributed, and we have shown that, in the present state of science, it is difficult to explain the cause of this hypersemia. Whatever may be its mechanical cause, this fact suffices to prove that the hyperajmia of red softening, from which people have argued to the inflammatory nature of this affection, must be considered to be of quite a different nature. We were able to seize the very commencement of the process of molecular death, and to show that from the 3rd day there exist well-marked granular bodies, and a great many fat-granules'not as yet agglomerated, and which enclose the capillary vessels like a sheath. Even the walls of the capillaries sometimes presented a consecutive granular fatty degeneration, and in 1 case dissecting aneurisms. Eiually, in a dog which survived the operation for 5 weeks we observed the necrobiotic process terminate in the formation of a plaque jaune (process of cicatrization) on the surface of the convolutions. The analysis of our observations (clinical studies at the Salpetriere, where ramollissement is extremely common, in the services of MM. Charcot and Yulpian) has enabled us to identify cerebral softening consisting in an analogous morbid process to that which we had studied in dogs. This molecular death of cerebral tissue has seemed almost constantly explicable by embarrassments of circulation, of which the starting-point was variable according to the case, and we have established the fact of a certain relation between the different species of these embarrassments