LOCAL ANESTHESIA. 199 mometer within thirty seconds to four degrees below zero—the result that was desired. “Ascertaining this truth, I instructed Messrs. Krohne and Sese- raann to construct a proper apparatus. It consists simply of a graduated bottle for holding ether; through a perforated cork a double tube is inserted, one extremity of the inner part of which goes to the bottom of the bottle. Above the cork a little tube, connected with a hand-bellows, pierces the outer part of the double tube, and communi- cates by means of the outer part, by a small aperture, with the interior of the bottle. The inner tube for delivering the ether runs upward nearly to the extremity of the outer tube. Now, when the bellows are worked, a double current of air is produced, one current descending and pressing upon the ether, forcing it along the inner tube, and the other ascending through the outer tube, and playing upon the column of ether as it escapes through the fine jet. By having a series of jets to fit on the lower part of the inner tube, the volume of ether can be mode- rated at pleasure ; and by having a double tube for the admission of air, and two pairs of hand-bellows, the volume of ether and of air can be equally increased with pleasure, and with the production of a degree of cold six below zero. “ By this simple apparatus, at any temperature of the day and at any season, the surgeon has thus in his hand a means for producing cold even six degrees below zero; and by directing the spray upon a half- inch test-tube containing water, he can produce a column of ice in two minutes at most. Further, by this modification of Siegle’s apparatus he can distribute fluids in the form of spray into any of the cavities of the body—into the bladder, for instance, by means of a spray-catheter, or into the uterus by a uterine spray-catheter. “ When the ether spray thus produced is directed upon the outer skin, the skin is rendered insensible within a minute ; but the effects do not end here. So soon as the skin is divided the ether begins to exert on the nervous filaments the double action of cold and of etheri- zation ; so that the narcotism can be extended deeply to any desired extent. Pure rectified ether, used in this manner, is entirely nega- tive ; it causes no irritation, and may be applied to a deep wound, as I shall show, without any danger. I have applied it direct to the mucous membrane of my own eye, after first chilling the ball with the lid closed. “ I wish it to be distinctly understood that at the present moment I only introduce the method here described for the production of super- ficial local anaesthesia. It is, I believe, applicable to a large number of minor operations, for which the more dangerous agent, chloroform, is now commonly employed ; I mean such operations as tooth extraction, tying naevus, tying piles, incising carbuncles, opening abscesses, putting in sutures, removing small tumours, removing the toe-nail, dividing tendons, operating for fistula, removing cancer of the lip, and other similar minor operations, which I need not mention. The process may also be applied to reduce local inflammation. “ In course of time, and guided by experience and the advancement of science, we may, however, expect more. If an anaesthetic fluid of