77 CONSTITUTIONAL SYPHILIS. to understand that some cases must be hopeless; e. g. thrombosis or obliteration of a large cerebral artery has, perhaps, caused extensive ramollissement and hemiplegia, an affection which must be equally serious whatever its cause may have been. The following are the spe- cial points of prognosis:—i. Age. Young subjects are the most easily and frequently cured. 2. Strong and healthy looking patients are less likely than more cachectic ones to suffer from secondary deposits in the liver, the kidneys, &c. 3. Repeated infections of syphilis, and frequent and severe courses of treatment, render the cure of a subsequent paralysis more difficult. Rapid and quasi-apoplectic attacks, and those in which the paralysis is extensive and profound, are of worse prognosis than those in which its development is gradual and slow. 5. In the latter kind, however, the prognosis remains uncertain where the palsy has lasted long, e. g. for several years. 6. The combination of mental disturbance and convulsive attacks with the hemiplegia is ominous, as indicating, probably, extensive disease, not only of the brain, but of its membranes. The author speaks hopefully of the results of treatment. Either mercury or iodine was the remedy used in all the cases (except 1) which were cured or improved. Besides the paralytic affections which may result from syphilitic brain disease, certain mental affections are sometimes observed. Jaksch reckons three groups of cases :— 1. General paralysis, with mental symptoms like those of the disease commonly known by this name. 2. Loss of muscular energy, uni- versally, without any affection of intellectual activity. 3. Palsy of all the extremities, with perfect power of the facial and ocular muscles, &c., and undisturbed mental activity. In the first form post-mortem examination shows especially either extensive softening of the cortical substance or else atrophy of the same, with reticulated fibrous adhesions to the membranes. In some cases there was softening, with or with- out gummy deposits, partly in the anterior lobes, and partly in the cen- tral ganglia; in 1 case atrophy of the white substance of the hemi- sphere. In a case of the second variety there was softening of the pons, and thickly scattered deposits in the arachnoid of the brain and cord; in a case of the third variety there was softening of the cervical and lumbar portions of the cord, and no brain lesion. The age of the patients ranged from 23 to 58 years; only 5 were females. As a rule, the paralytic symptoms were only developed after several years’ existence of constitutional syphilis. Only 5 cases were cured, and 1 improved. Einally, Jaksch notices that diabetes is an occasional result of syphilis of the brain. The author thinks that the frequent mention, by certain authors, of cures of diabetes by mercury can only be explained in this way. He thinks that the syphilitic process sometimes affects the floor of the fourth ventricle, and produces symptomatic diabetes, equivalent to that which was artificially produced by Bernard in his well-known experiments. Dr. Tanturri* recognises two forms of acne, the glandular and the follicular, and says that constitutional syphilis may manifest itself in * ‘II Morgagni,’ and ‘Gaz. Med. de Paris,’ Feb. 24, 1866.