ANGINA PECTORIS. 171 pledgets of lint or pieces of wood, &c., under the brasswork, so as to ease off the pressure, in taking very weak pulses. The demonstration by Wolff of the existence of two secondary elevations m the normal radial pulse, which was accomplished by his improved mode of application, derives additional interest and importance from the explorations of the carotid (first systematically carried out by Dr. Burdon-Sanderson), which have shown that the “grosse Incisur” of Wolff corresponds to the closure of the aortic valves, while the systolic portion of the curve may be occupied by one or several elevations, which are due to “ percussion-waves,” the occurrence of which is favoured by a low arte- rial tension in proportion to the heart-force. Another observation of practical importance, which has been made independently by Wolff and myself, is that the highly significant trace (under proper precautions) of delayed systole (the square-headed trace) may be spuriously manu- factured by the instrument under either of two circumstances—(a) too great friction between pen and paper, and (b) too great resistance by the check-spring. The mistake may be easily avoided, but it is very neces- sary for us to be aware of its possibility. For my own part, I have come to the conclusion that the check-spring is quite useless, and have abandoned it. The diseases in which it is now evident that the sphygmograph will prove of the greatest diagnostic value are these :—In aortic regurgita- tion, by estimating the amount of valvular imperfection ; in discovering unsuspected commencing cardiac hypertrophy, senile disease of arte- ries, or capillary disease dependent on degenerative processes in the ultimate tissues; and, above all, in discovering the existence of intra- thoracic aneurisms, and in deciding the locality of an aneurism. A striking example of the correctness of the instrument’s indications in this respect is recorded in the “ Hospital Mirror” of the ‘ Lancet,’* where I was able confidently to say, from a comparison of the two radial pulses, that an aneurism bulging the anterior triangle of the neck was not subclavian or axillary, but arose from the aorta or innominata. The post-mortem revealed the truth of this diagnosis. Another branch of sphygmography which as yet has hardly been worked much, so far as I know, is its application to prognosis and to decisions as to treatment in the course of acute diseases. The results of a series of observations which I have made in fever, pericarditis, pneumonia, and especially in delirium tremens, are important; but they can- not be explained in a brief abstract, and they will shortly be presented to the profession in some lectures which I am to give at the Boyal Col- lege of Physicians. It is enough to say here that the use of the instru- ment in these diseases appears to give far the most reliable indications which can be obtained as to the patient’s chance of life in certain critical states, and also the best indications as to whether alcohol and some other important remedies will be useful or hurtful.—F. E. Anstie.] Angina Pectoris. Dr. Philippf gives an account of a remarkable case of paroxysmal * ‘ Lancet,’ i, 1866. f ‘Berlin. Klin. Woclienseh.,’ 4, 1865.