BLOOD-STAINS. 461 found, aud to place it on a glass slide, adding a few drops of the liquid. At the end of three hours the fragment of tissue may he removed, and the liquid is then to he examined with a microscope, when any blood-corpuscles that may he present will be detected. The exact diameter of those which are least altered in form is to be determined; and the mean of these determinations, if it approaches the normal dia- meter of fresh human blood-corpuscles, will decide the medico-legal question. Roussin admits, however, that endosmosis aud exosmosis cannot always be completely avoided, so that the exact diameter of the corpuscles may differ slightly from that of recent blood-discs. More- over, the corpuscles are never so well-defined as those which have under- gone no change. With reference to the distinctions between human blood and that of the lower animals, M. Roussin thinks that when the mean diameter of the corpuscles is considerably smaller than that of the human blood-discs, and when the corpuscles themselves present no alteration in form, it may be asserted that the stain does not appear to consist of human blood. But even though the mean diameter of the discs should be exactly of a millimetre, the expert should neverthe- less hesitate, and should not affirm that the Hood is human. In conclusion, M. Roussin gives two cases which have come under his own observation. One is that of a man accused of murder, on whose blouse some blood-stains were found, of which he could give no satisfactory account. The microscope, however, showed that the discs in these stains were oval in form; and as some fish-scales were found adhering to one of the spots, it was concluded that the blood itself was that of a fish. The other case was one in which a woman, who was accused of mutilating a man, asserted that some blood-stains on her pet- ticoat came from a fowl. The discs in these stains were found to be cir- cular in shape, and therefore MM. Tardieu and Roussin, who examined them, deposed that the blood certainly was not that of a bird, although they could not swear that it was human. The application of spectrum-analysis to the detection of blood has already been alluded to in the ‘Year-Book’ for 1864.* This method of investigating the nature of stains supposed to consist of blood has, how- ever, since undergone great improvement. In the first place, Prof. Stokesf has shown that the optical properties of solutions containing blood are greatly modified by the addition of oxidizing or deoxidizing agents. The substance which gives the dark lines described by Hoppe is easily decomposed by hot water, alcohol, or weak acids, and his method would therefore often be inapplicable. This substance—the natural colouring matter of blood—is not the same as the haematin of Lecanu, and gives dark lines differing from those yielded by the latter. As it has hitherto received no distinctive name, Prof. Stokes proposes to call it cruorine. Cruorine, like haematin itself, may exist in two states of oxidation, distinguishable by a difference of colour and a fundamental difference in their action on the spectrum. To these varieties he gives the names of scarlet and purple cruorine respectively. It is not possible, in the limited space at my disposal, to give details as to the differential * Page 445. f ‘ Proc. of tlie Roy. Soc.,’ xiii, p. 355.