389 POSITIONS OF THE FCETUS. the examinations of 3 23 primiparse, and 363 multiparse in the hospital of Professor Spaeth. In 57'6 per cent, the position underwent no change; in 42'4 per cent, there was a change. His results are thus summed UP: . . . . 1. Boys change positions much more frequently than girls, and this is more frequent in first than in subsequent pregnancies. 2. Change is more frequent in multiparae, and stability is in proportion more frequent in primiparse. 3. The greater the age of the woman the more probable is change of position, and especially is this the case in primiparse in the latter weeks of gestation. 4. The frequency of change increases with the number of the preceding pregnancies. 5. Of all positions, the cranial are least liable to change. 6. Changes are most frequent during the last quarter of pregnancy, the more the epoch of labour is remote; especially do all positions exhibit least stability in the penultimate month. 7. The finding of a void, or at least a badly developed fornix vaginse, with or without bydramnios, makes a change of position at a later period extremely probable. 8. Narrow pelves very frequently cause change of position. 9. Circum- volutions of the umbilical cord are the consequences of changes of position. 10. A too short cord appears to favour change. 11. All changes of position seem to tend towards the production of cranial positions. 12. Cranial positions mostly change only their presenta- tions; thus, the change into first cranial is most frequent. 13. From cranial position the change is almost always into face-positions of the same kind. 14. Out of cranial positions breech-positions may arise. 13. Face-positions arise more frequently during pregnancy than during labour, and these may change during pregnancy; if so, always into cranial positions, and mostly of the same kind. 16. Tore- head-presentations are only transition positions between cranial and face. 17. Forehead-positions arise more frequently during pregnancy than during labour. 18. Breech-positions also arise more frequently during pregnancy. 19. Breech-positions mostly change by the culbute to cranial positions. 20. Oblique positions are especially liable to change. 21. Oblique and cross positions most pass into the long axis by spontaneous evolution. 22. Self-evolution is a very frequent resort of nature. 23. Cranial, and especially the first cranial, are the most stable positions. 24. In every change of position the tendency is clear towards the most natural positions. These results confirm those arrived at from similar researches by Crede. Yalenta says that, like Hecker, he has found changes both upon the long and transverse axis of the child, more frequent during pregnancy than during labour. His method of determining a breech-position during pregnancy he thus describes:—He lays his right hand flat on the fundus uteri, and then strikes the tips of the fingers as suddenly as possible towards the cavity of the uterus, against the part of the child lying at the fundus. By this manoeuvre he has always succeeded in recognising the head by its peculiar hardness and evenness if lying at the fundus. He detects the head in oblique and cross positions in the same manner. P. Muller (‘Monatsschr. f. Geburtsk.,’ 1865) relates a casein which, within five days, a complete version of the foetus was effected six times.