38 REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICIME. arrived in consequence of liis inquiries:—i. It is impossible to check the spread of typhus in a crowded locality, without taking away the patients from their own homes. 2. The admission of such cases to the wards of a general hospital must impair the advantages of such an insti- tution, by necessarily restricting the number of beds it might otherwise contain. 3. No general hospital in the United Kingdom is fitted, by its construction, for the admission of such cases into the wards with other patients. 4. No hospital regulations are possible which could prevent the spread of typhus, if admitted into general wards. 5. The death-rate of typhus is lower when such cases are separated than when they are mixed with others. 6. In the former case the tendency to the spread of the disease among other patients is materially diminished. 7. By treating typhus cases in special fever hospitals, although the danger to officials is very great, yet the danger to the community is much lessened, from the fact that the number of attendants affected, compared with the number of cases treated, is very small. 8. Under certain regulations, the danger to the nurses in such special hospitals may be lessened. 9. It follows that typhus cases are better treated in the general wards of an hospital than at their own homes ; better still in isolated wards of a general hospital than when mingled with other patients ; best of all in separate institutions, with an entirely distinct staff of officers. 10. In a separate institution, situated on a high ground, with 1750 cubic feet of air for each patient, a large lateral space between the beds, and good ventilation and drainage, the death- rate of typhus, though varying according to the idiosyncrasy of the epidemic, may be considerably diminished. Dr. Keith Anderson,* from a daily examination of the urinary excre- tion in six typhus-fever patients in the Edinburgh Boyal Infirmary, found, as a general result, that in all the cases the quantity of urea excreted daily during the second week was decidedly below the standard of health, notwithstanding that the patient was in a state of high fever, with temperature and pulse above the normal rate. This differs, he says, from the results obtained by Dr. Parkes. He considers that the causative relation of retention of urea to less nervous symptoms in typhus fever and other diseases is supported by the fact that in his cases these symptoms were most intense while the urea excretion was lowest, and that their improvement coincided with or followed an in- crease in that secretion. Dr. Da Costa f describes an invasion of typhus in Pennsylvania, which presented somewhat unusual symptoms. The affection may begin with a chill, followed by fever, which continues without remission. But in many cases pain in the back and limbs, loss of appetite, and diarrhoea, precede the fever; they last after it has set in, and are some- times associated with epistaxis. Tongue dry, face flushed, eyes watery. Prostration, dulness of hearing, and mental hebetude, but, in early stages at least, rarely delirium. Between the 4th and 7th day an eruption appears on thighs, abdomen, and chest, more rarely on the arms; at first much modified by pressure, afterwards little influenced by it, and persisting till the defervescence. At the beginning of the * ‘Edin. Med. Journal,’ Feb. i86f-. f ‘Amer. Journ. Med. Sciences,’Jan. 1866,