203 REPORT ON SURGERY. bony cylinder. The condition of the bone beneath the glenoid cavity conid not be exactly ascertained, but the rounded shape of the shoulder was restored. The movements of the arm were considerable, so that she could put the hand to the head, dress herself, separate the elbow from the side more than 3 inches, and project the hand to a distance of a foot and a half, drawing it back with almost as much force as on the sound side. Movements of rotation were already perceptible. It is not said whether the wound wTas healed. In his remarks on this case M. Ollier dwells on the importance of preserving the muscles and tendons in their natural connection with the periosteal sheath, in order to avoid their retraction and their assuming new relations. Thus, even if regeneration fails, the ultimate result will be more satisfactory than in operations after the usual method. In the case related M. Ollier expects that the regeneration will eventually be even more complete; but, as it is, he advances it as a proof that in men, as in animals, the bone may be entirely regenerated from the periosteum; and he asserts that in some parts of the limbs this regeneration may be expected to be even more perfect in the human species, inasmuch as men can tolerate the necessary apparatus, which animals cannot. A case is reported by Dr. Cutter, in the ‘American Journal of the Medical Sciences,’ Jan. 1866, p. 142, in which six inches of the tibia •were removed on account of hospital gangrene following on gunshot •wound. The wound had originally perforated the tibia without frac- turing it. The report of the case is so loosely worded, that it is hardly possible to be certain about the following important particulars:—1. The operation, according to the dates given, was done 3 months and a half after the injury ; but this is rendered uncertain by the statement, dated the day of operation, that “ patient has gained greatly in strength during the last few months,” leading to the suspicion of misprint in one of the dates of the years. 2. The piece of bone removed is not described ; but it is left to be inferred that it comprised the whole thickness of the bone (the words are, “ it measured six inches in length, the size of the entire tibia). 3. The amount of reparation is only described by the terms “ an involucrum”—a “ thin shell of bone.” 4. It is not stated whether the bone removed was still fixed, or was separated. The latter would almost be inferred from the following expression:—“ Dour inches of the tibia [were] uncovered and protruding from the granulations.” Still, though obscurely worded, the case may probably be taken as one of subperiosteal resection. The ‘ Gazette Medicale de Paris,’ Peb. 4, 1865, contains a review, by Dr. Sarazin, of Strasbourg, of a Spanish work by Dr. D. Juan Creus-y- Manzo on subperiosteal x-esection. The general physiological and sur- gical conclusions of this author, as to the functions of the periosteum in health and after operation, as stated by his reviewei’, we do not think it necessary to reproduce, since they merely embody the usual opinions on the subject. Two observations, on which both the author and reviewer lay much stress, are the following:—“ The more the pei’ios- tcum has suffered, the less complete and regular the reproduction will