LIGATURE OF INNOMINATE; CAROTID; AND VERTEBRAL ARTERIES. 349 lint over the wound and added the paper weight used before as ad- ditional security. “ In the morning, on visiting the wards, I was surprised to find him fanning himself; he was very pale, his pulse was 140 and weak, his voice, however, was strong, and he observed that if the bleeding could only be stopped he would yet do well. “ In endeavouring to discover the probable source of haemorrhage I found, on referring to Mr. Erichsen’s work on surgery, a great deal of valuable information on this question, which led me to form a most important practical conclusion regarding it. In the chapter on aneurism of the subclavian,* after giving statistics of ligature of this artery in the first part of its course, Mr. Erichsen says—‘ This table is, to my mind, conclusive as to the merits of the operation, the patient having in every case but one been carried off by secondary haemorrhage from the distal side of the ligature, in consequence of the close prox- imity of numerous collateral branches ; and in this exceptional case the operation, although performed with the utmost delicacy and skill, proving fatal from pericarditis and pleurisy before the period at which secondary hemorrhage might have been expected. Mr. Liston in one case ligatured the root of the common carotid as well as that of the subclavian,’ an operation very analogous to the present, ‘ hoping in this way to diminish the risk of the supervention of this fatal hemorrhage by arresting the current of blood which, by sweeping into the carotid, passed the mouth of the subclavian, necessarily washed away any coagulum that would otherwise have formed in this artery. But his expectations were not realised, hemorrhage taking place as usual, and from that portion of the (subclavian) artery which lay on the distal side of the ligature, the blood having been carried into this part of the vessel in a retrograde course through the connection existing between its vessels arising from it at this point and those on the opposite side of the head and neck.’ “ It is evident, on examination of these vessels, that the vertebral is by far the most important, from its size and communication with its fellow of the opposite side, in carrying on this fatal retrograde current, and its direct connection with the brain offers an explanation for the peculiarly rapid occurrence of syncope after bleeding, so well marked in the ^present case. In this way, no doubt, haemorrhage was arrested in previous cases, for its repetition has been a striking feature in al- most all of them. “ The danger of secondary haemorrhage to be apprehended from a collateral branch carrying on the anastomosing circulation close to the distal side of the ligature has also been noticed by Mr. Erichsen. “ In mentioning the accidents after ligature, he remarks!—‘ I think, however, that the presence of a collateral branch in close proximity to the distal side of the ligature—more especially if it be one that serves to carry on the anastomosing circulation—will be found to have a de- cided tendency to prevent the formation of an internal coagulum.’ “ That the vertebral carries on almost the entire anastomosing circu- * Eng. ed., p. 564, Am., p. 549. f Eng. ed., p. 157, Am., p. 171.