30 RE POUT OR PHYSIOLOGY, ETC. sugar takes place rapidly after death. Feeding the animals with sugar, c and with food containing much hydrocarbonaceous matter, he found e greatly increases the proportion of fat and glycogene substance in the t liver, not by tbe absolute conversion of the sugar ingested into glycogene, a which is chemically difficult to understand; but in consequence of the sugar ingested being destroyed in the blood, there is a “ sparing" of I other easily oxidizable materials, and hence a storing up of fat and 1 glycogene in the liver; whilst the opposite occurs when an insufficiency ii of carbo-hydrates is given. o Dr. Robert McDonnell (‘ Observations on the Functions of the o Liver,’ pamphlet, Dublin, 1865) has proposed another theory of the \ origin of the glycogene substance of the liver, maintaining that since i the blood which enters the liver is rich in fibrine and albumen, whilst 1 that which leaves it is poor in these materials, a breaking up of them t takes place into secondary hydrocarbonaceous- compounds, which are 0 partly eliminated by the bile-ducts and are partly stored up as glyco- a gene; and into nitrogenous compounds, which reunite with the hydro- carbonaceous amyloid substance, and leave the liver as a newly formed 1 proteic compound, partly, perhaps, as globuline and partly as a material \ resembling caseine or albuminose. a Michael Foster (‘Proceedings of the Royal Society,’ No. 79, 1865) ] has found glycogene in the tissues of the round worm (Ascaris lum- \ Iricoides. t ■ F. Gfrohe (‘Virchow’s Archiv,’ Bd. 32, Heft 4, p, 401, Taf 11, figs. 1—7) has paid much attention to the movements of the sperma- tozoa, which he believes to be effected by a contractile substance, 1 especially abundant in the head of the animaculse, and which is invested by a structureless membrane. He believes that, on contraction taking place in the head, a corresponding enlargement takes place near the root of the tail, which may even exceed the head in size. He thinks the structureless membrane and the contents may best be distinguished by the action of aniline, which colours the latter of a deep red tint. Schweigger-Siedel (‘Schultze’s Archiv,’ Bd. 1, 4, 309) and Lavalette St. i George (ibid., p. 403) deny the existence of the movements above t described ; and Bizzozero (‘Annali Universali,’ vol. 187), who has found 1 the spermatozoa to behave exactly like ciliated cells when exposed to various reagents, thinks the movements are essentially effected by the 1 tail. 1 Henle (‘Anatomie des Menschen,’ p. 337) observes that, whilst the ( spermatozoa retain their vitality even in extreme old age, they are fre- 1 quently absent in the seminal fluid of those suffering under disease. ( This observation has been supported by Mantegazza and Bozzi in 88 ] cases of various forms of disease. On examination of the testes the spermatozoa were found to be deficient in both in 12 cases, and in one j ; testes in 9; whilst this could only be referred to degeneration of the testes in 2 cases. i Schweigger-Siedel (‘Max Schultze’s Archiv f. Microscop. Anat.,’ Bd. 1, p. 309) believes that he has been able to follow the development of the seminal animalcules, and can state definitely that they do not proceed, as Kolliker maintains, from the nuclei of cells, but that they