REPORT OH MIDWIFERY^ ETC. 403 the uterus, i of epithelioma iu the rectum, i of cancer of the left kidney, and 4 are cases in which uterine was complicated with extra- uterine pregnancy. Large steatoma of the uterus in a pregnant woman. Ostertag (‘ Ztschr. f. Wundarzte u. Geburtsk.,’ 1865). The patient had suffered from repeated haemorrhages during pregnancy, and copious flooding attended labour. After birth the uterus retained its bulk. Attempt was made to detach the placenta; but owing to the interposition of the tumour, this could not be done. On the fourth day very foul discharge began, under which the woman quickly sank. Autopsy.—The uterus had undergone steatomatous degeneration from the left edge of the os uteri as far as the fundus, and across as far as the upper third of the right wall downwards. At the fundus it was three inches thick, and there were three or four outgrowths projecting on the outer surface. The placenta adhered over an extensive surface by vascular connections that could not be separated. Its surface had passed into purulent degene- ration. There were several melanotic knots in the mass of the steatoma. The weight of the uterus was ten pounds. A case of pregnancy, complicated with a tumour occupying nearly the entire pelvis. Dr. Beatty (1866). A case of fibrous tumour of the uterus attended by early pregnancy ; retroversion of the uterus and retention of urine; death and decay of the foetus, and subsequently death of the mother from pyaemia. Dr. Hall Davis (‘ Obstet. Trans.,’ vii, 1865). Prof. Breslau relates (‘ Mon. f. Geburtsk.,’ 1865) a case of uterine fibroid complicated with pregnancy. The tumour filled the pelvis, and was immovable, leaving only a narrow space behind the pubes where the finger could pass. It was necessary to resort to Caesariau section. The child was saved. The uterus contracted, but did not sink into the pelvis. It was infiltrated with large and small tumours. She died twenty-two hours after the operation. Prof. Breslau refers to 4 cases in which labour passed without special difficulty and, indeed, well; to 7 cases without difficulty in labour, but with unfortunate result, either immediately afterwards or during childbed; to 5 cases in which the fibroid obstructing labour could be replaced; to 9 cases in which repo- sition did not succeed, was not attempted, or did not appear called for, but in which operative assistance was necessary ; to 8 cases in which Caesarian section, either at once or after other operations had failed, was resorted to, all the mothers dying; to 3 cases in which the mothers died undelivered. Hecker (‘Mon. f. Geburtsk.,’ 1863) replaced a large uterine fibroid growing from the posterior wall, and then was enabled to deliver by forceps. The patient recovered. In another case the patient gave the idea of a large uterus bicornis; there was a deep depression at the fundus. In either enlargement there was an elastic feel, simulating child and liquor amnii; both contracted with each labour-pain, and on either side the foetal heart was heard. A seven-months child was delivered by turning on account of prolapsus of the cord. Bleeding followed, and, twin-pregnancy being still suspected, the hand was intro- duced, when a large tumour was felt. On the third day the tumour