432a THE INFANT. hip-joint, concussion of the brain, eclampsia, urticaria, miliaria, chronic vom iting, eclampsia, m eningitis, intestinal catarrh, bronchitis, tuberculosis, Bright’s disease, hydrocehaploid, jaundice, pseudo-croup. On the dropsies of childhood. By Dr. Pasquali (‘ Annali Univ. di Med. Milan,’ 1866). Post-scarlatinal dropsy, without albuminuria. G. Stevenson Smith (‘ Dubl. Med. Press,’ 1866) relates three cases. New observations on subcutaneous emphysema. Dr. H. Roger (‘ Journ. f. Kinderk.,’ 1865).—Dr. Roger has explained the occurrence of emphysema in children. As in herbivorous animals emphysema may arise from wounds in the alimentary canal, which admit air into the cellular tissue, so in man. Damarquay relates a case in which emphysema followed an operation for fistula in ano- The natural opening of the anus being closed by adhesions, the gas in the intestine was forced into the cellular tissue of the perinseum and thence up- wards under the skin of the abdomen. Roger relates a similar case. After death two perforations of a tuberculous nature were found in the caecum. The following relate to the rearing of infants : Dr. A. M. Ballot (‘Nederl. Tijdschr. v. Geneesk.,’ 1865) advocates buttermilk as food for infants. In this he follows the practice of Prof. Simon Thomas. The advantages contended for are the greater digesti- bility and the more easy preparation than Liebig’s artificial milk. Dr. Robert Kiittner, of Dresden (‘ Journ. f. Kinderk.,’ xlvi, 1866) contributes a memoir on the appetite and food of infants. Dr. van der Corput (‘Journ. de Med., &c., Brux.,’ 1866), adverting to Liebig’s artificial milk, says it is to the real milk no more than what a dead body is to the living one. A milk more resembling human milk may be prepared by adding to one pint of cow’s milk t 5 grammes of white sugar and o'jo centigramme of bicarbonate of potass. On the nourishment of new-born infants. See an article, * Journ. f. Kinderkr.,’ xlvii, 1866. On the artificial rearing of children by milk. By Dr. Falger (‘ Vir- chow’s Archiv,’ 1866).—Dr. Palger refers to the researches of Dr. v. Hessling (‘ Virchow’s Archiv) and Pasteur as to the ready develop- ment of fungi in milk. He cites the observations which show that the casein in stale cheese was gradually lost, until, after some months, as the “cheese ripened,” the nitrogenous element had entirely disap- peared, and the cheese had turned into fat. He shows that fungi easily get into milk, and not only impair its digestibility, but, by being transported to the mucous membrane of the mouth of the infant, become developed in the aphthous secretion. He adverts to the numerous experiments made to secure milk from turning sour, and shows the unsatisfactory result. His aim was to obtain milk as nearly as possible in the natural condition, and especially to give it as quickly as possible after milking. But to get fresh milk several times a day is difficult. He therefore sought to preserve the milk from access of oxygen, and to keep it at the same temperature as it had before milking. In the case of a premature child, which was falling off from bad nourishment, with aphthous sores in the mouth, colic-like 27*