115 CEREBRAL HEMIPLEGIA. of the right side. The temperature of the palsied parts was ou the average i '3° Ceut. below that of the other side, and sometimes the difference was as much as 40 Cent. In a second case there was complete hemiplegia, loss of motion and sensation, impairment of intelligence, contraction of the pupil on the palsied side, and an entire absence of all reflex excitability of the paralysed muscles. The temperature of the paralysed side was constantly from 4-° to i° Cent, higher than that of the other side. The case terminated fatally in 3 months, and after death softening of the brain-substance external to the left lateral ventricle was discovered. These a cases will serve to explain the conclusion which Uspensky draws from his whole series of observations, and from some experiments which he has made on animals. He believes that there are vaso- motor centres in the brain (and probably in the situation of the soft- ening in the second case above related). In the first of the 2 cases now quoted he supposes that there was an irritation of the vaso- motor centre, and consequent anaemia and low temperature of the dependent portions of the body; in the second case, on the contrary, there was paralysis of the vaso-motor centres and hypersemia, with increased temperature of the dependent parts. The experimental part of Uspensky’s researches, however, gives hut feeble support to his deduc- tions from this pathological fact. Dr. Wilks* makes some remarks ou the vexed question whether paralysis may be caused by disease of the surface of the hemispheres (especially instancing the case of arachnitis), without affection of the central ganglia. He thinks that there is considerable evidence in favour of the possibility of this. He also instances a case in which there was hemiplegia, with febrile symptoms, but without distinctive signs of arachnitis, and in which after death the whole cineritious matter of the affected hemisphere was found to be in process of disintegration. He observes that in the case of arachnitis with hemiplegia there is always room to doubt whether the central ganglia are not also diseased, and instances 2 eases in which this was found to have occurred. [In connection with this question of the possibility of hemiplegia without central disease, it will be henceforward important to remember Laborde’s assertion, above quoted,! that superficial brain disease often appears to depend on primary central disease, and that it may be this is always the case, though the latter affection is overlooked.] Dr. Hughlings JacksonJ has some remarks on hemiplegia from disease of the pons. The chief means of diagnosis are the facts supplied by paralysis of certain cranial nerves. He refers to a case which he has recorded in the ‘ London Hospital Keports,’ in which there was paralysis of the left arm and leg and of the right facial nerve, and deafness on the right side. The right pupil was contracted. He relates 2 fresh cases ; in the first the paralysis passed off, in the second it was prominent. The following are the particulars of the second case:—Ann B—, set. 54, an out-patient of the London Hospital, September, 1864. The whole of the face on the right side was paralysed, the arm and leg on the left. The right external rectus was paralysed. There was also rolling of * 1 Guv’s IIosp. Rep.,’ loc. cit. f Vide supra, p. 107. t ‘London llosp. Rep.,’ ii, 1865.