REPORT ON SURGERY. 258 fragments of bone. The splinters, were removed, care being taken to separate, cleanly, those which were not quite isolated, from the soft parts and periosteum. At last a piece of the whole thickness of the fibula, an inch in length, was removed. A plaster of Paris splint was applied, though with great difficulty, in consequence of the mobility of the parts; four holes were cut in it, corresponding to the incisions, which were kept open with oiled lint. The traumatic fever was much lessened by the operation; but new abscesses formed, and the splint had to be removed, and the limb put up in a fracture-box. The patient suffered so much, however, from pain on motion, that the plaster of Paris apparatus was resumed, being removed from time to time as it became necessary. The patient had previously suffered from hsemate- mesis, and this recurred twice after the operation, and nearly proved fatal. Notwithstanding this complication, the wounds were all per- fectly healed by the end of August, and in October the limb had acquired sufficient solidity to enable the patient to go on crutches. On January io, 1865, the patient was exhibited to the Medical Society of Berlin, together with the portion of bone removed. The limb was shortened if in., the bone removed was replaced by a mass of bone, exceeding the natural thickness of the tibia; there was a dubious trace of flexibility in the middle of the part operated on. The patient had left off his crutches, and could walk a mile without difficulty, wearing a high-heeled shoe. Dr. Liicke, professor of surgery'in Berne, has also contributed a case- of the same nature, but hardly so illustrative of this part of the subject, in his ‘ Aphorisms of Military Surgery from the Practice of the Second Schleswig-Holstein "War,1 p. 126. “ Gunshot-wound of the Tibia'; resection.”—A soldier had shot himself one and a half inch above the internal malleolus of the right tibia. The ball was not found. The fracture of the tibia was comminuted, and some small splinters were removed at the time. The fibula was simply fractured. A fenestrated plaster splint was applied; when lie was first'seen, in May [the date of the injury is not given], the wound was healthy, and a small portion of necrosed bone was felt exposed. As the wound would not heal, and the exposed surface of the bone became larger, the apparatus was removed (when the fracture was found to be healed), chloroform was given, a long incision made, and the injured parts laid bare. A large piece of necrosed bone was found, continuous above with the sound bone, and below imbedded in new formations from the periosteum. The periosteum was separated by means of an elevator, and the bone removed with the keyhole saw; in doing which it became clear that it was already in great part loose. It was two inches in length, and comprised the whole thickness of the tibia. The fracture was thus reproduced, for the thin plates of new bone were insufficient to hold the bone together. The fenestrated plaster of Paris splint was reapplied. In the beginning of July the wound was much contracted, and an extensive reproduction of bone could be felt. In the beginning of November the patient was seen walking as well as a sound man, and it seemed as if the tibia at the seat of operation was even stronger than before.