REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 92 sciousness for an hour and a half. A similar attack occurred 6 weeks later, and it was repeated, with varying intervals, up to her admission to the hospital, November, 1863. There had been scybalous motions throughout her illness, and for the last year some difficulty in making water. Immediately after her first attack she had begun to suffer from weakness and trembling of the hands, which gradually increased. A year later the head became similarly affected, but this only lasted 3 months ; the tremor of the limbs and staggering gait prevented her attending to business. No pain or abnormal sensations, except the stomach spasms. The patient was a slight and graceful woman, with a head small in every diameter, with bad general nutrition and -weak muscles. There was no marked psychical lesion, but both her intelli- gence and her disposition were variable, and she had causeless whims alternating with tears, and made childish hysterical complaint about little annoyances, bodily or mental. The most marked symptom was weakness of the limbs (the left side most) and tremor, which never ceased except when she was supine or asleep ; directly she moved, head, arms, and legs were seized with tremor ; the gait was tottering, and even when standing still she needed a support. Speech slightly stuttering, with snapping movements ; no dysphagia ; all the muscles were electri- cally irritable; sensibility (except muscular) and reflex actions unim- paired. Epigastrium somewhat prominent and sensitive. There was chronic cough, with mucous expectoration. Induced electricity was tried without success, and then strychnia was given in doses increasing from -J^th to ith of a grain daily. No toxic symptoms occurred, and there was even some improvement in the atactic condition. Two severe attacks of cardialgia occurred during the winter. In January the menses appeared for the last time; henceforth there was no improve- ment. On March 6, after a good night, she suddenly became apathetic and motionless. Pace—especially on right side—deep red, and swelled ; skin hot; profuse sweating. Respiration slow, irregular, and noisy; pulse 136; temperature 3<p-6 Cent. Speech quite lost; she answered questions only with unintelligible sounds and gestures; com- plained constantly of severe pain in back of head. Mental life little altered ; sight and hearing unaffected. Eight half of body quite palsied ; right pupil wide and fixed; left normal, only feebly active. Right side of face more flabby than the other; right corner of mouth hanging. Mouth and point of nose drawn slightly to left; tongue could not be protruded; tongue-point and uvula deviating a little to left. Swal- lowing, even of liquids, very difficult. Voluntary power of right limbs gone, of left limbs intact; ptosis of left eye. Sensibility and reflex acts good on the paralysed side. Urine and faeces involuntarily passed ; anorexia and thirst; epigastrium very tender; belly drawn in and tense ; no albumen in urine; much cough, with sparse mucous expectoration. No special abnormal sounds in chest; spine very tender between second and fourth cervical vertebra. This condition lasted till evening; the patient then for some time recovered speech, passed urine voluntarily, and moved the extremities well; but next morniug she was again apa- thetic, and the paralysis was even more developed, the whole right side and the left leg being palsied; of the left upper extremity only the