CEREBRAL SOFTENING. 105 tinct patches of softening the cause has generally been an atheromatous state of the vessels. Of inflammatory softening (which Proust would prefer to call encephalomalacie inflammatoire) he mentions an acute and a chronic variety. The acute form is rarely spontaneous, nearly always trau- matic. It is usually superficial, and its colour varies from rose-grey to deepest red. The tissue adheres to the pia mater, and is soft, diffluent, and beneath the microscope shows vessels dilated, but not atheroma- tous ; a more or less abundant soft, amorphous, finely granular matter containing numerous myelocytes; and sometimes with embryo-plastic nuclei, or even white corpuscles with their normal character. The ner- vous elements do not seem to have undergone a fatty granular change. Proust considers that the affections of the cortex which occur in general paralysis and brain sclerosis are the two forms of chronic brain disease which (in some stages, at least) really have a title to be called inflammatory. He describes the anatomical changes of general paralysis in nearly the terms of Baillarger. As to sclerosis, he dwells upon this only with a view to show that the change which it produces is quite different from that of softening. He then discusses the other alterations which are habitually met with in cases of ramollissement. Of these he reckons among those (i) which may play a pathogenic part—(a) affections of the head and the pulmonary veins, (n) of the aorta and the vessels of the neck, (c) of the arteries of the base of the brain and the veins of the dura mater. (2) Among the concomitant but not pathogenic affections which are due to a common cause with the cerebral softening are capillary phlebitis, haemorrhagic or fibrinous infarctus, multiple fibrinous deposits, capillary embolisms, the pathology of which could not be understood previously to our knowledge of the phenomena of embolism. (3) Of the changes consecutive to softening of the brain, he enumerates atrophy of the fibres, superficial softening of the hemispheres, as observed by Laborde (vide inf.) ; atrophy of the cerebral peduncle, flattening of the pons, and greyish-yellow atrophy of the anterior pyramid of the affected side (observed by Cru- veilhier) ; atrophy of the cerebellum on the opposite side (observed by Charcot and Turner) ; secondary degeneration of the cord (described by L. Tiirck in 1831); secondary degeneration of the cerebellum and cord (observed by Charcot) of the opposite side, the spinal softening being limited to the posterior and external part of the lateral column (in a few cases there is also softening of the interior of the anterior column on the same side as the brain lesion) ; and proliferation pro- cesses extending through the whole length of the cord (observed by Bouchard and Charcot) in a case attended with irritation and permanent contraction of the limbs. Finally, as to etiology, Proust remarks that of all predisposing momenta none are so powerful as rheumatism, since to this category belong an immense number of cases i n which embolia occurs. Puerperal rheumatism is a frequent cause. Tubercle, cancer, and syphilis, are less directly predisposing. Advanced age, from its influence on the blood- vessels, is very highly predisposing.