MILITARY SURGERY. 837 Herr Langenbeck thinks it better to leave it, even if fractured. He carefully separates the periosteum from the ends of the bones by means of a raspatory, or fine elevator, and unites the wound, except a small part below, putting the limb up then in a plaster of Paris splint. To divide the bones he uses a kind of keyhole saw, of his own invention (Stichsage). He thinks it a matter of great importance not to interfere with the interosseous membrane, as the functions of this membrane are very analogous to those of periosteum, and its ossification after the operation tends greatly to consolidate the parts. Including Neudorfer’s 2 cases (in ‘ Langenbeck’s Archiv,’ 1864, p. 559), the author counts 7 cases of resection of the ankle performed in Schleswig, with 1 death, 3 complete and 3 probable recoveries. Selections from the Circular No. 6, issued from the Surgeon-General’s office of the United States Army, and entitled, “ Eeports on the extent and nature of the materials available for the preparation of a Medical and Surgical History of the Bebellion.” (Philadelphia, 1865.)—In order to compare the extent of materials included in these reports with those which exist in reference to former wars, the following comparisons are instituted: “ In comparing the number of cases of some important injury, as, for example, gunshot fractures of the femur, it is found that in the French Crimean army there were 459 such injuries, and in the English army 194, while over 5000 such cases have been reported to this office. Or, if one of the major operations is selected for comparison, as excision of the head of the humerus, the Crimean returns give 16 of these excisions in the British and 38 in the French army, but the registers of this office contain the detailed histories of 575 such operations.” (p. 2.) We shall lay before our readers in this place such extracts as may be useful for the purpose of general reference. Individual cases of much interest will be found in the report, but for these we must refer to the original. The following is the table of amputations, as far as hitherto ascer- tained : “The histories of 13,397 amputations for gunshot injury have been examined and recorded, and the final results have been ascertained in 9703 cases. 22