238 REPORT ON SURGERY. The operation required to remedy this enormous deformity was com- pleted at a single sitting of 3 hours. The reasons for this course are not very clearly stated. The whole edge of the cleft was pared, lateral incisions were made along the inner side of the teeth through the whole length of the hard palate, which was detached from the jawbone by working from this incision; then the muscles of tbe soft palate were divided, and the soft palate was loosened from the hard, and the muscles of the velum were divided. Thus two long pendulous flaps were formed, touching eacb other in the middle line. The sutures (9 in number) were not fixed in the palate till the necessary incisions had been made in the face. The remnants of the lip were loosened from the upper jawbones by drawing semilunar incisions around the aim nasi, and forming flaps which met in the middle line for a lip. The central piece was detached from the vomer, and raised by means of a needle thrust through it and supported by small pieces of cork. The whole was covered with wet rags, in which holes were cut for the mouth and nose, and fluid nourishment was given. The patient was attacked on the 3rd day after the operation with erysi- pelas, and this was followed by a metastatic abscess in one foot; but the only part of the wound which did not unite was a portion of the hard palate, in which a hole about an inch long ultimately remained. The patient was thus restored to a tolerable appearance and to the power of intelligible speech. This is believed to be the most extensive operation hitherto performed with success for such a deformity. Dr. Passavant has published in ‘ Langenbeck’s Archiv,’ 1865, vi, p. 333, his views upon the cause of the defect of speech usually left after successful operations for cleft palate, and on the way to remedy this. The author points out that, in order to avoid a nasal tone in the speech, the soft palate, when in its natural condition, is brought into contact with the back of the pharynx in speaking. In cases of staphy- loraphy for cleft of both the hard and soft palate this is usually im- possible, in consequence of the soft parts, after union of the cleft, not having sufficient length to touch the back of the pharynx. In less extensive clefts, involving the hard palate only, this is the case, even when the opening is closed by spontaneous union of the soft parts. On the other hand, in congenital cleft, involving the soft palate only, natural articulation is in many cases obtained; and this is still more certainly the case after the closure of a healthy velum palati which may have been divided in a surgical operation on the pharynx, or after an accidental hole, as from syphilis, &c. These different results are referred by the author to the differences in length of the velum with reference to the pharynx. Since this length cannot afterwards bo changed, it is vain to expect any improvement from exercise on the patient’s part; and in such cases, although his speech may be so far improved by the operation as to have become intelligible, it will never be natural or pleasing. If the palate be examined it will be found im- possible, even with the assistance of a spatula, to bring the posterior edge of the velum over to the back of the pharynx. Nor could this end be attained by operating early in childhood. He