POISONING. 457 seems altogether diaphragmatic or abdominal. In this utterly helpless condition it is still sensible to stimuli; it winces when the cornea is touched, and is roused to momentary effort on pulling or squeezing the ears, legs, or tail. Salivation continues, but no longer accompanied by the twitching, chewing movements; the eyelids are half closed or drooping; the pupil usually contracted. In this prostrate state an interval of many minutes, or even of some hours, may elapse, during which occasional convulsive seizures may occur. Frequently, at the termination of such seizure, the urine is forcibly discharged. At length a strong convulsion takes place, and the animal dies. The limbs imme- diately relax, and the pupil begins to dilate, liigor mortis is nearly complete in from forty to sixty minutes.” Having thus ascertained the action of opium and aconite separately, Prof. Penny and Dr. Adams proceeded to determine, by thirteen expe- riments, the nature of their effects when mixed in varying proportions. The symptoms observed were evidently due to a blending of the effects of the two substances. When the amount of extract of Battley was less than eighteen times that of the extract of aconite the action of the latter predominated. There was, however, less of the active uneasiness noticed with the aconite alone, a stronger disposition to rest being manifested. The head was invariably carried erect. When the animal was made to move the hobbling or crawling progression was observed, rather than the spasmodic jerking action caused by aconite. The convulsive seizures were not less in severity, but the intervals of relaxation were longer. With the extract of “Pritchard’s Battley” five experiments were made. The effects observed resembled those produced by Battley’s Solution mixed with aconite, so closely that no possible distinction could be drawn between them. Prof. Penny and Dr. Adams therefore concluded— 1. That “ Pritchard’s Battley” contained a poisonous substance. 2. That this substance was aconite. They inferred from their experiments that the proportion of tincture of aconite in “ Pritchard’s Battley” was from 5 to 10 per cent. It is interesting to find that these writers especially insist on the fact that they did not attempt to draw any analogy between the action of the poisonous agent on animals and that observed in the cases of Mrs. Taylor and Mrs. Pritchard. “ It appeared to us,” they say, “ of little moment that the phenomena manifested in our trials with the rabbit should differ from those exhibited by the human subject when under the influence of the same agent. For our purpose it was sufficient if the toxic action was uniform and characteristic when employed on the same animal.” Dr. Pritchard ultimately confessed that he had put aconite into the Battley’s Solution. Dr. Senator* describes the post-mortem appearances found after death by chloroform, basing his observations on an analysis of 46 rapidly * 1 Vierteljahrsschrift f. ger. Med,’ N. F., Band ii, p. 310.