UTERINE TUMOURS. 377 A uterine tumour removed by mistake for a tumour of the ovary, by T. Holmes (‘ Pathol. Trans.,’ xvii, 1866). The tumour was of large size, had grown very rapidly, and had yielded fluid on tapping. The patient died shortly after the operation. There is a large collection of cases of fibroids of the uterus (‘ Schmidt’s Jahrb.,’ No. 4, 1866), in continuation of a collection in the same journal (129, 1865). Some of these cases illustrate the facts that these tumours may simulate labour or acute retroversion of the uterus. Other cases complicated with pregnancy will be found under the head of “ Pregnancy.” Dr. Riedel (‘ Mon. f. Gleb..’ 1865) relates a case of a tumour removed by extraction by hooks and Museux’s forceps. Dr. Justi relates a case of a woman, let. 43, married, without children, who enlarged to the size of pregnancy, and died of haemorrhage. Dis- section showed the uterus raised by fibroid growth above the navel. There was no proper uterine cavity, the place being occupied by a hard tumour, which weighed 10 lb. A fibro-cystic tumour of the uterus is described by Dr. Hilton Fagge (‘ Patholog. Trans.,’ xvii, 1866). The tumour was removed post-mortem. It was formed of a collection of large cysts, and was covered on all sides by a layer of hypertrophied uterine muscular fibre. Many of the smaller cysts were quite cut off from one another by septa. The fluid within was of a light pink or dark red; the substance contained a large quantity of earthy deposit, made up of carbonate and phosphate of lime. Professor Faye has published (Christiania, 1866) an elaborate memoir on inflammatory, hypertrophic, and fibrous tumours of the cervix uteri. He relates in detail a case of unusually large fibrous tumour, growing from the anterior lip of the vaginal portion of the uterus. It is of in- terest chiefly from the comparative rarity of such tumours in this situation. Dr. Andrews exhibited (‘ Pathol. Trans.,’ xvii) a specimen of malig- nant disease of the uterus, involving the whole of its internal surface, except the inferior portion of the canal of the cervix ; secondary de- posits in both lungs. The uterus was enormously enlarged, rising nearly to the ensiform cartilage ; external surface smooth ; two pints of offensive fluid escaped from the cavity, which was occupied by a fetid sloughing mass, springing from the whole of the internal surface, except the lowest inch of the cervical canal. The mass consisted of large bony processes springing from an uneven base ; it was infiltrated with blood. Dr. Barnes exhibited to the Obstetrical Society a specimen of colloid disease, involving the uterus and ovaries, in a young woman, who died of pelvic hematocele, resulting from the rupture of vessels in the morbid mass (‘ Obst. Trans.,’ viii). A case in which fibroids of the uterus became infiltrated with cancerous growth, proceeding from primary cancer of the vagina, is reported by Drs. Benporath and Liebmann (‘ Mon. f. Geburtsk.,’ 1865). A case in which epithelioma was propagated by contact from the