107 CEREBRAL SOFTENING. term, when used in ordinary pathology, implies that the perishing part retains more or less of its external form, while in ramollissement it is very often impossible to detect the original form and appearance of the affected part. He proposes to adopt the term necrobiosis, which Vir- chow has suggested for those tissue changes which end in softening. Laborde considers it would be difficult, and scarcely profitable, to pro- nounce any decided opinion as to whether the nervous or the vascular change is the prior one; but he is evidently disposed (especially by the constant occurrence of similar vascular changes in old age) to suppose that the primitive disease is in the vessels. As to whether this vas- cular change is, from the first, atheromatous, or whether the atheroma is itself the result of some distinct previous process, e. g. of irritation, and whether the production of new morbid element is due to trans- formation of the nervous elements by simple substitution, he thinks it useless at present to inquire. He cannot but suppose, however, that the circulating blood must take a part in the production of the phenomena of the disease, and that this part is probably determined by those changes in its composition which accompany the decrepitude of old age. But in what these modifications consist it is impossible for him to say. A novel anatomical observation which Laborde reports is this— that ramollissement of the surface of the brain seems to be nearly always attended with a similar affection of one or other of the central ganglia. He remarks that in nearly every case of spontaneous cere- bral softening, in aged persons, there are both motor paralysis and intellectual disturbance, either of the nature of dementia or of deli- rium, and these symptoms correspond to a simultaneous softening of the brain-cortex and of the ganglia; this coincidence, so far from being rare, is the rule. Moreover, he has satisfied himself that in the great majority of cases the part of the cortex which is affected will determine the site of the softening in the central ganglia; thus, if the surface of the anterior left lobe be softened there will be also softening of the anterior part of the left corpus striatum, &c. It is obvious, then, that an instinctive connection exists between the central ganglia and the cortical substance ; and the circumstances here related prove the correctness of the views enunciated on this point by M. Luys, who asserts the direct communication of the ganglia with the cortex by radiating fibres. Another very singular theory which Laborde deduces from his observations is that morbid adhesions of the pia mater to the brain- convolutions universally require, as a condition of their formation, a dimi- nished consistence of the superficies of the brain beneath them. He remarks that adhesions between the pia mater and the brain substance in general paralysis and in cerebral softening really only differ in virtue of the narrower localisation in the one case than in the other. He declares that there is no respectable evidence whatever that the material of adhesion is plastic lymph, the result of an inflammatory process. He states confidently that a congestive condition of the mem- branes invariably makes them easier to be stripped from the brain. And, on the other hand, he asserts that adhesion of the pia mater and of the arachnoid can be, and constantly is, produced post mortem by