490 REPORT ON PUBLIC HEALTH. it about a week after the women. The epidemic lasted 6 or 7 months, and caused 16 or 17 deaths. In the ‘ Eighth Eeport * of the Medical Officer of the Privy Council ’ Mr. Simon reports the recommencement of a systematic course of in- spection of the different vaccination districts in England and 'Wales. It is very satisfactory to find that each inspector bears witness to an improvement in the performance of public vaccination since the last inspection, which occupied the years 1860-64. The improvement is particularly in the style of the vaccination. Dr. Seaton reports that whereas on his former inspections about 634 per cent, of the children examined showed certain degrees of scantiness of scar, now only 42 per cent, show the same degrees of scantiness. At the same time, the improvement is not universal, nor is it always so great as is to be desired; and there are still some districts (among which is the “ Black Country ”) where the vaccination is infamous. With reference to the amount of vaccination-scar necessary, Mr. Simon lays down the rule that it ought decidedly not to cover less than half a square inch, and that it is probably better for reaching three quarters of a square inch. As regards the number of infants vaccinated in proportion to the number of births, no important general change appears to have occurred. The county of Northampton, and especially the Northampton Union, was noted before by Dr. Seaton as affording the most remarkable instance of the neglect of vaccination which had come before him. The public infantile vaccinations in this union were only 10 per cent, of the births, and accordingly the smallpox death-rate of children in this union between 1851 and i860 was 4^ times as high as the average smallpox death-rate of England, and was greater than that of any other union, except Merthyr Tydvil and Plymouth. In 1856 nearly a third of the entire mortality of the Northampton Union, and in i860 nearly a fourth of it, was due to this one disease. Dr. Stevens now reports that little or no improvement has taken place, and that this union is still a centre in which smallpox is almost constantly present, and from which it spreads to the neighbouring towns and villages. In Portsea Island and in the town and district of Leominster vaccination was very greatly in arrear. In Portsea Island the number of unvaccinated children amounted to thousands, when an epidemic began, in conse- quence of which the deaths from smallpox in one year amounted to nearly a fourth of the total average mortality of the union; and in Leominster there were in a few months between 40 and 50 deaths from smallpox. While, therefore, as might be expected, the periodical inspections ordered by the Privy Council are of great value in impressing on the public vaccinators the importance of a thorough performance of the operation, it would appear that they do very little to make the general * 1865, p. 7-