428 REPORT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. As to the transmissibility through vaccination, he insists upon the importance of separating children affected with latent syphilis from those that are exempt. The vaccine fever, like all eruptive fevers, disposes to the develop- ment of latent syphilis. True vaccine syphilis only seems admissible when syphilitic pus or, still better, syphylitic blood is mixed with the vaccine-lymph, and when the vaccine-scab, falling after 20 or 25 days, the true infecting ulcer, followed after some months by the symptoms of constitutional syphilis, appears. On syphilitic diseases of the skin following vaccination. Gf. Nayler (‘Brit. Med. Journ.,’ 1865). A discussion in the Academy of Medicine discloses the opinions of Depaul, Roger, and others, on the subject of early vaccination. Depaul thinks vaccination before 3 months is not more dangerous than later. Rogers says erysipelas is by no means rare when it is practised before 3 months, but says this accident is due more to the number of punctures than to the tender age. Drs. Lanfranchi and Enure report their experience of a novel mode of variolous inoculation (‘Journ. de Med. et de Chir. prat.,’ 1863). Having observed, during an epidemic in Ajaccio, that smallpox was as fatal amongst the vaccinated as amongst others, they concluded that the preservation power of vaccination was exhausted, and they found that even revaccinative was not protective. They, therefore, resorted to the following modified form of inoculation. They insert in a puncture in the arm a minute quantity of fresh variolous matter taken from a patient; into the same puncture they insert a little fresh cream from cow’s milk, then apply some more cream over the puncture, and let it dry. They affirm that in very many children thus treated the variola was most benign, and that the patients were protected against reinoculation. Zymotic Diseases. The croup. Dr. Paoli (Wurzburg, 1865).—The following are the conclusions set forth by Dr. Paoli:—1. Prom historical indications it seems probable that the modern croup differs from the malignant and gangrenous angina of old physicians, inasmuch as the first is a general affection, with prevalent epidemic and contagious manifestations in the neck, whilst the second is a local epidemic or contagious disease, limited to the upper part of the air-passages. 2. That the pseudo-membranes wdiichmost probably accompanied the gangrenous angina escaped observation or description. 3. Diphtheritis is a specific general disease, characterised by great prostration, acute fever, swelling of the spleen and submaxillary and cervical glands, accompanied by pseudo-membranes of the mucous membrane of the air-passages, albuminuria, and paralysis. It is con- tagious, but not by direct communication, like syphilis or hydrophobia ; it may be developed primitively. The pseudo-membrane is charac- teristic and diagnostic of croup. Croup is a local diphtheritis, chiefly affecting children from 2 to 8 years, limited to the throat, larynx, and contiguous passages, analogous to primitive syphilitic ulcer, capable, like this, of causing a general affection, but differing in this, that the conta-