167 APPLICATION OP THE GRAPHIC PROCESS. cases the line of ascent is more sloping than when there is dicrotism. A sudden ascent is a sign of dicrotism, a sloping ascent is a sign of its absence. Onimus and Viry also concur with Koschlakoff’s dictum, that the presence of dicrotism is masked, and the trace appears monocrotous, when the pulse reaches a certain frequency. They add that, when the secondary waves are small and very numerous, they probably are all of them centripetal, being reflected from various points of the periphery ; but that when they are few in number, far apart, and large in size, they are probably centrifugal, being reflected from the aortic valves (as sup- posed by Naumann). [It is difficult to reconcile this last opinion with their previous arguments, which dwell so strongly on the supposed predominance of peripheral dicrotism.] M. Marey describes* experiments made with his cardiograph. This is an instrument in which the traces of the ventricle are communicated to a writing-lever (similar to that of the sphygmograpli) by the intervention of an apparatus in which the immediate impulse of the heart is received upon a sort of pad formed by a layer of water enclosed between two india-rubber membranes; this pad closes the mouth of a bell-shaped brass chamber, from which an india-rubber tube leads ; this tube termi- nates in a flattened hollow disc of india rubber, on the upper surface of which is placed the knife edge which raises the writing-lever. The water pad ensures close application to the chest-wall opposite the ventricle ; the column of air in the tube communicates the pulsations to the writing-lever. The experiments detailed in M. Marey’s paper are rather physiological than medical in their scope, as they are con- cerned with the relations between the movements of inspiration and expiration. Onimus and Viry, in the paper already cited, deny that the traces attained with Marey’s cardiograph are equal in trustworthiness to those obtained by the sphygmograpli. In the latter the pulsations are received by a solid metallic spring, and conveyed by altogether solid media to the writing-lever. In the cardiograph, on the contrary, the column of air which forms the communication is itself liable to be thrown into oscillations, which need by no means follow accurately those of the ventricle. And besides this, there is an overlooked source of fallacy in slight movements of the intercostal muscles, which may at any moment introduce factitious elements into the tracing. Dr. Balthazar Foster! repeats and enforces the views of M. Marey in a series of papers in which he explains the leading doctrines of the French physiologist, and gives a number of illustrations of the traces obtained by himself in cases of aortic obstruction, aneurism, mitral regurgitation, and senile disease. Foster^ also publishes some papers on the application, not only of the sphygmograph, but of the cardiograph of Marey, to the examination of the heart and great vessels. The first case which he relates is one of aortic obstruction and regurgitation, with dilatation of the aorta, and * ‘Journal de l’Anat. et de la Physiol.,’ ii, 1865. f ‘Brit. Med. Journal,’ 1866, i, pp. 275, 330. Also in pamphlet form, Churchill 1866. X ‘Med. Times and Gazette,’ ii, 1866, pp. 337, 606.