REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 42 larial atmosphere, where every one was more or less affected with miasmatic poisoning. In the salivary secretion and mucous expectora- tion of the morning he found a great variety of zoosporoid cells, ani- malcular bodies, diatoms, desmidue, algoid cells aud filaments, and fungoid spores; hut the only constant bodies, usually very abundant, were minute oblong cells, single or aggregated, consisting of a distinct nucleus, with a smooth cell-wall, and a clear, apparently empty space between the cell-wall and the nucleus. These bodies, which Salis- bury regards as strongly resembling those of palmellse, were found only below the summit ague-line; above this they were absent, though the other organisms above mentioned occurred at all heights. To trace the source of these peculiar cells, Salisbury suspended plates of glass about a foot above the surface of marshy pools and partially submerged grounds. The plates were placed in position at night; and on being examined in the morning their under surface was found covered with large drops of water, containing many cryptogamia, but none of the minute oblong cells found in the expectoration. On the upper surface of the plates, however, these bodies were met with in large numbers. Having noticed that, after passing a nearly dry, rich, peaty bog, his breathing became dry and feverish, and his expec- toration charged with the oblong cells, Salisbury suspended his glass plates over it, and found their inferior surfaces covered with the cells. He also examined, under the microscope, portions of a whitish incrustation, with which the earth of the bog was covered, and found that it was made up of aggregated masses of the cells referred to ; that the plants from which they had emanated were palmelloid ; that there were several species; and that in the larger ones grew several species of mucedinous fungi. From further observations Salisbury ascer- tained the following facts, among others :—Cryptogamic spores and other minute bodies are mainly elevated above the surface at night. They rise and are suspended in the cold damp exhalations from the soil after the sun has set, and fall again to the earth soon after the sun rises. In the latitude of Ohio these bodies seldom rise above from 33 to 60 feet above the low levels. In the northern, above the summit plane of the cool night exhalations, these bodies do not rise, and inter- mittents do not extend. The day air of malarial districts is quite free from these palmelloid spores, and from causes that produce intermittents. Salisbury states also that, with the view of tracing more carefully the symptoms of the local fever produced in the mouth, fauces, throat, and lungs, by inhaling the cells and sporoid bodies emanating from the incrustation on the drying soil of malarial grounds, he spent some time, on several occasions, in the bog already referred to. In a very few minutes after his arrival he began to feel a dry, feverish, constricted feeling in the mouth, fauces, and throat, which increased until the fauces and throat became unpleasantly parched and feverish. The opposite walls, in swallowing, adhered together, and the normal mucous secretions were entirely checked. There was a constant desire to swallow and hawk and spit, without being able to expectorate much or in the least to relieve the dry sensation. The bronchial and pulmonary