120 REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. left shoulder and iu the right glutaei. At the time when this patient iirst came under Remak there was also a second series of convulsions, which arose in the right shoulder and passed into the left foot; but the application of the continuous current caused the right arm to he entirely at rest, while in the left leg and in the glutaei traces of the past condition, though rarely, are to be found. The attacks also occur whilst the patient is sitting, although the action of the glutaei is not so apparent as when he is standing. Pupils regular; general health good, hut for the stomach disorder, and also a slowness and difficulty of speech. Patient says his memory and intelligence are unaffected. Slight anaesthesia, only in palm of right hand, but this has already dis- appeared. Remak thinks that the pyramids participate in the pheno- mena, where the nerves cross which from this point descend through the pons to the upper and lower extremities. Besides this there lies at the same level Stilling’s nucleus of the vagus, which may be considered the cause of the dyspepsia and anorexia, and near by the nucleus of the hypoglossus and the olivary body, from which the diffi- culty of speech may be derived. Remak remarks that these affections are as unknown as are the changes which they undergo. The continuous current was bringing about rapid improvement at the time the above clinical history was written. Reflex neurosis of the vagus, in which the irritation begins in the periphery of the trigeminal nerve, is illustrated by some cases of Dr. Lederer’s.* He has now seen 3 cases in which the adaptation of an artificial tooth produced violent effects on the vagus. Of the 2 which he now publishes, in 1 the patient was a healthy young girl of 22. The operation was followed by malaise, vomiting of all food, and most severe and continuous convulsions. Various remedies were vainly tried; at last the artificial tooth was removed, shortened, and replaced ; all the symptoms at once completely disappeared. In the other case the operation was followed by shivering, severe pain at the pit of the stomach, vomiting, and finally diarrhoea, followed by exhaustion and sleep. There were no local symptoms in either of Lederer’s 3 cases. Remak,f in another paper, says that he has often observed the occur- rence of a peculiar neurosis of the heart in connection with disease of the last molar tooth of the lower jaw. The mouth is closed, partly by muscular spasm, partly by swelling of the condyles. After a time the pulse is greatly accelerated, and the heart beats strongly; there is much precordial distress. Remak believes that these cardiac symptoms are due to irritation conveyed from the diseased tooth to the superior cervical ganglia of the sympathetic. The constant current was applied to the angle of the jaw, and the rapidity of pulse aud (later) the con- traction of the jaw-muscles yielded to this treatment. Dr. W. R. SandersJ relates a case of “ dystaxia, or pseudo-paralysis agitans.” The patient had sustained fracture of the leg, and injury to the knee, head, and dorsal region of the spine, in a fall some months previously. The present symptoms were the result of a second fall, * * Wien. Med. Presse,’ xxiv, 1866; ‘ Schmidt’s Jarhb.,’ B. 132, p. 159, 18C6. t ‘ Berlin Klin. Woch.,’ 1865. X ‘ Edin. Med. Journ.,’ May, 1865.