REPORT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. 384 doctrine of the relation of the villi with the uterine sinuses. The villus-mass is too large for the capacity of the sinus or utricular glands. The maternal blood does not reach the intercotyledonal spaces, and the contact-surfaces of the uterus and of the placenta are quite smooth. The passage of the villi into the sinuses is only possible as far as the extremities. Nutrition takes place through the medium of the amor- phous tissue which surrounds the divisions of the villi, and which is a continuation of the hypertrophied epithelial layer, which on the surface of the sinus separates the villi from the maternal blood. The trans- mission of the constituents of the blood takes place in the capillaries of the tissue concerned through endosmosis and exosmosis. Dr. V. Hiiter gives (‘Mon. f. Geburtsk.,’ 1866) an elaborate memoir on “The velamentous incertion of the umbilical corcl.” He says the attempt to explain the insertion of the cord in the placenta by the hy- pothesis that the allantois is carried with the chorion only to the destined seat of the placenta must be abandoned, for it is well established that in early ova the whole chorion is surrounded with the vessels of the allantois. Before the atrophy of the villi begins there is one sjiot of the chorion richer in vessels than the rest. At this spot the vessels unite to form the umbilical cord. When this more vascular spot is found where the chorion is united to the decidua serotina, the cord will have its insertion in the placenta. When, on the other hand, the more vascular part is found on a part of the chorion opposed to the decidua reflexa, then will the cord be attached to a part of the chorion which at a later period will be bare of villi, thus forming a velamentous insertion. This mode of insertion in certain cases imperils the safety of the child, and Hiiter examines the conditions of safety and danger in detail. He premises that the insertion of the cord is never more than four to five inches remote from the border of the placenta. If the vessels of the cord which are inserted in the membranes have their course at a distance from the os uteri, the rent in the membranes will be out of reach of these vessels, and the labour will not be imperilled. When the insertion is near the os uteri there is liability of prolapsus of the cord. When the vessels of the cord run in the lower segment of the membranes near the os uteri they are liable to be rent or com- pressed. Under these latter conditions the child is likely to be born asphyxiated. Dr. C. Hiiter (‘Mon.f. Geb.,’ 1865) describes the lymphatic vessels of the human ovum-membranes. He says when the amniotic epithe- lium is infiltrated with solution of potassa white spots appear; these are probably open canals, which are in connection with a very cellular canal-system found between the amnion and chorion. Dr. Madge (‘ Obst. Trans.,’ viii) brings additional arguments in support of former writings, contending that the utero-placental arteries and veins are too small to serve the purpose of conveying blood to and from the placenta for the purposes of foetal nourishment, or to be more than a very trifling source of haemorrhage on their rupture at childbirth. They appear to be nothing more than vessels of nutrition to the parts in which they are found. The supply of foetal blood Dr. Madge