137 ELECTRICITY IN NERVOUS DISEASES. * ‘Berl. Klin. Wocliensch.,’ 22, 1865. f Ibid., 25, 1865. palpitation. The results of Fliess’s observations are as follows:—The application of a downward current to the one or both vagi strong enough to excite a moderate burning sensation, and continued for from i to 2 minutes, with moistened electrodes, only exceptionally caused an objectively perceptible slackening or weakening of the heart’s beats immediately after the opening of the circuit (herein differing from the results obtained by v. Bezold), and never whilst the circuit remained closed. On the contrary, the patients, soon after the open- ing of the circuit, found ease and comparative improvement; and this good effect was more markedly produced after each successive applica- tion of the current. This was even noticed in some organic heart diseases. If the current were directed upwards the effects were less rapid, and feeble. Dr. Tobold* writes a paper on the use of the constant current in the nervous affections of the larynx, in which he urges that this form of electricity is much less employed for these diseases than it should be. Tobold speaks in very high terms of the constant current as a remedy for fixed neuralgic pain in the larynx. This neuralgia is purely local, and the constant current is the only certain remedy for it (hypo- dermic injection of morphia, for instance, producing only temporary benefit). It is useful, also, though not the only treatment, in spasmodic reflex cough from irritation of the nerves of the larynx. In ataxy of the glottis-muscles, and fatigue and weakness of the voice, it is often very useful. In all paralyses of the glottis which are of purely nervous origin the effects of the constant current are often very striking, and are always greater than those of the induced current. In these paralyses, also, whether of one or both vocal cords, in which movement is not actually lost, but vibration is defective and aphonia results, the constant current is equally useful. Dr. Tobold uses a battery com- posed of Minotti’s cells, each charged with a solution of \ lb. of sulphate of copper; such a battery will continue to act perfectly well for a whole year. Dr. Moritz Meyer,f on the other hand, though not wishing to deny the virtues of the constant current, says that for hysterical aphonia there is nothing effectual but the application of the induced current in the form of electric moxa, and he gives some striking instances of its action in such cases. In addition to the papers above cited, the following on the applica- tion of electricity to nervous diseases may be mentioned : Amdtsen, contributions to electro-therapy (‘Norsk Mag.,’ xii, 1865). Benedetti, treatment of spermatorrhoea by the induced current (‘Journ. de Brux.,’ Av., 1865). Barzano, on the constant current (‘ Gaz. Lomb.,’ xiii, 1866). Braun and Remak, on the centripetal operation of the constant current (‘Berlin. Klin.Woch.,’xii, 1865). Clemens, electricity in the diseases of the spinal cord (‘ Deutsche Klin.,’ 11, 13,1865). Frommhold, electro-therapy in nervous diseases (Pest, 1865). Poggioli, treatment of diseases by static electricity (‘ Bull, de l’Acad.,’ xxxi). Ranke, the constant current as a sedative to spasm (‘ Zeitsch. f. Biol.,’ iii, 1866, p. 397). Schivardi, electro-therapy (‘ Gaz. Lomb.,’ v, 13). Rodolfi, electric treatment of hydrophobia and tetanus (‘ Gaz. Lomb.,’ iv, 1865).