65 YELLOW FEVEK. arrival to die of that disease in a few hours, enters Swansea on Sept. 9, and remains there till Sept. 28. From Sept. 15, six days after her arrival, to Oct. 4, six days after her departure, cases of a disease pre- viously unknown at the port break out, with the symptoms and fatality that mark it for yellow fever. The vessel leaves the dock on Sept. 28, and takes up a distant position near the harbour mouth, and from Oct. 4 to Oct. 23, the date of this report, there is no fresh case; (c) The locality where the disease occurred again connects it with the Hecla. In a town of 30,000 people, some 18 cottages are scattered on a little low-lying island, to which the vessel importing yellow fever comes, and on which she discharges her cargo. Of the 22 cases of the fever (ex- cluding doubtful cases of it) that subsequently break out, 11 occur in persons resident on the little island, 5 in persons who, living elsewhere in the town, have their daily work on the island, 3 in men occupied about shipping in the North Dock, and only 2 cases occur among the whole population of the large town who had no direct connection with the island. But even these two cases occur in persons living within 150 yards of the ship, across the dock, and living in the next house but one to the cottage where the man died who was taken from the vessel on her arrival.* “ Among the cases of yellow fever recorded in the following pages will be found one of much interest, where a vessel lying close to the Hecla while her cargo was discharging left Swansea for a neighbouring port, and there lost two of her crew of four, one of them certainly from yellow fever. “ But it is remarkable that the Bristol and Swansea pilots, the five seamen who helped to bring the ship into harbour, the custom-house officers and men, and almost all the men employed in discharging the Hecla’s cargo, escaped an attack of the fever (the after history of most of them being known), although they had much more direct dealing with the ship than the persons who were attacked. For this circumstance no explanation can yet be offered, but it is one which has many parallels in etiological research, and cannot be held to constitute a material diffi- culty in affirming the connection between the Hecla and the fever on shore. “ During this period an almost tropical heat prevailed at Swansea, and no rain fell. Probably the climatic conditions that foster yellow fever in the West Indies have never been better imitated in Great Britain. The locality, too, where the cases occurred, a low-lying alluvial island at the mouth of a river, is such as is particularly favorable to the disease in its native latitudes. “ Granting the original connection of the disease with the Hecla, it must also be granted that in the great majority of instances the disease occurred in the individual without communication with any previous sufferer. But how does the evidence stand about its having been com- municated in any case or cases by personal contagion P On the one side, in favour of such contagion are to be alleged the facts (a) that in * “ Of the 7 doubtful cases 5 resided on the island, 1 was occupied in a vessel along- side the Hecla, and the remaining x (1 of the most questionable of all the doubtful cases) alone had nothing to do with the docks or island.” 5