192 REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. ophthalmic division of the fifth, and so seldom those of the second or third division ? 3. Why are the forearms and legs so rarely affected ? 4. Does not nervous irritation begin centrally, or at some point ex- ternal to the centres ? 5. What share has the vaso-motor nerve in the production of the symptoms ? In conclusion, Hutchinson alludes to a different form of herpes also plainly connected -with the nervous system, which he calls “ sympto- matic herpes.” This usually occurs on the lips, but may be seen also on the nose, and sometimes on the cheeks; it is not infrequent on the prepuce. It is very often symmetrical, though rudely so. It goes through stages exactly like h. zoster ; but may occur again and again in the same person, and, unlike unilateral herpes, rarely or never bears scars. It may be observed in any illness in which a rigor has occurred (spasms of arteries, epilepsy of arteries), and is thus often seen:— 1. After introduction of catheters. 2. In erysipelas. 3. In ague. 4. In pneumonia. 5. In fever. 6. In any inflammation of a shut sac. 7. Very commonly in ordinary catarrh. In relation to the share which the nervous system takes in the pro- duction of unilateral herpes, an observation recorded by Pivain* * * § is of great interest. An old man had attempted to kill himself with the fumes of charcoal, and was brought into the hospital with symptoms of lung and brain congestion. On the eleventh day an eruption of h. zoster appeared on the left side of the face and head, following the branches of all three divisions of the trigeminus. Dr. Pundschuf records a case of herpes zoster of the trunk, apparently caused by exposure to cold, in which (as in several cases which have been recorded by Hutchinson and others) the decline of the vesicular eruption wras followed by an acne like rash. The after neuralgia was particularly severe and lasting in this case. Dr. M. Singer J records a case of H. zoster following all 3 branches of the fifth, and in which it was observed that the two senses of touch and taste in the tongue disappeared and reappeared in strict unison, thus giving strong corroboration to the idea that the lingual is a nerve of taste. Dr. Crepinel§ says that he has found great benefit in the treatment of neuralgia in h. zoster from the local application of chloroform and oil (1 part to 5) some 5 or 6 times daily. The proportion of chloroform is to be increased when the pain is very severe. The remedy should be applied at as early a stage of the complaint as possible. Dr. P. Gerhardt says that the group of diseases in the course of which zoster facialis is frequently observed is distinguished by the frequency of an initial rigor, or the occurrence of an increase of tem- perature, even to 320 lieaum., even on the first day. Gerhardt remarks that this affection does not attack the trunk or limbs, but only the face, and thinks that the irritation must be caused by the following pecu- liarity of the fifth nerve :—The branches of this nerve run through * ‘Schmidt's Jahrb.,’ 127, p. 24. f ‘ Wien. Med. l’ressc,’ 30, 1865 ; ‘ Schmidt’s Jahrb.,’ 128, p. 48. X ‘ Wien. Med. Wochnscb.,’ 56—39, 1865; ‘Schmidt’s Jahrb.,’ 128, p. 49. § ‘Bull, dc Therap.,’ Abut 30, 1865; ‘Schmidt’s Jahrb.,’ 128, p. 50.