REPORT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. 416 which the whole organ was affected ; but forms of partial metritis were very common. The seat of insertion of the placenta, and next the vaginal portion, were mostly much infiltrated. Diffuse metritis espe- cially affected the interstitial tissue. He never saw interparietal abscesses. 2. Puerperal thrombosis.—After Virchow, he divides this into three kinds—the placental, the dilatation, and the compression thrombosis. The formation of rapidly extending placentary thrombosis into the ab- normally widened vessels is apt to pass into the dilatation thrombi which form in the pampiniform and uterine plexuses, the deeper pelvic veins and internal spermatic. The cause of the clotting is here the retardation of the blood-stream, caused by the abnormal dimensions of the vessels. The compression thrombi are found in the veins of the thighs, and are caused mostly, but not always, by the pressure of the gravid uterus. The most frequent issue of thrombosis is ichorrhsemia, sometimes proceeding from the softening of the thrombi, and thus causing self-infection. 3. Puerperal ichorrhcemia.—This is characterised by parenchyma- tous inflammations in the spleen, liver, and kidneys. The process is shown in its most intense form in those cases where the appearances amount to acute atrophy of the liver, which, he says, is caused by infec- tion (‘Mon. f. Geb.,’ January, 1866). Cases of phlegmonous dissecting perivaginitis. By Dr. Marconnet, ofMoskow (‘Virchow’s Archiv,’ 1865). Case of tuberous decidual endometritis. By Dr. Gusserow (‘ Mon. f. Geburtsk.,’ May, 1866). Dr. Duncan describes (‘Edin. Med. Journ.,’April, 1866) two very interesting cases of serous collections in the pelvis following labour. The symptoms, general and physical, at first resembled those of ordinary pelvic cellulitis. In one case a tumour formed in the right hypogastric region, extending midway to the umbilicus. The tumour was punc- tured by vagina, and about nine ounces of fluid, scarcely turbid, and of a light green colour, were drawn off. The tumour then disappeared. A case of puerperal fetid pulmonary abscess is reported by Dr. J. A. Byrne (‘Med. Press,’ 1866). This case was that of a primipara who had been ten hours in labour, there having been no complication beyond a little post-partum hamiorrhage. On the third day there was rigor, pain in the pubic and iliac regions. On the sixth day stitch in the right side, but no cough. On the seventh day violent mania broke out, and lasted several days. When this declined cough appeared, and a peculiar foetor was perceived in the mouth. On the twenty-sixth day she expectorated a large bowlful of a greenish purulent fluid, pos- sessing the most intolerable gangrenous foetor. Similar symptoms returned from time to time, and the case ended fatally by hectic three months after delivery. Retroversion of the uterus during the first days after labour is de- scribed by Cohnstein (‘Berl. Klin. Wchnschr.,’ 1865). Dr. Poppel contributes (‘Mon. f. Geb.,’ 1865) an essay on copro- stasis in childbed. He considers constipation to be an idiopathic condition in childbed, resembling the paralysis of the bladder.