REPORT ON SURGERY. 202 loss of elasticity from disease of tliat part of tlae urethra may be sus- pected. The author uext treats of the use of the endoscope in each of the affections of the urethra, excluding for the present its prostatic por- tion. In acute gonorrhoea endoscopic examination is impossible at first, on account of the pain. The earliest time at which M. Desormeaux has succeeded in exploring the urethra was in eight days. The inflamma- tion extended along the anterior half of the canal, where the mucous membrane was found to be intensely red, having lost its polished sur- face, and showing superficial ulceration. The disease spreads gradually backwards, but does not reach the prostatic portion till after six weeks or two months. The anterior part of the urethra becomes healthy again at this period, and frequently the prostatic and membranous por- tions also recover, while the disease becomes localized about the bulb, where the redness becomes deeper and the surface more rough, pre- senting numerous salient points. This is the transition stage to chronic blenorrhoea, or gleet, and commencing stricture. Acute urethritis may also be due to injury, herpes, or catarrh. The first is set up by solid bodies (as bougies) or liquids injected. It is rarely as acute as in gonorrhoea, and the mucous membrane seldom loses its polished surface. It is further distinguished from the gonor- rhoeal inflammation by its tendency to spontaneous cure on the removal of the irritating cause. This simple traumatic affection is not to be confounded with the relapses after old gonorrhoea, which are due to the unnatural condition in which the mucous membrane has been left by the disease. Acute herpes (especially in children and iu men who have had no sexual connection) is sometimes accompanied by discharge from the urethra, which is probably due to patches of herpes on the mucous membrane, but the author has not had an opportunity of seeing them. In catarrhal urethritis, also, M. Desormeaux does not seem to have had an opportunity for endoscopy. He says the disease is distinguished from gonorrhoea by the inverse progress of the inflammation, which proceeds from the neck of the bladder outwards. M. Desormeaux believes that endoscopy, though not so important in acute as in chronic urethritis, will yet enable us clearly to distinguish from each other the varieties of the affection, and to say why it is contagious in one case and not in another; why it sometimes disappears permanently, at others tends to recur, at others persists indefinitely without producing any lesions, and again in other cases leads inevitably to stricture. Chronic urethritis is the next subject. The author divides this into blenorrhagic (or gonorrhoeal) and herpetic. He first describes minutely the progress of gonorrhoea passing into gleet, to show that both the general symptoms and the examination by a bougie testify to the existence of obstruction, which, however, is not so great as to arrest the passage of instruments. All that is found is a slight resistance, pain, and a tendency to bleed. In order to discover these slight symp- toms a bulbous sound must be used. So far the diagnosis between the gonorrhoeal and the herpetic affection can hardly be established, though