REPORT ON SURGERY. 232 of carbonate of ammonia into the blood does cause a considerable fall of temperature, and that such a fall is not caused by injection of dis- tilled water (as much as 9 oz. in one case) of a solution of urea, or of the residue of alkaline urine. Nor does injection of putrid serum into the blood cause any fall of temperature. Other substances also were tried, but the only one which would give a sudden fall of temperature is carbonate of ammonia. This fall is followed by a rise—in one experi- ment the temperature had fallen, 70 minutes after the completion of the injection, from 39-6 to 3 2, then gradually rose, till, 3! hours after the injection, it was above the normal, 4o-7, and then fell gradually to 39'1 (Centigrade). He shows (in opposition to Bobrik’s experiments on rabbits) that acetic acid has no such effect. The next chapter (xv) treats on the mode of origin and on the essential nature of the fever. In the first place, what are the direct causes of the increased temperature ?—and, in the next, how are the causes of the fever brought into action ? We have not the space to pre- sent our readers with any complete abstract of this interesting chapter. In answer to the former question, Herr Billroth does not venture upon any direct assertion, contenting himself with pointing out the various methods by w'hich the temperature of the whole body may be affected, whether by the development of heat in excess of the heat given off or by the suspension of the cooling process. In answer to the second question, which is more directly practical, the author en- deavours to prove that the direct excitant of the fever is the molecular disintegration of the pus, or other product of inflammation, and that such molecular products are transmitted into the mass of the blood by the lymphatic system. The work concludes with two short chapters on the effect of dried animal and vegetable putrid matters, in which it is proved that such substances retain their poisonous properties after dessication, and thus the possible effects of the application of dirty dressings, sponges, &c., is explained. In connection with this later work of Billroth’s, we must not omit to refer, though necessarily very shortly, to a paper by Dr. Gibson, in the ‘Brit, and For. Med.-Chir. Rev.,’ Jan. 1866, p. 186, in which the results of the observation of 62 cases of traumatic fever are recorded. These observations are undertaken in order to test the accuracy of the opinions announced by Billroth, in the memoir of which an abstract was published iu the ‘ Tear-Book ’ for 1862. The conclusions of Dr. Gibson agree in the main with those of Billroth; and the reader will also find in this paper detailed observations on the pulse, temperature, and urine, in a certain number of the cases, as also on the indications for treatment. In the second volume of the ‘ St. Bartholomew’s Hospital Reports,’ p. 46, Mr. Savory has writteu a paper “ On the relation of Phlebitis and Thrombosis to Pyaemia,” which is thus summed up by the author himself: “ Thrombosis may exist without any evidence of phlebitis, and very often without being followed by pyaemia.