REPORT ON SURGERY. 244 freely in the median line, and replacing the broken cartilages; but it seems to Dr. Hunt that this is unnecessary in ordinary cases, and in severe ones, where there is much comminution, would be impossible. Eichmann, however, succeeded in elevating a piece of the thyroid carti- lage by means of a bent polypus forceps. Besides these cases, Dr. Hunt has read that during the recent civil war laryngotomy or tracheotomy was resorted to 15 times, with 6 recoveries. The details of these cases have not been published, but doubtless some of them were for injury to the main air-passages. It is not intended to include gunshot-wounds in this paper, but some of them require to be treated on the same principle as internal fracture and rupture. In one of the cases in this table fracture was produced by the impact of a bullet, and tracheotomy was successfully performed. In the ‘New York Medical Journal,’ May, 1865, p. no, Dr. Sands gives a history of a case of cancer of the larynx successfully removed by laryngotomy, and adds an analysis of 50 cases of tumour of the larynx treated by operation. Dr. Sands’ own case was of much interest. The patient was a woman, set. 30. A polypoid growth had been seen springing from one side of the larynx, between the true and false vocal cords. It was sessile, and total removal from the mouth was impracticable, but a small portion was thus removed, and, on microscopical examination, was believed to be cancerous. The symptoms, as they are stated, were hoarseness, slight dyspnoea occasionally, and a feeling of constriction in the throat. The operation undertaken for the removal of this growth consisted in making an incision five inches in length, from above the hyoid bone to within two inches of the sternum, dissecting the larynx and trachea bare as low as the third ring of the trachea, the isthmus of the thyroid being divided for the purpose. When all bleeding had ceased, the trachea was opened at its upper part, and a tracheotomy tube intro- duced, having a long narrow slit along its upper wall, intended to per- mit the more easy passage of the knife in carrying the incision upwards. Then the cut was extended through the whole of the middle line of the larynx, as high as the os hyoides, dividing the base of the epiglottis. Considerable cough and spasm of the glottis followed this step of the operation, and some difficulty was experienced in preventing the passage of blood and other fluids into the lungs. At this time the patient also vomited, and the vomited matter ran down freely into the trachea. When she was again quiet the head was thrown well back, and the alse of the thyroid cartilage separated with a pair of sharp hooks. The growth was then excised at the level of the vocal cords, which seemed healthy. As the tumour had a very large base, connected with the cartilage forming the floor of the ventricle, when as much as possible had been removed with scissors and forceps, the actual cautery was applied to the base. The wound was then closed by sutures, except the lower part, where a large double canula was kept in for five days. The wound closed, except a small fistulous track resulting from the division of a bursa over the hyoid bone, which finally healed under the use of nitrate of silver, and she recovered her voice in a great degree, though she never regained its natural tone. Examination with the laryngoscope showed