418 REPORT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. the subsequent changes which took place were anteversion and retro- version, with more or less bending of the organ, which lesions interfered with subsequent impregnation. But a more important change was a gradual hardening of the organ, which reduced it to an indolent state, and rendered it very rebellious to treatment. The modification of the symptoms thus produced was shown by the cases recorded, and the physical examination of the organ detailed. The author found that in these cases the uterus was equally enlarged, smooth, pyriform, the cavity enlarged, and the orifice open. The sound readily passed to an extent varying from 3 to 5 or 6 inches. When inflammation was added the organ became tender, the arteries were felt to beat with more or less force, and the interior became very sensitive. Subsequent and various alterations were made ; the lips became enlarged, often lobu- lated, projecting into the vagina, red and raw in appearance, and bounded by a distinct line, which marked the division between the mucous membrane of the vagina and that of the uterus. It was this condition of the organ which had been so frequently described as ulceration, although no such morbid change actually existed. With respect to the treatment, various cases were recorded showing the importance of injecting the cavity of the uterus with astringent lotions, and the safety with which it could be done, provided the actions of the uterus were perfectly quiescent. The cavity of the uterus being enlarged, and the orifice open, impregnation readily took place, and the physio- logical changes which followed were decidedly the best means of restoring the organ to the healthy state. On the therapeutics of puerperal inflammations of the sexual organs. Dr. Martin (‘Mon. f. Gleburtsk.,’ 1863). Professor Dohrn examines the value (‘ Mon.f. Gleb.,’ 1865) of collo- dium in puerperal fever. Latour advocates (1859) the practice of painting over the abdomen with collodium, so as to form an impermeable coating, as a powerful remedy in this disease. Tarnoffsky, of St. Petersburg, tried it in 99 cases, and reported favorably. Dohrn tried it in 31 cases, and says it did good in 28. He thinks it acts by causing contraction of the abdomen. M. Batailhe (‘Acad, de Med.,’ 1865), believing that 'puerperal fever starts from non-contraction of the uterus, proposes to treat the uterus like a wound, and to guard against infection by alcoholic injec- tions. Dr. Spiegelberg relates (‘ Mon. f. Gleb.,’ Dec. 1866) a case of sudden death on the third day of childbed, from rupture of the left ventricle in consequence of acute myocarditis. Dr. Barnes related (‘ Obstet. Trans.,’ viii) 2 cases of sudden death during labour. In r case, that of a primipara, maniacal excitement came on during the dilatation of the cervix. Chloroform was given to induce moderate anesthesia, so as to facilitate the introduction of the forceps. Gentle traction, aided by uterine action, effected delivery in half an hour. The placenta was cast. A good pulse was maintained. The patient spoke deliriously at times, but also rationally afterwards. Deatli occurred almost suddenly ten hours after delivery. No post- mortem examination. Dr. Barnes did not think death was owing to the