246 REPORT ON SURGERY. 361. Cancerous tumours, lie thinks, require external excision. 3. The accessibility of the larynx and its cleyree of irritability.—Iu some cases it is found impossible to guide instruments into the larynx after ever so patient a trial, with the assistance of the laryngoscope. Here external incision would be necessary. But even when not inaccessible, the larynx may be so irritable as to frustrate all attempts to complete the operation. In 2 of the cases in the table the patient suddenly became asphyxiated during the attempt, and the surgeon was obliged to resort to tracheotomy on the spot. In 1 of these cases the growths were subsequently removed through the upper aperture; in the other case the patient ran away, preferring to wear the tube in the trachea rather than encounter the risk of further operation. In the ‘ "Wiener Med. Wochenschrift,’ June 28 and July 1, 1865, Dr. Grilewski, of Cracow, records a case in which he removed some polypous growths from the larynx, by an operation similar to that of Dr. Sands. The patient was a girl let. 16, who had suffered from hoarse- ness and noisy breathing, especially at night. This depended on the presence of three polypous excrescences, as seen in the laryngoscope. The growths' could not be removed from the mouth, on account of the violent reiiex movements excited by the attempt and the narrowness of the opening. The operation was performed almost exactly, as above described by Dr. Sands, but on exposing the interior of the larynx only one tumour was found. It was thought that the others had been in- cised during the opening of the larynx, and had collapsed. The opera- tion was successful, and the patient recovered her voice. Dr. Grilewski believes that the operation would be very difficult in old persons, on account of the ossification of the cartilages, and would also involve danger from perichondritis, leading to suppuration of the cartilage. But where the parts are supple it is not difficult; the vocal cords escape injury if the larynx is fixed by a hook, while the division is made up- wards in the middle line with a probe-pointed bistoury from the first cut in the air-tube. It is convenient that the patient should be con- scious during the later stages of the operation, in case of bleeding. Dr. Philip C. Smyly figures in the ‘ Dublin Quarterly Journal,’ Peb. 1866, at p. 10, a forceps for fixiug the larynx during laryngoscopy, of which he gives a short description. Its object is to dilate the upper opening of the larynx and raise the epiglottis. A forceps with broad bent blades is held between the thumb and the middle finger, while the index finger carries an ordinary faucial mirror, attached to it by an india- rubber nipple, like a thimble. By this contrivance Dr. Smyly was able to display the parts in a case of polypi in the larynx at the base of the epi- glottis, in a patient who was tongue-tied and had a very large tongue, with an epiglottis that almost touched the back of the pharynx even during phonation, and the larynx very deeply set in the throat. The apparatus can only be understood by reference to the figure. In the same journal, p. 335, Dr. McDonnell relates a series of very interesting cases, illus- trating the practical use of the laryngoscope. The first was that of a woman suffering from secondary syphilis, in whom there was great dyspnoea, hut slight aphonia. The laryngoscope showed no ulceration of the vocal cords, but infiltration of the surrounding structures, whereby