REPORT ON SURGERY. 248 tusion on bone. First, eccbymosis of the cancellous tissue of the bone, illustrated by a case in which the thigh was amputated, on account of implication of the knee-joint, 6 days after the wound. This ecchymosis may be reabsorbed without leading to any further consequences ; hut there is good reason, says Dr. Liddell, to believe that ecchymosis of bone is not always attended with so fortunate a result, but that the pressure of the effused blood arrests circulation in the vessels of the part, leading to necrosis, as by a process of dry gangrene. Of this event, also, a case is reported, which appeared to the author to be an instance of such a consequence following on a contusion of the femur from a bullet wound. The second consequence is ecchymosis in the medullary tissue. This is illustrated by a case, in which simple longitudinal fissure of the fibula was produced by a gunshot contusion; and at the part struck the medullary canal was filled with extravasated blood, while above this the medulla was red with inflammatory congestion. In this case the existence of injury of one of the bones had been suspected, but not satis- factorily diagnosed, as the osseous tissue was not exposed, the periosteum not being removed by the injury. The third consequence is simple osteo-myelitis, not accompanied or preceded by ecchymosis in the osseous tissue. This, again, is illustrated by a case in which a bullet struck the shaft of the femur, grazing and bruising it, after which an abscess formed about the seat of injury. There was a large deposit of new bone around the femur, new osseous tissue was deposited in the medullary canal, and the marrow presented the “ red inflammatory appearance described by Virchow.” The patient sank with typhoid symptoms, but no distinct evidence before or after death of pyaemia. The fourth consequence is necrotic osteitis, or an inflammation of the bone, so severe in character as to terminate in necrosis ; and the fifth is suppurative osteo-myelitis, leading usually to death by pyaemia. Each of these conditions is also illustrated from the writer’s experience in the late war. Besides these there is the species of necrosis produced directly by the contusion without the intervention of either ecchymosis or osteo-myelitis. This is the form which seems to have attracted Stromeyer’s attention, and is illustrated by a case of exfoliation of the cranium after a glance-wound from a bullet; another of exfoliation of the external malleolus ; and a third, of exfoliation from the ilium after gunshot wounds. In contrast to these, a case of gunshot wound of the tibia without exfoliation is introduced, to show how slowly these wounds heal even when no bone is destroyed. Finally, Dr. Liddell discusses the treatment appropriate to each of these conditions, as far as they can be diagnosed. In the ‘ Gaz. des Hop.,’ 1865, Nos. 145, 147, is the account of a discus- sion at the Soc. de Chir. de Paris on the subject of separation of the epiphyses. M. Dolbeau presented to the society a preparation in which the lower epiphysis of the radius had been separated on both sides, and on one side with separation of the epiphysis of the ulna also. The epiphysial cartilages had adhered to the separated epiphysis, toge- ther with a few lamellae of bone from the shaft of the radius. The