THERAPEUTICS OE NERVOUS DISEASES. 127 useful in diminishing reflex excitability. (2) Anaemia often causes excitability of nerve-centres, and everything that improves nutrition will then be serviceable. (3) It is very important to improve the sleep ; an invaluable drug for this purpose is the bromide of potassium. In cases, however, where pain is a part of the cause of sleeplessness, opium, aconite, and belladonna, should be used together. A warm bath of four, five, or six flours’ duration, will often cause sleep wflere tfle bromide of potassium has failed. (Ill) Moral treatment. Give the patient’s mind a serious aim, by means of occupation which is interesting, but not too fatiguing or exciting; idleness is the worst thing. Also give the patient hope. (IV) Special treatment of periodic forms of nervous disease. Brown-Sequard is not referring here to the well-known treatment of periodical neuralgia, epilepsy, &e., by sulphate of quinine and the like, but to a set of cases in which there is a periodical aura, and which he treats by making the patient take violent muscular exercise (e. c/. swinging) when the danger is at hand. In this way a boy was enabled to ward off a great number of successive threat- ened fits; in this case the cause of irritation was a diseased molar tooth, which had not given pain, but was extracted, when at once the fits ceased. Other modes of changing the state of the nervous system have been proposed—ligature of the limb, pinching the skin, a powerful emetic, cold douche to back, powerful interrupted electro-magnetic current, a dose of quinine (10, 15, or 18 grains) about an hour before the attack; an enema of drastic medicine, the inhalation of chloro- form, &c. Professor J. P. H. Albers* records a number of cases of mental depression, with paralytic affections of the extremities, tongue, and sphincters, in which the inunction of tartar emetic on the vertex pro- duced either a curative or a markedly improving effect. Sometimes it was observed that interruption of the treatment was followed by a relapse. Especially appropriate are the cases which run a chronic course, for the pustulating effect of the ointment requires several days for its production, and the therapeutic influence can hardly be induced under from 8 to 14 days. A copious pustulation appears to be especially effective. The ointment is, therefore, to be frequently rubbed in, even for a month together. Albers uses an ointment with 5ij tartar emetic to 3j' lard. The best place for the inunction is the vertex, by the side of the sagittal suture, especially towards the front, because the middle meningeal artery runs there, and in this district the exuda- tion processes in the membranes tend to localise themselves. MM. Gubler and Dumontf give a case of very severe chorea, in a woman 3 months pregnant, which was very successfully treated with doses of 30 and 45 grains daily of bromide of potassium. The effect was at once very marked, and the cure was complete in 8 days from the beginning of the treatment. M. EavezJ treats of compression of the carotids as a remedy for convulsions. He relates 3 cases of convulsions in which this pro- * ‘Memorabilia,’ x, 11, 1865; ‘ Sclimidt’s Jabrb.,’ 130, 4, p. 23, 1866. t ‘ Bull, tie Therap.,’ 68, p. 178, 1863. f ‘Arch. Gen.,’ 6 ser., viii, p. 333, 1865.