INTUSSUSCEPTION.—COLOTOMY. 313 that the subsequent recurring attacks of vomiting and the atrophy of the large intestine were due to the stricture preventing the passage of food in any considerable quantity. Two explanations are suggested by the referees of the fact that the expelled bowel came away right side out—either “ that the process of sloughing did not take place simultaneously with the whole of the tube, but ulceration first severed the returning piece of the invagination, so that it dropped over the inner layer, and became unravelled within the intestinal canal; or, that the invaginated mass protruded per anum, and that the mother of the patient, in attempting to withdraw the mass, took hold of this inner tube and unravelled it in situ." Colotomy.—In the ‘ London Hospital Reports,’ ii, p. 6, Mr. Curling re- lates briefly the particulars of 4 cases in which he had opened the descend- ing colon for the relief of the sufferings caused by painful cancer of the rectum, unaccompanied by total obstruction. In none of the cases was any serious difficulty experienced in reaching the colon and opening it without wounding the peritoneum, although the gut was not in the distended condition usually found when total obstruction exists. In 3 of the cases a long tube was passed through the diseased portion of the gut before the operation, and some linseed tea injected, so as to distend the gut to some extent and make it more recognisable. None of these patients died from the direct effects of the operation, but succumbed to the original disease at periods varying from 5 weeks to 9 months after the colon was opened. Mr. Curling adds to his short paper a table which shows the result of all the cases (including the above 4) on which he up to that time had operated or assisted others to operate. These are 10 in number, 8 belonging to himself, and a to his colleagues. In 6 the operation was performed on account of obstruction, varying from 30 to 9 days; 3 proved fatal, in whom the obstruction had lasted 30, 17, and 10 days. In 4, as stated above, no complete obstruction existed, and all recovered from the operation. The disease was cancerous in all the cases. In the 3 cases which died death was caused in 1 by persistent vomiting, referred to the chloroform; in a second by peritonitis, thought to have existed before the operation, as only 16 hours had elapsed before death; and in the third from exhaustion, consequent, really, as Mr. Curling believes, on the disease, and not on the operation. From this ample experience Mr. Curling argues strongly in favour of the opera- tion, as being both easy and successful. “Amussat’s operation.”—In the‘New York Med. Journ.,’ April, 1865, p. 55, is the account of an operation by Dr. Sands, of New York, on the descending colon for the relief of chronic stricture of the rectum, the effect (as was thought during life) of dysentery. The patient, a youth, set. 18, had contracted dysentery while serving in the army, and ci- catrization had advanced to such an extent that the rectum was almost impervious from fibrous thickening and induration of its an- terior wall at the level of the pubic symphisis. No instrument could be passed, nor any injection forced up the rectum, and the patient was enduring so much suffering from distension of the bowels above that