CONGENITAL CYSTS.—DISEASES OE THE NOSE. 235 situated on the thorax, was much smaller, but had not entirely disap- peared, three months after a single introduction of the seton. "We now proceed to affections of the nose and mouth : “ On a New Mode of Treating Diseases of the Cavity of the Nose.” By J. L. W. Thudichum, M.D. (‘ Lancet,’ Nov. 26 and Dec. 3, 1864).— Dr. Thudichum calls attention to the unsatisfactory nature of the local treatment of most of the diseases of the nose, in consequence of the inaccessibility of the recesses of the nasal fossae to the topical applica- tions prescribed, when applied in the ordinary manner—that is, by a common syringe, or by ointments applied to the lower and part of the middle meatus. In order to remedy this difficulty, Dr. Thudichum has made use of a discovery made by Prof. Weber, of Leipzig, and pub- lished in ‘Muller’s Archiv,’ 1847, viz., that, “when one side of the nasal cavity is entirely filled with fluid by hydrostatic pressure, while the patient is breathing through the mouth, the soft palate completely closes the clioanse, and does not permit any fluid to pass into the pharynx ; while the fluid easily passes into the other cavity, mostly round and over the posterior edge of the septum narium, in some persons also through the frontal sinuses, and escapes from the other open nostril, after having touched every part of the first half of the cavity of the nose, and a great part, certainly the lower and median canal, of the second half.” For this purpose Dr. Thudichum uses a metal rod 30 inches in length, with a heavily loaded foot, on which a high cylindrical glass vessel travels by means of a nut and screw. The glass vessel is open above to receive the fluid to be injected, and terminates below in an india-rubber tube, with stop-cock, to which a nozzle of horn or india-rubber is attached, of such a shape and size as accurately to fit the nostril.* The person is seated with his head over a basin or funnel, and, if he will take care to breathe exclusively through his mouth and abstain from swallowing, no fluid will pass down the throat, but it will all run out of the opposite nostril, carrying with it any sordes, blood-clot, or discharge, which may have accumulated in the nostril into which the nozzle is fitted. By altering the height of the glass jar the force of the stream is increased or diminished, and by pressing on the india-rubber tube with the Auger the jet of fluid can be increased or stopped at will, which becomes necessary if the person gets con- fused and begins to speak or to swallow. When one side has been thoroughly cleansed the stream is to be stopped, and the current re- versed, by applying the nozzle to the 'other nostril. Many diseases ot the nose are susceptible of relief in this way; according to Dr. Thudi- chum, the sense of smell can often be restored, and the formation of polypus be averted. As to the fluids to be used for rinsing out the nasal cavity, Dr. Thudichum gives elaborate directions, for most of which we must refer the reader to the original paper. Pure water, according to him, excites tears and sneezing (a kind of cold) from its * Simpler apparatus can easily be extemporised, and will answer the purpose pretty well. A common syphon in a jug of the injection, with a tube fitted on, can be used on an emergency; but it is of importance, if possible, always to have a well-fitting nozzle, otherwise the operation will sometimes fail.