CHOLERA. 47 and not to the supposed thickening of the blood by deprivation of its serum from excretion into the alimentary caual, that the whole pheno- mena of collapse are due. He urges the strong contrast of the collapse symptoms with the phenomena which are produced by loss of part or the whole of the elements of the blood. The central question as to Johnson’s cholera pathology is the ex- istence-or non-existence of the pulmonary spasm, which he declares (in accordance with the original statement of Dr. Parkes) to exist. If this spasm does occur, and the patient dies in full collapse, the lungs ought to be found pale and collapsed, the pulmonary artery and right chambers of the heart full of blood, the left chambers empty. In support of his theory Johnson also states that the early Indian practice, which consisted in the free use of purgatives, was far more successful than that which has been introduced since the idea prevailed that the loss of fluid was the cause of collapse. Again, he dwells on the remarkable effects occasionally produced by bleeding; this operation, so far from further depressing, has had an extraordinary reviving effect upon patients in full collapse. In a clinical lecture delivered at the close of the epidemic of 1866* Johnson relates the experience of King’s College Hospital during that period; 20 cases had been treated, and of these 12 died. Of the deaths, 6 occurred during collapse, and 6 in reaction. Of the 6 in collapse, 4 were not at all affected with vomiting or purging after they were admitted (it is not quite clear whether any of those had been free from all premonitory diarrhoea) ; two of them died within an hour after admission. The fifth patient was a very aged person, and already in a desperate condition. The sixth was that of a man, aged 35, who had been excessively purged for several days. Johnson remarks that it is not to be wondered at that prolonged diarrhoea and vomiting does not cure the disease in those who remain in poor and filthy dwellings, for there the exciting cause of cholera is being continually applied. Those who come into hospital do not present any such phenomena as continued diarrhoea with no amendment. Johnson gives no detailed account of the state of the lungs in the 6 cases which died in collapse, but he leads us to infer that they were found anaemic as a rule.f Upon this subject it is of great interest to consult the records of the Wap ping District Cholera Hospital during the 1866 epidemic. Dr. Woodman J gives the post-mortem appearances in 14 cases of death in the collapse stage. Out of these there are 2 cases in which both lungs were collapsed and anaemic. In another the anaemic collapse was of one lung only. In 2 more anaemia of the upper lobes and congestion of the bases were reported. In the remaining 9 there was distinct congestion of the lungs ; it is interesting to remark, that in three of these signs of commencing pneumonia were present (which throws * ‘ Brit. Med. Journ.,’ Nov. 10, 1866. f An able pamphlet by Dr. Cockle (‘ Thoughts on the Algide Stage of Cholera,’ London, J. Richards, 1866) discusses the pathology of cholera from the opposite view to that taken by Dr. Johnson. We regret that it is impossible to analyse it here. X ‘London Hosp. Reports,’ 1866. Appendix on Cholera.