CHT.OllIDE OF ZINC IN OPERATIONS. 217 healthy patches of mucous membrane between diseased ones are dis- cernible. There is another very remarkable difference between these two affections, viz. gonorrhoeal granulations appear like so many prominences, not unlike the surface of a ripe strawberry ; those caused by herpes have depressions and sinuosities, of which the outer surface of an orange-peel gives a good similitude. This author is not disposed to attribute the high importance to the endoscope in the diagnosis of diseases of the bladder which Dr. Cruise claims for it, and he speaks very cautiously as to the possibility of dis- tinguishing by its means the morbid conditions which lead to sperma- torrhoea ; but he fully recognises its utility in the diagnosis and treat- ment of chronic urethritis and stricture. Mr. Campbell de Morgan, in a paper entitled “ On the use of the Chloride of Zinc in Surgical Operations and Injuries, and especially in Operations for the removal of Cancerous Tumours,” in the ‘ British and Foreign Med.-Chir. Bev.,’ Jan. 1866, refers in the first place to the views which have been impressed on the minds of surgeons who have studied cancer in the cancer-wards of the Middlesex Hospital, and which have been put forward by Mr. Moore in the pamphlet, of which a sum- mary is presented on a subsequent page. These point to the local nature of cancer at its origin ; and the discovery by Schroeder van der Kolk of the germs of the disease scattered amongst the tissues, far beyond the limits of the tumour, renders it probable that in many cases the re- currence of the disease is due to some of these invisible germs having been left behind. In other cases such germs may have been scattered about in the neighbourhood of the operation-wound, by the knife having (as it often does) accidentally divided the morbid structure. Such germs may be disseminated in the fat around the tumour, and so cause multiple recurrence near the seat of operation, or may be taken up by the veins and lymphatics, causing the recurrence of nodules of cancer in the course of the circulation. Examples of both phenomena are given ; and others are adduced to show the probability, at any rate, that cancer is frequently at first local, and if so, then eradicable, provided al- ways that the disease, including the germs scattered about in the neigh- bourhood of the tumour, can be eradicated. This idea would lead sur- geons, in the first place, to operate at the earliest possible moment, and further, to endeavour to destroy the germs presumed to be scattered around the visible tumour. Mr. De Morgan relates a case where Mr. Moore applied the solid chloride of zinc in removing a cancer of the breast and axillary glands, with this view. The observation of the favorable progress of this case led the author to steep the wound of an amputation of the breast for cancer in a solution of the chloride (20 gr. to the ounce). The wound healed without any extraordinary pain, without sloughing, and with a remarkable absence of animal odour, in 48 hours, except at the point where the ligatures emerged; and this part healed as soon as the ligatures came away. Struck by the extra- ordinarily successful issue of this case, Mr. De Morgan began to apply the solution in a stronger form (as high as 40 gr. to the ounce) in similar operations, viz. for cancers; and then, on observing its good