REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 106 The next place must be given to the work of Dr. J. Y. Laborde.* The definite result of his researches into the “pathogeny” of cerebral softening is thus expressed:—The disease known under the partial denomination of “ spontaneous cerebral softening ” consists of a complex morbid process which appears to have its source (its immediate ana- tomical cause) in an organic alteration of the capillary vessels ; an alte- ration which, in its turn, is immediately dependent on the influence of advancing age and the decay of the organism. The morbid process is itself composed of a series of phenomena, the chief of which are: — r. In the organs of circulation, at the outset—simple changes of form in the vessels, caused by distensions or partial dilatations of their walls ; neclclace-like (moniliform) condition; commencement of blood-stasis. Further, and progressively, dissociation of the anatomical elements of the walls of the vessels; partial rupture of the walls; partial and scanty effusion, by exhalation or extravasation, of the elements of the blood into the midst of the nervous tissues. Successive and regressive transformation of these (blood) elements, as seen in the varying colours of the organic tissue which is the seat of the morbid process. The above-described phenomena take their rise from a more intimate change in the capillary vessels, viz. a more or less dense deposit on the internal tunic of amorphous molecular matters and transparent oil-globules; atheromatous, and sometimes chalky, degeneration; partial and more or less complete obstruction of the calibre of the vessels by accumula- tion of these new-formed elements. 2. In the nervous tissue properly so called, in the early period—simple modifications of the physical ap- pearance and form; shrinking, flattening, more or less appreciable deformity of the nerve-tubes and cells of the grey-substance; then, under the influence of an encroaching morbid process, disintegration and breaking up of these same anatomical elements, which undergo regressive and atrophic changes, even to complete annihilation. These changes are expressed by the minute separation of the constituent parts of the anatomical element itself, viz. separation between the cell, its nucleus, and its radiating prolongations; between the tube and the contents of its axis cylinder; finally, these scattered fragments of the injured nervous elements are impregnated with abundant fat-globules and molecular granules, and are tinted with the different shades of colour through which the colouring matter of the effused blood passes. The essence of the ultimate changes, on the one side and on the other, and as the result of the chronic process, is this—more or less complete destruction of the vascular and nervous elements of the normal tissue; total disorganization; change in the shape, external aspect, and con- sistence of the affected parts; softening; appearance, in the diseased spot, of new elements, pigment-granules, fat-globules, granular cells; consecutive manifestations of irritative symptoms. The task of deducing from these facts the species of the morbid pro- cess is embarrassing. The name which seems to Laborde to ex- press most faithfully the ensemble and the final goal of the phenomena which constitute the pathological process would be necrosis. But this * ‘ I.e Ramollissement et la Congestion du Cerveait principalement considere cliez le vieillard,’ Paris, Ad. Delahaye, 1866.