MENSTKUATION. 369 A return of the hectic fever followed, and the child’s life was endan- gered. She recovered, hut only to be again prostrated by a fourth appearance; and after a fifth she died, wasted and exhausted, without any effort to rally. There were no other signs of premature puberty. A post-mortem examination could not be obtained. Among many cases of premature menstruation on record, there are two in which the menses appeared at the age of nine months, and one in which the discharge appeared at the age of two years. The first two cases are reported in the ‘ Transactions of the Royal Med. and Chir. Society,’ ii, 1811, p. n6, and in the ‘Lancet’ for November, 1828, p. 264, from Meckel’s ‘Archiv.’ The former case was seen by Dr. Martin Wall. The third case is reported by Mr. Embling, in ‘ Lancet,’ 1848, i, p. 137. In these three cases obvious signs of puberty were seen in the genital organs, the mammae, and elsewhere ; and these signs form a great part of the interest of the cases. In other cases of premature menstruation exhaustion and death have occurred, as in this. M. Ramon de la Sagra relates (‘ Graz. Med. de. Paris,’ 1865) the fol- lowing case of a negro child, who at birth was observed to have the breasts much developed, and in whom, a few months later, a sanguineous discharge from the genital organs took place, and, in the second year, recurred at regular monthly intervals. When M. Ramon de la Sagra saw her, at the age of 32 months, she had passed through dentition favorably; and the throat and the genital organs, which, as well as the axillse, were covered with a fine down, gave her the appearance of a girl of 13 of the negro race. M. Ramon de la Sagra continued to see the child up to the age of seven, at which time she was in good health, the development having steadily continued. Dr. Mason relates (‘Edin. Med. Journ.,’ 1866) a case of vicarious menstruation. The patient began to menstruate at 8, and continued to do so until 11 ; then menstruation stopped until 13. A large abrasion appeared in the middle of the right cheek, suppurating in the centre, and inclining to bleed towards the circumference. The menstruation was now irregular. After a time this place healed; blood then oozed in drops from the skin of the face. Dr. Fordyce Barker shows (‘New York Med. Journ.,’ 1865) the emmenagogue and galactagogue properties of Faradisation. The disorders of menstruation are illustrated in the following memoirs : Dr. Basset (‘Presse Med.,’ 1866) relates a case of incomplete devia- tion of menstruation by the breasts. A woman, set. 27, consulted him on account of periodical discharges of blood by the nipples. Men- struation, nevertheless, occurred regularly, but in scanty quantity. The patient had borne three children. Her general health was good. Rokitansky (‘Wien. Med. Wchbl.,’ 1866) gives a case of fibrinous polypus of the uterus. A woman died from an accident. Menstrua- tion had set in two days before the accident. The right ovary was found congested. The uterus contained a clot of the form of the uterine cavity. A controversy has been carried on between Scanzoni and Kiwisch as to the nature and origin of fibrinous or blood polypi. 21