If Cases of irido-choroiditis after iridodesis, recorded by M. Gruber and Dr. Hbring CORNEA AND IRIS. 861 Cornea.—A. Rothmund, has introduced the use of subconjunctival injections in cases of corneal opacity.* Wood’s syringe, with its point somewhat curved, is introduced between the conjunctiva and sclera i\'"—2"' from the edge of the cornea, and the fluid is slowly pressed out. In 6 cases of parenchymatous keratitis the author used a solution of common salt, 9j—5j to the ounce of water being the best proportion; the fluid should be somewhat warmed before being injected. The con- sequent symptoms of irritation disappear in 5 or 6 days. The author has repeated the injection at intervals of 3 or 4 weeks. A comparative experiment was made in one case where both cornese were entirely opaque; one eye was treated by subconjunctival injections, the other by the usual irritants; the former cleared decidedly the more rapidly. Dr. Pagenstecher has strongly recommended the ointments of the yellow amorphous oxide of mercury in phlyctenular disease.! The modification of paracentesis introduced by C. SperinoJ has rendered the operation much safer and more effective; it consists essentially in the division of the operation into 2 parts, incision and evacuation ; the narrow knife being withdrawn, the discharge of the aqueous humour is effected by means of a blunt probe, of metal or whalebone, which is carried more or less deeply into the anterior chamber, and then pressed lightly backwards. Prof. Hasner§ records a case of deep keratitis which rapidly improved after paracentesis cornese; and J. Hutchinson|| one of intense photo- phobia from acute corneitis in a patient perfectly blind owing to white atrophy of the optic nerves.^f Iris.—Alfred Gfraefe has recorded a case under the title of membrana papillaris perseverans and polycoria,** in which an adventitious mem- brane with 8 holes or fissures was found in front of the iris, to which, however, it did not adhere ; no trace of mobility could be discovered in it; the iris was normal both in structure and action. He considers the membrane to be the remains of the anterior part of the vascular capsule of the lens. The simple and elegant operation of iridodesis has proved to be attended by risk of ulterior inflammation of a formidable character.ff Lens.—During the last two years Messrs. Critchett and Bowman have improved and practised on an extensive scale the scoop-operation; conjunctivitis (‘ Ophth. Rev.,5 ii, 74). J. S. Hildreth, on the treatment of purulent ophthalmia (‘Trans, of the Amer. Ophth. Society,5 1865, p. 12). Sclera.—0. D. Pomeroy, wound sutured (‘ Ophth. Rev.,5 iii, 80). G. Lawson and P. Schroter, on rupture (‘Med, Times and Gaz.,’ 1865, i, 570, 596; ‘Klin. Mon. f. Augenh.,5 1866, p. 242). G. Nicola and V. Achille, staphyloma treated by ligature (‘Ann. d’Ocul.,5 lv, p. toi). * ‘ Klin. Mon. f. Augenh.,5 1866, p. 161. f ‘ Ophth. Rev.,5 ii, 115. X lb., ii, 294. § lb., ii, 283. |[ ‘ Lond. Hosp. Rep.,5 iii, 393. if S^ee also T. Windsor, cases of staphyloma treated by ligature, reported by Dr. Little (‘ Ophth. Rev.,5 iii, 58). M. Giraud-Teulon, on the local use of calomel in super- ficial diseases of the cornea (‘Ann. d’Ocul.,5 liv, p. 257). Dr. Magni, sarcoma on the cornea (‘ Ophth. Rev.,5 iii, 90). Dr. Schiess-Gemuseus, on the pathological anatomy of anterior staphyloma (‘Arch, fur Ophth.,' xi, 2, 47). #* <Arch. fur Ophth.,5 xi, 1, p. 209. See also G. Sous, cases of congenital defects of the iris (‘Ann. d'Ocul.,5 liii, p. 244).