FRACTURES OF THE LARYNX. 243 relieve pulmonary congestion, io. When the green stools appear early (or salivation occurs) the child gets suddenly well. This is very remarkable, and occurs most unexpectedly, n. Tracheotomy ought not, in his opinion, to be performed in these cases. In the ‘American Journal of the Medical Sciences,’ April, 1866, p. .378, Dr. Hunt gives a tabular view of all the cases (27 in number, besides 2 doubtful) of fracture of the larynx and rupture of the trachea which he could find on record, accompanied by notes of a fatal case which occurred in his own practice. In the same journal (Jan. 1866, p. 261) is the account, extracted from the ‘ Canada Medical Journal,’ of a case under the care of Dr. McCleau, which was complicated with oedema glottidis, but recovered after tracheotomy. As to symptoms, Dr. Hunt says there are always dyspnoea, ortho- pnoea, and emphysema, with the consequent distress, anxiety, and lividity of surface. There may or may not be pain and cough; deglu- tition is sometimes easy. Bloody expectoration, in conjunction with the above symptoms, is regarded by Dr. Hunt as almost diagnostic, and if the voice should be reduced to a hoarse whisper the larynx will be the seat of the laceration. There is usually so much swelling as to render an examination of the larynx with the fingers impossible, other- wise crepitus may be detected. The prognosis is grave; of the 27 cases 17 died. As to age, though Morgagni says (but without giving details) that he has seen this injury, and always in advanced age, Dr. Hunt finds that out of 15 cases in which the age was given only one (a female, ret. 66, was over 45 years, and 5 were children, 1 of them only 4 years of age. A fall against some projecting body is the usual cause. As to treatment, 10 recovered out of the 27 cases; 8 were operated on, but 2 died, leaving 6 recoveries after operation and 4 without. These 4 “ recovered under bleeding, rest, silence, &c.; but they were separations in the median line, and, I infer, did not lacerate the mucous membrane, as emphysema and bloody expectoration are not mentioned in any of them. I11 fact, Gibb, who reports one of them, says that the patient complained of loss of voice, and of an indescribable sensation in the throat, and that there was neither difficulty of breathing nor dis- placement, except when made by the examiner.” Similarly of the other cases which recovered without operation. “ But these cases are rare. I think our list shows that active and prompt treatment by laryngotomy or tracheotomy gives the only hope of success, where the emphysema and bloody expectoration show that the mucous membrane has been lacerated by the broken fragments If, then, after getting the history of a case, we have bloody expectoration and emphy- sema accompanying the other symptoms, an operation should be at once performed, for ice have obtained no record of such a case yetting well without it.” Some delay is not, indeed, incompatible with recovery, as in Dr. McClean’s case, where the operation was not performed till the sixth day; but when the case has been satisfactorily made out no delay should be admitted. The power of natural respiration is usually regained. In only 1 of the 6 successful cases was it necessary to wear the tube permauently. Chelius speaks of cutting open the larynx