214 REPORT ON SURGERY. torrhcea generally into irritative, where the mucous membrane about the orifices of the prostatic ducts is inflamed and ulcerated and the glands engorged, and in which local cauterization is highly serviceable ; and atonic, in which the opposite of all this prevails. He figures an instrument, devised by himself, for the application of caustic iu solution in these cases. In diseases of the female urethra Dr. Cruise has also found the plan of use, of which he gives an example in p. 359. Finally, he affirms that by means of the method which he follows, and the instruments which he describes and figures, the interior of the bladder may be accurately and satisfactorily inspected, and he gives the following convincing proof of the fact:—“ Dr. McDonnell first prepared a subject by opening the bladder and introducing into it 3 substances of a nature the most unlikely to be thought of, and respecting which I was in total ignorance. He then brought me to the body, and chal- lenged me to tell with my endoscope what the articles in the bladder were. In a few minutes I was able to do so, and to demonstrate them to him. The articles were a brass screw with a milled head, a short Minie bullet, and a mass of plaster of Paris.”* In the ‘Dublin Quarterly Journal,’ Feb. 1866, p. 83, there is the account, by Dr. Gordon, of a case of pleurisy in which, after suppura- tion had set in, causing extensive emphysema, he treated the case by the insertion of a drainage-tube through a puncture at the lowest prac- ticable part of the left pleura, without making a counter-opening, as Dr. Goodfellow recommends. The case turned out well, though pleural fistula persisted. But our chief reason for quoting it is the following, which we give in Dr. Gordon’s words :—“ This case is very remarkable as being the first in which an examination of the interior of the chest has been made by the endoscope. The facts which we satisfied our- selves of were, that the lung was not compressed towards the spine nor much reduced in size; that is, that there was no large vacant pleural cavity, and that wherever we saw the pleura it presented more or less a granular surface, and no appearance of lymph. To ascertain the con- dition of a lung in a case where pleural fistula exists can never be a very easy matter. An endoscopic examination may in such cases, therefore, be most valuable; that it is perfectly practicable this case proves. I am indebted to Dr. Cruise for making the examination. It was the first occasion upon which he had used the binocular adjustment, which renders the instrument so much more perfect.” * We may quote the following from an author whose opinion will command respect: —“ It is not saying too much to declare that for the diagnosis of diseases of the whole tract of the urethra, the bladder, the vagina, the uterus, the rectum, the nasal cavities, and pharynx, the endoscope may be placed on a level with the laryngoscope and ophthalmoscope in their special applications to diagnosis. “ The endoscope is further applicable in the case of wounds, especially in determining the presence or absence of a foreign body. Had Garibaldi been fortunate enough to have had Dr. Cruise on his medical staff at Aspromonte he would have been saved great suf- fering, and the cause of surgery some discredit. The endoscope is further applicable for exploring serous cavities after operation, as well as the lining membrane of cysts and abscesses.”—From an Address by Dr. Stokes, published in the ‘ Medical Press and Circular,’ Dec. 19, 186G.