ENDOSCOPY. 201 A few minor details are necessary to be known, as the success of the exploration depends on the perfect adjustment of the apparatus. In order to obtain a very small point of intense light, M. Desormeaux uses the flame of a small cotton-wick steeped in gazogene, which he has found to best combine the requisite conditions of a strong and con- centrated light, without too large a flame or too much heat. To increase the light a concave reflector is adapted behind the flame, and a plano-convex lens in front (i. e. between the flame and the inclined mirror). The eyepiece is furnished with lenses to suit different sights, and between it and the mirror a conical pierced diaphragm is fixed, the hole in which is smaller than that of the mirror, so as to conceal the reflection from the edges of the latter. The urethral tube is first passed down to the required distance, and is then fixed in the mirror- tube by a catch. There is a slit at the side, down which instruments cau be passed. The urethral tube terminates in an open end, which, however, is closed during its introduction by a bulbous stilet, intro- duced down the slit, and then withdrawn. The slit is also used to in- duce stilets holding cotton-wool, to wipe the surface which is to be examined, or carrying probe-heads, knife-blades, &c., for passing stric- tures or performing operations. In order to obtain complete illumina- tion, it is necessary to have the focus of the gazogene flame opposite to the centre of the reflector and mirror. This can be ascertained by looking up the mirror-tube (while open) at the inverted image of the lamp. The patient is to be placed at the extremity of a firm table of convenient height, with his legs resting on supports, and the operator stands between them to examine the urethra. Before introducing the endoscope a general idea of the state of the canal is to be obtained by means of an ordinary sound or other instrument. A dark room is to be preferred, though not absolutely necessary. In order to examine, throughout its whole extent, a urethra in which no obstacle exists, the tube should be passed down to the entrance of the bladder, which can be judged of by the depth and by the resistance experienced. It is easier than would be imagined to penetrate into the bladder; but this is to be carefully avoided, on account of the urine, which would fill the tube. The tube is now to be adapted to the endoscope, and is to be slowly withdrawn, illuminating the urethra all the way. Mucus from the urethra and oil from the instrument require to be removed with the cotton-wool from time to time. If any of the cotton-wool should drop into the urethra it will be forced out by the first micturition, or if it is necessary to remove it (as when saturated with caustic) this can be done by a wire terminating in a screw end. If a stricture be detected the instrument should be pushed down till it meets with it, and the above exploration commenced from that point. The normal appearances of the urethra are first described. The lacunae and the ejaculatory ducts M. Desormeaux asserts to be invisible, being effaced by the distension of the instrument, nor is the veru mon- tanum usually perceptible. The colour of the mucous membrane is of a pale pink, and it folds itself into longitudinal rugae as the instrument is withdrawn. The precise position of these rugae depends on the movement of the tube ; but if they are decidedly absent in any part a