POISONING. AltSENIC. 435 Virchow proposes to give the name of gastritis glandularis or gastro- adenitis to this affection. Arsenic.—Saikowsky* has found that arsenic and antimony produce the same pathological changes as phosphorus. After the administration of these substances morbid appearances were found in the liver and kidneys, as well as in the muscular substance of the heart and of the dia- phragm. He has made 46 experiments on rabbits, which have yielded uniform results. Arsenic was given in the form of arsenious and also of arsenic acid. Small doses were employed, so that the animals lived from 3 to 6 days. The liver was always found to be considerably enlarged and very fatty. The fat was not diffused throughout the substance of the organ. In each acinus 3 zones were distinguishable—an external, of a pale red colour ; a middle zone, of a dull yellow colour ; a central zone, of com- paratively trifling extent, and appearing as a reddish point. Micro- scopical examination showed that it was in the middle zone of the acinus that the cells were enlarged and filled with fat-globules of various sizes. The kidneys were much enlarged, the tubuli were com- pletely filled with fat-globules, and wherever the epithelium still existed its cells also were full of similar globules. The muscular fibres of the heart and of the diaphragm had likewise undergone a fatty change. The epithelial cells lining the glands of the gastric mucous membrane were often enlarged, and sometimes contained a quantity of fat. All these morbid appearances were much more marked after the administration of arsenious acid than when arsenic acid was given. The quantity of fat contained in the liver was considerably greater in rabbits poisoned by arsenic than in those poisoned by phosphorus. When large doses of arsenic were given to rabbits (i-§- to 3 grains of arsenious acid), so as to kill them in 20 to 28 hours, the liver was found to be fatty; but the fat was diffused throughout the substance of the organ, so that the change was not so definite as in the more chronic cases of poisoning. Very similar appearances were produced by the administration of antimony, especially when the terchloride was used (in a dose of -f grain to 1^ daily, for 3 or 4 days). In such cases the changes in the liver were precisely similar to those produced by arsenic, except that they were more diffused, and affected more uniformly the whole structure of the organ. The quantity of glycogen was always found to be diminished in these experiments, and sometimes this substance was altogether absent. The statements of Saikowsky were shortly afterwards confirmed by clinical observation in a case of arsenical poisoning in the human subject, recorded by Grohe and Mosler,f of Greifswald. A healthy boy, 2 years old, put into his mouth a piece of green paint, about 10 a.m. Within 20 minutes vomiting came on, the vomited matters being of a green colour, and very abundant. Arsenic was detected in them. The child became much collapsed ; the respiration was rapid ; the pulse small, and not to be felt distinctly at the wrist; the abdomen * ‘ Virchow’s Archiv,’ xxxiv, p, 73. f Ibid., p. 208.