REPORT ON SURGERY. 228 is kept open, and the pain, which was rapidly wearing out her strength, is relieved. She considers herself nearly well; but the disease is not eradicated, nor can this result be looked for.” In connection with this case, Dr. Broadbent refers to one under the care of Mr. Alfred Cooper, Surgeon to St. Mark’s Hospital for Diseases of the Bectum, in which the disease was of long standing. The patient’s sufferings were extreme, and he was in the last stage of exhaustion. There were evidences also of extension of the disease to the liver. No hope could be entertained of saving life; but it seemed possible that some relief might be given, and at the worst an opportunity would he afforded, by post-mortem examination, of ascertaining the effects of the injection. On examination the finger came upon a mass of disease, apparently filling the entire pelvis, and the canal by which faecal matter passed could not be made out. Three injections were made between July 6 and 13. “He experienced no marked relief, till on Aug. 28 he passed a solid substance, described by himself as ‘ being large enough to cover a crown-piece, and as tough as chamois leather,’ after which he suffered less. His strength, however, was exhausted, and he died on Sept. 7. On post-mortem examination the obstruction in the rectum was found to have entirely disappeared, and no trace of the tumour was to be found. The liver and other abdominal organs were extensively affected with cancer.” Dr. Broadbent’s 4th case was one of cancer of the tongue, with en- larged glands. There was an ulcer with a hard base and enlarged glands. This patient seems to have been less decidedly benefited than the others. After the treatment “ the surface of the ulceration was clean, and scarcely any hard base existed; but it had extended more towards the tip of the tongue. This organ was more movable. The glands remained large.” Dr. Broadbent remarks that the treatment does not necessarily con- template the entire disintegration of the tumour and its removal by sloughing, but that it may be sufficient if it causes the tumour to wither away and arrests its spread into the system; and some of the cases which he relates lead to the belief that this may be effected. In other cases—as when a malignant tumour is producing obstruction—it may be better to seek for its entire removal and disintegration, a termina- tion which, he remarks, is always within reach by this method. On this subject of the treatment of cancer by injection the reader should also consult a paper by Mr. Moore, in the 1 Brit. Med. Jour.,’ Nov. 17, 1866. On the results attending the removal of the first growths of cancer, see Birkett, ibid., Sept. 29, 1866. Moore, ‘ On the Antecedents of Cancer.’ A pamphlet reprinted from the ‘Brit. Med. Jour.,’ Aug. 26, 1865.—This is an attempt to find a reply to the question—Are there any antecedent con- ditions influencing the production of cancer ? Mr. Moore avows that he “ is not in a position to demonstrate any such anterior occasion of the disease.” But he shows that the facts relating to cancer are not in harmony with the theory that the preliminary fault