289 EXCISION OF THE HI1'. recoveries which are included among the incomplete cases. With respect to the time for performing the operation, he adheres to Pock's dictum, that it should be done as soon as the surgeon can assure himself of the existence of caries. With respect to the chief sign of the latter condition, crepitus, he calls attention to the fact that it may be absent in cases of central caries, i. e. of caries limited to a small part of the. middle of the head of the femur. The other symptoms of caries (oedema, cold abscess, fistulae) are hardly pathognomonic, as they may depend on other conditions of the joint, or on caries of other parts of the bones. Spontaneous luxation (a comparatively rare condition) is both a certain sign of caries and a great facility to the operation, but he dissents from the opinion expressed by some writers that it is no sure sign of the integrity of the pelvis, and also seems inclined to contest (though by no means vehemently) the view of the present compiler, viz., that it is a condition in which resection is less indicated than when the disease progresses without dislocation. Two diagnostic means appear to him to be of great use, and less employed than they should be, viz., exploratory punctures of the joint and thermometric observations. By the former, repeated, if necessary, in various parts of the joint with an exploring trocar, the exact condition of its various parts can be determined with something like certainty, and the existence and seat of caries made out when there is no crepitus. As to the temperature, he asserts that the passage of inflammation into suppuration and caries can almost with certainty be affirmed if there is a considerable rise in the evening temperature, to above 390 C. (1020 F.), accompanied by ever so slight a morning rise of temperature, provided, however, that these phenomena are not due to some visceral affection, especially tubercles in the lungs. He gives the tables of temperature of a few cases to prove this. By a combination of these diagnostic signs he says that caries can always be made out, and that it is an indication for performing resection at once, in the absence of contra-indications. He next discusses the latter. Disease of the pelvis he holds to be no contra-indication, nor does he appear to admit any limit of age, though he does not deny that the operation succeeds worse in the more advanced periods of life. With reference to hectic fever, it is a contra-indication when dependent on organic mischief, but on the other hand a strong inducement to operate when it is caused (as it often is) by the disease of the hip. Visceral diseases of course contra-indicate the operation, in so far as they are incompatible with life or with the powers of repair, but he refers to several cases of recovery with chronic kidney and liver disease, probably the so-called “ amyloid ” degeneration. He speaks doubtfully of the propriety of operating in patients obviously scrofulous, nor does he believe that the operation can be often required in cases of deformity from anchylosis. This interesting paper concludes by a short reference to the possi- bility of obtaining more accurate information as to the success of treat- ment without operation, for comparison with the results of resection, and to the possibility of avoiding operation in many cases by the early and constant use of immovable apparatus, and in a postscript gives the 19