RHEUMATISM. 71 * ‘Guy’s IIosp. Rep.,’ 1866. f ‘Union Med.,’ 100, 1865. explanation of the phenomenon. Patients in cerebral rheumatism have been seen to walk on and move joints which were profoundly diseased, in the same way as those suffering from traumatic delirium sometimes remove the apparatus from fractured limbs,"and use them as if they had received no injury. The changes which the membranes of the brain undergo in rheuma- tism appear to be of the same kind as those in the joints. In very rare cases Ollivier and Eanvier have found a purulent fluid in the cavity of the arachnoid and in the meshes of the pia mater ; in others, much more numerous, there have only been traces of intense congestion, charac- terised by dilatations of the vessels. Dr. Thomas Stevenson* writes on the urine in acute rheumatism. The urine of eight different and selected patients was most care- fully examined, and the writer comes to the following conclusions: —i. In acute rheumatism, when the excretion of solid materials in the urine is large, the patient makes, other things being equal, a rapid recovery; on the other hand, in lingering cases the excretion of solids is usually small. 2. As in this disease the urine is invariably scanty in bulk, but generally (from this cause only) of high density, a useful guide to the progress of the case may probably be found by diluting the urine to the normal bulk, and then ascertaining its specific gravity. According as it is now of high or of low density will the progress of the disease probably be favorable or unfavorable. 3. Though the ex- cretion of urea is usually greater during the height of the disease than during convalescence, this is not inevitably the case; the reverse some- times occurs. Though the excretion of urea is greater during the dis- ease than during the early stage of recovery, the urea in the former stage seldom very much exceeds in amount the normal physiological excretion. 4. The uric acid is always much increased while the disease continues. 5. The phosphoric acid is generally in greater amount during the progress of the disease than during recovery, but the quantity of this substance rarely much exceeds the quantity secreted in health. 6. The excretion of sulphuric acid is generally increased, and often largely. In one instance more was excreted during the recovery than during the acute stage of the disease. The amount of this sub- stance secreted is variable. M. Bouchut,f from his experience at the Children’s Hospital in Paris, believes that articular rheumatism is more common in children than is generally supposed. It may be either acute or chronic, and the acute form may effect one or many joints. There are also scrofu- lous and scarlatinal rheumatisms, which are peculiar to children, doubt- less in consequence of the much greater frequency of scrofula and scarlet fever among them than among adults. In a large proportion of cases the rheumatism is subacute. The general course of the disease is the same as in the adult. As complications, Bouchut has met with pneu- monia, pleurisy, endocarditis, and, with the greatest frequency, peri- carditis. 1theumatic meningitis he has never observed in children. Organic lesions of the heart are less frequent in children than in