REPORT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. 398 3. Levelling or adjusting movement. 4. Rotation. 3. Second move- ment of descent and extension. 6. External rotation. He explains flexion as happening in the following manner:—It depends upon the head being articulated nearer the occiput than the face. Every part of the head is equally pressed upon from below by the resisting structures, but the sum of pressure in front of the spinal column is greater than the sum behind, and the head rotates. Ritchie denies the truth of the theory that flexion is due to pressure propagated downwards by the ver- tebral column. 2. The first movement of descent is due to the expulsive action being exerted downwards and backwards in the direction of the axis of the brim; hence the head descends in that direction till the occi- put reaches the lower part of the foramen ovale. 3. As the sinciput has to travel further than the occiput, so has the left side of the head to travel further than the right; the head, therefore, does not undergo simple extension, but a double or oblique movement. The head rotates on its transverse axis, and also towards the right shoulder. The cause is that the occiput now experiences the greater resistance, and therefore is the more fixed point. 4. The rotation, par excellence, is that of the head upon its perpendicular axis. The occiput at every pain seems to make an effort to pass behind the ascending branch of the ischium, whilst the face is invited into the free hollow of the sacrum. The head escapes, as Leishman and others show, somewhat obliquely. 5. The head having rotated, the occiput is placed just behind the arch of the pubes. The head now begins to extend. 6. The rotation of the shoulders, like that of the head, is imperfect. The right shoulder is lowest, and takes the place of the occiput. Dr. W. Kuneke (‘Mon. f. G-eb.,’ 1866) disputes the reality of the bi-parietal obliquity of the head described by Naegele. His essay seems to be based upon Dr. Leishman’s work. Dr. Barnes illustrates by outlines (‘ Obstet.Trans.,’ vii) the varieties of form imparted to the foetal head by the various modes of birth. He draws the following deductions from his diagrams. The ordinary dimen- sions of a standard head at term not deformed by labour are—frcnto- occipital diameter, 4*50" to 5'oo" ; occipito-mental diameter, 5‘2j" to 3’^o"; greatest transverse diameter (between parietal protuberances), 375" to 4'oo" ; lesser transverse diameter (between the ears), 37o". He observes that the measurements commonly given in 1 ooks are taken from averages of observations made upon children after ordinary labour, in which probably some deformation had occurred. 2. In protracted labour, with vertex presentation, in a pelvis normal, or nearly so, the above dimensions are altered to—fronto-occipital diameter, 3'23" to 6'oo"; occipito-mental diameter, 6'3o" to 673". The greatest transverse diameter is often merged in the lesser, that is, the parietal bones are compressed so that the inter-parietal diameter becomes the same as the inter-auricular, which is fixed. 3. That in a case of tedious labour, with the head in the third position of Naegele, the elongation is greatest in the bregmato-mental diameter, that is, the elongation more nearly approaches the vertical diameter than the longitudinal. 4. That elon- gation of the head is due sometimes entirely, and often greatly, to the pressure the head experiences in passing a rigid, imperfectly dilated