TUBERCULOSIS. 81 tissue; and as the vessels are not so rapidly obliterated in syphilis as in tuberculosis, syphilitic deposits may be absorbed, while this is only exceptionally observed in tubercle. The frontal bone and sternum presented a condition rarely observed, which Banvier proposes to term gummatous osteitis. It is characterised by an enlargement of the vascular and medullary spaces of the bone, and by the filling of these cavities with a substance gelatinous in some parts, lardaceous and cheesy in others. This form of osteitis, Banvier says, has hitherto been only imperfectly described by Dufour. Virchow says that he has not met with an instance. The gelatinous portions contained small cells in an amorphous or fibrillar substance, and a number of nuclei—cytollastions of Bobin. In some parts of the bone these had undergone cheesy transformation; and here there were also fatty granules in various proportions, and also obscure globular masses of crystals of stearic acid. On the general subject of constitutional syphilis, see J. Hutchinson’s article in ‘ Beynolds’s Syst. Medicine,’ i, 1866, which includes all the recent information on the subject. See, also, some very valuable remarks by Dr. Hughlings Jackson “ On Syphilitic Disease of the Cerebral Arteries” (‘Lancet,’ Oct. 27, 18 66). Tuberculosis. In a note communicated to the Academy of Sciences M. Villemin* says that tuberculosis is the effect of a specific cause, a virus, which, like its congeners, may be propagated in the morbid products to the formation of which it leads by its direct action on the normal elements of the affected tissues. M. Villemin states further that he has esta- blished by experiment the fact that this virus, when introduced into a susceptible body, may reproduce itself, and at the same time reproduce the disease of which it is the essential principle. On March 6 M. Villemin placed two young rabbits, about three weeks old, iu a cage, and inserted behind the ear of one of them two small fragments of tubercle and some puriform fluid taken from a cavern in a man who had died of phthisis thirty-three hours previously. On March 30 and April 4 tubercle was again inoculated. At each operation local symptoms were produced. On June 20 both rabbits were killed. In the animal which had been inoculated tubercle was found scattered along the greater curvature of the stomach ; there were also tuberculous deposits in the small intestine and in the kidney, and the lungs were full of large tuberculous masses. The other rabbit, which had not been inoculated, but had in other respects been subjected to the same conditions, presented no signs of tubercle. On July 15 three healthy rabbits, living in an airy situation, and supplied with abundant and varied food, were inoculated with tubercle. The operation was repeated on them on July 22, and at the same time another healthy rabbit, living with the others in the same conditions, was inoculated. In the middle of September the animals were killed. In one there were abundant patches of tubercle of the size of a lentil, projecting on the surface of the lungs, and some miliary granulations. * ‘ Gaz. Med.,’ Dec. 16, 1865. G