LIBERATION OP NERVE COMPRESSED BY CALLUS. 295 elusion, from the history and symptoms, that the nerve was suffering from compression either by one of the fragments or by the exuberant callus. In either case it would be necessary to remove the callus before arriving at the seat of the mischief. But before doing this prolonged treatment by electricity and discutients to reduce the volume of the callus was vainly undertaken. At the end of 2 months the atrophy had increased. An incision was made in the presumed direction of the nerve, so as to expose it in the external intermuscular septum. It was found by tracing a collateral branch (first exposed) upwards, and was then followed to a point where it was seen to emerge from the callus. A fragment of the latter was then removed by cutting forceps. It was found to be smooth, and hollowed out on its lower surface into the form of a groove. A probe distinguished a soft substance at the bottom of the depression left by the removal of the fragment. A large gutter was now cut in the bone by means of the chisel and mallet, and after thus chiseling the humerus to the extent of about an inch and a half, the nerve, which was hypertrophied and thickened, was fully exposed to view. It was seen to be swollen, as if at a ganglion, at the upper part of the gutter which had been cut, and w'as strangulated at this part by a point of bone directed obliquely, and seeming to be a part of the lower fragment. At this level the nerve was pinched as if by a ligature; it was only 3 millimetres in thickness, while the swollen portion, situated above, was a centimetre in thickness. Below the constriction the nerve was slightly swollen. The osseous point was cut off, and a probe was passed behind the nerve to ensure its complete isolation. It was then followed % inch above and below the bony canal, to ensure its complete liberation; and in order to obviate any danger of reproduction of bone, the periosteum was removed all around. The nerve was not disturbed from its gutter, for fear of contusing or stretching it. The wound healed rapidly. Prom the 6th day the patient experienced some pricking sensations at the posterior and external aspect of the forearm, and sensibility began to increase in the thumb and forefinger. Elec- tricity employed on and after the 13th day produced sensations which he had not experienced before the operation. On the 20th day he could raise his hand a little by voluntary effort, and these movements became daily more considerable. At the qnd of a month his progress was arrested for a period of 3 weeks, but then recommenced, and the muscles became responsive to electricity; and when he left the hospital (6£ months after operation) he could extend his metacarpus so as to make an angle of 1250 with the forearm, and insisted on going back to his work in the fields. M. Ollier reasons that the operation was imperatively necessary, there being no chance of natural cure ; and says that in case of an error in diagnosis, if the nerve had been found divided instead of com- pressed, he should have attempted to unite the two ends by a metallic suture, passed through the cellular tissue around them, and he thinks with some chance of success. The following notes refer to the surgery of the head ;