892 REPORT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. Cases of rheumatism of the gravid ivomb are related by Ed. Lobgeois (‘ G-az. des Hop.,’ 1864), and Corten (‘Presse Med.,’ 1865). Dr. Spengler (‘Mon. f. Geburtsk.,’ 1865) relates a case of hemi- ralopia in a pregnant woman. A healthy woman was seized suddenly with blindness in her fourth pregnancy. There was neither oedema nor albuminuria. She recovered her sight completely on delivery at term. Mr. Hine relates (‘ Med. Times and Gaz.,’ 1865) a very interesting case of myelitis, with symptoms of chorea, during pregnancy. The patient died, and a large quantity of turbid fluid was found in the spinal canal; in the middle of the dorsal region the spinal cord was softened, of creamy consistence. The cause of the disease appeared to be emotional. Cases of chorea in pregnancy are recorded by Dr. Woodman (‘ Obstet. Trans.,’ vii). A case of acute jaundice during pregnancy is related by Dr. Barnes (“Lectures on Puerperal Eever,” ‘Lancet,’ 1865). The patient was a primipara, jet. 35. When five months gone she began to suffer from vomiting, blood and mucus being in the vomit; jaundice followed; great prostration; pulse 80 ; intelligence preserved ; stools scanty, clayey; urine intensely icteric. Lethargy set in. The membranes were rup- tured to bring on labour; the liquor amnii was deep yellow. Coma and convulsive twitchings followed, and death in about three days from the onset. The urine, examined by Dr. Letheby, contained leucine and tyrosine and lithates in large quantity. Y. Haselburg relates a case of acute liver atrophy during pregnancy (‘Monatsschr. f. Geburtsk.,’ 1863). The patient was admitted insen- sible. She was 39 years old; a cook at a restaurant. She had sought to conceal her pregnancy. Jaundice set in, and gradually increased in intensity, but she did. her work for four days. Then vomiting of blood and epistaxis appeared. Next day she was found half conscious, undressed, her body on the bed, feet upon the floor, and a five-months foetus on the ground. Pulse small, over 120. Pressure on the region of the liver was so painful that the patient was aroused out of her stupor. On percussion the tympanitic resonance of the abdomen was divided from that of the lungs by only a narrow band. A little urine drawn showed with nitric acid the colours of gall-stuff, but no albumen. Collapse quickly set in, and she died two hours after admission. Autopsy. —Small extravasations were found in the kidneys. Liver small, weighing scarcely two pounds ; extremely flaccid; the gall-bladder held only a little pale yellow gall. Sections showed uniform pale yellow colour, with extremely small and hardly recognisable acini. Sir James Simpson (‘Edin. Med. Journ.,’ 1866) refers to three cases of fatal rupture of the spleen which occurred respectively during the pregnant, parturient, and puerperal states. As in states of morbid leucocythaemia, the spleen was often enlarged, so it was in pregnancy. Enlargement of the spleen sometimes recurred in successive pregnan- cies. In one patient of his the spleen became enlarged in a very marked degree, the enlargement always disappearing after delivery. A certain amount of softening frequently attends the hypertrophy, predis- posing to laceration under muscular efforts or blows. A woman showed symptoms of fatal sinking shortly after labour at the sixth -or seventh