THE INFANT. 431 which first attracted his attention, which also came from Sologne, a marshy tract where ague is prevalent, he says it was brought in with purpura over the whole body, and a very distended belly, chiefly due to enlargement of the spleen. Another feature was that, in irregular alternations, the child got worse or better. The child was cured by quinine. Bouchut insists upon the importance of early diagnosis, because, if not detected and properly treated, ague is quickly fatal to infants. It rarely assumes the regular stages of cold, heat, and sweating ; and the younger the child the more are these stages intermixed. Itigor scarcely ever exists; the child becomes only blue or greenish-white from head to foot, and the nail-ends become blue. This period of “ concentration” lasts about an hour ; then comes the period of “ expan- sion,” which is manifested by a rosy colour of the skin and burning heat; then sweating, which is never so marked as in adults. The periodicity is also modified. The fits assume a variable type, but approach the quartan; they recur daily, but very irregularly, at different hours. When this fever has lasted several weeks or months the consecutive anannia appears, and the child has the greenish-yellowish colour characteristic of paludal infection, and so common in Sologne. With or after the anaemia comes the cachexia, with emaciation, general debility, enlargement of the belly, especially in the region of the spleen. In much protracted miasmatic poisoning purpura or haemorrhagic spots extend over the skin. At this stage the indication is to counteract the tendency to death. In connection see a case of congenital extreme tumefaction of the spleen by Dr. Hawalka (‘ Wien. Med. Wchnschr.,’ 1865). Dr. Bouchut (‘ Journ. f. Kinderk.,’ xlv, 1865), reverting to the diffi- culty of diagnosing liooping-cougli except by the coughing fit, says there is a sign which, when present, is as characteristic of hooping- cough as are the wounds in the tongue of epilepsy, namely, the ulcerations of the frcenum linguae and neighbouring parts. These ulcerations, from their entirely mechanical origin, have a great analogy with the tongue-bites of epilepsy. The ulceration appears as a rather large, somewhat grey, sore of the frsenum, and, in addition, there are found on the under side of the tongue one or more phlyctna?, somewhat oval. This condition has been noticed by several writers in Germany and Italy since 1544. Diseases of the Nervous System. Violent chorea cured by frictions, kneading, and methodical gym- nastics. By Prof. Blache (‘Journ. f. Kinderk.,’ xliv, 1865).—Dr. Blache leports three severe cases of chorea cured in the Children’s Hospital, Paris, by rubbing, kneading, and gymnastics, under the recommendation of M. Laisne, professor of gymnastics. True, the children had, in addition, sulphur baths, iron, and quinine, fresh air and nourishing food. On the different forms of stammering, and the rational methods of treatment see Dr. E. Schutz (‘Journ. f. Kinderkr.,’ xlvi, 18 66). On the simulated diseases of children. By Dr. Bosanelli (‘ Gazz. Med. Italiana’). Diseases of the Intestinal Canal. On intestinal invaginations in early childhood. By Dr. W. Thomas, of