326 REPOET ON SURGERY. appears to be tbe procreation of healthy children; and it still remains to be seen whether any remedy is as efficacious as mercury, when tested in this way. Another point is the influence which external suppurations, ulcera- tions, &c., exert upon the course and character of the syphilitic mani- festations. On this head Mr. Lee remarks that there seems ground for believing that open ulcerations—phagedenic or serpiginous—sometimes, at any rate, check the general manifestations of the disease, so that the lesions of internal organs may be suspended or prevented by the pro- longed ulceration caused by the syphilising process, “ by diverting the materies morbi to the external covering of the body, and by depurating the system through this part. We cannot, however, speak as yet of this with any certainty, because we lack the necessary number of ob- servations as to the pathological state of the internal organs of persons treated by syphilisation.” In a subsequent lecture (‘Lancet,’ April 14, 1866) Mr. Lee goes care- fully into the comparative results of the treatment of syphilis by syphi- lisation and by mercury administered in the form of calomel fumigation. Mr. Lee refers to the great difficulty of inoculating the virus of a hard or infecting chancre, referring to his own experience, and to the ex- periments of Ricordi, published in the ‘Annali Universali di Medicina,’ Jan. 1866. He says that the only case in which he believes that inoculation from a hard chancre has succeeded on the patient himself was one which was under the care of Mr. Walter Coulson at the date of publication. Mr. Lee also dwells upon the difference which exists (and which Dr. Boeck denies) between the infecting and the soft or non-infecting chancre. In proof of the reality of this difference, he quotes the following evidence derived from Dr. Marston’s observations in army hospitals:—102 cases were diagnosed at the time of the first occurrence of the disease as “ soft sores.” One only was followed by secondary symptoms, 21 were classed as doubtful, secondary symptoms followed in 10 cases, 64 were marked as “infecting,” and secondary symptoms occurred in 37. Dr. Boeck’s denial of this distinction invalidates the statistics in his table in Mr. Lee’s eyes. “ During Prof. Boeck’s stay in England he treated, as he informed me, 19 patients affected with constitutional syphilis in the female Lock Hospital by repeated inoculation. Of these 19 two only were supposed to have obtained an immunity from syphilitic inoculation when Dr. Boeck left, and these two (as above mentioned) I successfully inoculated in Dr. Boeck’s presence. Eourteen of these 19 still remained in the hospital, I believe, on Eeb. 23, two months after Dr. Boeck had left. These women submitted to the treatment under the idea that they would notin future be liable either to receive or to communicate disease.” Very few other patients have been treated by syphilisation. Mr. Lee mentions that, of these, 2 have died, but whether from any effect of the treatment he does not say. He mentions also that he has seen a few male patients who have been syphilised in private practice; but in all these cases, which he has himself seen, he was doubtful whether the disease was truly syphilitic. He says “ that Prof. Boeck had not some better results to show after