fcfctOUT ON tKACTICAL MiiDIOlNt!. 178 granular, and is formed of tlie submucous tissue ; sometimes, when the ulceration is not complete, there are some yellowish debris of the mucous membrane. In other cases, again, there is only thinning of the mucous membrane, leaving a simple circular depression surrounded by thickened vessels. The presence of amyloid degeneration in the vessels of the follicle, and in those surrounding it, may be proved by the application of iodine. Microscopic examination shows that the formation of the reticulated patches and of the circular erosions is due to molecular destruction. The mucous membrane of the follicles undergo granulo-fatty degenera- tion ; and where erosions or ulcerations have occurred, the follicle dis- appears, either by granular and fatty disintegration, or by being thrown off after the disintegration of the mucous membrane. On making a section, perpendicular to the surface, of a reticulated patch or erosion, there are found—i. A loss of substance of mucous membrane, of which only granular and fatty debris remain. 2. A very advanced stage of amyloid degeneration of the vessels, which, on transverse section, appear as glassy cylinders, with an extremely small opening in the centre and a number of nuclei at the circumference. In this advanced stage amyloid degeneration is found also in the other tissues of the digestive canal, in most of the vessels of the submucous areolar tissue, sometimes in the fat-vesicles, and also in the smooth muscular fibres. "When amyloid degeneration is thus present the wall of the alimentary canal is notably thickened and firmer than natural; under the microscope it presents a large number of fibre- cells and deposits of a semitransparent, waxy, homogeneous substance, more or less obscuring the nuclei, and presenting the characteristic reaction on the application of iodine and sulphuric acid. Degeneration of the vessels may be met with in various parts of the digestive canal. In one case it extended high into the small intestine. In other instances degeneration of the vessels of the mucous membrane of the stomach and duodenum has been observed; in another case the vessels and the unstriped fibres of the oesophagus were affected ; and in another those of the tongue, especially around the glands at the base. In this latter case there was very advanced and general degeneration of the tonsils and of the vessels of the pharynx. The mesenteric glands are almost always affected ; and, when the disease is far advanced, the vessels of the mesentery and peritoneum are found to have undergone change. In one instance the appendices epiploicae, which appeared very firm, were also the seat of well-marked amyloid degeneration. The evolution of amyloid degeneration in the intestinal mucous membrane may now be easily understood. The disease commences in the vessels, the first attacked being those of the mucous and submucous membranes, especially those which surround the follicles. Next follows enlargement and degeneration of the isolated aud agminated follicles. The alteration of the vessels, extending more and more, aud reaching the finest capillaries, diminishes their calibre, so as not only to produce anaemia, but to interfere greatly with nutrition; and it is then that the process of disintegration sets in, of which the results are the formation of the reticulated patches and erosions or ulcerations. This