LABOUR. 401 what is assumed, there is in such cases an absence of that rigidity and tenacity of structure met with earlier in life. The soft parts about the outlet of the pelvis are thin, flabby, elastic from want of tone, and offer but a feeble resistance. Hence an explanation of what is often observed, that first labour late in life is not severe or protracted. Mr. Roper (‘ Obstet. Trans.,’ vii) describes a case of difficult labour owing to hypertrophy of the cervix uteri. The os came down to the vulva, the cervix being the whole length of the pelvis. It was necessary to perform craniotomy. In a previous labour she had been delivered by Dr. Barnes, there being then the same difficulty from the elongation and hypertrophy of the cervix, and, in addition, a soft pelvic tumour. The woman died of pytemic fever. Dr. Breslau relates (‘ Mon. f. Geburtsk.,’ 1865) a case, and gives refer- ences to others, of prolapsus of the gravid womb. It was necessary to incise the cervix uteri and to perforate the child. Dr. H. Hildebrand (‘ Konigsb. Med. Jahrb.,’ 1865) relates his experience in incising the os uteri when its rigidity obstructs labour. Dr. Greuse gives (‘Mon. f. Geburtsk.,’ 1865) a case of labour ob- structed by a complete hymen, which had to be incised. Dr. Berry, of Birmingham (‘ Obstet. Trans.,’ viii), relates two re- markable cases of dystocia from tumours. He instanced a case of obstruction by an ovarian tumour, in which the child had been, with considerable force, delivered by the forceps. The next day, after cough- ing, the patient felt something descend. Dr. Berry was then called in, and, on examination, found it to be an ovarian tumour, the pedicle of which was traced through a rent in the upper part of the vagina. Opiates were given ; and, two days afterwards, a ligature was put round the pedicle, which was then cut through just below. The patient re- covered without very anxious symptoms, and was about again at the end of the month. She has also been delivered since, and without any trouble. In the other case there was a soft tumour springing from the sacrum, which reduced the antero-posterior diameter to about two inches. This was explored by trocar ; but nothing but blood flowing, it was debated whether Caesarian section should be performed or not. It was ultimately agreed to perforate. This was done, and the foetus then turned. Yery great difficulty occurred ; but at last it was accom- plished. The patient, however, died afterwards from rupture (as it sub- sequently appeared) of the uterus. Dr. Berry pointed out the inferences to be gatheredfrom these cases:— That, in the first, the tumour should have been tapped before the use of forceps; and, in the latter, the Csesarian section would have been probably much the safer treatment. Dr. A. Hall related a case similar to the last one, where version had been adopted, and rupture of the tumour, with internal haemorrhage, caused death shortly afterwards. The complication of pregnancy xvith tumours is illustrated in a series of cases by Dr. Greenhalgh (‘ Bartholomew’s Deports,’ i). One is a case of thrombus of the left labium, 4 are cases of ovarian tumours, 3 of fibrous tumours of the uterus, 1 of hypertrophy of the neck of 26