216 REPORT ON SURGERY. bodies in tbe urethra to pass to the bladder, and is wanting when the tissues are indurated. “ The mode in which an indurated and stric- tured (even though very slightly so) portion of the urethra closes down abruptly on the end of the tube as it is withdrawn is very characteristic, and contrasts strongly with the gradual closure of the healthy canal.” The application of a solution of nitrate of silver to its actual seat is one of the most useful methods of treating the disease revealed by the endo- scope. Mr. Heath always uses it of the strength of 20 grains to a drachm of water. It excites no disturbance when applied to the diseased surfaces, and ordinarily gives nothing more than a momentary smarting pain. It increases the discharge for a day or two. “ The use of injec- tions and of internal remedies must be had recourse to as well, however, in order to effect a cure, in the majority of cases.” Mr. Heath proceeds to illustrate by cases and by drawings the ap- pearances seen, and the method of treatment adopted, in cases of granu- lar urethritis and organic stricture. The urethra in the former condition is, as he says, perfectly different in appearance from that in organic stricture, although he believes, with Desormeaux, that the former may lead to the latter state. The granulations are frequently removed, and the calibre of the urethra restored, by a few applications of the solution of nitrate of silver. Organic stricture, Mr. Heath says, may be most certainly and readily diagnosed by means of the endo- scope. If the contraction be too great to allow the tube to pass, it will bring the face of the stricture into view, when the canal will be seen to be contracted in various ways, so as to present a ring, perhaps not in the centre of the canal, or a slit, which may have different directions. Should the stricture be so slight as to allow the tube to pass, the abrupt closure of the strictured portion above alluded to will serve for diagnosis. In cases of organic stricture, impermeable to ordinary methods of treatment, Mr. Heath has succeeded by means of the endo- scope in introducing a fine wire, and then, having removed the tube, has passed an elastic catheter over the wire into the bladder. He has not, however, as yet had an opportunity of thus relieving reten- tion. The diagnosis and treatment of urethral fistula; and urethral chancre would, in Mr. Heath’s opinion, be doubtless greatly facilitated by the endoscope, but on this head he has as yet no experience. Mr. Heath’s paper terminates with the relation of 7 cases, 6 of granular urethritis and the other of organic stricture. All the cases of granular urethritis except one are reported cured. In the case of organic stricture the stricture was split with Holt’s dilator, and No. 10 catheter could be passed, but the cure was not complete at the date of the report. In the ‘ Indian Annals of Medical Science,’ for June, 1865, Dr. Duka, of Bengal, gives a clear though succinct account of M. Desormeaux’s method, and of the theory of urethritis which that author advocates. Dr. Duka distinguishes plainly between granular urethritis the result of gonorrhoea and herpetic urethritis. “ In granular urethritis we notice a condition almost without an exception, viz. that there is no inter- ruption in the diseased surface, it is continuous whatever its extent may be; but such is not the case in herpetic urethritis, where