329 VACCINO-SVPHILIS. publication, 4 of wnich are rejected by the author as doubtful; in tbe remaining 14 the incubation lasted 17 days, 3 weeks, over 3 weeks, 25 days, 25 or 28 days, 4 weeks, 3 weeks to a month, 30 to 33 days, 33, 35, and 36 days, 33 to 40 days, and, finally, more than 2 months. In the last of these cases, where the incubation lasted 72 days, M. Pournier (who attended the patient) was able to convince himself of the entire accuracy of the facts, and had the opportunity of examining the person from whom the infection proceeded. A series of articles in the ‘ Gazette Med. de Paris’ for 1863 gives an account of a discussion, recently held at the Academie de Medecine, on the subject of vaccino-syphilis. The matter was brought before the Academy by the proposal of a report on this alfection, drawn up by M. Depaul for presentation to the Minister of Public Works. This report commences by an enumeration of the published cases, with references, which, though perhaps not quite complete, will be found useful by any person who is studying the literature of the subject (pp. 17—21). M. Depaul concludes from these cases that, although each may be wanting in some detail, and liable by itself to criticism, yet they do establish sufficiently the fact of the possibility of syphilitic inoculation by means of the vaccine virus, and intimates that this truth would have been more early recognised but for the influence of the teaching of M. Ricord— that nothing but a chancre could be the source of infection. M. Depaul notices certain objections, viz.—(1) That the cause of the syphilitic symptoms in the subjects of vaccination may have been constitutional syphilis from other causes. This is negatived by the fact, observed in all cases, that the first symptom is an indurated ulcer (chancre) on the spot vaccinated, followed, after a certain interval, by secondary symp- toms, quite contrary to what is noticed in cases of preceding con- stitutional syphilis. (2) That the source of the infection on the “ vaccinifer” has not been ascertained. This is true in many cases, although not in all, but cannot disprove the diagnosis drawn from well- known symptoms. (3) That in inoculations made with the same virus some escape with impunity. This is the case, more or less, in all inocula- tions of every kind, and merely shows that the vaccine virus is a less sure medium of syphilis than the secretion of a chancre. (4) That direct experiments have been made without result. Those of M. Bidart are to be found in the ‘ Journal de Medecine et de Chirurgie Pratiques,’ ii. In the ‘Journal de Medecine de Lyon’ it is related that M. Montain asserted before the Society of Medecine that he had seen, since 1848, 30 children inoculated with vaccine liquid taken from a syphilitic subject, and nothing but the vaccine eruption followed. MM. Schreier and Taupin have also collected similar cases. But such negative facts cannot impugn the positive occurrences previously referred to. They are susceptible of different explanations, and have even been used as additional evidence of the vaccino-syphilitic theory. M. Depaul then discusses the theory of the precise source of the syphilitic infection in vaccination. Is immunity to be obtained by avoiding an admixture of blood ? M. Depaul doubts this, and draws attention to the fact that the liquid used in vaccination is far greater in quantity than the vaccine