434 .REPORT ON MEDICAL JURISPRUDENCE. of what is termed toxicology, that questions of poisoning have been supposed to be governed by rules of their own. By a very strange abuse of language the corpus delicti has been looked for, not in the bleeding corpse or in the fractured skull of the victim, but iu the weapon employed by the assassin. It has been supposed necessary to extract and exhibit the poison, instead of investigating the case in order to prove that it was one of poisoning.” He then goes on to show that this accords perfectly with the ten- dencies of the public to be convinced by the evidence of the senses, but to be unable to draw conclusions by means of the intellect. He insists particularly on the fact that arsenic, copper, and mercury, were formerly supposed to be almost the only poisons which were practically employed, these being the very poisons which are most readily demonstrated in the metallic form by chemical processes. But it is as impossible as it would be unwise to extend this principle, and to apply it to other sub- stances. If a person has been poisoned by nitric acid or sulphuric acid, how is the chemist to isolate the corpus delicti, and to exhibit it in a pure form ? And, if this has been done, how are the jury to distin- guish a drop of one of these acids in a test-tube from a drop of water ? A similar difficulty occurs in cases of poisoning by phosphorus or by lucifer matches; and especially when any organic substance, such as one of the alkaloids, has been employed as a poison. At the same time M. Tardieu recognises the value of determining the nature of the poison, as aiding in the explanation of the symptoms from which the patient may have suffered. The following notes refer in part to cases of poisoning recorded during the past two years, and presenting (as I think) sufficient inte- rest to make it necessary that they should be added to those which form the basis of the received views upon the subject; in part to papers containing new facts with reference to the morbid changes produced by the different poisons. The notes are arranged in the order most generally adopted, the inorganic poisons being taken first. Phosphorus.—Prof. Virchow* has shown that the stomach is not un- affected in cases of acute poisoning by phosphorus, as had been sup- posed to be the case by the most recent writers on this subject. It is true that there is often no redness of its surface; but on careful examination the gastric glands are found to have undergone a change which is perfectly similar to the “ cloudy swelling” which occurs in the kidneys in the same cases. The mucous membrane is, in fact, thickened, though not strikingly so. It is less transparent than natural, and is sometimes of a whitish, sometimes of a slightly greyish or yellowish- white colour. In fine sections the glands are found to be the struc- tures essentially concerned. They are enlarged, their epithelium fills their cavities, and the individual cells are filled with a finely granular mass. At a later stage the epithelial cells contain distinct fatty granules, and they ultimately soften and break down into a granular detritus. # ‘ Arcliiv f. path. Anat. u. Phys.,’ xxxi, p. 399.