2 34 REPORT ON SURGERY. cases the hypertrophied parts were increasing out of proportion to the rest of the body, and the author remarks that this tendency is, at any rate, very commonly observed in those hypertrophies which are accompanied by fatty out-growths, while m the well-proportioned hypertrophy the growth does not seem to increase out of proportion to the rest of the body. We must refer to the original for the author’s remarks on the abnormalities of the vascular and osseous systems which are commonly found in such cases. The following refer to miscellaneous subjects: “ Hydatid Cyst of the Liver” (‘ G-az. Med. de Paris,’ 1863, p. 570).— M. Boucher gives a full account of one case, and refers to four others, in the practice of M. Demarquay, in which these tumours were treated with perfect success by the following method: — 1, Opening into the tumour by means of a caustic issue (without any incision through the eschar) ; 2, fixing a large elastic gum catheter in the opening, with a stopper; 3, injecting a very dilute solution of iodine into the tumour repeatedly, until the cavity is nearly obliterated and the debris of the hydatids have come away. 3 A very full tabular account of the published cases of this disease, along with the history of an interesting case of his own, will be found in the last (xlix) vol. of the ‘ Med.-Chir. Trans.,’ p. 79, by Dr. John Harley. “ On Congenital Cystic Tumour” (‘ St. Bartholomew’s Hospital Re- ports,’ vol. ii, p. 16).—Mr. T. Smith calls attention to the usual locali- ties in which is found the congenital cystic tumour which often occurs in the neck, and which has been previously treated of by Mr. Csesar Hawkins and by the present compiler. He relates or refers to cases in all situations in the neck and trunk, but says that no case is on record in which it has appeared in the extremities. He gives some interesting examples of the great resemblance which this afiection may bear to spina bifida. Mr. Smith remarks on the occasional spontane- ous disappearance of the growth, of which no less than three instances have occurred in his own practice. But the most important part of the paper is the value which Mr. Smith is led from his personal experience to attribute to the use of very fine setons, composed of a single thread of fine silk or sewing cotton, and passed, if possible, through but one cyst of the growth at a time, and to this end not plunged deeply into the tumour, but made to pass through the part nearest the surface. The thread is to be withdrawn as soon as any appearance of inflamma- tion with induration is set up, and, if possible, before the occurrence of suppuration, the occurrence of this process being undesirable. Ho in- cisions into the growth should be made unless suppuration has un- mistakably occurred. It is not always necessary to continue the intro- duction of setons into each of the separate cysts of a large growth, as when once the tumour has begun to contract the process will often continue spontaneously. Short notes are given of 5 cases, in 4, at any rate, of which Mr. Smith is able to report the complete disappearance of the disease. In the 5th the tumour, which was of large size.