278 REPORT ON SURGERY. opinion that the arch of the foot is maintained by the tension and elasticity of its ligaments. He argues, on the contrary, that the con- tractile power of the muscles (chiefly the tibiales, peronei, and the muscles of the first layer of the sole) is necessary for this purpose. Mr. Hancock also, in opposition to Dr. Humphry and most other anatomists, describes the keystone of the arch of the foot as being formed, not by the astragalus, but the scaphoid bone. Dr. Humphry, however, reasserts and defends his opinion in the first number of the new ‘Journal of Anatomy and Physiology.’ Lecture II. In discussing the surgery of the foot Mr. Hancock remarks that it is not yet sufficiently conservative. “ So long as disease was restricted to the phalanges and metatarsal bones, Hay’s operation came into requisition. Let it, how- ever, encroach ever so little upon the first row of tarsal bones, and the whole region between the medio-tarsal and tarso-metatarsal articulations was condemned, and Chopart’s amputation had recourse to. Any in- vasion of disease on the astragalus and os calcis, notwithstanding the rest of the foot was healthy, until recently (and, I regret to say, too frequently, even at the present time) called for Syme’s amputation.” This practice the professor condemns, contending that the surgical pro- ceedings should be regulated by the amount and character of the mis- chief (“pathological surgery”), rather than by its mere situation (“anatomical surgery”). Mr. Hancock next proceeds to contrast the old state of 'surgery, as it was when amputation at the upper third of the leg was the only operation resorted to for incurable disease or injury of the foot, with what it has become since the introduction, by Mr. Syme, of amputation at the ankle-joint; by Mr. James, of Exeter, of Chopart’s amputation ; by Mr. "YVakley, of excision of the ankle; and by Mr. Teale, of Leeds, of excision of the tarsal bones. He notices especially Mr. Teale’s case, in which he removed the calcaneum, astra- galus, scaphoid, and cuboid bones from a woman aged 22, who in six months returned to her duties as a domestic servant. In reference to these excisions at the posterior part of the foot, Mr. Teale says—“ The general result has been very satisfactory. Indeed, I have adopted them as freely for disease limited to the posterior part of the foot as I have done Chopart’s for disease limited to the anterior part. There is, how- ever, one condition necessary to success, viz., that we select such cases as are the result of pure healthy (if I may so say) inflammation of liga- ments, and not those which have originated in the cancellous structure of the bones.” Mr. Hancock next goes on to advocate the view which would regard the foot as a whole, and, in any amputation which might be necessary, keep as close as possible to the seat of disease or injury, instead of going further back in order to amputate at a row of joints. Thus, by ampu- tating through the scaphoid and cuboid bones, instead of going back to the joint in order to perform Chopart’s amputation, the medio-tarsal joint is preserved, to the great advantage, Mr. Hancock thinks, of the mechanism of the stump which is left. The danger of pyaemia, from cutting through the bony tissue, lie believes to be exaggerated. Mr. Hancock gives several cases to show that cutting through the tarsal bones does no harm, and that the fear of harm from opening the