311 ELEPHANTIASIS.—WOUNDS OP INTESTINE. little favour, though he admits that two cures have been obtained by this method. Mr. Bryant reports, in the ‘ Medico-Chirurgical Transactions,’ xlix, p. 175, a case in which the main artery of the limb had been tied for elephantiasis Arabum—or elephas, as Mr. Bryant prefers to call it —of the lower extremity. This is the first case so treated, as the author believes, in England. The patient was a single woman, aged 25, of healthy aspect, and who had enjoyed good health, except from an attack of scarlet fever two years before (but which had not been followed by any complication); the enlargement had, however, begun immediately after this, having increased rapidly after sleeping in a damp bed. The limb was much hypertrophied—(“enormously enlarged’from the ankle to the groin”)—and felt hard and brawny; but the skin was free from the cuticular induration and ulceration winch is so frequently associated with this affection. The foot was perfectly sound. The measurements are given, showing an excess of 8^- inches round the calf and 7 inches round the thigh on the affected side. After some preliminary treatment, which was ineffectual, Mr. Bryant tied the external iliac artery. The vessels appeared perfectly healthy, and of the natural size. Everything went on well after the operation. The ligature came away on the 15th day, and the girth of the limb diminished rapidly. This diminution progressed with the interruption of a temporary increase, due to exercise of the leg ; and at the last note (half a year after operation) the girth of the calf had been diminished 7A inches from what it was before opera- tion. The patient was, practically speaking, quite well, and was pro- vided with an elastic stocking. Drawings of the limb, before and after operation, are given. Mr. Bryant appends an abstract of the cases of elephantiasis treated in this way by Dr. Carnochan, of New York, 4 in number; 1 by Mr. Statham ; 1 by Mr. Butcher; 1 by Dr. Eayrer, of Calcutta; and 1 by Mr. Alcock, of the North Staffordshire Infirmary.* In the remarks appended to this case Mr. Bryant combats the idea that elephantiasis is due to disease of the venous system, to inflammation, or to disease of the artery; but appears to regard it as due to an excess of nutrition of the limb, leading to an abnormal effusion of tissue- forming elements, which is checked by the ligature of the main artery. But, whatever may be the theory of the disease, Mr. Bryant regards the practice as unquestionably successful and bold—that by this means “ another triumph has been achieved for the science and art of surgery.” The following refer to affections of the intestines and to hernia: In the ‘ New York Med. Journ.,’ May, 1865, p. 106, is a paper by Dr. Iloyne containing some experiments which he made on the dead subject on bullet wounds of the intestine, both with round and conical bullets, fired from revolvers at short distances. In 4 experiments round * As Mr. Bryant refers to these cases of elephantiasis treated by ligature of the main artery of the limb, it is to be presumed that his previous statement, that his case is “ the first so treated in this island,” must refer rather to the vessel tied than to the principle of the treatment.