495 CHOLERA. may hereafter be drawn from the epidemic of cholera which prevailed in London during 1866; but, so far as the facts have been ascertained, it cannot be denied that they are greatly in favour of that theory which attributes the spread of the disease mainly to water-supply. These facts are urged very strongly by Dr. Farr,* in his address on public health, read before the Social Science Association at Manchester. “ In East London,” he says, “3613 people perished in six weeks. The great destruction of life occurred in every district, nearly every sub- district, supplied from the Old Ford reservoirs of one of the eight London companies (the East London Company), and to the same extent nowhere else. These reservoirs are close to the Lea, which is a tidal river, polluted with the sewage of West Ham and of East London. Circumstantial evidence irresistibly points out that polluted water was distributed over all the area of extraordinary mortality during a certain number of days, with the same result as in previous epidemic years. The source of mischief was no sooner pointed out than the plague began rapidly to decline We now know how Asiatic cholera may be subdued.” The freedom of the south of London from cholera, as compared with the prevalence of this disease during previous epidemics, is referred by Dr. Farr to improved water-supply. In Southwark cholera raged both in 1849 and in 1854, when the water-supply (by the Southwark Company) was very impure. On the other hand, Lambeth, which suf- fered severely in 1849, escaped to a great extent in 1834, the water- supply having been much improved. In the past year the mortality from the disease was very trifling in each district, both being now sup- plied with the purer water. For detailed information as to the distribution of the cases of cholera in the eastern districts of London, with reference to the water-supply, I may refer to the reports of the ‘ Lancet ’ Sanitary Commission! on the subject, and to the articles in the ‘ Medical Times and Gazette’ of about the same date. It would be impossible to enter into this matter thoroughly without minute topographical details, and therefore I content myself with these simple references. Concerning the disposition of cholera patients in hospitals, I cannot but make brief reference to the conclusions arrived at by the council of the Epidemiological Society.J They are as follows:—1. That it is, on the whole, unadvisable that cholera patients be admitted into the ordi- nary wards of general hospitals or infirmaries. 2. That cholera patients can be safely admitted into special wards in general hospitals, due pre- cautions being taken; and that therefore it is desirable, as an important means of providing accommodation for the destitute when attacked, that the authorities of these institutions grant this valuable benefit to the public. 3. That it will be often necessary that special hospitals be provided in aid or in lieu of general hospitals and infirmaries. The council further recommended that places of refuge should * ‘ Medical Times and Gaz.,’ 1866, Oct. 13, p. 399. t ‘ Lancet,’ 1866, ii, Aug, 11 and 25, pp. *57, 217. + Ibid., July 28, 1866.