28 REPORT ON PHYSIOLOGY, ETC. lasts become wholly converted into bone, in which case the nuclei vanish, whilst others only become partially converted into bone by the peripheral portion of their protoplasm, the central portion remaining with the nuclei as bone-lacunae. The mode of ossification of periosteal structures, or intramembrauous ossification, he believes to be essen- tially similar. The excellent description of the development of bone by Prof. Sharpey, in the last edition of Quain and Sharpey’s ‘ Anatomy,’ and which agrees in almost every point with the foregoing, is easily acces- sible to every reader. Prof. Huxley (“ Beale’s Lectures,” vol. i of ‘ Archives of Dentistry,’ p. 246) admits that teeth are homologous with hairs, but he thinks that both these organs are dermic, and not in any part epidermic. He thinks that all the dental tissues are produced beneath a membrana prseformativa, and considers that the enamel is developed not upon but beneath basement membrane. He thinks that scales and feathers may come into the same category, but would admit nails to be purely epi- dermic. In an accurate translation of that portion of Henle’s great work on anatomy which treats of the teeth, by Dr. Cayley (‘ Archives of Dentistry,’ vol. 1), it will be found that this observer also maintains the existence of a membrana prseformativa, but states that the ossi- fication proceeds from this membrane, from without inwards in the pulp, to form the dentine, and from within outwards, as far as the enamel-pulp, to form the enamel; he therefore regards the enamel as being an epidermic tissue, and the dentine as of dermic origin. Wal- deyer (“ Besearches on the Development of the Teeth,” ‘ Zeit. f. Pat. Med.,’ vol. 24, p. 169) gives the following as the result of his observations: The matrix of the dentine is composed of cells—the dentinal cells— which are analogous to the osteoblasts of ossifying cartilage, and develop on the surface of the dentinal pulp by multiplication and enlargement of its cells. Waldeyer does not admit a membrana pne- formativa or structureless membrane covering these cells. The cells are irregularly prismatic or roundish bodies, whose inner extremity is somewhat thicker than the outer, and is provided with three or four processes ; some small processes are also given off from the sides of the cells, giving them a toothed appearance. He compares these dentinal cells, with their prolongations, to bone-cells. In the fresh state no cell-membrane is distinguishable. The formation of dentine consists in the conversion of a peripheric portion of the protoplasm of these cells into gelatine-yielding substance, with subsequent impregnation of the latter with lime, whereby the central part of the protoplasm in the form of soft fibres, named dentinal fibres, remains behind, whilst the un- calcified lateral processes of the cells form the anastomoses of the denti- nal fibres and dentinal canaliculi. As regards the dentinal sheath, that is, the layer which immediately invests the dentinal fibres, and is dif- ferentiated from the remaining intertubular substance, he believes that it originates from the innermost layer of the gelatine-yielding sub- stance, which, instead of calcifying, becomes converted into elastic tissue. The interglobular spaces, so called, are formed by the process of calci- fication taking place in the dentinal pulp, and preceding the regular