LOCOMOTOR ATAXY. 95 panied by amblyopia; and if it be single, the amblyopia will be on the corresponding side. The premonitory pains in ataxy are remarkable, not only for their sudden, appearance and disappearance, and their ten- dency to shift rapidly, but also for a singular proneness to fix on one particular spot for many hours together. As regards the unsteadiness of gait, which is the principal feature in developed cases of ataxy, Clarke points out that the test proposed by Trousseau for distinguishing it from that which is present in cerebellar disease does not always hold good. This test consists in placing the patient, with his eyes shut, in a stand- ing posture, with his feet close together. If he be atactic, it is said, he will fall; if the subject only of cerebellar disease, he will maintain his balance. Clarke relates the history of a man, set. 42, who had, among other symptoms, an unsteadiness of gait much resembling ataxy, and who, on the application of Trousseau’s test, fell to the ground. Nevertheless it was certain, from various other marked symptoms (ver- tigo, mental affection, facial palsy, defective articulation) which were present, that the disease was really intra-cranial. But there are cases in which ordinary paralysis is complicated with locomotor ataxy; and Clarke gives an instance in which, along with difficulty in walking, there were amblyopia, diplopia, atrophy of the third and sixth cerebral nerves, numbness of the fingers, inability to hold anything in the fingers with- out constantly looking at it, and, finally, characteristic changes in the posterior columns, all of which were indicative of ataxy; while there were also a number of cerebral symptoms, and, after death, there were found clots in the brain and softening of the cord which belong to ordinary paralysis. The diagnosis in these compound cases would be difficult; but Clarke suggests that in atactic muscles which become palsied, and then begin to recover themselves, the predominance of the ataxy will be inverse to that of the paralysis ; and this may assist diagnosis. Among the symptoms which may especially aid in the distinction of some ob- scure early cases of cerebral or cerebellar disease from ataxy he enume- rates attacks of vomiting, temporary hemiplegia, and the retention of sexual power. If these be present collectively, and the patient be young, the possibility of the existence of brain disease is very strong. [It is worthy of remark that Trousseau and some other writers differ very much with Clarke about the sexual function in ataxy. They state that it is often even greatly above the normal power in the early stages of that disease.] Pain in the bead, especially of a severe and persistent character, is in favour of the diagnosis of cerebral disease. Impairment of sight, when a symptom of ataxy, rarely improves; it usually goes on from amblyopia to complete and permanent amaurosis. A disease which, under some circumstances, may be readily confounded with ataxy is general paralysis. Of course, in most cases of the latter the very pe- culiar mental affection present is at once sufficient to identify it. But there are a few cases in which this condition is quite absent; and if in such there be also strabismus, amblyopia, amaurosis, acute pains in the limbs, more or less incontinence of urine, with a jerking or spasmodic gait, the diagnosis from ataxy may be excessively difficult. Muscular atrophy (Cruveilhier’s disease), in its early stages, is occasionally very hard to distinguish from ataxy. When wasting of the muscles affects