DISLOCATION. TREATMENT BY MANIPULATION. 269 only 30 months. In both cases the symptoms were remarkably well marked, and in both reduction was most easily accomplished by manipu- lation. With two exceptions only—the young child, and the farm servant girl, who was employed at man’s work, and who was as mus- cular and strong as most men of her age—all were male subjects, and most of them young athletic labourers, in whom reduction might be expected to be as difficult as it is ever likely to be. “ Out of the 21 cases, manipulation was tried in all but 1 ; it suc- ceeded in 14, and failed in 7. In these 7, who were afterwards sub- jected to the pulleys, 3 were reduced on the first attempt; 1 failed in the first attempt, but succeeded with considerable difficulty in a second effort; three failed altogether; and in another, though it was thought the bone was reduced, subsequently it was again found to be misplaced, and could not be permanently reduced—making 4 cases in which, doubtless, fracture of the acetabulum or of the neck of the bone accom- panied dislocation, and prevented reduction. Of these 4 cases, 3 recovered in a few months, with very little deformity. There was some shortening, for which a high-heeled shoe had to be worn; and some loss of motion remained; but still the mischief was far less than was anticipated. In the fourth case (No. 3) the woman had, for twelve or fifteen months, to wear a stiff leather support to keep the bone in situ ; but she also, it is said, was then enabled to walk well without it. She is now lost sight of. “ In estimating the value of manipulation, as compared with extension, in effecting reduction of the various forms of dislocation of the hip and shoulder-joint, it is obvious that all these 4 cases must be excluded from the calculation. In the 14 cases in which manipulation succeeded it did so with difficulty in only 1 case; in all the rest the reduction was easily accomplished. In 3 or 4 cases, certainly, less than one minute was occupied, in 2 of them not more than thirty seconds were required, to put the bone in position; and in the remainder, where there was the greatest difficulty, in no one was the time occupied more than ten minutes. So that, compared with the average time taken up in reduction by extension, all may be said to have been easily reduced. Indeed, when reduction is so easily effected, the effect is almost magical —so easy and simple does the proceeding appear to the bystander, more especially if he has witnessed the preparations, the various assist- ants required, the time often occupied, and the force exerted, in an ordinary reduction of dislocated limb, when effected either by manual or pulley extension. If intelligent, he must regard it as the very per- fection of surgery. If not so, it would seem as though the distorted limb had merely to be lifted up, and, by some magical influence, instantly laid again, restored to its normal form, without much effort or skill on the part of the manipulator, who requires no other assistance whatever. It is, however, only to the uninitiated by- stander ; for certainly important considerations, founded on the ana- tomy and physiology of the parts, must be carefully studied and thought of before success, as a rule, will reward the attempt. Without this, harm, rather than good, is likely to result; and, if the displaced bone be moved at all, it most likely will only be to substitute one form of dislocation for another, as from the ischiatic notch into the thyroid