102 REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. the essence of the disease, may supervene in different circumstances. It may be the result of a vascular obstruction (thrombosis or embolia) ; these cases are the best understood. There are certain other organic causes to which it may be attributed, which are obscure at present. Proust, in fact, makes two chief pathological varieties:—“(a) Soften- ing may occur as a consequence of an embarrassed circulation ; (b) or it may result from an inflammatory process.” But he considers the latter class of cases to be small in number, and altogether out of pro- portion to the instances of ramollissement from difficulties of circula- tion. The latter he discusses under the three divisions of embolism, obliteration of veins, and changes in the structure of the capillaries. The essence of softening, he remarks, is the alteration in the consist- ence of the nerve-tubes in the brain ; for although the cellular elements of brain-tissue undoubtedly suffer alterations, these do not affect the consistence of the brain-matter and the other elements (connective tissue, nuclei, capillary vessels) are not softened. In order that a nerve-tube may preserve its physiological activity and anatomical in- tegrity, it must (i) remain in communication with its nerve-cell, and (2) capillary vessels in its neighbourhood must remain pervious. Iu the nervous centres the alterations produced by a defect of either of these two conditions seems to be very much the same. The process, which is one of substitution of fat for nervous element, is a kind of molecular death (necrobiose). It is not true, however, that the loss of the action of trophic nerve-cells usually causes a marked softening, or anything, indeed, which would be worthy of that name; and, in fact, notwithstanding the identity in principle of the process which is set up iu the two cases, Proust considers that the characteristic molecular death in ramollissement is due to interference with the nutritive current of blood. The arterial changes which produce softening are of two orders—obliterations and constrictions. Obliterations may be divided into emboli and thromboses. Constrictions are due to arterial atheroma. Phlebitis and thromboses of the sinuses, by the obstacle which they put in the way of the blood, also intervene as causes of ramollissement. With regard to the effect of capillary obstruction, he notices the very remarkable fact (noted in the treatises of Prevost and Cotard above referred to, and also by Cohn, Yulpian, Rokitansky, and Moreau) that the immediate effect of this event is to produce a hypercemic congestion of the part whose blood supply is interfered with. Proust thinks a complete explanation of this at present im- possible ; but the fact is striking, and it has an interesting confirmation in the circumstance that the foci of red softening and of capillary apoplexy are habitually in relation witli a thrombosis or an embolism. Occasionally a patch of ramollissement is pale from the first; but these cases are rare, and not improbably depend on the obliteration of a large arterial trunk, such as the carotid. It is noteworthy that the liyperae- mia is always most pronounced towards the external surface of the brain. Whether this depends on flux of blood in the collateral arteries, or upon the’great natural vascularity of the grey matter, cannot at present be determined. In the case where a number of small bodies are carried into and obstruct the smaller vessels, it may happen that a suddenly