REPORT ON MATERIA WEDICA, ETC. 472 seded that obtained from Peru. Mr. "Weir procured for him specimens of the plant from the vicinity of Jiron, whence the drug is obtained. These specimens were ascertained to belong to the Krameria Ixina, L., forming a variety which Triana had already distinguished as K. Ixina, var. /3, granatensis. Dr. Fred. Farre* * * § has endeavoured to ascertain from Chinese books and MSS. the source and exact localities of the Chinese rhubarb-plant. His inquiries have not enabled him to determine whether Chinese rhu- barb is the product of one species only or of several. The descriptions of different Chinese writers do not in all respects coincide, but the con- tradictions are rather apparent than real. The most important point is the statement of Su-sung, that the leaves of the Shen-si rhubarb-plant resemble those of the castor-oil plant, the only known species of Rheum to which this would apply being the It. palmatum. The most important paper which refers to the adulterations of medi- cines is, perhaps, one by Prof. Bentley,t who describes an instance in which saffron was sophisticated by the admixture of the stamens of crocus with the style and stigmata, of which parts alone the genuine drug is made up. This adulteration appears not to have been pre- viously noticed. The odour of the impure saffron was much less pene- trating and aromatic than that which ought to be possessed by this substance. A very ready way of detecting the adulteration in question is to take a small portion of the suspected specimen and diffuse it in cold water with a stirring rod for about a minute. The water will become immediately coloured, and, if the stirring be discontinued, the whole mass will rise to the surface, when the genuine orange-yellow saffron will be readily distinguished from the pale yellow twisted stamens. The specimen examined by Prof. Bentley contained only about one third of true saffron. The stamens had been dyed with some colouring matter, to give them a resemblance to the genuine drug. It is well known that the root of the Aconitum napellus has several times been mistaken for that of the horseradish, with fatal consequences. Last year some serious and fatal accidents arose from the sale of aconite root for jalap. It appears]; that a merchant at Constantinople received from Calcutta a parcel of a drug which he supposed to be jalap, and which he disposed of as such. The consequence was that a fatal case of poisoning soon occurred; and on examination it was found that the drug really consisted of the root known in India as Sikh, and generally attributed to the Aconitum ferox. It is stated by the writer in the ‘ Pharm. Journ.’ that there is, in fact, a certain distant resem- blance between some of the larger roots of the Indian aconite and the small and inferior jalap tubers that have of late appeared in the market. Mr. Miller§ has proposed a test for methylic alcohol, in the presence of ethylic alcohol and volatile oil, based on the fact that formic acid is * ‘ Pharm. Jour.,’ vii, p. 375. f Ibid., p. 432. J ‘Ztschrft. d. allg. ost. Apntheker-Vpreinps,’ 16 Jnni, 1863; ‘Pharm. Jour.,’ vii, p. 38. § ‘Pharm. Jour.,’ vi, p. 334.