REPORT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. 414 discharges. The general causes are the accumulation of lying-in women in hospitals, whence transmission by infection or contagion. He has observed two cases of erysipelas in pregnant women, both ending in recovery. Of 563 puerperal women under treatment in the Milan Hospital (see Casati’s report), 358 left well, 159 passed into the Foundling as nurses, 27 died, and 19 remained. The mortality was 47 per cent.; 192, or more than one third of the whole, suffered from some form of illness. There were 22 cases of metritis with miliaria, 20 of simple metritis, 10 of metro-peritonitis, 8 of metro-peritonitis with miliaria, 30 of miliary fever, 1 o of puerperal fever, and 17 of metrorrhagia. Amongst the facts specially deserving notice is the use of sulphite of magnesia in puerperal affections. This medicine was given in 22 cases, in doses of 20 grammes divided in two powders, taken within 24 hours as a drink, excluding all acid substances. Some women, after taking one or two doses, refused to take more, complaining of the nauseous taste. Commonly frequent stools, and even diarrhoea, ensued; the stools had a fetid odour, like that of rotten eggs; and although the wards were airy, and by no means crowded, the bad odour produced was so great as to become noxious to the nurses. This odour seemed even to contaminate the linen, and to adhere to it after washing. Upon the whole, Casati is unable to affirm that the medicine has any power of destroying or of modifying the miasmatic element or ferment. See remarks on abdominal typhus in childbed, by C. Hecker (‘ Mon. f. Geb.,’ 1866). Hr. Hildebrandt narrates (ibid., 1863) the puerperal events in the Lying-in Hospital of Konigsberg during the last 7 years. Dr. Otto Wer dm idler (1. c.) describes the epidemic which prevailed in the district of Maur, Zurich, 1863-4. Dr. Veit describes (ibid.) tbe puerperal diseases that occurred in the Bonn Lying-in Clinique, 1864, 1865. In 35 cases it was commonly ob- served that with the onset of fever there was diminution of the lochia, then this discharge emitted a pungent empyreumatic odour, then puru- lent matter and small thrombi were mixed with it. In half the cases a diphtheritic layer covered any wounds or excoriations that were made during labour on the labia or perinaeum, vagina, or os uteri. In 13 of these cases there was swelling of the cellular tissue adjoining the uterus. These arose externally to the peritoneum, and almost always came on during the first week. Veit enters minutely on the question of etiology of puerperal fever, and contends strongly that the cause is direct infection of septic matter conveyed by the examining finger. He gives the following history:—On the 7th Feb., at 9 p.m., a woman died of septicaemia. In the following night the assistant delivered a woman in town. This woman died on the 12th with diphtheritis uteri and purulent peritonitis, and became the source of infection to another patient in hospital, who sickened immediately after her delivery on the 13th. Veit determined that the interval between the first symptoms and the first examinations were, in one case 27 hours, in three from 30 to 32 hours, in four from 36 to 40 hours, in twelve from 40 to 48 hours. The period of incubation is, therefore, rarely more than two days.