TRAUMATIC FEVER. 231 work by the same author, published iu the 2nd volume of the same ‘Archives.’ We must endeavour very briefly to point out some of Dr. Billroth’s chief conclusions, without venturing on a full abstract of the paper. He first gives some experiments to show that in wounds and in other inflamed parts the temperature is below that of the blood, conse- quently that it is not possible that heat can be developed in the wound which is propagated to, and raises the temperature of, the whole mass of the blood. Next, in animals in whom pus or putrefying serum was injected under the skin or into the veins, he shows that in all cases, whether injected into the blood directly or taken up by the lymphatics after subcutaneous injection, it produced fever, and gives the details as to the rise of the temperature, which occurred in about 2 hours, and its fall to the condition of health when the animal was allowed to recover. He then tried to ascertain on what component of the putrid serum the poisonous quality depends, injecting sulphuretted hydrogen, sul- phuretted carbon, sulphuretted ammonium, and carbonate of ammonia, without any decided result. Leucine, however, always produced the same rise of temperature as the putrid serum itself. Locally, sulphu- retted ammonium induced suppuration, followed by some general fever (to be distinguished from the specific fever produced by the putrid serum, which comes on almost directly after the injection), and carbo- nate of ammonia would produce gangrene, something like alkaline urine. The others were locally harmless. In some diseases the temperature falls much below the normal minimum. He instances as well-known cases the cold stage of inter- mittents, pyaemia sometimes, and extreme loss of blood, and, as less known and less exactly ascertained, extensive burns, uraemia when occurring suddenly, and some cases of blood poisoning (septicaemia). He says that the same takes place, though not constantly, in traumatic peritonitis. Observations are given of a fatal case of extensive burn, and he refers to the theory that death in such cases is caused by the suppression of perspiration, and to the support which this derives from Edenhuizen’s observations (in ‘ Henle’s Zeitschrift,’ xvii, p. 35) of the considerable fall of temperature caused by enclosing animals in an intranspirable medium, and from the ascertained fatality of such a process. Edenhuizen’s theory is that a gaseous nitrogenous body may be exhaled by the skin, possibly ammonia, or possibly a volatile organic alkali, an amin-base, the retention of which in the blood is poisonous. This subject naturally conducts to uraemia, of which a case is given following on acute nephritis, with acute inflammation and abscess of the prostate and corpora cavernosa penis, and where, notwithstanding this local inflammation, the temperature fell below the normal minimum, and so remained. In 2 cases, in which the patients died after injuries accompanied by emphysema from decomposition of the extravasated blood, he has also noticed a fall in temperature. All these cases seem to depend essentially on the retention of ammonia in the blood. It is next shown by experiments on animals that the injection of a solution