REPORT ON PUBLIC HEALTH. 488 * ‘Eighth Report,’ &c., Appendix, p. 196. tion that children require less breathing space than the same number of adults; and this for two reasons:—(i) Because even healthy children are, weight for weight, twice as powerful as adults in dete- riorating the air they breathe; (2) because children almost invariably pass through febrile disorders, by which the requirement of space is greatly increased. It is also practically important that in the letter of the law there should be no distinction between overcrowding by a single family and by several, a discretionary power being given to magistrates to relax the law in certain cases when members of only a single family are crowded together.) II. “ To apply to the so-called ‘ tenement houses’ of the poor a system of registration and regulation akin to that which is applied to common lodging-houses under the statutes of 1851 and 1853.” (Mr. Simon refers especially in his report to those “ lai’ge but ill- circumstanced houses, once, perhaps, wealthily inhabited, but now pau- perised, and often without a span of courtyard, either front or back; where in each house, perhaps, a dozen or more rooms are separately let to a dozen or more families, each family with but a room to itself and perhaps lodgers ; and where in each house the entire large number of occupants (which, perhaps, even in England, may be little short of a hundred) necessarily have the use of but a single staircase, and of a privy which, perhaps, is placed in the cellar.”) III. “ To enforce everywhere against the use of cellar-dwellings the restrictions which, under the 67 th section of the ‘ Public Health Act,’ are enforceable in places which are under that Act and the ‘ Local Government Act.’ ” IY. “ To exercise against premises or parts of premises which, by want of access of light or air, or by dampness, or through ruinous con- dition, are rendered unfit for human habitation, the same powers as against premises which by ‘nuisances’ are rendered unfit.” Y. “ To acquire premises by compulsory sale, either in order to make needful openings and clearances where ground is too closely built upon, or for other sanitary improvements.” Finally, Mr. Simon is in favour of the proposition that the local authority which is exercising improvement powers (and also, perhaps, individuals interested in the well-doing of workpeople) should have a locus standi for opposing the grant of compulsory powers of purchase to railway companies and others, except on condition that, where many habitations are destroyed, at least as many should be substituted for them. Dr. Bristowe* reports on “ Inquiries whether the Bag Trade is of in- fluence in spreading Infections of disease.” The circumstances which led to this investigation appear to be that two complaints had been made with reference to outbreaks of smallpox, which were believed by the complainants to have had their origin in the rag department of paper- mills. One of these outbreaks occurred in 1858 at Wraysbury and