REPORT ON OPHTHALMIC MEDICINE AND SURGERY. 351 The remarks in his paper on this subject* are drawn from its use in more than 600 cases. The remedy is indicated— 1. In contagions catarrhal ophthalmia, either as the only treatment or as a preliminary to local cauterisation. 1. In recent follicular conjunctivitis (granular disease of the lids) when the subconjunctival congestion and irritation are not very great; likewise in the later stages, without or with chronic blennorrhoea, unless the mucous membrane should present decided symptoms of relaxation. 3. In old trachomatous granulations with obstinate pannus, espe- cially when the conjunctiva is atrophied to some extent. 4. In phlyctenular conj unctivitis when a moderate degree of irrita- tion is accompanied by swelling of the conjunctiva. 5. In broad prominent infiltrations on the conjunctiva of the globe, threatening ulceration. 6. In torpid purulent infiltrations (of the cornea), either without previous iridectomy or after it. As contra-indicating this means in conjunctival affections, von Graefe notes too great tension and resistance of the mucous mem- brane, threatening or already existing acute keratitis, and, in general, any irritation proved to be excessive, either by the appearance of the eye or by a trial of the remedy. If the author had to characterise the therapeutical action of this remedy in respect to the eye, he would say that it is an alterative and astringent, having a very slight chemical action on the epithelial covering, a decided influence on vascularisation and secretion, opposing the development of the lymphatic follicles, and exciting a tendency to reparation iu certain ulcers. In a paper “ On the Injuries to the Eyes to which Engineers and Boilei'-makers are specially exposed,”! Mr. Lawson writes—“ It is really distressing to witness the number of eyes which are lost yearly by some of the most intelligent of all our mechanics, and simply from the fact that they will not take the easy precaution of wearing a pair of protectors when engaged at work which jeopardises the safety of their eyes. Experience is of little use in teaching them prudence, for, having lost one eye from an accident incidental to their employment, they often return to the same work as soon as they have recovered, without using any protection for their single eye; and in several instances they have been brought to the hospital, after a lapse of time, with it also destroyed by a similar casualty. “ The boiler-makers are more liable to accidents than the engineers, and they are usually of a more severe character. In striking hot rivets, and in cutting cold ones, fragments of the metal become detached, and fly off with such violence as often to penetrate the globe, or to inflict on it an injury which is either irreparable, or else, if the eye recovers, to leave it permanently a damaged organ. I have lately had some efficient eye-protectors made by Mr. Billischer, the optician, 88, New Bond Street, which may be purchased for the mode- # 1 Arch, fiir Ophth.,’ x, 2, p. 191. f * Ophlb. IIosp. Reports,’ iv, 369.