LUNGS—RESPIRATION—ANIMAL HEAT. 7 The nature and properties of the fluid secreted by the Lieberkiihnian fol- licles of the small intestine has recently been elucidated by the experi- ments and observations of L. Thiry and W. Kiihne (see “ Kuhne’s Lehrbuch der Physiologischen Chemie,’ art. “ Der Darmsaft,” Heft i, p. 136, 1866). To obtain it in a pure state, a fine healthy dog is selected, and placed under the influence of chloroform. The abdomen is then opened, a loop of intestine drawn out and divided at two points about 8 or 10 inches from one another. The continuity of the intestinal canal is now provided for by uniting the cut extremities with a fine suture. One extremity of the detached loop, the mesenteric relations of which are un- disturbed, is now ligatured, and the other is connected with the cutaneous wound. If the animal recovers from the peritonitis excited by the opera- tion, an intestinal fistula is established, the orifice of which ultimately becomes very small, and from which the true intestinal secretion can be obtained in considerable quantities by irritating the surface with sponges, the introduction of a little dilute hydrochloric acid, or the application of an interrupted galvanic current. The fluid thus obtained is thin, of a clear straw-yellow colour, gives a strongly alkaline reaction, and evolves car- bonic acid on the addition of acids. Its sp. gr. is constantly rouj;. It contains about 2-3 per cent, of solids, namely, of albumen o'8, of other organic matters 073, and of ashes o-87 parts. According to Thiry’s ob- servations, it does not convert starch into sugar, does not decompose the neutral fats (butter), and does not dissolve either coagulated albumen or raw meat. It has some action on fibrine; but, according to Kiihne, only on account of its primary alkaline reaction. It can scarcely be doubted, however, that this fluid, so abundantly poured forth that it has been cal- culated that about 3500 grs., or nearly three quarters of a pound, is secreted within five hours of a meal by the intestine of a dog, possesses an important agency in the metamorphosis of alimentary substances; for it must be remembered that in natural circumstances the food has already, in previous portions of the intestinal tube, been subjected to the action of the salivary, gastric, pancreatic, and biliary secretions, which are known to effect marked alterations in the chemical composition of the several classes of nutritive material; and observations are still wanting to show in what manner the intestinal juice acts upon the food that has undergone these preparatory changes. LUNGS—RESPIRATION—ANIMAL HEAT. The observations made on these subjects during the past two years have been remarkably few, probably on account of the recent extended and exhaustive labours of Dr. Edward Smith. As regards points of structure, Frey, Wywodzoff, and Hirschmann, all admit the existence of an epithe- lial investment to the alveoli of the lungs. Wywodzoff terms it discon- tinuous ; Frey leaves it undecided whether the epithelium is interrupted or continued in some modified form over the capillary vessels. The results obtained by M. Hirschmann (‘Virchow’s Archiv,’ 1866, p. 335) are thus summed up by Prof. Chrzonsczczewsky in a postcript to his paper: 1. The epithelial covering of the capillary bronchia is continued into the infundibula, and from thence in a perfectly unbroken layer into the