REPORT ON SURGERY. 290 account of 3 operations performed in the Klinik at Greifswald by Herr Bardeleben, which unfortunately all proved fatal. Dr. Mursick relates in the ‘ New York Medical Journal,’ Sept. 1863, p. 624, a successful case of excision of the hip for gunshot fracture in military practice. The operation was performed 22 days after the battle. The head,neck, and both trochanters were removed through an in- cision 6 inches long with no important haemorrhage. The limb was treated by extension with the weight and pulley, between sandbags. Conva- lescence was protracted; a ring of necrosed bone separated from the end of the femur, and it was 10 months before the man could leave his bed. A year after the operation the wounds were healed and he began to walk. When seen 14 months after operation he could walk more than 100 yards with a high shoe and a cane, and the usefulness of the limb was rapidly increasing. The shortening was 4i inches. The following extracts refer to the surgery of the nerves : In the third volume of the ‘ London Hospital Reports,’ p. 303, Mr. Hutchinson brings together 7 cases of lesion of the ulnar or the ulnar and median nerves. In the first place he combats the received opinion as to the extent of distribution of the radial nerve, holding, in opposi- tion to the common description in anatomical books, that the nerve does not reach to the tips of the fingers, which are supplied on the back as well as the front from the median nerve. As to the physiological results of injury to nerves, the most marked is the great loss of tem- perature in the parts supplied by the nerve, often reaching io° P., and not restored by any artificial heat to the healthy standard. He connects this coldness with a loss of nutrition in the skin, the papilla) of which are wasted and shrunken. Lesions of nutrition are very common, a peculiar kind of whitlow being formed, usually of the skin and subcutaneous parts at the tip of the finger, with exfoliation of the nail. Reparation, however, and reproduction of the nail sometimes takes place. In Mr. Hutchinson’s cases the nerves had not been repaired after long periods, but he refers to a case communicated by Mr. Nunn to the Pathological Society, in which a nerve-trunk was repaired after many years. The loss of temperature often extends above the site of the nerve-lesion. There are subjective phenomena, aching in cold, burning in heat, diffused pain over the whole limb, contraction of the paralysed muscles, reflex pain, &c. in the opposite limb. In ‘Schmidt’s Jahrbuch.,’ 125 (1863), p. 212, Martini sums up the operative surgery on nerves of recent times to the following effect. He refers, in the first place, to Gherini (‘Ann. Univ. di Med.,’ Ap. 1864, 188, p. 94), on the subject of operations for neuralgia. This author divides neuralgiae into two kinds—anomalous and regular or essential. The former is of local origin, and curable by division of the affected nerve above the seat of the disease; the latter is due to some irritation of an unknown description, and resists all means hitherto put in use. The former description of neuralgia is caused by the formation of a hard painful kernel in the trunk of the nerve, or by cicatrization after a