260 REPORT ON SURGERY. surgeons. Langenbeck and bis pupils appear to be very careful in excising tbe joints of tbe upper extremity, after gunshot injury, to preserve the periosteum. Thus, Liicke says, “ In all the resections we have endeavoured to preserve the periosteum as far as possible. In secondary operations it is easy to do this, since the periosteum has ex- perienced, according to the stage of the disease, either a considerable infiltration or a plastic thickening, and therefore does not adhere so firmly to the bone. In the stage of chronic inflammation it is more dif- ficult to preserve the periosteum, on account of the thick fibrous mem- branes of different character which have formed over it. “It has been questioned whether we shall eventually be able to separate tbe periosteum in primary operations, and, if so, whether the same osteo-plastic force will be found to reside in the periosteum as at the period when the formation of tissue, or rather of cells, has com- menced in it. “ It is indubitable that it is much more difficult to separate healthy periosteum from healthy bone, both on the diaphyses and the epiphyses. In removing loose fragments, which were hanging by thin bridges of periosteum, I have taken great pains to leave the periosteum, and have often succeeded, even on the day after the injury, in stripping it off with my finger-nail, but still better with an elevator or raspatory. In resections the same may be done. “ But whether the membrane, thus stripped off a fragment and left behind in a suppurating cavity, contributes anything towards the reproduction of bone, is more than I can say. I have plenty of evidence of a negative result in this experiment, but none of a positive result, from causes which may easily be imagined. It is quite otherwise in resection. Here we have all seen excellent reproductions of masses of bone, even in primary resections, and we have surely far more motive for preserving the periosteum in such cases than in cases of diseases of the bones, where the periosteum is often also implicated, and if left behind gives origin to new alterations of tissue, and protracts the cure in infinitum We find after resection of the elbow, when recovery has occurred with preservation of motion, and also for the most part in the shoulder, a certain grade of new formation of bone. And such formation is desirable, if we would obtain a joint which is firmly movable, and not flail-like.”—Op. cit., pp. 140-142. It seems as if Liicke is here speaking of cases in which splintering has proceeded to some distance from the end of the bone, so that it has been necessary to remove a good deal of the latter. Liicke gives (p. 143) the details of two cases of resection of the elbow (which, though it is not expressly so stated, were, it is to be presumed, subperiosteal) in order to show the good results of treatment by the plaster of Paris apparatus. : Mr. Stokes has also given a case in the ‘ Dublin Quarterly Journal of Medical Science,’ May, 1863, p. 265, in which he excised the elbow about four months after some injury, the nature of which was not clearly diagnosed; but which was followed by loss of the functions of the joint, and commencing caries of the bones. Mr. Stokes says, “ A long straight incision, beginning about au inch