nasopharyngeal polypus. 241 culty was experienced sometimes from tlieir getting into awkward parts of the mouth. He could speak very clearly, and sing without diffi- culty. A few consonants (d, j, g, and s) were not quite clearly ar- ticulated. He could distinguish different articles and their qualities by the taste; hut the sense of taste resided in the upper part of the pharynx, as was proved both by the patient’s own sensations, and by applying sapid but non-odorous solutions (salt and sugar) to the mucous membrane of the mouth, when their taste was not distinguished. Prof. Syme observes, “ Of the facts above mentioned, the one which seems most curious is the connection between taste and deglutition, from which it appears that the latter is essential for a full perception of the former. If the pleasure of taste could be perfectly gratified by mastication without deglutition, there would be no limit to the con- sumption of food; but the instinctive desire to swallow an agreeable morsel affords a check to any such abuse.” In the ‘ Gaz. des Hop.,’ May 20, 1865, will be found a short account of a case in which M. Demarquay had tied both lingual arteries, in order to produce atrophy of a large tumour of the tongue. At the time of his exhibition to the Societe de Chirurgie the tumour had much diminished in size, though the patient was not completely cured. The tumour had been so large as almost entirely to preclude speaking, mastication, and swallowing. At the time of the report the patient could speak, eat, and swallow without any great difficulty. M. Brosa remarked that he had adopted a similar proceeding to the spermatic artery in a case of tumour of the testicle with success. “New Operation for Naso-pharyngeal Polypus” (‘Gaz. des Hop.,’ 18 65, p. 575).—M. Alphonse Guerin relates to the Societe de Chirurgie de Paris an interesting case of naso-pharyngeal polypus, which he removed in a somewhat new fashion. The tumour was altogether of an enormous size, so much so that the boy (aet. 17) could not breathe except with the mouth half open. The velum palati was so displaced that its posterior surface was turned down towards the base of the tongue. It was im- possible to make out the point of attachment of the tumour, but it appeared to be somewhere near the left posterior nares. He was a good deal exhausted by previous haemorrhage, &c., but otherwise in good health. M. Guerin began the operation by dividing the velum palati down its centre. He was thus able to draw into the mouth a polypous mass about as large as a hen’s egg, and to sever its pedicle without difficulty and with little bleeding, though enough to be dangerous in the patient’s weak state. However, on examination it was found that theTbulk of the disease was left behind in the form of a large transverse mass, round which the finger could not be passed, and which appeared incarcerated in some way that could not be made out. The finger was carried down behind the mass from the mouth, and a rasp was pushed through the nostril on to the base of the skull, and thus the polypous mass was detached from the cranium, together with what remained of the pedicle of the former tumour, which was still bleeding. By pressing the tumour from its attachment in this way a large bony cavity was exposed, which seemed to be the dilated 16