297 INJURIES OF TtlE CRANIUM. 1. In the large number of cases which die under conservative treatment it does not appear from the autopsies that the use of the trephine could, in any way, have averted the fatal issue. 2. Many cases which recover without trephining would he seriously jeopardised by rashly admitting the atmosphere to the torn and bruised cranial contents, and thus placing them in the unfavorable condition of an open wound, instead of leaving them in the safe position of a sub- cutaneous or, more strictly, “subosseous” injury. 3. In those cases which recover after the use of the trephine the instrument does not deserve the credit of the cure; for if there be already an opening through the skull the operation is unnecessary, and if there he not it adds to the already serious injury a most dangerous complication. 4. There is a close analogy, though often forgotten, between tre- phining and the resection of long hones. In compound fractures of the extremities we extract loose fragments, restore the others as nearly as possible to their proper places (“setting” the fracture) and then trust the case to nature. Just so in compound fracture of the skull, we should content ourselves with removing the detached portions of bone, and restoring the rest, if possible, by the elevator or otherwise, to their proper level, and then withhold our hands. Mr. Teevan has published, in the ‘ Brit, and For. Med.-Chir. Rev.,’ July 1, 1865, “An Inquiry into the Causation, Diagnosis, and Treat- ment of Fracture of the Internal Table of the Skull.” Mr. Teevan speaks only of those cases in which the internal table is fractured, without any injury whatever of the external, excluding those more numerous instances in which the external table is simply fissured, while the internal is splintered, and perhaps depressed. He first establishes the reality of the injury by references to published cases and to pa- thological specimens, of which latter he has only discovered two—one in the Musee Dupuytren at Paris, and the other at Netley. The expla- nation of the injury previously admitted is rejected by Mr. Teevan. On this subject the author speaks as follows : “Sir B. Brodie’s words express the English belief:—‘The greater elasticity of the outer table of the skull, and the greater brittleness of the inner table, seem to afford the only reasonable solution of these phenomena.’* It will thus be seen that all surgeons assign, as the cause of this fracture, the greater brittleness of the inner table, and Dr. B. Beck gives an additional explanation—its shortness. “ I will now show that the cause of this fracture is not to be sought for in any of the reasons given, but that it occurs in obedience to a well-known physical law—that fracture commences in the line of exten- sion, not that of compression. “ If it were true that the shortness and brittleness of the inner table were the cause of its fracturing, then it would follow that, if violence were applied to the inner surface of the skull, it would be impossible to produce fracture of the external table only, without any injury what- soever to the inner. Now, what are the results of my experiments on this point F Why, they show that, if the inside of the skull be struck, * ‘Med.-Chir. Trans.,’ xiv, p. 331.