PLEURISY IN CHILDREN. 155 woman, aged 29, who had borne ten children, and acted as a wet-nurse for a long time after each confinement, and had been perfectly well ex- cepting that recently she had suffered from catarrh and an obstinate cough, in the midst of a sudden muscular exertion felt a sharp pain in the right side, and was seized with the most intense dyspnoea. When seen some hours later there were all the signs of the most complete pneumothorax of the right chest, with great displacement of the heart, lung, liver, &c., and severe collapse. Opium gave temporary ease, but on the next morning the anguish returned with waking, together with vomiting and choking sensations ; yet no’ sign of pleuritic exudation could be detected. Morphia again gave relief to the pain and dyspnoea, aud from this time all the symptoms steadily declined. In four days from the attack the patient had entirely recovered, and when seen a year later not a single trace of any mischief could be detected. Pleurisy in Children. Drs. Steiner and Neureutter* discuss the subject of pleurisy in chil- dren, basing their remarks on 27 observed cases. Pleurisy, in such degree that it can be diagnosed clinically, is rare in children, yet the pleura frequently partakes in various diseases of the lungs and of more remote organs; hence the apparent contradiction between clinical observers and morbid anatomists as to the frequency of the disease. Pleurisy with liquid effusion is the rarer ; generally it is primary, and runs an acute course ; the younger the child the less will be the amount of exudation. Pleurisy with proliferation of connective tissue is more common, and generally secondary and of protracted course; not infrequently, however, at any period of childhood, there occurs a mixed form, or sometimes even the two above-named varieties at once, one being developed in each pleural sac ; finally, the older the child the more the ensemble of symptoms wears the appearance of pleurisy. Widening of the intercostal spaces on the affected side is only serviceable to diagnosis in the older children. More authentic is percussion, the weakened voice-thrill, and the increased resistance of the thorax is a most valuable sign, although not so constant as in adults ; the dul- ness produced by pleurisy is more intense than that of pneumonia, except when both processes are present at once ; finally, the weakness or entire absence of respiratory murmur, the weakened voice-sound, and the distant-sounding bronchial breathing, allow us to recognise a pleuritic effusion. On the other hand, pleuritic friction sounds and the displacement of neighbouring organs are rarely available for diagnosis. Of the functional symptoms, quick pulse, high temperature, dyspnoea, and cough, are variously prominent, according to the age of the child, the cause and form of the disease, and the nature of the complications. The site of the pain is, in children up to six or eight years old, almost con- stantly in the scrobiculus cordis ; very young children only show pain in their countenance on being moved. Other nervous symptoms are only occasional in simple pleurisy, more frequent when there are pneumonic # “Clinical Records of Children’s Diseases,” ‘ Prag. Vierteljahrsch.,’ 1864-5; ‘ Schmidt’s Jahrb.,’ 129, p. 189.