OSTEO-ANEUltlSM.—OSTEOMYELITIS. 219 child died from injury to the head. In the discussion which ensued an interesting case was mentioned by Richet, which occurred in the practice of Denonvilliers, iu which the end of the shaft of the radius projected between the flexor tendons through the skin of the forearm, and could not be reduced. The projecting extremity was removed with a chain-saw, and the boy got well without a bad symptom. The resected bone was produced to the society, and showed its extremity covered with several thin lamellae of epiphysial cartilage. M. Marjolin believed separations of the epiphyses to be extremely rare, and produced some details of fractures at the Hopital Ste. Eugenie, which showed, at any rate, that they had been very rarely diagnosed at the hospital from which his statistics were drawn. M. Guersant also said that he had never been able to diagnose the injury with certainty, and M. Chassaignac expressed his opinion that true separation of the epiphysis hardly ever occurs. A small portion of the shaft almost always adheres to the epiphysial cartilage. M. Broca, however, reminded the society that the injury could easily be produced in the dead subject, and therefore was very probably more frequent in the living than was sup- posed. In experiments on the dead subject the cartilage was usually found attached to the epiphysis. In the ‘ Annali Universali di Medicina,’ 1866, vol. 196, p. 428, is related a case of osteo-aneurism, published by Sig. Cappelletti. The patient was a lady, born in 1816. The symptoms dated from 1853, when a little pain (which commenced suddenly while getting into bed, eight days after her ninth childbirth) was felt iu the upper part of the right tibia, accompanied by a little crack just below the knee. Swell- ing followed, and after half a year was found to pulsate here and there. It is unnecessary to follow the case in detail. Suffice it to say, that the femoral artery was tied a year and a half after the first onset of the diseases, but the pulsation returned in five days. Secondary hsemor- rhage came on on the seventeenth day, and the external iliac was tied. The patient recovered, but the tumour continued to grow, although the pulsations almost disappeared. Amputation was performed four years after the commencement of the disease. The operation was quite successful, and the patient was in excellent health seven years after amputation. All that is said as to the pathological anatomy of the tumour is, that it was almost exactly similar to the description by Scarpa, in p. 164 of his work on ‘ Aneurism.’ Sig. Cappelletti concludes that osteo-aneurism has two stages—one of teliangiectasis, and a second of laceration of the vessels and formation of an aneurismal sac. The ligature of the main artery of the limb he believes to be futile. In the first stage partial resection of the bone should be practised; and, in the second, amputation. “ Remarks upon Osteo-myelitis consequent upon Gunshot-wounds of the Upper and Lower Extremities, and especially upon the Treatment of Stumps affected with Osteo-myelitis after Amputation necessitated by such Injuries,” by T. Longmore, Deputy Inspector-General, Pro- fessor of Military Surgery, Army Medical School (‘ Med.-Chir. Trans.,’