LIGATURE OB’ INNOMINATE, CAROTID, AND VERTEBRAL ARTERIES. 351 corded throughout its whole extent. I was somewhat alarmed for the safety of the limb, hut in a few days these unfavorable symptoms began to subside and slight pulsation was again perceived in the radial artery. “No further haemorrhage having taken place after the second operation, the new wound healed rapidly; the ligature coming away on the 10th day. The first wound also closed, though more slowly, and the patient at present, Sept. 15th, is entirely well, excepting that he yet lacks perfect command over the muscles of his arm, which, how- ever, he is rapidly regaining. “ The aneurismal sac has almost disappeared, but there still exists some noticeable swelling above the clavicle. “ The lessons drawn from this first successful case must be of great importance in future operations for the cure of subclavian aneurism. We have 20 recorded cases, in which ligature of the innominate or of the subclavian artery in the first part of its course, ivitliout that of the vertebral, have proved fatal, and it is reasonable to suppose that it would always prove so. “ In the present case it would have been a difficult matter to have reached the vertebral at the time of the first operation, owing to the size of the aneurism. Still I think it was possible (it would always be so in the upper part of its course), and the early occurrence of secondary hemorrhage in some of the fatal cases shows the danger of delay. “ If the innominate and vertebral arteries should be tied at the same time, it would not do to omit ligature of the carotid also, since we have seen that its occlusion in other cases was only owing to the current from the vertebral. But if an interval should be allowed to elapse between the operations, it is a question whether the carotid might not be left to this occlusion. Statistics being so imperfect on this point, it is impossible to decide. “ It is highly probable that ligature of the vertebral will also render safe the operation on the subclavian in the first part of its course, and this might appear preferable in some cases to tying the innominate, as it would leave the carotid free.” In an article on the subject in the same number, Dr. Dowler, of New Orleans, translates a paper by M. Leon Le Fort, on the ligature of the trunk of the brachiocephalic and of the subclavian artery. M. Le Fort, after recapitulating briefly the heads of Dr. Smythe’s case, proceeds to give a statistical account of the operations on these vessels. He enume- rates 13 operations in all upon the innominate, viz., by Mott, Arndt of St. Petersburg, Bland of Sidney, Graefe, Hall of Baltimore, Hutin 01 Oran, Lizars, Cooper of St. Francisco, twice, Bugalsky (according to Yelpeau), twice, Norman, and a surgeon referred to but not named by Dupuytren. Instead of the ligature of the innominate, the carotid and subclavian were tied by MM. Cuveillier, Bossi, Kuhl, and Liston. All these patients died; and all those of whom notes are preserved, died of haemorrhage, except the patient of Arndt, in whom death took place on the 6th day, from inflammation of the aneurismal sac, the pleura and lungs.