REPORT ON SURGERY. 330 vesicle could contain, and must, therefore, have been furnished directly from the capillaries of the affected skin. It is difficult to see how the mere admixture of a few blood-globules can change the fundamental qualities of the liquid, and render it capable of producing syphilis. Still, it is proper to bear the theory in mind, and avoid any mixture of blood with the lymph. The most important precaution, however, is to vaccinate from perfectly pure sources. Now, the main source of vaccino-svphilis being congenital syphilis in infants, and this disappear- ing usually between birth and the age of 6 weeks, it follows that the most natural precaution is to take the vaccine lymph always from infants above the age of 2 months, and to take care that the infant has been examined from head to foot, and is clear of any eruption, in good condition, and thriving. Some practitioners believe that a needle is a safer instrument than a lancet, and that lymph preserved in tubes is better than that freshly drawn from the arm; but little reliance can be placed on these precautions. Again, M. Depaul does not give a confident opinion as to the advisability of recurring constantly to the original cow-pox, by taking fresh lymph from time to time from heifers inocu- lated for the purpose. This would seem to give security against the transmission of syphilis to the individuals inoculated with the fresh lymph ; but it would be very troublesome in practice. The same number of the‘Gazette’ contains (pp. 31 and 599) an address of M. Ricord to the Academy in answer to this report. In his speech M. Ricord defends himself against having propagated doctrines leading to error in this matter; but the chief value of his address to our readers will lie in its containing a criticism of many of the pub- lished cases of alleged vaccino-syphilis, such as the well-known case of the children at Rivalta. M. Ricord, while by no means denying the possibility or even the occasional occurrence of syphilitic inoculation in vaccination, thinks that the event is so rare as hardly to constitute a real danger. M. Depaul’s facts, and the inferences he drew from them, were severely criticised by M. Blot and M. Jules Guerin (pp. 45, 46), who, without denying the possibility of the occurrence of syphilis in vaccination, appear to think that many different eruptions have been considered syphilitic, and that it would be highly improper to shake the popular confidence in vaccination. M. Trousseau sustained the opposite opinion, and supported the adoption of M. Depaul’s report, and several other members spoke on each side of the question; but the proposition of sending the report to the Minister of the Interior was ultimately negatived. The chief value of the discussion is for the references it contains to the published cases of alleged syphilitic inocu- lation in vaccination, and the criticism to which those cases are subjected. “ On the Mixture of Blood with the Semen ” (‘ Gaz. des Hop.,’ May 9, 1863, p. 217).—M. Demarquay gives some cases of this affection both from his own practice and from published sources. He puts two questions:—1. What are the chief causes of the mixture of blood with the semen ? and 2, Of what maladies may it be a symptom ? To these he replies, that the chief causes of bloody ejaculation are—masturbation.