452 REPORT ON .MEDICAL JURISPRUDENCE. eulatioii is stopped in any other way, as, for instance, by ligature of the heart. The first points determined by Drs. Fagge and Stevenson are, what dose of digitaline is necessary to produce these three characteristic effects, and whether they are invariably produced by this poison. It is shown that with doses of '0078 of a grain and upwards the action above described is observed with almost absolute certainty. Out of 26 ex- periments with pure solutions of digitaline, in doses as large as that just mentioned, there were only two in which the whole chain of effects failed to manifest itself. When the quantity of digitaline is smaller than that named its action is often limited to the production of peri- stalsis and irregularity of the ventricular beats, or, if the ventricle stops for a time, it afterwards resumes its action. It must be mentioned that, according to M. Vulpian, the effects of digitaline upon frogs which are healthy and have been recently caught differ from those above described. The observations of Drs. Fagge and Stevenson do not, however, con- firm this statement. The only substances which were known to produce in frogs the same effects as digitaline and preparations of digitalis are the Helleborus viridis, and, perhaps, the Helleborus niger, the Tanghinia venenifera of Madagascar, and certain arrow-poisons coming from different quarters of the globe, namely, Antiar from Java, Carroval and Yao from Bio Darien in South America, and Dajaksch from Borneo. To these Drs. Fagge and Stevenson add the Scilla maritima, which they find to cause effects in the frog undistinguishable from those of digitaline. They also mention Manganja, an arrow-poison from the Zambesi, of which the action was first observed by Dr. Sharpey. M. Pelikan,* one of the discoverers of the action of the Tanghinia and of that of the Helleborus viridis, has recently described the “Inee” or “ Onage,” an arrow-poison from the Gaboon Biver of Western Africa, as producing identical effects. Both it and the Manganja are the seeds of Apocy- naceous plants. The name of cardiac poisons, proposed by Claude Bernard for certain of the substances above mentioned, is extended by these observers to the whole group. No other agent with which they experimented resembled digitaline in its effects on the frog. They tried 19 different medicinal substances, including most of the emetics, purgatives, and sedatives; the only two among these agents of which the effects in any degree resembled those of digitaline were emetina and the extract of the Delphinium staphgsagria, and in these instances the resemblance was but partial. It is remarkable, however, that the cardiac poisons are not only widely distributed iu nature, but are also derived from plants having no botanical affinities, and this is, perhaps, a reason for expecting that the list of substances producing similar effects will hereafter be increased. Having determined the constancy of the action of pure solutions of digitaline on the frog, Drs. Fagge and Stevenson proceeded to add the poison to matters vomited by patients or removed from the human stomach after death, and to apply physiological tests to extracts afler- * ‘ Comp. Rend.,’ 1865, Go, p. 1209.