REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 110 the study of phenomena which are superficial and simple, more hidden and intricate conditions of mind.” Elsewhere, Jackson refers to Herbert Spencer’s ‘ Principles of Psychology,’ and especially to the chapters on the “ Growth of Intelligence,” “Reflex Action,” “ Instinct,” and “Memory,” in confirmation of his views. He thinks that a study of Spencer’s works will show the extreme importance of investigating the whole of the physico-psychical symptoms we meet with—in connection with hemiplegia to begin with—from those grossly motor, as defects of articulation, to those purely “mental,” as incoherence. He refers to temporary losses of speech, which he had called “ epileptic aphonia,” and compares and contrasts them with sudden losses of sight, which he has been used to speak of as “ epilepsy of the retina,” or “ epileptiform amaurosis.” He alludes to the case of a boy who had an attack of con- vulsions of the right arm and leg and the right side of the face, with inability to talk, although consciousness was not obviously affected. Now, as paralysis of the right side of the face and of the right arm and leg, with permanent loss of speech, are sometimes due to plugging of the middle cerebral artery, it may be well, Jackson thinks, to in- quire whether the temporary symptoms in the above case were not due to some temporary cause (possibly spasm of the vessels) in the range, or beginning in part of the range, of the left middle cerebral artery. He speaks* of a case of unilateral (right) chorea in which there was de- fective talking; but he allows that the nature of this defect of speech requires investigating further, and he remarks that chorea patients can often overcome it by voluntary effort, and also that defective speech sometimes accompanies left unilateral chorea. He remarks that in bad cases of defect of expression the fault is not merely one of language, but sometimes of power to execute commoner voluntary action. There aref two modes of expression, one emotional, and the other intellectual. By one we show what we feel, and by the other we tell what we think. We may show that we are surprised, angry, grieved, or astonished by the former, but by the latter we give to another by signs (generally words) a notion of our thoughts on things. Now, in some cases of dis- ease of the hemisphere (always, in Jackson’s experience, near to and involving the left corpus striatum) intellectual expression is wanting, and emotional expression is well preserved. But we may make the statement broader still, at least in some cases. In some cases of defect of speech the patient seems to have lost much of his power to do any- thing he is told to do, even with those muscles that are not paralysed. Thus, a patient will be unable to put out his tongue when we ask him, although he will use it well in semi-voluntary actions, e. g. eating and swallowing. He will not make the particular grimace he is told to do, even when we make one for him to imitate. There is power in his muscles and in the centres for the co-ordination of muscular groups, but he—the whole man, or the “ will”—cannot set them a-going. An- other thing is often to be observed—that a hemiplegic patient can close the eye on the non-paralysed side, whether it be right or left, when the other is open, but not vice versa. The distinction made between (i) voluntary and (2) involuntary gross * 1 Med. Times and Gaz.,’ June 23, 1866. f 4 Ophth. Hosp. Rep.,’ v, part iv.