ADULTERATIONS. 473 produced in comparatively large quantity by the exudation of the former alcohol, but in traces only by the oxidation of the latter. He puts into a small distilling apparatus sixty grains of powdered bichro- mate of potass, and pours upon it one ounce of water and ninety grains of sulphuric acid, and then adds one drachm of the spirit supposed to contain methylic alcohol. The mixture is allowed to stand for fifteen minutes, after which one fluidounce is distilled. The distillate is neu- tralized with carbonate of soda, and is boiled down nearly to dryness. Water is then added to make up the quantity to four fluiddrachms, and the solution is rendered slightly acid by a drop or so of acetic acid. If methylic alcohol was originally present, the liquid will become turbid and opaque when treated with a solution of nitrate of silver, and, on boiling very gently, a coating of metallic silver will be deposited on the interior of the tube. If the fluid originally employed was pure ethylic alcohol, the nitrate of silver will merely cause slight darkening of the contents of the test-tube and the deposition of a minute dark precipitate. In testing a tincture for the presence of methylic alcohol it is generally necessary to perform a preliminary dis- tillation before adding the sulphuric acid and bichromate. In applying this test to the Spiritus JEtlieris Nitrici the liquid may first be shaken with ignited carbonate of potass, and then distilled after standing an hour. Even when the preparation is pure, however, the darkening ob- served is somewhat more marked than with rectified spirit. A more simple test for methylic alcohol, proposed by Mr. Tuck,* consists in boiling the suspected liquid with a few drops of an alkaline solution of the double iodide of potassium and mercury. If the liquid is pure ethylic alcohol a yellowish-white precipitate is formed, but when methylic alcohol is present no such change occurs. The absence of the precipitate in the latter case appears to be due to the acetone which is always associated with methylic alcohol. It has since been shownf that the oil of cloves has the same effect on the “iodo-hydrargyride test for alcohol” as acetone itself; but this sub- stance may be readily separated by simple distillation. Mr. Tuck has distilled and tested in this way most of the tinctures of the British Pharmacopoeia, and has not met with any other oil or organic principle which has interfered with the success of his test. At the same time he appears to admit that Mr. Miller’s method is of a more absolutely cer- tain character. The value of these tests has been fully recognised by Dr. Attfield and others. Mr. Miller has since made knownj that his oxidation-test may be made to yield very fair results without distil- lation. Mr. Tuck has investigated§ the question whether it is possible to ascertain, by chemical tests, that methylated spirit has been used in making chloroform or other pharmaceutical preparations. He finds that, as might be expected from theoretical considerations, the chloro- form prepared from methylated spirit is as good as, and of the same chemical composition as, that made from pure alcohol. There can therefore be no test to distinguish between these products, and it has * 1 Pharm. Journ.,’ vi, p. 153. f Ibid., vii, p. 168. £ Ibid., p. 318. § Ibid., p. 172.