ANATOMY OF THE OVUM. 333 M. Joulin (‘Arch. Gen. de Med.,’ July, 1865) contributes “Anatomi- cal researches upon the membrana laminosa, the condition of the chorion, and of the circulation in the placenta at the end of pregnancy.” He looks upon the received opinion, that the membrane which covers the foetal surface of the placenta when the amnion is removed is formed from the chorion, as incorrect. He calls this investment the membrana laminosa, and dates its origin from the allantois, regarding it as the X'emains of this structure formed out of a thickened reticulated magma upon the foetal surface. He distinguishes the laminosa and chorion by their histological elements and their situation upon the placenta. He examines the following points:—1. The division of the placental vessels. 2. The nature of the insertion and course of the villi. 3. The membrana laminosa. 4. The relations of the villi to the circula- tion in the maternal vessels, whereby he seeks to prove that at the end of gestation the chorion is no longer in the condition of a continuous membrane stretching over the placental surface. 1. During the formation of the allantois the vascular branches are directed to the foetal surface of the chorion, and this undoubted fact serves to prove that the membrana laminosa cannot be a part of the chorion, since it is found in the complete ovum upon a spot more super- ficial than the vascular branches. On leaving the umbilical cord the vessels worm themselves through the substance of the laminosa, and, after a course of variable length, cross it obliquely to reach the placental substance. After a further course of from a millimetre to several cen- timetres, they terminate, forming tufts, which again divide to reach the villi. 2. In the formation of the allantoid circulation the chorion separates the vessels into two different layers ; on its foetal surface the trunks run, upon the uterine surface run the capillary vessels. At the end of pregnancy this separation in the placenta has vanished; the trunks are found everywhere in the midst of the mass of villi. The villi, especially, no longer take their rise at the same level as before, and their direction is not always perpendicular to the surface of the organ ; their insertion is effected at the ends of the tufts, in every possible depth and direction. The chorion, obliterated through the growth of the vessels, ceases in this way, by its vanishing from the placental surface, to be a distinct membrane. 3. Further, the histological ele- ments of the laminosa are quite different from those of the chorion. It consists of bundles of fibres in parallel layers, only now and then cross- ing, of amorphous matter and some fat-granules. No nuclei or mole- cular granulations, which constitute the basis of the chorion-tissue, are found; no villus takes its origin from the laminosa, but the connection on either side is only through an amorphous tissue which binds the villi together. By teasing and maceration it can be completely sepa- rated from the surface of the membrane and from the trunks of the vessels. The laminosa can be separated into several layers. One layer is especially thick between the great branches of the tufts. Closely united to the vessels, it accompanies them, in the form of sheaths, into the depth of the placenta, and sends to the circumference of the organ lamelke which reach the villi, without, however, the laminosa possessing anywhere vessels of its own. 4. These facts involve a change in the