280 REPORT ON SURGERY. very good one, and one which, in proper cases, may he adopted with great advantage, in preference either to Syme’s or PirogofTs, inasmuch as the ankle-joint is preserved and a longer limb left. Mr. Hancock is in favour of removing the head of the astragalus at the time of the operation, since it is liable to he displaced by the action of the tendo Achillis and point downwards into the stump. He relates several cases in which the operation was done, and others in which he believes it was indicated. Another operation, devised by Mr. Hancock himself, and which is a modification of the subastragaloid and PirogofTs ampu- tations, was performed by him some time ago with success, and the patient was exhibited at the College of Surgeons. It consists in removing the head and under surface of the astragalus after the flaps are made, and then sawing off the os calcis, except its posterior third, which is then brought up and adapted to the lower sawn surface of the astragalus. The operation was as follows:—An incision was made from the point of the external malleolus forwards to a little beyond the base of the fifth metatarsal bone, another from about the centre of and below the internal malleolus to a point on the inner border of the foot, corresponding to the end of the external incision ; these were united by a cut convex forwards across the sole down to the bones. The flap was then reflected backwards as far as the projections in front of the tuberosity of the os calcis. A fourth incision was then carried across the dorsum of the foot, immediately behind the head of the astragalus. The os calcis was now sawn through as far back as possible, obliquely upwards and backwards ; the medio-tarsal joint was then opened, and the anterior part of the foot detached; and, finally, the three articular surfaces of the astragalus for the scaphoid and calcaneum were removed, the end of the os calcis brought up to the under surface of the astra- galus, and the flap united by suture. The case did well. Mr. Hancock calls this amputation by his own name. The rest of this and the whole of the sixth and last lectures are taken up with the excision of the astragalus. On this head we will merely give Mr. Hancock’s summary, referring the reader to the original paper for his account of various illustrative cases and discussion on the indications for the operation. “Results of the operation of complete excision of the astragalus performed ly British surgeons.—I have collected 57 cases. Of these, 33 were for compound dislocation; of which 5 were complicated with fracture, 12 were for simple dislocation, and 3 were for caries. “ Of the 33 performed for compound dislocation, 24 recovered with good useful limbs ; 1 underwent secondary amputation of the leg, and recovered; 8 died, of whom 1 had undergone secondary am- putation. “ Of the 12 performed for simple dislocation, 9 recovered with good and useful limbs; of these 12, in 4, of whom 1 died, the bone was allowed to remain for a month; in 1 it was allowed to remain nineteen weeks ; in 4, of whom 2 died, the bone was removed immediately. “ Of the 3 performed for disease, 2 recovered with good and useful limbs; 1 recovered for a time, but the disease returned in two years, necessitating amputation of the leg, the patient, however, doing well.