145 PHTHISIS. deposition of tubercle in the organs. 3. This elevation is probably due to the first rather than the second of these processes. 4. The tempera- ture may be taken as a measure of the amount of the tuberculosis and tuberculisation, and any fluctuations in the temperature indicate corre- sponding fluctuations in the severity of the disease. 5. The tempera- ture is a more accurate measure of the amount of the tuberculosis and tuberculisation than either the physical signs or symptoms. 6. By means of the temperature we can diagnose tuberculosis and tubercu- lisation long before the physical signs and symptoms are sufficient to justify such a diagnosis. (A very small amount of tubercular deposit has been known to raise the temperature to 103° or 104° Fahr.). 7. By means of the thermometer we can diagnose tuberculosis even when during the whole course of the disease there are no physical signs indi- cative of tubercular deposit in any organs of the body, and in which cases the symptoms (apart from the temperature) are inadequate to enable us to arrive at such a diagnosis. 8. It is probable that by the temperature we can conclude that the deposition of tubercle has ceased, and that any physical signs present are due to obsolescent tubercle and the chronic thickening of the lung-tissue between the tubercular de- posit. 9. It is probable, though not yet certain, that by the tempera- ture we can diagnose between diseases in which the symptoms and phy- sical signs are either too scanty or too much alike to enable us to decide between them. Dr. J. H. Dobell* has put forward a novel theory of the causation and proper treatment of tuberculosis and phthisis. He believes that tuberculosis is owing to a defect in the pancreatic secretion, whereby it becomes unable to emulsify and prepare for absorption the fatty matters in the food. The treatment to which this view of the matter leads him is as follows—In the first place, he gives pancreatic emulsions of solid fat or of oil to all those patients in whom there is reason to think that the pancreatic function is seriously impaired; he recommends such patients to inspire an atmosphere in which the proportion of oxygen has been diminished (so as to save the albuminoid tissues, as far as pos- sible, from disintegration) and to maintain artificial warmth. But if the case be in an early stage the object must be to restore the function of the pancreas, and for this purpose the patient must be placed in a cold, dry, bracing climate, with highly oxygenated air; he must take exercise and a good diet, and live a cheerful life. Most cases, however, are not precisely fitted for the sole use of either of these plans of treatment, and a great deal of judgment and skill will be required in adjusting the precise scheme, by alternating the two kinds of procedure. Dr. Samuel Fenwickf publishes some researches on the possibility of detecting lung-tissue in the sputa of phthisical patients; the ob- servations were made in 100 suspected cases of the disease. The mode of examination which he employs is to liquefy the sputa by boiling them with solution of soda, and then placing them in a conical glass; any elastic tissue present then sinks to the bottom and can be picked # * Brit. Med. Journ.,’ Jan. 20, Feb. 10, 1866. f Ibid., July, 1866. 10