80 REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. Ranvier describes in full the appearance presented on examination of the liver. On making a section of a gummatous tumour of the size of a hazel-nut, projecting from the surface of the liver, it was found to be composed of a resistant yellowish tissue, furrowed with numerous vascular arborisations. Its outline was not well defined, and it could be easily seen by the naked eye to become gradually incorporated with the hepatic parenchyma. No juice could be obtained by scraping it with a scalpel. By needles it was only broken into small irregular fragments, in which were found small round nuclei; larger nuclei and cells ; and round, ovoid, or fusiform bodies, few in some parts, abundant in others. These nuclei and cells were firmly connected by a strong amorphous or fibrillar tissue. After the addition of chromic acid it was seen, with a magnifying power of 75 diameters, that the tumour con- tained a certain number of small nodules, touching each other at the circumference, but differing in structure, externally and internally. At their centre were accumulated the nuclei and smallest cells, and a large proportion of the amorphous matter, in small irregular masses. At the periphery the structure became more fibrillar, so that on the outside the lobules contained tissue in all respects resembling connec- tive tissue. Some of the gummata had undergone cheesy or larda- ceous transformation; and here the lobules were distinguished only by groups of fatty granules disposed in circles. On making sections of the gummata with a portion of the surround- ing liver, it was seen that the morbid tissue was united with the hepatic tissue by bands of embryonic connective tissue (cells and embryo- plastic nuclei). These bands passed between the lobules of the liver, and were traversed by the terminal ramifications of the hepatic artery and duct, and of the portal vein. The cellular elements of the new growth were insinuated among the hepatic cells ; so that at the boun- daries of the tumour there were found atrophied globular hepatic cells, filled with yellowish granules interspersed in the new tissue. When the cells were completely atrophied their place was sometimes denoted by the presence of globular and stellate crystals of stearic acid, result- ing from the decomposition of the fatty matters formerly contained in the cells. The excessive formation of connective tissue was not confined to the vicinity of the gummata. In the various portions of the liver which he examined Ranvier found the condition described by Yirchow as inter- stitial syphilitic hepatitis, that is, islets of embryonic tissue between tbe hepatic lobules. In some parts, also, there was a curious arrange- ment—the central vein was surrounded by a thick zone of embryonic tissue, sometimes separating it by half a millimetre from the network of hepatic cells. In the liver, Ranvier observes, we meet with gummata and intersti- tial hepatitis. The tissue of the former differs from that of the latter only in the extreme smallness of its elements. Like tuberculosis, syphilis imprints on its deposits the character of poverty and smallness, and liability to further degeneration. But as in syphilis the elements are enclosed in a very firm tissue, their degeneration does not, as in tuberculosis, generally produce a difi’used cheesy mass, but a resistant