162 BEPOltT ON PllACTICAL MEDICINE. remain in its place sufficiently long, it will be found, by the gradual alterations of tlie curve, that the small pulse is nothing but the concealed large modification, which differs from the middle pulse inas- much as the first secondary wave is met with a little nearer the apex. The wave exists in the middle pulse about in equal height with the middle of the ascending limb of the whole curve. A faulty tracing of the large pulse is likely to result from the weak- ness of the spring, which in such cases ought to be strengthened in such a manner as not to retard the reproduction of the first secondary wave on the paper. This necessarily requires alteration of the instrument, and leads to a general consideration of the question whether Marey’s sphygmograph does chronicle facts at variance with the events really taking place in the artery, especially whether the first secondary wave arises from an imperfect construction of the instrument, as contended by Duchek (‘Med. Jahrb.,’ 1862, 4, p. 35). Evidence is adduced that the tracings produced by Marey’s sphygmograph are correct, and that any aberration from the truth must be looked for in the dimensions and not in the number of secondary ascensions. Adopting the irrefutable arguments of Yierordt in favour of this view (‘Arch. d. Heilk.,’ 1863, p. 516), the author strengthens his assertion that the tracing lever has no movement of its own by referring to tracings the regularity of which is disturbed by hiccough. In such a case, at whatever point of the curve the tracing lever may happen to be, it immediately follows the contraction of the artery subsequent to the hiccough, which is nothing else but a deep, rapid, and short inspiration, causing a negative wave. When the latter is coincident with an ascending movement of the lever, the predominance of the one wave or the other, or the annihilation of both, resulting in a horizontal line, is recorded on the paper with a degree of subtle exactitude which, having regard to the existing laws in physics, may be judged from a comparison with the immediately pre- ceding or next following curves. b. The normal radial pulse in old age possesses its own specific character, indicated, istly, by the great dimensions of the curve; 2ndly, by the closer proximity, not only of the first, but of all secondary ascen- sions to the apex of the curve; and 31'dly, by the extreme predominance of the first secondary wave, the basis of which exceeds in length two to three times that of the great ascension. In near relation to the radial pulse of old-age stands that which is met with in people not far advanced in years and suffering from hypertrophy of the left ventricle, and, next, that which accompanies insufficiency of the aortic valve. In the last-mentioned case the pulse most closely resembles that of old age, and does not exhibit that specific pathognomonic character which is claimed for it by Marey. In a case of aneurism of the ascending aorta, and in another of aneurism of the descending aorta, the peculiarities of the pulse of old age could also be traced. c. The normal radial pulse of children of 2 to 7 years of age is distinguished by a wave which ascends with great rapidity, and very gradually descends by small undulations. In girls the first secondary wave appears to be more marked than in boys.