REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 164 temperature above 105° Fahr., tlie pulse becomes hyperdicrotic. Besides its occurrence in the corresponding stages of typhus, pneu- monia, pleuritis, percarditis, it is constantly to be found after violent shiverings in intermittent, in leukamiia, pyaemia resulting from fractures, and puerperal fever. If quinine has been given, the great incisure is not rounded off, but more pointed at its lowest point, and the retrograde metamorphosis to the dicrotic pulse at the end of the paroxysm tends to prove that the great ascent has never been conquered completely by the great incisure. The highly accelerated fever pulse finally exhibits at a temperature between 106—108° Fahr. the more or less perfect monocrotic type; it often appears only to usher in death. b. The radial pulse-curve in chronic febrile disease of the middle age.— The greater part of the observations were made on patients suffering from chronic tuberculosis of the lungs, and the conclusion arrived at is that in chronic disease each phase of the pulse-curve presented in acute dis- ease appears already at a temperature at least 20 lower. The normal radial pulse-curve is found at or below 970 Fahr.; this temperature will be the lower the longer duration of the fever is and the more the organism is undermined. The same law is applicable to persons reco- vering from an acute febrile disease, so that, for instance, during the first period of convalescence the pulse is never normal, but hypodicrotic. c. The radial pulse-curve in febrile disease of old people. (This period commences in the male with 50—52, in the female with 52 years.) —Fol- lowing the rules given above, the result is modified by the character of the pulse peculiar to old age. The first secondary wave, being very prominent, may lose a good deal of its size, while the great incisure in- creases ; yet the tricrotic character of the curve will remain better and for a longer time preserved. The pulse-curve of persons with insuffi- ciency of the aortic valve, when affected with febrile disease, is attacked in an analogous manner. Exemptions to the rule concern febrile dis- eases complicated with paralysis, where also, like in middle age, the tricrotism of the curve is less easily destroyed. As to the mode of production of the pathological phases of the pulse, of which the distinctly dicrotous form is considered by him to be the central type, AFolff asks the question, Is it diminished blood- pressure alone which causes the pathological changes of the pulse, and heightened pressure which restores it to the normal form ? Assuredly not. The pulse of the feverless subject of marasmus is undeniably feeble, and the pressure of the few pounds of blood in his attenuated arteries is low enough to produce dicrotism, if dicrotism were depen- dent on such a cause. Wolff calls attention to the fact that the act of coughing produces diminution of arterial pressure and increased force and speed of the heart’s action, while the traces of the pulse show that it is larger and more frequent. He compares this to the state of tilings in fever ; there the heart’s action is heightened on the one side, and the tone of the vessels diminished on the other; the pulse is excessively ac- celerated. In digestion, also, we have dilatation of the vessels of the stomach, heightened force and rapidity of the heart-beat, and the pulse is large, rapid, aud subdicrotic. A similar state of things prevails in