MUSCULAR, TISSUE. RIGOR MORTIS. 25 fibrillar juices (Briicke and KiAhne), which, so long as it is present, sus- pends or interferes with the properties of elasticity and extensibility in muscle. M. Preyer (‘Travaux de la Soc. Med. Allemande,’ Paris, 1863, p. 37 ; and ‘ Canstatt’s Bericht,’ 1863, p. 153) has recently reinvestigated the possibility of restoring the vital properties of muscles which have passed into the condition of rigor mortis. He corroborates the state- ments of Kiihne, that muscular tissue in this condition may have its original appearance restored, may lose its acid reaction, and may regain its extensibility if it be injected with weak solutions of common salt, of nitrate or of carbonate of soda, which probably act by dis- solving the myelin or coagulable constituent of muscle; but, on the other hand, the muscles never regain their irritability. Immersion in distilled water soon induces rigidity of the muscles of frogs, and even in living frogs the same effect can be produced by tying a firm ligature round a limb and immersing it for six or seven hours in water, when the rigidity will be observed to be accompanied by considerable swelling. If, however, when the muscles have thus become rigid, the limb is immersed in a 10 per cent, solution of common salt, the swelling diminishes, the muscles recover their usual appearance, and if, by the removal of the ligature, the passage of blood is no longer impeded, they soon regain their irritability. The application of a high temperature, as of 113° Eahr., or higher, produces the most complete coagulation and the firmest rigor mortis ; but even then excitability and electric currents of the muscle may be reproduced on treatment with solutions of common salt and free ad- mission of blood through the vessels. A condition analogous to or identical with rigor mortis can also be induced by the action of chloro- form. In all these instances Preyer thinks that the irritability and electrical properties of the muscles can be regained, providing they are not rendered completely rigid, by the simple admission and free passage of the blood through them. On the other hand, if they are rendered completely rigid, these vital properties can only be regained by the combined action of solutions of common salt and of renewed currents of blood. It is remarkable that such restored muscles are sooner amenable to tbe action of the will than they are to the most energetic external stimuli. He entertains no doubt but that the rigidity of the muscles is due to a coagulation of some of their con- stituents, which, when it passes beyond a certain point, causes them to lose their irritability. Exhaustion proceeds from inferior degrees or grades of the coagulation of these substances. As regards the development of striated muscular fibre, Dr. Wilson Fox (‘Phil. Trans.,’ 1866, p. 101) has contributed the following ob- servations made with high powers (1-25) on tadpoles—which he has found well adapted for examination—chicks, and sheep. He considers that the earliest forms which indicate any differ- entiation from the round cells of the embryo are oval bodies of about i-^ooth to i-8ooth of an inch in length, containing a clear oval nucleus, with much black pigment matter and glistening scales, and which, when kept for some time in glycerine, present a distinct cell-