291 SURGERY OF NERVES. wound, or by a foreign body, or a severe and deep contusion, Of this form of neuralgia be refers to 8 instances—the first of an affection of the infra-orbital nerve of ten years’ standing, caused by cold, and cured by section of the nerve in the infra-orbital canal; four cases of neuroma in the leg, all cured by excision ; in two the tumours were developed in the substance of the nerves—true neuroma; in the others in their neighbourhood—false neuroma. The true neuroma can be distinguished from the false in consequence of its being always painful when touched or pressed in any direction, while the false is only painful when pressed in the direction which causes it to impinge on the nerve. The sixth case was that of a man whose leg had been amputated. The anterior tibial nerve appeared to have been implicated in the scar between the two bones, so that the least touch on this spot of the stump caused a sudden contraction over the whole body, as after an electric shock, and there was also neuralgic paiu. These symptoms ceased at once on the subcutaneous division of the nerve. The seventh case was that of neuralgia of the whole limb, with tetanic contraction of the muscles of the face, after amputation of a toe. This was cured by reamputation. The eighth case was incomplete. In contrast to these he gives numerous cases of essential or “ regular” neuralgia, in which all kinds of treatment have been found unavailing, viz., 3 cases of facial neuralgia, recurring after the actual cautery, sub- cutaneous section of the nerve, and even division of all the parts down to the bone ; neuralgia proceeding from a diseased toe, and extending to spasmodic contraction of the joints of the limb, recurring after 2 amputations and subcutaneous section of the nerve, and causing death by exhaustion; neuralgia in the knee of a young woman, persisting after amputation of the thigh and excision of a portion of the sciatic nerve, but disappearing after amputation at the hip (Mayor, of Lau- sanne), together with somewhat similar cases mentioned by Tyrrell, Bransby Cooper, and Marshall Hall; neuralgia of the hand persisting after amputation, subcutaneous injection of atropine and excision of a portion of the radial nerve; and neuralgia of the sole of the foot, exa- cerbated to a frightful degree by treatment with the actual cautery. In traumatic tetanus Gherardi has amputated three times with no benefit. He dissuades section of the nerves in this “essential” form of neuralgia, or at least advises that it should be put off till every other means of treatment has been tried, especially electricity. In some observations on this work of Gherardi, by Legouest, at the Societe de Chir. de Paris (‘ Gaz. des Hop.,’ 77, July, 1864), that surgeon observed that a case by Azam (‘Journ. de Bord.,’ 2 ser., ix, p. 289, Juil. 1864) supports Gherardi’s views. The case was one of neuralgia in the stump of a flap amputation of the leg, accompanied with frightful epileptiform seizures. After various other forms of treatment, the peroneal nerve was first resected, and then, as this produced only slight and doubtful benefit, a piece was cut out of the sciatic nerve. This was productive of tem- porary cure ; but the symptoms returned 7 months afterwards, though in a milder degree, after a fall. M. Legouest believes that when this frightful affection follows amputation it is always when the flap method