117 VASO-MOTOR AFFECTIONS. first, of primary functional paralysis, from direct exhaustion of the centres without physical change, and, secondly, inhibitory paralysis. With regard to the first affection, after establishing the reality and frequency of its occurrence bj1- many striking examples, he comes to the following conclusion:—Primary paresis of ganglion-cells in the nerve- centres, encephalic, spinal, or sympathetic, is a condition of rather frequent occurrence; it is commonly the result of enfeebling or pro- strating influences acting for a longer or a shorter time; that its pheno- mena may set in suddenly ; they are not dependent on local or general anaemia, or on a reflex irritation. This paresis is attended with no visible structural lesion in the early days of its existence; but if prolonged considerably it may become complicated with atrophic degeneration; and the remedies suited to it are generally all such as can excite and maintain nervous power—sufficient rest, good food, pure air, nervine remedies, cod-liver oil, electricity. Jones thinks it evident that, if these conclusions are admitted, we must regard functional nervous paresis as a form of nervous disorder most deserving to be recognised in our nosology, and not merely tacitly admitted as matter of proba- bility. He believes that further consideration and experience will show that this conception of paresis will, to some extent, replace those of effusion and congestion which have been so largely invoked. On the subject of inhibitory paresis Jones remarks that all the causes which appear to induce this affection are such as are likely to exert a depressing effect on the nervous centres. Over-strong currents of electricity, cold and wet, intestinal worms, fiecal accumulations, gastric, cutaneous, uterine irritation, diseased teeth, and the like, must be regarded as directly depressing; and the special effect which they produce on the centres must greatly depend on which part is weakest. The depressive power they exert seems, cceteris paribus, to fall usually on the nearest nerve centres, but difference in strength and nutrition may cause a remote centre to be affected by preference. Stronger centres recover at once as soon as the morbid impression is removed ; weaker ones more slowly, and sometimes not without the aid of tonics and re- storatives. Jones remarks that the vaso-motor system is affected with far greater frequency, in an inhibitory manner, than other tracts of the nervous system. Vaso-motor Affections. Dr. Nothnagel* describes a series of cases of which the general type is as follows:—The seat of the malady is exclusively the hands and forearms, usually on both sides, but generally the affection is more developed on one side than on the other. The onset is usually gradual, but occasionally sudden. A feeling of numbness and sleepiness succeeds, and this is soon accompanied by anaesthesia of varying degree, with a sensation of cold. Then come neuralgic pains in all the anaesthetic parts, which cannot be referred to any distinct nerve. The diminution of temperature could be established by the thermometer when the two limbs were unequally affected; the worse one was found to * ‘Arch. f. Klin. Med.,’ ii, 2, pp. 173, 166; ‘ Schmidt,’ 1866, 11.