493 CHOLERA. cholera through Europe iu 1855, the report of Mr. Radcliffe * gives very full information. Cholera broke out in Mecca early in May, 1865, among the pilgrims who had congregated there in unusual numbers. At that time cholera was prevalent at two points on the Arabian coast, in the Bombay Presidency, and at Aden. Since 1862 it had existed in China, Cochin China, and the Eastern Archipelago. Hence the exact source of the disease among the pilgrims at Mecca could not be ascertained ; but it is at least known that in March, 1865, cholera prevailed among the pilgrims brought to Jedda (the principal trading port of Arabia) by two ships which had touched at Makalla, where the disease then existed. It does not appear, however, that at this time the disease was actually carried to Jedda. By the pilgrims returning from Mecca cholera was distinctly introduced into Suez on May 21, and into Damanhour on May 22 ; and on June 2 a case of cholera was recognised at Alexandria, among the inhabitants who were in contact with pilgrims. The presence of epidemic cholera in the city last mentioned was officially recognised on June 11, and between that date and the 14th foul bills of health were issued to vessels leaving the port. Before the close of the month the disease had broken out in an epidemic form in Cairo. On the 20th of June it appeared at Valetta (Malta), on the 24th at Smyrna, and on the 28th at Constantinople. In the beginning of July it showed itself almost contemporaneously in Jaffa and Beyrout on the east coast of the Mediterranean, in Valentia on the west, and in Ancona on the Italian shore of the Adriatic. On the 19th of July the first case occurred at Gibraltar, and on the 22nd in Barcelona. The disease was officially recognised as present in Mar- seilles on the 23rd; but it has since been stated that it existed there as early as the 18th of June. The chief places in western Europe attacked by it in August seem to have been Madrid and Toulon; about the middle of September it appeared in Paris, and on the 17th it broke out at Southampton. At the end of the month a case of cho- lera occurred at Epping, and this was followed by several other cases, so that the disease prevailed in this locality during the first ten days of October. With these exceptions England remained free from cho- lera during 1865; but on November 3rd a steam-vessel from London, via Havre, reached New York with several cases on boai*d. The vessel was subjected to a strict quarantine, and the disease did not spread beyond the captain and passengers. The following are stated by Mr. Radcliffe to be the principal dif- ferences between the recent epidemic of cholera in Europe and those which occurred in former years:—1. Eor the first time in the history of epidemic cholera Europe has been invaded from the south. In the two great epidemics of 1829-32, and 1845-8, the disease spread from Persia to Russia, and thence along the Danube into central Europe. Iu our own country the towns first attacked on all previous occasions were seaports on the east coast. 2. A remarkable feature in the pre- sent epidemic has been its rapid and great extension along the coast- * ‘ Eighth Report of the Medical Officer of the Privy Council,’ Appendix, p. 306.