256 REPORT ON SURGERY. syphilitic nor cancerous, nor, indeed, the result of any known constitu- tional cachexia. Dr. Duka describes, in the ‘ Path. Soc. Trans.,’ xvii, 256, a very peculiar and interesting form of bony tumour. The tumour, which was about as large as a middle-sized potato, with a nipple-shaped projection in one part, is represented of its natural size in Dr. Duka’s paper. It consisted of compact, ivory-like, bony structure, and lay loose in the antrum of Highmore. The nipple-shaped projection was so wedged in by the nasal process that the mass could not be removed till a portion of the palatine process of the superior maxillary bone had been removed. At the tip of the nipple-like projection was a large hole, perforating its base, and filled with a polypoid structure. The tumour, projecting into the nose, and covered by soft parts, at first sight resembled an ordinary polypus ; then, as some bard movable mass was felt behind, necrosis of some of the facial bones was suspected. The tumour had, in all probability, sprung from one of the bones of the upper jaw, being attached by the nipple- like projection. This having given way from some accidental cause, the mass had become loose. The microscopic characters of Dr. Duka’s tumour are described in a report appended to the account. They were those of true bone, but somewhat different from its natural apj)earance. Dr. Duka refers to a case, published by M. Michon, in the 2ud vol. ot the ‘ Memoires de la Societe de Chirurgie de Paris,’ of a tumour of precisely the same characters both to the eye and microscope, and which was also successfully removed by excising a portion of the upper jaw, after an operation lasting more than an hour. There, however, the tumour had still retained its connection to the orbital plate of the superior maxillary and vomer. The peculiar nature, pedunculated shape, and perfect detachment of the tumour, form the characters which give its surgical interest to this singular case. The following notes refer to the subject of subperiosteal resections of whole bones, or of portions of their shafts: The properties of the periosteum in the regeneration of bone after its death or removal have been long studied and appreciated. They have recently been presented in a still more striking light by the ingenious experiments of M. Ollier, and thus a great impetus has been given to subperiosteal operations. Abroad, especially, many attempts have been made to take advantage of the properties of the periosteum, by removing diseased or injured bone, and leaving the periosteum in its place to supply a substitute for the bone which has been removed. In this country, also, similar attempts have, indeed, been made, but the cases are not numerous, and very few have been published. The subject is therefore as yet somewhat new to English surgeons, and it has accord- ingly been thought that a few remarks on the general question, with notes of the published cases, might be useful in this place. Let 11s, in the first place, have an accurate idea of the sense in which the term “ subperiosteal resection ” is to be employed. When a piece of bone has perished, and has separated as a sequestrum, and is lying enclosed in a case of bone furnished by the periosteum, its removal or