196 REPORT ON SURGERY. one of amputation of both legs), while others are slight operations, such as chronic mammary tumour. Three of the patients died, but from causes which in Dr. Watson’s judgment were unconnected with the ha;mostatic method employed, viz., one from peritonitis after the opera- tion for strangulated hernia, one from erysipelas connected with a scalp wound,* and the third of pysemia after amputation of the forearm, but whether connected with the amputation itself or with a bed-sore which existed on the nates is doubtful. Dr. Watson deduces, from these cases, the conclusion that acupres- sure is a safe and efficient method of restraining haemorrhage. In i of his cases there was bleeding after the operation, but not from vessels secured by the needles, except in one instance, where some slight oozing occurred as one of the needles was being withdrawn, and it was reapplied successfully. He believes also that the acupressure needles are readily applied in most cases, and offer some advantages over either the ligature or torsion of the arteries. As to the effect of acupressure on the union of the wound, Dr Watson believes that it is very favor- able to rapid union, although none of his cases were instances of pri- mary union, in the very strictest sense of the term, i. e. union without the formation of a drop of pus ; nor does Dr. Watson believe that such union occurs, except very rarely. Four of his cases healed very rapidly, their progress being, he says, “ very different from what I had ever previously obtained.1’ From his experience, therefore, it is not wonderful that Dr. Watson deduces the conclusion that “ the em- ployment of acupressure, in one or other of the methods suggested by Dr. Simpson, is safe, satisfactory, and well worthy of an extended trial.” Dr, Gillespie f‘Edin. Med. Journ.,’ June, 1865) has also used the method of Prof. Simpson at the Edinburgh Infirmary. His judgment of it agrees in the main with Dr. Watson’s; but he gives several cases in which it has acted less satisfactorily than in those treated by that gentleman. Thus, in a case of amputation of the arm 11 needles were used, and one of them got entangled with the others and locked them in, so that, on the seventh day after the operation, it was fouud neces- sary to liberate the needles by seizing this one by the point, and drag- ing it out, wire and all, through the stump. Dr. Gillespie says, “ This case illustrated well some of the difficulties which may be met with by trusting exclusively to acupressure. Eleven needles, crowded into such a small space, though great care was taken to keep their accompanying wires in the axis of their insertion, got wedged in, so as to cause much pain and trouble ere they were moved. You may also remark that suppuration showed itself at as early a period as usual, so no gain whatever, but rather the reverse, in this instance, seems to have fol- lowed the substitution of acupressure for the ligature.” Dr. Gillespie also gives a case in which he believes that secondary hmmorrhage was caused by the needle pressing upon the femoral artery, and another in which, as hemorrhage occurred when he wished to withdraw the needles, * This was a patient who had had both legs amputated primarily. The case does not seem to have gone on well, as there had been a good deal of secondary haemorrhage and sloughing of one of the stumps.