BOTANICAL SOURCES OE DRUGS. 47] wood, obtained by distillation from the Siriim myrtifolium, a tree which grows in the East Indies. The other is the oil of the. Diptero- carpus turbinatus, well known as having often been used fraudulently as a substitute for copaiba. Yogi* has investigated the cause of the styptic property of Pengha- war, a drug which was first imported from Java into Holland some twenty-three years ago, and which has been introduced into the Dutch Pharmacopoeia, and has enjoyed so great a reputation that it has become an article of commerce. It consists of the frond-stems of certain tree- ferns (species of Alsophila, Choonophora, and Balantium), these stems being covered with hair-like scales of a bronze or brownish-yellow colour, and of a silky lustre. In Java this substance has long been known as a styptic, under the name of Pakoe-kidang. It had been employed by Vinke, according to whom it stops haemorrhage, even arterial (unless the diameter of the artery be more than more rapidly than any other application. He ascribed its power of con- trolling bleeding to capillarity, the scales being made up of jointed tubes which absorb the watery part of the blood, and at once swell to five times their size. Yogi shows that alkaline liquids exert a par- ticularly rapid action on the hair-like scales, dissolving the cell-contents, and making the cell-membranes swell up. Thus, these bodies, when applied to a bleeding surface, rapidly abstract tbe fluid part of the alkaline blood, leaving the fibrin to coagulate. Jurubeba.—M. Stanislas Martint describes a drug which is known in Brazil under the uame of jurubeba. It consists of the leaves, fruit, and root of the Solatium paniculatum. In South America various pre- parations of it are used—the plaster, syrup, wine, tincture, alcoholic extract, and aqueous extract. It is employed in intermittent fevers, affections of the liver and spleen, vesical catarrh, anaemia, chlorosis, dropsy, and difficult menstruation. According to numerous certificates furnished to M. Martin, it is the most powerful tonic and deobstruent which exists in the materia medica. Our knowledge as to certain drugs of which the botanical source had long been obscure has been considerably increased of late. Thus, Mr. HanburyJ appears at last to have cleared up the doubt which so long prevailed as to the precise source of the gamboge of Siam. He obtained from Messrs. D’Almeida, of Singapore, numerous specimens of a gamboge-tree cultivated by them. These specimens wrere found to have the male flowers pedicellate, as has been stated by Dr. Christison. In all other points they corresponded perfectly with the Garcinia tnorella of Desrousseaux. The plant is thei'efore denomi- nated G. morella, var. ft, pedicellata. The same pharmaceutist § seems to have at length determined the source of the “ Savanilla Khatany,” a drug of Avliich the botanical nature was previously unknown, but which has to a great extent super- * ‘ Oesterr. tried. Jabvbiicher,’ Jahrg. xxi, p. 227. f ‘Bull. Gen. de Tber.,’ Jan. 15, 1866. . t ‘ Pharm. Jour.,’ vi, p. 349. § Ibid,, p. 460,