204 REPORT ON SURGERY. tissue. This is the second stage. The granulations now disappear, perhaps because the cicatrization obliterates their source of vascular supply, and the mucous membrane itself assumes the appearance of a cicatrix. This is the third stage, and thus the formation of stricture is complete. The time which this process occupies is very variable. A case is given where the symptoms were said to be due to a single attack of gonorrhoea, 47 years previously, and where the granulations were still present, and the malady had only arrived at the second of the three stages just described. M. Desormeaux then proceeds to show the uses of the endoscope in the complications of gonorrhoea. Cystitis, recurring at intervals with- out obvious cause, is, he says, a common complication of gleet, and can be proved by the endoscope to 'depend on the presence of granula- tions in the bulb or prostatic urethra. The tendency can be cured by destroying the granulations in recent cases ; but when the inflammation has become inveterate this may no longer suffice. Cystitis may also depend on the herpetic condition of the urethra, which can equally be diagnosed by endoscopy. In gonorrhoeal arthritis endoscopy can be used to demonstrate its dependence on a granular condition of the urethra. The same may be said of granular conjunctivitis, which has so close a resemblance to granular urethritis, and which M. Desormeaux asserts (p. 60), on the authority of M. Thiry, to be capable of being produced by inoculation of the secretion from granular urethritis. ITe further says that M. Thiry has produced granulations on the neck of the uterus and in the urethra by inoculating on those parts the secretion from granular conjunctiva. Of gonorrhoeal orchitis M. Desormeaux says that when it occurs, as it usually does, as the original malady is passing into the chronic stage, or during the stage of gleet, granulations can always be demonstrated in the bulbous, mem- branous, or prostatic urethra. Often the discharge is trifling and is not noticed, and then the orchitis may be taken to be tubercular, or traumatic, or epidemic. The endoscope will always establish the dia- gnosis and point out the treatment. The tubercular affection of the testicle resembles in a great many points the chronic gonorrhoeal orchitis, and cannot always be distinguished from it without the endoscope. The author then proceeds to argue that acute gonorrhoea can only be produced by specific inoculation from a similar case, and that granular urethritis in men and granular metritis in women may also prove in- fectious if the pus be present in appreciable quantity, producing usually a similar chronic disease, but sometimes acute gonorrhoea. Having established the fact that true gonorrhoea is always specific, and that granular urethritis is always of the same nature, the author proceeds to argue against the ordinary treatment of gleet, such as irri- tating injections, the setting up of fresh inflammation, the recom- mendation of sexual intercourse. The cause of the chronic affection being the presence of granulations, it can only be cured by the cure of those granulations by local measures, i. e. by cauterization. This can- not be done efficiently by the ordinary methods. Caustic injections must be either too weak to act on the granulations or too strong to be