395 PREGNANCY. Dr. Depaul (‘ Gaz. Med. de Paris,’ 1865) comments upon a singular case of labour. The pregnancy was probably utero-interstitial. M. Parise, of Lille, believed that a foetus had been developed in an abnor- mal division of the uterus. At a meeting of the Academy of Medicine a report on the case was presented by M. Devilliers, who believed that M. Parise had been misled, and that what he had supposed to be an abnormal cavity was a pouch formed by the posterior lip and segment of the uterus. In the discussion M. Depaul, observing that he agreed with the report as to the incorrectness of the interpretation given by M. Parise, related the following case of utero-interstitial gestation which had come under his care. He was called to Lille to see a lady, in whom labour had commenced twelve or thirteen days previously. The child, which had not been expelled, was dead and putrefied. A digital examination was attempted, but was desisted from on account of the pain which it produced. Recourse having been had to anaesthesia, the examination was repeated. M. Depaul now felt a hard cord, which he incised with a straight bis- toury, and removed the foetus, the feet of which presented. The part which was divided consisted of the posterior circular fibres of the inner orifice of the cervix, which had become tense, hard, and hypertrophied, forming, by irregular development, a sac into which the foetus had entered. Wiedersberg relates (‘Yierteljhrschr. f. prakt. Heilk.,’ 1865) two cases. One of these cases Wiedersberg thinks must be regarded as an instance’Af ovarian gestation. Spaeth relates (‘Wien. Med. Presse,’ t866) a case of bilocular uterus, with migration of the ovum from the left ovary into the right cavity of the uterus. Dr. Bley relates a case (‘Gaz. d. Hop.,’ 1866) of the ordinary kind, with rupture and effusion of blood into the abdomen, ending fatally. The cyst was formed in the Fallopian tubes. Mr. Turner, in a valuable memoir (‘Edinb. Med. Journ.,’ 1866) on malformation of the organs of generation, gives two cases of titerus licornis unicoJHs. In both the left hom was rudimentary and pregnant. In one the pregnant horn ruptured ; the foetus escaped into the cavity of the peritoneum. The parts were carefully dissected. In the other case the foetus was retained after the full period of utero-gestation. The preparation of the parts, which is in Sir J. Y. Simpson’s museum, is minutely described. Mr. R. W. Watkins relates (‘Obstet. Trans.,’ viii) a case of reten- tion of a foetus in the abdomen for forty-three years. There had been signs of labour forty years before death. These passed away. She died at the age of seventy-four. Autopsy showed a mummified lithopoe- dion connected by its umbilical cord to the placenta which was attached to the peritoneal covering of the broad ligament near the left ovary. The uterus was perfectly normal. A case of like nature is recorded by R. Wagner (‘ Arch. d. Heil- kunde,’ 1865). A woman, aged 68, died suddenly. A lithopaedion, or dermatopmdion, was found in the abdomen. She had carried it twenty-nine years.