ELECTRICITY IN NERVOUS DISEASES. 131 The constant current can be applied in two ways—first, by keeping the electrodes fixed to the spot to which they are applied (stabile Strome) ; and secondly, by moving them over the skin, touching it all the while (labile Strome). The negative electrode of the “ stabile Strome” produces an erup- tion of the skin rather like urticaria, which sometimes vesicates and produces a brown eschar, but without suppuration. In all inflamma- tory states of skin and tissues the positive pole, therefore, must be applied to the affected part, especially as it quiets exalted sensibility of nerves. There are important differences between the therapeutic actions of the current in repose and the current in motion. In general, the former (stabile Strome) calms, while the moving current (labile Strome) excites ; yet in some paralyses the antiparalytic effect of the first is greater than that of the second. Interrupted currents are only useful in restoring muscles contracted from mere disuse ; they have no curative effect on the paralysed, properly so called. The soothing in- fluence of the constant current may be obtained when it is very feeble, and gives no pain, and this is the best way to give it. The in- fluence is much more slowly produced than that of opium, morphia, or belladonna; but where these do not promptly bring relief it is much better to substitute the constant current. To soothe the pain of an in-flamed part we apply the positive electrode (of sufficient size) on the inflamed part, and the other at a distance; 15 to 25 elements are em- ployed. The electrodes must be pressed strongly on the skin, and in 5 to 20 minutes the pain will be much relieved. Where the slightest touch cannot be borne by the part actually affected, put the positive pole on the nerve leading to the part, e.g. on the brachial plexus in in- flammation of the elbow-joint. Remak observes the singular fact that application of the current to certain points of the nervous centres (e. g. dorsal region of spine in locomotor ataxy) will sometimes cure pains in nerves, such as those of the legs, which seem to have no imme- diate connection with the point at which the current is applied. The constant current is only radically curative of pain when it reaches the disease at its source (e.g. the swelling of the nervous sheath in arti- cular rheumatism, &c.). The reanimating influence of the constant current is seen in a variety of circumstances. In central paralysis, and also in reflex paralysis, its effect is greater the nearer to the cerebral and cervical regions that it is applied. Pallor of the face from constricted cerebral vessels vanishes under it at once; and the colour of the blood is sometimes also im- proved by increase of the movements of respiration and circulation. Anaemia from defective assimilation is not benefited. In common paralysis of motion the nervous centres and the nerve- trunks which are distributed to the palsied part have either not lost or have recovered their natural function. In such cases the negative electrode, acting on the motor nerves of the muscle, will restore its normal obedience to the will, and cause the fibres to swell up—a vaso- motor effect, in all likelihood. In cases where the paralysis depends on or is kept up by an inflammation of the nerve, it is necessary to place the positive pole over the inflamed nerve, and the negative pole at a