TYPHOID FEVER. 39 second week symptoms of low fever become strongly marked; sordes in teeth, tremulous tongue, prostration, and delirium, or other nervous derangements, more evident. Patient is often deaf; skin cooler than at first; pulse ranges from about ioo to 130 ; bowels often retain their irritability. The end of the second week appears critical for prognosis ; if the patient is to die, stupor, coma, and involuntary evacuations occur, and death comes by exhaustion ; if the case turns favorably, the tongue moistens, the face gradually brightens, the pulse gets slower, &c. The diarrhoea occurred in 31 cases out of 49. Other papers of importance on typhus are— Morache, a typhus epidemic, with cases of relapsing fever (‘Rec. de Mem. de Med. Milit.,’ Fevr. 1866). Grimshaw, influence of atmospheric changes on development of typhus (‘Dub. Joum.,’ May, 1866). Giovanni, the pathological ferment in typhus and intermittent, and the use of the sulphites (‘Ann. Univ.,’ Genn., 1S65). Thore, delirium tremens at commencement of typhus (‘Gaz. des Hop.,’ xxi, 1815). Wilks, cases of typhus and typhoid treated without siimulants (‘ Lancet,’ i, 1865). Smoler, aphasia after typhus (‘Memorab.,’ x, 5, 1865). Oppolzer, on typhus (3 papers, ‘Wien. Med. AVochnsch.,’ 1865). Typhoid Fever. M. Magne* says that epidemics of typhoid fever in Burgundy rage much more in the calcareous districts than in the primary soil, and further cites the report of M. G-aultier de Claubry on the epidemics of 1841 to 1846 to show that these prevailed in districts having a similar character of soil, and different from that of the departments which were not affected. He has collected 757 instances of epidemics of typhoid fever occurring in the 29 years preceding 1863. Of these, 364 occurred in 364 districts, having a soil of a formation posterior to the coal period ; 64 in 34 districts with older soil; and 129 in 77 districts with mixed soil. In 18315, 292 communes wrere attacked with typhoid fever, of which 232 were on the soils of more recent formation. The triassic and oolitic soils are most liable to become the seats of epidemics of typhoid fever. In connection with the previous researches of Zenkerf on the changes in voluntary muscles in typhoid fever, the following observations are of interest. M. DauveJ relates three cases of typhoid fever occurring in soldiers who had been two or three months in Algeria, and had been much ex- hausted by forced marches and other fatiguing circumstances. In the first case a man aged 23 was admitted into hospital with symptoms of a dynamic typhoid, on the eighth day of the disease. He was improving, when, on the seventeenth day after admission, he was seized with vomiting of greenish matter ; the pulse rose, and an enormous enlarge- ment of the upper and inner half of the right thigh was found. As deep fluctuation could be felt; an incision was made through the aponeurosis of the vastus externus muscle, and gave exit to about a quart of blackish-brown fluid, mixed with purulent sanies and large black clots. The patient died the next day. On post-mortem exami- * ‘ Gaz. Med.,’ xliii, 1865. f ‘Ueber die Veriiiiderungen der willkurlichen Mnskeln ini Typhus abdominnlis,’ Leipzig, 1862. X ‘ L’Union Med.,’ Icvii, 1866.