296 REPORT ON SURGERY. Two cases of gunshot wound of the skull, with perfect recovery, are reported by Dr. Hutchinson, of Brooklyn, in the ‘ New York Medical Journal,’ June, 1866, pp. 217, 219. The first was that of a little girl, set. 7, who was wounded by a “ buckshot ” from a toy cannon. The girl walked to see Dr. Hutchinson directly after the accident, and had suffered from no cerebral symptoms, except that she vomited soon after the injury. The wound was half an inch behind the top of the right ear, and a probe passed in 4 inches. There was no opening of exit. Slight vomiting continued for 2 or 3 days; but except this, there was no symptom, and she recovered perfectly. She died of scarlet fever half a year afterwards, having no symptoms indicative of disease of the brain during her last illness. The brain was removed after death, and showed,“by four slightly depressed cicatrices, that the ball entered the posterior lobe of the right hemisphere, near its junction with the middle lobe, and made its exit from the brain upon the opposite side.” On re-examination of the specimen a point of unusual hardness was felt, and an incision made here displayed the ball, much corroded, im- bedded in the brain substance an inch and a quarter in front, and half an inch below its point of exit from the left hemisphere. It seemed that the ball must have struck the skull, and, rebounding, lodged in the brain. The other case was that of a soldier, who received an injury to the cranial bones from a bullet, and a compound fracture of both bones of the leg at the lower third, caused, as he supposed, by the explosion of a shell. He came under observation a month afterwards. He stated that a surgeon on the field had seized the ball with a pair of forceps, and, pulling with all his force, could not extract it. Amputation of the leg was found necessary, and while he was unconscious Dr. Hutchinson examined his head, and removed several loosened pieces of necrosed bone from the upper and posterior angle of the right parietal. A piece of ball of a very irregular shape wTas also removed. This appeared to be lying in the cerebrum, and its removal was followed by the discharge of about Jij of healthy pus from an abscess in the substance of the brain. He recovered without any unpleasant symptoms; and 91- months afterwards “ the opening in the cranium was nearly closed by a deposit of new bone, the pericranium having been left at the time of the operation.” Dr. Ashurst communicates to the ‘ American Journ. of the Med. Sciences,’ Oct. 1865, p. 383, some cases of gunshot injury of the head, in order to show that even in these injuries, in which trephining is usually represented as especially indicated, the patient has really a better chance without it. The cases are 3 in number, 3 of gunshot fracture and 2 of contusion; 1 out of each class recovered. Death resulted in one of the cases of fracture from lodgment of a portion of the ball, which had been cut into two pieces by the bone, so that a portion remained in the brain after the apparent escape of the missile; in the other, from the extent of the injury, and of its sequelae. In the case of contusion of the bone which died death was produced by me- ningitis of the opposite side. The conclusions which Dr. Ashurst draws are as follows :