REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 150 * ‘Lancet,’ Feb. 25, 1865. See also— Thomas, the critical days in exudative pneumonia (‘Arch. d. Heilk.,’ 1865, p. 118). Thomas, action of digitalis in pneumonia (‘Arch. d. Heilk.,’ p. 329, 1865). Baumler, on the occurrence of a tympanitic percussion sound in pneumonia (‘ Arch. f. Klin. Med.,’ i, 2, p. 145, 1865). Sahraen, pneumonia in children (an elaborate and valuable paper, ‘ Peterbsb. Med. Ztsch.,’ xi, 3, p. 129, 1865). Theilhac, remittent pneumonia, with pain in splenic region, cured by quinine (‘ Gaz. des Hop.,’ 44, 1865). Hayden, T., tympanitic sound in pneumonia (‘ Dub. Journ.,’ Feb. 1866). But especially see the comprehensive summary of recent writings on pneumonia by Niemeyer (‘Schmidt’s Jahrb.,’ 132, pp. 317-35, 1866). From this paper we extract the following as having, probably, the greatest interest and novelty for English readers : Thermometric Observations in Pneumonia. “ The collective result of all the observations so far published on the thermometry of pneumonia appears in the following sketch, by Kocher (‘ Behandl. d. croup. Pneum. mit Yeratrum-praparaten,’ Wurzburg, 1866), of the normal cause of the fever in this disease. The commence- ment of pneumonia is announced with a rare constancy by shivering, with a simultaneous increase of temperature; the shivering is the surest starting-point for the calculation of the date of the disease. The initial temperature is so high that it is not commonly exceeded in the whole further course (40°—390 Cent.). As the greatest febrile exacer- bation occurs daily at noon, it appears that two thermometric examina- tions per day are not sufficient. When the fever has once reached a given height it commonly maintains itself at that level, with moderate remissions and exacerbations, till the commencement of defervescence. In the height of the disorder the temperature varies, on the average, between 390 and 40° Cent., and there is ordinarily one remission and one exacerbation in each 24 hours. The stage of high fever is com- monly broken by one remission which is more marked than the usual morning remissions which precede and follow it; in some cases there may be, not one, but several such principal remissions. After the princi- pal remission the temperature may follow three courses—either it reaches its old level at the next exacerbation, or may fall short of it, or may pass beyond it. The case is very rare in which the fever altogether vanishes for a time, and then once more undergoes recrudescence. The final defervescence is announced by a critical fall of the temperature, which usually occurs from 12 to 48 hours previously; in cases with rapid crisis, where the temperature becomes normal in as little as 24 hours, the fall is continuous ; otherwise the daily alterations come in as a disturbing influence.” Especially worthy of notice, also, is the summary which Niemeyer gives of the results of recent experience of treatment by Veratrum viride and by digitalis respectively ; we regret that it is impossible to find space for a translation of these passages in his report. Very im- portant remarks on the usefulness of alcohol in the treatment of pneu- monia are to be found in the ‘ Conferences de Clin. Medicale,’ of M. Behier, Svo, 2 tom., Paris, 1865. Inhalation of Atomised Fluids. Dr. Morel! Mackenzie* has brought forward an apparatus for the