79 CONSTITUTIONAL SVPIIILIS. dermis or on the subcutaneous cellular tissue is, on the other hand, parenchymatous ; because the wall of the follicle and the neighbouring connective tissue are equally affected, and participate alike in the formation of pus or of new connective tissue. When diffuse, follicular acne may, as well as the glandular form, be accompanied by more or less intense fever. It is generally an early symptom of constitutional syphilis; but Tanturri has seen it forming a kind of transition be- tween the development of gummata and visceral lesions. The pro- gress of follicular acne is slow, especially if left to itself; its duration is very long. If, at the period of desquamation, the excessive develop- ment of epidermic cells continue for a long time, a condition resembling ichthyosis is produced. Follicular acne may coincide with all the tegumentary lesions of the first period of syphilis, and especially with iritis. The eruption may appear on any part of the body except the face; it consists of small pustules with a slightly projecting base, sur- rounded by a rose-coloured areola; the centre is yellowish, umbilicated, and traversed by a hair. M. Banvier* relates the case of a woman, aged 28, who was admitted into La Pitie Hospital with an ulcer of the leg, and afterwards treated for neuralgic pain in the left supraorbital region. Here and in the sternum was severe and constant pain, not perceptibly more intense at night, but increased by pressure. The supraorbital pain was limited to the external angle of the orbit, and radiated slightly over the temple and forehead, and into the orbit. The eye was normal. The sternal pain was in the situation of the third portion of the bone, and at the insertion of the cartilage of the fourth rib there was a slight but appre- ciable enlargement, and the skin had a somewhat violet tint. The appetite was good, and the breathing normal, but impeded by the pain produced by the respiratory movements. For some days the pain increased at night; and, in a short time, severe pain set in over the left shoulder, and at the same time the anterior part of the wall of the chest on the left side became covered with a well-marked venous network. The pectoralis major became contracted. There was oedema of the upper eyelid, with internal strabismus and severe photophobia; the patient also lost appetite, and had slight diarrhoea and some bilious vomiting. Little or no information regarding syphilis could be obtained from the patient; but there was some apparent trace of the disease on the left labium majus. The patient died of cholera; and in making a post-mortem examina- tion, 24 hours after death, the brain, lungs, and heart, were found healthy; the digestive canal presented the ordinary cholera lesions ; the kidneys were not examined; the liver presented, on its convex surface, small smooth cicatrices, slightly depressed, resembling the impressions made by a hard body on wax. The depressions were blackish, small, oval, or somewhat round in shape. No cicatrices were found in the neck of the uterus, which was irregular and softened. The lachrymal gland appeared somewhat enlarged; the bone in this region was reddish, dotted, and uneven. No disease was found in the shoulder-joint. The sternum, at the part mentioned above, presented only a slight enlargement. * 1 Conaptes rendus de la Soc. de Biol.,’ 1865.