REPORT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. 420 violently about, and exclaiming that she was dying; breathing deep, irregular, gasping; faeces and urine passed under her. In half an hour she was dead. The heart was found pale, flabby; both sides almost empty; valves healthy; lungs crepitate; both branches of the pul- monary artery contained light-coloured, fibrinous clots, which pulled in branches. Involution of uterus perfect. Mr. Charles Sumner relates a case (‘Brit. Med. Journ.,’ 1866) :—A woman had profuse haemorrhage, in her seventh month, from placenta praevia, for which she was delivered. On the fourth day she had a severe shudder and headache. This was repeated next day and the two following days, and she got better, but the pulse remained quick and feeble. She died, after syncope, almost suddenly. A clot was found in the right side of the heart and pulmonary artery. The uterus was well contracted. There was extravasation of dull crassamentum in a cavity at the back of the pelvis outside the peritoneum. Case of embolism of the pulmonary artery after ovariotomy By Dr. E. Parsons (‘Obstet. Trans.,’ vii). On Puerperal Tetanus. A case of tetanus after labour is recorded by Mr. H. Yiant (‘ Med. Times and G-az.,’ 1866). A woman had been delivered by a midwife of a healthy child, without haemorrhage. On the fourth day she got up and went down stairs. Next day, whilst out of bed, suddenly she had trismus. It was supposed she had taken cold, and had a stiff neck. On the sixth day the symptoms were aggravated. Convulsions every two or three minutes, with complete opisthotonos ; no pain in abdomen; lochia persistent. Next day she died. Chloroform gave only temporary relief. Dr. Denham relates (‘Dub. Quart. Journ. of Med. Sc.,’ 1865) four cases of tetanus in labour. Dr. Philipson relates (‘Brit. Med. Journ.,’ June, 1865) a case in which tetanus occurred, after the third labour, in a woman set. 39. The placenta was adherent; it had to be detached ; rather free flooding attended. Two days after delivery some difficulty was experienced in opening the mouth and in turning the head from side to side. She had been sitting near a window. The rigidity increased, and on the fourth day the mouth was closed. When undisturbed she was free from pain. Pulse 100; opisthotonos on moving her. No uterine tenderness. Deglutition became difficult. She had enemata of tur- pentine and castor-oil. She died the same night. Autopsy not permitted. Case of puerperal tetanus following abortion and plugging of the vagina. By Jos. Blackshaw (ibid., Sept., 1865).—The patient was 48 years of age. The vagina was plugged on account of profuse haemor- rhage from threatened abortion. Ten days afterwards she complained of great stiffness of the deep-seated muscles of the neck and throat, attributed to taking cold. Trismus was manifest. This increased in severity; tetanic convulsions set in; opisthotonos ; death from exhaus- tion five days from the beginning of the attack. She had a turpentine enema.