PROGRESSIVE MUSCULAR ATROPHY. 97 commencing tabes dorsalis. The pia mater and arachnoid were sprinkled over with old meningitic deposits. The posterior columns showed nothing to the naked eye beyond a certain greyish semi-transparency. But the microscope revealed increase of the connective tissue and numerous corpora amylacea, although the nerve-fibres were sound. These appearances were much the most clearly developed at the lumbar en- largement, and from this downwards to the cauda equina, but careful examination showed them to exist more or less throughout the whole length of the posterior columns of the cord. Dr. Nothnagel* relates one of the most typical cases of locomotor ataxy which have been put on record. The patient was a man, set. 39, and the onset of the malady was undoubtedly induced by exposure to severe cold when he was'in a condition of great fatigue. The first symptoms were periodically recurring neuralgic pains, and these, with occasional feelings of fatigue, were for some time the chief ailments. Difficult urination and constipation of the bowels were next added. The cha- racteristic ataxy of locomotion commenced later, and in a striking way ; the patient would walk perfectly well for long distances during the day, but by night was obliged to feel his way with his hands, and dared not go over a bridge in the dark. As yet, however, there were no subjective symptoms of diminished sensation. The insecurity of gait gradually increased, yet the patient continued to be able to walk long distances. Besides the neuralgic pains,which were in very various parts of the body, there was a high degree of anaesthesia, with diminution of the percep- tion of pressure and the sensibility to electricity, especially in the lower extremities. The 5th cranial nerve was affected in a peculiar manner; the parts supplied by the ophthalmic division were liyperaes- thetic, and the branches from the second and third division showed their participation by the existence of a numb feeling in the teeth and by various abnormal sensations of taste. There was marked diminution of auditory perception, with abnormal sensations almost amounting to hallucinations of hearing. Death occurred 24 hours after a sudden access of fever, with mental excitement, about 4 years after the first symptoms. Post-mortem examination showed “grey degeneration” very accurately limited to the posterior columns of the spinal cord, vanishing gradually at the calamus scriptorius in the medulla oblongata. The place of entrance of the posterior roots of the spinal nerves was the place of greatest development of the degenerative change, and the lumbar portion of the cord was much more affected than the dorsal and cervical. The microscopic appearances of the degenerated matter cor- responded closely to those which have been described in the papers of Zenkerf and others on sclerosis. It is unfortunate that in the pre- sent case no microscopic inspection is reported of the nuclei of the trigeminus and of the auditory nerve. Progressive Muscular Atrophy (CruveilhiePs Disease). On this subject a great deal which is interesting has been recorded. * ‘ Berlin. Klin. Wochenscb.,’ xvii, 1865. f Vide supra.