HE POUT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE, 146 out for microscopic examination with ease. Extremely minute portions are readily detected in this way. Of 23 cases believed to be in the first stage of phthisis lung-tissue was found in the sputa in 13. In 7 of the 23 there were no local, but only general symptoms of the disease; no lung-tissue was found in the expectoration of these. Of 16 cases in which there were stetho- scopic indications of the presence of tubercle, lung-tissue was detected in 13. Of 24 cases where the physical signs indicated softening, lung- tissue was present in the sputa in every instance. Of 15 more doubt- ful examples of this stage, lung-tissue was detected in 7. In 35 cases there were physical signs of cavities; in all these lung-tissue was detected in the sputa. In two cases where bronchial dilatation had been dia- gnosed no lung-tissue was found. The microscope often proved the destruction of lung-tissue to be much greater than could have been supposed from the mere stethoscopic signs. Dr. Pietra Santa* discusses the influence of the climate of the Pyrenees on phthisis. He concludes—i. That the air of the Pyrenees, at a height ranging from 700 to 800 'metres, at a barometric pressure of 700 millimetres, has the following peculiarities :—(a) It is naturally lighter than ordinary atmosphere; (b) it contains less oxygen for an equal volume; (c) it contains more aqueous vapour; (d) it contains a good deal of ozone, i. e. of oxygen in a peculiar electric condition. 2. Atmosphere thus constituted exerts a beneficial influence in chronic affections of the respiratory organs. 3. It therefore becomes a power- ful auxiliary to the sulphuretted mineral waters scattered throughout the country. On the subject of tuberculosis and phthisis in children, see the remarks in an important series of hospital clinical records, by Steiner and Neu- reutter, in the ‘ Prag. Yierteljahrsch.,’ 1864-5 (abstracted in ‘ Schmidt’s Jahrb.,’ 129, pp. 190-2). M. Rodolfo Rodolfi,t of Brescia, introduces a new mode of treatment for colliquative sweating, especially such as occurs in phthisis. He gives the patients every two hours a powder as follows : R> Sodae Bicarb., gr. viij; Sulph. Flor., Bismuth. Subnit., aa gr. j. M. ft. pulv. In suitable cases this treatment produces great diminution of the sweating, which is observed at the end of four or five days. It is contra-indicated in all subjects who have a very delicate stomach, and who are affected with colliquative diarrhoea. Dr. Druitt recommends, for the same purpose, bathing the parts which are the chief seat of the sweating with water as hot as it can possibly be borne. If this be thoroughly carried out the skin reddens brightly, and becomes dry, while the perspiration is completely stopped for several hours. This plan is only applicable to cases in which the perspiration is localised, and Druitt does not find it effica- cious in instances where the sweating is preceded by regular febrile paroxysms. * ‘ Gaz. Hebdoiu.,’ Fcv. 17, 1865. f ‘ Bull, de Thcrapeut.,’ i, 1865, p. 381.