24 REPORT ON PHYSIOLOGY, ETC. and kidneys. This hiatus was supplied by Prof. Frankland himself, who made a calorimetrical determination of the actual energy evolved by the combustion of muscle and of urea in oxygen, and then proceeded to the consideration of the problem to be solved, which may be thus summed up:—It is agreed on all hands, Dr. Frankland remarks, that muscular power is derived exclusively from the mutual chemical action of the food and atmospheric oxygen ; but opinions differ as to whether that food must first be converted into the actual organized substance of the muscle before its oxidation can give rise to mechanical force, or whether it is not also possible that muscular work may be derived from the oxidation of the food which has only arrived at the condition of blood, and not of organized tissue. To determine this fundamental point the following data require to be determined :—i. The amount of force or actual energy generated by the oxidation of a given amount of muscle in the body. 2. The amount of mechanical force exerted by the muscles of the body during a given time. 3. The quantity of muscle oxidizing in the body in the same time. Prof. Frankland performed a series of experiments, having the solution of these questions in view, and arrived at the following conclusions, which may be considered as giving the most scientific exposition of the facts hitherto advanced. He considers—1. That muscle is a machine for the conversion of potential energy into mechanical force. 2. That the mechanical force of the muscles is derived chiefly, if not entirely, from an oxidation of matters contained in the blood, and not from the oxidation of the muscles themselves. 3. That in man the chief materials used for the production of muscular force are non-nitrogenous, but nitrogenous mat- ters can also be employed for the same purpose, and hence the greatly in- creased evolution of nitrogen under the influence of a flesh diet, even with no increase of muscular exertion. 4. Like every other part of the body, the muscles are constantly being renewed; but this renewal is not perceptibly more rapid during great muscular activity than during comparative quiescence. 5. After the supply of sufficient albu- minoid matters in the food of man to provide for the necessary renewal of the tissues, the best materials for the production both of external and of internal work are non-nitrogenous matters, such as oil, fat, sugar, starch, gum, &c. 6. The non-nitrogenous matters of food which find their way into the blood yield up all their po- tential energy as actual energy; the nitrogenous matters, on the other hand, leave the body with a portion (one seventh) of their poten- tial energy unexpended. 7. The transformation of potential energy into muscular power is necessarily accompanied by the production of heat within the body, even when the muscular power is exerted ex- ternally. This is, doubtless, the chief and probably the only source of animal heat. The condition of the muscles in rigor mortis has been the subject of numerous experiments by Dr. Norris (‘Journal of Anat. and Physiol.,’ Humphry and Turner, vol. 1, p. 114, 1866), who has arrived at the conviction that rigor mortis is not an affection of the vital property of irritability in muscles, and therefore cannot be regarded as vital con- traction ; but, on the contrary, that it is some peculiar alteration in muscular tissue, such as may result from the coagulation of the inter-