REPOET ON SURGERY. 274 but the foot was tolerably useful. Two of the 2nd, 3rd, and 4th ; in one the dislocation had never been reduced, but the foot was useful, in the other abscess formed after unsuccessful attempts at reduction, and the patient died ; 2 of the first 4, one above related, in the other only one of the bones (the 4th) could be reduced, yet the foot was useful. In 11 cases the entire metatarsus was dislocated upwards ; in 1 down- wards, in 3 outwards, in 1 inwards. Out of these 29 cases, one died from the direct effects of the injury, and two apparently from the effects of the attempts at reduction ; a fourth died of other injuries. If the dislocation can be reduced at once, the prognosis is good; and even when the dislocation is irreducible, if the displacement is in the vertical direction, little loss of function need be apprehended ; but when the displacement is sideways the foot is not so useful. The writer dissuades too energetic attempts at reduction, as not free from danger. If, along with forcible extension, lateral pressure be also used, the metatarsal bones may be pushed under one another. He rejects the use of pulleys for producing extension, and especially Malgaigue’s hooks. Tourniquets may sometimes be used, but manual extension, and counter-extension with pressure of the thumbs on the displaced bones, chloroform being administered, is in his opinion the method most likely to succeed. A paper by M. Pravaz, “ On the Curability of Congenital Dislocation of the Hip,” is translated in the ‘ Journal fur Kinderkrankheiten,’ xlv, p. 1.—M. Pravaz relates the case of a child 7^ years of age, with con- genital dislocation of both hips, in whom he attempted the reduction of the bones in the following manner. He began by manual extension, continued over months, which met with considerable resistance, in consequence of the muscular development of the child. Then he suc- cessfully attempted to bring the head of one femur (the right) into its place, which was easily done by gradual traction; a contentive appa- ratus was then applied, and after the lapse of a few days the head of thg femur appeared, tolerably fixed in its position. It was, however, at first very liable to redisplacement, and could then be easily reduced, with a snap like an ordinary dislocation. After two months of this treat- ment the head of the femur appeared to be quite secure in position, and- reduction was effected in the same manner on the other side. Two months afterwards the child was seized with a fever, from which she soon recovered, but this compelled the disuse of the apparatus, and the dislo- cation recurred first on the side latest reduced, then on the other. Re- duction was, however, easy, and after two months’ interval the apparatus was reapplied and the treatment recommenced. Finally, one year after the reduction of the first (right) dislocation, she was first allowed to make some attempts at voluntary motion in the upright position, but with an apparatus. Five months afterwards this was exchanged for a portable support, which was discontinued, and the child allowed to go alone, 20 months after the original reduction, or 26 months after the first beginning of the treatment. The condition of the child 3 years after the commencement of treatment is minutely described, as to which we need only say that the only sign of the dislocation which remained was a slight limp and a slight projection of the trochanter, together with