REPORT ON SURGERY. 324 “ The modus operandi is well known, and is very simple. The inocu- lations are performed first on the sides of the thorax, then on the arms, lastly on the thighs. Six punctures are made every 3 days in symme- trical positions, the matter for each inoculation being always taken from its predecessor, as long as it takes effect, a fresh supply being used only when the former has entirely lost its force. The pustules from which the matter is taken form in about 3 days. More frequent or more numerous punctures are not desirable, because, if the process be carried on with too much rapidity, immunity is attained before the syphilitic symptoms are cured. The matter used is said to be taken from an in- durated chancre by preference. The mean time required to complete the cure is said to be four months, six months, or even longer. “ The practice became very common in the North of Europe, and the year 1865 has witnessed its practice in this country, under the imme- diate surveillance of Dr. Boeck himself. “ Let us examine the more salient features of this method in detail. “ 1. Are the phenomena observed in syphilisation so peculiar and new that they cannot be referred to the operation of any natural law— such, for instance, as that the skin, nay, the body itself, may possess a power of resistance against irritants and poisons, so that these require to be increased in force or amount to sustain their primary effect, until such a condition of insusceptibility to their action is produced that they finally cease to have any effect at all ? “ 2. What is the modus operandi of the action of syphilisation ? Does it exert a specific, that is, an action not only different in degree, but distinct in kind, from that derivative and depurative one which all processes of continuous suppuration more or less possess ? “3. In what sense is it curative ? Is it by preventing or removing the manifestations of syphilis, or is it by eradicating the virus on the presence of which the disease depends ?” After referring to experiments by Cullerier and "W. Hammond, to show that blisters gradually lose their effect, and to some by Dr. Lindwurm on repeated applications of tartar-emetic ointment in syphilis (quoted in the ‘Year-Book’ for i860, p. 325), and to the fact that croton oil loses its irritating properties after repeated application, Mr. Lee goes on to say—“ But the action and curative influence of a blood depuration through the skin by means of irritant applications was never, perhaps, tried so zealously upon a large scale as by Dr. Bennie, the late surgeon of Her Majesty’s 31st Begiment, whilst in China. . . . Besides fevers, many other diseases exhibited, according to him, symp- toms ‘ depending on the presence in the blood of the elements of puru- lent matter, which, if left to pursue their course, might terminate in some fatal suppurative action or purulent collection internally, but which could be arrested in their growth, and the matter in course of formation within the current of the circulation extracted from the blood, and conducted to an innocuous termination.’ With this view he was led to use frictions witli tartar emetic and croton oil Among other cases, syphilis was so treated, with the efiect, as Dr. Bennie con- ceived, of preventing the secondary eruption. . . . Now, it teas a curious fact—a fact to which the medical officer used to point in corroboration of