NERVOUS SYSTEM. 11 form, and an inner, finer network, the capillaries of which are looped, and even run spirally. The interesting papers by Dr. Anstie and Dr. Sanderson on the sphyg- mographic tracings obtained by them in health and disease with Marcy’s sphygmograph are too recent (‘Lancet,’ Dec. 1866) to require notice here, but a passing reference may be made to the instrument employed by Czer- mak (‘Mittheilungen aus dem Privat Laboratorium,’ Heft. 1,1864), which consisted of a photo-sphygmograph, the tracings being obtained from a ray of light reflected from a small mirror placed upon the artery, and received upon a screen of prepared collodion. This instrument possesses the advantage of being extremely light, and at the same time of being easily applied. (A sphygmograph of simple form and easy application is also now being constructed by Mr. Baker, of Holborn.) From numerous experiments Czermak drew the following principal con- clusions :—1. That the rapidity with which the pulse-wave is propagated from the heart towards the arteries is not precisely equal in all parts of the arterial system. 2. That the rapidity of the pulse-wave diminishes in its passage from the centre towards the periphery. 3. That the rapidity of the propagation of the pulse-wave is less in children than in adults. NERVOUS SYSTEM. Some important investigations upon the chemistry of the nerves and nervous centres have been prosecuted by 0. Liebreich (see Kuhne, ‘Lehrbuch der Phys. Chemie,’ 1866, p. 341), in which he shows that neither cerebrin nor cerebric acid, nor lecithin, nor any of the so-called pliosphuretted fats, pre-exist in the brain; but that all these are probably modifications of one substance, which he has called protagon. In order to procure this, the brain-substance is treated with ether and with water, which remove cholesterine and certain soluble compounds ; and on the addition of alcohol (85 per cent.) to the remaining mass, at a tempera- ture of 8i° Fahr., large quantities of protagon are dissolved out, which are again precipitated on cooling in the form of microscopical acicular crystals, arranged in stellse. Its composition is empirically represented by the formula C^H^T^PO^. It is soluble in concentrated acetic acid, and is decomposed when exposed to a temperature of 212°. When long boiled with baryta-water it yields an acid—the glycerine-phosphoric, CfiH9P012—• and a base termed neurin, CI0H13,N, besides certain fatty acids. The peculiar substance termed by Virchow, myeline substance, and which is somewhat widely distributed in the body, appears to be derivable from protagon. The greater part of the albuminous substance of the brain consists of casein and other compounds that have been found in this part of the nervous system—cholesterine, inosite, lactic, volatile, and uric acids, xanthin, hypoxanthin, kreatin, urea, and leucin. The average amount of water in the human brain is 75 per cent. The subject which has most attracted the attention of physiologists and microscopists during the past two years in regard to the nerves has undoubtedly been the mode in which they terminate, especially in muscle; some holding with Kolliker and Dr. Lionel Beale that the finest nerve- fibres form loops, lying on the outer side of the sarcolemma of the mus- cular fibres, whilst others, including most of the German observers,