890 REPORT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. C. Hecker (‘ Mon. f. Geburtsk.,’ 1866) contributes a memoir on the weight of the foetus and its appendages in the different months of gestation. These are some of bis results :—The mean weight of fresh-born foetuses at the 5th month was 284 grammes, of the putrid, 238 grammes, of the lipoid 157 grammes. In the 6th month, the mean of fresh foetuses, was 634 grammes, in the 7th 1218, in the 8th 1369, iu the 9th 1971, and in the 10th 2334 grammes. The placenta.—At the 5th month the placenta weighs 178 grammes, at the 6th 273, at the 7th 374, at the 8th 451, at the 9th 461 ; at the iotli 481. The maximum weights, however, much exceeded these. The placenta seems to acquire a gradual increase to the 8tli month of about 100 grammes monthly. The umbilical cord.— The mean length was at 5th month 31 centimetres, at the 6th 37, at the 7th 42, at the 8th 46, at the 9th 47, at the 10th 51. Thus, the cord lengthens progressively with the age of the foetus. There was a maximum length of 94 centimetres. The form of the pelvis in different races of man has been examined by Dr. Joulin (see 1ST. S. S. ‘ Year-Book,’ 1864), and subsequently with better materials by Dr. Carl Martin, of Berlin (‘ Mon. f. Geburtsk-, July,’ 1866.) Having lived two years in Brazil, and examined many European museums, his observations refer to 800 cases. He concludes that—1. The pelvis of the European woman is the most roomy. The great pelvis is broader than in any other race, having the greatest dis- tance between the anterior superior spines of the ilia, and also between the cristas. The inlet is naturally transversely oval, the true conjugate diameter being smaller compared with the oblique and transverse diameters. The alse of the ossa innominata are mostly translucent. 2. The pelvis of the negress is smaller, and especially narrower; its inlet is transversely oval, but the true conjugate is relatively greater than in Eui’opean pelves. The sacrum is broad and long. The alae of the ossa innominata are mostly opaque. 3. The pelvis of the Bushman corresponds to the small stature of the entire body, and is smaller than in any other race. The alae, in all specimens examined, were opaque. The isehia were, in proportion to the length of the cristae of the ilia, pretty long, and higher than in any other race. The inlet is sometimes in a higher degree oval in the antero-posterior direction. 4. The pelvis of the Malayan of Java and the neighbouring islands is also narrow; it shows a small distance of the spines and crests in relation to the conjugate. The true conjugate is very long; the inlet is there- fore very round, and in many specimens even oval antero-posteriorly. The alas of the ossa innominata in all Java pelves show large translucent spots. The isehia are relatively smaller. 5. The pelvis of the abori- ginal of America is, on an average, little smaller than the European; the inlet is round, the outlet large, the isehia long. 6. The pelvis of the Pelasgian and Australian negresses shows a rather large distance between the Spines and crests; a large true conjugate, a small transverse, and a moderate oblique diameter, and thus a somewhat round inlet. Of other races and families, Martin has not obtained measurements. The memoir is also deficient in information as to the comparative characters of the foetal factor in parturition. Martin has not learned either from his transatlantic practice or his reading, whether the