REPORT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. 4323 pains, sour undigested stools, excoriation of tlie nates, shrivelled skin, flaccid weak limbs, and aged aspect, he recovered it by this expedient. Fresh milk was drawn three times a day, in two bottles, quite filled, and well stopped with clean corks. The milk of one of these was given, diluted, at once, whilst the other was kept in a sand-bath, at the tem- perature of blood, to be used when wanted. In this manner the child rapidly recovered. Other experiments were equally successful. On food for infants, see Liebig (Lond., 1866). There is a memoir on the mortality of infants by Dr. Teuptang (‘Journ. de Med., &c., Bruxelles,’ 1866). He discusses chiefly the choice of nurses. The same subject is illustrated by MM. Odier et Blache fils (‘ G-az. Med. de Lyon,’ 1866). They insist upon the import- ance of submitting to official inspection infants put out to nurse, and, as the most accurate method of determining how far they are cared for, they propose to weigh them'—1st, on delivering an infant into the charge of the nurse, the weight being certified on a ticket; 2nd, this stated weight is to be registered in the village-book; 3rd, a physician is to weigh every week and register his results. Out of 286 infants Odier and Blache found that 115 gained, 143 lost weight, and 28 had remained stationary. Treatises on popular hygiene for children. By Dr. L. Bipa (Milan, 1865). Therapeutics.—On the therapeutic use of milk containing various medicines (‘Union Medicale,’ 1865). Dr. Bouyer has used milk con- taining iodine, iodide of potassium, arsenic, mercury, and iron, with satisfactory results. He extols this method of combining remedies with aliment for young children. The preparations of iodine are iodic milk-syrup, iodic milk-powder, iodic milk-chocolate. Mercury and iron are similarly combined. Cases are related illustrating the use of preparations. On the use of mineral springs in certain diseases of childhood. Bv Prof. Abelin, of Stockholm (‘ Journ. f. Kinderkr.,’ xlvi, 1866).