REPORT ON SURGERY. 281. appeared, and in seventeen days the pricking sensations were gone, and the patient recovered. Reference is made to a similar case, communicated by M. Michon to the Societe de Ckirurgie. A case in which the operation of trephining the spine was performed. By S. Gordon, M.B., Physician to the Richmond, Whitworth, and Hardwicke Hospitals (‘Med.-Chir. Trans.,’ xlix, p. 21).—The patient, set. 31, was thrown from a horse, and was immediately affected with paralysis of the lower limbs, rectum, and bladder. The last dorsal or first lumbar vertebra was found displaced. A cast of the deformity was exhibited to the society. The operation of trephining was per- formed sixty-eight days after the accident. The arch and spinous pro- cesses of the displaced vertebra were removed, and the theca vertebralis was exposed. “ There was no tension of it, neither was there any evi- dence of blood having been effused within it; it was therefore not opened.” The operation lasted fifty minutes, but was not accompa- nied by much hgemorrhage. Soon after the operation signs of improve- ment were noticed. On the fourth day the urine, which had been alka- line, became acid, but this condition did not continue. Sensation im- proved, and some days later there wras observed an increase of motor power. After some time the urine, which was sometimes alkaline, sometimes neutral, became permanently acid, power over the bladder became restored, and the patient was conscious of the passage of faeces. Within eight weeks he was able to go out reclining in a basket-car- riage. At the time of the report, fifteen months after the accident, he had obtained control over the bladder, could sit erect with ease and comfort, but could not stand, nor had the sphincter ani regained its power. His general health was good. Dr. McDonnell, w'ho presented the paper to the society, advocates the early performance of this operation, and the removal of the arches of more than one vertebra, whereby, as he believes, the danger and difficulty of the operation are but little increased, and the patient has a better chance of being able to stand and walk. In the ‘London Hospital Reports,’ iii, will be found, on p. 325, a large collection of “ Clinical and Pathological Facts in reference to Injuries of the Spinal Column and its Contents,” followed, on p. 357, by a clinical lecture from Mr. Hutchinson “ On Dislocations and Frac- tures of the Spine.” One object of the lecture is to dissuade from operative interference, by showing that many cases recover, if put under favorable circumstances and left alone, and that of those which end in death, very rarely, indeed, can it be asserted after post-mortem examination that an operation could by the barest possibility have done good. Mr. Hutchinson proceeds to show—1. That permanent com- pression of the cord, or any part of it, by displaced bones, is very rare. 2. That the more serious injuries of the cord are due to indirect violence (bends), and that the displacement of the laminas is of little conse- quence, and never causes compression. 3. That the cord is hardly ever seriously compressed by extravasated blood. 4. That the displace- ments of single bones which do occur are usually very easily reduced (probably by the bystanders before the surgeon sees the case), and that