REPORT ON SURGERY. 336 by transmitted light can be seen to cast no shadow into the transparent liquid. 2. The testicle is enclosed also on its lower side, and is found at the outer and lower part of the tumour, where it can be distinguished by the finger and by transmitted light. 3. The testicle is buried in the tumour, and cannot be felt with the finger; it can be distinguished by transmitted light, and is then seen to be only partially implicated in the swelling, not entirely, as in common hydrocele. Instances of each of these grades are given. The last (inguinal- funicular) form favours the occurrence of hernia by distending the canal, and is, in fact, often associated with hernia. It has a tendency to be driven down the cord, either by the action of the muscles or the presence of a hernia, and so to be changed into the former variety. Of this he has seen 4 examples. It is desirable to favour this tendency by the application of an appropriate truss. Instances are given where this hydrocele has been complicated with undescended testicle. So far the paper has dealt mainly with pathological details, the rest is chiefly surgical. It treats of the changes in transparency of the non- communicating forms of hydrocele; of the position of the testicle and cord in the same forms; of the complications with varicocele, with diseases of the testicle and cord, and with hernia; and then passes on to the etiology of the disease. Amongst the most frequent causes he enumerates—(a) At all ages, contusions, inguinal hernia, the jmessure of a truss, entero-colitis with participation of the peritoneum and sub- peritoneal tissue, (b) In infancy, erysipelatous or erythematous redness, long-continued crying. (c) In boys, exertions of all kinds, running, leaping. (d) In young men, exertions, masturbation, excessive coitus, varicocele, long maintenance of the erect posture in some occupations, gonorrhoeal epididymitis, (e) In middle life, gonorrhoeal epididymitis, induration of the epididymis and testicle from previous inflammation, cystitis, haemorrhoids, varicocele, relaxation and inordinate length of the scrotum, (f) In old age, the same 4 last-mentioned causes, with stricture, hypertrophy of the prostate, and constant coughing. Want of space compels us to omit any abstract of Sig. Melchiorj’s experience on the various methods of treating the disease, as well as of the second part of his paper, which treats of the cystic tumours of the testicle and cord which are not formed in the tunica vaginalis. Tor these matters we must refer to the original. The following extracts refer to military surgery : “ Resection of the Ankle for Gunshot Wound.”—A communication on this subject, by Langcnbeck, illustrated by cases, is to be found in the ‘ Berlin. Klin. Woclienschrift,’ 1865, No. 4, showing the advantages of this operation over amputation in military practice when the case is appropriate. The number of cases reported is 5, one of which died of hospital gangrene. In one of the remaining cases the cure was perfect, with an ancliylosed and quite useful foot. Tlie 3 others remained under treatment, but in 2 at least of them the cure appeared nearly complete. In one of these cases as much as 4 inches of the tibia was removed ; in another, the whole astragalus. When either bone is not splintered,