458 REPORT ON MEDICAL JURISPRUDENCE. fatal cases. The presence or absence of rigor mortis was noticed in 22 of these cases, and in 10 of them the rigidity of the muscles is said to have been unusually great. It was also much prolonged, having been present even seventy or seventy-two hours after death; and in a case in which the chloroform was swallowed it existed at the end of a week. In every instance, when observed at all, the blood was found fluid and of dark colour. In 11 cases the blood was noticed to be frothy and to contain bubbles of gas. Dr. Senator discusses the question whether these bubbles consist of the vapour of chloroform. He shows that they are observed especially when life has been prolonged, and that in cases in which the blood has been observed to smell of chloroform there is no mention of their presence. He therefore concludes, with Casper, that this appearance is due to an unusually early decomposition of the blood. In one instance these bubbles were found in the blood within fourteen hours after death, although it was winter. Of 41 cases in which the state of the heart was noticed, it was relaxed and nearly or quite empty in 33 or 34; and only twice or three times were all its cavities dis- tended. In 5 cases the right side alone contained blood in greater or less quantity. The heart was sometimes found to be “quite pale,” “as if washed out” and “flattened,” this relaxed state being ac- companied by an extreme rigor mortis of the voluntary muscles. Senator supposes that the rigor of the heart takes place unusually early after poisoning by chloroform. An odour resembling that of chloroform was observed only four times in these 46 cases; three times after twenty-four hours had elapsed, once after thirty-two hours. It has often been absent when the autopsy -was made much earlier. The smell has generally been most distinctly perceived on opening the cranial cavity. In conclusion, Dr. Senator remarks that the question whether a case of death by chloroform was one of suicide or murder might sometimes be answered by finding the sponge, or handkerchief, used in the inha- lation of the vapour, firmly clenched in the dead man’s hand. This has several times been observed, and, of course, it shows conclusively that the chloroform has been taken for the purpose of suicide, for it could not be imitated after death. The trial of Mr. Sprague on the charge of administering poison to his wife, father-in-law, mother-in-law, and servant, at Ashburton, gave rise to a discussion* which is undoubtedly of interest, although it can- not be said to have led to any certain conclusions. The whole party were taken ill after eating a rabbit-pie. The symptoms were those of poisoning by belladonna or atropia; a rash resembling urticaria, dila- tation of the pupils, vomiting, incoherency of speech, and inability to walk. Atropia was proved to be in the possession of the accused, and Mr. Herapath, sen., of Bristol, deposed that, from the experiments he had made, “ he was convinced that atropine had been introduced into the interior of the pie.” As it was proved that the prisoner was -away before the time when the pie was made, a verdict of Not Guilty * ‘ Pliarm. Jouro.,’ 2nd series, vii, p. 127; ‘Times’ newspaper.