37 TYPHUS. there was obstinate and long-continued hiccough. Diarrhoea was usually not prominent, but sometimes, especially in protracted cases with haemor- rhage, was profuse and of evil omen. Remarkable enlargement of the spleen was recognisable almost from the first, usually attended with pain ; and dissection found it, in some cases, adherent to the neighbour- ing organs from inflammatory exudation; in one singular case an ad- hesion to the colon had been perforated and part of the broken-down spleen tissue lay in the colon ; spontaneous rupture of the spleen was noted 3 times out of 70 cases. The liver was enlarged, especially in the bilious form, but not so remarkably as the spleen; the left lobe seems to have been most enlarged ; sometimes it was very tender, some- times scarcely at all so. Jaundice often came on and vanished sud- denly. The kidneys are little affected in mild cases ; at most there is some hypersemia. But in some cases there are important anatomical changes out of all proportion to the functional disturbance of the kid- neys, which is slight, save that in a typhoid grade of the bilious variety uraemic poisoning occasionally occurs. Signs of acute paren- chymatous nephritis were often detected with the microscope after death. On the subject of the relapsing fevers of Russia, see also— G. Whitley, report to med. officer of Privy Council on the fevers prevailing at St. Petersburg during the winter 1864-5. Botkin, ‘Wien. Med. Wochnsch.,’ 23, 1865. Heyfelder, ‘ Wien. Med. Wochnbl.,’ 22, 31, 1865. Felix and Markowitz, ‘ Wien. Med. Wochnsch.,’ 49—52,1865. Eck, ‘ Gaz. des Hop.,’ 59, 1865. Ivremianskv, ‘ Lancet,’ i, 1865. Typhus. Dr. Gairdner * makes some very important clinical remarks on the nature and import of the “ crisis ” in typhus fever. He states that the ancient idea of the crisis as a point up to which the febrile phenomena have been steadily augmenting, and from which they suddenly decline, is not correct as applied to the typhus of to-day. On the contrary, the descent from the critical point is as gradual as the ascent in a typical case. In a large proportion of cases typhus, left to itself, without drugs or stimulants, will have its natural crisis (in the sense now specified) at or a little before the 12th day. A delay of the critical decline of the fever much beyond the 12th day is to be regarded with suspicion. But if the critical decline of the pulse-rate (especially when its strength increases) takes place at the proper time, it is of very little consequence how bad the other symptoms may look. The tongue may be as black as pitch, the cuticle as dry as leather; much delirium may go on, and the eruption may be brilliant or livid for days together, but (if there be no complication) the patient will get well. Only let well alone ; it is not necessary to interfere, even though the delirium should become worse, or appear where it had never before existed. Dr. E. L. Eoxf examines the conditions under which typhus patients are treated, and specially discusses the question of receiving them into general hospitals or into special fever hospitals. Having given the statistics of mortality in numerous institutions, both general and special, he gives the following opinions as those at which he has # ‘Lancet,’ Jan. 21, 1865. t ‘Edin. Med. Journal,’ January, i860.