109 APHASIA. articulatory parts—the larynx, the tongue, the lips—are all sensibly excited; a suppressed articulation is, in fact, the material of our recol- lection, the intellectual manifestation, the idea of speech.’ ” Elsewhere Jackson quotes the following from Bain:—“ It must be considered as almost beyoud a doubt, that the renewed feeling occupies the very same parts, and in the same manner, as the original feeling, and in no other parts, nor in any other manner that can be assigned.” Again, — “ For every act of memory, every exercise of bodily aptitude, every habit, recollection, train of ideas, there is a specific grouping or co-ordination of sensations or movements, by virtue of specific growths in the cell-junctions.”* Jackson speaksf at length of the local dis- order of movement, which he calls ataxy of articulation, and urges that, to the ear, it differs from the lame talk of obvious palsy of the tongue, lips, &c., as the gait of locomotor ataxy does, to the eye, from that of paraplegia. Elsewhere he urges its difference from the defective talking caused by paralysis of the palate alone, or of the tongue alone. Ataxy of articulation is a defect in an evolution of movement, which is above those of tongue or palate, but below those for malting words. Broca and Fournie hold essentially similar opinions. JacksonJ holds that the degree of the disorders of lan- guage depends on the quantity of brain damaged about the highest point of the motor tract, the point of emission of the orders of the will to the muscles. Dr. Dunn had some time ago made a remark to the same effect. Jackson believes that the so-called “faculty” of lan- guage has no separate existence, and that disease near the corpus striatum produces defect of expression (by writing, words, and signs), because this is the way out from the hemisphere towards organs which the will can set in motion. He also believes that disease of the convo- lutions near the corpus striatum is the cause of chorea, which, as regards the limbs, is not so much a disorder of mere movement as a disorder of those movements which are voluntary and educated. It is not an unimportant fact that chorea is a rare disease either before voluntary movements have been learned or after they have been fully acquired. Unilateral epilepsy seems to replace, and sometimes to dis- place, chorea, and both run into hemiplegia occasionally. Indeed, it is probable that unilateral paralysis, unilateral irregular movements, and unilateral spasm, are allied, inasmuch as all are deviations from the healthy state of the same vascular region—that of the middle cerebral artery—in which the corpus striatum lies. Dr. Hughlings Jackson believes that from the corpus striatum another series of fibres for movements start, and that their groupings are (pos- sibly) integrated by the blood-vessels. In the ‘ Med. Times and Gazette,’ Jan. 28, 1865, he relates a case of ejaculations after chorea, and re- marks—“We have here (1) involuntary ejaculations; (2) involuntary yet complete actions; and (3) local spasm or twitching of muscles. We may find all shades, degrees, and analogies, between obvious and coarse motor-reflex actions and disorders of what Dr. Laycock calls the reflex function of the brain ; and we may thus analyse with some success, from * ‘Fortnightly Review/ February 1, 1866. + ‘ Lond. Hosp. Rep./ 1865, p. 315. X ‘Lancet/ Nov. 26, 1864.