REPORT ON SURGERY. 302 the brain, the pus having been prevented from escaping externally, as was believed, by the bony growth. The growths did not appear to have the nature of tumours, or exostoses, so much as that of periosteal deposit from local irritation, the' source of irritation being in almost all cases the contact of pus passing from the middle ear. Dr. Eoosa dissents from Mr. Toynbee’s opinion, that they are usually the result of the rheumatic or gouty diathesis. This certainly could not be said of any of the cases here given, and the limitation of the disease to the ear is another argument against that view. The author refers to an article on the subject, by Prof. Welcke, of Halle, in the ‘ Archiv f. Ohrenheil- kunde,’ Band, i, Heft iii, 1864, who believes such growths to be more common in transatlantic, especially aboriginal, than in European races. As to the treatment, the author thinks prophylactic measures are more promising than curative. “ Constitutional treatment is of no avail, and, thus far, local means have not accomplished much. If the primary disease of the ear be attended to, the growths will not occur.” The following extracts refer to the surgery of the vascular system: “ Respecting Rupture of the Axillary Artery in reducing Dislocations at the Shoulder-joint.” By Geo. W. Callender (‘ St. Bartholomew’s Hospital Reports,’ ii, p. 96).—Mr. Callender gives the history of a re- markable case which fell under his own care, in which a dislocation of the shoulder had been reduced without any difficulty soon after the accident, but had been reproduced by incautious passive motions too early after the injury. The patient was again operated on 6 weeks after the original injury. The head of the bone was in the axilla. Chloro- form was administered, and reduction was attempted ineffectually, at first with the heel in the axilla, then by extension directly forwards, but without effect. Mr. Callender then sought to reduce the humerus by circumduction, to which end the arm was made to describe a half circle over the face and head. In moving the arm after this fashion, with the exercise of very slight force, as it passed over the patient’s head the humerus was felt and heard to enter the glenoid cavity, and the dislocation was found to be reduced. A swelling, due to effused blood, was now observed to rapidly increase under the pectoral muscle. This was thought to be produced by the rupture of a vein, as the pulse was still natural in the radial artery. When the man recovered from the chloroform he did not complain of any pain. The progress of the case, however, was so unfavorable that Mr. Callender was induced, about 6 weeks after the reduction, to cut into the swelling and attempt to discover the vessel which was injured. All this time there was no symptom of aneurism, in the proper sense of the term (i. e. no bruit or pulsation, or limited tumour), and the pulse at the wrist was still natural. The operation consisted in an incision along the lower border of the pectoralis major, crossed by one running upwards through the whole substance of the muscle. When the great cavity thus opened was cleared of blood, some clots were seen below the pectoralis minor. These clots were scooped out, and then arterial bleeding occurred. Then the pectoralis minor was divided, and pressure on the axillary artery on both sides restrained the flow of blood. Now a hole was seen