REPORT ON PUBLIC HEALTH. 492 of labour, we see that the liability to the disease (la morbilite) appears to diminish by acclimatization. It is especially remarkable that of 90 women confined at home, and brought to the hospital more or less quickly afterwards, one only was attacked by the disease; for this leads us to inquire whether contamination does not occur mainly and even almost solely at the time of labour.” The question whether resi- dence in an hospital in which puerperal fever prevails can give rise to disease during pregnancy appears to be answered in the negative by the observations of Tarnier, who says that, among 2237 women confined in the Maternity during 1836, only a single case of this kind occurred, and even that one was disputed. The statements of M. Pajot lead to the same conclusion. In 1862 puerperal fever prevailed epidemically in his wards, so that of 400 women who were confined, 100 fell ill, and 30 or 40 died. During this time nearly a hundred women were admitted into the hospital some days or even weeks before the termination of pregnancy. These women were scattered throughout the wards in which the dis- ease prevailed, but no one of them became ill. The epidemic of cholera in this country during the past year (1866) has led to an immense mass of writings upon the disease. In this part of the Retrospect I am concerned merely with those papers which deal with the disease from the point of view of public health; but even these are so numerous that I shall have to content myself with a very imperfect account of them. The prevalent opinion with reference to the mode of propagation of cholera was supported by Mr. Simon in an official memorandum issued in July, 1866. In this document he assured the public that cholera is so little contagious, in the sense in which smallpox and typhus are commonly called contagious, that, if proper precautions are taken where it is present, there is scarcely any risk that the disease will spread to persons who nurse and otherwise closely attend upon the sick. He supported with the weight of his authority the following doctrines:—That all matters which the patient discharges from his stomach and bowels are infective ; that the patient’s power of infecting other persons is due entirely, or almost entirely, to these discharges; that these, however, are comparatively non-infective when first discharged, but afterwards, while undergoing decomposition, acquire their maximum of infective power; that, if cast away without previous disinfection, they impart their own infective quality to other excremental matters; that, if they get access, even in the smallest quantity, to wells or other sources of drinking-water, they may infect very large volumes of water; that the infective influence of choleraic discharges attaches to whatever bedding, clothing, towels, and like things, have been imbued with them; and that thus even a single case of cholera may exert a terrible power over large masses of population if local circumstances co-operate. He, at the same time, insisted on the fact that the choleraic infection does not seem able to injure any population unless local circumstances are favorable, and, chiefly, unless the drinking water is impure or the drainage imperfect. With reference to the sources and distribution of the epidemic of