REPORT ON PHYSIOLOGY, ETC. 20 the superintendence of Prof. Krause, been engaged in the determination of the length of muscular fibres. Krause himself had previously ascer- tained that in the sartorius of man the average length was from one third of an inch to an inch and a half, and stated that they present the same fusiform shape as the fibres of smooth muscular tissue. Dr. Nicol found that in small muscles of the hand the length of the fibres was co- equal with that of the muscle. The length of the fibres in the several muscles of the forearm, upper arm, and shoulder-girdle was, however, constantly less than that of the whole muscle, not exceeding i-25th to i inch. He observed numerous spindle-shaped fibres, but also some with curved, others with rounded, and others, again, with divided extremities. Nawrocki (‘Fresen. Zeitsch. f. Anal. Chemie,’Bd. 4,2) believes his ex- periments prove satisfactorily that creatinine is not a constituent of muscle, and that whilst muscles at rest contain about 32 to 34 parts in 1000 ot creatine, no increase takes place in the amount of this substance during exertion, nor any conversion of it into creatinine. From examination of the muscular tissue of the heart Eberth (‘ Vir- chow’s Archiv, Bd. 37, 1866, p. 100) has arrived at the conclusion that the striated is, like the smooth muscular fibre, composed of cells, each cell in the case of the fibres of the heart presenting a somewhat oblong form, being often forked at the extremities, and containing one or several nuclei. The divarication of the terminal portions, and the occa- sional presence of lateral processes give rise to the illusory appearance of anastomosis occurring between the fibres described by Mr. Skey and others. The strength or contractile power of all muscular tissue is wonderfully great. F. Plateau (“ Sur la Force Musculaire des Insectes,” in ‘ Revue Suisse,’ v. 23, 1866, p. 87) shows that the common cockchafer can over- come a resistance equal to 14 times and the Donacia nymphcea a resistance equal to 42 times its own weight. This is a much greater exertion than can be made by any vertebrate animal; but it must be remembered that, as Bergmann has found, the relation between the motor power of an animal and the mass of its body is unfavorable in proportion to its size, the weight of the body augmenting as the cube, the motor power, measured by the section of the muscles, increasing only as the square. Every muscular contraction, it has long been known, is attended with the development of heat, the amount, according to Heidenhain (‘An Essay on the Theory of Muscular Force,’ pamphlet, Breslau, 1864), varying a little with the weighting when the fresh muscles of frogs are employed ; so that the quantity of work done and of heat generated both increase with increasing weighting of the muscle up to a certain point, beyond which limit the production of heat diminishes, and with still greater weighting the amount of work performed also decreases. Heiden- hain further found that with equal excitations applied to the nerve, and with the same weighting of the muscles, providing this docs not exceed a certain maximum value, the muscle will develop less heat if it be allowed to shorten, and thus to perform work, than if it be prevented from shortening. He is of opinion from this, and other results which he has obtained, that there is, in confirmation of Mayer’s law, a conversion of heat into mechanical action in muscle.