REPORT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. 370 Scanzoni says they do not occur independently of pregnancy. This case proves that even menstrual blood may give rise to them. Dr. Maynet relates (‘ Gaz. Hebdom.,’ 1866) a singular case of paro- titis in a girl, with metastasis to the ovaries. She was relieved for a time by spontaneous free epistaxis, but had not menstruated when discharged. Dr. de Amicis publishes (Naples, 1865) an interesting case in which hemiplegia of the right side with aphasia followed profuse metrorrhagia. The influence of lead-poisoning in producing abortion and metror- rhagia is discussed by Benson Baker (‘Obstet. Trans.,’ viii, 1867). Mr. Spencer Wells calls attention (‘Med. Times and Gaz.,’ ii, 1866) to the frequency with which “uterine epistaxis,” or flow of blood, takes place from the uterus within the first days after ovariotomy. “ On the dysmenorrhcea,metrorrhagia, ovaritis, and sterility, associated with a peculiar form of the cervix uteri, and the treatment by division.” In this memoir (‘Trans. Obst. Soc.,’ 1865) Dr. Barnes described and figured a form of cervix uteri which projected into the vagina as a conical body, the vagina appearing to be reflected off at a point nearer the os internum than normal. The seat of obstruction Dr. Barnes believes to be almost always the os uteri externum, the sound generally passing the os internum readily. Deviations of flexion and version almost always followed this original formation of the cervix; inflammation of the cervix, ovarian congestion, haematocele, dysmenorrhoea, and sterility, were frequent attendants. Dr. Barnes thought dilatation of the vaginal portion of the cervix sufficient; incision at the level of the os internum ■was unnecessary, and was dangerous from the risk of incising the large vessels which entered here. He preferred incision to dilatation by plugs, as being safer if performed by scissors. He exhibited an in- strument for the purpose. He had seen relief from all the evils enumerated frequently follow his operation. Dr. Marion Sims (‘ Obstet. Trans.,’ 1866), recognising contraction and flexion of the cervix uteri as a cause of dysmenorrhoea, advocates dilatation by incision as the remedy. He considers it essential to expose the part to be operated upon by the speculum, and uses his duck-bill for the purpose. He seizes the cervix by a fine hook, then divides the vaginal portion of the cervix with slightly curved scissors, one blade being passed into the cavity; then a narrow-bladed, blunt- pointed knife, fixed at a proper angle, is used to divide the small amount of tissue on each side leading from the scissors-cut up to the very cavity of the womb. The bleeding, he says, is usually unimportant; but sometimes it is furious. This is to be arrested by passing sponge probangs right into the neck of the uterus. Then plugs with perchlo- ride or persulphate of iron are applied, and removed uext day, to be re- placed by pledgets of wool soaked in glycerine. The wound, in cica- trizing, he says, often contracts considerably, and the operation may require repetition. This operation often cures dysmenorrhoea; some- times it only modifies it, and in some cases produces no beneficial effects whatever. Dr. Beatty (‘Contributions to Med. and Midw.,’ Dublin, 1866) re-