REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 144 inclined to think that there is an excess of butyric acid in the sputa, and believes that there is a rheumatic diathesis. Even in the cases of fetid breath where there is no recognisable lung affection, he is inclined to believe the rheumatic diathesis to he present, and thinks the phe- nomena are analogous to those of the stinking perspirations of the feet from which some persons suffer. Dr. W. Moore records three cases in which copious fetid expectora- tion, closely simulating that of pulmonary gangrene, was produced in pleurisy, in neither of which was there any sign of perforation of the pleura. He inclines to believe that the fetid fluid was exosmosed through the pleural membrane into the lung, and thus the smell became perceptible. Dr. Arthur Gamgee,* commenting on a case of fetid bronchorrhoea, in which butyric acid was found in the sputa, takes occasion to say that the presence of this substance in the expectoration is not at all peculiar to any form of bronchitis, but occurs in nearly all forms of chest disease. The acids which he believes occur in the sputa are the butyric, propionic, formic, acetic, and possibly the caprylic. Their presence is not surprising. The researches of Scherer, Gorup-Besanez, and Schottin, have proved the existence of most of them in the mus- cular juice, milk, &c., which most probably derive them preformed from the blood. Formed by the oxidation of various fatty matters, they are probably constantly present in small quantities in the blood, where they are partly consumed and partly separated by the various excreting organs, and, like other volatile substances, chiefly by the lungs. When the air-passages contain fluid it is only natural that they should be dissolved by the fluid, and thus find their way into the sputa. It will be a subject for future inquiry whether the quantity of volatile acids in the sputum is not greatest in those cases where the function of the lungs is so much impaired as to interfere materially with the oxida- tion of the blood. These considerations seem to Gamgee to prove that the occurrence of butyric acid in the sputum cannot at present be shown to have any semeiological value, and that its presence is in no way cha- racteristic of fetid bronchitis. lie thinks that there are at present no sufficient grounds for erecting cases of bronchitis with fcetor into a special morbid class. Phthisis. By far the most important observation on this disease that has been made of late years is that of Dr. Sidney Ringer,+ as to the elevation of temperature which occurs in an early stage. The following are the pro- positions which express the conclusions which he establishes by ample evi- dence in his pamphlet:—i. There is probably a continued elevation of the temperature of the body in all cases in which a deposition of tubercle is taking place in any of its organs. 2. This elevation of the temperature is probably due to the general condition of the body (tuberculous), or to the * ‘Eilin. Med. Journ.,’ March, 1865. f ‘On the Temperature of the Body as a Means of Diagnosis in Phthisis and Tuber- culosis.' Pamphlet, London, 1865.