116 REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. the eyeballs, which rolling Jackson believed to be due to some paralysis of the 4th nerve. The sensorial symptoms were equally striking and important. The sensation on the paralysed side of the face was not affected, but on the non-paralysed side it was dimi- nished. It was only diminished in certain regions, however, viz. in part of the cheek and forehead, but not about the chin or temple. The part of the cheek supplied by the cervical plexus was affected, and the neck was slightly anaesthetic. The masticatory muscles appeared to act well. The right pupil was a little smaller than the left, but neither of them was abnormally small. There was some irritation of the left eye, but this was due to old disease of the lachrymal sac. The arm and leg were very anaesthetic, but some pinching with the nails could be felt. Dr. Jackson then notes the absence of contraction of the pupils, of deviation of the tongue, and difficulty of swallowing, and of aphonia. Articulation was a little muffled from the facial paralysis. There was no affection of any one of the nerves of special sense, not even of taste. At the patient’s first visit sugar was found in the urine, but not on subse- quent examinations. Jackson expressly notes that he could not detect any paralysis of temporal and masseter muscles at the patient’s first visit. At a subsequent visit, however, a month later, the masseter and temporal muscles of the right side were found to be paralysed. Jackson remarks that, “ In the last case under my care, the 6th nerve being affected, the disease, no doubt, involved the muscles of the facial nerve; for, as Stilling and Lockhart Clarke had shown, this nucleus is also the nucleus of the 6th nerve. The most curious point about the case is as to the affection of the 5th nerve. The motor part of this nerve was paralysed on the right and the sensory on the opposite side. Dr. Weber, who has written a most valuable paper on disease of the pons Yarolii (‘Med.-Chir. Trans.,’ xlvi, 1861), relates a case of hemiplegia from disease of this part of the brain, in which the 5th nerve was paralysed, but in a different way. In Dr. Weber’s case there was paralysis, of the facial nerve, and both divisions of the 5th ivere affected on one side—of course, the side opposite the paralysis of the arm and leg. Dr. Weber had an autopsy in this case, and found that the neighbourhood of the apparent origin of the 5th nerve was implicated in the pons. Compound granular bodies and isolated granules, and an exuberance of wavy fibrous tissues running longitudi- nally. There were also numerous corpora amylacea, &c. &c. In short, there were very nearly the changes of locomotor ataxy; not quite the same in nature, perhaps, but identical in position.” On the curious subject of lateral deviation of the eyes in hemi- plegia, see, especially, J. L. Prevost, ‘ Gaz. Ilebd.,’ 1865, p. 649. Other papers are— G. Humphry (case of Professor Whewell), ‘ Lancet,’ March 17, 1866 ; J.R. Reynolds, ‘Lancet,’ April 21, 1866; Broadbent, ‘Lancet,’ May 5, 1866; J. H. Jackson, ‘Lancet,’ April 21, 1866, and ‘Oplith. IIosp. Rep.,’ v. Functional Paralysis. Dr. C. Handheld Jones, in his Lumleian Lectures* (1865), speaks, * ‘ Med. Times and Gaz.,’ii, 1865, pp. 1, 55, 109, 163,217,411,489,513,567,621.