INFANTICIDE. 467 formed the child bom iu April. The interest of this case from' a medico-legal point of view is, as Fischer remarks, that if the woman had denied having previously given birth to an infant, the fact of the mole being discharged would probably have led to the belief that she had not been confined, and therefore to her acquittal on the charge of infanticide. Infanticide. Kristeller* has recorded a case in which the vagitus uterinus was observed. It occurred in a woman who was pregnant for the third time. When Kristeller was called to her the membranes were found to be ruptured. The pains had been completely suspended for 4 hours. One arm of the child presented. He replaced the arm, and, finding that he could not succeed by ordinary manipulation, he endeavoured to bring the head into the pelvis by means of forceps. While he was trying to get hold of the head with the blades of the instrument he distinctly heard the child utter a muffled cry. This was repeated several times—in fact, whenever the child was touched with the forceps. When Kristeller took the foot of the child in order to turn, the vagitus was again heard several times, and he could plainly feel the inspiratory movements of the thorax and the pulsation of the funis. After the extraction of the child, however, no pulsation could be felt. The respiration, too, had ceased, although the beating of the heart could still be detected. The child, however, recovered. Prof. Maschkaf records the following case:—An infant recently born was found in a privy. The lungs were imperfectly distended, of a dirty red colour, and covered with numerous air-vesicles; their tissue was bloodless. They floated in water; but after the air-vesicles on their surface had been pricked, and the organs themselves had been gently squeezed, they sank and remained at the bottom of the vessel. Their condition, therefore, afforded no proof of live birth; indeed, the heart itself floated from decomposition. The mouth, larynx, trachea, and bronchial tubes down to their finer ramifications, were, however, filled with sand, faecal matter, and remains of vegetable substances. When incisions were made into the lungs sand and small drops of faecal matter were seen on the cut surfaces. From these facts Prof. Maschka drew the conclusion that the infant had breathed after having fallen or having been thrown into the privy. The mother’s statement was that she went to relieve her bowels and fainted, and that on recovering from her swoon she found that the child had been expelled and had fallen into the privy. Prof. BreslauJ has made some original observations as to the con- dition of the intestines in the foetus. The following are his conclusions : — 1. In children born dead (whether they have died during birth or have been long in a state of decomposition within the uterus) there is never any accumulation of gas, either in the stomach or in any part of * 1 Monatschr. f. Geburtsk.,’ xxv, 5; ‘Prag. Vjhrsschrft.,5 88, p. 121. f ‘ Vierteljahrsschrift f. ger. Med.,’ N. F., Band ii, 1865, p. 87. t ‘ Monatsschrift f. Geburtskunde,’ Bd. xxv, Heft iii; ‘ Prag. Vjhrsschrft.,’ 87, p. 94.