ENDOSCOPY. 213 be introduced in which it will not be found of service. With it the interior of the bladder may be thoroughly investigated; tumours, ul- cerations, and calculi recognised; calculi examined, and information gained as to their size, figure, number, position, whether encysted or loose, and so on. The rectum, beyond the reach of the finger and speculum, can be searched for ulcerations, constrictions, tumours, &c. The cavity of the uterus can be demonstrated, so also the auditory meatus, nasal fossae, pharynx, larynx, and, I should even hope, the oesophagus and stomach. Likewise wounds, especially those sus- pected to contain foreign bodies, abscesses, the cavities of ovarian cysts after tapping, and so on. I have been enabled by the endoscope to obtain so clear a view of the interior of the uterus that I am satisfied it will prove most useful for the diagnosis of small polypi, granular and follicular ulcerations, and other affections which at present are subjects of conjecture rather than positive knowledge.” Dr. Cruise then describes the instrument which he uses, and by which, as he contends, a much more powerful illumination is produced than by that of Desormeaux. The applications of the instrument are then illustrated. The author agrees with M. Desormeaux in believing that “ chronic granular urethritis is the pathological condition most commonly associated with gleet, and that it constitutes the transition stage between the acute in- flammatory constriction produced by blenorrhagia and its final issue in organic stricture.” This condition is to be combated by the applica- tion of strong solutions of nitrate of silver or sulphate of copper (gr. xv—xxx : 5j) to the granular part, which is to be exposed by the endoscope, and will usually be found about the bulbous or prostatic portion. A case is related, illustrated with chromo-lithographic drawings. The diagnosis of stricture by the endoscope is next discussed; and Dr. Cruise describes the usual appearance, under the instrument, of an organic constriction of the urethra, illustrated by a chromo-lithograph. With respect to the diagnosis Dr. Cruise says, “ Nothing in medicine can be more certain than the diagnosis of organic stricture with the aid of the endoscope I am quite certain that any one who has once examined endoscopically an organic stricture of the urethra will acknowledge the impossibility of confounding it with a fold of mucous membrane, with a deviation in the canal, with the obstruction some- times offered by the triangular ligament of the perinaeum, or, in fact, with any other condition of the part.” A case is then related where the endoscopic examination of a stric- ture enabled the author to pass an instrument after trials in the ordinary way had been found to be unsuccessful. An interesting account is given (p. 353) of the appearance of a stricture after its rupture by Holt’s method; and then Dr. Cruise describes the method of performing internal urethrotomy with the en- doscope, also the use of the instrument in examining and cauterizing the internal orifice of a fistula. In the diagnosis and treatment of cases of spermatorrhoea the author has found the endoscope of great value. He divides cases of sperma*