REPOET ON SURGERY. 212 an indurated ring—if, above all, after having suspended the treatment for a few days, one is forced to recommence with smaller bougies than those which passed at the beginning—it must be admitted that the stricture is fibrous, and it should be incised. But this method of coming to a conclusion involves delays, which the endoscope may avoid, while the latter method of examination gives at the same time much more precise indications. Bor, on examining a fibrous stricture with this instrument, it is seen to be of a whitish colour, like fibrous or cicatricial tissue, often of a pearly white, and offering the appear- ance of a scar. Whenever this character is recognised under the en- doscope incision ought to be resolved on, for dilatation will give no durable result.” He then shows at length the advantages of his method over the older operations. As to the extent of incision, he says that it should extend, if possible, through the whole of the diseased tissues, and no further. It is easy by means of the endoscope to judge of the proper direction and necessary extent of the incision. It is especially in cases where the stricture cannot be penetrated by bougies that this method of urethrotomy is so much preferable to the others. The orifice having been discovered, the probe point of the urethrotome can be introduced, and the tissues which resist the passage of the instrument divided. M. Desormeaux refers to 2 cases of endoscopic urethrotomy prac- tised at St. Petersburg by Dr. Ebermann. As to rigors after the operation, he divides them into three kinds:— i. Erom nervous disorder, coming on immediately after the operation, and cured by the warmth of the bed and by warm drinks. 2. Erom urethral fever, coming on on the second or third day, often caused by the catheter tied in the bladder and disappearing when this is with- drawn, easily controllable by quinine. 3. Erom pyaemia, rare and never occurring till after a few days, when suppuration is established. Haemorrhage he has never seen, probably from the care taken to limit the incision to the cicatricial tissues. Dr. Cruise of Dublin has published in the ‘Dub. Quart. Journ.’ for May, 1863, a paper on “The Utility of the Endoscope as an aid in the Diagnosis and Treatment of Disease.” Dr. Cruise commences by saying that he has been for a long time engaged in the practice of endoscopy, having apparently failed to bring it to a practical result before Desormeaux’s pamphlet made its ap- pearance, and resumed the study afterwards. It is not, however, quite clear, from Dr. Cruise’s phraseology, whether he does not claim to have originated an apparatus of his own independently of Desormeaux. This personal question is of minor importance. Our interest is chiefly with the value which Dr. Cruise attributes to the instrument. He says, “ By its aid the urethra can be seen and minutely examined from its orifice to the neck of the bladder, each single speck of disease ocularly demonstrated, and, if need be, subjected to precise local treatment. The utility of the endoscope is not, however, confined to the diagnosis and treatment of diseases of the urethra—far otherwise. There is no portion of the human body into which a straight tube can