442 KEPOttT ON MEDICAL JUEISPE.UDENCE. About 2.30 a.m., Demme stated, he went out of the room for four minutes. When he returned he found that Triimpy was drinking a glass of wine which stood near his bed. About ten minutes later, there having been no symptoms during the interval, Triimpy sud- denly called out, “ I feel so tight, I cannot move my right side.” Demme hastened to him and found him lying quietly ; there was a sudden flush on his face, followed by a waxy pallor ; slight convulsive movements of the lower limbs occurred; the expression became fixed, and he was dead. On analysis strychnia was found to be unmistakeably present in the stomach and in the upper part of the intestinal canal, a greater quan- tity of it being discovered in the latter than in the former. Its total amount was estimated at about ten grains. The medical men who made the autopsy declared that death arose from poisoning by strychnia, but that it could not have occurred in the way described by Demme. They asserted that tetanic spasms must have existed, and they inferred, from the fact that the stomach was empty, that vomiting must have occurred, of which no sign was dis- covered, either upon the corpse or in the room. From the extent to which the strychnia had passed into the intestines, they concluded that it could not have been swallowed immediately before death. After detailing the facts of this cause celebre, Maschka goes fully into his opinions concerning the various points which were raised. With reference to the cause of Triimpy’s death, he cannot, perhaps, be said to have formed an entirely unbiassed judgment upon the whole of the evidence, for he had twice been consulted at an early period of the case—first by Demme himself, and afterwards by Prof. Emmert. Still, his deliberate conclusions are undoubtedly to be received with great respect. The first point which he discusses is, whether, admitting that the death of Triimpy arose from poisoning by strych- nia, it is possible that the symptoms could have been such as were described by Dr. Demme. This question he answers in the affirma- tive. He insists on the fact that it frequently happens that animals, to which large doses of strychnia have been given, remain quite quiet for a time, and are then suddenly attacked by a spasm, in which they instantaneously die. In numerous experiments on rabbits and dogs, when strychnia was introduced into the stomach or beneath the conjunctiva, this single fatal spasm has not rarely occurred so suddenly, and has been of so short duration, that without very careful observation it might have been altogether overlooked. He has been informed by Dr. Struppi that the same thing was observed in one of four horses into whose veins strychnia was injected. Again, Dr. Korda related to him the case of a horse which received ten grains of strychnia in a pill, and which fell suddenly dead after two very rapid spasms. In these cases Prof. Maschka thinks that death is not due to as- phyxia, as in ordinary instances of poisoning by strychnia, but to spasm of the heart. Cantharides.—Mr. Sedgwick* relates a case of poisoning by this sub- * ■ Med. Times and Gaz.,’ 1864, ii, Dec. 10.