108 EEPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. the simple effects of early decomposition. (!) From the whole circum- stances he is strongly inclined to believe that the one thing which will cause adherence of the pia mater is the occurrence of softening of the cortical substance, whether this he pathological or post mortem. Aphasia. [The literature of this subject for the years i86j-6 is so extensive that we have been obliged, in despair, to renounce the idea of a general report. We had prepared an abstract which, with all possible condensation, would occupy about four times the space which we can afford. We are there- fore driven to selections from the writings of one author, and can only mention the titles of the most important papers by other writers.] Dr. J. Hughlings Jackson, the chief authority in this country on the subject of loss of speech, thinks that all sorts and degrees of defects — from disorderly articulation to incoherence—which occur in hemiplegia, should be compared and contrasted. He lias suggested that the various faults should be included under the generality “ Defects of Expression,” as such a term is not likely to fetter inquiry by presuming to give a definition. Cases are to be studied as they show departures from healthy thought, language, and emotion, and not as approaches to “ aphasief or other predetermined standard of disease. He says (‘Lancet,’Dec. i, 1866), that there are to be met with (in cases of hemiplegia, generally, of the right side) “ defects, increasing in range and diminishing in de- gree from those of articulation to incoherence. And it is not well to exclude defects of articulation from one end and incoherence from the other end of one continuous series of psysiological symptoms. All these various defects are disorders in a certain series of cultivated anatomical possibilities of motor and sensory centres ascending in complexity in inter-relations and in width of associations.” Again,* “It is in some classes of cases of disease of the nervous system hard to say where obviously motor symptoms end and where the purely mental ones begin. Thus there is (in eases of hemiplegia on the right side) every gradation betwixt, on the one hand, a total loss of power to express ideas, or a loss of knowledge of the relations of words to things, and, on the other, apparently scarcely more than an ataxy of articulation. And sometimes in the same case we find that the patient makes mistakes in words, and also articulates badly. It is not difficult to show that ataxy of articulation and so-called loss of memory for words are really defects of the same kind, and that the loss of the sign the speechless patient had for a thing is the loss of power to reproduce in his organs (in health from his brain, through series of centres, to the end of his tongue), the movements he has learned for that sign, or, at least, the * motor impulse,’ and that damage near the corpus striatum affects language and thought, not because any so-called faculty resides there (or anywhere, except in the whole brain or whole body), but because more or less of parts which help in making symbols are broken up. ‘ When we recall,’ says Bain, ‘ the impression of a word or a sentence, if we do not speak it out, we feel the twitter of the organs just about to come to that point. The # ‘ Med. Times and Gnz.,’ June 23, i860.