345 HOSPITAL GANGRENE. symptoms are secondary, or dependent on the severity of the local dis- turbance ; inclining, on the contrary, to believe that the disease is con- stitutional from the commencement, and ushered in by prodromata in the form of headache, loss of appetite, general uneasiness, a dirty, glazed tongue, hot skin, frequent pulse, and constipation. These symptoms occurred from 12 hours to 3 days before the local effect was apparent, and they continued to increase down to the invasion of the gangrene. They would then partially subside, and by the time the local manifesta- tions were subdued the patients felt improved in health and spirits, but were much weakened by the attack. The premonitory symptoms were sufficiently clear to enable the onset of the disease to be frequently pre- dicted. Between 40 and 50 cases occurred at the hospital (at Balti- more) to which Dr. Kempster was attached, of which 3 died. The treatment which he found most successful was to cleanse the wound thoroughly, then apply the strong nitric acid, and afterwards dress it with iodide of potassium ointment. Other means were tried—turpen- tine, bromine, permanganate of potash, Labarraque’s solution, sugar, &c. —but they were less satisfactory. Internally stimulants and tonics (chiefly the muriated tincture of iron) were given, and morphia to ease pain and produce sleep. Dr. Packard, of Philadelphia, gives his views “ On Hospital Gangrene, and its efficient treatment,” in the ‘American Journal of the Medical Sciences,’ Jan. 1863, p. 113. In his description of the disease, he lays especial stress on the local heat (which he says is an exceedingly prominent symptom, so that the sore will steam in cool weather while the pungency of the heat may be even unpleasant to the hand), on the peculiar nauseousness of the discharge, and on the appear- ance of exuberant pale granulations which are seen when the slough is vigorously sponged. These, however, are not really granulations, but, on the contrary, small projections of tissue left between the parts that have sloughed. Dr. Packard regards the disease, with Blackadder and others, as strictly local, and asserts that when amputation is required the stump will do as well as in any other kind of case. The cause of the disease is obscure. It is sometimes traceable distinctly to contagion, but is frequently seen to originate spontaneously ; and though the grouping together of grave surgical cases and bad hygienic conditions in general favour its origin, still it often spares wards in this condition, while, on the other hand, it frequently arises in places neither crowded nor unwholesome. The disease, however, is so purely local that even if an artery be laid open by it, the vessel may be cut down upon and tied higher up, and the new wound do well. The first indication of treatment is to remove all putrid and putrescent matter from the wound by rolling up the sloughing connective tissue in the forceps, pulling it away as far as possible, and then completing its removal by rough sponging. This should be repeated again and again (under chloroform if necessary) until every portion of the surface of the wound is perfectly cleaned. It will do no harm afterwards to “ disinfect ” the surface with chlorinated soda, bromine, or permanganate of potash, but this does not seem essential. The second indication is to prevent