50 REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. large masses in the intestines after death. But then it is continuous and singularly unbroken; and he believes it is only detached post- mortem. Dr. Gairdner* supports the same view. Dr. Julius Klobf (in a chapter on the constant elements of the cholera discharges and intestinal contents) says that they always con- tain a large quantity of epithelium, pavement and columnar, but espe- cially the latter. Cylindrical epithelium is, indeed, almost the chief organic element of the dejections. Every white or whitish particle in a rice-fluid is columnar epithelium of the small intestines. Cylindrical epithelium is the form chiefly found in the vomited matters; it is in moderate quantity, and comes from the oesophagus, pharynx, and mouth. (This treatise is also deeply ^interesting from its researches into the question of the fungoid origin of cholera, which our space does not permit us to enter upon.) 3. In relation to treatment, the statistics of the London Hospital J are particularly interesting. The following table must be explained by saying that Mist. Astringens is composed of logwood, ether, sulphuric acid, camphor, and capsicum ; the “ Mist. Ant. Tart.” of tartar emetic and sulphate of magnesia; the “lead pill” of lead, camphor, opium, and creasote; the Mist. Quin. c. Eerro of quinine and the sesquichloride of iron. Treatment. Cases. Died. Recovered. Mist. Astringens 48 31 G Mist. Rubra (Sugar and Water) 56 28 28 Castor Oil 21 14 7 Saline Lemonade 20 6 14 Mist. Ant. Tart 2 2 O Mist. Quin. c. Ferro 3 I 2 Lead Pill 9 4 s Total M 1 Cn I O 86 73 There is nothing in the results of this comparison to intimate decided superiority of any one medicinal treatment over another. Even the apparent fatality of Mist. Astringens is to be accounted for by the fact that it was the early cases, during the severest time of the epidemic, that got this treatment. It is interesting to notice that cases treated with sugar and water (i. e. let alone) died in the proportion of not more than 50 per cent, out of so considerable a number as 56; while of 21 cases treated with castor oil it happened that 14 died, or 66 per cent. [Of course, however, the number of cases of the latter treat- ment is too small as an illustration of anything but that this treatment apparently offers no advantages over any other.] It is remarked, how- ever, by the reporters, that castor oil, and also the Mist. Astringens, * ‘Med. Times and Gaz.,’ Sept. 15, 1866. t ‘ Pathologisch-Anatomische Stuaien ueber das Wesen der Cholera-process,’ Leipzig, 1867. $ ‘ London Hosp. Reports,’ 1866; Cholera Appendix, Mr. MacCarthy and Mr. Dove.