REPORT ON SURGERY. 320 half an hour afterwards, the finger passed readily through the wound (which was i| inch to the left of the median line, and 2 inches above the brim of the pelvis) into a cavity behind the abdominal walls, where nothing could be felt except coagulated blood. On percussion no evidence of distended bladder could be found, nor was there any collec- tion of fluid, nor was anything abnormal felt from the rectum. The bullet was lying on the back of the right buttock, about 1 inch above the summit of the ischiatic notch, and was afterwards removed by a simple incision; no urine escaped from this wound. There was at no time any symptom of peritonitis. The catheter was never used. He was kept for 8 days under the influence of morphia, and, after this, morphia was administered occasionally. The urine passed from the wound for ij days, except on one occasion, on the 8th day, when some passed per urethram, but with much pain. On the 22nd day the wound was entirely healed. Prof, van Buren attributes the escape of this patient, both from peritonitis and from cellular infiltration, to the exten- sive distension of the bladder at the time pushing up the peritoneum, and causing a very direct and large wound into the bladder. It was this feature of the case which led him to abstain from the use of the catheter. Mr. van Buren remarks, “ The continuous presence of a catheter in the urethra and bladder of a man already suffering from a most serious wound is no trifling addition to the burthen he has to bear; and although, in deference to all high authorities, from Chopart and the Larreys to Legouest and Hamilton, the use of the instrument is properly regarded as the rule in gunshot wounds of the bladder, the rpsult of this case demonstrates that the rule may be occasionally dis- regarded to the advantage of the patient.” “ Hydatid Cyst in the Pelvis, causing retention of urine and constipa- tion ; successful removal of 3 quarts of Hydatids; death on the 9th day.” Mr. Bryant, in ‘ Path. Soc. Trans.,’ xvii, 278.—Mr. Bryant was called into the country to see a man aet. 50, of steady habits and good constitution, who had suffered from retention of urine for 4 days. He had never experienced any illness, except that on two previous occasions he had suffered from retention of urine. On both these occasions (one in 1851, the other in 1858,) no surgeon had been able to pass a catheter, although several had tried, but the bladder had suddenly resumed its functions. After the subsidence of the second attack he was examined for stricture, and found quite free from it, the catheter entering the bladder regularly. "When Mr. Bryant saw him (Nov. 5, 1865) he had passed only a few drops of urine for 5 days, and the bowels had been confined for a longer period, but he was not suffering much pain; the skin was moist and cool, pulse and tongue normal. Many attempts at catheterism had been previously made. Mr. Bryant also failed in pass- ing the catheter. A large cystic tumour was made out in the abdomen, extending from the pelvis to the scrobiculus cordis, smooth in outline and clearly fluctuating, but projecting oddly forward on the right side, and passing up higher on the left side of the abdomen than on the right, and thus differing in appearance from a distended bladder. It was decided to puncture the bladder from the rectum, and this opera-