LYING-IN HOSPITALS. 491 public more sensible of the absolute necessity of having their children vaccinated. A paper by Lauth,* of Strasbourg, founded on a work ‘ Sur les Maternites,’ by M. Leon Le Fort, contains some interesting infor- mation with reference to the causes which combine to favour the great mortality from puerperal fever in the different lying-in hospitals of Europe, i. It has been found that season exerts a marked influence on the occurrence of epidemics of this disease. They do, indeed, arise at all periods of the year, but they are much more frequent and dis- astrous in winter than at other times. This is shown by Le Fort’s tables to be the case in Paris, London, Yienna, and St. Petersburg. It appears, however, not to be due to the direct influence of cold in producing the disease, but to the difficulty of maintaining efficient ventilation during winter. 2. Concomitant epidemics do not affect the proportion of deaths from puerperal fever in lying-in hospitals. Epi- demics of cholera, typhoid fever, smallpox, scarlatina, measles, erysi- pelas, have prevailed at Yienna, without influencing the death-rate in Spath’s clinique, this having sometimes fallen to zero, while at other times it exceeded the mean. The same conclusion is favoured by the fact that the mortality varied greatly in the two cliniques during the presence of the above-named epidemic diseases. 3. The length of time during which the women are kept within the hospital before their confinement is found to affect their health to a very remarkable ex- tent. A sort of acclimatization in fact occurs, which protects such women from the contagion of puerperal fever. This appears to have been first suggested by Lasserre in a thesis written by him. He found that of 791 women who were in the hospital more than a week before their confinement, only 18 died; while 17 died out of 528 whose stay was less than a week, and 52 died out of 1020 who were admitted after labour had commenced. Charrier obtained a similar result. Of 1868 women confined within ten days after their admission, 120 (about 1 in 15) died. Of 351 who were in the establishment more than ten days, only 9 died, or 1 in 38. Spath’s observations, made at Yienna in 1862, yielded the following numbers, which, although not perfectly uniform, are quoted as pointing to the same conclusion : Interval between admission and confinement. From 2 to 7 days ,, 8 to 14 „ „ 15 to 21 „ „ 22 to 28 „ More than 28 „ Le Fort’s inference from these figures is that, “if we except those women who are admitted after their confinement or during the course Cases per cent. .. 2<F4 ... 285 20-3 .. I7‘2 •• I9'I * !Ann. d’Hyg.,’ 2&rae ser., xxvi, p. 274.