96 REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. the lower extremities, although at first not perceptible to the senses, it may produce unsteadiness of gait; and if associated with numbness and shifting pains, as is sometimes the case, the resemblance is extremely close. Again, ataxy and muscular atrophy may coexist, and in such cases the atactic symptoms will easily be overlooked. Syphilis may very easily cause symptoms greatly resembling ataxy; thus, there may be palsy of any of the cranial nerves, aud consequent strabismus, diplopia, amblyopia, or ptosis, and it is needless to say that it can produce pains in the extremities; but, besides this, syphilitic deposits in the vertebral canal may cause pains, formications, and even unsteadiness of gait. Hence the importance of careful inquiries into history in every quasi- atactic case. In regard to pathological anatomy, the following is a brief summary from the paper in the ‘St. Geo. Hosp. Eeports,’ but a much more lengthened account is derivable from Clarke’s report appended to a case of Dr. J. H. Jackson’s (‘ Lancet,’ June io, 1865). “ In true locomotor ataxy the spinal cord is invariably altered in structure. Its membranes, however, are sometimes apparently unaffected, or affected only in a slight degree; but generally they are much con- gested, and I have seen them thickened posteriorly by exudations, and adherent, not only to each other, but to the posterior surface of the cord. The posterior columns, including the posterior nerve-roots, are the parts of the cord which are chiefly altered in structure. This alteration is peculiar, and consists of atrophy and degeneration of the nerve-fibres, to a greater or less extent, with hypertrophy of the con- nective tissue, which give to the columns a greyish and more transparent aspect, and in this tissue are imbedded a multitude of corpora amy- lacea. Many of the blood-vessels that traverse the columns are loaded or surrounded to a variable depth by oil-globules of different sizes. For the production of ataxy it seems to be necessary that the changes extend along a certain length—from one to two inches—of the cord. The posterior nerve-roots, both within and without the cord, are fre- quently affected by the same kind of degeneration, which sometimes extends to the surface even of the lateral columns, and occasionally along the edges of the anterior. Not infrequently the extremities of the posterior cornua, and even deeper parts of the grey substance, are more or less damaged by areas of disintegration. The morbid process appears to travel from centre to periphery—that is, from the spinal cord to the posterior roots. In the cerebral nerves, on the contrary, the morbid change seems to travel in the opposite direction —that is, from the periphery towards the centres. From the optic nerves it has been found to extend as far as the corpora geniculata, but seldom as far as the corpora quadrigemina. "With the exception of the 5th, 7th, and 8th pair, all the cerebral nerves have occasionally been found more or less altered in structure.” MM. Charcot and Bouchard* relate the post-mortem examination of a woman who died of hydrothorax, after suffering for 11 years from darting pains in the lower limbs, which were the only symptoms of * ‘ Gitz. Med.,’ 9, 1866.