15 NERVOUS SYSTEM. their physiological properties, remaining excitable even to the fifty-fourth day ; afterwards, however, they undergo progressive fatty degeneration from the centre outwards. Soon after section a gelatinous material sur- rounds the cut extremities, which becomes converted into connective tissue, but union by first intention of the divided fibres never occurs. The margins of the divided neurilemma unite, and the gelatinous material enclosed becomes gradually converted into nerve-substance. Dr. Guttmann (‘Reichert’s Archiv,’ 1866, p. 134) has furnished ad- ditional evidence to that already possessed, to the effect that the central parts of the nervous system are insensible, and do not respond to direct stimulation. In some interesting lectures delivered at the Royal Institution, Prof. Dubois Reymond (‘Proceed, of the Roy. Inst.,’ vol. 4, p. 375) exhibited ingenious apparatus of various kinds for determining with accuracy the rapidity with which the nerves act as conductors of impressions. In Helmholtz’s experiments the rapidity was estimated at 86 6 feet per second for the frog, and by another method at 89^4 feet, whilst for the human subject it was estimated at about i96'8 feet. In the experiments made by Schelske (‘ Archiv f. Anatomie,’ &c., 1864, p. 151) and by Hirsch (‘Moleschott’s Untersueh.,’ Ed. 9, p. 183) it was calculated to be from 98-4to ni'5 feet per second; and very recently Dr. Kohlrausch (‘ Henle und Pfeuffer’s Zeits. f. Rat. Med.,’ Ed. 28, 1866, p. 190) has determined the rapidity for the human subject to be higher than any of the above estimates, amounting, in fact, to 3o8-3 feet per second. Dr. Munch has shown that the velocity of conduction increases as the nerve approaches the muscle, and V. Bezold that it is diminished in the electrotonic state. The performance of reflex operations in general occupies a considerable space of time, as much as ten or twelve times longer than that required for the mere transmission of the impression through the sensory and motor nerves. The period required for a mental operation can even be estimated. The time taken up by such an operation of the brain, for instance, as is required for the person to determine what coloured light is suddenly exhibited to him, amounts to •200 of a second, provided the colours are previously known ; but if the colours are not known, as much as '354 of a second is required; the difference, '154 second in the latter instance, being obviously the time spent by the mind in determining the fact. The time required by the subject of the experiment to determine on which side he is touched amounts to "067 second, and the time occupied in receiving and answering a signal through the auditory nerve is '149 second. Dr. Radcliffe (‘Proceed, of the Roy. Soc.,’ vol. 15, p. 156) has con- structed an instrument, on the principle of a condenser, by means of which he has been enabled to show that electricity endowed with a con- siderable amount of tension is commonly present on the surface of our bodies, and of nerve and muscle and other tissues, and that the currents made known by the galvanometer, to which so much attention has been paid of late, are secondary phenomena, developed accidentally by placing the ends of the coil of the galvanometer so as to include points in which the electricity is different in degree. Nay, he observes, it would seem that these currents may in reality be a retarded discharge of statical electricity; for it is a fact that they cannot be detected without a coil of