306 REPORT ON SURGERY. in some cases last more than a few minutes before the current above is stopped. If, on making the pressure above and arresting the pulsation, the sac remains full, the object is attained, and time is merely required to allow the blood then liquid to coagulate in the sac. In other cases it may be prudent to continue both compressions for a longer time.” Dr. Mapother, “ Case of Ilio-femoral Aneurism cured by Pressure on the Common Iliac and Superficial Femoral Arteries, under the influence of Chloroform.” (‘Dublin Med. Press,’ Mar. 29, 1865.)—In this important paper Dr. Mapother relates the history of a successful attempt to extend the treatment by compression to aneurism within the belly, as had been done in the case under the care of Dr. Murray, of Newcastle- on-Tyne, of which an abstract will be found in the ‘ Year-Book ’ for 1864, p. 122. Dr. Mapother also refers to a case under the care of Mr. Heath, of the Newcastle Infirmary, where the aorta was successfully compressed for 7 hours under chloroform, on account of an aneurism of the external iliac. In Dr. Mapother’s case, which appears to have been an aneurism of considerable size, involving the external iliac and femoral, an unsuccessful application of pressure with the thumbs and a compress by a relay of students, on the common iliac artery as it passes over the 5th lumbar vertebra, was first tried for 6 days and nights, with the exception of 4 hours’ rest in the 24,the sensibility being blunted by opium, and large doses of tannic acid and bromide of potassium being given. After this had failed instrumental compression on the right common iliac artery (about one inch below and half an inch to the right side of the umbilicus) was kept up under chloroform for 12 hours,from 8 a.m.to 8 p.m. About 7 p.m. severe vomiting came on, followed by frequent rigors. Ac- cordingly the administration of chloroform was suspended, and then the patient immediately found the pressure intolerable, so it had to be withdrawn. No effect was produced on the tumour.* The patient was left very prostrate and discouraged, and a red painful patch on the skin was caused by the compression. Five days afterwards a fresh and successful attempt was made to cure the disease. The bowels and bladder were previously emptied; a roller was tightly applied to the affected limb to facilitate the return of the venous blood and prevent oedema. The patient was brought fully under chloroform. A horse- shoe instrument (Signorini’s tourniquet) with an appropriately shaped pad was applied one inch above the umbilicus, and therefore to the end of the abdominal aorta. Skey’s tourniquet was placed on the common femoral artery, just as it quitted the sac. Pressure was commenced at 9 a.m., and for the first hours the pulsation was occasionally repro- duced by the patient shifting his position. After this time, the com- pressor having been secured by bandages and pads, no more pulsation appears to have gone on in the tumour, although, as the femoral artery on the sound side pulsated, the aorta could not have been compressed. Dr. Mapother accordingly concludes that the pad had been shifted on to the upper end of the right common iliac, which in that case must * It should be noted that the stoppage of the circulation was never complete for more than a few minutes, from the difficulty of applying the instrument and the movements of the patient.