224 ItEPORT ON SURGERY. frequently performed. The returns to October, 1864, give 132 cases, of which 52 recovered and 64 died. In 6 cases amputation of the thigh was subsequently performed, with 3 recoveries and 3 deaths. In 10 cases the result is undetermined. These figures are encouraging ; and if we look at the primary operations alone, the result is still more gra- tifying. Of 49 cases of primary amputation at the knee-joint, 31 re- covered and 16 died, while 2 underwent reamputation, of whom 1 recovered and 1, a tuberculous subject, died. This gives a per-centage of mortality in primary amputations at the knee-joint of 34'p. The mortality in primary amputation at the lower third of the thigh is much larger than this ; indeed, it has been already indisputably proved by the Crimean statistics and by M. Malgaigne that the mortality in amputation augments in exact proportion as the incisions approach the trunk. At the Army Medical Museum there is a photograph, accompanying specimen 2778, of the fine, well-rounded stump of Private Nevelling The objection to amputations at the knee-joint, that the resulting stump is ill-adapted to the use of an artificial limb, is set at rest by the results obtained by Hudson and other manufacturers, who distinctly declare that the stumps from the operation at the knee-joint give a base of support far better than any possibly to be gained in thigh-stumps. It is probable that the more extended experience of the late war will lead surgeons to share the convictions of Macleod, Baudens, and Mal- gaigne, that this operation is altogether preferable to the amputation at the lower third of the thigh. Reference may be made on this subject also to Mazanowski, in ‘ Lan- genbeck’s Archiv,’ 1865, vii, p. 489, and Zeis, ibid., p. 764; but our space does not allow of our abstracting their papers. Their experience of the operation is hardly so favorable as that of the American surgeons.* On amputation of the leg, by a long rectangular flap from the calf. By Henry Lee, Surgeon to St. George’s Hospital. (‘ Med.-Chir. Trans.,’ xlviii, p. 195).—Mr. Lee recommends the amputation of the leg by a long and short rectangular flap, as in Mr. Teale’s method, only that he forms his long flap from the back of the leg instead of the front, as Mr. Teale proposes, including in the flap only the superficial layer of muscles, and leaving the deep muscles with the vessels to be divided as high up as possible near the section of the bones. In this opera- tion Mr. Lee says that “ the long flap thus formed is much thicker than when taken from the front. It is consequently much less liable to slough. It affords a much more efficient protection to the ends of the bones, and a thicker and softer pad upon which to rest a part of the weight of the body when an artificial leg is applied. Mr. Lee appends short notes of 5 cases in which he has performed the operation, 1 of which proved fatal. In the others the condition of the stump after recovery illustrated the advantages of the method. * While these sheets arc passing through the press we notice an interesting paper on this subject by Mr. Longmore (‘Brit. Med. Journal,’ Jan. 5, 1867).