CONSTITUTIONAL SYPHILIS. 75 liver, M. Lancereaux has found chronic inflammation of this organ in only in 35 cases among about 130. He does not attempt to explain this difference ; but remarks that most of the cases of chronic inflam- mation have occurred in persons subjected to hard labour, while fatty degeneration was almost always met witli in those of sedentary habits. We do not know how the lesions are produced; but M. Lancereaux thinks that the one first described—the chronic inflammation—is due to the direct action of alcohol, and resembles closely the effect produced on the tunica vaginalis by the injection of alcoholic fluids. This idea he believes to be supported by the fact that the portal vein, the liver, and the pulmonary artery—the parts most exposed to the influence of the alcohol—are those most frequently affected. The fatty degeneration he believes to he connected witli an impairment of nutrition and a dimi- nished elimination of carbonic acid. M. Lancereaux draws a comparison between the degeneration pro- duced by alcohol and that which attends old age. In both there are progressive atrophy of the encephalon, increase of the cerebro-spinal fluid, granular and fatty changes in the small vessels, in the muscular structure of the heart, and in most of the elementary tissues, dilatation of the pulmonary vesicles, ossification of the costal cartilages, and thin- ning of the substance of the bones, which is replaced by fatty matters. It may without exaggeration be asserted that, both physiologically and pathologically, alcoholism produces premature old age. In the course of most acute diseases the modifications observed in the old man and in the drunkard differ but little. Lor instance, a young man, the subject of chronic alcoholism, has pneumonia. The disease presents the cha- racters and the severity of the pneumonia of the aged. It attacks the apices, and has a tendency to form abscess ; it is attended by a certain amount of restlessness, delirium, hallucination, and ataxic or adynamic symptoms, and frequently ends in death from asthenia. These remarks are equally applicable to most other diseases, and indicate that the acute diseases which occur in the subjects of chronic alcoholism, as well as in the aged, present special indications of treatment. On the diagnosis of chronic alcoholism, see Anstie, * Lancet,’ i, 1866, p. 399. Constitutional Syphilis. Prof. Jaksch* writes on syphilitic paralyses in general, and especially hemiplegia and paraplegia. Of syphilitic hemiplegia Jaksch has collected 52 cases, 12 of which were in his own practice. He remarks that among the symptoms commonly classed under the term hemiplegia no notice has been taken of affections of the muscles of inspiration and expiration, and the other muscles of the trunk. Tet this is a most important point, since palsy of the respiratory muscles may well be the cause of rapidly fatal mis- chief, by producing a deadly form of pneumonia usually called “ hypo- static,” more fitly “paralytic.” In the author’s 52 cases he has not found one in which paralysis of the muscles of the trunk had been * ’ Prag. Med. Wochnsch.,’ 44—52, 1865; ‘Schmidt’s Jahrb.,5 1865.