195 ACUPRESSURE. suitable operations to give the patient the benefit of this new pro- ceeding. But shortening the period occupied in arresting hsemorrhage is not only important for diminishing one of the real dangers of an operation, namely, that from loss of blood, but also for lessening the risk of the more remote dangers from suppuration, and many distressing results of the higher grades of the inflammatory process in the stump. I have long thought we are too apt to forget that living tissues are resentful of even slight injuries, and that we are not sufficiently careful to use the sponge as seldom and as gently as possible. Whatever shortens the period of haemorrhage must diminish the risk from fre- quent touching of the parts. “ That acupressure can be applied with the greatest facility and ease any surgeon may satisfy himself by giving it a trial. Bor ari’iving at a just appreciation of acupressure, one of the most important points to be determined is, the effect of its use on the frequency of pyaemia, which is admitted by all to hold a high place among the causes of death after great operations. It is only by the careful observation and record of a long series of cases that this question can be definitely de- termined. It will, however, be generally admitted that whatever promotes primary union diminishes, and that which induces suppuration increases, the tendency to pyremia. Primary union never does nor can take place throughout the whole of a wound where the arteries have been ligatured; but where they have been acupressed that desirable result is often obtained, and the risk of the occurrence of pyaemia entirely obviated. Whatever be the alterations which take place in the blood in pyaemia, and whether the morbific matters are absorbed, imbibed, or generated in the blood, passing through an unhealthy in- flamed tissue, there can be no doubt that for the occurrence of pyaemia inflammation of, or having a tendency to assume, a suppurative cha- racter is absolutely necessary. The presence of purulent irritating and decomposing materials, and more or less of devitalized tissue at every point of deligation, renders it highly probable that the risk of pyaemia is much greater after ligature than after acupressure, which does not usually give rise to these untoward local results. Acu- pressure requires a far briefer sojourn of the foreign body in the wound; the obliterating foreign body is safer and less irritating, because it is of a metallic and not of a textile nature, and the acu- pressure needle does not cause that mechanical division and strangu- lation of the arterial coats which is the inevitable result of the application of the ligature. “ I considered it a duty to give acupressui’e a fair trial, I wished to form an unprejudiced judgment regarding it; and the conclusion at which I have arrived is, that it has many and great advantages over the ligature; I have therefore resolved, in all suitable cases, to give it the preference.” In the ‘ Edin. Med. Journ.,’ July, 1865, p. 39, Dr. Watson treats of “ acupressure as a hmmostatic agent.” The operations in which he used acupressure are nine in number. Some of them have previously been published, or alluded to in the ‘ Lancet ’ for April 1, 1865. They are of a miscellaneous nature—some of them of much gravity (for instance,