REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 40 nation the special intestinal lesions of typhoid fever were discovered. The liver and spleen were greatly enlarged. In the thigh was a cavity as large as a fist, formed by the aponeurosis of the vastus internus, which in that part was reduced to the condition of a blackish pulp. The inflammation extended only a short distance downwards, but the whole of the upper part of the muscle was affected in various degrees. There were found hypersemia of the interfibrillar areolar tissue; dis- coloration and friability of the muscular fibres, which were surrounded by a dark-red exudation; rupture of blood-vessels; haemorrhages ; blackish, soft, and defibrinated clots; and a reddish-yellow pus, some- times disseminated, sometimes collected in small abscesses. In no part was there found the yellow healthy pus arising from suppuration of the cellular tissue; but yellowish points, not yet liquefied, denoted the fatty degeneration of the muscular fibres. There was no inflammation on the gluteal or inguinal regions, or in the pelvis. In the second case a man aged 24 was admitted on the tenth day of an attack of ataxic typhoid fever, and died 16 days afterwards. Four days before death the patient, who had never complained of pain in the abdomen, felt slight pain in the hypogastric region. A slight prominence existed at the lower part of the recti muscles. After death no change was found in the skin or peritoneum at this point; but on opening the sheath of the recti muscles it was found to contain in its lower third blackish clots, which had separated, softened, and in some places destroyed the muscular fibres. Some of the fibres, when separated from the clot, appeared pale, but there was no trace of fatty degeneration or of pus. This case M. Dauve regards as one of muscular apoplexy, of the kind described by M. Cruveilhier. The third case was that of a man aged 22, who died on the 30th day of an attack of a dynamic typhoid fever. The internal obturators, pyriformes, gemelli, and levatores ani, were found to be the seats of clots, and the right obturator internus also contained purulent sanies. None of these patients had any signs of scurvy, and M. Dauve attributes the lesion described to the influence of the in- salubrious state of the camp, together with cold and wet. Dr. B. Ball relates the following :—A man, aged 35, a stone-cutter, was admitted into hospital under M. Piorry, with typhoid fever, and died in 12 days. He had no convulsions, and did not at any time com- plain of pain in the situation of the recti muscles of the abdomen. A post-mortem examination was made by Dr. Ball 24 hours after death ; the weather was cold, and the body presented no traces of decomposition. The rectus muscle on the left side was almost completely torn across at its middle part. The torn fibres had soft rounded ends, lying irregu- larly side by side. At some points the distance between the torn ends was about four fifths of an inch. The rupture did not extend to the anterior and external part of the muscle. There was much ecchymosis, and a large amount of effusion of blood in the sheath of the muscle. Examined under the microscope, the muscle at the point of rupture presented a granular structure, and was infiltrated with a large quan- tity of fatty globules. The transverse strise part disappeared for a distance of several millimetres ; beyond this the muscle retained its normal structure. The muscle on the right side was also torn, but