153 PARACENTESIS THORACIS. effusion. He believes there is not the least ground for supposing that serum ever becomes pus in a closed cavity ; and, on the other hand, it is notorious that pus is formed quite asjreadily in shut cavities as in those exposed to the air. Then, again, pus multiplies with such extraordinary rapidity that there is every motive for evacuating it as soon as possible. It is proved by the direct experiments of Nysten and Hewson that air injected into the pleural cavity does not the least harm to the serous membrane. Finally, there is good reason for supposing that air always exists within the pleura. The tendency of the whole question is, therefore, to an operation in all ordinary cases. If this be the case it should be performed early. No one, certainly, would think of puncturing the chest in the very acute stage of a pleurisy unless there were impending suffocation ; but the passage from the acute stage to effusion is sharp and speedy, and the longer the operation is delayed the greater becomes the risk, and the less the chance of success. Nevertheless, the fact that adhesions have partially bound down the lung is not to be taken as a barrier to thoracentesis, for we can never predicate the extent to which the air-cells are still dilatable; and it is important that this operation should be performed before the lymph lining the pleura has time to assume a fibro-cellular structure, after which there will be little chance of absorption taking place. As to the conditions which are conven- tionally said to contra-indicate thoracentesis, Fraser says that—(i) Tuberculosis is only doubtfully a bar, for the continuance of fluid in the pleura is sure to set up tuberculous action in the compressed lung ; yet the few statistics existing certainly seem to indicate that tuberculous subjects bear the operation badly. (2) Bronchitis is no bar, because, if not already present, it is sure to be set up from the increased strain put upon the lung. (3) Diseases of the heart will not be precipitated, and will be more probably benefited, by the operation. In cases where the fluid reforms, Dr. Fraser recommends the use of the drainage-tube so highly commended by Dr. Hamilton Boe and Dr. Fincham. Dr. Chvostek,* in the course of a series of clinical papers on pleurisy, which are too long for us to analyse, makes some remarks on thoracentesis. In the case of mere serous effusion this is only a palliative measure, directed, usually, to the removal of danger to life caused by pressure on the heart, lungs, &c. It is therefore indicated—(1) if the effusion is so large that it not only compresses the lung on the affected side, but affects the lung of the healthy side, and the heart, and great vessels; (2) if the fluid is still increasing; and (3) if, correspondent^, there are signs of insufficient respiration. Only so much fluid is to be withdrawn as the reaction of the compressed organs spontaneously expels ; the entrance of air is thus prevented. Thoracentesis is to be performed in all cases of empyema, and the entrance of air into the pleura is not of much consequence. M. Piorry proposesf a new (?) method of thoracentesis. He punctures the chest with a trocar and canula, to the latter of which an elastic catheter is attached, which dips at its free end into a basin of tepid water. The canula is guarded by a tap, and this is shut during inspira- * ‘ Wien. Med. Wochenbl./ 1865. f ‘ Bull, de l’Academie de Med./ xxx, p. 534.