460 REPORT ON MEDICAL JURISPRUDENCE. * ‘Ann. d’Hvg.,’ 2eme serie, xxlii, p. 108. the action of the latter alkaloid was longer continued. The cerebral effects of these alkaloids also are antagonistic. The headache and phantasms of atropia are certainly controlled by morphia, and so are also the partial deafness and the visual defects which the former drug occa- sions. Conversely, when morphia has been fully used, the drowsiness and stupor, which are the best tests of its power, disappear under the influence of atropia. On the other hand, the dryness of the mouth caused by atropia is not made less by the coincident or previous use of morphia. Atropia does not constipate, and may even relax the bowels; morphia has an opposite tendency. The nausea caused by morphia is neither prevented nor removed by atropia. In their action on the urinary organs there is a great similarity between these two alkaloids. In a dose of -p1^ to of a grain atropia produces dysuria, resembling that often observed after the administration of morphia. The power of removing pain which is possessed by morphia (and in which these ob- servers find atropia to be altogether wanting) is in no degree lessened by the administration of the two alkaloids together. It is therefore sug- gested that, by injecting morphia and atropia simultaneously, it would be possible to obtain the anodyne effects of the former agent, without the disagreeable cerebral symptoms which it often causes when used by itself. It appears from the investigations to which I have been re- ferring that the alkaloids in question are mutually antidotal, so far as their toxic effects on the cerebral organs are concerned, but that this antagonism does not extend throughout the whole range of their action. Bloodstains. M. Eoussin discusses* some of the chief methods of determining the nature of spots supposed to consist of blood. After asserting that the various chemical reactions which have been proposed are valueless, he disposes summarily of the process which depends on the formation of blood-crystals. Their composition is, he says, problematical; their form is neither definite nor constant, and their production is the result of chance and of an accidentally successful evaporation, rather than a con- stant occurrence. This test, therefore, is neither rigorous nor con- stant, and thus is deficient in the most essential characters of a scientific procedure. M. Eoussin attaches very great importance to the determination of the exact diameter of blood-corpuscles by the microscope. It is true that this is liable to be affected by endosmosis, and therefore the bi- concave form and the exact diameter of -pig- of a millimetre are found only when the discs have undergone no change. For the preservation of fresh blood he recommends a mixture containing 3 parts by weight of ordinary glycerine, 1 part of concentrated sulphuric acid, and sufficient distilled water to give a specific gravity of 1028. The sulphuric acid and glycerine prevent the evaporation of the water, so that the liquid remains of nearly constant density. The best method of examining a suspected stain is to cut out a little piece of the texture on which it is