310 REPORT ON SURGERY. “On Vascular Protrusion of the Eyeball.” By Thomas Nunneley, E.B.C.S., of Leeds (‘Med.-Chir. Trans.,’ xlviii, p.16).—In this paper Mr. Nunneley continues the communication which he has already made in a previous volume of the ‘ Transactions’ on those cases which were ori- ginally described by Travers as aneurisms by anastomosis within the orbit, and which have since (chiefly on the authority of Mr. Busk and Mr. Curling) been commonly received as true aneurisms (whether spon- taneous or traumatic) of the ophthalmic artery in the orbit. Mr. jVunneley’s object, in the present paper, is to show that “in the great majority of such cases there is no disease whatever in the orbit; the seat of it is most commonly intra-cranial. The protrusion of the eyeball is passive, and the other distressing symptoms are secondary, depending upon obstruction to the return of blood through the ophthalmic vein, just as happens in those cases of popliteal and axillary aneurisms where the limb swells below the tumour, because this presses upon the accom- panying vein. That this pressure, in the great majority of acute spon- taneous cases, is caused by an aneurism of the carotid as it emerges into the cranium, or of the ophthalmic artery near to its origin, is, I think, now certainly proved. In cases of traumatic origin, supervening soon after severe injury to the head, the cause is, most probably, eflused blood near to or within the cavernous sinus, while in those cases where the protrusion does not come on till some time after the receipt of the injury it may be serum, or fibrine, or even pus, the result of suppuration in the sinus.” Mr. Nunneley gives four cases of his own, upon wrhich he bases this opinion. In the first, however, the operation of tying the carotid was successful and the patient is still in good health, and in the second all treatment was declined, so that no positive information is obtained from these cases. In the third the patient died about a year and a half after the ligature of the carotid. The disease proved to be a malignant tumour, affecting the bones of the skull, filling the orbit, and oblite- rating the cavernous sinus and ophthalmic vein. The fourth case is the account of the post-mortem examination of a patient on whom Mr. Nunneley had tied the carotid for this affection five years previously. The disease proved to be intra-cranial aneurism of the ophthalmic artery, with no visible disease in the orbit. Mr. Nunneley also refers to a well-known case in which Mr. Bowman tied the carotid artery for a supposed aneurism, and where, the patient having died from the operation, no disease was found except suppuration in the cavernous sinus. Mr. Nunneley remarks upon the frequency with which bronchocele exists in these cases of vascular protrusion of the eye. Mr. Nunneley concludes by calling attention to the fact that “in the only 4 cases where post-mortem examinations have been made no tumour, aneurismal or otherwise, has existed in the orbit We cannot rely too much upon Mr. Guthrie’s case, where the symptoms during life are not very distinctly set forth.” In the more acute cases Mr. Nuuneley believes that the carotid should be tied, and mentions that he has performed the operation 6 times, and in 5 with success. Pressure on the carotid he regards with