294 REPORT ON SURGERY. incli in length was cut out.” The relief was immediate and permanent. The patient’s condition in Jan., 1865 (about 3 years after the operation) is minutely described. It will he sufficient to say that both the sterno- mastoid and trapezius muscles were paralysed aud completely wasted, except a very small portion at the upper part of the former muscle, which was as large and acted as strongly as on the opposite side. The affection for which the operation had been performed was entirely cured. Some curvature of the spine existed, which was attributed to the indirect influence of the paralysis of the trapezius muscle. Mr. de Morgan appends some interesting remarks on the physiology of the spinal accessory nerve, as illustrated by this case. “The Radial (Musculo-spiral) Nerve compressed in an Accidental Bony Canal, the result of a fracture of the Humerus; disengagement of the nerve by an operation; cure of the palsy.” By M. Ollier (‘ Gaz. Hebdomadaire,’ 1865, p. 515).—M. Ollier remarks that when palsy follows on the mechanical compression of a nerve by an irregular callus (a very rare event), it is not under the command of electricity or other means which are available against contusion or transitory distension of a nerve. In the following case M. Ollier successfully adopted an operation for the cure of this condition, which has not been previously attempted. The patient, a labourer, ret. 22, had suffered a compound fracture of the right humerus at the level of the musculo-spiral groove at the junction of the lower J-ths with the upper Jths of the bone. The lower fragment seems to have pierced the skin. The arm was kept in a starch splint for 40 days. Lacerating pains were experienced at first. These ceased as the fracture united. At the end of the 40 days all the extensor muscles of the hand were found paralysed. Four months afterwards M. Ollier saw him. The bone was slightly swollen at the seat of fracture, and at the back part especially there were marked irregularities. It was firmly united. The forearm was somewhat atrophied. There was complete palsy of all the muscles supplied by the musculo-spiral, and electricity had no effect on them. Sensibility was much diminished in the thumb and forefinger. Pressure on the nerve above the seat of fracture excited sharp pain in a point at the posterior aspect, in the situation of the musculo-spiral groove. Below this no sensation could be elicited by pressure around the callus, but below where the nerve emerges between the supinator longus and brachialis anticus it seemed as if it could be found again, inasmuch as the patient felt a disagreeable sensation, and described some vague pricking sensations, particularly along the back of the forearm to below the wrist. Still, these sensations were not very clearly described, and it could not be positively determined whether they were due to pressure on the musculo-spiral or the cutaneous branch either of the musculo-cutaneous or radial. It seemed probable, however, on the whole, that the musculo-spiral nerve was either compressed by the callus or partially ruptured at the seat of fracture. The integrity of function of the triceps seemed to show that the lesion must be seated below the commencement of the musculo-spiral groove, where the branches for that muscle are given off. M. Ollier came to the. con-