394 DEPORT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. resulting from renewed coitus, the impregnation of a second ovum falling into the uterus is very possible. Superfoetation depends upon the following conditions:—i. During pregnancy an ovum must ripen and reach the uterine mucous membrane. That menstrual congestion often occurs during pregnancy is undoubted; menstrual bleeding also takes place; that a ripe ovum may reach the decidua can scarcely be denied, nor can the possibility of its being impregnated there. 2. The semen must be able to reach the ovum; the cervical mucus is no obstacle, and the route from the vagina to the Fallopian tubes is open until the decidua reflexa is consolidated with the decidua vera; this happens only after twelve weeks, so that, as Matthews Duncan has already shown, there is possibility of superfoetation in the first three months of gestation. And in hydrops uteri gravidi projluens, in which copious fluid secretion is thrown off by the mucous membrane, this route must remain open during the whole of pregnancy. And in uterus duplex . subsequent foetation may take place in the empty half. 3. In plural pregnancies the embryos often exhibit different degrees of deve- lopment. These cases fall under two categories. 4. Embryos carried together have come to birth together, or within a short interval, their widely different development suggesting superfoetation. To this order belong the cases of simultaneous uterine and extra-uterine gestation. If an extra-uterine foetus have died, a fresh uterine or extra-uterine pregnancy can take place, an event called superfcetatio impropria. To this order belong also those cases in which the unequal embryos ai’e born quickly one after the other. Of these, both embryos have plainly been dead for a long time; and the changes in the bodies gives no indi- cation as to the epoch of impregnation. Or, only the smaller embryo has been long dead; in such a case the difference of development is always attributable to the death of one during pregnancy. Or, only the larger embryo has been long dead; such cases are very rare. Kussmaul relates two. In both the uterus was double, and there was probably “ superfoetatio impropria.” Or, both embryos may be born living, or dead, in very different stages of development. Such cases are very rare. The most striking is that of Dr. E. L. Meissner ; the chil- dren, of which the first was immature, died during extraction, the other died twelve days after birth, being fourteen and a half inches long; they were contained in the same ovum, in the same chorion; they had thus the same starting-point of development, and might be regarded as an example of true superfoetation. Still more frequently it happens in triple births that one or two of the embryos imbedded in the same or in different ova have been retarded in development. The second cate- gory embraces the cases where contemporaneously carried embryos were born at long intervals without their difference iu development answering to the difference of their periods of birth. From all, Schultze concludes that, although the possibility of superfoetation canuot be denied, the cases hitherto published do not establish the fact. See also a critical inquiry regarding superfoetation by Dr. G-. L. Bonnnr (‘Edin. Med. Jour.,’ 1865). Abnormal or ectopic qestation is illustrated in the following cases: