DWELLINGS FOB THE POOH, 487 nuisance, that they are “ enough to breed a pestilence,” and that they show how much worse off a country must be where the owners are small and poor, and demand rents beyond the means of the labourers. But it is argued by Dr. Hunter that they are in reality the necessary complement of the close villages, with their neatness and beauty, and that, were it not for the small owners, who let the cottages to the poor, the latter would have to sleep under the trees. Still, the condition of the cottages in these villages is most deplorable. They are abandoned by persons of competent means—the penal settle- ment for people of bad character from all the country round. One sees miserable hovels, neglected cabbage-gardens. The labourers’ houses are usually in rows, built with their backs against the extreme edge of the plot of ground which was at the disposal of the builder. Hence they are not allowed light or air, except from the front. (^5375 cottages, Dr. Hunter found that 2195 contained one bed- room only, 2930 two bedrooms, and 250 more than two. The conse- quences of such a state of things, where there is a family of grown-up sons and daughters, may be easily imagined. He says, however, that the general result of his inquiries was a disbelief that public morality is vitally affected by the crowding in rural villages. Indeed, when a third bedroom exists, it is very rarely occupied by the family themselves, being generally let to one or more lodgers. Hence Dr. Hunter does not think it advisable to multiply the number of bedrooms in cottages. He gives a sketch of the plan which he would recommend for the building of a row of cottages. In the £ Eighth Report’* is contained a report by Dr. Hunter “ On the housing of the poorer pai’ts of the population in towns.” The broad results of this inquiry are stated by Mr. Simon as showing “ that neither against degrees of crowding, which conduce immensely to the multiplication of disease [as well as to obvious moral evils, nor against the use of dwellings which are permanently unfit for human habitation, can local authorities in towns, except to a certain extent in some privi- leged places, exercise any effectual control. Resulting from (or at least attributable to) this powerlessness of the authorities, which only sometimes was supplemented by strained constructions of the law, the evils in question were found very abundantly, one or both of them, in operation. Especially were they seen abounding in some of the chief places which were visited—perhaps worst in parts of the metropolis, and in Bristol, Merthyr, Newcastle, Plymouth, and Sunderland.” The following are the powers which, in Mr. Simon’s opinion, “ it is most of all desirable that local authorities should be able and willing to exercise against the evils in question.” I. “ To deal universally with overcrowding, on the basis of its being technically a ‘ nuisance,’ and to take, as the sole test of overcrowding, the proportion borne by the number of occupants to the size and ven- tilation of given space.” (Mr. Simon thinks that the law ought not to be based on the assump- * Appendix, p. 50.