SUBPERIOSTEAL RESECTION. 263 be; and when the periosteum has been destroyed the regeneration is inconstant, incomplete, and irregular.” These facts, says the reviewer, are of a nature to damp the enthusiasm of those who will reflect a little. Is it not difficult to dissect the periosteum from the bone without injuring it? Is it not to be apprehended that, if left at the bottom of a suppurating cavity, it will perish, as in Desgranges’ case, reported to the Medical Congress at Lyons (‘Graz. Med. de Lyon,’ Dec. 1864). Besides this, it must be recollected that in sick men the same results cannot be anticipated as in healthy animals, and that in general, in an adult animal (especially if diseased), the regeneration of bone by the periosteum may be slow, irregular, incomplete, and even entirely absent. The first and second parts of M. Creus’s work being given to the physiological and surgical theory of the matter, the third treats of the results obtained in practice. M. Creus is (says his reviewer) a partisan of the method, and is disposed to accept all the alleged facts, even those published by Larghi, of the resection of the ilium, followed by its re- production in four months, and of the formation of a new caput humeri in two months. Still, he occasionally complains of the want of details ; and several of the cases published in France deserve, says M. Sarazin, a more severe judgment. Thus he speaks with evident incredulity of a well- known case of alleged subperiosteal resection of the lower jaw, in whicli the teeth were said to be left floating, and attached only to the gums, and to have afterwards become fixed and encrusted by a new alveolar process (alluding, probably, to Maisonueuve, ‘ Clin. Chir.,’ i/p. 616). In this, as in many other cases, M. Sarazin believes the proceeding to have been no more than the ordinary removal of a sequestrum. M. Creus has collected 44 cases—two in his own practice—of one of which the chief points are here given. The patient was a man 29 years of age, affected with “ ulcerating osteitis” of the left tibia. The periosteum was separated, and a portion of the shaft removed, which measured 16 centimetres behind and 19 in front. “A new bone was developed between June 10 (the date of operation) and Dec. 31; but further disease in the old bone showed itself, more operations were re- quired to chisel away the diseased part, and it was not till 2 years after the original operation that the wounds were completely healed. There is iio distinct account here of the length of the new bone. All that is said is that there was some lameness from too great laxity of the knee-joint. M. Sarazin believes, however, that the real disease in this case was acute periostitis, and that the bone which was removed would have come away of itself, with more rapid and probably more regular reproduction, although, he says, the repi’oduction actually ob- tained leaves little to desire. M. Sarazin also calls attention to the fact that in all probability the whole diseased tissue was not removed, and the operation was obliged to be completed by the method of “ evidement” recommended by M. Sedillot, for which M. Sarazin professes a general preference over the method of subperiosteal resection, mainly on account of the less damage to the periosteum and the muscles, which he believes to be inflicted in the operation of “ evidement,” or “ scooping out” of the bone.