REPOUT ON SURGERY. 206 forms what the vulgar call ‘ the cord,’ and, in obedience to a very com- mon prejudice, the patient forcibly ruptures this cord, that is to say, produces laceration of the urethra.” In either case a cicatricial stric- ture is found, generally very resistent and retractile. This usually hap- pens early, before the inflammation has passed as far back as the bulb, so that strictures of this kind are generally situated in the spongy por- tion, and this may explain the more intractable character which is usually attributed to stricture in the anterior part of the urethra. The formation of chronic inflammatory stricture by the termination of granular urethritis has already been partly described. The stricture in its earlier period is formed of two elements, viz., the constriction of the walls, and the granulations. The former may be dilated by mechanical means, but so long as the latter are not cured the same process will recur. Hence the tendency to obstinate recurrence, after any amount of dilatation, observed in such strictures. If the granular ulceration be brought to heal the stricture can be permanently cured, when taken at a period anterior to the formation of organized cicatricial material in the submucous tissue. When this has taken place recur- rence is the rule, and radical cure only a rare exception. When sub- mucous exudation has occurred, but the cicatrix is not fully formed, mechanical dilatation is necessary. The details are given in p. 88 of a post-mortem examination in a case of old stricture, which had never been treated, to show the natural and usual composition of such a cica- tricial stricture, and its exact analogy to other cicatrices. Such cica- trices, the author says, will always recontract at once after any amount of dilatation, and the patient is in a condition which is intolerable, from the constant necessity for instrumental treatment, and very dangerous from his being exposed constantly to risks of rigors, cystitis, inflamma- tion of the urethra, &c. Urethrotomy is necessary in such cases, in order to substitute for the original cicatrix one less disposed to retrac- tion. The next point is to show how the endoscope furnishes the means of recognising these various conditions and fulfilling their indications. (4th Lect., p. 92.) M. Desormeaux first insists on this fact—that the endoscope is not meant to replace, nor to repeat, the indications furnished by the ordinary methods, i. e. those derived from the source of touch, and which furnish information more or less reliable as to the existence and seat of strictures, their number, their length, their calibre, their re- tractility, and their consistence ; but to supplement these indications by others drawn from the sense of sight, which gives evidence as to the colour and the configuration of the face of the stricture, and, further, the exact position of its orifice. First, as to the colour. During the period of transition, from the period of ulceration and granulation to that of cicatrization, the mucous membrane loses its pink, or even red, tinge, and becomes pale, greyish, or even pearly, in hue ; its rough surface also gives place to a smooth cicatricial tissue, which presents various forms of irregularity, of which illustrations are given (pi. i, figs 6—10). These various forms are classified in 3 groups—1, the funnel-shaped, which are the easiest to treat, but, unfortunately, also the rarest; 2, the mamillary, where there are one or several little pro-