ItBPORT ON SURGERY. BY T. HOLMES. The following extracts refer to new inventions in surgery which have appeared since the date of the last ‘Tear-Book,’ and which appear likely to come into general use. Acupressure*.—Sir J. Simpson’s proposal to substitute temporary pressure by needles and silver wire for permanent inclusion in a flexible ligature is, no doubt, familiar to most of our readers ; but as it was not included in the last ‘ Year-Book ’ (that for 1864, Sir J. Simpson’s work having only appeared quite late in that year), we feel it necessary to lay before our readers the main particulars of the method, and some account of the published experience of those surgeons who have used it. In a publication like the present we can only briefly advert to a very few of the main features of Sir J. Simpson’s volume of nearly 580 pages. His proposal may be put in a few words as follows:—The ligature of vessels, as practised since the time of Ambrose Pare, though a great improvement on the old plan of restraining hmmorrhage by escharotics and styptics, is yet defective, inasmuch as it involves the sloughing and reparation by an ulcerative process of the tissues (viz., the vessels and the adjacent structures sometimes) embraced in the knot, and thus renders primary union of the wound impossible ; besides that, when the ends of the ligatures are left hanging out, they interfere with the union of the edges, as foreign bodies. Several occasional drawbacks of the ligature are also pointed out by Prof. Simpson, e. g. that they may cause secondary haemorrhage, that they may remain im- movable for a length of time, &c. He also raises the question whether the complications of wounds (pyaemic and others) may not often be caused by the ulcerative process set up by the ligatures. Now, all these various inconveniences would, he thinks, be avoided by substi- tuting for the permanent ligature the temporary pressure of a me- tallic body, which is to be withdrawn after a time sufficient to allow of the coagulation of the blood in the vessels. This he effects by passing a * Sir James Simpson, ‘Acupressure; a New Method of arresting Surgical Haemor- rhage, and of accelerating the Healing of Wounds.’ Edinb. 1864. 13