413 CHILDBED fever. states; and the various inflammatory actions and products observed in the course of the disease would not be the essential parts of the disease, hut the morbid phenomena which occurred during the course of it. 6. The primary, though not the only, object in the prevention of these attacks of puerperal fever will, then, be to procure a firm, complete, and persistent contraction of the uterus after the birth of the child, and thus effectually to cut off circulation within the vessels of the organ. In a memoir (‘Mon. f. Geb.,’ 1865) on the etiology of puerperal fever, Dr. Carl Mayrhofer, assistant in Prof. Braun’s clinique at Vienna, brings forward arguments to show that the primary cause is the introduction of vibriones into the vagina. He first adduces the experiments of Bassi upon the muscardini in silkworms, which prove that the fungus called Botrytis Bassiana can actually cause the death of the silkworm by being transplanted to healthy worms. Mayrhofer collected from the uteri of women dead of puerperal fever secretions by means of a glass pump, and always found vibriones. That there is a real process of decomposition in the fluid contents of the genital canal in these cases of puerperal fever is admitted in the expressions “ septic enmetritis,” “putrid lochia,” “ putrescence of the uterus.” He believes that the presence of oxygen is of little moment in producing this. Vibriones are very seldom found in the lochia. The reason is that vibriones perish in fluids having acid reaction, and so long as the vaginal mucus retains its acid property vibriones will not | live or multiply. The acid reaction commonly lasts during labour until the rupture of the membranes, when the liquor amnii bathes the vagina with alkaline fluid. It is commonly by means of the examining finger that vibriones are carried to the upper part of the vagina. In connection with this it is remarked that women delivered out of hospital or in the street, although immediately afterwards admitted into hospital, usually escape puerperal fever, obviously because they escape examination. Again, protracted labour favours the injurious process in this way:—After rupture of membranes the head may be for a day or more upon the brim; the liquor amnii retained at this part becomes foul, fever sets in, and the uterus seems exhausted. Under these circumstances enme- tritis may arise, even during labour. Mayrhofer says here the liquor amnii is turned to putrid fermentation by vibriones, which are actually formed in such liquor amnii. He concludes generally that enmetritis arises from putrid fermentation of the fluids in the genital canal, and that if this be true, then, to maintain an acid condition of these fluids is to preserve the patient. He therefore uses hydrochloric acid to main- tain this condition. He combats the theory that puerperal fever depends primarily upon blood infection. Dr. Hervieux (‘ Gaz. Med. de Paris,’ 1865) states the following con- clusions from his researches on puerperal erysipelas. Like common erysipelas, it may be phlyctenoid, plilegmonous, or gangrenous. It may affect every part of the body, especially the face, nates, and ex- tremities. It may be sporadic or epidemic. There are two kinds of causes—local and general. The local are superficial tumours, lesions, and lacerations. Erysipelas of the nates may be caused by the lochial