54 REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. t ‘ Gaz. Med.,’ 46, 1861;. aid elimination, and, if necessary, to provoke it. 3. To prevent and combat the accidents with which it may be complicated. The first of these objects is to be carried out by not allowing the digestive process to interfere with elimination, i. e. by carefully regu- lating the diet. Slightly stimulant warm aqueous drinks, starch ene- mata, and rest in bed, have in many cases been sufficient for the recovery of the patients. They do not arrest diarrhoea, but they pro- tect the eliminatory work against disturbance from within or from without, and to them is due the credit often attributed to opiates. If the eliminatory process be not promptly and completely ter- minated, it should be aided by saline purgatives. Seidlitz water in doses of two or three glasses has the constant effect, when regulation of the diet is not sufficient, of putting an end to the diarrhoea. One precaution is necessary—the medicine should never be administered until a day after all food has been suspended; otherwise it may pro- duce indigestion, and even, as has occurred in some cases, hasten the development of cholera. When gastric symptoms, such as nausea, fulness of the stomach, and want of appetite, prevail, emetics of ipeca- cuanha are to be preferred. Guerin says that he has recommended the eliminatory treatment since 1832; and that, after an experience of three epidemics, he is fully convinced of its value. It is not the diar- rhoea alone which is attacked, but the disease. Under the treatment by elimination the cholerine does not pass into cholera; from the next day, or next day but one, the patient regains appetite and sleep, and loses his restlessness. Rational treatment aims also at preventing and remedying the acci- dents which attend the eliminatory process, such as pain and dysen- teric discharges. Here opiates are of real value; laudanum given by the mouth, and in enemata, diminishes excessive reaction, assuages pain and colic, and removes the dysenteric character of the intestinal discharges. In a word, it suppresses that which forms no proper part of the elimi- natory process. Guerin recommends that each dose of an aperient should be preceded and followed by an enema containing laudanum. Dr. Wilks* speaks strongly of the entirely negative effect of “ astringents.” There has been no drug found capable of “ astringing” in cholera, and it is therefore idle to talk of the good or evil effect of such remedies. M. Lislef gives his experience of the use of sulphate of copper. Of 36 patients treated by ordinary measures, 28 died; of 32 treated with sulphate of copper, 7 died. About -jb grain of sulphate of copper and a very minute quantity of opium is given every quarter or every half hour, according to the severity of the case; it is continued till the tem- perature of the skin and the tongue is restored, and the pulse begins to be raised. Dr. BurgJ also recommends sulphate of copper, about Jth grain, by the stomach, and 3 to 8 grains by enema, every hour or two, and an ointment with sulphate of copper and belladonna to be rubbed in to the groins and axillae. * ‘Lancet,’ July, 1866. f ‘ Gaz. Med.,’45, 1865.