136 REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE, I ‘Berlin. Klin. Wochensch.,’ xxvi, 1865. complete paraplegia and wasting of the legs, after spinal meningitis, in which a great improvement, not only of power, but of nutrition of the limbs, was rapidly produced. He also says that it is beneficial in loco- motor ataxy. In some other papers* he defines the difference between the effects of the continuous and the induced current in the following terms:—“ The induced current only acts on the parts directly sub- mitted to its influence unless a very high power be used ; while the con- tinuous current, by reflex action, also affects distant parts, and more especially the centres of the nervous system.” He instances as proofs of the influence of the continuous current on the centres, the possibility (a) of causing the pupil to contract by directing a large current to the lower cervical and upper dorsal vertebra; (b) of inducing a glow of warmth in the feet by sending a current through the lumbar portion of the spine, also the production of a flash of light before the eyes when the current is applied to the face. In actual practice Althaus finds that the interrupted current is of no use in centric paralysis as long as the original disease remains, though it is of great service in local paralytic affections caused e. g. by pressure, rheumatism, lead, &c. The continuous current, on the other hand, is useful in centric paralyses, especially in those dependent on effusion in the spinal canal and soften- ing of the cord, and in most instances of reflex paralysis where irritation is still present. In another paper Althaus gives numerous clinical illustrations of the practice above described. In a paper on the pathology and treatment of hysteria Althausf speaks of the highly beneficial effects of Faradisation on the symptoms of hysteria. Hyperassthesia of the surface is generally cured by 2 or 3 applications of a wire brush, carrying a powerful current, to the skin, for a few minutes each time. The process gives pain, and should either be done under chloroform or after subcutaneous injection of morphia. In hysterical anaesthesia the same current must be applied, only it must be maintained for 10 or 15 minutes at a time ; there is no pain here till the anaesthesia is dispelled. For anaesthesia of the nerves of special sense the continuous current is to be preferred. In anaes- thesia of the mucous membrane of the bladder, rectum, and vagina, Faradisation is to be used. Faradisation can only be employed in hysteria after the acute symptoms have subsided. It is of no use in hysterical paraplegia. (Here, as noticed in a former paper, Althaus recommends the continuous current.) Faradisation is useful in globus, spasmodic cough, dysphagia, and aphonia. Dr. Emil FliessJ has made a series of observations on the therapeutic influence of the constant galvanic current in cases of palpitation of the heart, whether from organic disease or mere excitement of the sympa- thetic (on von Bezold’s view of the function of this nerve). A current was applied, either in the upward or downward direction, to the vagus, at the inner border of the sterno-mastoid muscle; the idea, of course, being that the vagus is an inhibitory nerve to the heart, and if excited might compensate the over-action of the sympathetic, whicli caused the # Ibid., Aug. 12 and Sept. 2, 1865. f ‘ Brit. Med. Journ.,’ March 10, 1865.