189 PERINEPHRITIC ABSCESS. the crura of the diaphragm and the deep layer of the aponeurosis of the transversalis muscle. In front they are in relation with the ascending and descending colon; also they are in relation with the liver and the spleen. The fatty capsules are continuous with the cellular tissues of all the organs in the perinephritic region, the most important being the connection with the cellular tissue of the iliac regions. Hence it happens that the pus of perinephritic abscess will find its way with equal facility either into the subperitoneal or subaponeurotic cellular tissue. This continuity of tissues explains also the passage of the pus along the course of the iliac vessels down through Scarpa’s triangle, or to the lesser trochanter, beneath Poupart’s ligament. Moreover, the abscess may open at the point where lumbar hernia is sometimes ob- served. The several relations of the cellular tissue, in fact, explain the various directions in which perinephritic abscesses may run. The etiology of these abscesses is complex. Often they have a trau- matic origin wounds and blows, violent exercise or efforts, with exposure to cold, may cause them. The abscess does not always occur immediately after the injury. In some cases it seems to form long after the receipt of the injury. Calculous diseases of the kidneys also frequently produce these ab- scesses. In such cases they are preceded by colic and an altered urinary secretion. Sometimes calculi are discharged with the pus, and may be felt in the kidney by a probe. Their removal has been even recommended; but modern surgery prefers allowing them to escape spontaneously with the pus. Hydatids also may cause the abscess. Abscesses also form in this region, as elsewhere, in cases of fever, &c., where there is what is called a purulent diathesis. Not infrequently they appear in puerperal women after delivery. It is worthy of note that when perinephritic abscess is accompanied with pleurisy or pleuro- pneumonia, the pleurisy is almost always on the same side as the abscess, indicating a continuity of tissue as the explanation. Pain even may of itself, it is reasonable to believe, produce perinephritic abscess. Pain in the lumbar region is an important symptom, because for days and weeks it may be the only local symptom. There are also frequent febrile exacerbations, sometimes vomiting, and almost always great constipation and general weakness. After a time deep local swelling is perceptible. The tumour remains fixed during deep inspiration, showing that it is not connected with the liver. With the swelling there may also be extensive oedema of the lumbar, &c., regions. When- ever it is certain that abscess has formed it should be at once opened, to prevent the pus finding its way into the iliac fossae, &c. Peri- nephritic abscesses have been known to open even into the pleura and lungs. AVhen the abscess burrows extensively in this way it destroys the surrounding textures, and is generally fatal. Sometimes the pus may happily escape. Pathology of Floating Kidneys. Dr. Becquet* observes that of 33 cases of floating kidney collected by Pritz 30 were in women. The ages, with one exception, varied from 18 to * ‘ Arch. Gen. Gaz. Med.,’ 5, 1866.