325 SYPHILISATION. his views as to the exhaustion of the morhid matter through the slcin—that these remedies completely lost their effect in time. The integuments refused to respond to the irritants, and, what is more, after a course of frictions with tartar emetic the immunity was not merely local but general, for healthy portions of shin were proof against the action of the ointment. “ There is a close analogy between the action of this method and that of continuous inoculation. “ It must be remembered that the effects which follow the repeated application of external irritants are very inferior to those obtained from the inoculation of the virus of the soft sore. The first are simple pustules or ulcers, constantly tending to heal; the latter are specific ulcers, pursuing a longer and more active course, difficult of eradication, and produced by an agent of superior and more subtle powers. What- ever be the curative powers possessed by the first would reside much more strongly in the last; the immunity would not be nearly so speedily obtained, but on that account would be much more durable. Although Dr. Boeck maintains the immunity to be complete and per- manent after the virus from several fresh sources has been used and failed, and that matter from any source has no more effect than so much water, this is rather asserted than proved. Until those who have un- dergone syphilisation have been made the subjects of experiment at various intervals of time, such permanency has yet to be demonstrated. Until this has been done, it seems more consonant with pathological laws to suppose Prof. Paye’s explanation of the facts to be the true one, viz., that the result is a temporary immunity, be it short or long, of the over-stimulated skin, and that the cure of syphilis is due to the depuratory action of the skin, excited by successive inoculation. “ It may also be quoted, as a fact worthy the serious consideration of the profession, that the immunity itself is a thing not so easily pro- duced. During the four months that Prof. Boeck remained in this country he has produced, as was supposed, immunity in two patients only. Mr. James Lane was good enough, after the immunity was sup- posed to be established, to allow me to perform a fresh inoculation upon each patient. A specific pustule was in each case produced, and from one of these Mr. Lane himself inoculated.” As to the modus operandi of syphilisation, Mr. Lee calls attention to the great lapse of time which the treatment demands as in itself an im- portant source of possible fallacy, since the disease tends in many cases to a spontaneous cure, for statistics of which he refers to M. Diday’s ‘Llistoire Naturelle de la Syphilis.’ The progress of the disease to spontaneous cure may also, he thinks, be the explanation underlying the statement (if true) that it is necessary not to make the inoculations too numerous or too frequent, lest immunity be reached before the cure of the patient be established. As to the eradication of the virus from the system, Mr. Lee calls attention to the fact that some of the patients treated by syphilisation have exhibited tertiary symptoms; and considering the very long in- terval of time at which these symptoms may appear, others may yet occur. The best test (though imperfect) of the eradication of the virus