255 PECULIAR HYPERTROPHIC DISEASE OF BONE. These Dr. Allen classes as “pyaemoid.” In 8 cases lie asserts the absence of pyaemia. Along with Dr. Allen’s paper some cases of osteo-myelitis after amputations and wounds of bone by Dr. Gibbons may be consulted. They are quoted in the ‘New Tort Med. Journ.,’ April, 1866, p. 70, from the ‘ Pacific Med. and Surg. Journ.,’ Peb. 1866. In the ‘Pathological Transactions,’ xvii, p. 243, is the description, accompanied by accurate representations, of a very peculiar hyper- trophic disease of the cranial bones, hyoid bone, and fibula, from a man who had been a patient of Air. Bickersteth, of Liverpool, for several years, and who died at the age of 37. The bones of the face had begun to swell when he was 14 years of age, but it was not till 13 years after- wards that a similar swelling was observed to commence in the left fibula. For about 2 years before his death he began to suffer from severe pain both in the legs and head, and the cavities of the mouth and orbits became greatly lessened by the growth of their bony walls, so that the eyeballs were thrust out of the head, and a frightful ex- pression given to the countenance. The sight of one eye was lost; the other senses, intellect, mastication, and deglutition, were unaffected; but he died worn out by emaciation from protracted suffering. The viscera, as far as examined, were healthy. The disease consists in enormous enlargement of all the cranial bones (except the occipital, which is remarkably exempt from hypertrophy) and the facial bones, particularly the malar and inferior maxillary, as well as the hyoid bone. The malar bones form swellings as large as an orange on each cheek,* nearly meeting the frontal, and reducing the orbits to mere chinks ; and the lower jaw is also enormously enlarged. The whole of the outer surface of the skull is very vascular, but the inner seems only slightly affected. The fibula is so enormously enlarged that an accurate tracing of its section almost fills the (octavo) page of the volume, measur- ing inches by4-f. Accurate measurements of the various affected bones are given. In a report on the case by Dr. Murchison and Messrs. De Morgan and Hulke it is noticed that there are two somewhat similar specimens in the Hunterian Museum—one the skull of a Peruvian, in which many of the bones are enlarged, similarly but not to so great an extent as in the present case; and the other, a case in which the malar, orbital, and nasal bones bear a striking resemblance both in external and microscopic appearances to the present. These are accurately described in the report. The enlargement consists of a dense mass of ivory-like bone, with here and there an extremely delicate cancellous structure, springing from the surface of the original bone, which appears considerably expanded, and presents a thin shell, enclosing a very open cancellated tissue. The microscopic arrangement of the Haversian canals varies much from the natural condition. No opinion is expressed as to the essential nature of the disease, except that it was neither * One very remarkable circumstance is noted about tlie diseased parts. So far was there from being any tendency to anchylosis, that these globular masses became separated from the malar bones during the process of maceration. Nor was there any suppuration during the whole course of the disease.