45 CHOLERA. of weakened constitution, or infants less than a year old; (2) persons convalescent from acute diseases ; (3) persons in good health, hut who had been indulging in debauch. Pantaleoni says that his conclusions are confirmed by observations made at Nice in 1853. M. Jacquez* regards the preliminary diarrhoea as a necessary part of the disease. Dr. Macloughinf states that premonitory diarrhoea in- variably precedes an attack of developed cholera, and claims to have been the first to make this observation so long ago as 1832. M. Barth,% in a clinical lecture at the Hotel-Dieu, expresses his decided opinion that cholera sicca must be a rare complaint, as he had never seen it, and regarded the early checking of diarrhoea and vomiting as most beneficial and necessary. Professor Maclean, § lecturing at the military hospital at Netley, dwelt very strongly on the importance of premonitory diar- rhoea, and the evil effects of letting it go unchecked. Dr. Morehead, whose Indian experience has been immense, declares strongly in favour of the idea that there is a premonitory diarrhoea, which can be treated with material success. || Dr.'Goodeve,^[ also formerly occupying a high position in India, which gave him very large experience of the disease as seen in that country, speaks of premonitory diarrhoea as frequent, though by no means universal. Mr. Pain, too,## who had seen 2000 cases of cholera in 1849, declares that premonitory diarrhoea was present in by far the greater number of cases previous to collapse. But he goes on to speak of the diarrhoea in many of these cases as having been of a rice-water character from the first, and being quickly followed by full collapse, which seems hardly within the usual meaning of “ premonitory” diarrhoea at all. M. Pietra Santa,ft in a report to the Academie des Sciences, says that premonitory diarrhoea occurs nearly always. On the other side of the question M. GibertJJ states decidedly that there is very often an entire absence of premonitory diarrhoea, a fact which he had the opportunity of verifying at the Hopital St. Louis and elsewhere during the epidemic in Paris in 1863. Dr. Bowerbank,§§ who has had most extensive experience of cholera in Jamaica, says, “ As far as my experience goes, I believe many of the worst forms of cholera took place without any premonitory symptoms or diarrhoea; and there is no doubt that in the most violent cases of this disease, known as ‘ cholera sicca,’ there are no alvine dejections at all.” M. Pellarin|l|| denies the correctness of the doctrine that there is generally a premonitory diarrhoea in cholera cases. It is, he says, impossible to say that diarrhoea will end in cholera while the eva- cuations are still bilious, watery, or glairy, and have not yet assumed the rice-water character. He states that in 1849, Grivet, several persons had cholera, which had been imported, without premonitory symptoms ; and that 18 soldiers in the infirmary had diarrhoea, which in no instance passed into cholera. * See his paper, cited below, on the treatment of cholera, f ‘Med. Times and Gazette,’ Dec. 2, 1865. J Ibid., Nov. 18, 1865. § ‘Lancet,’ Feb. 3, 1866. || Ibid., Jan, 20, 1866. ^ ‘ A System of Medicine,’ edited by Dr. J. R. Reynolds, London, 1866. ## * Lancet,’ July 28, 1866. ft ‘ Gaz. Ilebdom.,’ xli, 1863. t+ ‘ Sul'- de FAcademie,’ xxxi, p. 248 §§ ‘ Med. Times and Gaz,,’ 1866. 1111 ‘ Gaz. Med.,’lxi, 1865.