451 PHYSIOLOGICAL TESTS FOR POISONS. They especially insist on the fact that, in the employment of phy- siological tests in cases of suspected poisoning, the effects observed in the animals experimented on should be compared with the known effects of poisons on that particular kind of animal, and not (as has been most generally the case) with the symptoms which had presented themselves in the person supposed to have been poisoned. In this way they avoid altogether the difficulty that the effects of poisons on man and on the lower animals are often different. Moreover, regarding the subject from this point of view removes the objections which have been urged against the use of frogs for experiment, instead of animals occupying a higher position in the animal scale. In the search for each poison that animal should be used on which the poison produces the most characteristic and constant effects. So far as digitaline is concerned, these observers are strongly of opinion that it is better to use frogs than either dogs or rabbits. The most important reasons for this opinion are the following:—Very small quantities of poison are sufficient to produce marked effects in frogs, so that a large number of experiments may be made with an amount of poison which would prove inert, if given in a single dose to a dog. Again, the action of digitaline on frogs is rapid. Within an hour, or an hour and a half, all the characteristic effects are produced. There is, therefore, no difficulty in watching the animal throughout the whole course of the experiment. Lastly, and chiefly, the action of poisons on different organs may be observed in batra- chians much more perfectly than in the higher animals. In every one of the experiments of which I am speaking the heart of the frog was exposed before the poison was injected. The influence of the toxic agent upon the movements of the organ could, therefore, be watched from its first commencement. The peculiar action of digitaline upon frogs appears to have been first observed accurately by Vulpian* in 1853. When this poison is injected beneath the skin of one of these animals, an interval elapses before any effects are observed. The following are the characteristic changes, which usually begin quite suddenly :—I. The rhythm of the heart’s beats is not generally much altered, but they become peristaltic, or different parts of the muscular wall of the ventricle contract and dilate at different times, and the blood being driven from one part of its cavity to another causes the relaxed portions of the ventricle to form pouches or (as they are termed) protrusions. Another frequent effect is, that the ventricle only dilates once to every 2 or even to every 3 beats of the auricles. II. After these changes have been ob- served for a shorter or longer time the ventricle altogether ceases to dilate, remaining contracted, white, and perfectly empty. The time at which this occurs varies with the dose of digitaline and with the nature of the substances with which it is mixed. It is never less than 7 minutes. III. At this time the muscular power is unimpaired; the frog can leap as actively as before, and it retains the power of sensation. Paralysis, however, comes on in from 30 to 67 minutes, but this is not an effect of the digitaline, for it appears equally rapidly when the cir- * 1 Mem. de la Soc. de Biologie,’ 1861, p. 97.