307 ABDOMINAL ANEURISM. have arisen higher than usual. After the maintenance of pressure for four and a half hours without interruption, the instrument was removed and the tumour found to be solid and pulseless. The man had two severe rigors, but they were relieved by the administration of brandy and external warmth. Nervous pains were complained of for a day or two in the course of the musculo-cutaneous and long saphenous nerves, and a carbuncle formed at the seat of the first compression ; but with these slight drawbacks the case went on completely well. The limb was warm and well nourished, and the aneurism completely solidified. Dr. Mapother dwells upon the 3 following points:—1. The desira- bility and advantage of administering chloroform during the whole period of compression. He denies that chloroform has any effect on the blood unfavorable to coagulation. 2. That pressure on the cardiac side of the sac should be preceded and accompanied by pressure on the artery leading from the sac. This step was suggested by Dr. O’Ferrall. By this method the blood is retained in the sac and at rest, one of the most favorable conditions for coagulation. Before and for some time after ligature of a large vessel distal pressure would in a similar way prove valuable. 3. That the cure was affected in so short a periodas 4-2- hours, the sac having been kept full by distal pressure. Dr. Mapother concludes as follows :—“ If I suffered from an external aneurism, after having used digital pressure for a couple of days to enlarge the anastomosing vessels, I would submit to complete pressure above and below the sac, under the influence of chloroform. Before I was exhausted by pain and confinement, and while my blood was healthy and plastic, I would hope for coagulation within the sac in a few hours, while those who advocate occasional and partial compression, and who hope for fibrous lamination, calculate the average period of cure as 25 days.” Mr. Eck relates, in the ‘St. Bartholomew’s Hospital Keports,’ ii, p. 190, another case (under Mr. Holden’s care) of the successful treat- ment of aneurism of the right common and external iliac and femoral arteries, by pressure on the abdominal aorta. The man, 40 years of age) had noticed a beating in the groin for two years, which had come on suddenly after a violent exertion. The aneurism had been twice under treatment by pressure, applied on one occasion to the common iliac artery for an hour daily during 6 weeks, combined with low diet; and on the second by tourniquets over the common iliac and femoral artery for 3 hours and 2 hours, at an interval of a fortnight. Each of these attempts seemed to have been beneficial, though not curative. The tumour was large, with a loud bruit, much swelling and stiffness of the limb, the veins of which were varicose—obstructive and regurgitant disease of the aortic valves, with hypertrophy of the heart. He was extremely emaciated, and out of health. Having been kept in bed and on liberal diet for about a fortnight, and the bowels having been well cleared out, pressure was applied by Lister’s tourniquet over the bifur- cation of the aorta, so as to control only the passage of blood through the right common iliac, leaving the left as far as possible free. After an hour it was found necessary to administer chloroform; but after an hour and a half, during which he was kept almost continuously under