REPORT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. 400 the mechanism of this kind of labour. In some very rare cases he shows that the chin does not rotate forwards, but remains posterior, and may he delivered in this way, the chin sweeping the perinseum, hut that it will most likely require artificial aid. It may be possible to rotate the chin forwards by the forceps; and failing that, to draw the head down in that manner which may be found most practicable, that is, with either the forehead and vertex first, or the chin. Dr. Hildebrandt (‘ Mon. f. Geb.,’ 1865) relates two interesting cases of persistent forehead-presentations which illustrate this subject. Evolution spontaneous—Mr. G. H. Furber relates (‘Brit. Med. Journ.,’ Dec. 1864) a case of spontaneous withdrawal of the arm, and cephalic birth. Dr. Ad. Samelson relates a case of delivery during sleep (‘ Brit. Med. Journ.,’ 1866). Dr. v. Franque (‘Wien. Med. Presse,’ 1866) relates 5 cases of spon- taneous evolution. In 1, a living child being born by head, a second presented by left shoulder. Whilst preparing to turn, strong pains set in, and the breech came down. The membranes were then ruptured. The child was born weakly, and soon died. In 2, a primipara, the left arm prolapsed. Several hours later the breech was at the outlet, and extraction was completed by forceps. Child alive. In 3, the arm and funis prolapsed, and the presentation changed to a partial footling. Child dead. In 4, a primipara, transverse presentation, elbow and hand were felt through the membranes. Strong pains lasted for five hours, the os uteri not being open enough for turning. Then the mem- branes burst, and a foot was felt. It was a footling delivery. The child lived. In 3, a primipara, there was partial placenta prsevia, the back and prolapsed arm also presenting. The bleeding being incon- siderable, plugging was practised. Half an hour later, on removing the plug, there was a complete breech-presentation. The child was extracted alive. Dr. Graily Hewitt records a case of twins, one of which, presenting by the arm, was delivered by spontaneous expulsion alive. The child was small in proportion to the pelvis (‘ Lancet,’ i, 1866). Reference is made to the following:—On the mechanism and manage- ment of delivery in cases of double monstrosity. Dr. Playfair (‘ Ob- stet. Trans.,’ viii). A difficult labour from double monstrosity; decapitation. Breslau (‘Mon. f. Geb.,’ 1865) . Case in which the right arm of the child was extruded through the anus during labour. Dr. Eastlake (‘ Obstet. Trans.,’ viii). Dr. R. Dyce (‘Med. Times and Gaz.,’ ii, 1866) gives cases of the successful treatment of prolapse of the funis by the prone posture of the patient. The cord was first carried back into the uterus by the hand, and the patient kept on her face until the head entered the pelvis. Mr. N. Adams (ibid.) records another case, also successful. Dystocia by the Mother's Soft Parts. Mr. George Roper (‘ Obstet. Trans.,’ vii) discusses the course of labour in primiparous women late in life. He says that, contrary to