427 FCETIJS AND NEW-BORN CHILD. nature of psoriasis and herpes circinnatus. Onychia in new-born children is a much more characteristic indication of syphilis than in adults. 9. The frequency, the very important significance of syphilitic coryza, is beyond doubt. Syphilitic laryngitis also occurs. 10. The rarity of bone diseases in infants makes the diagnosis between syphilis and scrofula as the cause difficult, on account of the frequency of rickets and scrofula at this tender age, especially since the two diatheses may coincide. Of swellings of the skull it may be said that in quite young children, as opposed to adults, they are much more frequently scrofulous than syphilitic, n. The development of infantile syphilis is sometimes so rapid that in the same individual we may witness the occurrence of the different phases of the disease close together. 12. As regards the prognosis and curability of infantile syphilis, we must distinguish between the subjects coming into the world with syphilitic manifesta- tions which, in all probability, carry disease of the internal organs, and those borne apparently healthy and only exhibiting symptoms after several weeks. The first fall certain victims, the latter generally recover quickly under a well-directed mercurial treatment. 13. A prophylactic treatment by mercury of children born of syphilitic parents gives little security; we must wait for the declaration of symptoms before pro- ceeding to treatment. 14. Dr. Roger prefers the internal use of mercury to the external, and he has obtained excellent and quick results from the simultaneous use of Yan Swieten’s liquor, and sublimate- baths. Dr. Devergie (‘ Journ. f. Kinderkr.,’ vi, 1866) relates a case of a boy who was inoculated with syphilis by vaccination. In the discussion Ricord confessed that he had at one time denied the occurrence of this mode of infection, but he now recognised its reality, the cases in illustra- tion being clear. Depaul supported the affirmative. Dr. Richard Dorster contributes (‘Deutsches Archiv f. klin. Med.,’ 1866) a paper on the treatment of infantile syphilis. He uses chiefly the protoiodide of mercury. On infantile syphilis, see R. ~W. Dunn (‘Brit. Med. Journ.,’ 1865). Bouchut (‘Journ. f. Kinderkr.,’ xlvii, 1866). On syphilis in infants. Lectures by Dr. A. Minich (‘Giorn. Yeneto di Sc. Med.’). Dr. Minich’s work discusses—first, hereditary syphilis; secondly, acquired syphilis; thirdly, the treatment of both. He contends that the father may transmit at least secondary and tertiary symptoms independently of the mother’s organism. He says all the children of a syphilitic father are not necessarily syphilitic. He does not admit that a foetus already conceived and healthy can be infected through the mother’s circulation by subsequently infected connections which leave the mother unaffected, nor that the syphilitic influence of a first husband can be extended through the mother, she remaining uninfected, to the progeny of a second husband. Syphilis may be acquired by contact with the vagina, by lactation, and vaccination. He believes that infection by a primary sore on the nipples is real, but rare ; but frequent by means of secondary affections of this organ. In the absence of ulcers on the nipple syphilis may be communicated by the milk. The infant, on the other hand, may transmit secondary syphilis to the nurse.