THERAPEUTICS OE NERVOUS DISEASES. 125 &c.) ; but he thinks it highly probable that the division of the nerve may directly cause inflammations of the parts paralysed. In out of his 7 cases the palsied fingers became inflamed, and the inflammation was so similar in all, and so remarkable in some, that it is impossible to believe it to be the result of accident. Thus—the tips of all four fingers inflamed at the same time; a very peculiar form of whitlow, involving the very point of the finger, resulted; it very closely resembled the early stages of senile gangrene. [Hutchinson strongly suspects that many cases of senile gangrene begin from defective nerve-supply.] Several of his cases of division of nerves illustrate the fact that, although paralysed parts are liable to inflame, yet they are capable of good repair. In no single instance did the tendency to inflammation last long. He mentions having recently operated twice on an eye, in a case where the 5th nerve was totally paralysed; in each instance the wound healed well. None of Hutchinson’s cases lend any ma- terial support to the opinion that nerve-trunks which have been cut are rapidly repaired. He thinks that if such a reparation takes place at all it is a very slow process. Finally, he calls attention to, without discussing, the following facts of interest noted in his cases:—1. That the loss of temperature extends even to a considerable distance above the site of the nerve lesion. 2. Subjective phenomena of nerve section, i. e. aching during cold, burning pain when warm, diffused pain in the whole member. 3. The contraction of paralysed muscles. 4. Beflex pain, &e., in the opposite limb. Mr. T. Nunn* records a case of injury to the ulnar nerve, followed by affections of temperature, &c. A boy, set. 6^, had his ulnar nerve completely, and his median probably partly, divided in an accident. Two months later the muscles supplied by the ulnar nerve were wasted by one third of their bulk, and the temperature of the hand was io° Fahr. below that of the sound one. The recovery from this state of things went on slowly but progressively till 4 years afterwards, the date of Nunn’s last observation. At this time the muscles had regained their normal bulk, and there was only half a degree Fahr. between the temperature of the two hands. [Compare with the above observations the extensive experience of Messrs. Mitchell, Morehouse, and Keen, during the American war, as recorded in their‘Beport on the effects of Gunshot Injuries to Nerves,’ Philadelphia, 1864.] Therapeutics of Nervous Diseases. Hr. Brown-Sequard publishes f some lectures on the diagnosis and treatment of functional nervous disease. Under the head of treatment he makes eleven divisions:—I. Means of suppressing the causes or diminishing their intensity. II. Means of diminishing the reflex ex- citability of the nervous centres. III. Moral treatment. IV. Special modes of treatment in periodical affections. V. Treatment through * ‘Pathol. Transact.,’ 1866. f 1 Lancet,’ January and February, 1866.