372 REPORT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. Dr. Mayer (ibid.) describes two kinds of dysmenorrhoea. The first shows itself before the bleeding, and disappears; it is probably due to congestion in the ovary. The second comes on with the bleeding, and is due to difficult escape. This last often depends upon flexions of the uterus. He also signalises another kind of dysmenorrhoea. Pains set in midway between two periods, last for two or three days, and cease with a profuse blennorrhcea. They are so regular that women call them their “mid-pains.” Examination commonly reveals chronic metritis and flexions; but the pains persist after healing these complications. The pathology of deviations and flexions is also discussed by Drs. Grenet and Gallard (‘Gaz. d. Hop.,’ 1865). Grenet makes free use of actual cautery in the treatment. Dr. Ed. Lumpe (‘Wien. Med. Wchnschr.,’ 1866) gives cases ol sterility caused by uterine flexions. He used laminaria and sjjonge- tents. Dr. H. G. Wright describes (‘Lancet,’ i, 1866) a new form of intra-uterine pessary for the treatment of flexion. The principle is that it is not fixed, like Simpson’s, but supports itself by the elastic ex- pansion of two wings when introduced, so that it makes one with the uterus itself. Dr. Aveling and Dr. Greenhalgh describe similar instru- ments (ibid.) Pelvic licematocele, although sometimes depending upon other causes, may be conveniently ranged under disorders of menstruation. The subject is discussed in a very excellent critical essay based on two in- structive cases by Dr. Paul Kiimpffe (‘ Jen. Ztschr. f. Med.,’ 1866). Some laws of the sterility of women, and the laws of fertility of women, are illustrated from a statistical point of view by Dr. Matthews Duncan (‘Edinb. Roy. Soc.,’ 1866). Anomalies of Structure. Dr. Rabe relates (‘Monatsschr. f. Geburtsk.,’ 1865) a case of double uterus and vagina. The patient had not been pregnant. Dr. Popper gives (ibid.) a case of duplex vagina; there was also double uterus. The patient was a prostitute, and had been examined on account of blennorrhoea. A case of bipartite uterus with double vagina came under Dr. Green- halgh, at St. Bartholomew’s. The patient had been married thirteen years without pregnancy. The right vagina was open and capacious; the left was small, and closed by a hymen. She had a large abdominal ! tumour. Dr. Elleaumne (‘ Gaz. d. Hop.,’ 1865) publishes a case of absence of vagina and uterus. Atresia of the female genital passages is also treated of by Dr. Albert Puech (Paris, 1864), in a valuable and complete historical and practical account of the various occlusions of the uterus and vagina. Prof. Faye, of Christiania, relates a case (‘Memoir,’ 1866) where vagina and uterus were both absent. The patient, mt. 30, began to suffer at 20 from determination of blood to the head.