207 ENDOSCOPY. jections, each circumscribed by a groove, in which, at some point or other, the opening of the urethra is to be found, but is not always easy to see ; and 3, the diaphragmatic, in which there is a sort of irregular rough curtain across the urethra, marked with little furrows and irregularities, in one of which the orifice is to be found. The latter is often the most intractable form. Having exposed fully the face of the stricture at the end of the tube, some idea may be obtained of its con- sistence by pressing on it with a probe, introduced down the tube, and Avatching the resilience of the tissues. Iu this way the existence of cicatricial tissue may sometimes be demonstrated in a stricture which looks at first only granular. But the main point is to determine the exact position of the orifice. In order to do this the depressions Avhicli are made out on the face of the stricture must be examined Avith a stilet, or a fine probe, passed down the side slit in the tube. In this Avay it is usually possible, after a few patient trials, to make sure of the exact position of the orifice. There are, then, two indications—(1) to pass the obstacle ; (2) to destroy the obstacle. The first indication can usually be fulfilled by means of the endoscope. The orifice having- been discovered with the probe, if the latter will not pass, a small Avhalebone bougie may be substituted for it and passed well into the stric- ture : the tube is then to be withdraAvn over it, and the instrument will then, perhaps, enter the bladder by a little manipulation, or, if not, can be left in position for some time, and thus dilate the stricture for another subsequent attempt. A case is related in Avhicli a patient affected with traumatic stricture had been under the hands of many eminent sur- geons, none of whom could pass the catheter. One had attempted ex- ternal urethrotomy (perineal section), but had failed to find the opening of the stricture. The patient had then come under M. Civiale’s care, who tried for 2S days to get an instrument into the bladder, but in vain. M. Desormeaux was then called in. He discovered the orifice by means of the endoscope, on the second sitting, and the Avhalebone bougie Avas made to reach the bladder after the next attempt. After this the case Avas easily treated. Other cases of a somewhat similar nature are related, by which M. Desormeaux shows that the endoscope will often save the patient from the necessity for urethrotomy or perineal section. But there will remain a few cases in which the orifice cannot be dis- covered, and there are others in which the cicatricial tissue is so fully formed and so retractile that after every successful dilatation the con- traction will quickly recur, and the patient leads a miserable life, from the necessary treatment and the frequent intercurrent complications. In such cases the obstacle must be destroyed by some cutting operation. Internal urethrotomy, as hitherto practised, whether from before back- Avards or from behind forwards, equally requires that the stricture should be passed. So does the operation of rupturing the stricture, of Avhich M. Desormeaux does not approve in any case. With the endo- scope, on the contrary, when the opening is found, the operation is very easy, and requires no guide. A fine knife is to be substituted for the probe. It terminates in a probe-shaped end of the same size as that of the stilet, and has a blade two thirds of an inch in length, the edge looking either upwards or downwards, as may be required. Its probe-