465 HANGING. Tardieu showed that this knot would not really have pressed on a wider surface than the rest of the rope, and that it very likely came just at the part of the neck where the pressure was least, as evidenced by the indistinctness of the mark. The important question to determine was, whether the woman had hanged herself, or whether she had been first strangled and then hanged post-mortem by her murderer, for the purpose of averting suspicion. The fact that the rope was tied round the beam only in a single bow was undoubtedly in favour of suicide, for a murderer would probably have fastened it much more securely. The chief difficulty in the way of the hypothesis of suicide was the presence of the eight ecchymoses on the left side of the neck. Many theories were suggested to account for these marks ; they were attributed (i) to the pressure of the knot men- tioned above, the position of this being supposed to have been altered several times by the movements of the head; (2) to the doubling of the cord, which thus would have produced both the line of constriction and the ecchymoses; (3) to the skin having fallen into folds, so that the intervals between these folds were protected from pressure; (4) to some accidental circumstance, which could not be completely explained. M. Tardieu has no difficulty in showing that no one of these hypo- theses is admissible. He considers that the ecchymoses in question were produced by the left hand of the woman herself, in an instinctive effort to loosen the rope from her neck, the upper ones being caused by the pressure of the phalanges themselves, the lower ones by that of a row of articulations. All those persons who first saw the body coin- cided in thinking that the eight little bruises resulted from the pressure of a human hand. They were found to correspond exactly with the projections on the back of the fist, and it is even remarked that the hand which produced them must have been a small one. In support of his opinion, M. Tardieu quotes the case of a young man who hanged himself in the prison of Mazas, and who was observed to have tried during the agony of death to pull away the rope from his neck with his right hand. As for the ecchymosis on the ear, M. Tardieu attributes it either to the pressure of the extended fifth finger or to the friction of the vertical part of the rope. He further insists on the fact that the post-mortem appearances generally were those of hanging rather than of strangula- tion. The points on which he relies in support of this statement are, that the face was pale ; that there was no white or bloody foam in the larynx or trachea; that the lungs presented merely an engorgement of their lower lobes; that there were no subpleural ecchymoses; and that none of the superficial air-vesicles were ruptured. There was a further difficulty as to the time at which death had occurred. The husband of the woman stated that he had talked with her a little after 5 o’clock in the morning. The question was, whether, if this were true, the body could have been cold when first found, as was stated to have been the case. With reference to this point, M. Tardieu thinks that the face and the exposed parts might have become cold even then, and that it is quite possible that, within 6 hours of her death, 30