PHYSIOLOGICAL TESTS TOR POISONS. 453 wards made from these matters. Their experiments, 31 in number, showed that the effects of digitaline may be readily obtained from such extracts. In several instances dialysis was employed before extracting the liquids; but this process was afterwards given up, for it was found that the extract of what remained in the dialyser gave results as satis- factory as the extract of the diffusate. To make it certain that the effects observed in these experiments were really caused by the digitaline, a series of comparative observa- tions were made with extracts of vomited matters or gastric contents to which no digitaline bad been added. This led to the discovery that such extracts are themselves poisonous to frogs. Fourteen such extracts were employed, aud 29 experiments were made with them. In all but 2 instances toxic effects were observed, consisting, for the most part, in impairment of the frog’s muscular power, and also of the action of its heart. When the heart was affected its beats became feeble, and not infrequently ceased altogether, the organ then remaining distended, and being of a dark purple colour. In some cases there was a partial resemblance between the effects of such extracts and those of digitaline, but in no one instance was that conjunction of symptoms observed which is described by Drs. Fagge and Stevenson as the almost invariable result of the action of a sufficient quantity of digitaline. The cause of the poisonous action of these extracts on frogs could not be determined. A few experiments on a dog, a rabbit, and some mice, left it doubtful whether such extracts are capable of producing toxic effects on the higher animals. Lastly, these observers proceeded to inquire whether the matters vomited by dogs poisoned with digitaline, and those removed from the stomachs of animals killed by this substance, would yield extracts from which the characteristic effects on frogs could be obtained. Three dogs were, therefore, killed by digitaline. In each instance the results were perfectly conclusive. In one case it was found that the poisonous action of the extract itself interfered with that of the digitaline ; but by add- ing a considerable quantity of water, and filtering, this extract was obtained in a form which yielded effects entirely satisfactory. The same result was obtained in other cases by roughly separating the solid from the liquid parts of the gastric contents or vomited matters before extracting with alcohol. With reference to the La Pommerais trial, it is remarked that the experiments on frogs made by MM. Tardieu and Poussin appear to afford strong evidence of the presence of digitaline, although the account of these experiments is somewhat meager. There is, however, a great difficulty in admitting that there could have been a quantity of digitaline in the matters vomited by Mme. de Pauw sufficient to cause the poisonous effects observed in the dogs used by the French experts. M. Pelikan,* who has been mentioned above as the discoverer of the effects of the helleborus and other “ cardiac poisons,” has subjected the La Pommerais case to a critical analysis. His conclusions, which coincide pretty closely with those expressed by Drs. Fagge and Steven- * ‘St. Petersburger Med. Ztschrft.,’ \ii; ‘Canstatt’s Jabresbericht,’ vii, 7, p. 39,