447 POISONOUS GASES AND VAPOUltS. changes were clue to the inhalation of the gas. Even in rapid cases the muscles no longer presented the yellow tinge which is natural to them. It seemed that this was replaced by a slight blue tint. When the ac- tion of the gas had been more protracted the muscles were found to exhibit a grey, dull appearance. These alterations seemed to affect the different muscles in much the same order as those observed by Zenker in typhoid fever. The rectus abdominis, however, which is especially affected in this disease, appeared to escape in poisoning by car- bonic oxide. The microscopical appearances found in the muscles in these cases were merely those of granular degeneration. The muscular fibres of the heart presented similar alterations, but less constantly. The secreting tubes of the kidneys are also described as having under- gone a slight granular change. In his observations as to the symptoms produced by carbonic oxide Klebs depends mainly upon experiments on animals. The chief points in which he differs from Pokrowsky appear to be the following:—He did not see the tetanic spasms described by the latter observer, although he states that in dogs the limbs were sometimes rigidly extended shortly before coma set in. The respiration and the pulse were generally found to be at first quickened by this gas, at any rate when given in sufficient quantity; but when the voluntary movements ceased the fre- quency of the cardiac and respiratory movements sank again to the normal level. The temperature was observed by Klebs to be from the first lowered by the inhalation of carbonic oxide, even when administered in quantity insufficient to cause insensibility. This fact, as I have above stated, had previously been noticed by Bernard and by Pokrowsky. In Klebs’ experiments the lowering of temperature was very marked, amount- ing, for example, in a particular instance cited by him, to 6-3° Eahr. It had been supposed by Traube that the distended state of the arteries, observed as an effect of the inhalation of carbonic oxide, is the result of an obstruction to the capillary circulation. It is remarked by Klebs, however, that this cannot be the case, for the manometer shows that the pressure in the arteries is diminished, and not increased, in animals poisoned by this gas. He therefore ascribes the dilatation of the vessels to a loss of tone in the muscular coat. In favour of this view, he urges the fact that the pupils are dilated, but that they are, nevertheless, made to contract by the Calabar bean. Erom this he argues that the fibres of the iris have lost their tone, but that they yet remain susceptible of the influence of stimuli. He also endeavours to prove that there is a similar relaxation of the fibres of the intestine and of the bladder. A further confirmation of the opinion that an impairment in the tone of the walls of the vessels is a direct effect of the inhalation of carbonic oxide is drawn by Klebs from several experiments, in which he admi- nistered ergotin to animals poisoned by the gas. The ergotin is known to have the power of increasing the tone of the arteries, and it was found to have a tolerably marked effect in diminishing the symptoms produced by the carbonic oxide. The stupor, in particular, appeared to pass off