REPORT ON MEDICAL JURISPRUDENCE. 440 idiotic, and recognised no one. The cause of death was pleuro- pneumonia of the left lung. The autopsy did not account in any way for the symptoms observed during his protracted illness. A note by Dr. Odling states that mercuric methide is a colourless, heavy, inflammable liquid. It has a mawkish, ethereal smell and taste ; but its odour, when diffused into the atmosphere, is extremely nauseous. It contains 87 per cent, of mercury. It boils at 930 Cent. The close similarity of the symptoms in the two cases is in favour of their having been caused by the inhalation of the vapour of this sub- stance ; and this is confirmed by the fact that symptoms of the same character, though less in degree, were experienced by all those who worked in the laboratory at the time. Prussic Acid.—Mr. Hickman* relates the following case of poisoning byprussic acid, remarkable from the fact that the dose was known, and that death occurred while the patient was under observation. The case was that of a porter at the Western General Dispensary, who took half an ounce of the acid by mistake for a dose of some medicine placed by him in a cupboard in which poisonous drugs were kept. He afterwards ran upstairs to the house-surgeon, traversing a distance of twenty-five to thirty paces, and ascending thirty-two steps. When he got into the house-surgeon’s room he said, “ Come down directly—I have taken half an ounce of prussic acid.” He then ran all the way back to the dispensary, where he was found by Mr. Shone and Mr. Ivillingworth (who immediately followed him), standing unsupported in the middle of the room. He moved his hand impatiently, and said, “ Be quick— give me something.” Some solution of ammonia was given him, fol- lowed by some tincture of the sesquichloride of iron. He drank both these, and then, on being told to do so, put his finger in his throat to try to induce vomiting. This caused one or two slight but abortive efforts, after which he suddenly fell flat on his back, completely insen- sible. His face, previously pallid, now became much congested; the eyes were fixed and half closed; the pupils were somewhat dilated; no pulse could be felt; the breathing became slow, faint, and gasping; a frothy mucus exuded from between the lips; one or two of the respi- rations were accompanied by a slight stertorous sound. No convul- sions occurred. Death took place in about ten minutes from the time of his first coming to the house-surgeon’s room. In a few hours after death the face had regained its natural expression and colour, and it was noticed that it had the hue of health, and perfectly resembled that of one asleep. Subsequently, however, it became again congested, red, puffed, and ecchymosed ; and a reddish fluid appeared at the nostrils. At the autopsy, thirty hours after death, the stomach was found par- tially contracted, containing about two fluidounces of a brown gru- mous material; the mucous membrane was markedly reddened all over the larger end of the organ, the redness being more decided along the rugas. No odour of prussic acid was noticeable, except for an instant when the stomach was being divided. Its contents smelt strongly of ammonia, but on neutralizing them with nitric acid the characteristic odour became very evident. The mass also became of a deep blue * ‘ bancet,’ 1866, i, p. 310,