236 REPOET ON SURGERY. difference in specific gravity to the blood. Hence, it is desirable for merely washing the nose to use a solution of common salt (i oz. to a pint), or of other salts (such as phosphate of soda or phosphate of ammonia and soda), or of sugar or milk. For deodorising the nose, a dilute solution of permanganate of potash is recommended; for re- straining haemorrhage, ice-cold salt water, or, if this is not sufficient, the same with the addition of an ounce of the tincture of the sesqui- chloride of iron to the pint; for astringent purposes, the solutions of alum, sulphate of zinc, and sulphate of copper; as alteratives, nitrate of silver and bichloride of mercury ; as specifics, solutions of chloride of calcium, in which suboxide or oxide of mercury is suspended in a finely subdivided state, together with the bichloride solutions ; as a stimulant, a mixture of eau-de-Cologne with water or salt water. The nose is to be well rinsed with the indifferent washes before any of the more active lotions are used. Annandale, “ On Closure of Fissures of the Hard and Soft Palate.” Edinburgh, 1865, pp. 8.—Mr. Annandale, in this paper, relates two cases in which he operated for the closure of fissures, involving in the first case the whole of the soft and hard palate, and in the second the soft and the posterior third of the hard palate. Both operations were successful. Mr. Annandale’s plan differs from those in common use in the fol- lowing respects. In the first place, he attempts to close the entire cleft at a single operation. In both the cases here related that attempt suc- ceeded, except that in the first case, where the fissure extended through the whole palate, the patient became so faint that the last stitch through the edges of the uvula could not be placed, so that this deficiency had to be subsequently rectified. Mr. Annandale says, however, that there are cases (apparently those in which the patient is not strong enough to bear the whole operation) in which he should close the fissure on two different occasions, the fissure in the hard and as much as possible of the soft palate being united in the first operation, and the remainder subsequently. Next, Mr. Annandale regards the division of the muscles as an un- necessary complication of the operation. No attempt was made to divide any muscles in these two operations, yet both succeeded. Thirdly, Mr. Annandale makes very extensive lateral incisions, much freer, he believes, than have ever before been practised in these ope- rations. He separates the soft tissues (periosteum and mucous membrane) from the bone with Langenbeck’s instrument (which he prefers to those in common use) along the whole of the hard palate, having first pared the edges, leaving “ an attachment in front and behind, at the point where the blood-vessels and nerves enter these structures.” Then an incision, extending from the canine tooth in front to the last molar behind, is made through the soft textures on each side along the alveolar ridge. The inner edges of the flaps along the whole of the hard and soft palate are then brought into contact with silver-wire sutures. These sutures are fixed by “ passing a thread through each edge of the wound