REPORT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. 376 See a case by Dr. Madge (ibid., viii). A large fibrous polypus was shown by Dr. G-reenhalgh (ibid., vii). A case of fibro-cystic disease of the uterus was narrated by Dr. South (ibid.). An operation for removal by gastrotomy had to be abandoned. A case of removal of a fibroid tumour of the uterus weighing 291b. (death on the third day) is narrated by Dr. J. D. Gillespie (‘Edin. Med. Journ.,’ July, 1866). Dr. Storer relates (‘Amer. Journ. of Med. Science,’ 1866) a case in which he completely extirpated both ovaries and the uterus by gastrotomy. He gives a collection of similar cases. His patient recovered. Koeberle refers (‘ Gaz. d. Hop.,’ 1866) to the above case, gives a risumi of others, and adds the following:—1. Both ovaries, the uterus with a fibroid weighing 7 kilogr., were removed in 1863. The person is in excellent health. 2. This was communicated to the Strasbourg Medical Society in 1866, at the same time as another case in which the inverted uterus with hanging polypus was extirpated. In the former case the ovaries were found healthy; but the tumour with the uterus, weighing 3 kilogr., was removed. The woman recovered. Three other cases referred to ended in death. The subject is also discussed systematically by Dr. Caternault (‘ Gaz. d. Hop.,’ 1866) and in a special memoir (Paris, Bailliere, 1866). He assisted Koeberle. In one of five cases of ovariotomy reported by Mr. Nunneley (‘Patholog. Trans.,’ 1866) the tumour, after removal, was examined by Dr. Graily Hewitt and Mr. Wells. They reported that it was uterine, although Mr. Nunneley says that all who were present at the operation were of opinion that it was ovarian. The patient recovered. Five cases of ovariotomy are recorded (‘Lancet,’ ii, 1865) occurring in the North Staffordshire Infirmary. Three recovered, two died. In the same institution a fibro-cystic tumour of the uterus was operated upon in mistake for ovarian disease. It is stated that the uterus felt normal by the vagina. The removal of the tumour was not attempted. The patient died in 53 hours of peritonitis. A fibro-cystic tumour with diseased uterus and ovary is described by Mr. Spencer Wells and Drs. Dickinson, Wilson Fox, and Cayley (‘ Pathol. Trans.,’ xvii). The tumour had yielded fluid by tapping ; it was not possible to remove it all during life. Examination, after death, of pelvic structures, as well as of the tumour, led to the conclusion that it was impossible to decide whether the tumour was an ovarian cyst or had originated in a glandular sarcoma of the uterus, which had subse- quently undergone cystic degeneration. The cyst closely resembled an ovarian cyst, and no trace of the corresponding ovary was visible; but, on the other hand, the absence of definite ovarian structure in its walls and some traces of glandular and muscular tissue are suggestive of uterine origin. See also a case of fibro-cystic disease of the uterus mistaken for ovarian disease; attempted extirpation; failure; death by rupture of a vessel within the cyst; by Dr. Eouth (‘ Obstet. Trans.,’ viii).