REPORT ON SURGERY. 222 Inflammation, ulceration, and gangrene of the oesophagus, found after death, with a peculiar divided condition of the tube, below the seat of obstruction. (‘ Deutsche Klinik,’ 1865, Nos. 4, 8, 9. By Prof. Bruns.) The following, though an isolated case, is so important that we give a short abstract. The patient, a man set. 3 7 years, was operated on for oesophagotomy on Nov. 5, 1864. He had suffered from dysphagia for about a year. No cause was known, nor could any be discovered by examination, except a thickening of the left lobe of the thyroid, which was thought to compress the oesophagus. The tube was abso- lutely impervious to instruments, which were arrested at the level of the cricoid cartilage, but the patient could swallow a little fluid, though with great difficulty, and so slowly that, as the reporter, Dr. Schmidt (who had charge of the case, as resident medical officer), says, though he was all day attempting to swallow, he was always hungry, and was gradually sinking. There was no sign nor symptom of cancer of the oesophagus. The breathing was rather difficult, and laryngo- scopy showed the glottis to be narrowed, and the vocal cords less freely movable than natural. The operation consisted in dissecting down to the oesophagus (or pharynx) on the left side, at the level of the obstruction. Then a silver catheter was passed from the mouth, and the canal opened upon it. Still it was impossible to pass the catheter through the obstruction into the stomach. But after dissecting and tearing the thyroid body away from the oesophagus,it was found possible to pass a small oesophagus-tube, having a cavity of 3 millimetres, from the wound into the stomach. This was left in the wound, and the patient was fed through it with as much liquid as he chose to take. [It was noticed that the presence of this tube, whether its end lay in the stomach or oesophagus, caused a great . increase in the secretion of saliva.] On the 3rd day it was necessary to change the tube, and a thicker one was substituted. On the 9th day one a centimetre (about one third of an inch) in diameter could be passed. This was changed daily, and on the 15th day after the opera- tion a silver and then an elastic tube was passed through to the mouth, guided by the laryngoscope. On the next evening an cesophagus-tube 1 centimetre thick was passed from the mouth into the stomach, and left in. This tube, remaining in the mouth, gave him much incon- venience—salivation, hindrance of speech, snoring in respiration and sleep, rotting of the tube, &c.; and on the 21st day pieces of ivory, fas- tened to a string and passed into the strictured part by means of a pair of oesophagus-forceps, were employed to dilate the stricture. These were withdrawn to nourish the patient, who now began to swallow by his own efforts. The wound was almost healed. Everything seemed now going on well, except that the temperature kept above the normal standard, with exacerbations every 4 days. On Dec. 3 (28th day), after a thicker ivory plug had been thrust through the strictured part, it was found, after withdrawing it, in order to allow the patient to take nour- ishment, that it was impossible to reintroduce it. A small tube was with difficulty passed, and the attempts caused much dyspnoea. Soon it became impossible to pass anything. Laryngoscopy showed oedema of the aryteno-epiglottidean folds, soon running into suppuration, and