REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 98 Dr. Radcliffe* gives us the history of a case of this disease success- fully treated. The patient was a girl, set. 19 ; the weakness and wasting had been going on for 5 years. The muscles of the ball of the left hand were partly, and the interossei and lumbricales almost entirely, atrophied ; the latter could not be roused to action by the magneto- electric current. There was no numbness in the parts, but they were bluer and colder and the pulse was smaller than that of the healthy limb. The patient was otherwise quite healthy, and had never injured herself in any way. The treatment ordered was as follows :—Faradisation, kneading of the parts, and suitable localised movements, daily. Half a drachm of syrup of iodide of iron, three times a day ; full diet and porter. About 7 weeks afterwards, and after 2 6 Faradisations, the patient was re- ported almost well; the hand (which had previously been of the “ bird’s claw” form) had very nearly recovered its full form and functions. Five weeks later the cure was quite perfect. Mr. Lockhart Clarke gives the particulars of the microscopical ex- amination which he made of the nervous centres of a patient whose very interesting case (one of general muscular atrophy) is related by Dr. Thudichum.f The preparation for microscopical examination was by the same process which Clarke has already fully described. The patient, a gentleman, set. 54, was attacked with paralytic symptoms, first of the lower extremities, then of the trunk muscles, then of the arms, and finally he died from gradually increasing paralysis of the respiratory muscles. In each region the paralysis was followed by acute wasting of the muscles. Clarke found, in the conus medullaris, nearly all the grey substance and part of the posterior columns re- placed by a morbid, and cylindrical mass. Through the lower portion and middle of the lumbar enlargement only part of the posterior columns were replaced by the morbid cylinder, the rest being unnatu- rally soft. A large portion of the posterior roots was also involved on the softening, as was also the posterior part of the lateral column in the right side. The cells of anterior grey substance and of posterior vesicular columns were more or less atrophied, and wholly or partially filled with pigment-granules. In the upper part of the lumbar en- largement there was a variable degree of softening of all the white columns, but particularly of the posterior on the right side, with soft- ening and injury of the posterior commissure, from which they were separated. The posterior vesicular column on the right side contained similar patches of granular degeneration ; that on the left entirely dis- appearing in some sections. The form and symmetry of the grey sub- stance were strangely altered in some sections. The anterior cornua were somewhat abnormal in size, and their cells more or less loaded with pigment-granules. In the brachial enlargement there were several di- lated degenerated vessels on each side of the canal, surrounded by transparent patches of grey degeneration, which involved the posterior commissure and, in some places, the inferior. Posterior columns more or less softened, especially their deeper portions, which rested on the * ‘Lancet,’ January 14, 1865. f ‘Beale’s Archives,’ iv, No. 13.