319 RADICAL CURE OF HERNIA.—WOUND OF BLADDER. until the inner face of the columns can be readily felt. The pulp of the finger having been passed well behind the internal column, the handle of the needle is seized, and the point, directed by the finger, is made to transfix the conjoined tendon and internal column at some distance from its free border. When the point of the skin projects under the skin of the abdomen an assistant draws the skin inwards, towards the median line, so as to make the needle perforate that portion of the skin which would normally lie over the centre of the canal. The needle is now threaded with silver wire, and drawn back through the scrotum, leaving one end of the wire projecting from the abdomen. If the point of the needle has escaped from the scrotal puncture it is reinserted into the same puncture, and passed in a similar manner through the external pillar of the ring, and made to emerge at the same puncture on the abdomen as before. The wire is now detached and the needle withdrawn, leaving the two ends of the wire protruding from the abdominal puncture. Now the ends of the wire are to be firmly drawn upon, while the scrotum is held down and prevented from becoming invaginated, by which means the loop of wire is made to dissect up or tear the scrotal fascia to the immediate neighbourhood of the ring. If the finger be now passed into the canal it can be felt to be squeezed as the wire is drawn upon, and if the finger be taken out of the canal and the wire still drawn upon the ring will be so narrow that the finger cannot be reintroduced. The wire is now twisted from above with a torsion forceps, and when the columns are brought well into apposition, without so much traction being made as to cause the wire to act as an ecraseur, the ends of the wire are cut off as close as possible to the abdomen, when that portion left in the wound immediately disappears under the skin. The punctures heal in a few hours. The patient is to be kept quiet for some days till the wire is imbedded in lymphy effusion. No truss need afterwards be worn. It would, in fact, be injurious, by compressing the parts pain- fully against the imbedded wire. Should the orifice of protrusion be large, as in old inguinal and umbilical hernite, two or more sutures may be required. Great care should be taken to make the needle re-enter the scrotum at exactly the same point, otherwise the resulting bridge of skin under the wire will oppose the passage of the wire into the tissues of the scrotum, and cause the scrotum to become invaginated. Tfhe subsequent extracts refer to urinary diseases, in relation to which, however, the most important part of what we have to offer has already been given under the head of “ Endoscopy.” “ Gunshot Wound of the Bladder.”—In the ‘ New York Medical Journal,’ May, 1863, p. 102, Prof, van Buren relates the case of a man who was shot, in a riot in that city, with an ounce musket-ball, through the bladder. The course of the ball was apparently from left to right directly across the pelvis, and from before backwards on a level with the anterior superior spines of the ilium. The wound was received at 5 p.m. He had dined at 3^ p.m., and had not emptied his bladder since 9 a.m. When struck, his first motion was to put his hand to the wound, and he found himself then drenched with urine. When seen,