ENDOSCOPY. 203 M. Desormeaux does point out a few particulars in which, as he believes, trifling differences exist. In gleet the consequence of gonorrhoea the mucous membrane, pro- bably in or around the bulb, is found deepened in colour and roughened by granulations, so as to present somewhat the appearance of a mul- berry, the granulations rarely attaining the size of a small hempseed. Figures are given of such a condition of the bulbous portion of the urethra contrasted with another healthy portion of the mucous mem- brane in the same patient. This affection M. Desormeaux calls granular urethritis, and compares it to granular metritis and granular conjunc- tivis. The granular condition of the canal extends usually from 2—4 centimetres (say about an inch) ; sometimes it occupies the whole canal from the lower part of the spongy portion to the entrance of the bladder; but a distinctive feature is that it always occurs in a single tract, never in isolated patches separated by healthy mucous membrane. With this M. Desormeaux contrasts the affection which he calls herpetic urethritis. He gives it this name from its similarity in appear- ance to herpes in other parts of the body (especially on the neck of the uterus), though he inclines to the belief that it is essentially an arthritic affection. The surface of the mucous membrane in the herpetic affec- tion presents depressions instead of granulations, resembling the de- pressions on the skin of an orange, or on a thimble, instead of the granular appearance of a mulberry; they are of less extent than the granulations in blenorrhoea, they are often found in several places, and they disappear from one place to show themselves in a different part of the urethra at another examination. Granular urethritis tends inevitably to produce stricture. It follows a chronic course, little affected by anything except sexual intercourse, which usually reproduces or aggravates the discharge. Herpetic urethritis is often liable to relapses from the influence of the seasons, or any cause which produces rheumatism. A case is given of gleet lasting 11 years, and followed by apparent stricture, which, however, was found, to be due entirely to the presence of granulations, and dis- appeared on their being cured by the application of a solution of nitrate of silver. Sometimes the granulations pass into a fungous condition, bleeding easily, and furnishing a more abundant and more purulent discharge, but on being repressed by caustic they resume their ordinary appearance. The natural termination of granular urethritis is in a kind of spon- taneous cure, this cure being, however, accompanied by a lesion analogous to the cicatrization of a wound. The first stage is one of low inflammation, with submucous exudation and some obstruction. If the granulations now disappear the patient may get well without any stricture, and this curable stage may last an indefinite time, as in the instance above given, 11 years. But after this the exuded matter undergoes a change, producing induration or callosities, and the inflam- mation invades the fibrous tissue, which contracts slowly. At this period, though granulations are still to be found, their cure does not involve the disappearance of the symptoms; the exuded matters become organized, and a kind of cicatrix is produced in the submucous