456 REPORT ON MEDICAL JURISPRUDENCE. Nine experiments in all were made with the genuine “ Battleyof these, five were by the method of injection beneath the skin, the quan- tities used being from ten to fifty grains of the extract. The effects are described in the following words: “ Within ten minutes of the introduction of the poison by injection under the skin the animal seeks a prone position, lying fully extended on belly and chest, the head resting on the ground, the legs sprawl- ing, the claws concealed. If undisturbed, it inclines to retain this position, rarely shifting its place or attitude. When urged to motion it crawls a few paces in a tortoise-like manner, but speedily subsides into its former passive, motionless condition. When lifted by the ears it struggles, and when laid on side it recovers its legs. A sharp noise or heavy footfall attracts its notice. The eyes remain open, and only tend to close at occasional long intervals. The pupils are dilated. The respiration is slow and gentle. In from five to eight hours the effects begin to pass away, and in about fourteen hours the animal eats freely and exhibits vivacity in its movements.” Particular attention is drawn to the fact that no convulsions were produced by opium in rabbits, either in these experiments or in others in which an alcoholic extract of the drug was employed. With the extract prepared from tincture of aconite eight experiments were made. In two instances subcutaneous injection was employed. The following is the description of the effects observed : “ The symptoms vary in the order and in the rapidity of their pro- duction according to the strength of the dose. In a case proving fatal, and where there has been time for the development of the effects, there is first an interval of restless uneasiness, during, which the animal shifts its position, and occasionally couches, with one or both hind legs extended laterally. It remains for a short interval in an attitude of expectancy or watchfulness, during which a twitching of the lips and a chewing action of the jaws is observed. Gradually the limbs become awkwardly stiff, the claws protruded, and the feet sprawling, as if grasping the floor, the animal seemingly steadying itself. The head is carried erect and somewhat retracted, the nostrils expanded. Occasional spasmodic movements of the ribs and belly occur as if retching. Suddenly the animal staggers and rolls over, quickly regaining its feet. Saliva begins to flow from the mouth, and, soon after, peculiar chirping or stridulous cries are emitted. The severe convulsions which quickly and invariably follow are of an opisthotonic character, the limbs being extended in a straight line with the body, the back arched, and the head excessively drawn back. In a few seconds the convulsions subside, and the limbs become relaxed, the animal lying helplessly on its side. After a longer or shorter interval it is then occasionally affected with an impulse to rush madly forward or make violent leaps, without regard to obstacles ; but the motions are of an abortive paralytic character, the legs sprawl- ing about in a floundering, jerking sort of action, altogether different from the usual leaping motion of the animal. After one or more con- vulsive seizures it lies on its side with head retracted, nostrils distended, flanks heaving, the forepaws spread apart and held in the air. The respiration becomes very evidently laborious, is quite audible, and