186 REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. how they may be best treated when they have obtained a sufficient size to be recognised. Many remedies have been proposed, especially common salt and iodide of potassium, but Murchison gives good reasons for not believing in the efficacy of either of these. One ex- pedient, however, holds out a fair chance of effecting a permanent cure, viz. puncture of the cyst and removal of its contents. The dangers of the operation are mainly two.—i. Acute peritonitis from the escape of a portion of the hydatid fluid into the peritoneal sac. 2. Suppuration of the cyst, owing, in some degree, to the admission of air. Both of these dangers may be avoided in a great measure by employing a very fine trocar. The dangers have mainly arisen when a large opening has been made, under the supposition that it was necessary to remove the secondary cysts, or because the tumour was thought to be an abscess. The removal of the liquid is sufficient to destroy both the present and the secondary cysts ; and the subsequent injection of alcohol, iodine, or bile, &c., is unnecessary and may be injurious. The canula should be removed before all the fluid is drawn off, and the punctured portion of the abdominal wall pressed against the cyst. The patient should be kept recumbent, and perfectly still, during forty-eight hours, and an opiate ought to be given if there be the slightest pain. The operation is often followed by immediate relief from the sensation of tension and other unpleasant symptoms; sometimes there is uneasiness, or even pain and constitutional disturbance ; but if the rules already given be attended to, they soon pass off. The fluid does not tend to reaccumu- late, nor do the hydatid cysts undergo putrefaction. Murchison holds that, in all cases where an hydatid tumour is large enough to be recognised during life, puncture should be performed at once. It is not advisable to wait for the formation of adhesions, or endeavour to induce them. Speaking of the diagnosis of an hydatid cyst, Murchison describes it as a smooth, globular, elastic, painless tumour, growing slowly, without giving rise to constitutional disturbance, and, as a rule, not causing jaundice or ascites. Hydatid vibration—which is usually associated with the name of Piorry, but to which attention was first called by M. Brianfon in 1828—is a sign the value of which Murchison thinks to have been greatly exaggerated. When present, it indicates the existence of a cyst, probably hydatid, but it does not indicate the presence of secondary cysts. The diseases which may be most readily confounded with hydatids of liver are abscess, distended gall-bladder, effusion into the right pleura, aneurism, and cancer. Abscess of the liver is distinguished by its more rapid development, and by the existence of rigors, fever, and pain, with impairment of the general health. When there is suppuration of the cyst or peritoneal inflammation on its outer surface, an accurate knowledge of the previous history is requisite for the diagnosis. A distended gall-bladder is recognised by its shape and position, by the development being usually accompanied by attacks of biliary colic, and by the presence of jaundice in most cases. Extensive effusion into the right pleura may simulate an hydatid tumour, but the latter is more likely to be regarded as pleuritic effusion. The chief physical distinc-