TEETH. 29 deposit and formation of dentinal cells, and the spaces include heaps of cells, which in dry sections become filled with air. With several of these statements Dr. Beale’s (‘ Archives of Dentistry,’ vol. i) investigations concur. He regards it as certain that no pre- formative membrane has been actually demonstrated over the enamel, as Huxley asserts, though the appearance of one can be easily obtained by the action of acids. It is certain, also, he states, that no such membrane exists between the enamel and the dentine, for in many instances the latter tissue actually extends into the former, as was first shown by Mr. Tomes ; nor, finally, is there any between the dentine and the pulp of the tooth, since these tissues run into one another. From his observations he is disposed to regard both the enamel and the den- tine as being in reality epidermic, and not, as Mr. Huxley holds, dermic structures. Dr. Beale also describes and figures the so-called tubuli of the dentine as being naturally filled with a solid rod or fibre. In a short but interesting essay in the ‘Archives of Dentistry’ (vol. i, p. 281) Mr. ^S. James A. Salter disputes the statements of of Tomes and Beale to the effect that the well-known dental tubes are solid fibrils, and not, as generally admitted, tubes for the conveyance of nutritive material. Mr. Salter remarks that they may be brought very distinctly into view by acting on recent or old, or even fossil teeth, with concentrated pure muriatic acid, and adduces various reasons for continuing to regard them as tubes. These are lined for a short distance, at least, from the pulp cavity, into which they open by a membranous tube, that can be withdrawn in short lengths, but at no great distance from the pulp. Mr. Salter believes that these membranous tubes receive, in common with the intertubular substance a calcific impregna- tion. He considers that they are plasm-tubes; that their connection with the nervous system, if any, is secondary ; that the brilliant rings seen in transverse sections of dentine are an optical illusion; that the apparent calcareous canal, thrice the diameter of its hollow, has no real existence; and that the rings in question, comparatively large, are caused by the light-refraction of the thin walls of the membranous tubes, which are so much smaller in diameter. A most interesting paper is contained in the same volume, by A. Mitscherlich, giving an account of numerous successful cases of the replantation and transplantation of teeth, showing that in young persons a firm graft of the new tooth introduced may be obtained. Irminger and Frey (‘Kolliker’s Zeits.,’ 1866, p. 208) have made careful injections of the ducts of the liver, for which they find those of the rabbit best adapted. According to their observations the ducts terminate in a plexus within the lobules, the vessels constituting which possess pi’oper walls, and enclose the hepatic cells, not in their interior, but in the interstices of their meshes. Michael Tscherinoff (“ On the Dependency of the amount of Glyco- gene contained in the Liver on the Food,” ‘ Moleschott’s Untersueli- ungen,’ Bd. 10, 2, 223) fed a series of fowls for a certain time on various foods, and then determined the relative quantity of liver glycogene. He agrees with Pavy in believing that there is little or no sugar in the liver in life, though the conversion of the glycogene substance into