POISONING. STRYCHNIA. 441 colour, showing that ferro-cyanogen had been formed. At least a grain of anhydrous acid was found in the contents of the stomach. The fluid in the bottle from which the poison had been taken was ascertained to contain rq.8 per cent, of the real acid. Hence the dose of the poison swallowed must have been more than grains of this acid. Nitro-benzole.—Dr. Schenk* records a case of poisoning by nitro- benzole. The patient was a girl, set. 18, who took about two drachms of this liquid (Essence de Mirban) with the object of committing sui- cide. She stated afterwards that she swallowed it without difficulty, and that she felt no ill effects for about a quarter of an hour. She then drank some coffee, and immediately afterwards nausea and vomiting came on. These symptoms were followed by giddiness, and before long by insensibility. AVhen seen by Dr. Schenk, apparently about three quarters of an hour after the poison had been taken, she was found unconscious, lying on her back, with half-closed eyes; she could not articulate properly, and answered questions in a disconnected manner, but she was sensitive to irritation of the skin and to the influence of pungent vapours. Her pupils were enormously dilated, and perfectly inactive. There were occasional tonic spasms of the flexors (especially of the upper limbs) and of the muscles of mastication. The skin of the face and neck, the mucous membrane of the lips and mouth, the tongue, and the nails, were remarkably livid. The face was also greatly swollen, so that the aspect of the patient was much altered. The eyes were prominent; the sclerotics livid; the conjunctive much injected. The pulse regular, 120 per minute; the respiration regular, but embarrassed. The small room in which she lay smelt strongly of bitter almonds, and her breath had a similar odour. Venesection was performed. The blood was viscid, very slow to coagulate, and of a brownish-black colour. The symptoms continued to increase, and at the end of an hour she was in a state of complete coma, with trismus, so that she could not swallow. After this her con- dition gradually began to improve. At the end of eight hours she could again answer questions, although feebly and in a rambling way. The spasms ceased, she fell into a quiet sleep, and after an hour she was considered almost convalescent. The next morning she was well, but the skin was still cyanotic. The breath no longer smelt of oil of bitter almonds. She recovered perfectly. She was five months ad- vanced in pregnancy, and gestation was not interfered wfith by the action of the poison. Strychnia.—The celebrated medical jurist, Prof. Maschka, of Prague, gives a detailed accountf of the well-known case of Dr. Demme, who was tried for the murder of a merchant named Triimpy, of Berne. The evidence showed that death was due to poisoning by strychnia. There are many points of interest about this case, especially with reference to the question whether it was one of suicide or murder. On the night of Triimpy’s death Demme slept in his room, and the account given by the latter of the circumstances attending the fatal event was as follows ;— * 1 Vjlirssclirft. f. ger. Med.,’ N. F., iv, p. 327. t ‘ Prag. Vjhrsschrft.,’ lxxxvi, p. 69.