187 INTERMITTENT HEMATURIA. tion is that the upper boundary of the dulness in pleuritic effusion is horizontal, while in hydatid tumour it is arched. These two morbid conditions may coexist. Aneurism of the abdominal aorta or of the hepatic artery is mainly distinguished by pulsation, bellows murmur, and, generally, the presence of acute neuralgic pains. Aneurism of the hepatic artery is also invariably accompanied by jaundice from pressure on the bile-ducts. Cancer of the liver is mainly distinguished by its irregular surface, tenderness and hardness, and the absence of elasticity or feeling of fluctuation. But several hydatid tumours may project so as to form an uneven surface or a cancerous tumour may present elas- ticity approaching to fluctuation. Where there is doubt an exploratory punctive may safely be made with a grooved needle or a fine trocar. Lastly, a large hydatid tumour may escape attention, especially if it proceed from the posterior part of the liver; and the diagnosis is some- times rendered difficult by the pressure of the tumour on the bile-ducts or large veins, so as to produce jaundice, ascites, or anasarca of the lower limbs. Kidney Diseases. Dr. G-. Harley* gives notes of 2 cases of intermittent hsematuria, with remarks upon their pathology and treatment; and Dr. W. H. Dickinsonf describes 4 cases of intermittent hsematuria. The chief peculiarity presented in Dr. Harley’s cases was that the urine passed at one period of the day varied from a chocolate colour to an almost purple blackness, whereas at all other times the secretion was normal. One of the patients was a medical gentleman who had for many years been resident in a warm climate, where he had contracted malarial fever; the other was a Londoner who had never suffered from true ague, but in whose case the bloody urine was passed whenever he was exposed to cold. According to the patient’s own statement, during the last two winters his urine invariably became bloody about an hour after his suffering from cold hands or feet. Both patients appeared to suffer from hepatic derangement; the first being slightly jaundiced when the urinary symptom manifested itself, while the other had an exceedingly sallow, bilious appearance. Dr. Harley observed that the varying condition of the renal secretion clearly pointed to intense congestion of the chylopoietic viscera of a transient and periodic character. The easiest way of establishing a correct differential diagnosis between intermittent and ordinary hsematuria was that in ordinary hsematuria the urine is not only coagulable by heat and nitric acid, but contains blood-corpuscles, which gradually become deposited on stand- ing, and leave a clear supernatant liquid. In intermittent hsematuria, as also in some cases of the non-intermittent variety, the urine, although coagulable by heat and nitric acid, contains few or no blood-corpuscles, and the colouring matter is not deposited on standing. Besides this, the urine contains numerous granular tube-casts, and has an increased per-centage of urea. While the usual remedies employed in the treat- ment of hsematuria failed to make the slightest impression, mercurials and quinine caused it rapidly to disappear. # ‘ Proceedings of Royal Med. and Cliir. Soc.,’ May 9, 1865. f Ibid.