82 REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. Id a second and third there were similar appearances, and one animal had yellowish-white tubercles in the ileo-caecal appendix. In the fourth rabbit (the last which had been inoculated) there -were, chiefly in the left lung, tubercular deposits of the size of a pea, projecting on the surface. There was also a large number of granulations surrounded by a reddish areola of congestion. Several tubercles were in the peritoneal covering of the liver and in the upper portion of the small intestine. While these experiments were being carried on, two other rabbits, living in precisely the same conditions as those which were inoculated, were killed for other purposes, and presented no trace of tubercle. A third rabbit, whose sciatic nerve was divided on July 14, was killed on November 21. There had been prolonged suppuration, with swelling of the tibio-tarsal joint with caries of the os calcis, and the animal had become extremely thin; but there was no tubercle. In a third series of experiments, commenced on October 2, M. Ville- min procured three pairs of rabbits about three months old. Each pair was from the same litter, and from a separate mother. One animal of each pair was inoculated, and each pair was placed in a compartment of a cage. A large vigorous adult rabbit was also inoculated. On November 23 the inoculated rabbit of one pair was found dead. The posterior part of both lungs was congested; and in the congested tissue, principally under the pleura, were very small greyish granulations. The cortical substance of the kidneys contained a large number of cysts filled with transparent fluid. In the other two pairs, killed on Novem- ber 29, the inoculated rabbits both presented tubercles beneath the pleura. The three rabbits which had not been inoculated presented no trace of tubercle. In the large adult rabbit both lungs were covered with subpleural granulations, the smallest of which were surrounded by areolae of congestion. There were two or three tubercles projecting on the surface, and the tissue of the lungs contained granulations. Tubercle was also found on the surface and in the tissue of the spleen. From these experiments M. Yillemin arrives at the following con- clusions :—1. Tuberculosis is a specific disease. 2. Its cause lies in an inoculable agent. 3. Tubercle is readily inoculable from man to the rabbit. 4. Tuberculosis belongs to the class of toxsemic diseases. With the object of verifying the results obtained in M. Villemin’s experiments, MM. Herard and Cornil* have performed experiments on seven rabbits about six weeks old. Six of the animals were placed in a large rectangular box, where they could easily move and breathe. The seventh was left at liberty. The latter animal and one of the others were not inoculated. Of the remaining five, two were inoculated solely with the matter of grey semi-transparent or opaque and yellowish tubercular granulations found in the peritoneum and pleura of a phthisical patient. The other two were inoculated with cheesy matter derived from a lung affected with what the authors regard, not as tubercle, but as catarrhal pneumonia, with granular and fatty deposit. The animals were all, except one, killed at the end of two months; but the rabbits of the second category alone presented any signs of disease. Two of these, which were killed (the third being retained for further experiments), presented an early stage of tubercular disease of the * 1 Gaz. Med.,’ 15, 18O;.