LIFE INSURANCE. 469 agreement, and that he was not guilty of theft. He was consequently acquitted. Life Insurance. In Dr. Taylor’s recent work on ‘ The Principles and Practice of Medical Jurisprudence’ (1865, Churchill and Sons, pp. 1135) a chapter on life insurance, containing a large amount of information, which must be of great importance to the profession in this country so long as every medical man is liable to be called upon to give certificates with reference to the health of persons desiring to insure their lives. It is, therefore, remarkable that this subject should never before have been discussed in any medico-legal work. A full translation of Dr. Taylor’s paper is given in the ‘Annales d’Hygiene’* by M. Tardieu, who has added, in brackets, certain remarks of his own. Of these inter- calated passages, perhaps the most interesting is one which contains copies of the forms of certificate adopted by several French offices, by one Spanish, and also by a German office. The duty of private medical practitioners in reference to certificates for insurance of the lives of their patients has been much discussed in France. It has been maintained that the secrecy of a medical man with reference to the diseases of his patients should be inviolable, and that it should be a rule of professional etiquette to refuse certificates for insurance, whatever the state of the person’s health, on the ground that much injury may be done to those who are the subjects of disease by allowing them to become aware that they are otherwise than healthy. M. Tardieu states that two medical societies (one in Paris, the other at Toulouse) have passed resolutions binding their members to refuse certificates under all circumstances, leaving it to the medical advisers of the companies to ascertain for their clients the state of health of persons proposing their lives for insurance. M. Tardieu does not himself acquiesce in this rule; but he thinks that it would be better for insurance societies to content themselves with the opinion of their own medical men, no longer asking for any infor- mation from the practitioner who attends the proposer. Dr. Taylor’s observations are incapable of condensation. I can therefore only draw the attention of medical men to them. * 18C6, 2eme serie, cxxv, p. 383.