282 REPORT ON SURGERY. tinguished—simple dislocation of the oblique processes, and partial or total dislocation of the bodies. As to the former, in the cervical region it has never been observed in the author’s experience or in actual practice, but he gives experiments on the dead body to show its pos- sibility and its kinds. With reference to dislocation of the bodies of the vertebra;, which all authors (including Morgagni) believe to be very rare, the author, on the contrary, asserts that they are common enough, and met with every year in hospital practice. They are occa- sioned chiefly, according to him, by blows which catch the spine at a moment when its muscles are relaxed. Experiment on the spine re- moved from the body, and denuded of its muscles, shows that by vigorous torsion the intervertebral cartilage and ligaments can always he torn, and this dislocation he thus produced. The most common direction he finds to be anterior, of which he verified 17 cases out of 26. This is thus explained—that the force acts directly from behind, and, after having ruptured the column, drives its superior part (which Porta considers to he the part dislocated) forwards, in which direction it is also driven by its own weight and by muscular action, while the lower remains unmoved. He combats the opinion of Boyer, that the dislocation is always accompanied by fracture, and refers to 7 cases in which there was no such complication. Even when fracture does accompany the dislocation, the complexion of the accident is deter- mined by the dislocation and the extent of its displacement, the fracture being often indistinguishable till after death. As to the causes, Porta admits only external force, in opposition to Malgaigne, who believes that muscular action is the chief cause. He relies on the following considerations:—(1) On the uncertainty of the cases brought forward by Malgaigne. (2) On the weakness and indi- rectness of insertion of the cervical muscles, and on the power of resistance of the dorsal and lumbar columns, so that in none of the regions does it seem probable that the muscles could break the column. (3) On the fact that in tetanic opisthotonos no example of dislocation has ever been observed. The anatomical lesions in these dislocations may be ranged under four heads—the new relations of the parts of the vertebral column to each other; fracture of the vertebra;; the condition of the natural liga- ments of the column, and the state of the organs contained in the ver- tebral canal. The change in relation may be in rare cases a simple separation, without any change of axis; from this it may he traced through all grades—semiluxation, complete luxation, up to a perfect riding of one vertebra over the other. The displacement of the bodies involves a corresponding deviation of the processes. As to the concomitant frac- ture, he regards it as a secondary phenomenon to the dislocation. With respect to the ligaments, in some few cases they may remain intact; hut this is rare even in simple separation of the vertebrae, and in real dislocations all the ligaments properly so called are usually torn ; but the muscles, which also act as means of attachment to the bones, though more exposed to violence, yet, from their greater flexibility, relaxation, and length, usually escape rupture. It is rare that the dislocation is not