332 REPORT ON SURGERY. structed at the internal ring, and entirely open below; (3) the whole inguinal portion obliterated, the scrotal portion open; (4) the com- mencement just above the testicle obliterated, and all the rest open, and either communicating with the peritoneum, or, again, obstructed at the internal or external ring; (5) closed in its scrotal part and at the internal inguinal ring, while the rest is pervious through the external ring; (6) closed from the testicle to the external ring, but communi- cating from the peritoneum through the spermatic canal as far as the external ring. Following on this division, he gives the following classi- fication of hydroceles of the tunica vaginalis : 1. Hydroceles communicating with [ Complete or testi-funicular. the peritoneum \ Partial or f 2. Scroto-inguinal. funicular [3. Inguinal. ^4. Complete testi-funicular. 4 Scrotal testi-funicular. 2. Hydroceles not communicating I 5. Testicular. with the peritoneum 1 7‘ Complete funicular. : „ .. , , . , f 8. Scrotal funicular. L Partial funicular. | ^ Inguinal funicular. In all, 9 varieties, 3 communicating with the peritoneum, and 6 not communicating. The communicating, or, at least, the ordinary “ con- genital ” form, may be changed into non-communicating by obliteration of the orifice, but the opposite change never takes place. The author then proceeds to distinguish between the “ primitive ” form of a hydrocele, or that which results from the mere repletion of the cavity in which it occurs, and the “secondary” changes of form which take place from irregular distension of various parts of the primi- tive sac. These changes are, he says, important in practice. He then proceeds to describe the peculiarities of each of the 9 forms. I. As to communicating hydrocele : 1. The complete communicating (or congenital) hydrocele, which may, by closure of the canal, be converted into a common hydrocele. The serum is secreted either by the tunica vaginalis, the “ idiopathic,” or by the peritoneum, the “ symptomatic,” form. The latter is, according to his observations, far the more common. The volume of these hydro- celes rarely exceeds the “primitive,” since when the tunica vaginalis becomes filled it suffers no subsequent pressure, the serum having a free access to the peritoneal cavity. The volume of the hydrocele is liable to temporary variations from the same cause. For since the fluid in the scrotum has free access into the peritoneal cavity, a portion may gravitate into the abdomen at various times. This form of hy- drocele is very rarely met with in adult life, for the disease generally makes its appearance soon after birth, and in the early period of life the foramen of communication usually closes, while if it does not it most likely enlarges so far that hernia takes the place of the hydrocele. He gives the following table of 21 communicating hydroceles to show the ages of the patients and the forms of the hydrocele: