305 ANEURISM. LEAD. DISTAL COMPRESSION. In the ‘ London Hospital Reports,’ iii, 179, Dr. Daly relates a “ Case in which the symptoms of a large Abdominal Aneurism were present, and cure resulted.” In this case the patient, a man mt. 38, who had been suffering from dysentery, presented a pulsating tumour 2 inches below the ensiform cartilage, about twice the size of the fist. The tumour had the bruit and all other symptoms of aneurism, and was referred to a strain a few days previously. He was kept at rest in bed—in a state of absolute rest, scarcely allowed to speak—on a nourishing unstimulating diet, with as little fluid as possible. Ice was kept constantly applied to the tumour, and the diacetate of lead was given in 3-gr. doses with a quarter of a grain of opium 3 times a day. After 15 days it was necessary to discontinue the lead on account of the loss of appetite and constipation, but the ice was continued. After a fortnight’s interval the bruit was no longer audible, though there was pulsation. The lead was resumed and continued for 12 days, when it was necessary to give it up on account of the constipation, causing obstruction and vomiting. "When he recovered from this, at the end of a week, the aneurism was found to be cured. The ice had been continuously applied for 2 months with no pain or tendency to sloughing. The patient was seen 5 months afterwards, and there was then no tumour to be felt. Extract of a clinical lecture by Dr. O’Ferrall, “ On the combination of Distal with Proximal Compression in certain cases of Aneurism.” (Prom the ‘Dublin Medical Press,’ Mar. 1^, 1865, p. 250.)—“I have long been of opinion that compression of an artery on the distal side of an aneurismal sac should precede or accompany that on the cardiac side of the aneurism. I have often observed arrest of pulsation easily accomplished, attended at the same time with a flaccid state of the sac; but I have also remarked in such cases that the moment the pressure ceased the sac filled and throbbed as before. The formation of the coagulum is thus desirable as the first step to consolidation. A half- empty sac is the ready recipient for the slightest thready current that can follow the cessation of the compressing force on the cardiac side. It therefore appeared to me advisable to interrupt the current only when the sac was full of blood. These considerations, together with the knowledge of the fact that ligature of the artery on the distal side has sometimes cured an aneurism when the upper or cardiac portion of the vessel could not be reached, made me resolve to try this expedient whenever a fair amount of pressure was not followed by success. From what I have observed I am inclined to think that cessation of pulse in a sac which suddenly diminishes in size and becomes flaccid is less likely to be followed by a permanent cure, whatever time may have been occupied in the compression; and that a sac which retains its volume, and is, moreover, permanently full of coagulum, is less likely to be re- filled, however short the duration of the compressing force. I have no doubt that, whether a sac be filled by fibrinous deposits of some duration or by coagulum recently formed, a full sac is very influential in preventing the ingress of blood from a compressed artery above or col- lateral branches from below. The compression below the sac need not 20