485 MILITARY MINES. found that there was much less smell of sulphuretted hydrogen in a mine in which several men had been taken ill than is often observed near sewers and privies. Moreover, precisely similar symptoms mani- fested themselves in galleries in which gun-cotton had been employed to fire the mine; and such attacks were actually more frequent and more severe than when gunpowder was used. But the explosion of gun-cotton generates no sulphuretted hydrogen. One of the facts mentioned by Josephson in support of his view is that this gas can be detected chemically in the breath of those who are affected in this way; this is supposed by Scheidemann to have been an error of obser- vation, arising from the fact that the air in the neighbourhood of a gal- lery in which gunpowder has been exploded is sure to contain sul- phuretted hydrogen. He asserts that the symptoms, as described by Josephson and as observed by himself, are not more like those of poisoning by this gas than those produced by other noxious gases. Indeed, there is a perfect similarity between these symptoms and those due to carbonic oxide, and particularly to charcoal vapour. He insists particularly on the following points:—i. In the “ Minenkrankheit” a characteristic frontal pain is always present, which cannot be constant in cases of poisoning by sulphuretted hydrogen, as no mention is made of it by Halle or Orfila. 2. In poisoning by the gas in question there are much more severe symptoms of gastric and intestinal irritation. 3. Convulsions are present even in the slightest cases of poisoning by sul- phuretted hydrogen, and always precede the asphyxia. 4. The pulse is small and weak in these cases, whereas in the “ Minenkrankheit” it is large and full. 5. The skin is always cold in the former affection; Josephson states that its temperature is normal in the latter, although Bawitz and Scheidemann both found it often very low. 6. Becovery is much slower after poisoning by sulphuretted hydrogen than in the affection to which miners are liable. Now, the quantities of carbonic acid and carbonic oxide produced by the explosion of gunpowder or gun-cotton appear to be quite sufficient to account for the symptoms observed. Scheidemann therefore ascribes them to these gases, and especially to the carbonic oxide, admitting at the same time that the diminution in the quantity of oxygen and the presence of sulphuretted hydrogen are in part concerned in their pro- duction. The frequency with which these attacks occur during mining opera- tions appears from the fact that, on one occasion, out of twenty men employed in a gallery, only two were able to go on working at the end of half an hour. The opinion that carbonic oxide, and not sulphuretted hydrogen, is the cause of these symptoms is confirmed by the analyses made by Dr. Poleck of air taken from galleries of mines made during the siege of Neisse. Eulenberg also has expressed the same view in his work entitled ‘ Die Lehre von den schadlichen und giftigen Gasen.’ Eor the purpose of preventing these attacks, Scheidemann ad- vises that the workmen should inhale through sponges soaked in a solution of chloride of copper. This liquid is very absorbent of car-