APPLICATION OF THE GRAPHIC PROCESS. 165 severe fatigue from bodily exertion, e.g. after parturition or an epileptic fit. On the other hand, in recent paralytic cases, where there is no febrile excitement, the line of descent is almost free from traces of secondary waves ; and this is a state of things which must correspond to defective innervation both of heart and arteries, involving diminished heart force and diminished arterial tension. At the one extreme of the scale lies the paralytic pulse, at the other the fully developed dicrotous pulse; and the normal pulse which lies midway between these two is the strictly tricrotous form, which is a result of the combination of medium heart-force and medium arterial pressure. We are unable, from lack of space, to analyse the interesting results obtained by Wolff from the comparison of the radial pulse with those of other arteries, especially of the dorsalis pedis; nor can we do more than allude to his important researches on the relations of the daily changes in the pulse form in fever with the changes of tempera- ture, and must finally recommend the whole volume to the careful study of all who intend to use the sphygmograph. Wolff confines himself almost absolutely to the business of carefully and impartially recording the various pulse changes, and rarely touches questions of theory. On the other hand, the able papers of MM. E. Onimus and Ch. Viry* are chiefly theoretical, and have to do with the mode of production of the several elements of the pulse-tracing, espe- cially with the origin of the secondary waves. It is necessary, before analysing the work of Onimus and Yiry, to say a few words on the position which they hold with regard to the general theory of arterial pulsation. They are disciples of E. H. Weber, and consider that the whole phenomena of pulsation are wave-phenomena. They thus come into immediate collision with M. Marey upon an important point. Marey throughout his classi- cal workf uses language which leaves no doubt that he considers pulsation to be caused by the actual passage into the vessels of a mass of blood propelled by the heart, which increases arterial tension. Onimus and Viry, on the contrary, consider that the rapidity of the blood- current and the frequency of pulsation are entirely independent of each other ; they support this, on the one hand, by the observation of Chauveau—that compression of an artery sufficient to arrest the blood- current does not arrest pulsation—and, on the other, by the remark that in many pathological conditions with a very rapid pulse there is a very slow interchange of nutritive matters, and a languid movement of the mass of blood. They observe that the circulation is a system in motion under the action of a chief propelling organ, opposed by varying re- sistance ; the equilibrium of the forces is preserved by an apparatus of regulation (the nervous system). They maintain that the changing conditions of this third element make it necessary to substitute for Marey’s law, “ that the number of contractions of the heart varies inversely to the arterial tension,” the formula, “ the number of contrac- tions of the heart varies directly with the initial force,” this initial heart-force being liable to be weakened by conditions such as fasting, * ‘ Journal de l’Anat. et de la Phys.,’ Nos. i and 2, 1866. f ‘Physiologie Medicale de la Circulation du Sang,’ Paris, 1863.