UTERINE DISEASES. 373 Dr. Dolbeau relates (‘ Gaz. d. Hop.,’ 1866) a case of retained men- strual fluid, with absence of vagina. A passage was opened up by operation, and relief afforded. Dr. L. Mayer illustrates (‘Mon. f. Geburtsk.,’ 1865) the subject of acquired vaginal atresia. He insists upon the importance of distin- guishing whether occlusion is congenital or acquired, operative measures being much more promising in the latter kind. With the exception of the cases where the vagina is deficient, and of hymeneal atresia, which last consists in excessive development, both the kinds are traced back to inflammatory processes, In the congenital atresia the inflammatory adhesions are apt to affect very deep-seated parts, and to involve, to a greater extent, the surrounding structures; and coming as the inflam- matory action does upon organs imperfectly developed, the condition is far more serious than it is in the acquired kind, where inflammation attacks developed organs ; in these, moreover, the adhesions are less deep-seated. Operations are, therefore, more promising in the acquired form. The same subject, especially in reference to diagnosis, is discussed by Dr. Bryk (‘Wiener Med. Wchnschr.,’ 1865). Dr. K. T. Tracy (‘Australian Med. Journ.,’ 1865) describes a case of traumatic occlusion of the os and cervix uteri. Dr. Caffe (‘ L’Union Med.,’ 1866) cites cases from Michon, and adds one of his own, of spasmodic occlusion of the vagina. He effected dila- tation by a bivalve speculum. A case of vaginismus was successfully treated by Dr. Murray (‘ Lancet,’ 1866) by nitrate of silver and iodine. The position of the uterus is described by Dr. M. Claudius (‘ Med. Times and Gaz.,’ 1865). Deviations of position are treated of in the following: Gustav Braun relates (‘Wien. Med. Presse,’ 1865) cases of and remarks upon anteflexion. He treats these cases first with the sound, then with lever pessaries, the particular form being the open ring. Prof. E. Martin also (‘Berlin. Klin. Wchnschr.,’ 1865) discusses the flexions and versions of the uterus, and their treatment by lever pessaries. The use of lever pessaries is also discussed by Dr. O. Spiegelberg (‘Wurzb. Med. Ztschr.,’ 1865). The use of intra-uterine pessaries for relief of flexions is discussed by Prof. H. Hildebrandt (‘Mon. f. Geburtsk.,’ 1865). He says the first and almost instantaneous relief of the nervous symptoms caused by the bent uterus is obtained on straitening it, and that complete cure may be obtained by the intra-uterine pessary. He excludes their use when there is inflammation. Cases in which retroflexion of the uterus was successfully treated was related by Dr. Beatty (1866). The nature and treatment of procidentia uteri are well illustrated in a paper by Dr. Marion Sims (‘ Obst. Trans.,’ vii). He shows that the first condition of prolapsus uteri is commonly cystocele or descent of the anterior wall of the vagina with the base of the bladder ; the uterus is then drawn down. Acting on this view of the cause, he removes, in