CHEMICAL TESTS i'OR POISONS. 449 at the present time is, however, almost free from this impurity. M. Roussin states that the hydrogen which is given off by the action of sulphuric acid on magnesium seemed to him particularly pure. It burned with a nearly imperceptible flame. The use of magnesium in this way has the further advantage that it leads to the detection of several other metals besides antimony or arsenic, supposing any of these other metals to be present. Thus, copper, lead, mercury, and zinc, are all thrown down by magnesium from acid solutions containing their salts. They either fall to the bottom of the liquid or remain attached to the surface of the plates of magnesium; and they either form floeculi or appear in a pulverulent or in a spongy condition. To ensure the complete separation of these metals, it is necessary to keep the liquid acid, and to add fresh pieces of magnesium until they retain their metallic appearance while being dissolved. The liquid should then be filtered, care being taken that there is a small piece of magnesium in excess when the liquid is thrown on the filter. Any of the above-named metals present will remain on the filter. The application of the usual tests will enable their nature to be determined. It is necessary to add that the mercury thrown down from solutions of corrosive sublimate is partly in the metallic state, partly in the form of calomel. Dr. Cloetta,* Professor of Medical Jurisprudence at Zurich, has made some investigations with reference to the detection of strychnia. As to the delicacy of the different tests for this alkaloid, when pure solu- tions are employed, he has obtained the following results:—i. If i grain of pure strychnia be dissolved in 17000 ccm. of water, the bitter taste may be recognised in 1 ccm. placed upon the tongue. 2. The colour- test with sulphuric acid and bichromate of potass succeeds with fftli of a grain, but not with any larger quantity. Even with voViith °i a grain the violet colour is very pale. The admixture of any other sub- stance diminishes very greatly the delicacy of the test. 3. The crys- talline precipitate with a solution of bichromate of potass may be distinctly obtained from 1 ccm. of a solution containing g^th of a grain of strychnia. The insolubility of the salt thus formed is shown by the fact that, after the addition of a sufficient quantity of the bichromate to a solution of strychnia, the supernatant liquid possesses scarcely any bitter taste. Cloetta has also endeavoured to determine what is the smallest amount of strychnia which can be detected when added to an organic liquid, such as urine. His experiments showed that -g’gth °f a grain can be cer- tainly discovered in 65o ccm. of urine, but that -J^th of a grain escapes detection. Of his further observations, some were made on three patients, who were taking medicinally -J-rd to i-J-th grain of nitrate of strychnia daily. In no instance was even a trace of the alkaloid detected in the urine, although the whole quantity passed in 24 hours was used for analysis. A horse was killed by a solution containing 20 grains of nitrate of * ‘ Virchow’s Arcliiv/ xxxv, p. 369. 29