FIETUS AND NEW-BORN CHILD. 425 vanishes, or is reduced to that degree that the complete shutting off of the channel by which the access of oxygen took place hitherto, which happens on the completion of labour, creates a powerful stimulus to set up normal inspiration. The subject is also discussed by B. S. Schultze in a memoir on the best method of restoring apparently dead-born children (‘Mon. f. G-eb.,’ 1866); in a report on living without breathing in new-born children by Devergie on a treatise by Bardinet (‘Bull. del’Acad.,’ Augt., 1865) ; in a report by Danyau on the dead feet us and new-born infant (ibid.). Dr. Stempelmann, in a prize essay (‘Mon. f. Gleb.,’ 1866) gives an historical resume of the subject of resuscitation of asphyxiated new- born children, and states two cases in which the effect of sucking out the mucus from the air-passages was strikingly successful. E. Bose gives (‘Mon. f. Geb.,’ 1865) an elaborate memoir, historical and critical, on retention of urine in new-born children. It embraces recorded cases of anomalies of the urinary organs. Dr. Kirby relates (‘Bayer. Aerzt. Intel! Bl.,’ 1865) two cases of vagitus uterinus. The subject of intra-utrine breathing is discussed by Dr. S. Kristeller (‘Monschr. f. G-eb.,’ 1865). On the estimation of the bodiig development of children. Prof. A. Brunniche, of Copenhagen (‘ Journ. f. Kinderkr.,’ xlvii, 1866).—Dr. Brunniche has made a series of comparative examinations as to the progressive and relative development of children at different ages. He has taken the following data in children, divided into 1 o classes, according to age, from 2 to 8 years, weight, height, circumference of head, cir- cumference of chest. These are some of his results:—The weight increases regularly with age. In boys of good development, who weigh I0371 grammes at 2 years, acquisition is 9330 grammes at 8 years ; Whilst in boys of small development, beginning with 8795 grammes, the gain is only 7888 grammes at 8 years. A similar rule is observed in girls. The chest circumference seems to increase regularly from the 2nd to the 8th year. The increase of the head does not appear to proceed so remarkably during the latter half of the 6 years. The re- lative proportions of chest and head vary in a definite order. Under three years the circumference of the head is greater than that of the chest. It is a sign of good development if at 3^ years the chest equals or rather exceeds that of the head. Observations were also made upon the development of scrofulous, chachitic, and tuberculous children. On idiopathic bleedings from the umbilicus in new-born children. By Dr. A. Weber (‘Journ. f. Kinderkr.,’vi, 1866).—Weber relates two cases. In one the bleeding broke out on the 37th day after birth ; it ended fatally. It was ascertained that the blood came from the unclosed right umbilical artery. In the second case the bleeding seemed caused by continuous violent screaming. Weber refers to a memoir by Grandidier relating three cases, and to another by Dr. Hagen relating three cases. A case of umbilical haemorrhage was related by Mr. W. Sedgwick (‘Brit. Med. Journ.,’ 1866). Haemorrhage occurred on the 9th day after birth. Dr. G. de G-. Griffith relates (ibid.) a case in which the root of the