46 REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. Prof. Max. Pettenkofer,* in liis account of the Saxon epidemic of 1865, remarks (incidentally) a fact which bears upon the supposed transition of epidemic diarrhoea into cholera. In Werdau people were not content with erecting a cholera hospital, but built a diarrhoea hospital also. Great numbers flocked to this latter, and it is possible that many of them were poor folk who used the place as a refuge rather than because they were really ill. Still, with all deductions, a very large number! of undoubted cholerine patients entered this establish- ment, and out of the total number of its inmates only 4 per cent, developed real cholera. Pettenkofer says that it is impossible to sup- pose that any particular medication had the merit, here, of preventing a development into cholera. 2. As regards the pathology of the disease. M. Cloquet,f in a communication to the Academie de Medecine, comes to the following conclusions as to the pathology of cholera :—1. The cholera influence, whatever it may be, directly poisons the nervous system. 2. All the functional disorders observed in cholera are due to the modifications and disturbances which the nervous system, struck by the morbid principle, imposes on the functions of all the organs which are under its control. 3. We shall discover, it is to be hoped, for the successful treatment of cholera, therapeutic agents which, acting on the nervous system, in an inverse sense to the morbid principle, will neu- tralise its action, and annul its terrible consequences. Dr. George Johnson, whose important theory of cholera was originally put forward in 1849, now brings it forward in a matured form4 The essential features of this theory are the following:—Cholera is the result of a poison received into the blood by the channel of the lungs or the alimentary canal, and its morbid influence is exerted in an irritant effect upon the mucous membrane of the alimentary canal on the one hand, and upon certain muscular tissues on the other. The diarrhoea and vomiting are the consequence of the first, and are in truth conservative processes, ridding the blood of a dangerous poison. Por in virtue of the other irritant action—that upon muscular tissue— the morbid matter not only excites cramps in many of the voluntary muscles, but produces spasm of the smaller twigs of the pulmonary artery. The result of this pulmonary spasm is to reduce the current of blood through the lungs, and consequently to interfere with the due aeration of the blood. The result of this is, on the one hand, the sin- gular loss of activity, the loss of voice, the mental apathy (without any- thing like a corresponding diminution of muscular power), and the remarkable arrest of secretions. Every secretion which requires an active oxidating process to elaborate its elements is suppressed, e. g. urine, bile, &c. The only secretions which continue are those which, like milk, are composed of materials which are more simply separated from the blood. In short, it is to the non-aeration of the blood which is occasioned by the almost complete arrest of the pulmonary circulation, * ‘Zeitsch. fur Biologie,’ ii, 1, 1866. f ‘ Bull, de 1’Acad.,5 xxxi, p. 157, 1865-6. + ‘ Notes on Cholera, its Nature and its Treatment,’ London, 1866. See also various papers in ‘ Brit. Med. Journal,’ 1865-6.