GENERAL PARALYSIS. 85 a connection with chorea, was actually present at the time of the out- break of choreic symptoms. Wherever the rheumatic complication is present it is important to distinguish, in any mental aberrations which may occur in this, between mere delirium, with coma or convulsions, symptoms which acute rheumatism alone may easily produce, and dis- tinct hallucinations or other signs of important mental disturbance which are here in question. The second case is interesting on account of the pre-existing state of mental depression which appears to have been left by an attack of typhus which happened so long as six years previously, and also because the mental disturbance took the form of melancholia, a comparatively rare complication of chorea. The chlo- rotic condition of the patient, too, is noteworthy. In a case related by Dr.Lelion the patient, a young man, set. 19, had pre- viously been healthy, except that since his getting a fright when 7 years of age he had seemed to be of limited mental capacity, and of irascible temper, and that he had been addicted to intoxication. There was no family history of insanity, but his father had suffered from delirium tremens. The illness of the patient commenced with shiverings, fol- lowed by pains in the neck; on the third day convulsive movements of the right leg, and soon afterwards the right hand and foot, commenced ; and along with these symptoms a furious maniacal delirium set in. The choreic movements afterwards extended to the left limbs; and hal- lucinations of sight and hearing, sometimes of a terrifying kind, occurred. Morphia produced a slight temporary remission, but the restlessness soon recurred. The cheeks were flushed, the lips dry and much bitten ; there was severe thirst, and profuse expectoration of frothy sputa. He remained in much the same state during the following (the fourth) day ; no fever or vomiting; no action of the bowels. On the night of the fourth day death occurred, suddenly. On post-mortem examination the pia matter was found intensely injected ; the cortical substance was congested, and of a rose-red colour; the white substance of the brain normal. The general opinion of Thore on the subject of the relationship of chorea to its occasional mental complications is that the latter can hardly depend to any great extent upon it. He thinks that simple cho- rea is rarely so complicated, and that mental affections are for the most part caused by coincident diseases, e. y. rheumatism, typhus, or chlorosis. Pathology of General Paralysis. M. Eegnard* has been struck with an appearance discovered by Baillarger in examining the brains of certain sufferers from general paralysis. The grey substance of the anterior lobes, when scraped away with the back of a knife, presented ridges of some hard matter which could not be removed in this wray, and which were, in fact, pro- longations of the ivhite substance. This white substance looked yel- lowish, and was somewhat tough; some of the prolongations were so elastic and firm as to resemble the epiglottis in appearance. Reg- nard has endeavoured to ascertain with what degree of frequency such * ‘Ann. Med. Psych.,’ Jan. 1865.