93 SCLEROSIS. hand could he opened and shut. The left pupil was dilated aud fixed; the sensibility of the paralysed parts was now quite gone, except in the trunk; reflex activity weakened. In the evening (7.30) the tempera- ture was 40° Cent., and the paralysis had diminished ; speech returned, though weak and unintelligible ; tongue readily protruded ; swallowing easier; both hands could be opened and shut. At 11 p.m. the whole left arm could be moved, but sensibility and reflex action in the affected parts were quite lost. Patient chiefly complained of pain at back of head and epigastrium; then nausea and burning thirst, and towards morning a greenish watery fluid was vomited. Next morning there was decided improvement, and the temperature had fallen to 370 Cent.; but in the evening there was a relapse, and these alternations went on day by day. In April oedema of the feet came on, and extended upwards, and there was sloughing of the sacrum. The apathy became more and more pronounced ; the mind was clear, but no attention was paid except to bodily needs. Death on May 12. At the autopsy the skull was observed to be small in every direction; the os frontis was strikingly narrow. Much oedema of arachnoid; basis cranii normal; calvarium thin; slight “pachymeningitis” of the dura mater and of the con- vexity of the brain. On various sections of the brain being made there were found, in the tough and firm white substance, spots of sclerosed tissue of various sizes; there were several in each hemisphere, but they were especially numerous in the fornix, the tsenia, the peduncles. The cerebellum was normal, but in the pons (under side) there were numer- ous sclerosed spots, also in the crura cerebelli ad pontem and ad vied, oblongatam, and in the lining of the fourth ventricle. The spinal cord felt tough to the finger; its consistence approached that of coagulated albumen; this was most strongly marked in the cervical region, while at the cauda equina the condition was normal. Transverse section at the cervical region showed the posterior cornua dirty grey in colour, and seeming enlarged, from the similar affection of neighbouring parts. The medullary matter of the lateral columns appeared abnormally small. These peculiarities steadily diminished downwards. In the lumbar re- gion nothing abnormal could be detected by the naked eye. Micro- scopic examination of the sclerosed spots of the brain showed many nuclei scattered among fibres of connective tissue; no trace of brain- elements or nerve-fibres; corpora amylacea in great numbers, partly isolated and partly imbedded in the sclerosed tissue. After prepara- tion with chromic acid a connective tissue was seen, which consisted of fine fibres. These fibres appeared partly reticulated, and contained in their meshes many oval, somewhat flattened, or egg-shaped and indented nuclei. Around the nuclei the cell-projections and cell-membrane could not he certainly distinguished. Acetic acid made the fibres quite dis- appear. The capillary vessels had many nuclei iu their walls, which were also for the most part dotted with fat. The non-sclerosed brain- tissues were not notably changed, yet in the neighbourhood of the sclerosed spots grey cells were found, dotted with fat. Sections from the cervical region of the cord showed essentially the same changes as those observed in the brain ; there were even more bundles of connective tissue. The lateral columns contained normal nerve-fibres.