303 CURE OF ANEURISM. in the upper wall of the axillary artery, which was tied on both sides of the hole and divided. Thus the bleeding was effectually restrained, but gangrene of the arm came on, and proved fatal. In his remarks on this case Mr. Callender refers to 31 instances of rupture of the axillary artery. Seventeen of these occurred in the reduction of dislocation. Of these, 5 are dubious, or imperfectly re- corded ; in 5 undue violence was used; in 2 the dislocation was com- plicated with fracture, so that it is possible that in the efforts at reduc- tion the artery might have been injured by the edges of the fractured bone. In the remaining 5 (including Mr. Callender’s own case) 110 great force was used, nor any unusual difficulty experienced.* The other 14 cases were instances of rupture of the artery from various injuries not producing dislocation. A patient was twice exhibited to the New York Pathological Society by Dr. Krackowizer, first in Sept. 1861, and again in March, 1865, to show the possibility of a spontaneous cure of aneurism by anastomosis, or cirsoid aneurism as it is here denominated. "When first exhibited the patient was 43 years of age, had had the disease all his life, and could refer it to no cause. It had never caused pain or haemorrhage, but was of considerable size, and involved the right ear and scalp in the position of the temporal and posterior auricular arteries and their branches. He suffered from rushing noise in the ear, which was continual. On the second occasion the disease had diminished in all its parts. Pulsation in some parts had entirely disappeared, and the anfractuosities of the large arteries had become in some parts quite solid ; the ear had greatly shrivelled up; the pulse in the posterior auricular artery had become feeble, and two thrombi of different thickness could be felt in its interior. The change had been in progress about a year. At that time, if he kept quiet, the rushing noise was not audible. Dr. Krackowizer refers to two other cases of spontaneous cure of cirsoid aneurism (both, however, of traumatic origin) as recorded by Gluck and Orfila, and by Chevalier of Paris, but he does not give the references. In the ‘American Journal of the Med. Sc.,! Oct. 186 5, p. 535, a case is cited from the ‘ Canada Med. Journ.,’ Oct. 1864, by Dr. Sewall, of the cure of an aneurism of the carotid artery by starvation, rest, and iodide of potassium. The patient, a man set. 24, was suffering from a large diffuse pulsating swelliug occupying the whole side of the neck as high as the level of the hyoid bone. The aneurismal thrill was very manifest, and the sounds of the heart were heard loudly in the tumour. The tumour interfered with respiration. Absolute rest in bed was enjoined, 8oz. of white bread and 1 pint of water daily was allowed, and 5 grs. of iodide of potassium given in an ounce of water 3 times a day. In 3 days the part of the swelling in front of the sterno-mastoid had disappeared; in 9 days there was merely a tumour the size of a * Mr. Callender believes that the cases spoken of hy French surgeons as “ tumeur aerienne” in reduction of the shoulder were of the same nature as his own.