POISONING. COPPER. 437 limbs. These symptoms were constantly recurring ; they would subside for a few days, afterwards returning with fresh severity. The three brothers Bushby all died within 6 weeks. The housekeeper and others of the household were at the end of August still suffering from more or less paralysis of the legs ; and Mrs. Bushby, who had come to the farm to nurse her brother-in-law, was a perfect cripple. The disease was at first supposed to be diphtheria; but the body of one of the brothers having been exhumed, arsenic was readily found in various organs. It was not discovered whether the poison had been administered inten- tionally or taken by accident. Copper.—Dr. Taylor* records the circumstances of an inquiry which arose in July, 1866, concerning the cause of the illness of several persons belonging to a family at Itchen Abbas. It appears that some gravy, which had. been made for a joint of veal, was left in a copper stewpan all night. The vessel had a tin lining, which had been a good deal worn, but it was quite clean when the meat was put into it. The cook declared that she drank about a table-spoonful of the gravy in the morning, and observed that it had no particular taste or smell about it. The veal with the gravy was served up in the dining-room, and was afterwards brought into the kitchen. After a considerable interval (about 12 hours) several members of the family and most of the servants were taken ill with similar symptoms, consisting in vomiting, diarrhoea, shivering, &c. It appears that only those who partook of the gravy be- came ill. Some of the servants who ate the veal without the gravy escaped altogether. Recovery took place in every case. Some of the veal with the gravy was, however, sent to an old man, aged 90, the grandfather of one of the servants. He had been ill some months before, but was well when he received the meat. The veal sent to him was separated from the gravy. The latter was given, at 11 a.m., to some children, who were taken ill the same night with vomiting and purging. The dry meat was eaten by the old man for his supper. About 9 or 10 hours afterwards he complained of feeling poorly, but he was not taken with severe symptoms until after breakfast the next morning. Purging then came on, which lasted all day. On the following morning he was sick ; he suffered from pains in his inside for nearly 3 weeks, at the end of which time he died. Post-mortem examination showed that there was “ disease of the right lung, which was solidified and shrunk.” The stomach was healthy. There was a large ulcerated patch in the middle of the duodenum. The lower part of the ileum presented numerous ulcers, and there were some also in the colon. The stomach, portions of the intestines, and the liver, were analysed, but no poison was found in any of these organs. Dr. Taylor shows that the symptoms and post-mortem appearauces in the case of this old man were rather those of disease than of poison- ing by any metal. The deceased was proved not to have taken the gravy, which was impregnated with copper ; but Dr. Taylor thinks that there may have been sufficient poison in the meat to excite increased irritation, assuming that the bowels were already in an inflamed state. The failure of the chemical analysis to detect copper is, of course, not * 1 Guy’s Hospital Reports,’ 3rd series, xii, p. 329.