113 OPHTHALMOSCOPY IN BRAIN DISEASES. On the subject of abscess of the brain the most important paper is that of Dr. Gintrac, which is based on a collation of 206 cases of this affection, and a careful comparison of them with 157 cases of acute red softening.* [See also other papers in the general index of nervous diseases.] Ophthalmoscopy in Brain Disease. On the subject of the diagnosis of meningitis and of many other brain affections by the ophthalmoscope, Dr. Bouchutt has written a book which is much too voluminous to allow of analysis here. M. Gayet J reports a case which shows the value of ophthalmoscopic examinations in brain disease. A young man, set. 27, had suffered, two and a half months before Gayet saw him, a severe fall, and a great fright thereupon. His health failed, his sight began to grow feeble, and he had noises in his ears. Intelligence was uninjured ; lie suffered from intense headache and constipation. On examining the optic papilla? with the ophthalmoscope (besides the morbid appearances which were common to both eyes), Gayet found at the upper and outer part of the papillae (image reversed) a slight grey cloud marking the edge of the disc, and a group of vessels running in that direction. This was recognised as a papillary oedema, a siyn of exudation at the base of the brain, according to Liebreich. Epileptiform attacks and tetanic rigidity of the limbs soon came on; in the intervals of these fits there was profound coma. The patient died three and a half months from the date of the accident. At the autopsy two spots of red “ gelatini- form” softening, with recent haemorrhage, in the anterior lobe of the right side, and a similar one in the anterior portion of the corpus cal- losum. All round the foci of softening the brain matter presented a gelatiniform appearance; the remainder of the brain was oedematous and markedly spotty (piyuete’). No lesion of the optic thalami, the tubercula quadrigemina, nor around the auditory nerve. A slight flat- tening of the right optic nerve was the only thing worth notice. Cerebral Hemipleyia. One of the most important speculations which has of late years been propounded with regard to brain diseases is put forward by Dr. Broad- bent^ He endeavours to account for the singular fact that in common hemiplegia, dependent on haemorrhage or softening in the corpus stria- tum or optic thalamus (or both) of one side, it is only the limbs, tongue, and face, which are paralysed, while the trunk muscles escape ; and sensation is either partially or altogether unaffected. He thinks the explanation is to be found in the following hypothesis:—“ AVhere the muscles of the corresponding parts on opposite sides of the body con- stantly act in concert, and act independently either not at all or with difficulty, the nerve-nuclei are so connected by commissural fibres as to * ‘ Journ. rle Bordeaux,’ June, 1866; ‘Schmidt’s Jahrb.,’ 130, 4, p. 21, 1866. f ‘ Du Diagnostic des Maladies du Systeme nerveux par Ophthalmoscope,’ 8vo, avec un atlas, Paris, 1865. % ‘L’Union Med.,’ 27 Mai, 1865. § ‘ Brit, and For. Med.-Chir. Rev.,’ April, i£66. 8