ENDOSCOPY. 215 In the ‘Lancet’ for 1866, ii, p. 348, Mr. T. P. Teale, jun., pub- lishes a clinical lecture on the use of the endoscope in cases of stone in the bladder. Mr. Teale says, “ I have examined the bladder in 6 cases where stone had been previously detected by the sound, and in all I was able to see the stone. I learned something in each. Had I the cases to observe now I am convinced that I should learn much more, and that in one of them I could have obtained information which would have led me to adopt a course of treatment different from that which was carried out.” We append 3 of the cases referred to. “ Wm. H—, set. 52, had suffered from symptoms of stone for several years. The bladder was irritable, so that I did not carry out the rule laid down by Dr. Cruise, to distend it with water. The result was that, although I saw the surface of the stone, and traversed a considerable portion of it, yet, from my inability to move the instrument freely within the bladder, I was unable to explore the entire surface. Lithotrity was first employed, but the irritability of the bladder did not subside, and lithotomy became necessary. It was found that there was a second stone, which had never been crushed I have no doubt that a more skilful use of the endoscope would have enabled me to see that there were two rather large calculi, and would have led me to adopt lithotomy instead of lithotrity.” “ S. C—, a)t. 71, was the subject of stone. I examined him with the endoscope in the hope of obtaining evidence which might guide me in deciding between lithotomy and lithotrity. I detected, not one stone only, but several small, white, round calculi, some of which appeared to have been spontaneously broken into fragments. I had therefore no hesitation in deciding upon lithotrity. A few hours before the first operation he passed some small fragments of round calculi, thus proving the correctness of the endoscopic observation. The operation still further confirmed the diagnosis, as none but small calculi were found by the lithotrite.” “I was requested by Dr. Clifford Allbutt to examine JohnT—, whom he suspected to be suffering from stone in the bladder. Having first, with difficulty, detected a stone with the sound, I injected the bladder, and introduced the endoscope. We then saw several small calculi lying just within the neck of the bladder, varying in size from a large pea to a hemp-seed. I then introduced a catheter with a large eye, and by means of Mr. Clover’s syringe removed ten small calculi exactly corre- sponding with those we had seen.” Mr. Christopher Heath has also recorded a portion of his experience of the endoscope, in a pamphlet entitled ‘ On the Endoscope as a means for the Diagnosis and Treatment of Urethral Disease’ (Churchill, 1866). Mr. Heath mentions that he has also used the instrument satisfactorily in the bladder and rectum. After describing the instrument, and the appearance of the healthy urethra as seen through it, which he com- pares to that of a healthy rectum on a smaller scale, or to a vagina, but with the folds of mucous membrane longitudinal instead of transverse, Mr. Heath proceeds to state that he has observed in healthy urethras a constant vermicular contraction of the wall of the canal, apparently passing towards the bladder. This accounts for the tendency of foreign