489 INFECTION BY BAGS. Colnbrook ; the other, in the summer of 1864, at Thetford. In the first case the complaint was investigated at the time, with the result that it was left uncertain whether the disease might not have originated outside, and altogether independently of, the paper-mill to which it was attributed. The second case was examined into by Dr. Bristowe himself, who came to the conclusion that smallpox had really been introduced into the town of Thetford by rags used at a paper-mill there. It was originally proposed that the inquiries should be extended to all occupations in which rags are used; but it was soon found that paper-making was the only one in which there was any probability that anything but negative results would be obtained. Dr. Bristowe visited 86 paper-mills in different parts of England. The result was that the principals and managers professed for the most part to be ignorant of cases in which smallpox or other infectious diseases had been intro- duced by means of rags, and that in the majority of mills which he visited the workpeople appeared to have no dread of such an occurrence, but that in a minority there was a tendency among them to attribute in- fectious diseases to this cause. In the aggregate, the evidence seems to show that smallpox and other infectious diseases are very rarely intro- duced into paper-mills by rags, but that their introduction by this means is possible, and occasionally takes place. Dr. Bristowe expressly states that the quality of the evidence collected by him in favour of the propagation of disease in this way is not very good. He considers that the apparent rarity of its occurrence is to be attributed to the following circumstances. In the first place, hospitals and other institutions in which infectious diseases are treated appear not to sell rags to rag- dealers, in this country at least; and he thinks that it is exceptional for even private persons thus to dispose of distinctly infected articles. Again, before rags reach the paper-mills they have been sorted and resorted two or three times, and have thus lost some of the de- leterious qualities which they may have possessed. Lastly, the pre- liminary dusting which they undergo in the large mills again tends to deprive them of any infectious property. It is, of course, only during the earlier stages of paper-making that any danger can pos- sibly exist. Dr. Bristowe does not suggest any precautionary mea- sures, excepting the vaccination (or revaccination) of persons employed in the mills, and the making it a misdemeanour to sell, or knowingly to buy, rags which have been used about persons suffering from infectious diseases. The epidemic of variola at Thetford, above referred to, took place under the following circumstances:—There had been no smallpox in the village for some years before. The first cases which occurred were those of two women, who were employed in cutting up some foreign rags. They did not live together, but the disease broke out in both of them on the same day. They lived in a low locality called Church Bow, in which altogether 32 persons were attacked by small- pox. The third case was that of a boy who worked in the engine-room of the mill, but having communication with the rag-workers. He took