REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 154 tion, and opened while the patient makes a forced expiration, when the liquid escapes from the pleural cavity with much freedom, and without the least entrance of air occurring. The point of the canula can be moved about successively to different parts of the chest, which careful percussion, not only before, but during the operation, may show to contain fluid or (in the case of pneumothorax) air. Pneumothorax. M. Demarquay* examines the nature and effects of the gaseous contents of the pleura in pneumothorax. He allows only of three possible sources for the gas:—(i) Atmospheric air entering through an external wound; (2) air from a torn lung; (3) gas from the decomposi- tion of a purulent or other morbid exudation into the pleura. He decidedly rejects the notion of an “ essential” pneumothorax. When once the gas is present the following changes take place:—Processes of absorption and exhalation occur, which produce a diminution of the oxygen and an increase of the carbonic acid, and (to a small extent) of the nitrogen. These changes, though superficially resembling those of respiration, are really very different. As regards the chemical influence of the gas upon the tissues and organs, Demarquay states that, if a communication with the lungs be present, an irritation of the pleura is kept up; while, on the contrary, if the external air be excluded, the gas is reabsorbed and the pleura remains unaffected. The irritant effect of external air is chiefly due to its oxygen. He thinks this is proved by the fact that, when pneumothorax has been caused by an ex- ternal wound, if the further access of atmospheric air be prevented, no pleurisy follows. A gradually decomposing collection of gas in the pleura is likewise harmless, except where sulphuretted hydrogen or sulphide of ammonium is developed ; this kind of decomposition, how- ever, is very rare. The mechanical influence of the gas consists of compression of the lungs, displacement of the heart, &c. The latter is (according to Trousseau) the cause of the accelerated pulse. Demarquay has confirmed the above propositions experimentally on rabbits and dogs, on which he has artificially produced pneumothorax. With the rabbits he produced pleurisy and severe pneumonia by the injection of from 60 to 100 cubic centim. of air; he attributes this result, however, to their delicate constitution and the unavoidable wounding of the lung. In large and strong dogs the contrary was the case. Nume- rous and frequently repeated injections of from 100 to 150 cubic centim. of air into the pleura of these animals produced scarcely any effect. Chemical analysis here showed that in time the preparations of the C02 to the oxygen were reversed. On killing the animals he found not the least morbid change in the pleura or the lung, except that the latter was somewhat retracted. Demarquay hence concludes that the influence of air on a healthy pleura is harmless. Prof. A. Vogelf relates a remarkable case of pneumothorax, which rapidly recovered after most dangerous symptoms. An unmarried * ‘ Gaz. Med.,’32, 1865; ‘Schmidt’s Jahrb.,’ 128, p. 188, 1865. t ‘ Deutsch. Arch. f. klin. Med.,’ ii, p. 244, 1866.