REPORT ON OPHTHALMIC MEDICINE AND SURGERY. 860 Conjunctiva.—Dr. Prosoroff has published a series of experiments on rabbits as to the action of various medicaments on the conjunctiva of the lid.* He found that 5-grain solutions of nitrate of silver, bichloride of mercury, sulphates of copper and zinc, tannin, acetate and basic acetate of lead, induce the formation of pus-corpuscles ; that the action of red precipitate (in ointment, 5 gr. to the ounce of lard) is not uniform ; and that nitrate of potash, alum, and carbonate of potash, cause cell-division and the development of free nuclei. The action of all these means is therefore irritant. He gives the following table of the relative intensity of action of the same solutions, i.e. the number of hours for which a single application acted. a. Medicaments causing the formation of pus-corpuscles : Bichloride of mercury Nitrate of silver Tannin S° — 144 52 14 14 Basic acetate of lead Sulphate of zinc I I Sulphate of copper 9 — 1 I Acetate of lead 8 — 9 Medicaments causing the formation of free nuclei: Nitrate of potash 3^ — 5 Alum 3* — 5 Carbonate of potash 2 The author’s next step was to determine for how long a time the same substance in various degrees of concentration would act. The author’s conclusion is that, as all the means hitherto mentioned exercise only an irritant action, it is quite immaterial which is employed in any particular disease of the eyelid ; they all act in the same way provided an adequate quantity is used, and this quantity may be easily determined by a geometrical proportion from the table in which the different medi- caments are arranged according to their effects. Thus, a i-gr. solution of Arg. Nitr. acts for 10 hours, a 5-gr. solution for 50 hours; the latter corresponds, in respect to the time at which pus ceases to be formed or in respect to the degree of irritation, to the following solutions: Tannin i8j gr- to the ounce of water. Bichloride 11 Cupr. Sulph 2 3 tt „ ft 11 Zinc. Sulph 26 ft ft 11 Plumb. Ac. Basic. ... 18^ 11 »J 11 ••• 28J 11 11 Mercurius pram. rub. 374 „ If lard. The author relates a series of experiments in respect to the solid nitrate of silver and sulphate of copper.f * ‘ Arch, fiir Ophth.,’ xi, 3, p. 142. f See also A. v. Graefe, on contagious ophthalmias (‘ Ophth. Rev.,’ ii, 215). Mooren, on the treatment of conjunctival affections (ib., p. 309). II. Hancock, on catarrhal oph- thalmia (‘ Brit. Med. Journ.,’ 1863, i, 633). Dr. Czelechowsky, Wolff, W. Stokes, and M. Serres, on granular diisease (‘Ophth. Rev.,’ ii, 53; ib., iii, 93; ‘ Dubl. Quart. Journ.,’ xli, p. 38; ‘Ann. d'Ocul.,’lvi, p. 78). R. Berlin, moist warmth in diphtheritic