286 REPORT ON SURGERY. We pass over the original method adopted by Mr. Lister and his accounts of the improvements which he has introduced into it, in order to produce his latest proposition for the operation, which is as follows. Chloroform is to he given, and a tourniquet applied, in order to keep the parts free of blood. All the articulations of the hand are to be freely moved, in order to break down any adhesions. A radial incision is made, planned so as to avoid the radial artery, and also the tendons of the extensor secundi internodii pollicis, and in- dicator, commencing above at the middle of the dorsal aspect of the radius, on a level with its styloid process, directed thence, parallel with the course of the extensor secundi internodii pollicis, towards the inner side of the metacarpo-phalangeal articulation of the thumb, and on reaching the radial border of the second metacarpal bone carried downwards longitudinally for half the length of that bone. The soft parts are then raised from the bones, with the knife guided by the thumb-nail. The radial extensors of the wrist are thus severed close to their insertion, and the extensor secundi internodii raised, but not divided, and thrust outwards, with the artery. The next step is to separate the trapezium bone from the rest of the carpus, by means of cutting forceps applied in the direction of the longitudinal portion of the incision, but the bone is not removed at this stage of the proceed- ing. The hand is now to be bent back, and the extensor tendons sepa- rated on the ulnar side of the incision. Next, a very free incision is to be made along the anterior aspect of the ulna, commencing at least 2 inches above its extremity, running between the bone and the tendon of the flexor carpi ulnaris, and carried forwards as far as the middle of the 5th metacarpal bone. The dorsal lip of this incision is now to be raised, and the tendon of the extensor carpi ulnaris severed at its insertion and dissected up, care being taken not to separate it from the integuments. The extensors of the fingers are thus readily separated from the carpus, and the dorsal and internal lateral ligaments of the wrist-joint are divided; but the connections of the tendons with the radius are purposely left undisturbed. Attention is now directed to the palmar lip of the incision, where the ulna is cleared by cutting towards the bone, so as to avoid the artery and nerve. In this process the pisiform articulation is opened, if that has not been done before, and the flexor tendons separated from the carpus, the hand being depressed to relax them. When the unciform process.is reached the base of it is to be cut through with pliers. The separation is not to be carried farther than the bases of the metacarpal bones, so as to avoid injury to the soft parts and to the deep palmar arch. The anterior ligaments of the carpus having been divided, the carpal bones can be removed by drawing them out with sequestrum forceps, and touching any ligamentous connections which may remain with the knife. Now the ends of the bones of the forearm are to be thrust out through the ulnar incision, and are to be carefully examined and dealt with accord- ing to their condition. It is better to remove too much than too little. In cases of the least extensive disease it will be sufficient to remove the rounded cartilaginous end of the ulna on wffiich the radius rotates (pre- serving its styloid process, which is useful in order to leave the bones of