DISLOCATIONS OF PATELLA AND METATARSUS. 273 capsule of the joint. In complete dislocation outwards this laceration is often very considerable, and extends to the inner edge of the expan- sion of the common extensor tendon. It is held in this position by the extensor tendon and the ligamentum patellae, and, if reduction is found impossible after the extensor tendon has been relaxed to the utmost, the cause is to be found in the tension of the ligaments. Sometimes the dislocated patella can be pushed backwards and forwards on the outer surface of the condyle, yet it cannot be reduced ; the reason is that the tension of the ligaments is too great to allow of the ridge on its inner surface being raised above the process on the outer condyle. In the living body these difficulties are increased by swelling and tension of parts. The dislocation inwards could not be produced on the dead subject, since in its normal state the ligamentum patellse is too short to allow of dislocation on to the broad surface of the inner condyle. Prom his researches on the dead body the author concludes that this dislocation can only occur in joints whose ligaments have been pre- viously relaxed. The author proceeds to consider the appropriate methods of reduction, and the condition of the joint in unreduced dis- locations, which does not seem to be always so bad as would be imagined. He dissuades all operative interference, as by subcutaneous section of ligaments. The dislocations of the tarso-metatarsal articulations form the subject of a communication by Dr. Hitzig to the ‘ Berlin. Klin. ’Wochenschrift,’ ii, 39—42, 1865, which is abstracted in ‘Schmidt’s Jahrblicher,’ 1866, p. 194. He first relates a case under his own care, where a man in escaping from prison jumped a height of two stories, alighting on the ball of the left foot. He felt a crack, with violent pain ; could not walk, but crawled some distance to a carriage. He was seen 7 days afterwards ; there was moderate oedema and bruising, extending up the leg. There was a projection in the situation of “ Lisfranc’s joint,” which could be plainly felt to be due to the projection of the 1st metatarsal bone partly, and of the 2nd, 3rd, and 4th completely, on the dorsum of the foot, the 5th being in position. The anterior part of the foot made a slight angle outwards with the posterior. The dislocation was reduced next day under chloroform, two assistants making extension and counter- extension, while the surgeon pressed the dislocated bones into their places with his thumbs, supporting the sole with both hands. The 2nd, 3rd, and 4th metatarsals were thus reduced with a distinct crack, but the semiluxated 1st metatarsal gave more trouble, and, in fact, could not be entirely reduced. After the application of a plaster of Paris splint, however, for 6 weeks, the position of this latter bone seemed perfectly natural, while the head of the 2nd metatarsal was somewhat raised. The foot was perfectly restored. The author refers to 21 cases of such dislocations mentioned by Malgaigne, and adds 8 of his own, making 29, to which the writer in ‘ Schmidt’s Jahrb.’ adds a 30th from Hamilton. These are thus divided:—Dislocations of single metatarsal bones, 13, viz., 2 of the 1st; 1 of the 2nd, reduced; 1 of the 4th, reduced; 2 of the 4th and 5th, one reduced, the other died of tetanus; 3 of the three first, 1 reduced, 1 irreducible, in the 3rd reduction was not attempted, 18