STAPHYLORAPHY. 239 refers to a case where the cleft closed spontaneously at the age of six. The child, however, still spoke with a nasal tone, and the palate was shortened. Another case is also described, in which an adult presented traces of a similar spontaneous union at some very early pei’iod of life, yet the palate was deficient in length and the voice nasal. In order to put the soft palate in a position to close the pharynx, the author describes three different proceedings, the first of which, however, is, he says, unsatisfactory. It consists in extending, as it were, the opera- tion of staphyloraphy, so as to unite the palato-pharyngei muscles for a certain length (in one case operated on by the author as much as an inch) across the middle line. Three such attempts, however, in all of which union succeeded, did not produce the desired effect, though the speech was improved. A second proceeding, of which he speaks in more encouraging terms, is what he calls “ staphylo-pharyngoraphy,” which consists in uniting the centre of the soft palate (uvula, &c.) to the back wall of the pharynx, leaving an opening on either side, by which the air can pass in respira- tion, but which can easily be closed by the muscles in speaking. This difficult operation is thus performed:—A transverse incision of the necessary length is made through the attachment of the soft to the hard palate. The posterior edge of the soft palate is then seized by au assistant with a sharp hook, and drawn forwards and downwards, so as to turn its posterior edge to the operator, who is to pare it with a long, thin, straight knife. This is facilitated by passing a bent spatula through the transverse incision, and gently supporting the soft palate in the desired position. The refreshed edge of the soft palate is then to be adapted to the pharynx. Tor this purpose the mucous membrane must be removed from the latter by means of a knife bent at right angles, and then two sutures are to be passed with short semicircular needles mounted on a needle-holder. A case is given in which this operation was practised. The trans- verse wound in the soft palate closed spontaneously, the central part united firmly to the back of the pharynx, and the speech was so much improved as to be nearly natural, though it seems not perfectly so. A third proceeding is given, which is much easier. It consists in an attempt to displace the whole soft palate backwards. An incision is made on either side from near the hamular process, about an inch towards the central incisors. These are then united by a transverse incision, and the parts are all dissected up and the anterior end of the flap united in its new position, thus leaving a large hole between the nose and mouth. He gives a case of this operation also. The patient had much im- proved in speech, when the hole was closed by a plug ; and the author proposed to himself at some future time to close the hole between the nose and mouth by transplantation of some of the soft tissues of the vault of the palate. In the ‘ Gaz. des Hop.,’ July 29, Aug. 3, 1863, Nos. 89, 91, is a dis- cussion, at the Societe de Chir., on some cases of staphyloraphy by M. Trelat. The only points which call for notice appear to be that M. Trelat divides the muscles, which seem to require it after he has brought the flaps into apposition and tied the sutures, and that he keeps