HEPOUT ON SUUGERY. 264 The following are miscellaneous cases hearing on the subject:— “ Excision of nearly the whole of the Ulna; reproduction of bone.” By J. K. Weist, M.D. (‘Cincinnati Lancet and Observer,’ March, 1866, quoted in the ‘ New York Med. Journal,’ April, 1866). Col. C— received, Oct. 27, 1864, a gunshot wound in the left arm. The ball, entering on the inside of the forearm, about 2 inches above the wrist-joint, and, passing upwards, made its exit on the outside, about 3 inches below the point of the olecranon, badly breaking up the ulna in its passage, leaving, however, both of its articulations intact. Two days after the receipt of the injury it was deemed advisable to remove the broken fragments of the ulna by an operation. This was done by making an incision down to the bone, extending from the wound of entrance to that of exit. Many fragments of bone were removed, which, together, made up almost the entire bone, there only being left behind about 2\ inches of the upper and 1 inch of the lower end. The broken ends of the portions of the bone left behind were smoothly sawn off. Although the periosteum in this case was much lacerated and torn, it was carefully separated from each fragment removed, and its connections as little disturbed as possible. After the operation the arm was placed upon a splint, and the wound treated in the usual manner. And although this officer was unavoidably placed under bad hygienic influence in general hospital, where considerable sloughing and secondary haemorrhage occurred, greatly protracting the cure, the final result was highly satisfactory, as the lost bone was re- produced ; and wffien I had the pleasure of examining the arm last October, just 1 year after the operation, all of its functions had been regained, with the exception of a slight loss of power to rotate the arm. The new ulna, though not quite so symmetrical, seemed to have all the solidity and value of the one in the uninjured arm. “Excision of 2-J inches of the Tibia.” ByDr.Kempster (‘American Jour- nal of the Medical Sciences,’ Jan. 1866, p. 279).—In this case the leg had been shattered by a musket-ball, and the posterior tibial artery was thought to have been wounded. Twelve days after the injury it was decided to amputate, but the patient would not submit. The broken bone was, therefore, removed Oct. 31, 1864, through an incision 4 inches long, on to the spine of the tibia down to the bone. The upper and lower ends of the tibia were cut smooth with Liston’s forceps. The gap was about 24 inches long. The leg was put up in an easy position on pillows. It is not absolutely asserted that the periosteum was spared, but it seems to be implied. No further mention being made of the supposed wound of the artery, it may be presumed that the vessel was not really injured. In two months after the operation (Dec. 30) the gap was filled up by a hard mass, which no longer allowed of any motion of the fragments, and the patient was allowed to leave his bed. On the following March he was able to put his foot to the ground; in May he could walk short distances. Nothing is said as to shortening of the limb. Dr. Kempster concludes :—“ It is a source of disappoint- ment that we had not tried this operation before, believing that some useful limbs might have been saved; but having heard the operation of exsection of the lower extremities denounced in toto by our seniors, it