REPORT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. 378 posterior to the anterior wall of the vagina is recorded by Dr. Cayley (‘Pathol. Trans.,’ xvii, 1866). Dr. Routh (‘ Obst. Trans./ xiii, 1866) advocates the use of bromine in solution, n\ij to 5j of spirit, as a topical application to cancerous dis- ease of the uterus, and narrates cases in which benefit, if not complete success, was obtained. Dr. Eastlake (ibid.) advocates iodoform. Dr. Meadows exhibited (ibid.) a case of cauliflower excrescence removed by wire ecraseur from the posterior lip of the uterus. On amputation of the cervix uteri, and other methods of local treat- ment, in cases of malignant disease of the uterus and vagina, by J. Braxton Hicks (‘ Guy’s Reports,’ 1866). Dr. Hicks gives a further series of cases. He insists especially upon the following points:—1st. That a great amount of success in procuring immediate relief, and in postponing the development of the disease, is obtained by amputation. 2nd. That, as to the mode of amputating, the wire-ecraseur, applied without drawing the uterus down, is preferable. He objects that, in drawing dowm the uterus, there is danger of opening the anterior or posterior peritoneal pouches'. Dr. Broadbent, who suggested the injection of acetic acid into can- cerous growths, with a view to arresting the cell-growth, proposes (‘ Med. Times and Gaz.,’ 1866) to inject acetic acid into ovarian cysts. Dr. Junker (ibid.) raises objections to this treatment, urging danger lest the acetic acid should set up peritonitis, &c., by osmosis. Diseases of the Ovaries and Appendages. Reference is made to a large multilocular ovarian cyst, with a pedicle formed by omentum, by Dr. Barratt (‘ Pathol. Trans.,’ xvii, 1866). Alveolar disease of both ovaries, by Mr. Spencer Watson (‘ Pathol. Trans.,’ xvii, 1866).—In Mr. Watson’s case the specimen was removed after death. The walls of the cyst consisted of fibrous material and fibroid cells, arranged in laminae, and interlacing with numerous granu- lated corpuscles of large size scattered throughout their substance. In some parts, even of the cyst-walls, spaces filled with glandular or epithelial cells were found. Cancer of the ovaries, producing fatal obstruction of the bowels ; cancerous nodules of the peritoneum, by Mr. Christopher Heath (‘ Pathol. Trans.,’ xvii, 1866). Large ovarian cyst closely adhering to the uterus ; three large fibroid tumours of the uterus coexisting, by Dr. Hare (‘ Pathol. Trans.,’ xvii, 1866). Dr. Rose, of Kidderminster, discusses (‘ Lancet,’ ii, 1866) the probable hereditary tendency of ovarian dropsy. Dr. Tyler Smith exhibited a portion of a dermoid cyst with teeth attached passed per rectum by a lady who had for a year and a half previously evacuated teeth and hair (‘ Obstet. Trans.,’ vii, 1865). A dermoid cyst, attached to the right ovary, removed after death, was exhibited by Dr. Woodman (‘Obstet. Trans.,’ vii, 1865). Mr. B. Marsaclc relates (‘ Brit. Med. Journ.,’ 1S66) a case of ovario- tomy in which the cyst contained foetal dSbris.