142 REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. thus, it is common to find that one and the same patient will, at differ- ent times, ascribe his attacks to “effluvium of hay, a late supper, the catamenial period,” or to “ mental excitement, nuts, fog,” or “ thun- dering weather, wine, the smell of a lucifer match,” according as he possesses the nervous, the bronchial, or the peptic type of constitution. This seems to show that the asthmatic tendency consists rather in a general than a special irritability of the nervous system. Salter discusses some excitants whose modus operandi is not very clear. Cold, he believes, acts in three ways:—i. As a local irritant, when cold air is inspired. 2. As a stimulant to the peripheral nerves of the skin, producing bronchial spasm in a reflex manner. 3. By provoking bronchial catarrh, in which case, after two or three days, the asthma comes on. Heat and thunder act by increasing the general irritability of the nervous system. Over-exertion acts—1. By overtaxing the lungs, and generating a certain amount of respiratory arrears, and hence of pulmonary congestion, and, perhaps, by the rapid passage of cold air over the mucous membrane. 2. By producing nervous excitement and exhaustion. Laughing probably provokes asthma by producing a con- dition of extreme expiration; there is no doubt that this last is favor- able to asthma. Salter believes that repeated forced expiration, by relieving the bronchial tube from the drag of the distending traction of expanded lung, tends to allow the spasm of the tube to assert itself uncontrolled. Also laughter tends to produce congestion of the lungs, and this may be another cause of asthmatic spasm. Coughing and sneezing probably act by throwing the air in the tubes into violent vibrations, in which form it becomes irritant. Among the substances which, when inhaled, excite direct irritation of the tubes, Salter dwells on the large number of animals whose odour causes asthma in various individuals. Formerly he had only met with this effect from the smell of the rabbit and of the cat; but more recently he has met with it as caused by horses, wild beasts, guinea-pigs, cattle, dogs, and hares. In another paper* Salter gives some statistics and observations on the influence of sex and age in determining the liability to asthma. He finds that there is a much greater liability on the part of males than of females, 102 of the former and only 51 of the latter being included in his assemblage of asthmatic cases. He thinks that this, as far as it goes, tells strongly in favour of a local cause for asthma, because men would be much more exposed to the influence of such than women. Again, he finds that during the period of life when the lungs are least likely to be organically affected, but the nervous system is most excit- able, the female patients actually outnumber the males ; whereas, in the period of life when organic disease of the lungs is most likely to exist, the males outnumber the females 3 to 1. Dr. Salter finds that asthma occurs at every age ; and it is an interesting fact that a larger number of patients are first affected during the first decade of life than in any equal subsequent period. After childhood there is a sudden fall during adoles- cence, then a gradual rise up to the age of 40,from which point the number * ‘Lancet,’ July 28, 1866.