CONVULSIVE AFFECTIONS. 119 The upper extremities are generally more intensely affected than the lower; sometimes only one half of the body is affected. The catalepsy is also independent of the loss of muscular sense and of anaesthesia of the skin. It disappears as soon as the patient wakes. The patient has sense of fatigue; she knows that she has slept, but is not conscious how long sleep has lasted. There are also individuals, among the torpid kind of hysteric patients, who only fall into the comatose con- dition, but never have cataleptic rigidity. In these the lethargy is always preceded by struggles like those seen in chloroformization. Other patients exhibit exceptional cataleptic phenomena. Lasegue observed two adult men who suffered from a general apathy, weaken- ing of sensibility and motility, and in whom post-mortem examination showed nothing abnormal in the brain. Both, and especially one, exhibited very pronounced cataleptic rigidity as soon as any one closed their eyes. One of them fell at such times into the deepest somno- lence, the other did not sleep. A third case was distinguished from both of these. A young man, who had often suffered from fainting fits, after a very long and severe faint, experienced a very intense pain beneath the left breast, increased by movement. Careful examination showed that all the left half of the body was hypersesthetic and pal- sied ; the right side was analgetic, but retained full voluntary power. Peeling, both of active and passive movements, was quite intact. On closing the patient’s eyes he fell into a deep sleep, and the wThole left side became markedly rigid. The patient was bled, and in a few weeks recovered his normal condition. Dr. AVilks* puts forward an important opinion as to the seat of epilepsy, and of epileptiform convulsions generally, arguing very strongly that these affections are more probably due to a fault in the cortical substance of the hemispheres than in the central ganglia. Spasmus alternans transversus is the name given by Bemakf to a curious affection observed by him. The patient was a man set. 22. Three years before coming under treatment he fell from a height of fifteen feet without receiving any notable injury, though stunned at the time. On recovery he felt weak, and from that time had been dyspeptic. After trying various remedies for the dyspepsia for about three years, he was persuaded to try the water cure, and the present affection ap- peared two months later. The patient when walking was attacked, every three or four steps, with convulsion which passes over him crossways in this manner—the right arm involuntarily becomes elevated to a horizontal line, while the forearm is bent, and apparently the left leg is rising; but a more minute examination shows that the left leg during the elevation of the right arm remains hanging, not through palsy of the ilio-psoas, but through convulsion of the glutsei, as the patient himself feels the traction backwards, and as the sudden jerking of the leg towards the same direction is visible. The thigh is pulled behind, by which means the top of the foot remains on the ground; the step is thereby retarded, causing the patient to stagger, but not to fall. Thus, the convulsions arise crossways synchronously in the muscles of the *■ ‘Guy’s Hosp. Rep.,’ 1866, loc, cit. f ‘Lancet,’ April 8, 186,5,