322 REPORT ON SURGERY. method of urethrotomy. He believes no subsequent treatment is necessary, but is not absolutely opposed to the plan of tying in a catheter for about 3 6 hours. In the same journal for June 17 is the report of a discussion on the same subject, introduced by M. Follin, founded on 12 operations of bis own. He dwells on the importance of detecting kidney disease, which forms a contra-indication. Otherwise, urethrotomy should be per- formed in all cases of rebellious stricture. The discussion on this subject is continued in the same journal July 1, 6, 8, 22, 25, 29. “ On the Crushing of Large Stones in the Bladder during Litho- tomy.” By M. Civiale (‘ Gaz. des Hop.,’ Dec. 12, 1865, p. 577).—M. Civiale gives a description of some instruments which he has invented for the above purpose (and which were shown by Mr. Henry Thompson to the Boyal Medical and Ckirurgical Society). The author begins by alluding to various fatal operations which he has performed on men for extracting calculi of enormous size from the bladder, and to some un- successful ideas which had occurred to himself for instruments to crush the stone in these cases. Hitherto they had been constructed as inde- pendent instruments, which were to break the stone, after which the forceps were to be introduced to extract the pieces. His present proposal is so to modify the forceps as to adapt it to the purpose of breaking the stone. The forceps should be of large size, and made to take to pieces, after the fashion of midwifery forceps. When the stone is seized firmly between the blades of the forceps the latter are fixed immovably upon each other by means of a double catch or handle, which slides down upon the two blades, and is fixed by means of a screw. Thus the apparatus is rendered immovable, and in the central stem of the catch or claw a drill is worked by means of a screw-head, or, if more power is required, of a bow. When the stone is pierced it can be turned round, after relaxing the hold of the forceps, by means of the drill. After one or two holes are bored into" the stone the forceps will crush it. for minor details, and the drawings of the instruments, the reader must consult the original. M. Civiale says that he has operated in this way upon 18 patients, all of whom (except 1 child and 1 adult) had calculi too large to be extracted from the perineal wound without great difficulty. Four only died. The wound healed in all the cases which did well, though in 3 the urine passed through it for more than a month. Prolapsus of the Urethra in Children.—M. Guersant says that pro- lapse of the urethra, although scarcely if at all described in surgical works, is not a very rare affection in female children. During 20 years of practice he has seen it in at least 12 or 15 patients, aged from 2 to 12 years. The causes of the prolapsus have appeared to him to be, the paroxysms of hooping-cough, or the frequent cough of bronchitis, or constipation demanding violent and frequent efforts at defalcation ; and also general debility, as during prolonged convalescence from acute diseases, and often in the course of chronic diseases. The patients make but little complaint. Sometimes, however, the desire to pass urine is