Ill APHASIA. movements is often exemplified by the finer and more complex move- ments of speech, (i) The voluntary conveyance of a proposition ; and (2) the utterance of an ejaculation, whether this he simple, as “ Oh !” or compound, as “ God bless my life!” Some of these “ speechless” patients swear when vexed, though when calm they cannot voluntarily repeat the phrase. Jackson dwells at some length* on the difference between the ejaculations, which are the framework of emotional lan- guage, and true power of speech, which is something quite distinct. Speaking of the condition of aphasic patients,f he gives this further sum- mary:—Thus, then, (1) the automatic movements, as of respiration—those semi-voluntary, as swallowing—the emotional actions, as smiling; the secondary automatic processes, as for swearing and interjections—are met with in these patients. (2) On the other hand, the conveying of propositions in bad cases, the execution of other simpler voluntary ac- tions, is lost or impaired. Then, in some cases, patients usually speech- less manage, at rare intervals, to get out a sentence which actually carries a proposition and conveys their meaning. This is a wavering betwixt the two groups. In final illustration of the first of these points, we may make the following quotation:—Of course, we do not either speak or think in words or signs only, but in words or signs referring to one another in a particular manner (see Waitz’s ‘Anthropo- logy’). No more do we move single muscles, but muscles co-ordinated to a particular end. Indeed, words in sentences lose their individual meaning—if single words can be strictly said to have any meaning—- and the whole sentence becomes a unit, not a word-heap.” So, how- ever largely the automatic element may enter into our speech, single sentences are voluntary units in the sense that determined movements of the arm are. * * * “ Now, strictly speaking, speech is rarely quite lost, in the sense of there being inability to utter any articulate sounds at all, except soon after the attack. ‘Yes’ and ‘no’ (the movements for which, although acquired, are movements almost as automatic as smiling) are the words generally left. ‘Yes’ is often little more than the expression of a gene- ral state of pleasure, and therefore has close affinities with emotional actions, and may be developed by a similar general prompting. It is only when used to convey formal assent to a particular statement that it seems to embody a proposition. Many of our words and phrases are of this kind, although, perhaps, swearing is the most striking instance of all. Such exclamations and phrases have become, as it were, naturalised, and assert themselves with native actions due to general states of feel- ing without the call of the will, and some interjections are uttered almost in spite of it.” The following have been the other principal papers on aphasia during 1865-6: The discussion at the Academy of Medicine, in which the opinions of MM. Trousseau, Bouillaud, Parcliappe, Lelut, Piorry, Baillarger, Bonnafont, and Cerise, were elicited, may be read at large in the ‘Bulletin de l’Academie,’ or in the ‘Arch. Gen.,’ 1865, i, pp. 629, 724, 727, 731,740, and ii, pp. 102, to8. Of English papers the most important are, Gairdner, on the function of articulate speech (Glasgow, pamphlet, 1865). Sanders, * ‘ Med. Times and Gaz.,’ June 23, 1866. f ‘Lancet,’ Feb. 17, 1866.