5G REP OUT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. of Dantzic, in the district of Berendt; in this district the deaths between that time and the middle of March were 347 ; all of these, with the exception of 17 cases, were in children under 14 years of age. Prom the Berendt circle the disease extended to the Carthaus circle (400 fatal cases), and from that to the extramural circle of Dantzic, where it was confined to the Nehrung and that part of the Niederung which adjoins the Vistula, appearing on either side of the Dantzic arm of the river simultaneously. In the town of Dantzic itself there were never more than a few cases ; there were a few cases also in the circles of Elbring and Stargardt. This epidemic of the Vistula terminated by the middle of April. The total number of cases is reckoned by Meissner* as 2000, and that of the deaths, more doubtfully, as over 1000. Erom the report of Dr. J. Burdon-Sanderson,f who was sent over by our Govern- ment to report on this epidemic of the Vistula, this estimate is likely enough to be correct, as he knew of about 900 deaths, and it is probable that the whole number would not immediately appear. Erom the beginning of the year up to May the disease had also iuvaded Pomerania, Hanover, Westphalia, Erankfort, AVurternberg, Thuringia, Saxony, Austria (Vienna), Bavaria, and Baden ; in the last two countries it was extensively diffused, and there were a great many cases. Burdon-Sanderson’s description of the symptoms is important. He examined 36 cases; and he reports that in all, except two, the onset of the disease was sudden, the patient having been in good health up to the moment of the attack. This agrees generally with what the German observers relate: “In adults the disease begins almost invariably with shivering, profuse vomiting, intolerable headache, and giddiness. After these symptoms have continued for several hours the patient’s thoughts become confused. The headache continues, while other pains fix them- selves in the muscles of the nape of the neck, of the small of the back, or of the abdominal wall. At this part of its progress the malady advances so rapidly that within a few horn's after the appearance of the first symptoms the patient becomes violently delirious, while at the same time the head is thrown back, and the thighs are drawn up by muscular contraction. The delirium usually lasts for a few days only. In the worst cases the patient lapses into profound insensibility, which continues until death. In a few rare instances he regains complete consciousness as the delirium ceases, and enters on convalescence. Much more frequently he is left on the third or fourth day of the disease, if he survive its first onset, in a state of extreme nervous depression, which is usually of long duration. This condition is charac- terised by impairment of consciousness, rather apparent than real, perversion both of common and special sensibility, marasmus, and ex- cessive muscular weakness. “ During the continuance of the state of depression the patient is liable to frequent recurrence of the initial symptoms. Although so # ‘Schmidt’s Jahrb.’ (‘original Abh.’), p. 123, 1866. f ‘ Report to Med. Officer of Privy Council on the Epidemics of Cerebro-spinal Meningitis prevailing about the Lower Vistula,’ 1865.