SECRETION.—GLANDS. 31 correspond to an entire cell ; that they are, in fact, modified ciliated epithelium-cells with a single ciliutn. The head of the animalcuke, which presents many different forms in the semen of different animals, always contains the nucleus. A few years ago a very remarkable paper on the structure of the kidney was published by ITenle, in the ‘ Gottingen Archives,’ in which he endeavoured to show that there were two distinct systems of tubes in the kidneys—one commencing by a plexus in the cortical portion of the kidney and terminating by open mouths on the pyramids, the other consisting of looped tubuli closed at the extremities, both of which were bulbous, and, in fact, formed the Malpighian capsules, the loop ascending for a considerable distance in the pyramids. The novelty of the observations, and the authority of their expounder, led to much research upon the subject, the end of which has been that the original observations of Mr. Bowman have remained intact, the only addition made to them being that the tubuli in their passage from the Malpighian capsules do really form remarkable loops which enter the Malpighian pyramids. The following remarks by Hertz (‘ Greifs- walder Medicin Bericht,’ Bd. 3, Heft 2, p. 93) will, without the aid of a diagram, render the course of the tubuli perfectly intelligible. He observes that from the Malpighian capsules spring tortuous canals having a narrow neck. These are lined by a dark granular epithelium, the several cells of which are not very well defined from one another. Entering the periphery of the pyramids, they pursue a straight or slightly wavy course, and, becoming much attenuated, form loops, either in the cortical substance or in the upper middle or even lower third of the pyramids. From thence they return to the cortex, emerg- ing from the pyramids by easy curves, and finally enter the larger collecting tubes which run in a nearly straight direction to the apices of the pyramids. Michael Ssubotin (“Essay on the Urinary Secretion,” ‘Henleund Meissner’s Zeits. f. Eat. Med.,’ Bd. 28, 1866, p. 114) observes that it was formerly believed that the kidney formed the urine, as the liver the bile ; but many chemical researches have led to the conviction, gene- rally entertained, that the kidneys only separate already prepared substances from the blood, and exercise no influence on their origi- nation. But we must allow that a portion of the urinary constituents are formed in the substance of the kidneys, as they are in all other organs in which metamorphosis of tissue is taking place, especially, moreover, since Cloetta has shown that the lower grades of the process of oxidation are present, as taurin, cystin, hypoxanthin, which are not found in the urine, and therefore, probably, are converted into urea by the action of the renal epithelium. Oppler has found (“Beitrag zur Lehre der Uramie,” ‘Yirchow’s Archiv,’ Bd. 21, p. 260) that more urea is present in the blood after ligature of the ureter than after extirpation of the kidneys, whilst, on the other hand, the quantity of kreatin in the muscles was greater in the latter than in the former case. And Zalesky (‘ Untersuch. liber den Uramischen Process,’ &c., Tubingen, 1865), from many experiments made on dogs, birds, and reptiles, has ascertained that, though traces of urea and uric acid are