MALARIAL FEVERS. 41 less exteusively, and its structure was degenerated in the same way as that of the other. An extremely important paper was published by the late Dr. Southey Warter* shortly before his death. The principle on which this observer proceeded was that of examining, not evening and morning, as has usually been done, but by a single observation in the middle of the day. Among the many valuable facts which it brings out are the fol- lowing :—In many diseases, e.g. pneumonia and typhus, the elevations of the temperature pretty closely follow those of the pulse. This is not the case, however, in typhoid. While the pulse rarely reaches higher than 120 before the eighth day, and this number is uncommon, the temperature rises as high as from io20-4 to io4°-3 E. Exceptional cases, however, occur to this rule among children, as might be expected from the normal rapidity of their pulses. There are certain cases, also, of febriculae, acute rheumatism, and tonsillitis, which present this pecu- liarity, of a low pulse with a high temperature at the commencement, but they are cases which actually have a strong general resemblance to the early stage of typhoid; writh clear, white, perspiring skin, red lips, tinted cheeks, and dilated pupils. In typhoid the highest afternoon temperatures are reached about the 4th day ; the highest temperatures in typhus usually on the /tli, sometimes on the 8th, rarely as late as the nth or 12th. Both in typhus and typhoid there is a singular tendency of the temperature to rise every alternate day, especially in the odd days; in typhus rises are common on the 13th and 16th days ; in typhoid, on the 9th, nth, and 15th. As regards prognosis in these two forms, the most important facts which are ascertained by a single examination in the thermometer seem to be that a sudden rise of tempe- rature in either of them indicates some intercurrent disease, and a sudden fall in typhoid indicates either diarrhoea or haemorrhage. Dr. Warter thinks that hints may be gathered as to the treatment of delirium ; thus, if the thermometer marks a low temperature, delirium should not be treated with bleeding, cupping, and other depressing remedies, but rather with wine aud food. Counter-irritation, however, may still be applied behind the ears with advantage. Dr. Warter considers that the thermometric differences between typhus and typhoid are so great as completely to settle any doubts which might remain as to their being separate diseases. On the subject of typhoid fever see also— Debeny, prophylaxis and treatment of cholera and typhoid (‘ Union Med.,’ 192, 1865). Goodridge, typhoid fever, with perforation of the bowel on the nth day. J. Bernard, on typhoid fever (Paris, 8vo, 1865). Jourdanet, typhus of the Anahuac (this paper contrasts the types of continued fever prevailing at low and high levels re- spectively. ‘ Gaz. Med.,’ xiii, 17, 1865). Malarial Fevers. During an epidemic of intermittent fever in the malarial districts of the Ohio and Mississippi valleys in 1862 Dr. Salisburyf instituted a series of examinations of the expectoration of those residing in the ma- * 1 St. Barthol. Hosp. Reports,’ 1866. t ‘Amer. Journ. Med. Sciences,’ Jan, i860.