197 ACUPRESSURE.—LOCAL ANESTHESIA. he found it necessary to tie the arteries. He is not opposed to the use of acupressure in flap amputations, though he does not appear to consider the method as superior to the ligature. It is especially useful, according to him, in cases were the tissues are much softened by dis- ease, or the arteries retracted in positions where forceps can with diffi- culty reach them. In the ‘Med. Times and Gaz.,’ Jan. 14, 1865, Dr. Keith reports a case of amputation with acupressure. Prof. Weber, of Bonu, as quoted by the ‘ Med. Times and Gaz.,* 1865, i, p. 478, from the ‘ Handbuch der Allg. u. Spec. Chir.,’ part 1, Erlangen, 1865, says, “I shall only remark as to acupressure, that ex- periments on the lower animals have shown me that when it is really efficient it cuts through the vessel just as the ligature does, and that this division takes place much more rapidly than when the ligature is employed. I have assured myself by unprejudiced experiments that suppuration through the arterial coats takes place much more quickly by this method. Sometimes 48 hours is sufficient. It is evident that no extra security is given by this. On the other hand, if we take away the needles too soon, we cannot be certain that the arteries are firmly closed. I have several times, after taking away the needles before the second day, seen such violent ha3morrhage that I was forced to ligature.” On the other hand, Mr. Lawson Tait (in the same journal, p. 502) gives a direct denial to Prof. Weber’s statements. He says that he has “ been engaged during six months in a series of experiments on the lower animals, and has come to conclusions exactly the opposite of Prof. Weber’s.” In the ‘American Journal of the Medical Sciences,’ July, 1865, p. 276, there is published under date of Sept. 1864 a proposal by Dr. Aitken, of Tekonsha, Michigan, entitled “Compound Acupressure a sub- stitute for the Ligature.” The artery is to be compressed for a period of between 6 and 24 hours, between two needles, 2 or 3 inches long, of the size of common darning needles, or smaller, of steel, rather brittle or soft tempered in the outer or free portion, so as to be readily cut. The extremity of one has an eye, bent in a short curve, and the corre- sponding end of the other is fitted to the eye, and has a notch to inter- lock with it. The method is thus described :—“ The first steps are the same as for ordinary ligature, until the vessel is reached, when the eye of the first needle (instead of the aneurism needle, but with its aid if necessary) is passed under the artery until the notch of the second can be engaged in it, when they are approximated sufficiently to bring to- gether the inner wall of the artery, and so obliterate the channel. A few turns of silk around the needles, at the surface, will make them secure, and the projecting ends may be removed with the nippers.” The method of withdrawing them is obvious, and need not be tran- scribed. The advantages claimed are the same as in Sir J. Simpson’s method. It is not stated whether Dr. Aitken has put his method in practice. On a New and 'Ready Method of producing Local Ancesthesia (Dr.