DTABETES. 09 f Ibid., 18, 1866, * ‘Gaz. Med.,’ 15, 1866. between natural and artificial vaccinia. It is no more difficult to admit the origin of the so-called natural horse-pox from the introduction by the lungs into the circulation of particles of vaccine matter floating in the air, than to recognise the production of general horse-pox by artificial introduction of the virus into the vessels. M. Bousquet,* at the meeting of the Academy of Medicine on April io, 1866, read a long memoir on vaccination, addressing himself to two principal subjects—the communication of syphilis by vaccination, and retro-vaccination. He denies that syphilis may he communicated by vaccination, other- wise than accidentally; and as to retro-vaccination, he first defines it to be, not vaccination from a spontaneous eruption on the cow (natural cow-pox), but from an animal itself artificially vaccinated. When, he says, there has appeared to be a necessity for renewing vaccine matter, persons have attempted to vaccinate cows and have failed; he has also attempted to vaccinate heifers, but without success. Instead of being firm and distinct, the pustules were small and poor; their size, the sub- cutaneous congestion, and the areola, were all at the minimum ; and the pustules, though slow in appearing, ran through their course rapidly. .Nor was the matter increased in efficacy; it was neither more nor less powerful than that which had been inserted. Bousquet also states that he instituted an experiment by vac- cinating two series of children — one strong, the other weakly— always vaccinating the strong from the strong, and the weakly from the weakly. In the former he did not find the matter sensibly im- proved in quality, nor was it remarkably degenerated in the latter. Admitting that vaccine matter does undergo deterioration, he says that there is a point at which deterioration stops. If it were not so, a time would necessarily come when the matter would be altogether incapable of producing a pustule; but this has never yet been observed. [See also an exhaustive article on vaccination by Dr. Seaton, in ‘Reynolds’ System of Medicine,’ i, 1866.] Diabetes. M. Mialhef holds that the secreting process is under the influence of the nervous system, and that secretion is not merely, or even chiefly, a process of simple elimination. Applying this view to the explanation of saccharine diabetes, he says that he had hitherto believed that the disease was due to a deficient alkalinity of the blood, preventing the complete destruction of the glucose. Now, however, while he still maintains that it is by means of the alkalies of the blood that glucose and its congeners are decomposed, he believes with Cl. Bernard that the primary cause of diabetes lies, not entirely in an abnormal state of the blood, but in an essentially nervous disorder. While, however, Bernard believes that the pneumogastric nerve is at fault, Mialhe con- siders that there is a general disorder of the nervous system, and that diabetes is an affection of all the nerves which preside over the secretion.