REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. J Vide Syd. Soc. ‘Year-Bonk,’ 1864 ‘Virchow’s Arch.,’ xxx, 1864. 1G6 anosmia, &c., and strengthened by everything which augments combus- tion-processes in the blood; weakened again by nervous influences which contract the capillaries and make them resistant, and by deficient innervation of the heart itself, and strengthened by nervous paralysis of the resisting capillaries and by nervous excitement of the heart. Regarding arterial pulsation, then, as a series of waves governed by the conditions above named, Onimus and Viry investigate the pro- duction of the minor elevations which appear in the line of descent of the principal pulse-curves. They come to the conclusion that the dicrotic wave is centripetal in direction, being a reflux from the periphery, caused by the resistance there established by (a) impaction of blood- globules in capillary vessels, (b) narrowing calibre of tubes, (c) fric- tion against bifurcations of tubes. They point out that Marey’s defi- nition of dicrotism as an oscillation of blood in the vessels is the fruit of his conception of the pulse as a blood-current. Against the view of Naumann,* that the secondary waves move centrifugally (being reflected from the aortic valves), they oppose, as their chief argument, the state- ment that dicrotic phenomena are always more strongly marked in proportion as the artery examined is nearer the periphery. [This is in direct opposition to the statements, not only of Naumann himself, but of numerous other observers, and is especially contradicted by the researches of Dr. Burdon-Sanderson on the carotid pulse.] This greater development of dicrotism at the periphery is in accordance with what theory would predict as the result of three influences which must tend to diminish a reflex (centripetal) wave, viz.—i. The virtual diminution of elasticity by the increased arterial tension in the greater vessels, 2. Actual diminution in elasticity of the arterial walls in the larger vessels. 3. The loss of communicated force (by friction, &c.). It is also said to be in accordance with a law which Onimus and Yiry enounce (chiefly on the authority of Czermakf), viz. that the rapidity of transmission of the direct or primitive pulse-wave increases as it approaches the periphery, while its size diminishes, owing to the numerous divisions into which it is broken up by the branching of the vessels ; so that the reflection of this wave must be so weak as to be rapidly diminished in its progress towards the heart. The promi- nence of dicrotism in peripheral pulses would also accord with the theoretical cause which should favour such a reflex wave. The obstacle with which the direct pulse-wTave must meet in order for it to be reflected is to be found in its most decided form in the capillaries, which the blood-globules traverse slowly and with much pressure, owing to the small size of these tubes. Onimus and Yiry adopt the conclu- sions of Koschlakoff J in the following form:—Dicrotism occurs—1, when, other things being equal, the heart-force is increased; 2, when, other things being equal, the arterial tension is diminished. In both these cases the line of ascent is sudden and vertical. Dicrotism ceases— 1, when, other things being equal, the heart-force is diminished ; 2, when, other things being equal, the general tension is increased. In both these * ‘Arch. f. lleilkunde,’ 1864. f Czennak, ‘ Mitthcilungen aus deni phys. priv. Laboratorium,’ 1 lift., Wien, 1864.