INTESTINAL INVAGINATION. 170 process of destruction is the same as takes place in other organs, as in the kidneys and lungs, in which true caverns have been found in con- sequence of amyloid degeneration. The principal symptoms produced are diarrhoea and haemorrhage. The diarrhoea, which ordinarily attends the first stage of degeneration, presents in itself features distinguishing it from the diarrhoea met with in other cachectic conditions. But still there are some accessory pecu- liarities which may lead to the suspicion of amyloid degeneration. At the commencement the stools become gradually liquid, without increasing in number. The patient has only one or two daily; but the discharges are liquid and greenish, sometimes serous and whitish. When once established, the diarrhoea rarely presents remissions. It is not ac- companied by colic nor by marked tenderness of the abdomen. Haemorrhage, when present, is a more important symptom. Hayem has observed it in two cases, where the disease was found, on post-mortem examination, to have reached the second stage. The haemorrhage pro- bably arose from rupture of the vessels surrounding the follicles. [See also Hayem (M. G.), changes in the adipose tissue in amyloid degeneration. ‘ Comptes rendus des Seances de la Soc. de Biologie ‘ Gaz. Med. de Paris,’ 1866, No. 10.] Dr. W. Thomas* writes on intestinal invagination in children. In the last few years Thomas has met with 4 cases of intestinal invagination in children, from which he concludes that the affection is not so rare in early life as is generally supposed, and that many cases ending in recovery are probably overlooked or mistaken. The four cases referred to occurred in male children, aged respectively 22, 23, and 26 weeks, and i-L year. The seat of invagination was always the large intestine; and when a portion of the small intestine was involved it was always a few inches of the ileum, just above the valve. In three cases the invagination remained after death ; the arch of the colon, from the caecum to the sigmoid flexure, had disappeared ; the small intestine in two cases passed immediately into the rectum, and in the third case into the lower part of the ascending colon. In the fourth case, on post-mortem examination, the intestines were found in their normal position, and the seat of the invagination was shown by the dulness of the serous covering of the transverse and descending- colon, and the dark blue colouring and erosion of the mucous mem- brane at this part. In one case there was a double invagination. Signs of peritonitis were always absent. In regard to the symptoms and course of the disease, Thomas says that in each case the first symptom was vomiting, colic generally appearing at the same time. In one instance sanguineous evacuations appeared simultaneously with the vomiting, and in the other cases 3, 6, and 12 hours afterwards. In 3 out of the 4 cases Thomas was able to feel a tumour through the walls of the abdomen; it varied in size from a walnut to a pigeon’s egg, was round or cordy, of doughy consistence, could be pushed a little aside, and gave a dull sound on percussion. The tumour was felt on the first * ‘ Journ. f. Kinderk.,’ 1866.