141 SPASMODIC ASTHMA. toms produced by spasm of the diaphragm, especially the physical signs, are well described by Duchenue, and particularly by Gerhardt. The diagnosis, in actual cases, is little more difficult tbau that of spasm of the diaphragm. “ A further possibility, for the existence of which, however, we have, as yet, no proof, would consist in cramp of the expiratory muscles alone, especially the abdominal. And just as cramp of the diaphragm implies forced activity of these muscles, so would their spasm necessitate increased action of their antagonists, the inspiratory muscles. “ Finally, there still remains spasm of the bronchial muscles, which certainly has little probability iu its favour, yet cannot be altogether passed over. What are the physical signs which might be expected iu such circumstances ? Since such a spasm would be an obstacle to both movements of respiration, yet would leave expiration freest, both inspi- ration and expiration must be performed laboriously, slowly, and with great expenditure of force, though this would be more especially true of expiration. “We might also expect the diaphragm to be high up, the thorax to be contracted in all directions, and (probably) the intercostal spaces to be more, strongly depressed. We should also anticipate a remarkable exaggeration of both inspiratory and expiratory breath sounds, espe- cially of the former. According as the air, after overcoming the obstacle, penetrated to the terminal cells or failed to reach them, we should expect the breathing to be vesicular or confused. Moderate diminution of the percussion sound, especially as to its fulness, would be highly ' probable. “ If we turn now to what has been already said, the conclusion that nervous asthma may depend on various lesions of motor innervation will appear legitimate. Especially well established is the dependence of the form observed by Winterich and myself on tonic spasm of the diaphragm. Scarcely more doubtful is the existence of a form dependent on palsy of the same muscle; any other possible causes can only be established by further accurate observations. In a therapeutic point of view the constant current is most appropriate to the treatment of spasm of the diaphragm; Faradisation, on the contrary, to that of paralysis of the same.” Dr. Hyde Salter discusses the immediate excitants of the asthmatic paroxysm. They maybe divided into those which are applied to the air-tubes (or which affect them primarily) and those which are applied to some remote part and affect the air-tubes secondarily. These last always reach the bronchial tubes by a nervous circuit, ganglionic or cerebro-spinal. [It will be observed that Dr. Salter holds the opinion that the paroxysm is actually due to spasm of the bronchial tubes.] The direct excitants are (a) things inhaled, (5) an inflamed and irritable bronchial mucous membrane, (c) the presence of blood which, without being actually morbid, is irritating; e.y. the blood after a meal. The irritants which act directly are either applied to the peripheries of the nervous system {e.y. stomach, rectum) or affect the brain itself; the latter maybe organic or psychical in their nature. In the majority of cases the provocation of the attacks belong to more than one class,