REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 112 a case of aphasia, with post-mortem (‘ Ed. Med. Journ.,’ March, 1866). W. Moxon, a new (and very important) theory of the origin of aphasia (‘ Brit, and For. Rev.,’ April, 1866). Wilks, in the paper on nervous diseases (‘Guy’s Hosp. Rep.,’ 1866). Cerebral Inflammation. Dr. Max Leidesdorf and Dr. S. Strieker* have made some new inves- tigations of the microscopic appearances in foci of traumatic inflamma- tion in the brain. Their experiments were made on young chickens. The general results are summed up as follows:—In the focus of a trau- matic parenchymatous inflammation all the cellular elements contain nuclei of new formation, which for the most part have a fatty character. Moreover, a part of these elements are in relation with fibres which are in all probability newly formed, or rather newly injected. The nuclei, always small, and sparingly scattered through the fibres in old inflam- matory foci, prove that, with the progress of fibre-formation, the nuclei become smaller, and finally disappear. The anticipation of the whole type is seen in embryonal life. Every embryonal cell is, at a very early period, a nuclear cell. But it is an established fact in embryology that the contour line which surrounds the nuclei corresponds to a membrane. The history of development has thus passed through stages which it is to be hoped that pathological anatomy will also attain to, as soon as the observers begin to study nuclear cells more in the living than the dead subjects. The embryonal cell may manifest its vitality in two direc- tions—either it divides or it changes its form. In the latter case it may send out nucleated processes; the nuclei are absorbed again, and the fibres remain. The appearance of fatty nuclei appears to be the first sign of the change, the transformation of cellular elements into fibres the ultimate stage of the process. On the subject of chronic inflammation of the brain Dr. Steigerf writes an elaborate paper, in which he maintains that he has practically dis- covered a new disease. [We regret that it is impossible to find space for a long abstract of this paper which wre had prepared.] Steiger says that people are too apt to think of encephalitis as a process which can only end in suppuration and abscess; but, in fact, there is reason to think it often takes a slow course, and tends rather to induration. The symptoms which have enabled him to diagnose the existence of chronic encephalitis, in a considerable number of cases, are chiefly the occur- rence of partial, sometimes very slight, local palsies, and also a peculiar change in the urine. The diagnostic characters of this secre- tion are (1) low specific gravity (1010-15, without any albumen); (2) diminution of brown colouring matter ; (3) diminution of urea and uric acid ; (4) diminution of sulphates and alkaline phosphates ; (5) increase of earthy phosphates, which are present, not in the usual form of acid or neutral salts, but as basic salts. The urine remains acid after con- siderable exposure to air. As soon as ever the basic earthy phosphates begin to disappear the symptoms of encephalitis diminish. The treat- ment of the disease is by iodide of potassium, which seems to have been always successful in Steiger’s hands. * ‘ Moleschott’s Untersuchungen,’ x, 3, 186C, p. 322. f ‘ Wurzburg. Med. Ztscli.,’ vi, 6, 1863, p. 383.