REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 148 however, there are many objections to this measure); cold is less appro- priate. Digitalis, in doses which would be at all effective, probably does harm by repressing the collateral exudations. Antimony is an effective remedy for lowering the blood pressure. 3. Dangerous head symptoms, somnolence, sopor, &c., are most safely treated by venesection and cold. 4. Bronchial catarrh, also a sign of congestion, especially in old and in feeble subjects, demands stimulant treatment, especially by emetics, of which sulphate of copper is to be preferred both to ipecacuanha and antimony, as being less depressing in its after effects ; it must be followed up by ammonia with anisum and ipecacuanha, with stimulating frictions to the skin, mustard plasters, and other internal stimulants, especially alcoholic drinks. The other expectorants are less appropriate than those above named. Dr. Gairdner* makes some remarks on the treatment of acute dis- eases of the chest, h propos of a case of pneumonia. 1. He says he has acquired the conviction, by long experience, that bleeding, while still extremely useful in a very small class of cases, is not to be thought of as a part of routine treatment for inflammation. The cases in which it is of real and very high value are those in which there is great danger to life, but danger springing, not from the inflammation, but from other features of the case. Bloodletting, when beneficial, is never depressing, and it is a fatal error to give it with the intention of depressing. The only legitimate object of bloodletting is to give the patient the firm hold and right use of the blood which remains to him ; and if he does not feel stronger 24 hours after venesection than he was before it, a mistake of practice has been made. 2. Dr. Gairdner equally objects to routine stimulation. He has a conviction that alcohol is not food at all, and that every drop of it which is given in excess of the usual quantity which may serve to assist digestion of real food is so much poison to the blood. Therefore, while he believes very decidedly in stimulants as having a great and valuable function to perform in the case of disease, he insists on the caution that there is great danger of going to excess in their use, and that this excess is not merely useless, but very dan- gerous. 3. "With regard to antimony, Dr. Gairdner thinks that, although that drug is very valuable in proper cases, in all cases where the nutrition of the body has been ill-supported, where the patient is ema- ciated and haggard-looking from the effects of acute disease, where the bodily powers are depressed and the tissues imperfectly nourished, and the stomach has been for many days in a state not capable of assimilat- ing nourishment—in all these cases the use of drugs, and especially of antimony, must be postponed in favour of the improvement of nutri- tion ; and by the time the nutrition is put into a good state it will be found that there are no symptoms left which could be supposed to require antimony. 4. Dr. Gairdner does not, however, reject the use of drugs altogether, but he limits their use to certain cases. It depends on the particular features of each case whether it ought to be treated with or without medicines. Dr. A. T. II. Watersf discusses the auscultatory signs which precede * ‘Lancet,’ Jan. 13 and 20, 1866. t Ibid., Feb. 11, 1865.