UTERINE DISEASES. 375 salts of iron were found by him to be very valuable in the chronic forms, having a special effect on the lung condition as well as on the uterine discharge. Dr. Bennet discusses (‘Lancet,’ i, 1865) the relation between phthisis and uterine disease. The early history of uterine pathology is traced in an interesting memoir by Thomas G. Wright (‘ Brit, and For. Med.-Chir. Review.,’ 1865). Dr. Greenhalgh and Dr. Eastlake relate a case in which peritonitis and death resulted from wearing an intra-uterine stem (‘ Obst. Trans.,’ viii, 1866). Dr. Braxton Hicks (‘ Obstet. Trans.,’ viii, 1866) describes specimens of true echinococci which escaped from the vagina. Dr. Meadows describes a case of great hypertrophy of the labia majora (‘ Obst. Trans.,’ viii). Dr. Rieken relates (‘Journ. de Brux.,’ 1865) a case of remarkable enlargement and degeneration of the clitoris. The mass weighed 61b. It consisted of fibrous white tissue, enclosing a nucleus. It was extirpated successfully. Dr. T. H. Tanner related cases in which he had excised the clitoris (ibid.) in the treatment of hysteria, &c. His experience was not en- couraging. In the discussion the physiological basis of the operation was contested by Drs. Aveling, Wynn Williams, Tyler, Greenhalgh, and Barnes, and many cases of total failure in practice were narrated. On the other hand, Drs. Routh, Rogers, and Tanner spoke with more or less qualified approbation of Mr. Baker Brown’s practice. In notes to the paper will be found references to the bibliography of the subject cited by Dr. Tanner and Dr. Aveling. Dr. Walz, of St. Petersburg, relates (‘Mon. f. Geburtsk.,’ 1865) his experience in the treatment of cancer of the uterus. There is no general treatment. As early as possible the smallest induration must be removed, together with some sound tissue beyond. After removal by the knife many relapses are seen, fewer when caustic potash is used. The galvano-caustic has the best results. Dr. Routh (‘ Obstet. Trans.,’ viii) advocates and illustrates the treatment of epithelial cancer of the cervix uteri by the application of a solution of bromine to the diseased structure, having previously removed a portion by cautery or ecraseur, or not, according to circum- stances. Uterine Tumours. An example of very numerous fibroid tumours in the uterus was shown by Dr. Woodman (‘ Obst. Trans.,’ vii). Dr. Barnes (ibid.) exhibited a fibroid tumour removed from the uterus by enucleation, and a large fibroid tumour expelled sponta- neously from the uterus (ibid.). A case in which a large fibrous tumour of the uterus with sponta- neous sloughing, and death from peritonitis, was narrated by Dr. Braxton Hicks (ibid.).