439 POISONING. MERCURIC METHIDE. was affected with numbness of the hands, deafness, and general weakness, and noticed that his gums were sore. On admission, Feb. 3, 1865, his urine was found to be albuminous, and to contain triple-phosphate crystals and casts. His symptoms quickly increased in severity. He became more deaf, and he had more and more difficulty in understanding what was said to him. He slept very badly. His countenance became duller. He had less power in his hands, the fingers being drawn to- gether, and stretched out unnaturally. His gums became swollen and spongy, and a distinct mercurial foetor arose. On February 8 he was so restless and noisy that his hands had to be strapped to the bedstead. He muttered incoherently, refused to take nourishment, and became furious when any attempt was made to force him to drink. He gradually grew weaker; and on the 11th it was re- marked that he did not move the left side, in which sensation also became lost. The left wrist was rigid, and the left knee almost en- tirely so. He remained completely insensible until his death on the 14th. The post-mortem examination threw very little light on the case. The brain was intensely congested and oedematous. The kidneys were congested, and the left one was ecchymosed. The second case is that of a man, set. 23, admitted on March 23, 1865. He also had been an assistant in the same laboratory, but had been engaged in the preparation of the methide for a fortnight only in January, since which time he had not worked at that or any other mer- curial compound. During the illness of the other assistant he had stated that he felt weak, and had complained of soreness of the gums, looseness of the teeth, dimness of sight, painfulness and redness of the eyes, giddiness, nausea, and vomiting. About the beginning of March he was obliged to give up work, being too weak to walk about. His taste became imperfect, all things tasting alike, and a week before his admission he quite lost his hearing. His hands also became numb, and three or four days before admission his feet also were affected. On admission he was quite conscious, but very deaf. His sight was much impaired, and his speech very imperfect. His condition altered very slowly. He sometimes passed his urine under him and his motions into the bed. His swallowing at one time was impaired, and he became unable to speak. He moved his limbs imperfectly and slowly. His intellect became more dull. On April 24 it is noted that he was becoming gradually thinner ; his skin was slightly jaundiced ; he moved his arms about without object, and appeared to be slowly losing both sensation and motion in his limbs; he swallowed with more difficulty, and could not protrude his tongue ; his urine contained no albumen. Afterwards he became restless, and even violent, shrieking out, trying to get out of bed, making loud, incoherent noises, laughing or crying in an incoherent manner. Violent movements in the limbs were at once brought on by touching his feet. He remained in nearly the same condition until within a few days of his death, which did not take place until April 7, 1866. During this long interval he occasionally gained flesh slightly for a time, but soon again relapsed. He was quite