REPORT ON SURGERY. 328 same as that of Mr. Lee. Lancereaux says, “ The therapeutical efficacy of syphilisation is not yet sufficiently proved ; and if we allow that this mode of treatment is useful, it is only in some given cases, and there is no possibility of certifying its success. From this it follows that syphi- lisation is never to be preferred to the diverse methods of treatment above described. Besides, it is very probable ibat the therapeutical effects of syphilisation consist in a revulsive action, which is merely local.” M. Lancereaux then proceeds to describe Cullerier’s experiments on the treatment of syphilis by a number of small blisters repeatedly applied; and Hjort’s, of Christiania, under Dr. Boeck’s direction, by tartar- emetic plaster. He concludes that the action of syphilisation is merely analogous to that of other revulsives of equal power, and that the treat- ment is only applicable to special cases [and those, to judge from his reasoning, cases of skin affection mainly], which have resisted all ordi- nary methods of treatment, such as mercury, iodide of potassium, fer- ruginous preparations, and mineral waters. This is also, he says, the opinion of other eminent practitioners—Gibert, Bazin, Diday, &c. M. Lancereaux also describes a method which has recently been in- troduced in Russia, but has not attracted any favour there, of treating syphilis by the repeated inoculation of the vaccine virus. In the successes claimed for this method, as for that by syphilisation, M. Lan- cereaux says that the tendency of the disease to spontaneous cure has been quite left out of sight. Dr. Bidenkap, of Christiania, replies to Mr. Lee’s observations, in the ‘ Lancet,’ Aug. 4, 1866. In Dr. Bidenkap’s letter he describes minutely the way which he adopts in order to render the indurated chancre auto-inoculable. This appears to consist in irritating the sore with savine ointment until a purulent secretion is produced, and then repeating the inoculation for weeks; after which, he says, the characteristic pustule will make its appearance, with its consequence—the excavated ulcer. He repudiates Mr. Lee’s and Dr. Ricordi’s experiments as not having been continued sufficiently long. Dr. Bidenkap strongly reasserts the identity of the origin of the soft and indurated chancre, and he also appears to believe in syphilisation as the best method of cure. The terms in which he speaks of the immunity obtained by the process are these :—“ "Whether the immunity produced by syphilisation is complete or not is nothing to the point. The fact is, that it produces a state of system in which the production of inoculable matter is failing or incomplete. This is enough, both according to theory and experience. The immunity pro- duced by cowpox, and even by smallpox, is neither absolute nor ever- lasting, yet no one denies its existence.” He strongly denies the theory that this immunity is the mere result of cutaneous irritation. In connection with this subject the reader may also consult a paper by Dr. Faye, translated in the ‘ Lancet,’ which, however, as being published in the present year, hardly comes within the scope of this report. “ On some Cases of long Incubation of Syphilis” (‘ Gaz. des Hop.,’ April 1, 1865).—A summary is given of some observations published by M. Fournier on this subject. Eighteen cases are contained in this