405 ACCIDENTS DURING LABOUR. Ferd. Weber has examined by experiments the uses of cepliaiotripsy (‘ Wien. Med. Press,’ 1865). He concludes—1. That by no instrument was it possible to break the bones of a perforated head ; they were only bent. 2. Even when the brain is well removed the bones can only be bent. 3. The shortening of the diameter effected by the cephalotribe is compensated by lengthening of other diameters. 4. By no cephalotribe is it possible to completely excerebrate a perforated skull; generally only about half the brain is evacuated. 5. A perforated and excerebrated head may be compressed to a greater degree than one not so treated ; in the case of one not perforated the blades of the strongest instru- ments are somewhat bent. 6. By no instrument can the head of a mature child be so grasped that the points of the instrument will touch. [Reference is made to decapitation of the foetus in a paper by Dr. W. Ivtineke (‘Mon. f. Geb.,’ 1866). Ccesarian Section. Two cases are recorded by Dr. Eayrer (Churchill, 1866, London). Dr. Wasseige, of Liege, describes modifications (‘ L’Union Med.,’ 1866) in the operation. Instead of quickly closing the wound, in order to arrest haemorrhage, Wasseige gave three doses of ergot first, the wound not being united for half an hour. In this manner he obviated bleeding into the abdominal cavity. The woman had peritonitic symp- toms, but perfectly recovered. See cases by Dr. Natali Zoja (‘ Annal. Univ. di Med.,’ 1865) ; Dr. Ender (‘Mon. f. Geb.,’ 1863), Dr. Greenhalgh (‘Med. Times and Gaz.,’ 1866), Dr. Bichardson’s ether-spray was used; another by Dr. Greenhalgh (‘ Lancet,’ 1866), W. Hardin (‘Lancet,’ 1865), Hall Davis and De Morgan (‘ Lancet,’ 1863), Dr. Newman (‘ Obst. Trans.,’ viii). Post-mortem Caesarian section was performed by Mr. Hulke (‘ Brit. Med. Journal,’ 1866). Dr. Greenhalgh read a paper (‘ Obst. Trans.,’ viii) on the comparative advantages of Caesarian section over craniotomy in extreme distortions of the brim. After analysing the cases on record and his own, he con- sidered that craniotomy should not be attempted where the effective antero-posterior diameter was less than two inches, considering the chances for the patient better under Caesarian section. In the discus- sion which followed, Dr. Barnes showed a seven months’ foetus that he had drawn through a very deformed pelvis—having only an inch conjugate diameter—by the craniotomy forceps, bringing by it the face to present. He had quite recently delivered, with complete success, a lady in the country similarly deformed. Accidents during Labour. Rupture of the TJterus.—A case of rupture of the uterus is recorded (‘Annal. Dniv. di Med.,’ 1866) in the report of the Milan Lying-in- ITospital. The head was in the first position ; uterine action irregular ; dilatation incomplete. During a strong expulsion pain the patient complained of acute pain in the left side, followed by general prostration and arrest of labour. No escape of blood. The feet were found at the fundus; child extracted dead, of full size. The woman died in twenty-four hours. Autopsy.—Blood in iliac cavity, plastic puriform