AFFECTIONS OF THE OCULAR MUSCLES. 357 * ‘Ophth. Rev.,’ iii, 80. f ‘Brit. Med. Journal,’ 1866, ii, 653. which he states that the cure was dependent, generally speaking, upon reflex excitation through the 5th pair of nerves, and not upon direct excitation of the nerves supplying the muscles themselves; in most cases a curative action was produced only when the excitation was relatively weak, and when no trace of muscular contraction was pro- duced by the electricity. The intensity of the current should be such as to produce slight sensation in the parts excited, and the excitation should only he continued for about half a minute at each sitting. Dr. Benedikt usually excites for a few seconds, then tests for improvement, and then excites again, until he observes that the improvement ceases to make progress. The improvement takes place instantaneously in most cases. When the paralysis has been unaffected by 14 days of treat- ment, he has, as yet, seen no benefit from its longer continuance. He always employs the constant current. He has succeeded in curing, or in greatly improving, many cases in which vesicants, strychnia, secale cornutum, vapour baths, and section of the antagonistic muscles, had been applied without result; and he has not hitherto met with a single case that resisted electricity in which these remedies have afterwards effected a cure. Prof. Szokalski has followed a somewhat different plan, with great apparent success, in 4 cases of paresis of the third nerve.* He com- mences the treatment with Faradisation and closure of the healthy eye. At first weak streams are applied once a day, and continued for not more than three to five minutes; then stronger currents are gradually employed, and continued for a longer time; at a later period still, the applications are made twice a day. For the purpose of transmitting the electric current directly to the muscles, he employs the common silver elevators, partially insulated. The treatment is concluded by systematic exercise; better results are gained when the antagonistic action of the muscle is called into play than when contraction is directly excited by the will. By antagonistic action of the ocular muscles the author means the gradual contraction which takes place for the purpose of keeping an object in view when the head or whole trunk is moved away. It. Liebreichf has found that the conjunctiva is firmly connected with the capsule of Tenon for some distance from the edge of the cornea, and that by dividing this adhesion a strabismus amounting to 3'" in adults, or 4"' in children, may be connected by one tenotomy. He describes his modification of the operation for squint thus:—“ If the internal rectus is to be divided, I raise with a pair of forceps a fold of conjunctiva at the lower edge of the insertion of the muscle; and, in- cising this with scissors, enter the points of the latter at the opening between the conjunctiva and the capsule of Tenon ; then carefully sepa- rate these two tissues from each other as far as the semilunar fold, also separating the latter, as well as the caruncle from the parts lying behind. When the portion of the capsule which is of such importance in the tenotomy has been completely separated from the conjunctiva, I divide the insertion of the tendon from the sclerotic in the usual