REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 128 cedure appeared to be successful. The first is that of a child, act. 6, who had violent spasms of the left side of the body, with clenched jaws, bitten tongue, and spasmodic movements of the head. Compression of the right carotid stopped the fit immediately ; the child fell asleep, and awoke in full consciousness a quarter of an hour afterwards. The second patient was a girl of 7 years; she suffered convulsions of the right side of the body (apparently induced by fright) ; here com- pression of the left carotid produced equally happy results. The third patient was a child of years ; the convulsions affected both sides ; compression was applied to the right carotid, and the convulsive move- ments of the left side ceased at once. The left carotid was then com- pressed, and the convulsions of the right side ceased. Sleep followed, and in an hour the patient woke up quite well. M. Bouchut* records 3 cases of progressive general paralysis, with and without in sanity, in which nitrate of silver was successfully employed. The first patient was a young man of loose and intemperate habits, who was attacked with weakness of the lower extremities and difficulty of speech. Two months after the commencement of the illness the general aspect was healthy, and there was no very evident insanity; but there was mental cloudiness, loss of memory, trembling of the eyes and tongue, defective articulation, and a tendency to mis- place words; inequality of pupils, dimness of sight, trembling of the limbs, staggering gait, trembling and weakness of the hands; no affection of the bladder or of the sexual power; no defect of sensation. Three centigrammes of the nitrate were given daily, with dry cupping to the spine and daily sulphur baths. In 6 weeks there was a great diminution of all the symptoms; in 9 months the cure was complete. After a year’s good health the patient was suddenly attacked with monomania of an exalted type, and was sent to an asylum.—In the second case a man, set. 45, had suffered for 2 years from the most decided symptoms of progressive paralysis of the insane; 2 to 4 centigrammes of the nitrate were given daily. In a fortnight the symptoms were already improved; the legs, hands, and tongue, no longer trembled; the patient could write well, and his articulation was normal. No improvement of the mental condition had yet occurred. An inter- current congestion of the brain, with unconsciousness and epileptic fits, increased the mental disorder, but did not affect the motor powers. At a later date the mental activity had improved, but memory remained almost nil. The patient took the nitrate for a year and a half, in doses varying from 1 to 5 centigrammes daily. A seton was also occasionally placed in the back of the neck.—The third case was that of a man, set. 48, an old glutton and drinker, who was affected with progressive general paralysis of the insane. Two centigrammes daily of the nitrate diminished the tremblings of the limbs and tongue, but the mental defect remained. The increase of the dose to 5 centigrammes at first caused great improvement, but the case then became stationary, though the dose was raised to 10 centigrammes. * * Bull, dc Therap.,’ 15 December, 1865.