REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 70 M. Guyot-Dannecy# recommends citrate of soda, in daily doses of half a drachm to a drachm, as a remedy in diabetes. It has been shown by analysis that sugar disappears from the urine when this salt is used with the food instead of common salt. It is also known, since the re- searches of Wcehler, that the alkaline salts of organic acids, when given in doses too small to produce purgative effects, are absorbed, and, their acid being burned up in the respiratory process, are eliminated by the urine as carbonates. Hence citrate of soda may, without interfering with the gastric acid in the same way as alkaline carbonates, place the system under the influence of an alkaline carbonate, which is indis- pensable to the interstitial combustion of the glucose of the food. The efficacy of this remedy, and its superiority to the prolonged administra- tion of bicarbonate of soda, have to be proved by clinical experience. Dr. Butturaf relates a case of saccharine diabetes of ten years’ dura- tion, in which, after employing various remedies unsuccessfully, he applied a seton to the neck. As suppuration became established the sugar disappeared from the urine, the patient regained strength, and ultimately made a perfect recovery, remaining in good health eight months after the removal of the seton. Acute Rheumatism. MM. Ollivier (A.) and Banvier (L.)J relate a case of acute rheuma- tism, and summarise, in their remarks on it, the results of their researches into the pathological changes produced in this disease. They observe that rheumatism does not produce merely vascular changes in the joints, but also gives rise to new formations. These, in their simplest stage, consist of a large number of cartilage-cells and corpuscles, which either remain or disappear in some way not yet un- derstood. This condition may be found in parts which to the naked eye appear sound. In other cases there is more or less deep ulceration, attended with an abundant secretion of purulent fluid in the interior of the joint, aud with an exudation in the form of flocks or false mem- branes, consisting largely of cells. These changes take place very rapidly. In the case described by the authors death occurred on the ninth day of the disease. When rheumatism affects the head the disappearance of pain from the joints when the cerebral symptoms set in has received various inter- pretations. We must, Ollivier and Banvier observe, distinguish the mere disappearance of pain from the disappearance of pain, swelling, and redness. We must ascertain whether important lesions do not remain in the joints before we conclude that there has been a true me- tastasis to the brain. In fact, although the pain disappears when cere- bral symptoms appear, it is not so with the other lesions. In the case related by the authors the pains in the joints disappeared soon after the brain became affected, and yet there were found at the autopsy con- gestion of the synovial membrane and effusion into the joint capable of producing pain. It is to the nervous system that we must look for an * ‘ Bull, de Tlierap.,’ April 15, 1866. f ‘ Gaz. Med.,’ 27, 1865. t ‘ Comptes rcndus de la Soc. de Biol.;’ ‘ Gaz. Med.,’ 12, 1866.