POSTAL TUMOUR OP TESTIS.—HYDROCELE. 331 excessive coition, and inflammatory affections of the genital organs, so that it may he a symptom of acute or chronic orchitis, of inflammation of the seminal vesicles, of chronic urethritis, of wounds or extirpation of the testicle, and possibly of organic affections of the prostate. Of all these, except the last, M. Demarquay gives instances or references to authors. Two other cases, of a similar nature, are published by the same journal in the ' Graz, des Hop.,’ Aug. io, 1865. “ On Tumor of Testis containing ‘ Foetal Remains,’ with a case.” By Dr. Van Buren, Professor of Anatomy, University of New York.— Dr. Van Buren relates a case in which he removed the left testicle of an infant, set. 2\ years, on account of a tumour, which had been thought to be a hydrocele, and treated with a seton, but with the effect of causing much suppuration, recurring at intervals, and the protrusion of a fungus about the size of a walnut, and of a very malignant appearance. After the removal (which was successful in restoring the child to perfect health) Dr. Van Buren discovered in it a cavity which contained a portion of the jawbone with several teeth. Dr. Van Buren, in com- menting on this case, puts before his readers the two theories which have been emitted with regard to them, viz. either that such tumours are the result of a local plastic effort, determined by injury or inflam- mation, and liable to occur at any period of life; or, on the other hand, that they are the result of the inclusion within the testicle of one foetus of a fecundated Graafian vesicle, the rudiments of another foetus, and therefore necessarily congenital. He points out that all the 10 cases recorded by M. Verneuil in his article on the subject in the ‘Arch. Gen. de Med.,’ 1855, were proved to be congenital, except one in which the history was obscure, but which was not proved not to be so. Allowing this to be the case, the congenital occurrence of such tumours constitutes their most valuable diagnostic feature. The dia- gnosis lies between hernia, hydrocele, encephaloid cancer, and tuber- cular disease of the testis. It would seem easy to exclude the two former, though two of the cases recorded in this paper were mistaken for hydrocele. Robert speaks of a case of congenital cancer of the testis, but otherwise the two latter affections seem not to he known to occur congenitally. In the ‘Annali Universali di Medicina,’ 1866, vol. 196, p. 22^, Dr. Melchiorj describes the varieties which occur in the mode of oblitera- tion of the “ funicular process ” of the peritoneum, and the varieties of hydrocele which are thus occasioned. He divides this process into an inguinal portion, contained in the spermatic canal, and a scrotal portion. The closure of the funicular process commences usually from several points, corresponding to the upper end of the testicle, the external and internal rings, from which the obliteration proceeds in all directions, till the whole is closed. The mode, however, may vary, and different portions may remain unobliterated. In the examination of the bodies of young children the following conditions are found, viz. the canal is (1) entirely pervious and communicating with the peritoneum ; (2) ob-