REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 190 45; hence the idea that there was some relation between the development of the affection and the menstrual and reproductive functions. From ob- servations of several patients Becquet is led to the conclusion that dis- placement of the kidneys is most frequently due to congestion of the organs, which is itself frequently dependent on congestion of the uterus and ovaries. The congested kidney increases in weight and size, and it is capable of obeying, to a certain extent, the laws of gravitation. The repe- titions of the congestion constantly increase the amount of displacement, until the kidney may be felt beneath the anterior wall of the abdomen. When the hyperamaia disappears the organ may regain its normal place; but it may contract adhesions to the peritoneum, and so become fixed in its faulty position. The congestion of the kidneys and the conse- quent displacement give rise to severe pain, which may be mistaken for neuralgia, nephritic colic, &c. The displaced kidney forms a tumour, varying in position, but always capable of being easily felt and denned, so that there can be no great difficulty in the diagnosis. The use of tight stays, violent exercise, efforts, &c., co-operate with congestion in pro- ducing the displacement. When it is present antiphlogistics and calmatives must be employed. The means which appear best adapted to prevent or delay its return are, absolute rest during the catamenial period, the hydrotherapeutic treatment, certain mineral waters, the use of a proper bandage, &c. The conclusions at which the author has arrived are interesting, but require to be established by a more extensive series of observations, and by pathological examination. Prof. Gilewski* wuites on strangulation of floating kidneys. Gilewski believes the phenomena, described by Dietl as denoting the strangulation of floating kidneys, to be the results of pressure on the urinary canals. In persons who have floating kidneys severe pain occurs after sudden bodily exertion, when the stomach is over- full, or during menstruation ; and on the same side of the abdo- men may be detected a smooth, elastic, immovable, painful, rapidly increasing swelling, covered by the intestines. The patient has much uneasiness, with nausea, vomiting, fever, and scanty high-coloured urine. In two or three days there is a rigor, the urine becomes more abundant, and contains mucus and pus. The rapid increase of the tumour, its still more rapid disappearance as soon as mucus and pus appear in the urine, the absence of hsematuria, and the subjective symptoms of retention of urine, indicate that the obstruction has been confined to the ureter, being produced by the pressure of the kidney itself on this tube. G. DISEASES OE THE CUTANEOUS SYSTEM. Mr. Jonathan Hutchinsonf publishes an important paper on unilateral herpes, which is illustrated by a table giving the principal facts in the history of 63 cases of herpes zoster. The questions which he desires to solve are the following:—“ Is herpes zoster an exauthem * ‘ Oesterr. Arch. f. prakt. Heilk.,’ 1865. t ‘Lond. Hosp. Reports,’ vol. iii, 1866.