DIPHTHERIA. VACCINATION. 67 f ‘Gaz. Med.,’ 17, 1866. where, although the same climatic conditions persisted for some time after.” [Yellow fever again visited this country in 1866, but the accounts so far published are not sufficiently clear to be worth presenting in this ‘Year-Book.’ A paper has, however, been recently read by Dr. Gavin Milroy, at the Epidemiological Society, but unfortunately not yet pub- lished, which traces in a very accurate manner the history of the in- fected ships, and it is only right to mention that, upon the question as to personal contagion in yellow fever, the latest observations appear to bear out the negative opinion as favoured by Dr. Buchanan in the above-cited report.] Diphtheria. Bubola# inoculated diphtheritic matter in 29 healthy children, of whom 13 belonged to families where diphtheria was already present, and 14 lived at a short distance; and he states that none of the children so treated were attacked with the disease. His method of proceeding was this :—A piece of false membrane having been removed from the pharynx, the diphtheritic matter was inserted by means of a lancet in one or two places in each arm, as in vaccination. After a period of from 16 to 20 hours there appeared at the punctures a small reddish elevation, which sometimes diminished gradually, and disappeared in two or three days without leaving any trace. Most frequently, the elevation became hard, increased rapidly in size, and in a few hours became filled with a greyish matter, and surrounded by an inflammatory areola. In some cases bullae of tbe size of a franc were formed at the points of puncture, and, when opened, gave exit to a slightly corrosive serous liquid, leaving a greyish layer at the base. Cicatrisation was generally complete in eight or ten days ; in some rare instances there was left a pale ulcer, of lardaceous aspect, and yielding fetid pus. The application of nitrate of silver, however, produced a cure in a few days. Vaccination. M. Chauveauf has made some experiments on the production of natural vaccinia. He injected the contents of three tubes of excellent vaccine matter into the jugular vein of a horse, and the same into that of a mule. At the end of a month no result had been produced, and there was a similar want of result after injection of vaccine matter into the carotid and facial arteries. Chauveau then determined to inject a lymphatic vessel having a gland in its course, and accordingly performed the experiment on a horse. At the end of n days there was a magni- ficent vaccine eruption on the nose and lips, and, on the 14th day, in the fold of the pastern of the hind limbs. The liquid furnished by the pustules being inoculated into four animals of the bovine species, pro- duced in all a beautiful vaccine eruption, which remained quite local. On being inoculated by four punctures into an infant, it produced a single small pustule, which was slowly developed, and the matter of * ‘ Gaz. Med. Italiana ‘ Gaz. Med. de Paris,’ 50, 1865.