REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. BY EEANCIS EDMUND ANSTIE, M.D., E.E.C.P. A. DISEASES AEEECTING THE GENERAL SYSTEM. Relapsing Fever. In the end of 1864 and beginning of 1865 this disease made its appearance at St. Petersburg, and at first occasioned great alarm, from its features not being recognised, and an apprehension having arisen that it was the Oriental plague. Inquiry soon showed, however, that it was, in fact, the disease well known, more especially in Great Britain, as relapsing fever, the “starvation-fever” of the times of Irish distress ; and the circumstances of its origin in Eussia were proved to correspond with this character. The papers below cited will suffi- ciently establish its identity with the disease as known in this country. A note from Dr. Tillner,* communicated by Dr. Galligo to the Aca- demy of Medicine on April 4, 1865, says that the fever then prevailing in St. Petersburg presented strong analogies with that first shown in Scotland in 1819, and denominated relapsing fever. The attack com- menced with rigors, followed by great heat, the thermometer rising to 104° to 1060 Pahr. The pulse rose to 130; the functions of the ner- vous system were weakened and disordered, but the mental powers were preserved. Headache and courlature were often present. The left hypochondriac region was very painful, and there was very marked enlargement of the spleen. The skin was of a yellow colour. The first paroxysm was prolonged to the seventh or eighth day, and was terminated by profuse sweating. After an interval of seven or eight days, during which there was apparent recovery, a similar paroxysm would occur, attended with greater prostration; and sometimes, after another seven days, a third paroxysm. There was always much thirst, and complete anorexia; also great prostration, and severe disorder of the intestinal canal. The mortality was 8 per cent. Death generally occurred during the second attack, and was preceded by symptoms of general paralysis, much disorder of the nervous system, decomposition of the blood, engorgement of the spleen and liver, and congestion of the abdominal veins; but without any trace of the intestinal affections * ‘ Gaz. Med.,’ xiv, 1865. 3