REPORT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. 426 umbilical cord was torn out of the umbilicus during sudden expulsion of the child from the womb. The haemorrhage was stopped by ligature. Dr. Zober (‘ Mon. f. Geb.,’ 1865) describes a case of bleeding from the umbilicus. It broke out on the 7th day. It ended fatally, although the bleeding was arrested by compresses. Syphilis conveyed by vaccination. Drs. Chassaignac and Boinet (‘ Journ. f. Kinderk.,’ xliv, 1865).—Chassaignac relates a case which seemed one of syphilis transmitted by vaccination. A child, two years old, presumed free from syphilis, was vaccinated on the 27th June. The vaccine-vesicles went through the ordinary course, but, after nearly healing, sores were found in the scars; the sores had a hard base, and the glands in the axillae were swollen. A copper eruption appeared on the chest. There is also an elaborate report on this subject in the same journal, addressed to the French ministry. Dr. Boger also contributes (see same journal and ‘Union Med.,’ 1865) clinical studies on infantile syphilis. He relates cases, and gives the following summary:—1. There is an example of the gradual and natural weakening of the syphilitic diathesis in the course of several consecutive pregnancies in a woman who con- tracted syphilis during her first pregnancy. 2. In most cases where syphilis is communicated from the suckling to the nurse there are mouth affections of a syphilitic character in the former. In suckling there certainly arise conditions which may bring about infection through the secretions of the mouth ; so may repeated and protracted sucking produce cracks on the lips and tongue of the child and on the nipples of the nurse; thus, syphilis may be inoculated, and especially by means of the saliva mixing with the poisoned blood. In other cases the dis- charge from the nose of a syphilitic child may be the medium of infec- tion to the nurse. 3. In the case where syphilis appears simultaneously in nurse and child the fact that the disease first appeared on the nurse’s nipple is evidence that the syphilis was transmitted from the child; on the other hand, the absence of affection of the nipple, and the presence of syphilitic symptoms elsewhere, justifies suspicion that the nurse was first affected. 4. There are observations (related) which prove that syphilis may be acquired by children by kisses or other in- ward contact. 3. Syphilis is no impediment to the regular development of vaccinia. 6. The stated rareness of syphilis in new-born children is only true in excluding pemphigus and affections of the viscera which are of intra-uterine origin. 7. Fi’om a collection of 200 cases it follows that inherited syphilis discovers itself in nearly one half before the expiration of the first month, and in gths before the end of the third month after birth. If syphilis breaks out after the third month the probability is great that the disease is not inherited, and it is proper in selecting vaccine-lymph to take a child more than three months old. The presumption is very great that when tertiary symptoms appear in a child after its first year, and still more after the second, these are the sequelse of an acquired, and not of an inherited, syphilis. 8. Easily seized marks distinguish syphilitic pemphigus from the simple. The situation of the bulla3 on the palms and soles of the feet, and especially their early appearance, namely, at birth or in the first two months, are the characteristic signs. The same situation indicates also the syphilitic