THE EDINBURGH STEREOSCOPIC ATLAS OF ANATOMY. HEAD AMD NECK!. BACK OF NECK—No. 1. THE TRAPEZIUS MUSCLE ON EACH SIDE, AND THE SPLENITIS OF THE LEFT SIDE, HAVE BEEN REFLECTED TO SHOW THE STRUCTURES WHICH LIE UNDER COVER OF THEM. Under cover of the upper part of the trapezius lies the splenitis muscle, consisting of two parts, the splenius capitis and the splenitis colli. This muscle arises from the lower half of the ligamentum nuchas and from the spines of the seventh cervical and the upper six dorsal vertebra?, The fibres of the muscle are directed obliquely upwards and outwards, and are inserted into the lower part of the mastoid process and the outer part of the superior curved line of the occipital bone (splenius capitis), while the lower part of the muscle passes to the posterior tubercles of the transverse processes of the upper two or three cervical vertebra? and constitutes the splenius colli. The splenius overlies the greater part of the complexus muscle and several of the strands which continue the erector spina? into the neck. The complexus is a large fleshy mass which passes from the transverse processes of the upper six dorsal vertebra?, and from the articular processes of the fourth, fifth, and sixth cervical vertebra?, almost vertically upwards, to the occipital bone into which it is inserted, between the upper and the lower curved lines. These two muscles form important landmarks in operations upon the back of the neck. The great and the small occipital nerves and the occipital artery are seen in the relationships which they possess to these two muscles, the great occipital nerve piercing them, while the artery lies either upon or under cover of the splenius capitis. The figures indicate- 1. Ext. occipital protuberance. 7. 2. Spine of seventh cervical vertebra, 8. 3. Sterno-mastoid muscle. 9. 4. Splenius capitis muscle. 10. 5. Complexus muscle. 11. 6. Ligamentum nucha?. EDINBURGH! T. C. & E. C. JACK; and 34 HENRIETTA STREET, LONDON, W.C. Trachelo-mastoid muscle. Splenius colli muscle. Great occipital nerve. Small occipital nerve. Occipital artery.THE EDINBURGH STEREOSCOPIC ATLAS OF ANATOMY. EDINBURGH; T. C. & E. C. JACK; and 34 HENRIETTA STREET, LONDON, W.C, HEAD AND NECK. BACK OP NECK—No. 2. THE COMPLEXUS MUSCLE HAS BEEN" REFLECTED ON EACH SIDE, TO SHOW, ON THE RIGHT, THE SUBJACENT NERVES, AND, ON THE LEFT, THE MUSCLES WHICH BOUND THE SUB-OCCIPITAL TRIANGLE. The sub-occipital triangle is a, small space, bounded by the rectus capitis posticus major inter- nally, and by the superior and inferior oblique muscles externally. The rectus capitis posticus major passes from the spine of the axis vertebra to the occipital bone, into which it gains insertion along the outer part of the inferior curved line and the part of the bone which lies below it. The inferior oblique passes from the spine of the axis to the posterior tubercle of the transverse process of the atlas, while the superior oblique arises from the transverse process of the atlas, and is inserted into the occipital bone in the interval betAveen the curved lines. The floor of the triangle is formed by the arch of the atlas vertebra and by the posterior occipito- atlantal ligament. The space thus bounded contains a portion of the vertebral artery and the posterior primary division of the first cervical or sub-occipital nerve. The rectus capitis posticus minor arises from the tubercle on the posterior arch of the atlas and is inserted into the inner part of the inferior curved line of the occipital bone and the surface between this and the foramen magnum. In the interval between the complexus muscle and the semispinalis colli are found the internal branches of the posterior primary divisions of 2nd, 3rd, 4th, and 5th cervical nerves, which frequently anastomose with one another, give branches to the adjacent muscles, and terminate in the skin. Here also is found the profunda cervicis artery, anastomosing with the princeps cervicis branch of the occipital. Bones. 1. External occipital protuberance. 2. Atlas. 3. Spine of axis. 4. Transverse process of atlas. 5. Arch of atlas. Muscles. 6. Superior oblique. 7. Inferior oblique. 8. Rectus capitis posticus major. 9. Rectus capitis posticus minor. 10. Complexus. 11. Semispinalis colli. 12. Sterno-mastoid. 13. Splenius capitis. 14. Trachelo-mastoid. 15. Digastric. Nerves, etc. 16. Sub-occipital. 17. Great occipital. 18. Third occipital. 19. Fourth occipital and profunda cervicis artery. 20. Vertebral artery. 21. Occipital artery.THE EDINBURGH STEREOSCOPIC ATLAS OF ANATOMY. HEAD AND NECK. PAROTID REGION—No. 1. A SUPERFICIAL DISSECTION HAS BEEN MADE OF THE PAROTID GLAND AND THE STRUCTURES RELATED TO IT, AND OF THE SIDE OF THE FACE AND THE UFPER PART OF THE NECK. The parotid gland contains some lymphatic glands which lie embedded in its substance. One of these is seen lying superficially. Emerging from the anterior part of the gland are the transverse facial artery, the duct of the parotid, and the branches of the facial nerve. In front of the anterior border of the masseter muscle is a small triangular space branched above by the zygomaticus major, and below by the risorius muscle, while the floor is formed by the buccinator. In this space are found the facial vessels and some of their branches, the long buccal nerve and the buccal artery, and the terminal portion of the duct of the parotid. The figures indicate- 1. Parotid gland (note lymphatic gland embedded in its snbstance). 2. Submaxillary salivary gland. 3. 4. Submaxillary lymphatic glands. 5. 5. Stenson's clnct. 6. Socia parotidis. 7. Zygomaticus major. 8. Depressor anguli oris. 9. Risorius. 10. Buccinator. 11. Masseter. 12. Anterior belly of digastric. 13. Sterno-hyoid and omo-hyoid. 14. Thyro-hyoid. 15. Sterno-mastoid. 16. Malar and infra-orbital facial, with transverse between. Arteries, veins, etc. Glands. 1. Parotid gland (note lymphatic gland 17. 18. 19. 20, 22. 23! Muscles. 7. Zygomaticus major. 24. 25. 2G. 27, 29. 30. 31, 32. Nerves. 16. Malar and infra-orbital branches of 34. 35. 36. 37. 38. EDINBURGH: T. C. & E. C. JACK; and 34 HENRIETTA branches of facial artery Buccal. ^ Mandibular. -Branches of facial. Infra-mandibular.) 21. Superficial cervical. Great auricular. Long buccal. Malar nerve. Coronary arteries. Facial artery. 28. Facial vein. Common facial vein [abnormal]. Anterior division of temporo-maxillary vein. 33. External jugular vein. Communicating branch. Deep fascia. Platysma myoides. Superficial fascia. Skin. Mandible. STREET, LONDON, W.C.THE EDINBURGH STEREOSCOPIC ATLAS OF ANATOMY. HEAD AND NECK. PAROTID REGION—No. 2. THE PAKOTID GLAND HAS BEEN REMOVED FROM THE BED IN WHICH IT LAY, IN ORDER TO SHOW ITS DEEP RELATIONS. The fossa for the parotid gland extends upwards to the zygoma, behind it is limited by the sterno-mastoid muscle, the mastoid process, and the external auditory meatus. In front, the gland is bent round the ascending ramus and the neck of the mandible, and lies upon both their superficial and deep aspects. The fossa passes deeply inwards towards the base of the skull, and is related above to the posterior part of the glenoid cavity, while below and behind it is bounded by the digastric muscle, and it passes inwards to the styloid process and the styloid muscles. The external carotid artery is seen passing through the gland and dividing into the internal maxillary and temporal branches, while the facial nerve enters the gland and forms a plexus within its substance, and the auriculo-temporal nerve appears above its upper and posterior border. The spinal accessory nerve is seen in a position in which it is readily accessible, as it passes from under cover of the digastric muscle to the sterno-mastoid, lying upon the transverse process of the atlas vertebra, and accompanied by the sterno-mastoid branch of the occipital artery. The figures iadicate- 1. Zygoma. 2. Condyle of mandible. 3. Deep head of masseter muscle. 4. Superficial head of masseter muscle. 5. Sterno-mastoid muscle. 6. Digastric muscle. 7. Common facial vein. 8. Internal jugular vein. 9. Spinal accessory nerve and accompanying artery. 10. Posterior auricular branch of facial nerve. 11. Facial nerve. 12. External carotid artery. 13. Superficial temporal artery and auriculotemporal nerve. 14. Facial vein. EDINBURGH: T. C. & E. C. JACK; and 34 HENRIETTA STREET, LONDON, W.C. CM * . 0 o 5 z | <f> s z S O g O X w " 9 i \- I o l cc ° < Q. o LU z Q Z <THE EDINBURGH STEREOSCOPIC ATLAS OF ANATOMY. z 1 HEAD AND NECK. SURFACE ANATOMY—No. h THE SIDE OF THE NECK IS DIVIDED BY THE STERNO-MASTOID MUSCLE INTO TWO PARTS; In the'anterior part are the following landmarks :— 1. Hyoid bone marks the lower limit of the floor of the mouth and of the submaxillary triangle. The lingual artery runs along its upper border, and at this level the hypoglossal nerve crosses the external carotid artery. 2. Thyroid cartilage with the prominent pomum Adami at its anterior angle. The common carotid artery divides opposite the upper margin of this cartilage. 3. The cricoid cartilage marks the lower limit of the larynx and pharynx and the commence- ment of the trachea and oesophagus, and lies at the level of the sixth cervical vertebra. At this level the anterior belly of the omo-hyoid muscle crosses the common carotid artery, and at the same level the artery can be compressed against the transverse process of that vertebra. 4. The anterior edge of the sterno-mastoid muscle itself is a distinct landmark, and overlaps the common carotid artery. The line of that artery and of the external carotid extends from the sterno- clavicular articulation to the hollow between the angle of the jaw and the front of the mastoid process. The interval between the two heads of the muscle overlies the internal jugular vein. Behind the sterno-mastoid is the region of the posterior triangle bounded behind by the anterior margin of the trapezius and below by the middle-third of the clavicle. The third part of the subclavian artery lies in the lower part of this triangle, and the artery curves downwards behind the most prominent portion of the clavicle. It can be most readily compressed by pressure down- wards, backwards and inwards at a point behind the posterior border of the sterno-mastoid muscle about an inch above the clavicle. The figures indicate— 1. Inner end of clavicle. 5. Hyoid bone. 2. Pomum Adami. 6. Level of bifurcation of the common carotid. 3. Sternal head of the sterno-mastoid. 7. Anterior border of the trapezius. 4. Clavicular head of the sterno-mastoid. 8. Clavicular portion of the pectoralis major. EDINBURGH: T. C. & E. 0. JACK; and 34 HENRIETTA STREET, LONDON, W.C. < u. if.. i :THE EDINBURGH STEREOSCOPIC ATLAS OF ANATOMY. cn 2 1 HEAD AND NECK. SPINAL CANAL—No. 1. THE SPINAL CANAL HAS BEEN OPENED FROM BEHIND, AND THE UPPER PART OF THE SPINAL DURA MATER EXPOSED. The spinal dura mater is a tough and strong fibrous membrane, which is separated from the periosteum of the spinal canal by fat, connective tissue, and venous plexuses. It is attached around the margin of the fora- men nia-num, and there becomes continuous with the deep layer of the cranial dura mater. It is pierced by the roots of the spinal nerves, and at these places becomes continuous with the connective tissue sheaths of-the nerves, and between the atlas and the occipital bone it is pierced by the vertebral artery 011 eiNerves1—The first or suboccipital cervical nerve escapes from the spinal canal between the occipital bone and the posterior arch of the atlas vertebra, and lies below and behind the vertebral artery. The posterior primary division, which is larger than the anterior, passes backwards and appears 111 the suboccipital triangle It does not divide into internal and external divisions, as do the other spinal nerves except the second, and it supplies the muscles which bound the suboccipital triangle, and in addition, the rectus capitis posticus minor ^ntZ^J^mm emerges between the neural arches of the first ,nd second, cervical vertebra. The posterior primarv division, which is larger than the anterior has already been shown in the^ccipital triande and has been removed. The anterior division winds round the outer side of the vertebral artery The sSnal accessory nerve is seen passing downwards and backwards, under cover of the posterior belly of the digastric muscle, and disappearing into the substance of the sterno-mastoid. Vertebral artery -In this part of its course, this vessel is seen escaping from the foramen in the tianb- yevJvvoSroith^xis and passing upwards and outwards to enter the foramen m the atlas. Emerging from ZAt cZs horizontally backwards and inwards round the outer side and back of the superior articular process of the atlas, and piercing the dura mater, it enters the spinal canal. 1. Dura mater. 2. Vertebral artery. 3. Arch of atlas vertebra, divided. 4. Ganglion of second cervical nerve. 5. Anterior division of first cervical nerve. The figures indicate— 6. Anterior division of second cer nerve. 7. Digastric muscle. 8. Spinal accessory nerve. 9. Internal jugular vein. ,'ical 10. Rectus capitis lateralis. 1). Nuchal portion of occipital bone. 12. Posterior division of suboccipital EDINBURGH « T. C & E. C. JACK 1 and 34 HENRIETTA STREET, LONDON, W.C. < X J - 2 - *if CL 5 gTHE EDINBURGH STEREOSCOPIC ATLAS OF ANATOMY EDINBURGH: T, C. & E. C. JACK; and 34 HENRIETTA STREET, LONDON, W.C. HEAD AND NECK. SPINAL CANAL—No. 2. THE POSTERIOR PART OF THE SKULL HAS BEEN REMOVED AND ALSO THE DURA MATER OVER THE CEREBELLUM AND THE UPPER PART OF THE SPINAL CORD. Dura mater. The cranial dura mater is adherent to the cranial wall, and serves as a periosteum to the inner surface of the cranial bones. It contains several large venous channels, many of which meet with one another at the internal occipital protuberance. Thus, at this place, the superior longitudinal sinus, which lies in the middle line and runs from in front to the back, meets the straight sinus, the orifice of which is seen, and the occipital sinus. The confluence of these channels constitutes the torcular Hierophili, and from it the lateral sinuses pass outwards on either side, lying between the cerebrum and the cerebellum. The lumen of the sinuses is rather triangular in shape. Arachnoid. This is a delicate non-vascular membrane which invests the brain and cord. It is not attached to the dura, and between the two membranes is the subdural space, but it is connected to the pia loosely by a number of delicate strands which subdivide the subarachnoid cavity into a number of spaces. The arachnoid is continued directly from the back of the medulla to the under surface of the cerebellum, and hence a large space is left between the arachnoid and the pia in this region which constitutes the cisterna cerebellomedullaris. This is the largest space of the kind, but other similar spaces are found at the base of the brain further forwards. The subarachnoid space contains the cerebro-spinal fluid, and it is continued from the surface of the brain into the spinal canal, in which the arachnoid and the pia are only loosely connected to one another- On the dorsal aspect of the spinal cord the connection is more complete, and a septum is formed uniting the two membranes, and known as the septum posticum. The figures indicate- 1. Spinal dura mater. 2. Spinal cord and arachnoid. 3. Arachnoid membrane. 4. Cerebellum. 5. Dura mater covering occipital pole of cerebrum. 6. Vertebral artery. 7. Second cervical nerve. 8. Superior longitudinal sinus. 9. Orifice of straight sinus. 10. Lateral sinusTHE EDINBURGH STEREOSCOPIC ATLAS OF ANATOMY. EDINBURGH; T, C. & E. C. JACK; and 34 HENRIETTA STREET, LONDON, W.C, HEAD AND NECK. SPINAL CANAL—No. 3. THE CEREBELLUM AND THE CEREBRUM HAVE BEEN REMOVED, TO SHOW THE MEDULLA OBLONGATA, MID-BRAIN, AND THE FOURTH VENTRICLE IN SITU. The spinal cord becomes continuous with the medulla oblongata at the level of the foramen magnum. The central canal of the spinal cord is continued onwards for a short distance in the substance of the medulla, and then opens on its posterior surface, and widens out to form a cavity, which constitutes the fourth ventricle. The floor of the fourth ventricle is formed in the lower part by the back of the medulla, and in the upper by the back of the pons Varolii. The floor is somewhat lozenge-shaped, and the lateral boundaries are formed by the superior peduncles of the cerebellum above, and below by the restiform body, the cuneate tubercle, and clava on each side. The floor is divided into two lateral halves by a mesial furrow, and its lower end, between the two clavee is called the calamus scriptorius. From the mesial groove near its centre some fibres emerge and run transversely outwards, called the stria? acousticse. These divide each lateral half into an upper and a lower part. In the upper part on each side, close to the median groove, is an elevation called the fasciculus teres. The mesial groove traced upwards leads to the aperture of the aqueduct of Sylvius, by which the cavity of the fourth communicates with the third ventricle of the brain. On the posterior aspect of the medulla, the postero-mesial tract of the spinal cord forms a distinct elevation, called the clava, corresponding to the subjacent nucleus gracilis, and external to it is another prominence, called the cuneate fasciculus and cuneate tubercle, corresponding to the nucleus of the postero-lateral column of the cord or nucleus cuneatus, while still further out is the tubercle of Rolando. The upper part of the posterior area of the medulla passes into the inferior peduncle of the cerebellum, and is called the restiform body. The spinal accessory nerve arises from the side of the spinal cord and medulla as far down as to the sixth cervical segment by a series of rootlets which emerge from the side of the cord in front of the posterior roots of the spinal nerves. These rootlets join and pass up into the interior of the skull through the foramen magnum and form the nerve, which finally leaves the skull through the middle compartment of the jugular foramen. Fourth cranial nerve. This nerve is seen arising from the dorsal aspect of the brain from a thin lamina called the valve of Vieussens, or superior medullary velum, which unites the superior peduncles of the cere- bellum, below the inferior quadrigeminal bodies. The nerves then wind round the sides of the mid-brain. 1. Spinal cord. 6. Cranial nerves vii. and vm. 11. Eminentia teres. 2. Posterior root of C II. 7. Posterior corpora quadrigemina. 12. Middle peduncle of cerebellum. 3. Posterior root ganglion of C I. 8. Fourth nerve. 13. Hypoglossal nerve. 4. Spinal accessory crossing vertebral artery. 9. Spinal roots of spinal accessory nerve. 14. Pineal body. 5. Cranial nerves ix., x., and xi. 10. Clava.THE EDINBURGH STEREOSCOPIC ATLAS OF ANATOMY. EDINBURGH; T. C. & E. C. JACK; and 34 HENRIETTA STREET, LONDON, W,C, HEAD AND NECK SPINAL CANAL—No. 4. TO SHOW THE STRUCTURES LYING ON THE BASIS CRANII. The vertebral arteries, after entering the spinal canal, pass upwards and inwards, pierce the arachnoid, and come to lie in the subarachnoid space in front of the medulla, and they extend forwards to the lower mxro-in of the pons where they unite to form the basilar artery. This artery is frequently tortuous, and passes forwards in the subarachnoid space to the anterior end of the pons, where it terminates by dividing into the two posterior cerebral arteries. Vessels and nerves piercing the dura mater of the skull. The internal carotid artery pierces the dura mater in the interval between the clinoid processes. The second cranial nerves pass out through the optic foramina, carrying a prolongation of the dura mater with them into the orbit. ..... , The third pair of nerves pass through the dura at the side of the posterior clinoid process, and pass into the wall of the cavernous sinus. The small fourth nerves pierce the dura mater external to the former, and also pass into the wall of the cavernous sinus. The fifth pair of nerves pierce the dura at the apex of the petrous temporal bone, and pass into a recess called the cavum Meckelii in the substance of the dura, where the Gasserian ganglion is formed. , The sixth pair of cranial nerves pierce the clura mater internal to the former, by the side of the basi-sphenoid, and pass into the interior of the cavernous sinus. The seventh and eighth nerves pass outwards through the internal auditory meatus, and pass into the petrous temporal bone. . . . . The ninth, tenth, and eleventh nerves pass out through the middle compartment of the jugular foramen, the ninth being separated from the others by a septum of dura mater. The twelfth nerves pass out through the anterior condylar foramina and pierce the dura at that spot. The figures indicate— 1. Internal carotid artery. 7- Seventh or Facial and Auditory nerves. 2 Second or Optic nerve. 8- Ninth, tenth, and eleventh or Glossopharyngeal, 3 Third or Oculomotor nerve. Vagus, and Spinal accessory nerves. 4 Fourth or Trochlear nerve. 9. Twelfth or Hypoglossal nerve. 5 Fifth or Trigeminal nerve. 10. Vertebral artery. 6. Sixth or Abducens nerve. H. Basilar artery.THE EDINBURGH STEREOSCOPIC ATLAS OF ANATOMY. EDINBURGH; T. C. & E. C. JACK; and 34 HENRIETTA STREET, LONDON, W.C. HEAD AND NECK. SAGITTAL SECTION OF THE HEAD—No. I. THE SECTION IS SLIGHTLY TO THE RIGHT OF THE MESIAL PLANE IN FRONT, AND HAS LEFT THE SEPTUM OF THE NOSE, BUT AT THE BACK IT IS SLIGHTLY TO THE LEFT OF THE MESIAL PLANE. The disc of cartilage between the sphenoid and the occipital bone is seen, as the subject was young, and it can also be noticed that the odontoid process of the axis vertebra is tipped with cartilage. Several of the large subarachnoid spaces at the base of the brain are seen {vide Spinal Canal, No. 2), the cisterna basalis a large cavity in front of the pons Varolii, the cisterna pontis, which is the continuation upwards of the anterior part of the subarachnoid space of the spinal canal, and the cisterna magna, between the under surface of the cerebellum and the back of the medulla. Where the section passes through the larynx, the true vocal cord is seen, with the laryngeal recess immediately above it, and the false vocal cord immediately above that again. In the child the larynx is at a higher level than in the adult, so that the cricoid cartilage lies at the level of the fifth cervical vertebra, while in the adult it is usually at the sixth. The adenoid tissue in the pharyngeal wall in front of the basi-occipital bone is somewhat hyper- trophied in this specimen, forming the well known condition of adenoid vegetations. These vegetations spread outwards on each side to the region of the lateral recess of the pharynx. The hyoid bone can be seen in section just in front of the figure 15. The interval between it and the symphysis menti corresponds to the floor of the mouth. 1. Nasal septum. 2. Basi-sphenoid. 3. Basi-occipital. 4. Atlas, anterior arch. 5. Axis. 6. Third cervical vertebra. The figures indicate— 7. Fourth cervical vertebra. 8. Superior maxilla. 9. Mandible. 10. Cisterna basalis. 11. Cisterna pontis. 12. Cisterna magna. 13. Base of tongue. 14. Lateral recess of pharynx. 15. Epiglottis. 16. True vocal cord. 17. Cricoid cartilage.THE EDINBURGH STEREOSCOPIC ATLAS OF ANATOMY. EDINBURGH ; T. C. & E. C. JACK; and 34 HENRIETTA STREET, LONDON, W.C. HEAD AND NECK. NOSE AND PHARYNX—No. 1. — SECTION OE THE NOSE, «OGTH. SLIGHTLY TO THE BIGHT OE THE 1. Nose. The lateral wall of the 7-^^^^^^^^ whieh lies immediately abov<, the »> t SlSiliW— The turbinated and slightly behind the former, and (3) thj>V»»' e . f rf meatuses. Behind the nasal chamber bones are three m number, and arch> over thupper,« b bounded bellind by a proml„e„t h' T "'C^fch '" vS2f S d ctdsTaUed "the salpingo pharyngeal fold. Behind tta agam » a ae^iou^l^hellt^ Less of W^o-^^. the region o£ the isthmus of the 1 2. Mouth. Between the canty of the mouth and the oral pnaryi g ^ ^ Tho fauces, consisting of the antenor and J^^^,y^ tongue, and contains the palato- anterior pillar is a fold which passes from theboft pal ate toi 6 ^ ^ l^etTsSrciess of some importance ea,M ^J^t^Stt^ "The^rS leading into the nasal ehamber are seen in the next view. The figures indicate— 14. Corresponding cervical vertebne. 1 J. 5. Basi-sphenoid • Eustachian orifice. 6. Superior maxilla. Cushion, and salpingopharyngeal fold. 7. Inferior maxilla._ 17' Anterior pillar of fauces. 8. Palate bone, horizontal plate. j'- r supra-tonsillar recess above it. 9. Frontal, below frontal sinus. 18- ^ns^ P ^ 10. Superior turbinated ridge. 19- ™£ glottis. 11. Middle turbinated ridge. 20. gej ^ 12. Inferior turbinated bone. .i. y e T/wmmff wrTHE EDINBURGH STEREOSCOPIC ATLAS OF ANATOMY. EDINBURGH; T. C. & E. 0. JACK; and 34 HENRIETTA STREET, LONDON, W.C. HEAD AND NECK, NOSE AND PHARYNX—No 2. A SECTION SIMILAR TO THE FORMER, AFTER REMOVAL OF THE TURBINATED BONES. Nose. The inferior meatus of the nose lies between the floor and the inferior turbinated bone. It is almost horizontal in direction, and it receives at its anterior and upper part the nasal duct, leading from the lachrymal sac. This meatus is the principal respiratory channel. The middle meatus extends between the middle and the inferior turbinated bones. The upper and anterior part of this meatus is curved upwards, and forms a funnel-shaped channel into which the frontal sinus opens at the upper part. It is termed the infundibulum, and it is limited behind by a deep curved groove called the hiatus semilunaris, into which the anterior ethmoidal cells and the antrum of Highmore open. Above the hiatus is a convex prominent area termed the bulla ethmoidalis, and above this bulla is the opening of the middle ethmoidal air-cells. Below the hiatus semilunaris there is here an additional orifice which is occasionally present, leading to the antrum of Highmore. The superior meatus is a small channel lying above the middle turbinated bone, and into it the posterior ethmoidal and the sphenoidal air-cells open. 1, 2, and 3. Corresponding cervical vertebrae. 4. Basi-sphenoid. 5. Nasal bone. 6. Superior meatus of nose, and attachment of superior turbinated bone. 7. Bulla ethmoidalis. 8. Hiatus semilunaris. The figures indicate— 9. Inferior meatus and nasal duct orifice (pin). 10. Antrum of Highmore, accessory orifice. 11. Eustachian cushion. 12. Fossa of Kosenmiiller. 13. Boot of tongue. II. Salpingopharyngeal fold.THE EDINBURGH STEREOSCOPIC ATLAS OF ANATOMY. EDINBURGH: T. C. & E. C. JACK; and 34 HENRIETTA STREET, LONDON. W.C. HEAD AND NECK. POSTERIOR TRIANGLE —No. 1. A PORTION OF THE CLAVICULAR HEAD OF THE STERNO-MASTOID MUSCLE HAS BEEN TURNED ASIDE TO EXPOSE THE TRIANGLE MORE COMPLETELY. The posterior triangle of the neck is a narrow triangular space bounded in front by the posterior boixler of the sterno-raastoid, and behind by the anterior border of the trapezius muscles while the base is formed by the middle third of the clavicle. The posterior belly of the digastric muscle divides the space into two parts, an upper called the occipital, and a lower called the supraclavicular or subclavian triangle. (See Front of the Neck—No. 2.) In the occipital triangle are found the occipital artery and the great occipital nerve for a short distance at the upper part, while, loAver down, the spinal accessory nerve crosses the space obliquely from in front down- wards and backwards. The splenius capitis, levator anguli scapulae, and scalenus medius and posticus muscles form the floor of this part of the space, and several important structures are related to them. The anterior primary divisions of the cervical nerves emerge in the interval between the scalenus medius and the scalenus anticus muscles, and the nerve to the rhomboid muscles and the upper roots of the nerve of Bell pierce the scalenus medius, and pass backwards, while the roots of the phrenic nerve are seen passing forwards on to the anterior surface of the scalenus anticus. The transversalis colli artery passes backwards across the neck under cover of the omo-hyoid muscle, and divides into its two terminal branches. The figures indicate:— Vessels and nerves. Muscles. 1. Sterno-mastoid. 12. Spinal accessory nerve. 2. Trapezius. 13. Cervical branch to subtrapezial plexus. 3. Splenius capitis. 14. Phrenic nerve. 4. Levator anguli scapula?. 15. Trunks of brachial plexus. 5. Scalenus medius and posticus. 16. Transversalis colli artery. 6. Scalenus anticus. 17. Internal jugular vein. 7. Omo-hyoid. 18. Axillary vessels and nerves. 8. Clavicular head of sterno-mastoid. 19. Posterior auricular vessels and lymphatic gland. 9. Great occipital nerve and occi- 20. Parotid gland.THE EDINBURGH STEREOSCOPIC ATLAS OF ANATOMY. HEAD AND NECK. FRONT OF NECK—No. 1. THE ANTERIOR TRIANGLE HAS BEEN EXPOSED BY REMOVAL OF THE SUPERFICIAL STRUCTURES. The anterior triangle on each side is bounded in front by the middle line of the neck, behind by the anterior margin of the sterno-mastoid muscle, and above by the lower margin of the jaw, its line continued back from it to the front of the mastoid process. The triangle is conveniently subdivided into three parts by the anterior belly of the omo-hyoid, by the anterior belly of the digastric, and by the stylo-hyoid muscle and posterior belly of the digastric. The lower or muscular triangle is bounded externally by the anterior belly of the omo-hyoid above and by the sterno-mastoid below, while the base is formed by the middle line of the neck. The carotid triangle is bounded behind by the sterno-mastoid, below by the omo hyoid and above by the posterior belly of the digastric and stylo-hyoid muscles. The submaxillary or digastric triangle is bounded above by the jaw and below by the posterior belly of the digastric and stylo-hyoid muscles externally, and by the anterior belly of the digastric internally. The hyoid bone subdivides the anterior triangle into an upper part, which forms the floor of the mouth, and a lower part which belongs to the neck proper. The anterior jugular vein is formed by the union of several tributaries in the submaxillary region, and it may be a single trunk or double. It passes downwards close to the middle line and terminates by passing outwards, usually under cover of the sterno-mastoid, to join the external jugular vein near its termination. The deeper structures are almost entirely concealed from view. In the muscular triangle the depressor muscles of the hyoid bone are seen; in the submaxillary, the submaxillary gland, while a small portion of the vessels is seen deeply in the carotid triangle (see later). 1. Symphysis menti. 2. Hyoid bone. 3. Pomum Adami. 4. Inner end of clavicle. 5. Anterior belly of digastric. 6. Mylo-hyoid. The figures indicate:— 7. Sterno-hyoid. 8. Omo-hyoid. 9. Sterno-thyroid. 10. Sterno-mastoid. 11. Anterior jugular vein. 12. Additional anterior jugular vein. 13. External jugular vein. 14. Submaxillary gland. 15. Parotid. 16. Submaxillary lymphatic gland. 17. Facial vessels. 18. Axillary artery. EDINBURGH: T. C. & E. C. JACK: and 34 HENRIETTA STREET, LONDON, W.C. O 5 Z O » £ 22 1 O 5THE EDINBURGH STEREOSCOPIC ATLAS OF ANATOMY. ENRIETTA STREET, LONDON, W.C. EDINBURGH T. C. k E. C. JACK; HEAD AND NECK. FRONT OF NECK—No. 2. THE INNER PART OF THE RIGHT CLAVICLE HAS BEEN REMOVED AND ALSO THE LOWER PART OF THE RIGHT STERNO-MASTOID MUSCLE, IN ORDER TO EXPOSE THE DEPRESSOR MUSCLES OF THE HYOID BONE, THE GREAT VESSELS AND THE LOWER PART OF THE POSTERIOR TRIANGLE. Muscles.—The depressor muscles of the hyoid are the sterno-hyoid, the omo-hyoid, and the sterno-thyroid and thyro-hyoid acting together. It should be noticed that the.sterno-hyoid lies in front of the greater part of the sterno-thyroid. The omo-hyoid is a valuable landmark both in the anterior and in the posterior triangles of the neck. The anterior belly crosses the structures which lie in the carotid sheath, while the posterior belly divides the posterior triangle into an upper and a lower portion, the latter being the subclavian triangle, in which the subclavian vessels and the upper part of the brachial plexus are situated. Vessels.—The internal jugular and the subclavian veins are shown. The former vessel overlaps the common carotid artery in the lower part of its course and is covered by the sterno-mastoid muscle. A number of enlarged lymphatic glands are seen lying along the superficial and outer wad of this vessel in its upper part. The subclavian vein arches over the first rib, lying in front of the corresponding artery, from which it is separated by the scalenus anticus muscle, and also lies at a lower level. It receives the suprascapular and transversalis colli veins, and the anterior and the external jugular veins. Just before its termination it was crossed by a large lympatic vessel, which has been preserved. The relations of the subclavian artery, vein, and the brachial plexus nerve-trunks to one another should be noticed. Bone: Muscle 1. Hyoid. 2. 8ternuin. 3. First rib. 4. Sterno-hyoid. 5. Sterno-thyroid. 6. Omo-hyoid, anterior belly. 7. Digastric, anterior belly. S. Sterno-mastoid. The figures indicate— 9. Sterno-mastoid, sternal head. 10. Scalenus anticus. 11. Omo-hyoid, posterior belly. Other 12. Subclavian vein. Structures. 13. Jugular lymphatics. 1-1. Internal jugular vein. 15. Scalenus medius and posticus. 16. Brachial nerves. 17. Nerve of Bell. IS. Suprascapular nerve. 19. Submaxillary gland. 20. Pyramidal lobe of thyroid gland. 21. Phrenic nerve. 22. Ramus descendens cervicalis (to ansa hypoglossi).EDINBURGH STEREOSCOPIC ATLAS OF ANATOMY. EDINBURGH: T. C. & E. C. JACK ; axo 3-1 HENRIETTA STREET, LONDON, W,C, HEAD AND NECK. FRONT OF NECK—No. 3. IN ADDITION TO THE PREVIOUS DISSECTION, THE GREAT VEINS AND THE DEPRESSOR MUSCLES OF THE HYOID OF THE RIGHT SIDE HAVE BEEN REMOVED, IN ORDER TO EXPOSE THE SUBCLAVIAN ARTERY, ETC. The riaht subclavian artery Logins behind the right sterno-clavicular articulation, and it arches upwards and outwards to the outer margin of the first rib, where it becomes the axillary artery. ? The scalenus anticus muscle crosses in front of the artery and divides Us course into three parts, the first lies internal to that muscle, the second lies behind it, and the third lies to its outer side. Below the artery, and somewhat behind it, lie the cervical pleura, with the strong layer ot fascia covcrino- it and the first rib. The first part of the artery is crossed by the vagus and phrenic nerves, and by I loop of the sympathetic cord of the right side; the second part of the artery is crossed by the Lalenus anticus; while the third part is crossed by some veins and by the nerve to the subclavius muscle. The figures indicate— 10 Sterno-mastoid. Sterno-hyoid. Pyramidal lobe of thyroid gland. Sterno-thyroid. Omo-hyoid. Thyro-hyoid. Scalenus anticus. 8. Sibson's fascia. 9. Phrenic nerve. Subclavian artery, 1st part. 11. Right innominate vein (commencement of). 12. Right common carotid artery. 13. Vagus nerve. Annulus of Vieussens. Lateral lobe of thyroid. Inferior thyroid veins. Superior thyroid artery and vein. Common fascial vein. Brachial nerve trunks. 14. 15. 16. 17. 18. L'J.THE EDINBURGH STEREOSCOPIC ATLAS OF ANATOMY. EDINBURGH; T. C. & E. C. JACK; and 3-t HENRIETTA STREET, LONDON, W.C. HEAD AND NECK. fRONT OF NECK—No. 4. THIS VIEW SHOWS A DEEP DISSECTION OF THE ROOT OF THE NECK, THE UPPER PART OF THE STERNUM AND THE INNER ENDS OF THE FIRST COSTAL ARCHES HAVING BEEN REMOVED ON BOTH SIDES. As the trachea descends it recedes from the surface and is crossed by the left innominate vein, while lower down the innominate artery also lies in front of it. The common carotid arteries lie on either side, and further back also the recurrent laryngeal nerves, of which the left one is seen. The course of the phrenic nerves is seen as they pass forwards, and the nerve of the left side is seen to be crossed by the internal mammary artery, although it is more usual for the nerve to cross in front of the artery. The thyroid gland in this specimen has a large pyramidal lobe which passes upwards from the right lobe as far as to the hyoid bore. The distance to which the pleural membranes pass into the neck is seen. On both sides the membrane extends for a distance of about an inch above the anterior end of the first rib, behind the scalenus anticus muscle. The figures indicate- 1. Trachea. 2. Clavicle (divided). 3. First rib (divided). 4. Sterno-mastoid muscle. 5. Pyramidal lobe of thyroid gland. 6. Thyro-hyoid muscle. 7. Sterno-thyroid muscle. 8. Sterno-mastoid muscle. 9. Omo-hyoid muscle. 10. Scalenus anticus muscle. 11. Scalenus medius (margin of). 12. Left innominate vein. 13. Eight innominate vein. 14. Innominate artery. 15. Common carotid arteries. 16. Subclavian arteries. 17. Internal mammary artery. 18. Left recurrent laryngeal nerve. 19. Vagus nerves. 20. Brachial plexus. 21. Pleural membrane. 22. Isthmus of thyroid.THE EDINBURGH STEREOSCOPIC ATLAS OF ANATOMV. HEAD AND NECK. PHARYNX—No. 1. STRUCTURES, VIEWED FROM BEHIND. POSTERIOR WALL OF THE PHARYNX AND ADJACENT The muscular wall of the pharynx is composed of three constrictor muscles with the stylo-pharyngeus and lato-pharyngeus muscles on each side. Tl three constrictor muscles overlap one another from below which extends from the basilar process of the occipital bone deficient, and in which the subjacent pharyngeal aponeurosis, or membranous wall of the pharynx, is speualh strengthened Lateral relations. skull close to the upper part of the pharyngeal wall should be carefully studied. ^^^?^p« from the skull through the middle part of the jugularforamen The t«nth eleventh and twelfth cranial nerves are seen emerging, lying close to one another, at the base of Jskuli The3lS* in front of them, and is not seen for that reason. The superior cervical gangbon °f 1 ^CCtnS \n"Honr £ the trunk, appears upon the.vagus, and is cl osely^l^Z hypotlossaf nefvet and from this ganglion the superior laryngeal nerve is seen passing downwards behind the illt6f lidbtSthat the large vessels and the nerves lie -^ -n^h^st^r to^ryngeal The relations and course of the different large cranial nerves which escape from the tudiecl. pfanTwhicl^ external to the plane of the tonsil. 1. Sinus of Morgagni. 2. Superior constrictor. 3. Middle constrictor. 4. Inferior constrictor. 5. Upper end of oesophagus. 6. Greater cornu of hyoid. EDINBURGH The figures indicate— 7. Sterno-mastoid muscle. 8. Posterior belly of digastric. 9. Internal carotid artery. 10. Superior ganglion of the sympathetic. 11. Vagus nerve. C. & E. C. JACK; asp 34 HENRIETTA STREET, LONDON, W.C (Pin.) 12. Superior laryngeal nerve 13. Spinal accessory nerve. 14. Hypoglossal nerve. 15. Spinal accessory nerve crossing behind the internal jugular vein. 16. Pharyngeal plexus.THE EDINBURGH STEREOSCOPIC ATLAS OF ANATOMY. 34 HENRIETTA STREET, LONDON, W.C, EDINBURGH i T. C. & E. C. JACK; an: HEAD AND NECK. PHARYNX—No. 2. THE CAVITY OF THE PHARYNX HAS BEEN EXPOSED BY THE REMOVAL OF THE POSTERIOR WALL. ON THE RIGHT SIDE THE LATERAL RELATIONS ARE EXPOSED. The cavity of the pharynx extends from the base of the skull down to the level of the sixth cervical vertebra. It is situated behind the nose, mouth, and larynx, and is correspondingly divided into three parts called the naso-pharynx, the oral pharynx, and the laryngeal pharynx, respectively. The naso- pharynx communicates with the nasal cavity by the posterior nares, and the Eustachian tubes also open into it (see later). The oral pharynx communicates with the cavity of the mouth by an aperture which is bounded above by the soft palate, below by the dorsum of the tongue, and laterally by the anterior pillars of the fauces, which in this specimen are concealed from view by the prominent tonsil on either side. The laryngeal pharynx lies at a still lower level than the former, and in its anterior wall is the opening of the larynx, bounded by the epiglottic cartilage in front, by the aryteno-epiglottic folds laterally, and by the arytenoid cartilages and the inter-arytenoid fold at the back. On each side of the laryngeal opening is the pyriform sinus, a recess which passes outwards and forwards in the interval between the aryteno-epiglottic fold and the ala of the thyroid cartilage, and in which foreign bodies are very liable to be lodged. The lateral relations of the pharynx are more clearly seen in the next view. The figun 1. Basis cranii. 2. Soft palate. 3. Eustachian cushion. 4. Dorsum of tongue. 5. Epiglottis. 6. Inter-arytenoid fold. 7. Internal jugular vein. indicate— 8. Spinal accessory nerve. 9. Vagus nerve. 10. Sympathetic. 11. Nasal septum. 12. Palato-pharyngeus muscle. 13. Pyriform sinus.THE EDINBURGH STEREOSCOPIC ATLAS OF ANATOMY. HEAD AND NECK- PHARYNX—No. 3. LATERAL RELATIONS OF THE RIGHT SIDE OF THE PHARYNX VIEWED FROM BEHIND. In relation to the side wall of the pharynx are found muscles, nerves, and blood-vessels as follows :— Muscles. The levator palati arises from the under aspect of the apex of the petrous temporal bone and from the cartilage of the Eustachian tube, and it passes downwards and inwards, crosses the upper order of the superior constrictor muscle, pierces the pharyngeal aponeurosis and enters the soft palate, in which most of its fibres become continuous with the muscle of'the opposite side. The tensor palati lies in front of this muscle. The palato-pharyngeus arises mainly from the soft palate and passes downwards and backwards in the posterior pillars of the fauces, to be inserted into the upper and posterior borders of the thyroid cartilage. The stylo-pharyngeus arises from the inner side of the styloid process close to its root. It passes down- wards and enters the wall of the pharynx between the superior and middle constrictor muscles. The fibres spread out and are inserted mainly into the upper and posterior borders of the thyroid cartilage. The glossopharyngeal nerve has an intimate relation to this muscle and winds round its lower border to gain the side wall of the pharynx. Vessels. The relatiqns of the side wall of the pharynx are of special importance in connection with operations on the tonsil. The internal carotid artery has been removed. It lay at some distance from the side wall, and is only in dangerous proximity when it is tortuous. The ascending pharyngeal artery has been cut short, and is not in so immediate relation as some other vessels, and especially the ascending palatine branch of the facial artery, which is seen ascending in contact with the superior constrictor muscle. It passes between the stylo-pharyngeus and the stylo-glossus muscles and then it turns inwards to the soft palate. The other vessel is the facial artery itself, especially when it is at all tortuous. As is well shown, this vessel at its origin is in very close relation to the lower part of the tonsil, and may be wounded in the removal of that structure. 1. Nasal septum. 2. Eustachian cushion. 3. Levator palati muscle. 4. Azygos uvula? muscle. 5. Palato-pharyngeus muscle. 6. Middle constrictor muscle. 7. Stylo-pharvngeus muscle. 8. Stylo-hyoid muscle. The figures indicate:— 9. Tensor palati muscle. 10. Inferior maxillary nerve. 11. Sterno-mastoid muscle. 12. Internal jugular vein. 13. External carotid, with origin of occipital artery from the outer and lingual aud facial arteries from the inner side. 14. Facial nerve (pin). 15. Inferior palatine artery. 16. Digastric muscle, and hypoglossal nerve (divided). 17. External pterygoid muscle. 18. Stylo-mastoid artery. 19. Ascending pharyngeal artery. 20. Tonsil. EDINBURGH: T. C. & E. C. JACK; and 34 HENRIETTA STREET, LONDON, W.C, Z o z S > S 5 i X i Q. mTHE EDINBURGH STEREOSCOPIC ATLAS OF ANATOMY. EDINBURGH: T. C. & E. C. JACK; and 34 HENRIETTA STREET, LONDON, W.C, HEAD AND NECK. SUBMAXILLARY REGION. A PORTION OF THE HORIZONTAL RAMUS OF THE LOWER JAW HAS BEEN REMOVED IN ORDER TO The parotid gland (see also Parotid Region—Nos. 1 and 2) presents an external convex surface, triangular in outline, and it extends from the zygoma above almost to the angle of the jaw below, where it abuts against the posterior part of the submaxillary gland. It extends forwards for some distance upon the masseter muscle, and from the upper part of the anterior border the duct— Stenson's duct—arises. The duct bends round the anterior border of the masseter, and ends by piercing the buccinator muscle and the mucous membrane of the cheek at the level of the second molar tooth of the upper jaw. The greater part of the submaxillary gland has been removed, leaving only the posterior part of the superficial portion of the gland, which is traversed by the facial artery, while the facial vein runs across its surface. With the true salivary gland tissue masses of lymphatic tissue are always found, lying cither around the salivary gland or embedded in its substance. The removal of the portion of the jaw Las exposed the mucous membrane of the floor of the mouth, where it joins the gum, and the sublingual salivary gland, lying immediately under the mucous membrane. The upper border of the gland is covered by a fold of mucous membrane, called the plica sublingualis, and the gland is in contact externally with the inner aspect of the jaw, and is supported below by the mylohyoid muscle. EXPOSE THE DEEP LYING STRUCTURES OF THIS REGION. The figures indicate— 1. Superficial temporal artery. 8. Lingual nerve. 13. Anterior belly of digastric 2. Temporal branches of facial nerve. 9. Under surface of tongue. muscle. 3. Parotid gland. 10. Mucous membrane of floor of 14. Mylohyoid muscle. 4. Duct of parotid. mouth, divided. 15. Submaxillary gland. 5. Zygomaticus major muscle. 11. Genio-hyoid muscle. 16. Facial vessels 6. Masseter muscle. 12. Sublingual gland. 17. Buccinator muscle, divided. 7. Orbicularis oris muscle, divided.THE EDINBURGH STEREOSCOPIC ATLAS OF ANATOMY. EDINBURGH : T. 0. & E. C. JACK; and 34 HENRIETTA STREET, LONDON, W.C. HEAD AND NECK. SIDE OF NECK—No. 1. THE SUPERFICIAL LAYERS OF TISSUE HAVE BEEN REMOVED, AND THE CUTANEOUS NERVES AND VESSELS DISSECTED OUT, AND LEFT IN POSITION. The superficial nerves of the side of the neck are the following :— 1. The inframandibular or cervical branch of the facial nerve appears below the horizontal ramus of the jaw, and is distributed to the platysma myoides muscle. This nerve, which is entirely motor, forms an anastomosis with the superficial cervical nerve from the cervical plexus. 2. Behind the posterior border of the sterno-mastoid muscle, about the middle, several nerves from the cervical plexus are found. The small occipital and the great auricular nerves pass upwards, the former along the posterior border of the muscle, the latter crossing the muscle obliquely. The superficial cervical nerve appears slightly below them, and is a branch of some size, which passes horizontally forwards across the sterno-mastoid muscle and sends branches upwards and downwards. Below this again, several branches from C. 3 and 4 pass downwards, are continued on over the sternum, clavicle and acromion process.' These are called the supra-sternal, supra-clavicular and supra-acromial branches respectively. The lower part of the external jugular vein is seen here, in the roof of the posterior triangle of the neck. The upper portion of that vessel is somewhat irregular in this specimen, and lies under the sterno-mastoid muscle instead of superficial to it. There is a large anterior jugular vein. The figures indicate— Muscles. Veins Nerves. 1. Sterno-mastoid. 2. Omo-hyoid. 3. Digastric. 4. Mylo-hyoid. 5. Anterior jugular. 6. Common facial (behind the nerve). 7. External jugular. S. Cervical branch of facial nerve. 9. Small occipital—an anterior branch. 10. Great auricular. 11. Superficial cervical. 12. Descending cutaneous nerves. Other 13. Parotid gland. Structures. 14. Submaxillary gland. 10. Lymphatic gland below the parotid. 16. Spinal accessory nerve.THE EDINBURGH STEREOSCOPIC ATLAS OF ANATOMY. EDINBURGH: T C & E. C. JACK; and 34 HENRIETTA STREET, LONDON, W.C. HEAD AND NECK. LARYNX—No. 1. LARYNX AND THYROID GLAND, VIEWED FROM THE FRONT. The thyroid gland consists of two lateral lobes which are usually connected together in front by a central portion or isthmus. Each lateral lobe lies on the side of the trachea, oesophagus, larynx, and pharynx, and is in contact, on its inner aspect, with the recurrent laryngeal nerve, and, behind, with the common carotid artery, the internal jugular vein and the inferior thyroid artery, while it is covered in front by the sterno- mastoid and the depressor muscles of the hyoid bone. The isthmus is variable in size, and lies in front of the 2nd, 3rd, and 4th rings of the trachea, and from the isthmus occasionally arises a process called the pyramidal process, which passes upwards in front of the thyroid cartilage towards the middle of the body of the hyoid bone. The cyst seen here in the upper part of the pyramidal lobe may be either an enlarged subhyoid bursa, or may have arisen from a part of the primitive thyroglossal duct. The parathyroid glands are two small structures which are related to the lateral lobes. On each side, one is placed on the lower border of the lateral lobe, while the other lies further back, in relation to the oeso- phagus, but their positions are very variable. The thyrohyoid membrane is a thin sheet of connective tissue which is attached below to the upper border of the thyroid cartilage, and, above, to the posterior border of the body and greater cornua of the hyoid. It is strengthened in the central part and at the side, forming the central and the lateral thyrohyoid ligaments in these regions. The cricothyroid muscles are two small quadrilateral muscles, which arise from the outer surface of the anterior ring of the cricoid cartilage, and are inserted into the lower margin and inner surface of the thyroid cartilage. They render tense the vocal cords, and are supplied by the external laryngeal nerves. The oesophagus lies behind the upper part of the trachea, and at first is slightly on the left side, The figures indicate— 1. Body of the hyoid bone. 7. Isthmus of the thyroid. 2. Ala of the thyroid cartilage. 8. One of the two left parathyroid glands. 3. Anterior arch of the cricoid cartilage. 9. Thyrohyoid membrane. 4. Trachea. 10. Cyst in the upper part of the pyramidal lobe. 5. Pyramidal lobe of the thyroid gland. 11. (Esophagus. 6. Lateral lobe of the thyroid gland.THE EDINBURGH STEREOSCOPIC ATLAS OF ANATOMY. HEAD AND NECK. LARYNX—No. 2. TWO SPECIMENS, A BEING THE LARYNX VIEWED FROM BEHIND, AND B THE SAME FROM THE SIDE AFTER REMOVAL OF THE ALA OF THE THYROID CARTILAGE. The posterior crico-arytenoid muscles are two small muscles which arise from the posterior surface of the lamina of the cricoid cartilage on either side, and are inserted into the posterior surface and apex of the muscular processes of the arytenoid cartilages. When they contract, they cause the vocal processes of the arytenoid cartilages to move outwards and somewhat upwards, and thus stretch and separate from one another the true vocal cords. The arytenoideus muscle consists of two portions, a superficial oblicpie and a deeper transverse. The former springs from the posterior aspect of the base of the muscular process of the arytenoid on each side and, passing upwards and inwards, crosses the middle line. Some of the fibres are inserted into the apex of the arytenoid cartilage, while other of the fibres pass onwards and gain insertion into the margin of the epiglottis, passing in the aryteno-epiglottic fold. The transverse fibres are attached on each side to the muscular process and inner margin of the arytenoid cartilage. The oblique fibres narrow the entrance of the larynx, while the horizontal ones help to regulate the width of the interval between the true vocal cords. The suspensory ligament of the thyroid gland is a tough bundle of fibrous tissue which attaches the back of the inner surface of the lateral lobe of the thyroid gland on each side to the lower margin of the cricoid cartilage. The aryteno-epiglottic folds are folds of mucous membrane, which pass from the margin of the epiglottis to the front of the arytenoid cartilage, and form the lateral boundary of the superior aperture of the larynx. Ex- ternal to each of these folds, and limited on the outer side by the ala of the thyroid cartilage, is the pyriform sinus. On the side of the larynx lie the lateral crico-arytenoid muscle and, above and in front of it, the thyro- arytenoideus externus muscle. The former arises from the side of the arch of the cricoid cartilage, and is inserted into the anterior surface of the muscular process of the arytenoid cartilage. It assists in bringing the vocal eord to the mesial plane. The thyro-arytenoideus externus muscle arises from the back of the thyroid cartilage, and is inserted into the front of the arytenoid. Some of the fibres curve upwards to reach the side of the epiglottis, but those have been divided here in order to show the upper part of the saccule of the larynx, a pouch of mucous membrane which passes upwards from the ventricle of the larynx (see No. 3.). 8. Pyriforr In A— 1. Epiglottis, upper margin. 2. Thyroid cartilage, ascending eornu. 3. Lamina of the cricoid cartilage. 4. Arytenoideus muscle. 5. Suspensory ligament of the thyroid 6. Lateral lobe of the thyroid gland. 7. Aryteno-epiglottic fold. EDINBURGHiT sinus. 9. G'rico-arytenoidpus posticus muscle. c. & In B— 1. Epiglottis. 2. Thyroid cartilage divided, 3. Side of the cricoid cartilage. 4. Mucousmembraneliningthepyviformsinus E. C. JACK; amd U HENRIETTA STREET, LONDON 5. Saccule of the larynx. 6. Thyro-arytenoideus externus muscle. 7. Crico-arytenoideus lateralis muscle. 8. Crico-arytenoideus posticus muscle, mar- gin of. 9. Stylopharyngeus muscle, divided. 10. Hyoid bone. 11. Tliyroliyoid membrane. W.C. Z : > iTHE EDINBURGH STEREOSCOPIC ATLAS OF ANATOMY. EDINBURGH: T. C. & E, C. JACK; and 34 HENRIETTA STREET, LONDONJSLCL HEAD AND NECK. LARYNX—No. 3. TWO SPECIMENS, VIEWED FROM BEHIND. IN A, THE INTER ARYTENOID FOLD AND ADJACENT PARTS OF THE ARYTENOID CARTILAGES HAVE BEEN REMOVED. B IS THE ANTERIOR HALF OF A CORONAL SECTION THROUGH THE LARYNX AND ADJACENT PARTS. Tlie cavity of the larynx is divided into three portions, of which the upper extends from the superior aperture down to the level of the false vocal cords, and is called the vestibule. Its wall is formed by the mucous membrane covering the back of the epiglottis and the thyro-epiglottic ligament in front, the inner aspect of the aryteno-epiglottic fold at the side, and the arytenoid cartilages and the interarytenoid fold at the-back. The false vocal cords are two prominent rounded folds which extend along the side wall above the level of the true vocal cords. The free border which projects inwards is thick and rounded, and is of a pink colour during life. The interval between the false cords is called the false glottis. Below the false cords on each side is a recess called the ventricle of the larnyx. This recess passes upwards and outwards under the false cord, and is continued upwards into the saccule (see No. 2). The true vocal cords arc two folds which project into the cavity on each side. They arc attached in front to the back of the thyroid cartilage in the angle between the ala?, while, behind, they are attached t'> the anterior or vocal processes of the arytenoid cartilages. The edges of these cords arc thin and sharp, and the cords are of a pearly white colour. The interval between them is called the glottis or rima glottidis. Below the level of the true vocal cords is the lowest portion of the cavity of the larnyx, which gradually widens out and communicates with the cavity of the trachea. The figures indicate- In A— In B— 1. Epiglottis. 1. Epiglottis. 2. Thyroid cartilage. 2. Thyroid cartilage. 3. Cricoid cartilage. 3. Cricoid cartilage, ■i. Crico-arytenokleus posticus muscle. 4. False vocal cord. 5. Arytenoideus muscle, divided. 5. True vocal cord. 6. Lateral lobe of tlie thyroid gland. 6. Thyroid gland, lateral lobe. 7. 03s phagus. 7. Ventricle of the larynx. 8. Inferior constrictor muscle of the pharynx, divided. 8. Great cornu of tlie hyoid bone. 9. Hyoid bone.THE EDINBURGH STEREOSCOPIC ATLAS OF ANATOMY. JACK; and 3i HENRIETTA STREET, LONDON, W.C. EDINBURGH: T. C. & E. C. HEAD AND NECK. PTEEYGO-MAXILLARY REGION—No. 1. THE ZYGOMATIC ARCH HAS BEEN REMOVED, WITH THE MASSETER MUSCLE, AND ALSO THE CORONOID PROCESS OF THE LOWER JAW AND THE LOWER PART OP THE TEMPORAL MUSCLE. THE UPPER HALF OF THE ASCENDING RAMUS OF THE JAW HAS ALSO BEEN REMOVED, AND THE EXTERNAL PTERYGOID MUSCLE AND THE PARTS ADJACENT TO IT ARE EXPOSED. The external pterygoid muscle arises by two heads, from the zygomatic surface of the great wing of the sphenoid, and from the outer surface of the external pterygoid plate respectively. The muscle passes nearly horizontally backwards to be inserted into the neck of the mandible and the front of the meniscus of the temporo-mandibular articulation. The lingual and the inferior dental nerves appear at the lower border, the long buccal nerve comes out between the two heads of origin, and the temporal and masseteric nerves emerge above the upper border, while the auriculo-temporal nerve winds round behind the condylar process. The muscle is therefore a very useful landmark for all these branches of the inferior maxillary division of the trigeminal nerve. The internal maxillary artery, which is the larger of the two terminal branches of the external carotid, passes forwards between the neck of the mandible and the internal lateral ligament, and then passes either on the superficial or, as here, upon the deep surface of the external pterygoid muscle. The posterior dental artery, seen in the anterior part of the space, is a branch which arises from the third part of the internal maxillary artery in the spheno-maxillary fossa. It runs upon the posterior aspect of the maxilla, supplying branches to the upper molar and bicuspid teeth. Muscles :— 1. Temporal. 2. Sterno-mastoid. 3. Posterior belly of the digastric. 4. External pterygoid. 5. Internal pterygoid. 6. Buccinator. Other structures : — 7. Condylar process of the mandible. 8. Facial nerve. The figures indicate— 9. Deep temporal nerves. 10. Long buccal nerve. 11. Posterior superior dental artery. 12. Auriculo-temporal nerve and superficial temporal artery. 13. Lingual nerve, and the inferior dental nerve behind it. li. Duct of the parotid gland. 15. Facial artery and vein.THE EDINBURGH STEREOSCOPIC ATLAS OF ANATOMY. EDINBURGH: T. C. & E. C. JACK; and 34 HENRIETTA STREET, LONDON, W.C. HEAD AND NECK. PTERYGO-MAXILLARY REGION.—No. 2. THE REMAINING PORTION OF THE LOWER JAW SHOWN IN THE FORMER VIEW HAS BEEN REMOVED, AND THE INTERNAL PTERYGOID MUSCLE HAS BEEN CUT SHORT. Under the mucous membrane of the floor of the mouth lie the following structures :— The sublingual gland, with the lingual nerve and the terminal part of Wharton's duct upon its deep aspect. The lingual nerve runs for some distance subjacent to the mucous membrane, and gives oft' branches to the submaxillary ganglion, which is seen to lie between the lingual nerve and the deep portion of the sub- maxillary gland. '1 hence the nerve passes onwards to the anterior two-thirds of the tongue. At a lower level lie the genioglossus muscle and the hypoglossal nerve, which is accompanied by the ranine vein. These structures in turn are supported by the mylohyoid muscle and the anterior belly of the digastric muscle. Further back, the styloglossus muscle is seen descending to the side of the tongue, and the external carotid and the facial arteries are seen to pass between this muscle on the one side, and the stylohyoid and posterior belly of the digastric on the other. The figures indicate— Muscles. 13. Internal maxillary artery. 1. External pterygoid. 14. External carotid and superior thyroid arteries. 2. Internal pterygoid. 15. Facial artery and ascending palatine branch. 3. Buccinator, with the long buccal nerve and Stenson's 16. Hypoglossal nerve. duct. 17. Mucous mcmbiane and sublingual gland. 4. Posterior belly of the digastric. 18. Wharton's duct. 5. Stylohyoid. 19. Inferior dental nerve, divided, and its mylohyoid 6. Anterior belly of the digastric. branch. 7. Mylohyoid. 20. Nerve to thyrohyoid muscle from hypoglossal. 8. Geniohyoid. 21. Long buccal nerve. 9. Sternomastoid. 22. Facial nerve. 10. Styloglossus. 23. Spinal accessory nerve and sternomastoid artery. Other structures. 24. Lingual nerve above the submaxillary ganglion. 11. External carotid artery. 25. Hyoglossus muscle, crossed by Wharton's duct. 12. Auriculo-temporal nerve and superficial temporal artery.THE EDINBURGH STEREOSCOPIC ATLAS OF ANATOMY. EDINBURGH: T. C. & E. C. JACK; and U HENRIETTA STREET, LONDON, W. C. CRAMIO-CEREBRAL TOPOGRAPHY—No. 1. In localising different parts of the brain to the surface of the head certain definite bony points which can be recognised upon the surface constitute the primary landmarks, but as these points are few in number, they require to be supplemented by some arbitrary lines drawn between them, so as to fix certain points onjjthe surface of the cranial vault. The bony points which can be used are the following — 1. The glabella, a point midway between the superciliary ridges. 2. The external occipital protuberance, or Inion. 3. The external angular process of the frontal bone, which forms a protection at the outer and upper corner of the orbit. 4. The root of the zygoma. A point immediately above and in front of the external auditory meatus constitutes the pre-auricular point. 5. The lambda, the point of junction of the lambdoidal and sagittal sutures. It can usually be felt from the surface, and lies about 2| inches above the external occipital protuberance. 6. The region of the parietal eminence is often distinct upon the surface. The accessory guiding lines have been variously worked out, but the lines drawn here are in accordance with the method introduced by Professor Chiene and employed by Stiles in Cunningham's Textbook of Anatomy. They are determined as follows :— The head being shaved, find in the mesial line of the skull between the glabella and the external occipital protuberance, the midpoint M, the three-quarter point T, and the seven-eighths point S. Find also the external angular process E, and the pre-auricular point P, and join EP, PS, and ET. Bisect EP and PS at N and R Join MN and MR. Bisect also AB at C, and draw CD parallel to AM. The letters indicate— CI. Glabella. M. Midpoint between G and 0. D. Upper end of a line parallel to AM. T. Three-quarter point between G and 0. S. Seven-eighths point between G and 0. O. External occipital protuberance. E. External angular process. P. Root of zygoma. N. Midpoint between E and P. R. Midpoint between P and O. A. Intersection of MN and ET. C. Midpoint between A and B. B. Intersection of ME and ET.THE EDINBURGH STEREOSCOPIC ATLAS OF ANATOMY, EDINBURGH : T. C. & E. C. JACK ; and 34 HENRIETTA STREET, LONDON, W.C. CRANIO-CEREBRAL TOPOGRAPHY—No. 2. THE SCALP HAS BEEN REMOVED FROM THE SURFACE OF THE CRANIUM OVER THE AREA PREVIOUSLY MARKED OUT AND THE SUTURES ARE SHOWN. These sutures are, mostly, of limited value as landmarks for parts of the brain, but their posi- tion must be borne in mind in order that the line of a suture may not be mistaken for a fissured fracture of the skull in cases of injury to the head. The principal sutures are :— 1. The coronal, between the frontal and parietal bones, which passes transversely across the head, but is in front of the midpoint M. 2. The lambdoidal suture, between the occipital and parietal bones. 3. The spheno-parietal suture, between the anterior inferior angle of the parietal and the great wing of the sphenoid. It is known as the pterion, and it overlies the point of division of the Sylvian fissure into its three limbs, and the bifurcation of the middle meningeal artery, or its anterior dorsum. 4. The squamous suture, between the parietal bone and the squamous part of the temporal, beginning at the pterion and arching back to the asterion, or junction of the parietal, temporal, and occipital bones. The highest part of this suture reaches up to the lower end of the fissure of Rolando. The letters and figures indicate— H. Midpoint between G- and 0. 1. Coronal suture. 2. Pterion. 3. Squamous suture. 4. Asterion. 5. Parietal eminence. G. Glabella. T. Three-quarters point between G and O. S. Seven-eighths point between G and 0. O. External occipital protuberance. R. Midpoint between O and P. P. Root of zygoma. E. External angular process.THE EDINBURGH STEREOSCOPIC ATLAS OF ANATOMY. EDINBURGH: T. 0. * E. C. JACK; amp 3-t HENRIETTA STREET, LONDON, AY,:. CRANIOCEREBRAL TOPOGRAPHY.-No. 3. THE ******* HA8 BEEN REMOVED AND THE OUTER SURFACE OE THE DURA MATER EXPOSED. The outer surface of the dura mater is rough and is adherent to the bone, especially along the "^ItenfngeilTr'teSs ramify between the membrane and the bone, and supply both of thorn with blood. . , . , -ddie merinffeal, a branch, of the internal maxil- The Largest of the -emnga vessels ti e m ddle menmgea ^ o{ he , y lary artery, which enters the skull tnrou^n uu« u t snhenoid. As a rule, while still ancl extends outwards ^.WW™^^^ linWehes. The anterior divi- in contact with the base of the skull, thearteryaivraes u parietal bone near the sion, which is the ^'JC^of £ ™ do p and is occasionally converted into a SaS'^tnr-nlnetety orK,^ ter\f'bene. ^division of the artery then passes upwards andThe7ostior division of the vessel passes backwards under cover of the squamous portion of 1116 Sl^aTsinns may be divided ^^^^K^^^ Si^ME* SSST^^i«« • ct!,e with the convexity ^^Te'ond'paTt of the vessel occupies a deep groove on the mastoid portion of the temporal bone and on the jugular process of the occipital bone. The figures indicate:— it,, i THickenine of dura mater along coronal suture. 1. Anterior division of middle meningeal artery. 4. I » ^ S ^ lambdoidal 2. Posterior division of middle meningeal artery. 5. 1 "icRemng 3 Lateral sinus.THE EDINBURGH STEREOSCOPIC ATLAS OF ANATOMY. EDINBURGH: T C. & E. C. JACK; and 34 HENRIETTA STREET, LONDON, W.C. CRANIO CEREBRAL TOPOGRAPHY—No. 4. A COMBINED VIEW HAS BEEN TAKEN TO SHOW THE RELATION OF THE SURFACE MARKINGS, THE SUTURES, AND THE BLOOD VESSELS OF THE MENINGES TO ONE ANOTHER. 1. Sutures. The point A on the surface overlies the pterion, or, as in the child, may lie rather above it, and the same point overlies the anterior division of the middle meningeal artery. The line MN lies entirely behind the coronal suture but is nearly parallel to it. The posterior division of the middle meningeal artery crosses the squamous suture at a uoint above the external auditory meatus. The point T overlies the lambda, and the line TR corresponds witn considerable accuracy to the lambdoidal suture. The point B corresponds to the position of the parietal eminence. The letters indicate the same points as in No. 1, viz. — M. Midpoint between glabella and external 1). External angular process. occipital protuberance. P. Preauricular point. T Three-quarter point between glabella and ex- N. Midpoint between E and P. ternal occipital protuberance. A. Intersection of MN and TE. S. Seven-eighths point between glabella and ex- C. Midpoint of AB. ternal occipital protuberance. R. Midpoint of PS. O. External occipital protuberance. P. Intersection of MR and TE. G. Glabella. L. Lateral sinus.THE EDINBURGH STEREOSCOPIC ATLAS OF ANATOMY. EDINBURGH : T. C. & E. C. JACK; S"D 34 HENRIETTA STREET, LONDON, W.C. CRANIOCEREBRAL TOPOGRAPHY—No. 5. TPIE DURA MATER HAS BEEN REMOVED AND THE FINE MEMBRANES STRIPPED FROM THE SURFACE OF THE BRAIN, EXPOSING THE OUTER ASPECT OF THE HEMISPHERE, AND THE POSITION OF SOME OF THE PRINCIPAL MOTOR AND SENSORY CENTRES HAS BEEN MARKED UPON IT. The fissures and convolutions of the brain are at this age—5 years—very fully developed. 1. Motor centres. The great motor area of the outer surface of the hemisphere lies in front of the fissure of Rolando, and occupies mainly the ascending frontal convolution, extending into the depth of the fissure, and occupying the anterior wall and in some places the floor. It also extends into the adjacent portions of the frontal convolutions. The upper part forms the area for the lower limb, and below it is the area for the body. Near the centre of the fissure of Rolando, the precentral convolution grows backwards, deflecting the course of the fissure, and the area of the cortex which occupies the indentation so formed represents the centre for the upper limb of the opposite side. The centre for the shoulder lies highest, and lower down are the centres for the elbow, wrist, fingers, index, and thumb. The area for the face is continuous with the above, and the area for the tongue occupies the lowest part of the precentral convolution. The centres for the head and eyes occupy portions of the middle and inferior frontal convolutions in front of the centres for the limbs. 2. Sensory centres. The cent re for vision is situated at the tip of the occipital lobe, while the centre for word-seeing is found in the angular gyrus. The area for hearing is found in the superior temporal convolution. The letters a 1. Fissure of Rolando. 2. Division of Sylvian fissure. 3. Parallel fissure. 4. Supra-marginal convolution. A. Arm centre. Gf figures indicate— L. Centre for lower limb. F. Centre for face. B. Broca's convolution. / S. Angular gyrus (word-seeing). j V. Visual region (sensory).THE EDINBURGH STEREOSCOPIC ATLAS OF ANATOMY. EDINBURGH: T. C. & E. C. JACK; and 3-4 HENRIETTA STREET, LONDON, W.C. CRANIO CEREBRAL TOPOGRAPHY—No. 6. A COMPOSITE VIEW HAS BEEN TAKEN TO SHOW THE RELATION OF THE SURFACE LINES AND OF THE SUTURES TO THE PRINCIPAL FISSURES AND CONVOLUTIONS. Iii viewing the relationships in this subject, aged 5 years, it should be borne in mind that the fissures of the brain of the child do not in all cases bear the same relationship to the cranial sutures as do those of the adult. Important differences exist, especially in the fissure of Sylvius, associated mainly with differences in the jjroportionate sizes of different lobes of the brain This view should therefore be compared with the relations shown in the corresponding view of the adult head (No. 10). At birth the Sylvian fissure lies above the squamo-parietal suture, but the fissure and the suture approach one another rapidly up to the fifth year, and at that age the fissure lies about 1 i millimetres above the suture. In the adult, the fissure may lie above, below, or subjacent to the fissure. Chiene's surface lines drawn upon the head of the child also place the Sylvian point above the suture, but the fissure lies at a slightly higher level even than this point. The fissure of Rolando maintains, after birth, a very constant position in relation to the surface, both at its upper and its lower ends. Comparing the lettering in No. 1, it will be seen that the Rolandic area lies inside a quadrilateral figure, ACDM, but it must be noted that the true motor area is confined to the precentral area, and does not exten ' behind the fissure of Rolando. The letters L, A, F, indicate, in a g> neral way, the parts which contain the motor centres for the lower limb, arm and face respectively in the ascending frontal convolution. The figure 2 is placed on the division of the Sylvian fissure, and, as has been pointed out, in the child this division lies at a slightly higher level than the surface mark which would indicate its position in the head of the adult. The line AC however overlies the posterior horizontal limb of the Sylvian fissure, and a finger's breadth below that line lies the parallel flssnre, 3, the hinder end of which is continued upwards into the parietal lobe to the region marked 8, subjacent to the point 13 in the surface lines, where lies the angular gyrus or centre for word vision. The letter B overlies the area which in the lefc hemisphere is the motor speech centre or Broca's convolution. The coronal suture can be seen to lie in front of the line AM and therefore is well in front of the fissure of Rolando. The letters and figures indicate:— L. Centre for opposite lower limb. H. First temporal convolution. A. Centre for opposite upper limb. 1. Fissure of Rolando. F. Centre for opposite side of face. 2. Division of Sylvian fissure. S. Supra-marginal convolution. 3. Parallel (1st temporal) fissure. V. Visual centre (sensory). 4. Angular gyrus. B. Broca's convolution.THE EDINBURGH STEREOSCOPIC ATLAS OF ANATOMY. EDINBURGH: T. C. & E. C. JACK; and 34 HENRIETTA STREET, LONDON, W.C, CRANIOCEREBRAL TOPOGRAPHY—No. 7. THE RIGHT CEREBRAL HEMISPHERE HAS BEEN REMOVED, IN ORDER TO SHOW THE MEMBRANES WHICH SUB-DIVIDE THE CRANIAL CAVITY AND A PART OF THE MESIAL SURFACE OF THE HEMISPHERE OF THE OPPOSITE SIDE. The falx cerebri is a sickle-shaped fold of dura mater, attached in front to the crista galli of the ethmoid and to the frontal bones, and attached behind to the upper surface of the tentorium cerebelli. It has an upper and a lower margin, the upper being convex and the lower concave. The convex margin is attached along the mesial plane, and contains the superior longitudinal sinus, while the lower concave margin is free and overlies the corpus callosum. This edge contains the inferior longitudinal sinus. The tentorium cerebelii is a sloping horizontal shelf which roofs over the cerebellum. It is crescentic in shape, and is attached behind and at the convex margin while the concave free margin limits, behind and at the sides, an oval aperture which transmits the mid-brain. It is attached in front to the clinoid processes of the sphenoid bone, and externally to the upper border of the petrous temporal bone. The lateral sinus is contained along the line where the tentorium joins the general investing dura mater at the back and sides, over the mastoid portion of the temporal and along the occipital bone. The section through the brain shows the third ventricle, and also the lateral ventricle of the opposite side, which has been exposed by the removal of the septum lucidum. The figures indicate— 1. Falx cerebri. 7. Apex of petrous temporal bone. 2. Tentorium cerebelli. 8. Fornix. 3. Lateral sinus and cerebral vein. 9. Anterior cerebral artery. 4. Cerebral veins passing into superior longitudinal 10. Optic nerve, and middle cerebral artery. sinus. 11. Third ventricle. 5. Superior longitudinal sinus. 1 2. Caudate nucleus of left side. 6. Corpus callosum.THE EDINBURGH STEREOSCOPIC ATLAS OF ANATOMY. CRANXQ-CEREBRAL TOPOGRAPHY—No. 8. A COMPOSITE VIEW HAS BEEN TAKEN TO SHOW THE RELATION OF THE STRUCTURES SHOWN IN THE FORMER VIEW TO THE SURFACE MARKINGS. While the parts shown here are largely inaccessible to surgical interference, the view shows the parts which may be injured, for instance, by a penetrating wound, or by a bullet entering the head at any particular point upon the surface. Among the relations shown, it may be mentioned that the corpus callosum, for example, extends both in front of and behind the area marked upon the surface as the Eolandic area, and that the upper margin of the third ventricle extends as far up as to the oblique line which indicated upon the surface the posterior horizontal limb of the Sylvian fissure. The Gasserian ganglion lies under the dura mater immediately in front of the point marked 7, and slightly to its outer side, and this view shows the depth at which that point lies from the surface of the head. The figures indicate— 1. Falx cerebri. 2. Tentorium cerebelli. 3. Lateral sinus. 4. Cerebral veins joining the superior longi- tutlinal sinus. 5. Superior longitudinal sinus. 6. The corpus callosum. 7. Apex of the petrous temporal bone. 8. Fornix. 9. Anterior cerebral artery. 10. Optic chiasma. 11. Third ventricle. 12. Caudate nucleus in the floor of the lateral ventricle of the opposite side. EDINBURGH; T. C. & E. C. JACK; and 34 HENRIETTA STREET. LONDON, W,C, r, I O 5 ! O. o - O S 1THE EDINBURGH STEREOSCOPIC ATLAS OF ANATOMY. EDINBURGH: T. C. & E. C. JACK; and U HENRIETTA STREET, LONDON, W.O, CRANIO CEREBRAL TOPOGRAPHY—No. 9. THE GREATER PART OF THE OUTER SURFACE OF THE LEFT CEREBRAL HEMISPHERE OF AN ADULT MALE HAS BEEN EXPOSED IN SITU, AND SOME OF THE IMPORTANT FISSURES ARE MARKED. This view should be compared with that of the brain of a child, and the notes made in relation to it on the localisation of function should be referred to. Individual variations exist in the surface anatomy of the cerebral hemispheres, but it will be seen that in the present instance the fissure of Rolando pursues a very characteristic course, and that the arm-centre is well developed and causes a marked deflection in the course of the fissure The upturned end of the posterior horizontal limb of the fissure of Sylvius is bounded by a Avell- marked gyrus, the supramarginal. The first temporal, or parallel fissure, is not continuous, but is intersected by bridging convolutions which subdivide it into small parts. There is, however, an upturned end similar to that of the fissure of Sylvius, which cuts into the parietal lobe and is bounded by the angular gyrus. The localisation of these parts to the surface lines is shown in the next view. The figures indicate— 1. Division of the Sylvian fissure. 2. Lower end of the fissure of Eolando. 3. Arm-centre deflecting the fissure of Eolando backwards. 4. Supramarginal convolution. 5. Lower part of the precentral sulcus. 6. Postcentral sulcus (vertical part of the intraparietal sulcus). 7. Parallel sulcus.THE EDINBURGH STEREOSCOPIC ATLAS OF ANATOMY. EDINBURGH: T. C. & E. C. JACK ; and 34 HENRIETTA STREET, LONDON, W.C. CRANIOCEREBRAL TOPOGRAPHY—No, 10. THE PARTS SEEN IN THE FORMER VIEW ARE SHOWN IN RELATION TO THE SURFACE LINES ON THE SCALP. Sylvian fissure. The point A lies at a higher level than the division of the Sylvian fissure, and the line AC also lies at a rather higher level than the posterior horizontal limb. This is one of the instances in which, as previously noticed, the fissure may lie at a lower level than the pterion, the opposite of the condition in the brain of the child. Motor area. The motor area lies inside the quadrilateral AGDM, the line MA following the line of the precentral sulcus in its upper and lower portions. The lower part of the line CD lies a little behind the lower part of the postcentral sulcus, and the upper part of that line corresponds to the upper part of the sulcus. The triangle TRO corresponds to the outer surface of the occipital lobe, and the point R lies a little above the attachment of the tentorium cerebelli and the highest part of the lateral sinus. The point B overlies the angular gyrus or word-seeing area. The pentagonal figure BRPNA includes the whole of the outer surface of the temporal lobe, in which lies the parallel fissure (7) a finger's-breadth below the posterior limb of the Sylvian fissure. Taste and smell are localised to the anterior end of the temporal lobe. The figures indicate— 1. Division of the Sylvian fissure. 5. Precentral sulcus, lower part. 2. Lower end of the fissure of Rolando. 6. Postcentral sulcus, lower part. 3. Arm centre. 7. Parallel fissure. 4. Supramarginal convolution. The letters indicate the points as previously determined upon the surface of the scalp by Chiene's method (See No. 1.).i HE EDINBURGH STEREOSCOPIC ATLAS OF ANATOMY. EDINBURGH: T. C. & E. C. JACK; and 34 HENRIETTA STREET, LONDON, W.C. CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM. BRAIN—No. 15. ISLAND OF REIL, OR INSULA. The parts of the frontal, parietal, and temporal lobes covering the insula of the left hemisphere have been removed by a cone-like section. The insula, or island of Reil, is a portion of the cortex concealed from view in the adult brain by the growth over it of the adjacent portions of the cortex. These portions are termed the opercula, and belong to the frontal, parietal, and temporal lobes. The insula is surrounded by a slit-like groove, the sulcus limitans insulae, which marks off the surface of the insula from the cortex, and which entirely surrounds it except at the lower and front part, where the insula is continuous with the back part of the orbital surface of the frontal lobe. Like the rest of the cortex, the insula is divided by fissures into convolutions. The principal fissure runs obliquely downwards and forwards, and is called the sulcus centralis insulae. It runs very much in the same direction as the fissure of Rolando, and divides the insula into an anterior and a posterior part. The posterior part shows one or more convolutions called gyri longi insulae, while the anterior part is subdivided by radiating fissures into several gyri breves insulae. The upper part of the insula overlies the claustrum and the external capsule of the basal ganglia. The figures indicate:— 1. Fissure of Eolando. 2. Temporal pole. 3. Sulcus limitans insulse. 4. Sulcus centralis insulse. 5. Gyri longi insulse. 6. Gyri breves insulse.THE EDINBURGH STEREOSCOPIC ATLAS OF ANATOMY. CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM. BRAIN—No. 16. DISSECTION FROM THE OUTER SIDE OF THE LEFT CEREBRAL HEMISPHERE TO SHOW CERTAIN TRACTS OF LONG ASSOCIATION FIBRES. The grey matter of the cortex with the short association fibres has been removed. Association fibres connect different regions of the cortex of the same hemisphere. Short association fibres unite contiguous convolutions, and such as are removed only a short distance from one another. Long association fibres are gathered together into fasciculi which lie in the white substance of the hemisphere, and connect areas of the cortex separated by considerable intervals. The superior longitudinal fasciculus lies on the outer side of the corona radiata in the base of the fronto-parietal operculum. From the frontal lobe it extends backwards above the island of Reil and the lenticular nucleus to the posterior end of the fissure of Sylvius. Here many fibres radiate backwards into the occipital lobe, while the majority arch round the fissure of Sylvius, downwards and forwards into the temporal lobe. The inferior longitudinal fasciculus lies on the outer side of the optic radiation. It extends from the posterior end of the occipital lobe to the anterior end of the temporal lobe. The fasciculus uncinatus arches round the stem of the fissure of Sylvius, and connects the frontal pole and the orbital convolutions with the anterior part of the temporal lobe. The figures indicate— 1. Superior longitudinal fasciculus. 2. Some of its occipital fibres. 3. Its temporal fibres. 4. Inferior longitudinal fasciculus. Some of it has been removed along with underlying fibres of the optic radiation, to show the Tapetum form- ing the outer wall of the posterior horn of the lateral ventricle. 5. Fasciculus uncinatus. 6. Fibres of the optic radiation above the roof of the descending horn of the lateral ventricle. 7. Outer wall of posterior horn. 8. White matter of the island of Reil with grey matter of claustrum showing through. 9. Temporal pole. 10. Internal orbital gyrus. EDINBURGH: T. C. & E. C. JACK; and 34 HENRIETTA STREET, LONDON, W.G. i- <og' >i < V)\i O - > : tr aTHE EDINBURGH STEREOSCOPIC ATLAS OF ANATOMY. EDINBURGH: T. C. & E. C. JACK; and 34 HENRIETTA STREET, LONDON, W.". • CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM. BRAIN—No. 17. DISSECTION FROM THE OUTER SIDE OF THE LEFT CEREBRAL HEMISPHERE TO SHOW THE OUTER SURFACE OF THE LENTICULAR NUCLEUS, THE CORONA RADIATA, AND THE ANTERIOR WHITE COMMISSURE. The opercula, the island of Reil, the claustrum, the external capsule, the anterior part of the hippocampal gyrus, and the uncus have been removed. The lenticular nucleus together with the caudate nucleus forms the corpus striatum. It is placed upon the outer aspect of the internal capsule which separates it from the caudate nucleus and the optic thalamus. Lamina? of grey matter pass between the two nuclei through the internal capsule. Externally it is covered by the external capsule, the claustrum, and the island of Keil. The lower part of its anterior end is directly continuous with the caudate nucleus internally, and with grey matter of the anterior perforated spot below. Posteriorly its lower surface rests upon the anterior commissure and fibres passing between the internal capsule and the temporal lobe. The lenticulo-striate and lenticulo-optic branches of the middle cerebral artery pass through the anterior perforated spot and ascend for a certain distance between the lenticular nucleus and the external capsule (the grooves for these are faintly indicated). They then pass inwards through the lenticular nucleus and through the internal capsule to end—the lenticulo-optic arteries in the optic thalamus, the lenticulo-striate in the caudate nucleus. The largest of the latter group is Charcot's 'Artery of cerebral haemorrhage.' The anterior commissure connects the olfactory lobes and the temporal lobes. In the middle line it is free, in front of the anterior pillars of the fornix in the anterior wall of the third ventricle. It extends out- wards on either side, below the caudate nucleus and below the internal capsule, where it sends forwards a small contribution to the olfactory tract. Thence it proceeds outwards and backwards, below the lenticular nucleus and over the amygdaloid nucleus, to lose itself in the white centre of the temporal lobe. The figures Indicate— 1. Lenticular nucleus. temporo-pontine fibres and fibres of the 2. Corona radiata. auditory radiation. 3. Optic radiation. 6. Crusta of the mid-brain (crus cerebri). 4. Superior longitudinal fasciculus. 7. External geniculate body. 5. Anterior white commissure. Between the 8. Olfactory peduncle. Between the figure 5 and commissure and the optic radiation are the optic tract is the anterior perforated spot.THE EDINBURGH STEREOSCOPIC ATLAS OF ANATOMY. EDINBURGH; T. C. & E. C. JACK; and U HENRIETTA STREET, LONDON, W.C. CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM. BRAIN—No. 18. DISSECTION FROM THE UPPER AND OUTER ASPECTS OF THE LEFT CEREBRAL HEMISPHERE TO SHOW THE CORONA RADIATA AND ITS RELATIONS TO THE BASAL GANGLIA. The brain substance has been removed, exposing the lenticular nucleus and the corona radiata from the outer side. From above the hemisphere has been sliced down to a short distance above the corpus callosum. The corpus callosum and the callosal convolution have been removed. The corona radiata is composed of the great majority of ' projection ' fibres, which connect the cortex cerebri with the optic thalamus, mid-brain, pons, medulla, and spinal cord. Traced downwards its fibres converge towards the basal ganglia, intersecting the fibres of the corpus callosum, and form the internal capsule, which is situated between the optic thalamus and the caudate nucleus, on its inner side, and the lenticular nucleus on its outer side. It contains the motor pyramidal tract, the fronto-pontine and temporo-pontine tracts, the auditory and optic radiations, thalamocortical fibres, and some fibres of the superior cerebellar peduncle and of the mesial fillet. The fibres of the auditory radiation arise in the internal geniculate body, enter the internal capsule, pass outwards under the lenticular nucleus, proceed into the temporal lobe to end in the 'auditory area'—i.e. the middle of the upper temporal gyrus and the gyri on the insular surface of the temporal operculum. The fibres of the optic radiation establish connection between the occipital cortex and the lower visual centres, in which retinal fibres of the optic tract end, viz : corpus quadrigeminum superius, pulvinar, corpus geniculatum externum. Traced from below they enter the internal capsule, and thence radiate backwards into the occipital lobe. Thalamocortical fibres arise in the optic thalamus, enter the internal capsule and, through the corona radiata, are distributed to all parts of the cortex. They include fibres of the optic radiation. The figures indicate— Corona radiata. Optic radiation. Auditory radiation and temporo-pontine fibres. Anterior white commissure. Lenticular nucleus (exposed from the outer side). Caudate nucleus. Optic thalamus. 8. Taenia semicircularis. 9. Deep fibres of fasciculus uncinates. 10. Temporal pole. 11. Posterior orbital gyrus. (Between 10 and 11 is the stem of the fissure of Sylvius.) 12. Calcarine fissure.THE EDINBURGH STEREOSCOPIC ATLAS OF ANATOMY. CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM. BRAIN—No. 19. DISSECTION OF THE LEFT HALF OF THE BRAIN FROM THE OUTER SIDE, TO SHOW THE CONTINUITY OF THE CORONA RADIATA, INTERNAL CAPSULE, CRUSTA OF THE MID-BRAIN, PYRAMIDAL FIBRES OF THE PONS, AND PYRAMID OF THE MEDULLA. The gyri of the outer surface of the cerebrum, the island of Reil, the claustrum, the external capsule and the lenticular nucleus have been removed. Part of the cerebellar hemisphere has been sliced off. The trans- verse fibres of the pons and the nucleus pontis, i.e. the grey matter m the ventral part of the pons—have been dissected away. . . T . , ., , The corona radiata and the internal capsule contain, inter aha—(see Brain No. 18)—the motor pyramidal tract, fronto-pontine, and temporo-pontine fibres. Pyramidal fibres arise in the Rolandic area of the cortex, descend through the corona radiata, internal capsule, crusta, and ventral part of the pons to the medulla, where they form the pyramid 70-90 per cent, decussate in the medulla and pass down the opposite half of the cord as the crowed pyramidal tract The rest pass down the same side, forming the direct pyramidal tract, and cross at different levels in the cord (a few pass down with the crossed tract). All the fibres end round cells of the posterior horn of the cord whence new fibres proceed to the cells of origin of the motor roots of spinal nerves m the anterior horn. In the mid-brain, pons and medulla fibres are given off to the nuclei of motor cranial nerves of the opposite side, Fronto-pontine fibres arise in the frontal cortex, descend through the corona radiata, internal capsule, and crusta, to end in the nucleus pontis. . iii.i_-ii.-i i Temporo-pontine fibres arise in the upper two temporal gyri, pass inwards below the lenticular nucleus to the internal capsule, and thence through the crusta to end in nucleus pontis. The figures indicate— 7. Mesial fillet, 8. Cut surface of middle cerebellar peduncle. 1. Corona radiata. 2. Optic radiation. Temporo-pontine fibres lie ii front of the figure. 3. Internal capsule. (Note the grey matter be tween the bundles of white matter.) 4. Crusta of the mid-brain. 5. Pyramidal fibres of the pons. 6. Pyramid of the medulla. EDINBURGH: T. 0. & E. C. JACK : 9. Optic tract. 10. Anterior white commissure. 11. Internal orbital gyrus. 12. Corpus geniculatum externum. 13. A band of short association fibres. 34 HENRIETTA STREET, LONDON, W.C. Z _= O -3THE EDINBURGH STEREOSCOPIC ATLAS OF ANATOMY. EDINBURGH : T. C. & E. C. JACK : and 34 HENRIETTA STREET, LONDON, W.C. CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM. BRAIN—No. 20. THE BASAL GANGLIA AND THE OPTIC THALAMUS OE THE RIGHT SIDE. The neighbouring brain matter, including the claustrum and the anterior part of the amygdaloid nucleus, has been removed. The anterior commissure, the anterior perforated spot, and part of the mid-brain have been retained. The upper specimen is viewed from above, the lower from the outer side. The basal ganglia are the caudate and the lenticular nuclei, which together form the corpus striatum; the claustrum and the amygdaloid nucleus. To the former two the optic thalamus is closely related. Lenticular nucleus:—Note the grooves on its outer surface for the lenticulo-striate and -optic arteries {see Brain—No. 17). The caudate nucleus is pyriform and highly arched. Its deep surface i; separated from the lenticular nucleus by the internal capsule which is intersected by laminae of grey matter connecting the two nuclei. The lower part of the head is directly continuous with the lenticular nucleus and the anterior perforated spot. The tail ends in the amygdaloid nucleus. The amygdaloid nucleus lies below the lenticular nucleus and the anterior commissure. It is continuous with the anterior perforated spot and the lenticular nucleus. The tail of the caudate nucleus and the taenia semicircularis end in it. The claustrum is a thin sheet of grey matter between the white matter of the island of Reil and the external capsule. It is continuous with the anterior perforated spot below. The optic thalamus is separated from the caudate and lenticular nuclei by the taenia semicircularis and internal capsule respectively. It is continuous below with the tegmentum of the mid brain through the 'subthalamic region.' Its anterior end bounds the foramen of Monro. Its posterior projecting end is the pulvinar. On the outer part of the inferior aspect of the posterior end is the external geniculate body, internal to which at the upper end of the lateral sulcus of the mid-brain, is the internal geniculate body. The figures indicate: View from above :- 1. Optic thalamus. 2. Caudate nucleus. 3. Lenticular nucleus. 4. Laminfe connecting caudate and lenticular nuclei. 5. Teenia semicircularis. 6. Anterior pillar of fornix. 7. Posterior part of amygda- loid nucleus. 8. Tail of caudate nucleus. 9. Deep surface of external geniculate body. 10. Pineal body. View from outer side : — 1. Lenticular nucleus. Outer surface of optic thala- 8. Internal geniculate body. mus. 9. Outer part of anterior per- Caudate nucleu*. forated spot. Laminae connecting caudate 10. Anterior commissure and lenticular nuclei. 11 Posterior part of amygda- loid nucleus Tail of caudate nucleus. 12. External geniculate body. 13. Anterior fibres of crusta passing up to internal capsule. Crusta of mid-brain. Anterior pillar of fornix.THE EDINBURGH STEREOSCOPIC ATLAS OF ANATOMY. CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM. BRAIN.—No. 21. MESIAL AND TENTOEIAL SURFACES OF THE LEFT CEREBRAL HEMISPHERE WITH THE WHOLE EXTENT OF THE CINGULUM AND THE FORNIX EXPOSED. Most of the callosal and hippocampal gyri, the isthmus, the dentate gyrus, part of hippocampus major, and the grey matter covering the anterior pillar of fornix have been removed, and the bundle of Vicq d'Azyr has been traced through the optic thalamus to its its termination in the anterior nucleus. The cingulum is a 'long association ' tract lying in the limbic lobe. It begins at the anterior perforated spot, arches round the genu, and runs backwards on the corpus callosum lying in the callosal gyrus. Bending round the splenium, it is carried in the isthmus to the hippocampal gyrus, in which it extends forwards to the uncus, and from there to the temporal pole. The fornix is an arched bilateral structure composed mainly of longitudinal fibres. It is united in its middle part to form the body of the fornix. The body lies below the corpus callosum, to which it is adherent posteriorly and united anteriorly by the septum lucidum. Its anterior end or apex divides into two anterior pillars, its base into two posterior pillars. The anterior pillars descend in front of the foramina of Monro, behind the anterior commissure, sink into the side walls of the third ventricle, and end in the corpora mammillaria in its floor. From each of these the bundle of Vicq. d'Azyr ascends, through the optic thalamus, to end in its anterior nucleus. The posterior pillars diverge. Each turns round the optic thalamus, enters the descending horn of the lateral ventricle and becomes continuous with the fimbria and alveus. The alveus consists of fibres spread out in a thin sheet over the hippocampus major. The fimbria, composed of the rest of the fibres, is attached along the inner side of the hippocampus, and extends forward to the recurved end of the uncus. Where the pillars diverge some fibres pass across from one to the other, forming a thin sheet called the lyra. 1. Body of fornix. 2. Corpus mammillare. The anterior pillar, and bundle of Vicq d'Azyr are seen above it. 3. Fimbria. 4. Optic thalamus. Below it is the teg- mentum of mid-brain. 5. 6, 7. Splenium, body and genu of corpus callosum. 8. Left lamina of septum lucidum. EDINBURGH: T. C. i The figures indicate— 9. Subcallosal gyrus. Behind it is the cut anterior commissure. 10. Olfactory peduncle. Note connec- tion between its inner root and subcallosal gyrus. 11. Optic chiasma. 12. 13, 14. Anterior end, middle, pos- terior end of cingulum. 15. Uncus. 16. Marginal gyrus. E. C. JACK; and 34 HENRIETTA I 17. Calloso-rnarginal fissure. 18. Paracentral lobule. 19. Post-limbic sulcus. Above it is the quadrate lobule. 20. Internal parietooccipital fissure. 21. Cuneus. 22. Posterior calcarine fissure. 23. Lingual gyrus. 24. Occipito-temporal gyrus. TREET, LONDON, W.C.THE EDINBURGH STEREOSCOPIC ATLAS OF ANATOMY. EDINBURGH: T. C. & E. C. JACK; and 34 HENRIETTA STREET, LONDON, W.C. CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM. BRAIN.—No. 22. DISSECTION OF THE CEREBRUM FROM BELOW TO SHOW THE ROOF AND OUTER WALL OF THE DESCENDING AND POSTERIOR HORNS OF THE LATERAL VENTRICLE ON THE RIGHT SIDE, AND THE WHITE MATTER OF THE FLOORS OF THESE HORNS ON THE LEFT SIDE. The mid-brain has been cut through transversely and the cerebellum, etc., removed. On the left side the grey matter of the lower surfaces of the occipital and temporal lobes and of the hippo- campal gyrus has been removed. On the right side the whole floor has been removed, and the ependyma covering the tamia semicircularis and the tail of the caudate nucleus has been scraped away. The figures indicate- 4. Posterior end of cingulum (on the right side it is cut). White matter of the floor of the posterior horn derived from the splehium. White matter of the floor of the descending horn. The figure is placed on fibres of the cingulum. Between the figures 3 and 13 are fibres from the splenium also forming part of the floor. Amygdaloid tubercle—an eminence in the anterior part of the roof of the descending horn, pro- duced by the superjacent amygdaloid nucleus. 5. Tail of caudate nucleus. 6. Taenia semicircularis.—A band of fibres arising mainly in the amygdaloid nucleus, whence it runs backwards in the roof of the descending horn, arches upwards into the body of the lateral ventricle, where it runs forwards between the optic thalamus and caudate nucleus to the foramen of Monro. From here it descends to the anterior perforated spot. 7. Forceps major. It is formed of fibres of the . splenium which sweep backwards into the occi- pital lobe by the inner side of the posterior horn. 8. Splenium of the corpus callosum. The dark object above the figure is the pineal body. 9. Supra-callosal gyrus. 10. Calcarine fissure. 11. Outer wall and roof of posterior horn. 12. Outer wall and roof of descending horn. The outer walls and roofs of these horns are formed by the tapetum—a thin layer composed of fibres derived from the corpus callosum, which lies next the ependyma. 13. Inferior longitudinal fasciculus. 14. Pulvinar of optic thalamus. 15. Internal geniculate body. 16. External geniculate body. 17. The uncus. 18. Corpus quadrigeminum superius. 19. Crusta of the mid-brain. 20. White core of the quadrate lobule.THE EDINBURGH STEREOSCOPIC ATLAS OF ANATOMY. CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM. BRAIN—No. 23. DISSECTION TO EXPOSE THE MESIAL FILLET IN THE MEDULLA AND PONS. The pyramid of the medulla and the ventral part of the pons have been removed on the left side. Gowers' tract has also been partly exposed. The mesial fillet is a sensory tract carrying fibres from the nuclei gracilis and cuneatus of the medulla to the mid-brain and the cerebrum. The postero-mesial ((loll) and postero-lateral (Burdach) tracts of the cord, which are formed from the sensory posterior roots of spinal nerves, end in the nuclei gracilis and cuneatus. In these nuclei new fibres, termed deep arcuate fibres, arise and proceed in a transverse arcuate manner through the substance of the medulla to the middle line, where they decussate. Having decussated, most of them turn upwards and form the fillet. In the medulla the fillet is a flattened band, with its surfaces directed laterally, and is separated from its fellow by the median raphe only. The posterior longitudinal bundle is behind it; the pyramid is in front of it. Entering the pons it is twisted so that its surfaces look backwards and forwards. Here it lies between the ventral and the dorsal or tegmental divisions of the pons. Leaving the pons it traverses the tegmentum of the mid-brain where it gives off numerous fibres to the superior corpus quadrigeminum, and proceeds upwards through the sub-thalamic region to the optic thalamus, where many of its fibres end. The remainder pass into the internal capsule, and are carried by the corona radiata to the Rolandic area. Fibres are added to it from nuclei of sensory cranial nerves of the opposite side. From the cells in the corpus quadrigeminum superius and optic thalamus round which fillet fibres enc new fibres proceed to the cerebral cortex. The antero-lateral ascending cerebellar tract of Gowers begins in the lumbar region of the cord, probably arising from cells of the posterior horn. It ascends through the antero-lateral column of the cord, and lower part of medulla, dips under the olive, enters the pons and traverses its tegmentum. Reaching the upper part of the pons, it turns backwards, and is carried by the superior cerebellar peduncle and superior medullary velum to the cerebellum. A few fibres go up to the superior corpus quadrigeminum. The figures indicate— 1. The mesial fillet in the pons. 6. Olive. To its inner side is seen the anterior 2. Trunk of fifth cranial nerve. edge of the fillet. 3. Emerging trunk of seventh cranial nerve. The pin 7. Lower border of right half of pons. is closely applied to the outer side of Gowers' tract. 8. Anterior part of hippocampal gyrus. 4. Middle cerebellar peduncle. . 9. Cut surface of crusta of mid-brain. 5. Flocculus. Between 4 and 5 is the eighth cranial nerve. EDINBURGH ; T. C. * E. C. JACK; and 34 HENRIETTA STREET, LONDON, W-C. Z a > 5 CO D oTHE EDINBURGH STEREOSCOPIC ATLAS OF ANATOMY. EDINBURGH: T^C. & E. C. JACK; and 34 HENRIETTA STREET, LONDON, W.C. CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM. BRAIN—No. 25. DISSECTION TO SHOW THE CORPUS DENTATUM OF THE CEREBELLUM, THE CEREBELLAR PEDUNCLES AND THE LATERAL FILLET. Most of the upper surface of the right cerebellar hemisphere has been removed, together with the inferior peduncle and the lower crossed fibres of the middle peduncle, which spread out over the corpus dentatum. The superficial coating of the superior peduncle and of the lateral fillet has been scraped away. The corpus dentatum is a crumpled sheath of grey matter enclosing white matter, imbedded in the white core of the cerebellar hemisphere. Its anterior end presents a hilum or mouth from which proceeds the superior peduncle. The superior cerebellar peduncle arises mainly in the corpus dentatum. It also contains fibres from the cerebellar cortex, and part of Gowers' tract. Leaving the cerebellum it passes upwards, sinking deeper into the dorsal part of the pons and converging towards its fellow, to which it is united "by the superior medullary velum, and disappears into the mid-brain under cover of the inferior quad- rigeminate body. In the mid-brain the peduncles decussate; and many fibres end in the red nucleus. The rest pass on to the optic thalamus, Avhere some end, while others proceed through it to the internal capsule and thence through the corona radiata to the Rolandic area of the cerebral cortex. The lateral fillet is a flattened band of fibres which emerges from the groove between the pons and superior peduncle and lies on the outer side of the latter. It belongs to the Auditory System. It is formed from the corpus trapezoides—a group of transverse fibres in the pons derived from the cochlear nuclei of both auditory nerves and from the superior olive. The lateral fillet nucleus—a continuation of the superior olivary nucleus—also adds fibres to the fillet. The fibres end in the internal geniculate body, from which the auditory radiation proceeds, and the inferior corpus quadrigeminum, while a few end in the superior quadrigeminate body. The figures indicate— 1. Corpus dentatum. 4. Lateral fillet. 8. Inferior brachium connecting the 2. Stump of inferior peduncle and 5. Superior cerebellar peduncle. inferior quadrigeminate body lower fibres of middle peduncle. 6. Fibres forming anterior edge of with the internal geniculate body, 3. Junction between pons and inferior peduncle. which is cut. middle peduncle. 7 Superior corpus quadrigeminum. 9. Pulvinar of optic thalamus. 10. Pineal body.