vi INTRODUCTION. DACE.—fpawns about the middle of March, are In feafon about three weeks after ; they are no: very- good till about Michaelmas, & are the bell in February*. EEL9.—are equally in feafon all the year. The bright Silver Eels, which are bred in clear rivers and ftreams, are in great efteem. Thofe which are caught in ponds, or waters of a flow courfe, whofe bottoms are rather in- clined to earth and flime, than gravel, are at the beft in- fipid, and very frequently tafte of the very mud in which they'- have been bred. GUDGEONS.—fpawn in May, and once or twice snore during the fummer. Are in feafon all the year, except two or three weeks after every fpawning time. GRAYLING or UMBER.—This excellent filh fpawns in May, is in feafon all the year, but in the greateft perfe&ion in December. See the obfervations upon Barbel. PERCH.—This nutritious and wholefome fifh is in feafon all the year, but moE fo in Augult and Septem- ber A POPE or RUFF or BARCE.—This fifh fpawns m April, and is m feafon all the year ; no fifh that fwims is of a pleafanter tafte. ■* The people who live not far from rivers where Dace or Roach are caught, have a method of drefling the larger fort, which, is faid, renders them very pleafant and favoury food : it is as fol- lows ; without fealing the fifh, lay them on a gridiron, as foon after they are taken as you can, over a flow fire, and drew on them a little flour ; when they begin to grow brown make a flit, not more than fkin deep, in the back, from head to tail, and lay them on again ; when they arc broiled enough, the fkin, fcalcs and all will peel Off, and leave the flelh, which will have become very firm, pcrfcftly clean, then open the belly, and take out Uje infide, and ufe anchovies and butter for fauce. , i The following receipt for du ffing a large Trout or Perch m the Yorkfhirc manner, is eftcemed an excellent one ; Take the fifh as foon as poflible after they arc caught, wipe them well with a foft dry cloth, wrap a little of the cloth about your finger, clean out the throat and gills very well, (you mull not fcalc or gut the fifh, or ufe any water about them) then lay them onagridiron over a clear fire, and turn them frequently When they are enough, take oft their heads, to which you will find the guts have adhered, then put a lump of butler, fcafoned with fait, into the belly ot every filh : fo ferve them up. Moft people cat them wiih their own gravy j but if you ulc any faucej lerveit up in a boat.