I A 22101733727^ ' ■ '• v ... ; v ; ■ ‘ . ■ I 1 4 / :* JJT frf I L I m , .r../ -»;• • •// l *Y & s . ;V:.4' -. :£/v 0 t!,j ■ hi 1 v ?4 * ^ y , • . \ -:. - Vv; ^•v ' •'. ,*•■ : - ?.«•<*> f\\ > mr: Sffl. ' P t t' \ \&t\\ ,-,y , { —, • >!■ 1 ' < L '«* , '1 /DESCRIPTIVE ANATOMY BY Penn-Gaskell Skillern, Jr., M. D. ASSISTANT DEMONSTRATOR OF ANATOMY AND OF PATHOLOGY, UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA; PHYSICIAN TO THE DISPENSARY FOR WOMEN, GERMAN HOSPITAL. Development. Microscopic Anatomy. Bones. PHILADELPHIA DOLBEY AND COMPANY , 3613 Woodland Avenue. 1910.5 Xoi o^o Copyright 1910, By Dolbey & Company WELLCOME INSTITUTE LIBRARY Coll. welMOmec Call No. ' kt: press OF1 Smith & Edwards 138 N. 12TH Street, Philadelphia,“Pronaque dum spectent ammcuia caetera terrainy Os homini sublime aeait, coelumque tiien lussit) et eredos ad siaera tollere vultusO Ovid, Metamorphosis.PREFACE The platform upon which this book was written planned to furnish a clear cut, concise and comprehensive description of Human Anatomy. To this end every sentence has been carefully scrutinized, and all superfluous words eliminated. Similes have been introduced wherever possible, for in spite of their homeli- ness their mnemonic value is in our opinion undeniable. Con- ventionalism, therefore, has often been disregarded for the sake of elucidation. The space obtained by condensation of the descriptive text has been devoted to observations on Comparative Anatomy. The consummate perfection of Man is the product of the Mill of Ages, through Phylogenesis and Ontogenesis. Since Darwin has demonstrated our indebtedness to our lowly brethren, the least we can do is to acquaint ourselves with their structure, however humble they are. This perspective adds such interest, instruction, and breadth of view to the study of Human Anatomy that we may be pardoned if the paragraphs on Compara- tive Anatomy have been drawn at too great length. The chapter on Development seeks to deal with this im- portant though intricate subject as succinct^ as possible, but frequently the necessity for explanator}^ details could hardly be ignored. The chapter on Microscopic Anatomy, it is hoped, will fulfil the exactions of Microscopic Pathology, the Ogre that so hideously and mercilessly ravages the beautiful structures formed by it. The chapter on Bones will, indeed, be sorry reading for him who does not have before the other eye the part of the skeleton undergoing description. Osteology is but interpretation of the hieroglyphical trade-marks indelibly impressed upon Bones by the Mill of Ages. The type from which this book has been printed has been selected as that least liable to cause eyestrain. This is in keep- ing with the prophylactic trend of Modern Medicine. We trust that this will compensate for the necessary increase in the number of leaves. The author wishes to bestow upon Mr. Max J. Walter, of the Medical School, unqualified praise for the efficient manner in which he read the proof-sheets and offered suggestions for their betterment. 241 South Thirteenth Street, December 15, igoq.CONTENTS CHAPTER I. Development : . . . 9 CHAPTER II. Microscopic Anatomy 46 CHAPTER III. The Bones 139 Index 279DESCRIPTIVE ANATOMY CHAPTER 1. DEVELOPMENT. The Cell as a Unit. The cell was established as the unit of tissues by Schwann in 1838. This investigator conceived the cell as a little closed sac that contained protoplasm and a nucleus. Some years later, Virchow announced to the world the doc- trine:—“Omnis cellula e cellula,” by which he meant that every cell comes from a pre-existing cell, or, in other words, that no cell arises spontaneously. For example, the ovum (egg), when impregnated by the male spermatic filament, undergoes division into two new cells. These divide into four, the four into eight, and the eight into sixteen, multipli- cation proceeding until myriads of cells, the aggregate of which constitutes the body, are formed. On the other hand, the whole organism may be repre- sented by but a single cell, as, for example, the minute ani- mal, the ameba. Though unicellular, yet this animal is capable of performing the functions necessary for its ex- istence, even moving itself about by thrusting forward processes called pseudopods (false feet). When an organism consists of many cells, these arrange themselves into groups, each performing its allotted func- tion, whether simple or highly specialized. By means of rapid multiplication within a limited area, cells become crowded together and thus assume various shapes, becoming oval or oblong, cubical or polyhedral. Some develop cilia, which expel secretions in the direction of least resistance.DEVELOPMENT 10 is resolvable chemically into nuclein (i. e. nucleinic acid Others become highly specialized, making possible the special senses. If not compressed, a cell remains round or slightly oval, as instanced by the embryonal mesoblastic cell, and by the blood-cells. -• The Cell as a Whole. A cell is a nucleated mass of protoplasm. The nucleus is the most important constituent of a cell and is its dynamic force. Nucleated cells are capable of actively functionating and of reproducing others of their kind. A cell that has lost its nucleus, such as the red blood cell, can functionate only passively, in this instance as an oxygen carrier, and cannot reproduce others. It is, moreover, not so longeval as a nucleated cell. The cell as a whole consists of semifluid protoplasm, which may or may not be enclosed within a cell-wall. That part of the protoplasm exclusive of the nucleus is the cytoplasm. This shows an outer, less highly specialized zone, the exoplasm, and an inner, more highly specialized zone, the endoplasm. That part of the protoplasm allotted to the nucleus is distinguished by the term karyoplasm. Cytoplasm consists of a network that resembles a cross- section of sponge, appearing honeycombed, and therefore earns the name spongioplasm. Contained within the com- partments of this network is a more fluid substance, the hyaloplasm. Cytoplasm may be granular, vesicular, or reticular, according to its appearance under the microscope. It may contain extraneous substances of secretion or of excretion, or present accidentally, and these are included within the term metaplasm. Karyoplasm, more highly specialized than protoplasm, shows essentially a similar construction. Enclosed within the nuclear membrane, karyoplasm consists of nuclear fibers and nuclear matrix. The nuclear fibers are formed by a network of fine, non-staining threads, the linin, and these threads, with bead-like thickenings at their nodal points, constitute chromatin. The latter, so named in re- cognition of the strong affinity of its beads for certain dyes,11 MITOSIS in combination with albuminates). Chromatin is of the utmost importance, both because of the active part it as- sumes in indirect cell-division, and because it is the material basis of the hereditary qualities passed down from one gen- eration to another. The nuclear matrix (nuclear juice) is semifluid, and probably of the same nature as hyaloplasm. It contains paralinin. The nucleolus is a small, spherical body that rests among the nuclear fibers. It contains a substance called pyrenin. Its function has not been definitely established. The centrosome is a small body situated in the cyto- plasm near the nuclear membrane, often embedded in a little sphere of centroplasm. It may be surrounded by a halo, the centrosphere. It is the dynamic center of the cell. Cell-Division. There are two methods by which cells divide—mitotic (indirect) and amitotic (direct). In amitotic division the cell elongates and the nucleus divides so that two nuclei are formed. The entire cell then undergoes constriction in its middle and contracts more and more around the nuclei as they recede from each other, and finally separates into two new cells, each of which contains a nucleus. This pro- cess is usually confined to cells whose vitality has been im- paired. Mitotic division, on the other hand, is almost the universal rule. Mitosis. Mitosis (indirect cell-division) is the cycle of changes a cell undergoes to reproduce two new cells of its kind. Fur- thermore, through this complicated mechanism is assured equal division of the chromatin of the parent cell, so that each daughter-cell gets exactly one-half the original amount, and also the maintenance of the quota of chromosomes nor- mal to the species. The number of chromosomes for each cell of a given species is constant. In the human being every somatic cell contains 24 chromosomes. In mitosis, each chromosome12 DEVELOPMENT splits longitudinally into two, there now being 24 pairs (i. e. 48 in all), one chromosome of each pair going to each daughter-cell, so that each daughter-cell thus receives 24 chromosomes, the constant number. From this it is evident that the chromatin plays the most important part in mitosis. For descriptive purposes, mitosis may be divided into four stages:— (1) Prophase, in which the cell undergoes changes pre- paratory to cleavage of the chromosomes. (2) Metaphase, in which cleavage of the chromosomes and equal division of the chromosomes occur. It is evident that this is the most important stage of the process. (3) Anaphase, in which the nuclei of the daughter-cells are formed by reapportionment of the chromatin. (4) Telophase, in which the nuclei pass through the prophase, but in inverse order, and then return to a state of rest until the new cells in their turn undergo mitosis. In this stage the cytoplasm divides, completing the new cells. Having emphasized the salient features of mitosis, the details of each stage may now be discussed. Prophase (Stage of Preparation). Although the factors concerned in this stage must be considered seriatim, yet the mind must grasp them as progressing simultaneously. The parts most actively concerned in the prophase are the nuclear constituents and the centrosome, which undergo changes resulting in the mitotic figure. This consists of the chro- matin filaments, which stain intensely, and of the achromatic figure, which stains very lightly. The chromatin increases in staining intensity, and from being reticular, arranges itself in a densely convoluted thread, or it may be several threads closely intertwined, forming the close skein. This thickens still more, shortens, and unravels into the loose skein. The latter partitions transversely into a number of V-shaped seg- ments, the chromosomes. During this time the nuclear mem- brane and nucleolus are disappearing and the chromatin fila- ments lie free within the karyoplasm, which is now continu- ous with the cytoplasm. The centrosome, in the meantime, has divided into two, each of which surrounds itself with a halo, and from each radiate delicate rays, thus forming two asters. These radiate with the centrosomes in a direction tangential to the nucleus13 SPERMATIC FILAMENT through arcs of 90 degrees toward opposite poles of the cell, and the rays, prolonged, meet to form an achromatic figure, the amphiaster (double star). This amphiaster is composed of the two asters and the intervening nuclear spindle formed by the prolonged rays. Metaphase (Stage of Cleavage). The chromosomes un- dergo longitudinal cleavage. This is the most important stage in mitosis. By it the number of chromosomes is dou- bled and the amount of chromatin split into halves, each of which goes to each daughter-cell, irrespective of any in- equality in size of the latter. Anaphase (Stage of Separation). The chromosomes ar- range themselves about the equator of the achromatic spin- dle, forming the equatorial plate. Guided by the rays of the achromatic spindle, each of a pair of chromosomes travels toward an opposite pole of the latter, the receding ends of the chromosomes being joined by the connecting filaments. Telophase (Stage of Reconstruction). The nuclear con- stituents pass through the stages of the prophase in inverse order. The loose skein is formed, then the close skein, and the nuclear membrane and nucleolus reappear. The proto- plasm constricts at right angles to the achromatic spindle and the cell divides. Into each new cell goes half of the nuclear spindle, including an aster and a centrosome. Soon afterward the nuclear spindle vanishes. The two new cells are now complete and pass into a state of rest until they, in turn, undergo mitosis. It will be again emphatically stated that exactly one- half the amount of chromatin in the mother-cell goes to each daughter-cell, irrespective of any marked inequality in size of the latter. A syncytium is a multinucleated mass of protoplasm formed in instances of division of the nuclei without cleavage of the protoplasm. Spermatic Filament. The spermatic filament is a product of the seminiferous tubules of the testis, and presents a head, a middle-piece, and a tail. The head contains the chromatin. The middle-pieceDEVELOPMENT 14 presents at its head-end the end-knob, and here is stored the centrosome. Beginning at the same situation and traversing the middle-piece and tail is the axial filament, which ends beyond the tail as the terminal filament. Spermatogenesis. Spermatogenesis is the process by which spermatic fila- ments are formed from spermatogonia. Lining the seminiferous tubules of the testis are cells called spermatogonia. Each spermatogone divides into two cells, one of which takes the place the spermatogone occu- pied before division, whilst the other becomes the primary spermatocyte. By dividing this generates two secondary spermatocytes. These divide and produce four spermatids. Without any further division, but by a complicated process of histogenesis, the four spermatids mature into four sper- matic filaments. Thus, from each primary spermatocyte, by two successive divisions, four equivalent spermatids are formed, and each of these directly becomes a spermatic fila- ment. This process is described more in detail with the male generative organs. It has been estimated that 340,000,000,000 spermatic filaments are produced in a lifetime. Ovum. The ovum (egg) represents the most perfect type of cell. It is formed in the ovary which, it has been computed, con- tains about 30,000 at birth. Of these many degenerate, others never mature, and only an infinitesimal number be- come fertilized. Only about 200 become mature. The human ovum is about 0.2 mm. in diameter, and is just visible macroscopically as a clear speck. It is sur- rounded by the zona radiata, which is a protecting mem- brane and not the true cell-wall. Outside of this are the layers of the vesicular follicle, which will be described with the female generative organs. The ovum contains the essential features of a typical cell, but to these special names are given. It often has a15 MATURATION OF OVUM distinct cell-wall, the vitelline membrane. This encloses the vitellus (yolk), which consists of ooplasm (vice cyto- plasm), and of nutritive granules, the deutoplasm. The germinal vesicle (nucleus) is enclosed within a nuclear membrane, and the germinal spot (nucleolus) lies within it. The centrosome occupies its usual position just without the nuclear membrane, but is not always visible. Classification of Ova. Ova are classified according to the amount and distribu- tion of the deutoplasm thus:— (1) Homolecithal, in which the deutoplasm is meager in amount and uniformly distributed throughout the vitel- lus. Such is the mammalian ovum. (2) Telolecithal, in which the ooplasm is accumulated at one pole and the deutoplasm at the other. The ooplasm is the formative yolk and occupies the animal pole, while the deutoplasm is the nutritive yolk and occupies the vege- tative pole. Such are the eggs of Birds, Reptiles, Fishes, and Amphibians. (3) Centrolecithal, in which the ooplasm is confined to the periphery and the deutoplasm to the center. Such are the eggs of some Insects. Maturation of Ovum. Maturation signifies the changes that prepare the ovum for fertilization. Before it can functionate, every immature ovum must undergo this process. It will be seen that the ob- ject of maturation is to reduce the number of chromosomes by one-half, so that the matured ovum contains one-half the number of chromosomes a somatic cell possesses. The same result is accomplished in spermatogenesis, the spermatic filament having half as many chromosomes as its ancestor, the spermatogone. It is understood, of course, that the primordial sexual cells and the somatic cells have an equal number of chromosomes. This number is constant in every species, and in man is now regarded as twenty-four. If, then,16 DEVELOPMENT the number of chromosomes in a spermatic filament and in a matured ovum are one-half those of a somatic or primor- dial sexual cell, it follows that a spermatic filament and a ma- tured ovum each possesses twelve chromosomes.Why is such a reduction necessary? If, during fertilization, the sperm- nucleus and the egg-nucleus contributed 24 chromosomes apiece to the segmentation-nucleus, the latter would contain 48 chromosomes, and each of the two blastomeres would have the same number, consequent upon mitosis of the seg- mentation-nucleus. And every cell in the new individual would have twice the number of chromosomes constant for man. Fertilization will be described more fully presently. Before birth, the ovary contains primordial ova, which, in the course of their growth and division, give rise to oogonia. From the oogonia are developed primary oocytes, and by birth all the oogonia have terminated in primary oocytes. These initiate a cycle of two divisions in the course of which reduction of chromosomes occurs, and at the end of which four ova are produced. Of these, one is full and blooming and three are abortive. The primary oocyte divides by mitosis into two sec- ondary oocytes. While both receive an equal apportion- ment of chromatin, one receives nearly all the cytoplasm; the other, therefore, is a small cell, the first polar body. The secondary oocyte repeats the mitosis, giving rise to the ma- tured ovum and the second polar body. The similarity be- tween maturation and spermatogenesis is completed when the first polar body divides, thus making three polar bodies. These, with the matured ovum, correspond to the four spermatids. The three polar bodies have been referred to as abortive ova. They seem to sacrifice themselves so that the fourth division-product, the matured ovum, may gain additional nutritive material and cytoplasm for more robust development. The nucleus of the matured ovum is called the egg-nucleus. At what stage of maturation, and by what mechanism is reduction of the chromosomes brought about? The oogonia contain 24 chromosomes and the secondary oocytes 12 each. Therefore, the reduction must occur in the primary oocytes. The mechanism by which reduction is brought about is termed heterotype mitosis, to comprehend which a17 MATURATION OF OVUM thorough understanding of the ordinary homotype mitosis is absolutely essential, and it would be well to review the latter, described a few pages back. In the prophase of heterotype mitosis the close skein of chromatin withdraws to one side of the nucleus, a condi- tion termed synapsis. During this synapsis the 24 chro- mosomes fuse so as to form 12 pairs. In the metaphase, in- stead of cleaving longitudinally as in homotype mitosis, the two parts of each pair separate, one part of each pair attach- ing itself to the threads of the achromatic spindle, by which it is drawn to one secondary oocyte, whilst the other part is drawn in like manner to the other secondary oocyte. Each part consequently represents a whole chromosome. There- fore, from the 12 fused pairs, 24 single chromosomes are dis- tributed to both secondary oocytes-—12 to each. While the drawing of 12 whole chromosomes along the threads of each half of the achromatic spindle to each sec- ondary oocyte seems the natural course for the completion of reduction, and while it would simplify matters were it so, yet a further complication of heterotpye mitosis must be described to complete this subject. It would be permissible, even preferable, however, to conclude with the above inter- pretation rather than misconceive the following course oi events. As the 12 whole chromosomes travel along the threads of each half of the achromatic spindle toward each secondary oocyte, they undergo cleavage so that each secondary oocyte receives 24 half-chromosomes instead of 12 whole ones. Even so, the result is the same, since the 24 half-chromo- somes are distributed by their secondary oocyte to the ma- tured ovum (or second polar body) directly without further cleavage, so that finally either of the two cells mentioned gets 12 of the 24 half-chromosomes. In other words, the longitudinal cleavage that should have occurred in the meta- phase of the secondary oocyte actually takes place in the 12 whole chromosomes during their transit between the equa- tor of the achromatic spindle of the primary oocyte and the nucleus of the respective secondary oocyte. Therefore, there can be no complete reconstruction of the nucleus of a sec- ondary oocyte. Comparing maturation with spermatogenesis, it is seen 2DEVELOPMENT 18 that in the former process the third generation yields the ma- tured ovum, whilst in the latter process the third generation yields the immature spermatid. The matured ovum is thus the equivalent, ontogenetically, of the spermatid directly, and of the spermatic filament indirectly, since the latter is formed from the spermatid by a complicated process of his- togenesis without, however, any alteration of the status of generation or of the number of chromosomes. Furthermore, in the comparison, while all four products of spermato- genesis become full-fledged spermatic filaments, only one of the four products of oogensis becomes a functional ovum. An exceptional amount of space has been devoted to the description of maturation not only because of its funda- mental importance, but also because it has always proven itself a perplexing problem to grasp. Fertilization. Heretofore the spermatic filament and ovum have been considered as individual elements. In fertilization thev wf unify and, losing their identity, give rise to two new cells from which a new being is ultimately formed. In Hydra, certain Worms, and other lowly forms repro- duction may occur by division of the whole organism into two parts, or by separation of a portion of the body from the parent organism. This illustrates non-sexual reproduction. In others, as Phylloxera, Bees, and Water-fleas, the germ- cells are capable of developing without having been fertil- ized, by the process of parthogenesis. In higher forms, however, fertilization is necessary for reproduction. Maturation takes place while the vesicular follicle is en- larging and approaching the surface of the ovary. Arrived here, the vesicular follicle bursts, and the ovum, now ma- tured, is discharged in the process of ovulation. When this is about to occur, the ovary is grasped by the fimbriated ex- tremity of the oviduct, the cilia of which propel the received ovum into the lumen of the oviduct. The outer third of the latter is usually the trysting-place for the ovum and the spermatic filament. The seminal fluid, deposited in the vaginal fornices,19 FERTILIZATION bathes the cervix of the uterus, to whose cavity it affords the spermatic filaments entrance. Their forward march is re- sisted by the cervical plug of mucus, by the contrary currents of the cilia lining the uterus and oviduct, and by the laby- rinthine path within the latter. The spermatic filaments, however, propelled by their tails at the rate of 2.5 mm. per minute, cover the 10 inches between the upper part of the vagina and the outer third of the oviduct in about 9 hours. Were it not for the obstacles in their path, they could reduce the time to an hour and a half. The spermatic filament and the ovum retain their vitality for about two weeks, so that if they meet within this time, fertilization is possible. It has been estimated that every cubic millimeter of seminal fluid contains about 60,000 spermatic filaments, and that the total number deposited with each ejaculation is near 200,000,000. Of these, only a few reach their goal and only one, the winner of the obstacle-race, finally impregnates the ovum, the rest being barred by a dense membrane that, like a torpedo-net, is thrown out around the ovum directly upon the entrance of one filament. In the Newt, however, poly- spermy is the rule, but of the many spermatic filaments that penetrate the ovum, only one unites with the egg-nucleus, the rest being absorbed by the cytoplasm of the ovum. Immediately the spermatic filament impinges upon the ovum, the latter sends from its periphery the receptive emi- nence, into which the head and middle piece penetrate, the tail, no longer of service, being cast off. In Physa fontinalis, and in the Bat, however, the whole spermatic filament, as a rule, enters the ovum. The middle-piece becomes indistin- guishable by radiations that appear and the head, now the sperm-nucleus, moves toward the center of the ovum. The sperm-nucleus and the egg-nucleus now lie side-by-side. In each the nuclear membrane disappears and the chromatin is arranged as the close skein, then the loose skein, and finally as chromosomes. The 12 chromosomes of each thus form separate groups arranged beside each other, the chro- mosomes not mixing until the segmentation-nucleus has di- vided. There is now formed an achromatic spindle, the asters of which are supplied by the centrosome either of the spermatic filament or of the ovum, or else from one arising de novo, according to different views. About the equatorial20 DEVELOPMENT plate of this achromatic spindle assemble the chromosomes— the 12 paternal arrayed on one side, and the 12 maternal on the other. This figure constitutes the segmentation-nucleus. In the metaphase each group of chromosomes undergoes longitudinal cleavage, so that there are 24 paternal half- chromosomes, and 24 maternal half-chromosomes. The fer- tilized ovum now divides into two cells, the primary blasto- meres, each of which receives 12 paternal half-chromosomes and 12 maternal half-chromosomes, so that each finally con- tains 24 chromosomes, the number constant for the human species. Thus, the purposes of maturation and of spermato- genesis are fulfilled. And in all subsequent mitoses 24 chromosomes are found. Segmentation. Segmentation is the process inaugurated by the division of the fertilized ovum into two new cells, and eventuates ulti- mately in the formation of a new being. The two cells, termed blastomeres, divide into four, the four into eight, and the eight into sixteen, this binary division continuing until the tendency to subdivision is temporarily arrested. There is thus formed a mass of cells termed the morula, which is en- closed within the zona radiata, and which is about the same size as the ovum that it has replaced. The morula is a solid, compact, spherical mass of cells that resembles a mulberry. The number of cells it contains is unknown, but the number of cells ultimately derived from it (i. e., in an adult man) has been computed at 26,500,000,000,000. i • Types of Segmentation. T. Complete (Holoblastic • ova). • ha) Equal (Amphioxus and 1 mammals, except Mono- tremes). - b) Unequal (Amphibi- t'.-T ; ans, Cyclostomes). II. Partial (Meroblastic ova). a) Discoidal (Birds, Rep tiles, Monotremes). b) Superficial (Insects),FORMATION OF GERM LAYERS 2k A holoblastic ovum is one in which the entire ovum with all the yolk is included in the process of segmentation. When equal, it occurs in homolecithal ova. The human egg, there- fore, is a homolecithal holoblastic ovum. The eggs of the Amphioxus present the simplest and purest type of complete equal segmentation. When unequal, it occurs in moderately telolecithal ova. Here the formative cells at the animal pole multiply more rapidly than the cells at the vegetative pole, the latter being retarded by the accumulation of the yolk. In this form the animal pole is above and the vegetative pole below, this position being due to the heavier weight of the deutoplasm over the ooplasm. A meroblastic ovum is one in which only part of the ovum is included in the process of segmentation. Partial discoidal segmentation occurs in telolecithal ova in which the vegetative pole is bulky. The inertia of this deutoplasm retards division at the vegetative pole, so that it is only with- in the limited extent of the animal pole that active prolifera- tion occurs. Partial superficial segmentation occurs in cen- trolecithal ova, in which the peripheral ooplasm alone seg- ments. Formation of Germ Layers. % Certain cells of the morula divide more rapidly, take a superficial position, and come to cover and enclose the re- mainder. There is thus early distinguished a peripheral layer and a central mass. Some of the cells in the latter grad- ually vacuolate, forming within the morula a cavity termed the blastocele, which is occupied by prolymph. This vacuolization represents a belated formation of yolk, and the blastocele is equivalent to the yolk-mass of an ovum such as the reptilian. The blastocele gradually in- creases in size until the morula, from being a solid sphere, becomes a vesicle whose wall, the peripheral layer, is com- posed of but a single thickness of cells. The morula, thus modified, has become the blastocyst (blastodermic vesicle). The blastocyst is composed of trophoblast and an inner cell-mass. The trophoblast represents the single peripheral layer of cells that forms its wall. The trophoblast (nourish-DEVELOPMENT 22 ing layer), while taking no part in the building up of the em - bryo, yet forms a bond of union between the latter and the maternal tissues, thus nourishing the embryo, as its name impli es. The inner cell-mass is that part of the central mass of the morula that has been spared liquefaction. Attached to the inner surface of the trophoblast at one spot, the embryonic spot, it projects as a rounded knob of cells into the cavity of the blastocyst. From it are eventually derived the embryo, yolk-sac, and amnion. The blastocyst is l-120th. of an inch in diameter. Within a short space of time the blastocyst increases to l-25th. of an inch in diameter, so quickly that the trophoblast is flattened out from rapid stretching. The tropho- blastic cells directly overlying the inner cell-mass are termed cells of Rauber. From the pressure consequent upon the rapid proliferation of its cells, as well as from the great ex- pansion of the trophoblast, the inner cell-mass erupts through the overlying cells of Rauber, causing them to dis- appear. The inner cell-mass in this way reaches the surface and its margins, which correspond with those of the em- bryonic spot formed by it, are continuous with the tropho- blast. The wall of the blastocyst at this stage, then, is formed by trophoblast except at the embryonic spot, where it is formed by the inner cell-mass. From the part of the inner cell-mass next the cavity of the blastocyst, a layer of cells is split off to form the ento- blast. (The suffix “blast” is a designation for a formative cell, and is used in many combinations with a prefix denoting the structure which it produces). This forms a small, closed sac, the vitelline sac, which is separated from the tropho- blastic wall by a space, made larger by the rapid expansion of the latter. The remainder of the inner cell-mass, which is left after splitting off of the entoblast, is termed ectoblast. Vacuola- tion of the core of the ectoblast gives rise to the amniotic cavity. The ectoblast roofing in this cavity is termed amni- otic ectoblast, whilst that forming its floor is the embryonic ectoblast, since it participates in the formation of the em- bryo. This is the stage of the bilaminar blastocyst. In Coelenterata, differentiation does not pass beyond this stage. A third layer, the mesoblast, soon appears and insinu-FORMATION OF GERM LAYERS 23 ates itself between the ectoblast and entoblast in a manner to be described presently. This is the stage of the trilaminar blastocyst. Concerning the origin of the mesoblast, no defi- nite statement can be made. According to some it arises from the entoblast, whilst others dispose of it as having an* obscure origin near the primitive streak (q. v.). From the layers of the trilaminar blastocyst are derived all the tissues of the body. The cells of the ectoblast and entoblast are characterized by being closely packed together, and by having a meagre amount of intercellular substance. The cells of the mesoblast, on the other hand, are more loose- ly arranged, and the amount of intercellular substance is large. Each layer has a definite physiological task to fulfil. The ectoblast is protective, clothing the body as the epi- dermis of the skin. The mesoblast is supportive, forming the great mass of connective tissue. The entoblast is nutritive, forming the gastropulmonary system. These statements are very general when it is considered that from the ectoblast is also derived the entire nervous system; from the meso- blast, such important systems as the muscular, circulatory, and urinary; and from the entoblast, the liver and pancreas. A study of the purest type of blastocyst, that of the Am- phioxus, reveals a simpler development. It might be said here that the Amphioxus serves a most important purpose in the studies of embryology and histology. Its cells are almost diagrammatic in definition. It is the lowest verte- brate known, and is, therefore, the connecting link between Vertebrata and Invertebrata. Its blastula, which is the im- mediate product of segmentation, consists, in the first in- stance, of a hollow sphere containing fluid and lined by but a single layer of cells. At one place it invaginates upon itself so as to resemble a two-layered cup, of which the non-invag- mated layer is the ectoblast, and the invaginated layer the entoblast. These two layers come into apposition, thereby obliterating the blastocele between them. This bilaminar cup is the gastrula, and the cavity of the cup is the archent- eron. The passageway by which the archenteron communi- cates with the exterior is the blastopore. Near the latter, the mesoblast arises from the entoblast. While it is probable that this process of gastrulation occurs more or less exten- sively in all types, in many it is traced with the greatest dif-24 DEVELOPMENT ficulty, and in but few is it so clearly exemplified as in the Amphioxus. The telolecithal eggs of Amphibians, when floated on water, present the darkly-pigmented pole uppermost, since the vegetative pole, composed of yolk-cells, is the heavier. In these eggs gastrulation may be readily observed, the yolk- cells being extruded through the blastopore as the yolk-plug. Gastrulation in the higher mammals is most atypical and has not been established beyond peradventure. Seen from the surface, the blastocyst at this stage ex- hibits two areas—embryonic and extra-embryonic. The em- bryonic area corresponds to the site of the embryonic spot, and is determined by the connection retained between the inner cell-mass and the trophoblast during the transforma- tion of the morula into the blastocyst. The extra-embryonic area comprises the remainder of the wall of the blastocyst, and therefore corresponds to the trophoblast. From being round the embryonic area soon becomes pear-shaped, the. blunter end forming the cephalic pole, and the more pointed end the caudal pole. The pear-shaped embryonic area is now termed the embryonic shield. This, by transmitted light, ap- pears as a dark, central field surrounded by a lighter ring, the area pellucida. Since the former is the seat of more active cell-proliferation, it naturally cuts off more light than the latter. Some of the ectoblastic cells near the caudal pole of the embryonic shield thicken to form the embryonic crescent, and from this clump of cells the primitive streak develops. Primitive Streak. The primitive streak is a linear shading of the embry- onic shield extending from the embryonic crescent at the caudal pole forward toward the center. It is produced by proliferation of ectoblastic cells resulting in a keel-shaped thickening. Although but transient, yet it determines the long axis of the embryo. It becomes deeply indented by a furrow, the primitive groove. Near the center of the em- bryonic shield the primitive streak ends in an ectoblastic thickening—the node of Hensen. At this node, the threeNEURAL CANAL 25 layers of the blastocyst are fused, and some think that the mesoblast arises from cells budded off from the ectoblastic cells of the primitive streak in this situation. When speaking of gastrulation, it was intimated that this process in higher mammals is atypical. There appears early in the human embryo a fissure at the head-end of the primitive streak. Soon converted into a canal, it opens into the vitelline sac. It is termed the neurenteric canal, and is merely a temporary structure, its remains being represented in the adult by the anal dimple. Its opening is probably homologous with a blastopore, and Hertwig and others be- lieve the primitive streak itself represents an elongated blastopore, the lips of which are fused. Fundamental Embryological Processes. While the primitive streak was but temporary, though sufficing to indicate the future axis of the embryo, the first manifestation of permanent structures is presented by forma- tion of the neural canal, the notochord, and the mesoblastic somites. Neural Canal. A median longitudinal groove appears on the surface of the embryo toward its head-end and in front of the primi- tive streak. This is the medullary groove. The groove is produced by thickening of ectoblastic cells on each side of the axis, resulting in longitudinal ridges, the medullary folds. The folds, directed dorsally, meet anteriorly and diverge be- hind, where they enclose the anterior end of the primitive streak. The medullary folds increase in height, incline to- ward one another until they come into contact, and fuse from before backward, so that the medullary groove is converted into the neural canal. In fusing posteriorly, they incorporate the cells of the primitive streak, thus effacing the latter as a separate structure. The neural canal soon becomes sep- arated from the surface-ectoblast. The neural canal gives rise to all the fundamental parts of the nervous system, including its supporting tissue and26 DEVELOPMENT the peripheral nerves. While the canal is yet open behind, there appear at its closed cephalic end three bulgings, the primary cerebral vesicles, from which develop the fore-brain, the mid-brain, and the hind-brain, respectively. The first cerebral vesicle gives rise to a dilatation, the optic vesicle, which is the anlage of the retina. The neural crest develops from cells at the line of fusion of the medullary folds, and gives origin to the dorsal spinal ganglia. Notochord. The notochord (back-cord) is a cylindrical rod of ento- blastic cells lying in the axis of the embryo subjacent to the neural canal. It is formed while the medullary groove is still open. The entoblast underlying this groove thickens into a plate which soon becomes curved, the concavity be- ing on its under surface. The curve increases so that the edges of the plate approach one another and fuse. This results in a tube, but the lumen is soon obliterated by en- largement of its bounding cells. With the fusion of the edges, the general entoblastic layer is brought together and again forms an unbroken sheet immediately subjacent to the notochord. The anterior end of the notochord corresponds to the future site of the body of the sphenoid bone. From here it extends the whole length of the embryo, terminating at the future site of the tip of the coccyx. Hence, it may readily be concluded that the notochord is a form upon which the spinal column is moulded. When this is accomplished, the notochord disappears, traces of it remaining in the center of each intervertebral disk only. While but transient in higher animals, in the amphioxus the notochord is permanent and is the only axial skeleton it possesses. In Fishes, the axial skeleton never gets beyond the cartilaginous stage, but in higher animals it reaches the bony stage. Since the notochord falls short of the neural canal an- teriorly, the overextension of the latter is distinguished as the prechordal portion.27 MESOBLASTIC SOMITES Mesoblastic Somites. The mesoblast on each side of the notochord thickens by a dorsal upgrowth to occupy the spaces left by the upris- ing of the medullary folds. Thus, there are formed two pyramidal bars of mesoblast, one on each side of the neural canal, which, together, constitute the paraxial mesoblast. This extends longitudinally from the head-end to the tail- end and, as its name implies, on each side of the axis of the embryo. The mesoblast then gradually thins off laterally as the lateral mesoblast (lateral plates). The paraxial mesoblast is soon divided, by a series of transverse constrictions, into block-like masses, the meso- blastic somites. The first pair is formed in the region of the hind-brain, corresponding to the future site of the junction between the head and trunk. From here they are produced in succession from before backward. While thus confined to the trunk area, cephalic somites are theoretically present. Longitudinal grooves encroach upon the junction between the paraxial and lateral mesoblast to such an extent that connection is retained only by a contracted strand of cells, the intermediate mesoblast (intermediate cell-mass). This is eventually separated from the larger blocks of the somites and, as the excretory ducts of the Wolffian body are after- ward laid down in it, it receives the name nephrotome. The lateral mesoblast extends outward as two layers, the parietal layer and the visceral layer, which enclose the celom (body-cavity). The parietal layer associates itself with the ectoblast to form the somatopleure, whilst the vis- ceral layer joins with the entoblast to form the splanchno- pleure. To put it more simply, the parietal layer grows over the amniotic sac, and the visceral layer grows over the vitel- line sac. These processes will be made clearer when the fetal membranes are discussed. In lower mammals the lateral mesoblast is split into its two layers by the formation within its substance of a cav- ity, from the union of a series of cleft-like spaces. In Pri- mates (an order now limited, as Hubrecht recently proposed, so as to include only man, Apes and Tarsius), however, the lateral mesoblast extends almost from the first in two layers.DEVELOPMENT 28 Each mesoblastic somite consists of two parts, the so- mite proper and the intermediate mesoblast. The fate of the latter has been described. The former presents a peri- pheral myotome enclosing a central sclerotome. The lower, inner wall of the myotome breaks away and the loosely- packed cells of the sclerotome stream out around the noto- chord and neural canal forming, with those of the opposite side, the early vertebral column. The myotome itself presents an outer condensed layer, the cutis-plate, and an inner, looser layer, the muscle-plate. The former produces the corium of the skin, whilst the latter gives origin to all the striated musculature. The Fetal Membranes in Lower Types. The fetal membranes nurture and protect the embryo, and serve it as an organ of respiration. They are three in number and are called the amnion, allantois and chorion. As a comparative study, the general development of these in the lower types will be considered first, and then specializa- tions peculiar to man will be taken up. The Amnion. In Birds and Reptiles the formation of the amnion is fa- cilitated by three factors, the most important of which is the third:— (1) Liquefaction of the yolk in the vitelline sac, whereby (2) The growing embryo, becoming heavier, sinks, thus aiding (3) The dorsal extension of folds or duplicatures of the somatopleure. Between the embryo and the dorsally extending soma- topleure there appear four grooves, the anterior marginal, lateral and posterior marginal, the outer elevated edges of which form respectively the four folds, or duplicatures:— (1) Head-fold. (2) Lateral fold. (3) Lateral fold. (4) Tail-fold.29 THE PRIMITIVE CHORION The grooves, coalescing, form one continuous furrow, which circumscribes the embryonic area; and the folds unite into the amnion fold, which corresponds to the outer ele- vated edge of the continuous furrow. This groove, approaching the vitelline sac, gradually involves the splanchnopleure in addition to the somato- pleure, and thus constitutes the inverted fold of these two structures which grow in to form, respectively, the wall of the digestive tube and the body-wall, whilst the amnion fold is composed of somatopleure alone. The amnion fold continues to grow dorsally, its edges finally meeting and fusing over the dorsum of the embryo, the line of union being the amniotic suture; the head-fold growing more rapidly than the others, this suture closes first at the head-end and last at the tail-end. After the union of the edges of the fold, its inner layer, consisting of ectoblast and parietal mesoblast, separates from its outer layer to constitute the true amnion, the enclosed space of which is the amniotic cavity; the outer layer, on the other hand, forms the primitive chorion (false amnion or serosa). In consequence of this folding it will readily be seen that there occurs an inversion of layers, so that the amniotic cavity is lined with ectoblast and clothed with parietal mesoblast; but that the primitive chorion, on the contrary, is clothed with ectoblast and lined with parietal mesoblast. Later on, the amniotic sac rapidly expands and in the Chick undergoes rhythmical contractions. It contains a fluid, the liquor amnii, which supports and protects, but does not nurture, the embryo. The Primitive Chorion. As already stated, the primitive chorion consists of an outer ectoblastic layer, and an inner lamella of mesoblastic tissue. Proliferation of the epithelium of the ectoblastic layer causes little bud-like projections to jut forth, and into these the mesoblastic tissue grows, thus forming villi. The primitive chorion early serves as a bond of union between embryo and mother, and later enters into the formation of the placenta.DEVELOPMENT 30 The Vitelline Sac. By approximation of the splanchnopleure, a portion of the entodermic sac is constricted to form the primitive di- gestive-tube, the rest of the entodermic sac remaining as the vitelline sac. The digestive-tube separates from the ento- dermic sac, first at the head-end, and then at the tail-end, and the intervening portion remains freely joined to the mid- dle part of the digestive-tube. As the vitelline sac decreases in size, the communication between it and the digestive-tube dwindles down to the vitelline duct. In animals which depend upon the contents of the vitel- line sac for their nutrition, vitelline vessels develop, run into the wall of the vitelline sac, and take up the liquefied yolk. In man and other mammals provided with a well-developed * placenta, however, the vitelline sac remains as a vestigial structure. The Allantois and the Chorion. The allantois is an embryonic structure found in those vertebrates that possess an amnion. With its growth, the vitelline sac retrogresses, and, with the chorion, it supplants the latter as the organ of nutrition and of respiration. From the ventral wall at the caudal end of the digestive- tube the allantois develops as an evagination or outpocket- ing, which forms a little pedunculated sac. The peduncle is called the allantoic stalk. Being an evagination from the digestive-tube, the allantois is lined with entoblast and clothed with visceral mesoblast. Entering the exocelom between the amnion and the vitelline sac, the allantois expands with great rapidity, and applies itself to the inner (mesoblastic) surface of the primfi tive chorion, with which it intimately blends to form the true chorion. The allantoic circulation soon develops, and consists of two allantoic arteries and two allantoic veins, which grow out in the mesoblastic stratum of the allantois and ramify in its walls. The allantoic arteries carry from the embryo venous blood to the maternal tissues, from which it is re-CLASSIFICATION OF VERTEBRATES 31 turned, oxygenated, by the allantoic veins. From being the depository of excreta from the early Wolffian body, the al- lantois has now become an important organ of respiration. The vascular tissue of the allantois penetrates into the villi of the chorion, which are now more extensively developed. These vascularized chorionic villi come into relation with the uterine mucosa with degrees of intimacy varying with the species. In some animals, including man, the true chor- ion and hypertrophied uterine mucosa fuse to form the deciduae, which, with the specialized placenta, are expelled at the termination of labor as the after-birth. It is significant that the three structures formed directly or indirectly by the splanchnopleure with its enclosed cavity of the entodermic sac—namely, the primary gut-tract, the vitelline sac, and the allantois—are all concerned in respira- tion and nutrition. While the vitelline sac and the allantois are only temporary structures, yet the primary gut-tract per- sists and later forms the permanent organ of nutrition and gives rise, secondarily, to the permanent organ or respira- tion. Classification of Vertebrates. Although the fetal membranes are not present in all ver- tebrates, yet in those in which they do exist, they present certain characteristics, so that vertebrates may be classified accordingly. I. Anamnia, in which fetal membranes are absent, e. g.r Fish and Amphibia. II. Amniota, in which fetal membranes, including am- nion, allantois and chorion, are present. A. Sauropsida, or egg-laying animals, e. g. Birds and Reptiles. B. Mammalia, or young-bearing animals. (a) Achoria, in which a distinct chorion never forms, as Monotremes and Marsupials. Such embryos are readily removed, and put into the marsupial pouch. (b) Choriata, in which a chorion is developed, and is provided with villi. (1) Aplacentalia, in which the chorionic villi are uni- formly distributed, and are received merely in little pits in the endometrium, e. g. Hog and Horse.32 DEVELOPMENT (2) Placentalia, in which a placental area is developed. (a) Multiple form (cotyledons), in Ruminants, e. g. Sheep, Cow. (b) Zonular form, in Carnivora, e. g. Dog, Cat. (c) Discoidal form, e. g. Rodents, Apes, man (Pri- mates). The Human Fetal Membranes. The human amniotic cavity appears very early as a small chink which rapidly enlarges into a cavity by pushing the embryo away from the trophoblast. The embryo at this stage consists of an inner cell mass occupying the em- bryonic area of the blastocyst. The wall of the blastocyst is composed of a layer of ectoblastic cells known as the trophoblast (nutrient layer), so designated because it soon thickens in order early to establish nutritional relations be- tween the embryo and the mother in advance of the forma- tion of the placenta. The inner cell mass soon divides into ectoblast and entoblast, and the distinction between the embryonic (formative) ectoblast and the amniotic ectoblast should now be apparent. It is between these two ectoblasts that the amniotic cavity appears. The roof of the latter, therefore, is formed by the amniotic ectoblast, and the floor by the embryonic ectoblast. Thus, in man the amniotic cavity is, from the beginning, a closed sac. The mesoblast now develops, and by its rapid growth brings about most important changes in the blastocyst. It separates from the amniotic ectoblast a layer of cells as a covering for the amniotic cavity; it also grows around the entoblastic sac and lines the trophoblast, the space between these two laminae constituting the exocelom. The blasto- cyst now consists of three sheets of cells and three cavities. The latter include the amniotic cavity, the cavity of the vitelline (entoblastic) sac, and the exocelom. The ecto- blastic sheet includes the amniotic ectoblast, and the embry- onic ectoblast. The mesoblast surrounds the three cavities, but is separated from the amniotic cavity by the amniotic ectoblast above and by the embryonic ectoblast below; from the cavity of the vitelline sac by the entoblast; while it sur-PECULIARITIES OF THE HUMAN FETAL MEMBRANES 33 rounds directly the exocelom. The mesoblast, which has cloven the amniotic ectoblast, is now cloven in turn by ex* tension into it of the exocelom. By this process the meso- blast above the amniotic cavity is divided into two lamellae, of which one lines the trophoblast in this area, and the other covers over the amniotic ectoblast. The trophoblast with its lining of somatic mesoblast now constitutes the primitive chorion. The wall of the amniotic sac is now complete, and consists of amniotic ectoblast covered over by somatic meso- blast. The mesoblast at the caudal end of the embryo, how- ever, successfully resists, and therefore terminates, the extension of the exocelom at that spot, and this mesoblast remains as a bond of union between the embryo and the primitive chorion. This bond of union is named body- stalk. Into the body-stalk, and completely surrounded by it, grows the allantois, an outpouching from the caudal end of the entoblastic sac. A constriction of the vitelline sac separates an embryonic portion, the primitive gut-tract, from a distal portion, the umbilical vesicle, and then persists as the umbilical duct. It is evident that all the important changes just men- tioned were controlled by the mesoblast. Furthermore, the body-stalk has determined the site of the umbilical cord and of the placenta. Expansion of the amniotic sac compresses the amnion against the primitive chorion, and further en- largement approximates the cephalic portion of the amnion to the caudal, with the necessary result that the body-stalk with the allantois, the umbilical vesicle with its duct, a snared-off portion of the exocelom, and the amniotic folds themselves are all fused together into the umbilical cord. The snared-off portion of exocelom is later obliterated by adhesions of the mesoblast in the cord. Peculiarities of the Human Fetal Membranes. (1) Amnion formed by an early vacuolation of the ecto- blast. (2) Precocious development and extension of the meso- blast and exocelom. (3) Formation of the body-stalk. 334 DEVELOPMENT (4) Absence of a free allantois. (5) Rapid functional development of the trophoblast. The Human Amnion. The peculiar formation of the human amnion has been described. The amniotic sac increases in size by growth of the fetus and by increase in the amount of liquor amnii. The latter is contributed both by the maternal and by the fetal tissues, and serves to protect the fetus and to bathe its tissues in water. As it increases in amount it brings the amnion into contact with the chorion. Towards the end of pregnancy it is decreased in amount by the rapid growth of the fetus. At this time, too, the fetus swallows the fluid, and expels urine and meconium into it. The Umbilical Vesicle. The umbilical vesicle (human yolk-sac) is the remains of the distal portion of the vitelline sac after the latter has become constricted by rapid elongation of the embryo as described above. It and its blood-vessels, the vitelline ves- sels, while well-developed and of nutritional importance in Birds, are insignificant in size and merely vestigial in the human fetus, since in the latter the allantoic-placental cir- culation is so precociously established. As the amnion and body-stalk increase in size, the umbilical vesicle gradually decreases until, by the sixth week, it is very much atrophied, and at birth it is about the size of a grape-seed and is situated near the placental insertion of the umbilical cord, between the amnion and the chorion. The umbilical duct, which connects the umbilical vesicle with the primitive gut, is rapidly elongated by the expanding amnion and finally atrophies and disappears. In about 2% of cases, however, its proximal portion remains patent and persists after birth as Meekers diverticulum. When pres- ent, this diverticulum springs from the free border of the jejuno-ileum about 32 inches above the ileocecal valve, is usually about 2 inches in length, and has a diameter equal to that of the bowel.35 IMPLANTATION OF THE EMBRYONIC VESICLE The Human Chorion. The chorion forms the wall of the embryonic vesicle, and consists of the somatic layer of mesoblast covered over by trophoblast. From the trophoblastic layer of the chor- ion, villi project at a very early stage. At first uniformly distributed over the surface of the embryonic vesicle, form- ing for it a diffuse placenta, later, those villi in close relation with the umbilical cord hypertrophy, and form the chorion frondosum. The villi not so related atrophy, and this extra- placental portion of the chorion is termed the chorion leve. Into each of the hypertrophied villi grows a core of the somatic mesoblast, and each core carries with it the allantoic blood-vessels. Each chorionic villus, therefore, consists of a covering of trophoblast, a core of mesoblast, and a tuft of allantoic blood-vessels. The outer layer of the trophoblast specializes into the syncytium, a thin layer of cells, possess- ing no distinct cell-walls. In their further development the chorionic villi become considerably branched, penetrate the surrounding maternal tissues, receive the maternal blood- spaces between trabeculae, and rapidly develop intimate re- lations between the allantoic blood-vessels and the maternal blood sinues, thereby aiding to establish the allantoic-placen- tal circulation. At no time is there a direct communication between the allantoic and the placental circulations, however, the syncytium, which always intervenes between them, be- ing sufficiently thin to permit of respirative and nutritive interchanges between the fetus and mother. Implantation of the Embryonic Vesicle. Upon completion of the fundamental embryological processes in the oviduct, the embryonic vesicle, retarded by the plications, but aided by the cilia of the tube, reaches the uterus, in the upper, posterior part of whose wall—usu- ally near a cornu—it implants itself. The contact of the embryonic vesicle causes solution of the. endometrium by corrosion of its epithelium. As it sinks into the mucosa it opens up a few of the capillaries36 DEVELOPMENT lying therein, and from this source a blood-clot forms in the wake of the vesicle and keeps it captive where it has sunk. The Endometrium and its Changes in Pregnancy. The normal endometrium measures about 1mm. in thickness, and consists of epithelium, tunica propria, and muscularis mucosae. The epithelium is formed by a single layer of columnar cells which extends down into the glands of the tunica propria. Patches of ciliated epithelium may exist when the uterus is quiescent and between menstrual epochs. The tunica propria is formed of delicate bundles of fibrous tissue intermingled with some elastic fibers ana many leucocytes. It contains numerous slightly wavy tub- ular glands whose deep ends extend into the muscular coat. The muscularis mucosae is so extensively developed that a submucosa is entirely lacking. While the embryonic vesicle is descending the oviduct, the endometrium is preparing for its reception. The epi- thelium atrophies and disappears from the surface of the endometrium and from the glands except at their fundus, where it is retained. The fibrous tissue of the tunica propria increases in amount, and its cells proliferate to form large, round cells, the decidual cells. The parts of the uterine glands nearest the surface of the endometrium elongate, while their middle and proximal parts enlarge. The blood- vessels dilate, so that the endometrium is much increased in vascularity. All these changes cause hypertrophy of the endometrium from its normal thickness of 1mm. to 10 times that size, or 1cm. This hypertrophy is most prominent where the embryonic vesicle has embedded itself, and here two layers may be recognized, an inner compact and an outer spongy. Later on in pregnancy, pressure of the grow- ing fetus upon the greater part of the changed endometrium condenses the compact and spongy layers still more, until their combined thickness is scarcely over 2mm.. By this time all traces of glands in the compact layer have disap- peared, but in the spongy layer the fundi of the glands, though compressed from side to side, yet remain dilated, and it is from these that the endometrium is regenerated after the termination of labor.THE HUMAN PLACENTA 37 The Deciduae. The term decidua means, literally, a falling off. The endometrium, when modified by pregnancy as described above, becomes the decidua because, with the exception of the glands spared in the deeper parts of the spongy layer, it is shed with the after-birth. The decidua specializes into three parts, namely the decidua capsularis, the decidua placentalis, and the decidua vera. The decidua capsularis forms at the site of the blood clot which is present after the embryonic vesicle has embedded itself. It therefore overlies the latter and juts out into the uterine cavity. As the contents of the pregnant uterus in- crease the decidua capsularis is greatly expanded, is pushed against the decidua vera, and finally is wholly absorbed. The chorion leve, therefore, is now in contact with the de- cidua vera. The decidua placentalis is that part of the decidua upon which the embryonic vesicle lies, and from which the pla- centa is subsequently formed. It is therefore the most im- portant of the three deciduae. It is situated between the blastocyst and the uterine wall. It is characterized by the presence of giant cells which appear towards the latter part of pregnancy and tend to gather about the blood-vessels. It is in the decidua placentalis that the chorion frondosum undergoes its complete development, as described above. The decidua vera constitutes the remainder of the de- cidua, or that part which lines the uterus outside the site of the embedded embryonic vesicle. It is best developed near the latter and least developed near the cervix. It later thins out greatly, as^ described above. The Human Placenta. The human placenta represents the highest specializa- tion of an apparatus for bringing the fetal blood into inti- mate relation with the blood of the mother, and is the organ of nutrition and of respiration for the fetus during about the latter two-thirds of the period of gestation. It is formedDEVELOPMENT 38 in the third month of pregnancy, and results from the union of the chorion frondosum with the decidua placentalis. When fully formed it is discoidal and measures seven inches in diameter by two inches in thickness. It is usually at- tached to the uterus at the upper part of the posterior wall, near one of the oviducts. At times it attaches lower down, and extends partly or wholly over the mouth of the uterus, in which situation it is known as placenta previa. The maternal blood reaches the maternal blood-spaces through the dilated and elongated terminal branches of the uterine and ovarian arteries. After leaving the wall of the uterus, these branches penetrate the basal plate, a layer of condensed connective-tissue that intervenes be- tween the maternal blood-spaces and the area of separa- tion of the placenta. They enter the placental septa, which are processes prolonged from the basal plate into the pla- centa. They then pour their blood directly into the matern- al blood-spaces. Here the arterial blood bathes the chor- ionic villi and yields to the fetal blood its oxygen and sub- stances of nutrition. To reach the fetal blood, however, these substances must osmose through the syncytial layer of the trophoblast and the thin walls of the fetal capillaries. From these the maternal blood absorbs carbon dioxide and effete products, and these change it into venous blood. The venous blood is carried from the maternal blood-spaces by vessels which pass through the placental septa into the basal plate. From here large veins carry the blood to the marginal sinus, which is situated at the border of the pla- centa. From the marginal sinus the uterine veins convey the blood-stream into the systemic circulation of the mother. The arterialized blood travels to the fetus through the umbilical vein. Having supplied the fetus with its oxygen and substances of nutrition, the blood collects from the fetus carbon dioxid and effete products, and this venous blood circulates back to the chorionic villi through the umbilical arteries. New chorionic villi are constantly formed throughout the course of pregnancy. • '* i i ' « J k J- ' ' < > • . \ : ; ! '■ . * - 1 . '39 THE UTERUS IN PREGNANCY The Umbilical Cord. The formation of the umbilical cord has been consid- ered above with the human fetal membranes. The allantois disappears, but atrophic remains of it may be seen after birth near the navel.} The umbilical duct also disappears. With the metamorphosis of the chorion frondosum into the decidua placentalis, the allantoic blood-vessels become the umbilical vessels, of which two are arteries and one a vein. The umbilical cord at birth consists of:— (1) Amniotic sheath. (2) Jelly of Wharton. (3) Umbilical vessels. (4) Remains of allantois. The jelly of Wharton is a soft mesoblastic connective- tissue in which the umbilical vessels are embedded. It is clothed by the amniotic sheath. The umbilical cord, with a width of half-an-inch, is elongated by the growth of the amniotic sac to a length of two feet. It appears spirally twisted from left to right, probably from the coiling of its arteries, due to their ex- cessive growth. It is attached to the placenta usually near the fetal surface of that organ. There may be one or more true knots in the cord, from slipping of the fetus through a loop. The Uterus in Pregnancy. During pregnancy the uterus affords a sheltering place for the fetus and cares for its respiratory and nutritional requirements. During labor the uterus gives birth to the fetus and expels the after-birth. As the uterus enlarges with the growth of the fetus the muscle cells increase ten times in length and new mus- cular tissue is formed, and as pregnancy advances the uter- ine wall becomes greatly thinned out. After the middle of pregnancy, by enlargement of the amniotic sac and growth of the fetus, the uterine cavity is obliterated.40 DEVELOPMENT The After-Birth. The after-birth is composed of the placenta with the decidua vera, chorion, amnion, and umbilical cord. At about the end of the sixth month the amniotic fluid is so copious that it presses the amniotic sac closely against the chorion, which, in turn, covered by the remnants of the decidua capsularis, is forced into intimate relation with the decidua vera. The decidua capsularis is finally absorbed after undergoing coagulation necrosis, and the decidua vera is firmly bound to the chorion leve by connective tis- sue, and is separated from it with difficulty. The amniotic sac, on the other hand, is but loosely adherent to the inner surface of the chorion, from which it may be readily peeled off. The placenta separates from the uterus at the junction of the compact and spongy layers of the decidua placentalis. Its uterine surface is consequently rough and lobulated, these lobules, or cotyledons, being composed of groups of chorionic villi separated by the placental septa. The um- bilical cord is usually attached near the center. Regeneration of the uterine mucous membrane is ef- fected by proliferation of the epithelium of the glands next the muscularis mucosae, the integrity of which was pre- served throughout pregnancy. Origin of Multiple Conception. The uterus may harbor more than one fetus at the same time by any of the following causes:— (1) An ovum may be liberated from each ovary. In this case there is an attempt at the formation of two separate membranes. If these membranes come in close contact, there is usually an anastomosis between the two placentae, in which case one fetus may usurp the blood of the other, causing reversal of the circulation and malformations, such as the acephalic monster. (2) The two ova may be liberated from the same ovary, in which case there may be a common amniotic sac.41 DETERMINATION OF THE AGE AT VARIOUS STAGES (3) Derivation from a single ovum is due to cleavage of the nucleus of segmentation. In this way homologous twins and certain monsters arise. Frequency of Multiple Births. (Approximate.) Twins—1 in 100 In Saxony, 1 in 60. In Philadelphia, 1 in 120. Triplets—1 in 8000. Quadruplets—1 in 370,000. Quintuplets—about 5 authentic cases. Sextuplets—only two authentic cases. Of these multiple births more than one-third are males, and less than one-third females. Determination of the Age at Various Stages. The approximate age of an embryo or fetus may be estimated by the characters peculiar to each stage, and by the following rules:— I. Hasse’s Rules. By this method the age of the fetus is considered in lunar months. (1) I to V month, inclusive. The square of the age in months—the length in centimeters. Here the measure- ment is taken from the top of the head to the soles of the feet. Conversely, the month—the square root of the length in centimeters. Example:—A fetus 4 months old is 16cm. in length. (2) VI to X month. The length in centimeters—the age in months mutiplied by 5. Conversely, the age in months—one-fifth of the length in centimeters. Example: —A fetus 6 months old is 30cm. in length. II. Mall’s Formula. This method applies to young embryos. The length here means merely the longest diameter. (1) Up to 100mm. in length, the age in days—the square root of 100 x length in millimeters.42 DEVELOPMENT (2) From 100 to 200mm., the age in days—the vertex- breech length in millimeters. Changes in Form of the Fetus. The ante-natal life of a human may be divided into three stages—that of the blastocyst, that of the embryo, and that of the fetus. I. The Stage of the Blastocyst.—This stage occupies the first two weeks, or the time between fecundation and the •differentiation of the germ-layers. In it fertilization, seg- mentation, and the formation of the blastocyst are com- pleted, and the formation of the neural canal, notochord, and mesoblastic somites is begun. At the end of this stage the blastocyst measures 8.5mm. by 6.5mm., and the embry- onic shield 1.54mm. II. The Stage of the Embryo.—This occupies from the second to the fifth week. During this period the ovum assumes well-marked characteristics of the embryo, and, at the close, all the embryological structures are formed. The axis-curvature is most pronounced about the twenty- third day and forms somewhat more than a complete circle. After this, by increased growth of the head and heart a gradual unfolding occurs about the twenty-sixth day, dur- ing which unfolding four flexures may be recognized:—a cephalic, a cervical, a dorsal, and a sacral, and by the twenty- eighth day the full-bloom embryological form is assumed. At the end of this stage the embryo measures, from neck to breech, about 12mm. III. The Stage of the Fetus.—From the fifth week to birth. From now on growth has to do only with the forma- tion and perfection of permanent structures. By the sixth week the human fetus may be differentiated from the fetus of other species by the relatively enormous development of the head end. By the eighth week the permanent organs are all present, though not perfected. This is the period of great- est relative growth. By the fourth month the sex of the fetus can be recognized. In the fifth month fetal movements appear. The sixth month is the period of greatest absolute growth, and is the earliest month that a child is viable.43 THE VISCERAL ARCHES AND FURROWS At birth the child measures about 20 inches from vertex to heels, and weighs about 7 pounds. Development of the Limbs. The limbs develop from little bud-like processes that spring from two lateral longitudinal ridges, situated one on each side of the body. They appear about the twenty-second day. During the fifth week each limb-bud is divided into three segments, of which the proximal becomes the arm or thigh, the middle the forearm or leg, and the distal the hand or foot. The digits are marked out by four longitudinal par- allel grooves on the distal segment of each limb-bud. By conversion of these grooves into clefts the fingers and. toes begin to separate in the sixth week, and are well-formed in the seventh. The fingers are formed somewhat sooner than the toes. Position of the Limbs. At first with their axes parallel with the long axis of the embryo, later rotation of the extremities in opposite direc- tions occurs. The upper extremity is rotated outward and backward through an arc of 45 degrees, and the lower ex- tremity, inward and forward. The Visceral Arches and Furrows. During the third week the visceral arches appear on the sides of the head, and reach their highest development. These arches are inherited structures that in Fish are lined by capil- lary blood-vessels and form the respiratory apparatus (gills). In the higher types the terrestrial habit is established, so that these structures become somewhat modified in their future growth. In man and other mammals there are five visceral arches between which are four grooves both externally and inter- nally. The external grooves are termed the visceral furrows, and the internal, the pharyngeal pouches. Structurally, theDEVELOPMENT 44 visceral arches consist of thickened masses of mesoblastic tissue covered externally by ectoblast, and internally by en- toblast. Cross-section of the visceral arches shows that the grooves between them do not become distinct clefts, this be- ing prevented by the ectoblast externally and the entoblast internally. Each arch supports a blood-vessel, the aortic bow, of which, therefore, there are five pairs. The ultimate fate of these will be considered in the chapter dealing with the blood-vessels. Fate of the Visceral Arches. The first or mandibular arch divides into two processes, the maxillary above, and the mandibular below. The maxil- lary processes unite with each other and with the fronto- nasal process to form the upper jaw, while the mandibular processes join to form the lower jaw. Part of the cartilage of this arch forms the incus and the malleus, and the re- mainder, known as Meckel's cartilage, disappears later. The second or hyoid arch contains cartilage which forms the crura of the stapes, the styloid process, the stylo-hyoid ligament, and the lesser cornu of the hyoid bone. That part of the cartilage from which the last-named structure de- velops is known as Reichert's cartilage. The third arch, by means of its cartilage, forms the body and greater cornu of the hyoid bone. The fourth and fifth arches disappear. Fate of the Visceral Furrows and Pharyngeal Pouches. The first visceral furrow, or hyomandibular cleft, gives rise to the external auditory meatus. The second, third, and fourth visceral furrows disap- pear. The first pharyngeal pouch forms the Eustachian tube and middle ear, and the layer of mesoblast that separates it from the first visceral furrow forms the membrana tympani. The second pharyngeal pouch, perhaps, determines the site of the fossa of Rosenmuller.45 DEVELOPMENT OF THE FACE The third and fourth pharyngeal pouches give origin to the thymus and thyroid bodies, respectively. The latter body originates in part, also, from the entoblast near the sec- ond visceral arch. The parathyroids arise from both pouches. Development of the Face. The mandibular processes of the first visceral arch, as mentioned above, unite to form the lower jaw. The fronto- nasal process, descending from above, shows on each side an olfactory pit. It then soon divides on each side into two nasal processes, a mesial, and a lateral. The former bounds the olfactory pit internally, and the latter bounds it exter- nally. The maxillary arches of the two sides unite anteriorly with the fronto-nasal process, and thus is formed the upper boundary of the mouth. The mesial nasal processes form the septum nasi, the philtrum of the upper lip, and the in- termaxillary part of the superior maxilla. The olfactory pits become the anterior nares, and the lateral nasal proc- esses form the alae of the nose. Arrested development of these processes, such as may be caused by the interposition of a fold of amnion, results in deformities like hare-lip and cleft palate.CHAPTER II. MICROSCOPIC ANATOMY. The tissues of the body are resolvable into four ele- mentary groups:— (1) Epithelial. (2) Connective (including blood and lymph cor- puscles). (3) Muscular. (4) Nervous. Each of these groups consists of cells and intercellular substance. The cells are descendants of embryonal elements from the ovum. The intercellular substance is formed bv the cells. Of the three primary blastodermic layers, the ectoblast and entoblast are rich in cells, but poor in intercel- lular substance, so that they are compact. The mesoblast, on the other hand, is in the main poor in cells and rich in in- tercellular substance, with the result that its cells are char- acterized by being loosely put together. Epithelial Tissue. \ Epithelial, the most archaic of tissues, consists of cells placed side by side and separated, usually, from the under- lying connective tissue by a basement membrane, a contri- bution of the latter tissue. While possessing no blood-ves- sels, epithelium is nourished through its intercellular clefts, which ensure its always being bathed in lymph. It is only exceptionally supplied with nerve-fibers. By clothing every free surface in the body, the primary function of epithelium is to furnish protection to the underlying parts. Further- more, it prevents escape of lymph, imparts smoothness, and in places undergoes modifications that render it instrumental in secretion and in sensation.47 VARIETIES OF EPITHELIUM Varieties of Epithelium. (1) Squamous. a. Simple squamous. b. Stratified squamous. (2) Columnar. a. Simple columnar. b. Stratified columnar. (3) Modified. a. Ciliated. b. Goblet. c. Pigmented. (4) Specialized. a. Glandular epithelium. b. Neuro-epithelium. Simple squamous epithelium consists of flattened cells united edge to edge and forming a single layer. This defini- tion applies equally well to a brick sidewalk, a fact recog- nized by the appellation “pavement epithelium.” It is found in the alveoli of the lungs, and lines the anterior part of the lens capsule, and parts of the membranous labyrinth of the ear. It also occurs in the kidney and brain. Stratified squamous epithelium is found on free surfaces that are exposed to vertical pressure, such as the skin and various mucous membranes, and hence is essentially con- cerned in protection. It is thick in places, as the palms of the hands and soles of the feet, and often contains tactile nerve elements, as in the fingers and lips. The deepest cells are perpendicular to the surface, and the upper cells gradu- ally alter their shape until the most superficial are flat and parallel with the surface. The deeper the cells the younger they are, and when the youngest are dissociated, their points of previous union resemble minute spines, so that they are termed “prickle-cells.” The oldest (most superficial) cells are ever being shed by mechanical brushings-off, as well as by vis-a-tergo of the newly-formed cells. This process is appropriately called “desquamation.” This variety is con- spicuous in the skin and its extensions, in the mouth, esopha- gus, most of the urinary tract, and elsewhere. Simple columnar epithelium. From the cardia of the48 MICROSCOPIC ANATOMY stomach to the orifice of the anus the columnar epithelium is in a single layer, to promote absorption of food. Protection here is not so necessary. It is also found in certain large ducts and in the male urethra. Stratified columnar epithelium is conspicuous in the nasal fossae, trachea and bronchi, and occurs elsewhere. Ciliated epithelium is a variety of columnar epithelium whose free surface is surmounted by a tuft of from twelve to twenty-four vibrating, hair-like processes, the cilia. These are continuous with intracellular fibrillae, and may be com- pared to the fringe of a curtain. They may be studied by scraping the gill-clefts of an oyster, the cilia of the lining epithelium waving rythmically like a flag in a flying breeze. Their motion is such that propels particles or secretions in one direction. Thus, in the respiratory tract they prevent an undue accumulation of mucus by sweeping the latter to- ward the mouth, from which it is expectorated as phlegm. In the oviduct they carry the ovum toward the uterus, and retard the advancing spermatic filament. In the epididymis, on the other hand, they sweep spermatic filaments from the testis to the vas deferens. They occur elsewhere. They must not be confused with the striations of the cuticular bor- der of certain columnar epithelium, which are stationary. Goblet epithelium consists of mucus-secreting columnar cells, each of which represents a gland in the simplest de- gree. Each, therefore, is a unicellular gland. Such cells are conspicuous in the lower part of the large intestine. The su- perficial part of the cell becomes distended with mucus, elab- orated by the protoplasm, which pushes the nucleus toward the base. The cell now resembles a wine-glass. Overdisten- tion of the cell brings about rupture, and the lubricating mucus bathes the surface and keeps it moist. The cell col- lapses, and repeats this cycle. Pigmented epithelium lends color to the retina and hair, and to the skin of dark races, as the African, Asiatic, Ameri- can, and Oceanic. The particles of pigment are loaded with melanin. Glandular epithelium consists of cells modified for secre- tion of products of use to the economy, or for excretion of products that are useless. Goblet epithelium represents a* unicellular gland, while a multicellular gland arises as a di-CONNECTIVE TISSUE 49 rect ingrowth of the epithelial cells of the adjacent surtace. And so it happens that such cells are usually arranged on the walls of pits or depressions below the level of the general surface, and, by synthesis, construct some product that is correlated to the requirements of the surface that they serve. They yield this product at the behest of a mandatory stimu- lus. Glandular epithelium, that is striated is termed rod- epithelium. Neuro-epithelium represents the most refined specializa- tion of epithelial cells. The acme of specialization is reached with the acoustic cells of the organ of Corti. As might be surmised, the more highly differentiated a cell, the lower its capability of regeneration. Endothelium. Endothelium, of mesoblastic origin, consists of modified connective-tissue cells cemented together into single-layered sheets, as peritoneum, pleura, pericardium, and the intima of the cardiovascular system. It thus lines serous surfaces, and, unlike epithelium, does not communicate with the air. In shape, endothelial cells are flat and irregularly polyhedral, and are comparable to simple squamous epithelium. They are conjoined by cement, aside from which intercellular sub- stance is lacking. Intercellular clefts, termed stomata, are seen in the peritoneum that lines the diaphragm. These sto- mata vary in caliber with the constant expansion and con- traction of their lining guard-cells, and open into subjacent lymph-paths. Epithelium is derived from ectoblast and en- toblast; endothelium from mesoblast. Aside from this dis- tinction, the two classes of cells are so similar that it is meet to refer to endothelium as “epithelial cells of mesoblastic origin.” CONNECTIVE TISSUE. Connective tissue, the derivative of the mesoblast, forms the framework of the organs and of the body. Its relation to the body is that of structural ironwork to an edifice. Hence it abounds everywhere in the economy. Even the brain and 450 MICROSCOPIC ANATOMY spinal cord, which are strictly ectoblastic in origin, are per- vaded with connective tissue carried in from the mesoblastic pia mater by the penetrating blood-vessels. Connective tis- sue is of utility to the organism according to its composition ■—sometimes as a solid unyielding substance; sometimes as a soft support for vessels, nerves, and lymph-nodes; and, at times, as a yielding tissue that fills up spaces and facilitates changes of position. It is found in all Vertebrata in about the same condition as in man. Rare in Invertebrata, when found it consists of isolated cells and intercellular substance, as in the mantle of Bivalves. It consists of cells, white fibers, elastic fibers, intercellular spaces, and fluid. The cells of connective tissue (excepting, of course, endothelium) are insignificant in number, but sufficient are provided for nurture and reproduction of the intercellular substance. Profuse in young connective tissue, they are sparse in old, since they are diminished in size and more widely separated, thus becoming relatively inconspicuous. The intercellular substance, on the other hand, com- poses the bulk of connective tissue, and the older the latter becomes, the more the former predominates. It is directly or indirectly dependent upon the cells for nutrition. In connective tissue there is a disposition to stellate clefts, whose ramifications unite to form a network of inter- communicating “juice-canals/’ which conduct nutrient tis- sue-juices. These clefts are not, as ordinarily conceived, the beginnings of lymph-vessels. Compare them to the stomata of endothelium. The cellular elements are of two varieties:— (1) Fixed (connective-tissue cells proper), which, pri- marily flattened, stellate protoplasmic plates with branched processes, later become the inconspicuous spindle cells of adult areolar tissue, with only a thin envelope of protoplasm. They are named, according to the tissue in which they lie, fat-cell, cartilage-cell, bone-cell, etc. These fixed cells may absorb oil and form fat-cells, which accumulate throughout the body, except in the eyelids and scrotum. Other cells take up pigment, and are found in the skin and around blood- vessels. (2) Wandering (migratory), which, as leucocytes, come from the circulation and have the power of passing51 CONNECTIVE-TISSUE SUBSTANCE through connective tissue via the lymphatic clefts. I hey are endowed with ameboid motion, and are only transient travelers in the connective tissue. They are all granular, have an unknown origin and function, and occur in three forms:— a. Plasma-cells (Unna), which have small granules that stain in characteristic manner by basic dyes. They may be spindle, oval, or stellate in shape, and are seen especially near small blood-vessels. b. Mast-cells (Ehrlich), which have large granules and stain reddish with dahlia-violet. They are irregularly oval and possess a fairly large nucleus. c. Clasmatocytes (Ranvier), which are irregular cells, from which distinct protoplasmic processes become sepa- rated. They stain well with methyl-violet. Connective-tissue Substance. (1) Immature connective tissue (mucoid), which con- sists of comparatively large connective-tissue cells with but little intercellular substance. It is typefied by the jelly of Wharton in the umbilical cord, and pervades the tissues of embryos. (2) Reticular tissue, typically seen in lymphatic tissues where it forms networks of fine fibrillae that enmesh lymphoid cells and support stellate connective-tissue cells. It also pervades other organs. (3) Areolar tissue, the soft, fluffy substance distributed throughout the body in the subcutaneous layer, intermuscu- lar spaces, and between the organs. Its relation to the bod- ily structures is as a thong to a fagot: it binds them to- gether. Dissection of soft parts has to do chiefly with re- moval of areolar tissue in order to display the structures,— a process termed “cleaning.’’ (4) Fibro-elastic tissue (dense), which is composed of white fibrous and yellow elastic tissue in varying propor- tions. Relatively equal amounts of each are found in the sclera, in ligaments, and in fasciae. In the latter, for ex- ample, there is white fibrous tissue to support a muscle, and yellow elastic tissue to enable the fascia to accommodate52 MICROSCOPIC ANATOMY itself to the muscle. White fibrous tissue predominates in the cornea and in tendon. In the latter the elastic element is reduced to a minimum: hence, tendons maintain a definite length. This tissue is compact and strong. Yellow elastic tissue predominates in some ligaments, as ligamenta flava, ligamentum nuchae, and in the girdle-ligament which sup- ports the belly-wall of large Pachydermata, as the Elephant and Rhinocerous. Yellow Elastic Tissue. Composed of a network of thicker fibrils embedded in the bundles of white fibrous tissue. Each fibril is wavy. Bright yellow in bulk. Yielding and elastic. Affinity for orcein stain. Yields elastin on boiling. Dissolved by trypsin but re- sists pepsin. In acetic acid, undergoes no change. White fibrous tissue varies in density from areolar tis- sue, whose fibers are loose and delicate, to fascia, whose fibers are closely felted. A peculiar form of white fibrous tissue occurs in the membrana putaminis, which lines the shell of the eggs of Birds and Reptiles. It consists of several layers of fibers, which interlace and produce a series of spaces large enough for the transmission of gases. The sur- face of white fibrous tissue has a pearly sheen. Its strength is shown by the fact that a cord 1 sq. mm. in cross-section bore a weight of 8,940 grammes before it broke. Concern- ing its development, there are two views, of which the sec- ond is generally accepted:— a. Extracellular theory (Virchow), which regards these fibers as originating entirely outside of the cell, as an indif- ferent mass (syncytium) which changes by a pseudo-coagu- lat'ive process into fibers. bo b. Intracellular theory (Flemming), according to which the cytoplasm of the cells is directly converted into fibers. White Fibrous Tissue. Composed of bundles of fine, flexuous fibrils embed- ded in a semifluid ground- substance. Silvery-white in fresh state. Firm and non-tensile. Affinity for Weigert’s stain. Yields gelatin on boiling. Dissolved by pepsin but re- sists trypsin. In acetic acid, swells up and becomes indistinct.53 CONNECTIVE-TISSUE SUBSTANCE The peripheral zone of cytoplasm undergoes longitudinal striation and is shed, whilst the nuclear zone remains sta- tionary. The shedded fibrils of themselves have the power of growing and, as they increase, the cells are pushed farther apart. Yellow elastic tissue is highly extensible, so that the structures it enters into may adapt themselves to changing conditions. It may be arranged in plates, the fenestrated membranes, in the walls of large blood-vessels; or as a con- tinuous elastic sheet, as the posterior limiting membrane of the cornea. In all the vertebrate classes yellow elastic tissue is found in the same localities as in man, and in a few particular situ- ations besides, as in the ligaments of the Cat’s claw, in the wing-membranes of mammals, and in the folds of the wing- membrane and in the lung-sacs of Birds. The wing-mem- brane of the Eagle is quite as elastic as caoutchouc. A speci- men of ligamentum nuchae from a Giraffe measured, before detached, 6 feet 2 inches in length. When detached, how- ever, it immediately contracted to 4 feet. A specimen of aorta from a Whale of over 50 feet in length had a diameter of 12 inches, and the elastic coat was 1^4 inches thick. In Invertebrata yellow elastic tissue is infrequently met with. The valves of Conchiferous Mullusca are opened by elastic tissue whenever the adductor muscle relaxes. In the Oyster the elastic tissue is placed within the hinge, thus separating the shells by its expansive power. In the Cockle, on the contrary, it is external to the hinge, the same object being attained by the contraction of the hinge-ligament. In the Vegetable Kingdom elastic tissue is represented by fiber. That this is elastic is strikingly shown on the testa of the seeds of plants, as of Salvia pratensis. By macerat- ing a particle of the testa in water, the walls of the cells soften, and within each the spiral fiber, released from close captivity, uncoils and pushes the cell-wall before it (like a Jack-in-a-Box), and what was at first a brown, shapeless ob- ject, is transformed into a mass of beautiful spiral cells. Caoutchouc is not, as might be supposed, composed of yel- low elastic tissue. It is the concrete milky juice of Ficus elastica. A band of yellow elastic tissue 1 sq. mm. in cross-sectionMICROSCOPIC ANATOMY 54 broke with a weight of 4,040 grammes, and before breaking its length had increased 65%. Concerning its development, there are likewise two views, of which the second is gen- erally accepted:— a. Independent theory, according to which the fibers first appear as rows of hyaline granules which fuse and form a network. b. Intracellular theory, which regards the fibrils as originating in the peripheral zone of the cell, just as white fibrous tissue arises. Tendon consists of parallel bundles of white fibrous tis- sue and a minimum amount of yellow elastic tis- sue. The individual fibrillae are united by cement- substance into primary bundles, and these, into sec- ondary bundles. The latter are bound together into the tendon itself by septa from the connective- tissue envelope. Viewed by polarized light, each primary bundle displays a series of brilliant colorings. Tendon-cells, flat and quadrilateral, are arranged in rows between the pri- mary bundles. They occupy stellate clefts that are parts of the juice-spaces by which the tendon is nourished. They are difficult to find. In some of the lower animals, as Mol- lusca, tendon-fibrillae are larger than in Mammalia. In Terebratula they are very large and assembled in strong bundles, which present to the naked eye a very beautiful silvery aspect. In some Birds the tendons are more or less ossified, as encounters at table with the drumstick of a tur- key testify. Adipose tissue is composed of fat-cells and areolar tis- sue. A fat-cell is a connective-tissue element that is dis- tended by a drop of oil. The nucleus and cytoplasm are crowded toward the periphery, so that the fat-cell resembles a signet-ring. Animal fat exists as oil, lard, tallow, and spermaceti. Vegetable fats, including castor, croton, lin- seed, and palm oil and cocoa butter are familiar to everyone. They, likewise, are produced by and stored up in the cells. Fat is well-distributed throughout the body and bears a rela- tion to organs and tissues as excelsior to the contents of a packing-box: it fills in. It is absent within the cranium, in the eyelids, penis and scrotum, labia minora, and lungs. It stains black with perosmic acid, red with Sudan III, and55 CONNECTIVE-TISSUE SUBSTANCE blue with cyanin. Adipose tissue may be referred to as fatty-areolar tissue. (5) Cartilage (gristle) is composed of cells and a modi- fied intercellular matrix of connective-tissue bundles that are closely cemented together, thus giving great strength. It is the most compact form of connective tissue without in- organic salts, and thus forms a transition between connec- tive tissue and bone. When fresh it is firm and translucent, and consists chemically of collagen, chondro-mucoid, chon- droitin sulphuric acid, and albumoid. A good specimen of simple cartilage may be obtained from the ear of the mouse. Cartilage-cells are lodged in groups of two or more in lacunae, interfascicular clefts homologous with the stellate spaces of tendon. Each lacuna is bounded by a capsule, a spe- cial wall of the surrounding matrix. Since the cells produce matrix in concentric layers, it follows that the capsule corre- sponds to the most recently-formed matrix. This is the process of interstitial growth, and occurs mainly in young cartilage. The largest cartilage cells are found in the Ele- phant. The perichondrium is a membrane that envelops the entire cartilage, and consists chiefly of white fibrous tissue and but slightly of yellow elastic. It contains vessels and nerves and presents two layers:— a. Outer fibrous layer, composed of dense fibro-elastic tissue. b. Inner chondrogenetic layer, which is looser and con- tains numerous undifferentiated connective-tissue cells ar- ranged in rows parallel with the surface. As its name im- plies, this inner stratum produces layer after layer of per- ipheral cartilage. This is the process of appositional growth. The undifferentiated cells become cartilage-cells by growth and division, so that the young generations of cartilage-cells are at the periphery and the old in the center of the cartilage. The older the cells the more separated they become by the gradual increase of the matrix. In old age the more central parts of the cartilage undergo asbestos change, with its lus- trous white appearance, and also calcification and ossifica- tion. Not only does this layer produce cartilage, but it re- pairs it.MICROSCOPIC ANATOMY 56 The character of the intercellular matrix determines three varieties of cartilage,—hyaline, elastic, and fibrous. Hyaline cartilage possesses a matrix that seems homo- geneous and structureless because the refraction-indexes of the cementing ground-substance and of the fibrils are identi- cal. The fibrils are demonstrable, however, by polarized light and by artificial digestion. Now they may be seen run- ning in parallel lines, only exceptionally crossing one an- other. Hyaline cartilage is found temporarily in embryos, in which it forecasts the skeleton except the vault of the cranium, the bones of the face, and most of the mandible. The skeletons of cartilaginous Fishes are composed almost entirely of hyaline cartilage. In the Cuttle-fish the car- tilaginous skeleton is very rudimentary. In Birds, cartilage is scarce. Permanently, it occurs in the Eustachian tube, nose, larnyx, trachea, bronchi, ribs, and in all movable joints and in epiphyses. Physically, this variety is of a bluish opalescent tint, and is firm and tensile. A strip 1 sq. mm. in cross-section bore a weight of 1,440 grammes before it broke. Elastic cartilage possesses a matrix that abounds in net- works of elastic fibers, which may be plainly demonstrated by specific staining reactions. It is found in the pinna, part of the Eustachian tube, the epiglottis, the cuneiform and corniculate cartilages, and in the vocal processes of the aryte- noid cartilages. Physically, it is dull yellowish in color, and is tough and pliable. A strip 1 sq. mm. in cross-section bore a weight of 1,760 grammes before it broke. Fibrocartilage possesses a matrix that is closely akin to dense white fibrous tissue. Its fibrils are arranged in parallel and slightly wavy lines. There is a minimum amount of homogeneous matrix, which is usually reduced to that form- ing the capsules around the cartilage-cells. It is found in the intervertebral disks, the symphyses, sesamoid cartilages, interarticular disks and marginal plates of certain joints, and lines bony grooves for tendons. Physically, it is closely al- lied to tendon, presenting a white, tough tissue that com- bines great strength and pliability. A strip 1 sq. mm. in cross-section bore a weight of 2,300 grammes before it broke. (6) Bone is a dense form of connective tissue whose matrix is impregnated with lime-salts. The proportions are one-third organic material, and two-thirds inorganic. ByCONNECTIVE-TISSUE SUBSTANCE 57 calcination, the organic material is removed (thereby sub- tracting one-third from the weight of the bone), and a white, hard, and brittle residuum is left. By decalcification in dilute hydrochloric acid, the inorganic material is removed (there- by subtracting two-thirds from the weight of the bone), the bone retains its size and shape, and is tough and flexible so that, if long and thin, it may readily be knotted. A bone thus decalcified is softer, tougher, and more flexible, but less elastic than hyaline cartilage. This organic matter is very persistent in old bones, 14 per cent, having been found in the vertebra of a mummy at least 3400 years old. Buckland made soup from the fossil bones of a Hyena. Physically, bone is whitish-pink or yellowish in color during life. With the exception of enamel (which is not con- nective tissue because derived from the ectoblast), bone is the hardest of all organic substances, but at the same time it is somewhat flexible, elastic, and tenacious. A cube of 1 sq. mm. of compact bone bore a weight of 613 kilograms with- out crushing, whilst a similar cube of cancellous bone bore a weight of 36 kilograms without crushing. Bone resists tear- ing and crushing strains almost equally well, as is seen in the following comparative tables. I. Breaking limit in terms of the weight in kilograms required to tear across a rod 1 sq. mm. in cross-section:— Steel 102 Oak 6.5 Wrought iron 41 Zinc 5. Cast iron 13 Granite 1.9 Bone 12 II. Weight in kilograms required to crush a rod 1 sq mm. in cross-section:— Steel 145 Cast iron 73 Wrought iron 22 Bone 15 Granite 5.9 •The elasticity of bone may be demonstrated by the dis- tance of rebound (nearly two feet) of a clavicle which, when placed upright on a table, is struck smartly upon its free end with a hammer. A skull thrown upon the ground will Lead 5. Oak 4.8 Pine 2.9 Fire-brick 0.958 MICROSCOPIC ANATOMY rebound. Arab children make excellent bows with the ribs of Camels. Bone-tissue is either compact or cancellous. Cancellous (lattice-work) bone resembles the skeleton of a sponge, and is found at the extremities of long bones and in the middle of short and of flat bones (diploe). Its spaces are direct extensions of the general medullary cavity. It has neither Haversian nor lamellar systems. Compact bone is dense and firm, and forms the shafts of long bones and the shells of short and of flat bones. A thin cross-section of the com- pact shaft of a decalcified bone, ground to transparency and examined, exhibits a lamellar arrangement. a. Circumferential lamellae, comprising periosteal la- mellae and endosteal lamellae. b. Haversian lamellae, disposed concentrically about Haversian canals. c. Interstitial lamellae, packed in between adjacent Haversian systems. An Haversian system consists of from eight to fifteen Haversian lamellae disposed concentrically around one Ha- versian canal. They resemble a transverse section of a branch of a tree. Between the lamellae are the lacunae, small oval spaces that belong to the general canal system of bone. It has been estimated that the lacunae average in number 910 to the square millimeter. Adjacent lacunae of an Haversian system communicate with one another and with the Haversian canal by canaliculi, which are minute, radiating tubules that traverse the Haversian lamellae. Thus is formed a network of intercommunicating “juice-canals,” which permeates the entire bone. If a lacuna represents the body of an insect, the canaliculi represent its legs. Ha- versian systems are absent in cancellous bone. The terms “lamella” and “lacuna” are diminutives of “plate” and “lake,” respectively. The perforating fibers (Sharpey) are bundles of con- nective tissue that pass from the periosteum, from which they arise, diagonally through several sets of lamellae, which they rivet together just as bolts rivet boiler-plates. They abound in the periosteal lamellae, as may be surmised from their origin. By separating the lamellae of a decalcified bone, some of the perforating fibers may be withdrawn from59 CONNECTIVE-TISSUE SUBSTANCE the holes through which they passed. They were appro- priately termed “nails'’ by Gagliardi. They are absent in the Haversian systems. Haversian canals are tunnels prolonged from the me- dullary cavity through compact bone, and are occupied by medullary blood-vessels. Tributary to the latter are the perivascular lymph-spaces, the canaliculi, and the lacunae —a canal-system that provides liberally for nutrition of the bone. Volkmann’s canals are channels prolonged from the sur- face of the bone inward through the periosteal lamellae, and are occupied by periosteal blood-vessels. The latter anas- tomose with the medullary blood-vessels in the Haversian canals—a circumstance that adds to the nutrition of the bone. Bone-cells are small, stellate elements that occupy the lacunae, and send delicate processes out into the canaliculi. The intercellular matrix of bone is composed of fibrils of fibrous tissue that are joined into bundles by homogeneous interfibrillar cement substance. The bundles, united by interfascicular cement substance, run parallel to one an- other and make up the lamellae. The fibrous bundles of adjacent Haversian lamellae usually cross each other at right angles. This is readily seen by examination in polar- ized light with crossed Nicol’s prisms. Bundles cut longi- tudinally are doubly refractive (anisotropic), whilst those that run concentrically around the Haversian canal are singly refractive (isotropic). The periosteum is a connective-tissue sheath that in- vests bone everywhere except at the insertion of strong ten- dons, and where covered with cartilage. Like perichon- drium, it consists of two layers:— a. Outer fibrous layer, composed of dense, white fibrous tissue which affords attachment to tendons, aponeu- roses, ligaments and, at times, to the muscular fibers them- selves, and supports blood-vessels and nerves. b. Inner fibro-elastic layer, in which the elastic tissue predominates, but next the bone is a layer of fibrous tissue that abounds in flat cells which represent the remains of the osteogenetic layer. This layer is bound to the bone by plugs of periosteum that convey blood-vessels into Volkmann’s /60 MICROSCOPIC ANATOMY canals, and also by the perforating- fibers. Here and there lymph-spaces separate the fibrous bundles, and communicate with the system of juice-channels within the bone. In grow- ing bones the osteogenetic layer is very conspicuous on account of the numerous embryonal connective-tissue cells,, of which those next the bone are termed osteoblasts. The periosteum, then, assists in the formation of bone, and after- ward in its nutrition, and if extensively torn off during life the subjacent bone is liable to decay. Marrow is the stuffing that occupies the medullary cavity and its extensions, including the spaces of cancellous bone and the larger Haversian canals. In embryos and young individuals all the marrow is red marrow, but later, from fatty infiltration of part of this, yellow marrow appears, so that in the adult marrow of both colors is seen—the one being genetically older than the other. Red marrow is primarily a direct ingrowth and exten- sion of the osteogenetic layer of the periosteum, with its blood-vessels. In the adult it is found in cancellous tissue of the ends of long bones, of the bodies of the vertebrae, the sternum, the ribs, the diploe of the cranium, and the short bones. A specimen of red marrow from diploe contained three-fourths water and one-fourth solids, there being only about one per cent, of fat. It consists of a delicate con- nective-tissue reticulum that supports medullary blood- vessels and enmeshes large numbers of soft, plastic con- nective-tissue elements—the marrow-cells. Of these there are five varieties :— a. Myelocytes, whose nucleus is large, and whose cyto- plasm contains neutrophile granules. While resembling large lymphocytes, they are larger and are distinguished by the character of the granules. b. Eosinophiles, which are polymorphonuclear leuco- cytes that have a special affinity for eosin. This stain reveals coarse, highly refractive granules in the cytoplasm. c. Myeloplaxes (Robin), which are oval, giant cells (specialized myelocytes) with a nucleus that remains single or subdivides. They are capable of assuming an important function, bone-absorption, in which case they become osteoclasts, and occupy spaces termed Howship’s lacunae.DEVELOPMENT OF BONE 61 d. Mast-cells (Ehrlich), irregularly oval cells whose nucleus is fairly large and whose cytoplasm contains large granules. They stain reddish with dahlia-violet. They will be recalled as a variety of wandering cells of connective- tissue. e. Red blood-cells, which are seen in all steps from their colorless, nucleated, formative stage (erythroblasts, later normoblasts) to their red non-nucleated, mature con- dition (erythrocytes). It must not be overlooked that red marrow is the great blood-forming organ of the body. Yellow marrow is red marrow infiltrated with fat-cells. It is the most purely fatty tissue in the body, a specimen from the humerus of an Ox, containing 96% of fat. It occu- pies the shafts of long bones. The blood-vessels of bone are arranged in two systems: a. Periosteal system, whose arteries, after ramifying in the periosteum, enter the bone through Volkmann’s canals and, reaching the Haversian canals, anastomose with branches of the next system. b. Medullary system, in which a medullary artery enters the bone through the medullary canal and, reaching the mar- row, breaks up into a rich network of vessels that anasto- moses with the vessels of the periosteal system. Through the very delicate, thin-walled capillaries thus formed, the blood is brought into intimate association with the marrow. The veins leave the bone through:— a. The medullary canal. b. Independent foramina in the cancellous tissue. Following the arteries are perivascular lymphatics and nerves. Lamellar corpuscles are found in the periosteum. Development of Bone. Bone develops relatively late in embryonic life, after the muscles, nerves, vessels, and many of the organs have been formed. At this stage the skeleton (with certain excep- tions) is cartilaginous, and is the prototype of the matured bony skeleton. The bones ossify in respective order of their importance and function. Thus, the clavicle, mandible, and the ribs ossify early because sucking and breathing are the first requirements of the new-born.62 MICROSCOPIC ANATOMY Bones that are forecasted in cartilage develop by a com- bination of two methods—the endochondral and the sub- periosteal. Others, however, arise in membrane by intra- membranous development, which is very similar to the sub- periosteal. Endochondral development consists in replacement of the primary hyaline cartilage by bone. Activities begin at points near the middle of the shaft called centres of ossifica- tion. The cartilage-cells increase in size, but before long shrivel up and die without sharing directly in the production of bone. The intercellular matrix increases in amount and becomes calcified. The lacunae, enlarged by the cartilage- cells, are now called primary areolae. Plugs of osteogenetic tissue from the periosteum make for the center of ossification by absorbing the cartilage-matrix that lies across their path. Arrived at their destination, they break down the capsules of the lacunae and set free the cartilage-cells. The enlarged lacunae thus broken into form secondary areolae, which communicate directly with the primary marrow-cavity that was hewn out by the penetrating osteogenetic plugs. These plugs occupy the primary marrow-cavity as the primary marrow, which consists of blood-vessels and cells, some of which form the future bone-marrow, whilst others, as osteo- blasts, produce bone. Outside the primary marrow-cavity, towards the ends of the shaft, the cartilage exhibits several zones. The furth- est zone shows no changes, and represents resting hyaline cartilage. The intermediate zone shows enlarged cartilage- cells arranged in columns and separated by septa of calcified matrix. The nearest zone, called the zone of calcification, shows the enlarged lacunae flattened against one another, and as the transverse septa between them vanish, these lacunae coalesce as the secondary areolae, which communi- cate directly with the primary marrow-cavity, so that the latter seems to have many irregular cavities leading from it. The vertical septa of calcified cartilage-matrix, which separate the secondary areolae, are left projecting into the primary marrow-cavity, and upon them the osteoblasts lodge and deposit bone-matrix. The osteoblasts progressively surround themselves with bone-matrix, in which they thus63 DEVELOPMENT OF BONE become isolated as bone-cells, and the spaces they occupy are the primary lacunae. Thus, the whole primary marrow-cavity is gradually lined by bone, which is arranged as a network of bony trabe- culae enclosing bone-cells, whilst of the original hyaline cartilage, there remain only the thinned vertical septa, which soon disappear. The cartilage is thus gradually replaced by spongy bone. Osteoclasts now attack some of the bony trabeculae and absorb them, with the result that the inter- vening marrow-spaces become enlarged. The remaining bony trabeculae, however, increase in thickness by incre- ments of new lamellae, and form the primary central spongy bone. The latter remains as cancellous bone wherever this variety is found, namely, at the extremities of long bones and in the middle of short and of flat bones (diploe). Else- where the central spongy bone undergoes absorption, so that the middle of long bones is finally occupied by a large space, the central marrow-cavity. Subperiosteal development contributes thickness to the shaft of the bone, and furnishes an enclosure for the central marrow-cavity—the legacy of endochondral development. The osteoblasts from the inner layer of the periosteum group themselves about their companion fibrillae from the same source, and deposit bone-matrix upon them. They are caught and isolated in this bone-matrix as bone-cells. The resulting bony trabeculae unite to form the peripheral spongy bone. Hardly is this process completed when osteo- clasts partially undo the work of the osteoblasts by reducing the bony trabeculae to extremely thin dimensions. This, however, is necessarily accompanied by enlargement of the primary marrow-cavities, which now become the Haversian spaces. Compact bone is formed by reconstruction of the thinned bony trabeculae by osteoblasts—a process accom- panied by narrowing of the Haversian spaces. The osteo- blasts lodge upon the thinned bony trabeculae and deposit concentric lamellae of bone, gradually narrowing the Haver- sian space down to the Haversian canal. These Haversian lamellae and the Haversian canal form an Haversian sys- tem. What trabeculae of the peripheral spongy bone remain are represented by the interstitial lamellae of the matured bone.MICROSCOPIC ANATOMY 64 Intermembranous development forms the bones of the vault of the skull and most of the bones of the face—struc- tures, it may be noted, that have little to do with support. As an example of this method, the parietal bone may be con- sidered. The vault of the skull in the young embryo is composed of scalp, dura mater, and an intervening connective-tissue layer in which the membranous bone is formed. From the center of ossification spicules of bone radiate toward the periphery, and unite as a network that condenses more and more to form the bony plate. This process is similar in its details to subperiosteal de- velopment. Osteoblasts from the connective-tissue deposit bone-matrix upon the fibrillae of the same, and enclose themselves in the new tissue as bone-cells. Growth of Bone.—The width of a long bone is governed by subperiosteal development, and the length by the epiphy- sis. As increments of bone are added to the sides of the shaft, the endochondral and some of the compact bone are absorbed until the medullary cavity is of proper diameter. The bone grows in length by successive deposition and en- dochondral ossification of cartilage contributed by the ad- vancing epiphysis, and when the bone has reached its proper length, the epiphysis itself ossifies and unites with the shaft. Over the free surface of the epiphysis, however, the cartilage persists as the articular cartilage of the joint. The epiphy- sis toward which the main medullary artery is directed is the last to appear and the first to unite (except the fibula). Where an epiphysis exists at one end only, the medullary canal runs toward the opposite end. The growth of bones may be demonstrated by the use of madder, a dyeing plant. Since this tinges the most recent deposit of bone red, alternate rings of red and white bone may be produced by successively feeding and withholding madder in the diet. On killing the animal thus treated, these alternate rings will be found both at the circumference of the bone and within the Haversian systems. In this intricate process of substituting bone for carti- lage, Nature contrives to produce a structure that is at once light, strong, and porous. It would not answer to ossify the cartilage directly, for such a structure would be heavier,65 DEVELOPMENT OF BONE weaker, and poorly nourished. The cartilage acts as a loom that is gradually destroyed as the process of weaving ad- vances. The spongy bone, where temporary, acts as a scaf- folding upon which the superstructure of compact bone is built. The warp and woof of an Haversian system resem- bles, in cross-section, that of a spider-web. The concentric threads correspond to the Haversian lamellae; the radiating cross-threads to the perforating fibers; and the imprisoned insects to the bone-cells. The space surrounded by the in- nermost circle of thread corresponds to the Haversian canal. The manner in which the bone-cells bury themselves in the fabric of the bone is similar to the embedding of bricks in mortar. In studying bone-development, it must be appre- hended that the several processes are going on simultan- eously: the sequence is only that necessary for description. In the history of vertebrate animals, the membranous is the primitive method of bone-formation, and as the earliest bones were scale-like ossifications in the integument, so all bones thus formed are called dermal or membrane bones. Calcification and afterward ossification of cartilage subse- quently appeared, and then subperiosteal ossification—the latest form to appear being endochondral ossification. In man, the bones, from their solidity and inflexibility, serve as supports to the softer organs or for their more se- cure inclosure, and hence constitute an entoskeleton. They also perform special functions: the auditory ossicles, for example, conduct the sonorous vibrations, and the bony labyrinth is concerned with equilibration. To these may be added the functions of the marrow. In Vertebrata, bone is more extensively distributed than in man. It exists as dermal plates in the skin of the Armadillo, Tortoises, Liz- ards, and Fishes, and hence constitutes an exoskeleton. In the organs of other animals it forms a splanchnoskeleton. Thus, the bone in the diaphragm of the Camel, Llama and Porcupine, and ossified tendons of Birds; in the sclerotic coat of the eye of Birds, Chelonians, and Saurians; in the nose, the proboscis of the Pig and Mole, and os prenasale of the Sloth; in the tongue, os entoglossum of Fishes and Birds; in the heart, the cardiac bone of Ruminants and Pachydermata; in the respiratory organs, the laryngeal, tracheal, and bronchial bones of many Birds; and in the66 MICROSCOPIC ANATOMY sexual organs, os penis of mammalia. In Invertebrata true bones are never found, but are replaced by calcareous in- crustations composed chiefly of carbonate of lime. In the Vegetable Kingdom structural comparisons of the husks of nuts, as of the Ivory-nut, with bone is both instructive and interesting. Mechanical environments are the chief determining and modifying factors of the growth of bones. Along the lines of pressure, bones become thickened and denser. With unilateral pressure they become curved; with oblique and terminal pressure, twisted. Along the lines of tension, they become elongated and projected. These characters result from hereditary impressions upon bones, and the outcome of ancestral experience is even reflected in the directions in which the primary spicules are formed. Muscular Tissue. In muscle the contractile function of the protoplasm has become predominant, and is its most marked attribute. The sum of these contractions is expressed in motion. Primitive types of muscle may be found in some of the low inverte- brates. Beneath the integument of the Worm, for example, there are musculo-epithelial cells in which nerve fibrils ter- minate. The development of the muscular system is inti- mately associated with that of the nervous system. There are two varieties of muscular tissue—non-striated and striated. Non-striated muscle is involuntary or smooth, in contradistinction to striated, which is voluntary (except the heart-muscle) or striped. An instance of the association of both varieties is the esophagus, of which the upper third contains striated muscle, the middle third both striated and non-striated, and the lower third non-striated. The com- mon origin for both types (except muscle of the sweat-glands and the dilatator pupillae, which is ectoblastic) is the meso- blast, some cells of which elongate and become developed into longitudinal groups of muscle-fibers. The more specific origin of striated muscle will be dealt with later. Non-striated muscle is composed of an aggregation of structural units called fiber-cells, each of which corresponds to a muscle-fiber. Such a cell is spindle-shaped, and contains67 MUSCULAR TISSUE an oval, rod-shaped nucleus, embedded near its center. The cytoplasm exhibits longitudinally disposed contractile fibril- lae, which may be regarded as differentiations in one di- rection of the primitive network of the cytoplasm. They are more marked at the periphery than where they surround the nucleus. Each fiber-cell is surrounded by a faint, hya- line sheath—the boundary zone. These cells, whether associated in groups or in sheets, are held together by very delicate connective-tissue partitions. They may be disso- ciated for individual study, however, by macerating fresh tissue in 20% nitric acid. In cross-section the fiber-cells ap- pear as polygonal or round areas of unequal size, because the section cuts through different parts of the tapering cells. The smaller areas contain no nucleus, because they are sec- tions of the small ends of the spindle-shaped cells. Between the groups of fiber-cells are found blood-vessels and nerves embedded in connective-tissue. Non-striated muscle may be diagnosed by the parallel arrangement of its structural units, with which the nuclei correspond, and by the proto- plasmic appearance of muscle substance as compared with fibrous connective tissue. The nerve-supply of non-striated muscle is derived from the sympathetic system, a non-medullated fiber of which is applied to each fiber-cell, about which its fine fibrillae ter- minate in free ends. Non-striated muscle forms, in general, the musculature of the viscera. It thus allows hollow organs a certain de- gree of dilatability. It develops around the larger lymphatic and blood-vessels; around the intestinal canal and the prin- cipal gland ducts opening into it; around the large respira- tory tubes; around the bladder and ureters, the uterus and ducts of the genital system; and, finally, in connection with the hairs, in the capsule of the spleen, and in other minor places. The largest fiber-cells are found in the pregnant uterus. In Vertebrata, the distribution of non-striated muscle is, in some instances, peculiar. It is found in the skin of Birds, as the muscles of the quill feathers; in the Orang, as in men, in arrectores pili; in the iris of Amphibia; in the bell- shaped campanula of osseous Fishes; in the gizzard of Birds; in the swimming bladder of Fishes; in the lungs of the Fro^*MICROSCOPIC ANATOMY .68 in the mesentery of Plagiostomata; and in the genito-rectal muscle of mammals. The non-striated muscles of Inverte- brata are allied genetically to the striated muscles of Verte- brata. Striated muscle, more highly specialized and more widely distributed than non-striated, is composed of an ag- gregation of structural units called muscle-fibers, each of which represents a greatly elongated multinucleated muscle-cell. These muscle-fibers are surrounded and held together by thin areolar tissue,—the endomysium. A num- ber of these muscle-fibers are grouped to form a primary bundle, each of which is invested by perimysium, continuous with the endomysium. A number of these primary bundles are grouped to form secondary bundles. The arrangement of the latter determines fine or coarse graining of a given muscle. The entire muscle is enclosed by a connective- tissue envelope, the epimysium, which not only separates one muscle from another, but sends partitions in between the secondary bundles. In these intermuscular septa run .blood-vessels and nerves. Each muscle-fiber consists of the sarcolemma and the enclosed sarcous substance. The sarcolemma is a clear, homogeneous, elastic sheath that, as a closed sac, invests the muscle-fiber and separates it from the surrounding connective tissue. It so closely hugs the sarcous substance that it cannot be made out, but on macerating the tissue in water, the osmosis so separates the sarcolemma that it can plainly be seen. The sarcous substance consists of sarcoplasm, its least specialized part, and of contractile fibrillae, the more impor- tant and more highly specialized part. The spaces between the latter are filled in by sarcoplasm. To illustrate this relation, place a number of parallel rods in a test-tube to represent the fibrillae, and fill the tube with water in imita- tion of the sarcoplasm. The nucleus, which is embedded in the sarcoplasm immediately beneath the sarcolemma, has undergone multiple division, so that each muscle-fiber is a multinucleated cell (syncytium). The appearance of the contractile fibrillae ofifers one of the most strikingly beautiful pictures in microscopic anat- omy,—a fact that lends interest to an otherwise complicatedMUSCULAR TISSUE 69 maze of details. Their arrangement is responsible for the cross-striation that distinguishes this variety of muscle* Highly magnified, the muscle-fibers thus show alternating light and dark transverse bands. The broad, dark bands, the transverse disks, are doubly refracting or anisotropic (i. e* appear light in polarized light with crossed Nicol’s prisms), and are always designated by the letter Q (Querscheibe). The light band, which is singly refracting or isotropic (i. e*: appears dark in polarized light with crossed Nicol’s prisms), is situated at either end of the dark band, bearing a relation to the latter that bread of a sandwich bears to the inter- posed meat. It is bisected by a narrow, dark band, the intermediate disk (Krause's membrane), which is always designated by the letter Z (Zwischenscheibe). The trans- verse disk is crossed in its middle by a delicate band, the median disk (Hensen). Regarding the significance of these striae many theories have been advanced, of which those of Krause, Rollet, and Heidenhain are the most plausible. The last is the most widely accepted. Heidenhain’s theory takes it that where the intermediate and median disks are pierced by the con-> tractible fibrillae, there a brace is given to each individual fibrilla, thus allowing contraction with uniformity and greater strength. The contractile fibrillae arrange themselves in each muscle-fiber in groups, the muscle-columns (sarcostyles). On cross-section, these muscle-columns are called fields of Cohnheim, which are separated by the clear lines of the . sarcolemma. While the individual contractile fibrillae proL duce the stippling of Cohnheim's fields, yet it is almost im- possible to see these fibrillae dissociated any further, or, in other words, in their isolated state. Striated muscle varies in color and in contractility. Ordinarily it is of the pale type, which is the more highly differentiated and responds more rapidly to stimuli, though at the expense of rapid fatigue. Here the nucleus lies on the periphery of the mucle-fiber, just beneath the sarco- lemma. Red muscles have special histological character- istics. Owing to the thinner fibrils, there is relatively more sarcoplasm, and the nucleus lies not only peripherally, but also within the muscle-fiber. This type is less highly difiMICROSCOPIC ANATOMY 70 ferentiated, and is meant for prolonged work without ready fatigue, as is required by the heart and eye-muscles, and by those of mastication and of respiration. Connection with the tissue into which the mucle-fibers insert, whether tendon, periosteum, perichondrium, or sub- cutaneous tissue, is effected by the sarcolemma. Cardiac muscle, while striated anatomically, is involun- tary physiologically, and hence holds an intermediate rela- tion between non-striated and striated muscle. It might be called involuntary striated muscle. Compared to the mus- cular tissue just described, the mucle-fibers are shorter, undergo partial longitudinal division, and interlock with one another. The sarcolemma is more delicate and, in keep- ing with red muscle, there is relatively more sarcoplasm. On cross-section, the nuclei are centrally-disposed, and sur- rounded by areas of sarcoplasm. The contractile fibrillae tend to be peripherally grouped in radiating manner about the central disks of sarcoplasm. In the latter is found granu- lar, brown pigment, which increases in amount with age. The blood-vessels of striated muscle follow the septa of the epimysium to the muscle-fibers, each of which is sur- rounded by a network of very thin capillaries, which show small dilatations (ampullae), in which the blood may lodge during contraction. Thus, like any organ with a high degree of specialized activity, this variety of muscle has an abund- ant blood-supply. The nerve-supply of striated muscle includes both motor and sensory.fibers. A motor nerve sends its axis-cylinder through the sarcolemma to terminate in the sarcous sub- stance in a muscle-plate. The sensory nerves begin as neu- romuscular fibers in the muscle-spindles, and as neuroten- dinous fibers in the tendon-spindles. Each muscle-spindle consists of from three to ten coarsely striated muscle-fibers, which are surrounded all by an axial sheath of delicate con- nective-tissue. Within these muscle-fibers, which are dis- tinguished by the term intrafusal fibers, the sensory telo- dendria begin in little beads, which become medullated immediately they pierce the axial sheath. Since these nerves convey muscle-sense, they are probably stimulated by pres- sure of the contracting intrafusal fibers. • :h Striated muscle occurs in the muscles of the trunk and71 MUSCULAR TISSUE limbs, and in those associated with the eye, middle ear, tongue, pharynx, larynx, upper half of the esophagus, dia- phragm, and in parts of the rectum and genital organs. That striated muscle is not always controlled by the will is shown in the case of the diaphragm, and in muscles of some of the lower animals. Cardiac muscle, of course, is peculiar unto itself. Muscle-fibers of this variety are found widely dis- tributed in Vertebrata. Thus, it occurs in the skin (cutane- ous muscles) of mammalia, Birds, Snakes, and Tailless Ba- trachians, in the tactile hairs of mammals, in the lymph- hearts of many Birds and Amphibia; in the auriculo-ventric- ular valve of the right side in Birds; upon the inferior vena cava of the Seal, close above the diaphragm; in the interior of the eye of Birds; around the poison gland of Snakes; in the contractile organ of the pharynx of the Carp; in the eso- phagus of the plagiostome Fishes; in the stomach of Cobitis fossilis; in the intestine of Tinea chrysitis; in the anal glands of mammals; and around Cowpers glands of mammals. In Invertebrata, all muscles belong in this category. Muscle-fibers have been found in the human sartorius with a length of eight inches. A band of muscle 1 sq. cm. in cross-section, taken from a well-nourished adult immedi- ately after death, was able to bear without rupture a weight of 14 kilogrammes; but a similar band from a child broke with a weight of 6 kilogrammes, and from an old woman with 4. In human muscle, a weight of 9 kilogrammes pre- vents contraction of a fascicle 1 sq. cm. in cross-section. Striated muscle is developed from the myoblasts of the muscle-plates of the myotonies of the mesoblastic somites. These cells, at first round, soon elongate into mononuclear spindle-cells. Coincident with the elongation of the latter into muscle-fibers, the nucleus subdivides, so that the muscle- fibers become multinucleated. Somewhat later, striations appear in the periphery, the center of the muscle-fiber re- maining undifferentiated and containing the nuclei. Still later, central striation appears also, and the nuclei migrate until, in muscle of the pale type, they are found only beneath the sarcolemma.MICROSCOPIC ANATOMY 72 Nervous Tissues. Nervous tissue is composed of neurones, the morpho- logical units, and of neuroglia, the suppporting tissue. A neurone includes a nerve-cell and its processes, the axone and the dendrites. A nerve-cell is a large element whose shape varies with its situation. In the brain it is pyra- midal; in the cerebellum, flask-shaped; in the spinal cord, stellate; and in ganglia, round. A true cell membrane is not present. The nucleus is large and vesicular, possesses a nucleolar membrane, usually a large nucleolus, but only a small amount of chromatin. The cytoplasm consists of ground substance in which are embedded neurofibrillae, and chromatophilic and pigment granules. The chromatophilic granules are grouped to form Nissl bodies, which invade the dendrites but not the axone, and whose function is undeter- mined. The axone, of which there is only one, leaves the nerve-cell at the implantation cone, an elevation that is free from Nissl bodies. It is slender and not as distinct as the dendrites. Type I axone is long and becomes the axis- cylinder of a nerve-fiber. Type II axone is short and usually within a millimeter breaks up into terminal neuropodia which never leave the gray matter. The dendrites leave the nerve cell and soon branch dichotomously into the terminal knobbed telodendria. The latter come into contact with processes of another cell, but do not fuse with them. The nerve-cells are classified according to the number of their processes (there being always but one axone) into unipolar, bipolar and multipolar. Unipolar nerve-cells are infrequent, being found in the nervous system of inverte- brates, and in the sympathetic ganglia of Amphibians. In these the axis-cylinder divides dichotomously close to the nerve-cell into two nerve-fibers, of which one runs peripher- ally and the other centrally. The process thus resembles the letter T. The unipolar cells found in the spinal ganglia of adult mammalia are bipolar in the embryonal state, but the two primary processes fuse to form one in the adult. Bipolar nerve-cells, from opposite poles of which pass the dendrite and axone, are found in the retina, in the spiral ganglion of the acoustic nerve, in spinal ganglia of Fishes,NERVOUS TISSUES 73 and (in modified form) in the olfactory mucous membrane. Multipolar nerve-cells possess one axone and many den- drites, and are widely distributed. Either process of a nerve-cell (axone of type I or, if the nerve-cell belong to spinal or other sensory peripheral gan- glia, the dendrite) may be prolonged as the axis-cylinder of a nerve fiber. This axis-cylinder consists of prolongations of the neurofibrillae of the nerve-cell, here the axis-fibrillae, which are embedded in the soft, semifluid neuroplasm. The axis-cylinder is invested by the thick medullary sheath, and this, in turn, is enclosed by the thin neurilemma. The medullary sheath consists of myelin, which is fatty, semifluid, highly refracting and white when fresh, and neurokeratin, the supporting network. That the myelin is fatty is proven by its affinity for perosmic acid, and if it be dissolved by boiling in ether or alcohol, there is left the neurokeratin network, which resembles keratin in that it resists tryptic digestion. The medullary sheath acts as an insulator, the irritability of the nerve increasing with myelination. It is interrupted at regular intervals by annu- lar constrictions, the nodes of Ranvier, where, owing to the absence of the myelin, the neurilemma is separated from the axis-cylinder by the reduced neurokeratin network only. The nerve-fiber is thus divided into internodal segments, each of which lies between two nodes of Ranvier. These nodes may hold a nutritive relation to the axis-cylinder, for through them nutritive juices could more readily reach the center of the nerve-fiber. Stained by perosmic acid, the medullary sheath appears black; but if unstained, then fun- nel-shaped, oblique lines are seen running to the axis-cylin- der, thereby dividing each internodal segment into a number of smaller Schmidt-Lantermann segments. These lines afford support to the axis-cylinder and myelin. Each inter- nodal segment contains a neurilemma-cell, which has an oval nucleus and a small amount of cytoplasm. Such cells are semilunar on cross-section. The neurilemma is a fine, homo- geneous, elastic membrane that encloses the medullary sheath. Such is the structure of a medullated nerve-fiber. This variety is found in the cerebrospinal nerves. Those of the brain and spinal cord, as well as the optic and acousticMICROSCOPIC ANATOMY 74 nerves, are devoid of a neurilemma, a substitute being offered by condensed neuroglia. Nonmedullated nerve-fibers are characterized by the absence of the medullary sheath, the axis-cylinders being clothed by the neurilemma alone. Such fibers are poorly insulated, and are found in the gray rami of the sympathetic system, in the olfactory nerves, and in cer- tain tactile corpuscles. The gray rami derive a delicate sheath from the capsule that surrounds the ganglion cell. Medullated nerve-fibers occur in Vertebrata only. What nerves are found in Invertebrata are non-medullated. Neuroglia (nerve-glue) is the supporting framework of the central nervous system, and represents connective tissue of ectoblastic origin. It consists of glia-cells and their processes, the glia-fibers. Ependymal cells are glia-cells that border the central canal of the spinal cord and ventricles of the brain. They are pyramidal in shape and surmounted by cilia. Astrocytes are glia-cells situated elsewhere, and phy- logenetically are younger than the ependymal cells, from which they derive origin. As their name implies, they are stellate in outline and, with their processes, resemble a spider. Glia-fibers usually become separated from the glia- cells and constitute a dense feltwork. Such condensations form glia-capsules for the nerve-cells, replace the neuri- lemma of medullated nerve-fibers in the brain and spinal cord by neurogliar sheaths, and form the substantia gela- tinosa centralis. A nerve-trunk is made up of several funiculi, each of which represents a bundle of nerve-fibers. Each nerve-trunk is surrounded by fibro-elastic epineurium, with its blood- and lymph-vessels; each funiculus, by a sheath called peri- neurium, which not only encloses perineurial lymph-spaces, but also sends septa of endoneurium between the nerve- fibers. Each nerve-fiber is enclosed in a sheath (of Henle), which invests the neurilemma. On cross-section of a nerve- trunk, each medullated nerve-fiber shows a central dot that represents the axis-cylinder, surrounded, from within out- ward, by the medullary sheath, the neurilemma (with its semilunar neurilemma-cell), and the sheath (of Henle). Cross-section of non-medullated fibers shows conspicuously the absence of the medullary sheath, so that the small axis- cylinders are very closely assembled.75 NERVOUS TISSUES The size of the nerve-trunk bears no definite relation to that of the muscle it supplies. The external rectus oculi is in cross-section 30 times greater than its nerve (VI), and there are 3 nerve-fibers for every 7 muscle-fibers. On the other hand, the tibialis anticus is in cross-section 150 times greater than its nerve, and has 1 nerve-fiber for every 80 muscle-fibers. The breaking weight of a cord of nerve 8 sq.mm, in cross-section is 50.6 lbs. This varies a little with individual nerves, and depends on the amount and arrangement of the connective-tissue sheaths. The sciatic nerve bore 198.2 lbs. without breaking, and the median, 52.8 lbs. And 11 inches of the median nerve with this weight lengthened to 17 inches. A ganglion (knot) is an aggregation of nerve-cells that lies outside of the central nervous system in the course of a peripheral nerve. There are two types of ganglia,—the spinal, and the sympathetic. A spinal ganglion is enveloped by a fibrous capsule, continuous with the epineurium. The nerve-cells are separated by septa of connective tissue from the fibrous capsule, which support blood-vessels. The nerve- fibers break up the centrally disposed nerve-cells into groups. Each ganglion-cell is spherical and unipolar, and is surrounded by a nucleated capsule that is continuous with the neurilemma. Type I cells, which predominate, receive the dendritic process from the periphery, and send an axone centrally. Type II cells are distinguished by pro- cesses that are confined to the ganglion, and break up into numerous branches that surround the nucleated capsules of type I cells. A pericellular network is formed also by end- ings of sympathetic fibers. A sympathetic ganglion is simi- lar in structure to a spinal ganglion, but the cells are smaller and different connections are established by their processes. These will be considered with the sympathetic system. The nerve-fibers are medullated and nonmedullated, and form pericellular plexuses about the ganglion-cells. Nervous tissue has a specific gravity of 1036. A cord of it 8 sq.mm, in cross-section broke with a weight of 50.6 lbs.MICROSCOPIC ANATOMY 76 PERIPHERAL NERVE-EXTREMITIES. Although it seem rather academical, yet the author deems it prudent to distinguish between motor nerve-end- ings and sensory nerve-beginnings,—a distinction justified functionally. As a motor nerve approaches striated muscle, it divides and subdivides and comes into close relation with the mus- cle-fibers. Here the neurilemma joins the sarcolemma and the terminal thread of the axis-cylinder continues into the sarcous substance and breaks up, to terminate in the motor- plate. As a rule, each muscle-fiber is supplied with one motor-plate. Where the nerve-fiber penetrates the muscle-fiber there is usually evident an elevation which, first observed by Doyere in the muscles of Insects, is called Doyere’s hillock. In Amphibians, the branches of the end-arborizations of the axis-cylinders tend to be straight and simple; in Reptiles, Birds, and mammals, on the contrary, they are S-shaped. In non-striated muscle, the gray ramus terminates in minute, varicose dilatations on the muscle-cells. The sensory fibers of a cutaneous nerve begin usually as little varicose enlargements, the end-knobs between the epithelial cells of the skin or mucous membrane, where they take up the tactile or thermal impulses. From the end- knob to the basement membrane the fibril is non-medul- lated. Beyond this, however, it assumes its medullary sheath. In the deeper layers of the epidermis, certain sensory nerves begin in a meniscus (of Merkel), which partly sur- rounds an epithelial cell like a ball in a cup. Examples of such neuro-epithelium are seen in gustatory, visual and auditory cells. Bulbous corpuscles (of Krause) are spherical or oval bodies found from one to four in a square millimeter in highly-sensitive parts, such as the conjunctiva, lips, mouth, glans penis, and clitoris. In them certain sensory nerves begin as a labyrinth of nonmedullated dendrites, but acquire their medullary sheath on leaving the corpuscle. Cylindri- cal corpuscles (of Krause) are found in the corium, in thePERIPHERAL NERVE-EXTREMITIES 77 mucous membrane of the mouth, and in the connective tis- sue of muscles and tendons. In them the dendrite begins in a minute knob, and passes without branching to the periph- ery of the corpuscle, where it acquires its medullary sheath. Genital corpuscles (of Krause) are large, oval bodies situ- ated deeply in the corium of the glans penis, clitoris, and parts adjacent to the genitalia. In them the dendrites of as many as ten nerve-fibers begin in minute knobs, from which proceed naked dendrites in confusion toward the periph- ery, where they acquire their medullary sheath. They have a thick, lamellated capsule. Tactile corpuscles (of Meissner) are large, irregularly oval bodies that are particularly numerous in the finger- tips, there being about twenty to the square millimeter here. They are also found in the palms of the hands and soles of the feet and other sensitive localities. They are surrounded by a thin, nucleated, connective-tissue capsule. The enclosed dendrites begin in a rich network of varicose telodendria which wind spirally about the corpuscle and, near the base of the latter, perforate the capsule and acquire their medul- lary sheath. Ruffini’s corpuscles are large, elongated bodies, not dis- similar to those of Meissner, that are found in and near the corium of the fingers and toes. They are surrounded by thin, connective-tissue capsules. The dendritic telodendria begin in minute knobs and, after forming a varicose net- work, assemble in larger branches which leave the capsule. They acquire their medullary sheath before leaving the cor- puscle. Lamellar corpuscles (of Vater-Pacini) are large, ellip- tical, highly-specialized bodies that are found in the palms and soles, and in most serous membranes. They are charac- terized by a prominent capsule made up of from forty to sixty concentric lamellae, interspersed among which are endothelial cells whose spindle-shaped nuclei are plainly seen. Between the lamellae there is clear, serous fluid. The dendrite begins near one pole of the corpuscle in the semi- fluid inner bulb, which occupies the axis of the body, in minute knobs, and passes as several telodendria toward the opposite end of the inner bulb. The telodendria soon be- come one axial fiber which, at the opposite end of the innerMICROSCOPIC ANATOMY 78 I bulb, acquires a medullary sheath, traverses the lamellae that form the opposite pole of the corpuscle, and leaves the latter. These corpuscles are very conspicuous in the mesen- tery and pancreas of the Cat, where they may be seen macro- scopically as pearly bodies two millimeters in length. As they are usually cut obliquely or transversely, it is seldom that the axial fiber will be seen throughout its length. In the skin of the thumb there are about 70 lamellar corpuscles; of the index finger, 105; of the middle finger, 60; in the whole hand, about 500; about the joints of the upper extremity, 530, and about those of the lower, 317. Corpuscles of Golgi-Mazzoni are modifications of those of Vater-Pacini that occur in the subcutaneous tissue of the finger-tips. Their smaller capsules make their inner bulbs relatively larger. Corpuscles of Herbst resemble those of Vater-Pacini but are smaller, and show a row of cubical cells in the inner bulb which have a function similar to that of the meniscus (of Merkel). They are found in the skin and tongues of aquatic Birds, and are familiarly seen in the skin that covers the Duck’s bill. Neuromuscular beginnings have been described with the nerve-supply of striated muscle. Neurotendinous begin- nings are found in the connective tissue between secondary bundles of tendons, near their junction with the muscle. They do not warrant a separate description. They serve to transmit the sensation of tension, being active in connection with co-ordinated movements. BLOOD-VASCULAR SYSTEM. Under this heading will be described the arteries, the capillaries, the veins, and the blood. An artery, such as the brachial, possesses three coats— intima, media, and adventitia. The intima, the most deli- cate coat, is plicated, and presents to the blood-current an endothelial lining, outside of which is a subendothelial layer of fibro-elastic tissue, and outside of this is the internal elas- tic membrane. This, the most conspicuous part of the intima, appears in cross section as a wavy, refractive band79 BLOOD-VASCULAR SYSTEM of yellow elastic tissue that demarcates the intima from the next coat. The media, the thickest coat, is composed of circularly-disposed bundles of non-striated muscle-cells, in- terspersed with strands of white fibrous and yellow elastic connective tissue. The latter is condensed externally into a thin external elastic membrane, which demarcates the media from the outermost coat. The adventitia, the strong- est coat, is composed of bundles of white fibrous tissue in- termingled with yellow elastic fibers, and supports vasa vas- orum and perivascular lymph-channels. In the arteries within the skull, the media is devoid of yellow elastic tissue. In the aorta and in other arteries of larger caliber the coats, while uniformly thicker, are not so sharply defined. In the intima, the subendothelial layer, while thicker, is more diffused, so that the internal elastic membrane is not so conspicuous. On the other hand, the yellow elastic tis- sue in this coat now assumes the form of a fenestrated mem- brane. The media is enlarged chiefly through increase of its fibro-elastic tissue, which here surpasses the muscular • tissue in amount. The external elastic membrane is also less conspicuous, if indeed not wholly wanting. The adven- titia may exhibit longitudinal strands of muscle next the media. At the commencement of the aorta and pulmonary artery are found strands of striated muscle similar to that of the heart. Longitudinal strips of aorta 1cm. in breadth broke with a weight of 14.3 lbs.; of carotid, 9% lbs.; and of radial, 8.2“ lbs. In arterioles of small caliber the coats become dimin- ished, the intima at the expense of its subendothelial layer, the endothelium abutting against the internal elastic lamina. The media is reduced to a single layer of muscle-cells, and the adventitia to a few fibro-elastic strands. In precapillary arterioles the intima is represented by the endothelium only, and the media by a thin, discontinu- ous layer of circularly-disposed muscle-cells. On longitud- inal section, the nuclei of the groups of muscle-cells" form right angles with those of the endothelial cells. The ad- ventitia is greatly thinned out. In capillaries there remains a single layer only of endo- thelial cells, muscle-cells having entirely disappeared. In80 MICROSCOPIC ANATOMY the choroid, liver, and glomeruli of the kidney the capillaries do not even show individual endothelial cells, but a syncy- tium. It is now evident that the fundamental part of a blood-vessel is the endothelium, and that the other coats are accessory. The sectional area of the capillaries in the body of a well-grown adult has been estimated at 3,000 sq. cm. Sinusoids resemble capillaries in structure, but are formed as subdivisions of a single vessel, therefore being wholly venous or wholly arterial. In man they are found in the liver, as subdivisions of the portal vein. In embryos of higher verebrates temporarily, and in lower vertebrates permanently, sinusoids are found in the mesonephros and musculature of the heart. In veins, while the same three coats may be recognized, yet there is a smaller amount of yellow elastic tissue, the media is poorly and the adventitia strongly developed, and the walls in relation to the size of their lumina much thinner ' than in arteries. Thus it happens that veins collapse more readily than arteries, or, if distended, have a larger lumen than the contracted artery. The intima is poor in yellow elastic tissue. In small veins that receive capillaries this coat alone is present. In certain large veins the intima con- tains muscle-cells. The media is poorly developed, the fibro-elastic constituent predominating over the muscular. It is best developed in the veins of the lower extremities, but poorly developed in those of the upper. The adventitia is the most highly developed coat of veins. It consists of fibro-elastic tissue intermingled with longitudinal bands of muscle. The valves of veins are paired reduplications of the intima. The venous system is more capacious than the arterial in the proportion of 3.5: 1. Vasa vasorum are small nutrient blood-vessels that ramify in the adventitia of arteries and veins over one milli- meter in diameter. Lymphatics often accompany and supply blood-vessels, and in the central nervous system, retina, and bones sur- round them with perivascular lymph-sheaths. Vaso-motor nerves, the gray rami from the sympathetic system, form plexuses in the media and end in relation with81 BLOOD the muscle-cells. Capillaries are often surrounded by a fine network of nerve-filaments. Sensory nerves are represent- ed by fibers that begin in the intima and adventitia, some- times in special nerve-beginnings. Blood. Blood is a red fluid that consists of blood-cells floating in plasma. It is a mesoblastic tissue in which the former represent the cellular elements, whilst the latter corresponds to the intercellular substance. Plasma is a clear, straw-col- ored fluid that contains fat globules from the chyle and fine colorless granules called blood-dust. In sections it appears as a granular coagulum. Blood-cells are of two kinds— red and white. Red cells (erythrocytes) are concavo-convex, circular, non-nucleated disks, 7j4 microns in diameter. In every cubic millimeter of blood are found 5,000,000 (average). Seen under the microscope, they are pale greenish-yellow in color. A hollow rubber ball from which the air has been expelled by indenting one hemisphere into the other with the finger tips represents their shape. If spread thickly, they adhere into rouleaux, lying upon one another as coins do. If allowed to dry, they become crenated from shrinking. Structurally, they are composed of a delicate, spongy, proto- plasmic stroma that contains hemoglobin. It is well to remember the diameter of red cells, since it is often used as a standard of measurement in micrometry. White cells (leucocytes) are irregularly round or oval, nucleated cells from one to three times the size of a red cell. In every cubic millimeter of blood are found 7,500 (average). They are not confined to the blood, which they enter from the lymph-vascular system, but are found, be it recalled, in connective tissue as wandering cells. According to their nuclear characteristics, they may be assorted into the fol- lowing classes:— (1) Small lymphocytes, whose nucleus is proportion- ately large and deeply staining, and whose cytoplasm is scanty, inconspicuous, and arranged like a ring around the nucleus. They are about the size of a red cell, and formMICROSCOPIC ANATOMY 82 from 20-30% of white cells. They are identical with the lymphoid cells of lymphatic tissue. (2) Large lymphocytes, whose nucleus is proportion- ately small, round or oval, faintly staining, and usually ec- centrically situated, and whose cytoplasm is abundant and non-granular. While they resemble myelocytes, they are smaller and have no neutrophile granules. They may attain a diameter of 20 microns, and form from 4-8% of white cells. (3) Transitional leucocytes, which are distinguished by a horseshoe-shaped nucleus, but in other respects correspond with the large lymphocytes. They are intermediate be tween the lymphocytes and the cells of the next class, with which their relative percentage will be reckoned. (4) Polymorphonuclear leucocytes, whose peculiar nu- cleus is characterized by constrictions, and whose cytoplasm is distinguished by neutrophile granules. They are inter- mediate in size between red cells and transitional leucocytes and, together with the latter, constitute from 60-72% of white cells. As wandering cells, they are the ‘‘track-walk- ers” of the body, rendering bacteria innocuous and removing foreign substances. (5) Eosinophiles, which are polymorphonuclear leu- cocytes that have a special affinity for eosin. This stain re- veals coarse, highly refractive granules in the cytoplasm. Eosinophiles form from 1-2% of the white cells. Basophiles are large lymphocytes whose cytoplasm con- tains fine granules that stain with basic dyes. They are occasionally found in the blood. Myelocytes and mast-cells, which may be recalled as marrow-cells, are seen in the blood in certain pathological conditions. Blood plaques are round or oval, colorless, noil-nucleat- ed protoplasmic structures whose size is about one-third that of a red cell. One cubic millimeter of blood contains 300,000 (average). They are fragments of elongated pseu- dopods of the myeloplaxes of the bone marrow. Hemoglobin, which constitutes 32% of moist red cells and 14% of the blood, lends color to the blood and, func- tionally, is its most important constitutent. Contributed to forming red cells by red marrow, it is disposed of by the liver when old. One molecule of hemoglobin takes up oneBLOOD 83 molecule of oxygen from the air) during inspiration, and forms an unstable compound termed oxyhemoglobin. This is carried by the red cells to the capillaries throughout the body, where it is readily dissociated and gives off free oxygen to the tissues. In exchange, it takes up carbon dioxide, which it yields to the expired air in the lungs. Hemoglobin consists chemically of FeCHONS. On heating with dilute acids, it resolves into hematin (4%) and globin (96%). Hematin is an amorphous, iron-bearing pigment. Hema- toidin is a reduction-product of hemoglobin found in old blood-clots, and appears in the form of rhombic prisms orange-red in color. It is considered identical with bilirubin of the bile. Hemin may be obtained in the form of mahog- any-brown, rhombic plates (Teichman’s crystals) lying singly or crossed to form stars, by adding to dried blood a few grains of table salt, dissolving both in a large drop of glacial acetic acid, and heating until bubbles appear. This is a test for the presence of blood and thus is of forensic sig- nificance, but it does not indicate the source of the blood. The development of blood-vessels begins in the extra- embryonic splanchnic mesoblast (vascular area) surround- ing the vitelline sac, and thence extends toward the embryo. Penetrating the latter, the blood-vessels reach and connect with the already beating heart, so that circulation is at once established. A dorsal aorta is formed on each side of the body, and is continuous in front of the pharynx with the corresponding ventral aorta. These vessels are joined by the vitelline vessels from without. The future vessels of the body are offshoots from these endothelial tubes, at first as solid sprouts, which later become hollow by extension of the lumen of the vessel. Meeting and fusing with similar offshoots from the same or from other vessels, a capillary network is formed. For larger vessels, the media and adventitia are added by the surrounding meso- blast. The earlier blood-cells are of the red varietv and are formed in the vascular area by separation of certain of the mesoblastic elements of the endothelial offshoots, which float in the clear plasma that appears between them as a product of liquefaction. These early cells undergo indirect division, and produce the primary erythrocytes. The development of red cells proceeds from the primaryMICROSCOPIC ANATOMY 84 erythrocytes. These are large, round, nucleated elements whose cytoplasm, at first devoid of color and granular, later clarifies and acquires hemoglobin. By extrusion of their nuclei from the protoplasm, together with slight decrease in size of the cells, these primary erythrocytes enter the cir- culation now in the form of red cells. While this latter pro- cess takes place to some extent in the heart and blood-vessels throughout the body, it goes on more abundantly where conditions of nutrition are more favorable and where the circulation is more sluggish and therefore permits accumu- lation of the red cells. Such localities are the larger capil- laries of the lower limbs and the capillaries of the subcutan- eous tissues and of the viscera. Certain organs are so much concerned in the early production of red cells that they are termed hematopoietic organs. Such are first the liver, and later the spleen and bone-marrow. After birth the liver and spleen cease producing red cells, this function being entrust- ed to the red marrow alone. Here red cells are seen in all •steps from their colorless, nucleated, formative stage (ery- throblasts, later normoblasts) to their red, non-nucleated, mature condition (erythrocytes). It is in the latter state that they enter the circulation. The development of white cells begins later than that of the red cells. White cells originate as migratory meso- blastic elements outside of the blood-vessels, which they soon enter through their ameboid motion. Later, they are produced by the lymphoid tissue of the body, especially by the lymph-nodes, thymus, spleen, and bone-marrow. The white cells then pass through the stage of lymphocytes, leu- cocytes, and eosinophiles. Blood is a red, opaque, viscid, alkaline fluid with a spe- cific gravity of 1,060 (average). Arterial blood is bright scarlet owing to its greater amount of oxyhemoglobin, whilst venous blood is deep bluish-red. In the Octopus arterial blood is blue and venous blood white. In the Amphioxus blood is colorless. It constitutes about one-twentieth of the body-weight, and is distributed one-fourth to the heart, lungs and great vessels; one-fourth to the liver; one-fourth to the resting muscles; and one-fourth to other structures.. In re- lation with the vascular system there is about one-eighth in the arteries, one-half in the veins, including those of theLYMPHATIC SYSTEM 85 liver and spleen, and the remaining three-eighths in the cap- illaries. The average man has about 4j/2 quarts of blood. Loss of half this amount {2% quarts) usually causes death. When removed from the vessels blood coagulates and di- vides into a blood-clot and serum. Red cells are round in all mammalia except the Camel and Llama, in which they are oval. In the lower vertebrates the red cells are nucleated and oval, being shaped like a melon seed. The smallest red cells are found in the Musk Deer where they are about the size of a human blood plaque, whilst the largest are those of the Amphiuma, which are ten times the size of a human red cell, or thirty times the size of those of the Musk Deer. While in man there are 5,000,000 red cells in one cubic millimeter of blood, in Proteus there are 33,000 and in Capra hircus 19,000,000. The total num- ber of red cells in man has been estimated at 25,000,000,000,- 000, and their collective surface-exposure at 24,000 square feet. In Invertebrata the blood-cells are usually uncolored and resemble the white cells of higher animals. LYMPHATIC SYSTEM. Lymph-spaces are ill-defined, irregular clefts lined by endothelioid cells and containing lymph. Present through- out the body, they are most marked in areolar tissue. Their relation to the cells and fibers of the body is such that these are bathed in a sea of lymph. In connective tissue they have already been referred to as “juice-canals,” and again with the blood-vessels as perivascular lymph-spaces. They min- ister to the tissues, serving them with nutrition and remov- ing effete matter. The lymphatic system is a closed (except where it joins the subclavian veins) system of delicate lymph vessels and intercalated lymph nodes. The lymph-vessels contain lymph and lymphocytes, whilst the lymph nodes are composed of lymphatic tissue. Lymphatic capillaries, the beginnings of the lymphatic system, form fine networks of thin-walled, irregularly-cali- bred, non-valvular vessels arranged, usually, in a superficial and deep set. Although, like blood-capillaries, composed of86 MICROSCOPIC ANATOMY -a;single layer of endothelial cells, yet their diameter is larger. Beginning blindly, they traverse the tissues bordering lymph-spaces, but do not communicate directly with the latter, and end by communicating with the lymph-vessels. Lymph-vessels receive the lymph from definite areas of the networks just mentioned and convey it through various lymph nodes until it eventually reaches the subclavian veins via the thoracic duct or the right lymphatic duct. They, too, are arranged in a superficial and deep set. They pos- sess numerous valves. Their caliber does not progressively increase as that of veins, but they are similar to the latter in number of coats and structure, but are thinner. Lymph nodes are dense, grayish-pink, round or oval bodies measurable in millimeters or centimeters, which occur along the course of lymph-vessels. On meeting with a lymph node, a lymph-vessel breaks up into vasa afferentia, which empty their contents into the capillary network within the lymph node. Having percolated through the little filter, the lymph is conveyed onward by a smaller number of vasa efferentia, which leave at the hilum and unite to continue the lymph-vessel. It is now considered incorrect to refer to these structures as “lymph glands/’ since they do not se- crete in the sense that a true gland does. The structure bf a lymph node will be introduced by the structure of lym- phatic tissue in general. Lymphatic tissue consists essentially of reticulum and cells. The former is represented by trabeculae of white fibrous tissue that unite to form a close-meshed network. Upon the trabeculae rest flattened connective-tissue cells. The cells correspond to the lymphocytes, and are about as closely congregated as the red cells in a thick smear of blood. The simplest type of such tissue is found in lymph- atic nodules, which occur in mucous membranes and will be recognized later in the solitary nodules of the digestive tube. Conglomerations of lymphatic follicles go to make up the next simplest type, namely—the tonsils and the ag- gregate nodules (of Peyer) of the ileum. Then come lymph nodes. In structure, lymph nodes show a capsule of white fibrous tissue and, at times, non-striated muscle. Within this capsule, the organ is divisible into the peripheral cortex,SPLEEN 87 which is subdivided by trabeculae into compartments, and the central medulla, which is but indistinctly partitioned. These compartments are filled, in the cortex, by masses of lymphatic tissue, the cortical nodules, each of which cor- responds to a simple lymphatic nodule, and in the medulla, by a network of lymphatic tissue, the medullary cords. Be- tween the trabeculae and the masses of lymphatic tissue are the lymph-sinuses, which are crossed by a loose reticulum that supports scattered cells. Through these the lymph, re- ceived from the afferent vessels, percolates slowly enough to take up new lymphocytes until, at the hilum, it is carried off by the efferent lymph-vessels. It may be said, then, that lymph-sinuses represent continuations of the lymph-vessels. Arteries enter the hilum, follow the trabeculae for a dis- tance, and then break up into capillaries both in the medul- lary cords and in the cortical nodules. Veins return the blood from both sets of capillaries and leave the hilum. Such a blood-vascular unit is repeated for every lymphatic-nodule unit in the lymph node. Nerves, chiefly non-medullated, enter the hilum and supply the non-striated muscle of the blood-vessels and of the capsule. The spleen is the largest lymphatic organ in the body, measuring about six by four inches, and is situated in the left hypochondrium. Its capsule, composed of white fibrous and yellow elastic tissue and non-striated muscle, sends trabeculae into the organ to form its framework. These trabeculae subdivide the spleen into sacs, each of which con- tains a splenic lobule. The latter is subdivided by finer pro- cesses of trabeculae into about ten primary compartments. Contained in and supported by this framework is the splenic pulp, which consists of reticulum and enmeshed lympho- cytes, leucocytes, nucleated and non-nucleated red cells, and phagocytes containing skeletons of red cells. The blood- vessels are intimately associated with the structure of the spleen. Coming in through the hilum, the arteries enter the trabeculae and give off a branch to each lobule. Cours- ing through the middle of the lobule, this, in turn, gives off a branch to each primary compartment. Within the latter the lymphatic tissue is arranged in pulp-cords, and in these the branch to the compartment breaks up into ramifications, each of which ends in an ampulla (of Thoma). Around the88 MICROSCOPIC ANATOMY pulp-cords are venous spaces, the radicles of the veins. With- in the primary compartment the latter unite to form a single vein, which enters a trabecula and passes toward the hilum. At the proximal part of each lobule, the lobular artery shows within its adventitia a heaping-up of lymphatic tissue, the splenic nodule (of Malpighi). Each splenic nodule appears as a grayish speck 1mm. in diameter, and all told there are about 5,000 in the human spleen. In the Guinea Pig, on the other hand, the lymphatic sheath of the arteries is continu- ous. Lymph-vessels are found in the capsule and trabecu- lae. The nerves, derived from the right vagus and celiac plexus, are chiefly non-medullated, and accompany and sup- ply the blood-vessels. The thymus, found in the fetus and in the child up to puberty, is located in the lower part of the neck and just be- neath the upper part of the sternum. It is surrounded by a capsule, from which septa penetrate the organ and subdi- vide it into lobes. The latter, in turn, are subdivided into lobules, in which may be distinguished a dark cortical sub- stance, and a light medullary substance. The former con- sists of reticulum which supports crowds of lymphocytes and some eosinophiles. The medullary substance also con- sists of reticulum which supports, in addition to lympho- cytes and eosinophiles, leucocytes and multinuclear giant cells. The thymus is distinguished by the presence, in its medullary substance only, of thymic corpuscles (of Hassall). These are rounded bodies whose periphery shows concentri- cally-arranged semilunar cells, and whose center contains albuminous, granular substance, which is probably nuclear and cellular detritus. The arteries enter the lobules through the septa and, at the junction of the cortical and medullary substances, break up into a fine capillary network, from which branches proceed to both zones of the lobule. The veins that drain the cortical substance are situated between the lobules, whilst those that drain the medullary substance are situated therein. The lymphatics, also, are found be- tween the lobules, and accompany the blood-vessels. The nerves, derived chiefly from the sympathetic gangliated cords, but also from the vagi, terminate on the blood-vessels. As to development, central lymph-vessels arise from the fusion of a series of spaces in relation with the primitive sys-MUCOUS MEMBRANE 89 temic veins, whilst peripheral lymph-vessels arise as out buddings from these central. Lymphocytes develop at first in the mesoblast outside of the vessels, and later in the lymph nodes. The latter are at first represented by small, dense areas of lymphocytes in a reticulum, which stand in close relation with terminal blood- and lymph-vessels. The lat- ter multiply and form the sinus-element, which establishes close relations with the lymphatic element just described. The spleen is developed from a condensation of mesoblastic cells, lymphatic in character, in the dorsal mesentery of the stomach. Into the tissue thus formed numerous blood- vessels grow. The thymus is entoblastic in origin, since it develops from the third pharyngeal pouches by two tubular prolongations that fuse in the mid-line, lose their lumina, and proliferate until the organ is formed. MUCOUS MEMBRANE. Mucous membrane, which lines all spaces that com- municate directly or indirectly with the air, consists of epi- thelium and of tunica propria, and is bound to neighboring structures by submucous tissue. The epithelium may be of either the first two varieties (q. v. Epithelial Tissue), in ac- cordance with local requirements. The tunica propria is composed of interlacing bundles of white fibrous and yellow elastic tissue, the stellate cells of which usually occupy inter- fascicular lymph-spaces. The tunica propria frequently rises up into papillae, carrying tufts of blood-vessels and nerves. Between the epithelium and the tunica propria is the basement membrane, which is a condensation of the latter. Between the tunica propria and the submucous tis- sue is the muscularis mucosae, which, when present, consists of a thin strip of non-striated muscle. In the lower ani- mals, certain appendages of mucous membranes are found, as, for example, the horny sheaths of the beaks of Birds; the horny teeth of Cyclostome Fishes; “whalebones” and the spines and plates of the tongue of Birds, Mammalia, and some Amphibia; the spines of the esophagus of Chelonia; the gastric teeth of many Mollusks; and the horny plates of the Bird’s stomach.90 MICROSCOPIC ANATOMY GLANDS. * Glands are classified, according to their form and the shape of their lumen into tubular and alveolar, each of which may be simple or compound. Those that possess the char- acteristics of both varieties are termed tubulo-alveolar glands. The simplest form of gland has already been referred to with the goblet variety of modified epithelium (q. v.), each goblet cell representing a unicellular gland. If ref- erence be made back to the discussion of “glandular epithel- ium,” the statement will be found that a multicellular gland, which is now under consideration, arises as a direct in- growth of the epithelial cells of the adjacent surface, recall- ing, in miniature, the effect produced by thrusting the finger in a mass of dough. Thus there is formed, as it were, a sub- merged glandular surface, which is formed by the free mar- gins of the gland cells that are arranged beside one another. Could such a surface of a gland, rendered complex by count- less subdivisions, be untangled and made plane, quite an ex- tensive area would be covered, and this would serve as an illustration of the enormous secreting capacity of a structure that is encompassed in such small space. The combined output of all the glands in the body, while beyond calcula- tion, would certainly be enormous. It will be seen, then, that glands, though minute and scattered, yet in the aggre- gate form a most powerful and important vassal of the body. The essential parts of a multicellular gland are a fundus and a duct. The fundus (bottom), to use a simile, corre- sponds to the body of a bottle: it is the part that secretes, just as the body of the bottle is the part that holds the fluid, and it is deeply situated. The duct corresponds to the neck of the bottle; it is superficially situated and, like the neck of a bottle, plays the subordinate role of conveying the fluid to the outside. Its lining cells, therefore, do not secrete. A gland, as long as life exists, reminds one of the fabled ever-filling bottle. Glands, in fact, represent bottles in Na- ture's chemical laboratory: they contain sebum, tears, mu- cus, serum, and other substances. A simple tubular gland is like a test-tube. Large num-GLANDS 91 bers of these are seen in the intestines as intestinal glands (of Lieberkuehn). If entwined upon itself like a snake, it is termed a coil gland, examples of which are the sweat glands. A compound tubular gland differs from a simple tubular in that its fundus and the fundal part of its duct are divided. A simple type,of this is seen in the uterine glands. A more complex, convoluted type is found in the kidney. A simple alveolar gland resembles a flask, as its name implies (alvelous, a small, rounded vessel). It differs from a simple tubular gland in that its fundus is dilated. Such a gland may be unbranched or branched. Unbranched simple alveolar glands are not found in man, but, for example, in Frog’s skin. They also occur, in modified form, in small sebaceous glands of higher animals. Branched simple alveolar glands are represented by the large sebaceous and tarsal (Meibomian) glands. A compound alveolar gland is made up of many alveolar systems. An alveolar system consists of a branched simple alveolar gland that has many alveoli. Since the fundal part of the duct is subdivided in this as in the compound tubular type, many ducts open into a main duct. This form is best seen in the lung. A tubulo-alveolar gland is classified as a modified com- pound tubular gland, and is distinguished from the com- pound alveolar type by its narrower terminal alveoli. The picture presented by the latter, as they lie clinging to their ducts, recalls vividly that of a bunch of grapes, so that the term “racemose’1 (racemus, a bunch of grapes) may be fit- tingly applied to tubulo-alveolar glands. Primary lobules are composed of those alveoli that are tributary to a common excretory duct ; secondary lobules are composed of a number of primary lobules; whilst lobes are composed of a number of secondary lobules, and unite to form the whole gland. As to the ducts, a number of alveoli empty into an intermediate duct, which is in relation with a primary lobule; several in- termediate ducts unite to form an intralobular duct, which is in relation with a secondary lobule; the intralobular ducts empty into the interlobular, which are between the lobules; the interlobular ducts empty into the interlobar, which are between the lobes; whilst the interlobar ducts converge to the common excretory duct of the gland. While the epi-'92 MICROSCOPIC ANATOMY thelium of the alveoli and ducts differs in shape, yet it is uniformly distributed as a single layer. In the ducts the cells are columnar; in the alveoli, more nearly spherical. According to the character of fluid they secrete, the oral tubulo-alveolar glands may be classified as serous or mucous. Their differentiation follows:— Serous Gland. Alveoli smaller. Lumen scarcely distinguish- ed. Protoplasm of cells granular. Nuclei circular, in middle of cell. Secretion thin and watery. Cytoplasm redder in double stain. Secretion-capillaries present. Represented in mixed glands by crescents. Pure serous :-parotid. Mixed serous :-submaxillary. Mucous Gland. Alveoli larger. Lumen more readily seen. Protoplasm of cells clear. Nuclei oval, and flattened against periphery of cell. Secretion clear and viscid. Cytoplasm bluer in double stain. Secretion - capillaries absent in a purely mucous gland. Not represented in mixed glands by crescents, but by alveoli. Pure mucous :-palatal. Mixed mucous: - sublingual: buccal. A mixed gland is a gland that secretes both serum and mucus. If the serous alveoli predominate, the gland is a mixed serous, and the mucous element is represented by a few mucous alveoli. If the mucous alveoli predominate, the gland is a mixed mucous, and the serous element is rep- resented by crescents of compressed'serous cells which oc- cupy the periphery of various mucous alveoli. In this mixed mucous type, secretion-capillaries conduct serum from the crescents, between the mucous cells, into the lumen of the intermediate duct. Mucous cells exhausted by pro- longed secretion resemble serous cells in that they are more granular. The arteries of a gland divide into fine capillary-net- works which surround the ducts as well as the alveoli, in the latter lying just without the basement membrane upon which the cells rest. Lymphatics and nerves bear similar relations to the glands.DIGESTIVE TRACT 93 The development of glands has been hinted at pre- viously. Epithelial plugs of ectoblastic or entoblastic origin, according to the site of the glands, grow in from the sur- face and divide and subdivide, in keeping with the variety of gland to be formed. These solid cords become hollow by extension throughout the gland of a lumen from the surface. The basement membranes are formed from condensations of the surrounding mesoblast, and the connective-tissue septa have, of course, the same origin. DIGESTIVE TRACT. The mouth is lined by mucous membrane whose epi- thelium is stratified squamous, and whose tunica propria is elevated into simple papillae. Freely scattered throughout this mucous membrane, in its deeper parts, are numerous mucous glands, which may be grouned as labial, buccal, and molar, and bulbous and cylindrical corpuscles. Each lip is covered externallv by skin, and internally by mucous membrane. On section, the skin shows the epi- dermis, and the corium with its papillae, hair-follicles, and sweat-glands. The mucous membrane shows the epithelium, basement membrane, tunica propria, and submucous tissue, the two latter containing the labial mucous glands. Be- tween the skin and mucous membrane, and contributing the thickness of the lip, is found fatty-areolar tissue, embedded in which are strands of striated muscle in longitudinal and in transverse section, blood-vessels, lymphatics, and nerves. The borders of the lips contain sebaceous glands, and here the papillae are highest, and possess very sensitive bulbous corpuscles. The sensibility of the lips is such that the blades of an aesthesiometer can be separated for only 4 mm. on the margin, 9 on the adjoining skin, and 17.5 on the inner surface. It may be instructive to compare the struc- ture of the lips with that of the eyelids. The tongue is a muscular organ covered with specialized mucous membrane. Its musculature is arranged in verti- cal, transverse, and longitudinal bundles, as is readily seen in sections. Its muscle-fibers offer strikingly beautiful ex- amples of cross-striation. In the Frog, the muscle-fibers94 MICROSCOPIC ANATOMY often branch. In volume the tongue is about 70 ccm., and contains under the mucous membrane about 250,000 muscle- fibers which, placed side by side, would form a muscle capa- ble of lifting a weight of 220 lbs. Between the muscle- bundles are lingual glands (serous and mucous), fat, and connective-tissue septa. Between the halves of the tongue is the septum linguae. The mucous membrane on the dorsum of the tongue is raised into high papillae, which are better developed in Carnivora than in Herbivora. Everyone is ac- quainted with the roughness characteristic of the Cat's tongue. In man, there are three kinds of papillae,—filiform, fungiform, and circumvallate. Filiform (thread-like) papil- lae are rounded or pointed elevations which consist of a core of tunica propria covered with a thick layer of stratified epi- thelium. The smallest and most numerous of the lingual papillae, they are distributed over the whole upper surface of the tongue, about 500 to 1 sq. cm. Macroscopically they resemble the intestinal villi. Like the lingual spines of ani- mals, which are but modified filiform papillae, they convey and retain morsels of food, and their epithelium serves to protect the tongue. Fungiform (mushroom-shaped) papil- lae differ from the filiform in that they are lower and broader, resembling, in fact, a small mushroom. Situated mostly in front near the margin of the tongue, they are distin- guished by their red color, which is due to their relatively thin epithelial covering and rich blood-supply. Circumval- late papillae resemble the fungiform, but are larger, and are surrounded by a trench, whence their name. Ten (average) in number, they arrange themselves in the shape of a V at the posterior part of the dorsum of the tongue. Lodged in the lateral walls of the circumvallate papillae are taste-buds, which are concerned in perception of the sense of taste. These may be found also.in the wall on the opposite side of the trench. Into the trench'itself open the ducts of numer- ous serous glands. Taste-buds are also found on some of the fungiform papillae, and on the laryngeal surface of the epiglottis. In a six-month fetus they are found in many filiform and in all the fungiform papillae and on both surfaces of the epiglottis but, with the exception of those above mentioned, they are destroyed by leucocytic infiltration. In the Rabbit, whose95 TEETH sense of taste is very acute, there is a whitish area about one centimeter long on each side of the posterior part of the tongue: in this are many foliate (leaf-like) papillae separat- ed by furrows and containing taste-buds. In man this area is rudimentary, being represented by only a few small, trans- verse ridges. All three kinds of papillae show secondary papillae, which involve the core but do not appear on the surface. These papillae may readily be studied by reflecting the image of the tongue on a mirror. Below the site of the circumvallate papillae there is an accumulation of lymphatic tissue termed the lingual tonsil. '-'O * C r -7 < Teeth. The teeth may be regarded as hardened papillae of the mucous membrane of the mouth, just as the cutaneous ar- mor of Placoid fishes is hardened papillae of skin. Each presents a crown, which projects above the gums; a root (or roots), which is buried in the alveolus of the jaw; and a neck, which connects the crown with the root and is covered by the gum. The center of a tooth is hollowed out by the pulp- cavity, which is filled with pulp,. A tooth is composed of enamel, dentine, and cementum. Enamel, the hardest of all animal tissues and a deriva- tive of the ectoblast, is made up of enamel prisms. These are hexagonal rods arranged usually in parallel rows, and are bound together by a small amount of cement-substance. They run from the dentine, where they are thinner, radially to the free surface, where they are thicker, and are slightly wavy in their course. Examination of a vertical median sec- tion of the enamel with reflected light shows that the ob- liquely- and transversely-cut enamel prisms reflect light in such fashion as to form alternating light and dark bands,— the prism-stripes (of Schreger). Examination of an oblique section of the enamel with transmitted light shows can tour lines (of__Retziusj running around the tooth. They appear as brown, parallel lines, and are due to pauses in calcification of some of the enamel prisms. They cross the latter oblique- ly. At birth the enamel is covered by the very thin, struc- tureless enamel-cuticle (membrane of Nasmyth), which is soon worn away by mechanical contact. It is a legacy of theMICROSCOPIC ANATOMY 96 enamel organ. It is not dissolved by acids, and on burning yields calcareous, spongy coal. Enamel consists of 97% min- eral salts, and 3% organic substance. In texture it resem- bles aragonite, a translucent, white mineral obtained from Aragon, Spain, which crystallizes in the orthorhombic sys- tem. It dissolves in dilute acids without residue. In the teeth of Europeans it presents flaws, cooking having mini- mized the work for which it was designated. Thickest on the crown of the tooth, it thins toward the neck, and ends along an abrupt line. Dentine (ivory), which contributes the bulk and de- termines the form of the tooth, is composed of ground-sub- stance traversed by dentinal tubules. The latter, homologues of lacunae and canaliculi of bone, are minute canals that de- scribe a wavy course from the pulp-cavity to their termina- tion in the enamel or cementum. They intercommunicate by lateral branches given off during their course, and before ending, subdivide dichotomously. They are occupied bv dentinal fibers, which are processes of the odontoblasts whose cell-bodies lie peripherally in the pulp. The wall of a dentinal tubule is formed by the dentinal sheath (of Neu- mann) which, denser and more resistant than the surround- ing ground-substance, is formed by the dentinal fibers. Seen from the pulp-cavity, the dentinal tubules running in parallel lines produce a coarse striation (lines of Schreger). The ground-substance, like the intercellular matrix of bone, con- sists of fibrils of fibrous tissue joined into bundles and em- bedded in lime-salts. If calcification is incomplete, large, ir- regular spaces of uncalcified ground-substance remain near the outer (enamel) surface of the dentine, and are termed interglobular spaces. Through them the dentinal tubules pass without interruption,—a fact that might be surmised, because the latter are formed by the dentinal fibers. There is always a zone of similar, though smaller, spaces at the junction of the dentinejvvith the cementum, and this receives the name of the.granular layer (of To goes). Arching parallel lines running obliquely to the surface of the dentine and especially distinct in the crown, also indicate deficiencies in calcification, and are termed incremental lines (of Salter). In transverse sections of a tooth, these lines appear as circles like the annular rings in the trunk of a tree. They are singu-97 TEETH larly beautiful in Cetacea and Pachydermata, and in the Walrus. It may serve the memory by associating the inter- globular spaces and incremental lines of the dentine and the contour lines of the enamel all with faulty calcification. Den- tine is intermediate in density between bone and enamel, as the following table shows:— Inorganic Substance. Organic Substance. Bone 66.6 33.3 Dentine 72 28 Enamel 97 3 It differs from bone, again, in that its cells, the odonto- blasts, are not imprisoned in cavities of the ground-sub- stance as the bone-cells are in lacunae, but remain in the^ pulp. -jl'j jjAjrtnbA**4 Cementum is a layer of modified bone that surrounds ] the root of the tooth, literally “cementing” it to the alveolus. It contains typical lacunae and canaliculi and is penetrated by many uncalcified connective-tissue fibers (of Sharpey). The lacunae are larger than those of bone, and lodge cement- cells. The canaliculi connect neighboring lacunae, and are exceptionally long. The connective-tissue fibers, more numerous than in bone, run perpendicularly to the lamellae. The lamellae are parallel with the surface of the root. Ha- versian canals are, as a rule, absent, but may be found in hyperostoses and in the outer part of the cement of old teeth, especially molars. The inner (dentinal) layer of cementum is almost structureless, and lacks cement-cells. Chemically, cement is almost identical with bone, its inorganic constit- uent being about 0.4 more than that of the latter. The newer terms for the three components of a tooth seem to be very desirable. Substantia adamantina, substan- tia eburnea, and substantia ossea, for enamel, dentine, and cementum, respectively. The author prefers them, but does not feel justified at present in adopting them arbitrarily. The alveolar periosteum functionates both for the ce- mentum and for the alveolus, to both of which it is firmly joined by perforating fibers. It is also continuous with the gum. The pulp is composed of soft, embryonal connective tis- sue which Slipports hinnd-ve.ssels and nerves. In close rela- 798 MICROSCOPIC ANATOMY tion with the dentine are odontoblasts, cylindrical cells that send processes into the dentinal tubules as. the dentinal fibers. Having produced the dentine, these cells remain in the periphery of the pulp, and do not encase themselves in the ground-substance as do bone-cells. Development of Teeth. ^ The teeth are formed partly by the (epithelium of the oral mucous membrane (ectoblastic constituent), and partly by the underlying connective tissue (mesoblastic constitu- ent). The former is responsible for the ejiameljorgan, and the latter for the dental papilla. About the seventh Fetafweek the epithelium over the jaw grows horizontally into the underlying mesoblast as the dental ledge. In the third month localized thickenings of this epithelium appear on the labial side of this ledge, thus differentiating the anlages of the individual temporary teeth. These anlages correspond to the enamel organs. At the same time, the mesoblastic connective tissue thickens in ser- ies with the enamel organs, and these thickenings correspond to the dental papillae. The further construction of the teeth depends upon intimate relations established between the enamel organs and the dental papillae, and upon changes within the interior of each. The enamel organ sinks deeper into the mesoblast until it is connected with the surface-epithelium by an attenuated band only: this soon disappears. In its growth, the enamel organ becomes helmet-shaped, clothing the dental papilla like a helmet clothes a head. It soon differentiates into three layers of cells—the outer, middle, and inner. The outer layer, which is nearest the surface, is composed of flat- tened cells, and is continuous with the inner layer at the margin of the helmet. The middle layer imbibes fluid and becomes so edematous and wide-meshed that the epithelial cells are compressed into stellate shapes. Hence the name enamel-pulp is applied to the middle layer. The latter grad- ually disappears. The inner layer is composed of high ada- mantoblasts, which are united by cement-substance. The inner parts of these cells differentiate into cuticular zones,DEVELOPMENT OF TEETH 99 which fuse to form a homogeneous mass. Within the latter appear enamel-processes (of Tomes), which take up most of the homogeneous mass to form enamel-prisms, the part not taken up remaining as the cement-substance. Later on, these enamel-prisms become calcified. The enamel is thus deposited from within outward, and the adamantoblasts are pushed toward the surface until they disappear. The last product of the adamantoblasts does not differentiate into enamel-prisms, but remains as the enamel-cuticle. The dental papilla represents a condensation of the mesoblast, and soon comes into contact with the enamel or- gan. It is the head: the enamel organ is the helmet. Peri- pherally, that is, corresponding to the scalp of the head, the mesoblastic cells of the dental papilla specialize into a row of cylindrical cells—the odontoblasts, These, therefore, lie in apposition with the inner cells of the enamel organ, separated only by a thin, homogeneous membrane, the mem- brana preformativa, which indicates the earliest appearance of dentine. The odontoblasts soon become active and pro- duce dentinal ground-substance, with which the membrana preformativa fuses. This is gradually deposited from with- out inward. Dentinal tubules appear in the ground-sub- stance, and are invaded by the dentinal fibers of the odonto- blasts. The outer part of the dental papilla is thus changed into dentine, whilst the inner part remains undifferentiated as the pulp. Areas imperfectly calcified, be it recalled, ac- count for the interglobular spaces seen in the matured tooth. The dental-sac is a capsule formed around the young- tooth by the mesoblastic connective tissue. It supplies the growing tooth with blood, and later on becomes the alveolar periosteum. The cementum is formed from the alveolar periosteum like subperiosteal bone, the formative elements being termed cementoblasts. Beginning at the neck of the tooth, it grad- ually encloses the root. The permanent teeth are developed in similar manner from secondary enamel organs, which are derived from the epithelium of the attenuated bands that, for a time, connect the enamel organs of the temporary teeth with the surface. 1 6'} £,n<L<.W. Jr tvOv h JL-JLz < i Jtju /v♦vt'V l-Vf.. A /100 MICROSCOPIC ANATOMY Tonsils. The tonsils consist of an aggregation of from ten to twenty lymphatic nodules embedded in diffuse lymphatic tissue. Their surfaces are rough and uneven, owing to crypts, and are covered over by oral epithelium rich in lymph-cells. Into these crypts is poured mucus from re- gional mucous glands. The tonsils may readily be seen with a hand-mirror, between the palatine arches. They arise in a depression that corresponds to the space between the second and third visceral arches. Solid masses of cells grow in from the oral epithelium and, by becoming hollow, give rise to the crypts. Leucocytes assemble from the re- gional submucosa. Pharynx. The pharynx (throat) presents three coats—mucous, fibro-elastic, and muscular. The mucous coat is covered by stratified ciliated columnar epithelium in the nasophar- ynx, and by stratified squamous epithelium in the orophar- ynx and most of the laryngopharynx. Above, it is studded with mucous glands, but below, these are sparse. Its tunica propria is supplied richly with lymphatic tissue, which ren- ders the surface uneven and is aggregated in one place to form the pharyngeal tonsil. The fibro-elastic coat is situ- ated between the mucous and the muscular: to the former it is bound by the submucous tissue, and to the latter by strong bands continuous with the intermuscular septa. It corresponds to the pharyngeal aponeurosis. The muscular coat consists of striated muscle, and is contributed by the constrictors of the pharynx. Esophagus. The esophagus (food-duct) presents four coats—mu- cous, submucous, muscular, and fibrous. The mucous coat is covered with stratified squamous epithelium, thus resembling that of the pharynx. Its tunica propria consists of fibro-elastic tissue, and bears papillae.STOMACH 101 In the lower half of the esophagus there is a complete layer of muscularis mucosae, which lies, as usual, between the tunica propria and the submucosa. It consists of a thin, longitudinally-disposed stratum of non-striated muscle. Lymphatic nodules are present in the mucous coat. The submucous coat consists of loosely-disposed fibro- elastic tissue, which supports blood-vessels, nerves, lymph- atics, and alveoli of mucous glands. It is continuous with the pharyngeal aponeurosis. The muscular coat presents two layers—an inner circu- lar and an outer longitudinal. It is peculiar in that in the upper third of the esophagus it is striated; in the middle third, striated and non-striated; and in the lower third, non- striated. The fibrous coat consists of the areolar tissue which joins the esophagus to regional structures. The blood-vessels penetrate the fibrous and muscular coats to reach the submucous, whence branches extend up- ward into the mucous coat, terminating in capillaries in the tunica propria, and downward into the muscular coat. The lymphatics accompany the blood-vessels. The nerves begin beneath the epithelial cells and extend into the submucosa, ultimately reaching the esophageal plexus. Medullated nerve-fibers terminate in the striated muscle in motor end- plates. Stomach. The stomach presents four coats—mucous, submucous, muscular, and serous. The mucous coat is covered with simple columnar epi- thelium, thus differing from the esophagus with its stratified squamous epithelium. It is thrown into longitudinal folds (rugae), and its surface is subdivided into polygonal fields (well shown in tripe) into which open the orifices of groups of gastric glands. The gastric glands comprise two forms—the fundus glands and the pyloric glands. The former are distributed over the fundus and body of the stomach, and are of the sim- ple tubular type. The latter are confined to the pyloric fifth, and are of the compound tubular type. Both varietiesm MICROSCOPIC ANATOMY average 100 in 1 sq. mm., and as the area of the mucous coat averages 47,500 sq. mms., there are about 4,750,000 of these glands. The fundus glands rest with their blind extremities upon the muscularis mucosae, and thence traverse the entire thick- ness of the tunica propria until they reach the surface, there- by describing a slightly wavy course. They are divisible, following the same direction, into fundus, body, and neck. Through the neck they communicate with a crypt, which is a constituent of one of the polygonal fields into which the surface of the mucosa is subdivided, and which forms an excretory duct common to several tubules. In the make-up of the fundus glands, two kinds of cells may be distinguished —the chief and the parietal. The chief cells are so named because they are in the majority. Their position is such that they bound the lumen of the gland. They are usually cubical, and contain granules of pepsinogen, which is con- verted in pepsin. The parietal cells, larger and more con- spicuous, but fewer in number than the chief cells, are con- signed to the periphery of the gland. They communicate, however, with the lumen of the gland by means of secretion- capillaries, which pass between the chief cells. They are round or polygonal in shape, and are more numerous near the neck of the gland. From them is probably derived the hydrochloric acid of the gastric juice. The pyloric glands are lined by columnar epithelium, and secrete an albuminous fluid. They differ from the fundus glands in that they branch more frequently; describe a more tortuous course; possess wider and deeper excretory ducts; and do not exhibit the two kinds of cells distinguisha- ble in the fundus glands, their cells, instead, being uniform and corresponding to the chief cells. , j Cardiac glands, compound tubular in type, are modifica- tions of fundus glands. Chief cells are the rule, but some few parietal cells are found. These glands occur in the im- mediate vicinity of the cardia. They are also present at both ends of the esophagus. b • Numerous goblet-cells are distributed throughout the epithelium of the stomach. yi The tunica propria is traversed by the gastric glands. It is rich in cells that resemble lymphocytes. At the cardiaSTOMACH 103 and at the pylorus are found lymphatic nodules, the lenticu- lar nodes, which are comparable to the solitary nodules in the intestine. The muscularis mucosae is here arranged in an inner circular and an outer longitudinal layer. The submucous coat consists of loosely-disposed fibro- elastic tissue, which supports fat cells, large blood-vessels, lymphatics, and the submucous plexus (of Meissner) of nerves. The muscular coat presents three layers—an innermost oblique, a middle circular, and an outermost longitudinal. At the pylorus the middle layer thickens to form the pyloric sphincter. Between the circular and longitudinal layers is the myenteric plexus (of Auerbach) of nerves, The serous coat consists of a thin layer of fibro-elastic tissue covered by a layer of endothelial cells. It is supplied by the peritoneum. The arteries penetrate the serous and muscular coats to reach the submucous, whence branches extend downward into the muscular coat and upward into the mucous. The latter branches form a capillary network that embraces the gastric glands, whilst a second capillary network is situated directly beneath the epithelium, around the crypts. The veins retrace the course of the arteries, but form a plexus between the tunica propria and the muscularis mucosae. The lymphatics begin peripherally in the tunica mucosa, and pass between the gastric glands to form a network between them and the muscularis mucosae. A second network is formed in the submucous coat, whence larger lymph-vessels pass without the organ. The nerves perforate the serous coat and form the myenteric plexus (of Auerbach) between the circular and longitudinal layers of the muscular coat. The latter is supplied by branches from internodal ganglia in this plexus. Reassembling from the myenteric plexus, the nerves reach the submucous coat and form the submu- cous plexus (of Meissner), from which the muscularis mu- cosae and gastric glands are supplied. The sensory nerves begin in the tunica propria in a subepithelial plexus.104 MICROSCOPIC ANATOMY Small Intestine. The small intestine presents four coats—mucous, sub- mucous, muscular, and serous. The mucous coat is covered with simple columnar epi- thelium, whose cells show a striated cuticular border next the free surface. Many of the cells are goblet-cells, and wandering leucocytes roam through the epithelium. The tunica propria is traversed by the intestinal glands. It is rich in cells that resemble lymphocytes. The muscularis mucosae is here arranged in an inner circular and an outer longitudinal layer. The mucous coat has two kinds of inequalities, the pur- pose of which is, like the foldings of a radiator, to increase the area of the surface. These are the villi, which involve the epithelium and tunica propria alone, and the valvulae conniventes, which involve the entire thickness of the mu- cous coat. The latter are best marked in the upper portion of the small intestine. The villi are projections of the tunica propria over which rides the epithelium. They put one in mind, though in min- iature, of the filiform papillae of the tongue, and resemble the pile of velvet. There are about 16 villi in each square mm. of the upper half of the small intestine, and about 9 per square mm. in the remainder, so that altogether there are about 4,000,000 villi in the small intestine. The core, which corresponds to the tunica propria, is composed of reticular tissue supporting blood-'and lymph-vessels. Traversing the center of the villus is an absorbent, a lymph-vessel, whose wall consists of a single layer of endothelium. This is sur- rounded by a longitudinal layer of non-striated muscle, con- tractions of which shorten the villus and express the contents of the absorbent. The absorbent is screened by a rich capil- lary network. The valvulae conniventes are transverse annular cor- rugations of the mucous coat and underlying submucous coat. They may be compared to the corrugated metallic covering of a washing-board. Sand sprinkled over the wet- ted surface of the washing-board would represent the rela- tion of the villi to the valvulae conniventes. They extendSMALL INTESTINE 105 about three-quarters of the circumference of the intestine, and are better marked and more numerous in the upper part of the latter than in the lower. They are not effaced by dis- tention of the gut. The glands occur in two forms—the duodenal glands («pf Brunner) and the intestinal glands (of Lieberkuehn). The former, as their name specifies, are confined to the duo- denum, being representatives here of the pyloric glands of the stomach. The latter, however, are found throughout the intestine, small as well as large. The duodenal glands, like their mates in the stomach, are of the compound tubular type. Unlike them, however, they are confined to the submucous coat, whence their ducts traverse the mucous coat and open either upon the surface or into the intestinal glands. The intestinal glands are of the simple tubular type. Since the duodenal glands have been compared to the pyloric, comparison of the intestinal glands with the fundus glands of the stomach might be of mnemonic value. Resting with their blind extremities upon the muscularis mucosae, the intestinal glands traverse the entire thickness of the tunica propria and open in the valleys between the villi. While the duodenal glands are serous, the intestinal glands secrete succus entericus, a watery fluid rich in enzymes. The lymphatic tissue is located at first in the tunica propria whence it extends secondarily into the submucous coat, and occurs in three forms—diffuse lymphatic tissue, solitary nodules, and aggregate nodules (patches of Peyer). Diffuse lymphatic tissue is found throughout the mucous coat, and abounds in the villi. Solitary nodules are small, round grains about the size of the head of a pin. They represent the simplest form of condensed lymphatic tissue, and may be recalled in the cor- tical nodules of lymph nodes. They are comparable to the lenticular nodes of the stomach. They are found through- out the intestine, small as well as large. Aggregate nodules are, as their name implies, aggre- gations of thirty (average) solitary nodules into oval patches that appear on the inner surface of the gut as a wax seal on an envelope. They are found in the lower half of the small intestine, always on the side opposite the mesentery, andMICROSCOPIC ANATOMY 108 are more conspicuous toward the end of the ileum. In the intestine of a child there are about 45 aggregate nodules, but they diminish in number and distinctiveness as age advances, and in old age are recognizable as patches of discoloration. The solitary nodules composing them are compressed together, and united by diffuse lymphatic tissue. The ag- gregate nodules distort the intestinal glands and dwarf the villi with which they are in relation. They are to be seen in the mucous coat, invading somewhat the subjacent sub- mucous. It is hoped that the student will take advantage of the opportunity of discerning between a gland and a lymphatic nodule, which is presented by the absolute dis- similarity, both structural and functional, between the intes- tinal glands and the lymphatic nodules, solitary or aggre- gate. The submucous coat, separated from the tunica propria by the muscularis mucosae, is composed of loose bundles of fibro-elastic tissue, which support blood- and lymph-ves- sels and the submucous plexus. Remember that the duo- denal glands are occupants of this coat, and that the lymph- atic nodules overreach into it from the mucous coat. The muscular coat is composed of non-striated muscle arranged in a thicker inner circular and a thinner outer longitudinal layer, between which is a lamina of fibro-elastic tissue containing the myenteric plexus. The serous coat consists of a thin layer of fibro-elastic tissue covered by a layer of endothelial cells. It is supplied by the peritoneum. The blood-vessels, lymphatics, and nerves are arranged in the coats of the small intestine as in the stomach. There are, however, additional vessels for the villi. Large Intestine. The large intestine presents four coats—mucous, sub- mucous, muscular, and serous. The mucous coat differs from that of the small intestine in that it possesses neither villi nor valvulae conniventes. The muscularis mucosae is irregularly developed, being thin in the colon and thick in the rectum.107 LARGE INTESTINE The intestinal glands become very large, and are lined almost exclusively with goblet-cells. The lymphatic tissue is not so abundant as in the small intestine. The vermiform appendix, however, is noted for the large amount of lymphatic tissue it contains. The solitary nodules are present throughout the large intestine, and are very conspicuous in the vermiform appen- dix, where they form a thick layer and are often confluent. The aggregate nodules are not represented in the large intestine. The submucous coat differs from that of the duodenum in that it contains no duodenal glands, and from that of the jejuno-ileum in that it does not receive secondary extensions of aggregate nodules, which are absent. It has, however, secondary extensions of solitary nodules, and supports blood- and lymph-vessels and the submucous plexus. The muscular coat is composed of an inner circular lay- er, which is thicker than that in the small intestine, and an outer longitudinal, which is peculiar. Instead of forming a complete cylindrical lamina as in the small intestine, the outer longitudinal coat is broken up into three strong, flat tapes—teniae coli. Beginning at the base of the vermiform appendix, in which organ the outer longitudinal coat is uni- form and not separated into tapes, the teniae, about a quarter of an inch wide and almost equidistant from one another, run along the surface of the colon to the sigmoid flexure. In the latter and in the rectum the tapes are condensed into two. Since their length is five-sixths that of the large in- testine, the tapes are responsible for the sacculations into which the latter is puckered. The sacculation of the laree *- o intestine lias probably arisen coincidently with the consoli- dation of the fecal masses, and the separation of the longi- tudinal coat into teniae is due to the bulging of the haustra thus caused which, by permitting of greater consolidation and storage of fecal matter, intensifies the condition. The serous coat consists of a thin layer of fibro-elastic tissue covered by a layer of endothelial cells. It is supplied by the peritoneum. The latter, however, usually forms an incomplete covering for the large intestine. Attached to the large, intestine are fimbriated tags of the serous coat108 MICROSCOPIC ANATOMY filled with lobules of fat. These epiploic appendages serve the large intestine as the great omentum does the small. The blood-vessels, lymphatics, and nerves are arranged in the coats of the large intestine as in the small, except for the absence of villi. • Liver. The liver, the largest gland in the body, is of the com- pound tubular type, with certain modifications. The whole organ is composed of lobes; the lobes, of lobules; and the lobules, of nests of cells whose arrangement into columns is determined by the disposition of enclosing sinusoids. It seems unlikely that a student can follow the description of the liver without enquiring, What is the function of the liver? A proper conception of the liver is based upon a good understanding of the trio of vessels—portal vein, hepatic artery, bile-duct. In the first instance, these vessels are always associated together, bound by connective tissue. Mark the peculiarity of the portal vein. It conveys blood from the intestines to the liver, within which it divides into numerous branches. These branches eventually enter one or other lobule and break up into sinusoids. At the center of the lobule a fourth vessel appears: this is the central vein, a radicle of the hepatic vein, which removes the blood from the liver. What is the purpose of this subdivision of the portal vein? It enables the liver-cells to exercise their se- lective action upon the portal blood and extract from it cer- tain substances and subject them to metabolic changes. The hepatic artery is subsidiary since it concerns itself with nutrition of the connective tissue and blood-vessels of the liver. The bile-duct is the sewer of the liver, removing from it certain substances of excretion elaborated by the liver- cells. To facilitate description of the liver we may employ, in simile, a wagon-wheel, which represents a cross-section of a lobule. By approximating three wheels rim-to-rim so as to form a triangular outline with rounded angles, they will enclose between them a triangle with sharp angles. This latter triangle represents an interlobular space which, in theLIVER 109 liver, is filled in by connective tissue with a branch of the portal vein, of the hepatic artery, and of the bile-duct. This connective tissue is called collectively the capsule of Glisson •—a misleading term often wrongly applied to the fibrous capsule surrounding the entire liver. The tires of the three wheels illustrate the relation of this connective tissue to the periphery of the individual lobules. In the liver of the Hog this relation is shown with diagrammatic clearness, but in man it is poorly defined, owing to scanty development of the connective tissue here. The rim of the wheel represents a branch of the portal vein surrounding the lobule. The spokes represent the sinusoids into which this branch breaks. The hub represents the central vein, which receives portal blood from the sinusoids, and the axle represents the rela- tion of the central vein to the whole lobule, of which the wheel is but a cross-slice. Emerging from the lobule, the central vein terminates in a vessel that runs at right angles to it—the sublobular vein. The sublobular veins unite to form the hepatic veins, and these pour their blood into the in- ferior vena cava. The wedge-shaped spaces bounded on the sides by two spokes and at the base by part of the rim are filled in by liver-cells, which, in the entire lobule, are arranged in col- umns, but in cross-section appear as little nests. Thediver- cells are held together by a reticulum contributed by the interlobular connective tissue. The liver-cells are poly- gonal elements, devoid of cell-wall, and possessing granular protoplasm. On cross-section they are arranged in groups of about half a dozen, and so that at least one side of their polygonal outline borders on one of the sinusoids. The remaining sides are in apposition with other cells, but be- tween them are bile-capillaries, which receive the excretion of each cell and conduct it to the periphery of the lobule, emptying it into the interlobular bile-ducts. Intermediary between the bile-capillaries and the interlobular bile-ducts are excretory channels. The walls of the bile -capillaries are formed by the cytoplasm of the liver-cells, since they cor- respond to lumina of a simplified compound tubular gland. The excretory channels are lined by low cuboidal cell's, and the interlobular bile-ducts consist of a fibro-elastic tunic lined by cylindrical cells. The larger bile-ducts have, inMICROSCOPIC ANATOMY 110 addition, a cylindrical lamina of non-striated muscle. The gall-bladder has the same essential construction, but on a larger scale. It has a mucous membrane thrown into rugae, a muscular coat, and an external fibrous coat. The ramifications of the hepatic artery find their way ultimately into the intralobular sinusoids, after supplying* the blood-vessels and connective tissue. Nerves accompany these ramifications, and expend themselves in the non-striat- ed mural musculature of the vessels. Lymphatics surround the vessels with perivascular networks. The above description is necessarily based on diagram- matic outlines. Unfortunately, the student will be per- plexed with a section of the human liver.. No orderly ar- rangement into a compound tubular gland will be seen. The liver-cells are heaped into anastomosing columns, and the arrangement of the latter in lobules is indistinguishable. The central vein is usually distended with blood. The grouping together of branches of the portal vein, hepatic artery, and bile-duct in the interlobular spaces is usually seen. To observe well-defined lobules a section of Hog’s liver should be obtained. The tubular character of the liver and the bile-capillaries may be studied with profit in the liver of an Amphibian. Pancreas. The pancreas, the abdominal salivary gland, is a pure serous tubulo-alveolar gland. It is divided into lobes by the fibro-elastic framework. The lobes are subdivided into lob- ules by septa of this framework. The lobules are made up of groups of alveoli. In keeping with this subdivision, the excretory (pancreatic) duct divides into interlobar ducts, situated between the lobes. These subdivide into interlob- ular ducts, between the lobules. Thus far the description of the pancreas has conformed to the pattern of a simple tubulo-alveolar gland. It now differs, however, in that in- tralobular ducts are wanting. Nevertheless, the interlob- ular ducts are connected directly with the alveoli by inter- mediate ducts, which are sufficiently elongated to compen- sate for the missing intralobular ducts. At the junction of the alveoli and intermediate ducts, the cells of the latter pro^111 SUPRARENAL BODY trude into the former as the centro-alveolar cells which, much thinned-out, are surrounded externally by the secret- ing cells of the alveolus. The secreting cells lining the alveoli are distinguished by an outer zone, next the basement membrane, which is non-granular, and an inner zone, next the lumen, which is markedly granular. These granules are highly refractive, and are termed zymogen granules. Between the cells are secretion-capillaries. Between the alveoli and surrounded by a fibro-elastic capsule are lightly-staining areas composed of groups of cells. These are the interalveolar cell-areas (bodies of Lan- gerhans), and are concerned in elaborating an internal secre- tion. Each area is made up of cells arranged in trabeculae, between which are large capillaries. The cells are not as large as those lining the alveoli, and do not exhibit the two zones therewith described. These cell-areas are character- istic of the pancreas, and distinguish it at once from the other pure serous gland, the parotid. Suprarenal Body. Each suprarenal body is enveloped by a fibro-elastic capsule, and on section is divisible into a cortex, situated ex- ternally, and a medulla, situated centrally. The cortex consists of epithelium supported by a con- nective-tissue framework prolonged from the capsule. The cells are arranged in three zones:— (1) Zona glomerulosa, which lies immediately beneath the capsule, and is made up of cylindrical cells arranged in rounded groups. (2) Zona fasciculata, which is the middle and thickest layer, and in which the cells are grouped in long, cylindrical columns arranged radially to the surface. (3) Zona reticularis, which lies next the medulla, and in which the cells are disposed in reticular groups amidst the stroma. These cells are pigmented. The medulla consists of chromaffine cells arranged in elongated strands that unite to form a network. Theproto- plasm of the cells is finely granular, and is stained brown by112 MICROSCOPIC ANATOMY salts of chromium, for which it has a peculiar affinity. In addition to the cells, the medulla contains large, thin-walled capillaries, which are often surrounded by chromafiine cells; many veins; arteries; nerves, and ganglion-cells. The arteries enter the cortex and break up into capil- laries that are arranged around the cell-groups. Some ar- teries pass directly to the medulla. The radicles of the capsular vein arise from the capillaries. The lymphatics accompany the arteries. The nerves are chiefly nonmedullated and exceedingly numerous, each body receiving about thirty small bundles. They accompany the arteries through the cortex, distribut- ing branches to its cell-groups. Most of the fibers, how- ever, enter the medulla and surround the cells. Ganglion- cells are very plentiful, but are confined to the medulla. The cortex is mesoblastic in origin, whilst the medulla arises as an outgrowth from the sympathetic ganglia. The evolution of the suprarenal body in Vertebrata is interesting. In Fishes the cortex and medulla are wholly separate; in Amphibians, they come into contact; in Rep- tiles, they begin to intermingle; in Birds, they interlace; and in mammals they are fused and the cortex surrounds the me- dulla. The suprarenal body elaborates an internal secretion, and is classified with the ductless glands. By reason of its rich nervous supply and partial nervous origin, as well as its chromafiine cells, it is intimately associated with the nerv- ous sytem. It has been described here simply as a matter of convenience. RESPIRATORY TRACT. Trachea. The trachea presents three coats—mucous, submucous, and fibrous. The mucous coat displays stratified ciliated columnar epithelium which contains goblet-cells. This rests upon a basement membrane. The tunica propria consists of fibro- elastic tissue, which supports arterioles, nerves, and many leucocytes. It is exceptionally rich in yellow elastic fibersBRONCHI 113 which, near the submucosa and especially in the lower part of the trachea, form a distinct, dense, longitudinal sheet that has been compared with the muscularis mucosae of the in- testines. The submucous coat is composed of loose fibro-elastic tissue which supports blood- and lymph-vessels and nerves. It contains fat-cells and glands. These tracheal glands are of the mucous tubulo-alveolar type, and their ducts reach the surface through the mucous coat. Here exists a corre- lation that explains the ciliated character of the surface-epi- thelium. The mucus secreted by the goblet-cells and trach- eal glands is prevented from gravitating into the lungs by the cilia, which sweep it toward the mouth. The fibrous coat contains the cartilaginous framework of the trachea. The tracheal cartilages comprise a series of about 18 hyaline C-shaped members, whose free ends face the esophagus behind. The intervals between these ends and between the cartilages themselves are bridged over by the fibrous coat, which here contains non-striated muscle. The muscle-cells are disposed both transversely and longi- tudinally, and among them are found many yellow elastic fibers. The tracheal cartilages form about three-fourths of a circle. The perichondrium covering in the cartilages must not be overlooked. Bronchi. The bronchi resemble the trachea in structure as far as the hilum of the lung. Within the lung, however, the three coats undergo diminution and lose some of their constitu- ents. The best method of describing these changes seems to be to take up the three coats seriatim and follow them to the terminal bronchioles. The mucous coat displays stratified ciliated columnar epithelium as far as the smaller bronchi. Within the smaller bronchi the stratified ciliated columnar epithelium becomes simple ciliated columnar. This brings us to the terminal bronchioles, whose diameter averages 0.4 mm. In the prox- imal part of the terminal bronchioles the simple ciliated col- umnar epithelium changes to low cuboidal epithelium which 8MICROSCOPIC ANATOMY 114 possesses neither cilia nor goblet-cells. In the distal part of the terminal bronchioles the low cuboidal epithelium changes to simple squamous epithelium. The tunica propria loses more and more of its yellow elastic tissue, but acquires a lamina of non-striated muscle, which corresponds in posi- tion to muscularis mucosae of the intestines. Eventually the tunica propria is reduced to a delicate layer of fibro-elas- tic tissue with thin bundles of non-striated muscle. Lymph- atic nodules are more marked in the tunica propria of the bronchi than in that of the trachea. The submucous coat gradually loses its mucous glands until, in smaller bronchi 1 mm. in diameter, mucous glands are absent. The fibrous coat gradually loses its cartilaginous frame- work. From being C-shaped, the cartilages become semi- circles, and these break up into irregular plates which dis- appear in smaller bronchi 1 mm. in diameter. Since mu- cous glands extend only this far, it may be put that they occur as far only as the cartilage extends. With the disap- pearance of the cartilage, the non-striated muscle broadens out into a continuous lamina, which extends as far only as the terminal bronchioles. Lungs. Each lung corresponds in structure to a compound alve- olar gland, and therefore is made up of many alveolar sys- tems. Referring back to the description of glands, it is found that a simple alveolar gland resembles a flask, and that it may be branched. An alveolar system consists of a branched simple alveolar gland that has many alveoli. Since the fundal part of the duct is subdivided, many ducts open into a main duct. Each lung, then, conforms to this definition. The glandular tissue is represented by the parenchyma of the lung, and the excretory ducts by the terminal bronchioles. Each lung is divided into lobes; each lobe is subdivided into lobules; and each lobule is made up of lung-units. The lobes belong in the domain of macroscopic anat- omy. There are three in. the right lung and two in the left. The lobules are pyramidal in shape, and are separatedLUNGS 115 from one another by a layer of fibro-elastic tissue which bears blood-vessels. To each lobule is assigned an intra- lobular bronchus and a branch of the pulmonary artery.; These enter the pyramidal lobule slightly to one side of its apex. The intralobular bronchus divides and subdivides until from 50 to 100 terminal bronchioles are formed. The rest of the lobule corresponds to a lung-unit, in forming which each terminal bronchiole opens out into from three to six atria. Each atrium opens out into several air-sacs. Each air-sac, finally, receives numerous air-cells (alveoli), which are blind. There are about 355,000,000 air-cells in a human lung, having an area of 90 square meters of wall. The walls of the atria, air-sacs, and air-cells are similar. Each is composed of epithelium, blood-vessels, and a sup- porting framework of thin fibro-elastic tissue. The epi- thelium resembles endothelium in that its cells are large, flat plates disposed in a single layer. What explains this similarity, and why is the pulmonary epithelium not endo- thelium? The latter question is answered by considering the development of the lungs. They arise as outpouchings from the primitive digestive tube, which is known to be lined by entodermal epithelium, whereas endothelium is mesoblastic in origin. The first question is answered thus. In the fetus, these air-spaces are lined by small, polygonal cells. At birth, as soon as the lungs are distended with air, these small cells are greatly stretched, so that they become the large, flat plates. Some, however, retain always their fetal size, and are found between the overstretched cells. Between the cavities of two adjacent air-cells are two single layers of epithelium, two layers of thin fibro-elastic tissue, and a close-meshed capillary network supported by a few elastic fibers. Between the capillary network and the cavity of each of the two adjacent air-cells, therefore, is a single layer of epithelium and a thin layer of fibro-elastic tissue. Thus, the interchange of gases between the blood and the air is in no way hindered by insurmountable ob- stacles. The intralobular artery accompanies the intralobular bronchus throughout its subdivisions and, at each lung-unit, its assigned branch breaks up into the close-meshed capil- lary network, between two adjacent air-sacs.MICROSCOPIC ANATOMY 116 The veins assemble from the capillary network and, passing between the lung-units and then the lobules, eventu- ally reach the hilum. The bronchial arteries serve the lungs as the hepatic arteries serve the liver. They nourish the tissues of which the lungs are composed, traveling along the bronchi. Bronchial veins return the blood thus employed. The lymph-vessels begin at the air-cells and follow the blood-vessels to the hilum. The nerves follow the bronchi and end in the fibro-elas- tic tissue between the air-cells. They supply the walls of the three kinds of vessels that are found in the lungs. Thyroid Body. The thyroid body is a compound alveolar gland. It con- sists of two, and sometimes three, lobes which are enclosed in a fibro-elastic capsule. This contributes a fibrous frame- work which subdivides the lobes into lobules. The lobules are made up of alveoli, which are bound together by finer septa of fibrous tissue. The alveoli and the collojd_their cells secrete distinguish the thyroid body from alTother glands. Seen in sections, they appear as rings or ovals beaded by simple columnar epi- thelium and filled by shrunken colloid^ usually pinkish in double stains. A distinct basement membrane is absent, but is substituted for by condensations of the interalveolar stroma. The arteries are exceptionally numerous, and follow the fibrous septa to the alveoli, beneath whose epithelium they break up into close-meshed capillary networks. The veins are equally numerous, and assemble from the capillary net- works. The caliber of the arteries is at the rate of 0.7 sq. mm. of cross-section of lumen to each ccm. of thyroid gland. There is usually 1.3 sq. mm. of venous lumen for each ccm. of a healthy gland. The lymphatics begin in the lymph-spaces surrounding the alveoli, and follow the fibrous septa to the surface. The nerves are numerous in keeping with the large number of vessels whose musculature they supply. Some twigs form close relations with the epithelium.KIDNEYS 117 The development of the thyroid body proceeds from the fourth pharyngeal pouch, and from the entoblast of the primitive pharynx, close to the second visceral arch. The thyroid body is a ductless gland. Its excretory duct (thyroglossal) early disappears, and the internal secre- tion enters the capillary networks that surround the alveoli. The parathyroids are four pea-like bodies found on the tracheal surface of the thyroid gland. In structure, they resemble the anterior lobe of the pituitary body. A fibrous capsule sends septa into each body, subdivid- ing it into uncertain lobules. The cells are polygonal in shape: their nuclei are round and contain networks of chro- matin. The protoplasm stains poorly, and is but slightly granular. The cells are aggregated into solid cords, the septa between which are rich in capillaries. They are in direct contact with the capillaries. The development of the parathyroids proceeds from the third and fourth pharyngeal pouches. * x o ^ a complex and convoluted type. On splitting a kidney longi- tudinally in halves, each cut surface displays the following architectural features:— The entire surface forms a broad, C-shaped mass of tissue whose outer third is granular and termed the cortex, and whose inner two-thirds is marked by radially-striated pyramids, and is termed the medulla. Occupying the hollow of the C is the sinus of the kidney, and into this project the nipple-like apices of the pyramids. A second glance at the cut surface will show that the cortex sends extensions be- tween the pyramids. These extensions are termed the renal columns (of Bertin), and through them pass the renal blood- The cortex displays alternating light and dark parallel Parathyroids. vessels.MICROSCOPIC ANATOMY 118 stripes, which are perpendicular to the free, convex surface of the kidney. The light stripes are termed medullary rays (pyramids of Ferrein), since they are prolongations upward of the radially-striated pyramids of the medulla. They are composed of bundles of parallel uriniferous tubules. The dark stripes are each termed the labyrinth, because of the labyrinthine windings of the uriniferous tubules it contains. Sprinkled throughout the labyrinth are renal corpuscles (Malpighian bodies), which appear as red points. The^nedulla displays about a dozen cone-like pyramids, whose apices, the papillae, project into the renal sinus, and whose bases are at the junction of the cortex and medulla. Each pyramid exhibits, like the cortex, alternate light and dark stripes, the light stripes representing uriniferous tubules and the dark stripes representing blood-vessels. In the architectural features described above, urinifer- ous tubules and blood-vessels have been repeatedly mention- ed. To restore order out of chaos we shall compare the pat- tern of the kidney to that of a simple gland, and to facilitate study of its finer structure we shall consider its function. In the fetus the kidney which, in its entirety, corre- sponds to the lobe, is subdivided into lobules, which are sep- arated by interlobular septa prolonged from the fibrous cap- sule. Sometime after birth the lobules fuse together and the interlobular septa are obliterated. In the matured kid- ney one may consider as representing a lobule the pyramidal mass formed by each medullary pyramid plus the area of cortex adjoining the base of the latter. Following out this scheme, the renal columns and their blood-vessels stand in lieu of the interlobular septa and vessels. But the essential parts of a multicellular gland are a fundus and a duct. In the kidney the fundus is represented by an invaginated cap- sule (of Bowman), while the tortuous uriniferous tubule leading from this corresponds to an elongated body of a gland. The duct is represented by the excretory tubule. In a simple gland, the fundus is surrounded by a basket- like capillary network. In the kidney, this network is spe- cialized into a ball of blood-vessels, the glomerulus, which invaginates the capsule. The uriniferous tubules, how- ever, like the ducts of a gland, are surrounded by capillary networks. The study of the finer structure of the kidneyKIDNEYS 119 concerns itself chiefly with tracing the tortuous windings of the uriniferous tubules, and with the intimate relation be- tween the latter and the blood-vessels. The function of the kidneys is to select and eliminate from the blood certain waste-products. The capsules (of Bowman) abstract water and inorganic salts, and the urini- ferous tubules abstract certain specific constituents, such as urea and uric acid. When it is considered that the kid- neys must filter all the blood in the body and extract from it three pints of urine every 24 hours, the serpentine wind- ings of the uriniferous tubules are readily accounted for. Each tubular tract from capsule to papilla is about 5 inches long, and each excretory duct drains about 850 capsules. Each kidney contains about 500,000 capsules and about 15 miles of tubing. In this way an enormous area of renal par- enchyma is offered to the blood and, with the large numbers of renal corpuscles, the kidneys are enabled efficiently to discharge their important duties. A renal corpuscle (Malpighian body) is a spherical body composed of a glomerulus and a capsule (of Bowman). The. glomerulus represents the termination of an artery which, as the vas afferens, breaks up into a capillary-ball. The cap- illaries composing this ball are united into lobules by deli- cate veils of connective tissue. Emerging from the capil- lary-ball is the vas efferens, containing blood from which water and inorganic salts have been expressed by the capil- laries. The capsule represents the beginning of a urinifer- ous tubule, and encloses the glomerulus in a two-layered sac. The relation of the capsule and its uriniferous tubule to the glomerulus may be illustrated by a rubber tube on the end of which is a bulb. Invagination of the wall of the bulb by a body representing the glomerulus completes the simile. In each instance the fluid from the bulb flushes the tube connected with it. The visceral layer of the capsule clothes the.glomerulus, whilst the parietal layer is separated from the visceral by a crescentic space which is the recepta- cle of the fluid expressed by the capillary-ball. The two layers are continuous through fornices at the stalk of the glomerulus the stalk corresponding to the junction be- tween the vasa afferens et efferens and the capillary-ball. The capsule is lined by simple squamous epithelium, whichMICROSCOPIC ANATOMY 120 rests upon a basement membrane. Diametrically opposite the stalk the capsule is constricted to form a narrow neck. The uriniferous tubule must now be followed through its winding course. Certain windings are found in the labyrinth, others in the medulla, and still others in the me- dullary ray. The epithelium varies in character through- out the tubule. To systematize the description, it is best to divide the tubule into arbitrary parts, enumerating them according to the course followed by the urine. A practical method of demonstrating their course is to take a soft iron wire and bend it into the shape of a hairpin with wire-for- ceps. Impale upon one end a body, such as a pea, to repre- sent the renal corpuscle. The wire may now be appropri- ately bent either as the description is followed or all at once, using as a guide a diagram in a book. After the entire course of the tubule has been thus imitated, the wire may be placed upon a sheet of paper, upon which has been mapped out in proportionate scale the appropriate parts of the kid- ney in which the various parts of the tubule are lodged. (1) Capsule, already described. Lined by simple squamous epithelium. (2) Proximal convoluted tubule, which leaves the cap- sule at its neck and coniines its windings to the labyrinth. It contributes about one-fifth to the length of the tubule. Lined by simple low columnar epithelium. (3) Spiral tubule, which starts at the junction of the labyrinth and medullary ray and connects the proximal con- voluted tubule with the next segment. It therefore confines itself to the medullary ray. Its diameter gradually dimin- ishes and its cells become lower and lower. Lined by sim- ple columnar epithelium. (4) Loop (of Henle). The de^endingjunb is the nar- rowest part of the entire uriniferous tubule. It starts at the junction of the medullary ray and medulla and connects the spiral tubule with the ascending limb. It confines itself to the medulla. Lined by simple squamous epithelium, the arrangement of which is peculiar. These cells are so placed that a cell on one wall faces the interval between two cells on the opposite wall. This, together with the fact that the cells are short of protoplasm and the nuclei therefore are prominent, lends to the lumen a spiral appearance. TheKIDNEYS 121 ascending limb is longer than the descending, and its epi- thelium is broader. It extends from the turn of the loop through the medulla into the labyrinth, in which it crosses the stalk of its renal corpuscle. After arching over the lat- ter, it joins the next segment. Lined by cubical epithelium. (5) Distal convoluted tubule, which extends from the ascending" limb to the next segment. It confines itself to the labyrinth, lying in the arch described by the proximal convoluted tubule. Its lumen is wider than that of the lat- ter, and its path not so tortuous. Lined by cuboidal epi- thelium. (6) Connecting tubule, which is narrower than the pre- ceding tubule, and takes a short, arching course, in which it passes from the labyrinth into the medullary ray. It unites with other connecting tubules to form the next segment. Lined by low cuboidal epithelium. (7) Collecting tubule, whose diameter is progressively augmented by other connecting tubules as it traverses the medullary ray and medulla. Approaching the papilla, it broadens out into the papillary duct, which empties at the apex of the papilla into a ureteral calyx. Lined by simple low columnar epithelium. (8) Papillary ducts, each of which receives 20 (aver- age) larger collecting tubules, and of which there are 15 (average) for each papilla. Estimation of the number of renal corpuscles for which each papilla is agent is thus possible. Lined by simple columnar epithelium. Thus, the only parts of the uriniferous tubule in the medullary ray are the spiral and the collecting tubules. The reticulum which supports the uriniferous tubules and blood-vessels is scanty in the cortex, more abundant in the medulla, and most abundant in the papillae. It is in- timately connected with the adventitia of blood-vessels. On section, a renal corpuscle appears very rich in nu- clei. These are contributed by the cells of the visceral layer of the capsule, by the cells of the capillaries of the glomer- ulus, and by the cells of the connective tissue that binds the lobules of the glomerulus together, and the latter to the capsule. Cross-section of the medulla shows a medley of collecting tubules, limbs of the loop, and blood-vessels, all bound together by the reticulum.MICROSCOPIC ANATOMY 122 The arteries enter the kidney through the renal columns and, having traversed the latter as interlobular arteries, course along the junction of the cortex and medulla. Along this line, cortical and medullary branches are given off. The cortical branches supply the vasa afferentia, but some twigs pass directly to the supply of the capsule of the organ. A peculiarity of the renal circulation is that two sets of capillaries are present. One set is within the glomeruli. The other set is formed by the vasa efferentia which, con- veying still arterial blood, break up into the cortical capil- lary-network. This ensheathes the uriniferous tubules, first of the labyrinth, and then of the medullary ray. The medullary branches descend the medulla as arter- iae rectae which surround the collecting tubules and break up into capillary networks. The veins return blood as well from the cortex as from the medulla. Those from the outer part of the cortex con- verge to stellar points as the stellate veins (of Verheyn), which are situated beneath the capsule. These are drained by interlobular veins, which accompany the corresponding arteries. The medulla is drained by venae rectae, which join the interlobular veins. The arteriae rectae plus the venae rectae form the vasa recta, which are responsible for the dark stripes of the medulla. The lymphatics are disposed as superficial and deep vessels. The superficial lymphatics course beneath the cap- sule and empty both into the lymph-vessels outside of the kidney and into the deep lymphatics. The deep lymphatics arise from the lymphatic spaces within the reticulum of the kidney and accompany the blood vessels to the hilum. The nerves accompany the arteries into the kidney and, having supplied the non-striated mural musculature of the blood-vessels, form plexuses around the uriniferous tubules. From these plexuses fibrillae pass between the lining cells of the tubules, where they end. Ureter. The ureter presents three coats—mucous, muscular, and fibrous. The mucous coat is lined by stratified squamous epi-URETHRA 123 thelium, whose strata are few. The tunica propria is com- posed of fibro-elastic tissue in which glands are absent. It covers the muscular coat, a submucous not existing. The muscular coat consists of non-striated bundles ar- ranged as an inner longitudinal layer and an outer circular layer—the reverse of that of the digestive tube. The fibrous coat is composed of fibro-elastic tissue that binds the ureter to surrounding tissues. In the lowest part of the ureter longitudinal bands of non-striated muscle are present. Bladder. The bladder presents five coats—mucous, submucous, muscular, fibrous, and serous. The mucous coat corresponds in structure with that of the ureter. The submucous coat consists of loose bundles of fibro- elastic tissue supporting blood-vessels and nerves, and strewn with bundles of non-striated muscle. The muscular coat is composed of non-striated bundles arranged m three uncertain strata—outer longitudinal, mid- dle circular, and inner longitudinal. These various fibers run amuck and interlace freely. The layers are not so defi- nitely defined as are those of the digestive tube. The fibrous coat is composed of fibro-elastic tissue among which are many fat-cells. It supports arteries, large veins, and nerves. The serous coat is contributed by the peritoneum, and is related to certain parts only of the bladder. Urethra. The urethra presents two coats—mucous and muscular. The mucous coat is lined by epithelium that in the prox- imal part of the prostatic portion is stratified squamous; in the distal part of the prostatic, in the membranous, and in the spongy portions, simple columnar; and in the end of the spongy portion, in the fossa navicularis, stratified squamous again, being continuous with that covering the glans penis.MICROSCOPIC ANATOMY 124 In the female the epithelium is stratified squamous through- out, since the urethra corresponds to the proximal two-thirds of the prostatic urethra only. The tunica propria is espe- cially rich in yellow elastic fibers, and contains urethral glands (of Littre), which are of the simple branched alveolar type. Additional glands are found between the two layers of the urethra. Crypts are found in the upper wall of the urethra. They are not glands, but pits in the epithelium. The muscular coat consists of non-striated bundles ar- ranged as an inner longitudinal layer and an outer circular layer. This variety of muscle surrounds the prostatic and membranous portions, but disappears in the spongy. The internal urethral orifice is surrounded by the internal vesi- cal sphincter, which is formed by the inner longitudinal lay- er of the bladder. Striated muscle also exists in the urethra, and is found in three places. Surrounding the membranous portion is the compressor urethrae, which contributes to the urethra at the apex of the prostate the external vesical sphincter. Acting upon the spongy portion is the bulbo-cavernosus. Thus, the excretory apparatus of the urinary tract is fairly uniform in character. The epithelium of the ureter is directly continuous with that of the papillary ducts. The tunica propria, also, is continuous with the reticulum that separates the vessels in the medulla. Near the calyces, it contains minute lymphatic-nodules. On the papillae, the outer circular muscular coat of the ureter forms a small sphincter. MALE REPRODUCTIVE ORGANS. Testes. /;; // Each testis ranks as a compound tubular gland. The entire organ is enclosed within a thick fibro-elastic capsule, the tunica albuginea. Posteriorly this capsule is much thickened, forming the mediastinum testis. From this septa are prolonged into the organ in a radiating fashion, dividing it into pyramdal lobules. The apices of the lobules, there- fore, are at the mediastinum and the bases at the periphery. Each lobule contains several separate seminiferous tubules.TESTES 125 The seminiferous tubules, each about two feet in length, are divided into three stages. Toward the periphery they describe convolutions, and are therefore termed tubuli con- torti. Approaching the mediastinum, they unite and straight- en out, thus earning the name tubuli recti. Entering the mediastinum, these unite and break up into a network, appro- priately termed the rete testis. The latter is connected with the coni vasculosi of the epididymis by the ductuli efferentes. The seminiferous tubules are loosely held together by veils of fibrous tissue, in whose bundles are wandering cells and groups of mesoblastic cells, termed interstitial cells. With a pair of dissecting-forceps one of the tubuli contorti may be unraveled to considerable extent. The tubuli contorti correspond to the fundus and body of a simple tubular gland, since they begin blindly and gen- erate spermatic filaments. The tubuli recti and rete testis correspond to ducts, since they convey the spermatic fila- ments from the organ. A cross-section of a tubulus contor- tus shows several layers of cells resting upon a basement membrane. Among these cells two varieties may be dis- tinguished—sustentacular and spermatogenetic. The sus- tentacular cells (of Sertoli) are pyramidal in shape, and extend from the basement membrane toward the center of the tubule serving, as their name indicates, as supports for the developing spermatic filaments. The spermatogenetic cells are classified according to the stage of spermatogenesis they represent. The oldest adjoin the basement membrane, and are termed spermatogonia. Each spermatogone di- vides into two cells, one of which takes the place the sper- matogone occupied before division, whilst the other becomes the primary spermatocyte. This also divides and produces two secondary spermatocytes. These divide and produce four spermatids. The spermatids lodge upon a sustentacu- lar cell, fuse with it, elongate, and thus give rise to a hand- shaped mass termed the spermatoblast. The nucleus of each spermatid elongates, travels toward the proximal end of its cell and forms the head of the spermatic filament. The centrosome forms the middle-piece, and the protoplasm forms the tail. Spermatogenesis now being sufficiently ad- vanced, the spermatic filaments are launched from their ways into the lumen of the seminiferous tubule, where they126 MICROSCOPIC ANATOMY join the fleet of other spermatic filaments and, anchored in the channel, resemble a collection of acicular crystals. They soon heave anchor, pass through the tubuli recti and rete testis into the ductuli efferentes where, caught by the cur- rents of the waving cilia, they are whirled through the tor- tuous epididymis, in which they mature by throwing over- board their superfluous ballast of protoplasm. The simile carried through this description of sperma- togenesis may serve to impress the process upon the mind. The sustentacular cell corresponds to the ways upon which a ship is constructed. When near completion it is launched and enters the channel, to receive its finishing touches later. Spermatogenesis has been referred to in the embryolo- gy. With the exception of the shape of the finished product, it parallels oogenesis. The spermatic filament has been de- scribed with embryology. The character of the epithelium changes between the tubuli contorti and the epididymis. The thick epithelial lin- ing of the tubuli contorti is reduced, in the tubuli recti, to simple columnar epithelium. The rete testis is lined by the same variety, but much flattened so as to resemble simple squamous. Arrived at the epididymis, the epithelium changes into stratified ciliated columnar. Epididymis. ^ The successive parts of the epididymis from the testis to the vas deferens are the globus major, body, and globus minor. The globus major presents the dozen or more duc- tuli efferentes, which connect the rete testis with the tortu- ous coni vasculosi. These join to form the canal of the epididymis, which is twenty feet (average) in length. The change in the character of the epithelium has just been re- ferred to. The canal of the epididymis is lined by stratified ciliated columnar epithelium, the transition, as already noted, oc- curring between the rete testis and the ductuli efferentes. The basement membrane is well-developed, and is surround- ed by a well-marked coat of non-striated muscle. The blood-vessels, lymphatics, and nerves follow the usual course to the testicular gland.127 PROSTATE GLAND Vas Deferens. The vas deferens, which connects the globus minor with the ejaculatory duct, presents three coats—mucous, muscu- lar, and fibrous. The mucous coat is lined by stratified ciliated columnar epithelium in the first part of the vas, where it continues that of the epididymis, and by stratified non-ciliated col- umnar in the remainder of its course. The basement mem- brane is well-defined, and the tunica propria consists, as elsewhere, of fibro-elastic tissue. The muscular coat consists of non-striated bundles ar- ranged in three layers—outer longitudinal layer, middle cir- cular layer, and inner longitudinal layer. These three coats are exceptionally well developed, and impart to the vas the cord-like character by which it is distinguished from the other constituents of the spermatic cord. The fibrous coat envelops the muscular and blends with surrounding tissues. Seminal Vesicles. Each seminal vesicle consists of a labyrinthine tube that presents three coats—mucous, muscular, and fibrous. The mucous coat is lined by simple columnar non-cili- ated epithelium which forms diverticula containing goblet- cells. The muscular coat is composed of non-striated bundles arranged in an outer longitudinal layer, and an inner circu- lar layer. This coat is well-developed. The fibrous coat forms a capsule for the seminal vesicle. Prostate Gland. The prostate gland belongs to the tubulo-alveolar va- riety. It is composed of two and, according to the view- point, three lobes, which are made up of lobules. The lob- ules consist of groups of alveoli. The alveoli and their ducts are lined by simple columnar non-ciliated epithelium, whose128 MICROSCOPIC ANATOMY cells are high and whose nuclei are situated close to the base- ment membrane. Concretions are occasionally found in the alveoli. The gland is composed of about twenty simple • glands whose ducts open separately into the floor of the prostatic urethra. The organ is surrounded by a capsule, composed of fibro-elastic tissue and much non-striated muscle. The lat- ter is a distinguishing feature of the prostate gland. From the capsule, septa penetrate the lobes, subdivide them into lobules, and surround the alveoli with broad bands of fibro- elastic tissue in which the strands of non-striated muscle are conspicuous. Bulbourethral Glands. The bulbourethral glands (of Cowper) exhibit the characteristics of other mucous tubulo-alveolar glands. Penis. The penis is composed mainly of spongy tissue arranged in three cylinders—the two corpora cavernosa, and the sin- gle corpus spongiosum. A capsule surrounds each cylinder. It is the tunica al- buginea, and consists of white fibrous tissue. From it trab- eculae penetrate the organ and form its framework. They contain not only white fibrous tissue, but bundles of non-stri- ated muscle and a few yellow elastic fibers, and support blood-vessels and nerves. They are so disposed as to en- close blood-spaces, so characteristic of erectile tissue. These are lined with endothelium, are filled by the arteries, and are drained by the veins. Some of the arteries supplying them are C-shaped, and are termed helicine arteries. During erection, the blood-spaces are enormously distended with blood, and the trabeculae between them consequently flat- tened out. The septum between the corpora cavernosa is perfor- ated, so that they communicate with each other. It is termed the pectiniform septum.I OVARIES 129 FEMALE REPRODUCTIVE ORGANS. Ovaries. //? ^ Each ovary ranks as a compound alveolar gland without ducts. The organ is composed of two parts—cortex and medulla. The cortex forms a shell which encloses the medulla. It consists of ovarian stroma, embedded within which are the follicles in various stages of development. Ovarian stroma is the distinguishing name of the connective tissue peculiar to the ovary. Its cells are spindle-shaped and uncommonly numerous (i. e. in face of the usual findings that connective- tissue cells are scarce and hard to see). At the periphery of the organ these cells are condensed to form the tunica albu- ginea. This is covered by a single layer of cubical (germin- al) epithelium, which is a modification of the peritoneum. The medulla consists of ovarian stroma, which is much looser than that of the cortex, and bundles of non-striated muscle. It supports the blood- and lymph-vessels and nerves. It does not contain ova. As in the testis, groups of interstitial cells are present between the fibrillar bundles of the ovarian stroma. These are found in smaller numbers in the medulla. The follicles vary in appearance according to their de- gree of development. The youngest consist of an ovum en- closed within a layer of flat epithelium. Older follicles are recognized by enlargement of the ovum, and by proliferation of its surrounding epithelium until the single layer is con- verted into a stratified layer, termed follicular epithelium. This produces the zona radiata, which directly surrounds and protects the ovum. Condensation of the ovarian stroma just beyond produces a sheath, the theca. This soon exhibits an outer fibrous layer and an inner cellular layer. Liquefac- tion of some of the follicular epithelium produces liquor folli- culi, which distends the follicle. The latter is now mature, and is termed the vesicular (Graafian) follicle. 9130 MICROSCOPIC ANATOMY A vesicular follicle, sectioned, shows from without in- ward :— (1) Theca, with its outer fibrous layer and inner cellu- lar layer. (2) Membrana propria, between the theca and the folli- cular epithelium^ (3) Stratum granulosum, formed by the non-liquefied outer cells of the follicular epithelium. (4) Liquor folliculi, into which the ovum projects like a peninsula. (5) Discus proligerus, a ring of cells around the ovum contributed by the stratum granulosum. At one point, cor- responding to the neck of the peninsula, the cells of the dis- cus proligerus are continuous with those of the stratum granulosum. (6) Corona radiata, composed of those cells of the dis- cus proligerus that lie next the zona radiata of the ovum. They are radially-arranged around the latter, and lie vertical to its surface. (7) Zona radiata, the protecting envelope formed early by the follicular epithelium. It is striated by micropyles, kJjlooJl which are minute pores occupied by processes of the cells of the corona radiata. (8) Ovum, the structure of which has been described (vide Embryology). The corpus luteum is the altered structure that remains after the rupture of the vesicular follicle and coincident es- cape of the ovum. The space formerly occupied by the ovum and liquor folliculi becomes filled with blood-clot. The inner cellular layer of the theca proliferates and produces lutein cells. These are polyhedral in shape, and exhibit yel- low pigment (lutein). These cells invade the clot, which is finally absorbed. The stratum granulosum disappears en- tirely. The lutein cells and intercellular strands of con- nective tissue bearing capillaries now occupy the cavity of the corpus luteum. The lutein cells soon disappear and the connective tissue becomes hyaline. The corpus luteum is now more appropriately termed the corpus albicans. This eventually disappears entirely. The blood-vessels are distributed as would be expected. The arteries enter the hilum and supply branches to the me-I UTERUS 131 dulla, form close-meshed capillary networks around the fol- licles, and other networks at the periphery of the organ. The veins, retracing the arteries from the capillary networks, form conspicuous dilatations in the medulla. The lymphatics begin in clefts in the ovarian stroma and in the theca around the follicles. They pass through the medulla and out the hilum with the veins. The nerves accompany the arteries and have a similar distribution. Oviduct. (T* The oviduct presents three coats—mucous, muscular, and serous. The mucous coat, thrown into numerous plications, is lined by simple ciliated columnar epithelium. The tunica propria is composed of strands of fibro-elastic tissue which are continuous with those in the next coat. The muscular coat consists of non-striated bundles ar- ranged in an inner circular layer and an outer longitudinal layer. The serous coat is contributed by the regional periton- eum. . a ° Uterus. The uterus presents three coats—mucous, muscular, and serous. The mucous coat (endometrium) is lined by simple col- umnar epithelium, occasionally ciliated. The tunica propria consists of bundles of fibro-elastic tissue containing leuco- cytes and glands. The uterine glands are of the compound tubular type, and are lined by extensions of the surface epi- thelium. In the cervix, larger mucous glands of the same type are present. The muscular coat (myometrium) consists of non-stri- ated bundles disposed as a thicker inner circular layer, which contains large numbers of blood-vessels, and a thinner outer longitudinal layer. The serous coat (perimetrium) is contributed by the re- gional peritoneum.;132 MICROSCOPIC ANATOMY Vagina. The vagina presents three coats—mucous, muscular and fibrous. The mucous coat is lined by stratified squamous epi- thelium. The tunica propria consists of fibrous with much elastic tissue, large veins, leucocytes, and lymphatic nodules. It is beset with papillae. The mucous coat is thrown into rugae. It lacks glands. The muscular coat consists of non-striated bundles dis- posed as an inner circular layer and an outer longitudinal layer. The fibrous coat consists of dense white fibrous tissue with many yellow elastic fibers. It joins the vagina with surrounding structures. Mammary Glands. Each mammary gland ranks as a compound alveolar gland. It consists of twenty (average) lobes, each of which is subdivided by connective-tissue septa into lobules. Each lobule is composed of a group of alveoli. These are lined by simple columnar epithelium, which rests upon a well- marked basement membrane. The alveoli open into intermediate ducts, which are lined * by a layer of cuboidal epithelium surrounded by non-striated muscle. These ducts unite to form the lactiferous ducts, which are lined by simple columnar epithelium. Near the nipple, each lactiferous duct dilates into an ampulla, beyond which it narrows again and ends on the free surface of the nipple. Here it is lined by stratified squamous epithelium, continuous with that of the skin. The skin of the nipple is pigmented and contains seba- ceous glands and non-striated muscle-bundles encircling the openings of the ducts. The skin of the areola around the nipple contains large sweat glands and about twelve large sebaceous areolar glands (of Montgomery), the structure of which is transitional between sebaceous and mammary glands. In the male, the breast is rudimentary, consisting133 SKIN chiefly of connective tissue containing small ducts and un- developed acini. Alveoli distended during lactation may be confused with lung-tissue. SKIN. The skin (cutis) consists of the epidermis, an ecto- blastic epithelium, and the corium, a mesoblastic connective tissue. The corium presents two layers, the stratum papillare, which is superficial, and the stratum reticulare, which is deep. Both layers are composed of fibro-elastic tissue and interstitial cells, but differ in compactness. The stratum reticulare, consists of fibrous bundles arranged, as implied by the name, in a loose network in whose meshes are hair follicles, glands, vessels, nerves, and some fat. It blends imperceptibly with the underlying subcutaneous tissue and the overlying papillary layer. The stratum papillare is dis- tinguished by the finer and denser interlacement of its con- nective-tissue network, and by the presence of papillae. These are finger-like elevations of fibro-elastic tissue con- taining loops of capillaries (vascular papillae), or tactile corpuscles (nervous papillae). Of varying size, they are received into corresponding depressions of the epidermis. On the palms of the hands and soles of the feet they form curved ridges, those in the thumb being used often for the identification of criminals. Each ridge consists of two par- allel rows of papillae, between which the ducts of sweat glands pass in transit to the surface. The subcutaneous tissue consists of interlacing fibro- elastic strands which bind the skin to underlying structures. It is the depository of fat, which may be highly developed (panniculus adiposus) as in the neck and abdomen, or en- tirely absent, as in the eyelids, penis, scrotum, and labia minora. Sometimes bundles of non-striated muscle are found within it. The epidermis consists of stratified squamous epitheli- um arranged in four layers. Enumerated from the corium to the air these are:— (1) Stratum germinativum (rete Malpighi), which is composed of a varying number of layers. The deepest layer134 MICROSCOPIC ANATOMY consists of a single row of columnar cells which clothe the corium, covering the peaks of the papillae and lining the valleys between them. They are implanted in the corium by little tooth-like roots, just as grass is implanted in the earth. The overlying cells of this stratum are first full and polyhedral and then flattened. The cells are all bound to- gether by protoplasmic bolts which represent extensions of intracellular fibrillae from one cell to another spanning, in their course, the intercellular lymph-spaces. They there- fore correspond to “prickle-cells,” described previously (vide Epithelium). It is within this stratum that the distinguish- ing pigment of various races is lodged. (2) Stratum granulosum, which is composed of several layers of horizontally-flattened cells. The nuclei are sur- rounded by granules of eleidin. (3) Stratum lucidum, which appears as a thin, clear, homogeneous layer, but in reality consists of several layers of flattened cells whose outlines are scarcely perceptible. This stratum is present in certain localities only. (4) Stratum corneum, which is composed of several layers of flattened, non-nucleated scale-like cells that repre- sent the oldest of the epidermis. The cells next the air are constantly being shed, or are removed by mechanical con- tact. The stratum corneum is the part of the epidermis that is raised by a blister, as in a superficial burn. It is traversed by the shafts of hairs and the ducts of sweat glands whose openings on the free surface correspond to the “pores” of the skin. Occasionally the ducts of sebac- eous glands also pass through this stratum. Keratinization is the process by which the cells are rendered horny. APPENDAGES OF THE SKIN. 1: ' . ... Hair. Every hair is composed of two parts—shaft, which pro- jects above the surface, and root, which is buried in the skin. The lowest part of the root is knobbed, and is termed the bulb. Invaginating this from below is a globular pro- jection of corium, the hair-papilla. The root is imbedded in fthe hair-follicle.135 HAIR The hair—shaft and root—consists from without in- wards of three parts:—cuticle, cortex, and medulla. The cuticle is composed of a layer of horny cells, imbricated like fish-scales. The cortex is made up of spindle-shaped, horny epithelial cells, longitudinally arranged. It forms most of the hair. The medulla is the pithy core of the hair, and con- sists of polyhedral cells that contain air, fat, and pigment. The hair-follicle represents an invagination of the skin —epidermis and corium—into the subcutaneous tissue, and it is advantageous to recall the layers of the skin and recog- nize them in their modified form as the description proceeds. Each follicle is composed of the theca, outer root-sheath, and inner root-sheath. The theca, derived from the corium, con- sists of a fibrous sheath of outer longitudinal loose, middle circular compact, and inner hyaline connective-tissue fibrils. The last corresponds to and is continuous with the basement membrane of the corium of the skin. The outer root-sheath is representative of the stratum germinativum, the single layer of columnar cells lying in apposition with the inner hyaline layer of the theca. It is from this sheath, as might be surmised, that the hair receives its tissue and growth. The inner root-sheath is composed of three layers—outer (Henle’s), middle (Huxley’s), and inner (cuticle). The outer layer presents a single row of nucleated, cubical cells. The middle layer shows a single or double row of nucleated, polyhedral cells. It forms two-thirds of the inner sheath. The inner layer is a thin cuticle that consists of a single layer of flattened, imbricated, horny cells. It thus resembles and lies against the hair-cuticle, with whose scales its own scales interlock. Associated with the hair-follicles are sebaceous glands and non-striated muscle-bundles—arrectores pilorum. The former lie just below the junction of the shaft of the hair with its root, and serve for lubrication. The latter arise from the corium and, passing downward.and inward, insert into the deep part of the hair-follicle. Both of these are situated on that side of the follicle toward which the hair inclines. Contraction of these muscles produces '‘goose- flesh;” in fact, they “make one’s hair stand on end.” The fetal hairs (lanugo) are shed soon after birth, and replaced by the permanent pelage. There are over 350,000136 MICROSCOPIC ANATOMY hairs on the surface of the human skin. A hair generally lives two to four years. Hairs are not easily decomposed or destroyed by maceration. Dry hair is a bad conductor of heat and electricity, and hence it crackles when being combed in a dry or frosty atmosphere. A head-hair can bear without rupture a weight of 2 ounces; a beard-hair 2}4 ounces. When weighted it can be stretched for 30% of its length, and will resile 12%. Nails. The nails are areas of modified skin consisting of corium and epithelium. The nail presents the body, which is un- covered, the free edge (unless trimmed), and the root which is concealed by a fold of skin, the nail-fold. It is covered laterally by the nail-walls. The body rests upon the nail- bed, and the root upon the proximal continuation of the latter, the matrix. The latter projects somewhat from under the nail-fold as a white, crescentic area, the lunula. The lunulae diminish in size from the thumb toward the least digit. The nail-plate is composed of flat, horny epithelial cells, which are closely united to form lamellae. White spots seen in some nails are accounted for by air-bubbles collecting be- tween these lamellae. The nail-bed represents the corium and stratum germin- ativum of the skin. The corium is marked by longitudinal ridges and papillae, and is firmly bound to the periosteum of the phalanx. The stratum germinativum consists, as in the skin, of several layers of polygonal prickle-cells, which fill up the intervals between the ridges and papillae of the corium. Beneath the root, this stratum is better developed, forming the matrix, from which the nail grows at the rate of about one millimeter per week. A nail grows from the nail-fold to the free border in from one to eight months, rapidly in youth, slower in old age. The stratum corneum of the skin which grows over the lunula and must be pushed back is the eponychium.137 SWEAT GLANDS Sebaceous Glands. Sebaceous glands vary in type from simple tubular to compound alveolar. Their ducts are short and open either on the free surface of the skin or into the superficial part of hair-follicles. Their alveoli are lined by a single layer of cuboidal epithelium, prolonged from the epidermis or else from the outer root-sheath, and resting upon a basement membrane. Within the alveoli is sebum, an oily substance formed by the disintegration of some of the lining cells. The glands are surrounded by a fibrous capsule, derived from the corium of the skin or from that of the hair-follicle. Over the whole surface of the human body there are more than 650,000 sebaceous glands. Sweat Glands. Sweat glands are simple tubular in type, and present two parts—the coil and the duct. The coil is lined by simple columnar epithelium, resting upon a basement membrane, but separated from it by a thin layer of non-striated muscle. Outside of this is a fibro- elastic sheath. This musculature, be it recalled, is ecto- blastic in origin. The duct is lined by several layers of cuboidal cells. In the corium it is similar in structure to the coil, but in the epidermis it loses its sheath, basement membrane, and mus- culature, and its lumen is bounded by cells of the stratum corneum alone. In the skin of an adult man it is estimated that there are 2,500,000 sweat glands, having a secreting surface of 1080 square meters. Ciliary and ceruminous glands are modified sweat glands. The breasts correspond to modified and specialized sebaceous glands. Among animals, appendages of the skin comprise claws, hoofs, feathers, bristles, plates, spines, horns, and penis- spines.MICROSCOPIC ANATOMY 138 Central Nervous System. The microscopic anatomy of the tissues of the central nervous system has been appropriately distributed through- out the chapters devoted to the macroscopic anatomy of this system.CHAPTER III. THE BONES. Clavicle. The clavicle (clavis, a key, likened to a Roman key) or collar bone helps form the shoulder girdle. It is S-shaped and shows an inner sternal end, a shaft, and an outer acrom- ial end. The sternal end, the thickest part of the bone, is tri- angular with the apex below and behind; a second angle below and before; and a third angle above. Its concavo- convex facet articulates with the sternum, a disk of fibro- cartilage intervening, and to the sharp edge around the facet is attached the capsular ligament. A small facet on the in- ferior border articulates with the first costal cartilage. The shaft is prismatic in its inner two-thirds, whose convexity is anterior, and flattened in its outer third, whose convexity is posterior. The anterior border is rough in- ternally for the clavicular fibers of the pectoralis major and sharp externally for the deltoid muscle, whose inner fibers arise from the deltoid tubercle. The superior border begins at the upper angle of the sternal end, becomes rough for the sternomastoid, and externally joins the posterior border. The posterior border begins at the apex of the sternal end, forms the posterior lip of the subclavian groove, and exter- nally is rough for the trapezius. The anterior surface is di- vided near its sternal end by a ridge into an upper area for the clavicular fibers of the sternomastoid, and a lower for the same fibers of the pectoralis major; it then becomes smooth and subcutaneous where the platysma rests upon it, and , externally is continuous with the superior surface. The posterior surface is smooth and from its broad sternal end, where part of the sternohyoid is attached, narrows as it arches over the brachial plexus and subclavian artery, shows near its middle the nutrient foramen, and externally is con-140 THE BONES tinuous with the posterior border. The inferior surface shows at the narrow sternal end the costal facet for the first costal cartilage; then comes the rough rhomboid impression for the costoclavicular ligament; then in the middle third the subclavian groove, to whose lips are attached the laminae of the costocoracoid membrane, and in which is lodged the subclavius; and broadening beyond this shows in the outer third, the rough conoid tubercle, near the posterior border, from which the rough trapezoid ridge passes obliquely for- ward and outward to near the acromial end. To each of these, respectively, is attached the conoid and the trapezoid constituent of the coracoclavicular ligament. The acromial end, broad and flat, presents the subcu- taneous superior surface, which is continuous with the an- terior surface of the shaft, and an oval facet, to whose cir- cumference is attached the capsule of the acromioclavicular joint, for the acromion. The clavicle is the first bone of the skeleton to ossify. Of the two centers, that for the shaft and acromial end ap- pears about the sixth week, whilst that for the sternal end appears about the nineteenth year and joins the shaft by the twenty-fifth year. The clavicles are responsible for the broad shoulders of Primates. Contrast the narrow shoulders of Carnivora, whose clavicles do not articulate with any bone, but are sus- pended in the muscles, being rudimentary or absent. The clavicles are absent in Cetacea and Ungulata, in many Car- nivora and Rodents. In Birds they are usually anchylosed in the mid-line as the merrythought (wishbone)—an elastic arch that counteracts the mm. pectorales majores, which press the humeri inward on the down-stroke of the wings. Scapula. The scapula (spade) or shoulder blade completes the shoulder girdle posteriorly. Triangular in shape, it presents a ventral surface and a dorsal, from which latter springs the spine, which ends externally in the acromion. From the outer end of the superior border projects the coracoid, whilst below this is the external angle, occupied by the head, which is supported by the neck.SCAPULA 141 The body, in addition to the two surfaces, shows three borders and three angles, and is thin and translucent. The ventral surface exhibits the concave subscapular fossa for the subscapularis, and is crossed from within upward and outward by oblique ridges for the tendinous intersections of that muscle. Near the vertebral border is a ridge which, to- gether with the small flat surfaces into which it expands at the superior and inferior angles, affords attachment to the serratus magnus. The dorsal surface, concavo-convex, is di- vided by the spine into a small upper supraspinous fossa for the supraspinatus, and a larger lower infraspinous fossa for the infraspinatus. These fossae communicate around the outer border of the spine through the great scapular notch, which transmits the suprascapular vessels and nerve. The infraspinous fossa is limited exterally by a ridge which de- scends from the head and affords attachment for the infra- spinatus fascia. External to this ridge, between it and the axillary border, is a surface of bone of which the upper nar- row two-thirds give origin to the teres minor, and the broader oval lower third to the teres major. A ridge between these areas affords attachment to an aponeurosis that sepa- rates the two muscles. The spine, a triangular shelf that crosses obliquely the inner four-fifths of the upper part of the dorsal surface, begins at the vertebral borders as a smooth triangular surface, and, increasing in height, turns forward into the acromion. The dorsal subcutaneous bor- der of the spine is limited above by a lip, to which is attached the trapezius, and below by one from which the deltoid takes origin. The concave external border of the spine con- nects the under surface of the acromion with the neck. A nutrient foramen is seen near the middle of the inferior sur- face of the spine. 1 he acromion (summit of the shoulder) is a broad cres- centic process that projects outward and forward over the head. It resembles the acromial end of the clavicle. Obliquely flattened, its superior surface is rough and sub- cutaneous, and continuous with the dorsal subcutaneous border of the spine; its inferior surface is smooth and con- cave and continuous with the superior surface and external border of the spine; its external border is thick, convex and tubei culated for partial origin of the deltoid, and is continu-THE BONES 142 ous with the lower lip of the dorsal border of the spine; and its internal border is concave and continuous with the upper lip of the dorsal border of the spine, and shows internally an area to which part of the trapezius is attached, then an oval facet which meets that on the acromial end of the clavicle,, and externally a tip where both borders meet, and to which is attached the coracoacromial ligament. Of the three borders, the superior is the shortest and thinnest, and runs from the superior angle to the base of the coracoid, where it is interrupted by the suprascapular notch, which is converted into a foramen by a ligament (sometimes ossified) of the same name, and is traversed by the suprascapular nerve; close to the notch arises the pos- terior belly of the omohyoid; the axillary is the thickest, runs from the lower margin of the glenoid cavity to the in- ferior angle, and presents above an inch-long rough area for the long head of the triceps, then a groove for the dorsal ar- tery, and ventrally a longitudinal groove for the subscapular- is; the vertebral is the longest, extends from the superior to the inferior angle, and affords attachment above the triangu- lar area, at which the spine commences, to the levator scap- ulae, at the border of the triangular area to the rhomboideus minor, and below to the fibrous arch, into which the rhom- boideus major inserts. Of the three angles, the superior is thin, indicates the meeting of the superior and vertebral borders, and gives par- tial origin to the levator scapulae; the inferior, thick and rough, indicates the meeting of the vertebral and axillary borders, and gives partial origin externally to the teres major and sometimes to the latissimus dorsi; and the exter- nal is the thickest part of the bone and corresponds to the head, which supports the glenoid surface and the coracoid. The glenoid surface is concave and pyriform, with the narrow end above. To its margin, which is more prominent below and in front, is attached the glenoid ligament, which, in the recent state, deepens the concavity of the glenoid sur- face for articulation with the head of the humerus. At the upper end of the glenoid surface is the supraglenoid tubercle for the long head of the biceps, and below the margin is con- tinuous with the infraglenoid tubercle at the upper part of the axillary border for the long head of the triceps.143 HUMERUS The neck is the slight constriction just internal to the head, and is best marked at the great scapular notch. The coracoid (like a crow’s beak) arises from the upper part of the neck by a broad base, and soon bends at a right angle forward and outward. The superior surface is rough externally for the conoid and trapezoid ligaments; to its outer border is attached the coracoacromial ligament; its in- ner border receives the pectoralis minor before and the cos- tocoracoid ligament behind; and its tip gives common origin to the coracobrachialis and short head of the biceps. The scapula develops from a plate of cartilage in which two primary centers of ossification appear about the end of the second month of fetal life. The body and spine are de- veloped from one primary center, whilst the coracoid forms from the other. The coracoid joins the body about puberty. Secondary centers for the acromion, vertebral border, and inferior angle appear about the sixteenth year and fuse with the rest of the scapula between the twentieth and twenty- fifth years. In Birds the scapula is a long, narrow, sabre-shaped bone, whose coracoid process extends to the sternum, form- ing on each side a buttress that supports the shoulder on the downward stroke of the wing. In Ungulates the coracoid is more rudimentary than in man. In the little Pipistrelle Bat it is long and forked. In Ruminants the coracoid and acrom- ion are absent. In the Two-toed Sloth and in Birds they join each other. In the Dog and Shrew the supraspinous fossa is nearly equal in size to the infraspinous, but in the Lion and and in the Sloth it is larger. In the African Toad Dactyle- thra the two scapulae overlap the one the other. Humerus. The humerus (umerus, the shoulder) or arm-bone con- sists of two extremities connected by a shaft. The superior extremity presents a head, smooth and hemispherical, directed upward, inward, and backward; a neck, obliquely placed, well defined above where it separates the head from the tuberosities and poorly defined below where it passes onto the shaft, and adapted for the attach-144 THE BONES ment of the capsular ligament; a greater tuberosity, rough and convex, continuous with the outer side of the shaft be- low, and surmounted by three facets to the uppermost of which is attached the supraspinatus, to the middle the infras- pinatus, and to the lowermost the teres minor; and a lesser tuberosity, oval and more prominent, and surmounted by a facet for the subscapularis. Beginning at and passing down between the two tuberosities is the deep bicipital groove, which lodges the long head of the biceps and a branch of the anterior circumflex artery, and whose external lip, confluent above with the greater tuberosity, receives the pectoralis * major, whilst the internal lip, confluent above with the lesser tuberosity, receives the teres major, and the floor, lined by synovia, receives the latissimus dorsi. Just below the tuber- osities is a constriction termed the surgical neck. The shaft is cylindrical above, flattened and prismatic below, and presents three borders and as many surfaces. Of the three borders, the anterior corresponds to the ex- ternal lip of the bicipital groove above, is rough at its middle for the deltoid, is smooth and rounded below for origin of the brachialis, disappears at the coronoid fossa below, and separates the external from the internal surface; the external starts from the hinder part of the greater tuberosity, is smooth and indistinct above where it attaches the teres minor and the external head of the triceps, is interrupted at its middle by the broad and shallow musculospiral groove, becomes prominent and curves forward below as the extern- al supracondylar ridge, which gives origin before to the brachioradialis and extensor carpi radialis longus and re- ceives behind the internal head of the triceps and between the external intermuscular septum, separates the external from the posterior surface, and ends at the external condyle; the internal corresponds to the internal lip of the bicipital groove above, receives the coracobrachialis at its middle just below which is the nutrient foramen, becomes prominent and curves inward below as the internal supracondylar ridge which receives the brachialis before, the internal head of the triceps behind and the internal intermuscular septum be- tween, separates the internal from the posterior surface, and ends at the internal condyle. Of the three surfaces, the external, convex and contort-HUMERUS 145 ted, is smooth above where it is covered by the deltoid, forms at its middle the rough deltoid impression for the deltoid, terminates just below this the musculospiral groove for the nerve of the same name and the superior profunda artery, and flattens below for partial origin of the brachialis; the internal, plane and smooth, corresponds to the floor of the bicipital groove above, receives part of the coracobrachialis at its middle, and flattens below for partial origin of the brachialis; the posterior, convex and contorted, is divided obliquely from behind downward and forward by the mus- culospiral groove into an upper part which externally affords origin to the external head of the triceps, and a lower part, which affords origin to the internal head of the same muscle. The inferior extremity is flattened from before backward, curves slightly forward, and broadens laterally into two con- dyles, each of which presents an articular and a non-articu- lar portion. The internal condyle, more prominent and backwardly-inclined, shows in its articular portion the trochlea (pulley), which extends from the coronoid fossa before to the olecranon fossa behind, articulates with the great sigmoid cavity of the ulna, is constricted in the center, and bounded externally by a low ridge that separates it from the capitellum, and internally by a thicker, lower and more prominent ridge, while its non-articular portion shows the internal epicondyle, which is large and prominent, con- tinuous with the internal supracondylar ridge, grooved be- hind for the ulnar nerve, and rough in front for the origin of the pronator teres above, the common tendon of origin of the flexor carpi radialis, palmaris longus, flexor digitorum sublimis and flexor carpi ulnaris in the middle, and the in- ternal lateral ligament below; the small coronoid fossa be- fore, which receives the coronoid process of the ulna during flexion, and the larger olecranon fossa behind, which re- ceives the apex of the olecranon process of the ulna during extension. The external condyle, less prominent and for- wardly inclined, shows in its articular portion the globular capitellum (little head), which articulates with the concav- ity on the summit of the radius, and is bounded internally by a shallow groove for the inner margin of the head of the radius, and above by the slight radial fossa for the anterior margin of the head of the radius in complete flexion of the 10THE BONES 146 forearm, while its non-articular portion shows the flat, ir- regular, forwardly-curved and smaller external epicondyle, which is continuous with the external supracondylar ridge, and gives origin above to the common tendon of the exten- sor carpi radialis brevis, extensor digitorum communis, ex- tensor minimi digiti, extensor carpi ulnaris, and supinator, below and before to the external lateral ligament, and below and behind to the anconeus. The margins of the coronoid and olecranon fossae furnish attachment to the capsular ligament. The humerus develops from a primary center for the shaft and epiphyses for the extremities. The epiphysis for the superior extremity is formed by coalescence during the seventh year of secondary centers for the head, greater tuber- osity, and lesser tuberosity, and joins the shaft about the twentieth year. The inferior extremity has two epiphyses, of which one, formed by the coalescence of secondary cen- ters for the trochlea, capitellum, and external epicondyle, joins the shaft during the seventeenth year, whilst the other, comprising a secondary center for the internal epicondyle, joins the shaft during the next year. The two humeri may differ somewhat in length without causing any obvious deformity. Where there is no repre- sentative of the hand the humeri are absent. In Snakes there is no trace of fore limb, and therefore no humerus. The lesser tuberosity is as large as or greater than the greater tuberosity in the Two-toed Sloth, the Bat Pteropus, and the Lizard Uromastix. In flying Birds there is a deep cavity beneath the lesser tuberosity through which air enters the air-cavity, the bones being filled with air instead of mar- row and thus rendered lighter. The humerus of the Adju- tant is a mere shell. A bone of this bird thirteen inches long weighed but half an ounce, while a corresponding bone sev- enteen inches long of an Ostrich weighed half a pound. In the Seal, Mole, Beaver and others the deltoid eminence is a very prominent ridge. The condyles are quite rudimentary in the Deer and Hare, but very large in the Mole, Armadil- los, and Echidna. In the Bushman, Gorilla, Tapir, and Dogs the olecranon and coronoid fossae communicate. This occurs sometimes in man. In the Wombat, in many Carni- vora, and rarely in man, there is a supracondyloid foramenULNA 147 above the internal condyle, transmitting the median nerve and the brachial artery. There may also be a foramen above the external condyle, as in some Lizards, e. g. Psammo- saurus. Ulna. The ulna (cubit), the inner and longer of the two fore- arm-bones, is prismatic, broader above where it articulates with the trochlea, and continues the line of the humerus to its tapering lower extremity, where it is separated from the wrist-joint by an interarticular fibrocartilage. It presents a shaft and two extremities. The superior extremity shows the large, curved, upward projection from the shaft, the olecranon (elbow-skull) pro- cess, whose superior surface, uneven and quadrilateral, re- ceives the triceps behind, and the joint-capsule along the margin before; whose posterior surface, smooth, triangular, and subcutaneous, is separated from the skin by a bursa; whose anterior surface, smooth and concave, helps form the greater sigmoid cavity; whose internal border gives origin to the ulnar head of the flexor carpi ulnaris and receives part of the internal lateral ligament; and whose external border* rough and concave, receives part of the anconeus and the posterior ligament. It also shows the coronoid (crown- shaped) process, a shelf-like triangular projection whose superior surface, smooth and concave, completes the greater sigmoid cavity; whose anterior surface, rough and concave, receives the brachialis and terminates below in the tubercle of the ulna for part of the brachialis and the oblique liga- ment; whose external surface, smooth, concave, and oblong, shows the lesser sigmoid cavity; and whose internal surface receives part of the internal ligament into its sharp margin and presents above and before a round, smooth tubercle for the ulnar origin of the flexor digitorum sublimis, behind, a depression for the upper fibers of the flexor digitorum pro- fundus, and below, a ridge for the ulnar head of the pronator teres and accessory fibers of the flexor pollicis longus. It also shows the greater sigmoid cavity, a large, semilunar excavation formed by the anterior surface of the olecranon process above and by the superior surface of the coronoidTHE BONES 148 process below, which articulates with the trochlea and is divided by a longitudinal ridge that passes from the apex of the olecranon process to that of the coronoid into a larger internal portion and a smaller external, while its sharp mar- gin receives the joint-capsule. It also shows the lesser sig- moid cavity, which corresponds to the external surface of the coronoid process, receives the circumference of the head of the radius, the orbicular ligament by its anterior and pos- terior margins, and is confluent with the greater sigmoid cavity, though separated from it by a low ridge. The shaft, thick above and tapering below, presents three borders and as many surfaces. Of the three borders, the anterior, mostly smooth and rounded, begins at the inner edge of the anterior surface of the coronoid process, gives origin to the flexor digitorum profundus in its middle two-fourths and to the pronator quadratus in its lowest fourth, terminates in front of the styloid process, and separates the anterior from the internal surface; the posterior, subcutaneous, begins at the apex of the posterior surface of the olecranon process, receives in its upper three-fourths the common aponeurosis of the flexor and extensor carpi ulnaris and flexor digitorum pro- fundus, is smooth and rounded in its lower fourth, terminates behind the styloid process, and separates the internal from the posterior surface; and the external (interosseous), sharp and prominent above and smooth and rounded below, begins by the union of two ridges that converge from the extremi- ties of the lesser sigmoid cavity and enclose the triangular bicipital fossa which lodges the tuberosity of the radius and the insertion of the biceps tendon during pronation before, and behind gives origin to the supinator, affords attachment in its lower four-fifths to the interosseous membrane, termin- ates at the middle of the head of the ulna, and separates the anterior from the posterior surface. Of the three surfaces, the anterior is broad and grooved in its upper three-fourths for origin of the flexor digitorum profundus, shows the nutrient foramen near the junction of its upper and middle thirds, and is narrow and convex below for origin of the pronator quadratus—the upper limit of which area sometimes shows the pronator ridge; the intern- al, broad and concave above and narrow and convex below,ULNA 149 gives origin in its upper two-thirds to the flexor digitorum profundus and in the lower third is subcutaneous; and the posterior, broad and concave above and narrow and convex below, shows above the oblique line which runs from the posterior extremity of the lesser sigmoid cavity down to the posterior border and affords partial insertion to the supin- ator and marks off an upper, smaller, triangular area for the insertion of the anconeus and a lower, larger area which is divided by a vertical line, to which is attached deep fascia and the flexor carpi ulnaris, into an inner, smooth portion that is covered by the extensor carpi ulnaris and an outer, rougher portion that gives origin from above downward to the extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis, extensor pollicis longus and extensor indicis. The inferior extremity is small, and consists of the head and the styloid process, which are separated below by a groove for the interarticular fibrocartilage. The head, larger, more rounded, and external, presents two articular facets, of which the lower is small and oval and articulates with the superior surface of the triangular fibrocartilage, which excludes the ulna from the wrist-joint, and the ex- ternal, narrow and convex, articulates with the sigmoid cavity of the radius. The styloid process, smaller, more projecting, and internal, springs from the inner and hinder part of the ulna, descends lower than the head, terminates in a rounded summit to which is attached the internal lateral ligament, and is grooved behind for the passage of the ten- don of the extensor carpi ulnaris. The ulna develops from a primary center for the shaft and epiphyses for the extremities. The epiphysis for the superior extremity appears about the tenth year and unites with the shaft about the sixteenth. The epiphysis for the lower extremity appears about the sixth year and unites with the shaft about the twenty-first. The epiphyseal line between the superior or olecranon epiphysis and the shaft lies considerably above the constricted portion of the greater sigmoid cavity. The ulna may be larger and more important than the radius, forming the largest part of the length of the wing, as in Birds, e. g. the Eagle. On the other hand it may be much smaller and more or less abortive, as in Ruminants andTHE BONES 150 Bats. Hence, the proportionate size of this bone has no rela- tion to flight. In Birds it is dotted externally by a line of small tubercles where the winged feathers are attached. In swift-flying Birds, as the Frigate and Albatross, the ulna and radius are very long, whilst in non-flying Birds, as the Great Auk, Ostrich, and Cassowary, they are very short. In some Bats there is a sesamoid bone at the end of the olecranon, bringing to mind the patella at the knee. In Ruminants the ulna and radius form a single concavity for the reception of the humerus. In Bats the distal part of the ulna aborts. It often articulates with the carpus directly. Radius. The radius (spoke of a wheel), the outer and shorter of the two forearm-bones, is prismatic, smaller above where it articulates with the capitellum and ulna, and broader be- low where it articulates with the carpus and with the ulna. It presents a shaft and two extremities. The superior extremity presents a head, neck, and bicipi- tal tuberosity. The head, disk-shaped, with a smooth ver- tical margin, is depressed on its summit for articulation with the capitellum, and is surrounded by a convex circum- ference, which is broad internally for articulation with the lesser sigmoid cavity of the ulna, and narrow elsewhere for the orbicular ligament. The neck is the short, constricted portion that supports the head, joins it to the shaft, is sur- rounded by the orbicular ligament above, and below and ex- ternally receives part of the supinator. The bicipital tuber- osity is a rough, oval eminence situated below the neck and on the anterointernal surface of the bone, and composed of a posterior, rough portion which receives the tendon of the biceps, and an anterior, smooth portion which lodges a bursa between that tendon and the bone. The shaft, prismatic and with the convexity directed outward and backward, presents three borders and as many surfaces. Of the three borders, the anterior begins at the lower part of the bicipital tuberosity, forms in the upper third the151 RADIUS oblique line to which is attached the radial head of the flexor digitorum sublimis, terminates at the anterior border of the styloid process, and separates the anterior from the external surface; the internal (interosseous), round and indistinct above and sharp and prominent below, begins at the poster- ior edge of the bicipital tuberosity, receives above the oblique ligament and below the interosseous membrane, divides near the styloid process into two ridges that diverge to the anter- ior and posterior margins of the sigmoid cavity and enclose a triangular surface for partial insertion of the pronator quadratus, and separates the anterior from the posterior sur- faces; and the posterior begins at the posterior part of the bicipital tuberosity, where it is round and ill-defined, be- comes well-marked in the middle third, indistinct below, ter- minates at the middle tubercle on the posterior surface of the styloid process, and separates the posterior from the external surface. Of the three surfaces, the anterior, narrow and concave above and broad and flat below, gives origin in its upper three-fourths to the flexor pollicis longus and in its lowest fourth receives the pronator quadratus, and shows the nutri- ent foramen at the junction of the upper and middle thirds; the external, round and convex, receives the supinator above, shows a rough, low ridge near its middle for the pronator teres, and is narrow below where the tendons of the extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis and extensor pollicis brevis cross it; and the posterior, smooth and rounded in its upper third where it is covered by the supinator, broad and grooved in its middle third for origin of the extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis above and the extensor pollicis brevis below, and broad, rounded and covered by tendons in its lower third. The inferior extremity, large and quadrilateral, presents five surfaces, of which two are articular. The inferior (carpal) surface is divided by a low ridge into an inner, quad- rilateral facet, concave for articulation with the semilunar bone, and an outer triangular facet that articulates with the scaphoid bone; the internal, narrow and concave, corre- sponds to the sigmoid cavity, which receives the head of the ulna, and to the border between these articular surfaces is attached the base of the triangular fibrocartilage; the anterior is rough and raised for the anterior ligament of the152 THE BONES wrist-joint; the external presents the styloid process, a blunt, pyramidal projection to whose base is attached the brachio- radialis and whose apex receives the external lateral liga- ment of the wrist-joint, whilst its outer surface is marked by two shallow furrows which lodge the tendons of the ex- tensor ossis metacarpi pollicis and extensor pollicis brevis; and the posterior is rough and convex and marked by three ridges and three intervening grooves. To the ridges is at- tached the posterior annular ligament, which thus converts the grooves into tunnels. The outermost tunnel, broad and shallow, and subdivided by a low ridge, lodges the tendon of the extensor carpi radialis longus externally and that of the extensor carpi radialis brevis internally; the middle groove, narrow and deep, lodges the tendon of the extensor pollicis longus; while the innermost groove is broad and shallow for the tendons of the extensor digitorum communis and ex- tensor indicis proprius; and a groove next the ulna for the tendon of the extensor minimi digiti. The radius develops from a primary center for the shaft and epiphyses for the extremities. The epiphysis for the superior extremity appears about the sixth year and unites with the shaft about the nineteenth. The epiphysis for the lower extremity appears about the second year and unites with the shaft aboutdhe twenty-first. The radius isdmmovably united with the ulna in Rum- inants and in Sirenia. In the Frog and Camel the radius is the solitary apparent representative of the bones of the fore- arm, which are completely fused together. In the Zebra the ulna is represented by an olecranon adhering to the back of the radius, but in the Elephant the ulna is very large and the radius small. Pronation is the constant and only rela- tion of the bones of the forearm in the Dog, Elephant, and in hoofed beasts generally. It is readily seen that in Bats and Birds pronation and supination would be fatal to flight. Carpus. The carpus (wrist) contains eight bones arranged in two rows. Enumerated from without inward, those of the superior row are the scaphoid, semilunar, cuneiform, and153 SCAPHOID pisiform; whilst those of the inferior row are the trapezium, trapezoid, os magnum, and unciform. Each bone has six surfaces, an anterior, a posterior, an external, an internal, a superior, and an inferior. Viewed as an articulated whole, the carpus presents a convex dorsal surface and a concave palmar, the concavity being increased by four prominences, one at each extremity of each row. The carpus is broader inferiorly than super- iorly, and its anterior and posterior surfaces are rough for ligaments, with the exception of the posterior surface of the pisiform, and part of the anterior surface of the cunei- form. The anterior surface of each bone is broader in the superior row, and the posterior surface in the inferior. The superior and inferior surfaces of each bone are articular and possess no ligaments. The external and internal sur- faces are likewise articular if in contact with neighboring bones, but otherwise rough. Scaphoid. The scaphoid (boat-like), the largest and most external of the superior row, lies with its long axis directed obliquely outward and downward. Of its surfaces, the superior, convex and triangular, ar- ticulates with the external facet on the inferior surface of the radius; the inferior, also convex, is divided by a low ridge into an outer facet that articulates with the trapezium, and an inner for the trapezoid; the posterior presents a narrow, rough groove for the posterior ligament of the wrist-joint; the anterior, rough and concave above, rises below into the tuberosity which receives the anterior annular ligament and the abductor pollicis brevis; the external, narrow and rough, receives the external lateral ligament of the wrist-joint; and the internal shows two articular facets, of which the upper and smaller is flat and crescentic for the semilunar bone, and the lower is larger and concave for the os magnum.THE BONES 154 Semilunar. The semilunar (half-moon), irregularly cubical and with a deep concavity and crescentic outline, is situated be- tween the scaphoid and cuneiform. Of its surfaces, the superior presents a convex facet for the internal square facet on the inferior surface of the radius; the inferior shows a deep concavity that is subdi- vided by a line into an outer and larger facet for the os magnum, and an inner, very narrow facet for the unciform; the external presents a narrow, flat, crescentic facet for the scaphoid; the internal shows a flat, square facet for the cuneiform; the anterior is large, convex, and rough for liga- ments; and the posterior is narrow, flat, and also rough for ligaments. Cuneiform. The cuneiform (wedge-like) is pyramidal, with its base facing upward and outward and its apex downward and in- ward. Of its surfaces, the superior shows a small, convex facet externally for the triangular fibrocartilage, and a non-articu- lar portion internally, rough for ligaments; the inferior pre- sents a long, undulating facet for the unciform; the anterior shows internally a nearly circular facet for the pisiform and externally an area rough for ligaments; the posterior is rough for ligaments; the external presents a flat, square facet for the semilunar; and the internal is pointed and rough for the internal lateral ligament of the wrist-joint. Pisiform. The pisiform (pea-like) is small and spheroidal and situ- ated on a plane before that of the other carpal bones. Of its surfaces, the anterior is round and rough for the anterior annular ligament and the tendons of the flexor carpi ulnaris and abductor minimi digiti; the posterior corre- sponds to a flat, oval facet for the cuneiform; the external is narrow, concave, and rough; the internal is broader, con- vex, and also rough.155 OS MAGNUM Trapezium. The trapezium (a table), the outermost of the inferior row, is rhomboid and situated between the scaphoid and the first metacarpal. Of its surfaces, the superior presents a slightly concave facet for the outer facet on the inferior surface of the scaphoid; the inferior shows a saddle-shaped facet for the base of the first metacarpal; the anterior, narrow and rough, presents a prominent ridge for the anterior annular liga- ment, the abductor pollicis brevis, and the opponens pollicis, and internal to the ridge is a deep groove that transmits the tendon of the flexor carpi radialis; the posterior is irregular and rough for ligaments; the external is broad and rough for ligaments; and the internal is subdivided by a ridge into an upper, larger, concave facet for the trapezoid, and a lower, small, oval, flat facet for the base of the second metacarpal. Trapezoid. The trapezoid (table-like) is wedge-shaped with the broad end behind and the narrow end before. Of its surfaces, the superior shows a small, quadrilat- eral, slightly concave facet for the inner facet on the inferior surface of the scaphoid; the inferior corresponds to a saddle- shaped facet for the base of the second metacarpal; the external shows a slightly convex facet for the trapezium; the internal presents a flat, slightly concave facet before for the os magnum, and behind is rough for the interosseous liga- ment; the anterior is small, narrow, and rough for liga- ments; and the posterior is larger, wider, and rough for liga- ments. Os Magnum. The os magnum (great bone), situated in the center of the wrist, shows the rounded head above, which fits into the concavity made up by the scaphoid and semilunar, a con- stricted neck, which supports the head, and a cubical body. Of its surfaces, the superior is convex for the semilunar; the inferior is subdivided by two ridges into three unequal156 THE BONES facets, of which the outer, narrow and concave, is for the sec- ond metacarpal, the middle, much larger, for the third meta- carpal, and the inner, small facet is for the fourth meta- carpal; the posterior is broad, concave, and rough; the anterior is convex and rough for ligaments and the adductor pollicis obliquus; the external presents from above down- ward a convex facet that forms the outer part of the head and articulates with the scaphoid, a groove that corresponds to the neck and receives ligaments, and a small, slightly convex facet for the trapezoid, whilst behind the latter facet is a rough area for an interosseous ligament; and the internal presents an oblong, vertical facet behind for the unciform, and a rough area before for an interosseous ligament. Unciform. The unciform (hook-like) is a large, wedge-shaped bone that bears a hook-like process, and is situated between the os magnum and the cuneiform. Of its surfaces, the superior presents two facets, an outer, narrow, corresponding to the apex of the wedge, for the semilunar, and an inner, double-curved and sinuous for the cuneiform ; the inferior is divided by a low ridge into two concave, quadrilateral facets for the fourth and fifth meta- carpals; the anterior shows below a hook-like eminence that curves forward and outward, which receives at its apex the anterior annular ligament and the flexor carpi ulnaris, and on its inner surface the flexor brevis and opponens minimi digiti, while its inner surface is concave and in relation with the flexor tendons; the posterior is triangular and rough for ligaments; the external presents above and behind a long, flat, vertical facet for the os magnum, whilst before is a rough area for an interosseous ligament; and the internal is narrow and rough for ligaments. Morphology of Carpus. In Pteropus the bones of the superior row of the carpus, except the pisiform, are represented by a single bone. The scaphoid coalesces with the semilunar in the Carnivora and in many other Mammals. In the Three-toed Sloth it coalesces with the trapezium. The semilunar is absent as a distinct bone in Reptiles other than Chelonians. The sea-MORPHOLOGY OF CARPUS 157 phoid, semilunar, and cuneiform form only one bone in the Bat. The pisiform is not a true carpal, but only an acces- sory sesamoid, and is therefore inconstant. Thus, it is often absent, in many Cetacea, the Sirenia, Birds, and many Reptiles, and all Batrachians; while it is very small in Bats, Seals, and others. In the Carnivora it is much larger and relatively longer than in man. The cuneiform is much longer in the Crocodile. It is united with the semilunar in the Salamander and Triton, and an instance of this has been found in both wrists of a Soudanese negro. The os centrale is an extra carpal interposed between the superior and in- ferior rows in many Vertebrates, as the Orang Utan, Ba- boon, other Monkeys and Reptiles. It is a dismemberment of the scaphoid, as is shown by the form of the latter in Emys europea. And again, in the Mammalia the scaphoid occasionally ossifies from two centers. In the Chamelion the os centrale is singularly conspicuous. In man it is a small, independent cartilage distinct in the second fetal month but invisible by the fourth. Occasionally, however, it becomes developed into a distinct ossicle placed on the dorsum of the carpus between the scaphoid and os magnum and the trapezoid. The radial sesamoid is a tenth separate carpal bone present in some animals and occasionally in the human hand. When not separate it corresponds to the tu- berosity of the scaphoid. The bones of the inferior row of the carpus are not as constant in number or development as those of the superior row. In the Chamelion they coalesce with the metacarpals. The trapezium is an important bone in man owing to the high specialization of the thumb with which it is connected. It is quite rudimentary in Cheropus, and absent in the Horse, Sheep, Pig, Dolphin, Salamander and others. The trapezoid is indistinct in Birds and in Crocodiles, and in the Three-toed Sloth it is coalesced wth the os magnum. In Birds the os magnum is abortive. The unciform is represented by two distinct bones in Chelonia, Chelydra, and Salamandra. In the Dugong all the carpal bones are anchylosed into three bones, the inferior row being in one piece. In Birds, as in other animals, they are diminished in number according to the disappearance of the digits which each usually sup- ports.158 THE BONES Metacarpus. The metacarpus (beyond the wrist) consists of five “long bones in miniature” which, leaving the carpus, diverge slightly from each other, form the skeleton of the palm, and support the fingers. A typical metacarpal presents a shaft and two extremities. The shaft is prismatic and curved with the convexity backward. Of the three surfaces, the two lateral constitute the palmar, whilst the third is posterior. The lateral sur- faces are concave for the interossei, and are separated in the middle of the shaft by a prominent ridge. The posterior sur- face shows in its lower half a large, flat, triangular area with the base below and apex above, covered by the extensor ten dons of the fingers, and two lateral, sloping areas, near the upper extremity, for the dorsal interossei. The tubercles on each side of the posterior surface of the lower extremity re- ceive the lateral ligaments of the metacarpo-phalangeal joints, and from these tubercles ascend two lines which, con- verging, bound the triangular area and meet to form a ridge that separates the lateral, sloping areas. A nutrient foramen is situated on each palmar surface. The base (superior ex- tremity) is quadrilateral, broader behind than before, articu- lates above with the carpus and on each side with the ad- jacent metacarpal bones, and is rough before and behind for ligaments. The head (inferior extremity) presents a large, convex articular surface, encroaching more upon the palmar surface than upon the posterior, for articulation with the su- perior phalanx. The palmar surface is grooved for the flexor tendons, and the posterior is flat for the extensor. Each lat- eral surface shows a prominent tubercle behind, and a fossa before, both of which receive the lateral ligament of the metacarpo-phalangeal joint. The first metacarpal, the shortest and widest, diverges from the carpus to greater extent than the others. The palmar surface faces inward, and is subdivided by a ridge into an outer portion that receives the opponens pollicis, and an inner and smaller that is in relation with the interosseous primus volaris and shows the nutrient foramen. The pos- terior surface, broad and flat, is covered by the tendons of159 METACARPUS the extensor pollicis longus and brevis. The base presents a saddle-shaped facet for a similar surface on the trapezium and, in lieu of lateral facets, has externally a small tubercle for the reception of the extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis; in- ternally a rough surface for partial origin of the inner head of the flexor pollicis brevis; whilst its margin is rough for the capsule of the carpo-metacarpal joint. The head is less convex than the heads of the other metacarpals, and pre- sents anteriorly two articular eminences for the two sesa- moid bones in the tendon of the flexor pollicis brevis. The outer head of the first dorsal interosseous is attached to the inner lateral margin. The second metacarpal, the longest, shows at its base three facets, of which the outer is small and oval for the trapezium, the middle is hollow for the trapezoid, and the in- ner is an elevated ridge for the os magnum. The posterior surface is rough for the extensor carpi radialis longus and part of the extensor carpi radialis brevis. The palmar sur- face receives the flexor carpi radialis and extends the origin of the adductor pollicis obliquus. The outer side is rough and non-articular, whilst the inner side shows a facet for the third metacarpal. The shaft of this bone attaches three in- terossei, and shows the nutrient foramen on its palmar sur- face. The third metacarpal presents the styloid process, a pyramidal eminence that projects from the radial side and posterior surface of its base upward behind the os magnum. Just below it, on the same surface, is a rough impression for the extensor carpi radialis brevis. The carpal facet is con- cave behind and flat before for the middle facet on the infer- ior surface of the os magnum. On the outer side is a concave facet for the second metacarpal, and on the inner, two small, oval facets for the fourth metacarpal. The palmar surface of the base is rough for the adductor pollicis obliquus, and at times receives part of the flexor carpi radialis. The shaft gives origin to the adductor pollicis transversus and two in- teross£i, and shows the nutrient foramen on its outer side. The fourth metacarpal has a small, quadrilateral base, and presents two carpal facets, an outer and smaller for the os magnum, and an inner, larger, and flat one for the unci- form. On the outer side are two small, oval facets for the160 THE BONES third metacarpal, and on the inner is a single concave facet for the fifth metacarpal. The shaft gives origin to three in- terossei, and shows the nutrient foramen on its outer side. The fifth metacarpal presents a saddle-shaped carpal facet for the unciform; a semilunar facet on the outer side of the base for the fourth metacarpal; and a prominent tub- ercle on the inner side for the extensor carpi ulnaris. The palmar surface of the base is rough for ligaments and for part of the flexor carpi ulnaris. The posterior surface of the shaft shows an oblique line that subdivides it into an outer, concave area for the fourth dorsal interosseous, and an in- ner, smooth area that is covered by the extensor tendons of the least finger. The palmar surface of the shaft gives origin externally to the third interosseous, and internally to the opponens digiti minimi, and the nutrient foramen is on its outer side. The opposed position of the first metacarpal, so conspic- uous in man, is found only in Monkeys and Lemurs. In the Chameleon the three outer metacarpals are opposed as strongly as possible to the two inner. In the Horse there is but a single metacarpal, the third, and it is strikingly long in this animal as well as in the Giraffe. In the Elephant the metacarpal bones are short. The metacarpals are an- chylosed together in all Birds except the extinct Archeop- teryx. Phalanges. The phalanges (anything set in array), or finger-bones, number fourteen, of which three are distributed to each fin- ger and two to the thumb. They are disposed in three rows, a superior, a middle, and an inferior. A superior phalanx presents a shaft that is flat on the palmar surface and convex on the posterior. To the rough borders on the palmar surface are attached the sheaths of the flexor tendons. The base shows a concave, oval facet for the metacarpal, whilst the inferior extremity is occupied by a trochlear facet that is grooved in the center and raised on each side for the base of the middle phalanx. A middle phalanx, of which there are four, is shorter than a superior and shows at its base a double concavity sep-OS 1NN0M1N ATUM 1G1 arated by a ridge for the trochlear facet on the inferior ex- tremity of the superior phalanx. The posterior surface of the base is marked by a prominence for the tendon of the extensor digitorum communis. The palmar surface of the shaft shows a rough area on each side for the tendon of the flexor digitorum sublimis. The inferior extremity presents a trochlear facet for the base of the inferior phalanx. An inferior phalanx is comparatively small. Its base is similar to that of a middle phalanx and shows on its palmar surface a rough area for the tendon of the flexor digitorum profundus. The inferior extremity is rough and of a horse- shoe-shape for the pulp of the finger. Each carpal bone develops from a single center. Each metacarpal bone and phalanx develops from a primary cen- ter for the shaft, which appears near the middle of the shaft in all except the inferior phalanges, where it appears at the inferior extremity of the cartilage, and from a secondary epi- physial center which, in the four inner metacarpal bones, caps the inferior extremity, whilst in the first metacarpal and in all the phalanges, it caps the superior extremity. Be- cause of this similarity in ossification between the first meta- carpal and the phalanges, it is uncertain whether the thumb possesses three phalanges and no metacarpal, or one meta- carpal and two phalanges. The digits vary in number from one, as in the Horse, to five, as in man and some other animals. In Ichthyosauria extra marginal bones give the appearance of more digits. In Bats there are four digits which are enormously elongated to form the framework for the wing. The hook at the top of the wing is the thumb-nail. The third digit of Globioce- phalus contains fourteen phalanges. When a digit is want- ing it is generally the pollex, as in Spider Monkeys, but it may be the fifth, as in Pterodactyles. Os Innominatum. The os innominatum (un-named bone, since it resem- bles no known object), or haunch-bone, is constricted in the middle and expanded above, where it forms part of the ab- dominal wall, and below, where it helps form the true pelvis; 11THE BONES 162 it is so curved that while the upper part is nearly vertical, the lower is directed inward. The outer surface of the con- stricted portion shows the acetabulum, a deep cavity for the head of the femur, and the lower expanded portion is perfor- ated by the obturator foramen. At the acetabulum meet the three constituent parts of the bone, namely, the ilium (flank), which runs upward from the acetabulum and forms the prominence of the hip; the ischium (hip), which runs downward from the acetabulum, expands into a large tuber- osity, and curves forward to meet the pubic bone, with which it forms the obturator foramen; and the os pubis (bone over- laid by hairy skin), which extends inward from the aceta- bulum and then downward to meet its fellow of the opposite side. The ilium, whose upper, expanded portion forms the ala (wing) and whose lower, constricted portion forms the body, presents two surfaces and three borders. Of the two surfaces, the external (dorsum), convex be- fore and concave behind, is traversed by three curved lines. The superior gluteal line, the shortest, extends from two inches in front of the posterior superior spine downward and backward to the upper margin of the great sciatic notch. The semilunar area behind this line is rough above for par- tial origin of the gluteus maximus, and smooth and free from muscular attachment below. The middle gluteal line, the longest, extends from an inch behind the anterior superior spine backward and downward to the upper margin of the great sciatic notch. The concave area above this line is for origin of the gluteus medius, and shows a nutrient for- amen near its middle. The inferior gluteal line, the least distinct, extends from the notch just below the anterior su- perior spine backward and downward to the middle of the great sciatic notch. The area between it and the middle gluteal line gives origin to the gluteus minimus, while that between it and the upper margin of the acetabulum is rough for the capsule of the hip-joint and, anteriorly, for partial origin (reflected tendon) of the rectus femoris. The in- ternal surface presents, before, the large, smooth, concave iliac fossa, for origin of the iliacus and interiorly a nutrient foramen; below is the iliopectineal line, a smooth, rounded border that extends from the auricular surface behind to the163 OS 1NN0MIN ATUM pubic spine before, separates the iliac fossa (false pelvis) from the true pelvis, and affords partial origin to the obtu- rator interims. Behind, the internal surface presents, be- fore, the auricular (ear-like) surface for articulation with the sacrum, and behind and above this a rough surface, the tuberosity of the ilium, for the posterior sacroiliac and ilio- lumbar ligaments, and for partial origin of the erector and multifidus spinae. Of the three borders, the superior, or crest, begins be- fore at the anterior superior spine and, after having de- scribed a shallow “s,” ends behind at the posterior superior spine. It is divided into an external lip, to which are at- tached the external oblique, latissimus dorsi, and tensor fasciae latae, and the fascia lata; an interspace for the in- ternal oblique; and the internal lip for the transversalis, quadratus lumborum, erector spinae and the iliac fascia. The anterior border, sinuous in profile, extends from the an- terior superior spine to the upper margin of the acetabulum. The anterior superior spine, corresponding to the junction between the superior and anterior borders, gives attachment to Poupart’s ligament, and origin to the sartorius and tensor fasciae latae. Just below this spine is the superior iliac notch, from which part of the sartorius arises; below this notch is the anterior inferior spine, for partial origin (straight head) of the rectus femoris, and for the iliofemoral ligament; and between the lower spine and the margin of the acetabulum is the inferior iliac notch. The posterior border begins at the posterior superior spine, which corre- sponds to the junction between the superior and posterior borders as well as to the posterior limit of the tuberosity of the ilium; it then forms a concavity, the posterior iliac notch; then a prominence, the posterior inferior spine, which corre- sponds to the hinder end of the auricular surface; and finally terminates by forming the upper limit of the great sciatic notch. The ischium forms the posterior and inferior part of the os innominatum, and consists of a body, thick and solid; a tuberosity, large and rough, which supports the trunk in the sitting posture; and a ramus, a laterally-compressed bar of bone that extends forward and upward at an acute angle from the tuberosity.164 THE BONES The body, somewhat triangular in shape, shows three surfaces and three borders. The external surface forms two-fifths of the acetabulum and, between the latter and the tuberosity, shows a groove that accommodates the ten- don of the obturator externus. The internal surface con- tributes to the lateral boundary of the true pelvis, affords partial origin to the obturator internus, and is separated from the iliac fossa by the iliopectineal line. The posterior surface, broad and quadrilateral, receives externally the cap- sule of the hip-joint, and below the level of the acetabulum shows a groove continuous with that described on the ex- ternal surface. Of the three borders, the external forms the sharp margin of the acetabulum, furnishes attachment to the cotyloid ligament, and separates the posterior from the external surface. The internal border is thin and bounds the obturator foramen externally. The posterior border completes, with that of the ilium, the bony margin of the great sciatic notch; just below this is the spine of the isch- ium, whose outer and inner surfaces give origin, respectively, to the gemellus superior, and to the coccygeus and levator ani, and whose tip receives the lesser sacrosciatic ligament; and below the spine is the small sciatic notch, which is marked by low ridges for the ribbed tendon of the obturator internus. The tuberosity connects the ramus to the body and pre- sents three surfaces and three borders. The external sur- face, rough and quadrilateral, gives partial origin to the quadratus femoris behind, partial origin to the obturator externus before, and below, to part of the adductor magnus. The internal surface forms part of the outer wall of the true pelvis, and gives partial origin to the transversus perinei and erector penis. The posterior surface is subdivided by an oblique ridge into an upper, outer impression for origin of the semimembranosus, and a lower, inner for the common tendon of origin of the long head of the biceps and of the semitendinosus. Of the three borders, the external gives partial origin to the quadratus femoris; the internal is sharp, and helps bound the obturator foramen; and the inferior re- ceives the falciform process of the great sacrosciatic liga- ment. The ramus is the flattened bar of bone that runs upwardOS 1NN0MIN ATUM 165 and inward from the tuberosity to join the descending ramus of the pubes. Its external surface is rough for partial origin of the obturator externus, the adductor magnus, and the gracilis. Its internal surface affords partial origin to the obturator interims, and helps form the anterior wall of the true pelvis. The superior border, thin and sharp, forms part of the inner margin of the obturator foramen. The inferior border, thick, rough, and slightly everted, helps form the pelvic outlet, and shows an outer lip, to which is attached Codes’ fascia; an interspace for origin of the transversus perinei behind, and the crus penis vel clitoridis and erector penis vel clitoridis before; and an inner lip for attachment of the inferior triangular ligament. The os pubis forms the anterior part of the os innomin- atum, and consists of a body, a horizontal ramus, and a de- scending ramus. The body, formed by fusion of the rami, is quadrilateral, and presents two surfaces and three borders. The anterior surface faces downward and outward, and is rough for the origin of the adductor longus above, and of the obturator externus, adductor brevis, and part of the gracilis below, from without inward. The posterior surface is smooth, helps form the anterior wall of the true pelvis, and affords partial origin to the levator ani and obturator interims, and attachment to the pubo-prostatic ligaments. Of the borders, the superior, or crest, is rough for attachment of the con- joined tendon of the internal oblique and transversalis be- fore, and of the pyramidalis and rectus abdominis behind. The crest ends internally at the angle, to which is attached the internal pillar of the external abdominal ring, and ex- ternally at the spine, to which is attached Poupart’s liga- ment and the external pillar of the external abdominal ring. The internal border, oval and made rough by a series of ridges, forms, with its fellow of the opposite side, the sym- physis pubis, a cartilage alone intervening. Externally the body is continuous with the horizontal, and interiorly with the descending ramus. The horizontal ramus, prismatic in shape, connects the body with the ilium, and presents three surfaces and as many borders. The superior surface, wider externally than internally, is smooth and overlaid by the pectineus. The166 THE BONES inferior surface is deeply grooved for the obturator vessels and nerve. The internal surface is smooth, forms part of the anterior wall of the true pelvis, and gives partial origin to the obturator internus. Of the borders, the superior cor- responds to the pubic constituent of the iliopectineal line and gives origin to the pectineus; the external corresponds to the obturator crest, which extends from the pubic spine to the acetabular notch; and the inferior forms the upper margin of the obturator foramen. The outer end of the horizontal ramus forms one-fifth of the acetabulum, and is surmounted by the iliopubic eminence, which indicates the junction between the ilium and os pubis and receives the inconstant psoas parvus. The descending ramus is a flattened bar of bone that runs downward and outward to become continuous with the ramus of the ischium. Its external surface is rough for partial origin of the obturator externus, adductor magnus, adductor brevis, and gracilis, from without inward. Its internal surface is smooth, and gives partial origin to the obturator internus and compressor urethrae. The external border, thin and sharp, contributes to the circumference of the obturator foramen, and affords attachment to the obtu- rator membrane. The internal border, similar to the infer- ior border of the pubic ramus, is thick and rough, and shows an outer lip, to which is attached Codes’ fascia; an inter- space; and an inner lip for attachment of the inferior tri- angular ligament. The acetabulum (a small cup) is a large, circular cavity that accommodates the head of the femur, and is formed by contributions of one-fifth from the os pubis, and two- fifths each from the ischium and ilium. Its floor is formed by an articular and a non-articular portion. The articular portion, broad above and narrower below, is horseshoe- shaped, the deficiency being below at the acetabular notch, which, in the recent state, is converted into the acetabular foramen by the transverse ligament bridging across it. To the outer rim of this articular portion are attached the cotyloid ligament and capsule of the hip-joint, while to its inner rim is attached the synovial membrane. The non- articular portion is rough, and continuous with the upper, outer margin of the obturator foramen. Its floor, formed167 OS 1NN0MIN ATUM chiefly by the ischium, is very thin, lodges a cushion of fat, and is depressed below the level of the articular portion. Near its center is attached the ligamentum teres. The obturator foramen, oval in shape, is formed above and before by the os pubis, and below and behind by the ischium. It is bounded by a sharp margin, except above and behind, where the inferior surface of the horizontal ramus of the os pubis is channelled by the obturator groove. To this margin is attached the obturator membrane, which con- verts the groove into a foramen that transmits the obturator vessels and nerve. From the inner surface of the margin the obturator interims takes partial origin, whilst from the outer, the obturator externus. The great sciatic notch is converted into a foramen by the lesser sacrosciatic ligament, and transmits the pyri- formis, the gluteal vessels and superior and inferior gluteal nerves; the sciatic vessels, the great and small sciatic nerves, the internal pudic vessels and nerve, and the nerves to the obturator interims and quadratus femoris. The small sciatic notch is converted into a foramen by the greater sacrosciatic ligament, and transmits the tendon of the obturator interims, the nerve to that muscle, and the internal pudic vessels and nerve. The os innominatum develops from an oval plate of cartilage in which primary centers appear for the ilium, the ischium and the os pubis. At birth these three bones are separated by a triradiate cartilage whose three limbs meet at the floor of the acetabulum. About the twelfth year a •• secondary center appears in the latter cartilage, the ossifica- tion of which unites the three bones into the os innomin- atum by the sixteenth year. Close on to puberty, four addi- tional secondary centers appear for the crest of the ilium, the anterior inferior spine, the crest of the os pubis, and the tuberosity of the ischium, and join the rest of the bone by about the twenty-second year. The innominate bone in man is one of the most distinc- tive of his skeleton. The fusion of its three constituent parts is a character man shares with his own class and with Birds. In some of the lower animals these parts remain distinct throughout life. The ilium is a broad and flat bone in man and in the Elephant, Sloth, and Gorilla, and attains itsTHE BONES 168 greatest size in the Elephant and Mastodon. The iliopecti- neal eminence is rudimentary in man, but in Bats is a very elongated spine, and in the Kangaroo is quite prominent. The prominent development of the spine of the ischium is absolutely peculiar to man. The tuberosity of the ischium in man is relatively small and inconspicuous. In the highest Apes it is much larger, and in the Gibbons and other monk- eys of the old world it is not only very large, but everted and flattened with a rough surface for the attachment of a thick- ened skin, or callosity. The pubes in Birds are long and bent post-axially. In all Marsupials except the Tasmanian Wolf, and in the Monotremes the internal pillars of the ex- ternal abdominal rings are ossified. These ossifications constitute the marsupial bones, and are movably articulated with the brim of the pelvis. The Femur. The femur (thigh) or thigh-bone is the largest and longest bone of the skeleton, its proportion exceeding one- fourth the height of the entire body. It consists of a shaft and two extremities. The superior extremity presents a head, a neck, and two trochanters. The head forms a hemisphere, and is di- rected upward, inward, and forward into the acetabulum, which accommodates it. Somewhat below and behind the center is a little fossa for the ligamentum teres. The neck is a stout, pyramidal process of bone, which joins the head to the shaft and forms, with the latter, an angle of 130 de- grees. It is flattened from before backward, slightly con- stricted at its middle, and broader at its junction with the shaft than at that with the head. Its anterior surface lies in the same plane as the front aspect of the shaft, and is perfor- ated by numerous nutrient foramina. The posterior surface, smooth and concave, gives attachment to the capsule of the hip-joint at the junction between its outer and middle thirds. The superior border, short and thick, is perforated by large nutrient foramina, and terminates at the great trochanter. The inferior border, longer, narrower, and smoother than the superior, curves downward and backward to terminateTHE FEMUR 169 at the small trochanter. The great trochanter (roll) is a broad and thick, quadrilateral eminence that surmounts the junction between the neck and the shaft, and presents two surfaces and four borders. The external surface, rough and convex, is continuous with the corresponding surface of the shaft, and is subdivided by a diagonal line that runs down- ward and forward, into an upper triangular area, rough and covered by the gluteus medius, and a lower triangular area, smoother and covered by a bursa under the gluteus maxi- mus. The diagonal line itself receives the insertion of the gluteus medius. The internal surface, less extensive than the external, presents at its upper and hinder part the deep digital fossa for the tendon of the obturator externus, and above and in front of this, an impression for the tendons of the obturator interims and the gemellus superior and in- ferior. The superior border, thick, free, and irregular, is marked near ifs center by an oval impression for the tendon of the pyriformis. The inferior border corresponds to the junction between the base of the great trochanter and the external surface of the shaft, and shows a ridge for partial origin of the vastus externus. The anterior border, broad and irregular, receives, externally, the tendon of the gluteus minimus, and presents, at its upper part, the tubercle of the femur, which is the meeting-point of five muscles, namely— the superior gemellus, the obturator internus, the inferior gemellus, the vastus externus, and the gluteus minimus. The posterior border, thick, rounded, and forming part of the posterior intertrochanteric line, bounds the digital fossa be- hind. The small trochanter is a blunt, conical projection at the lower and hinder part of the base of the neck, where the latter joins the shaft. Its apex is rough for reception of the tendon of the iliopsoas, and from its base radiate three ridges, of which the internal is continuous with the inferior border of the neck; the external, with the posterior inter- trochanteric line; and the inferior, with the middle division of the linea aspera. The iliacus fibers of the iliopsoas ex- tend below the small trochanter to gain additional insertion into the shaft. The spiral line starts at the tubercle of the femur, runs obliquely downward and inward, winds around the inner side of the shaft below the small trochanter, and joins theTHE BONES 170 linea aspera about two inches below this trochanter. Its upper half corresponds to the anterior intertrochanteric line, and is rough for the iliofemoral ligament, whilst from its lower half arises part of the vastus internus. Behind, the posterior intertrochanteric line starts at the summit of the great trochanter, corresponds to the posterior border of the latter above, and to the external radiating ridge of the small trochanter below. Another line, the linea quadrati, starts near the middle of the posterior intertrochanteric line and runs vertically downward for about two inches along the back part of the shaft; it affords insertion to the quadratus femoris, and partial origin to the adductor magnus. The shaft, nearly cylindrical, arches from above, where it is broader, convex forward and downward to its inferior extremity, where it is also broader and somewhat flattened, from before backward. It presents three surfaces and as many borders. The anterior surface, smooth, convex, and twisted so that its upper part faces forward and slightly outward and its lower fprward and slightly inward, gives origin in its upper three-fourths to the crureus, whilst its lowest fourth is covered by a bursa and by the synovial sac of the knee-joint, and gives partial origin to the subcrureus. The external surface, continuous above with the correspond- ing surface of the great trochanter, and below with that of the external condyle, gives partial origin in its upper three- fourths to the crureus. The internal surface, continuous above with the internal radiating ridge of the small trochan- ter and below with the inner side of the internal condyle, is free from muscular attachment, but is covered by the vastus internus. Of the three borders, the external, round and in- distinct, extends from the anterior inferior angle of the great trochanter to the anterior extremity of the external con- dyle, and faintly separates the anterior from the external surface. The internal, likewise round and indistinct, ex- tends from the spiral line opposite the small trochanter to the anterior extremity of the internal condyle, and faintly separates the anterior from the external surface. The pos- terior corresponds to the linea aspera, a longitudinal crest that projects posteriorly from the middle third of the shaft and presents an outer lip, an interspace, and an inner iip. Traced upward, the three parts diverge and rise into threeTHE FEMUR 171 ridges of which the external (gluteal), very rough, extends upward to the base of the great trochanter and gives pat tial insertion to the gluteus maximus; the middle, indistinct, continues to the base of the small trochanter and gives pai- tial insertion to the iliacus; and the internal becomes con- tinuous with the spiral line and receives part of the pectin- eus. Traced downward, the linea aspera divides into two diverging ridges that enclose the popliteal space. 1 he outer ridge is better marked and terminates at the summit of the external condyle; whilst the inner ridge, indistinct and smooth above where it is in relation with the femoral ves- sels, terminates below at the summit of the internal condyle as the adductor tubercle, which receives the tendon of the adductor magnus. To the linea aspera, to its outer pro- longation above, and to its inner prolongation below, is at- tached the insertion of the adductor magnus; to the inner lip and to its inner prolongations above and below is at- tached the origin of the vastus internus; and to the outer lip and its outer prolongation above, that of the vastus ex- ternus. Between the insertion of the adductor magnus and the origin of the vastus internus are inserted the iliacus and pectineus above, and the adductors brevis and longus below; whilst between the insertion of the adductor magnus and the origin of the vastus externus the gluteus maximus in- serts above, and the short head of the biceps arises below. Below the center of the linea aspera is the nutrient foramen. The inferior extremity, larger than the superior, pre- sents two rounded eminences, the condyles (knuckle), which join before to form the trochlea, and are separated behind by the intercondylar notch. The external condyle, broader than its fellow and more prominent before, presents three surfaces. The outer surface is marked, just behind its cen- ter, by the outer tuberosity, to which is attached the external lateral ligament of the knee-joint, whilst below this emi- nence is the popliteal groove, which gives origin to the pop- liteus before, and behind lodges the tendon of this muscle when the knee is flexed. The inner surface corresponds to the outer boundary of the intercondylar notch, and affords attachment behind to the anterior crucial ligament. The inferior surface is convex and articular, and just above its posterior extremity is a rough impression for origin of the172 THE BONES outer head of the gastrocnemius, and above this is an area for origin of the plantaris. The internal condyle, longer, narrower, and lower than its fellow, likewise presents three surfaces. The inner surface presents the inner tuberosity, which is more prominent than the outer, and to which is attached the internal lateral ligament of the knee-joint. The outer surface corresponds to the inner boundary of the in- tercondylar notch, and affords attachment before to the pos- terior crucial ligament. The inferior surface is convex and ‘articular, and just above its posterior extremity arises the inner head of the gastrocnemius. The trochlea, formed by the union of the condyles before, is smooth for articulation with the patella, and presents a median groove and a con- vexity on each side, that on the outer side being broader, more projecting, and reaching a higher level. The intercon- dylar notch, bounded before by a rough, perforated area, laterally by the opposed surfaces of the condyles, and above by an elevation to which is attached the posterior ligament of the knee-joint, lodges the crucial ligaments. Prolonged upward from the condyles are the external supracondylar ridge, which joins the outer lip of the linea aspera and fur- nishes origin to the short head of the biceps, and the internal supracondylar ridge, which joins the inner lip of the linea aspera and receives the adductor magnus; the internal ridge begins at the adductor tubercle. These ridges enclose the popliteal space, a triangular area that is covered by the pop- liteal vessels. The femur develops from a primary center for the shaft. The superior extremity develops from an epiphysis for the head that appears in the first year and fuses with the shaft by the nineteenth; one for the great trochanter that appears in the second year and fuses with the shaft and neck by the nineteenth; and one for the small trochanter that appears about the twelfth year and fuses with the shaft by the eighteenth. The inferior extremity develops from an epiphysis which appears before birth and joins the shaft by the twenty-first year. This, though the first to ossify, is the last to join the shaft. It is the most important epi- physis for the longitudinal growth of the shaft, and its line of fusion with the latter passes through the adductor tuber- cle.173 PATELLA The supremacy in size of man’s femur over the other parts of his skeleton is not shared by the femur of most other vertebrates. As the longest bone of the lower extremity the femur of man is distinguished from that of all Birds, and from that of almost all other Mammals. In the Great Ant- eater and in certain Apes, however, it markedly exceeds the tibia in length. In absolute length the femur of man ex- ceeds that of almost all other animals, only the largest beasts forming an exception in this respect. On the whole, the femur is a substantially constant bone as to its form and. structure. It is very rudimentary in some fin Whales and in some Reptiles, as Lialis Burtonii, Boa, and Stenostoma. Patella. The patella (shallow dish) or knee-cap, is a flat, tri- angular sesamoid bone that overlies the front of the knee- joint in the tendon of the quadriceps femoris. It presents two surfaces, three borders, and an apex. Of the surfaces, the anterior, convex, perforated by nu- trient foramina, and marked by numerous longitudinal striae, is covered, in the recent state, by fibers from the ten- don of the quadriceps femoris in transit to the ligamentum patellae, and is separated from the skin by a bursa. The posterior, oval and articular, is divided by a vertical ridge, which corresponds to the median groove on the trochlea of the femur, into an outer, larger facet for the external con- dyle, and an inner, smaller facet for the internal. Below the articular surface is a rough depression for the ligamentum patellae, which, above, rests upon a mass of fat. Of the borders, the superior (base), broad and thick, slopes from behind downward and forward, and furnishes insertion to the rectus and crureus. The two lateral borders are thinner, converge to the apex below, and afford attach- ment to the vasti. The apex, directed downward, is pointed, and gives attachment to the ligamentum patellae. The patella, like the pisiform bone, is a sesamoid (like sesame-seed) bone that, at birth, is cartilaginous, but de- velops an ossific center about the third year, and is com- pletely ossified by puberty.174 THE BONES The patella may be absent in man’s own class, as in the Wombat. It is wanting in Frogs and in Tortoises. In Bats and Seals it is very small. In the Grebe it is extraor- dinarily large and elongated. In the Ostrich it is irregular in shape, being represented by two superimposed ossifica- tions. Tibia. The tibia (shin) or shin-bone, the second largest and longest bone in the skeleton, is prismoid in shape and ex- panded above and somewhat enlarged below, and presents a shaft and two extremities. The superior extremity comprises two tuberosities, the spine, and the tubercle. The internal tuberosity presents on its superior surface an oval, concave facet for the internal condyle of the femur. The periphery of this facet is over- laid by the internal semilunar cartilage, which is attached to the margin of the tuberosity by the coronary ligaments. Its lateral surface is convex, rough, and prominent, and fur- nishes attachment to the internal lateral ligament of the knee-joint. Its posterior surface shows a deep, transverse groove for partial insertion of the semimembranosus. The external tuberosity presents on its superior surface a nearly circular, almost fiat facet for the external condyle of the femur. The periphery of this facet is overlaid by the ex- ternal semilunar cartilage, which is attached to the margin of the tuberosity by the coronary ligaments. Behind, the facet encroaches slightly on the posterior surface. Its lat- eral surface is convex and rough and, at its junction with the anterior surface, presents a rough eminence to which is attached the iliotibial band. Just below this eminence are inserted the extensor digitorum longus and biceps femoris. Its posterior surface presents a flat, nearly circular facet for the fibula. The anterior surfaces of both tuberosities are continuous with each other over a flattened, triangular area that is perforated by nutrient foramina. The tubercle is a large, oblong eminence, whose lower part is rough for at- tachment of the ligamentum patellae, and whose upper part is smooth for a bursa that separates this ligament from the bone. The spine is situated between the superior surfaces175 TIBIA of the condyles, points upward, and presents at its summit two compressed tubercles whose -surfaces are continuous with those of the articular facets. In front of the spine is a rough area for attachment of the semilunar cartilages and anterior crucial ligament. The popliteal notch, situated be- hind the spine, separates the posterior surfaces of the tuber- osities, and gives attachment to the posterior crucial liga- ment and to part of the posterior ligament of the knee-joint. The shaft, thick and prismoid above, narrows as it de- scends, and gradually expands toward its inferior extremity. It presents three borders and as many surfaces. Of the three borders, the anterior (shin), sharp and prominent in its upper two-thirds and smooth and rounded in its lower third, begins at the tubercle, curves outward above and inward below, and terminates at the anterior mar- gin of the internal malleolus. It is subcutaneous through- out, and gives attachment to the deep fascia. The internal, smooth and rounded above and below and more prominent in the middle, extends from the posterior part of the internal condyle to the posterior margin of the internal malleolus, and gives attachment above, for about three inches, to the internal lateral ligament of the knee-joint, and in the middle third, to the soleus. The external (interosseous), thin and not so well defined, begins above in front of the facet for the fibula, and bifurcates to enclose a triangular area below: to it, as well as to the triangular area, is attached the interos- seous membrane. Of the three surfaces, the internal, situated between the internal and anterior borders, is broad above, where it re- ceives the insertions of the sartorius, gracilis, and semiten- dinosus, and is subcutaneous in the remainder of its course. The external, situated between the external and anterior borders, presents, in its upper two-thirds, a shallow groove for the origin of the tibialis anticus, and below is convex and covered by the extensor tendons and anterior tibial vessels and nerve. The posterior, situated between the internal and external borders, is crossed above by the oblique line, which extends from the fibular facet on the external condyle down- ward and inward to meet the internal border at the junction of its upper and middle thirds. To the triangular area above the line is attached the insertion of the popliteus; the lineTHE BONES 176 itself gives partial origin to the soleus, and attachment to the popliteal fascia; and the area below the line gives partial origin to the tibialis posticus externally, and to the flexor digitorum longus internally. The lower third of the poster- ior surface is covered by flexor tendons and by the posterior tibial vessels and nerve. Somewhat below the oblique line and bounded internally by a vertical ridge is the nutrient foramen. The inferior extremity, smaller than the upper and quadrilateral in shape, presents five surfaces, and is pro- longed downward, internally, as the internal malleolus. Of the five-surfaces, the inferior, quadrilateral in shape and smooth for the astragalus, is concave from before back- ward, wider before than behind, and narrow internally, where it is continuous with the outer surface of the internal malleolus. The anterior is smooth and rounded above, where it is covered by the extensor tendons, and rough and depressed below, for attachment of the anterior ligament of the ankle-joint. The posterior is rough and marked by two grooves, of which the inner and deeper encroaches on the internal malleolus and accommodates the tendons of the tib- ialis posticus and flexor digitorum longus, and the outer and shallower, that of the flexor hallucis longus. The external presents a triangular, rough depression for the interosseous ligament and, lower down, a facet for the fibula. This tri- angular surface is bounded before and behind by the lower, diverging part of the external border of the shaft, and af- fords attachment to the anterior and posterior ligaments of the inferior tibio-fibular articulation. The internal forms the internal malleolus. The outer surface of this process is smooth and concave, and articulates with a small, pyriform facet of the astragalus; its inner surface is rough, convex, and subcutaneous; and its tip gives attachment to fibers of the internal lateral ligament of the ankle-joint. The tibia develops from a primary center for the shaft, and from an upper epiphysis which appears before birth and joins the shaft by the twenty-first year, and from a lower epiphysis which appears during the second year and joins the shaft in the eighteenth. The upper part of the tubercle is ossified from the upper epiphysis, and the lower part from the shaft.FIBULA 177 The tibia of man is peculiarly shaped in relation to his erect posture. Its length compared with the femur is less than in any other Primate. Compared with the fibula, it shows a predominance of size, like that of the radius over the ulna. In Ruminants and the Horse the tibia is the only long bone of the leg, the fibula being only very slightly de- veloped. The tibia and fibula are anchylosed at their ends in the Armadillos and often in the Seals. They are anchy- losed below only in Tarsius, the Rabbit, Adjutant, and Os- trich ; and above only in the Cape Ant-eater. They are com- pletely fused together in the Prog. Fibula. The fibula (a clasp), or peroneal bone, rudimentary in man, presents a slender shaft and two enlarged extremities. The superior extremity (head) is of irregular rounded form. Its upper surface is marked externally by a rough eminence for the biceps tendon and the long external lateral ligament of the knee-joint; and internally by a flat, oval facet for articulation with the external condyle of the tibia. To the margin of this facet is attached the capsule of the su- perior tibio-fibular joint. Posteriorly, the superior extrem- ity rises to form the styloid process, to which is attached the short external lateral ligament of the knee-joint. Before, the superior extremity presents a tubercle for partial origin of the peroneus longus, and adjoining this is an area for the anterior ligament of the superior tibio-fibular joint. Behind, the superior extremity presents a tubercle for partial origin of the soleus, and for attachment of the posterior ligament of the superior tibio-fibular joint. The shaft presents four borders and as many surfaces. Of the four borders, the anteroexternal begins above and in front of the superior extremity, runs vertically down- ward to below the middle of the bone, curves slightly out- ward, and bifurcates to enclose the triangular subcutaneous surface just above the outer surface of the external malleolus. To this border is attached an intermuscular septum that in- tervenes between the extensors anteriorly, and the peroneus longus and brevis externally. The anterointernal (inter- osseous) begins just below the superior extremity close to 12THE BONES 178 the inner side of the anteroexternal border, which it parallels above, and below bifurcates to enclose a rough triangular area just above the articular facet on the inner surface of the external malleolus. To this border is attached the interos- seous membrane, which intervenes between the extensors before, and the flexors behind. The posterointernal begins at the inner side of the superior extremity, and terminates by joining the anterointernal border in the lowest fourth of the shaft. To it is attached an aponeurosis that separates the tibialis posticus from the soleus above and the flexor hal- lucis longus below. The posteroexternal, prominent and spiral, begins at the base of the styloid process and termi- nates in the posterior border of the external malleolus. To it is attached an aponeurosis that separates the peronei exter- nally from the flexors behind. Of the four surfaces, the anterior, corresponding to the interspace between the anteroexternal and anterointernal borders, and very narrow above and broader and grooved be- low, affords origin from above downward to the extensor digitorum longus, the extensor hallucis longus, and the per- oneus tertius. The external, situated between the antero- external and posteroexternal borders, is twisted so that it faces outward above and backward below, where it is contin- uous with the posterior border of the external malleolus. Much broader than the anterior, it gives origin to the peron- eus longus in its upper two-thirds, and to the peroneus brevis in its lower two-thirds. The internal, situated between the anterointernal and posterointernal borders, is narrow above and below and broadest in its middle, directed inward, and gives partial origin to the tibialis posticus. The posterior, situated between the posteroexternal and posterointernal borders, and twisted so as to face backward above and in- ward below, is continuous with the triangular rough area above the articular facet of the external malleolus. In its upper third it gives partial origin to the soleus, and in its low- er two-thirds to the flexor hallucis longus. Near its middle is the nutrient foramen. The inferior extremity corresponds to the external mal- leolus. It is pyramidal, somewhat compressed laterally, and is longer, more prominent, and descends lower than the in- ternal malleolus. Its external surface is convex, subcutane-179 FIBULA ous, and continuous with the triangular subcutaneous sur- face on the outer side of the shaft. Its internal surface shows, before, a convex triangular facet for part of the astragalus, and behind and below, the digital fossa, in which is fastened the transverse ligament of the inferior tibio-fibular joint and the posterior fasciculus of the external lateral ligament of the ankle-joint. The anterior border, thick and rough, gives attachment to the anterior ligament of the inferior tibio- fibular joint and to the anterior fasciculus of the external lateral ligament of the ankle-joint. The posterior border is grooved for the tendons of the peroneus longus and brevis muscles, and above gives attachment to the posterior liga- ment of the inferior tibio-fibular joint. Its apex is rounded, and affords attachment to the middle fasciculus of the exter- nal lateral ligament of the ankle-joint. The fibula develops from a primary center for its shaft, which appears before birth. Its superior extremity develops from an epiphysis that appears about the third year and fuses with the shaft about the twenty-second. Its inferior extremity develops from an epiphysis that appears about the second year and fuses with the shaft about the nineteenth. The time of ossification of the lower epiphysis is an excep- tion to the rule that epiphyses which are the first to ossify are the last to unite with the shaft, and also that the epi- physis toward which the nutrient artery is directed is the last to ossify. The fibula of man is in subordination to the tibia. In reviewing the Vertebrata its gradual disappearance is quite remarkable. In the Horse it is reduced to a mere splint at the upper part of the tibia. In its reduced state the fibula may be quite styliform, as in Birds; or it may be developed inferiorly but atrophied at its upper end, as in Bats. In the Ox it is represented only by a small ossification in the place of the external malleolus, but in the Elk, in addition to this, there is a little styliform rudiment of the upper end of the fibula. Its upper end may join the femur, as in Marsupials and Birds, and this end may be produced into a large process like the olecranon of the ulna, as in Cook’s Phalanger, to which piocess even a sesamoid bone may be annexed. In the Armadillos the fibula enters into the formation of the knee-joint.180 THE BONES Tarsus. The tarsus (instep) comprises seven bones that may be arranged in two rows:—a posterior row, consisting of the astragalus and os calcis, and an anterior row, consisting of four bones which, enumerated from within outward, are the internal, middle, and external cuneiforms, and the cuboid. Interposed between the two rows on the inner side is the scaphoid, while on the outer side the posterior and anterior rows are in contact. Each bone, as a rule, presents six sur- faces. Astragalus. The astragalus (dice: the analogous bones of the sheep were used by the ancients as dice), or ankle-bone, consists of a head, a neck, and a body. The body presents six surfaces. The superior shows a broad, smooth, trochlear surface for the tibia, slightly con- cave from side to side, convex from before backward, and wider before than behind. The internal presents above a pyriform facet, continuous with the trochlea, for the internal malleolus, and, below, a rough depression for attachment of the deep fibers of the internal lateral .lig- ament of the ankle-joint. The external is mostly occupied by a quadrant-shaped facet, broad above where it is continuous with the trochlea, for the external malleolus: in front of this is a rough depression for the anterior fascicu- lus of the external lateral ligament of the ankle-joint. The posterior, broad and narrow, shows two tubercles separated by a groove. The groove transmits the tendon of the flexor hallucis longus; the outer tubercle, sometimes a separate bone, the os trigonum, gives attachment to the posterior fasciculus of the external lateral ligament of the ankle-joint; the inner tubercle is less prominent than the outer. The anterior, occupied by the neck internally, externally is rough above and perforated by vascular foramina, and below shows a groove continuous with that on the inferior sur- face. The inferior presents a groove, interposed between two facets. The groove, directed forward and outward,181 OS CALCIS overlies a corresponding groove on the os calcis with which, when these two bones are articulated, it forms the sinus pedis, which lodges the interosseous calcaneoastragaloid ligament; the posterior facet is for that on the body of the os calcis; the anterior facet is for that on the lesser process of the os calcis. The neck, which connects the head with the body, passes forward and inward from the inner part of the anterior sur- face of the body, Above, it is perforated by vascular for- amina, and is rough for ligaments. At the lower and inner corner it presents a facet that rests upon the inferior cal- caneoscaphoid ligament. The head presents, anteriorly, a convex facet for the scaphoid, and interiorly an elongated, convex facet for that on the greater process of the os calcis. Os Calcis. t The os calcis (heel-bone), the largest and strongest bone of the foot, is irregularly cuboidal, elongated with its long axis directed forward and outward, flattened from side to side, and expanded posteriorly to form the heel. It is composed of a body, a greater process, and a lesser process. The body presents six surfaces. The superior shows from before backward:—a groove that forms the floor of the sinus pedis; an oblong, convex facet for the body of the as- tragalus; and a rough, convex area that is in relation with a mass of fat placed in front of the tendo Achillis. The in- ferior presents from before backward:—-a rough, rounded eminence for the short plantar ligament; a rough surface for the long plantar ligament and the outer head of the flexor accessorius; and two tubercles, of which the outer gives partial origin to the abductor digiti minimi, and the inner, to the abductor hallucis, flexor digitorum brevis, and some a uctoi digiti minimi. The external shows, just below the outer end of the sinus pedis, the peroneal spine, which separates a groove above and before for the tendon of the peroneus brevis from a groove below and be- hind for that of the peroneus longus. Limiting the latter groove posteriorly, and near the centre of this surface, is a182 THE BONES tubercle to which is attached the middle fasciculus of the external lateral ligament of the ankle-joint. The rest of this surface is subcutaneous. The internal supports the lesser process before, and behind a deep hollow that transmits the plantar vessels and nerves and below gives origin to the inner head of the flexor accessorius. The anterior bears the greater process. The posterior, oval, rough, and convex, corresponds to the tuberosity, and presents from above downward:—a smooth area separated from the tendo Achil- lis by a bursa; a rough area for insertion of the tendo Achil- lis and plantaris; and a rough, subcutaneous area which sup- ports the fat and skin of the heel. The greater process, which corresponds to the anterior extremity, presents two surfaces. The anterior is occupied by a saddle-shaped surface for the cuboid. The superior is occupied internally by a facet that supports the head of the astragalus; that in the middle shares in the formation of the sinus pedis; and that externally presents a tubercle for origin of the extensor digitorum brevis. The lesser process (sustentaculum tali), situated at the upper and fore part of the internal surface, is a shelf-like pro- jection that helps support the astragalus. It's superior sur- face is continuous with the facet on the inner part of the su- perior surface of the greater process. Its inferior sur- face is channelled by a groove that lodges the tendon of the flexor hallucis longus. The anterior border is rough for at- tachment of the inferior calcaneoscaphoid ligament. The internal border furnishes partial attachment to the internal lateral ligament of the ankle-joint and to a slip of the tendon of the tibialis posticus. Scaphoid. The scaphoid (boat-like) is oval in shape, flattened from before backward, and situated between the astragalus behind and the three cuneiforms before. Of its surface, the anterior, oblong and convex, is sub- divided by two ridges into three facets for the three cunei- forms. The posterior corresponds to an oval, concave facet for the head of the astragalus. The superior is sharply con- vex and rough for attachment of ligaments. The inferior isCUNEIFORMS 183 irregular and rough. The internal presents, below, the tuberosity, to the lower part of which is attached most of the tendon of the tibialis posticus and the inferior calcaneo- scaphoid ligament. The external, rough and irregular, usually presents a small facet for the cuboid. Cuboid. The cuboid (cube-like) is situated on the outer side of the foot, in front of the os calcis, and behind the fourth and fifth metatarsals. Of its surfaces, the superior is flat, and rough for nu- merous ligaments. The external, the smallest and narrow- est of all six, presents a deep notch that leads into the per- oneal groove. The anterior, irregularly triangular, is divid- ed by a vertical ridge into two facets, an inner and smaller for the base of the fifth metatarsal, and an outer and larger for the base of the fourth. The posterior corresponds to a saddle-shaped facet for the anterior surface of the os calcis. The internal presents, near its middle and upper part, an oval facet for the external cuneiform; just behind this, often confluent with it, is usually a small facet for the scaphoid. The inferior is channelled by a deep groove that transmits the tendon of the peroneus longus. Behind this groove is a prominent ridge for attachment of the long plantar liga- ment. This ridge terminates externally in a tuberosity, which presents a flat facet for the sesamoid bone of the per- oneus longus tendon. Cuneiforms. The cuneiform (wedge-shape) bones are situated be- tween the scaphoid behind, the three innermost metatarsals before, and the cuboid externally. Posteriorly, their ends lie in the same transverse line, but before, the external and the internal project farther forward than the middle, and form the sides of a deep recess which receives the base of the second metatarsal. The internal is the largest, the mid- dle is the smallest, and the external is intermediate in size. The apex of the internal cuneiform is directed upward, whilst the apices of the other two point downward.THE BONES 184 The internal cuneiform presents six surfaces. The anterior corresponds to a kidney-shaped facet for the base of the first metatarsal. The posterior shows a concave, pyriform facet, which meets the innermost facet on the anterior surface of the scaphoid. The internal, subcutane- ous and rough for ligaments, is crossed by an oblique groove for the tendon of the tibialis anticus, in transit to its inser- tion into an oval facet below. The external presents along its superior and posterior borders an L-shaped facet for the middle cuneiform behind, and the inner side of the base of the second metatarsal before; elsewhere it is rough for liga- ments and for a slip from the tendon of the peroneus longus. The superior corresponds to the apex of the wedge, and is rough for ligaments. The inferior is rough, and is marked behind by an eminence for part of the tendon of the tibialis posticus, whilst before, it gives attachment to part of the tendon of the tibialis anticus. The middle cuneiform also presents six surfaces. The internal presents along its superior and posterior borders an L-shaped facet that articulates with the corresponding facet on the external surface of the internal cuneiform. The external shows, behind, a vertical facet for the external cuneiform. The anterior shows a triangular facet for the base of the second metatarsal. The posterior, broader than the anterior, corresponds to a triangular, concave facet for the middle facet on the anterior surface of the scaphoid. The superior is quadrilateral, broader behind than before, and rough for ligaments. The inferior is sharp and rough for ligaments and for a slip from the tendon of the tibialis posti- cus. The external cuneiform, like the others, has six sur faces. The superior is oblong and rough for ligaments. The inferior is a rounded margin that is rough for the attach- ment of ligaments and of a slip from the tendon of the tibialis posticus, and for partial origin of the flexor hallucis brevis. The internal has, behind, a vertical facet for the middle cuneiform, and before, two small facets, one above the other and separated by a depression, for the outer side of the base of the second metatarsal. The middle of this surface is occupied by a rough depression for an interosseous ligament. The external has a round facet at its posterior185 CUNEIFORMS superior part for the cuboid, and at the anterior superior angde a small facet for the inner side of the base of the fourth metatarsal. Elsewhere the bone is rough for an interos- seous ligament. The anterior corresponds to a triangular facet for the base of the third metatarsal. The posterior pre- sents, above, a triangular facet for the outermost facet on the anterior surface of the scaphoid, and below, a rough area for ligaments. Each tarsal bone is developed from a single primary center. The os calcis, however, has a secondary epiphysis for its tuberosity: this appears at the tenth year, and joins the rest of the bone shortly beyond puberty. The number of units in the tarsus may be as many as nine, as in the Salamander; or may be reduced to three, as in Proteus, Bufo bifurcatus, and Lacerta agilis; or perhaps to two, in Ophiodes striatus. The os calcis and scaphoid may become long bones—adding a segment to the limb—as in Tarsius, and in a less degree in Galago and Cheirogaleus. In the Frogs the os calcis and astragalus are similarly elon- gated. The latter bones are represented by a single bone in many Lizards, and in almost all Birds are intimately fused at an early age with the distal end of the tibia. The as- tragalus may be represented by two bones, as in the Sala- mander and other Tailed-Batrachians, or it may anchylose with the scaphoid, as in the Crocodile. The os calcis in Birds is early absorbed into the astragalus. The scaphoid anchyloses with the cuboid in the Ox and Deer. The bones of the inferior row coalesce with the metatarsals in Birds, the Chameleon, and in Bradypus. The internal cuneiform is the largest of the three in the Seals, but in the Ox and Sheep it is totally wanting. The middle cuneiform is an- chylosed with the second metatarsal in the Chameleon and Bradypus. The external cuneiform enormously preponder- ates over the others in the Horse. In Alligator lucius it is coalesced with the other cuneiforms, and in Rana esculentia with the middle cuneiform. In Bufo bifurcatus it is the only distinct representative of the cuneiforms. The cuboid is rep- resented by two bones in some Batrachians, as in Salaman- dra and the Axolotl. It is united with the fourth and fifth metatarsals in the Chameleon and Bradypus.THE BONES 186 Metatarsus. The metatarsus (beyond the tarsus) consists of five "long bones in miniature” which, leaving the tarsus, extend forward almost parallel with each other to their anterior ex- tremities, which support the toes. A typical metatarsal pre- sents a shaft and two extremities. The shaft, prismatic in shape and compressed from side to side, gradually tapers from base to head and presents three borders and as many surfaces. Of the three borders, the two lateral are sharp and begin on each side of the su- perior surface of the base, converge toward the middle of the shaft, and diverge toward the head to terminate in the cor- responding lateral tubercles. The inferior, thick and round- ed, extends from the inferior surface of the base toward the head, near which it bifurcates into two limbs that termi- nate in the articular eminences on the inferior surface of the head. Of the three surfaces, the superior, narrow in the mid- dle and wider fore and aft, is covered by extensor tendons. The two lateral, more extensive than the superior, are con- tinuous with each other around the inferior border, and give origin to interossei. The base (posterior extremity) is wedge-shaped, articulates behind with the tarsus and on each side with the adjacent metatarsal bones, and is rough above and below for ligaments. The head (anterior extrem- ity) presents a convex articular surface, encroaching more upon the inferior than the superior aspect, for articulation with the posterior phalanx. On each side is a depression, surmounted by a tubercle, for the lateral ligaments of the metatarso-phalangeal joint. The inferior surface of the head is grooved for the passage of flexor tendons, and is bounded on each side by an articular eminence continuous with the terminal articular surface. The first metatarsal is the shortest, thickest, and most massive of all. The shaft, strong and markedly prismatic, tapers rapidly toward the head. Its superior surface, smooth, broad, and convex, faces upward and inward. Its inferior is concave from behind forward, and is covered by the flexor hallucis longus and brevis. Its external lateral, nearly ver- tical and broader behind than before, is in relation with theMETATARSUS 187 first dorsal interosseous and adductor hallucis obliquus, and shows a nutrient foramen near its middle. The base is pro- vided with a large, kidney-shaped facet for the internal cunei- form, and occasionally with a small “pressure” facet ex- ternally for the base of the second metatarsal. Its inferior angle projects backward and outward as a rough tuberosity that receives the tendon of the peroneus longus, whilst in- ternally is a small eminence for a slip from the tendon of the tibialis anticus. The head is channelled interiorly by two grooved facets, separated by a ridge, in which glide the two sesamoid bones of the flexor hallucis brevis. The second metatarsal, the longest of all, is prolonged backward into the recess formed by the cuneiforms. Its shaft gives origin to the first and second dorsal interossei, and shows the nutrient foramen near the middle of its outer surface. The base presents, posteriorly, a triangular facet, for the middle cuneiform; internally, above and behind, a small facet for the internal cuneiform and, below and in front of this, occasionally a “pressure” facet for the base of the first metatarsal; and externally, four facets separated longitudinally by a rough depression, and vertically by a smooth ridge. The two posterior articulate with the ex- ternal cuneiform, and the two anterior, with the base of the third metatarsal. Interiorly, the base receives a slip from the tendon of the tibialis posticus, and gives partial origin to the adductor hallucis obliquus. The third metatarsal presents, at the posterior aspect of its base, a triangular facet for the external cuneiform; at the inner aspect, two small facets for the base of the second metatarsal; and at the outer aspect, a single facet for the base of the fourth metatarsal. Interiorly, the base receives a slip from the tendon of the tibialis posticus, and gives partial origin to the adductor hallucis obliquus. The shaft gives origin to three interossei (two dorsal and one plantar), and presents a nutrient foramen on its outer side. The fourth metatarsal presents, at the posterior aspect of its base, a quadi llateral facet for the similar facet at the inner part of the anterior surface of the cuboid; at the inner aspect, a laige facet that is divided by a ridge into an an- terior part for the base of the third metatarsal, and a pos- terior for the external cuneiform; and at the outer aspect, aTHE BONES 188 single facet for the base of the fifth metatarsal. Interiorly, the base receives a slip from the tendon of the tibialis posti- cus, and gives partial origin to the adductor hallucis ob- liquus. The shaft gives origin to three interossei (two dor- sal and one plantar), and presents a nutrient foramen on its outer side. The fifth metatarsal possesses a base that is broadened externally by a prominent tuberosity, which receives, be- hind, the tendon of the peroneus brevis; above, that of the peroneus tertius; whilst below it provides an origin for the flexor brevis digiti minimi. At the posterior aspect of its base is a triangular facet for the similar facet at the outer part of the anterior surface of the cuboid; and at the inner aspect, a semi-oval facet for the base of the fourth meta- tarsal. The upper aspect of the base shares with that of the tuberosity the tendon of the peroneus tertius, whilst the lower aspect shows a shallow groove that lodges the tendon of the abductor digiti minimi. The head is small and faces outward. The shaft, unlike that of the others, is compressed from above downward and gives origin to two interossei. It presents a nutrient foramen on its inner aspect. The metatarsus develops from primary centers that ap- pear before birth. The bases and shafts of the outer four are formed by these centers, whilst the heads develop from secondary centers that appear between the second and fourth years and join the shaft by the eighteenth. On the other hand, the head and shaft of the first metatarsal are de- rived from the primary center, whilst the base is formed by a secondary center that appears about the second or third year and fuses with the shaft about the eighteenth. There- fore, as is the case with the thumb, it is uncertain whether the great toe possesses three phalanges and no metatarsal, or one metatarsal and two phalanges. The first metatarsal probably represents a phalanx, since there are only two regular phalanges in the great toe. In Primates other than man it diverges widely from the line of the others. This occurs also in some Marsupials, as Pha- langista. The number of metatarsals is quite variable, and it has been mentioned that in the Horse and Cheropus there is but one. They are anchylosed together at their proximal ends in the Three-toed Sloth. They increase in size fromPHALANGES 189 the first to the fifth in the Great Ant-eater and the Ornitho- rhynchus. In the Land Tortoise and Ichthyosaurus they are extremely short and stunted. Phalanges. The phalanges, or toe-bones, number fourteen, of which three are distributed to each toe and two to the hallux. They are disposed in three rows, a posterior, a middle, and an anterior. A posterior phalanx is constricted in the middle and ex- panded at the extremities. The shaft, compressed laterally, is convex above and concave below. The base presents an oval, concave facet for the head of the corresponding meta- tarsal. The head shows a trochlear surface for the second phalanx. The posterior phalanx of the great toe receives the ten- dons of the flexor hallucis brevis, abductor hallucis, adductor hallucis transversus and obliquus, and extensor digitorum brevis; that of the second, the first and second dorsal inter- ossei; that of the third, the third dorsal and first plantar in- terossei; that of the fourth, the second plantar and fourth dorsal interossei; and that of the fifth, the third plantar in- terosseous, the flexor brevis digiti minimi, and the abductor digiti minimi. A middle phalanx is stunted, short and insignificant. Its base shows a double concavity separated by a vertical ridge for the trochlear facet on the head of the posterior phalanx. The head presents a trochlear surface for the an- terior phalanx. The middle phalanx of the fifth toe is fre- quently fused with the anterior. The middle phalanges receive, dorsally, expansions from the tendons of the extensor digitorum longus, extensor digi- torum brevis (except the fifth toe), and interossei and lum- biicals. The terminal phalanx of the hallux receives expan- sions from the tendons of the flexor and extensor hallucis longus. An anterior phalanx is comparatively small and flat- tened from above downward. The base is broad, and pre- sents a facet for the head of the middle phalanx. The shaft190 THE BONES is expanded above to support the nail, and below is rough and of a horseshoe shape for the pulp of the digit. The anterior phalanx of the fifth toe is frequently fused with the middle. The middle phalanges receive, below, the tendons of the flexor digitorum longus, and above, two slips from the com- mon tendon of the extensor digitorum longus and brevis. The phalanges develop from a primary center for the shaft that appears before birth. The bases develop from a secondary center that appears between the fourth and eighth years and fuses with the shaft by the nineteenth. The pri- mary centers for the anterior phalanges appear at the fore parts of these bones. The hallux is more or less opposible in Monkeys, Lemurs, Opossums, and Phalangers. When one digit is wanting it may be the fifth, as in Birds, or the hallux, as in the Hare. The middle is the most constant of all the digits in Vertebrata. The bones forming the three joints of this toe answer to those called the great pastern bone, the little pastern bone, and the coffin bone in the Horse, while the nail in the toe is represented by the hoof. The Horse walks on what corresponds to the middle toe. In the Seal and Pla- tanista gangetica the digits are so bound together in a com- mon sheath that they have little individual movement, though they form an excellent paddle. The number of pha- langes is variable. In the extinct Ichthyosaurus and Plesio- saurus they are much more numerous. In the short-tailed Pangolin the anterior phalanges bifurcate. Animals that walk on their toes, as most Carnivora, are termed digiti- grade. Vertebral Column. The vertebral column of the fetus consists of a series of superimposed segments termed vertebrae (to turn). Of the original thirty-three, the twenty-four upper remain sep- arate; the succeeding five fuse to form the sacrum; and the terminal four unite as the coccyx. Of the upper twenty-four vertebrae, seven are cervical, twelve thoracic, and five lum- bar. A typical vertebra presents, before, a solid body, and be-CERVICAL VERTEBRAE 191 hind, an arch. The latter is formed of two pedicles and two lammae. which support four articular processes, two trans- verse* and one spinous. % ^ ^ The body is flattened and rough above and below for at- tachment of the intervertebral disks. Before, it is convex laterally and concave in the opposite direction, and is per- forated by vascular foramina. Behind, it is flat from above downward, and concave in the opposite direction, and shows a large opening for passage of spinal veins The pedicles are two stout bars of bone that spring from the upper and outer angles of the posterior surface, and bound the vertebral foramen laterally. The laminae are two broad plates that connect the spin- ous process with the pedicles and complete the arch posteri- orly. Their upper and lower borders are rough for attach- ment of the ligamenta flava. The spinous process projects backward from the center of the arch and serves for ligamentous and muscular at- tachment. The articular processes, two on each side, spring from the junction between the pedicles and the laminae. Each superior process projects upward, and its facet is directed backward. Each inferior process projects downward, and its facet is directed forward. The transverse processes project, one on each side, from between the articular processes, at the junction of a lamina and a pedicle. A vertebral foramen is bounded before by the body, lat- erally and behind by the arch. In the articulated column these foramina are so related that they form the spinal canal, for the spinal cord and its membranes. Under similar cir- cumstances, the vertebral notches, situated chiefly below, but to some extent also above, the pedicles, are converted into the intervertebral foramina, which transmit spinal nerves and blood-vessels. Cervical Vertebrae. >a_ e T \ A cervical vertebra is distinguished thus. The body is small and transversely oval. The superior surface is convex192 THE BONES from before backward and concave from side to side, and presents a projecting lip on each side. The inferior surface is concave from before backward and convex from side to side, and is rounded off on each side for the projecting lip of the vertebra upon which it rests. The anterior surface is prolonged downward so as to overlap the upper part of the body below. The posterior surface is placed on a higher level than the anterior. The pedicles point outward and backward, and spring from the body midway between the superior and inferior borders, thereby equalizing the depth of the superior and inferior intervertebral notches; the inferior, however, is the broader. The laminae are long, narrow, and slender. The vertebral foramen is triangular with rounded angles, and very large. The spinous process is short and bifid at its extremity. The articular processes are oval, almost flat, and oblique, so that the superior face backward and upward, and the inferior, forward and downward. The transverse proc- esses, situated in front of the articular processes and on the outer side of the pedicles, are deeply channelled above for the passage of a spinal nerve, and are bifid at their free extremi- ties. At their bases they are pierced by a foramen. This, the costotransverse foramen, peculiar to a cervical vertebra, is formed internally by the pedicle; behind by the transverse process (which corresponds to that of a thoracic vertebra); before by the costal process (which is, morphologically, a rudimentary rib); and externally by a bar of bone that con- nects the transverse and costal processes. At the extremity of the costal process is the anterior tubercle, and at that of the transverse process is the posterior tubercle. The anterior tubercle of the sixth cervical vertebra is large and prominent, and is called the carotid tubercle because of its close relation to the carotid artery, which may be readily compressed against it. The costotransverse foramina are present in the upper six cervical vertebrae, and form a broken tunnel that is occupied by the vertebral vessels and sympathetic nerves. The atlas (able: a simile, since it supports a globe,— the head) is devoid both of body and of spinous process. The fate of the body is readily'explained: It IiaTl5econTeulFt'ached from the atlas, but has fused with the body of the axis, whose odontoid process it forms. The pedicles span the193 CERVICAL VERTEBRAE space vacated by the body, and fuse to form an anterior arch. Irregularly annular, the atlas presents^ an anterior arch, a posterior arch, and two lateral masses. 1 he anterior arch connects the lateral masses in front and contributes about one-fifth to the circumference of the ring. Its anterior surface is convex and rises to form a tubercle, for insertion of the superior oblique portion of the longus colli, and at- tachment of the anterior longitudinal ligament. Its pos- terior surface is concave, and shows a circular facet for the odontoid process of the axis. To its upper and lower borders are attached ligaments that connect the atlas to the occiput above, and to the axis below. The lateral masses are bulky, support the head, and are provided with articular facets above and below. The superior facets, directed upward and inward, are elongated, deeply concave, and converge before: in some specimens they are subdivided by an indentation. They articulate with the occipital condyles. The inferior facets, directed downward and inward, are almost flat and nearly circular. They articulate with the axis. The cavity enclosed by the ring is subdivided into two thus. Two tu- bercles, each of which is situated on the inner circumference of the ring between the superior and inferior facets, are con- nected by the transverse ligament. The smaller, anterior subdivision of the ring accommodates the odontoid process, whilst the larger, posterior corresponds to the vertebral foramen. Each lateral mass contributes one-fifth to the ring. The transverse processes are large, extend outward and downwar TfromTh e Ta ter aTni asses, and project beyond those of lower vertebrae. Their free extremities are non- bifid, but are broad and rough for muscles. The posterior arch connects the lateral masses behind and contributes about two-fifths of the ring. Posteriorly, it presents a tu- bercle, which corresponds to a rudimentary spinous process and affords origin to the rectus capitis posticus minor. Its superior surface presents, at each root of the arch, a deep horizontal groove that corresponds to the superior interver- tebral notch of other vertebrae and lodges the vertebral artery and the suboccipital nerve. In some specimens this groove is converted into a foramen by an ossified oblique atlantal ligament. Its inferior surface shows, in the same situation, a similar but much smaller groove that corre- 13194 THE BONES sponds to the inferior intervertebral notch of other vertebrae and forms the upper boundary of the intervertebral foramen that gives passage to the second cervical nerve. To both surfaces of the posterior arch are attached ligaments that connect the atlas to the occiput above, and to the axis below. The axis (axle-tree) is the thickest and strongest bone in the cervical region. The body is deeper before than be- hind. Its anterior surface presents a median ridge that in- tervenes between two lateral depressions for insertion of the vertical part of each longus colli. Its superior surface is sur- mounted by the odontoid (tooth-like) process. The odon- t * 1 :ess, the displaced body of the atlas, shows before, an c it for the anterior arch of the atlas; behind, a facet for the transverse ligament of the same bone. Its apex is pointed and affords attachment to the apical odontoid liga- ment. Below the apex, the process expands (crown), and shows on each side a rough area for the lateral odontoid (check) ligaments. At its junction with the body it is con- stricted (neck), so that it cannot slip the noose of the trans- verse ligament. The pedicles are stout and broad. The laminae are thick and prismatic. The spinous process is large, strong, and helmet-shaped, and presents a bifid ex- tremity for muscular attachment. The transverse processes are small and non-bifid. The superior articular facets are oval, slightly convex, directed upward and outward, and noteworthy from being supported by the body and pedicles, and from being in front of the superior intervertebral notches. The inferior articular facets correspond to those of the lower vertebrae. Each superior intervertebral notch is shallow, and passes behind the superior articular facet, as does that of the atlas. The inferior intervertebral notch passes in front of the inferior articular facet, in keeping with those vertebrae below. The seventh cervical, being the lowest member of the cervical series, foreshadows the characters of the thoracic vertebrae, and therefore acts as a transitional vertebra. Its spinous process, surpassing in length that of any segment above it, has been called the vertebra prominens. While this term serves to distinguish it from the other cervical ver- tebrae in the skeleton, it is misleading in the living person, since the spinous processes of the adjacent thoracic verte-THORACIC VERTEBRAE 195 brae are still more prominent. T he spinous process is thick, almost horizontal, and non-bifid. Its transverse process is massive, and its free extremity shows but a feeble attempt at bifurcation. The costotransverse foramen, frequently in- complete, does not usually transmit the vertebral artery. The costal process, ordinarily very small, may attain a large size and independent existence as a cervical rib. A thoracic vertebra is distinguished thus. The body is heart-shaped, and broad fore and aft and from side to side. It is thicker behind than before, deeply concave behind and convex and prominent before, somewhat constricted before and at the sides, and flat above and below. On each side of the body, near its junction with the arch, are two demi- facets, one above, and one below. In the articulated column the upper facet is in apposition with the lower facet of the superimposed vertebra, the two together forming a complete facet for the head of a rib. The pedicles project backward, and the inferior intervertebral notches are large and very deep. The laminae, broad and thick, in the articulated col- umn overlap each other like tiles on a roof. The spinous process, long and triangular, points obliquely downward and terminates in a slight tubercle. The articular processes are flat and almost vertical. The transverse processes, long and thick, point obliquely backward and outward, and terminate in a clubbed extremity on each side of which is a small oval facet for the tubercle of a rib. The vertebral foramen is al- most circular and comparatively small. The first thoracic, like the seventh cervical, is a transi- tional segment. The bodies of these two vertebrae are simi- lar in dimensions. On each side is a complete facet above for the head of the first rib, and a small, demi-facet below for that of the second rib. The spinous process is thick, long, nearly horizontal, and more prominent than that of the sev- enth cervical (the so-called vertebra prominens). The articular processes present obliquely-directed facets. The ninth thoracic possesses demi-facets above, but none below, as a rule. Thoracic Vertebrae.196 THE BONES The tenth thoracic has an entire facet on each side above, but no demi-facet below. The transverse process usually shows no costal facet. If present, it is very small. The eleventh thoracic has a large body that approaches the lumbar type. The costal facets, large and complete, are situated on the pedicles. The pedicles are thick and strong. The spinous process is short and almost horizontal. The transverse processes are short and devoid of costal facets. They show an indefinite subdivision into three parts. The twelfth thoracic is transitional, and foreshadows the characters of a lumbar vertebra. Its inferior articular processes show convex, outwardly-turned facets. Its trans- verse processes are short and tripartite, presenting superior, inferior, and external tubercles which correspond to the mammillary, accessory, and costal processes of the lumbar vertebrae. They are devoid of costal facets. The pedicle has one complete facet for the head of the twelfth rib. Lumbar Vertebrae. A lumbar vertebra is distinguished thus. The body is large, and kidney-shaped, with the greatest diameter trans- verse, flattened above and below, and somewhat deeper be- fore than behind. The pedicles, strong and directed back- ward, spring from the upper part of the body, thereby allow- ing the inferior intervertebral notches considerable depth. The laminae are broad and short. The vertebral foramen is triangular with rounded angles, and is intermediate in size between that of a cervical and that of a thoracic segment. The spinous process, thick, broad, and somewhat quadrilat- eral, projects horizontally backward. It is thicker below than above, and terminates in a rough border posteriorly. The articular processes are stout and strong. The superior facets are concave and face backward and inward, whilst the inferior are slightly concave and face forward and outward. The superior processes, less closely approximated than the inferior, clasp the inferior processes of the superincumbent segment. The costal processes, long and slender, compress- ed from before backward, and pointing outward and some- what backward, are situated in front of the articular proc-SACRUM 197 esses, and are homologous with the ribs. 1 he transverse processes are extremely rudimentary, and are represented solely by two minute tubercles. Of these, the mammillary tubercle corresponds to the superior tubercle of the trans- verse process of the twelfth thoracic, and surmounts the pos- terior margin of each superior articular process. I he acces- sory tubercle corresponds to the inferior tubercle of the transverse process of the twelfth thoracic, and to the trans- verse processes of the remaining thoracic segments, and rep- resents the tip of an abortive lumbar transverse process. It is situated behind the base of each costal process. The fifth lumbar is massive. Its body is markedly thicker before than behind. Its pedicles are stout and flattened from above downward. Its laminae project into the verte- bral foramen. Its spinous process is small. Its inferior ar- ticular processes are more widely separated than the su- perior. Its costal processes spring from both the body and pedicles, and are short and stout. Sacrum. The sacrum (sacred bone) is a large, curved triangular bone formed by the fusion of five vertebrae which diminish in size from above downward. It is the keystone of the pel- vis. It presents an anterior and a posterior surface, two lat- eral surfaces, a base, and an apex. The anterior surface is concave, and is crossed in its middle by four transverse ridges, which represent the ossi- fied intervertebral disks. Laterally, these ridges terminate at the anterior sacral foramina, which correspond to the in- tervertebral foramina of other regions, and transmit the anterior primary divisions of the first four sacral nerves. These foramina are separated by stout bars that unite ex- ternally to form the lateral mass. The bars represent the costal processes. Each lateral mass is grooved for the sacral nerves, and rough opposite the second, third, and fourth segments for origin of the pyriformis. The posterior surface, convex, narrower, and rougher than the anterior, presents in the mid-line four eminences that represent the abortive spinous processes. The laminae are fused on each side of the spinous processes to form aTHE BONES 198 shallow gutter. They fail to unite in the fifth segment, and leave a gap, the hiatus sacralis. This incompletely-develop- ed fifth pair of laminae forms rounded eminences, the sacral cornua, which bound the hiatus sacralis laterally. The articular processes are represented by a second linear series of small eminences, lying external to the laminae. The first pair, however, is well-developed, and presents large facets for the fifth lumbar segment. Just external to the articular processes are the four posterior sacral foramina, which, smaller than the anterior, transmit the posterior primary di- visions of the first four sacral nerves. The costal processes are represented by five eminences external to the posterior sacral foramina. The first pair is large and conspicuous, and all afford attachment to ligaments and muscles. The sacral groove is the broad channel between the spinous and costal processes, and lodges the origin of the multifidus. The sacral groove is bridged over by the erector spinae, as it takes origin from the spinous processes and lateral mass. The lateral surface, broad above and tapering below, presents in its upper half, before, the auricular surface, which articulates with a similar surface on the ilium. This is bounded posteriorly by rough depressions for the pos- terior sacroiliac ligaments. The lower half of the lateral surface is rough for the great and small sacrosciatic liga- ments, and for partial origin of the gluteus maximus behind and coccygeus before, and terminates at the inferior lateral angle. Just below this angle is a notch, converted into a foramen by the costal process of the first coccygeal segment for transmission of the anterior primary division of the fifth sacral nerve. The base shows, before, the large, oval upper surface of the body, and behind, the vertebral foramen, which is bound- ed behind by the laminae and spinous process. The superior articular processes bound the foramen on each side, and show prominent mammillary tubercles. The intervertebral notches, which lie in front of the superior articular proc- esses, are converted into foramina when in contact with the fifth lumbar segment. Continuous with the body on each side is the ala,—a broad, triangular surface which gives partial origin to the iliacus, supports the psoas, and is continuous with the iliac fossa.199 COCCYX The apex, directed downward and forward, is oval, and articulates with an intervertebral disk that separates it from the coccyx. In old age this disk may ossity, thereby uniting the sacrum and coccyx by bone. Those who are puzzled by the name applied to the sac- rum will probably be interested in the following lines from Hudibras, part iii. cant, ii:— “The learned Rabbins of the Jews, Write there's a bone which they call ‘Luz,’ I’ the rump of man of such a virtue No force in Nature can do hurt to: Therefore at the last great day All th' other members shall, they say, Spring out of this, as from a seed All sorts of vegetals proceed; From whence the learned sons of art ‘Os sacrum’ justly call that part.” Coccyx. The coccyx (cuckoo's beak), the most rudimentary part of the vertebral column, is devoid of pedicles, laminae, and spinous processes. It presents for examination the same areas as the sacrum. Its anterior surface is concave, shows three transverse grooves where the segments united, sup- ports part of the rectum, and affords attachment to the an- terior sacrococcygeal ligament and to part of the levator ani. Its posterior surface is convex, and likewise marked by trans- verse grooves. On each side is seen a row of tubercles that represent rudimentary articular processes. The superior pair, the cornua of the coccyx, articulate with the cornua of the sacrum to complete the fifth posterior sacral foramen for transmission of the posterior primary division of the fifth sacral nerve. Its lateral borders are thin, and show a row of small eminences that represent rudimentary costal proc- esses. The first pair comes in apposition with the inferior lateral angle of the sacrum. To these borders are attached parts of the sacrosciatic ligaments, of the coccygei, and of the levatores ani. Its base has an oval surface for the inter-200 THE BONES vertebral disk that separates it from the sacrum. Its apex is rounded and gives origin to the sphincter ani externus. The number of vertebrae in the coccyx vary from none at all as in the Vampire Bat, two in the Gibbon, and three in the Barbary Ape, up to 270 in the Shark. In Birds the terminal coccygeal vertebrae are anchylosed to form the ploughshare-bone. The coccyx in man corresponds to the tail of other animals. The tail may act as a third hand, as in the pre-eminently arboreal Spider Monkeys, which have the tail prehensile. It may serve in locomotion, as in Tortoises, in which the cervical and coccygeal vertebrae are alone free, the others being immovably united with the ribs and with the carapace. If in man the end of the coccyx projects and is ensheathed in integument, he is said to have a tail. The Pelvis. The pelvis (basin) is formed by the innominate bones, the sacrum, and the coccyx. It is interposed between the vertebral column and the lower extremities. It presents a bony ring, which surrounds a cavity and which is surmount- ed laterally by two alae. The alae correspond to the alae of the ilia. They pro- ject upward, outward, and backward from the upper, lateral border of the bony ring, and their relative position to the latter is possibly comparable to that of the arytenoid cartil- ages to the cricoid. They contribute osseous boundaries to the lateral and posterior walls of the abdominal cavity, in its hypogastric and iliac regions. The cavity is broader above than below, and deeper be- hind than before. It is bounded before by the pubic bones; laterally by the internal surfaces of the bodies and tuberosi- ties of the ischia; and behind by the sacrum and coccyx. It is occupied by the rectum behind; by the bladder before; and by generative organs between, according to the sex. Cer- tain blood-vessels and nerves traverse it, and coils of jejuno- ileum usually lodge within it. Above is the inlet to this cavity; below, the outlet. The inlet is somewhat heart- shaped, and the outlet diamond-shaped. The bony ring is wholly osseous at its upper border201 VERTEBRAL COLUMN AS A WHOLE only, while its walls and lower border are completed by lig- aments and membranes. Its upper margin (brim) is formed by the pubic crests before; by the iliopectineal lines later- ally; and by the anterior margin of the base of the sacrum behind. Its walls are formed by the pubic bones and obtu- rator membranes before; by the ischia and sacrosciatic liga- ments laterally; and by the sacrum and coccyx behind. Its lower margin is formed by the subpubic ligament and rami of the pubic bones and ischia before; by the tuberosities of the ischia laterally; and by the great sacrosciatic ligaments and tip of the coccyx behind. A transverse line between the two tuberosities subdivides this diamond-shaped lower mar- gin into two triangles:—an anterior urethral triangle, and a posterior anal triangle. The pelvis of the Kangaroo is extremely narrow, neces- sitating the birth of the young when they are only about an inch and a quarter long. They are then almost shapeless, and are next placed in a pouch on the abdomen of the mother, with the nipple firmly fixed in their mouth. Vertebral Column as a Whole. The formation of the vertebral column by the sclero- tomes streaming around the primitive neural canal suggests the double function of this column. It forms a primary base of support for the body above the pelvis, and acts as a host for the shelter of the spinal cord and its membranes. Thus, it supports the head above, the thorax and indirectly the up- per extremities laterally, whilst below it is, in turn, support- ed by the pelvis, through whose agency it transmits its bur- den to the lower extremities. The average length of the vertebral column is twenty- eight inches, to which the cervical vertebrae contribute five inches, the thoracic eleven, the lumbar seven, and the sacral and coccygeal five. V iewed from before, the bodies of the vertebrae broaden from the axis to the first thoracic, then narrow to the fourth thoracic, broaden again from the fourth thoracic to the base of the sacrum, and finally narrow from the base of the sac- rum to the tip of the coccyx.202 THE BONES Viewed from the side, the vertebral column presents four curves, of which two are primary and two secondary. The two primary curves are directed concave-forward, and involve the thoracic and sacral regions. They appear early in fetal life, and result from the conformation of the bodies of the vertebrae. The two secondary curves are directed concave-backward, and involve the cervical and lumbar re- gions. They appear after birth, to compensate for the pri- mary curves, and reflect the shape of the intervertebral disks. Viewed from behind, three series of interrupted ridges are seen. The middle ridge is formed by the spinous pro- cesses, which are short, bifid and horizontal in the cervical region; oblique above, nearly vertical in the middle, and hori- zontal below in the thoracic; and horizontal in the lumbar and sacral regions. The lateral ridges are formed by the articular processes in the cervical, lumbar and sacral re- gions, and by the transverse processes in the thoracic. The three ridges bound two gutters—the vertebral grooves, which lodge the deep retrovertebral musculature. The vertebral canal is wide and triangular in the cervi- cal and lumbar regions (where most motion occurs) and nar- row and round in the thoracic and flattened in the sacral (where least motion occurs). The vertebrae are developed from the sclerotomes. Three primary centers appear, one for most of the body and one on each side for the arch. Five secondary centers ap- pear at puberty and unite to form two epiphyseal plates which fuse with the rest of the bone by the twenty-fifth year. In man the soft centers of the intervertebral disks rep- resent the remains of the notochord. The latter persists throughout life in Fishes, as the Sturgeon, Lepidosiren, Lamprey, and Amphioxus. The number of cervical ver- tebrae in man’s class is, as a rule, seven, irrespective of the length of the neck. The short neck of the Porpoise and the long neck of the Giraffe each contain seven. The Two- toed Sloth and the Manatee, however, have but six, while the Three-toed Sloth has nine. In Sauropsidians the num- ber is greater, the Swan having twenty-five. In Batrach- ians there is but one vertebra that may be called cervical. The bifid spines of man extend further down the backbone203 RIBS than in any other Mammal. In the Howling' Monkeys the spines are trifid. A true body for the atlas is wanting in all Vertebrata above the Ichthyopsida, but is present in the highest member of this group, the Frog. With its advent, however, the power of rotation on the axis is lost. 1 he atlas is anchylosed to the axis in the Dolphin, and with all the other cervical vertebrae in the Right Whale. In the Stur- geon it is fused with the skull. The odontoid process is ' not fused with the body of the axis, but remains free as the odontoid bone in the Duck-billed Platypus and in many Reptiles, as Crocodiles, Chelonians, and Lizards. The tho- racic vertebrae are two in number in Azara’s Armadillo, twenty in the Elephant, and twenty-four in the Two-toed Sloth. In Tortoises and Turtles the spinous processes ex- pand at their apices into wide plates that articulate by suture with each other and with similarly expanded ribs to form the carapace. The lumbar vertebrae number two in the Monotremes, three in the Two-toed Sloth, four in Apes, and nine in the Slow Lemur. The sacral vertebrae are coalesced in Vertebrata above the Ichthyopsida which have fully developed limbs. The coccygeal vertebrae have been considered with the coccyx. RIBS. The ribs are of morphological interest in that they rep- resent persisting bars of intersegmental connective tissue, which are interposed between myotonies that retain their independence as the intercostal muscles. A typical rib pre- sents a head, a neck, a tubercle, a shaft, and a sternal extrem- ity. The head, situated on the vertebral end of the bone, has two oblique demifacets separated by a ridge. The upper demifacet is small and articulates with the lower demifacet of the body of the vertebra above. The ridge affords at- tachment to the interarticular ligament. The lower demi- facet is larger and articulates with the upper demifacet on the body of the vertebra below it, and in numerical corre- spondence with it. The neck, flattened from before backward, extends fromTHE BONES 204 the head to the tubercle. Its anterior surface, flat and smooth, is in relation with the parietal pleura. Its posterior surface is rough for attachment of the middle costotrans- verse ligament, and is perforated by vascular foramina. This surface is in relation with the transverse process of the cor- responding vertebra. Its superior border shows a rough crest for attachment of the anterior costotransverse liga- ment. Its inferior border is rounded. The tubercle, situated behind the junction of the neck with the shaft, presents an upper, outer, rough part for the posterior costotransverse ligament, and a lower, inner facet for articulation with the tip of the transverse process. The shaft, thin, flat, and strongly curved, presents two surfaces and two borders. The external surface, convex and smooth, shows, about two inches from the tubercle, the angle, for reception of a tendon of the iliocostalis. The area between the tubercle and angle receives part of the longissi- mus dorsi. Near the sternal extremity this surface presents an abrupt curve, indicated by an oblique line: this is the anterior angle, and affords insertion to part of the serratus magnus. The internal surface, concave and smooth, is in relation with the parietal pleura. The superior border, thick and rounded, affords attachment to the external and internal intercostals. The inferior border presents the subcostal groove, which accommodates the intercostal vessels and nerve. The outer lip of this groove corresponds to the in- ferior border of the rib, extends to the tubercle, and serves for attachment of the external intercostal. The inner lip is rounded, extends to the head, and affords attachment to the internal intercostal. The groove is perforated by vascular foramina. The sternal extremity is cupped for the reception of the costal cartilage. Peculiar Ribs. The first rib is the broadest, flattest, shortest, and most curved of the ribs. Its head is small, rounded, and provided with but one facet for articulation with the body of the first thoracic vertebra. Its neck is narrow and rounded. Its tubercle is large and prominent. An angle is lacking. ItsPECULIAR RIBS 205 shaft lies in one plane. The superior surface shows two shallow grooves separated by a rough surface. The groove before is for the subclavian vein. The rough surface (scal- ene tubercle) receives insertion of the scalenus anticus. T he groove behind is for the subclavian artery. Between the tubercle and the groove for the subclavian artery is a rough area for insertion of the scalenus medius, and between this groove and the outer border is an area for origin of the first digitation of the serratus magnus. The inferior surface is flat and smooth and devoid of a subcostal groove. The outer border is convex, thick, and rounded and affords attachment to the external intercostal muscle. The inner border is con- cave, thin, and sharp and receives the attachment of Sib- son’s fascia. The sternal extremity is thick and broad and gives partial attachment to the costocoracoid ligament and subclavius. The second rib is transitional between the first and the third ribs. Although longer, yet its curvature closely cor- responds to that of the first rib, but, unlike the first and like the third, its head is supplied with two facets, and there is an angle and a subcostal groove. Its superior sur- face is marked, near the middle, by a rough and prominent tuberosity for origin of part of the first digitation and the whole of the second digitation of the serratus magnus. Between the tuberosity and the tubercle this surface affords attachment to the scalenus posticus, the serratus posticus superior, the cervicalis ascendens, and the accessorius. Its inferior surface is smooth and concave, and in relation with the parietal pleura. The tenth rib is provided with but one facet on its head. The eleventh rib has but one facet, no neck, no tubercle, but a slight angle, and a shallow subcostal groove. The twelfth rib likewise has but one facet, no neck, no tubercle, and is devoid of an angle and a subcostal groove. To it is attached part of the diaphragm. Each rib develops from a primary center for the shaft, which appears before birth. Epiphyses for the head and tubercle appear from the fifteenth to the eighteenth year, and join the shaft about the twenty-first year.206 THE BONES The Costal Cartilages. The costal cartilages prolong the ribs forward, and are the equivalent of unossified epiphyses. The first seven are connected with the sternum directly. The next three are united to each other and, through the eighth, are blended with the seventh. The remaining two tip their correspond- ing ribs and lie free between the abdominal muscles. Each costal cartilage presents two surfaces, two borders, and two extremities. The anterior surface is convex, and affords attachment to muscles. The posterior surface is concave, and likewise affords attachment to muscles. The superior border is con- cave, the inferior border convex, and both serve for attach- ment of the internal intercostals. The outer extremity is continuous with the rib to which it corresponds. The inner extremity has been considered. Arrangement of the Ribs. The first seven ribs are termed vertebro-sternal, since they articulate with the sternum through their cartilages. The next three are the vertebro-chondral, since their car- tilages are united to each other and to that of the seventh rib. The remaining two are the vertebral, since their tips are free. The vertebro-sternal ribs increase in length in numerical order, while the vertebro-chondral and vertebral ribs decrease in length in the same order. The upper ribs are less oblique than the lower, and the most oblique is the ninth. The ribs decrease in breadth from above downward. Between two adjacent ribs is an intercostal space. These spaces are broader before than behind, and above than below. The usual number of ribs is twelve on each side. There may be thirteen on one or both sides if the costal element in the transverse process of the seventh cervical vertebra de- velops, and even fourteen if, in addition, the costal element of the first lumbar vertebra, normally present in the embryo, ossifies. The Gorilla and Chimpanzee have thirteen ribs on each207 STERNUM side. There are 9 pairs of ribs in the bottle-nosed Whale; 18 in the horse; 19 in the Elephant; and 24 in the Two-toed Sloth. Snakes are well provided with ribs, and since limbs are rudimentary, they use the tips of the ribs for progres- sion. Abdominal ribs in man are wanting, but are prob- ably represented by the lineae transversae of the recti ab- dominis. In the Nilotic Crocodile seven pairs of false ribs are developed as superficial ossifications of the lineae trans- versae. Sternum. The sternum (breast-bone) is a flat, narrow plate of bone situated in the anterior wall of the thorax with an oblique inclination from above downward and forward. The sternum has been likened to a dagger (t), since it is com- posed of three pieces, the manubrium (handle), the gladiolus (blade), and the ensiform (point of the blade). The manubrium, the broadest and thickest piece, is tri- angular with the base above, and presents two surfaces and four borders. The anterior surface, convex transversely, and concave vertically, is smooth and affords origin on each side to the pectoralis major and insertion to the sternal head of the sternomastoid. The posterior surface, concave and smooth, gives origin on each side to the sternohyoid above, and to the sternothyroid below. The superior border pre- sents in the middle the suprasternal notch, to which fibers of the interclavicular ligament are attached, and on each side an area for partial insertion of the sternal head of the sternomastoid. The inferior border, thick and short, pre- sents an oval, rough border for articulation with the gladi- olus. The junction of these two pieces, termed Ludwig’s angle, is marked by a transverse ridge which corresponds to the attachment on each side of the second costal cartilage. Each lateral border is marked in its upper corner by an oval facet for the clavicle, and just below this a depression for the first costal cartilage. At the lower corner is a demifacet for the second costal cartilage. The gladiolus, longer, narrower and thinner than the manubrium, and broader below than above, presents two surfaces and four borders. The anterior surface is fiat andTHE BONES 208 crossed by three transverse lines which indicate the lines of union of its four component parts. It affords partial origin on each side to the pectoralis major. The posterior surface, somewhat concave, shows less distinctly the three lines, and gives origin below, on each side, to the triangularis sterni. The superior border presents an oval surface for articulation with the manubrium. The inferior border is narrow, and articulates with the ensiform. Each lateral border presents, at its upper corner, a demifacet which, with that on the glad- iolus, forms an entire facet for the second costal cartilage; opposite the transverse lines are entire facets for the third, fourth and fifth costal cartilages; below the lowermost line is an entire facet for the sixth costal cartilage; and at the lower corner is a demifacet for part of the seventh costal cartilage. Occasionally the gladiolus is perforated at the lowermost transverse line by the sternal foramen. The ensiform is the thin, elongated piece that projects downward between the seventh costal cartilages. Its extent of ossification varies directly with age. Its anterior surface gives partial origin to the rectus abdominis, and attachment to the chondroxyphoid ligament. Its posterior surface gives partial origin to the diaphragm and to the triangularis sterni. Each lateral border receives the aponeurosis of the abdominal musculature and presents, at its upper corner, a demifacet which, with that at the lower corner of the glad- iolus, forms an entire facet for the seventh costal cartilage. Above, it articulates with the gladiolus, whilst below, its tip is continuous with the linea alba. The sternum is developed from the fusion in the mid- line of two cartilaginous bands to which are attached the first eight costal cartilages. These bands begin to ossify about the sixth month of fetal life. The manubrium ossifies from a single center that appears about the sixth month of fetal life. The gladiolus ossifies from a center for the first segment that appears at the seventh month, a center for each of the second and third segments at the eighth month, and a center for the fourth segment in the first year. In the ensiform ossification begins in the sixth year or later. The second, third, and fourth segments of the gladiolus unite about puberty. The first segment joins the second about the twenty-fifth year. The manubrium unites with theTHORAX AS A WHOLE 209 gladiolus about middle age, and rarely the ensiform unites with the gladiolus. A sternum may exist without ribs, as in the Batrachians, and ribs may exist without a sternum, as in Fishes and Ser- pents. In nearly all the Flying Birds a huge keel is devel- oped along the mid-line of the sternum to increase the sur- face of origin of the pectoral muscles, by which they man- ipulate their wings. In Non-flying Birds the keel is absent. In Bats, the Mole, and Armadillos the manubrium develops a strong median keel for muscular attachment. In the long- tailed Pangolin the ensiform is enormously produced into two elongated horns, far exceeding all the rest of the stern- um in size. In the Wild Swan and Guinea Fowl the sternum is tunnelled, and contains a long, winding trachea and the inferior larynx. Thorax as a Whole. The thorax is an osseo-cartilaginous cage which en- closes and protects the chief organs of the pulmonary and cardio-vascular systems. It is shaped like a slightly flat- tened bushel-basket. The anterior wall, shorter than the posterior, is formed by the sternum and costal cartilages. It is slightly convex, and slopes from above downward and for- ward. The lateral walls are formed by the ribs from the angles to the costal cartilages. They are convex. The pos- terior wall is formed by the thoracic vertebrae and by the ribs as far outward as their angles. It is convex from above downward. The forward bulging of the bodies of the ver- tebrae diminishes the antero-posterior diameter of the thorax in the mid-line, but the backward sweep of the ribs from the vertebrae partially compensates for this. The superior aperture is formed by the superior border of the sternum before, by the first rib on each side, and by the first thoracic vertebra behind. Its plane slopes obliquely downward and forward, seeing that its anterior boundary is on a level with the third thoracic vertebra. It transmits the windpipe, the gullet, the great blood-vessels and nerves at the root of the neck, the apices of the lungs, and three muscles on each side. The inferior aperture is formed by the seventh, eighth, ninth, tenth, and eleventh costal cartilages (whose divergence 14THE BONES 210 produces the subcostal angle) before, by the twelfth rib on each side, and by the twelfth thoracic vertebra behind. It is occupied by the diaphragm. The twelve small joints between the sternum and the second to seventh costal cartilages on both sides facilitate respiration. By means of their elasticity, the costal cartil- ages aid expiration by mechanically depressing the ribs, and also distribute blows received on the sternum over four- teen elastic arches. The cavity of the thorax may be in- creased in three directions: in depth, by elevation of the sternum; in width, by out-turning of the ribs; and in height. by the descent of the diaphragm. SKULL. \A3 Vm / The skull (Icelandish, bowl) comprises all the bones of the head, including the mandible. The cranium (Greek, helmet) comprises all the bones of the head, excluding the mandible. The calvaria (Latin, scalp) comprises the bones of the head, excluding those of the face. Temporal Bone. The temporal (temple) bone is situated at about the middle of the lower half of either side of the skull, and con- sists of three parts:—squamous (scaly), mastoid (nipple- like), and petrous (stony). The squamous, thin, translucent, shell-like and vertical, presents two surfaces and a border. The external surface, smooth and convex, forms part of the temporal fossa and is grooved behind by the deep temporal artery. The in- ternal surface is concave, and shows small fossae for the cerebral gyri and grooves for branches of the middle menin- geal artery. The zygomatic (bar-like) process projects horizontally forward from the lower part of the squamous, and presents two borders, two surfaces, an anterior extrem- ity, and three roots. The superior border, long, thin, and sharp, receives attachment of the temporal fascia. Its in- ferior border, short, thick, and arched, gives partial origin to the masseter. Its outer surface is convex and subcutan- eous. Its inner surface is concave, and gives partial originTEMPORAL BONE 211 to the masseter. Its anterior extremity, oblique and ser- rated, dovetails with the zygomatic process of the malar. Posteriorly the three roots connect this process to the tem- poral bone. The anterior root, continuous with the inferior border, turns inward at the preglenoid tubercle, to which is attached the temporomandibular ligament of the lower jaw, and then gradually broadens out as the articular eminence. The middle root begins at the preglenoid tubercle and arches backward for about half-an-inch to terminate at the post- glenoid tubercle. The posterior root continues the superior border backward for about an inch and a quarter and then bends upward and backward as the supramastoid crest, which soon becomes confluent with the temporal ridge— the limit of the temporal fossa posteriorly. Behind the ar- ticular eminence is the glenoid (cavity-like) fossa, which is divided into two parts by a cleft. The anterior part, which belongs to the squamous portion, is smooth and articular for the condyle of the mandible. The cleft is the Glaserian fissure, which lodges the processus gracilis of the malleus in the fetus, and transmits the tympanic branch of the in- ternal maxillary artery. At its inner end is a subdivision, the canal of Huguier, which transmits the chorda tympani nerve. The posterior part, which belongs to the petrous portion, lodges a portion of the parotid gland. Finally, the border is curved, thin, and sharp, and bevelled at the expense of its inner table except before, where it is thick, stout, and bevelled at the expense of its outer table. It is serrated, and articulates with the sphenoid before, the parie- tal above, and joins the mastoid portion behind to form the parietal notch. The petrous portion is a very dense pyramid that pro- jects obliquely toward the center of the base of the skull, and presents three surfaces, as many borders, a base, and an apex. The anterior surface assists in the formation of the floor of the middle cranial fossa. From apex to base it shows:— (1) Internal carotid foramen, from which emerges the internal carotid artery with its surrounding sympathetic plexus. (2) Trigeminal depression, just above the carotid canal, for lodgment of the Gasserian ganglion.THE BONES 212 (3) Hiatus Fallopii, a slit-like opening continued for- ward as a groove for the great superficial petrosal nerve and petrosal branch of the middle meningeal artery. (4) Hiatus accessorius, external to the latter, from which emerges the small superficial petrosal nerve. Both of these hiatuses lead from the aquaeductus Fallopii. (5) Eminentia arcuata, near the center, which overlies the superior semicircular canal. (6) Tegmen tympani (roof of the tympanum), before and external to the latter, a depressed plate of bone that roofs over the tympanum. The posterior surface assists in the formation of the floor of .the posterior cranial fossa, and shows:— (1) Internal auditory meatus, an oblique opening that leads into the internal auditory canal, at the bottom of which is a vertical plate, the lamina cribrosa. The canal transmits the internal auditory artery, the facial nerve, the pars intermedia, and the auditory nerve, and will be de- scribed more in detail with the internal ear. (2) Floccular fossa, best seen in young bones, an ir- regular depression above and external to the internal audi- tory meatus which lodges a process of dura mater, and which may transmit a small vein into the bone. (3) Aquaeductus vestibuli, behind, below, and external to the internal auditory meatus. A narrow fissure over- hung by a thin edge of bone leads into the aquaeductus vesti- buli. The latter contains the ductus endolymphaticus, whose blind extremity, the saccus endolymphaticus, occu- pies the narrow fissure. The inferior surface, rough, and irregular, assists in the formation of the base of the skull. From apex to base it shows:— (1) Rough area, quadrilateral in shape, for origins of the levator palati and tensor tympani. (2) External carotid foramen, which leads into the internal carotid canal. The latter arches upward, forward, and inward to the internal carotid foramen. (3) Aquaeductus cochleae, internal to the external car- otid foramen. A V-shaped depression here leads into the aquaeductus cochleae. The latter will be described more in detail with the internal ear.213 TEMPORAL BONE (4) Jugular fossa, a deep depression that lodges the bulb of the internal jugular vein and helps form the jugular foramen. (5) Canaliculus auricularis, on the outer wall of the jugular fossa, for the auricular branch (Arnold’s nerve) of the vagus. (6) Canaliculus tympanicus, on the ridge between the external carotid foramen and the jugular fossa, for the tym- panic branch (Jacobson’s nerve) of the glossopharyngeal. (7) Jugular surface, a smooth, quadrilateral area be- hind and external to the jugular fossa, for articulation with the jugular process of the occipital. (8) Vaginal process, the lower border of the tympanic plate, which gives partial origin to the tensor palati. It extends from the external carotid foramen backward, and then splits to enclose the styloid process in two laminae. The outer lamina is continuous with the auditory process, and the inner with the jugular process. (9) Styloid process, a pillar-like, tapering projection of bone about an inch long, that springs from, and is en- sheathed by, the vaginal process. It gives origin to the styloglossus, stylopharyngeus, and stylohyoideus, and at- tachment to the stylohyoid and stylomaxillary ligaments. (10) Stylomastoid foramen, just behind the styloid process. It is the external opening of the aquaeductus Fal- lopii, and transmits the facial nerve and the stylomastoid artery. (11) Auricular fissure, situated between the tympanic plate and the mastoid process, through which the auricular branch (Arnold’s nerve) of the vagus escapes. Of the borders, the superior is the longest, is grooved for the superior petrosal sinus, gives attachment to the ten- torium cerebelli, and is notched near the apex for the tri- geminal nerve. It separates the anterior from the posterior surface. The posterior border shows from apex to base:— (1) Articular area, rough and serrated, for the basilar process of the occipital. (2) Half-groove, made whole by the apposition of a corresponding one on the occipital bone. The completed groove lodges the inferior petrosal sinus. (3) Aquaeductus cochleae, part of its lower opening.THE BONES 214 (4) Jugular fossa, the anterior component of the jug- ular foramen. (5) Jugular surface for the jugular process of the occi- pital. These last three features are more extensive on the inferior surface, where they were described. (6) Groove for the sigmoid portion of the lateral sinus. The anterior border is the shortest and shows from apex toward base:— (1) Irregular edge, the posterior boundary of the fora- men lacerum. (2) Rough area for the spinous process of the sphen- oid. (3) Attached part continuous with the squamous por- tion. This line of fusion corresponds to the petrosquamous suture, indications of which may persist. (4) Canalis musculotubarius, at the apex of the acute angle between the anterior parts of the squamous and pe- trous portions. It resembles a double-barrelled shotgun, the partition between the barrels being the processus coch- leariformis. The upper canal (“musculo”) lodges the ten- sor tympani. The lower canal (“tubarius”) is larger, and corresponds to the bony part of the Eustachian tube. The base of the petrous portion is annectant above for the internal surfaces of the squamous and mastoid portions. It is exposed below, where, with the tympanic plate, it forms the bony part of the external auditory meatus. The tym- panic plate forms the anterior wall, floor, and part of the posterior wall of this meatus, while the remainder of the pos- terior wall and roof are formed by the squamous portion. The auditory process is the broad, rough margin of the tympanic plate, and gives attachment to the pinna. The suprameatal spine is a low ledge of bone between the meatus and the supramastoid crest. The apex occupies most of the interval between the posterior border of the greater wing of the sphenoid and the basilar process of the occipital. The rest of this interval corresponds to the foramen lacerum. Opening into the lat- ter is the internal carotid foramen, the termination of the internal carotid canal. The internal structure of the petrous portion will be described with the ear.TEMPORAL DONE 215 The mastoid portion, rough and convex, is formed by the squamous portion before and by the base of the petrous portion behind, and presents two surfaces. The external surface is rough for origin of the occipitalis and auricularis posterior. It shows from before backward:— (1) Mastoid process, a conical tongue-shaped projec- tion that is rough for origin of the sternomastoid, trachelo- mastoid and for insertion of the splenius capitis. On sec- tion, the mastoid process is honeycombed by pneumatic cells. (2) Digastric fossa, which would be obliterated were the mastoid process sawn off. It gives origin to the pos- terior belly of the digastric. (3) Occipital groove, which lodges the occipital artery. (4) Auricular fissure, already described on the inferior surface of the petrous portion. (5) External mastoid foramen, inconstant, but when present is near the occipitomastoid suture. It transmits the mastoid emissary vein from the sigmoid sinus to the scalp, and the mastoid branch of the occipital artery. The internal surface shows:— (1) Sigmoid fossa, a gutter that lodges the sigmoid portion of the lateral sinus. (2) Internal mastoid foramen, on the floor of the sig- moid fossa. (3) Impressions, produced by cerebellum. Of the three parts of which the temporal is composed at birth, the squamous and tympanic develop in membrane and the petrous in cartilage. The former are ossified from one center for each. The latter is ossified from four centers thus:— (1) Prootic (before the ear), which forms the upper parts of the petrous and mastoid portions, covers in part of the cochlea, the vestibule and the internal auditory meatus, completes the fenestra vestibuli, and invests the superior semicircular canal. (2) Opisthotic (behind the ear), which forms the re- maining lower part of the petrous, including the floor of the vestibule, the lower part of the fenestra vestibuli and the fenestra cochleae, and the remainder of the internal aud- itory meatus.216 THE BONES (3) Epiotic (upon the ear), which forms the lower part of the mastoid portion. The mastoid process begins to de- velop in the second year, and its pneumatic cells form dur- ing the growth of the child. (4) Pterotic (wing of ear), which forms the tegmen tympani and covers in the external semicircular canal. These four parts join each other before birth, and the squamous in the first year. The styloid process is ossified from two centers that appear in the dorsal end of the cartilage of the second vis- ceral arch. Its base appears before birth and rapidly joins the petrous portion, being encircled by the vaginal process. This part is the tympanohyal of comparative anatomy. The rest of the styloid process ossifies from a center that appears at, or after, birth. This part is the stylohyal of comparative anatomy. The tympanohyal and stylohyal usually anky- lose later in life. Sometimes the stylohyoid ligament un- dergoes ossification, producing in such cases the epihyal bone of comparative anatomy, this ligament being naturally osseous in many animals. In some colored races and in nearly all Monkeys the temporal bone articulates with the frontal. In Caucasians and the Howling Monkey this articulation seldom exists. Sphenoid Bone. The sphenoid (wedge-like) lies athwart the base of the skull, just in front of its middle, and is wedged in between all the other bones of the cranium. Comparing it to a bat with extended wings, it presents a body, greater wings, les- ser wings, and pterygoid processes (legs of bat). The body, cuboidal and hollow, presents six surfaces. The superior shows:—• (1) Ethmoidal spine before, which articulates with the horizontal plate of the ethmoid. (2) Longitudinal eminence, in mid-line. (3) Longitudinal depression, on each side of latter, for olfactory tract. (4) Transverse ridge, the anterior border of the (5) Optic groove, situated before and below the optic commissure.SPHENOID BONE 217 (6) Olivary eminence, the posterior border of the lat- ter. (7) Pituitary fossa (sella turcica, or Turkish saddle) which lodges the circular sinus and the pituitary body. (8) Middle clinoid (bedpost-like) processes, one on each side of the fore-part of the pituitary fossa, for attach- ment of tentorium cerebelli. They may be poorly marked. (9) Dorsum sellae (back of the saddle), a quadrate plate that bounds the pituitary fossa posteriorly. (10) Posterior clinoid processes, one at each upper corner of the latter, for attachment of the tentorium cere- belli. (11) Clivus (slope), the sloping posterior surface of the dorsum sellae, continuous with the basilar process of the oc- cipital bone, upon which rests the pons. The anterior surface shows:— (1) Ethmoidal ridge, which descends vertically in the mid-line and articulates with the vertical plate of the eth- moid. (2) Foramina, one on each side of the latter, which lead into the sphenoidal sinuses. The latter, two in num- ber and separated by a perpendicular partition, have com- pletely excavated the body of the bone, leaving only a thin shell. They communicate through the foramina with the superior meatuses of the nose. They are not developed in young subjects. Their relation to the internal carotid ar- tery, circular sinus and optic nerves must be borne in mind in operations upon this sinus. (3) Serrated edge, at each lateral margin of this sur- face, for articulation with the lamina papyracea of the eth- moid, thus completing the posterior ethmoidal cells. The lower margin is rough and serrated for articulation with the posterior surface of the orbital process of the palate. The inferior surface shows:— (1) Rostrum, a triangular spine in the mid-line that is continuous with the ethmoidal ridge, and is received be- tween the alae of the vomer. (2) Pterygopalatine groove, close to the root of each pterygoid process, converted into a canal when the sphen- oidal process of the palate is in situ. This canal transmits the pterygopalatine vessels and nerve. It leads from the218 THE BONES base of the skull into the sphenomaxillary fossa. It is bounded above by the inferior surface of the body of the sphenoid; externally, by the vaginal plate of the pterygoid process; and internally by the ala of the vomer. The posterior surface shows a sectioned surface of cancellous bone, where the sphenoid has been sawn from the occipital. When in situ, this surface is connected with the basilar process of the occipital, in young subjects by cartil- age, and in older ones by bone. The dorsum sellae, clivus, and posterior clinoid processes, described with the superior surface, are also visible from this aspect. Each lateral surface shows:— (1) Junction, between the greater wing and the body. (2) Lingula, a slender ridge of bone that projects back- ward from the junction just mentioned. ■ (3) Carotid groove, whose outer lip corresponds be- hind to the lingula. It lodges the internal carotid artery and the cavernous sinus. (4) Middle clinoid process, visible from this aspect, but already described with the superior surface. Each lesser wing, which forms the posterior part of the anterior cranial fossa, springs by two roots from the upper, outer, and fore-part of the body of the sphenoid, and pro- jects horizontally outward as a flattened triangular plate that tapers rapidly to a sharp apex. The superior root, broad and compressed, is continuous with the fore-part of the superior surface of the body. The inferior root, short and round, springs from the body at the outer end of the olivary eminence. The optic foramen is situated between the two roots, and transmits the optic nerve and ophthalmic artery. The anterior margin is serrated for articulation with the horizontal plate of the frontal. The posterior margin is free, smooth, and rounded, and terminates inter- nally in a recurved angle that forms the anterior clinoid process, already described with the superior surface of the body. This margin separates the anterior from the middle cranial fossa, and is received into the Sylvian fissure of the cerebrum. The superior surface is smooth, and is marked by the orbital gyri of the frontal lobe of the cerebrum. The inferior surface is in relation with the orbital cavity, and219 SPHENOID BONE overhangs the sphenoidal fissure, which separates it from the greater wing. Each greater wing, arising from the lateral surface of the body in common with the pterygoid process, diverges from the latter and projects outward and upward. It presents three surfaces and a circumference. The cerebral surface is concave, is indented by the gyri of the temporal lobe of the cerebrum, and forms part of the middle cranial fossa. It is in relation with the sphenoidal fissure, and perforated by several foramina:— (1) Sphenoidal fissure (foramen lacerum anterius) is a triangular cleft that separates the lesser from the greater wing and leads from the middle cranial fossa into the orbit. It is bounded above by the lesser wing; below, by the in- ternal margin of the orbital surface of the greater wing; and internally, by the lateral surface of the body of the sphenoid. It transmits the third, fourth, ophthalmic divi- sion of the fifth and sixth cranial nerves, the ophthalmic vein, the orbital branch of the middle meningeal artery, a recurrent dural branch from the lacrimal artery, and some branches from the cavernous plexus of the sympathetic. (2) Foramen rotundum, a circular aperture that per- forates the anterointernal corner of the cerebral surface and transmits the maxillary division of the fifth cranial nerve from the middle cranial to the sphenomaxillary fossa. It is separated from the hinder angle of the sphenoidal fissure by a compressed bar of bone. (3) Foramen ovale, an elongated aperture behind and to the outer side of the foramen rotundum, which transmits the mandibular division of the fifth cranial nerve, the small meningeal artery, and emissary veins from the cavernous sinus to the pterygoid plexus of veins. Its long axis is di- rected forward and inward, and measures nearly a quarter of an inch. It leads from the middle cranial into the zygo- matic fossa. (4) Foramen Vesalii, an inconstant aperture that per- forates the root of the greater wing to the inner side of the anterior end of the foramen ovale, and transmits a small emissary vein from the cavernous sinus to the pterygoid plexus.THE BONES 220 (5) Foramen spinosum, a circular aperture external to the hinder end of the foramen ovale, which perforates the spinous process of the sphenoid and transmits the middle meningeal artery and its companion vein, and a recurrent branch from the mandibular division of the fifth cranial nerve. I he orbital surface, smooth and quadrate, contributes to the outer wall of the orbit. Its superior border is serrated for articulation with the horizontal and vertical plates of the frontal. Its internal border contributes to the circumference of the greater wing, and presents near its middle a small, pointed spine, for origin of the lower head of the external rectus. It also forms the lower boundary of the sphenoidal fissure. Its inferior border is rounded and constitutes the posterior and external boundary of the sphenomaxillary fis- sure. Its external border is serrated for articulation with the orbital process of the malar. The temporozygomatic surface is divided by the trans- verse pterygoid ridge into the upper, larger temporal sur- face, and the lower, smaller zygomatic surface. The tem- poral surface, which contributes to the temporal fossa, ar- ticulates by its anterior border, which corresponds to the external border of the orbital surface, with the orbital process of the malar; by its superior border, with the frontal bone and anterior inferior angle of the parietal; and by its posterior border, with the squamous portion of the temporal. Its inferior border corresponds to the temporal ridge. The zygomatic surface, which contributes to the zygomatic fossa, is bounded externally by the pterygoid ridge; before, by a rounded ridge; and behind by a serrated edge that ter- minates in the spinous process for articulation with the an- terior border of the petrous portion of the temporal and by a free margin that bounds the foramen lacerum anteriorly. The internal border is fused with the pterygoid process. Three foramina are visible from this aspect, namely,-—fora- men Vesalii, foramen ovale, and foramen spinosum. The sphenoidal spine of the greater wing is situated just behind and to the outer side of the foramen spinosum, and gives at- tachment to the sphenomandibular ligament and partial ori- gin to the tensor palati. The temporal surface gives partial origin to the temporal muscle, and the pterygoid ridge and221 SPHENOID BONE zygomatic surface give origin to the upper head of the ex- ternal pterygoid. The circumference of the greater wing has been de- scribed step by step above. Each pterygoid process descends vertically from the junction of the body and greater wing, and consists of two plates. The internal plate, narrower and longer, shows:— (1) Hamular process, the hook-like, outwardly-curv- ing lower extremity, around which turns the tendon of the tensor palati, and which gives partial origin to the superior constrictor. (2) Inner surface, smooth, and forms the outer boun- dary of the choana. (3) Vaginal plate, the inward extension of the in- ternal plate on to the inferior surface of the body, which ar- ticulates wit]} the ala of the vomer and the sphenoidal proc- ess of the palate. (4) Vidian canal, which perforates the base of the in- ternal plate just below the lingula, and transmits the Vidian artery and nerve between the foramen lacerum and the sphenomaxillary fossa. (5) Scaphoid fossa, on the posterior surface just be- low the Vidian canal, for partial origin of the tensor palati. (6) Pterygoid tubercle, at the inner end of the round- ed margin that separates the Vidian canal from the scaphoid fossa. The external plate, thin and expanded, passes obliquely backward and outward. Its outer surface forms part of the inner wall of the zygomatic fossa, and gives origin to the lower head of the external pterygoid. Its inner surface gives partial origin to the internal pterygoid, and forms the outer wall of the pterygoid fossa. The pterygoid fossa is the space formed by the divergence of the external from the internal plate, and lodges the internal pterygoid and tensor palati. It is bounded before by the junction of the anterior borders of the two plates. The pterygoid notch is an angu- lar gap between the lower parts of the pterygoid plates, and is occupied, with the bone in situ, by the tuberosity of the palate. The anterior surface of the pterygoid process forms, at its broad base, the posterior wall of the sphenomaxillary fossa, where it supports the sphenopalatine ganglion. It222 THE BONES shows above, the anterior orifice of the Vidian canal, and below, a rough margin for the vertical plate of the palate. The sphenoid develops in two separate parts that unite at the eighth month of fetal life. The presphenoid ossifies in cartilage from four centers, of which two give rise to the body in front of the olivary eminence, and the other two, each at the outer border of an optic foramen, give rise to the lesser wings. I he postsphenoid ossifies in cartilage with the exception of the internal pterygoid plates, which ossify in membrane. Two centers appear, each between the fora- mina rotundum et ovale of each side, and these spread out into the greater wings and external pterygoid plates. Two others, each on each side of the sella turcica, give rise to the body behind the olivary eminence. Two more appear for the lingulae. Two nuclei ossify the membrane that forms the internal pterygoid plates. The external pterygoid plate is large and strong in Ruminants, as in the Deer and the Ox, since it gives partial origin to the external pterygoid muscle, which is well-de- veloped in these animals from constant chewing of the cud. Parietal Bone. The parietal (wall) bones, interposed between the frontal before and the occipital behind, form a large portion of the sides and roof of the cranium. They together make the keystone of the arch which spans the brain. Irregu- larly quadrate and concavo-convex in form, each presents four angles, four borders, and two surfaces. Of the angles, the anterosuperior, almost a right angle, helps to form the anterior fontanelle (bregma) in the child. The anteroinferior, an acute angle, is prolonged downward into the angle between the greater wing of the sphenoid and the frontal, and is grooved internally by the anterior branch of the middle meningeal. It corresponds to the pterion (wing), where the frontal, parietal, sphenoid and occipital are closely related. The posterosuperior, an obtuse angle, helps form the posterior fontanelle (lambda) in the child. The posteroinferior, likewise an obtuse angle, fits into the parietal notch of the temporal bone. It is grooved internally by the lateral sinus. At its hinder part is the asterion (star).PARIETAL BONE 223 Of the borders, the anterior, bevelled at the expense of the outer table above and of the inner below, dovetails with the frontal to form the coronal suture. The superior, the longest, dovetails with the opposite parietal, with which it forms the sagittal suture. The posterior dovetails with the occipital, forming the lamboid suture. The inferior is divid- ed into three parts:—the anterior, thin and pointed, is over- lapped by the tip of the greater wing of the sphenoid; the middle, bevelled, like the anterior, at the expense of its outer table, and arched, is overlapped by the squamous portion .of the temporal; and the posterior, thick and serrated, dove- tails with the mastoid portion of the temporal. Of the two surfacesTthe external, convex and smooth, presents:— (1) Parietal eminence, an elevation near its center that marks the position of the primary ossific center and often corresponds to the point of maximum width of the head. (2) Parietal foramen, near the sagittal suture and about one inch from the posterosuperior angle, which trans- mits the parietal emissary vein from the superior sagittal sinus to the scalp and occasionally a small branch of the occipital artery. This foramen may be absent. (3) Obelion (a spit), the point on the sagittal suture between the parietal foramina. (4) Superior curved line, which crosses this surface just below its middle, more or less parallel to the inferior border, and affords attachment to the temporal fascia. (5) Temporal ridge, a half-inch or less below the su- perior curved line, defines the attachment of the temporal muscle. Between the line and the ridge the bone is more (6) Temporal fossa, below the temporal ridge, for polished than elsewhere, and is covered by the scalp, partial origin of the temporal muscle. Not the whole fossa, but the contribution of the parietal bone to its floor, a dis- tinction made by the term planum temporale. The internal surface, deeply concave, shows four kinds of impressions:— (1) Fossulae made by the gyri of the cerebrum. (2) Grooves that lodged branches of the middle men- ingeal artery.224 THE BONES (3) Sagittal sulcus which, with that of the opposite side, forms a channel for the superior sagittal sinus. The elevated edges of this sulcus afford attachment to the falx cerebri, a tense membrane that retains the sinus and sepa- rates the cerebral hemispheres. The internal opening of the parietal foramen is seen here. The imprint of the lateral sinus upon the internal aspect of the posteroinferior angle falls under this group of impressions. (4) Foveolae, small irregular pits along the sagittal sulcus which lodge the arachnoideal granulations (Pacchi- onian bodies). The parietal develops from membrane, and ossifies from a center that appears at a point corresponding to the parietal eminence in the seventh week of fetal life and spreads per- ipherally. Therefore, the angles are last to ossify, and when this occurs the fontanelles are obliterated. ^ A fontanelle (little fountain) is a membranous interval in the skull of the fetus permanently, and in that of the in- fant temporarily, left by unfinished ossification of the four angles of the parietals. They are so named because when one feels the pulsation of the brain through them it resem- bles the welling up of water in a spring. There are six. The anterior is a diamond-shaped space between the rounded angles of the parietals and frontals, and is obliterated by the fourth year. The posterior is a triangular space between the parietals and apex of the occipital, and is obliterated by a month or two after birth. Each anterolateral is situated at the anteroinferior angle of the parietal, and is obliterated by the second or third month after birth. Each posterolat- eral is situated at the posteroinferior angle of the parietal, and is completely obliterated when the child is one year old. The anterior fontanelle is the most important because it is the largest and last to close. It indicates to the accoucheur the position of the head of the child during birth, and acts as a safety valve for the rapidly varying intracranial pressure. It is interesting to note that the margins of each parietal are bevelled on alternate sides, so that the bone cannot be driven in without previous fracture. In Carnivora, conspicu- ous in the Tiger, the temporal muscles are attached to a dense median crest of bone, which represents the temporal ridges coalesced. In Elephants and Owls the outer and in-225 OCCIPITAL BONE ner tables of the parietals are separated by enormous pneu- matic cells. The great size of the parietals of man is very exceptional, and has direct relation to the monstrous devel- opment of his brain. In many Lizards they are represented by mere bars. Occipital Bone. The occipital (against the head) consists of a posterior portion which contributes to the back of the head, and a basilar portion, which helps form the base. The posterior portion is rhomboidal and somewhat simi- lar to a Gothic arch, and presents two surfaces, four borders^, and three angles. The external surface is convex and shows:— (1) External occipital protuberance, a tubercle situat- ed at about its center, which affords attachment to the liga- mentum nuchae, and corresponds to the inion (occiput). (2) External occipital crest, a median ridge which passes down from the latter to the foramen magnum, and likewise affords attachment to the ligamentum nuchae. (3) Superior curved line, a semicircular ridge that arches outward on each side from the external occipital pro- tuberance and affords attachment to the epicranial aponeu- rosis. The bone above this line is covered by the occipitalis. (4) Middle curved line, below the superior, arches out- ward from the same point to the lateral angle, and affords origin internally to the trapezius, and externally to the oc- cipitalis and part of the sternomastoid. The area between the superior and middle curved lines is covered by the oc- cipitalis. (5) Inferior curved line, a ridge that runs outward from the middle of the external occipital crest to the jugu- lar process. The area between the middle and inferior curved lines affords insertion to the complexus internally, and to the splenius capitis and superior oblique externally. The inferior curved line and the area below it afford insertion to the rectus capitis posticus major et minor. The occipital bone is thin and translucent here. The internal surface is deeply concave and shows:— (1) Internal occipital protuberance, a heaping up of the bone at a point opposite the external occipital protuberance. 15THE BONES 226 To one side (usually the right) of this is a wide space termed the torcular Herophili (wine-press of Herophilus), where five venous sinuses meet. (2) Cross, whose center corresponds to the internal occipital protuberance. The superior part of the vertical limb is grooved by the superior sagittal sinus, and the mar- gins of this groove give attachment to the falx cerebri. The inferior part of the vertical limb, termed the internal occipi- tal crest, is sharp for attachment of the falx cerebelli, and lodges the occipital sinus. Each lateral half of the trans- verse limb is deeply grooved by a lateral sinus, and the mar- gins of the groove give attachment to the tentorium cere- belli. (3) Fossae, four in number, formed by the cross. The two upper receive the occipital lobes of the cerebrum, im- prints of whose gyri are visible. The two lower, which are larger, receive the hemispheres of the cerebellum. All are marked by shallow arterial grooves. Of the four borders, the two upper lateral extend on each side from the superior to the inferior angle, dovetail with the parietals, and thus form the lambdoid (like the Greek letter A) suture. The two lower lateral extend on each side from the lateral angle to the jugular process, and dove- tail with the mastoid portions of the temporals. Of the three angles, the superior is acute, and fits in be- tween the posterior borders of the parietals. This point, where the sagittal and lambdoid sutures meet, is termed the lambda. The lateral angles are situated at the outer ends of the transverse limb of the cross, are obtuse, and each is re- ceived into the retiring angle formed by the posterior border of the parietal bone and mastoid portion of the temporal. The basilar portion is situated in a plane perpendicular to that of the posterior portion, and presents two surfaces and three borders. The inferior surface shows:— (1) Condyles, two kidney-shaped, converging proc- esses of bone that depend from the anterior quadrants of the foramen magnum and articulate with the superior facets on the lateral masses of the atlas. Their margins give at- tachment to the capsular ligaments, and on the inner side of each is a prominent tubercle for the check ligament. (2) Posterior condyloid foramen, which leads up-227 OCCIPITAL BONE ward, forward, and outward from the bottom of a depres- sion behind each condyle, and transmits the posterior condy- loid emissary vein from the lateral sinus to the vertebral veins. This foramen and its vein are very inconstant. The depression itself is the condyloid fossa, which receives the hinder edge of the superior facet of the atlas during exten- sion of the head. (3) Anterior condyloid foramen, which perforates the base of each condyle on its fore and outer aspect, and passes upward, backward, and inward. It transmits the hypoglos- sal nerve, a meningeal branch of the ascending pharyngeal artery, and the anterior condyloid emissary vein, which communicates with the inferior petrosal sinus and the ver- tebral vein. It is sometimes double. (4) Jugular process, a quadrate projection that juts transversely outward from the hinder end of the condyle. Its anterior border forms the posterior component of the jugular foramen. Its upper surface is grooved by the lateral sinus, and shows the inner opening of the posterior condy- loid foramen. Its lower surface affords insertion to the rec- tus capitis lateralis, and attachment to the lateral occipito- atlantal ligament. Its outer surface is rough, and articulates with the jugular surface on the posterior border of the petrous portion of the temporal. (5) Pharyngeal spine, situated mesially on the inferior surface of the basilar portion, which affords insertion to the superior constrictor and attachment to a fibrous band that joins the pharyngeal aponeurosis. Just before this spine there is frequently the shallow scaphoid fossa, which orig- inally received the primitive anterior extremity of the fore- gut. (6) Impressions, on each side of the pharyngeal spine, rough for insertions of the rectus capitis anticus major et minor. The superior surface shows the basilar groove, continu- ous with the clivus of the dorsum sellae of the sphenoid, and upon this rests the bulb. Of the three borders, the anterior shows a sectional sur- face of cancellous bone, where the occipital has been sawn from the sphenoid. When in situ, this surface is connected with the posterior surface of the body of the sphenoid, in228 THE BONES young subjects by cartilage, and in older ones by bone. Each lateral surface presents from before backward:— (1) Articular area, rough and serrated, for articula- tion with a similar area on the posterior border of the petrous portion of the temporal. (2) Smooth area, the inner component of the jugular foramen, continuous with the anterior border of the jugular process. (3) Jugular process, already described with the infer- ior surface (q. v. 4). The foramen magnum is the opening through which the posterior cranial fossa and the spinal canal communicate. Oval in shape, and with its long axis in the sagittal plane, it encroaches upon the basilar portion of the occipital be- fore, and the posterior portion behind, whilst its greatest transverse diameter corresponds to the junction of these two portions. It is of practical use in that it indicates the junction between the spinal cord and bulb. It transmits the bulb with its membranes, the accessory nerves, the ver- tebral arteries, the anterior and posterior spinal vessels, and the occipitoaxial ligaments. Around the edge of the foramen magnum the dura mater of the brain and cord are firmly attached. The occipital is ossified by seven centers. The pos- • terior portion is ossified from four, one appearing at the bottom of each fossa about the eighth week of fetal life. Of these, the upper two are deposited in membrane, the lower two in cartilage, and the four parts coalesce rapidly near the future occipital protuberance. Now and then the upper two join across the mid-line and form a bone that remains permanently isolated. This is the interparietal bone, or os incae, so called because of its frequency in the Inca tribe of Peruvian Indians. The basilar portion is ossified by three centers—one for the basilar process, and one for each of the condyles. The derivatives of the four upper centers unite about the fourth year; those of the three lower about the fifth; and the two parts thus formed join as the single occipital bone about the sixth year. The posterior portion of the occipital of man is rela- tively large. But in the Cetacea as well as in the Elephant its relative as well as absolute size is enormous. The faint229 ETHMOID BONE curved lines of the human occiput are feeble representatives of, for example, the enormous lambdoidal ridge of the Go- rilla. In the Ox, horns spring from this ridge. The prom- inence of the external occipital protuberance and external occipital crest in Quadrupeds varies directly as the extent of the development of the ligamentum nuchae which supports the head, and is usually in propor- tion to the weight of the head and its appendages. This is illustrated in the head of the Deer, Tiger, and Ele- phant. The os incae is often distinct in Rodents. The basilar portion is unfavorably influenced in its development by aquatic habit. Thus, it is absent in Batrachians, rudi- mentary in some of the Cetacea, and often imperfectly ossi- fied in Seals. But one occipital condyle is present in Birds and Reptiles. The outer and inner tables of the occipital bone of the Elephant are separated by large pneumatic cells. The foramen magnum is situated somewhat behind the mid- dle in negroes, approaching its posterior position in the Anthropoid Ape. Ethmoid Bone. The ethmoid (sieve-like), cubical in form, light and del- icate in texture, is situated at the anterior part of the base of the cranium, and contributes to the floor of the anterior cranial fossa. It presents a horizontal plate, a vertical plate, and two labyrinths. The horizontal plate (cribriform plate) connects the labyrinths with the vertical plate like the cross limb of a T. It presents:— (1) Crista galli (cock’s comb), a smooth, thick, trian- gular crest, highest before and sloping behind, which is a continuation of the vertical plate above the horizontal, and to which is attached, behind, the falx cerebri. The anterior border of the crista galli is flattened transversely, as though by a mallet, into two alae, which are received into corre- sponding depressions in the frontal. (2) Foramen cecum, a blind canal formed by articula- tion of the alae with the frontal, which lodges a process of falx cerebri. When not blind but patent, it transmits an emissary vein from the superior sagittal sinus to the nose.THE BONES 230 (3) Slit, elongated and narrow, on each side of the fore part of the crista galli, for passage of the nasal branch of the ophthalmic division of the trigeminal nerve. (4) Olfactory grooves, one on each side of the crista galli, for lodgment of the olfactory bulbs. (5) Olfactory foramina, perforating the floor of each groove. About twenty on each side, they transmit the ax- ones of the olfactory cells to the olfactory bulb. Arranged so as to resemble a sieve, they confer the term “cribriform” upon this plate. They are arranged in three rows, of which the outer leads to grooves upon the inner surface of the su- perior turbinate; the middle, the smallest, leads to the under surface of the horizontal plate; and the inner, the largest, is continuous with grooves upon the vertical plate. (6) Ethmoidal notches, anterior and posterior, along the outer edges of the horizontal plate. When articulated with the horizontal plate of the frontal, these are converted into foramina. The latter will be described with the former. (7) Triangular notch, behind, which articulates with the ethmoidal spine of the body of the sphenoid. The vertical plate is a thin sheet of bone most of which forms the upper third of the nasal septum. It is continu- ous with the crista galli, so that the two plates intersect each other at right angles. Its anterosuperior border ar- ticulates with the nasal spine of the frontal, and median crest formed by the nasals. Its anteroinferior border unites with the septal cartilage of the nose. Its posterosuperior border articulates with the ethmoidal ridge of the body of the sphenoid. Its posteroinferior border articulates with the anterior border of the vomer. Its surfaces, right and left, are channelled above by short, shallow grooves that lead to the inner row of olfactory foramina. This plate is usually deflected to one or other side. Seen in cross-section, it is shaped like a dagger (t), of which the handle corre- sponds to the crista galli, the guard to the horizontal plate, and the blade to the remainder of the vertical plate. The labyrinths depend from the horizontal plate like saddle-bags from a saddle. Each is honeycombed by num- erous irregular pneumatic cells, whose walls are of papery bone and lined by mucous membrane continuous with that of the nose. These ethmoidal cells, situated between the231 ETHMOID BONE external and internal surfaces of each labyrinth, are ar- ranged in two sets—an anterior and a posterior, the walls of which have been broken before, above, behind, and below during disarticulation. With the bone in situ, however, the cells are all enclosed except where they communicate with the nasal fossae. The two sets often intercommuni- cate. The ethmoidal cells are closed before, by the lacrimal and nasal process of the maxilla; above by the horizontal plate of the frontal; behind, by the body of the sphenoid in the upper part, and by the orbital process of the palate in the lower part; and below, by the orbital surface of the max- illa. These constitute the four articular surfaces of each cuboidal labyrinth. Of the two non-articular surfaces, the external (lamina papyracea) contributes to the inner wall of the orbit, and closes the ethmoidal cells externally. The internal surface, more extensive and less regular than the external, contrib- utes materially to the outer wall of the nasal fossa, and closes the ethmoidal cells internally. It presents from above and behind downward and forward:— (1) Superior turbinate, a scroll of thin bone channelled by grooves that lead to the outer row of olfactory foramina. (2) Superior meatus, a narrow, oblique fissure between the superior and middle turbinates, into which open the sphenoidal and posterior ethmoidal pneumatic cells. The sphenoidal pneumatic cell communicates with the superior meatus through the sphenoethmoidal recess. (3) Middle turbinate, a thin lamella of bone that de- scends from the under and fore part of the horizontal plate, and terminates in a thickened, free convoluted border. Ir is nearly twice the length of the superior. It articulates with the superior turbinated crest on the internal surface of the vertical plate of the palate. (4) Middle meatus, bounded above by the outwardly- curved middle turbinate, and below by the inferior turbinate, which is a separate bone. Into this meatus open, via hiatus semilunaris, the frontal and anterior ethmoidal pneumatic spaces, and, with the bone in situ, the maxillary sinus. The hiatus semilunaris is the crescentic cleft that is bounded be- fore by the uncinate process and behind by the ethmoidal bulla. It begins above at the infundibulum, or ostium front-232 THE BONES ale, where it communicates with the frontal pneumatic space, and terminates below after receiving the openings of the pneumatic spaces as already mentioned. The uncinate pro- cess is an irregular, hook-like lamina that curves down- ward, backward, and somewhat outward from the fore part of the roof of the middle meatus. It bounds the hiatus semilunaris before, helps close in the maxillary antrum, and articulates below with the ethmoidal process of the inferior turbinate. The ethmoidal bulla is the conspicuous, rounded bulging of the ethmoidal wall that bounds the hiatus semi- lunaris behind. The ethmoid is developed from cartilage and ossified by three centers. In the fourth month of fetal life a center ap- pears in each labyrinth in the lamina papyracea, and extends into the superior and middle turbinates. Within a year after birth the third center appears and ossifies the vertical plate (including its crista galli) and the mesial part of the horizontal plate. The remainder of the latter plate is ossi- fied by the center for the labyrinth. The three parts coal- esce to form the single ethmoid about the sixth year. The ethmoidal cells are rudimentary in the seventh month fetus, but true bony cells do not develop until the third year. Opin- ions differ as to whether the ethmoidal cells are formed by absorption. Some claim that the walls of these cells are complete at birth. The ethmoid is absent in Serpents. In the Frog it helps form the os en ceinture (girdle-bone), which resembles a dice-box with a vertical partition at one end. The horizon- tal plate is absent in the Porpoise, which probably possesses no sense of smell, but is enormous in the Echidna. In Croc- odiles, Lizards, and osseous Fishes the labyrinths are dis- tinct bones, the prefrontals, and in some Chameleons they are prolonged into two great bony horns that project for- ward from the muzzle. The ethmoidal cells are larger and more complex in the Dog and many other Mammals, but are abortive in the Porpoise. The superior turbinate is fre- quently subdivided, so that an additional upper one is pres- ent, the supreme turbinate. This is often the case in ne- groes, in whom the sense of smell is acute. The uncinate process and ethmoidal bulla represent rudimentary turbin- ates. The superior turbinate, covered, like the upper partMAXILLA 233 of the nasal septum, by mucous membrane that contains the peripherally-situated olfactory neurones, is concerned with the sense of smell, and is well developed in the Deer, for the purpose of detecting and avoiding its enemies, as well as in Carnivora, that they may trail their prey. The middle and inferior turbinates, particularly the latter, are covered by mucous membrane that contains large vascular spaces, sim- ilar in structure to the corpora cavernosa of the penis. I his serves the purpose of warming the inspired air. In the Seal, which breathes the icy air of the Arctic regions, each infer- ior turbinate subdivides into a number of plates, so that an area of about 120 square inches of spongy mucous mem- brane in each nostril is available for warming the inspired air. Maxilla. The maxilla (jaw-bone) is a paired bone that forms the center of the facial skeleton. The two unite to form the upper jaw. Each consists of a body and four processes. The body is shaped like a pyramid, whose base largely forms the outer wall of the nose, and whose apex (malar process) corresponds to the prominence of the cheek. It has, in addition, three surfaces, of which the anterior (facial) shows:— (1) Incisive fossa, just above the cutting teeth and in front of tRe canine, for origin of the compressor naris and depressor alae nasi. (2) Canine eminence, a vertical ridge just behind the incisive fossa that corresponds to the socket of the canine tooth. It separates the incisive from the canine fossa. (3) Canine fossa, just behind and above the canine emi- nence, for origin of the levator anguli oris. (4) Infraorbital foramen, just above the canine fossa. It is the external opening of the infraorbital canal, which transmits the infraorbital vessels and nerve. (5) Ridge, overlying the infraorbital foramen, for par- tial origin of the levator labii superioris. It is part of the margin of the orbit. The superior (orbital) surface, smooth and plane, is tri- angular, and contributes to the floor of the orbit. At its234 THE BONES anterointernal corner it presents a depression for origin of the inferior oblique. Its inner margin articulates with the lacrimal bone before, where it presents the lacrimal notch, the beginning of the nasolacrimal canal; with the lamina papyracea of the ethmoid in the middle; and with the orbital process of the palate behind. Its external margin, smooth and rounded, forms the anterior boundary of the spheno- maxillary fissure, and is notched by the beginning of the infraorbital groove. Its anterior margin connects the nasal process internally with the malar process externally. The su- perior surface is channelled in the middle by the infraorbital groove, which conducts the vessels and nerve oTthe same name trom the sphenomaxillary fossa to the face via infra- orbital canal and foramen. The groove deepens as it passes forward and finally becomes closed in to form the canal. The posterior (zygomatic) surface is convex and helps form the zygomatic fossa. It is separated from the anterior sur- face by the malar process, and shows:— (1) Posterior dental canals, whose several apertures are about the center of this surface. They transmit the ves- sels and nerves of the same name to the molar teeth. (2) Tuberosity of maxilla, a rounded eminence at the posteroinferTor angIe”oTTins surface, whose prominence is increased by eruption of the third molar. It is rough for partial origin of the internal pterygoid, and articulates in- ternally with the tuberosity of the palate, with which it forms the posterior palatine canal for the anterior palatine nerve and descending palatine artery. (3) Smooth surface, just above the tuberosity, which forms the anterior wall of the sphenomaxillary fossa. The base (internal surface) largely forms the outer wall of the nose, and shows :— (i) Maxillary hiatus, which leads into the maxillary sinus. It is not nearly so large in the articulated skull, be- ing partially filled in by the maxillary process of the palate, the uncinate process of the ethmoid, the maxillary process of the inferior turbinate, and the descending process of the lacrimal. And in the recent state it is still further re- duced by a fold of nasal mucous membrane until, from ad- mitting a finger-tip in the disarticulated bone, it becomes a small, round aperture of sufficient size, only, to admit a crow-235 MAXILLA quill. It is through this diminished aperture that the max- illary sinus communicates with the middle meatus. (2) Lacrimal groove, immediately in front of the max- illary hiatus, which passes from the lacrimal notch on the inner margin of the superior surface of the body downward, backward, and outward to the inferior meatus. It is con- verted into the nasolacrimal canal by the lacrimal and infer- ior turbinate. This canal lodges the nasolacrimal duct, which conveys tears from the eye to the nose. (3) Inferior turbinated crest, which ridges horizontally the smootli surface in front of the lacrimal groove, and af- fords attachment to the anterior part of the superior border of the inferior turbinate. The area above this crest extends on to the nasal process and forms the wall of the atrium of the middle meatus. The area below belongs to the outer wall of the inferior meatus. The apex ^corresponds to the malar process. The nasal process ascends nearly perpendicularly from the upper and fore part of the body, in a line with the canine eminence, and presents two surfaces and three borders. The external surface, concave and smooth, is continuous with the anterior surface of the body, and gives partial origin to the levator labii superioris alaeque nasi, orbicularis palpe- brarum, and attachment to the internal palpebral liga- ment. The internal surface contributes to the wall of the atrium of the middle meatus, and is crossed obliquely from below upward and backward by the superior turbinated crest, which articulates with the middle turbinate. The anterior border articulates by a serrated edge with the ex- ternal border of the nasal. The posteriory border articulates with the lacrimal, and deepens the lacrimal groove. The superior border articulates with the frontal. The lacrimal tubercle is situated on a ridge, the anterior lacrimal crest, that connects the anterior margin of the superior surface of the body with the posterior border of the nasal process, and helps bound the nasolacrimal canal externally. It ar- ticulates with the lacrimal hamulus. The malar process, triangular in shape, corresponds to the apex of the pyramidal body of the maxilla. Above, it is continuous with the superior surface of the body, but in- stead of being smooth, it is rough, and its edges serrated, forTHE BONES 236 articulation with the maxillary process of the malar. Its anterior and posterior surfaces, continuous with correspond- ing surfaces on the body, meet interiorly in an arched bor- der. This fuses with the alveolar process opposite the first molar tooth, and separates the anterior surface of the body from the posterior. From it, part of the masseter derives origin. The alveolar process projects from the inferior surface of the body below the level of the palate process. Thick and crescentic in shape and spongy in texture, it is hollowed out into sockets which correspond in number, form, and depth to the roots of the teeth they embrace. For the tem- porary teeth there are five sockets in each process, but for the permanent, usually eight. When any or all of the per- manent teeth are shed, the socket or sockets become ab- sorbed, so that it is possible for the alveolar process to dis- appear. In this case the maxilla again approaches the in- fantile condition, in which the antero-posterior is greater than the vertical diameter. From the outer surface of the alveolar process, behind the first molar, the buccinator takes partial origin. The palate process, slightly arched from before back- ward and thicker before than behind, projects horizontally inward from the junction of the body and alveolar process and, with its fellow of the opposite side, forms the anterior three-fourths of the hard palate, the posterior fourth being completed by the palate bone. It presents two surfaces and two borders. The superior surface, smooth and concave, helps form the floor of the nasal fossa. The inferior surface, vaulted and uneven, is rough and pitted for the glands of the mucous membrane of the roof of the mouth, and is chan- nelled externally by a groove that passes forward from the posterior palatine foramen and conveys from the latter the anterior palatine nerve and descending palatine artery to the palate and gum. When the two palate processes are artic- ulated, one sees:— (1) Intermaxillary suture, in the mid-line. The ap- proximated mesial borders project into a ridge superiorly, the nasal crest, which receives the lower border of the vomer in a groove. In front of the vomer the nasal crest risesMAXILLA 237 into the incisor crest, which juts forth anteriorly into a pointed projection, the anterior nasal spine. (2) Anterior palatine foramen, at the fore part of the intermaxillary suture, just behind the incisor teeth. Lead- ing into this foramen from above are four smaller foramina. Of these, two (foramina of Scarpa) are situated in the line of the intermaxillary suture, one behind the other. The anterior transmits the left nasopalatine nerve, and the pos- terior the right. These relations are similar to those of the vagi nerves to the surfaces of the stomach, since after ro- tation of that organ the left vagus lies anterior, and the right posterior. The remaining two foramina (of Stenson) are situated on either side of the intermaxillary suture, and lead to the corresponding nasal fossae. Their relation to the first two foramina is such, that a line connecting them would intersect at right angles a line connecting the first two. They transmit some terminal branches of the de- scending palatine arteries from the mouth to the nasal fos- sae, and lodge recesses of the nasal mucous membrane and remnants of Jacobson’s organ. The posterior border is ser- rated for articulation with the horizontal plate of the pal- ate. The mesial borders have been considered under (1). The maxillary sinus lies within the body of the bone, and is of corresponding pyramidal form. It is the largest of the pneumatic cells in the bones of the head, accommodat- ing a musket-ball with ease. Its inner wall is incomplete, and was described with the base of the pyramidal body (q. v. 1). It is lined by an extension of the nasal mucous mem- brane, and its opening into the middle meatus is at a higher level than its floor. Interiorly, it overlies the sockets of a variable number of teeth, but is usually confined in extent to the teeth of the true maxilla. Its remaining walls corre- spond to those that form the three surfaces of the body. Its anterior wall is traversed by a canal that leads the anterior superior dental nerve from the infraorbital canal to the in- cisor and canine teeth. Its outer wall conducts the middle superior dental nerve from the infraorbital groove to the premolars. The posterior dental canals have been described with the posterior surface of the body (q. v. 1). The angles and corners of the maxillary sinus are frequently groined by narrow ridges of bone.THE BONES 238 JjJLlAMrt l&Hfi • Each maxilla is developed in membrane, in the connec- i'r/ dive tissue about the superior and lateral boundaries of the 'oral cavity of the embryo. This tissue, be it remembered, . I is derived from the maxillary process of the first visceral \ arch, and from the frontonasal process. Ossification begins • fin the seventh fetal week, immediately following that of the clavicle and mandible, and proceeds so rapidly that the num- ber of independent centers is not accurately known, but is presumably five:— (1) Malar, for the bone outside the infraorbital canal. 7. (^) Maxillary, for the bone to the inner side of the in- fraorbital canal, the nasal process, and the wall of the sinus. * (3) Palatine, for the palate process behind the anterior palatine foramen, and the adjoining part o'f the nasal wall. y Nasal, for the bone between the nasal process and canine tooth. (5) Premaxillary, for the independent premaxillary bone, which forms the hard palate in front of the anterior palatine foramen, and lodges the incisor teeth. By the sixth fetal month these centers are well-advanced in union. The sinus appears as a shallow depression on the base at about the fourth month and gradually extends, but does not attain its full growth until after the second dentition. The alve- olar sockets are formed by the downgrowth of two plates from the dental groove, with the subsequent appearance of partitions. The premaxilla is the portion of the upper jaw in front of the anterior palatine foramen, and between the original premaxillary sutures which, readily seen in young skulls, pass obliquely forward and outward from the anterior pala- tine foramen to the interval between the lateral incisor and canine teeth of each side. It includes the entire thickness of the alveolus, the corresponding part of the floor of the nose, and the anterior nasal spine, and contains the sockets of the incisor teeth. In most Vertebrates the premaxilla re- tains its independence. In man and Apes, however, it nor- mally fuses with the true maxilla. Failing such fusion, dou- ble alveolar hare-lip results. The premaxilla of man was first pointed out by the poet, Goethe. The maxilla aborts in the Siren and Myxinoids, is a mere filiform rudiment in the Siluroids, and in the lower239 FRONTAL BONE forms in general is relatively much smaller than in man. In the latter, the bone gives much character to the face. It acquires enormous size in Cetaceans. While stationary in man, in Parrots the maxilla is movable, possessing a broad, transverse articulation with the frontal. In Birds, the max- illa and premaxilla are prolonged forward, and when cov- ered with the appropriate horny material, constitute the upper half of the beak. In the Porcupine and some other Rodents the infraorbital foramen may be enlarged into an enormous aperture, which transmits part of the masseter. In the Elephant the premaxillary suture is visible. And in the Three-toed Sloth and in Serpents the premaxilla is per- manently separated from the true maxilla. Here there ex- ists normally that occasional abnormal arrest of develop- ment in man termed alveolar hare-lip. In the Narwhal a sharp spiral tusk springs from the left premaxilla, and cor- responds to the left incisor tooth. The power of this tusk is emphasized by its having been found buried to a depth of ten or twelve inches in the timbers of ships. Frontal Bone. The frontal (forehead), somewhat resembling a cockle- shell, forms the fore part of the cranium. It consists of a vertical plate and a horizontal plate. The vertical plate, which arches upward and backward above the orbits, is the larger portion, and presents two sur- faces and a border. The external surface shows:— (1) Frontal eminence, a convexity on each side of the mid-line about an inch and a quarter above the orbital mar- gin. Very prominent in young bones and in case of well- marked cerebral development, it indicates, as does the pari- etal eminence, the original site of the centers from which the bone ossifies. (2) Superciliary arch, below the frontal eminence and separated from it by a transverse sulcus. Forming a marked projection above the orbital margin, it overlies a pneumatic space, the frontal sinus, and gives origin to the corrugator supercilii, and partial origin to the orbicularis palpebrarum. (3) Glabella (smooth), a flat, smooth, triangular sur- face between the two superciliary arches.240 THE BONES (4) Orbital margin, sharp, curved, and prominent, which forms the upper boundary of the orbital circumfer- ence, and separates the vertical from the horizontal plate. (5) Supraorbital foramen, situated at the junction of the inner and middle thirds of the orbital margin, which transmits the corresponding vessels and nerve. When not a foramen, it is a notch. (6) External angular process, the outer extremity of the orbital margin, strong, well-marked, and serrated for articulation with the frontal process of the malar. (7) Internal angular process, the inner extremity of the orbital margin, not so well-marked as the external, and serrated for articulation with the lacrimal. (8) Temporal line, which passes from the upper border of the external angular process upward and forks out into the superior curved line and temporal ridge, described on the external surface (q. v. 4, 5) of the parietal. (9) Frontal (metopicf suture, situated in the mid-line. It indicates the line of fusion in early life of the sym- metrical halves of the bone. In the adult it is usually oblit- erated, except at its lower part, where it may be traced as a slightly elevated ridge. (10) Concave area, to the outer side of the temporal line, which forms the anterior part of the temporal fossa and gives partial origin to the temporal. The internal surface presents:— (1) Sagittal sulcus, a vertical groove in the mid-line which lodges the first part of the superior sagittal sinus. It is continuous with that of the parietal bones behind. Its edges afford attachment to the falx cerebri, and converge until they unite below to form a ridge, the frontal crest. (2) Notch, at the termination of the frontal crest, which is converted into the foramen cecum by articulation with the alae of the ethmoid. This foramen has been described with the horizontal plate (q. v. 2) of the ethmoid. (3) Fossulae made by the gyri of the cerebrum. (4) Grooves that lodged branches of the anterior and middle meningeal arteries. (5) Foveolae, small irregular pits along the sagittal sulcus which lodge arachnoideal granulations (Pacchionian bodies).FRONTAL BONE 241 The border forms a little more than a semicircle, and dovetails with the parietals at the coronal suture. For this purpose, it is thick, strongly serrated, and bevelled at the expense of the inner table above, and of the outer table lat- erally. Inferiorly, the border is continued into a triangular rough area, which articulates with the superior border of the greater wing of the sphenoid. The horizontal plate consists of a medial ethmoidal notch and two lateral, somewhat triangular, orbital plates. Its^nferior surface shows:— (1) Nasal notch, a rough, serrated semilunar surface between the internal angular process, which articulates on each side internally with the nasal bone, and externally with the nasal process of the maxilla. (2) Nasal process, a projection that extends from the center of the nasal' notch downward and forward beneath the nasal bones, which it supports. (3) Nasal spine, a long, pointed process that separates two grooves on the under surface of the nasal process. The spine contributes to the nasal septum, articulating with the crest of the nasal bones before, and the vertical plate of the ethmoid behind. Each groove contributes to the roof of a nasal fossa. The junction of the frontal and nasal bone is termed the nasion. (4) Ethmoidal notch, a quadrilateral gap in the mid- line that, m the articulated skull, is plugged by the horizon- tal plate of the ethmoid. The margins of this notch are broad, and excavated by demi-cells which, when opposed to corresponding labyrinthine demi-cells on the upper surface of the ethmoid, complete the ethmoidal cells. (5) Grooves, anterior and posterior, which cross the margins of the ethmoidal notch transversely, and are con- verted into canals by articulation with the horizontal plate (q. v. 6) of the ethmoid. The anterior ethmoidal canal transmits the corresponding vessels and the nasal branch of the ophthalmic division of the trigeminal nerve from the orbit into the anterior cranial fossa. The posterior eth- moidal canal transmits the corresponding vessels, and the small spheno-ethmoidal nerve (of Luschka). (6) Orbital plates, which are separated by the eth- moidal notch. Each is smooth, concave, and triangular, and 16242 THE BONES forms the roof of an orbit. At the anteroexternal corner, and excavating into the inner surface of the external angular process, is the lacrimal fossa, for the corresponding gland. At its anterointernal corner, just wide of the internal angular process, is the trochlear fossa for the trochlea of the superior oblique. The superior surface is convex, and strongly marked by fossulae for gyri of the cerebrum. The posterior border is serrated for articulation with the greater and lesser wings of the sphenoid. The frontal sinuses are two irregular pneumatic spaces of variable Txtent, situated chiefly at the junction of the horizontal and vertical plates. Their atria are in front of the ethmoidal notch, on each side of the nasal spine, and, with the bone in situ, communicate with the hiatus semilun- aris of the middle nasal meatus via infundibulum. They are separated from each other by a septum, often eccentric, and are honeycombed by trabeculae. Like other pneumatic spaces in the bones of the skull, they are lined by mucous membrane. Their size cannot be accurately guaged by the height of the superciliary arches. The frontal is developed in membrane, and ossified by two primary centers that appear about the seventh fetal week in the situations ultimately known as the frontal em- inences. From each primary center ossification radiates up- ward and backward for the vertical plate, and inward and backward for the horizontal, and the two halves of the bone articulate along the frontal suture until the sixth year, when this suture is all but extinguished. Secondary centers ap- pear about the twelfth year for the nasal spine, and soon fuse with the rest of the bone. The frontal sinuses are def- initely recognized about the seventh year, though traces of them may be met with by the second. They are prolonga- tions from the hiatus semilunaris upward, outward, and backward over the orbital plates. They reach their maxi- mum size usually by the twentieth year. The anterior surface of the vertical plate gives breadth and height to the forehead. Notice its pronounced back- ward slope in Apes and in many negroes. The superciliary arches reach much greater development in the Gorilla than in man. The frontals may develop great bony processes,—MANDIBLE 243 bony cores which, with their corneous sheaths, form the horns of animals such as Oxen, Sheep, and Antelopes. The nasal spine is one of the distinguishing features of the frontal of man. The frontal suture persists—the bone thus retain- ing its primitive double condition—in about eight per cent, of adult Europeans, and often in other mammals. In Pithecia the frontal develops a median ridge. The frontal sinuses are well-developed in Owls, Giraffes, and Elephants. In the last, the pneumatic spaces involve the frontal, parietal, and occipital bones, often separating the outer and inner tables to the extent of a foot. This affords additional lever- age for the muscles that raise the massive head, and inci- dentally lighten the latter. In the great extinct Sloths these spaces were developed to such an extent that practically a double skull was formed. This served to protect the brain from the falling trees uprooted by these animals in quest of their food. Mandible. The mandible (chewing-bone), or lower jaw, of horse- shoe shape with the extremities upturned, is the largest, strongest, and only movable bone of the face. It consists of a body and two rami. The body, approximately paraboloid, presents two sur- faces and two borders. The external surface shows:— (1) Symphysis, a faint median ridge which indicates the line of fusion in early life of the two symmetrical halves of the bone. Below, this broadens out into a prominent tri- angular eminence, the mental protuberance (chin). The lowermost part of the latter is depressed in the center: this emphasizes the inferior angles, which are termed the mental tubercles. (2) Incisor fossa, a depression adjoining the sym- physis just below the incisor teeth, which gives origin to the levator menti and part of the orbicularis oris. (3) Mental foramen, situated in line with the root of the second premolar, and midway between the upper and lower borders, which transmits the mental nerve and ves- sels from the termination of the mandibular canal to their distribution in the skin nearby. .'Ef ff-J; a { (4) Oblique line, a faint, elevated ridge that runs from Iff) * * I (jv244 THE BONES the mental tubercle outward, backward, and upward to be continuous with the anterior border of the ramus. It affords origin to the depressor labii inferioris and depressor anguli oris, and divides this surface of the body into an upper alve- olar part, and a lower basilar part. Into the latter part is in- serted a portion of the platysma. From the alveolar part, as far forward as the first molar, arises a portion of the buc- cinator. The internal surface shows:— (1) Vertical groove in mid-line, narrow, indistinct, and indicative of the symphysis. (2) Genial tubercles, arranged in two pairs, one above the other, on each side ol the lower half of the vertical groove. The upper two give origin to the geniohyoglossi. and the lower two bear a similar relation to the geniohyoids. These tubercles are not always well-defined. (3) Digastric fossa, an oval, rough, shallow depres- sion adjoining the symphysis near the inferior border, for insertion of the anterior belly of the digastric. (4) Mylohyoid line. which extends from the lower part of the symphysis obliquely outward, backward, and up- ward to the ramus. Faint at first but more distinct opposite the molars, it furnishes origin to the corresponding muscle, and at its posterior fifth, to part of the superior constrictor, whilst its posterior extremity gives attachment to the pterygomandibular ligament. (5) Sublingual fossa, a smooth pit just above the fore part of the mylohyoid line, for lodgment of the correspond- ing gland. (6) Submaxillary fossa, a smooth, oblong pit just be- low the hinder part of the mylohyoid line, for lodgment of the corresponding gland. The superior border (alveolar process! is hollowed out into sockets that correspond in number, form, and depth to the roots of the teeth they embrace. For the temporary teeth there are ten sockets, but for the permanent, usually six- teen. Behind the last molar is a space, bounded externally by the oblique line, internally by the mylohyoid ridge, and behind by the ramus. The inferior border, thick and fund- ed, furnishes the base of the triangular mental protuberance before, and behind, at the junction of the body and ramus, is grooved by the facial artery on its way to the face. to.245 MANDIBLE The ramus is thinner than the body and quadrilateral, and presents two surfaces and four borders. The external surface, is flat, marked by ridges below, and affords insertion to the masseter. To the ridges are attached tendinous bun- dles of that muscle. The internal surface presents :— (1) Mandibular foramen, a large aperture near the middle, which leads into the mandibular canal. The latter traverses the bone nearly to the symphysis, and terminates at the mental foramen. It conducts the inferior dental branch of the mandibular division of the trigeminal nerve, and corresponding vessels for supply of the lower teeth and skin over the fore part of the mandible. (2) Lingula, a pointed scale of bone that overhangs the mandibular foramen before, and gives attachment to the sphenomandibular ligament, which descends from the sphenoidal spine. (3) JV^tohyoyd groove^ which extends from the mandi- bular foramen obliquely downward and forward for about an inch to lose itself in the submaxillary fossa. It gives transit to the corresponding nerve and vessels. The nerve supplies the mylohyoid muscle and anterior belly of the digastric. In the embryo, this groove lodges the cartilage (Meckel’s) of the first visceral arch. (4) Rough area, behind and below the mylohyoid groove, for insertion of the internal pterygoid. Of the borders the anterior, thinner above than below, is continuous with the oblique line. The posterior is thick, smooth, and rounded, and in relation with the parotid gland. The inferior is thick, straight, and continuous with the in- ferior border of the body. At its junction with the posterior border is the angle, which affords partial insertion to the masseter without, the internal pterygoid within, and the stylomandibular ligament between. The superior border pre- sents from before backward:— (1) Coronoid (crown-like) process, a thin, flattened, triangular beak of bone that affords insertion by its margins and inner surface to the temporal, whilst its outer surface receives part of the temporal and part of the masseter. (2) Mandibular notch, a deep, semilunar concavity left by the rising up of the coronoid process before, and con- dyloid process behind. It transmits the masseteric nerve and vessels. \246 THE BONES (3) Condyloid process, which consists of the condyle and neck. The condyle, convex, oblong, and compressed from before backward, is received into the anterior part of the glenoid fossa. At its outer extremity is a tubercle for reception of the temporomandibular ligament. The neck is the constricted support of the condyle, and is slightly exca- vated before, for partial insertion of the external pterygoid. The mandible develops chiefly from membrane, but partly from cartilage. Next to the clavicle, it is the earliest bone to ossify. For each half of the mandible a center appears in the outer and inner parts of the membrane that invests the cartilage of the first visceral arch. The plates ossified by these centers unite and form a groove for reception of the teeth. The anterior end of the cartilage of the first visceral arch ossifies to form the part of each half of the mandible that lies between the mental foramen and the symphysis. The condyle and part of the ramus are formed by ossification of cartilage that has no connection whatever with that of the first visceral arch. The two halves of the body unite at the symphysis during the first year. In the new-born the mandible is very low, possesses no alveolar portion, and the ramus is poorly developed and forms a very obtuse angle with the body. In the adult the alveolar process has risen, the body is stout and deep, and the mental foramen lies be- tween the upper and lower borders. The angle between the body and ramus is nearly a right angle. In the senile the entire mandible is attenuated. With the loss of the teeth the alveolar part is absorbed, and the basilar part alone re- mains. Thus, most of the bone is below the oblique line (q.- v.), the mandibular canal and mandibular foramen ap- proach the upper border, and the angle between the ramus and body is again very obtuse. The mandible may be completely absent, as in the Lam- prey. In Sharks and other forms in which the skull is not osseous, the mandible is represented by cartilage. In the lower animals the two halves of the mandible generally re- main separate throughout life. In Snakes the two halves of the mandible are held together by an elastic* ligament that permits them to be separated considerably, so that a Python, for example, is enabled to swallow its prey entire, though larger than its own body. The chin is peculiar to man. It247 VOMER is most distinct in Caucasians, faintly marked in negroes, and absent in Apes with one exception,—the Siamese Gib- bon. The mandibular foramen may be very capacious and funnel-shaped, as in the Dolphin. In the Crocodile the angle projects far backward. The ramus is absent in the Great Ant-eater and in Cetaceans, and is very low in most Rodents, particularly in the Porcupine. The coronoid process, there- fore, is rudimentary in Rodents, but in the Dog is well- developed and rises far above the condyle. This, like the median parietal ridge of the Canine, is in keeping with the voluminous temporal muscle in this class. The condyle varies in shape according to the type of animal, whether Carnivor- ous, Ruminant, or Rodent. With a little thought, the shape of the condyle in these respective types may be approxi- mately conjectured, but will be described with the tem- poromandibular joint. Vomer. The vomer (ploughshare) is a thin, delicate, irregularly quadrilateral plate of bone that is placed mesially in the lower and hinder part of the nasal septum. It presents two surfaces and four borders. The superior border, the thick- est part of the bone, slopes from beliind upward and forward and articulates with the inferior surface of the body of the sphenoid. It is expanded laterally into alae, two everted lips that receive in the groove between them the rostrum of the sphenoid. The alae are overlapped and retained by the vaginal plates of the internal plates (q. v. 3) of the pterygoid processes of the sphenoid, and come into contact with the sphenoidal processes of the palates. The inferior border is horizontal and lies in the groove formed by the nasal crest of the maxillae and of the palate bones. The anterior border, the longest, slopes obliquely from above downward and for- ward, is ankylosed to the vertical plate of the ethmoid in its upper half, and is grooved in its lower half for reception of the septal cartilage of the nose. The posterior border, which slopes from behind downward and forward, forms the free posterior margin of the nasal septum, and separates the choanae. Each lateral surface is smooth, covered in the re- cent state by nasal mucous membrane, and traversed bv‘ a groove that conducts the nasopalatine nerve from the \THE BONES 248 sphenopalatine ganglion to the appropriate foramen of Scarpa. The vomer, at first bilaminar, develops in the membrane that surrounds the vomerine cartilage. About the eighth fetal week a center appears on each side of this membrane, and forms a lamella of bone. These two lamellae unite from below upward until, by the age of puberty, there is but the single vomer. The cartilage, in the meantime, has been absorbed. The vomer is almost absent in Pigeons, but large in Ostriches, and is extremely elongated in Dolphins. It is permanently double in Woodpeckers, usually in Reptiles, always in Batrachians, and occasionally in Fish, as in Lepi- dosteus and Sudis. The alae on the superior border and the groove on the anterior border are evidence of the original bilaminar condition of the palate. Lacrimal Bone. The lacrimal (tear), a thin, delicate, quadrilateral, pair- ed bone about the size of a finger-nail, contributes to the in- ner wall of the orbit and outer wall of the nose, just behind the nasal process of the maxilla. It is sometimes called the os unguis because of its fancied resemblance to a finger-nail, but puts the writer more in mind of a miniature scapula. The smallest of the facial bones, it presents two.surfaces and four borders. The superior border articulates with the hori- zontal plate of the frontal. The posterior border articulates with the anterior margin of the lamina papyracea of the ethmoid. The inferior border articulates behind the crest with the fore-part of the inner margin of the superior sur- face (q. v.) of the maxilla, whilst in front of the crest it is prolonged downward as the descending process to join the lacrimal process of the inferior turbinate. This process also contributes to the wall of the nasolacrimal canal and aids in closure of the maxillary hiatus. The anterior border articu- lates with the posterior border of the nasal process of the maxilla. The external surface is subdivided by the vertical posterior lacrimal crest into an anterior, smaller portion, and a posterior, larger portion. The anterior portion is deeply grooved by the lacrimal sulcus which, in conjunction with249 NASAL BONE the nasal process of the maxilla, lodges the lacrimal sac, the beginning of the nasolacrimal duct. The crest itself gives partial origin to the tensor tarsi and terminates interiorly in the hook-like lacrimal hamulus, which curves forward to ar- ticulate with the lacrimal tubercle on the superior border of the nasal process (q. v.) of the maxilla, and completes the upper orifice of the nasolacrimal canal. The posterior por- tion is smooth, contributes to the inner wall of the orbit, and is flush with the lamina papyracea of the ethmoid. The internal surface is divided by a vertical groove over against the posterior lacrimal crest into a surface before, which con- tributes to the outer wall of the middle meatus of the nose, and a surface behind, which articulates with the labyrinth of the ethmoid and closes in two of the anterior ethmoidal cells. The lacrimal develops in the membrane around the cartilaginous nasal capsule. It is ossified by a single center that appears about the ninth fetal week, soon after the vertebrae have begun to ossify. The lacrimal is occasionally absent in man. It is nor- mally absent in Batrachians and sometimes in Birds. It is naturally absent in Vertebrates that pass a large part or the whole of their lives in water, and where lacrimation is su- perfluous, as in Seals and Pangolins. In the Elephant and Sirenia it is small, but imperforate. It is sometimes large in Reptiles, as Chelonians. It is of great size in the Hare, Ant- eaters, and Armadillos, and in the Deer is well developed not only in the orbit, but also on the cheek, and presents a pe- culiar fossa destined to receive and shelter a special glandu- lar apparatus. In man and the Apes the lacrimal is confined to the orbit, and the lacrimal hamulus represents the re- mains of the facial part of the lacrimal seen in other animals, even in those so high up in the scale as Lemurs. In man even, the hamulus may reach the orbital margin and enter into the formation of the face. It may exist as a separate piece,—the lesser lacrimal bone. Nasal Bone. The nasal are two small, oblong bones placed side by side in the interval between the nasal processes of the maxil- \250 THE BONES lae, where they form, by their junction, the bridge of the nose. Thicker and narrower above and thinner and broader below, each presents two surfaces and four borders. The superior border, thick and serrated, dovetails with the inner part of the nasal notch on the inferior surface of the horizontal plate (cp v. 1) of the frontal. The inferior border, thin and sharp, runs obliquely downward, outward, and backward, and offers attachment to the lateral nasal cartilage. It is notched near the middle for passage of the anterior nasal branch of the nasal nerve to the skin of the fore part and tip of the nose. The external border is serrated and bevelled to fit on to the anterior border of the nasal process (q. v.) of the maxilla. The internal border, thicker above than below, articulates in the mid-line with the cor- responding border of the opposite nasal, thus forming the internasal suture. These contiguous borders are prolonged backward into a vertical crest that contributes to the bony septum of the nose and articulates from above downward with the nasal process on the inferior surface (cp v. 2) of the horizontal plate of the frontal, the nasal spine on the under surface of the nasal process, the anterosuperior border of the vertical plate of the ethmoid, and finally with the tri- angular septal cartilage of the nose. The external surface, constricted just above its middle, is perforated near its center by a foramen that transmits a tributary to the facial vein. It is covered by the pyramidalis, compressor nasi, and part of the orbicularis palpebrarum. The internal surface is covered by mucous membrane, forms the fore part of the roof of the nose, and is traversed by a longitudinal groove that accommodates the anterior nasal branch of the nasal nerve, which branch emerges through the notch referred to on the inferior border. Each nasal develops in the membrane covering the fore part of the cartilaginous nasal capsule. It is ossified by a single center that appears about the eighth fetal week in this membrane. The length, breadth, and degree of inclination of the nasals determine the shape of the nose. This varies greatly in different races, being, as a rule, large and prominent in Caucasians, and flat, reduced in size, and depressed in Mon- golians and negroes. The shape is also modified by theMALAR BONE 251 depth of the frontonasal sulcus, which is obliterated in the hypothetical Greek profile, but deep when large frontal sin- uses coexist with nasal bones that are concave above. In the flattened or tip-tilted nose the lower half of the internal border of each bone is straight or concave, whilst in the aqui- line, this part is convex. In the Orang the nasals almost abort, but in the Porcupine they are enormous, and are the largest of the cranial bones. They may ankylose and form one bone by obliteration of the internasal suture. This oc- curs more frequently in negroes, and is the normal condition in adult Apes, as the Orang, and also in Centetes and Spalax. In the Varanian Lizard there is but a single median ossifica- tion. In Porpoises the nasals do not join each other, and in Fishes they may lie wide apart. Malar Bone. The malar (cheek) is a hard, paired bone that connects the temporal, through its zygomatic process, with the face. It is quadrangular in shape, with the angles directed ver- tically and horizontally, and presents two surfaces and four processes. The external surface is convex and forms the promi- nence of the cheek. It is perforated near its center by the malar foramen, which transmits a branch of the lacrimal artery and the malar branch of the temporomalar nerve from the orbit to the skin of the malar region. It gives origin to the zygomatic major and minor muscles, and anteriorly is covered by part of the orbicularis palpebrarum. The internal surface is concave and contributes to the anterior boundary of the temporal fossa above, and zygomatic fossa below. Somewhat above its center is the aperture of the temporo- malar canal, which transmits the temporal branch of the tem- poromalar nerve. The frontal process is serrated and articulates with the external angular process of the frontal, and to its orbital margin is attached the external palpebral ligament. The zygomatic process, long, narrow, and serrated, dovetails with the anterior extremity of the corresponding process of the squamous portion (q. v.) of the temporal. It gives partial252 THE BONES origin to the masseter. The maxillary process contributes to the inferior margin of the orbit, and presents a rough, tri- angular surface that articulates with the malar process of the maxilla. The orbital process projects backward at right angles from the orbital margin, separating the orbit from the temporal and zygomatic fossae, and articulates by its pos- terior border with the external border of the great wing of the sphenoid. The orbital surface displays a single or double temporomalar foramen, the entrance of the temporomalar canal, which conveys the temporomalar branch of the maxil- lary division of the trigeminal nerve and two small branches of the lacrimal artery. If not already double, the canal soon bifurcates, one tube conducting the temporal branch ob- liquely upward and outward through the orbital process to the temporal fossa, whence it distributes itself to the skin of the anterior temporal region. The other tube conducts the malar branch below the orbital margin to the malar fora- men on the external surface (q. v.). The malar develops in membrane. It is ossified by three centers, one for the zygomatic and two for the orbital por- tion, which appear about the eighth fetal week and fuse about the fifth fetal month. The malar is absent in some mammals, as Centetes and Manis, also in Batrachians, Serpents, and generally in Fishes. In Birds it is only a delicate spicule that helps form the zy- goma. In the Porpoise the malar is double, consisting of an orbital and a malar portion which are ossified by separate centers. This bipartite condition occurs in the Japanese in seven per cent, of all skulls, and hence it has been termed os Japonicum. The malar plays an important part in the con- figuration of the face. Thus, the high cheek-bones of the North American Indian are well-known to all. Inferior Turbinate. The inferior turbinate (scroll-shaped), a paired bone, is a shell-like lamina that depends from the lower part of the outer wall of the nasal fossa, and curls downward so as to separate the middle nasal meatus from the inferior. The su- perior and middle turbinates form part of the ethmoid and even the inferior may be regarded as a detached part of the labyrinth of the ethmoid. Each inferior turbinate presents two surfaces, two borders, and two^extremities.PALATE BONE 253 The internal surface is convex, projects into the nasal fossa, and forms the floor of the middle meatus. It is rough, pitted, and grooved longitudinally by vessels. The external surface, concave and facing the outer wall of the nasal fossa, overhangs the inferior meatus. The inferior border is free, rounded, and somewhat thickened. The superioxTQXder is attached, arched upward, and thin. Its anterior part articulates with the inferior turbinated crest of the base (q. v. 3) oi the maxilla; its mid- dle part presents three processes; and its posterior part ar- ticulates with the inferior turbinated crest of the palate. Of the three processes that occupy the middle part, the an- terior is the lacrimal process, and articulates with the de- scending process on the inferior border of the lacrimal, thereby contributing to the wall of the nasolacrimal canal; the ethmoidal process is posterior and, projecting upward, articulates with the uncinate process on the internal sur- face (q. v. 4) of the ethmoidal labyrinth; whilst the max- illary process projects downward and outward from the low- er border of the ethmoidal process, hooks over the lower edge of the maxillary hiatus, and fastens the inferior tur- binate to the outer wall of the nasal fossa. The anterior extremity is blunt and flattened. The posterior extremity is elongated and tapering. The inferior turbinate develops in the cartilage that forms the outer wall of the nasal capsule. It ossifies from a single center that appears in the fifth fetal month, and later contracts a union by a horizontal lamella externally with the maxilla. The inferior turbinate is absent in the Porpoise and in Fishes, rudimentary in the Elephant, and cartilaginous in Reptiles. It is represented by a cartilaginous rudiment in Batrachians, and by two or three insignificant ossifica- tions in Birds. It is large and complex in the Badger and in the Sheep. For further observations on the turbinals, see the conclusion of the description of the ethmoid. Palate Bone. The palate is a thin, irregular, paired bone that is wedged in between the maxilla and the pteryg'oid processTHE BONES 254 of the sphenoid. Since it is L-shaped, it naturally permits of division into a horizontal plate, and a vertical plate. It also has two processes. The horizontal plate forms the posterior fourth of the hard palate. It is quadrilateral in shape, and presents two surfaces and four borders. The inferior surface, concave and rough, and directed toward the mouth, shows:— (1) Transverse ridge, near the posterior border, for at- tachment of the aponeurosis of the tensor palati. (2) Pterygopalatine groove, at the outer extremity of the transverse ridge, which, by articulation with the tuber- osity of the maxilla, forms a canal, the lower end of the posterior palatine canal, which transmits the anterior pala- tine nerve and descending palatine artery. (3) Accessory posterior palatine canals, whose orifices lie near the pterygopalatine groove, which transmit branches of the posterior palatine nerve and of the descend- ing palatine artery. The superior surface, smooth and concave, forms the hinder part of the floor of the nasal fossa. Of the borders, the internal is thick and upturned and, when articulated with its fellow of the opposite side, forms a continuation back- ward of the nasal crest of the palatal processes of the max- illa. Into this crest is received the hinder part of the infer- ior border of the vomer. The posterior border is free and concave, and by its sharp edge affords attachment to the aponeurosis of the soft palate. At the junction of the pos- terior and internal borders, and completed by the apposition of the two palate bones, is the posterior nasal spine, to which the azygos uvulae is attached. The external border fuses with the vertical plate almost at right angles. The anterior border articulates with the posterior border of the palate process of the maxilla. The vertical plate, broader below than above, presents two surfaces and four borders. The external surface is for the most part rough and irregular where it is in relation with the maxilla, but is smooth behind and above where it forms the inner wall of the sphenomaxillary fossa, and also before, where it presents the maxillary process, which pro- jects forward and helps close in the maxillary hiatus. The internal surface, directed toward the nasal fossa, shows from below upward:—255 PALATE BONE (1) Depression, broad and shallow, which contributes to the inferior meatus. (2) Inferior turbinated crest, a rough, horizontal ridge which articulates with the posterior part of the superior border of the inferior turbinate. (3) Depression, broad and shallow, which contributes to the middle meatus. (4) Superior turbinated crest, less prominent than the inferior, for articulation with the middle turbinate. (5) Groove, narrow and horizontal, which contributes to the superior meatus. Of the borders, the inferior fuses with the horizontal plate almost at right angles. The an- terior border, thin and irregular, presents, opposite the in- ferior turbinated crest, the maxillary process, a pointed pro- jecting lamina that has been referred to with the external surface. The posterior border presents a deep groove, whose edges are serrated for articulation with the vaginal plate of the internal plate (q. v. 3) of the pterygoid process of the sphenoid. Below, this border expands into a pyra- midal process, the tuberosity of the palate, which is received into the pterygoid notch between the lower parts of the pterygoid plates of the sphenoid, and contributes the lowest part of the pterygoid fossa. The tuberosity articulates with the tuberosity of the maxilla, and affords partial origin to the superior constrictor. The superior border presents the orbital process before, the sphenoidal process behind, and the sphenopalatine notch between. The orbital process, somewhat pyramidal in shape and containing a sinus, surmounts the fore part of the vertical plate, to which it is connected by a constricted neck, and pre- sents five surfaces, of which the first two mentioned are non-articular. The superior surface, triangular, concave, and smooth, and facing upward and outward, contributes to the hinder part of the floor of the orbit. The external sur- face, oblong, smooth, and directed outward, faces the spheno- maxillary and zygomatic fossae. It is separated from the superior surface by a smooth, rounded border that helps bound the sphenomaxillary fissure. The anterior surface, continuous with the external surface of the vertical plate, is oblong, and rough for articulation with the posterior part of the inner margin of the superior surface (q. v.) of the256 THE BONES maxilla. The internal surface articulates with the laby- rinth of the ethmoid, whose pneumatic cells it helps close in behind. The posterior surface is small, and articulates with the lower margin of the anterior surface of the body of the sphenoid. The sphenoidal process, smaller and occupying a lower level than the orbital, curves upward, inward, and backward from the hinder part of the vertical plate, and presents three surfaces and two borders. The internal surface contributes to the outer wall of the nasal fossa, and its inner end comes into contact with the ala of the vomer. The external sur- face is also smooth, and contributes to the wall of the sphenomaxillary fossa. The superior surface is in contact with the inferior surface of the body of the sphenoid, and completes the pterygopalatine groove seen on the latter sur- face (q. v. 2) of the sphenoid. Of the borders, the anterior forms the posterior boundary of the sphenopalatine notch. The posterior border is the continuation upward of the corre- sponding border of the vertical plate, and articulates with the vaginal plate of the internal plate (q. v. 3) of the ptery- goid process of the sphenoid. The palate develops in the membrane that covers the sides of the oral cavity. It is ossified by a single center that appears about the eighth fetal week in the angle between the horizontal and vertical plates. In the fetus the horizontal plate is larger than the vertical; at birth, both are nearly equal in length; but as the nasal fossae increase in height, the vertical plate is lengthened until it is about twice as long as the horizontal. The palate of man is peculiar in that its vertical height so greatly exceeds its anteroposterior dimension. In Apes its length is already greater in proportion to its height than in man. In the Great Ant-eater this elongation is enor- mously increased. Apropos of the general morphology of the facial bones, Keen has stated that variations in the shape of the face in man and the lower animals depend chiefly on the character of their food and their mode of obtaining it, seeing that the chief function of the facial bones is to provide an apparatus for mastication, and that the maxilla and mandible are fun- damentally endowed with this function. A moment’s257 SPHENOMAXILLARY FOSSA thought serves to emphasize the truth of this statement. It is known that different habits develop different muscles, and that these muscles act as plastic moulds on the bones. The remaining facial bones are accessory, providing for the sense organs (eye, nose, tongue) and a vestibule to the re- spiratory and vocal organs. Sphenopalatine Foramen. The sphenopalatine foramen is formed by conversion of the sphenopalatine notch, situated between the orbital and sphenoidal processes of the palate, by articulation with the inferior surface of the body of the sphenoid. This fora- men transmits the corresponding vessels and the nasopala- tine nerve from the sphenomaxillary fossa into the hinder part of the superior meatus. Sphenomaxillary Fossa. The sphenomaxillary fossa is situated between the maxilla before, and the base of the pterygoid process and anterior surface of the greater wing of the sphenoid behind, and occupies the apex of the angle between the sphenomaxil- lary and pterygomaxillary fissures. It is readily found by passing a probe through the foramen rotundum. It is a small space that has the form of an inverted pyramid. The base is formed by the anterior surface of the body and of the greater wing of the sphenoid. The posterior wall is formed by the base of the pterygoid process of the sphenoid. The anterior wall is formed by the posterior surface of the body of the maxilla. The internal wall is contributed by the external surface of the vertical plate of the palate. The ex- ternal wall is open, corresponding to the hiatus of the ptery- gomaxillary fissure. The apex corresponds to the junction of the maxilla, palate, and pterygoid process at the bottom of the pterygomaxillary fissure. The sphenomaxillary fossa contains the maxillary nerve with its dependent spheno- palatine ganglion, and the termination of the internal maxil- lary artery. The foramina and canals in relation with this 17258 THE BONES fossa transmit the various branches of this nerve and its ganglion, and the artery as follows:— (1) Foramen rotundum, which conducts the maxillary nerve from the middle cranial fossa. Described more fully with the greater wing (q. v. 2) of the sphenoid. (2) Vidian canal, which conducts the corresponding artery and nerve from the foramen lacerum. Described more fully with the internal plate of the pterygoid process (q. v. 4) of the sphenoid. (3) Posterior palatine canal, which transmits the an- terior palatine nerve and descending palatine artery from the fossa to the groove on the inferior surface of the palate process (q. v.) of the maxilla. (4) Accessory posterior palatine canals, by-paths of the posterior palatine canal, which assist the latter in dis- tributing its contents. See inferior surface of horizontal plate (3) of palate. (5) Pterygopalatine canal, which transmits the cor- responding vessels and nerve from the fossa to the mucous membrane of the nasopharynx. (6) Sphenopalatine foramen, which conducts the naso- palatine artery and nerve from this fossa into the nasal fossa. It is formed by conversion of the corresponding notch between the orbital and sphenoidal processes of the palate by the inferior surface of the body of the sphenoid. (7) Sphenomaxillary fissure, which transmits the in- fraorbital vessels and nerve, the temporomalar branch of the maxillary nerve, and ascending branches from the sphenopalatine ganglion from the fossa into the orbit, and a communicating vein from the ophthalmic to the pterygoid plexus. It is horizontal in position, and lies between the ex- ternal margin of the superior surface (q. v.) of the body of the maxilla and the inferior border of the orbital surface of the greater wing (q. v.) of the sphenoid. (8) Pterygomaxillary fissure, which transmits the in- ternal maxillary artery from the zygomatic into the spheno- maxillary fossa. It is vertical in position, and descends at right angles from the inner extremity of the sphenomax- illary fissure. (9) Sphenoidal fissure. Not the entire fissure, but Dnly the inferior angle, by means of which this fossa com- municates with the middle cranial fossa.259 SKULL AS A WHOLE Zygomatic Fossa. The zygomatic fossa is an irregular cavity bounded as follows: Above, by the pterygoid ridge on the temporozy- gomatic surface of the greater wing (q. v.) of the sphenoid, and by the inferior border of the zygomatic arch. Below, by the alveolar process of the maxilla and lower edge of the pterygoid process of the sphenoid. Before, by the posterior surface of the body of the maxilla and the lower part of the internal surface of the malar. Behind, by the articular eminence on the squamous portion of the temporal, by the sphenoidal spine of the greater wing of the sphenoid, and by the posterior border of the external plate of the ptery- goid process of the sphenoid. Internally, by the zygomatic portion of the temporozygomatic surface (q. v.) of the greater wing of the sphenoid, and by the outer surface of the external plate of the pterygoid process of the same. Ex- ternally, by the inner surface of the zygomatic arch, and by the internal surface of the ramus of the mandible. This fossa contains the external and internal pterygoids, the lower part of the temporal, the internal maxillary vessels, and the mandibular nerve. SKULL AS A WHOLE. In perusing the description of the skull given above, the student should have at hand a skull that has been sprung, and another that has been macerated only. Very little pro- fit is derived from studying the separate bones in the ar- ticulated skull. The best method is to have in hand the individual bone under consideration, together with the whole skull to orientate that bone. The following descrip- tion has to do with the general features of the skull, accord- ing to the aspect from which it is seen. Features already described with the separate bones will be mentioned only, the main idea in this review being orientation.THE BONES 260 Anterior Region of Skull. The anterior region comprises the forehead, the face, and the orbital and nasal fossae. It is bounded above by the convexity of the frontal bone; below, by the chin; and on each side by the malar bone and anterior border of the ramus of the mandible. The forehead is limited on each side by the anterior ex- tremities of the temporal lines; above, by the frontal em- inences; and below, by the upper margins of the orbit and root of the nose. In the middle of the anterior region the following fea- tures may be noted from above downward. Frontal suture, or remains of same. Glabella, between the superciliary arches. Frontonasal and frontomaxillary sutures, at the root of the nose. Nasion, the midpoint of the frontonasal suture. Internasal suture, which descends from the nasion and bisects the bridge of the nose. Nasomaxillary suture, which limits each nasal bone externally. Anterior nares, the entrances into the nasal fossae which, together, form a pyriform aperture whose tapering end is above and whose broad end is below. Anterior nasal spine, which projects forward from the lower boundary of the anterior nares. Intermaxillary suture, which descends from the anterior nasal spine. Incisive fossa, on each side of the intermax- illary suture. Incisor teeth and sockets of the maxilla, then of the mandible. Symphysis of the mandible. Mental protuberance, into which the symphysis broadens below. Mental tubercles, one at each inferior angle of the mental protuberance. Incisive fossa on each side of symphysis. On each side of the anterior region the following fea- tures may be noted from above downward. Superciliary arch, separated from the frontal eminence by a transverse sulcus. Orbital margin, at the junction of the inner and middle thirds of which is the supraorbital foramen. Exter- nal angular process, the outer extremity of the orbital mar- gin. Internal angular process, the inner extremity of the orbital margin. Orbit, outside of which is the external surface of the malar, corresponding to the prominence of the cheek. Ridge, which forms part of orbital margin. In- fraorbital foramen, which lies under the ridge. Canine261 ANTERIOR REGION OF SKULL fossa, below the infraorbital foramen. Canine eminence, which separates the incisive from the canine fossa. Pre- molar teeth and sockets of the maxilla, then of the mandible. Mental foramen, in line with the root of the second pre- molar, and midway between the upper and lower borders. Oblique line, which runs backward from the mental tuber- cle. Groove for facial artery. Each orbit (circle) resembles a crypt excavated in the cranium, and accommodates an eyeball with its associated muscles, nerves, vessels, and fat. The orbits are pyramidal in shape, with their bases facing forward and outward and their apices backward and inward, so that their axes, if pro- longed backward, would pass through the optic foramina and meet over the body of the sphenoid. Their inner walls are nearly parallel, but their outer walls diverge so as to be nearly at right angles with each other. In addition to a base, an apex, an inner wall, and an outer wall, each orbit presents a roof, a floor, and four angles. The base is quadrilateral in shape, and is bounded above by the orbital margin of the frontal; internally, by the in- ternal angular process of the frontal and the nasal process of the maxilla; below, by the anterior margin of the superior surface of the body of the maxilla and the maxillary process of the malar; and externally, by the frontal process of the malar and external angular process of the frontal. The apex corresponds to the optic foramen of the lesser wing of the sphenoid. The roof, thin and brittle toward its center, and slightly arched, is formed mainly by the orbital plate of the hori- zontal plate of the frontal, and is completed behind by the inferior surface of the lesser wing of the sphenoid. At its anteroexternal corner is the lacrimal fossa for the corre- sponding gland, whilst at its anterointernal corner is the trochlear fossa for the trochlea of the superior oblique. The floor, less extensive than the roof, is formed mainly by the superior surface of the body of the maxilla, and is completed before by the maxillary process of the malar, and behind, by the superior surface of the orbital process of the palate. The infraorbital groove traverses the floor, and disappears in the corresponding canal. At its anterointer- nal corner is a depression for origin of the inferior oblique.262 THE BONES The inner wall, narrow and almost vertical, is formed by the external surface of the nasal process of the maxilla, the external surface of the lacrimal, the lamina papyracea of the ethmoid, and by a small part of the lateral surface of the body of the sphenoid. Anteriorly is the lacrimal sulcus, and just behind this is the posterior lacrimal crest. The outer wall is formed by the inner surface of the orbital process of the malar before, and by the orbital sur- face of the greater wing of the sphenoid behind. Posterior- ly, this wall is separated from the roof by the sphenomax- illary fissure, and from the floor, by the sphenoidal fissure. Of the angles, the superoexternal is formed by the junc- tion of the roof and outer wall, and presents the suture be- tween the frontal and the malar before, and the greater wing of the sphenoid behind. The superointernal is formed by the junction of the roof and inner wall, and presents the su- ture between the frontal and the lacrimal before, and the ethmoid behind. The anterior extremity of this angle cor- responds to the dacryon. The anterior and posterior eth- moidal foramina lie in the course of this angle. The infero- external is formed by the junction of the floor and outer wall. The. inferointernal is formed by the junction of the floor and inner wall, and presents the suture between the lacrimal, ethmoid, and palate above, and the maxilla below. The anterior nares lie partly below and partly between the orbits. Their edges are formed below and laterally by the free curved margins of the body and of the nasal pro- cesses of the maxilla; and above and laterally, by the free border of the nasal bones. The osseous septum arises from the anterior nasal spine and passes backward and upward with an inclination, usually, to one or other side. Project- ing into the nasal fossae from their outer walls are the inner surfaces and free borders of the middle and inferior turbi- nates, with their respective meatuses. To study the nasal fossae more completely, it is necessary to make a sagittal section of the skull, but this must be deferred until its nat- ural surfaces have been finished. A horizontal line described around the maxilla at the level of the mid-point between the lower border of the nasal aperture and the edge of the alveolar process indicates the plane of the hard palate. Below this the alveolar process263 SUPERIOR REGION OF SKULL separates the oral cavity from the face, and above, the maxil- lary sinus occupies the body of the maxilla. Lateral Region of Skull. The lateral region is somewhat triangular in shape, the base being represented by a line extending from the external angular process of the frontal, along the temporal ridge, to the outer extremity of the middle curved line of the occipi- tal. The two sides are represented by lines connecting the extremities of the base with the angle of the mandible. This region may be subdivided into three portions: temporal fossa, mastoid portion, and zygomatic fossa. The temporal fossa, somewhat semilunar, is bounded above and behind by the temporal ridge; before, by the con- cave area on the external surface (q. v. 10) of the vertical plate of the frontal, by the outer surface of the orbital pro- cess of the malar, and by the temporal portion of the tem- porozygomatic surface of the greater wing of the sphenoid; externally, by the inner aspect of the zygomatic arch; whilst below, it is separated from the zygomatic fossa by the ptery- goid ridge. In addition to the bones mentioned, this fossa is formed by the planum temporale of the external surface (q. v. 6) of the parietal, and by the external surface of the squamous portion of the temporal. Concave before, and convex behind, this fossa is occupied by the temporalis, and roofed in by the temporal fascia. The mastoid portion is bounded before by the preglen- oid tubercle; above, by the supramastoid crest on the outer surface of the squamous portion of the temporal, and by the mastoparietal suture; and behind and below, by the masto- occipital suture. It presents, from before backward, the temporomandibular joint, the tympanic plate, the external auditory meatus, the mastoid process, and the mastoid fora- men. The zygomatic fossa has been described previously. Superior Region of Skull. The superior region is bounded before by the parietal eminences ; laterally, by the base-line of the lateral region ofTHE BONES 264 the skull; and behind, by the middle curved line of the occip- ital and by the external occiptal protuberance. It includes most of the vertical plate of the frontal, most of the parie- tals, and the upper third of the occipital. Oval in outline with the broad end behind, it is crossed transversely by the coronal suture, and from before backward by the sagittal, which diverges behind as the lambdoid suture. The parietal foramina and parietal eminences are situated on each side of the sagittal suture. Inferior Region of Skull. The inferior region (base), exclusive of the mandible, extends from the upper incisor teeth before, to the external occipital protuberance behind, and is bounded on each side by the alveolar process of the maxilla, with the incisor, canine, premolar, and first molar teeth, by the arched in- ferior border of the malar process of the maxilla, by the lower border of the zygomatic arch, by the posterior root of the zygomatic process of the temporal, and by a line extend- ing from this to the mastoid process and extremity of the middle curved line of the occipital, and finally by the middle curved line itself. This region may be subdivided into three portions: subfacial, subcranial and suboccipital. The subfacial division includes the hard palate, the alve- olar arch, and the posterior nares. With the skull inverted, the hard palate is situated on a higher plane than the rest, and is bounded before and laterally by the alveolar processes and sixteen teeth. It is formed mainly by the palate pro- cesses of the maxillae, and completed posteriorly by the hor- izontal plates of the palate bones. It presents the following details. Intermaxillary suture, in the mid-line. Anterior palatine foramen, at the fore part of the intermaxillary su- ture, just behind the incisor teeth. Leading into this foramen from above are the foramina of Scarpa and the foramina of Stenson. Transverse palatine suture, between the palate bones and the palate processes of the maxillae. Posterior palatine foramen, and a groove passing forward from it. Tuberosity of palate, behind the posterior palatine foramen, perforated by one or more accessory posterior palatine265 INFERIOR REGION OF SKULL canals. Transverse ridge, leading inward from the tuber- osity, for aponeurosis of tensor palati. Posterior nasal spine, which projects backward from the center of the pos- terior border of the hard palate. Posterior nares (choanae), behind and above the hard palate, and separated from each other by the vomer. Each aperture measures about an inch vertically, and a half-inch transversely, and is bounded ex- ternally by the internal plate of the pterygoid process of the sphenoid; below, by the horizontal plate of the palate; inter- nally, by the vomer; and above, by the inferior surface of the body of the sphenoid, by an ala of the vomer, and by a por- tion of the sphenoidal process of the palate. Pterygopalatine canal, between the ala of the vomer and the root of the ptery- goid process. Pterygoid process, whose base is perforated by the Vidian canal. Between the plates of the pterygoid process are seen the scaphoid fossa above, and the ptery- goid fossa below, whilst at the extremity of the internal plate is the hamular process. Outside of the external plate is the zygomatic fossa. The subcranial division is bounded before by a line that connects the two preglenoid tubercles, and behind, by a line drawn transversely across the posterior margin of the for- amen magnum. It is separated from the zygomatic fossa by a line drawn from the posterior margin of the external plate of the pterygoid process to the sphenoidal spine. It is formed by the inferior surface of the body of the sphenoid and basioccipital, by the hinder part of the greater wing of the sphenoid, by the petrous portion and part of the squa- mous portion of the temporal, and by the basilar portion of the occipital. It presents the following details. Pharyngeal spine, situated mesially on the inferior surface of the basi- occipital. Foramen magnum, behind the basioccipital. Occi- pital condyles, on each side of the foramen magnum. Ante- rior condyloid foramen, which perforates the base of each occiptal condyle on its fore and outer aspect. Condyloid fossa, behind each occipital condyle. Posterior condyloid foramen, which leads upward, forward, and outward from the bottom of the condyloid fossa. Jugular process, a quad- rate projection that juts transversely outward from the hinder end of the occipital condyle. Foramen lacerum, a somewhat triangular aperture on either side of the basi-266 THE BONES occipital, and bounded before by the root of the pterygoid process and greater wing of the sphenoid; behind, by the an- terior border of the petrous portion of the temporal; and internally, by the outer margin of the body of the sphenoid and the basioccipital. In life this foramen is closed below by fibrous tissue. This fibrous tissue is perforated by the Vidian nerve, a meningeal branch of the ascending pharyn- geal artery, and an emissary vein. ' Across the upper aspect of this fibrous tissue, but not perforating it, passes the in- ternal carotid artery and its surrounding network of sym- pathetic nerves. The Vidian canal begins at the anterior wall of the foramen lacerum, whilst the internal carotid fora- men corresponds to its external wall. Canalis musculo- tubarius, which is situated at the apex of the acute angle be- tween the anterior parts of the squamous and petrous por- tions of the temporal. Behind this is the inferior surface of the petrous portion of the temporal presenting, from within outward, a rough quadrilateral area; the external carotid foramen; the aqaeductus cochleae, just internal to the latter at the bottom of a V-shaped depression; the jugular fossa and foramen; the canaliculus auricularis, on the outer wall of the jugular fossa; the canaliculus tympanicus, on the ridge between the external carotid foramen and the jugular fossa; the vaginal process; the styloid process; the stylomastoid foramen; and the auricular fissure. The jugular foramen (foramen lacerum posterius) is situated between the pos- terior border of the petrous portion of the temporal before, and the anterior border of the jugular process of the occipital behind. It is continuous behind and externally with the jugular fossa. Processes of dura mater subdivided the jugu- lar foramen into three compartments. The anterior permits passage of the inferior petrosal sinus; the middle affords egress to the glossopharyngeal (which has a special sheath of dura mater) and to the vagus and accessory nerves (which have a common sheath of dura mater), in order from before backward; whilst the posterior conducts the lateral sinus to the bulb of the internal jugular vein, which occupies the jugular fossa, and also gives passage to some meningeal branches from the occipital and ascending pharyngeal ar- teries. In front of the petrous portion of the temporal there are, from within outward, the foramen ovale, the foramen267 INFERIOR REGION OF SKULL spinosum, and the sphenoidal spine, which belong to the greater wing of the sphenoid; and the articular eminence and anterior part of the glenoid fossa, which belong to the squamous portion of the temporal. Behind the anterior part of the glenoid fossa is the Glaserian fissure, at whose inner end is a subdivision, the canal of Huguier. Behind the fis- sure is the posterior part of the glenoid fossa, limited pos- teriorly by the tympanic plate. Above the tympanic plate is the external auditory meatus. The mastoid portion of the temporal, finally, shows the mastoid process, the digas- tric fossa, the occipital groove, the auricular fissure, and the external mastoid foramen. The suboccipital division corresponds to the external surface of the posterior portion of the occipital, showing the external occipital crest, which leads from the hinder edge of the foramen magnum to the external occipital protuberance, and the superior, middle, and inferior curved lines, as well as the areas of bone between them for muscular attachment. To complete the examination of the inferior region of the skull, place in their proper positions the mandible and the atlas. The close relation of the sphenoidal spine to the condyle of the mandible is now evident. The root of the styloid process lies midway between the ramus of the mandi- ble and the mastoid process. Before, the hard palate is con- siderably deepened by the arcade formed by the body of the mandible: in fact, a cup-like space, open behind, is now present. In this space are lodged the tongue and the struc- tures that make up the floor of the mouth. There may now be seen, from before backward, the genial tubercles, the digastric fossa, the mylohyoid line, the sublingual fossa, the submaxillary fossa, the mandibular foramen, the lingula, and the mylohyoid groove. The anterior tubercle of the atlas falls in line with the pharyngeal spine, and lies in a coronal plane passing immediately in front of the external auditory meatus. Laterally, the transverse process corresponds very closely in extent to the under aspect of the jugular process of the occipital, and its extremity is separated by a small interval from the styloid process, but by a larger interval from the apex of the mastoid process. The groove on the superior surface of the transverse process, which accommo- dates the vertebral artery, underlies the condyloid fossa. Be-268 THE BONES hind, the upper surface of the posterior arch underlies the hinder margin of the foramen magnum. Interior of Skull. The interior of the skull is exposed by removal of the skull-cap. The inferior surface of the latter is concave, and shows fossulae made by gyri of the cerebrum, grooves that lodged branches of the middle meningeal artery, and the sagittal sulcus. On either side of the latter are foveolae, which lodged the arachnoideal granulations, and behind are the internal parietal foramina. This surface is crossed be- fore by the coronal suture, and behind, by the lamdoid suture, whilst running fore and aft is the sagittal suture. The three tables of the cut skull may now be observed,—the outer, compact and tough; the middle (diploe), soft and spongy; and the inner (vitreous), harder and more brittle than the outer. The upper aspect of the base of the skull (floor of the cranial cavity) now invites our attention. It presents three fossae, of which the anterior and middle accommodate the cerebrum, whilst the posterior lodges the cerebellum. The anterior cranial fossa, situated on a higher level than the remainder of the floor, is well defined behind by the sharp, free borders of the lesser wings of the sphenoid, which curve outward, upward, and backward to near the pterion externally. Its floor is formed from before backward, in the mid-line, by the upper surface of the horizontal plate of the ethmoid and the anterior third of the superior surface of the body of the sphenoid; and laterally, by the superior surfaces of the orbital plates of the frontal, and by the same surfaces of the lesser wings of the sphenoid. Depressed centrally and elevated laterally, the floor supports the frontal lobes of the cerebrum. It presents in the mid-line from before back- ward the following details:—Sagittal sulcus, narrow because it begins here. Frontal crest, formed by union of the edges of the sulcus. Foramen cecum, at the termination of the frontal crest. Crista galli, just behind the foramen cecum. Slit, elongated and narrow, on each side of the fore part of the crista galli. Olfactory grooves, one on each side of the269 INTERIOR OF SKULL crista galli. Olfactory foramina, which perforate the floor of each olfactory groove. Ethmoidal foramina, anterior and posterior, along the outer edge of the horizontal plate of the ethmoid. Ethmoidal spine of the body of the sphenoid. Transverse ridge, which bounds the optic groove anteriorly, and separates the anterior from the middle cranial fossa cen- trally. Laterally, the floor is strongly marked by fossulae for gyri of the cerebrum, and shows grooves before and at the sides, which lodged branches of the anterior and middle meningeal arteries, respectively. The middle cranial fossa, which in form may be com- pared to the wings of a bird united by the body, differs from the anterior by occupying a lower level and by being deeper. Whereas, in the anterior cranial fossa the center is depressed, in the middle it is elevated, and laterally the inverse prevails. It is bounded before by the transverse ridge in front of the optic groove and by the free borders of the lesser wings of the sphenoid; behind, by the dorsum sellae, and by the line of attachment of the tentorium cerebelli, which extends from each posterior clinoid process along the superior border of the petrous portion of the temporal; and externally, by the greater wing of the sphenoid, the squamous portion of the temporal, and by the anteroinferior angle of the parietal. Its floor is formed by the middle third of the superior sur- face of the body and cranial surfaces of the greater wings of the sphenoid, and by the anterior surface of the petrous por- tion of the temporal. The central portion of the fossa shows the following details from before back- ward:—Optic groove, which terminates on each side in the optic foramen. Olivary eminence, the posterior border of the optic groove. Pituitary fossa, which is bounded before by the olivary eminence and middle clinoid processes. Dor- sum sellae, a quadrate plate that bounds the pituitary fossa posteriorly. Posterior clinoid processes, which surmount the upper corners of the dorsum sellae. Carotid groove, on each side of the body of the sphenoid, and overhung by the anterior clinoid processes. This central portion is in direct relation with the interpeduncular space of the brain. Lat- erally, the floor is marked by fossulae for gyri of the cere- brum, and shows grooves that in life conveyed the anterior and posterior branches of the middle meningeal artery fromTHE BONES 270 the outer side of the foramen spinosum. Certain foramina may be seen from before backward. Sphenoidal fissure, a triangular cleft that separates the lesser from the greater wing of the sphenoid and leads into the orbit. Foramen ro- tundum, just behind the hinder angle of the sphenoidal fis- sure. Foramen ovale, behind and to the outer side of the foramen rotundum. Foramen Vesalii, internal to the an- terior end of the foramen ovale, but inconstant. Foramen spinosum, external to the hinder end of the foramen ovale. Foramen lacerum, fully described with the inferior region of the skull. On the anterior surface of the petrous portion 3f the temporal, follow from within outward. Internal carotid foramen, which corresponds to the external wall of the foramen lacerum. Trigeminal depression, near the apex. Hiatus Fallopii, a slit-like opening. Hiatus accessorius, ex- ternal to the hiatus Fallopii. Eminentia arcuata, near the centre of this surface. Tegmen tympani, before and external to the eminentia arcuata. With the dura mater in situ, the trigeminal depression is converted into a foramen that is traversed by the trigeminal nerve. The anterior and middle clinoid processes may join to form a foramen for the internal carotid artery. The grooves for the middle meningeal arteries may be converted into canals for a short distance, especially in old skulls. The posterior cranial fossa is the largest and deepest of the three, and occupies the lowest level. It is separated from the middle cranial fossa by the dorsum sellae and by the line of attachment of the tentorium cerebelli, which extends from each posterior clinoid process along the superior border of the petrous portion of the temporal, and is limited externally and behind by the further attachment of the tentorium to the posteroinferior angle of the parietal, to the upper margin of the groove for the lateral sinus, and to the internal occipital protuberance. Its floor is formed by the posterior surface of the petrous portion and internal surface of the mastoid por- tion of the temporal, and by the posterior third of the su- perior surface of the body of the sphenoid and basilar por- tion of the occipital, which are wedged in between the tem- porals. Part of the outer wall is contributed by the pos- teroinferior angle of the parietal, whilst behind, the floor and posterior wall are completed by the posterior portion of the271 NASAL FOSSAE occipital. This fossa lodges the cerebellum, pons, and bulb, and is roofed in by the tentorium cerebelli. It communi- cates with the general cranial cavity through the incisura tentorii, a triangular opening between the dorsum sellae and the anterior free edge of the tentorium. The floor of this fossa, which is not marked by foveolae as the anterior and middle cranial fossae are, shows the following details: Clivus, on the dorsum sellae of the sphenoid, which is con- tinued as the basilar groove to the foramen magnum. Fora- men magnum, which pierces the floor of this fossa. Anterior condyloid foramen, in front of a transverse line passing through the center of the foramen magnum. Jugular fora- men, which has been fully described with the inferior re- gion of the skull. Posterior condyloid foramen, behind the jugular foramen and close to the margin of the foramen mag- num : it is inconstant. Petrosquamous suture, which conducts the inferior petrosal sinus to the jugular foramen. Sigmoid fossa, whose floor shows the inconstant internal mastoid foramen. Internal occipital crest, which connects the inter- nal occipital protuberance with the hinder edge of the fora- men magnum. Inferior occipital fossae, which are separated by the internal occipital crest. Groove for lateral sinus, which surmounts each inferior occipital fossa. Groove for occipital sinus, occupying the internal occipital crest. In- ternal auditory meatus, about a quarter of an inch above and to the outer side of the fore part of the jugular foramen. Floccular fossa, an irregular depression above and to the outer side of the internal auditory meatus, and best marked in young bones. Aquaeductus vestibuli, whose slit-like ori- fice is seen behind, below, and to the outer side of the in- ternal auditory meatus. Nasal Fossae. The nasal fossae are to be exposed by sawing the skull longitudinally on one side of the nasal septum : one-half now displays the nasal septum in situ, whilst on the other may be studied the outer wall of the nasal fossa. The anterior "and posterior nares have been studied with the anterior and in- ferior region of the skull, respectively. Each nasal fossaTHE BONES 272 presents a roof, a floor, an outer wall, and an inner wall (septum). The roof is formed before by the inferior surface of the nasal bone and nasal spine on the inferior surface of the hori- zontal plate of the frontal, which slope downward and for- ward; in the middle, by the horizontal plate of the ethmoid, which is level with the ground; and behind, by the inferior surface of the body of the sphenoid, the ala of the vomer, and the sphenoidal process of the palate, which slope down- ward and backward. The floor, nearly horizontal, and wider transversely than the roof, is formed in its anterior two-thirds by the superior surfaces of the palate processes of the maxilla, and in its posterior third, by the superior surfaces of the horizontal plates of the palate bones. The outer wall is formed before by part of the internal surface of the nasal bone and by the same surface of the nasal process of the maxilla and of the lacrimal; in the mid- dle, by the internal surface of the labyrinth of the ethmoid, and by the same surface of the body of the maxilla and of the inferior turbinate; and behind, by the internal surface of the vertical plate of the palate, and by the same surface of the internal plate of the pterygoid process of the sphenoid. It shows from above and behind downward and forward the superior turbinate, superior meatus, middle turbinate, and middle meatus, all described with the internal surface of the labyrinth of the ethmoid, and the inferior turbinate. The inner wall (septum) is formed before by the verti- cal crest of the nasal bones and by the nasal spine on the in- ferior surface of the horizontal plate of the frontal; in the middle by the vertical plate of the ethmoid; behind, by the lateral surface of the vomer; and below, by the nasal crest formed by the articulation of the palate processes of the maxillae and of the horizontal plates of the palate bones. The triangular deficiency presented by the anterior border of the septum is occupied in the non-macerated skull by the septal cartilage of the nose. The posterior border is formed by the pharyngeal edge of the vomer and of the palatal nasal crest. As a rule, the septum is deflected to one or other side, and is occasionally perforated, so that the two nasal fossae communicate.273 OSSA SUTARUM Relation of Nasal Fossae to Neighboring Spaces. Each nasal fossa communicates with the cranial fossa above by the olfactory foramina and by the foramen cecum, if patent; with the sphenomaxillary fossa by the sphenopala- tine foramen; with the nasopharynx by the posterior nares; with the front of the face by the anterior nares; with the orbit by the nasolacrimal canal; with the mouth by the anterior palatine foramen; and occasionally with each other by an aperture in the septum. The superior meatus communicates with the sphenoidal sinus through the sphenoethmoidal recess, and directly with the posterior ethmoidal sinuses. The middle meatus com- municates with the frontal and ethmoidal sinuses through the hiatus semilunaris, and directly with the maxillary sinus. The inferior meatus, as stated above, communicates with the orbit through the nasolacrimal canal. The sinus in the or- bital process of the palate communicates with the sphenoidal sinus, or assists in closing one or more of the posterior ethmoidal sinuses. It should not be forgotten that the naso- pharynx communicates with the drum of the ear through the Eustachian tube, and that the drum, in turn, communi- cates with the mastoid air cells through the attic and antrum. Hence, no pneumatic space in the skull is so remote that it is not reached, directly or indirectly, by the outside air. Ossa Sutarum. Ossa sutarum, also called Wormian bones in honor of Wormius of Denmark, are irregular ossifications deposited in many skulls in the sutures between some of the cranial bones. They may be as small as the head of a pin, or more than an inch in size. Their number is generally limited to two or three, but more than a hundred have been found in a case of acute hydrocephalus. They are apt to be symmetri- cal on the two sides of the skull, and their margins are adapt- ed to the character of the suture in which they are situated. They may involve the outer, or the inner, or all tables of the skull. They occur most often in the lambdoid and sagit- 18THE BONES 274 tal sutures. One or several of them may occupy the place of the superior angle of the occipital, and one large pair has been known to form the whole of the occipital above the mid- dle curved lines. One may be present in the anterior fonta- nelle, forming the anterosuperior angle of the parietal. A small one may lie in the lesser wing of the sphenoid, and one or more very small ones in the suture between the sphenoid and ethmoid. They are seldom seen in the face, but their presence has been noted around the lacrimal, and at the ex- tremity of the sphenomaxillary fissure, where they may form an independent nodule wedged in between the greater wing of the sphenoid, the malar, and the maxilla. In their devel- opment and structure they resemble the other cranial bones. The epipteric bone, which belongs in the category of ossa sutarum, is a scale-like ossification often seen between the anteroinferior angle of the parietal and the greater wing of the sphenoid, near the pterion. Humphrey says of ossa sutarum:—“They are evidently stop-gaps developed in the membranous covering of the brain when the extension of the regular osseous nuclei is likely, for some reason, to be insufficient to cover in the cranial cavity.” Skeleton as a Whole. The average adult human skeleton presents a surface of about 12,500 square centimeters, less than half of which receives attachment of muscles. The term skeleton (dried body) includes the bony seg- ments, their cartilages and ligaments. It supports the softer tissues and protects organs. In Vertebrata the skeleton may be divided thus :—- (1) Exoskeleton, which includes bony plates devel- oped in the skin. Teeth, nails, hairs, and feathers probably also belong in this category (2) Endoskeleton, which is supportive and supplied with levers. (3) Splanchnoskeleton, which is probably represented in man by the cartilaginous framework of the larynx, trachea, and bronchi. True bony plates in the sclerotic are found in some Birds and Fishes. An os cordis occurs in theSKELETON AS A WHOLE 275 Bos*Taurus and in other Ruminants. A bone is present in the tongue of certain Birds. An os penis exists in the Wal- rus, many Dogs, and other animals. The os cloacae of Lacertilia and marsupial bones are included in the splanch- noskeleton. Below Vertebrata skeletons do not exist, but are rep- resented by bars of calcareous material and other sub- stances. The fundamental feature of the endoskeleton of Verte- brata is bilateral symmetry in relation to the axis. The highest type of endoskeleton is reached in the human being. The endoskeleton is divided into:— (1) Axial, which encloses two cavities, the neural and the visceral, and consists of the skull and spine, the ribs, sternum, and hyoid bone. (2) Appendicular, which includes the upper and lower limbs. The Snake has only an axial skeleton, its appendicu- lar skeleton being rudimentary. In the Whale, the anterior extremities are well-developed, whilst the posterior are rudi- mentary. The axis of man differs in some respects from that of other species. His foramen magnum is in the lower, in- ferior part of the skull, and somewhat anterior, and its plane is horizontal. In the Dog it is in the posterior part, and its plane is vertical. The weight of the head is sustained in all Herbivorous Quadrupeds by the well-developed ligamentum nuchae (pack-wax), which in man is rudimentary because his head is balanced on the spine. In man there is a prepon- derance of the upper part of the skeleton. An infant has difficulty in walking because of the relatively large size of its head, the absence of vertebral curves, and the shortness of its lower limbs, so that it is rendered top-heavy from the high position of its center of gravity, which is above the umbilicus. In the adult it is in the pelvic rings. Man is the only erect animal. The upright posture gives rise to modi- fications, such as primary curves: note that the pelvis and ribs curve anteriorly. Changes are also effected in the di- ameters of the body for, comparing man to other animals, in him the chest becomes compressed anteroposteriorly and expanded laterally, thus throwing the arms apart, and in- creasing their range of motion. In animals the chest is nar-THE BONES 276 row and the fore-limbs consequently close together. Again, the pelvis of man is greatly expanded for the support of the viscera ^nd of the fetal head. A brief contrast between man and an Ape—the Gorilla, for example—shows:— (1) In man the cranial part of the head markedly over- shadows the face, while in the Gorilla the facial part pre- dominates. In man the nasal fossae are directed more down- ward and the facial angle is greater (approximately a right angle) than in the Gorilla. (2) Man's arm is distinguished by lightness, delicacy, and refinement, and has a greater range of mobility than that of the Gorilla. So, too, the bones of his forearm are relatively long, and the bones of his thumb are highly op- posible, and prehension is more highly marked; while in the Gorilla the thumb is not more opposible than the great toe of man. (3) In man the lower extremity can be completely ex- tended. The balance of the body is maintained by the addi- tional leverage afforded by the long neck of the femur, which broadens the base of support. The length of man’s femur is remarkable. Man's sole is very broad and his foot is arched, whilst the Gorilla is flat-footed. Man is the only animal that can stand on one leg. In man the foot is an organ of locomotion, while in the Gorilla it is one of pre- hension. In the Gorilla the great toe is characterized by opposibility, enabling him to grasp when climbing, but in man this feature is absent, since his foot is constructed for supporting the weight of the body and giving spring to the step. Cardinal Skeletal Planes. The following planes are useful in orientation:— (1) Sagittal. This plane cuts through the longitudi- nal axis at right angles to the base of support: its greatest expansion in man is toward the head and toward the feet. (2) Transverse. This cuts the sagittal at right angles, and is parallel with the base of support. (3) Frontal. This extends parallel with the ventral body-wall.DESCRIPTIVE TERMS 277 Descriptive Terms. (1) Superior, inferior. These are relative to the up- right posture. (2) Ventral, dorsal. Synonymous with, but prefer- able to, anterior and posterior, respectively. (3) Lateral, mesial. These correspond to external and internal, respectively. The latter two terms should be employed with regard to the level and depth at which the part in question lies. (4) Cephalad, caudad. These relate to the head and tail end, respectively. (5 Preaxial, postaxial. These terms describe the rela- tion of a structure to an imaginary line drawn at right angles to the long axis of the body. Preaxial, as applied to the orig- inal condition in the fetus, signifies the part of the limb that faces the head. In man the tibia and radius are preaxial, while the fibula and ulna are postaxial. (6) Analogous, homologous. The term analogous im- plies functional similarity, as the wing of an insect and the wing of a bird. The term homologous implies structural similarity, as the wing and forelimb. Some animals have both analogous and homologous parts, as the Bat, with its wings and forelimbs.INDEX. A Abdominal ribs, 207 Accessorius, hiatus, 212 Acetabulum, 166 Achoria, 31 Achromatic figure, 13 Acromion process, 141 Adamantoblasts, 98 Adductor tubercle of femur, 171 Adventitia of arteries, 79 After-birth, 31, 40 Air-cells, of lung, 115 Air-sacs, of lung, 115 Ala of sacrum, 198 of vomer, 247 Allantoic arteries, 30 stalk, 30 veins, 30 Allantois, 33 in lower types, 30 Alveolar glands, 91 periosteum, 97 process, 235 system, 91 Alveoli of glands, 91 of lungs, 115 Ameloblasts. See Adamantoblasts Amitosis, 11 Amnion, false, 29 folds, 28 human, 34 in lower types, 28 true, 29 Amniota, 31 Anmiotic cavity, 29 fluid, 29 folds, 29 suture, 29 Amphiaster, 13 Anal triangle, 201 Analogy, 277 Anamnia, 31 Anaphase, 13 Angle of jaw, 245 of Ludwig, 207 of scapula, 142 subcostal, 210 Angular processes of frontal bone, 240 Angulus Ludovici, 207 Antrum of Highmore. See Sinus, max- illary maxillary. See Sinus, maxillary Aorta, structure of, 79 Aortic bows, 44 Aplacentalia, 31 Appendicular skeleton, 275 Aqueduct of cochlea, 212 of vestibule, 212 Arch, superciliary, 239 Archenteron, 23 Arcuate eminence, 212 Area, embryonic, 24 extra-embryonic, 24 pellucida, 24 Areola mammae, 132 Areolar glands, 132 Arm, bones of, 143 development of, 43 Arrectores pilorum, 135 Arteries, structure of, 78 Arterioles, 79 precapillary, 79 Asterion, 222 Asters, 12 Astragalus, 180 homology of, 185 ossification of, 185 Astrocytes, 74 Atlas, 192 Auditory meatus, internal, 212 process, 214 Auerbach, plexus of, 103 Auricular canal, 213 fissure, 213 surface of ilium, 163 of sacrum, 198 Axial skeleton, 275 Axis, 194 cylinder, 73 of embryo, transient, 24 fibrillae, 73 Axone, 72 B Basal plate of placenta, 38 Basement membrane, 89280 INDEX Basilar groove, 227 Basophiles, 82 Bertin, columns of, 117 Bicipital fossa, 148 groove, 144 tuberosity, 150 Births, multiple, frequency of, 41 Bladder, gall, structure of, no urinary, structure of, 123 Blastocele, 21 Blastocyst, 21 bilaminar, 22 trilaminar, 23 Blastodermic vesicle. See Blastocyst Blastomeres, 20 Blastopore, 23 Blastula, 23 Blood, 81 cells, red, 81 development of, 83 white, 81 development of, 84 dust, 81 placques, 82 plasma, 81 Blood-vascular system, 78 development of, 83 Blood-vessels, development of, 83 lymphatics of, 80 structure of, 78 Body of vertebra, 191 Body-stalk, 33 Bone or Bones, 139 ankle, 180 blood-vessels of, 61 breast, 207 cancellous tissue of, 58 carpal, 152 cells, 59 compact tissue of, 58 composition of, 56 development of, 61 diploe, 268 elasticity of, 57 epipteric, 274 of face, morphology of, 256 of foot, 180 growth of, 64 of hand, 158 of head, 210 of heel, 181 hip, 161 of lower limb, 168 lymphatics of, 58 marrow of, 60 metacarpal, 158 metatarsal, 186 odontoid, 203 ossification of, 62 periosteum of, 59 peroneal, 177 Bone or Bones shin, 174 of skull, 2jo of spine, 190 strength of, 57 structure of, 56 tarsal, 180 thigh, 168 of thorax, 206 of toes, 189 of upper limb, 139 vascular supply of, 61 Wormian, 273 Bowman, capsule of, 119 Breast-bone, 207 Bregma, 222 Bronchi, structure of, 113 Bronchioles, 115 Brunner, glands of, 105 Buccal glands, 93 Bulbourethral glands, 128 Bulla ethmoidalis, 232 Bundles, of muscle, 68 C Calcaneus, 181 Calvaria, 210 Canal, auricular, 213 carotid. See Foremen Lacerum dental, posterior, 234 ethmoidal, 241 Eustachian, 214 Haversian, 59 of Huguier, 211 mandibular,' 245 musculotubular, 214 nasolacrimal, 235 neural, 25 neurenteric, 25 palatine, accessory, posterior, 254 posterior, 234, 254 pterygopalatine, 265 spinal, 191 temporomalar, 252 for tensor tympani, 214 Vidian, 221 of Volkmann, 5g Canaliculi of bone, 58 Canaliculus tympanicus, 118 Canalis musculotubarius, 214 Canine eminence, 233 fossa, 233 Capillaries, structure of, 79 Capitellum, T45 Capsule of Glisson, 109 glomerular, 1 T9 Cardiac muscle, 70 Cardinal skeletal planes, 276 Carotid foramen, external, 212 internal, 211INDEX 281 Carotid groove, 218 tubercle, 192 Carpal bones, 152 morphology of, 156 ossification of, 161 Carpus, 152 Cartilage, 55 costal, 206 ensiform, 208 of Meckel, 44 of Reichert, 44 varieties of, 56 Cartilaginous axial skeleton, 26 Cavity, amniotic, 29 sigmoid, of radius, 151 of ulna, greater, 147 lesser, 148 Cells, 9 air, of lung, 115 of connective tissue, 50 division of, 11 ependymal, 74 ethmoidal, 230 fat, 54 guard, of endothelium, 49 of marrow, 60 mast, 51, 61 nerve, 72 plasma, 51 prickle, 47 of Rauber, 22 reproduction of, II spermatogenetic, 125 sustentacular, 125 wandering, 50 Cell-mass, inner, 22 intermediate, 27 Cell-wall, 10 Cementum, 97 formation of, 99 Centrale, 157 Centrolecithal ova, 15 Centroplasm, 11 Centrosome, 11 Centrosphere, 11 Cervical ribs, 195 vertebrae, 191 Cheek-bone, 251 Chest. See Thorax Chin, 243 Choanae, 265 Chorda dorsalis. See Notochord Choriata, 31 Chorion frondosum, 35 human, 35 leve, 35 primitive, 29, 33 true, 30 Chorionic villi, 35 Chromaffine cells, ill Chromatin, 10 Chromosomes, 12 Circumvallate papillae, 94 Clasmatocytes, 51 Clavicle, 139 homology of, 140 ossification of, 140 Clinoid process, anterior, 269 middle, 217 posterior, 217 Clivus, 217 Coccyx, 199 Cochlea, aqueduct of, 212 Cochleariform process, 214 Cock’s comb, 229 Collar-bone, 139 Collecting tubules, renal, 121 Columns of Bertin, 117 Condyle of femur, external, 171 internal, 172 of humerus, 145 of jaw, 246 occipital, 226 Condyloid foramen, anterior, 227 posterior, 226 fossa, 227 process of mandible, 246 Coni vasculosi, 126 Connective tissue, 49 immature, 51 Connective-tissue substance, 51 Conoid tubercle, 140 Convoluted tubules of kidney, 120 Coracoid process, 143 Corium of skin, 133 Cornua of coccyx, 199 of sacrum, 198 Coronal suture, 223 Coronoid fossa, 145 process of jaw, 245 of ulna, 147 Corpus luteum. 130 Corpuscles, blood. See Blood-cells bulbous, of Krause, 76 cylindrical, of Krause, 76 genital, of KraUse, 77 of Golgi-Mazzoni, 78 of Hassall, 88 of Herbst, 78 lamellar, of Vater-Pacini, 77 Malpighian, 88 of Ruffini, 77 tactile, of Meissner, 77 thymic, 88 Costal cartilages, 206 process, 192 Costotransverse foramen, 192 Cotyledons, 40 Cowper, glands of, 128 Cranial fossae, 268 Craium, 210 Cranium, 210 IINDEX 282 Crescents of Gianuzzi, 92 of mixed gland, 92 Crest, falciform, 165 frontal, 268 iliac, 163 incisor, 237 lacrimal, anterior, 235 posterior, 248 nasal, 236, 250 obturator, 166 occipital, external, 225 internal, 226 supramastoid, 211 turbinated, inferior, 23s, 2KZ superior, 235, 255 Cribriform plate, 229 Crista galli, 239 Cuboid bone, 183 Cuneiform bone of foot, external, 184 internal, 184 middle, 184 of hand, 154 Curved lines of occipital bone, 225 Cuticular border of epithelium, 48 Cutis-plate, 28 Cylinder, axis, 73 Cytoplasm, 10 D 4 Dacryon, 262 Decidua, 31, 37 capsularis, 37 placentalis, 37 vera, 37 Decidual cells, 36 Deltoid impression, 145 Dendrites, 72 Dental canals, posterior, 234 ledge, 98 papilla, 98, 99 sac, 99 Dentinal fibers, 96 sheaths, 96 tubules, 96 Dentine, 96 granular layer of, 96 incremental lines of, 96 interglobular spaces of, 96 Depression, trigeminal, 211 Descriptive terms, 277 Determination of age, 41 Deutoplasm, 15 Development, 9 of blood-cells, 83, 84 of blood-vascular system, 83 of blood-vessels, 83 of bone, 61 of brain, 26 of face, 45 of limbs, 43 Development of lymphatic system, 89 of spleen, 89 of suprarenal bodies, 112 of teeth, 98 of thymus, 89 Digastric fossa, 215, 244 Digestive tract, 93 Digital fossa of femur, 169 of fibula, 179 Diploe, 268 Disk, intermediate, of muscle, 69 median, of muscle, 69 transverse, of muscle, 69 Diverticulum, allantoic, 30, 33 of Meckel, 34 Dorsum sellae, 217 Doyere’s hillock, 76 Duct or Ducts, bile, 109 lactiferous, 132 E EcTOBPAST 22 Egg-nucleus, 16 Elastic membrane of Henle, 79 Elastica of arteries, 78, 79 Embryo, nutrition of, 38 stage of, 42 Embryonic area, 24 crescent, 24 shield, 24 spot, 22 vesicle, implantation of, 35 Eminence, articular, 211 canine, 233 frontal, 239 iliopubic, 166 olivary, 217 parietal, 223 Eminentia arcuata, 212 Enamel, 95 contour lines of, 95 cuticle of, 95, 99 organ, 98 prisms, 95 prism-stripes of, 95 processes of, 99 pulp, 98 End-knobs of sensory nerve, 76 Endochondral ossification, 62 Endometrium in pregnancy, 36 Endomysium, 68 Endoneurium, 74 Endoplasm, 10 Endoskeleton, 274 Endothelium, 49 Ensiform cartilage, 208 Entoblast, 22 Entoskeleton, 65. See Endoskeleton Eosinophiles, 60, 82INDEX 283 Ependymal cells, 74 Epicondyle of humerus, external, 146 internal, 145 Epididymis, structure of, 126 Epihyal, 216 Epimysium, 68 Epiotic, 216 Epiploic appendages, 108 Epipteric bone, 274 Epithelium, 46 ciliated, 48 columnar, 47 glandular, 48 goblet, 48 neuro-epithelium, 49 pavement, 47 pigmented, 48 rod, 49 squamous, 47 varieties of, 47 Eponychium, 136 Erythroblasts, 84 Erythrocytes, 84 Esophagus, glands of, 101 structure of, 100 vessels of, 101 Ethmoid bone, 229 homology of, 232 ossification of, 232 Ethmoidal bulla, 232 canals, 241 cells, 230 foramen, 269 labyrinths, 230 notch, 230, 241 process, 253 ridge, 217 spine, 216 Eustachian canal, 214 Exocelom, 32 Exoplasm, 10 Exoskeleton, 65, 274 F Face, development of, 45 Facial bones, morphology of, 256 Fallopius, hiatus of, 212 Femur, 168 homology of, 173 ossification of, 172 Fenestrated membrane, 53, 79 Fertilization of ovum, 18 Fetus, age of, determination, 41 changes in form of, 42 membranes of, human, 32 peculiarities of, 33 in lower types, 28 stage of, 42 Fibers, perforating, of Sharpey, 58 Fibrillae, contractile, of muscle, 67, 68 Fibrocartilage, 56 Fibula, 177 homology of, 179 ossification of, 179 Fields of Cohnheim, 69 Filament, axial, 14 Filiform papillae, 94 Fingers, bones of, 160 Fissure, auricular, 213 Glaserian, 211 pterygomaxillary, 258 sphenoidal, 219 sphenomaxillary, 258 Flexures of embryo, 42 Floccular fossa, 212 Fold, amnion, 28 Foliate papillae, 95 Follicles, Graafian, 129 of hair, 135 of Lieberkuehn, 105 Fontanelles, 224 Foot, bones of, 180 Foramen acetabular, 166 cecum of skull, 229 carotid, external, 212 internal, 211 condyloid, anterior, 227 posterior, 226 costotransverse, 192 ethmoidal, 269 infraorbital, 233 intervertebral, 191 jugular, 266 lacerum, 265 anterior, 219 posterior, 266 magnum, 228 malar, 251 mandibular, 245 mastoid, external, 215 internal, 215 mental, 243 optic, 218 ovale, 219 palatine, anterior, 237, 264 posterior, 264 parietal, 223 rotundum, 219 of Scarpa, 264 sphenopalatine, 257 spinosum, 220 of Stenson, 264 sternal, 208 stylomastoid, 213 supraorbital, 240 temporomalar, 252 vertebral, 191 Vesalii, 219 Foramina olfactoria, 230 Forearm, bones of, 147284 INDEX Fore-brain, 26 Forehead, 260 Fossa, bicipital, 148 canine, 233 condyloid, 227 coronoid, 145 cranial, 268 anterior, 268 middle, 269 posterior, 270 digastric, 215, 244 digital of femur, 169 of fibula, 179 floccular, 212 glenoid, 211 iliac, 162 incisive, 233 infraspinous, 141 jugular, 213 lacrimal, 242 nasal, 271 occipital, 226 olecranon, 145 pituitary, 217 pterygoid, 221 radial, 145 scaphoid, 221 sigmoid, 215 sphenomaxillary, 257 sublingual, 244 submaxillary, 244 subscapular, 141 supraspinous, 141 temporal, 263 trochlear, 242 zygomatic, 259 Frequency of multiple births, 41 Frontal bone, 239 homology of, 242 ossification of, 242 crest, 268 eminence, 239 process of malar bone, 251 sinus, 242 suture, 240 Frontomaxillary suture, 260 Frontonasal process, 45 suture, 260 Fundamental embryological processes, 25 . Fungiform papillae, 94 Funiculi of nerve-trunk, 74 G Gatx-bladdKr, structure of, no Ganglion, 75 cells of, 75 spinal, 75 development of, 26 Ganglion, sympathetic, 75 types of, 75 Gastrula, 23 Gastrulation, 23 Genial tubercles, 244 Germ layers, formation of, 21 Germinal spot, 15 layers, 15 Gianuzzi, crescents of, 92 Glabella, 239 Gladiolus, 207 Glands, 90 alveolar, 91 areolar, 132 of Brunner, 105 buccal, 92, 93 bulbourethral, 128 ceruminous, 137 cervical, of uterus, 131 ciliary, 137 classification of, 90 coil, 91 of Cowper, 128 development of, 93 duodenal, 105 intestinal, 105, 107 labial, 93 of Lieberkuehn, 105, 107 lingual, 94 of Littre, 124 mammary, 132 mixed, 92 molar, 93 of Montgomery, 132 mucous, 92 multicellular, 90 palatal, 92 parotid, 92 prostatic, 127 racemose, 91 salivary, 92 sebaceous, 137 serous, 92 structure of, 90 sublingual, 92 submaxillary, 92 sudoriparous, 137 sweat, 137 of tongue, 94 tubular, 90, 91 tubulo-alveolar, 91 unicellular, 48, 90 urethral, 124 uterine, 131 Glaserian fissure, 211 Glenoid fossa of temporal bone, 142 surface of scapula, 211 Glia-capsules, 74 cells, 74 fibers, 74 Glisson, capsule of, 109285 INDEX Glomerulus, renal, 119 Gluteal line, 162 Gluteal ridge, 171 Gorilla, 276 Graafian follicles, 129 Granular layer of Tonies, 96 Groove, basilar, 227 bicipital, 144 carotid, 218 infraorbital, 234 lacrimal, 235 medullary, 25 musculospiral, 144 mylohyoid, 245 obturator, 167 occipital, 215 olfactory, 230 optic, 216 popliteal, 171 pterygopalatine, 217, 254 sacral, 198 subclavian, 140 vertebral, 202 vertebrarterial, 193 vertical, of mandible, 244 H Hair, 134 erector muscles of, 135 follicle of, 135 papilla of, 134 Hair-follicles, 135 Hallux, opposibility of, 190 Hamular process, 221 Hamulus, lacrimal, 249 Hand, bones of, 158 Hassall, corpuscles of, 88 Hasse’s rules, 41 Haversian canals, 59 system, 58 Head, bones of, 210 Head-fold of embryo, 28 Heel, 181 Helicine arteries, 128 Hematin, 83 Hematoidin, 83 Hematopoietic organs, 84 Hemin, 83 Hemoglobin, 81, 82 Hensen, node of, 24 Hepatic cells, 109 Hiatus accessorius, 212 Fallopii, 212 maxillary, 234 sacralis, 198 semilunaris, 231 Highmore, antrum of. See Sinus, max- illary Hind-brain, 26 Hip-bone, 161 Homolecithal ovum, 15 Homology, 277 Horizontal plate of ethmoid, 229 of frontal, 241 of palate, 254 Huguier, canal of, 211 Humerus, 143 homology of, 146 lower epiphysis of, 146 ossification of, 146 surgical neck of, 144 upper epiphysis of, 146 Hyaloplasm, 10 I IliopECTinEal line, 162 Iliopubic eminence, 166 Ilium, 162 crest of, 163 spines of, 163 tuberosity of, 163 Implantation of embryonic vesicle, 35 Incisive fossa, 233 Incisor crest, 237 fossa, 243 Incremental lines in dentine, 96 Infraorbital foramen, 233 groove, 234 Infraspinous fossa, 141 Infundibulum of nose, 231 Inner cell-mass, 21 Innominate bone, 161 homology of, 167 ossification of, 167 Instep, 180 Intercellular substance, 50 Intercondylar notch, 172 Intercostal spaces, 206 Interglobular spaces of dentine, 96 Intermaxillary suture, 236 Intermediate cell-mass, 27 Internasal suture, 250 Internodal segments of nerves, 73 Intertrochanteric lines, 170 Intervertebral foramen, 191 Intestine, aggregate nodules of, 105 Brunner’s glands of, 105’ large, structure of, 106 vessels of, 108 Lieberkuehn’s glands of, 105, 106 mucous membrane of, 104, 106 muscular coat of, 106, 107 Peyer’s patches of, 105, 107 serous coat of, 106, 107 small, absorbents of, 104 glands of, 105 structure of, 104 valvulae conniventes of, 104 vessels of, 106INDEX 286 Intestine, small, villi of, 104, 108 solitary nodules of, 105, 107 submucous coat of, 106, 107 Intima, of arteries, 78 Ischial spine, 164 tuberosity, 164 Ischium, 163 ramus of, 164 spine of, 164 tuberosity of, 164 J Jaw, lower. See Mandible upper. See Maxilla Jejuno-ileum, structure of, 104 Jugular foramen, 266 fossa, 213 process, 227 surface of temporal bone, 213 K Karyokinesis, 11 Karyoplasm, 10 Keratinization, 134 Kidney, arteries of, 122 capsules of, 119 columns of Bertin, 117 cortex of, 117 glomeruli of, 119 labyrinth of, 117 lobules of, 118 lymphatics of, 122 Malpighian bodies of, 118 medulla of, 117 medullary rays of, 117 nerves of, 122 papillae of, 118 pyramids of, 118 reticulum of, 121 structure of, 117 tubules of, 120 vasa afferentia of, 119 efferentia of, 119 veins of, 122 Knee-cap, 173 Krause, nerve-corpuscles of, 77, 78 L Labyrinth of ethmoid, 230 of kidney, 118 Lacerated foramen, 265 anterior. 219 posterior, 266 Lacrimal bone, 248 lesser, 249 Lacrimal crest, anterior, 235 posterior, 248 fossa, 242 groove, 235 hamulus, 249 notch, 234 process, 253 sulcus, 248 tubercle, 235 Lacteals. See Absorbents Lactiferous ducts, 132 Lacunae of bone, 58 Lambda, 226 Lambdoid suture, 223, 226 Lamellae, circumferential, 58 Haversian, 58 interstitial, 58 Lamina cribrosa, 212 papyracea of ethmoid, 231 vertebral, 191 Lanugo, 135 Lateral fold of embryo, 28 mass, of atlas, 193 of ethmoid, 230 of sacrum, 197 mesoblast, 27 Layer of Tomes, granular, 96 Layers of blastodermic vesicle, 21 Ledge, dental, 98 Leucocytes, 81 polymorphonuclear, 82 transitional, 82 Lieberkuehn, glands of, 105, 107 Limbs, development of, 43 position of, 43 Line or lines, curved of occipital bone, 225 of parietal bone, 223 gluteal, 162 iliopectineal, 162 incremental of Salter, 96 intertrochanteric, 170 mylohyoid, 244 oblique, of mandible, 243 of radius, 151 of tibia, 175 of ulna, 149 of Schreger, 96 spiral, of femur, 169 temporal, 240 Linea aspera of femur, 170 quadrati, 170 Lingula, of mandible, 245 of sphenoid bone, 218 Linin, 10 Lips, glands of, 93 structure of, 93 Liquor amnii, 29, 34 Liver, 108 arteries of, 108 bile-capillaries of, 109287 INDEX Liver, capsule of Glisson of, 109 cells of, 109 excretory channels of, 109 interlobular bile-ducts of, 109 lobes of, 108 lobules of, 108 lymphatics of, no nerves of, no sinusoids of, 108 structure of, 108 veins of, 109 central, 108, 109 sublobular, 109 Ludwig’s angle, 207 Lumbar rib, 206 vertebrae, 196 Lung, 114 air-cells of, 115 air-sacs of, 115 blood-vessels of, 116 bronchial tubes of, 115 bronchioles of, 115 lobes of, 114 lobules of, 114 lymphatics of, 116 nerves of, 116 structure of, 114 Lung-unit, 114, 115 Lutein cells, 130 Lymph-sinuses, 87 Lymphatic capillaries, 85 nodes. 86 nodules, 86 system, 85 development of, 88 Lymphatic tissue, 86 vessels, 86 of blood-vessels, 80 Lymphocytes, large, 82 small, 81 M Malar bone, 251 homology of, 252 ossification of, 252 foramen, 251 process, 235 Mall’s formula, 41 Malleolus, external, 178 internal, 176 Malpighian bodies of kidney, 119 nodules of spleen, 88 rete of skin, 133 Mammalia, 31 Mammary gland, 132 Mandible, 243 body of, 243 homology of, 246 ossification of, 246 Mandible, ramus of, 245] Mandibular canal, 245 foramen, 245 notch, 245 Manubrium sterni, 207 Margin, orbital, 240 Marginal sinus of placenta, 38 Marrow, 60 red, 60 yellow, 61 Marrow-cells, 60 Mast-cells, 51, 61 Mastoid foramen, external, 215 internal, 215 portion of temporal bone, 215 Matrix, intercellular, of bone, 59 Maturation of ovum, 15 Maxilla, 233 antrum of. See Sinus, maxillary body of, 233 homology of, 238 ossification of, 238 processes of, 235, 236 tuberosity of, 234 Maxillary hiatus, 234 process of inferior turbinate, 253 of malar, 252 of palate bone, 254 sinus, 237 Meatus, auditory, internal, 212 of nose, middle, 231 superior, 231 Meckel, cartilage of, 44 diverticulum of, 34 Media of arteries, 79 Mediastinum testis, 124 Medullary folds, 25 groove, 25 rays, 118 sheath, 73 Meissner, plexus of, 103 tactile corpuscles of, 77 Membrana preformativa, 99 Membrane, fenestrated, 53, 79 obturator, 167 Meniscus of Merkel, 76 Mental foramen, 243 protuberance, 243 tubercles, 243 Merkel, meniscus of, 76 Mesoblast, 22 intermediate, 27 lateral, 27 paraxial, 27 somites of, 27 Metacarpal bones, t58 homology of, 160 ossification of, 161 Metaphase, 13 Metaplasm, 10 Metatarsal bones, 186INDEX 288 Metatarsal, homology of, 188 ossification of, 188 Metatarsus, 186 Metopic suture, 240 Mid-brain, 26 Mitosis, 11 heterotype, 16 homotype, 17 Mitotic figure, 12 Molar glands, 93 Montgomery, areolar glands of, 132 Morula, 20 Mouth, 93 buccal glands of, 93 labial glands of, 93 molar glands of, 93 mucous membrane of, 93 Mucous membrane, structure of, 89 Multiple births, frequency of, 41 conception, origin of, 40 Muscle, blood-vessels of, 70 cardiac, 70 columns of, 69 development of, 66, 71 fibers of, 68 nerves of, 70 non-striated, 66 pale, 69 red, 69 striated, 68 origin of, 28 structure of, 66 types of, 69 varieties of, 66 Muscle-fibers, 68 Muscle-plate, 28 Muscularis mucosae, 89 Musculospiral groove, 144 Musculotubular canal, 214 Myelin, 73 Myelocytes, 60, 82 Mveloplaxes, 60 Mylohyoid groove, 245 line, 244 Myotome, 28 N Nail, bed of, 136 lunula of, 136 matrix of, 136 papillae of, 136 wall, 136 Nares, anterior, 262 posterior, 264 Nasal bone, 249 crest, 236, 250 fossa, 271 bulla ethmoidalis of, 232 floor of, 272 hiatus semilunaris of, 231 Nasal fossa, infundibulum of, 231 inner wall of, 272 middle meatus of, 231 orifices of, 273 outer wall of, 272 recessus sphenoethmoidalis of, 231 relations of, 273 roof of, 272 superior meatus of, 231 uncinate process of, 232 Nasal notch, 241 process of frontal bone, 241 of maxilla, 235 septum, 272 spine, anterior, 237 of frontal bone, 241 posterior, 254 Nasion, 241 Nasolacrimal canal, 235 Nasomaxillary suture, 260 Nephrotome, 27 Nerve, beginnings of, 76 endings of, 76 endoneurium of, 74 extremities of, 76 ganglion of, 75 perineurium of, 74 vaso-motor, 80 Nerve-cells, 72 axone of, 72 bipolar, 72 classification of, 72 dendrites of, 72 multipolar, 73 nucleus of, 72 processes of, 72 unipolar, 72 Nerve-fibers, 73 beginnings of, 76 medullated, 73 nonmedullated, 74 terminations of, 76 Nerve-trunk, 74 Nervous system, structure of, 138 tissues, 72 Neural canal, 25 crest, 26 Neurenteric canal, 25 Neurilemma, 73 cells of, 73 Neurofibrillae, 72 Neuroglia, 74 Neurogliar sheaths, 74 Neurokeratin, 73 Neuromuscular beginnings, 78 Neurone, 72 Neuroplasm, 73 Neurotendinous beginnings, 78 Nodes of Ranvier, 73 Normoblasts, 84INDEX 289 Notch, acetabular, 166 ethmoidal, 230 iliac, 171 intercondylar, 163 lacrimal, 234 mandibular, 245 nasal, 241 parietal, 211 pterygoid, 221 sciatic, great, 167 small, 164 suprasternal, 207 vertebral, 191 Notochord, 26 Nuclear fibers, 10 juice, 10 matrix, 10 membrane, 10 Nuclein. 10 Nucleolus, t 1 Nucleus of cells, 10 O Obelion, 223 Oblique line of jaw, 243 of radius, 151 of tib;a, 175 of ulna, 149 Obturator crest, 166 groove, 167 membrane, 167 Occipital bone. 225 basilar part of, 226 condyles of, 226 homologv of. 228 ossification of, 228 posterior portion of, 225 crest, external, 225 internal, 226 fossae, 226 groove, 215 protuberance, external, 225 internal, 225 Odontrb’asts, 98, 99 Odortoid bone, 203 process, 194 O’ecranon fossa, 145 process, 147 Olfactory foramina, 230 groove, 230 Olivary eminence, 216 Oocyte. 16 Oogonia, 16 Ooplasm. 15 Opicthctic portion of temporal bone, 215 Optic foramen, 218 groove, 216 Orbit. 261 Orbital margin, 240 19 Orbital plate, 241 process of malar bone, 252 of palate bone, 255 surface of sphenoid, 220 Origin of multiple conception, 40 Os calcis, 181 centralc, 157 Incae, 228 innominatum, 161 Japonicum, 252 magnum, 155 pubis, 165 trigonum, 180 unguis, 248 Ossa sutarum, 273 Ossification, 62 Osteoblasts, 60 Osteoclasts, 60 Osteology, 139 Ova, classification of, 15 Ovary, corpus luteum of, 130 primitive follicles of, 129 structure of, 129 Oviduct, structure of, 131 Ovu]ation, 18 Ovum, 14 centrolecithal, 15 fertilization of, 18 holoblastic, 21 homolecithal, 15 maturation of, 15 meroblastic, 21 segmentation of, 20 telolecithal, 15 Oxyhemoglobin, 83 P Palatal process, 235 Palate bone, 253 tuberosity of, 255 Palatine canal, accessory posterior, 234, posterior, 234, 254 foramen, anterior, 237 posterior, 264 suture, transverse, 264 Pancreas, no bodies of Langerhans of, in cells of, hi ducts of. no lobules of, no structure of, no Papilla, dentah 98 pili, 134 Papillae of mucous membrane, 89 renal, it8 of skin, 133 of tongue, 94 Paralinin, n290 INDEX Parathyroid bodies, 117 Parietal bone, 222 homology of, ‘224 ossification of, 224 eminence, 223 foramen, 223 notch, 211 Patella, 173 homology of, 174 ossification of, 173 Pavement epithelium, 47 Pedicles of vertebrae, 191 Pelvis, 200 alae of, 200 bony ring of, 200 cavity of, 200 inlet of, 200 outlet of, 200 ring of, 200 Penis, bone of, 65 structure of, 128 Perforating fibers, 58 Perichondrium, 55 Perimysium, 68 Perineurium, 74 Periosteum, 59 alveolar, 97 Peripheral nerve-extremities, 76 Perivascular lymph-sheaths, 80 Peroneal bone, 177 spine, 181 Petrosquamous suture, 271 Petrous portion of temporal bone, 211 Phalanges of foot, 189 ossification of, 190 of hand, 160 ossification of, 161 Pharyngeal pouches, 43 fate of, 44 spine, 227 tonsil, 100 Pharynx, 100 glands of, 100 structure of, 100 Pisiform bone, 154 Pituitary fossa, 217 Placenta, diffuse, 35 human, 37 previa, 38 Placental septa, 38 Placentalia, 32 Plane, frontal, 276 sagittal, 276 transverse, 276 Planum temporale, 223 Plasma-dells, 51 Plate, horizontal, of ethmoid bone, 229 of frontal bone, 241 of palate bone, 254 orbital, of frontal bone, 241 \ tympanic, 214 Plate, vaginal, 221 vertical, of ethmoid bone, 230 of frontal bone, 239 of palate bone, .254 Plexus of Auerbach, 103 of Meissner, 103 Ploughshare bone, 247 Polar bodies, 16 Popliteal groove, 171 space, 171 Postglenoid tubercle, 211 Postsphenoid bone, 222 Prechordal portion of neural canal, 26 Prefrontal bones, 232 Preglenoid tubercle, 211 Premaxilla, 238 Presphenoid bone, 222 Prickle-cells, 47 Primary cerebral vesicles, 26 Primitive chorion, 29 gut-tract, 33 groove, 24 streak, 24 Process, acromion, 141 alveolar, 236 angular, of frontal bone, 240 articular, of vertebrae, 191 auditory, 214 clinoid, anterior, 269 middle, 217 posterior, 217 cochleariform, 214 condyloid, of mandible, 246 coracoid, 143 coronoid, of mandible, 245 of ulna, 147 costal, 192 ethmoidal, of inferior turbinate, 253 frontal, of malar bone, 251 frontonasal, 45 hamular, of sphenoid, 221 jugular, of occipital bone, 227 lacrimal, of inferior turbinate, 253 malar, of maxilla, 235 mastoid, 215 maxillary, of inferior turbinate, 253 of malar bone, 252 of palate bone. 254 nasal, of frontal bone, 241 of maxilla, 235 odontoid, 194 olecranon, 147 orbital, of malar, 252 of palate, 255 of os calcis, 182 palatal, of maxilla, 236 pterygoid, 221 sphenoidal, of palate bone, 256 spinous, of vertebrae, 191 styloid, of fibula, 177 of radius, 152INDEX Process, styloid, of temporal bone, 213 of ulna, 149 transverse, of vertebrae, 191 uncinate, of ethmoid, 232 vaginal, of temporal bone, 213 zygomatic, of malar bone, 251 of temporal bone, 210 Prolymph, 21 Pronator ridge, 148 Prootic part of temporal bone, 215 Prophase, 12 Prostate gland, structure of, 127 Protoplasm, 10 Protuberance, mental, 243 occipital, external, 225 internal, 225 Pterion, 222 Pterotic part of temporal bone, 216 Pterygoid fossa, 221 notch, 221 process, 221 ridge, 220 tubercle, 221 Pterygomaxillary fissure, 258 Pterygopalatine canal, 265 groove, 217, 254 Pubic spine, 165 Pubis, 165 Pulp of spleen, 87 of tooth, 97 Pyramids of Ferrein, 118 Pyrenin, 11 R Radial sesamoid bone, 157 Radius. 150 homology of, 152 ossification of, 152 Ramus of ischium, 164 of mandible, 245 pubic, descending, 166 horizontal, 165 Rauber, cells of, 22 ■> Receptive eminence of ovum, 19 Recessus sphenoethmoidalis, 231 Red marrow, 60 Reproductive organs, female, 129 male, 124 Respiratory tract, 112 Rete Malpighi, 133 Reticular tissue, 51 Reticulum, 86 Rhomboid impression, 140 Ribs. 203 abdominal; 207 arrangement of, 206 cartilages of, 206 cervical, 195 Seventh, 205 first, 204 Ribs, lumbar, 206 morphology of, 207 ossification of, 205 second, 205 tenth, 205 twelfth, 205 variations in, 206 vertebral, 206 vertebrochondral, 206 vertebrosternal, 206 Ridge, ethmoidal, 217 gluteal, 171 pronator, 148 pterygoid, 220 supracondylar, of femur, 172 of humerus, 144 temporal, 223 of trapezium, 155 trapezoid, 140 Rostrum of sphenoid bone, 217 Rugae of stomach, 101 of vagina, 132 S Sacral cornua, 198 foramina, anterior, 197 posterior, 198 groove, 198 hiatus, 198 Sacrum, 197 Sagittal plane, 276 sulcus, 224, 240 suture, 223 Salivary glands, 92 Sarcolemma, 68 Sarcous substance, 68 Sauropsida, 31 Scalene tubercle, 205 Scaphoid bone of carpus, 153 of tarsus, 182 fossa, 221 Scapula, 140 homology of, 143 ossification of, 143 Scapular notch, 141 Scarpa, foramina of, 264 Schmidt-Lantermann segments, 73 Sehreger, lines of, 96 Sciatic notch, great, 167 small, 161 Sclerotome, 28 Sebaceous glands, 137 Segmentation of ovum, 20 types of, 20 Segmentation-nucleus, 20 Sella turcica, 217 Semilunar bone, 154 hiatus, 231 Seminal vosie’es, structure of, 127 Septum of nose, 272 pertiniform, of penis, 128 of tongue, 94INDEX 292 t ; t Serosa, 29 Serous glands, 92 Sesamoid bone of radius, 157 Shin, 175 Shoulder-blade, 140 Sigmoid cavity, greater, 147 lesser, 148 of radius, 151 fossa, 215 Sums, frontal, 242 marginal, of placenta, 38 maxillary, 237 pedis, 181 sphenoidal, 217 Sinusoids, structure of, 80 Skein, close, 12 loose, 12 Skeleton, appendicular, 275 axial, 275 morphology of, 275 planes of, 276 splanchnic, 274 as a whole, 274 Skin, 133 appendages of, 134 corium of, 133 epidermis of, 133 papillae of, 133 pigment of, 134 tactile corpuscles of, 76 Skull, 210 base of, 264 bones of, 210 diploe of, 268 interior of, 268 regions of, anterior, 260 inferior, 264 lateral, 263 superior, 263 tables of, 268 vitreous of, 268 as a whole, 259 Somatopleure, 27 Somites, mesoblastic, 27 Space, intercostal, 206 popliteal, 171 Sperm-nucleus, 19 Spermatic filament, 13 Spermatids, 14, 125 Spermatoblasts, 125 Spermatocytes, 14, 125 Spermatogenesis, 14, 125 Spermatogonia, 14, 125 Sphenoethmoidal recess, 231 Sphenoid bone, 216 homology of, 222 ossification of, 222 wings of, greater, 219 lesser, 218 Sphenoidal fissure, 219 process of palate, 256 Sphenoidal sinus, 217 spine, 220 Sphenomaxillary fissure, 258 fossa, 257 Sphenopalatine foramen, 257 Spinal canal, 191 column, 190 Spine, 190 ethmoidal, 216 iliac, anterior, 163 posterior, 163 ischial, 164 nasal, of frontal bone, 241 anterior, 237 posterior, 254 peroneal, 181 pharyngeal, 227 pubic, 165 of scapula, 141 sphenoidal, 220 of tibia, 174 Spiral line of femur, 169 Splanchnopleure, 27 Splanchnoskeleton, 274 Spleen, 87 development of, 89 Malpighian nodule of, 88 pulp of, 87 structure of, 87 Splenic nodule, 80 Spongioplasm, 10 Spot, germinal, 15 j Squamous portion of temporal bone, 210 Stenson, foramina of, 264 } Sternal foramen, 208 Sternum. 207 ossification of, 208 Stomach, 101 arteries of, 103 crypts of, 102 glands of, 101 lymphatics of, 103 mucous membrane of, 101 muscular coat of, 103 serous coat of, 103 structure of, 101 submucous coat of, 103 veins of, 103 Stomata of endothelium, 49 Stylohyal, 216 Styloid process of fibula, 177 of radius, 152 of temporal bone, 213 of third metacarpal bone, 159 of ulna, 149 Stylomastoid foramen, 213 Subclavian groove, 140 Subcostal angle, 210 Sub’ingual fossa, 244 Submaxillary fossa, 244 Sudoriparous glands, 137INDEX 293 Sulcus, lacrimal, 248 sagittal, 224, 240 Superciliary arch, 239 Supramastoid crest, 211 Supraorbital foramen, 240 Suprarenal body, structure of, in Suprascapular notch, 142 Suprasternal notch, 207 Suture coronal, 223 frontal, 240 frontomaxillary, 260 frontonasal, 260 intermaxillary, 236 internasal, 250 lamboid, 223, 226 metopic, 40 nasomaxillary, 260 palatine, transverse, 264 pelrosquamous, 271 petrosquamous, 271 sagittal, 223 Sweat glands, 137 Symphysis of mandible, 243 Synapsis, 17 Syncytium, 13 of chorion, 35 T Tail-fold of embryo, 28 Tarsus, 180 homology of, 185 ossification of, 185 Taste-buds, 94 Teeth, 95 cementum of, 97 dentine of, 96 development of, 98 enamel of, 95 pulp of, 97 structure of, 95 Tegmen tympani, 212 Telolecithal ova, 15 Telophase, 13 Temple, 2TO Temporal bone, 210 homology of, 216 mastoid portion of, 215 process of, 215 ossification of, 215 petrous portion of, 211 squamous portion of, 210 fossa, 263 line, 240 ridge, 223 Temporomalar canal, 252 foramen, 252 Temporozygomatic surface of sphenoid, 220 Tendon, structure of, 54 Teniae coli, 107 Ten:.or tympani canal, 214 Terms, descriptive, 277 Testes, 124 epididymis of, 126 mediastinum of, 124 lete of, 125 seminiferous tubules of, 125 structure of, 124 tubuli recti of, 125 tunica albuginea of, 124 vas deferens of, 127 Theory, Flemming’s intracellular, 52 Heidenhain’s muscular, 69 Virchow’s extracellular, 52 Thigh bone, 168 Thoracic vertebrae, 195 Thorax, 209 apertures of, 209 joints ci, 210 as a whole, 209 Thymic corpuscles, 88 Thymus, 88 origin of, 89 structure of, 88 Thyroid body, 116 development of, 117 structure of, 116 Tibia, 174 homology of, 177 ossification of, 176 Tissue, adipose, 54 areolar, 51 connective, 49 elementary groups of, 46 epithelial, 46 fibro-e’astic, 51 muscular, 66 nervous, 72 reticular, 51 white fibrous, 52 yellow elastic, 52, 53 Tongue, 93 foliate papillae of, 95 g’ands of, 94 papillae of, 94 septum of, 94 structure of, 93 taste-buds of, 94 Tonsils, faucial, 100 lingual, 95 pharyngeal, 100 Torcular Herophili, 226 Trachea, IT2 cartilages of, 113 mucous glands of, 113 membrane of, T12 structure of, 112 Transverse processes of vertebrae, 191 Trapezium, 155 Trapezoid, 155294 INDEX Triangle, anal, 201 urethral, 201 Trigeminal depression, 211 Trochanter major, 169 minor, 169 Trochlea of femur, 172 of humerus, 145 Trochlear fossa, 242 Trophoblast, 21, 32 Tubercle or Tubercles, accessory, 197 adductor, 171 of atlas, 193 carotid, 192 conoid, of clavicle, 140 deltoid, of clavicle, 139 of femur, 169 genial, 244 infraglenoid, 142 lacrimal, 235 mental, 243 postglenoid, 211 preglenoid, 211 pterygoid, 221 of rib, 204 scalene, 205 supraglenoid, 142 of ulna, 147 of vertebrae, 192 Tuberosity, bicipital, 150 of femur, 171, 172 of fifth metatarsal, 188 of humerus, 144 of ilium, 163 of ischium, 164 of maxilla, 234 of os calcis, 183 of palate bone, 255 of scaphoid, 153 of tibia, 174 Tubules, seminiferous, 125 uriniferous, 120 Tunica albuginea, 124 propria, 89 Turbinate bone, inferior, 252 crest, inferior, 235, 255 superior, 235, 255 Turkish saddle, 217 Turkish saddle, 217 Tympanic canaliculus, 213 plate, 214 Tympanohyal, 216 Tympanum, tegmen of, 212 U Ulna, 147 homology of, 149 Ulna, ossification of, 149 Umbilical arteries, 38 cord, 33, 39 duct, 33 vein, 38 vesicle, 33, 34 Unciform bone, 156 Uncinate process of ethmoid, 232 Ureter, structure of, 122 Urethra, 123 crypts of, 124 glands of, 124 structure of, 123 Urethral triangle, 201 Urinary organs, 117 Uterus, 131 endometrium of, 36, 131 in pregnancy, 39 structure of, 131 V Vagina, 132 rugae of, 132 structure of, 132 Vaginal plate, 221 process of temporal bone, 213 Vas deferens, structure of, 127 Vasa vasorum, 80 Vater-Pacini, corpuscles of, 77 Vein or Veins, structure of, 80 umbilical, 38 valves of, 80 Vermiform appendix, solitary nodules of, 107 Vertebra or Vertebrae, 190 cervical, 191 formation of, 201 lumbar, 196 ossification of, 202 prominens, 194 thoracic, 195 typical, 190 Vertebral border of scapula, 142 Vertebral column, 190 cartilaginous, 26 curves of, 202 length of, 201 notches of, 191 variations in, 202 as a whole, 201 foramen, 191 grooves, 202 Vertebrarterial groove, 193 Vertebrates, classification of, 31 Vertebrochondral ribs, 206 Vertebrosternal ribs, 206INDEX 295 Vertical groove of mandible, 244 plate of ethmoid, 230 of frontal, 239 of palate bone, 254 Vesicle, blastodermic, 21 cerebral, primary, 26 optic, 26 umbilical, 34 Vesicula seminalis, structure of, 127 Vessels, vitelline, 30, 83 Vestibule, aqueduct of, 212 Vidian canal, 221 Villi, chorionic, 29 intestinal, 104 Visceral arches, 43 fate of, 44 furrows, 43 Vitelline duct, 30 membrane, 15 sac, 22, 30 vessels, 30, 83 Vitellus, 15 Vitreous of skull, 268 Vomer, 247 homology of, 248 ossification of, 248 W Wharton, jelly of, 39 Wind-pipe, 112 Wings of sphenoid, greater, 219 lesser, 218 Womb, 131 Wormian bones, 273 Wrist, bones of, 152 Y Yellow marrow, 61 Yolk, 15 formative, 15 nutritive, 15 Yolk-sac, 30 human, 34 Z Zona radiata, 14 Zygomatic fossa, 259 process of malar bone, 252 of temporal bone, 210>