principles of amputation. 59 free to consider solely what method of amputation famishes the best results. Hence many plans of operation that were almost discarded thirty years ago have regained their ascendency, and flaps are now most frequently carved out by cutting from without inwards, regardless of the greater length of time reciuired provided the result is more satisfactory. _ As a result of the thought and labour devoted to the improvement of amputation since the invention of anaesthetics, certain general principles have come to be universally recognised as guiding the Surgeon in the performance of the operation. These may be briefly stated thus :— 1 The covering must be sufficient to meet over the bone without the slightest tension ; 2. The amputation should be so performed that the scar, when the stump is healed, shall not lie over the end of the bone ; 3. If possible, a dependent opening shall be provided for the exit of the discharges ; 4. That these advantages shall be obtained with the smallest possible sacrifice of the healthy parts of the limb. Each of these requires consideration more in detail. 1. To provide a sufficient Covering.—It was long ago pointed out by Mynors and others, that the standard by which we must estimate the amount of covering required is the diameter of the limb at right angles to the line in which the cicatrix is to be placed, and taken at the point at which the bone is to be divided. In operating on the dead body, it is evident that if two equal flaps, each measuring half the diameter of the limb at the point at which the bone is sawn, were cut, they would meet accurately and cover in the bone ; but such flaps in the living body would be totally inadequate on account of the shrinking from the elasticity of the skin and the displacement from the contraction of the muscles. Consequently, it is necessary to provide another half diameter of covering at least, and in some situations even this amount is barely sufficient. As an illustration of the above rule, let us suppose a limb is to be amputated, the antero-posterior diameter of which, at the point where the bone is to be sawn, is six inches, the necessary diameter and a half of covering could be obtained in the following ways amongst others :—1. One long flap nine inches long ; 2, two flaps, one six inches long and the other three ; 3, two equal flaps four and a half inches long ; 4, two equal flaps three inches long, and retraction of the muscles from the bone to such an extent as to provide an inch and a half of covering on each side ; 5, a circular incision raising the skin and fat for three inches, and another circular cut through the muscles with retraction of the soft parts from the bone for one inch and a half. The general rule that one diameter and a half is sufficient, requires modifi- cation under various conditions of the tissues of which the covering is made, and in various situations. In very old people the skin has frequently lost much of its elasticity; but it is not wise to shorten the covering on this account, as the tissues being feeble are less capable of withstanding the irritating effect of tension, in amputation through chronically inflamed tissues, the retraction is also reduced to a minimum on account of the rigidity of the parts ; but here again it is unwise to shorten the covering—in fact it is better to make it a little longer—as the flaps are very apt gradually to shrink during or after the healing of the stump. In limbs in which the muscles have undergone extreme