INFLUENCE OF HYGIENIC CONDITIONS. operations, even to those of expediency ; but fatty degeneration of the heart, as indicated by its feeble action, by irregularity and want of power in the circulation, by breathlessness, and by a distinctly marked arcus senilis, should make the Surgeon careful in undertaking any operation attended with much loss of blood or shock to the nervous system. Such a condition of heart is liable to occasion great depression of strength, syncope, and death—often sudden—some days after the operation. In cases of chronic disease that it would otherwise be proper to submit to operation, this condition of the heart becomes a serious obstacle, but it need not be a bar to operation in acute cases that would be speedily fatal if left to themselves, and certainly not in one of the four conditions of primary surgical urgency. Disease of the Lungs, of a tuberculous character, when active or advanced, is incompatible with the success of an operation ; but under certain circum- stances, as will be explained when speaking of diseases of the joints and fistula in ano, an operation is justifiable and proper, even though the patient be consumptive. If the Liver be affected by cirrhosis, and more especially if any symptoms of ascites have supervened, no operation but for the relief of disease that instantly threatens life should be undertaken. Amyloid degeneration does not counter-indicate an operation if, by that operation, the cause of the condition can be removed, as in some cases of chronic joint disease. Perhaps the most serious constitutional affection, and that which more than any others militates against the success of an operation, is disease of the Kidneys, with albuminuria ; in this condition the local inflammation that is set up is apt to assume a diffuse and sloughing form, and this is especially the case in all operations about the pelvic and genito-urinary organs. Saccharine diabetes is another constitutional condition which absolutely forbids all operations except those required for the immediate preservation of life. The tendency to the occurrence of carbuncle and spontaneous gangrene in diabetes is a well-known feature of the disease, and this tendency shows itself after an operation in sloughing of the surfaces of the wound, with widely-spread- ing diffuse inflammation followed by septicaemia and death. Albuminuria and diabetes form, in fact, such serious complications, that no operation, even the most trivial, should be undertaken, except in cases of emergency, without previously examining the urine both for albumen and sugar. I he contamination of the patient’s system by Malignant Disease must always prevent our operating; as, if this has taken place, the disease cannot be completely removed. And, lastly, no operation, save of the most urgent neces- sity in cases that fall within the category of one of the four classes of primary surgical urgency, and thus intended to rescue the patient from impending death, should ever be performed whilst he is labouring under Pyaemia, Septicaemia, Ei jsipclas, Phlebitis, or any Diffuse Inflammation ; and even during the epidemic prevalence of these affections, operations that are not of immediate necessity should be postponed until a more favourable season. Operations in veiy old people, if severe and attended by much shock to the system, are commonly fatal; amputations in individuals above the age of seventy, are very rarely successful. ■ o"7. Hygienic Conditions to which a patient is exposed both before and 0deration, will most materially influence its results. These conditions W0 vlu^s : As regards the diet of the patient, and 2. As concerns