9i5 THE RASH—CONSTITUTIONAL SYMPTOMS. disease may occur idiopafchically also ; that is to say, it may apparently start iu the unbroken skin. Trousseau, and others, have asserted that even in these cases it always starts from some slight abrasion which has been overlooked. When arising in this way it commences most commonly at the junction of mucous membrane and skin, as at the angle of the mouth, the ala of the nose, the comer of the eye, the meatus of the ear, or the margin of the anus. In rare cases it may arise spontaneously on the limbs. I have seen it commence in the unbroken skin over an abscess. This so-called idiopathic erysipelas is the same disease as that in which the rash starts from a wound, although this has been doubted. During an outbreak of erysipelas in a surgical ward the two forms may arise in different cases as the result of the same infection. The rash is of a uniform but vivid rosy-red hue, sometimes becoming dusky, and always disappearing on pressure ; when advancing, it is characterized by a shaiply-defined border slightly raised above the healthy skin, but when sub- siding it fades away into the colour of the healthy skin. It is accompanied by some, slight .oedematons swelling, frequently recognizable only by the perma- nent impression left by the finger-nail pressed on the skin, but which is often con- siderable where the areolar tissue is loose, as in the eyelids and scrotum; and there is usually a sense of stiffness with a burning sensation in the part, and not un- frequently greatly increased sensibility. Vesicles or bullm often form, containing a clear serum, which speedily becomes turbid, and dries into fine branny desqua- mation. The redness may spread rapidly along the limb or trunk, or, if the face be affected, may travel quickly from one side to the other, causing such swelling of the eyelids as to close them, and giving rise to swelling and much tensive pain m the ears. The disease is invariably accompanied by enlargement and tender- ness of the lymphatic glands. In some cases this may even precede the rash, (sometimes. the cutaneous eruption disappears in one part of the body and reappears m another. This, which is the erratic erysipelas, is often a dan- gerous form of the affection, occurring in advanced stages of pyaemia, and indicating the approach of death. In the idiopathic varieties of erysipelas Arnott states that the fauces are always involved. The inflammation in cutaneous erysipelas has no tendency to terminate in suppuration. In some parts in which the areolar tissue is very loose espe- 01a y in t ic eyelids, suppuration occasionally takes place. It then seems to be he result rather of the tension caused by the effusion than of the irritation of me specific virus. JS? i* “am,ua,ti0" » Pas™S H* I»l» abates, the colour fades, the Mvclhng subsides, and the cuticle, that has been detached by the serous ansudataou flakes off m thin layers, and the skin returns to its normal and redness Ofrt T’ W , , P*rt "’ith s°me irritability sh.n» e e vri,° r g 0f “* cl,ticlc > “"'1 to some rare cases the Ml ' ah™ Pfb Tf ° \e 011 “ saagrcnous or sloughing character, espe- y about the umbilicus and genitals of young children ti.iura\s?fltfri°°al Sym»t0,”s-Tlie fever of cutaneous erysipelas con- 100“ Jm”! “ thc “*» *»*"*»*• temperature seldom rises above tions LoudV°mmv 7 kcT Wow 104° *• arc no marked varia- affect iL Thhe ,°TmX "fr8eTentog rise met with in all febrile and becomes mnroL at hmt be full and strong, but it soon falls in force early stages iii lv- I ''V'. P’ere is frequently some delirium, which in thc ■ y ic violent, but later on becomes feeble and mattering.