SPEC I A L DISLOCA TIONS. 65S aneurism be left to itself, or be treated by inefficient means, it must necessarily prove fatal by its rupture or sloughing and secondary haemorrhage. The ligature of the subclavian is not very promising, as a fatal result occurred in three out of the four cases in which it has been tried for diffuse aneurism, Nelaton’s case having been circumscribed. In these circumstances, it appears to me that it would be wiser to apply to these cases the usual principle of treat ment that is adopted in cases of diffused axillary aneurism from other causes ; viz., to compress the subclavian, lay open the sac, turn out coagula, and tie the torn artery at the seat of injury. In one case, the dislocation being of twenty days' standing, and the patient a female 26 years old, Froriep states that reduction was followed by sudden and extensive tumefaction of the axilla, syncope, and death in an hour and a half. A post mortem examination disclosed laceration of the axillary vein. *\o mention is made of any internal injury to account for death. Injury to the axillary nerves during reduction leading to paralysis of the arm has also been described. A case of this kind is mentioned by Billroth as having occurred in a patient under his care at Zurich. The dislocation was of nine months’ standing, and had been attended by partial paralysis of the arm and some muscular atrophy. The reduction was followed by total naralvsis, which Billroth attributes to laceration of the axillary nerves m con- sequence of their having become adherent to the bone. In the case recorded by Flaubert, already alluded to, four of the nerves were torn from their attach- ments to the cord. . „ , Besides these accidents, other evil consequences have occasionally followed prolonged attempts at reducing old dislocations of the humerus, such as sud en death from syncope, and exhaustion. Guerin’s remarkable case of avulsion of the limb at the elbow in a woman 63 years of age, in an attempt to restoie J dislocated humerus three months after the luxation had occurred, is an inst of an accident that is as yet unique m the records of surgery. In this case no undue amount of force seems to have been used, but the tissues of the limb had become softened—partly probably from disuse, partly from senile ChInSthe event of the Surgeon being unsuccessful in his attempts at reduction he must endeavour, by means of frictions and passive as practicable, the utility of the limb. In some of these cases of old reduced dislocation I have succeeded in very materially improving its condition by mitthm the patient under the influence of chloroform, and moving he limb freely to and fro so as to loosen, stretch, and break up the adhesions about th bead7of the bone • and it is in this way that attempts at reduction, even though unsuccessful in replacing the head of the bone, are often of great use in improving the mobility of the limb. -pi- In cases of old standing, where symptoms of pressure on . he and nerves are present, and where there is danger of their being 1j 1 attempt at reduction, Billroth recon,mends excision of the lien<1 of the bone. This has been done successfully by Langenbeck in a case ot paralysis p Dislocations or the Elbow are extremely jTial Kronlein they form 27 per cent of £ ^'™ocation 0f both bones back- « occurred in children under 10 yea, of age,