856 INJURIES OF THE ABDOMEN AND PELVIS. consequence of local irritation, as from a wound or rupture of the gut with or without slight faecal extravasation, the amount of inflammatory effusion is greater than the uninjured part of the peritoneum can rapidly absorb, the putrefactive ferment finds material upon which it can act, and decomposition and septic peritonitis follow. With a clean peritoneal cavity and little exudation the patient escapes. In injuries.'of the liver, peritonitis may result from the escape of bile into the cavity of the abdomen without decomposition taking place. In a case of diffuse peritonitis the post-mortem examination shows excess of fluid which, in the earlier stages, is found chiefly in the most dependent parts, the cavity of the pelvis and the flanks. The intestines are reddened, and the coils are distended. In the earliest stage the peritoneal surface has lost its natural gloss to some extent, and feels greasy. When the inflammation is further advanced, lymph is found on the gut, and especially in 1 the angles between two contiguous coils. If two coils be separated, they will be found paler in colour from mutual pressure at the points which have been in contact, and marked by a darker red line where they separate. The intestines are very slightly adherent to each other. In the most dependent parts of the cavity is a large quantity of turbid serum, mixed with shreds of coagulated exudation, or the fluid may assume the form of thin pus. It is usually very offensive, and is excessivelyfdangerous if inoculated, giving rise to the most dangerous forms of dissecting-wound. Gas from the intestines is also frequently met with in the abdominal cavity. The symptoms in these cases are pain and tenderness, at first most marked in the neighbourhood of the injury, but gradually extending to the whole abdomen, and aggravated by occasional stabbing pains. This is followed by tympanitic distension of the abdomen, from paralysis of the muscular coat of the gut, and also in some cases partly from the escape of flatus into the peritoneal cavity. The patient suffers great distress ; he lies on his back with his knees drawn up to relax the abdominal muscles, and the slightest pressure causes intense agony. Occasionally, respiration is seriously interfered with by the tension of the abdomen. Yomiting is an early symptom ; the contents of the stomach are brought up without straining, seeming to pump out almost without efloit. As the effusion increases, there will be dulness in the flanks, shifting its position as the patient is moved, and tympanitic resonance in front. As the case advances, the vomited matter becomes dark from admixture of blood fiom the congested mucous membrane. Hiccup may form a troublesome symptom. The pulse is at first small, quick, and hard, often assuming a wiry, incompies- sible character. The temperature is at first high, reaching often 103 or 104° Fahr. ; but in septic cases it usually falls rapidly before death, and may even become subnormal. There is great anxiety ol countenance, an before death the extremities become cold, and the patient dies with the signs of collapse. This diffuse traumatic peritonitis will set in and run its course with great rapidity. In a case in University College Hospital already alluiei to, of bullet-wound of the abdomen, the patient lived twenty-four hours. Two or three pints of serous effusion with much puriform fluid were found : an o-reat reddening of the whole of the visceral and much of the parietal peri- toneum had ensued. In another case of rupture of the ileum, the consecutive peritonitis proved fatal in about thirty hours after the accident. 1 lu> cxticm rapidity in its course and fatal termination, is due to the rapid absorption 0