!4o SPECIAL AMPUTATIONS. incision has been already marked, the Surgeon turns the edge of the knife a'\ay from the bone and cuts across to the inner side of the limb, thus completing the amputation. During this part of the operation the assistant must bring the limb into a straight line with the trunk. The artery must be compressed by an assistant with one hand in the upper part of the wound. In operating on the left side, the first incision is made from below upwards. In other respects the operation is performed in the same way as on the right side. Ii the limb be very muscular it is a good plan, after having enucleated the upper part of the femur, to complete the circular part of the incision by cutting from without inwards, carrying the incision only through the skin and tat, which may then be turned up for a couple of inches, the muscles being divided last of all at the higher level. The wound must be carefully united with sutures,-a largq drainage tube being inserted at the outer side. I he .advantages of the oval method are: firstly, as pointed out by Furneaux Jordan, it leaves a smaller wound than the flap amputation, and, secondly, it can more easily be dressed by some of the antiseptic methods, as there is an interval of six or seven inches at the inner side of the stump between the wound and the anus. The only disadvantage it presents is, that it is more difficult and’tedious of performance. n . In order still further to diminish the size of the wound, some Surgeons have recommended ' that the thigh be amputated immediately below the trochanters, first, and the upper part of the femur be then excised from the wound. Results.—The mortality after amputation at the hip-jomt is necessarily very high. This we should naturally expect from the size of the part remove and the consequent shock to the system. The rate of recovery varies gra y according to the condition of the limb that necessitates the operation, lhus, amputation at the hip-joint had been performed, so far as I could ascertain from published cases, 126 times up to the year 1864 ; of these 76 dial .In 7 instances it was for injury : of these 35 proved fatal ; whilst m 4 caSes which it was done for chronic disease, 24 recovered and only 18 d^ , , Primary amputation at the hip-joint in cases of severe injury of the t gunshot « otherwise, with comminution of the femur, > operations in surgery. In all the 12 cases m which it was done in the Uunea it proved fatal; and Legouest has collected 30 cases of this ™Putnt“”*d ounshot injury in all of which the operation terminated m death, indeed, up to the time7of the war of the rebellion in America, there was no authentic instance of recovery under these circumstances But m the <elaborate sand mo able surgical history of that great war, published by the Surgeon General, lslE of primary amputation at the hip-joint for gunshot injury of the fe'mur^rc related, It thl 11 died from the immediateshock of he o,wm- tion • 5 died between the 2nd and the 10th day ; one, a man 2b jeais t a > who had amputation at the hip performed by Surgeon after the receipt of his wound, was m perfect health four years alter i operation ; and the remaining two cases had been cured, so liat one and well two, and the other six, months after the amputatio . iZmeme operations, or those done arc very unsuccessful: 18 cases that occurred m the American wai ^’'secondary amputation, in oaaes of idtempted pr®er\mtionrf^he severe injuries and gunshot-wounds, has been fai more success .