ARREST OF ARTERIAL HAEMORRHAGE. 408 when it remains uncovered and undergoes decomposition. The same is true of the absorbable ligatures in common use at the present day. On the other hand, the old silk ligature, the ends of which were left hanging out ot the wound, infallibly acted as an irritant, and excited suppuration in its track, lorsion therefore, undoubtedly presents advantages over the old silk ligature, and is equally safe and no more likely to interfere with primary union than an absorbable ligature. The latter possesses, however, the advantage of much greater ease of application, and is therefore preferred by the majority of bU188eT0RCt-PRESSURB is a mode of arresting haemorrhage which has been re- commended as of use in certain cases by fen Spencer Wells, Kmbcrle, and Fean. It consists in seizing the end of the vessel in a pair of forceps having strong short blades somewhat deeply serrated, and long scissor handles pro- vided with a catch (Fig. 141). The forceps can be closed with sufficient force to ciush the end of the vessel between their blades. The form of forceps represented in the figure is that in- vented by Sir Spencer Wells, which is certainly the most convenient and efficient. The use of these forceps as a temporary means of ar- resting haemorrhage has been already alluded to. When used in this way it lull frequently be found that, on relaxing their hold after a few minutes, no bleeding takes place. Under these circumstances, experience shows that the closure of the vessel is as safe as that effected by torsion. Should the Surgeon wish to make the arrest of bleeding stiff more certain, he may oive the forceps a few turns while remoung them, and thus apply torsion. Forci-pressure is occasionally useful in deep wounds m which a ,1 r ~i Tn 4-iiosn rases in order to make the closure ot the S—.S*1; “ in the for twelve or twenty- f0l». Surgeons commonly have recourse for the arrest of luemorrhage from wounded arteiies. , , ,, j t r The Ligature had been occasionally and part,ally Wl*£„ Roman Sm-geons; but with the decline « completely into disuse, giving way to sue « - cauterv. the per- of arresting haemorrhage as the employment o ■ ‘ \ hmTimr nitch formance of operations with red-hot knives, off t le app ica o thc°middle orof molten lead, to the bleeding and freshly Warny of the sixteenth century it was revived or re-untn J ^ ^ of the French school of Surgery, Ambroise la Jj . .J. , ,, tlr0 ture make way, that Sharpe Surgeon to Ouys Hosp < l,= hfe weU- oenturies after its ^TcriS^Ury tato tt Present State of SuW,” Slyt’ locate its employment for the arrest of haemorrhage from Fig. 141.—Forci-pressure Forceps.