440 ARREST OF ARTERIAL HAEMORRHAGE. cleaning these thoroughly with a sponge, and then tying the bleeding artery. If there be a difficulty in exposing this, or in clearing it so that the ligature will hold, acupressure may be advantageously substituted for the liga- ture, and the effects of this may be increased by the continuous employment of digital compression in the groin. Besides the main artery that bleeds-—one of the tibials, for instance, if it be a leg-amputation—there will generally be very free oozing from many points. The more abundant of this may be stopped by a ligature passed, if the tissues be friable, by means of a nmvus-iieedle under the vessels; the rest will cease on the application of cold water and on raising the stump. The flaps may then be brought together by strips of plaster and a bandage, and will usually very readily unite. Should, however, the stump be inflamed, sloughy, and oedematous, and more particularly if it be merely the foot or hand that has been removed, then, instead of opening it up, and seeking for the bleeding vessel, deeply hidden in infiltrated tissues, it will be better to tie the main artery of the limb just above the flaps, or wherever it can be most readily reached. In such cases, after amputation of the foot, I have successfully tied the posterior tibial low down, just above the malleolus. The third alternative, that of ligaturing the artery high above the stump, should, I think, in the first instance, be undertaken in those cases only where the amputation has been done close to the trunk, as at the shoulder-joint, or the middle or upper part of the thigh, and where consequently there is no length of limb to be nourished by the artery that is ligatured, and where opening up an almost cicatrized stump of very large size would inflict a greater shock upon the system, and more subsequent dangei, than the deligation of an artery by an independent operation. Hence, although in no case of secondary hamiorrhage from a leg-stump below the knee would I ligature the femoral in preference to opening up the flaps and securing the vessels in them, if this were practicable, yet in secondaiy hamionhage after amputation of the thigh, the case might be different; heie, if S'ood union had already taken place, and the stump were not distended b} ooagula, the main artery might be tied. In such cases it is clearly useless to ligature the superficial femoral, as the haemorrhage may proceed from some of the branches of the profunda. Ligature of the common femoral, although at one time considered an unsafe operation, has recently been frequently pei- formed with success, and might be done under these circumstances, although I have myself usually preferred to tie the external iliac just above Poupart s ligament. In disarticulation of the arm at the shoulder-joint, the subclavian artery must be tied, either above or just below the clavicle. In any case, ligature of the main artery of the limb becomes the only and the last resource, when, in consequence of the softened, inflamed, infil- trated or sloughy state of the tissues the Surgeon is unable to secuie the bleeding vessels in the stump itself, the ligatures cutting through the dis- organized coats of the vessels. _ . , , 2. When the haemorrhage occurs after a ligature has been applied to tfic Continuity of tlie Vessel, whether for injury or disease, pressure must first be tried. With this view the wound should be plugged, and a graduated compress should be very firmly and carefully applied by means of a niciuet over the point from which the blood proceeds ; in this way theblee 0 may occasionally be stopped. Not unfrequently, however, this will prove