239 TREATMENT OF ABSCESS. much more hazardous from the peculiarity of their situation than those which, are met with in less important regions. The cause of the abscess also influ- ences the result: if it be a piece of dead bone that can be removed, the dis- charge will speedily cease if the fragment be taken away ; but if it be so situated that it cannot be got rid of, it will, by acting as a continuous source of irrita- tion, keep up a discharge that may eventually prove fatal. The constitution of the patient influences our prognosis. Such an amount of discharge as would inevitably prove fatal in a cachectic system, may influence a sound one but very little ; so also, the wasting effect of an abscess is better borne about middle age than at either of the extreme periods of life. Treatment.—The treatment of suppuration presents three points requiring attention. The first object should be to prevent the formation of matter; the next to take steps for its evacuation when formed ; and the last to endeavour to close the cavity that results. In order to prevent the formation of matter, it is necessary to get rid of any local irritant that may exist; thus a foreign body should be removed, or extra- vasated urine be let out of tbe areolar tissue. After this has been done, the pre- ventive treatment must consist in the active employment of local antiphlogistic means, such as ice and cold evaporating lotions : the swelling from exudation- matter, which is especially the precursor of chronic abscess, must be got rid of by the continuous application of some discutient lotion. One composed of iodide of potassium 5i., spirits of wine 5L, water gvij., is extremely useful. In some cases absorption may advantageously be promoted by mercurial ointments or plasters. When once pus has formed, it is a question whether it can be absorbed again; in general, it certainly cannot, but in some cases it may undergo absorption ; thus, in hypopyon, we occasionally observe that the pus deposited in the anterior chamber of the eye is removed. The more fluid parts of chronic abscesses occasionally become absorbed, leaving a cheesy residue in which lime salts may afterwards be deposited forming a cretaceous mass. TTn —r niciss. When, notwithstanding the employment of appropriate means, it is evident that pus is about to form, the treatment should be completely changed, and by the aid of warmth and poultices, an endeavour should be made to hasten suppuration. When this is fully established, the abscess having become “ripe ” steps must be taken for the evacuation of the matter. The treatment of acute