623 GALGANEUM—ASTRA GALUS. extent, even after as lengthened a period as a year and a half or two years, by dividing the fibula subcutaneously by means of a narrow-bladed saw at the seat of greatest concavity, forcibly adducting the foot, and then putting up the fracture in a Dupuytren’s splint. Fractures of the Bones of the Foot almost invariably result from direct violence, and are usually accompanied by bruising and injury of the soft parts; hence much displacement is rare, and, when the fracture is simple, rest and position alone are necessary. Compound fractures of the. tarsal or metatarsal bones, attended by much bruising and laceration, usually require partial removal of the foot, its disarticulation at the ankle-joint, or amputation Fig. 261.—Badly set Pott’s Frac- ture, curable by operation. in the lower third of the leg, according to the extent and severity of the injury. The Calcaneum may be broken by direct violence, as when a person jumping from a height alights forcibly on his heel, and thus fractures the bone. In this way the bone is usually simply broken across in front of the ligaments without displacement. I have, however, seen both calcanea extensively com- minuted, being shattered to pieces, in the case of a lady, who, falling from a window on the third story, alighted on her heels. In some rare cases, by the powerful contraction of the strong muscles of the calf, the posterior part of the os calcis is torn away from the rest of the bone. Signs.—When the os calcis is simply broken through at the posterior part behind the insertion of the lateral ligaments, the detached fragment mil be drawn up by the action of the strong muscles of the calf. But when the fracture occurs across the body of the bone, no displacement can take place, owing to the lateral and interosseous ligaments keeping the posterior fragment in position, and pre- venting its being drawn away. 1 In the first form of fracture, the pain, swelling, flattening of the heel, and prominence of the malleoli, indicate the nature of the injury, even thouo-h crepitus be wanting. In the second variety, the mobility of the fragment, and ts projection posteriorly owing to the action of the muscles of the calf, point cropifri8eX1 1106 6 fraCtm’e’ wMch is coufirmed b7 the occurrence of In the Treatment of these injuries, keeping the part fixed by means of Th?VVlth due attention to the relaxation of the muscles that can he Z n AchllllS’ by flexing the leS and extending the foot, is all XX'r0"1 probably by bone iu some cases> -I haTCbetn^Wi11!8 1S ?rely brolcen- Tcn recorded cases of this injury falls from a hehdn ^ 1 °,na iau.: m nine of these the fracture occurred from two cases of wn ^ ; *n T 0nly ft'om direct violence. I have seen the tarsal bones t ° ° ^ astl’aSahis without implication of any other of paLing^oyer^hc W Z ™ 1 *2 Z "■* of di™fc violence; a cart-wheel ccasioned a fracture of the astragalus through its neck.