351 SNAKE-BITES. SNAKE-BITES. Snake-bites are seldom fatal in England, the viper or adder -not possessing a sufficiently energetic poison to destroy a healthy adult, though it might \ possibly kill a child or a very weak and delicate person. Snakes are said to he most actively venomous in warm weather and during the season of procreation. Their bites arc of course most dangerous if inflicted through a vein or glan- dular part, or near the centre of the circulation, or about the neck and face. In tropical countries the bite of the rattle-snake, of the cobra di capello, the puff- adder, or tbe tobacco-pipe snake, is often fatal. The number of persons who are annually killed by snake-bites in those parts of India alone from which returns are procurable amounts to about 12,000, or about 1 in every 5,000 of the inhabitants ; and it occasionally happens even in this country that the Surgeon has an opportunity of seeing wounds inflicted by these fearful reptiles in menageries. Thus, Sir E. Home has recorded a fatal case of rattle-snake bite occurring in England. A similar instance has been seen at St. George’s Hospital, and another in Paris, in showmen. The most remarkable case of this kind with which I am acquainted occurred some years ago at the Uni- versity College Hospital, aud afforded an opportunity, rare in this country, of witnessing the effects of the bite of a cobra di capello. The patient, a keeper at the Zoological Gardens, was bitten in the bridge of the nose, the poison- fang having apparently penetrated the angular vein. When brought to the hospital, about half an hour after the accident, he was apparently dying, being unable to speak, swallow, or support himself; the pupils were dilated, the face livid, the heart’s action feeble, and he was scarcely conscious. After death, which took place in little more than an hour from the time of the infliction of the wound, the veins of the brain and the cerebral sinuses were found con- gested with blood, as were also the lungs to an immense extent, and the solid abdominal viscera. The right cavities of the heart were loaded with dark blood, the left being empty ; indeed, the phenomena of asphyxia were strik- ingly marked. In this case, death would appear to have resulted from the poison paralysing the medulla oblongata, and those portions of the nervous system which are concerned in carrying on respiration, at the same time that the blood was disorganized by the action of the virus. Effects of Sxa re-poison.—The venom of the cobra has been found to consist of an albuminous fluid of neutral reaction, holding cells in suspension. It is said to contain also a non-organized ferment resembling ptyaline. The poison is secreted by a gland communicating by a duct witli the hollow fang, and so situated that in the act of biting it is compressed by the muscles of the jaw and the venom is thus forcibly ejected from the fang. When given intern- ally, or applied to the conjunctiva, it fails to kill. Snake-poison, when intro- duced into the system through a bite or puncture, may prove injurious or kill, cither by its primary and direct depressing influence on the nervous system, somewhat resembling that produced by some narcotic poisons ; or, secondarily, m01'e remotely, by exciting severe diffuse inflammation of the areolar “° ' -e °r Pai'k' intensity of its effects depends upon the 1!i]ecfced’ and c°nsequently upon the size and vigour of the animal lrmo- 'in wound ; one that has been compelled to bite frequently has no fl1 fi10 desfcructive Power which it had when fresh, m- ri,1<^de death occurs only when the poison is either very powerful, lima itten small. Thus the poison of the tobacco-pipe snake is said