882 MORTIFICATION, OR GANGRENE. regard it as impending in a part that has become inflamed from injury or other cause, if we find that the redness becomes of a dusky 01 pmplish lmc ; that bull® filled with dark fluid rise upon the surface ; that the swelling, at first hard, tense, and brawny, becomes of a pulpy or doughy character ; that the pain is of a dull, heavy, or burning kind ; and that the temperature of the part, at first greatly increased, gradually sinks. We know that gangrene has taken place when there is a total loss of the sensibility oi the part, even to pricking or pinching ; that the motion of the part itself ceases ; that its I colour changes to a peculiar mottled, purplish-red, or greenish-black hue, unlike anything else in the body ; and that the temperature falls to a level ■with that of surrounding air. There is likewise an extremely offensive odour evolved, differing from that of ordinary post mortem decomposition. The Constitutional Symptoms are always those of fever, with marked de- pression, often assuming the character of septic poisoning. Artiest of Gangrene—Certain forms of gangrene consequent upon in- fective inflammatory processes have a tendency to extend indefinitely until the patient succumbs to the disease. In all forms of spontaneous gangrene, and in that due to direct injury to the tissues, the progress of the mortification is in most cases arrested, and the dead parts are separated from the living. \\ hen the gangrene reaches a part of which the vitality is too great to be destroyed by the "operation of the causes which have produced death m the tissues beyond, a line of demarcation is formed. The process by which the sepa- ration of the dead from the living tissues is accomplished lias been fully described in the chapter on Ulceration (see p. 255). The dead parts are not thrown off merely by disintegration, but by a vital process, that of ulceration, , occurring in the living tissues. I he line of ulceration is termed the line of separation, and extends along the extreme margin of the living tissues (Fig. 352). This process of separation, com- mencing at the edge of the slough, slowly extends downwards to the whole depth of the gangrene ; if this affect the entire thickness of the limb, the ulceration will find its way completely across it. If the slough be more superficial, the ulceration extends beneath and detaches it gradually. The line of separation is t^aUyob^he^ parts being first divided, and the hard tissues then nice ^ted throu h, the ligamentous or osseous structures, which are slow j notedupo ^ severed. As the ulceration extends across the limb, the largest artc * ‘veins are cut through by it, without the occurrence of h^norrhag^o ^ ^ their being safely occluded by thrombosis, Wockmg t c ^ separation to the nearest large collateral branch above it. 1 ^ Lent, for the detachment of gangrenous parts varies wwks are m]1Iired Small sloughs may be detached in a few days, dar frssucs for the separation.of a limb. The action is most rapid m soft v ascuiar and in young subjects. . vanned irregular After the separation of the gangrenous part, a rnoic o ■ - . tivc ulcerated surface is left, which, if not too extensive, the patients 1 Fig. 352.—Senile Gangrene of Foot: Line of Separation.