S30 INJURIES OR THE CHEST. being then discharged by coughing in the viscous, semi-coagulated state above ■described—very different from the florid frothy sputum of recent lung- wound. Rupture of the Lung, that is to say, a contused wound with laceration <of the visceral pleura, has occasionally been observed as the result of violent .compression in some cases without fracture of the ribs. Thus, a young woman was brought into University College Hospital a few years ago, who had thrown herself from a first-floor window, and had fallen with her chest against an iron fear. She died soon after admission, and it was found that death had resulted from haemorrhage from a laceration of the root of the right lung. The chest walls were extremely elastic, and no fracture of the rib had taken place. The symptoms are identical with those of a wound of the lung. Rupture of the lung is a dangerous accident, but not necessarily fatal. Wound of the Lung is the most common, and one of the most serious complications of injuries of the chest. Wounds of the lung may be divided into those which communicate with the external air by a wound penetrating the walls of the thorax, and those which do not. In an organ like the lung which contains air, this distinction might seem of but little importance : but ns has already been pointed out, it is the dust of the air, and not the gases, which gives rise to decomposition of extravasated blood or inflammatory ■effusions. The well-knoAvn experiment of Tyndall, in which he showed that the residual air—that is to say, the last part of the air driven out from the smaller bronchial tubes and the air-vesicles by forced expiration—contains no dust, proves that all the solid particles floating in the atmosphere are deposited in the larger tubes ; and, consequently, unless the wound be of :sufficient depth to open these, there is no reason to fear that decomposition will take place in the cavity of the pleura, even though a considerable quantity of air may escape from the wound of the lung. Wounds of the lung vary also greatly in severity—from the superficial puncture produced by the pointed fragments of a broken rib, to a deep stab by a sword-thrust, or the wound produced by a fragment of shell or a bullet. The general constitutional effects will necessarily vary in accordance with the nature and extent of the injury. The pleura may be opened at any part, and it is important to remember its anatomical relations. Its upper part extends into the root of the neck from one to two inches above the anterior end of the first rib, or, according to Pansch, from half an inch to one and a half inches above the clavicle. Below the limits of the pleura are as follows ; behind they both reach to the twelfth rib, and sometimes a little below it ; in the axillary line the right pleura extends to the lower border of the ninth rib, and the left to the lower edge of tenth ; in front the right pleura reaches to the junction of the seventh rib with its cartilage, and the left a little lower. Thus, a stab in the neck one and a-half inch above the clavicles may reach it, and a shot in the back that shatters the twelfth rib will wound it in its inferior pouch, where it is reflected off the last rib on to the diaphragm. In a penetrating wound of the chest, so low down as this, the diaphragm comes into such close contact with its posterior walls that it could scarcely escape injury. The abdominal cavity would thus be opened, and some of its viscera probably injured. As the lung docs not descend below the tenth rib, it could be wounded only as low as The ninth intercostal space in the back, unless the tenth rib itself were penetrated.