POISONED WOUNDS. 35<> they may be too trifling to be noticed by a casual observer, they arc foitunutely sufficiently striking to arrest the attention of any one who is about a dog, and is familiar with its habits and individual peculiarities. “A dog about to become rabid loses its natural liveliness. It mopes about , as if preoccupied or apprehensive, and seeks to withdraw into dark corners. From the first there is usually a foreshadowing of that most constant symptom of the disease—depraved appetite. Mad dogs devour not only filth and rubbish of every kind with avidity, but even their own excrement—often im- mediately after it has been passed. Indications of this tendency appear early, and are more than suspicious. “ Along with this peculiarity of behaviour it is of equal importance to notice that an infected dog, from the first, snaps at other dogs without provocation. This snappishness in most dogs is very striking. If a dog previously known to have no such habit, snaps indiscriminately at the first dog it meets in the yard or in the street, it is probably not safe. “ So far I have had in mind chiefly what is to be observed m dogs tied up or * at home A dog which is at large is also to be recognized as in a dangerous state by its demeanour. A healthy dog in its progress along a street or else- where shows at every step that its attention is awake to the sights and sounds which it encounters. The rabid dog, on the contrary, goes sullenly and un- observantly forwards, and is not diverted by objects obviously likely to attiacc it This statement, however, is subject to the important exception already referred to, that it is excited both by the sight and sound of an animal of its “ Of the symptoms which accompany the final stage of the disease, the most important and characteristic are those which relate to the organs m which it localizes itself-the mouth and throat. Attention is often drawn to the con- dition of the mouth in an animal supposed to be healthy, by the obsenatio that it tries to scratch the corners of its mouth, as if attempting to get rid of the ropy mucus which is seen to be discharged from it. In dogs that are tied up it is noticeable that the bark has entirely lost its ring, and acquires a peculiar hoarseness, which can be recognized even by the most unobservant! As the disease progresses the discharge increases, the lower jaw hangs “ paralysed, and the animal has evident difficulty in swaUowmg. Along this there is often loss of power in the hind limbs. If now the dog be watched, the peculiarities of behaviour which have been already noticed are scon to present themselves in a much more marked degree than before. It is observed, first, that it is subject to paroxysms of excitement m which it ma s repeated efforts to bite or gnaw all objects (such as woodvoik st c , ;) within its reach, while at the same time it continues to exhibit the tenden . already mentioned to devour its own excrement; and, secondly c c J the remissions, its excitement is at once renewed by the sight 01 sound ”utrnlgi)e well to note that the disease occurs at all seasons, that the J do, copies to recognise its master and to manifest pleasure when bud* spoken to, that it does not shun water, and that m many cases c ^ last that wild fury which is commonly supposed to belong to the disease, ^S^wptows7ixllAN.—The wound has generally cicatrized long before any symptoms of hydrophobia declare themselves j and no peculiar appearance is