ADMINISTRATION OF NITROUS OXIDE. 33 differently placed in different instruments. The principle of all is, however, that after the face-piece has been firmly applied to the patient’s face, the bag is distended with gas, by turning the stop-cock connected with the iron bottle, and the patient, breathing backwards and forwards into the bag, inhales the same gas several times. Some of the gas is necessarily lost by escaping from under the face-piece, and its place is supplied by allowing a fresh stream to flow in from the iron bottle. Nitrous oxide is an irrespirable gas, and as, in this method, no air is mixed with it, the effects produced are, to a great extent, those of asphyxia. It differs,however, from the asphyxia produced by obstruction of the air-passages in this, that the elimination of carbonic acid gas continues to a certain extent, so that, although the blood ceases to receive oxygen it does not become over- chaiged with carbonic acid, and consequently a few breaths of fresh air remove all tiaces of the temporary asphyxia. The process of anaesthesia by nitrous oxide is not, however, merely asphyxia and nothing else ; a certain proportion of the gas is absorbed, and exerts an influence resembling that of other anes- thetics on the nervous centres. Experiments on animals have shown that, like ether, it always stops respiration before arresting the action of the heart.’ In the administration of laughing gas the following symptoms are observed. Alter a time, varying from a few seconds to half a minute, according to the freedom with which the patient inhales the gas, a slight lividity of the face is noticed and a choking sensation maybe felt. In less than one minute, as.a rule, this lividity becomes extremely marked ; the vessels of the face are injected, there are often some twitchings of the eyes and limbs, and the breathing is deeper than natural. At this stage sensation and reflex move- ments are abolished, and a momentary operation may be performed. Some- times the patient is conscious that something has been done, although he feels tbeS an(5 hr ldea,S Te confasecL If the operation be more than momentary, the administration of the gas must be continued a few seconds loimer The face then becomes livid, the eyes protrude, the pupils dilate, and die whole bystlnder6 The ^ 1S ll011'ilJle in the exfcrerac to an inexperienced Tht -s the elfTS and the resPirati011 slow and stertorous. ±ms is the extreme point to wluch the administration can be carried • for as before stated the gas is irrespirable, and if administered for a sufficient length Its a ffitraSthsnl?fbe fatal- 2"* When carried t0 4 e^ete pofnt SonX esh air suffice fc0 resfcore the patient perfectly. Occa off reC0WJrtake8 P ace> bllfc it So„n passes exdtele” IT 7 the Period of insensibility, and the bcm made unto th-— extran! ufritw * in a^111fstratio'1 f Nitrous Oxide has occurred only with over-distension and ivn-ii 1 ^p°^eC a,ta^ a me(itcal man, apparently from the obstruction to tho \?TS ° ° !^ ^ Slde °t a tatty heart, consequent on Partial state of asphyxhlthXThr0111^10!1’ Whic1} alwayS occurs from the in the last sta.ro, nf nLli. “Sa^ induces. In another case, a patient, tthg^ one hour after g adrainistered. Several other fatal cases have occurred from the gag used by the dentist T CaSG8 have occmTed fl'om the vol. i. akme> 01 slipping and becoming impacted in the