IMMEDIATE TREATMENT OF GUN-SIIOT WOUNDS. 335 tightly upon the stump, which must be covered up in wet cloths. The pressure of the tourniquet will not only arrest hasmorrhage, but will stay that spasmodic quivering of the muscles of the mangled limb which is so painful to the sufferer. If the head or neck be wounded, the wound must be treated as above described, and hemorrhage, whether venous or arterial, should be arrested by pressure with the fingers. If the chest be shot through, the patient should be laid on the injured side, and cold employed. If emphysema occur, or if air freely pass through the wound, a body-bandage must be tightly applied. If the abdomen be wounded, the patient should be laid on the injured side, if the aperture be lateral; if it be central, on his back, with the knees bent over a log or knapsack, or other support. If the intestine protrude, it must be washed and returned at once. In addition to those immediate attentions which may be bestowed upon sufferers from gun-shot wounds before they are sent to the hospital for more methodical treatment, the influence of the shock and pain should be counter- acted by the administration of a little brandy-and-water and opium, and plenty of cold water should be given to allay thirst. Gun-shot Wounds of the Extremities may be divided into two great classes in reference to treatment:—I. Those that do not require amputation ; II. Those in which amputation is necessary. I. Those cases of gun-shot injury that do not require amputation must be treated on the principles that guide us in the management of all contused and lace- rated wounds; the Surgeon bearing in mind, however, that these injuries are especially apt to be followed by extensive and intense inflammation, and that slough- ing is very prone to occur in every part that has been touched by the ball. The first point to he attended to in these cases is the Arrest of Hemor- rhage. In general, this may not give much trouble; but, if a large vessel be injured, the loss of blood will rapidly prove fatal, unless immediately stopped. The bleeding may in the first instance be stopped by direct pressure with the fingers on the bleeding part, followed by the ap- plication of the tourniquet, the most con- venient form being the simple elastic band. If this be not at hand, some substitute must be made use of, such as a pebble, of about the size of an egg, lolled in the middle of a pocket-handker- c lef and laid over the artery, the hand- being knotted round the limb, and then twisted up tightly with a n the nltlCk °r thc hUt of a sword Passed under it (Fig. 112). The wound eiy may render amputation of the limb necessary; if not, haemor-