INJURIES OF TIIE SPINE. 786 ably, so as to give a sensation of distinct coldness to the hand In injuries of the cord in the cervical region, with complete paralysis below the neck, very high temperatures are occasionally met with, even as high as 114° F. When the cord is cut across, the parts below are completely paralysed, and for a time, as Savory has pointed out, reflex phenomena are abolished, owing to the lower segment of the cord sustaining, as it were, a concussion at the moment of division. After a time, however, reflex phenomena will be developed in the parts supplied by the nerves connected with the lower segment of the divided cord, which becomes, as it were, an independent excito-motor centre. Thus, when the soles of the feet are tickled, the legs will be drawn up and jerk, although all sensation is abolished. After a time visible diminution takas place, in the nutritive activity of the limbs, the circulation becoming feeble with a tendency to congestion at depending points. The lessening of nutritive vigour is not confined to the paralysed° parts, but affects the whole system, the patient becoming speedily emaciated, anaemic, and cachectic. The skin assumes a dirty, cadaverous hue, and the cuticle usually exfoliates in branny flakes. The lowering of the temperature, the disturbance in the processes of nutri- tion and secretion, and the supervention of emaciation and cachexy, are dependent upon a derangement of the relations of the vaso-motor system and the spinal cord. This derangement does not altogether arise from the simple division of the cord, but is rather the consequence of the inflammation set up in it and its membranes by the injury, and is, therefore, aggravated by any- thing that increases the inflammation; thus it is more marked in laceration of the cord and its continuous irritation by a fractured spine, than after a simple division with a cutting instrument. The general symptoms of paralysis following injury present important modifications, according to the height at which the cord is divided. 1 Injuries in the Lumbar and Lower Dorsal Region.—1 lie cord ter- minates at the lower border of the first lumbar vertebra, consequently injuries below that point will affect only the spinal nerves forming the cauda equina. The whole of the nerves that enter into the lumbar and sacral plexuses arise’ from the part of the cord below the lower border of the eleventh dorsa vertebra. Injuries in this region consequently often cause complete paralysis of all the parts supplied from both the sacral and lumbar plexuses : sometimes, however, the sacral only is affected. When the injury affects the sacral plan only, all the muscles below the knee, the flexors of the leg, the rotators ad- ductors, and extensors of the thigh arc paralysed; but the extensors of the leg and the flexors and adductors retain their power. The muscles of the perinaeum, the sphincter ani, and the bladder arc also paralyse . 1 lost in the gluteal region, the back of the thigh, the outer side of the leg and foot, the genital organs, and the perimnnm. When the lumbar Plc^ lb ‘ affected, the whole lower limb is deprived of sensation and motion, a is some loss of sensation about the lower part of the abdomen in 1 sunnlied by the ilio-hypogastric, but the abdominal muscles ie am bower of contraction. if some cases wo «ml complete paralyse of the Ti nts supplied by the sacral plexus, and irregular pal all sis am SnfatiJ in those supplied by'the lumbar plexus. This ,s due toi.n^of that mrtof the cord from which the sacral plexus arises, with damage S2tr^vcs which lie by the side of it,before canal. In an injury completely paralysing the sacral plexus, t