INJURIES OF THE CHEST. §44 but they are not necessarily or invariably so. Much will depend on whether they penetrate or not into the cavities, and on the extent of the injury that the heart has sustained. Non-Penetrating Wounds may be fatal at once from direct shock to the heart; or the patient may survive a few hours or days and then die of peri- carditis ; or he may recover and live for years, as in a case reported by West- of Birmingham, in which the man lived for four and a half years. After death, evidences of extensive and severe pericarditis were found, and there was a linear cicatrix half an inch long in the anterior part of the right ventricle. Penetrating Wounds of the Heart are almost invariably at once fatal from loss of blood and shock to the organ and system. This is especially the case if the cavities be largely opened, or much of the heart-substance destroyed. But there are many exceptions to this general law of fatality. Jamain has collected 84 cases in which people lived for considerable periods after having. received a wound of the heart. Of these, in 35 cases the right ventricle was ■ wounded, and the sufferers lived from four and a half hours to twenty-three • days. In 19 cases the injury was to the left ventricle ; and of these life was prolonged to periods varying from half an hour, in two cases, to six months in one instance. Both ventricles were wounded in five cases in patients living . from one hour to nine and a half months; the right auricle in seven cases, the • patients living from seven hours to twenty days; the left auricle in two cases, in which the patients lived respectively one and two days. In many cases, the patient has been known to walk or to run some considerable distance after : the receipt of the injury. Ollivier and Sanson have collected 29 cases of penetrating wounds of the heart, which did not prove fatal in the first forty- eight horn's after the receipt of the injury. On analysing these, it would appear that the rapidity of death depends greatly on the direction of the wound and the part of the organ injured. When the wound is parallel to the axis of the heart, it is not so speedily fatal as when in a transverse direction, and wounds of the auricle are more immediately followed by death than those of the ventricle; the irregular contraction of the different planes of muscular fibre that enter into the formation of the wall of the ventricle tending to obstruct the free passage • of the blood through the wound, and perhaps to close it entirely. The size - of the wound, however, will necessarily influeuce the result more materially J than its direction. Not only, however, may a person live a considerable tune after having received a penetrating wound of the heart, but there aie many cases on record in which life has been prolonged even though a foreign bo y J was lodged in the cavities or substance of the organ. Thus Ferrus relates i the case of a man who lived for twenty days with a skewer traversing t e heart from side to side ; and Roux that of a man who lived twenty-one c ays ■ with a portion of a file, with which he had stabbed himself, in the na o the left ventricle. Davis and Stewart found a piece of wood, three ini ics . long, in the right ventricle of a boy, who lived five weeks after the acci ; had happened ; Carnochan relates a case in which the wounded man survnei ■eleven days with a bullet deeply lodged in the substance of the apex of e heart; and Latour records the case of a soldier who lived for six years a cr i being wounded with a musket-ball in the side, and in the right ventnee o whose heart the bullet was found lodged, lying against the septum The part of the heart that has been injured may be determined by a _ to the situation of the wound and the direction it takes, for the situa l