821 CAUSES OF ASPHYXIA—DROWNING. venting expansion of the chest; pressure on the throat; smotheiing ; injmy of the spinal corcl causing paralysis ot the respiratory muscles ; penetiating wound of the chest, admitting air ; or (2) internal, as in obstruction of the fauces or larynx by foreign bodies, or in constriction ol these parts from the application of irritating fluids. B. From Disease; as in pressure on the trachea by an aneurism or other tumour; ccdema of the glottis ; obstruction of the air-passage by tumour ; accumulated mucus, &c. 2. Drowning. 3. Absence of Oxygen,—nitrogen, hydrogen, or some other harmless gas being inhaled. 4. Accumulation of Carbonic Acid Gas in the Blood. 5. Inhalation of Toxic Gas or Vapour. Several of the conditions above enumerated as producing apnoea have been already described in the preceding pages ; and others will be considered when we speak of diseases of and operations on the Air-passage. In this place we will speak of the Surgical management of cases in which respiration has been suspended by Drowning, Hanging, and the respiration of Noxious Gases. The General subject of Suspended Animation from these various causes cannot be discussed here, but we must briefly consider some points of practical importance in its treatment. In cases of Drowning, life is often recoverable, although the sufferer may have been in the water for a considerable time ; for, though immersed, he may very probably not have been submersed during the whole time. The period after which life ceases to be recoverable in cases of submersion cannot be very accurately estimated. The officers of the Royal Humane Society, who have great experience, state that most generally persons are not recoverable who have been more than four or five minutes under water. I11 these cases, however, although submersion may not continue for a longer period than this, the process of asphyxia does; for it does not cease 011 the withdrawal of the body from the water, but continues until the blood in the pulmonary vessels is aerated, either by the spontaneous or artificial inflation of the lungs. As several minutes are most commonly consumed in withdrawing the body from the water and conveying it to land, during which time no means can be taken to introduce air into the lungs, we must regard the asphyxia as continuing during the whole of the period that intervenes between the last inspiration before complete submersion, and the first inspiration, whether artificial or spontaneous, after the removal of the body from the water. The latest time at which life can be recalled, during this period, is the measure of the duration of life in asphyxia. If, during this period, the action of the heart should cease entirely, I believe, with Brodie, that the circulation can never be restored. But although we may put out of consideration those marvellous cases of restoration of life that are recorded by the older writers, and which are evidently unworthy of credence, are we to reject, as exaggerated and apocryphal,, cases such as that by Smethurst, in which recovery took place a tei ten minutes’ submersion ; that by Douglas of Havre, in which the patient was not only submersed, but had actually sunk into, and was fixed in the mud at the bottom of the harbour for from twelve to fourteen minutes ; or that by cevs, in which the submersion, on the testimony of the most credible witnesses, exceeded half an hour ? I think that it would be unphilosophical ui t ie extreme to deny the facts clearly stated by these gentlemen ; the more