SO FT CIIA EC RE—CIIA RA CTERS—1 rARI ETIES. 1069 with some depression in the centre, resembling rather closely a smallpox pustule. On the fifth day the pustule bursts; and on the sixth it has usually dned, forming a small round scab, which comes off, leaving an ulcer \\ hich pi esents the typical characters of a true chancre, being circular and depressed, v ith an irregular “worm-eaten” surface of a foul greyish colour, which cannot be cleansed, sharp-cut edges, a base slightly indurated by inflammation, and an augry-looking red areola around it. Such induration as may be present is not sharply defined, but fades away into the surrounding healthy tissues. This is the typical chancre, and these are the appearances that every true venereal non-syphilitic sore on the skin will present about the fifth or sixth day after inoculation ; from this time it may diverge more or less completely from these characters, but will yet, if inoculated at any time during the poisonous stage, produce an ulcer that will run the specific course up to the same period, after which it may in its turn again deviate into one or other of the unusual forms that chancres occasionally assume. Varieties.—These have been described under various denominations by the numerous writers on these affections. The following classification will include them all:—1, the Simple or Soft Chancre, or Chancrous Excoriation ; 2, the Sloughing Chancre ; and 3, the Phagedaenic Chancre. The particular form of the sore is in each case determined by its situation, and the constitution of the patient or that of the individual furnishing the contagion. 1. Simple or Soft Chancre, or Chancrous Excoriation, is certainly that form of the disease which is most commonly met with. It consists of one or more small sores, somewhat circular in shape, of a very shallow cha- racter, resembling rather an abrasion, with sharp-cut edges, sometimes slightly undermined, and having an irregular, spongy surface of a tawny greyish or yellowish colour, with a narrow red areola around the edge : in many cases attended with much heat and itching. These sores arc usually seated on the cleft under the corona glandis, or about the glans, the whole of which may be studded by them. In fact, one peculiarity of this chancre is its tendency to multiplication on the contiguous structures. In other cases, the sores invade the frsenum, which may be perforated ; or they may occupy the mucous sur- face of the prepuce. In no case are they indurated. The excoriated chancres not unfrequently present somewhat varying appear- ances. In some cases their surface becomes covered with large fungous granulations, hence termed fungating sores. In other instances they are very irritable, becoming exceedingly sensitive, with a tendency to spread, and having a dusky red areola around them. These chancres are very frequently attended by much general inflammation of the penis ; the organ being red and swollen, from subcutaneous oedema, and usually in a state of phimosis, with much purulent discharge from between the prepuce and glans. 2. Sloughing Chancre.—This may be looked upon as a gangrenous inflammation of a non-infecting sore. It is usually the result of want of cleanliness, and of the confinement of the specific pus under a long foreskin. It is most likely to occur in weak and debilitated subjects, but it is also met with in healthy young men. The penis becomes red, greatly swollen, and somewhat brawny, the prepuce cannot be retracted, and foul, very offensive pus, often stained with blood, escapes from beneath it. If it be not relieved, a dusky black-looking spot soon makes its appearance on one side of the organ ; this rapidly extends, thick black pultaceous sloughs form, and thus