SUPPURATION AND ABSCESS. 252 sudden and so profuse that the Surgeon has not time to tie the carotid before life is extinguished. A. J. Pepper has, however, recorded a case of severe haemorrhage after scarlet fever, which was repeated several times, and finally successfully arrested by ligature of the common carotid. The patient was a man, aged 30, and made a good recovery. In the thigh the case is not so urgent. Warnings by repeated small haemorrhages may have enabled the Surgeon to adopt means to restrain the bleeding ; and, in the case to which I allude, that of a young man, the femoral artery was tied successfully. In these cases, it is worse than useless to trust to secondary means for the arrest of the bleeding. When practicable, the artery should be compressed, the cavity freely opened up, and the bleeding vessel sought for and tied. If it cannot be found, the main trunk must be ligatured ; and, for obvious reasons, this is the ouly course that can be pursued in the upper part of the neck. Sinus and Fistula.—After an abscess has been opened, its cavity may not fill up completely; but, contracting into a narrow suppurating track, it may form a canal without disposition to close, from which a small quantity of pus constantly exudes, thus constituting a Sinus or Fistula. The difference between a sinus and a fistula is this—that a sinus is merely a suppurating track penetrating to a greater or less depth amongst the tissues, closed at its deep end, and opening on the surface of the body. A fistula is an abnormal communication between two of the cavities of the body, or between a cavity and the surface, or a track through which the secretion of some gland or hollow viscus takes an unnatural course. Thus we talk of a sinus leading down to dead bone, but of a recto-vesical fistula, an aerial fistula, a urinary fistula, &c. , . , . The Causes of this non-closure of the cyst of an abscess may be referred to the following heads 1. The presence of a foreign body, as a piece of dead bone at the bottom ; 2. The passage of irritating secretions, as mine, faeces, saliva &c., through the abscess ; 3. The contraction of neighbouring muscles ; as when the abscess is in the neighbourhood of the sphincter am, and as occa- sionally happens in abscesses about the limbs; and 4. The presence of an insufficiently drained cavity at the bottom of the sinus. The orifice of a sinus or fistula when situated in hard and condensed tissues is often very small, depressed, and perhaps covered by a scab. In soft tissues it is commonly large and widely open ; when communicating with bones tlieie are usually soft, florid granulations obstructing it. . Structure.—A sinus consists of a narrow channel, often long and windi] having an external orifice usually somewhat protuberant, and situated juice or among loose florid granulations. The walls of tins channel, which are always indurated, are lined by a layer of imperfectly-formed g^uuto^ exudino- ichorous pus. If the orifice be occluded, tins pus will collect within the sinus, and, distending its walls, reconvert it into an abscess. In strac me therefore, a sinus may be said to be a long, narrow, chronic abscess, with a P”L°^on'£Tf a sinns, like that of any other granulating son, contracts in healing, and consequently a healed sinus leans a dee]' r imp l This is e best evidence of thorough healing ; a sums may always fetected 0 break open again if it skins over superficially without dnnphng. b A fistula may difler in no respect from a sinus when its length is consrder- ablt as n many anal and urethral fistulas, but when ,t forms merely a short