INJURIES OF THE THROAT. Si8 foreign body was impacted in the glottis, with 5G recoveries and 3 4, or 20 per cent., of deaths ; laryngo-tracheotomy, 59 cases, with 44 recoveries and 15, or 25’42 per cent., deaths ; tracheotomy was performed in G05 cases, with 449 recoveries and 15G, or 25-78 per cent., deaths. The broad result that comes out from these calculations is, that after laryngotomy for the removal of foreign bodies from the air-passages one patient in five dies, whereas after laryngo-tracheotomy and tracheotomy the mortality is one in four. Emetics, sternutatories, and succussion of the body, are all either useless or dangerous. Inversion of the body has succeeded in several instances, and might be tried before operation is had recourse to, more particularly if the foreign body is heavy, as a coin, and be movable in the air-passage. Padley caused the ejection of a sixpenny-piece in this way from the trachea of a man, and he recommends the supine as a safer and better position than the prone. There is undoubtedly danger, in inversion, of the supervention of laryngeal spasm, but statistics do not prove that any fatal consequences have resulted from this cause. Should, however, the attempt at expulsion by inversion of the body bring on an attack of laryngeal spasm, it should be abandoned, as not only useless but in the highest degree dangerous. When ilie foreign body is lodged in the larynx, it can be detected by laryngo- scopic examination, and may be removed by forceps, or such other means as the ingenuity of the Surgeon may suggest. This may sometimes be done a considerable length of time after its impaction. Thus, in a case recorded by Petrie of Liverpool, a penny was successfully removed by forceps after having been impacted six years in the larynx of a boy. Should it, however, not be possible to extract the foreign body through the mouth, tracheotomy must be performed, and an attempt made to dislodge it from below by means of a feather passed up into the mouth, or it may possibly be seized and brought out by the wound. Should this fail, the operation of Thyro-chondrotomy, more often, but incorrectly, called Thyrotomy, should be performed. The operation is the same as that for intra-laryngeal tumours, and will be described in the Chapter on Diseases of the Throat, It is of importance that it should not be delayed, for the foreign body, more especially if rough or irregular, as a piece of bone, will shortly excite inflammation and ulceration of the mucous membrane and possibly entail permanent impairment of voice or of respiration. When the foreign body has passed beyond the larynx, or is not to lie recog- nized by means of the laryngoscope, inversion may perhaps be tried in some cases, but, as a rule, tracheotomy ought to be performed at once. And this should be done, even though the symptoms be not urgent. Iheie is 0 cl* a remission in the symptoms, a period of deceptive security, bv which the Surgeon must not be put off his guard. But, it may be asked, for what pui- nose is the trachea opened ? Why should not the foreign body be expo through the same aperture by which it has entered ? The opening 1,1 K trachea performs a double purpose ; it not only serves as a ready am D outlet for the expulsion of the foreign body, but also as a second nea - aperture in the event of its escaping through the glottis. rl headvan^ the onening in the trachea as a ready aperture of expulsion is ex iden statistics'given by Durham of M L. h-hich for a foreign body in the air-passages. One hundred and . in G4 of these spontaneous expulsion took place through the trachc. , P