LOCAL DISTURBANCES AND INFLAMMATION. 184 Severe fever of any kind always leaves the patient weak and anaemic, in consequence of an excessive destruction of the red corpuscles. In the most extreme forms of septic fever, this takes place to such an extent that the serum becomes stained during life by the colouring matter of the disintegrating corpuscles. . . The urine in all febrile conditions is scanty and high coloured. It contains an excess of urea and urates, and often a deficiency of chlorides. Albumen is frequently met with in all forms of fever. The blood in inflammatory fever doubtless undergoes important changes, but their exact nature is still imperfectly understood, in the days when venesection was a regular part of the treatment of every febrile condition, much attention was paid to the blood that was drawn. It was noticed that in many acute inflammatory affections the blood coagulates slowly, and pait y from this cause and partly from the rapid running together of the corpuscles into dense masses, which sink quickly—an upper colourless layer of coagulated fibrin free from red corpuscles is left at the top of the clot when it is allowed to form quietly in a deep vessel. The tough layer of yellowish fibrin thus formed received the name of the “ lniffy coat:’ The absence of corpuscles allows the contraction in the colourless part of the clot to be much more complete than elsewhere, and its upper surface consequently is depressed m the centre, being “ cupped" as it is termed. The “ buff and cup ” were formerly much used as guides in estimating the intensity of the inflammation ; it has, however, been shown that the buff may occur in other conditions of the system, as in plethora, or pregnancy, or after exercise, without the occurrence of inflammation, ihe cupped shape of the clot is in some degree dependent on the shape of the vessel into which the blood is received, being most marked when it is deep. The changes that occur in the liquor sanguinis are due chiefly to the ad- mixture therewith of the products of inflammation taken up from the affected ■part by the lymphatics and blood-vessels ; and it is evident therefore that t y must vary considerably according to the nature and intensity of the local process If the inflammation affects some important organ, the function 0 which is to take part in the preparation of the blood, or to eliminate from ic the products of tissue-change, its composition must be materially altered , but it is at present impossible to state with any definiteness or accuracy the exact nature of the changes that take place. In simple inflammations, the fluid draining away from the inflamed area contains, as before stated, an excess 0 the1 so-called fibrin-ferment, and it is possibly due to this that the amount coagulated fibrin which can be obtained from a given quantity of blood s increased in some inflammatory affections. In inflammations accompanied by putrefaction of the discharges, the products of decomposition are added to-the fluids entering the circulation by means of the lymph-stream, and wrth th^e microscopic organisms often find their way into the blood The bacteria which accompany ordinary putrefaction soon perish in healt y 00 ’ c => apparently incapable of finding nutriment amongst living tissues In tn infective inflammations, the inflammatory products winch cuter ic m - stream may in some cases bear with them organisms capable of multiplym amongs^the living tissue and giving rise to secondary local mischief or fatal gCThfwwdZrpuscks, both red and white, have been already descAed aa collecting in great ..timbers in the vessels cf the inflamed part. Does tins