TUMOURS. ioi6 morbid state of the blood—is a view that has long been entertained by many. But, in truth, this doctrine with regard to the origin of cancer has been made to include two distinct propositions ; the first being, that the blood itself is charged with the poison of cancer which is ready to burst forth or to sprout out on any part of the body on the application of the necessary local irritation or disturbance ; the second, that “ blood-disease ” and “ constitu- tional disease” are synonymous and convertible terms. This latter is un- doubtedly an error. It is quite possible to understand and to hold the view that the tissues of the frame are imbued with a cancerous tendency, without having recourse to the hypothesis that they derive this from the blood. The germinal membrane of the chick, as has been pointed out by Sir W. Gull, takes on changes antecedently to, and independent of, the formation of the blood. And so we may take it as possible that the tissues of the body may inherently possess morbid or cancerous proclivities, independently of the blood by which they are nourished. But if by blood-disease be meant a disease in which the blood actually contains the cancer-cell, as the blood hi gout does the materies morbi of that disease.—viz., uric acid circulating through the body and capable of deposit in some locality favourable to the local development of the malady—this hypothesis is certainly untenable. There is no evidence whatever, histologically, that the blood of any individual is a poison-bearing fluid, and has a cancerous constitution or tendency, or that, at all events before the primary growth has developed itself, the cancer-cell, or any material capable of undergoing cancerous development, is met with in the blood. Every phenomenon that occurs in connection with cancer may be explained without having recourse to such a hypothesis as this, which has not a particle of pathological observation on which it can be based. But if the doctrine of cancer being a blood-disease is untenable in the sense in which I have here stated it, the same cannot at once be said in the way of its being primarily a constitutional affection independently of the blood. The doctrine of the constitutional origin of cancer may be more clearly expressed in the words of Paget. “ Cancers are manifestations of certain specific and morbid states of the blood ; and in them are incorporated peculiar morbid materials which accumulate iu the blood, and which their growth may tend to increase.” “The existence of the morbid material in the blood, whether in the rudimental or in the effective state, constitutes the general predisposi- tion to cancer ; it is that which is by some called the predisposing cause of cancer. The morbid material is the essential constituent of the cancerous diathesis or constitution ; and when its existence produces some manifest im- pairment of the general health, independently of the cancerous growth, it makes the primary cancerous cachexia.” For the local manifestation of this constitutional disease, the part where it is developed must be put into a fayour- able condition by irritation, injury, or other similar cause. The blood-disease and the local conditions may compensate each other; thus, with an intense cancerous diathesis, tumours may be formed in such a way and in such numbers as to be apparently independent of local conditions ; while in cases where the constitutional element exists in a low degree, a long continuance of irritation may be required to bring out its local manifestations. Paget belie\es that by this theory of compensation the opposing views as to the local or con- stitutional origin of cancer may be reconciled. I). The theory as to the local origin of cancer appears to be more generally