SURGICAL DISEASES. DISEASES AFFECTING THE TISSUES GENERALLY. CHAPTER XXX. MORTIFICATION, OR GANGRENE. The death of a part of the body is, in surgical language, termed Mortifi- cation or Gangrene. In pathological language the term Necrosis is i applied to local death generally, in whatever part or tissue it occurs ; but in i surgical practice it is customary to confine it to affections of the bones or r.; -cartilages : when limited to the soft tissues of a limb it is spoken of as Spha- celation ; and when accompanied by ulceration, it is called Sloughing. ! Many other varieties of gangrene are recognized by Surgeons. Like all other si diseases, it may be Acute or Chronic in its duration. As the parts affected * are moist and swollen, or dry and shrivelled, it may be divided into the Moist and the Dry or Mummified gangrene ; so again, according to its cause, it is 1 spoken of as Spontaneous or Traumatic; and very frequently, it is arranged according to the nature of its cause under the denominations of Constitutional and Local. Besides these, various Specific forms of the disease arc met with, which will require special consideration. Local Sighs.—Whatever form the gangrene may assume, certain local phenomena are common to all varieties. The part becomes colder than natural, the temperature falling to that of the external air. The sensibility of the part is lost. It may be touched, pricked, or cut without feeling. In some cases the sensibility is greatly increased just before gangrene sets in, intense agonizing pain of a burning or neuralgic character being experienced, which soon gives way to complete insensibility. The natural function of the affected parts are abolished. Thus the muscles no longer contract, and all motion of the part itself ceases. It may be moved by muscles from a distance, as a mortified toe might be moved by the unaffected flexors or extensors, but it has no independent power of motion. The changes that subsequently take place m the tissues of the gangrenous part are of two kinds, giving rise to the l -i T!f°U, °f Simgicne into dry and moist. In the moist variety of gangrene death ol the part takes place while the tissues are engorged with blood, either Him inflammation or from obstruction to the circulation through the veins or iiKnniiUieS'. .!* ^his form, the skin of the mortified part becomes discoloured, A or greenish, the cuticle separates, and when pressed upon 1UG ^ s I( cs a'vay under the finger, leaving the moist and slippery cutis