CONDITIONS INFLUENCE SUCCESS IN OPERATIONS. 5 conditions : 1. The selection of proper coses ; that is to say, of cases in which alone an operation will probably be followed by a successful result; and 2. the avoidance or the combating of those deleterious influences, hygienic and others, to which a patient may be exposed after an operation, and which may directly mar its success. Two requisites are thus essentially needed to constitute a successful operator. The first is, the possession of that mechanical skill which is required for the safe, efficient, and speedy performance of an operation ; the second, of at least equal importance, is the scientific knowledge requisite to determine the cases in which operation has become necessary, in which it may be practised with a reasonable prospect of benefit and success, and to decide on the means to be adopted to place the patient in the most favourable circumstances for recovery. The practice of operating in notoriously hopeless cases, with the view of giving the patient what is called “a last chance,” is much to be deprecated, and should never be followed. It is by operating in such circumstances, especially in cancerous diseases, that much discredit has resulted to Surgery ; for in a great number of instances the patient’s death is hastened by the pro- cedure, which, instead of giving him a last chance, causes him only to be despatched sooner than he would otherwise have been. It may truly be said that a great surgical operation, in its conception, its performance, and its completion, tests the Surgeon’s medical knowledge as much and in as varied a manner as it taxes his manual skill ; and that, taken as a whole, it is the highest development of the medical art. CONDITIONS INFLUENCIN& THE SUCCESS OF OPERATIONS. The circumstances that mainly influence the result of an operation, so far as the recovery of the patient is concerned, may be arranged under three heads 1. Those that are connected with the State of the Patient's General Health before and at the time of its performance ; 2. The Hygienic Conditions by which he is surrounded after it is done ; and 3. The Special Dangers connected with the operation itself. 1. All other circumstances being alike, the condition of a patient that principally determines the result of an operation is the State of the General Health. Indeed, success is influenced far more by the state of the patient’s constitution than by the severity of an operation itself, or even by the mechanical dexterity with which the Surgeon performs it. Very often we see a patient carried off by fatal disease supervening on some extremely trifling operation, (such as the removal of a small tumour,) which in itself ought in no way to endanger life, were it not that the patient’s constitu- tion was at the time of its performance in so unhealthy a state that the slightest exciting cause has been sufficient to call the fatal disease into activity. So, also, it is no uncommon circumstance to sec one patient sink after the most dexterously performed operation for hernia, or stone, the ligature of an artery, &c., owing to some constitutional condition that predisposes to diffuse inflammations; whilst another may possibly make the most remarkable and rapid recovery after he has been mutilated with but little skill. Inde- pendently of actual organic disease of the viscera, of which I shall hereafter speak, there are certain conditions of the body with respect to the condition ol the nervous system, the circulation, and the general physical state, that