DIAGNOSIS OF CEREBRAL LACERATION. 747 In cortical lesions, in which the trephine may sometimes be advantageously applied, the paralysis, although it may be present immediately after the accident, often does not appear for some time ; it is less complete and less extensive, sometimes affecting single groups of muscles. The Age of the Patient exerts some influence on the symptoms and course of a case of laceration of the brain. Children, especially, have been known to bear extensive injuries of the brain, and even the loss of a considerable quantity of cerebral matter, without any very serious effects, either immediate or remote ; and it is by no means uncommon to see them live several days with an extent I of injury to the brain which would rapidly have proved fatal to an adult. Indeed it may be stated generally, that the younger the patient, the greater the chance of recovery. So, also, the prognosis may be considered more favourable in men of the labouring class, whose minds are but little exercised, than in persons of more cultivated intellect. Foreign bodies even of large size and considerable weight have been lodged for a considerable time within the skull, in contact with the brain, without occasioning death. Thus Hennen states that he has seen five cases in which bullets were lodged within the skull, that did not prove immediately fatal. Cunningham relates the case of a boy who lived for twenty-four days with the breech of a pistol, weighing nine drachms, lying on the tentorium, and resting against the occipital bone. O’Callaghan has recorded the remarkable case of an officer who lived about seven years with the breech of a fowling- piece, weighing three ounces, lodged in the forehead; the right hemisphere of the brain resting on the flat part, from which it was separated only by false membrane. Guthrie records two cases in which, although a ball had lodged in the brain, the patients apparently recovered. Both, however, died suddenly when drunk within a year after having received the wound. In one who lived almost exactly a year, the bullet was found in a sort of cyst lying in the corpus callosum ; in the other, who lived only a few months, it was lodged deeply in a cyst in the posterior lobe of the brain. The Diagnosis of Cerebral Laceration varies much in difficulty, for, as before stated, the special symptoms indicative of laceration may be masked by those of compression or septic meningo-encephalitis. A careful consideration of the history and all the features of the case will, however, usually enable the Surgeon to come to a conclusion as to the presence of laceration ; long-con- tinued insensibility without coma, convulsions, irregular and localized paralysis and spasms, are amongst the most important signs. Cerebral irritation may be ooked upon as always indicating laceration. Some confusion may occasion- a y aiise from the fact that the paralysis or convulsions resulting from a cere ral lesion are always manifested on the side of the body opposite to that on 'which the injury to the brain exists ; but not necessarily opposite to that on which the blow has been inflicted on the head ; for the injury to the brain may ,y counter-stroke, be in that cerebral hemisphere which is opposite to • e,SI ? ^he ^cad that has been struck. Thus, if a person struck on the & si e ot the head sustain a rupture of the middle meningeal artery, and m\e extravasation of blood on the right hemisphere of the brain, he may have emipicgia on the left side, and vice versa. But, if the blow that is inflicted of 'i S'fG ve r'se extravasation by counter-stroke on the left side struck 'yl ’• - ^10 ParaI7sls would develop itself on the side that had been c • > o i is with convulsive movements ; they will occur in the arms and