649 IIUMER US—S UBGLENOIJ)—FA R TIA L. Fig. 274.—Subglenoid Dislocation. the capsular ligament is largely lacerated. The supraspinatus muscle may also be torn through, or a portion of the great tuberosity of the humerus de- tached, and the rest of the capsular muscle put greatly on the stretch. The axillary artery and plexus of nerves are compressed and stretched by the dis- located head of the bone, so that a severe numb pain is commonly experienced in the hand and arm. The compression of the artery is so great, that the circulation through the limb may be completely arrested. This I saw remarkably illustrated in a case of dislocation downwards of the head of the humerus, with a severe lacerated wound of the forearm, dividing the radial and ulnar arteries. So long as the dislocation remained unreduced, no haemorrhage took place ; but when the head of the bone was replaced, the injured arteries bled freely. The head of the bone can usually be readily felt in the axilla, at its anterior and under part ; the arm is lengthened to the extent of about an inch, the forearm is usually somewhat bent, and the fingers are often numbed, hi conse- quence of the pressure of the head of the bone on the axillary plexus. The elbow is separated from the trunk and carried somewhat backwards. If the head of the bone cannot be felt in the axilla, its presence there may be ascertained, as Cooper directs, by raising the elbow, when it at once becomes perceptible. On looking at the patient from the front it will be seen that the lower border of the pectoralis major, forming the anterior axillary fold, lies lower than on the opposite side, and if the cir- cumference of the shoulder be measured by a tape passed under the arm, it will be found to be greater on the injured side (Fig. 274). In a case which occurred to Cleland of Galway, the arm was thrown up so as to reach above the patient’s head. This patient was lame and used crutches ; and Cleland supposes that one of the crutches, having slipped, acted as a ful- crum in such a way as to cause the weight of the body in falling to overcome the tendency of the latissimus dorsi and pectoralis major muscles to draw the arm towards the side. Reduction was readily effected. The dislocation of the humerus, to which the term Partial is usually applied, is that which was described by Soden in 1841, in which the long tendon of the biceps is displaced from its groove or ruptured, and the head of the bone is thrown upwards and forwards under the coracoid process, but not out of the glenoid cavity. It is to this form of displacement also that Callaway seems disposed to confine the term partial. Le Gros Clark has published an account of a case in which there was partial dislocation of the head of the humerus behind and below the acromion. In this partial dislocation the signs do not appear to be very evident. In > oden’s case there was slight flattening of the outer and posterior parts of the joint, and the head of the bone appeared to be drawn higher up in the glenoid on\i y un usual. There was great pain induced by any movement of the 1 CG^? milHC 0; and, on attempting any overhand motions, the head of the one iccainc locked by the acromion. uMuxation ol the head of the humerus forwards occasionally occurs as a