VENEREAL DISEASES. I IOO tend to improve the general condition. It is, indeed, especially in individuals of an unhealthy or strumous habit of body, or in those who are suffering from local visceral disease of some kind, especially Bright’s disease, or whose powers have been broken by habitual dissipation, that this plan of treatment should be adopted. So also in those who, from the nature of their occupations, are sub- jected to much exposure to wet and cold, a mercurial course cannot be properly or safely administered, and the simple treatment is most advisable. In all other cases, I am certainly of opinion that mercury ought to be adminis- tered ; and this opinion appears to be entertained by the most experienced Surgeons of the day in this country and abroad. The first question in connection with the employment of mercury in syphilis has reference to the principle on which this remedy is administered. Whether mercury exercises a specific action over the poison of syphilis or not, has been much discussed, and is difficult of proof. I certainly think that it does act as a specific in syphilis, but that this action is much influenced by the condition of the system, the habits of the patient, and the mode of admin- istering the remedy ; these conditions under certain circumstances tending to counteract or otherwise to interfere with its operation. That mercury is antagonistic to the syphilitic poison, appears evident from the fact that in some instances hard sores will not heal unless it be given internally; from its influence in speedily curing infantile syphilis and preventing after-manifes- tations in the system ; and from the fact that, when properly administered in healthy constitutions, it may almost to a certainty be expected to dissipate the various symptoms of constitutional syphilis. When it fails, as it doubtless does in many cases, to prevent severe constitutional symptoms, the failure may usually be traced either to want of care in the administration of the medicine, or to the existence of an impaired state of the patient’s health. The essential practical point in the treatment of primaiy syphilis by mercury is to keep the patient under a prolonged and mild course, rather than a short and active one. Administration of Mercury in Syphilis.—In discussing this question the following points require consideration. 1. The cases in which mercury is inadmissible. 2. Cases in which it is required. 3. The effects of mercury and the degree to which its use should be pushed in treatment. 4. Its effect in different stages of the disease. 5. The time during which its use should be continued. G. The mode of administration. 7. The general management ot the patient during the time he is taking the drug. 1. Gases in ivhich mercury is inadmissible.—As has already been stated, mercury cannot be safely given in scrofulous patients or in those suffering from active tubercular disease. It is especially dangerous in all forms of Bright’s disease, so that it is well, if there be any suspicion of an unhealthy state of the kidneys, to examine the urine for albumen before commencing to give the drug. It is not well borne by those also who are exhausted by habits of dissipation, by insufficient food, or by bad hygienic surroundings. Lastly, some patients are peculiarly intolerant of mercury, apparently from some idiosyncrasy, and in these it may be impossible to give it with safety. 2. Cases in which mercury is required.—There is no doubt that the natural tendency of syphilis is to spontaneous recovery ; this has been clearly proved by the effects of the non-mercurial treatment. In young and healthy adults the great majority of cases would probably escape any serious symptoms if left