DIAGNOSIS OF INJURIES ABOUT SHOULDER. 651 in fractures the elbow is close to the side and the arm hangs poweiless. In fractured clavicle the patient inclines the head to the injured side and supports the weight of the arm by holding the elbow in the opposite hand, lhe power of moving the arm remains to some extent in all dislocations, 111 impacted ji fractures of the neck of the humerus, and in fractures of the clavicle between [j the ligaments ; but it is entirely lost in unimpacted fractures of the neck of j the humerus and in fractures of the clavicle about the middle, or accompanied ’ by go much pain that the patient cannot be persuaded to attempt it. Having ,, ascertained this much, the Surgeon should stand behind the patient and place | bis hands over the shoulders in such a way that the tips of the fore-fingers I rest on the steruo-clavicular articulation and the thumbs 011 the spines of the j scapidie. By comparing the two sterno-clavicular articulations he will at once ; recognize any dislocation or fracture of the sternal end of the clavicle. He then moves his fingers steadily outwards along the clavicles until he finds the prominence that always marks the acromio-clavicular articulation on each jside. I11 doing this he will at once recognize any fracture of the clavicle, and by comparing the acromio-clavicular articulations would detect any dislocation of that joint. The only injury that would escape detection in this way might : be the fracture of the clavicle between the coraco-clavicular ligaments. Tenderness would, however, be found which might draw attention to the seat of injury as the fingers passed over it. The fingers are now to be passed round the acromion carefully comparing it with that on the injured side by which a fracture of its tip will be detected. At the posterior part of the acromion process near its root is always a small tubercle of bone, which has not, so far as I am aware, any definite name. It serves to guide the Surgeon in placing his hands symmetrically on the shoulders, and also is an excellent point from which to measure the length of the arm. Having recognized this tubercle, the fingers may be run along the spine, and any fracture here would be easily detected if not concealed by extravasated blood, as is the case in fracture of the scapula. Having found the two sides symmetrical so far, the Surgeon now places his hand flat on the shoulder on each side, with the fore-fingers on the acromion, and presses the three other fingers firmly in under the process, by which he will at once ascertain whether the head of the bone is in its place or not, the hollow under the acromion being very clearly marked when there is a dislocation. After this the middle finger on each side should be placed on the tip of the coracoid process, which projects sharply forwards about an inch below the clavicle, while the ring finger is pushed into the hollow be- tween the coracoid process and the head of the humerus ; by this means a sub- i coracoid dislocation is recognized by the approximation of the head of the bone to the process ; the fore-finger, feeling on the inner side of the coracoid process on each side, would at once recognize the difference caused by the 3 presence of the head in a subclavicular dislocation. In a subglenoid disloca- I tion the head of the bone may be felt somewhat indistinctly below and external to the coracoid process. In a subspinous dislocation the prominence of the lead will be found just beneath and internal to the process of bone at the acv of the acromion before mentioned. If by means of the examination all dislocations of the clavicle, acromion, and humerus, and all fractures of the c ancle are excluded, the Surgeon must next carefully examine the head of the umeius, both from the axilla, and by the finger and thumb grasping the bone ioug 11 ie deltoid. Increased width or a projecting angle of bone may thus