CLAVICLE—STERNAL END. 643 position, upon the upper part of the sternum and a little below the natural level. The point of the shoulder is approximated to the mesial line, and the depressions above and below the clavicle are strongly defined. It is occasioned by blows upon the shoulder, by bending this part forcibly backwards, or by violence applied to the elbow whilst the arm is raised from the side. In some cases it occurs spontaneously, as a secondary consequence of lateral curvature or rotation of the upper dorsal vertebrae. This dislocation, which is amongst the most frequent to which the clavicle is subject, may readily be reduced by pulling the shoulder outwards and backwards, while the elbow is brought in front of the mid-lateral line. The principal difficulty in the treatment consists in preventing the return of the displacement, owing to the shallowness of the articular surface upon which the clavicle lodges. With this view a pad and a figure-of-8 bandage must be firmly applied upon the displaced end of the bone, as in cases of fracture ; but in dislocation the elbow should be more advanced than in fracture, and the hand brought over the front of the chest towards the opposite shoulder. The dislocation Upwards is extremely rare. In 1879 there were only eight cases on record. It has been well described by E. W. Smith. In it the shoulder falls in, the sternal end of the clavicle forms a prominent tumour in front of the trachea, the sterno-mastoid muscle has an arched outline, and the axis of the bone is di- rected upwards, forwards, and in- wards, so that the interval between the clavicle and the first rib is very considerable. The trachea and oesophagus are compressed when the patient sits up or leans forwards. Smith found on dis- section that the head of the bone lay above the sternum, and rested on the sterno-hyoid muscle and trachea, the ligaments of the joint being tom through, as was also the costo-clavicular ligament (Fig. 265). He observes that the reason of its rarity is that it can be produced only by force acting on the shoulder in a very unusual direction, viz., downwards, inwards, and probably backwards. The Treatment consists in placing a pad in the axilla, elevating the elbow, and bringing it well to the side. But I doubt if the bone, though replaced, can be maintained in a good position. & The dislocation Backwards is not of common occurrence: though, accord- ing to Nelaton, there are at least ten or a dozen cases on record. This luxation appears generally to have resulted from the point of the shoulder being driven upwards or from the hand being violently drawn forwards. It has also been ODserved to result from the direct pressure of the clavicle backwards, as by the wnvl ,a.!lorsLe- In one case my care, the clavicle was dislocated back- fL i.a, 1J* 8 crnaJ end by the wheel of a cab passing across the bone, and 11 ec y pressing it backwards, fracturing at the same time the second t t 2 Fig. 265.—Position of Clavicle in Dislocation of Sternal End Upwards. (Smith.)