SPECIAL FRACTURES. 622 Compound Fracture into the Ankle-joint is necessarily a serious and dangerous accident. In this injury, the edge of the fractured bone cuts through < the integument by apparently a clean and simple wound, but the subjacent areolar tissue is often widely torn, and the deep-seated mischief may be far more extensive than that which the Surgeon would be led to expect from the appearance of the external wound. When the wound is made by the sharp edge of the root of the malleolus, as soon as the foot is replaced and the ten- sion on the skin caused by the eversion is relaxed, the opening no longer corresponds to the seat of fracture, and consequently, if decomposition of the discharges takes place and the joint becomes filled with septic matter, there is no efficient means of drainage, and suppuration, with great tension and deep burrowing of pus, ensues ; the ankle-joint is destroyed and secondary amputation often becomes necessary. The injury, however, is usually recovered from with a good and useful limb when the patient is young and of sound . constitution, and the dangers of inflammation and suppuration are prevented , by the establishment of good drainage, by the prevention of decomposition, and by perfect rest. As age advances, however, and the constitution becomes broken, less is to be expected from conservative surgery. In the Treatment, the course to be pursued will depend upon the extent of the injury. If the fracture be not much comminuted, the wound in the soft parts clean cut and but moderate in extent, and the large vessels of the foot uninjured, an attempt should be made to save the limb. The wound and the joint must be carefully cleaned with carbolic-acid-lotion. If it is evident that the drainage is insufficient the wound may be enlarged in such a way as to provide an efficient exit for the discharges from behind the malleolus ; any splintered fragments must be removed and the wound left open to heal by granulation, some form of antiseptic dressing being applied. The limb must be firmly fixed on a splint ; as a rule a lateral splint applied to the side opposite the wound will be found the most convenient. If the wound is on the inner side, as it almost always is, the limb must be flexed and laid on its outer side; should it be on the outer side it may be swung in a Salter’s cradle. Occasionally a McIntyre’s splint (Fig. 253) may be found the most convenient, but it must be swung from a cradle and not fixed to a block ; perfect fixity of the foot is here of the first consequence. _ , If there be great comminution of bone, with dislocation of the loot, an perhaps rupture of the posterior tibial artery, in a peison at 01 above e middle period of life, amputation should be practised. In a young subject, such a serious injury even as this may be recovered from, if the Surgeon remove loose fragments and saw off the splintered ends of the bone. If much of the fibula should require removal, Stromeyer lias recommcnc that the limb be amputated instead, lest an useless foot, affected with a kind 0 valgus, be left. But, in children and young subjects, this inconvenience and deformity may be overcome by mechanical means ; and the proba n 1 J 0 occurrence would not, in my opinion, justify amputation. In badly set fractures near the ankle-joint, great defornn J ' impairment of use of the foot may result In these cases the ^r ma ec^ will be found to project greatly, the fibula to be curved mvj.mls « lower third, so as to form a concavity above the external malleolus, foot to be turned somewhat outwards (Fig. 201). I have 111 two ms nnc such ill-set fractures succeeded in removing the deformity to aconsuer