CAUSES OF ULCERATION. 257 intensity of the irritant itself; and partly on the power of resistance of the tissues, or, in other words, their degree of vitality. Consequently, the causes of ulceration, like those of inflammation in general, are divided into Pre- disposing, or those which render the tissues liable to suffer severely from injurious influences by impairing their vitality; and Exciting, or, in other words, the injurious influences themselves. Predisposing Cause.—Everything that acts as a predisposing cause of inflammation is also a predisposing cause of ulceration (see page 159), and the following may be mentioned as amongst the most important. They are chiefly conditions that interfere in some way with the nutrition of a paid. A feeble circulation, such as often exists in the lower limbs, in the aim of the nose, and in newly formed or recently cicatrized tissues, predisposes to the formation of ulcers. As age advances, nutrition becomes impaired and the circulation less active, and slight causes suflice to lead to disintegration of the structure of a part. Hence we commonly see ulcers of the legs in elderly people, more particularly amongst the poorer classes, arising from slight irrita- tion or pressure. Parts cut off from connection with a healthy nerve-centre ulcerate readily, as the nates in paraplegia. Tissues that have been passively congested for a long time are apt to inflame under the influence of some trifling exciting cause, and to run rapidly into ulceration, ibis usually commences in the centre of the part, where the nutiition is lowest; here a small sore forms, which exudes thin unhealthy ?n ’nTd ?Pldly ! S- So Ion° as the sore is inflamed, it continues to p cad, anc. reparation cannot take place. In some cases in which from the :^:ie7ZV-: ^ hrbeeu ^^ exciting ££ “ siflficient to give rise to ulceration may be so slight as to escape detection . "S, '? 6SpeclaIly marked m scrofula, scurvy, and syphilis. In some forms of scrofulous and syphilitic ulceration the process resembles in many respects a solid mss^fA,ulcerafclon~tIle chronic, inflammatory products first forming l^eTanc ^ like a fc™ur, which ultimately a raw^surLJ whfrHl a’ f* is dischar§'ed superficially, leaving foiio,;f“n- Ti“ «***£ cases the actbn oftt trLit ™ ^ 18 ^ taki^ P1^. In “such tissues so rapid that the mio--1 ■ ^ S° acidc’ aud ^ie destruction of the the original structures before flici Tf !!■S ma^ uofc daYe completely displaced spoilt tissues are then to be found "in the !°U °C?l!vf' Microscopic shreds of the cells and assumes often the f r rpns’ which contains fewer genuine pus- broken up redZorn1 fr ?h r ^ br0wnish flaid- discoloured by the irritant disintegrating layer of tissue. When the mg them rapidly before ■lnv'.vt pCnctlatGS lnto fcbc surrounding parts, dcstroy- layers of disorganised tissife r ens.lve nngration has had time to take place, von. x. ganiSed tlssuc constituting “sloughs ” are formed, which com-