SYPHILITIC AFFECTIONS OF MUCOUS MEMBRANES. 1113 if the treatment has no effect, corrosive sublimate lotion (gr. ij to 3D niay be carefully applied with a camel’s hair pencil. Dusting [the surface with iodo- form often produces a most excellent effect. It maybe used in conjunction with the perchloride lotion or gargle. It is important to remember that gargle of the perchloride of mercury cannot be safely used of a greater strength than a quarter to half a grain to the ounce of water; stronger preparations must be applied with a brush. _ . When the ulcers heal the contraction of the cicatrices may give rise to stenosis of the pharynx. This may occur in three situations. 1st, between the top of the palate and posterior wall of the pharynx, so as to cut off the nasal cavities ; 2nd, between the soft palate, the walls of the pharynx and tongue, and 3rd, across between pharynx and posterior wall of larynx. This stenosis is probably the result of ulceration of the opposite mucous surfaces ; but it is often out of all proportion to the extent of the ulceration. The stenosis may gradually increase until the contraction becomes so great that deglutition becomes seriously impeded and respiration is carried on with great difficulty. In the second and third forms of the contraction it becomes necessary, in order to enable the patient to swallow and to breathe, to dilate the opening. This, if it be not too tight, may be done by simple dilatation by means of bougies. If very contracted, its edges should be carefully notched before dilatation. Before doing this it may be well to have recourse to Tracheotomy Kas a prophylactic measure, averting all danger of suffocation and spasmodic irritation during the manipulations in the pharynx. Syphilitic ulcerations have been described as occurring also in the oesophayns and leading to stricture of that canal. The mucous membrane of the larynx is not unfrequently affected both in early and in advanced syphilis. The affections are similar to those of the fauces and pharynx. During the early exanthematous eruptions there may be some catarrh with hoarseness and slight cough. Later on flat mucous tubercles may appear, but ulceration is rare. They disappear under treatment, leaving no ill effects behind. In the tertiary stage the, most extensive ulcera- tion, leading to destruction of the epiglottis and vocal cords, with necrosis of the cartilages may take place. There is usually great thickening of the arytEeno-epiglottidean folds, not unfrequently complicated by the formation of submucous gummata. If the patient recover the opening of the. glottis may be so far closed as to necessitate tracheotomy, and the constant use of a tube for the remainder of life. The symptoms and treatment are more fully described with Diseases of the Larynx, ATI. II. The Nose is commonly affected in constitutional syphilis, and often destruc- tively so, especially in individuals much exposed to changes of temperature, and who are unable to pay proper attention to their treatment. The mucous membrane becomes chronically thickened, and this is accompanied by discharge of blood and pus, coryza, and habitual snuffling. In other cases ulceration takes place, with a very fetid odour of the breath, and the formation of thick ecthymatous crusts on the septum, or between this and the alee. This ulceration is very persistent and troublesome, and requires usually a mercurial treatment, with the local application of strong nitric acid, or of the acid nitrate of mercury, to arrest its progress. In many cases ulceration will rapidly proceed to destruction and perforation of the septum, or necrosis of the spongy