479 TIIE OPERATION OF NERVE-STRETCHING. sterno-mastoid, and a transverse one following the line of the clavicle. The J-shaped flap was turned up, the carotid sheath and its contents carried to one side, and the brachial plexus exposed. Pieces fully a quarter ol an inch in length were cut out from the four lower cervical and first dorsal nerves, and from one of these Fig. 169 was taken. Considerable improvement, though not complete relief from suffering, followed the operation. 3. Nerve-stretching.—The operation of nerve-stretching was introduced by Nussbaum originally as a mode of treating intense neuralgia following- injury. In a case of this kind affecting the arm, and resulting from gun-shot injury, he cut down and stretched the ulnar nerve, then the nerves surround- ing the brachial artery, and lastly, the brachial plexus, itself pulling vigorously on the nervous cords. The result was a perfect cure. Since then the opera- tion has been performed on nerves in all parts of the body and for a great variety of diseases, but it will be perhaps most conveniently described here. Under the name of nerve-stretching two distinct operations are included. In operating on the larger trunks the nerve is exposed, cleanly isolated for an inch or more, and forcibly stretched either by passing the finger beneath it, as in the case of the sciatic, or by means of a hook; but on account of the great size and strength of the nerve its power of conduction is never completely destroyed, even if considerable force be used, although there may be some modification in its function. In operation on the smaller nerves, as the facial, the nerve is exposed and stretched with a hook, and it will always be found, if moderate force be used, that conducting power is as completely abolished as if the nerve had been divided. This operation is therefore equivalent to division, the only difference being that, as the continuity of the nerve is not destroyed, restoration of function is certain to take place sooner or later. In the former case the mode of action is doubtful; but it has been suggested that it acts by breaking down adhesions which have been formed amongst the fibres of the nerve and between them and surrounding parts during a past attack of neuritis. In the latter case, the period of rest given by temporary interruption of the function of the nerve may relieve the disease for which the operation is undertaken. Since Nussbaum’s operation, nerve-stretching has been frequently repeated with very variable results. Amongst the earliest cases in London was one in winch Callender successfully stretched the median. At University College Hospital, Marcus Beck stretched the cords of the brachial plexus above the clavicle m a case of intense neuralgia and spasm of the stump after amputation at the shoulder-joint. The bulbous extremities of the nerves had been twice before excised from the axilla. This case was probably one of genuine chronic neuritis, possibly extending even to the cord, and the operation completely failed to give any relief. Nerve-stretching, however, being devoid of danger and certain not to make the patient worse, may be adopted without hesitation i an cases in which there is a possible chance of its giviim- relief. in INJURIES OF MUSCLES AND TENDONS. few ^usc^es are frequently bruised by violent blows or falls, a inabilii-v i 0 *'cn ruptured. The chief signs of this injury arc a sense of is tpnfWr.« US° tlC mLlsc*cs and great pain on attempting to do so. There 88 on piessure over the bruised spot, but passive movements do not