PREPARATION FOR OPERATION. r9 patients of bad constitution, who have met with serious accidents, followed by much suppuration and fever. In the more chronic cases, the time should be seized for the operation when the temperature of the body is not too high, when the secretions are free, the tongue clean, and the action of the skin and kidneys healthy : and, above all, the mind should be kept tranquil and hopeful, being allowed to dwell as little as possible upon the impending event. In many operations, as those on the rectum and urinary organs, or in those of a plastic character, special modes of preparation are required, which will be discussed when we come to treat of the operations in detail. The Surgeon himself must always feel the heavy responsibility that hangs over him during the performance of a great operation—“ at that moment when,” as Dr. Grant has elegantly said, “ Death everywhere surrounds his knife as he is endeavouring to convey all his knowledge to its point.” But having carefully considered each successive step of the operation, provided for ■every emergency that can by any possibility arise in the course of it, and trusting in Him, from whom all knowledge is derived, to strengthen his judg- ment and guide his hand aright, he will proceed to the performance of his duty with self-reliance, and in the full confidence of being able to effect all that Art can accomplish. EMPLOYMENT OP ANAESTHETICS. It is reasonable to believe that the prevention of pain in surgical opera- tions has been an object of solicitude to Surgeons, as well as to patients, from the earliest ages : and narcotics of various kinds have at different times been employed with this mew. But the effect of these was so uncertain—their after-consequences perhaps so injurious—that no per- manent reliance was placed upon them. The first endeavour to induce anaesthesia by the inhalation of vapours is stated to have been made in the thirteenth century by Theodoric, who recommended that a “ Spongia Somnifera,” impregnated with spirituous extracts of various narcotic substances, should be held to the nostrils till sleep was induced ; and that after the operation the patient should be roused by the use of vinegar or fenugreek. It was not, however, till the commencement of this century that any serious attempts were made in this direction. The discovery of the remarkable properties ■exercised on the nervous system by the inhalation of nitrous oxide, then led Sir Humphry Davy and others to entertain hopes that it might be used as a means of relieving pain during surgical operations. Experiments were made with the gas with this view, but they did not prove altogether satisfactory, and its administration was abandoned, except as a means of amusement. It is needless to do more than allude to such means as the compression of the nerves of the limb, as recommended by Moore—the employment of exces- sive venesection, as adopted by Wardrop—or the production of insensibility by mesmerism by Esdaile and others. These means of inducing anaesthesia were either inefficient, dangerous, or chimerical. It was not until 1844 that a serious attempt was again made to introduce insensibility by inhalation during operations : and to the Americans is un- doubtedly due the honour of having established the practice of Anaesthesia in Surgery. In that year Horace Wells, a dentist of Hartford, Connecticut, inhaled the nitrous oxide gas with a view of rendering himself insensible dining the extraction of a tooth ; and, finding the experiment succeed, re-