REMOTE EFFECTS OF INJURIES. 29 3 anasmia and a cachectic state supervening. In other instances, again, the functions of the nervous system become disturbed : convulsive movements or paralytic symptoms of a slight but persistent character eventually develop themselves, and may become progressive, terminating in organic disease of the nervous centres. In these cases, the immediate influence exercised by the injury on the nervous system seems to pass off, while a permanent impression is left. rrhe patient never completely recovers from the effects of his injury: he is never, to use the common expression, “ the same man again and, although his health may appear to improve from time to time, yet, on close inquiry and careful investigation, it will be found that there has been a continuous train of symptoms indicative of a disordered state of the nervous system. These remote constitutional effects, to which attention has been directed by Hodgkin and James, often do not manifest themselves for weeks or months after the infliction of the injury. Some change appears to be induced in the condition of the blood, or in the action of the nervous system, that is incom- patible with health. Perhaps, as Hodgkin supposes, the part locally injured becomes incapable of proper nutritive action, and thus a morbid poison results, in consequence of some peculiar combination of the chemical elements of the part, by which the whole system is influenced. Be this as it may, the fact remains certain, that chronic constitutional disturbance, serious illness, or even sudden death, may supervene, as a result of a local injury, a considerable time after its infliction. Remote Local Effects.—The possible remote local consequences of severe injuries deserve more attention than they usually receive. There can be no doubt that many structural diseases owe their origin to long antecedent injuries. The nutrition of a part may be modified to such an extent by a blow or wound inflicted upon it, as to occasion those alterations in the structure which constitute true organic disease. Thus we occasionally find, on death occurring many months after a severe injury, that extensive local mischief, usually of an inflammatory character, is disclosed, which has evidently been going on in an insidious manner from the time of the accident. In other cases again, a blow may give rise to severe and long-continued neuralgic pains in a part; or it may be the direct occasioning cause of struc- tural disease in bones, joints, or blood-vessels ; and, lastly, it may be the starting point of cancerous or other tumours, many cases of which can be distinctly referred to external violence.