FRACTURES. 54S which, as in the process of union of a recent fracture, may he followed by the development of callus ; or else, 2, by removing the false joint altogether, to con- vert the case into a recent compound fracture, and to treat it as such an acci- dent. It can be easily understood that operative procedures conducted on these principles are too serious to be lightly undertaken, or to be had recourse to until other measures have failed, the mortality following them being, even according to published statistics, considerable, and probably very much greater than has been laid before the profession. 1. Among the first set of operations,—those that have in view the Excitation of Inflammation—the simplest procedure consists in the introduction of acupuncture needles, or in the subcutaneous section of the liga- mentous band with a tenotome. In this way I have known union effected in a patient of Liston’s, who had a false joint in the shaft of the femur; though not until after the fracture had been converted into a compound one, and much danger and suffering incurred. Four years after the consolidation of the ununited fracture, the patient was readmitted into the Hospital, under my care, with fracture of the same bone two inches lower down than the former injury ; on this occasion, union took place in the usual manner and time without any difficulty. Percussion of the ends of the bones has been suc- cessfully employed in these cases by H. 0. Thomas. The method consists in protecting the skin at the seat ot fracture with a piece of felt, and then percussing forcibly the ends of the broken but unumted bone by means ot a copper mallet. The percussion under anaesthesia may be continued for sever -as many as ten-minutes ; it may only be required once, or may need;seven repetitions. The effect is a good deal of local swelling and imtabon- The limb should be put up firmly as for recent fracture, and a cure may be expected U1 Ifiir/iXoducHon of a seton across the false joint, though occasionally successful is apt to give rise to dangerous and even fatal results, from setting deep in the limb with very insufficient exi 0^ discharges, thus leading to extensive diffuse on If Urn seton bo omnloved these dangers might be diminished by the use * 1 „ In performing to* operation, it must bo borne m mind that luge branches and oven the main trunk, especially in the thigh, may 1»»« attached To the callus, so that unless care be taken they may read.ly be W°Dieffenbach has proposed to excite 0* raqnisite dep«of inflamm^® SrX’ofn""the ends of the fractured bone, which - Fig. 184. — Apparatus for Unimited Fracture of Femur.