MICROSCOPICAL ANA TOUT. 1051 cells and giant-cells, are met with in simple chronic inflammatory processes. Ziegler and Tillmans have shown that similar cells are produced when granu- lation tissue is made to grow between the thin glass slides inserted into the peritoneal cavity, or beneath the skin of a rabbit. In 1882, Koch discovered the fact, that in the tubercular nodules a specific microscopic organism, to which he has given the name of -bacillus tuberculosis, is constantly met with. The bacillus is about equal in length to one-third of the diameter of a red blood corpuscle, and its breadth is about one-fifth of its length. Clear bright dots are seen in it which are believed to be spores. The bacilli lie within and between the cells, more especially hi the giant-cells (Fig. 409). They may be single or grouped in masses. The discovery of these organisms by Koch was owing to the fact that they are permanently stained by various aniline dyes, which fail to affect the surrounding tissues, and they are thus readily recognized. They are most abundant in recent tubercle, and more scanty in the older nodules. The relation of these organisms to tubercle will be discussed further on. The origin of the cells of tubercle is still uncertain. The lymphoid cells are believed to be chiefly or entirely migrating white corpuscles. The epithelioid >*j cells are variously attributed to a further development of the lymphoid cor- puscles, or to a growth from the lymphatic endothelium, or the connective tissue corpuscles of the part. The origin and nature of the giant-cells is still a matter of dispute ; they have been supposed to arise by the fusion of smaller cells ; by the failure of a growing mass of protoplasm to divide, apparently from want of energy, by proliferation of the endothelium of a lymphatic vessel, or of a blood-vessel, and lately Treves has asserted that they are merely lymph-coagnla enclosing some of the smaller cells. It is not the place here to discuss these theories, but it may be stated that it is most probable that they I arise either from fusion of smaller cells or from failure of a growing! mass of protoplasm to divide. They are certainly the oldest part of a tubercle nodule, being situated in its centre, and often showing degenerative changes before the surrounding cells ; yet it has never been shown that they appear independently of the surrounding lymphoid corpuscles, and cells of various sizes are found intermediate between them and the lymphoid corpuscles. It is therefore most probable that they are derived from the lymphoid or epithelioid corpuscles by Bone of the processes above mentioned. Anatomical Seat of Tubercle.—Tubercle has been described as origi- nating always in pre-existing lymphoid tissue, such as exists abundantly in the submucous tissue of the bronchi and intestines, or in the lymphatic glands. It has been described as growing also in connection with the walls of small arteries, in lymphatic vessels, and in peri-vascular lymph spaces. The exact structure in which it develops is therefore uncertain, and is probably not always the same. It certainly arises in parts in which no lymphoid tissue is normally present. Subsequent Changes in the Tubercle-Nodule—The changes thus take place in the tubercle-nodules after they have reached a certain size form a characteristic feature of the growth, as important as their histological structure. Tubercle differs from simple inflammatory products in being incapable ol higher development; it invariably degenerates. The form of degeneration is almost always caseation or fatty degeneration. Before the nodule has reached much beyond the size of a millet-seed, its central parts