661 RADIUS AND ULNA. and the head of the hone can be felt to roll on the fore part of the humerus, the external condyle of which projects unnaturally, with a distinct hollow beneath it where the head of the radius should be. The hand and arm can be fully pronated, but cannot be supinated more than half way. 'lire whole of the outer side of the arm is deformed, being carried somewhat upwards (big. 279). The rupture of the annular ligament in this dislocation makes it very difficult to keep the head of the radius properly fixed, so as to prevent a recurrence of the displacement. In some cases, and indeed not unfrequently, there is incomplete disloca- tion of the radius forwards, arising either from falls upon the hand, or from violent twists of the forearm. In these we have the preceding signs, though less marked. The most characteristic symptom, however, is the patient’s inability to flex the forearm upon the arm. This he can never do to a greater extent than to bring the elbow to a right angle (Tig. 278). On being told to touch the tip of his shoulder with his fore-finger, he will find it impossible to do so. The dislocation of the radius Backwards is extremely rare ; it may always be recognized by the head of that bone being felt subcutaneously, behind the external condyle ; the movements of the elbow, and of the radius especially, being at the same tune very limited and painful. Dislocation of the radius Outwards is of more frequent occurrence than the last injury, the head of the bone being thrown on the outer side of the external condyle, where it is felt under the skin, rolling as the hand is moved. The natural motions of the joint are of course greatly interfered with. The radius and ulna are sometimes displaced in Opposite Directions, the ulna being thrown backwards, and the radius forwards. This injury, of which I have seen two instances at the hospital, usually results from heavy falls upon the hand, with a wrench of the limb at the same time, as when a person is thrown out of a carriage and alights upon his hands, in consequence of which the bones are twisted and displaced in opposite directions. The deformity is of course great, but is readily recognized by the combination of the characters of the two forms of displacement, provided an examination be made before the swelling, which rapidly sets in, has come on. Complications.—Dislocations of the elbow-joint are very frequently com- plicated with fracture of one or other condyle of the humerus, of the olecranon, a!1(l m°re rarely, as we have already seen in displacement of the ulna— of the coronoid process. In these complicated injuries an exact diagnosis is often extremely difficult, owing to the laxity and mobility of the parts, and to the great tumefaction that accompanies accidents of this description. Diagnosis.—Tor the diagnosis of these various injuries a good knowledge of the relative bearing of the different osseous points is essential, but an accurate comparison of the injured with the sound limb is equally important. is ocation of both bones backwards most nearly resembles separation of the lower epiphysis of the humerus, but the distinction can usually be easily made oy attention to the rules laid down on page 072. moc^e deduction in dislocations of the elbow-joint varies according dirppK 1 -f1 1S ^P^ced or not. When the ulna is dislocated, in whatever timo n°n ' f m,a^ ')G thrown, and whether the radius be displaced at the same Hip hr,1 110 ’ ^10 ^rca*' obstacle to reduction is the hitching of the processes of no against the articular end of the humerus. If either the olecranon or