INJURIES OF SOFT PARTS. 29S slight degree of traumatic fever inseparable from all serious injuries, and which in the slighter injuries would not he recognizable. The Surgeon takes advantage of this most important fact in many of his operations which are performed subcutaneously; that is to say, the narrow , blade of a knife is introduced through a puncture in the skin, tissues are freely divided, and on the withdrawal of the knife the wound is so closed either by the approximation of its valvular edges, or by the pressure of a compress, that the entrance of air is prevented, and thus healing takes place by the first intention, without local inflammation or constitutional disturbance, as in a subcutaneous laceration. This is the principle on which all operations 0 tenotomy and myotomy are performed. Many of the operations cm. the eye also appear to owe their safety to the same principle being involved in them, the non-entry of the air in these cases being perhaps due rather to the contrac- tion of the eyeball after the escape of its aqueous humour or lens than to any special design of the Surgeon. The only treatment needed in a subcutaneous wound, whether the result 0 accident or made by the Surgeon’s knife, is Rest and protection of the skin. The unbroken skin is a more certain antiseptic than any surgical dressing. OPEN WOUNDS. A wound may best be defined, in the words of Wiseman as “a solution of continuity iu any part of the body, suddenly made by anything that cuts 01 tears, with a division of the skin. , Surgeons divide wounds into five kinds, Incised, lacerated, Contused, Punctured, and Poisoned. INCISED WOUNDS. Incised wounds are such as arc made by a sharp cutting instrument such as <1 knife or sword They may vary in extent from a simple superficial c\it tc In amputation at the hip-joint. Incised wounds are ii„ onen the air having free access to them ; occasionally, houevei, when made Vthe Surgeon, they are subcutaneous, communicating externally only bytsmdl puuctufe. They may be simple, integument and muscle ; or they may be complicated with mjuiy of the c and nerves, or of important oigmis. , • Symptoms.—In all cases incised wounds give rise to three symptoms ; Pain Hemorrhage, and Separation of the lips of the wound. _ • The Pain in an incised wound is usually of a cutting, burning, 01 smarting 1 ihe, M ' T Johnson compared his own sensations to the pain produced fim!iS falling upon the part Mn«^weve^ lxt former ease the pain is greater than in the^ XS: terminal branches being thus