965 .ETIOLOGY OF TUMOURS. lining of ducts opening into it, and the special epithelium of the glands them- selves. The rest of the body arises from the middle layer or mesoblast. It is supposed that, after this early differentiation of the embryonic cells, the tissues which belong to one layer can never be developed from the cells of i another. Thus tumours, such as cancers, in which epithelium forms the active i and essential element, can never develop primarily in those parts which arise from the mesoblast. Tumours have, therefore, been classified as epiblastic, : mesoblastic, and hypoblastic, but the distinction is of little practical import- i ance. The following classification may be adopted as possessing clinical convenience, and, at the same time, presenting, as far as possible, an anatomical uniformity. I. Cystic Tumours generally. II. Tumours composed of one of the modifications of fully developed Con- nective Tissue. a. Fat—Lipoma. h. Fibrous Tissue—Fibroma. c. Cartilage—Chondroma, Enchondroma. cl. Bone—Osteoma, Exostosis. c. Mucous Tissue of Umbilical Cord or Vitreous Humour—Myxoma. III. Tumours which resemble in structure more or less perfectly one of the more Complex Tissues of the body. a. Muscle—Myoma. b. Nerve—True Neuroma. c. Blood-vessels—Angioma, Namis. d. Lymphatic Vessels—Lymphangioma, Lymphatic Nrevus. c. Lymphatic Glands—Lymphadenoma. /. Papillae of Skin or Mucous Membrane—Papilloma. 17. Secreting Glands—Adenoma. IV. Tumours composed of Tissue which is either purely Embryonic, or is showing some signs of a tendency to develop into adult tissue of the Connec- tive type. Sarcomata.—These are subdivided chiefly according to the shape and size of the cells of which they are composed ; thus, round-celled, oval- celled, spindle-celled, giant-celled sarcoma, &c. V. Tumours composed of Cells ol an Epithelial Type, arranged in spaces in a stroma consisting of more or less perfectly developed fibrous tissue. Carcinomata or true Cancers.—Scirrhus, Enccphaloid, and Epi- thelioma. tEtiologv of Tumours. In the great majority of cases we have not the remotest idea of the causes which have led to the growth of the tumour. Hereditary tendency has a marked influence in the growth of many forms’ more especially of malignant growths. The cancers are certainly inherited in a laige piopoition of cases ; in simple tumours hereditary tendency is less mai Led, but is occasionally to be traced. Local irritation or mechanical Hu,y _'s undoubtedly the determining cause of the growth of the tumour in a cei tain pi opoi tion of cases. 1 he effects of this cause also arc most marked in malignant growths. The proportion, however, in which such a cause can be traced is very small, varying, according to different authors, from 14 to 7 pci cent. Gohnheim has suggested the hypothesis that some tumours may arise from the minute portions of embryonic tissue which have persisted in an