975 CONGENITA L C YSTS—DERM01D. the lines in the face which, correspond to the branchial clefts, and to the meet- in? of the various processes from which the face is developed in the foetus. It is in these lines that dermoid cysts are most commonly met with. 1 hey are most often found at the upper and outer angle of the orbit. Here there is often an indentation in the bone corresponding to the cyst, and in some cases the bone may be wanting, the tumour being in direct contact with the mem- branes of the brain, a fact which it is important to remember in attempting their removal. They have also been met with at the lateral aspect of the root of the nose ; under the tongue in the floor of the mouth ; on both sides of the hyoid bone, and in the line of the anterior border of the sterno-mastoid. In other parts of the subcutaneous tissue they are very rare. They have occa- sionally been met with on the meninges of the brain. Dermoid cysts are also met with in situations in which their origin is not so easily explained. Thus they occur with some degree of frequency in the ovary or its immediate neighbourhood and more rarely in the testicle. The walls of the superficial dermoid cysts present all the structures of true skin; cuticle, cutis vera, papillae, sweat- glands, sebaceous follicles,hair- follicles, and hair. (Fig. 3GG). Their contents are usually rather thinner than those of the ordinary atheromatous cyst, though closely resembling them in appearance. Often a small ball of coiled-up hah’ is found inside the cavity. The con- tents are the accumulated se- cretions of the glands in the cyst-wall mixed with desquamated epithelium. The ovarian dermoid cysts may closely resemble those of the subcutaneous tissue, but may attain to a much greater size. In some cases they have been found to contain teeth, and have then received the name of dentigerous cgsls. In some cases the teeth are set in a piece of bone resembling the alveolar bone of a jaw. (l>.) Congenital Cysts arising in Imperfectly Obliterated Fcetal JFig. 368.—Wall of Dermoid cyst (40 diain.). a. Epidermis. 1). Hair-follicle. c. Sebaceous gland. d. Surrounding connective tissue rvith small masses of fat. Structures.—To this class may be referred the cysts of the spermatic cord which arise from the distension of a portion of the processus vaginalis testis which has remained unobliterated, although cut off from the cavity of the peritoneum above and the tunica vaginalis below. Some tumours of the testicle and some growths arising in the neighbour- hood of the kidney which contained large cysts lined with columnar epithelium arc supposed to arise from the unobliterated remains of the Wolffian body ; and the parovarian cysts arising in the broad ligament of the uterus have the same origin. (c.) Cysts formed by the Inclusion of a Blighted Ovum in the developing Body of a Foetus.—Tumours containing various structures