CONTUSIONS OF SCALP—CEPHALHTEMATOMATA. 7x3 extravasation gives rise to the supposition that fracture exists, ouin& to th edge of the contusion feeling hard, whilst the centre is soft, causing an ap- parent depression of the subjacent bone. In some cases, indeed this deceptive feeling will occur without any considerable extravasation ot blood nuclei tn scalp, the depressed centre being due to the compression of the scalp by tne blow that has been inflicted upon it. This I have seen occasionally 111 children in whom the scalp is soft and somewhat spongy. The difficulty 01 distinguishing between such an extravasation and a piece of depressed bone is often so great as to mislead the most experienced Surgeons. Usually it can be effected by feeling the smooth bone at the bottom of the soft central depression, and by an absence of symptoms of compression. If seen soon after the accident the raised edge can usually be made to melt away under the finger by firm pressure, till the solid bone can be clearly felt beneath, at the same level as that in the centre of the swelling. But in the event of doubt, if symptoms of compression of the brain are present, it will be safer to make an incision, and so to examine directly the state of the bone itself. The Treatment of contusion of the scalp is very simple ; the continuous application of evaporating lotions being usually sufficient for the removal of all effusion. In no circumstances should a puncture be made or the blood let out in any way. Contusions of the scalp in girls and young women have been followed by severe neuralgic pains in the part struck. This affection is extremely rebellious to treatment; but in two cases which I have seen, after lasting for a long time, these symptoms gradually disappeared. In such cases, incisions down to the bone are said to have sometimes been beneficial. Cephalhematoma.—It occasionally happens that bloody tumours of the scalp form in newly-born children, either from contusion of the head in con- sequence of the pressure to which it is subjected in its passage ; or from the bruising of obstetric instruments. These tumours, which are often large and fluctuating, are termed cephalhaematomata. They may occur in two situa- tions, either between the aponeurotic structures of the scalp and the pericranium, or between this membrane and the slcull itself. The Subaponeurotic Cephallieematoma is by far the most common variety. It usually forms a large, soft, fluctuating tumour, situated upon one of the parietal eminences, and having a somewhat indurated circumference. The tumour will usually subside in a few days under the use of discutient lotions. The Subpericranial Cephalhematoma is an injury of somewhat rare occurrence; it has been described by Zeller, Yalleix, and others. It appears as a fluctuating tumour, almost invariably seated on one parietal bone, without discolouration of the scalp, but with a hard elevated circle around it, and a soft depressed centre, almost communicating the sensation of a hole in the cranium. Pressure, however, gives rise to no cerebral symptoms, and enables the Surgeon to feel the bone at the bottom of the depression. These tumours ai’c usually small, seldom more than two inches in diameter, and it occasionally happens that they are multiple. It is worthy of note, however, that each tumour is always confined to a separate bone, never passing beyond the sutures, wieie the adhesions are the strongest between the pericranium and the subja- cent osseous structure. This affection is said to be most frequently met with ui children born in first confinements, and is more common in boys than in s ; according to Bouchard, in the proportion of thirty-four to nine.