LOCAL DISTURBANCES AND INFLAMMATION. 154 themselves entirely passive. The white probably make theii own waj out, partly by their amoeboid movements, aided by the pressure within the’vessel. The part played by the intra-vascular pressure in the migration of the white corpuscles is doubtless very considerable, for the process has been shown to be arrested by a ligature of the main artery leading to the part. This does not however prove that the amoeboid movements take no part in the process. With the migration of the corpuscles occurs another process of equal importance—the escape of an abundant liquid exudation. It has before been stated (see Congestion) that an increase of the intra-vascular pressure, such as is produced by any obstruction to the return of blood through the veins, causes an abundant liquid exudation from the distended vessels. While the vessels themselves are healthy they continue to act as filters to the fluid passing through, and the effused liquid contains little albumen, a large proportion of salts, and is not spontaneously coagulable. In inflammation, the power of filtration is diminished, till in the higher degrees the damaged vessels allow the plasma to pass through almost if not absolutely unchanged. Inflammatory exudation is therefore much richer in albumen than the simple transudation from pressure, and is spontaneously coagulable. Its ready coagulability is due not only to its containing a larger proportion of hbn- nooen but to the presence in it of the white corpuscles which contain the other’elements necessary for coagulation—the “fibrin-ferment and e fibrinoplastin. As this exudation takes place into tissues, the vitality of which is lowered by the damage done to them by the cause of the inflam- mation, to such a degree that they are behaving for the tune being as dead matter, all the essentials for coagulation are present, and the inflammatory effusion tends to coagulate in the affected area. In the process of coagulatio a certain number of the migrated white corpuscles break up, yielding then ferment and fibrinoplastin to form the coagulum; but the vast majority remain unchanged entangled in the meshes of the fibrin. The coagulated exudation contracts, just as the ordinary blood-clot does out of the body, and the serum finds its way by the lymphatics back into the circulation, vpmainino- clot entangling in its meshes the innumerable wandering leucocytes, tcatrfnflaxnniatory lymph, which distends the spaces of the tissue in which the exudation has taken place. The formation of this lnflam matory lymph is limited to the area of inflammation, for any of the etllJs honor sano-Lis which soaks beyond the area into the surrounding heal by tissues wifi no longer tend to coagulate, but will dram oft by the tymphatics and return to the circulation. The same will happen with any migrating Wes which wander beyond the area of inflammation. If the e*udtmnis nhmulant the lymph-spaces for some distance round the centie f i > Snots’ tended With fluid, and thus is produced the «dem.wh.ch accompanies all acute inflammatory processes. The amount of «udaUon DXned part is very considerable. Experiments on annuals hare she that the amount of lymph returning through the mam What.c: turn that ““ atl cl" the Sues of the aflcctrf part has teen the subject of much discussion, and cannot men jo « -