SYMPTOMS OF TRAUMATIC ARTHRITIS. 491 It is especially in adults that unfavourable results ensue ; in children, extensive injuries of large joints may heal favourably ; though if the cue be strumous, chronic destructive inflammation is ajDt to be set up. If the patient escape the dangers of septic arthritis and the wound unites by the first intention, there is usually some effusion into its cavity, with heat and pain, which subside in a few days, leaving the articulation weak, tendei and stiff for some considerable time. This period of swelling is one of con- siderable anxiety to the Surgeon, but if by the third day the symptoms begin to subside, and especially if there be no marked rise of temperature, he may confidently look forward to a speedy recovery. Should septic arthritis super- vene, the joint within a few hours of the infliction of the injury, swells, becomes hot and painful, and throbs. The pain steadily increases, becoming tensive and excessively severe. If the aperture be large, synovia freely escapes, which soon becomes mixed with inflammatory products. If it be small, little more than a puncture, the joint swells and fills with pus, which will either escape through the original wound or find an outlet for itself, bursting through the capsule and burrowing widely beneath the fascia of the limb before reaching the surface. The swelling at first assumes the outline of the synovial membrane, but as soon as the inflammation has extended to the liga- ments it becomes globular or oval. The skin over the joint becomes red and oedematous. The limb is placed in a position of semiflexion. There are startings in the limb, worse at night, waking the patient should he fall asleep. The pain becomes agonizing should the joint be moved in the slightest degree. The constitutional disturbance becomes very severe, the temperature often rising as high as 105° Fahr. The pulse is rapid and bounding, the tongue dry, the face flushed, and there is frequently delirium at night. The patient may perish at this stage from the intensity of the septic fever. In other cases he may be early attacked by septicaemia or pyaemia. If the patient survive this acute period, abscesses form around the articula- tion, and the discharge from these, as well as from the joint, with the chronic poisoning from absorption of the products of putrefaction, may gradually prove fatal by exhaustion. Should this danger be passed through and the patient eventually survive, it will be with an ankylosed limb, the utility of which is greatly impaired. Treatment of Wounded Joints.—The first point to be determined must he whether amputation or resection should be performed, or an attempt made to save the injured joint. If the joint have been extensively laid open, with much contusion and laceration, complicated, perhaps, with dislocation, or with fracture and splintering of the bones, no attempt to save the joint is likely to succeed. In these unfavourable circumstances, however, in the upper extremity, and even in the ankle, the limb may not unfrequently be saved. If the bones be comminuted, the removal of splinters and resection of the articular ends may advantageously be practised in many cases, more particularly if the pa lent ie young and sound in constitution and the soft parts not too exten- h\C ^ c.amaFec^ l^rit, if these be largely lacerated and widely contused, or Thi«)a ien aSe^ or broken in health, amputation is imperatively called for. the i18 ?S^pCla y khe case when the knee is injured ; extensive lacerations of i •'' J'n ’1 comph'cated with dislocation or with comminution of the bones, being cases for immediate amputation. n all othei cases an attempt may be made to save the joint. In fact the