INJURIES OF SOFT FARTS. 3°o some Surgery. If the “nimia cura medicinal” is often the cause of much evil, the Surgical form of the same kind of practice is equally disastrous. A wound left to Nature may heal in a few days ; tormented by meddlesome and injudicious Surgery it may remain open for months. , In the treatment of wounds the first four days is the most important period, and the fate of the wound, whether it shall heal by first intention or by the slower process of granulation, is practically determined in the first twenty-four hours. It has already been pointed out in the Chapters on Inflam- mation and Repair that, as the necessary result of the injury done by the knife, a limited traumatic inflammation is set up, accompanied by abundant exudation of liquor sanguinis and migration of corpuscles ; the liquid exuda- tion coagulates, the serum drains away, and the coagulated fibrin with the white corpuscles remains behind, forming the “ plastic exudation ” which serves as the first bond of union. This process must occur, but it should be completed by the first twenty-four hours, at the end of which time the tissues should have recovered from the damage done by the knife, exudation should cease, and the period of traumatic inflammation be at an end. Should any fresh source of irritation be brought to bear on the' surfaces of the wound the inflammation will persist, the migration and exudation will continue, and pus will form instead of the desired plastic exudation, and all adhesion between the surfaces is prevented. The sources of irritation against which we have to guard are—first, mechanical, viz., the presence of foreign bodies, the tension from accumulation of blood-clot or discharges, and friction of the sm faces against each other; secondly, chemical, the products of putrefaction and the persistent action of powerful antiseptics; and thirdly, specific infective poisons, erysipelas, hospital gangrene, some forms of pyaemia and septicaemia. It is evident, therefore, that, guided by these principles, the following are the essential features of the treatment of a wound1, Arrest haemorrhage perfectly; 2, Remove all foreign bodies and clean the wound; 3, Bring the surfaces accurately into contact ; 4, Provide perfect drainage for the serous discharge which must be poured out during the first twenty-four hoirrs ; 5, Maintain perfect rest of the part; G, Prevent decomposition of any dis- charge that may form between the surfaces, and while so doing avoid the constant action of an irritating antiseptic in the wound; 7, Guard the patient carefully from the chance of infection from unhealthy or specific inflam- mations in the wounds of others. It must be borne in mind that the healthy traumatic inflammation which results from every wound affects a very limited area, and consequently gives rise to such slight local symptoms that it may clinically pass unnoticed, and it has sometimes been ignored ; the term “ inflammation of a wound being applied to the process only when it extends more widely so as to cause redness, swelling, heat, and pain easily recognizable by the most superficial observer. Clinically this may be convenient, but pathologically it is inaccurate. ie process by which the plastic exudation is formed is an example of simple traumatic inflammation not spreading beyond the area injured ; ie a cr process is a spreading inflammation due to various sources of irritation v ic have been allowed to act on the wound after its infliction. ,.fl There is no subject in Surgery which has undergone more frequent mot n- cations than the local treatment of wounds, from the earliest periods of 'vhuh we have record. The first, and perhaps the instinctive, method of treating a