INJURIES OF BLOOD-VESSELS. 86 CHAPTER XIII. INJURIES OF BLOOD-VESSELS. INJURIES OF VEINS. Veins are very commonly wounded suicidally, accidentally, or in surgical operations ; but, unless they be deeply seated, tbeir injuries are seldom attended by any serious consequences. Occasionally subcutaneous rupture or laceration of a vein takes place from a blow or strain. In such cases extensive extravasation of blood will occur, which, however, usually undergoes absorption in a few weeks ; but it may suppurate, or the changes described a p. 295 may take place. This accident is most commonly seen in the internal SaThere'are'three sources of danger in open wounds of veins. 1, Loss of Blood ; 2, Septic or spreading inflammation of the vein ; 3, Entrance of An * A vein is known to be wounded, when dark blood flows in a rapid and uniform stream from the seat of hi jury. _ . . The Hemorrhage from a wounded vein may, if the vessel be superficn , be arrested by position, and the pressure of a compress with a few turns of a roller A wound of one of the larger veins of the trunk—as of the i ena caj ., innominate, or iliac-will necessarily prove rapidly fatal from uncontrollab e haemorrhage. When one of the large external veins is wounded, such as internal jugular, the axillary, or the femoral, it should be fairly exposed and tied with catgut-ligature above and below the wound m it. Langenbeck has in this case advised that the concomitant artery should also be tied A H priori it might be supposed that this would be a wise precaution But experience and the result of statistical inquiries have alike demonstrated its _ fallacy Gross and Morris have shown that the ligature of the internal jugnla then wounded in operations about the neck or in suicidal attempts is a very safe procedure—whilst if the common carotid be ligatured at the same time, _ mortality following the double operation becomes very high. Li the extremities also the simultaneous ligature of the main vein and artery is especially apt ^Awnall puncture in a large vein may be treated by picking up the 'VjJ1^ the vessel at the injured spot, and applying a ligature, so as to indue mienin" without completely occluding the vein. , Twound in a vein is closed in different ways uncording to the size,of the onenim- and the mode of treatment. If the vein be completely div idedLm d * limiturc applied, the closure of the vein is brought about m the same • • lA l nf ,in .u-tery under similar circumstances (see W ounds of Arteries). treated by pressure, the lips of the wound come-contact with each other, and union takes place without pcimanent occ _ ^ vessel. If a clot forms above and below the point pressed upon,