TREATMENT OF PENETRATING WOUNDS. 841 played by the decomposition of the discharges in the pleural cavity has become fully recognized, much more importance has been attached to diaining and cleaning the pleural cavity than to any efforts by means of blood-letting 01 drugs to subdue the local inflammation and constitutional disturbance. Possibly, in civil practice, if a case were met with in which the inflammation i was confined to the lung substance, and attended by much dyspnoea in a healthy young subject, some relief might be given by venesection ; but such a condition is so rare that it may practically be excluded from our consideration. When the dyspnoea arises from pleuritic effusion, bleeding must necessarily be use- less, and in fact could only be injurious by still further weakening the powers of the patient. The inflammation must be combated by removing its cause as far as possible. In the first place every effort should be made to prevent the occurrence of decomposition, either of extravasated blood or inflammatory exudation in the cavity of the pleura by the adoption of some efficient method of antiseptic treatment. Should these fail, and the pleura become distended with decom- posing discharges, the freest possible drainage must be provided by enlarging . the original wound, and if necessary, making a counter-opening at the most convenient spot. All counter-openings must be made on a probe passed from the original wound and made to project between two ribs, as the relations of the walls and contents of the cavity are often much altered in these cases, and unless a guide is obtained in this way, either the diaphragm or the lung might be accidentally wounded. Large drainage-tubes should be inserted at the wound and the counter-opening if one has been made. If any difficulty is : experienced in doing this, a piece of a rib may be cut away. If the discharges are offensive, the cavity of the pleura must be washed out with some antiseptic solution. Konig reports that he obtained very good results in the Franco- German war by using a strong solution of chloride of zinc. It will always be necessary in these cases to support the patient’s strength by abundant liquid nourishment and stimulants when they are obtainable. Pain and cough may often be relieved by opium. If any extraneous body, such as a bullet, a piece of wadding, or of clothing, have penetrated too deeply into the chest to be readily extracted through the external wound, it would net be safe to make incisions or exploratory researches, with a view to extracting it; for, though its presence would increase the j Patient’s danger, yet attempts at extraction would not only add to this, but would in all probability be fatal. In many cases, bodies so lodged become surrounded by pus, are loosened, and eventually are spat up, or appear at the external wound. In other cases, they remain permanently fixed in the chest, becoming enveloped in a cyst, and so remaining for years, without producing irritation. In this way, Hennen states, a bullet has been lodged in the chest for upwards of twenty years ; and Vidal mentions the case of a man who lived for fifteen years with the broken end of a foil in his chest, which, after death, was found sticking in the vertebrae, and stretching across to one of the ribs. p Treatment of Emphysema and Pneumothorax consists of little in * ^ is called for by the wounded lung. In many cases, indeed, f , e ,au ecomes absorbed in three or four days without the necessity of any oca incidence. If, however, the pneumothorax interfere with respiration y piessuie on the opposite lung, the external wound, if any exist, must be ce y openee, and scarifications may be necessary to give exit to the air in the