931 ERYSIPELAS OF FAUCES AND LARYNX. INTERNAL ERYSIPELATOUS INFLAMMATIONS. By Internal Erysipelas we mean those forms of diffuse inflammation which affect the Mucous or Serous Surfaces. . . „ Erysipelas of Mucous Surfaces.—The mucous tract that is chiefly affected by this disease is that covering the fauces, the pharynx, or the larynx. Erysipelas of the Fauces may occur in consequence of the disease spreading from the head and face to these parts ; or it may commence as a primary affection, occurring perhaps at the same time that the rash appears on the cutaneous surface of some distant part of the body. When the fauces aie erysipelatous, they present a bright crimson or scarlet colour, with some swelling and" thickening of the soft palate and uvula ; the patient also most commonly has some huskiness or complete loss of voice, and occasionally some croupy symptoms. The glands at the angle of the jaw are always swollen and tender. At the same time there is a good deal of febrile disturbance, with a pungent hot skin and quick pulse. This form of erysipelas is peculiarly contagious, and occurs not unfrequently in the attendants of those who are labouring under some of the other varieties of the disease ; of this I ha\ e seen numerous instances. In many cases, also, it is epidemic, spreading through a house and affecting almost every inmate. Treatment.—The best results are obtained by sponging the inflamed parts freely with a strong solution of the nitrate of silver ; and, if there be much I constitutional depression, by administering full doses of ammonia, with cam- phor or bark. Should the disease go on to sloughing (which not unfre ' quently happens), constituting one of the forms of “ putrid sore throat, the mineral acids and bark, with chlorinated gargles, and the brandy-and-egg mixture for support, will be found most useful. In many cases, this disease continues limited to the palate and fauces ; but in others it extends upwards or downwards. It may extend upwards through the nares, out of the nostrils, and thus spread over the face and head, or downwards, implicating the larynx. Erysipelatous Laryngitis, as described by Byland, Budd, and others, is extremely dangerous. The inflammation, commencing in the fauces, rapidly spreads to the mucous membrane and loose submucous areolar tissue external to and within the larynx, giving rise to extensive oedematous infiltration, which, by obstructing the rima glottidis, may readily suffocate the patient. In consequence of this special tendency to oedema, the disease has by many writers been termed “ oedema tons laryngitis.” After death, the submucous areolar tissue of the fauces, that about the base of the epiglottis, and especially that which enters into the ary tamo-epiglottidean folds and that covering the posterior part of the larynx, will be found to be distended with serum or a scro-puriform fluid. This infiltration reaches to the rima of the glottis, and, extending into the interior of the larynx, gives rise to such swelling that its canty is nearly obliterated. Great as the swelling may be, however, in all these parts, it never spreads below the true vocal chords. This fact, which is very important, is explained by the mucous membrane coming closely into contact with, and being adherent to, the fibrous tissue of which these struc- tures are composed, without the intervention of any submucous areolar tissue. The progress of this oedematous inflammation of the mucous membrane and