CARBUNCLE. S92 incision when it itself. is large, and does not appear disposed to break of CARBUNCLE. A Carbuncle consists essentially of a specific spreading inflammation ol the subcutaneous areolar tissue, implicating the skin and terminating in death of the affected tissues, with the formation of a pulpy greyish or ash-coloured slough. Whether it commences in the deep layers of the true skin, possibly in the "sebaceous glands, or in the subcutaneous areolar tissue, has not been defi- nitely determined. Signs.—A carbuncle begins as a flat or very slightly conical mflammatorj swelling of the skin, the base of which is hard, and the edges clearly defined ; it is of a dusky-red colour and accompanied from the first by a burning, stinging, heavy, or throbbing pain in the part, out of proportion to the apparent gravity of the disease. The inflamed base steadily enlarges and im- plicates the subcutaneous tissue more deeply, forming a flat, slightly elevated, , hard, circumscribed swelling, gradually becoming doughy as sloughing sets iil . As it increases in size, the swelling maintains its flattened circular shape, and . the skin covering it assumes a purple or brownish-red tint. \ esicles form on 1 it at several points, which speedily become pustular and burst, exposing open- ings beneath in the cutis, through which the ash-grey sloughs appear, and from which unhealthy purulent discharge scantily issues. The openings m the thin undermined skin gradually melt into each other, and the slough slowly separates. In most cases, the whole thickness of the subcutaneous fat . is not destroyed; but occasionally when the slough comes away the deep asci. or even the muscles may be exposed. The size of the swelling varies from one to six inches m diametei ; mos commonly it is about two inches across. Carbuncles are general y me in on the posterior part of the trunk, more especially about the shoulders and the nape of the neck ; being rarely seen anteriorly, or on the extremities however, had to treat very large carbuncles on the abdomen, and h. with them on the shin, forearm, and forehead. A carbuncle is almost invariably single; but some 5 ear sago ‘ rancu my care a patient on whom a large carbuncle was followec y ■ ‘IT ^ of about a dozen smaller ones scattered over the back, 111 spite of vh finally recovered. . ,. • 1 the The Constitutional Disturbance attending this disease s . <. ■ asthenic type ; the complexion is often peculiarly sa °^ ’ seated on feeble, and the tongue loaded ; and if the carbunc e 1° ticsemia the head, death may take place, the patient frequently sinking fiom sept <)l Cau&ks.'—A carbuncle arises usually without any imgnaWe cause ; but in some cases it is evidently occasioned by the mtud ^ of Bomc poisonous matter into a puncture m tin. sk ?olUole. I all cases it is associated with «di ordered state of the constitution Any condition that^bibullny the system will predispose to, and may at las occasiondiscases, the system will predispose to, am ina at ’ . casting diseases, bad and insufficient food, the exhaustion induced ) disease—more especially diabetes, or the particularly typlms-may all occasion it. Carbuncles