170 LOCAL DISTURBANCES AND INFLAMMATION. "before seen that this mode of entrance cannot be admitted 111 the case of the ordinary bacteria of decomposition; it is equally certain that it cannot be denied in the case of the organisms of infective inflammations. . Experience, however, teaches us that it is not by any means common in local injuries ; for the total absence of organisms from a wound can be assured, with almost . absolute certainty, by means calculated only to protect it from the dust 0 Lastly, it remains to be discussed, what is the relation of ordinary putrefac- tion to the development of infective inflammations ? .... , Ordinary putrefaction acts both generally and locally. The invasion of the living tissues by an infective process may be regarded as a struggie between the virus and the tissues, and anything that lowers the vitality of the latter will favour the former. The putrefying discharges irritate the parts with which they come in contact and directly lower then- vitality, as is evidenced by the inflammation set up; and they thus favour the invasion of the tissues by the pathogenic bacteria. This would be only 111 harmony with the well- known fact common to the animal and vegetable kingdoms, that feeble individuals, or feeble parts of an individual, are most readily invaded by PaThetMmmation set up by the septic matter is accompanied by a more or less abundant formation of pus; and so long as suppurationJasts we havem the wound or abscess a medium in which any pathogenic funDi which m y find entrance to it will readily develope. ■ The contrast between a wound healing aseptically by the first intention and one in which septic suppuration is taking place on the thud day is so marked as scarcely to require comment. In the former case tissues m a fuU state of vitality are separated merely by a thm layer of plastic exudation so hro'elv composed of living cells that it may fairly be regarded as living tissue, rit lS the tissues for some distance on each side are lowered m their of the products of putrefaction and are sedated from each other by a fluid which forms one of the most suitable media for the development of any true infective virus that may find admission to it, ^^enerally decomposition of the discharges acts in two ways: first depresses the patient by the fever caused by the of^putrefaction, and thus Ld infective process; and secondly, it is a well-recognisea 10 SSESs: before pointed out (page 10), the piocluc f that camiot