289 VARIETIES OF FEVER AFTER INJURIES. forms of febrile disturbance, which were formerly confounded together under the name of “ traumatic fever.” The first of these, which may be called the true traumatic or reactionary fever, commences as soon as the symptoms of shock disappear. As the patient rallies the thermometer rises from the sub- normal point to which it had fallen, passes the normal, and gradually reaches one or two degrees above the standard of health. In the majority of cases it reaches its highest point on the second day, and falls again by the end of the third day to the natural degree. It is possible to observe this fever clearly only in cases in which the injury is followed merely by the simple traumatic inflammation which is a necessary consequence of an injury. If decomposi tion of the discharges or spreading inflammation occurs, the simple traumatic fever is more or less masked by the septic or inflammatory fever which accompanies these conditions. Simple traumatic fever is best studied, there- fore, in sub-cutaneous injuries, such as simple fractures, or severe bruises of the soft parts. The exact cause of this febrile disturbance has not yet been clearly settled. Lucas-Championiere is of opinion that we must look for its cause in the nervous system, and certainly in some cases it is difficult to conceive any other mode of origin. The most marked illustration of a febrile condition apparently of purely nervous origin is that which follows concussion of the brain, when there is no reason to suspect any actual laceration, that is to say, when the insensibility is of short duration and the recovery complete. In such cases it will usually be found that the thermometer rises to about 100° T., and falls again to the normal point within twenty-four or forty-eight hours of the injury. In other cases the early fever is most probably produced by absorption of the exudation that takes place as the immediate result of the injury. It has been shown experimentally by Billroth and others that the fresh aseptic serous dischaige from a recent wound if injected into the subcutaneous tissue or into the vessels of an animal causes febrile disturbance. Kohler, Edelberg, Berg- mann, and others, have also shown that the expressed serum from a fresh blood- clot possesses powerful pyrogenic properties which they attribute to the blood- ferment, which it always contains in considerable quantities in a free state. If the ferment be injected in large quantity, other symptoms are developed resembling septicmmia, and often associated with coagulation of blood in the heart, or cardiac thrombosis. In aseptic wounds and subcutaneous injuries we have therefore three causes which may ^separately or conjointly produce the condition known as “ trail- rnatm tever. Firstly, a nervous disturbance, concerning the exact nature of from1 lfcf S ire CSS t01speculatc ; secondly, the absorption of the early exudation ser m lm! womd ’ thirdly, the excessive ferment contained in the mi squeezed from a blood-clot during its contraction. its=TrmatiC Fever Seldom lasts bey°nd the fourth day; during ditions H the thermometer rarely passes 101° F., and, as in other febrile cou- ture Th . eA cni°§ 1S usually about one degree above the morning-tempera- often nnrn C0'1S 1 ”t1011fd disturbance is very slight, the patient himself being °tten unconscious of any feeling of illness. wound I>shnnnfl?rilUat0ry Fever idso may occur as a consequence of a when docnrmu v"' !ei0l!s discharge or pus be pent up within it, even of the orJ>S:'0,\haS )em Preven.ted; for as before stated, when treating vol. 1. * U 10ua symptoms of inflammation, the exudation fluids that u