amputation of the thigh is raised, I cannot too strongly state my conviction treatment of compound fractures of FEMUR. 60s In fractures of the femur in children, it is often difficult to maintain good position, owing to the extreme restlessness of the patient. In such cases Hamilton recommends that a long splint he applied to the sound thigh as we as to the broken one. The two splints are connected together at the bottom by a transverse bar (Fig. 238), and some short splints must be put round the thio-h to fix the broken bone. I can speak from experience of the very great advantages of this method in young children. The child can be taken up and tinned over with the splint without disturbing the fracture in the slightest degree. Another excellent plan is that, recommended by Bryant, of applying a back- splint from the heel to the nates and short splints 011 the sides and front of the thigh, strapping having been previously fixed to the leg, by means of which extension can be made. The limb is then slung up to a hook in the ceiling or to any other convenient point, so as to keep it at right angles to the body. By this means the bandages are kept out of the way of the evacuations passed into the bed, and the weight of the body acts as a constant counter-extending force. In very young children, plaster-of-Paris and starched bandages can hardly be used, as it is quite impossible to keep them clean. The Treatment of Compound and Comminuted Fracture of the Thigh-hone will vary according as the injury arises from gun-shot, or is an accident of civil life. In the former case, for reasons stated at p. 342, ampu- tation should at once be performed if the fracture be below the upper third of the bone. When the upper third is splintered, the result of amputation is so very unsatisfactory, that the patient may have a better prospect of recovery if the limb be treated in splints, and an endeavour made to save it, disarticula- tion at the hip-joint in such cases being almost invariably fatal. When a compound fracture of the thigh-bone occurs from one of the common accidents of civil life, even if it be comminuted, the line of practice is not so defined. The course that the Surgeon adopts must be influenced by the extent of injury done to the soft parts, more particularly to the main blood- vessels of the limb. If the integuments and muscles be extensively torn and lacerated, or if there be reason to believe that the femoral vessels have suf- fered, amputation must be practised. But if the wound be but small, made by the perforation of the bone rather than by the violence which occasioned the fracture, and if the vessels be uninjured, an attempt must be made to save the limb, which should be put up on the double inclined plane or in the long bracketed splint, and treated with the strictest attention to drainage and to the prevention of decomposition. The treatment of the complication of a ivound of the main artery, femoral or popliteal, with and by a fracture of the thigh-bone, will vary according as the injury is compound or simple. Such an accident, complicating a compound fracture, would probably be a case for immediate amputation. If the fracture be simple, and a diffused traumatic aneurism form in the ham or lower part of the thigh, we must, in accordance with the principles laid down at page 463, ligature the superficial femoral artery; unless gangrene be supervening, or have actually supervened, when the thigh must be amputated above the fracture. In discussing the treatment of these accidents, in which the question of