SYMPTOMS OF CONCUSSION OF THE CORD. 773 he be laid horizontally, and told to raise himself into the sitting posture, without the use of his hands, he will be unable to do it. The state of the spine will be found to be the real cause of these symptoms. On examining it by pressure, by percussion, or by the application of the hot spouge, it will be found that it is painful, and that its sensibility is exalted at one, two, or three points. These are usually the upper cervical, the middle dorsal, and the lumbar regions. The exact vertebras that are affected vary necessarily in different cases ; but the exalted sensibility always includes two, and usually three, at each of these points. It is in consequence of the pain that is occasioned by any movement of the trunk in the way of flexion or rotation, that the spine loses its natural suppleness, and moves as a whole— as if cut out of one solid piece—instead of with its usual flexibility. The movements of the head upon the upper cervical vertebree are variously affected. In some cases, the head moves freely in all directions, without pain or stiffness. In other cases, the greatest agony is induced if the Surgeon take the head between his hands and bend it forwards or rotate it; the articulations ■between the occipital bone, the atlas, and the axis, being evidently inflamed. The pain is usually confined to the vertebral column, and does not extend beyond the transverse processes, but, in some instances, it extends widely over the back on both sides, and seems to correspond with the distribution iof the posterior branches of the dorsal nerves. In these cases, from the musculo-cutaneous distribution of these nerves, the pain is superficial and cutaneous as well as deeply seated. The muscles of the hack are usually unaffected ; but in some cases, where the muscular branches of the dorsal nerves are affected, they may become very irritable and spasmodically contracted, so that their outlines are very distinct. The ejait of the patient is characteristic. He walks more or less unsteadily, generally uses a stick, or, if deprived of that, is apt to lay his hand on any article of furniture that is near to him, for the purpose of steadying himself. He keeps his feet somewhat apart, so as to increase the basis of support, and consequently walks in a straddling manner. As one leg is often weaker than •the other, he totters somewhat, and raises the foot but slightly off the ground, so that the heel is apt to touch. He seldom drags the toe ; but, as lie walks flat-footed as it were on one side, the heel drags. This peculiar straddling, tottering, unsteady gait, with the spine rigid, the head erect, and looking- straight forwards, gives the patient the aspect of a man who walks blind- folded. The patient cannot generally stand equally well on either foot. One leg usually gives way immediately under him if he attempt to stand on it. lie often cannot raise himself on his toes, or stand on them, without immediately tottering forwards. His power of walking is always very limited, seldom exceeding half a mile or a mile at the utmost. He cannot ride, even if much in the habit of doing so before the accident. There is usually considerable diffi- culty m going up and down stairs—more difficulty in going down than up. The patient is obliged to support himself by holding on to the balusters, and often brings both feet together on the same step. R sensation as of a cord tied round the waist, with occasional spasm of the iap ragm, giving rise to a catch in the breathing, or hiccup, is sometimes met with, and is very distressing when it does occur. I lie nervous power of the limbs will be found to be variously modified, and "1 Seneu ly be so to very different degrees in the different limbs. Some-