GENERAL REMARKS ON OPERATIONS. 2 ° patient, so as to permit a very free admixture ot air with the first lew inhala- tions of the vapour. After the lapse of about hall a minute, the lint is brought nearer to the patient’s nose, to within a distance ol peihaps an inch, being never allowed to touch—for, apart from any other danger, it nu\ blister the skin ; at the same tune a porous towel, not doubled, is lightly laid over the lace of the patient and the hand of the operator, so as to limit the escape of the chloroform-vapour, but not to prevent the admission ol air. During the whole time, it is the duty of the administrator to keep his hand on the pulse, to watch the breathing, and occasionally to examine the pupils of the patient. . . The method just described has been shown by experience to be one ol tne most practically useful modes of administration, and to be quite as sale as an) other. A committee of the Medical and Chirurgical Society of London, which reported on the administration of chloroform in 18G4, determined that 4A per cent, is the maximum amount of the vapour which can safely be mixed with the air the patient inhales. Lister has shown by experiment that the propor- tion given off from a folded piece of lint, used as above described, is far below this, and there is therefore no necessity for the use of the complicated and ingenious inhalers which have sometimes been recommended. Mr. Clover, to whom we are indebted for the most accurate and scientific of these instru- ments, used it himself many thousands of times without an accident of any land; but it is highly probable that so careful and skilful an administrator would have obtained equally good results had he used merely a piece of lint as abo\e described Whatever leads the administrator to rely upon anything but careful and continuous observation of the symptoms of the patient is an evil in the administration of chloroform, and all inhalers have a tendency to co this. The only merit that can be claimed for any form of inhaler is that the mixture of chloroform and air given is of constant strength, whereas, when administered on lint, the vapour given off is most powerful immediately aftei the lint has been wetted with the anaesthetic, and gradually diminishes i in strength as the administration continues. This, may be obviated by the fo - lowing plan, which is now recommended by Lister in the place ot that formerly advocated. Put one corner of a stiffish towel over the face m such a way that the point is over the chin; opposite the forehead gather up the towel in three or four puckers, and, if necessary, pass a pm through them ; there is thus produced a concave mask, which covers tolerably acciuate 1) the mouth and nose. By allowing a drop or two of chloroform to M[ upon it from a drop-bottle every few seconds, the central pai is vcp cons . over an area about two inches in diameter.. By this means a dose of practically constant strength can be easily administered. The principal points to be attended to during the inhalation of this potent agent arc, that it be not given too suddenly, nor m too concentrated a fc , and that, whilst under its influence, the patient be not raised into the erect or sitting position. If lint be used, it may be too much saturated, and he held too closely applied to the mouth and nostrils, so that the patient mav not be able to get sufficient air, and may speedily become partially asphyxiated, choking violently, struggling to get free, in the face. Care should be taken not to compress the abdomen i m holding the patient; for, as the respiration becomes chiefly or whollyJaa- phragmatic, it may be seriously interrupted by any pressure on the abdomm.