PATELLA. 6S7 . knee is slightly flexed. This accident usually happens from sudden muscular contraction, especially in persons who are knock-kneed. In some cases it has been occasioned by direct violence, driving the hone out ot its position. Most : frequently, the patella is only partially displaced outwards, with some rotation of the hone in the same direction. i Holthouse {Lancet, vol. ii., 1872) has recorded a case ot congenital dis- location of the patella outwards. The abnormality was met with 111 a boy ao-ed seven, who had been admitted into the Westminster Hospital for fracture of the left' femur. Whilst putting up the fracture, it was observed that the rio-ht patella was so displaced that its inner articular facet rested on the outer condyle, and that when the knee was flexed the dislocation became complete. There was no inclination inwards of either knee. The mother alleged that the condition had existed from birth, and that at first both knees were affected. The boy could run and jump as well as other children, and was not more liable to fall than they. 2. The dislocation Inwards is very rare ; Malgaigne, who has investigated this subject, is of opinion that there is only one case of the kind on record. In these lateral dislocations, Redaction may be effected by laying the patient on his back, bending the thigh on the abdomen, and raising the leg so as to relax the extensor muscles. The Surgeon then, by pressing down that edge of the patella which is furthest from the middle of the joint, raises the other edge, which, being tilted over the condyles, is immediately drawn into position by the action of the extensors. 3. A remarkable form of dislocation of the patella is that in which this bone becomes twisted upon its axis in such a way that it is placed Vertically, one of its edges being fixed between the condyles, and the other projecting under the skin, and pushing this forwards into a distinct tumour. According to Malgaigne, the outer edge is most commonly fixed in the intercondyloid notch ; Streubel, however, who has collected 120 cases of dislocation of the patella, states that one-sixth of these were vertical dislocations, and in about two-thirds of these the outer edge was forwards. In some cases, as those of Woolf and Mayo, the bone has been turned almost completely round, the posterior articular surface becoming partly anterior. The signs of this dislo- cation are evident, manual examination indicating the vertical displacement of the patella, with a deep depression on each side. The limb is completely extended, flexion being impossible. This dislocation has most generally arisen from sharp blows or severe falls upon one edge of the patella, whilst the limb has been semiflexed, in conse- quence of which the bone appears to have been semi-rotated and fixed in its new position. Violent muscular contraction, however, conjoined with a twist of the leg, but without any blow, has been known to produce it in some cases. The Reduction of this displacement has sometimes been very difficult; in other cases it has been readily effected ; whilst in two or three instances it has been found to be quite impracticable; Surgeons having ineffectually attempted, by means of elevators and the section of the tendons or of the ligamentum patellee, to replace the bone, and the patient having eventually died from septic suppuration of the joint, with the displacement unrelieved. The cause of this difficulty of reduction is not very distinctly made out; it is certainly muci greater than can be explained by simple muscular contraction, and may not improbably be owing to the aponeurotic structures which cover the