928 ERYSIPELAS. clucecl by scratches, punctures, or inoculation of the part with poisonous or putrescent matters. It is most common in the spring of the year, when indeed, it sometimes appears to be almost epidemic. That the inflammation of whitlow is essentially of the same character as ■ that of cellulitis, and consequently may be classed as erysipelatous, in the broader sense of the word, appears to be proved by the following facts. 1. The causes, whether of season, infection, or local irritation, are the same in both affections. 2. The constitutional disturbance in whitlow is always very severe for a disease apparently so slight, and assumes the same character of speedy depression that we observe in erysipelas. 3. The inflammation of the affected finger is invari- ably diffused, and always tends to terminate in suppuration and sloughing. 4. So soon as the disease spreads beyond the affected finger, or to the back of the hand, it frequently assumes a distinctly erysipelatous appearance and character. There are four degrees of whitlow. In the first, the inflammation com- mences in the cutis or immediately beneath it ; a drop of pus forms which, being unable to escape through the thick cuticle, burrows into the areolar tissue of the pulp of the finger, and thus gives rise to one of the succeeding degrees. It is important to recognize this form, as a very large proportion of whitlows commence in this way, and all further mischief may in such cases be prevented by shaving away the thickened cuticle, and thus giving exit to the pus without incision. In the second degree, the mischief com- mences deeply in the fibrous fat of the pulp of the finger. In the third degree, the sheath of the tendon is affected, either primarily or secondarily, by burrowing of pus into it, giving rise to the condition known as thecal abscess. In the fourth degree, the mischief either commences beneath the periosteum of the ungual phalanx or rapidly extends to it, causing necrosis of the bone. These degrees are occasionally distinct, but more commonly in clinical practice they merge into one another. The most common form of whitlow is that in which the inflammation is confined to the dense tissue forming the pulp of the finger. It often arises from a very slight injury, as the prick of a pin, or a splinter in the finger, hut not unfrequently without any recognizable cause. The part becomes extremely painful, hard, red, and swollen ; it then suppurates to a limited extent, with some sloughing of the areolar tissue. If an exit be now provided for the pus the inflammation ceases to extend, but in many cases, especially in the horn} hands of the working classes, the pus is unable to find a way out through the dense cuticle, and consequently burrows more deeply into the pulp of the finger. In this way the ungual phalanx, which is imbedded in the pulp, nia} necrose, or the pus may find its way into the sheath of the tendon. There is usually some inflammation of the lymphatics of the arm; and not unfrequently a good deal of febrile disturbance is present. When, in the more severe cases of whitlow, the inflammation, which is of an excessively painful character, owing to the tension of the parts, extends to the sheath of the tendons, it then constitutes an affection that is fraught u it 1 danger to the utility of the finger or hand. The whole finger swells considcr- ably, becomes red and tense, with much throbbing and shooting pain ; tie inflammation rapidly extends to the back of the hand, which becomes pu red, and swollen. Although the palm be greatly swollen, it usually preserves its natural colour, or becomes dull white, owing to the greater thickuess 0 1 s