506 FRACTURES. fissure. Blood will be found extravasated also in the medullary canal mixed up with the fat. Tire Period of Inflammation and Exudation.—The first change observed after the injury are the ordinary signs of inflammation—redness, swelling, and abundant exudation. This affects the whole of the injured soft parts, so that by the third or fourth day the fracture will be found to be surrounded by a greyish-red, soft mass, not sharply defined, but infiltrating the neighbouring tissues; the torn ends of the muscles are pale in colour from the exudation between the fibres ; the areolar tissue is no longer clearly recognizable, its spaces being filled by the coagulated inflammatory exudation; the outer layer of the periosteum is in like manner swollen and scarcely recog- nizable, and the inner layer is so soft and swollen as to be almost gelatinous ; the whole membrane can be stripped from the bone with unnatural ease for some distance from the seat of fracture. In the midst of the exudation, patches of unaltered blood-clot will still be seen, but a great part of the extravasation in the immediate neighbourhood of the fracture will have already been partly discoloured. Microscopic examination at this stage shows the usual appearances of in- flammation ; the vessels are distended with blood, and all the spaces of the tissues are filled with wandering white corpuscles, either closely in contact with each other, or separated by a small quantity of homogeneous or fibrinous in- tercellular substance. In the medulla the fat has disappeared from the immediate neighbourhood of the injury, and its place is taken by an exudation similar to that lying externally. The growth of the soft provisional callus.—During this stage the excess of the early inflammatory exudation and the remainder of the blood-clot in the neighbourhood of the injury is absorbed, and there is gradually developed round the ends of the broken bone a fusiform mass, holding them together -with some degree of firmness. At first this is soft, almost jelly-like, and homo- geneous in appearance, and the ragged ends of the torn periosteum become lost in it. It then gradually increases in firmness, till at last it becomes of cartila- ginous density, and in animals, becomes actually converted into cartilage. The microscope shows, during this stage, that the soft mass at first formed presents the ordinary appearances of granulation-tissue in the greater part of its extent; near the surface muscular fibres or bands of fibrous tissue may be found mixed with it, showing that it is not formed solely from the periosteum, but also from the surrounding parts. Close to the bone, however, from a very early period, about the third or fourth day, cells are found of larger size than those of ordinary granulation-tissue, having one or more nuclei, surrounded by a finely granular protoplasm ; they are usually oval or spindle-shaped, or sometimes angular in form, thus presenting the characters of osteoblasts. As the callus increases in density the superficial parts of it undergo the ordinary changes of the development of granulation-tissue into fibrous tissue, and thus a layer is formed which afterwards becomes the fibrous part of the new perios- teum covering the callus. In animals the greater part of the soft callus becomes developed into cartilage. A homogeneous ground substance forms between the cells, which now assume a sharply defined outline. The cartilage-formation is most perfect in the immediate neighbourhood of the broken ends of the bone ; at the point most removed from the fracture, where