SYMPTOMS OF RABIES IN THE BOG. 355 at naked parts of the body, as the face or throat; hence the greater danger of their bites. There is this important difference between the poisonous im- pregnation of the wound by the bite of a rabid dog and of a snake. In the case of the dog the poison is only adherent to the tooth, and hence, if this be wiped in its passage through clothing, the bite is rendered innocuous. In the case of the snake, the poison is projected through the hollow fang, and hence, wherever that enters, however cleanly its exterior may be wiped, this drop of poison is injected into the parts at the extreme point of penetration. A snake that bites through a gaiter or glove, would, therefore, inflict as deadly a wound as if the unprotected foot or hand were struck by the fang ; whereas the tooth of the rabid dog would be wiped, and the bite be harmless. But making all allowance for the mechanical action of clothing in preventing inoculation of the part bitten, there is, I think, good reason to believe that there is a great difference in the susceptibility of different individuals to the poison of rabies. For it is an undoubted fact that veterinary Surgeons and others have often been bitten on an uncovered hand by rabid dogs, and yet have escaped the disease. Elliotson mentions the cases of two sisters who were both bitten in the face by the same rabid dog; the first escaped—the second died of hydrophobia. White, of Brighton, disbelieving in the contagion of the disease, inoculated himself with the saliva of a rabid dog with impunity. It is not only the saliva and mucus of the mouth that is infective. Pasteur has shown that the blood and the substance of organs, as of the brain and medulla oblongata, when inoculated produce the disease. Rabies differs from most other specific diseases in the length of time that the. poison may lie dormant without giving rise to any symptoms. This period is veiy variously estimated by different writers. It is now generally believed to extend only to a few weeks. Elliotson says that the average time that elapses between the injury and the symptoms is from six weeks to three months. In the case of the Duke of Richmond, who was bitten whilst separating a tame fox and a dog that were quarrelling, (it is doubtful by which animal the bite was inflicted) the disease did not develop itself until between six and seven weeks after the injury. Meade lias related the. ™Se nf o ww in coming to a f rabies in a dog are derived almost entirely in its demeanour; consequently, although A a 2