543 DELAYED UNION—UNUNITED FRACTURE. and yielding, into a proper shape. The callus may be quite strong enough to bear the weight and to maintain the length of the limb in its lull integrity after the removal of all apparatus, and yet be sufficiently yielding to become slowly and gradually shaped by the action of the muscles of the limb when they are left untrammelled by bandages. But it more commonly happens that a limb which, when taken out of the I splints at the proper period, appears to be straight and of good length, gradually yields under the weight of the body and the strain of the muscles : ■ so that, at the end of a few weeks, great and most unsightly deformity occurs. In these cases the Surgeon is often unduly blamed ; and to his unskilfulness is attributed that displacement which, in reality, is due to the faulty character of the callus. It must be remembered that there is every degree of firmness of the callus, from that which is of normal consistence to that which is quite unable to support the weight of the limb or body, and that yields more or less quickly under the pressure to which it is {subjected. Delayed Union.—Occasionally, more particularly in cases of fracture of the femur, tibia, and humerus, the union between the broken fragments is delayed (several weeks beyond the usual period of perfect consolidation. This arises, in the majority of cases, from constitutional debility, rather than from local ■ causes. Several cases of delayed union have been recorded in which repair readily took place after the employment of mercury; indeed, in syphilitic subjects the constitutional taint should always be treated. A not unfrequent cause of delayed union is “meddling” with the fracture, changing the appara- tus, removing splints or frequently testing the solidity. When it is found at the expiration of six or eight weeks after the occurrence of simple fracture that the callus is still yielding, the general health should be improved by tonics, change of air, &c., and the limb securely put up in starched or plaster-of-Paris bandages. Indeed, I believe that delayed union is much less likely to occur in patients who have from the first been treated by the starched bandage, and allowed to move about, than in those who have been confined to bed or rather to the house in the ordinary way. Ununited Fracture and False Joints.—Some bones, when broken, very rarely unite by bone, their fragments being kept firm merely by fibrous tissue, in some cases blended with the aponeurotic structures of the part, as is the case with the patella. This, which is owing to a want of apposition of the fragments, and is dependent on the anatomical relations of the part, cannot be considered a diseased condition. It occasionally happens, however, in a fracture of the shaft or the articular end of a long bone, that proper union does not take place, and we get either Ununited Fracture or a False Joint. In an Ununited Fracture the ends of the bone are rounded and the medullary canal closed by a thin plate of bone, which is sometimes hard and eburnated ; more often the ends are atrophied and somewhat pointed. They are merely connected by or enveloped in some loose fibrous tissue. Ununited fracture may arise in one of three ways ; 1, the fragments may be so widely separa e tiat no uniting material could form; 2, from various causes no uniting material, but loose fibrous tissue has been formed, and 3, true bony T°n- .a ,n place, but owing to some peculiar state of the patient’s health, the callus has become absorbed and the fracture loosened.