890 BOILS. for using the becT-pan. &c. The back should be periodically examined by the Suro-eon himself. The skin on the exposed parts may be protected by the application of collodion or soap-plaster spread upon wash-leather or amadou, or isin °lass on felt ; or, what is better, it maybe strengthened by being washed with spirits of wine. In some cases much benefit is derived by turning the patient on his side and employing frictions of brandy and glycerine in equal parts. If the skin has become reddened it should be painted with a solution of nitrate of silver, of gr. v. to 5]'. If the skin have become chafed, the removal of pressure is imperative, and the abrasion may be washed over with collodion. If a sore have formed, it may be dressed with the balsam of Peru, either pure or with zinc or boracic acid ointment, spread upon lint. In some cases also the prone couch may occasionally be advantageously substituted for the ordinary bed previously employed. When sloughs have formed, their separation must be facilitated by the use of moist antiseptic dressings, as boracic-acid-lmt and lotion and the ulcers that are left should be treated on ordinary principles, the utmost attention being paid to cleanliness by the use of antiseptic lo 10ns; bntno dressing that the Surgeon can apply will cause these ulcers to cleanaud still less to heal, unless pressure be removed and the patient s general health improve, when they will speedily cicatrize under the most simple tieatmen . *• BOILS. A Boil is a localized inflammation affecting the skin and subcutaneous tissue terminating in the formation of a small conical slough of areolar tissue called the core, around which suppuration takes place, the dead finally separated and discharged by an opening through the Am. mnHnn starts in connection with a hair, but whether from the follicle ltaell or from.0 the sebaceous gland is uncertain ; probably it may —eunejtkr situation It begins as a small red pimple, through the middle of vh ah ma" often be seen protending. From this the inflammation «ends* tire subcutaneous tissue, it is accompanied by abundant as the tension and hardness increase it becomesmost comm0n ino-. Boils arc always seated on parts proMdcdu . , , They situations being the back of the neolt, the shoulde^ nate, and ^ seldom occur singly, one usually following anotha * mrciv months. The nearest lymphatic glands arc usually swoUc , r. 0‘r suppurate. In some cases the inflammation subsides m 1011 • 0 suppuration, and the boil is then said to bobhnd. arc comnm (Apses—Boils most frequently occur m young pcof • dsonic- eno“»’> I™ times in enfeebled constitutions, oltcn fo - , tw are not jro-