1124 VENEREAL DISEASES. The offspring of syphilitic parents as a rule develop symptoms resembling in most points the acquired form of the disease. It is not impossible, how- ever, that the taint may manifest itself by an impaired or depraved state of the constitution, and that syphilis may thus be a predisposing cause of scrofula or rickets. There is, however, no satisfactory evidence that this is the case. The Period at which the Symptoms manifest themselves varies greatly. As a rule, a syphilitic child when born alive, though often small, badly developed, and cachectic in its appearance, shows no definite manifesta- tions of the disease ; but in the course of a few weeks, usually from two to eight, the symptoms declare themselves. Diday and De Meric have collected a large number of cases, in most of which the signs of the disease developed in the fifth or sixth week. Many betrayed their disorder in the first month ; and in some few it was delayed until the child had attained the age of three months. The earlier the disease shows itself, the more fatal are its effects. Clnlclren who manifest no symptoms till they are two or three months old, usually recover their health in a short time. The effects of inherited syphilis may also manifest themselves, even at the adult age. Hutchinson believes that this may take place without any signs of syphilis during infancy ; this view, however, is not entertained by Berkeley Hill, and most other writers on the disease. They assert that though they may have been slight, some symptoms have in every case been present during the early months of life. These cases are rare, and the following which fell under my own observation is a good instance. The patient was a young woman, aged seventeen, who was covered with marked syphilitic psoriasis, with which she had been affected for several years. The mother told me that, shortly after birth, evidences of infantile syphilis had appeared ; that these had yielded to treatment, but that, as the period of puberty approached, the psoriasis, which was truly of a syphilitic nature, had shown itself. Symptoms.—The symptoms of inherited syphilis are sufficiently well marked in most cases, consisting principally of general constitutional dis- turbance, with affections of the skin, mucous membranes, bones, viscera, and eye, which more or less closely resemble the manifestations of acquired syphilis. Constitutional Symptoms.—The first indication is often the atrophic and cachectic appearance of the child ; this not unfrequently shows itself at birth, without any more definite signs of the disease. Such children are often small, shrivelled, wan and wasted when born ; the face especially has an aged look, the features being pinched, the flesh soft and flabby, and the skin loose and wrinkled ; the complexion has a yellowish or earthy tinge, which has been com- pared to that of cafe au lait. These appearances are, however, by no means always present. Many syphilitic children are born apparently healthy and fat; but they soon emaciate, when the cutaneous and other manifestations of the disease make their appearance a few weeks after birth. In slight cases, however, the child may remain fat and well-nourished, though anauuic, through- out the whole course of the symptoms. Local Symptoms.—In the great majority of cases the most marked symptoms are due to the affections of the skin and mucous membranes. As in acquired syphilis the first appearance may be a roscolous eruption on the skin, but this is of short duration, and seldom clearly marked. The earliest marked feature