457 THE AXILLARY ARTERY. I oedema of the arm, with a tendency to inflammation, suppuration, and slough- ing of the tumour and the parts amongst which it lies, with perhaps gangrene of the limb itself. Some of these traumatic axillary aneurisms have a tendency to diffuse them- selves with great rapidity, filling up the whole of the hollow of the armpit, ex- tending under the pectoral muscles, and even up around the shoulder. In other cases again, when more circumscribed, the disease may get well spontaneously, as happened in cases recorded by Yan Swieten, Sabatier, and Hodgson. In other instances again, the disease has remained stationary for years, or has undergone consolidation under medical treatment. It cannot, however, be considered sound practice to leave a traumatic aneurism of this artery without surgical interference, after the ordinary dietetic and hygienic plans of treat- J ment have failed in effecting a cure, for it may at any time become rapidly diffused, or inflame and suppurate. The Treatment of traumatic axillary aneurism must depend on the question (whether it be diffused or circumscribed. "When a diffused traumatic aneurism of recent origin, rapid formation, and dependent upon puncture of the artery, is met with in the axilla, the treatment must be conducted in the same way as that of a wounded artery, without extra- vasation, in this situation. As Guthrie very justly observes, it can make no difference whether the puncture in the skin has healed or not—the condition of the artery must be the same. The tumour should be laid open, the coagula turned out, the artery sought for, and ligatured where wounded. There is, however, danger after this operation, either of secondary haemorrhage coming- on from the seat of woimd, by blood conveyed through the collateral vessels which open into the subscapular and circumflex arteries ; or else of the limb falling into a state of gangrene. In either case, amputation «at the shoulder and through the aneurismal extravasation is the only practice that holds out a chance of life to the patient. In diffused traumatic aneurism of the axilla from subcutaneous rupture or laceration of the axillary artery, the choice would lie between treating the injury by direct incision, and ligaturing the vessel above the clavicle. The ligature of the vessel above the clavicle has been done three times, with only one recovery, two of the patients dying of gangrene and secondary haemorrhage. In the successful case, secondary haemorrhage had occurred ; and gangrene of the arm, which threatened, was prevented, and the patient saved, by amputa- tion at the shoulder-joint. The result, therefore, of ligature is so little promis- ing, that few Surgeons would be disposed, in the face of these facts, to repeat this operation. The only other alternative consists of treating the ruptured artery on the same principle as a wounded one, disregarding the accidental complication of the subcutaneous accumulation of a few ounces of blood. This undoubtedly is the proper surgical principle on which to act in these cases. Its adoption has been strongly urged by Guthrie, and its advantage has been demonstrated n „T *ucoess attending it in several cases in which it has been adopted by a0c , > ymc, and others. The operation consists in compressing the sub- c a\ ian a ove the clavicle, either by the pressure of the finger from the surface, i, as vas ( one by Syme in his case, by previously making an incision over it, r0U,b " jIcl Jt could be more readily commanded ; then laying the tumour >pen jy a ee incision through the anterior fold of the axilla and the pectoral