45 ESMARCH'S BLOODLESS METHOD. cases of amputation and 56 excisions in which this plan was tried, it succeeded perfectly. In 148 operations for necrosis, it was necessary to remove the dressing on account of haemorrhage in six cases only. Various objections besides the subsequent oozing have been raised to Esmarch’s bloodless method. It has been stated that it causes sloughing of the flaps and increases the tendency to secondary haemorrhage after large amputations, by unnaturally augmenting the proportion of blood in the body, and so giving rise to increased arterial tension. Neither of these statements is supported by experience. A more rational objection against it is, that when the limb is infiltrated with the products of inflammation, or when perhaps clots exist in the veins, these may be driven on into the circulation by the application of the elastic bandage. Although no case of such an accident has Fig. 12.—Esmarch’s Method. been recorded, it would be safer when such conditions exist to empty the limb of blood by the simpler plan of elevation as before described. The same plan is also better employed in cases of cancer or sarcoma, in which the clanger of dislodging particles and driving them into the circulation would be very con- siderable. The advantages of the bloodless method of operating, especially in diseases of bones and joints, far outweigh any supposed disadvantages. It is difficult to say how long complete arrest of the circulation through a limb may be maintained by the elastic band or the tourniquet without danger of gangrene. It must necessarily vary according to age. Esmarch’s method has been used for about three hours without any evil result. Compression of the Main Arterial Trunk is in the present clay em- ployed only as a temporary expedient before a tourniquet can be applied, or immediately after its removal, while a few vessels before invisible are being- secured, or in those situations in which the application of a tourniquet is impossible. It is far safer to trust to an instrument, than to the hands of an assistant, however steady and strong. When the tourniquet is applied with a sufficient degree of tightness, the whole circulation through the limb is com- pletely arrested. This can never be clone by the compression of the main trunk alone, the collateral vessels conveying blood into the limb independently of it. then again, if the operation be unexpectedly protracted from any cause, the fingers of an assistant may tire or stiffen; and, the steadiness of then pressure becoming relaxed, haemorrhage may ensue. For these reasons, Surgeons invariably employ the tourniquet in amputations ; and even Liston, who at one period of his career discarded this instrument, commonly employed it during the latter years of his life. I he points chosen lor the compression of arteries are those at which the