TREATMENT OF COMPOUND FRACTURES. 537 clean the wound thoroughly ; 2. To provide good drainage ; 8. To prevent decomposition of the discharges and infection of the wound; and 4. lo maintain perfect rest. , . „ Cleaning the Wound.—It is better in all cases, whatever mode of messing it is intended to adopt, to syringe the wound out with some antiseptic solu- tion as by this means any dirt which may have been forced into the wound at the time of the accident, or have adhered to the bone if it have been pro- truded, may be washed out. The best solutions are carbolic acid and water (l to 20) ; tincture of iodine and water (1 to 80) : or chloride of zinc (20grs. to an ounce). The skin round the wound may also be cleaned with the same solution. It is better, however, not to wash it at all, but to wipe the surface clean with dry rag or cotton-wool, rather than to use common unpurified water. In syringing out the wound, a glass syringe with a piece of stiff india-rubber tubing on the nozzle should be used. This will penetrate all parts of the wound and yet is not rigid enough to force its way amongst sound tissues. The lotion must be allowed to flow out freely, so as to avoid injecting the surrounding lymph-spaces. Having cleaned the wound thoroughly, provision must be made for efficient drainage. In many cases the wound is large enough to allow of perfect drainage ; if it should not be so, it may be enlarged, but it is scarcely ever justifiable, however large the wound may be, to insert stitches. If the skin is much undermined a counter-opening may often be made with advantage, and a drainage-tube inserted. The prevention of decomposition of the discharges and infection of the ivound is carried out by one of the methods of dressing already described in the Chapter on Wounds. Amongst these the carbolic-gauze-dressing will be found one of the most certain and most successful, and a few points require notice with regard to its application to compound fractures. In many compound fractures the air gets sucked in by the movements of the limb, and can be felt crepitating in the subcutaneous tissue for some distance on each side of the wound. In these cases it is not necessary to force the solution as far as the air has gone, as it seems to deposit its dust close to the wound, where it can be reached easily by the disinfectant. If the wound is many hours old or very dirty, it is well to put into it some iodoform in crystal to ensure a more permanent disinfecting action. In applying the dressing care must be taken in wrapping it round the limb to see that it is so arranged that it can be opened when it requires changing, while the limb is lying well supported and in a com- fortable position. Thus in the case of a fracture of the leg treated by Cline’s lateral splints, the edge of the dressing should be under the internal splint so that it can be opened without disturbing the fracture while the leg lies on the outer splint. The dressings must be held in position by the splints ; no bandage must be put on under the splints, as it is impossible to do this with- out disturbing the ends of the bone. The dressing must, in ordinary cases, be changed at the end of the first twenty-four hours. It will be found to be soaked in an abundant red serous discharge ; the wound will be completely filled by a smooth layer of blood-clot, level with the skin, which must on no account be disturbed. It must be covered immediately with a fresh piece of protective,” and a double layer of wet gauze and the dressing reapplied. After this it is not necessary to dress the wound till the discharge shows at the edge of the dressing. If all goes well the blood-clot remains unchanged, or at most becomes grey on the surface until, after a variable period, from