5o GENERAL REMARKS ON OPERATIONS. assistant may, at the same time, steady the foot, and hold it in a con- venient position for the Surgeon. The limb being bent at a right angle, the assistant puts the patient’s knee in his axilla ; he then grasps the limb firmly with one hand above the ankle, and with the finger and thumb compresses the vessels. The posterior tibial is to be compressed with the tips of the fingers one finger’s breadth behind the internal malleolus, and the anterior tibial with the thumb in front of the ankle at a point exactly midway between the two malleoli, that is to say, a little to the outer side of the middle line. CONSTITUTIONAL EFFECTS OF OPERATIONS. Every operation of any importance is followed by a certain amount of traumatic fever, as indicated by a rise of temperature, an increased frequency of the pulse, and some degree of thirst. Such fever, if moderate and con- fined within certain limits, can scarcely be looked upon as a morbid condition; and unless it is kept up by some unhealthy state of the wound, by the presence of decomposing matter, or by pent-up discharges, it completely subsides by the third day. The thermometer is the only certain means of judging of the degree of fever. The pulse is a fallacious sign, being greatly influenced by the mental state of the patient and many other causes ; thirst also may be occasioned by the anmsthetic ; but the temperature is an infallible guide. If the thermometer remain beloiv 100° F. no anxiety need be felt on this score. The Local Treatment of Operation-Wounds differs in no respect from that of accidental wounds, and will be treated of in the Chapter on the treat- ment of such injuries. The Constitutional After-treatment of operations demands as much attention on the part of the Surgeon as the management of the wound itself. Immediately after the operation, and before the effects of the anesthetic have passed off, the patient should be comfortably arranged in bed, with the clothes supported by a cradle, or other contrivance, away from the part implicated; an opiate may then be administered if required, or a little wine and water if there be faintness, and the patient kept as quiet as possible. With regard to the Diet after the operation, this must depend entirely on the patient’s constitutional powers, his previous habits, his age, and upon the severity of the operation. But, as a general rule, it may be stated that, as an operation is a shock to the system, the constitutional powers require to be maintained after its performance. This is more particularly the case, if the mutilation be severe, or the subsequent suppuration abundant. If the patient s strength be good, not having been broken by previous disease or suffering, and if the operation be a slight one, as the amputation of a finger or the removal of a small tumour, he may have half his usual diet allowed for a few days, but with little, if any, stimulant. If the operation have been more severe, but not capital, no solids should be allowed, but broths and nourishing liquids alone o-iven for the first few days. If the operation have been a capital one, the patient’s .health and strength being otherwise good, he may be restricted to farinaceous slops and beef-tea until the febrile disturbance which al\\n\s follows severe operations has passed off, after which some light put ( mg may lie added ; and the diet may, as the case progresses, be gradually lmpmed by the successive addition of fish and the lighter kinds of meat with a moderate quantity of stimulants, as required, until it reach the normal standard. It not