WOUNDS OF SPECIAL BLOOD-VESSELS. 460 which were treated by Anel’s operation, amputation became necessary in two ; and, in the other cases, the operation by incision of the sac was required before a cure could be effected. The sac must therefore be laid open, and the vessel tied on each side of it in the way that has been recommended in the treat- ment of varicose aneurism, and with the caution there laid down. It the varicose aneurism be converted, after a few days, into the circumscribed form, the aperture into the vein becoming occluded, ligature of the artery above the sac may be successfully employed, or compression may succeed in curing the disease In Aneurismal Varix of the arm, a roller and compress are all that can be required. Vessels op the Fore-arm and Palm.—Wounds of the arteries 0 the fore-arm are very commonly caused by pieces of glass or earthenuaie, or by knives. I11 every case the bleeding point must be cut down upon, and both ends of the vessel tied. This rule is peculiarly imperative in this situation, on account of the freedom of the anastomosis through the palmar arches. In many of these cases the bleeding is at first very free, but, being arrested by pressure, does not break out again until eight or ten days have elapsed ; when, the arm being much infiltrated with blood, inflamed, and swollen, double liga- ture of the vessel at the seat of injury has to be practised under somewlia difficult and unfavourable circumstances. . Traumatic Aneurism of the Radial and Ulnar Arteries usiia v assumes the circumscribed form, owing to the pressure employed at the time of injury confining the extravasation. If it be small and recent, and situated superficially at the lower part of the fore-arm, or if it be 111 any way diffused, the better plan is to cut down upon and through the tumour at once, hgatnirm the vessel on each side. If, however, the aneurism be deeply seated amongst the mass of muscles at the upper part of the fore-arm, near the elbow^omt the wound having healed, and the soft parts covering it being tadthy firm the advice given by Liston appears to be most judicious .—rather than cutting through the muscles and detaching their connections he that the aneurism should be left to attain some consistence, and then thati the brachial artery be secured in the mid-arm. In such »„ Wf t compression of the brachial, with moderate pressure on the tumour itself, has ^“'traumatic aneurism of the lowered oftheradial,4- ■»»«£ wrist, that recently came under my care, the aneurism had tw 'elf c j ^ the upper end of the radial had been tied; but attempts made to secure the distal end of the artery had been ineffectual, the resn t cing a le urn aneurism though in a small and more circumscribed foim. this 1 cnioa ScLon of pressure, by means of a small X-l'- *0,1, the bmabing of ffi'iss or china in the hand, or stabs from some pointed instrument, an It t-blesome to manage. If the Surgeon s«" infliction of the wound, lie may ondeavoui, by j„(1 „',,.vcs „f the arch that is