SPECIAL FRACTURES. 59° also approximated to the crest of the ilium ; and, on rotating the limb it is felt to move to and fro under the hand, not describing the segment of a circle so distinctly as on the sound side. The circle described by the ' trochanter on the injured side is much smaller than that on the sound side. In the sound limb, the trochanter describes the segment of a circle having a radius equal to the length of the head and neck of the bone; on the injured side, the circle has a radius equal only to the length of that portion of the neck that still remains attached to the shaft of the bone. During this examination crepitus will usually be felt, though this occasionally is very indistinct and even absent, more especially if the limb be not well drawn down at the time it is rotated, so as to bring the fractured surfaces into apposition ; and much pain is produced by any movement of, or pressure upon, the joint. The Attitude of the X.inib is so peculiar, as in general to indicate at once to the Surgeon what has happened. There is a striking appearance of help- lessness about it. As the patient is lying on his back in bed, it is everted; shortened somewhat, with the knee semi-flexed ; on requesting him to lift it up, he makes ineffectual attempts to do so, and at last ends by raising it with the toe of the opposite foot, or with his hands. When he is taken out of bed and placed upright, the injured limb hangs uselessly, with the toes pointing downwards, and the heel raised and pointing to the inner ankle of the sound side, the patient being unable to rest upon it (Fig. 225). In some cases, how- ever, after the fracture has occurred, the patient can lift the limb somewhat, hut with much exertion, from the couch on which he is lying ; or can even manage to walk a few paces, or to stand for a few minutes upon it, with much pain and difficulty. This is owing either to the cervical reflection of the capsule being untorn, or else to the fragments not being separated, having become locked into one another ; and it usually occurs in those cases in which the other and more characteristic signs of this fracture are not well marked. Eversion of the limb is almost an invariable accompaniment of this fracture. It is most marked in those cases in which the shortening is most considerable. This eversion has usually been attributed to the action of the external rotator muscles, which are inserted into the upper end of the lower fragment. But I cannot consider this as the only, or indeed the principal cause of this position; for, not only is it very difficult to understand how these muscles can rotate the limb outwards after their centre of motion has been destroyed by the fracture of the neck of the femur, their action being rather in a direction backwards than rotatory under these circumstances ; but we find that the limb falls into an everted position in those cases in which, the fracture being in the shaft, and altogether below the insertions of these muscles, no influence can be exercised by them on the lower fragment. I look upon eversion in cases of fractured thigh as not being a result of muscular action at all, but simply the natural attitude into which the limb falls when left to itself. E\ca in the sound state, eversion takes place spontaneously whenever muscular action is relaxed, as during sleep, in paralysis, or in the dead body ; and in the injured limb, in which there is, as it were, a suspension of muscular action, it will occur equally. Indeed, the shortening that takes place will specially tend to relax the external rotators, and thus still more prevent their influencing the position of the limb. Inversion of the foot in cases of intracapsular fracture has been sometimes