TREATMENT OF ACUTE INFLAMMATION. 187 out an appearance of heaviness and stupor about the patient, and an early tendency to delirium of a low form, especially at night; the pulse is feeble and very frequent; the skin may be hot and dry, or sometimes moist and clammy; the temperature is from 2° to 5° Ruhr, above normal, and shows a marked evening rise and morning fall; the tongue is brown and dry, and sordes rapidly accumulate about the lips and teeth ; the cheeks are often flushed, and the eyes may be bright and staring. As the third stage comes on, if the patient recover, there may be a critical evacuation, as sweating or diarrhoea; the pulse subsides in frequency and increases in strength, the tongue gradually and slowly cleans from the sides and tip, the temperature falls often below normal for some days, and the patient slowly and imperfectly regains his strength. Owing to the extreme weakness and feebleness of the heart’s action that often accompanies this form of fever there is a great tendency to local congestions, especially hypostatic pneumonia, which may interrupt the progress towards recovery. Even after convalescence the powers of the constitution may frequently be broken for months or for life. If the disease take an unfavourable comse, the weakness of the pulse and the dark incrustation of the tongue increase ; the temperature falls often below normal ; the skin becomes cold and clammy; hiccup, subsultus and dyspnoea supervene ; the muttering delirium gives way to insensibility or even to coma, and death occurs. from exhaustion, or as the result of visceral complication. It is this condition that is frequently described as the “setting in of typhoid symptoms.” In patients whose nervous systems have been shattered by intemperance, or who have been exhausted by excessive mental work or excitement, the nervous symptoms that accompany the febrile disturbance may form so prominent a feature of the case as almost to justify the description of a third type, as has been sometimes done, under the name of Irritative Fever. In these cases, if the fever assume the sthenic form there is high delirium, often of a furious kind with wildness of the eye, flushed face and heat of head. More often the fever is from the first of the asthenic type, especially in habitual drunkards, m w ora it lesembles delirium tremens ; there are the same tremor, clammy perspiration and foul tongue, and the delirium is not violent but busy and muttering, the patient being restless and constantly trying to get out of bed • death1hK GSS| aiKl .l"lIcss„1,elief be obtained, signs of debility rapidly come and death takes place either from exhaustion or coma. treatment of acute inflammation. proci IS1"',*8,bnt to study the Mammatoiy SfflS,;’!'!1?.'' havc t0 “"*11 it therapeutically, the in the pathological ’i 'T °f ltS C!rases and ™ture in the dead-house and Still S;tai ° r017 m 10 «"* “tent as a guide to treatment, our practice and 1 18 T ^ su®cienfcly perfect for theory only to direct which have been shn °U ”° accounfc nc8'lccfc those modes of treatment Before L,! ?•^ by experience to be of use. prevention and onr^ de means adopted in surgical practice for the indications furnished°usUb^p^hology.^ ** ^ t0 *** 0ttt the ation is the result of an injury done to the living tissues, of