346 GUN-SUOT WOUNDS. lias shown that, unless the limb be removed at an early period after-conse- quences of the most serious and fatal character will to a certainty ensue. Extensive suppuration of the joint, deep and large abscesses burrowing among the muscles of the thigh, and consequent exhaustion ot the patient by heo 1 , or his destruction by pymmia, are the conditions that amputation alone, per- ^edt rU stage, can’ avert. This necessity for early amputation m penetrating bullet-wounds of the knee-joint, when antiseptic treatment is impossible is recognized by all modern military Surgeons. Guthrie and Larrey in 'the French ware, Esmarch and Stromcycr m the j campaign, and the Surgeons in the Crimea, all found that the attempt a limb so injured led to the sacrifice of the patient’s me. _ Ballet-wounds ot the anklejoint&o not necessarl y require * the bones be not too extensively comminuted, and ^4 «o ! means of gouge, forceps, and Hey f ^ ottbe more systematic operations Gmttto ““ 150 uncertain. If the'lai^ vestel^ °\Ne becn^cuiTacross, and the bones very ex- tensively shattered, advanced The —, to gun-shot injury ■ the bullet either lodging m the head ot the humeius or traversing it, and perhaps fracturing some ot the bony processes of the scapula in its immediate vicm.ty; oi , a» the case of common shot, or fragments of shells, carrying awav the fleshy cushion of the deltoid muscle. It is especially in bullet-wounds of the shoulder and elbow-joint, servative surgery has been most successful. In such cases, when the bones are penetrated, and even shatteied by a bullet provided the main blood-vessels and none, of the Umb be not injured, amputation will seldom ^ "jjmrf. and indeed, it should be laid down as a rule m s - . , that excision should be preferred to ™putat.onmaU cases J which the large blood-vessels and nerves aie not vouumu, or the soft parts too extensively dEorganfred; ^0^!^ enlarged, loose spicula must be lern^e ,< stiU lodged in the of the fractured bone sawn smoothly oS. « ^e ^ ^ be adopted. head of the humerus, as m W - PXcision or amputation should lie It has been a question humerus has been much splintered, done when the upper end of t < Tn these cases the epiphysis is often with or without penetration of re ]0i ■ . ^ resldt 0f the experience of uninjured. Guthrie advised ampu t > shaft of the humerus “•ThM Fig. 119.—Spherical Bullet in Head of Hu- merus.