Clio PARTS MED 10-TA RSA L AMPUTATION. u3 In operating on the left foot, the knife, a stout bistoury, should be entered immediately behind the tubercle of the scaphoid, and carried forwards to about the head of the metatarsal bone of the great toe, then right across the sole, and down the outer side of the foot, as far as mid-way between the tip of the external malleolus and the base of the fifth metatarsal bone. The two guiding points are exactly opposite each other, and if one is concealed by the swelling of the foot, the other can usually be found. On the right foot this line of incision is reversed by the knife bekm entered half an inch behind the metatarsal bone of the little toe, carried forwards to the root of the toes, across the sole, and down the inner side to behind the tubercle of the scaphoid (Fig. 59, b.). This flap should be made long, especi- afiy at the inner side, but well rounded at the angles, and should consist of the whole thickness of the parts in the sole of the foot, which must be well dissected out from the concavity under the metatarsal bones. But in children and young adults, in whom the foot is often long and the tarsus thin, the flan need not be made so long. The sole flap having been raised, a convex incision is made over the dorsum from one horn to the other of the plantar flap ■ the parts are well retracted, and the articulations opened by the Surgeon bearino- firndy upon the anterior part of the foot, and lightly touching the ligamentous stiuctuies with the point of Ins bistoury. In this stage of the operation care must be taken that the edge of the bistoury be not inclined too much fnr fn™ldSi T ,lfc ,S 1P 0Ve1’fche asfcra§'alus and open the ankle-joint; or too J miauls, lest it pass anterior to the scaphoid—between it and the cunei form bones After disarticulation has been produced, the projecting head of the astragalus and the articular surface of the os calcis should be^savm off s S£“??«lr: ttSEsHassSSa*6* vdt? veiy ;rry consfcTTd patient is rendered lal hv' J 1? P“nt d°™ m sncl1 a ™y that the nmta-'of ftaffhVheelT 1^™"" ^obJLd in a division of the tendo Achillis.1 ‘ hlS coudlfclou ls besfc removed by important6 iio^'to tte^larf T * °“SeS °f * - it is removal is raade mole 1F1 , fectcd boMS bahind, and their articulations. In amputJor^fnr TfS fclle Iilics of the by Mayor, of Lausanne inrl nf-1 10weveiV has been recommended articulations. On this 'nffn ! m’• °, trcat tbc toot as a whole, ignoring on the foot as little as the miLmof ’ot f■!? “ up, encroaching covering has been obtained °f ‘G “W wiU allow. When sufficient the case may be savino- ns ’ ' sa^ ^ applied to the tarsus or metatarsus, as vol. j. 7 Savui^ as much of the foot as possible. There is no doubt