646 SPECIAL DISLOCATIONS. application of strychnine on a blistered surface, and afterwards from support by means of a properly constructed apparatus. Dislocations of the Shoulder-joint occur far more frequently than those of any other articulation. Their pathology and treatment have been so clearly elucidated by Sir A. Cooper, that there is little left for subsequent writers hut to follow the descriptions given by that great Surgeon ; though several of the modern French Surgeons, especially Velpeau, Malgaigne, and Goyraud, have thrown some new light on the subject. The reason of the frequency of these dislocations is to be found in the shallowness of the glenoid cavity, the large size and rounded shape of the head of the humerus, and the weakness of the ligaments ; but, above all, in the extent and force of the movements to which the joint is subjected. These displacements indeed would be much more fre- quent than they even are, were it not for the protection afforded to the joint by the osseous and ligamentous arch formed by the coracoid process and acromion with their ligaments, the great strength of the capsular muscles and then close connection with the joint, and the support given by the tension of the long head of the biceps; but the principal obstacle to dislocation is the mobility of the scapula, enabling all movements communicated to the hand and arm to react upon that bone. The Signs of dislocation of the shoulder-joint are sufficiently obvious, vary- Fig. 37.—Subcoracoid. DISLOCATIONS OF THE HEAD OF THE HUMERUS. Fi"-. 26S.—Subclavicular. Fig. 269.—Subsiiinous. Fig. 270.—Subglenoid. ing, however, according to the nature of the injury. In all cases there are seven common signs, viz. :—1, a flattening of the shoulder ; 2, a he o\v ulu cr the acromion ; 3, an apparent projection of this process, with hollow tension of the deltoid ; 4, the presence of the head of the bone in an abnormal situa- tion ; 5, rigidity ; G, inability to place the hand on the opposite shoulder v n e the elbow is made to touch the front of the chest; and 7, pain about t le The shoulder-joint is susceptible of four dislocations. Of these, according to Sir A. Cooper, three are complete, and the fourth partial. I th'n '> ever, that on examination it will he found that the.so-calledl pa,rlmldAaW is in reality a complete one. The directions in which the head of the humeras may be thrown are—1, inwards and slightly downwards beneath t lie cc>ia<» proyoess-S.,tom«,a (Fig. 267), 2, forwards and benrnth th violc-Sutelammlar (Fig. 268); 8, backwards and „ Sr* of the scapula-SKtejtmotts (Fig. 269) j 4, downwards and shghtly mum