MODES OF TERMIN A TIOX. •*57 cells ; bub there is no reason to suppose that the corneal cells behaved in experiments (2) and (3) otherwise than as they did in experiment (]). We must, therefore, believe that the new cells wandered from the conjunctiva I through the anterior lamina in (2) ; and that they migrated 'from the dilated peri-corneal vessels in (3). The tongue of the toad has been examined by Dowdeswell in the Physio- logical Laboratory of University College with the object of ascertaining Avhether the fixed connective-tissue-corpuscles take any part in the for- mation of the new cells which appear in inflammation. The details of his observations were published in the Proceedings of the Royal Society in 1870, and he gives the following brief summary of the results he obtained : “ So long as the circulation continued, no change whatever took place in the connective-tissue corpuscles, either as regards form or appearance, notwith- standing that the tissue of which they formed part was beset with innumerable emigrant colourless corpuscles, or (to use ordinary language) was infiltrated with pus.” In some cases the tongue was watched for eight or even nine days. The conclusions drawn from these observations are confirmed by the microscopic examination of specimens of other inflamed tissues. In fat the leucocytes are found crowding between the fat cells, especially in the neffi-h- bourhood of small blood-vessels (Fig. 83) ; in muscle they accumulate between the fibres which themselves show no change, unless the process be very acute and then the alteration is in the direction of degeneration not of growth (Fig. 84). In bone the Haversian canals become filled with leucocytes ; and should the process be of sufficient intensity and duration, the solid tissue dis- appears before the new cells, while at the same time the bone-corpuscles show no change unless one of degeneration. Thus acute inflammation, from whatever cause, and iu whatever tissue it may arise, is always characterised histoloo-ically by essentially the same phenomena: a passive or degenerating condition °of the original tissues with an abundant infiltration of new cells, which are the white corpuscles which have migrated from the vessels, and possibly, the desceud- vSsef SUCh COrpUSCIeS formed division of the parent-cells after leaving the The extent to which this process of “cell-infiltration” will be carried depends upon the degree of damage done to the tissues by the irritant which has caused the inflammation. Supposing the damage done to be of a slight and mporary character, the tissues speedily recover from the condition of lowered vitality into which they have been thrown, the vessels recoverino- A, e 0 ei Paits- The circulation, therefore, returns to its normal state iirmiVl16 exi!d;l.tlon of ,Plasma and migration of white corpuscles cease The hqiud exudation drains away, and such leucocytes as have found their wav < longst the tissues either break up and are absorbed, or find their wav back behind ? permanenfc cffecfc of the inflammation is left rCC°VC17iS *** °f - 110 f RUcl; scverifcy thafc a sma11 portion of the accumulS^lKndT^’°rit? ^ that the pressure of the may have been left in ,> > -1 cxudatmn extinguishes such traces of vitality as , it is evident that the simple process of resolution is