SPECIAL DISLOCATIONS. 664 Hand and Carpus are thrown Forwards under the radius and ulna on their Palmar aspect. This dislocation is illustrated in the accompanying figure, taken from a cast sent to me by Cadge of Norwich (Fig. 282). In it the projection of the styloid process of the ulna and the lower end of the radius form a concave line on the dorsal aspect, overlapping the carpus, which lies on the palmar side of the radius. The Diagnosis of these injuries has to be made from sprains of the wrist, from simple and from impacted fractures of the radius. From sprains of the wrist, the great and prominent deformity will at once enable the Surgeon to distinguish a dislocation. From simple fracture of the lower end of the radius, the peculiar deformity, and the absence of crepitus, will afford ready means of diagnosis. It is from the impacted fracture of the lower epiphysis of the radius that it is most difficult to dis- tinguish a dislocation. In the disloca- tion, however, the general laxity of the wrist-joint, the greater readiness with winch the deformity is removed, the peculiar and abrupt swelling, and the absence of obliquity of the hand to- wards the radial side, will enable the Surgeon to distinguish the true nature Fia. 282.—Dislocation of the Hand and Carpus forwards. oi Llle The Treatment of these cases is simple, and in accordance with general principles. Reduction, which is readily effected, must be maintained by the application of antero-posterior splints of sufficient length to take in the hand. Compound Dislocation of tlie Wrist, without fracture of the bones of the fore-arm, is a rare accident. In one such case which came under my care at the Hospital, in consequence of injury inflicted on the arm by machinery, the hand was thrown forwards, the radius projecting backwards, and the soft structures on the palmar aspect of the joint were so extensively torn through as to necessitate amputation. The Treatment of such a case will depend on the amount of injury done to the soft parts. If these be not very extensively injured, an attempt may be made to save the limb ; but if they be widely torn through, the arteries and nerves lacerated, and the tendons perhaps hanging out, amputation will be required; this occurred, and the operation w as pei * formed, in the case to which I have just referred. This will be rendered more imperative if the bones of the lore-arm be comminuted as well. Congenital Dislocation of the Wrist may take place either forwards or backwards. The limb is in either case greatly deformed. The bones are shortened and altered in shape, more especially the lower end ot the radius. The muscles are also shortened, the extensor tendons forming a sharp angle as they pass over the carpus. Dislocations of Single Bones of the Cabpus are by no means frequent. The bone that is most commonly displaced is the Os Magnum. Ibis accident usually happens from falls, in which the hand is violently bent forwards, in consequcnce of which this bone starts out from its articulations, projecting as a round hard tumour on the back of the wrist opposite to the metacarpal bone 0 the middle finger. It may be readily reduced by being pressed upon while a