FIBROMA— 7A RIETTES. 979 conditions are, however, rare. Occasionally mucous tissue may be found inter- mixed with the adipose, forming the “ myxo-lipoma.” This will be again mentioned under myxoma. The diagnosis of a fatty tumour is usually easy. It is not adherent to the muscles over which it is lying. This can easily be ascertained by making the patient throw the muscles into contraction, when the mobility of the tumour will be found to remain unaltered. It is more easily confounded with a soft sarcoma or a chronic abscess. The sarcomata usually spring from or early become adherent to the deep fascia or muscles. On pinching up the skin over a tatty tumour, it will be found to dimple in several places, although it is quite freely moveable over the growth. This sign is wanting in a sarcoma. A fatty tumour is distinguished from a cyst or chronic abscess by pressing on its edge, when the solid tumour will be felt to roll away from under the finger ; in a collection of fluid, the finger sinks through the edge without the sensation of anything slipping away from beneath it. When the tumour is lobulated, there can be little doubt as to its nature. If any doubt should remain, it may be punctured with a grooved needle or a fine trochar. In the Treatment of fatty tumours little can be done except extirpation with the knife, by which the patient is speedily and effectually rid of the disease. The tumour, being encapsuled and but loosely adherent to adjacent parts, readily turns out if the capsule be freely opened. The opening of the capsule is recognised by the appearance of the smooth shining surface of the tumour in the bottom of the wound. Great care must be taken that none of the lobules frequently found in these tumours are left behind, as they would certainly serve as starting points for new growths. The wound often heals by first intention. It is true that we have the sanction of Sir B. Brodie’s high authority for the administration of the liquor potassm in some cases, under which treatment this eminent Surgeon states that fatty tumours have occa- sionally disappeared. b. Fibroma: Fibrous or Fibroid Tumours, Desmoid Tumours, Areolar and Fibro-cellular Tumours.—In the healthy body, fibrous tissue is found either dense and firm as in tendons, or loose and filamentous as in areolar tissue, and between these two extremes every variety of density is observed. In healthy areolar tissue two kinds of fibres are almost invariably present: the white fibrous and the yellow elastic tissue. In tumours composed of fibrous, tissue, similar variations in density are found. Thus we have fibrous tumours, as dense in structure as ligaments, and others as loose as areolar tissue, but in all it is extremely uncommon to find any yellow elastic fibres. Fibrous tissue enters very largely into the composition of many tumours besides the true fibro- mata. Thus the stroma of most cancers is composed of fibrous tissue, the intercellular substance of a sarcoma may be abundantly fibrous, and in a lipoma- he lobules of fat are bound together by areolar tissue. The term fibroma is. however, applied only to those tumours in which fibrous or areolar tissue forms hy tar the most abundant constituent, and in which the cells are not of an epithelial type and are not arranged in definite groups. As before stated, no • harp line can be drawn between fibroma and sarcoma, and the term fibro- lcoma is frequently applied to those tumours in the border-land between the Xj F;bromata may be divided into two chief classes 1. Soft fibromata, tu:L,trnwdt„£rllu,“r tumour8; *■Kmi •—* “ 3 R 2