SYPHILIS. 1079 During the treatment of a suppurating bubo the patient should, if possible, ; he kept at rest till the sore is superficial; movement greatly delays healing. Venereal Warts.—Warts occur frequently round or on the scar of a chancre, independently of any constitutional affection, but merely liom simple a continued irritation of the muco-cutaneous surfaces. They differ in no respect .. from those which frequently follow gonorrhoea. They commonly occur on the jr prepuce or glans, and are especially apt to be situated in the angle between these parts ; they are of a red colour, very vascular, and, if left without inter- ference, may increase immensely in size and number, distending the prepuce, and giving a clubbed appearance to the penis ; there is then always phimosis, „ and the tension of the prepuce may be such, that ulceration occasionally j takes place in it, allowing a protrusion of these growths through an aperture in its side. These warts are occasionally met with on the labia, forming large, irregular, cauliflower-looking masses. The Treatment consists, first iu laying open the prepuce unless the warts are so small that the glans . can be readily exposed by drawing the foreskin back. The warts may then I\ be pared off with scissors, and the part from which they grow touched with a nitrate of silver. Even after this they arc very apt to recur, especially under i a long, moist foreskin. In such a case careful attention to cleanliness and the application of an ointment composed of vaseline, with about one tenth part of extract of belladonna added to it, will usually cure the tendency to recurrence. In women, warts must be treated in the same way : but if they are of great size, Paquelin’s cautery should be used in removing them to avoid loss of blood. II.—SYPHILIS. Syphilis is a specific disease, or general infective process, resulting from the inoculation of a specific virus, which multiplies in the system till the whole body is infected. It is communicated by the direct contact of the blood, secretions, or discharges of a person suffering from syphilis with an abraded smface of a healthy individual, and under certain circumstances it is also I transmitted from syphilitic parents to their offspring. It is therefore con- jji tagious, but not infectious. The exact nature of the virus is not known. Klebs, Birch-Hirschfeld, and D some others, have described a special microscopic organism of an oval form, or 1 nearly approaching a short rod in shape, which they believe to be in some way l connected with syphilis. Birch-Hirschfeld observed it in gmnmata, and in a flat condyloma, but failed to detect it in the blood of a patient suffering from ’ active syphilis. More evidence is required before any conclusions for or against the fungoid origin of syphilis can be drawn from these observations. Syphilis is divided into acquired and hereditary or congenital, and there is ' sufficient difference between these two forms to justify their being described separately. Syphilis runs a course tolerably definite in its main phenomena, but vary- ing in duration and detail. It is divided into various stages, which, although perhaps not capable in all cases of being sharply separated from each other, are • sufficiently distinct to be used as a means of classifying the manifestations of the disease. The first stage is the period of incubation, extending from the inoculation I the appearance of the local signs of the disease at the seat of infection.