TREATMENT OF WOUND OF THE INTESTINE. 859 case, on this account, must, therefore, generally be fatal.” Otis, the Editor of the “ Surgical History of the American War,” is strongly in favour of attempt- Iing in favourable cases to find the wound and sew it up. In cases in which there is reason to believe that the wound is in a part of the great intestine un- covered by peritoneum, operative interference is certainly not to be recom- mended. Alien a portion of intestine or of omentum lias protruded, it should be carefully cleaned with an antiseptic lotion and replaced as speedily as possible, before strangulation has occurred, which may occasion gangrene. Experience has shown that carbolic-acid-lotion (1 in 40) or dilute tincture of iodine (5ij to Oj) exerts no injurious influence on the bowel. In replacing the pro- truded gut, the abdominal muscles should be relaxed by bending the thighs upon the abdomen, when the Surgeon may gradually push back the protrusion by steady pressure upon it; he must not, however, employ any force, nor any rough handling of the exposed and delicate parts ; but if their return cannot readily be effected, owing to the constriction of the neck of the protrusion, the aperture through which they have escaped must be carefully enlarged in a direction upwards, by means of a probe-pointed bistoury, or a hernia-knife guided by a flat director. The incision necessary to enlarge the opening suffi- ciently for reduction, need not exceed half an inch in length. In replacing the protruded parts, whether by the aid of incision or not, care must be taken that they are fairly put back into the cavity of the abdomen, and not pushed up into the sheath of the rectus, or into the subserous areolar tissue lying before the peritoneum ; an accident that would be fatal by allowing the constriction of the neck of the protrusion to continue unrelieved. In effecting the return, the Surgeon should not push his finger into the abdomen, but must content himself with simply replacing the protruded gut or omentum, and allowing it to remain in the immediate neighbourhood of the wound in the abdominal wall, to which it will contract adhesions ; and through which its contents may escape, in the event of any sloughing taking place. After the gut has been returned, the external wound must be closed by sutures, as in a case without protrusion of the viscera. If the protrusion be inflamed, it must equally be replaced without delay ; but should the intestine have become gangrenous from continued constriction and exposure, no attempt at reduction should be made, but an incision must be carried through it, so as to allow the escape of fasces, and the formation of an artificial anus. If any difficulty be found in returning a mass of protruded omentum it may be ligatured in one or more pieces with carbolized catgut or silk, and cut off, after which the stump can easily be passed into the abdominal cavity. If the protruded omentum be gangrenous, it must be excised on a level with the peritoneum, to the aperture in which that portion lying within the abdomen will have contracted adhesions. II the intestine that protrudes be wounded, the treatment of the apeituie in the gut will call for special attention ; and Surgeons have ecu somewhat divided as to the propriety of stitching it up. Scarpa ana h. Cooper were opposed to this practice on the ground that it docs not I Preveut extravasation, and that the stitches produce irritation by acting as oreign bodies. They proposed to return the wounded gut, taking care, how- evei , 0 ea\o the aperture in it to correspond with that in the abdominal wall, 0 ia an ai tificial anus might be established by the adhesion of the edges of