ARREST OF ARTERIAL HAEMORRHAGE. 434 aperture. Experience has shown that it is in this way that secondary hcemor- 1 rhage from wounded arteries commonly occurs, the bleeding coming horn the distal and not from the proximal end of the vessel. In some cases the distal end is so retracted and covered in by surrounding parts that it cannot be found in order to be ligatured. In these circum- stances, the best effect has resulted from plugging the wound from the bottom with a graduated sponge-compress. If an arterial branch happen to be divided so close to its origin that it cannot be secured, the case must be treated as cue of puncture of the main trunk, which must be ligatured above and below the bleeding orifice. _ ,, Although advocating strongly the importance of the distal as veil as the proximal ligature in all cases of wounded artery, I am aware that instances are on record in which the proximal ligature alone, even at a distance from the wound, has proved successful in arresting the haemorrhage ; but I cannot but regard those cases as accidentally successful, the distal end having been better plugged than usual with coagulum ; and I am strongly of opinion that the rule of practice should be that which is laid down by John Bell, and forcibly illustrated by Guthrie, viz. :—That both ends of a wounded artery be sought for, and tied in the wound itself. accidents after arterial occlusion by surgical means. The accidents that may follow the application of the ligature, the use. of acupressure, or of compression in any way exercised upon wounded arteries, are1 Intermediate or Reactionary Haemorrhage, Secondary or Recurren Hmmorrhaee. and Gangrene of the Limb. Intermediate or Reactionary Hemorrhage.—This term is limited to haemorrhage occurring within twenty-four hours of the wound of the vessel. It most commonly occurs within a few hours of the operation. Causes.—At the end of an operation it frequently happens that the patient is faint from the combined shock, loss of blood, and the depressing, m uence of the anaesthetic ; at the same time the exposure of the wound to the air, and the mechanical stimulus of the knife and the sponges, have caused tfie gre.west possible degree of contraction of the mouths of the wounded v essels. I m Ihese circumstances, vessels of considerable size may not yield a drop of 55 AsToon as the wound‘is closed, however, and warmly dressed, and the patient put to bed, the faintness begins to pass oft, “J forcibly the contracted vessels dilate, and haemorrhage takes place. At the same time, if any vessel have been imperfectly tied—owing to caielessuc. ^ pa rt of the Surgeon, or to the use of badly-prepared ngrd catgut-the knot may yield, and the ligature may slip oft. ™ r Phenomena.—As the bleeding comes as a rule only from the mate vessels, it is seldom very profuse. It usually distends the wound, tightening the stitches, and causing the patient, considerate pain hjBmorrhage. Treatment.—The treatment is the same as that ot primary naemor