LOCAL DISTURBANCES AND INFLAMMATION. IC)2 the end before closing it. The 1 in 20 solution is used for the spray as null hereafter he described. Both the 1 in 20 and 1 in 40 solutions whiten any raw surface to which they may be applied, but their action is very superficial and does not interfere with primary union of a wound. At the moment of application they cause severe smarting, but this is soon followed by relief from all pain and a sensation of numbness. Oily solutions act much less powerfully than the watery. For preserving catgut ligatures a solution of 1 in 5 must be used In the strength of 1 in 10 it may be applied on lint to a wound as an antiseptic dressing, but it loses its acid rather quickly, especially if there is much discharge, and consequently must be renewed at least twice. or^ three times a day. " Glycerine solutions. The pharmacopceial solution of 1 m o—one part of carbolic acid to four of glycerine—is too strong for application to a raw surface, but may be used on the unbroken skin ; for wounds the solution may be reduced to 1 in 10 by the addition of an equal quantity of water or o-lvcerine If used as an antiseptic dressing it must be changed frequently, as it is readily washed out of lint by the discharge. CarMic gauze. Tins is a coarse o-auze impregnated with carbolic acid dissolved m a mixture of paraffin and resin. It contains about TVth part of carbolic acid. It forms an absorbent dressing, and possesses the great advantage of yielding up its carbolic acid slowly, and thus retaining its antiseptic properties for a long time CarMisec cotton wool and tow have also been used, but are somewhat inefficient P1 Carbolic1 acid may act injuriously both locally and generally. If the solution be not properly prepared small globules of the undissolved acid may be floating in it which will cauterise both the patient’s tissues and the Surgeon^ I hands ° To avoid this it is better always carefully to measure the acid and prepare the solutions some hours before they are used It the solution prepared immediately before use it must be well stirred ; and if it is not required to be cold, warm water may be used to ensure perfect solution. Carbolic acid is, even in the strength of 1 to 40, an mutant to tissues • when applied to a wound it exaggerates the serous discharge for the first twenty-four hours, and consequently increases the necessity for goo drainagen In using it as a dressing the object of the Surgeon must be to prevent direct contact of the acid with the raw surface as far as possibk^r the wound has been once washed out; otherwise it may give rise> to snppu on In washing out a wound also it is important to take earn hat the lotion ££cXl4. Hu *-5^* ££££Z ^STtryai°eota tfssile^°^ot°onjy1a^lconstitutioiial symptoiutytpp®^ Ut then be abandoned, and some other antKepttc agent be applied either to % peasant symptom!, but, it the surf** he very kg. peculiarly intolerant of the acid, symptoms of iso 7 of its t .. pvprv case in which a carbolic acid dressing of ail) kind s H derivatives, can be detected in the urine by proper m ^ is tion, if a surface of any size is covered by the dressing