1026 TUMOURS. hard, is usually from the first, or at all events soon becomes, soft and elastic, being more or less lobulated, growing rapidly, and having an elastic and at last a semi-fluctuating feel. The skin covering it is usually at first pale and loose, with a large net-work of dilated veins spreading over it. In some cases, how- ever, at a very early period, a species of inflammatory oedema occurs in the integuments covering rapidly growing encephaloid. tumours. As the tumour enlarges, the skin becomes adherent, discoloured, of a purple-brown tint, and at last ulcerates at one point. When once the tumour has made its way through, and is relieved from the pressure of the fascia and integuments, the rapidity of its growth becomes fearfully increased ; and a large soft fungous mass, rugged, irregular, dark-coloured, and bleeding profusely, lapidh spiouts forth, constituting the affection to which Hey gave the appropriate term of fungus hmiatodes : when this condition has been reached, death rapidly ensues from exhaustion and hmmorrhage. Pulsation has been met w ith in particular forms of very vascular encephaloid ; in these cases also a loud bruit, synchio- nous with the pulsation and the heart’s action, has been detected, and may be heard on the application of a stethoscope. These symptoms are, however, far more commonly met with in soft small round-celled sarcomata of bone, in which the pulsation may be so marked that the disease may, unless caie be taken, be confounded with aneurism. The constitutional cachexy in encephaloid occurs early and is well marked, and secondary growths speedily make their appearance in the lymphatic glands and viscera. , Structure.—After removal, the tumour is found to be very vascular dis- playing on injection a close net-work of vessels. On a section being made, it | ri„ 400.—Encephaloid of Breast (1S8 diiun.). The large-celled variety. Attention is directed to the i.mch lg. 4uu. cm*. i larger spaces in this than m Scirrhus. commonly presents a soft pulpy white mass, closely resembling cerebral sub- ■ ZT stained and blotched with bloody patches, varying in colour from a blight*red to a maroon-brown, this being dependent on blood that has teen infiltrated into its substance. In other eases, its section has been compared to Sa rf a raw potato, or a piece of boiled udder. On microscopic examination it will be found to present a structure essentially similar to that o scin in , tliat 1 to say“ m al veolar stroma enclosing groups of free colls of an epithelial