VENEREAL DISEASES. 1090 eruptions or sypliilides present the following gradations. In the simplest form there is hypcrmmia of the papillae in localized spots with some retarda- tion of the blood-stream. We consequently get a red patch of a somewhat ' dusky colour not perceptibly elevated above the surface. On pressing on the discoloured area the red tint disappears, a faint brownish or copper-coloured stain is left behind. This is presumably due to staining of the tissues by the pigment from a few corpuscles which have escaped from tire distended vessels. This form of eruption is described as macular syphilide, syphilitic roseola. It is the most common and the earliest of all the cutaneous affections. It occurs also on mucous membranes, and is usually of short duration. If the hyperaemia continues for a longer time, the papillae become swollen and an increased growth of epithelium takes place on their surface. There is thus formed a red patch, slightly elevated and covered with a branny or scaly layer of desquamating epithelium. This is the squamous syphilide or syphilitic psoriasis, a common early syphilitic eruption. If the eruption occurs in a moist place, as in the neighbourhood of the anus or on a mucous membrane, the hypertrophy of the papillae is usually more marked, and the new epithelium instead of forming dry scales separates early or forms a sodden white mass on the surface of the patch. Occasionally the papillary aspect of the growth is very distinct. This is the mucous tubercle or flat condyloma, and when the eruption is general every gradation may be traced between it and the squamous syphilide, according to the degree of moisture of the part in which the patch is situated. The next degree of the process is the syphilitic papule or papular syphilide. This is the result of a coagulable inflammatory exudation into the papilla; ot the skin. It forms a hard, red, elevated patch, usually of small size and covered by a bran-like desquamation of the epithelium. It merges insensibly into the squamous syphilide, or, if in a moist part, into the mucous tubercle. If the process be more acute, the serum from the exudation raises the cuticle and a vesicle is formed. Vesicular syphilide is a rare form of eruption. Should it be still more acute, migrating corpuscles penetrate tbe Malpighian layer of the epithelium, and mixing with the serum in the vesicle, convert it into a pustule, and there is then developed the pustular syphilide. When the pustules occur in the early stages of syphilis, they dry up and form scabs, beneath which no ulceration takes place, and no scars are left when they arc healed. On mucous membranes, from the thinness and softness of the epithelium, the superficial layer is very early cast off, and there is thus formed the small superficial ulcer commonly met with on the tongue and lip. All the early syphilitic eruptions are merely modifications of one pathologi- cal process, differing in degree but not in nature. They occur in all parts of the body, and often in situations which are not affected by simple eruptions of the same character ; thus, for instance, the squamous syphilide is common on the palms of the hands, the soles of the feet, and the flexure of joints. They present also the great peculiarity of causing little or no itching or irritation. More than one form of eruption may be present at the same time, and in this again, they differ from simple skin diseases. °With the skin-eruptions there is, in the majority of cases some affection of the throat. With the roseola of the skin there is usually some redness and dryness of the fauces, as if a similar eruption was taking place there also. Later on ulceration of the tonsils very commonly takes place. The ulcers are,