i66 LOCAL DISTURBANCES AND INFLAMMATION. Assuming, therefore, that the bacteria are the cause of the process of putre- faction, by' what means can they gain access to the putrescible matter m wounds, abscesses or cavities containing animal fluids i 7 Only two modes of entrance need be considered: 1.1 he bacteria might be conceived to enter by the lungs anil alimentary canal, and thus find their way into the circulation and enter the dead matter from within, That this mode of entrance does not occur with the bacteria of decomposition, is evident nom the fact that subcutaneous accumulation of putrescible fluid such as pus, or serum, or portions of dead tissue, such as a part of an organ cut oil from 1 s blood supply by a simple embolon, do not undergo putrefaction, it as, moreover, been shown by experiment that the bacteria which cause ordinaly putrefaction, even if injected into the blood stream, speedily perish, I hat other forms of organisms can enter by this method must be acknowledged, unless we are prepared to admit that they are spontaneously generated, for in all acute infective inflammations, and in all acute abscesses, microscopic organisms are found at the seat of disease even when there is no external wound. 2 The bacteria cere admitted directly from without. Of this there can be n doubt We have already seen that they are constantly present in the an, although not in such vast numbers as was at one time supposed;; they are more abundant, however, in the neighbourhood of decomposing ma tei as a ward containing many wounds the discharges of which are in a^ state o decomposition. They are carried into wounds, abscesses, or othei cavities ly the surgeon’s hands, by instruments, and more especially by water, unless some LXTe alpted ^destroy them. Still it — be mind that even when they are carried mto the body, 01 into a wound, the ordinary bacteria of putrefaction can do no harm unless they come ^ contact with dLl matter. They speedily perish in the blood, and they esert influence on living tissues. Amongst living tissues we must class the coa able lymph or plastic exudation that covers the surfaces ol a wound; whil the serum is dead matter. In a wound or abscess cavity, therefore, u c 1 perfectly drained, they soon perish; and were perfect drainage always possible we need not fear the present of bacteria. It is, however, not possible ; and cnmenuentlv according to the germ-theory of decomposition, it becomes in great importance to exclude all bacteria from wounds or abscesses, and to destroy any which may have found ^hmssion The bacterium termo, the ferment of ordinary sinned body the length of which is under twice its width; it exhibits active Jpon LeouI\Lements, but occasionally a group of bactena ^e — together by a jelly-like substance which hunts or arrest theirmoUom Bacteria multiply, as far as is known, solely by division cells (fission), and never by the development of spores. They ’ a& 5— which have the power of growing like true . Jf sitcs, the animal body. Amongst them must 1be"Z^ns), the such as the itch insect (acarus scabiei), the.chl°® 'tis\ues and there trichina spiralis, &c., which bury themsc \ es m a however, of little excite a greater or less degree of inflammation. These arc, koweve ,