INJURIES OF SOFT PARTS. 316 appearance would be classed as lacerated, are in reality capable of uniting by first intention, tbe layer of dead tissue being either microscopic or wanting. This is especially the case in vascular parts, such as the scalp and face. In other cases, a wound apparently similar may slough for a considerable distance on each side. In consequence of the sloughy state of their lips and sides, the majority of contused and lacerated wounds unite by the second intention. Contused and lacerated wounds present peculiarities according to the mode of their infliction. When they are occasioned by the bite of a large animal, the part injured becomes very painful, and inflames extensively ; the wound being lacerated, much contused, and often penetrating deeply. It sloughs in consequence of the pressure to which it has been subjected, and ol the shaking and tearing of the part by the animal. When inflicted by the tusk or horn of an animal, tbe wound is extensively lacerated rather than contused, and often partakes of the nature of a punctured wound. When a part of the body is torn off, the wound presents peculiar characters ; which differ, however, according as the separation is effected at the part struck or seized, or at a distance from it. In the first case—as when a cannon-ball carries off a limb, or an arm is caught in a steam-mill or rag-tearing machine and crushed or torn off—the stump presents a very ragged surface, the skin being stripped away higher than the other parts, the tendons hanging out, and the bellies of the muscles that are torn across being swollen, protruding, and apparently constricted by the lacerated integument. A most important con- dition in such wounds is the state of the vessels ; these are separated Ion er down than the other parts, for, being elastic, they elongate and pull out before they give way. There is no haemorrhage, because the inner and middle coats of the artery, breaking off short, retract and contract to a small aperture, an allow the external coat to be dragged down and twisted over them, in such a n ay as to offer a complete barrier to the escape of blood. The bone is crushed off at the end of the conical stump, of which it forms the irregular apex, an is often split up to the next joint above. Occasionally, when parts are pulled off, they are separated at a distance from the point seized. Thus, fingers that have been torn off by machinery have their extensor and flexor tendons separated higher up, at their junction with the belly of the muscle, and not at the part seized ; the tendon being drawn out of its sheath, and hanging on to the separated end in a ribbon-like This peculiar tearing away of the tendon from its attachment to■the muscle and not across the line of laceration of the limb, was described bj several writers in the Memoirs of the Academy of Surgery of Pans m the middle of the last century and the accompanying figures 103,104, taken from Morand’s Paper, illustrate well this very singular injury. In railway accu eri s, when a train has passed over a limb without completely separating it, the muscles may be found detached from their origins. Progress.—In the progress of a contused or lacerated wound t1 . distinct periods : 1, thlt of the separation of the fusion ; 2, that of Repair by Granulations of the chasm left These processes nrp analogous to those which occur in ulceration, described at page 1 >-• ^ The Extent of the Slough depends not only upon the extent and se\ eri J,