FRACTURES. 526 wound of some large vessel, may go on to so great an extent as to occasion strangulation of the tissues ; if not checked by position and cold applications, > it may give rise to gangrene, and demand amputation. In other cases, again, the soft parts in the vicinity of the fracture may be contused to such a degree that they rapidly run into slough, thus rendering it compound ; or a wound may exist, not communicating with the broken bone, but requiring much modification of treatment, and special adaptation of apparatus. One of the most serious complications of a simple fracture is undoubtedly the Rupture of the Main Artery of the limb opposite the seat of fracture, or a wound of it by one of the fragments of broken bone. This accident occurs chiefly in fractures of the lower part of the femur or upper part of the tibia; the popliteal in one case, and the posterior tibial in the other, being the vessel wounded. The symptoms will depend on whether the artery is com- pletely torn across, and has become closed and ceased to bleed, or whether it is still pouring out blood subcutaneously. In the former case the condition of the artery is indicated by the loss of pulsation in the branches beyond the injured point, and by the coldness of the limb. If the extravasation have not been too great, and if the condition of the soft parts is such as to justify a hope that the collateral vessels are not greatly injured or pressed upon, an attempt should be made to save the limb, especially if it be the upper. It should be put in the best position possible, and warmly wrapped in cotton-wool. Splints and bandages of all kinds must, as far as possible, be avoided, lest the collateral circulation be interfered with. The result will often depend much upon the cause of the fracture. If the vessel have been torn by the bone in a case of fracture by indirect violence, the prospects of recovery are much better. A case of the kind occurred not long ago at University College Hospital, in which the brachial artery was completely obliterated. The limb was wrapped in cotton-wool, and the patient made an excellent recovery with a somewhat shortened arm. If the fracture is by direct violence, and the main artery is crushed against the bone, the condition is more serious, as the bruising may seriously interfere with the collateral circulation, and gangrene may follow. If the artery be only partially ruptured, or be torn across and not closed, haemorrhage will continue subcutaneously. The symptoms consist in the rapid formation of a uniform elastic tense swelling of the limb, with obscure pulsa- tion or thrill, opposite the seat of injury, and cessation of pulsation in the arteries at the ankle, with coldness and numbness of the foot and lower part of the leg. If the posterior tibial be the vessel injured, the circulation in the arteries of the foot may return after a day or two, and the coldness and numb- ness may lessen. If it be the popliteal that is injured, no such amelioration will take place, but the diffused aneurism in the ham will increase, the circula- tion will become more and more impeded, and gangrene will result. What should be the treatment of such a case as this ? The Surgeon has three alternatives. 1. The case may be treated as one of open arterial wound, the tumour laid open, and the injured vessel ligatured at the seat of wound. The objections to this treatment are, that a large cavity is opened, which, if it suppurate, will give rise to the most serious constitutional disturbance, the fracture being rendered a compound one of the worst kind, complicated by the great extra- vasation of blood amongst the surrounding parts. Securing the artery is, moreover, in any circumstances extremely difficult, and even uncertain. In