29 r DELIRIUM AFTER INJURIES. sometimes earlier than this : and most commonly declares itself during the night. It is occasionally met with after operations in cases in which there has been a severe mental strain on the part of the patient previous to the operation. In my experience traumatic delirium more frequently follows removal of the breast than any other operation; more especially in those cases in which the patient has long suffered from and long concealed her disease, and finally with great mental effort submitted to the operation. Two distinct types of traumatic delirium have been described, which are, in fact, two different diseases, the one inflammatory, the other nervous. In Inflammatory Traumatic Delirium there are a quick and bounding pulse, hot skin and head, flushed cheeks, glistening eyes, much thirst, and high fever ; in fact, this form is merely the delirium which accompanies the febrile disturbance consequent upon the absorption of the products of septic or infective inflammations from the wound. Occasionally the patient is Aiolent, tossing himself about the bed, and moving the injured part insensible to or regardless of pain. More often there is mere wandering of mind ; and in mild cases the patient will answer questions rationally if spoken to. The symptoms are most marked at night, and diminish when the morning-fall of temperature commences ; they usually set in on the third day, and are most marked by the fourth or fifth, which, as before stated, is the time at which septic traumatic fever reaches its highest point. The Treatment of this form is best carried out by the application of ice to the head ; the bowels must be kept well open, and the diet must be light but nutritious. The use of stimu- lants must be determined by the state of the praise ; when this is very rapid, alcohol often diminishes the delirium and produces sleep ; when it is very full and bounding and the patient is young, bleeding from the arm may occasion- a .y be resorted to, but this is seldom required. The patient must be care- fully watched, as there is often a constant desire to get out of bed. At the same time that these measures are adopted, local means must not be neglected to subdue the inflammation, and remove any septic matter or pent-up dis- charges which may be giving rise to the febrile disturbance. Nervous Traumatic Delirium usually occurs in persons whose consti- tutions have been broken by habitual excess in drinking ; and in fact, it is in most cases, if not always, an attack of ordinary delirium tremens, induced by the shock of the accident. In some rare cases it is preceded by a fit of an epileptiform character ; most commonly the earliest sign is want of sleep, with a restless nervous manner. The pulse becomes quick, small, and irritable • e surface is cool, and usually covered by a clammy offensive perspiration • temnr?8! ^ by m open wound there is usually no elevation of ffTe Wue 'is Th ei? b/ fT’the of the case « greatly increased, he tongue is white and furred, and there is usually, though by no means peS Sr ,0thifik ^ the hands’ Thc delirium is of a*muttS^ answeimrainlfr 5 patfnt 1S offceu harassed by spectral illusions, but will very ranifllv fVu M spoPen . traumatic delirium tremens is sometimes in less tbmi f a f1 mc known it to destroy life in cases of simple fracture from exlnimthG 1° 10wf' du ofdler .cascs> death takes place after some days In the'tv a T ’ i™!.tlG pdfd termination is occasionally sudden, obtain sleen ^ °i UC1V0US traumatic delirium, thc essential points are to tomme anrl ° '°Cp up tPe Patient’s strength. The excessively foul 0 b eath are 8ldficient indication of the necessity of administering kg a