TREATMENT OF INTRACRANIAL SUPPURATION. 711 of both hemispheres, lying between the arachnoid and pia mater, and extern mg into the sulci between the convolutions. There was an abscess m the su jstance of the brain near the surface of the right hemisphere—the side opposite to the seat of injury. Here also, though the symptoms were well marked, and the diagnosis as to the existence of pus correct, trephining was useless, as the pus could not be evacuated. These cases serve to indicate the difficulties that surround any operation with the view of evacuating matter from within the cranium. . , , . When, however, the symptoms of inflammation have been interrupted by an attack of rigors followed by coma, or accompanied by paralysis on the side opposite to the seat of injury, with the formation of a puffy swelling of the scalp, or by the separation of the pericranium and the exposure of yellow and dry bone at the bottom of the wound, there can be little doubt that the Surgeon, though bearing in mind the extreme uncertainty of the case, might be justified in trephining at the seat of local change or of injury, in the hope of finding and evacuating pus lying beneath the skull, and thus giving the patient his only chance of life. And indeed, if the local changes just described be well marked, the bone being dry, having lost its vitality, and not bleeding from the diploe when cut, the probability of finding pus im- mediately beneath the trephine aperture, and seeing it well up by the side of the instrument as the bone is perforated, is very great. And should it not be met with there, and the dura mater appear bulging, and without pulsation, an incision might even be made through this membrane, in the hope that, the abscess being circumscribed, the escape of the pus might be facilitated. If pus is reached here it will spirt out with much force. The absence of the ordinary pulsatory movement of the brain is an important diagnostic sign in these cases, indicating the presence of pus either under the dura mater or in the substance of the brain; but if the abscess be of moderate size and situated in the cerebral substance the pulsations may persist and even be well marked, as in Hulke’s case of successful trephining for cerebral abscess. Should the incision through the dura mater fail to reach the pus, few Surgeons would have the hardihood to follow the example of Dupuytren, who plunged a bistoury into the substance of the brain and thus luckily relieved the patient of an abscess in this situation. A careful search may, however, be made for the pus by means of a grooved needle or an aspirator. If the latter instrument be used only a partial vacuum should be produced, other- wise the soft cerebral substance will be forced into the needle and choke it. Hulke in this way detected the presence of an abscess in the frontal lobe of the brain in a boy aged 15, seven weeks after he had received a blow on the forehead causing a small stellate fracture of the outer table of the skull which was not discovered at the time of the accident. The abscess, which was situated about one inch below the surface of the brain, was opened by a knife passed along the aspirator needle, and about Jiij of thin greenish pus were evacuated. The boy recovered, but unfortunately became completely blind from atrophy of both optic papillae following on neuro-retinitis. Hulke was led to infer the presence of an abscess in this case chiefly by the fact of hemi- plegia supervening gradually many weeks after an injury to the head, a symptom to which he attaches much importance. In such cases a careful exploration by means of a fine needle cannot possibly increase the danger of the patient and may be the means of saving his life. Care must be taken,