INJURIES OF THE CHEST. S32 the diaphragm, there will be gradually increasing dulness on percussion in this situation, with absence of respiratory murmur and vocal fremitus. In the upper and anterior part of the lung air continues to enter, but as the pressure increases and the lung becomes more completely collapsed, the vesicular murmur will be lost, and the breath sound become tubular in character. An ecchymosis of the loins described by Valentin, and noticed by Larrey and others, occasioned by the filtration of blood through the wound or rent in the pleura costalis into the areolar tissue of the chest, has been looked upon by some Surgeons as pathognomonic of haemothorax; its importance, however, is secondary to that of the auscultatory signs, as in many cases it has not been met with, and in others of non-penetrating wounds of the chest it has occurred. 2. Emphysema, or the infiltration of air into the areolar tissue of the body, and Pneumothorax, or the accumulation of air in the cavity of the pleura, are occasional complications of a wounded lung. These accidents occur more commonly when the external wound is small and oblique, than when it is large and direct, and often happen in those cases in which the lung is punctured by a fractured rib, without there being any external wound. Emphysema and pneumothorax may occur together, but either may also be met with separately. The mechanism of traumatic emphysema is most commonly as follows. The two layers of the pleura, costal as well as visceial. being punctured and torn, and the lung wounded, a quantity of air is sucked into'the pleural sac at every inspiration, either through the external wound, or, if none exist, from the'' hole in the lung, thus giving rise to pneumo- thorax. At every expiration, the air that thus accumulates in the pleural sac being compressed by the descent of the walls of the chest, is pumped into the areolar tissue around the edges of the wound ; and if this be oblique and valvular, or if no external wound exist, the air being unable to escape wholly thromdi it, finds its way at each succeeding respiration further into the large areolar planes, first about the trunk and neck, and eventually,, perhaps, into those of the body generally. Under no circumstances can any air find its way back into the bronchial tubes, for although a wound in the lung allows air to pass readily in the direction of the pleura, it offers a valve-like resistance, to any passage of air in the opposite direction. Though this is the way 111 vhich the most marked cases of emphysema occur, it may be occasioned otherwise Thus, for instance, I had once under my care a woman who had cxtcl]s,‘ emphysema of the areolar tissue of the trunk from fractured ribs, but ^thou any pneumothorax, the lung having been wounded at a spot where 1 attached to the walls of the chest by old adhesions, and the air having passed through them into the areolar tissue of the body, without first entering cavity of the pleura. I have seen extensive emphysema occasioned also byJ apex of the lung being wounded by the fragments of a comminu e c a • Hilton has described a form of traumatic emphysema that arises rom 1 ture of an air-cell without any external wound. The air passes along the volt of the lung into the middle, and thence into the superior mediastinum, running up along the great vessels and (esophagus, it enters the neck between the layers of cervical fhscia which enter the thorax in front of the geat ve^el and Ed th. (esophagus (cspc.ive,, From ™ M clavian vessels, with their nerves, derive sheaths, so the air these structures into the limbs and neck.