482 INJURIES OF NERVES, MUSCLES, AND TENDONS. any part of the body. In. these injuries there is always a considerable amount ( of gaping of the wound, owing to the retraction of both ends, if a muscle be divided, and of the muscular cud only, if a muscle be separated from its tendon or the tendon cut across. Union.—The mode of union of these injuries has been well described by Paget. When a tendon is cut across, the space between the ends is immedi- ately filled by a blood clot. Exudation rapidly follows from the vascular sheath and areolar tissue in the neighbourhood, the clot is penetrated by the wandering cells, and is soon decolourized and absorbed, till on the tlmd day its place is occupied by a soft greyish-pink mass, extending also into the sheath and surrounding the cut ends of the tendon. This mass will be found to be composed of small round cells, with a homogeneous intercellular substance, mixed with which may be here and there seen some remains of the blood-clot. New vessels penetrate it from without, aud it afterwards undergoes the oxdinaij changes observed in the development of granulation-tissue into fibrous-tissue. By experiments upon animals, Paget showed that by about the fourth or 11 day the bond of union has become more defined in outline, and forms a distinct cord-like mass between the ends of the tendon, and the microscope shows that the cells have lengthened out and become spindle-shaped, so that the tissue appears fibrillated ; in the course of two or three more days, it becomes tough and filamentous ; after this the tissue gradually perfects itself, until it closely resembles tendinous structure, though for some time it remains dull white and more cicatricial in appearance. The strength of this bond of union is mar- vellously great; Paget found that the tendo Achillis of a rabbit, six days after its division, required a weight of 20 lbs. to rupture it. In ten days the break- ing weight was 56 lbs. Divided muscles unite m the same way as tendons, but less quickly, and by fibrous cicatricial bonds ; Weber, Gussenbauer and others have, however, recorded observations which tend to show that under favourable conditions, gradual regeneration of muscular tissue may take place Treatment.—The principle of treatment m these cases when the injuryis subcutaneous is extremely simple: it consists in relaxing the muscles by position, so as to approximate the divided ends ; and 111 maintaining in this position for a sufficient length of time for proper union to take place. If muscular relaxation be not attended to, the uniting bond will be elongate* and weak, and perhaps altogether inefficient. Stiffness and weakness are often left for a length of time—for many months, indeed-^ter union lias taken nlace • very commonly, owing to the adhesion of the divided tendon to its sheath, and of this to the neighbouring soft structures Jal™ ^a'^ter‘ douches, followed by methodical friction, will greatly tend to restore ^ suppleness of the parts. If the stiffness does not readily yield to milder treat- mmlt, the adhesions must be broken down by forcible movement of the pa under an anesthetic. By the end of one month after the injury, there will be no fear of tearing through the bond of union while so doing. Tendons or muscles divided in an open wound must be treated by immediate suture Either chromic catgut or antiseptic silk sutures may lie use , taei' being preferable ; the wound should be closed over them the l mb “ Sa position as to relax the tendon, and every effort made to obtain union by the first intention. If suppuration takes place be wee " a Lided tendon, the bond of union, if any is developed, >s almost