321 AMPUTATION IN CONTUSED WOUNDS. or cut off by the passage of a railway-train over it, the irregular and conical stump should be amputated, so as to leave a more useful and healthy one to the patient. 2. If the whole thickness of a limb—the soft parts and the bones—be thoroughly disorganized and crushed, it must be removed. 3. If the soft parts be extensively stripped away from the bones, though these be entire, so much sloughing and suppuration will ensue as to leave a useless limb, and amputation should be performed. It is in these cases that it is often especially difficult to estimate the amount of injury that cannot be recovered from, as so much depends upon the age and constitution of the sufferer. I believe that Surgeons, in their anxiety to save a limb, often lose a patient under these circumstances. I have more than once had reason to regret having attempted to save limbs injured in this way; and believe that, if the skin of the lower extremity be extensively torn down and the muscles much lacerated, so as to slough away, there is but little chance for the patient —unless he be young, and of a remarkably sound constitution—except in amputation. In the upper extremity it is different; there, recovery may take place under the most adverse circumstances. In all parts the dangers of attempting to save a limb have been greatly reduced by the antiseptic treat- ment. If decomposition of the sloughing tissues can be prevented, there will be little fever and but slight local inflammation, and the risk of pymrnia and erysipelas or other infective processes is scarcely appreciable. Supposing the attempt to save a useful limb to fail, if the antiseptic treatment is successful the chances of recovery are in no way impaired by the delay in amputating. 4. So also, if the knee be largely opened, with laceration of the soft parts and perhaps fracture of the contiguous bones, the limb must be amputated Corresponding injuries of the ankle, shoulder, and elbow joints, may, as has already been stated, admit of resection rather than of amputation. In these cases also, the antiseptic treatment is an important aid in saving a limb, for if decomposition can be prevented, the mere fact that a joint is opened adds but little to the gravity of the case. 0. Bad crushes of the foot have a great tendency to run into gangrene, and hence require amputation. In the hand, on the contrary, very extensive inju- ries are often recovered from, without this operation being necessary • and in many cases partial resection may be substituted for it. dn those cases in which a large artery, as the femoral, is lacerated at the same tune that the soft parts are extensively injured, and the bone fractured amputation is requn-ed m order to prevent the occurrence of gangrene. In the rSl ™ °U “c gan£rene’ in which the disease is confined to the h , ' ^ °rU8he? and m-lm'ed> uo §’ood can come of delay, so amputation ^ T- aS ™rtlfication has declared itself; and the limb rnm-Hfip , Ved afc a Sllfficient distance from the seat of mischief. When the rwL?rSUl m?eCtl^from iniui7 of the vessels, the limb should also then *I fmoved m a lme with the wound, unless this be too high up ; AmouHHnt °S avoma:) e Poiut must be seized, as will hereafter be explained. SJfr h6Sl u^cumstances is by no means a very unfavourable opera- it be donp «nffi°ne at ^ have several times successfully performed), provided absorntirm nf C1?^ “V ear before the constitution becomes poisoned by the sarv to w • ma,tters from the gangrenous tissues. It is scarcely neces- vol. 1. 1G * ulSeou t° be certain of the existence of gangrene before lie