ARREST OF ARTERIAL HAEMORRHAGE. 414 artery with the point of a director, and there is no doubt that if the . instrument be carefully used it can be made to do the work efficiently ; but it is more difficult to clean the artery thoroughly with it than with the knife! During the process of cleaning, the artery itself must on no account be seized in the forceps, and care must be taken not to wound any small branch. Should this happen, the artery must he tied on each side of the injured spot. The artery being thoroughly clean, the ligature may now be passed. Much ingenuity has been expended in devising instruments for this purpose; in the majority of cases the common aneurism-needle—well ground down, but rounded at its extremity—is all that is required; but occasionally it may be advantageous to use a needle with a small curve. To pass the Fig. 147.—Passing the Needle: 1st stage. Fig. 14S.—Passing the Needle: 2nd stage. ligature, the edge of the opening in the sheath must be held tightly in the forceps and pulled slightly so as to put it on the stretch. The needle is then passed from the forceps (Fig. 147) ; as soon as its point begins to appear on the other side of the artery the operator must shift the forceps to that side, and catching hold of the edge of the opening in the sheath must draw it out of the way of the point of the needle (Fig. 148). The needle should be passed without the ligature, and afterwards threaded whenever this is ■possible. In very deep-seated arteries, such as the iliacs, this is often imprac- ticable ; it must then be passed threaded,. and the loop of the ligature caught in a pair of forceps before the needle is withdrawn. . The needle must always be passed from the most important structures m the neighbourhood ; thus, when a single large vein accompanies the artery, it must be passed from this ; when there is a vein on each side and a nerve on one side, it must be passed from the nerve. If care be not taken, the \ cm may ie transfixed or included in the ligature ; an accident that has often terminate fatally by phlebitis or gangrene. The Surgeon must be on his guar, no o mistake any contiguous nerve for the artery, as has happened to the most experienced operators ; and also to avoid transfixing and tying a portion of the shSInstead of the vessel, as I have known happen to a most excellen Surgeon. These accidents can scarcely occur in a healthy state of the pai ^ if the artery be thoroughly and carefully cleaned, and the needle passe, ac ua y in contact with the external coat.