1093 SYPHILIS—MICROSCOPY OF GUM MAT A. n many arc completely obliterated, and thus from want of blood-supply death 1 of a portion of bone may take place (syphilitic necrosis). The bones of the B skull furnish some of the best specimens of this change. The most characteristic pathological product of tertiary syphilis is the r' gumma, or as it is sometimes called the syphiloma or syphilitic granuloma. A j gumma commences by a localized process essentially similar to the diffuse [ form just described, namely, au infiltration of the connective tissue of the a‘j, affected part, with small round cells. These cells may be in part migrated •! white corpuscles, and in part formed by proliferation of the original connective g. tissue corpuscles. It is impossible to say to what extent they owe their origin to these two sources. New vessels are formed amongst the cells, and thus a (tissue is developed having the characters of granulation tissue. This continues to increase in quantity till the special structure of the part, such as epithelium in a gland, striated fibres in muscle, fat cells in adipose tissue, or the compact tissue of bone, disappear in the affected area, being destroyed and . absorbed in consequence of the pressure of the invading growth. Thus a nodule is formed, composed of small round cells, between which is an inter- cellular substance, small in amount and usually distinctly fibrillated, so as tp ; give the new tissue considerable toughness. The gumma in this stage is abundantly vascular. The new tissue exceeds in bulk that which it has replaced, and thus forms a distinct tumour. It increases by a progressive infiltration of the surrounding structures, and not, as in tubercle, by the for- mation of new nodules, which coalesce with that first formed. The growth continues till the gumma may reach the size of a walnut ; but long before this -—in fact soon after the gumma becomes recognizable—degenerative changes have taken place in its structure. These arise, not, as in tubercle, from the absence of vessels in the new tissue, but, as has been pointed out by Green- field, from a gradual obliteration of the small arteries entering the mass by the process, already described, of proliferation of the endothelium and : thickening of the external coat. Probably also the pressure of the new cells, closely packed together, obstructs the circulation through the capil- laries. As a result of the starving of the new tissue thus brought about fatty degeneration takes place. The cells wither and become filled with fat granules, and finally arc represented merely by fatty debris, amongst which the individual elements are not recognizable. The intercellular tissue, when fibrillated, undergoes but little change, and thus the caseous mass retains a considerable degree of toughness, very different from that of yellow tubercle. The caseation may follow very closely on the growth ; but while growing a gumma is always surrounded by a zone of cell-infil- tration of the neighbouring connective tissue, with vessels of new forma- tion amongst the cells. The cascatcd centre of an old gumma often contains ciystals of cholesterine. Gummata vary somewhat in consistence according to the degree of fibrillation of the intercellular substance. In some cases mucous softening seems to take place and the gumma may be almost gela- l tinous in consistence. Ihe ultimate fate of a gumma varies in different parts and under dif- fcient ciicumstances. Even after caseation and partial softening it may, under proper treatment, be completely absorbed, leaving a depressed fibrous cicatrix behind it. In other cases, especially in gummata of the subcu- taneous tissue, bone and muscle, softening takes place, followed by suppura-