490 INJURIES OF BONES AND JOINTS. too large to heal by the first intention and too small efficiently to drain the joint, that is the most dangerous. Of all wounds of joints, gunshot-wounds are necessarily the worst. In these, the aperture cannot be closed and united by the first intention ; and the track of the ball must almost inevitably suppurate. The bones arc also usually splintered, and foreign bodies of various kinds are introduced into the articulation; hence the most extensive, disorganizing, and fatal mischief commonly ensues. In a case of traumatic arthritis if we have the opportunity of examining the joint, the appearances will vary with the time after the infliction of the injury. At the end of from twenty-four to forty-eight hours the synovial membrane will be found intensely red and injected, its surface lustreless, its fringes swollen ; and the cavity will contain a quantity of turbid fluid still retaining some of the characters of synovia, but thinner than natural, in which microscopic examination would probably reveal the presence of micro- organisms. Later on, at the end of a week or ten days, the synovial mem- brane will have lost its characteristic appearance, being concealed by granulation-tissue, the surface of which is entirely or in part covered by a thin grey sloughing layer. The cartilages have lost their natural lustre and smoothness, their surfaces are yellowish in colour, and partial erosion will have commenced at the points at which the opposing articular surfaces have been in contact. The ligaments are swollen and softened and the tissues surrounding the joint oedematous and infiltrated with inflammatory products. Such fluid as the joint contains will be thick pus. In the more advanced stages of the disease, when the joint has been suppurating perhaps for many weeks or even months, it will be found that it is difficult to recognize the synovial membrane, ligaments and capsule, all being lost in the mass of inflammatory products infiltrating their structures, giving them a uniform semi-transparent appearance. The cartilages are perforated hi their central parts, at the circumference they have almost the appearance and feel of wet leather. The bones are exposed and are ulcerating superficially, the surface being rough and of a dark red colour. Occasionally in the latest stages, if the joint has been kept at rest, granulations may have sprung up from the opposing bony surfaces, and having coalesced, there may be some actual osseous union of these surfaces. If recovery does take place in such a case it is effected by complete bony union between the articular ends, with gradual absorption of the inflammatory products and development of dense cicatricial tissue around the site of the joint. Microscopic examination shows nothing but the ordinary signs of inflammation in the various structures entering into the composition of the joint. Symptoms and Effects.—The severity of the wound of a joint depends chiefly on the size of the articulation and the nature of the wound, but is also materially influenced by the age and health of the patient. Small subcutaneous wounds, such as are inflicted for the removal of loose cartilages, may usually be made with perfect safety, if proper precautions be taken to prevent the intru- sion of air and the instruments be perfectly clean. But with joints laid open as the result of accidents, everything depends on the prevention of traumatic arthritis, by the establishment of good drainage and the exclusion of the causes of decomposition. This latter condition may be difficult from the presence o dirt or foreign bodies on the cavity of the joint.