1 ■j M TREATMENT OF FRACTURES ABOUT ANKLE. 619 obliquely splintered, as well as the fibula broken, there are not only the ordinary signs of fracture, with eversion of the toes, and a corresponding turning inwards of the heel, but the malleoli are widely separated, giving an appearance of great increase of breadth to the joint; crepitus is xmy leaci) felt, and a depression can be perceived corresponding to the luxe of fracture. The Treatment of these cases is always fraught with difficulty. In con- sequence of the swelling and inflammation that usually occur, it is often difficult to make out the exact extent and direction of the fracture. 11ns difficulty is greatly increased by the small size and short leverage afforded by Fig. 256.—Pott's Fracture. Fig. 257.—Fracture of the Lower End of the Tibia and Fibula. the fragments ; and so great is it, that in some cases it cannot be overcome by any amount of skill and patience that may be brought to bear on the treatment of the injury, but a certain degree of displacement results as the necessary consequence of the injury, leaving a weak and painful joint, the mobility of which is seriously impaired. If, as usually happens, more particularly when the fracture results from direct violence, there be a good deal of swelling from ecchymosis and inflam- matory exudation, this will require to be subdued by the continuous application of cold, and the limb should be laid on a splint. If there be not much displacement of the foot, the treatment may best be conducted by splints with good foot-pieces, and the starched or plaster bandage. When there is no twist of the foot, perhaps the best treatment is to put the limb up in lateral leg-splints, with good foot-pieces, and swung in a cradle. I have found the splint, Fig. 258, a very useful appliance in cases of fracture of the bones of the leg, one or both, in their lower third. The apparatus consists of an ordinary leg-splint cut across at the upper part of the lower third, the two pieces being united by a double rack and pinion. By means of this mechanism four primary movements can lie given to the lower part of the splint, by which the various displacements, that are apt to occur in fractures in this situation, can be counteracted and corrected. Urns the lower end of the splint can be moved backwards or