1077 VARIETIES OF BUBO. distinct fluctuation becomes perceptible. The skin, at first red, becomes dusky and purple, and if the case be left to nature, it is frequently extensively undermined before the bubo bursts. If the bubo be simple, the cavity presents nothing differing from that of an ordinary abscess, li it be virulent its walls are ragged, sloughy-looking and unhealthy, and instead of healing the sore may spread, with all the characteristics of a chancre. Bubo most commonly occurs during the second or third week after the first appearance of the chancre, but may happen at an earlier or at a later period, even after the chancre itself has healed. A rare form of bubo is that which forms within the abdomen in the ■ lymphatic glands in this situation. It is a very dangerous variety, and may | prove fatal by rupture into the peritoneum and consequent peritonitis. Primary Bubo.—The French Surgeons have described a form of bubo that they call bubon d’emblee or primary bubo; this is said to occur from the direct !) absorption of the specific poison, without the previous formation of a chancre. Only one case apparently of this kind has fallen under my observation. !!I Until that occurred, I doubted its existence ; and I am not yet fully con- vinced that this suggested mode of origin is the true one. In the case referred to, a young man applied to me with a rather large abscess in the groin, for which I sent him into the Hospital. O11 being questioned, he denied ever having had any venereal disease, though he admitted having had intercourse with a woman of the town. On examining the penis, no chancre, abrasion, or cicatrix could be discerned. The abscess was opened, and two ounces of rather bloody and very thick pus were let out ; no enlarged glands could be seen. For the sake of experiment the pus was inoculated into the left thigh, and two distinct and well-marked pustules were produced. That such an effect can be obtained by matter of very irritating character without any venereal origin, is shown by the experi- ments of several Surgeons who have succeeded in inoculating matter from itch and ecthymatous pustules; hence it must not be concluded in this ia case that the bubo was consequent on the direct absorption of venereal matter I along the lymphatics. In fact, the proof of the existence of this form of bubo is far from satisfactory. It frequently happens that small excoriated chancres heal in a few days, before which time, however, the inguinal glands | have become irritated and enlarged: and, as the enlargement of the glands ! goes on after the healing of the chancre, a bubo may be formed when all trace :j of its primary source has entirely disappeared. Creeping Bubo.—In some cases a virulent bubo, as has been well shown by •Solly, assumes a tendency to creep or spread over the neighbouring integument, j extending in this way to a considerable distance down the thigh, upon the | abdomen, or over the ilium. This creeping bubo is characterized by the peculiar jj semicircular or horse-shoe shape that the sore assumes, and by its tendency to cicatrize by one margin, whilst it slowly extends by the other ; the cicatrix j always being thin, blue, and weak, closely resembling that of a burn. S After a bubo has disappeared, a good deal of induration may be left in the glands of the groin, perhaps with matting together of the surrounding areolar tissue ; and this induration may continue for years, or even for the remainder of life. lhe Ireatmenl of bubo consists, in the first instance, in endeavouring to j pi event the occurrence of suppuration ; and should pus form, in letting it out.