8o6 INJURIES OF THE FACE AND ADJACENT PARTS. seen cataract occur in an otherwise healthy woman aged 40, three or four months after the receipt of a blow on the malar bone in a railway collision. It also often happens that, in cases of a general shock to the system, obscuration and impairment of vision gradually manifest themselves. (See p. 770 et seq.) When impairment of vision remains permanent, or is gradually developed, alter concussion, it is due to interference with the nutrition of the structures of the eye. In such cases, atrophy of the optic disc may often be discovered by ophthalmoscopic examination. The development of cataract after blows on the eyebrow or cheek is to be accounted for by the frontal or infraorbital branches of the fifth nerve being implicated and irritated, so as to impair the nutrition of the globe. The eye may suffer also in consequence of Wound or Irritation of the Branches of the Fifth Pair of Nerves.* This has long been observed. Hippocrates speaks of loss of vision consequent on wounds of the eyebrow; and makes the very accurate observation, that the impairment is less when the wound is recent, but increases as cicatrization advances. Fabricius Hildanus and La Motte relate cases in which blindness followed wounds of the outer angle of the orbit. Morgagni relates the case of a lady who, in consequence of the overturning of a carriage, was wounded by some splinters of glass in the upper eyelid. The eyeball was uninjured : but vision became gradually impaired, and was almost lost by the fortieth day after the accident. It is by no means necessary for the production of impaired vision after injury of parts of the fifth nerve, that there should be an actual wound: a simple contusion is sufficient. Wardrop states that it is only where the frontal nerve is wounded or injured and not divided, that amaurosis takes place. Indeed, in some cases, amaurosis has been cured by division of the nerve after its partial injury. That it is the irritation, and not complete division of the nerve, that leads to loss of vision, is in accordance with the view of Brown-Sequard, that the immediate effects of section of a nerve are very different from those which are observed as the result of its irritation. The loss of vision may come on instantaneously, as in a case related by Wardrop of a sailor struck by a ramrod on the eyebrow ; after a few days, as in a case recorded by Chelius where the loss of vision came on eight days after a blow in the eyebrow ; or after a longer lapse of time, as in most of the recorded cases. In the great majority of cases the impairment of vision is at first slight, and gradually goes on to complete loss of sight. In what way can irritation of a branch of the trifacial nerve, unaccompanied by any direct injury of the eyeball or the structures of the orbit, produce in- stantaneously or remotely loss of vision ? Some observers have attributed this to the propagation of irritation along the sheath of the nerve to the trunk of the ophthalmic division. But there is no evidence of such a propagation ; and this explanation would not account for those cases in which blindness suddenly supervened. That injury of the fifth nerve produces important changes in the eye, has been incontestably determined in late years by the experiments of Snellen, Schiff, Biittner, Messner, and others ; and whether we explain the morbid changes that occur in the eye as a consequence of the injury of the nerve by the supposition that “ neuro-paralytic ” inflammation is set up in « Sec “Concussion of Spine,” Lecture X., p. 23.1, r I scq., Longmans, 1832, for a full account of these injuries.