1050 SCROFULA AND TUBERCLE. CHAPTER XXXV. » SCROFULA AND TUBERCLE. Scrofula is a constitutional condition predisposing to chronic inflammation of a peculiar type, affecting various parts or tissues. Tubercle is a growth of a new tissue, also presenting peculiar anatomical and vital characteristics. The relation between the constitutional condition called scrofula and the development of tubercle has formed an endless subject of discussion, and is still very far from being determined. In discussing these affections, it will be most convenient to consider first the anatomical character of tubercle, and of some of the typical affections universally regarded as scrofulous. Tubercle.—The anatomical structure which is generally recognized as characteristic of tubercle is the tubercular nodule, or follicle, as it has been called. This consists of a rounded mass of cells in which three zones can be usually recognized without difficulty. In the centre are one or more large many-nucleated cells, with more or less well marked branching processes—the so-called “ giant-cells ” of tubercle. The nuclei are most commonly arranged round the outer border of the cell, or may be collected together at one end ; they are large and clearly defined, of oval form, and contain one or two nucleoli. The protoplasm is coarsely granular. The next zone is composed of large cells, with granular protoplasm containing a single clearly defined oval nucleus, similar to those of the giant-cell. These cells are called epithelioid, from their resemblance to young squamous epithelium. They lie between the processes of the giant-cell. The outer zone is composed of ordinary lymphoid corpuscles, differing in no respect from the migrating leucocytes observed iu inflammation. Between the cells of the outer zones is an imperfect reticular stroma, with which the processes of the giant-cell are said to be continuous. No vessels penetrate amongst the cells, and this want of vascularity forms one of the most im- portant and distinctive features of tubercle. A single nodule, such as has just been described, forms a small rounded body just visible to the naked eye ; it is semi-transparent and grey in colour, and of cartilaginous hardness, and has received the name of the semi-transparent grey granulation. By an increase in the zone ot lymphoid cells, or by the close apposition of two or [more separate nodules, the grey granulations frequently reach the size of a millet seed, and have consequently received also the name of miliary tubercles. This structure has long been recognized as that most characteristic of tubercle, but none of its individual0elements arc peculiar to it. The lymphoid cells differ in no respect from those met with in simple inflammation, and large cells, like the epitheloid Fig. 400.—Tubercle Bacilli in a Giaut-cell.