749 TREATMENT OF INJURIES OF THE BRAIN. on this and removed the fragments of bone, expecting to find the ball beneath them ; but in this I was disappointed, and after death the bullet was found lying in the base of the skull, whither it had rolled. All operations performed in such cases should be carried out with strict antiseptic precautions. In cases of laceration of the brain without open wound nothing is required at first beyond keeping the bowels open, applying cold to the head, and perfect quiet. Should there, however, be early convulsions or paralyses sufficiently definite to indicate the seat of the lesion, followed rapidly by coma threatening death, and evidently due, from its early occurrence, to haemorrhage from a laceration, the question of trephining over the point of injury to the brain may arise. So far such treatment has not been sufficiently successful to encourage Surgeons to adopt it, but we have yet to learn what may be hoped from the operation performed with antiseptic precautions, and guided by our increased knowledge in localization of the injury. Alien the convulsions and paralyses occur at a later period, and are sufficiently defined to enable the Surgeon to localize the seat of the injury, the head should be shaved, and leeches applied over the seat of the lacera- tion, and after this an ice-cap. If the pulse be full and hard, and the patient young, blood may be taken also from the arm. The bowels should be freely acted on by some brisk purgative. Bromide of potassium may possibly be of use. As the result of these measures, the symptoms in many cases speedily subside. Should the convulsions become more violent and general, the paralysis more extensive, and the state of insensibility deeper, the question of treatment becomes more anxious. The extension of the mischief is probably due to inflammation extending around the laceration ; and this being the case, can any good result be hoped for by trephining over the lacerated spot, guided by the theory of localization of the functions of the hemispheres ? It is possible that tension might thus be relieved, and serum or clot allowed to escape, but the result would be very doubtful. At any rate the operation could be justifiable only when the case was otherwise hopeless. The operation is, however, much more hopeful, and certainly should never be neglected, when symptoms of intra-cranial suppuration supervene with localized paralysis sufficiently defined to indicate the part of the cortex affected. The guide to the application of the trephine in these cases is the line of the Sulcus of Rolando (Fig. 323) on the side opposite to that in which the paralysis exists, the exact spot in this line being determined by the seat of the paralysis. Ucas-Championiere lays down the following rules for the application of the trephine. 1. When there is general hemiplegia, the crown of the trephine should be applied across the middle of the line of the Sulcus of Rolando. 2. When the arm and leg are paralysed, the trephine should be applied to the upper part of that line, but not at its very summit. 8. In paralysis of the upper limb only, the trephine should be applied a little n advance of the middle-third of the line. front of t8™{ineapliaSia lb mUSt be applied lower clown> helow and a little in Vf^',JVheu’fth kn,rer extremities are paralysed, the top of the line and the veicex must be trephined.