TUMOURS. 968 matous cysts are often very numerous, especially about the head, where as many as thirty or forty may be met with at the same time. Most frequently they form in women about the middle period of life : they are smooth, round, or oval, movable under the integument, cither semi-fluctuating or elastic, though sometimes solid to the touch. In some parts where the sebaceous follicles are laro-e, as on the back, a small black point can often be detected on the surface of the tumour, through which an aperture may be found leading into its interior, and allowing the expulsion of its contents. A sebaceous tumour consists of a cyst-wall and contents. The cyst-wall is composed of dense white fibrous tissue, having elongated connective-tissue-corpuscles scattered through it. It is connected to the surrounding parts by loose areolar tissue, containing yellow elastic fibres in some abundance. The thickness of the wall varies greatly. When the cyst is situated ou the hairy scalp it will always be found to be tough and thick, while in all other situations it is much thinner. Immediately in contact with the inner surface of the cyst-wall, a layer of actively growing epithelial cells is found closely resembling the deeper layers of the epidermis ; further from the wall these assume a distinctly squamous form; then they become filled with fat granules, and finally break down into a fatty granular mass (Fig. 3(11). The atheromatous mass forming the contents of the cyst is composed of this fatty debris. If examined when freshly removed from a tumour, it will be found to be soft, creamy, pultaceous, 01 sometimes cheesy-looking, of a yellowish white colour. Sometimes in old cysts it becomes dry and laminated, looking not unlike Parmesan cheese. In some cysts of old standing and large size, the contents may be semi-fluid, the moie liquid parts being a brown, green, or blackish tint. These various contents are essen- tially composed of sebaceous matter, mixed in various proportions with epithelial scales, fat-granules, and cholesterine (Fig. 360). Sometimes the cyst-wall is found to send fibrous septa towards the centre of the cyst, apparently represent- ino- the remains of the tissue between the acini of the follicle ; but true papillae or hair-follicles are never found in cysts due to obstruction of the excretory ducts of a sebaceous follicle. Occasionally a part of the cyst-wall may undergo calcification, and calcareous particles may be found among its contents (mg- 360 b ) Malherbe has described a true ossification of the cyst-wall with calcification of the epithelium cells. This is rare, and the tumours have been described as osteomata of the skin before their true nature was understood. Some forms of cysts of new formation closely resemble those just described in their contents and naked-eye appearances, but differ from them in the struc- ture of their walls, which is that of true skin. These will be referred to again under “ dermoid cysts.” . . . . Progress.—The growth of these tumours is often very slow ; but not un- frequently, after remaining stationary for years, they increase rathei iapu }• The tumour itself, though painless, may give rise to uneasy sensations, J compressing nerves in its vicinity ; it usually continues to grow slow ly,,m the patient, being annoyed by its presence, has it removed by left untouched, it occasionally, though rarely, happens that the ybaceom matter, exuding through an aperture on its surface, forms a kind o bL< crust which by a process of sub-deposition becomes conical . am . ? oradually pushed up from below, at the same time that it assumes by expos fdmkbrmni colour, forms an excrescence that looks like a horn, and is usually considered to be of that character. These “horns have ieen