1044 TUMOURS. •abdominal walls. In such cases operation is clearly improper. The urine should also in every case be examined for albumen and sugar. 1. Cases not proper for Operation.—(a) It is a rule in surgery which should never be deviated from, that no operation should ever be undertaken for the removal of a malignant growth, unless the whole of the tumour and the tissues infiltrated by it can be completely removed. It is necessary to remove not only the tumour but the surrounding tissues to some extent, even though apparently healthy, (b) The operation ought never to be performed in cases in which several malignant tumours exist in different parts of the body at the same time. Here the disease has evidently affected the constitution, and cannot be removed by any series of operations, (c) If the cachexia he strongly marked, it is useless to remove the local affection, as probably some secondary visceral tumour is already forming, (cl) It the tumour be of “sen rapid growth and soft, and its margin very ill-defined, it has probably infected the surrounding tissues so widely that it will speedily reappear in the cicatrix if removed, (e) If the whole of the affected organ cannot be removed, as a bone, or if the skin or mucous membrane be so widely affected that it cannot be removed, or if lymphatic glands are enlarged which cannot be dissected out, it is useless to attempt the excision of the primary growth, as a speedy relapse will certainly ensue. (/) In the very chronic and indurated cancers of old people, it is often well not to interfere, as in these eases the affection makes such slow progress, that it does not in any way shorten life, whilst the operation might be attended with serious risk at an advanced asm. 2. Doubtful Cases.—Those cases in which the result of an operation is extremely doubtful, but in which no other means offer the slightest prospect of relief, have next to be considered. (a) Malignant sarcomata of the eye, and cancers of the tongue and testes, belong to this category ; for, though more liable to return than similar affections of any other part of the body, yet they may be considered fit cases for operation, inasmuch as in no other way has the patient the slightest chance of being relieved from his disease. (b) In cancers that are already ulcerated, the Surgeon may sometimes operate in order to give the patient ease from present suffering, or, perhaps, as m some cases recorded by Brodie, with a view of prolonging life ; but lie can have little expectation of effecting a permanent cure, (c) If the tumour be so large, or be so situated, that its removal cannot be undertaken without so serious an operation as to occasion in itself considerable risk to life, the propriety of operating is always very doubtful. 3. Gases proper for Operation.—Those cases in which an operation is, in my opinion, not only perfectly justifiable, but should be urged upon the patient as affording the best prospect of preserving or prolonging life, arc those in vluch the disease has originated in a person otherwise in good health, and in "horn there is so far no cachexy. In scirrhous cancer, if the disease be slow in its progress, single, distinctly circumscribed, without adhesions to or implication of the skin or glands, and more especially if it be attended with much pain, or with immediate risk to life from any cause, and if the whole of the growth, too-ether with a sufficient quantity of the neighbouring healthy tissues in which it is imbedded, can be removed with ease, the case may be looked upon as a fit one for operation. If the glands are affected to a limited degree, and only to such an extent that they can be removed without danger, the operatio