936 SEPTICAEMIA AND PYjEMIA . of tlic symptoms of septic poisoning, arc essential to the production of the poison. That they are not the actual poison was shown by Hiller, who col- lected a mass of the ordinary bacteria of putrefaction on a filter, washed them in distilled water, and then injected them into animals, and also into his own body without producing- any evil effect. That the bacteria had not been injured by the distilled water was shown by other experiments in which their power of growing- and causing putrefaction in organic solutions was demonstrated. Those experiments may, therefore, be said to show that in the process of putrefaction a complex substance is formed which is soluble in water, and possesses intensely toxic properties, in small doses giving rise to severe febrile disturbance, in large doses causing a fatal illness accompanied by definite symptoms. The affection thus produced in its most intense form is spoken of as septicaemia, but to avoid confusion is better termed septic poisoning. The effect produced by a smaller dose forms, as has already been pointed out, one form of so-called traumatic fever. The injection of putrid animal fluids into the subcutaneous tissue or blood-stream is not, however, in all cases followed merely by poisoning from the chemical products of putrefaction. Under certain conditions a true infective process ensues, as was first pointed out by Davaine. The best example of this process is perhaps furnished by the experiments of Robert Koch, in which putrid fluids, such as blood or meat infusion were injected into mice beneath the skin of the back. If the quantity used was sufficient, the animals died with all the symptoms of septic poison- ing in four or five hours. When one drop only was injected about two- thirds of the mice recovered without any serious symptoms, but in the remaining third, after twenty-four hours of apparent health, a definite illness set in which invariably terminated fatally in from forty to sixty hours after inoculation. The first symptom was a dulness of the eye, with increased secretion from the conjunctiva, the animal became languid, ceased to eat, and finally sat still with its back bent and its legs drawn under it. Its respirations gradually became slower, and death came on almost imperceptibly. On examining it after death some local inflammation, with serous exudation, was found at the seat of inoculation, but the internal organs showed no marked change beyond some swelling of the spleen. If the point ol a knife was dipped in the blood, or in the exudation at the seat of inoculation, and a mere scratch was then made with it on the car or tail of another mouse, < ea _ invariably followed, with the same symptoms and in about the same time, an thus the disease might be transmitted indefinitely from animal to annua . * drop of the blood from an infective mouse placed on a glass slide, dried, stained with methyl-violet, and mounted in Canada balsam, was. fomi ° contain vast numbers of very delicate bacilli, about jj'sj ot an inch and one-eighth of their length in breadth. Many of these were seen to la^ c penetrated into the substance of the white corpuscles, and apparently to av multiplied within them. . ......i,. An attempt was subsequently made to transmit the disease to othu ■ • but without success. Even the field-mouse, though apparently so ncai allied to the house-mouse, was found to be incapable of receiving ie po * ■ A general infective process was induced by Davaine in a snni ai *. rabbits by the inoculation of putrid fluids; but the organism fomu