37i TREATMENT OF DISSECTION-WOUNDS. this way any poisonous matter that has been introduced may usually be got rid of. It is better not to apply caustics ; they only irritate and inflame the finger, and can do but little good. Dissectors should bear in mind that the state of the constitution exercises great influence upon the effects of the puncture ; and, that, in proportion as the health is sound and the body not exhausted by over-fatigue, there is less likelihood of any injurious consequences ensuing. In the slighter forms of dissection-wound, attended by a moderate amount of inflammation, the whole finger should be thickly incased with extract of belladonna diluted with an equal quantity of glycerine ; this should be covered with cotton-wool, the hand elevated and kept at absolute rest in a sling or in a splint. If the absorbents become inflamed, the belladonna and glycerine should be thickly painted along their course, and the arm enveloped hi cotton- wool. The geneial tieatment of clearing out the bounds with a free calomel purge, followed by moderate stimulation, must be adopted in the early stage ; but tonics and strong support will soon be required, and, if there be much con- stitutional irritation, opiates may advantageously be administered. The treatment of the more severe forms of dissection-injmy consists princi- pally in the application of belladonna- and hot fomentations in the early stages, followed by early and very free incisions into the finger, axilla or pectoral region, or wherever else the part may become tense and brawny. These should be made, if there is much tension, even though matter have not already formed, with a view of preventing suppuration. Should abscesses form, they must be opened early. All incisions should be made with antiseptic precautions, and treated afterwards by some of the modes of antiseptic dressing already described Even when sloughs have formed, they are not putrid, and the patient s danger will be greatly increased should they be allowed to become so. .n. t|ie constitutional treatment, our great reliance, after clearing out the intestinal canal by a free purge, is on the administration of bark ammonia, wine and brandy, with such fluid nourishment as the patient can take ; the case being treated as one of the worst forms of asthenic inflamma- comi'trJV ? P TV1Ve’ he mUSt bG S6nfc as soon as P°«ible ^to the honl b7, nad mUSt :IeV°ie S°me months’ Perhaps, to the re-establishment of his health. The punctured part often continues irritable for a great length of Ztnle^n K yeai'S’ remaining red> inflamed, and desquamating pvmtules sometimes appearing on it. This condition is best remedied by the occasional application of nitrate of silver. ' 10° St;™gly m'ge ,,pon the student that ness he take sciupulous precautions as to cleanliness and disinfection ho non- ”top“tmg surgeon, who has examined a deed body, chStaedhhclol. 1 « ’°, has * without having previously 00 S“M hiS ‘“ds water-, BUg