SIGHS OF FRACTURE OF THE BASE—HAEMORRHAGE. 723 and much anxiety has consequently been manifested by Surgeons to discover some special sign of the occurrence of this particular fracture. The signs of fracture of the base of the skull will necessarily vary according to the seat of injury. When the fissure extends through the anterior fossa, there may be extravasation of blood into the orbit or eyelid, or free haemor- rhage from the nose. When it implicates the middle fossa, there is, very frequently, fracture of the petrous portion of the temporal bone, with rupture of the tympanic membrane, and then there will be bleeding or a watery dis- charge from the ears. When the 'posterior fossa is the seat of injury, the signs are more equivocal, unless the fissure extend forwards to the petrous portion of the temporal bone, when the more characteristic signs will occur. In some cases, discoloration of the skin from extravasated blood behind the mastoid process and at the back of the neck, when there has been no direct injury in that situation, may indicate the presence of a fracture. There are two signs, the occurrence of which, separately or together, leads to strong presumptive evidence of the existence of this kind of fracture. 1. The Escape of Blood from the interior of the Cranium through the ears, nose, or into the orbit; and 2. The Discharge of a Serous Fluid from the Ears, and occasionally from other parts in connection with the base of the skull. 1. The occurrence of Bleeding from one or both Ears after an injury of the head cannot by itself be considered a sign of much importance, as it may arise from any violence by which the membrana tympani is ruptured, or the ; cartilage of the piuna separated from the bone, without the skull being neces- sarily fractured. If, however, the haemorrhage be considerable, trickling slowly out of the external auditory meatus in a continuous stream, if the blood with which the external ear is filled pulsate, and more especially if the bleeding last for three or four hours and be associated with other symptoms indicative of serious mischief within the head, and if it have been occasioned by a degree of violence sufficient to fracture the skull, we may look upon the hemorrhage as strong evidence that a fracture of the base, extending into the petrous portion of the temporal bone, has taken place, and that, perhaps, one of the venous sinuses in its neighbourhood is torn. The evidence, however, is only presumptive ; it is not positive as to fracture of the base of the skull through its petrous portion, nor indeed of any 'intracranial injury whatever. Copious haemorrhage from the ear to the extent of many ounces has been known to occur from a fracture of the anterior and inferior part of the meatus auditorius externus, in consequence of the condyle of the lower jaw beiim forcibly driven up against it, the jaw itself having been fractured. Haemorrhage into the Areolar Tissue of the Orbit and Eyelid, giving rise to extensive ecchymosis of the lid, possibly with protrusion of the eye-ball itself, often accompanies fracture of the orbital plate of the frontal bone The ecchymosis that occurs in these cases arises from the filtration of r from the interior of the skull, through the fracture, into the loose areolar tissue adjacent to the injured bone. It differs remarkably in appear- ance from that resulting from a direct blow upon the eyelid—from a “black eye. ^ In the latter case there is bruising of the skin, and the ecchymosis is m a great measure cutaneous, of a reddish-purple colour. In the ecchymosis rom lacture, the haemorrhage is entirely subcutaneous and subconjunctival; ere is probably no bruising of the eyelid, but this is tense, greatly swollen, 0 a lush-purple colour. The extravasation appears under the ocular 3 a 2