ARREST OF ARTERIAL II/EMORRIIAGE. 436 bursts forth. It has long been recognized that the finer the ligature, the more safely does it occlude the vessel, provided it be of sufficient strength to di vide the inner and middle coats when it is tightened The thicker the ligature, the more irritation it causes, and the more speedily it ulcerates through the external coat of the artery. . , If the ligature be absorbable it should, as before stated, give rise to no suppuration in its immediate neighbourhood. It may, however, fail to Fove unirritating, first if it be improperly prepared, and secondly, if it be all owl to come in contact with decomposing discharges. The absorbable hgafom» present also the danger of premature softening, in consequence of which the support of the constricted external coat is taken away from the soft new tissue closing the vessel, before it is sufficiently strong to resist the blood-pressure W1$^CausTdmndmt on the mode of application of the ligature — Secondary haemorrhage may result from sloughing of the vessel, if, m the process cleaning it for passing the ligature, it be too widely separated from the sheath. On the other hand, if the artery be insufficiently cleaned and other Btr^tures as pieces of muscle or a neighbouring nerve, be included m the fixture tin vessel is seldom safely occluded; first, because its coats are not properly dmded, and secondly, because of the more extensive sloughing and u ceration rat- ing from the inclusion of so large a mass m the noose of the hgature. \\ itl. absorbable ligatures the dangers arising from imperfect cleaning are, pa P . less as the ligature does not separate by ulcerating through the mass included in its noose; but no Surgeon would on this account relax his endeavours to clean an artery perfectly, even when using an absorbable hgature. The wound of a collateral branch immediately above the hgature, though does not perhaps give rise to troublesome hemorrhage at the ime will, as I have sem, cause furious bleeding as the collateral circulation becomes GSfc3bl^t dependent upon the anatomical conditions of an artery ai liciatured.—The rush of Mood through a neighbouring trunk or collateral immediately above the ligature has been considered as likely to interfere with ™ormatL of the internal plug ; but too much importance should not be attached to this, for Porter has tied the carotid successfully withm one-eij of an inch of the brachio-cephalic artery; Bellingham lias ligatured the ex in n friac close to its origin ; and Aston Key, the subclavian a large branch, without secondary haemorrhage ensuing. But,^although he ligature may be safely applied near a branch on its proximal side I hmk. 0* the Presence of a collateral branch in close proximity to the distal side of lie ligature—more especially if it be one that serves to carry on the miastonios ^ circulation—will be found to have a decided tendency to prevent the occl^ of the distal end of the artery, and thus to favour the occurrence o ^Secondary haemorrhage is more liable to occur when an arteiy is tied in its continuity, than when it is completely dividech This is■prohabty d ^ lh%l0nSit“ °s divided “/is for