VENEREAL DISEASES. ii3° the consequence of constitutional syphilis, one or other, or both of the parents if both are at fault, should be put upon a mercurial course ; and thus the recurrence of this accident may be prevented. The Curative Treatment as regards the child is extremely simple. It should be nursed by its mother, if she have sufficient milk and is in good health. If this is impossible, it should be brought up by hand, and must not be given to a wet-nurse, lest it infect her. (See p. 1082.) The child must then be put under the influence of mercury, which in these cases produces the most unmistakeable effects ; indeed, the ready manner in which all disease may be eradicated from the system of a syphilitic child by this mineral, is perhaps one of the strongest proofs that can be adduced of the specific character of its action on the venereal poison. The mercury may be given by the mouth in the form of small doses of grey powder ; but, as it often purges the child when administered in this way, Sir Benjamin Brodie has recom- mended its introduction into the system by inunction, which process I invari- ably employ, and have found it a most successful mode of treating the disease. The most convenient plan is, as recommended by Brodie, to spread a drachm of mercurial ointment on the under part of a flannel roller stitched round the thigh just above the knee, and to renew this every day. The treatment should be continued until all rash and snuffling have disappeared, when, the mercury having been discontinued, the cure may be perfected by the administration of small doses of iodide of potassium in milk or cod-liver oil. The skin must be kept in a healthy state by a hot-bath every day. Occasion- ally the cutaneous manifestations of infantile syphilis are complicated with, and obscured by, some of the common diseases of the skin incident to early childhood ; more particularly with eczema impetiginodes of the head, face, and body. In these circumstances, the diagnosis may not be easy, though the history of the case, the concomitant appearance of two forms of the disease, and the existence of snuffling and cachexy, tend to establish it. The eczema also, in these circumstances, is browner and more squamous than usual. In cases such as these, the best plan is to treat the syphilitic affection first with the mercurial inunction, and then to put the child under a mild course of the liquor hydrargyri et arsenici iodidi, one to two minims for a dose, keeping it at the same time on a good nourishing diet.