ioSS VENEREA L DISEA SES. iilso from drinking or using a spoon after a syphilized person, or smoking the same pipe. These chancres are often very deceptive, the raised and indurated base causing them closely to resemble epithelioma. In a case of chancre of the cheek lately admitted into University College Hospital, the sore was as large as a half-a-crown, and raised abruptly above the surrounding skin for about a quarter of an inch. The sore was but slightly indurated, and the discharge was serous and bloody, mixed with a little pus. The surface had a great tendency to become covered with scab. In other cases the induration may be of the same character as in the Hunterian sore on the penis. The diagnosis can usually be made without difficulty by attention to the foul surface, hard base and persistent character of the sore, and by the invariable presence of indolent enlargement of the lymphatic glands from its earliest appearance. Later on the appearance of skin-eruptions will make the nature of the case evident. From cancer labial chancre can usually be distinguished by the age and sex of the patient, as it is most commonly met with in girls and young women who have not reached the age for cancer ; indeed, in women at any period of life cancer of the lip is extremely rare. Chancres have been met with even on the tongue. I would especially caution the Surgeon not to be misled in his diagnosis by the modest look or the respectable station in life of the infected woman. In this, as in all other cases of venereal disease, he must make an independent diagnosis without regard to social considerations or to the statement, often purposely misleading, made by the patient. Syphilis not unfrequently occurs amongst Surgeons and accoucheurs as a consequence of inoculation on the fingers, during the dressing of a venereal sore, or the delivery of a diseased woman ; and is occasionally met with also among non-professional persons. It usually appears as a small sore by the side of the nail and under its matrix, with much swelling, redness, and pain in the finger, which becomes bulbous : pain and swelling of the axillary glands soon follow. If the nature of the disease be not recognized, the ulceration will creep round the tip of the finger, have a foul and sloughy look, with exquisite tenderness, and, resisting all ordinary treatment, may be set down as malig- nant ; on which supposition amputation of the finger has been proposed and practised. I have seen ai least four cases in which this extreme measure has been proposed, but in which, by a timely discovery of the true nature of the affection, the finger was saved. Variations in the Sore as the result of Irritation.—As the result of irritation, the normal serous discharge of a hard chancre becomes purulent. If the irritation be more severe, and especially if inefficient caustics, as nitrate of silver, have been applied, the surrounding tissues become infiltrated and swollen so as to obscure the characteristic sharply defined edge of the indura- tion. In such cases it is often impossible to make a diagnosis until the inflammation has been subdued by proper treatment. Hard sores rarely if ever assume a sloughing form. Phagedamic ulceration is, however, not uncommon {vich, p. 1070). Prognosis from the Appearance of the Primary Sore.—Every patient who has the initial manifestation is already suffering from constitutional syphilis, and nothing can prevent his suffering from secondary symptoms. These may be so slight as to be scarcely noticeable, or so severe as to endanger life. Much induration is often thought to precede a severe course of syphilis.