POST-MORTEM APPEARANCES IN PICE MI A. 951 surface of the lung-. It occasionally happens that all stages of development of the “secondary abscesses” may be observed in the same lung'. .1 he eailiest stage is merely the effect of embolism. A small terminal artery having been obliterated by an embolus, the wedge-shaped portion of lung it supplies becomes intensely engorged with blood by regurgitation, from the surrounding parts ; the walls of the vessels soften and haemorrhage into the lung-tissue and air-vesicles takes place. The portion of the lung-tissue then presents the ordinary appearance of so-called pulmonary apoplexy ; it is dark red on section, like damson-cheese, airless, and solid, but breaking down readily on pressure. The consolidated portion is spoken of as a “ haemorrhagic infarct.” If this were due to the lodgment of an unirritating embolus, the extravasated blood and the tissues which have been deprived of their blood-supply, would be gradually absorbed, leaving a depressed cicatrix in the lung tissue. In pyaemia, however, the embolus is infective and intensely irritating; conse- quently the vessel in which it is lodged sloughs, and the mischief extending to the surrounding tissues, the whole infarct softens and breaks down. The products of this process soaking away into the surrounding lung-tissue cause inflammation, with exudation into the air-vesicles identical in its pathological appearances with ordinary croupous pneumonia. Occasionally all these conditions may be recognized in one infarct. On making a section through it a gray or yellowish fluid may be seen in the centre ; it is not pus, being produced by gangrenous softening of the central parts of the infarct. Round this is a zone of pulmonary apoplexy, then follows a paler solid area, having the ordinary appearances of pneumonic consolidation, and round this again a zone of hyperaemia, in which the vesicles still contain air. As the area of softening extends, the cavity becomes a true abscess, containing pus mixed with the debris of the tissues of the lung, and the wedge-shaped form is then lost. The size of these abscesses varies greatly, from less than that of a pea to two or three inches in diameter. The pleurisy which accom- panies, and in most cases results from, the formation of the abscesses is often veiy severe. The pleural surface is thickly covered with patches of inflamma- tory lymph, whilst quantities of deeply coloured turbid fluid are usually collected into the pleural sac. Sometimes, though rarely, small collections of pus are found scattered through the substance of the organ without affecting its pleural surface, or giving rise to any of the wedge-shaped masses above described. The Liver frequently presents no abnormal appearances, even in severe cases, where the lungs have suffered most markedly ; in others, again, it is the seat of many abscesses, which often attain a very large size. They have much the same character, both as to form and position, as those in the lungs, and are usually surrounded by a zone of haemorrhage and congestion. When, however, they occur without any deposits in the lungs preceding them, they may appear as simple collections of pus, having a more or less branched arrange- ment. This form of pyannic abscess does not appear to be the result of arterial embolism. In cases in "which the general blood-poisoning is more marked than the local effects, the liver is found to be swollen, its structure is soft and more friable than usual, and its colour uniform and muddy. ■ e epithelium is found on microscopic examination to be excessively granular. 1 he Spleen is usually large, soft, very friable, and often of an almost pulpy