SPECIAL FRACTURES. 56- Conuniinited Fracture of the Clavicle is the result of severe and direct violence. It is a dangerous accident, as the subclavian vein and , adjacent plexus of nerves, or the upper part of the pleura, may lie seriously injured. In a case that was under iny care, the subclavian vein was apparently wounded, great extravasation of blood taking place about the shoulder and neck, and the circulation through the veins of the arm being so much interfered with as to threaten gangrene. The case, however, did per- fectly well under the continuous application of evaporating lotions to the shoulder, and attention to the position of the arm. But in another case, o-ano-rene of the arm took place, leading to amputation at the shoulder- joint. The patient died of pyaemia, and a fragment about one inch long separated from the posterior part of the clavicle was found lying upon, and compressing, the subclavian vein. . . „ Dr John (Me relates a case of comminuted fracture of the clavicle from direct violence, in which the right internal jugular vein was lacerated by one of the fragments, there being great extravasation of blood. . . I have "known only one instance in which the subclavian artery was injured. It occurred at University College Hospital. The left clavicle was broken by direct violence, a cart-wheel passing over the shoulder. An aneurism rapidly formed in the subclavian artery, whether by direct injury or as the result of severe strain was however uncertain. C. Heath, under whose care the patient was, amputated at the shoulder-joint. Compound Fracture of the Clavicle can of course be produced only by direct violence, and in such cases any amount of injury may be done to the sublying and neighbouring parts by the same violence that breaks the bone or by fragments driven in. The vein, artery, or nerves may be injured and then liability to injury will, for obvious anatomical reasons be in the order named. Treatment of Simple Fracture of the Clavicle.—There are few frc - Hires for the cure of which so great a variety of ingenious and complicated contrivances has been devised, as those of the clavicle, and there are few m which so much ingenuity has been displayed in yarn ; for. however perfect the apparatus may appear to be, it seldom answers the purpose intended, v z, cul-e the fracture without deformity. I believe that more may be done with a little skill and patience by simple means, than by the most elaborate mechanical C°Whlnnthe fracture occurs at the tip of the acromial end of the figure-of-8-bandage round the shoulders, and keeping the arm ^ prevent the tendency to rotation of the shoulder :or*.a is broken between the coraco-clavicular ligaments there is but little displa ment and the same treatment will suffice. . . decd But when the fracture is situated towards the middle of the 0 , at any point to the inside of these ligaments, the management is m difficult and numerous methods of treating it have been imenei. - obiects ’aimed at in all are to draw the outer fragment outwards to foi“ S cud backwards, and by supporting tl.c weight of the hmb to corn** the displacement downwards. It is impossible to mention here more than the three prinei- “fda^ck wedge-shaped cushion with its broad end