POISONED WOUNDS. J££? ££& i - — »'■ 36S considerable local disturbance in certain states of the constitution; so, also, those operation- and dissection-wounds which are ragged and torn, such as are made by spicula of bone or the teeth of a saw, are peculiarly troublesome. 2. Putrid Animal Matter is always irritating, but, as has before been pointed out, putrefaction cannot attack living tissues, and the effect produced is consequently limited to the local irritation caused by the chemical, products of the process. A small puncture, which if made with a clean knife, would heal by the first intention, may, if exposed to the irritation of putrid animal matter, inflame and suppurate, forming a small ulcer : but, unless the general health be seriously impaired, no further trouble is likely to occur. The worst effects of dissection-wounds result from those received before putrefaction has set in, and the most dangerous wounds more commonly occur in post mortem inspections made a few hours after death. Dissecting-room investiga- tions on parts in an advanced stage of decomposition are practically free from 3^ The worst forms of post mortem wounds arise from the inoculation of the Specific Virus of some infective inflammation, such as erysipelas, pyaemia, and septicaemia, and more especially from punctures received in examining the bodies of those who have died of diffuse peritonitis following parturition or the operation for hernia. The virus is contained in the exudation fluids from the unhealthy inflammation, and its nature has already been alluded, to when discussing the causes of inflammation. The fluids capable of causing these serious poisoned wounds invariably contain microscopic organisms-usually micrococci, occasionally bacilli ; and the great majority of pathologists believe them to be either the actual virus, or to be inseparably connected with its production The diminution of the intensity of the poison when putrefaction sets in is supposed to be due to altered conditions after death, which are more favourable to the development of the ordinary bacteria of putrefaction and less favourable to the growth of the. specific organisms which uerish However, it is to be explained, the fact is undoubted, that the Greatest danger exists before putrefaction sets in. A few hours after death, whilst apparently still quite fresh, the body is in the highest degree infective I, d advald putrefaction lessens the danger. Of all noisons that which is generated in septic peritonitis, whether following ZSicn or operations involving the abdominal cavity is by far the mos; noxious The acrid fluid which accumulates m the peritoneum when that structure is attacked by diffuse inflammation of the kinds just mentioned, appears to exercise a specific injurious influence. I believe it to be mipossi le to immerse the hand in it with impunity if there should happen to be . scratch puncture, or abraded surface of any kind on it. Inoculation would, under such circumstances, inevitably ensue, followed by diffuse mflammat on