INJURY OF NERVES IN FRACTURED HUMERUS. 573 by flexing and pronating the fore-arm, it it be the internal condyle that has ;.j| been detached. . The Treatment of all these injuries must be conducted on very similar prin- ij ciples. The swelling and inflammatory action, which rapidly supervene, usually '.j require local antiphlogistic treatment, and the application ol cold lotions, 01 < of irrigation ; the arm being flexed, and supported in an easy position on a i proper splint. After the subsidence of the swelling, the fractured bone, what- j ever be the precise nature of the injury, is best maintained in position by being put in an angular splint applied to the inner side of the limb (Fig. 205) ; the fore-arm being kept in the mid-state between pronation and supination, and 1 well supported in a sling. It is in these particular fractures that passive motion should be had recourse to early, a tendency to rigidity of the joint being otherwise often left. The Fig. 204.—T-shaped Fracture of Lower Epiphysis of Humerus. Fig. 205.—Angular Splint applied to inside of Arm. motion should be begun in adults at the expiration of a month or five weeks ; in children, at the end of three weeks after the occurrence of the accident. Union usually takes place readily. I have, however, seen one instance of an ununited fracture of the external condyle of the humerus in a boy about ten years old. Period of Union.—These fractures unite quickly, bony union being complete iu four weeks, but it is seldom before the end of the sixth week that the patient recovers the use of his arm. Injury of Nerves in Fracture of the Humerus.—In simple fracture of the shaft of the humerus, it may happen that the trunk of the musculo-spiral nerve, where it winds round the bone in a flat groove, may be so seriously damaged, either by the fracture itself or by becoming involved in the subse- quent formation of callus, as to occasion its paralysis. So also when the fracture is lower down, and the external condyle is broken off, the posterior interosseous branch of that nerve may be injured. When the main trunk is paralysed supination is imperfect, and extension of the hand and fingers is entirely lost; the fore-arm becomes pronated, and the hand and fingers passively flaccid, so that a form of wrisl-drop ensues; all the muscles suppiec »y tie musculo-spiral nerve becoming paralysed. Some degree of supination, however, can be done by the action of the biceps. Although 10 eX eusois °f the wrist and fingers have become paralysed, yet, when