GUN-SHOT WOUNDS. alarum may bo interposed, the bell of which rings when the circuit is completed by the bullet or any other metallic body being touched. These various contrivances arc more ingenious than practical, and may be looked upon as surgical toys rather than as useful instruments. Tor the removal of bu lets, - long and strong forceps are required, the action <»f which inay be ‘^ed iy a screw probe. The accompanying woodcuts (Figs. 113,114, llo, 111; 11/ and 118) represent the best forms of bullet-screws, forceps, and extractors. The splinters produced by the passage of a ball through a bone are more numerous and larger when the injury has been inflicted by a conical nf.e- . ball. The impetus of this projectile is so great, and its wedge-like action so destructive, that the bone struck is shattered into a well as split longitudinally, often to a great extent. • _ * detached to a greater or less extent from their connections with he arLd carried out of the axis of the limb. Dupuytren, who was fond of sj sterna tiring, has classified splinters of this kind under the three^ heads> secondary, and tertiary. By primary splinters are meant^those ^ carried completely across the limb, detached from the soft parts and lo no,r the aperture of exit. The secondary splinters are those which aie still attached by a strip of periosteum or fibrous tissue; and.theJsrterj’ are^those portions of bone Whioh from the of separate at a subsequent penod. aWy completely splinters must necessarily vary. lhe purnaiy, wmoii V detached and are incapable of consolidation, must be heated as Q extracted. The secondary, if very loose, must tdso be move firmlv fixed they may be pushed into the axis of the in]meel none a M vd cm the, ma, beconm consolidated by callus, and so serve m ® ; ScSn of the boL. The tertiary, which do not “ Thf rcCn of comminuted gun-shot fractures may be -isted 'ey tte re- section of the fracturedends.« Th. eids thus tatSore be kept in apposition b, metallic sutures, acting to the plan suggested by Howard of the y they maT be In those cases in which small shot are lodged under the sluu, they . turned out by being^cut dwn to rn^h afine KSij?e ^ surged prh,ci“eT As inflammation and sloughing along ie n * established • although instances position can be prevented and dr-am^e ^tly ®tab^d - wjrtl have been recorded of primary union in b without any special mode of fracture or the lodgment of foreignbod.es.« limit in- ^ iuflammaa sloughs avoided, in both civil and