DISLOCATIONS. 6s° ligaments. If the ligaments are move extensively torn, the limb falls into positions quite different from those ordinarily set forth in descriptions, giving rise to those rare displacements which Bigelow has classed as irregular dis- locations. In other cases, the head of the bone may be grasped by the edges of the rent in the capsule through which it has passed, and reduction is almost im- possible till the limb is placed in such a position as to relax them thoroughly. In hinge-joints, the bony processes may get locked into each other, as, lor example, in dislocation of the bones of the forearm backwards, when the coronoid process hitches against the lower end of the humerus. I he false position is then maintained chiefly by the tonic contraction of the muse es. Bearing these facts in mind, the reduction of a dislocation is ehected by the following means :— , . , Mechanical contrivances are much less frequently used for the reduction of dislocation, since the employment of anaesthetics, than loimeily. It is,, low ever, occasionally necessary to employ apparatus calculated to fix the articular surface from which the bone is dislocated, and to draw down or disentangle the displaced bone to such an extent that it may be replaced on the surface from which it has escaped. If the patient have not been anesthetized it will be found that, when the bone is wed brought down by the extending force so as to be opposite its articulation, and disentangled from osseous points upon which it may have hitched, or from the edge of the slit in the lacerated capsule, it will be drawn at once into its proper position by the action of its own muse es, with a sudden and distinct snap ; the muscles of the part being the most efficient agents in the reduction, so soon as the bone is placed m a position ui them to act upon it. When, however, the patient has been placed under the influence of chloroform, the muscular system being thoroughly relaxed, the bon will not slip into its place with a snap or sudden jerk, but is reduced moie quietly, and rather by the efforts of the Surgeon than by any sudden contraction of its own muscles. It is important to note these differences in the mode of reduction ; lest the Surgeon, when chloroform has been fully administered, failing to hear the snap or feel the jerk which he expected, should imagine that the bone has not been reduced, and continue to use an mipropei degr The purely mechanical means for the reduction of dislocations are sufficiently simple : the patient’s body, and the articular cavity whenc.e/^e^a^ ^ has escaped, are fixed by a split sheet, a jack-towel, a^padd(id belt,mr ^ such contrivance, by which counter-extension is practised. In so hands of an assistant, or of the Surgeon himself, or the piessmc o lh , heel, constitute the best counter-extending means Extension may be ^ either by the Surgeon grasping the limb to be reduced and c lav 0 wards, m rise by mean! of a bandage or jack-towel fixed upon the>**1* the clove-hitch-knot applied in the way represented m the annexe (Fffi 2C3). If more force be required, the multiplying pu cys ( o• - £ ^ id, by which any amount of — may r^eSd aiwa tc'FotcctcdUnbeing ohaM b?‘a few tnms of a wet to,lor. The gradually without any jerking, so as to secure equal ty of ^ j ovcrcoine, traction. In this way the contraction of the muscles is & . 3 be set up and maintained.