792 INJURIES OF THE SPINE. menfc of the bone as to compress the whole thickness of the cord, and thus to occasion complete paralysis of motion and sensation in the parts below the seat of injury. This paralysis resembles that which arises from simple division of the cord, hut is followed by greater impairment of nutrition, as shown in wasting, cachexy, and a tendency to sloughing. The reason of this difference is, that iu fracture the cord is uot simply compressed or divided, hut is continuously irritated by the edges of broken bone, and thus not only be- comes incapable of healing, but is kept in a state of chronic irritation and inflammation. If the fracture be above the origin of the phrenic nerve, respi- ration will be arrested and the patient die instantaneously. Prognosis.—The danger from fracture of the spine depends on the amount Vig. 3-20.—Fracture through the lower dor- sal and first lumbar vertebrae, with dis- placement backwards of upper fragment. Fig. 330.—Crush of Cord and its membranes. The result of a Fracture of the Spine. of injury sustained by the cord, and the situation of that injury. Thus, if there is no displacement of the broken vertebra or injury to the cord, union will take place, and the patient recover perfectly ; but fractures of the spine through the bodies of the vertebrae, with displacement and compression of the cord, arc most commonly fatal. When the fracture occurs in the middle or lower dorsal regions, so that the lower portion only of the cord is injured, the patient may live for many years, even though the cord is completely severed and the spinal canal obliterated b\ the displacement, and by the new bone formed in the process of repair. 1 here is a specimen in University College Museum which well illustrates this fact (Fig. 329). The patient was a man thirty-two years of age, who fell lift? feet from a tree. He sustained a fracture of the spine, with the unusual dis- placement of the upper fragment backwards. The fracture became firmly consolidated, and he lived for nine and a-half years afterwards, completely paralysed below the middle of his body. There was no sloughing of the hips or hack, and blisters, which were for some reason applied to the paralysed parts, are stated to have healed without difficulty. He suffered from repeated attacks of cystitis, in one of which extension took place to the kidney, and he died o