698 INJURIES OF TllE HEAD. The Pathology of concussion of the brain is very obscure; so much so, in fact, that the term must be considered to have rather a clinical than a patho- logical significance. The reason ot this is obvious ; lew people die hum simple concussion. In those cases in which death has occuned horn other causes during a state of cerebral concussion, it has been lound that the dis- turbance of the functions of the brain constituting concussion has been due to actual though slight lesion of its substance. In some cases, the vessels of the brain and its membranes have been congested. In others, again, portions ol the cerebral substance, varying in size from minute points to patches an inch or more in diameter, have been disintegrated and more or less ecchymosed. In the more severe and fatal cases of concussion of the brain, the cerebral sub- stance is ecchymosed in a punctiform manner or disorganized to a great extent; in fact, in these cases the characteristic signs of contusion of the brain become apparent. , , . . The Signs of concussion vary according to the severity of the injury to the brain. In the slighter cases, the patient may merely feel giddy and confused for a few minutes. In others, consciousness is not affected, hut the patient feels faint and weak, and is uuable to stand. In the more severe form—m that degree, indeed, which usually accompanies any severe injury of the head the surface of the body becomes cold and pale ; the temperature falls to 9 < or even to 96° F., if the accident has occurred in cold weather ; the sufferer is motionless and insensible, or answers only when spoken to m a loud voice, re- lapsing again into speedy insensibility, or rather semi-consciousness ; the pu se is feeble ; the respiration is slow and shallow; the pupils are usually contracted, but may be dilated, and generally respond to the action of light, and the sphincters are usually relaxed ; the limbs are flaccid, and muscular power is impaired or lost. After this condition, which is the first stage of concussion, has lasted for a few minutes or hours, according to the severity of the shock the second stage comes on ; the circulation gradually re-establishing itself ti e pilse becoming fuller, and the surface warmer. As reaction becomes. faUy established, the temperature rises slightly above the normal stan . , deeree of elevation being in proportion to the severity of the concussio . Scases£ thermometer will rite to 99° 1?. or .»• F, while after more severe injuries it may reach 100° F., beyond which point it seldom passesjj cases of simple concussion. About this time the patien c ei y comm y vomits; the straining accompanying this stimulating the heart’s action, and driving the blood with mow^ J brain, thus tending to restore its functions; and we accordingly find hat, aft^ vomiting, the sufferer quickly rallies. In the more; severe cases, the that have just been described are so strongly marked to be moribund—prostration of all nervous an p AMC<1 ° the plete the surface being cold and clammy, as m death, the eyes^ ). Ss either contracted or widely dilated, the pulse ^ Lermittent. la this state the patient may he for f °or(? sc,.iolS slow, and the concussion merging into some other >m 1 1 any tcr,m- affection of the nervous centres ; or, indeed, m some . , 1 • srsiK—-«— - >-»—■«