TUMOURS. 1020 develop. The stronger the tendency the more readily will cancer grow in such individuals, and the more rapid and vigorous will be the growth. This constitutional state does not develop a local cancer ; it simply favours its development. 4. The geographical distribution has been already considered at p. 1014. It cannot be said that this has much bearing upon the question. The influences resulting from race, soil, climate, &c., are concerned in the development of many local diseases, such as simple bronchoeele, elephantiasis of the scrotum, fibroma in the ears of negroes and the like, none of which are supposed to be due to the presence of a morbid material in the blood. We have no definite knowledge to guide us to any conclusion with regard to the effect of these influences on the development of cancer; and, in its absence, it is just as easy to suppose that these causes act locally on certain glands or epithelial surfaces as to imagine that they give rise to the development of some unknown poison in the blood to which the origin of the cancerous tumour is due. There are two points in connection with the structure of cancer that deserve careful study, in reference to the question of local origin. The first is the abundant blood-supply that a cancerous tumour invariably demands and obtains : the second is its mode of infiltrating the surrounding tissues. Each of them has an important bearing on its diffusion. 1. The much larger blood-supply that is furnished to a cancerous growth than is sent to any other kind of tumour, except the soft sarcomata, is well known to all practical Surgeons. A scirrhus of the mamma, not larger than a pigeon’s egg, will receive a far larger vascular supply than an adenoma as large as a cocoa-nut, the number of arteries requiring ligature after an opera- tion in one case being greatly in excess of those that spout in the other. This abundant vascular supply is noticeable in the removal of the smallest cancers, but increases with the size of the tumour. The tumour itself is not usually very vascular, though some cancers, as the encephaloid, are so abundantly so as to present little else than a congeries of vessels, and to possess active pulsation and bruit; but the vascularization is in the neighbouring and surrounding parts, in the midst of which it lies. This greatly increased vascularity of the neighbouring tissues is most pro- bably due to the irritation caused by the peculiar mode of growth of a cancer. Simple tumours, such as lipomata, enchondromata, exostoses, &c., merely displace the surrounding structures slowly by their pressure as they increase in size, and the tissues thus have tune gradually to accommodate themselves to their altered position, and suffer but little till the bulk of the tumour becomes very considerable. A cancerous tumour, on the other hand, sends out processes of cells which grow rapidly and force themselves into the interstices of the surrounding parts, and it thus exerts from the first a direct pressure on the tissues it is invading. The microscopic appearances of the tissues surrounding the advancing processes of cells, are in fact identical with those of inflammation. The vessels arc dilated and full of blood, and the normal structures are concealed by an abundant small cell infiltration before which the original tissues disappear as in the process of ulceration, lhe quantity of lymph returning from the hyperamiic tissues will necessarily be greatly increased in quantity, and the lymph-spaces and lymphatic vessels will be dilated, and thus the dissemination of the cells of the cancer will be greatly facilitated should any of them become disengaged from the gencr mass and enter the lymph-stream.