ANTISEPTIC TREATMENT OF FRACTURED SKULL. 735 six oases in which secondary trephining was performed one only died with hernia cerebri. These results are certainly much better than any that had , been obtained previous to the introduction of the antiseptic treatment into surgery. The treatment should be thus carried out ; the wound must as soon as pos- 1 sible be covered with a piece of linen rag soaked in a three per cent, solution of carbolic acid in water. The whole head is then to be shaved and carefully , cleaned with soap and water. If necessary it may be sponged with a weak solution of ammonia to get rid of grease; but, of course, in doing this the liquids used in washing must not be allowed to flow into the wound. The head is then cleaned with the carbolic solution (1 in 30), and this may be allowed to enter freely into the wound. It must not on any account be forcibly ' injected, as by so doing it might become widely diffused in the arachnoid cavity or the brain might be injured. The wound being thus thoroughly cleaned, the carbolic spray may be turned on, and the operation of removal of fragments, or elevation if necessary, may be commenced. When this is com- pleted the edges of the wound must be brought together, pared, if much con- tused and very dirty, provision being made for drainage, and the ordinary anti- septic gauze, or some other efficient antiseptic dressing may be applied. It is not always possible to render the wound thoroughly aseptic, as much dirt may have been ground into it, and some time may have elapsed before the case is seen ; but the dangers of septic meningitis are so great that it is always worth while to make the attempt even in apparently hopeless cases. In country practice it will of course frequently happen that the carbolic gauze is not at hand ; under these circumstances the wound, after having been thoroughly washed with carbolic acid lotion, may be dressed with carbolic oil (1 in 10), and during the time it is necessarily exposed in dressing it may be irrigated with the antiseptic solution. Failing all other antiseptic dressings, the wound may be washed out with spirit and water and dressed with dry lint or cotton wool, in the hope that decomposition of the discharges may be prevented by ' drying. The one thing that is more certain than anything else to ensure 1 decomposition is washing the wound with common water and applying simple wet lint to it, as was formerly the universal practice. All the precautions previously described as applicable to cases of injury of the brain, such as low diet, purging, perfect quiet, dry cold to the head, &c., must be employed as rigorously when the antiseptic treatment is adopted as when it is not. From the success that has attended the treatment of depression of the skull without fracture, by means of pneumatic traction, it has been recommended in cases of simple depressed fracture, without injury of the brain or its mem- branes, to make an attempt to draw the depressed portion of bone to its normal level by means of a cupping-glass, adapted to the uneven surface of the skull by means of a cell of glazier’s putty. In all cases of Punctured Fracture, in which, as before stated, there is but slight injury of the external table, "with considerable splintering and depres- sion of the inner one, or when there is a narrow and deep depression of the bone, the trephine must be applied on different principles from those that guide us in its use in ordinary depressed fractures. In the punctured fracture it is applied, not to remove symptoms of compression which, in all probability, do not exist; ! but with the view of preventing the inflammation which will to a certainty be