SPECIAL AMP UTATIONS. 120 convinced me that there is no special liability to pyaemia after Pirogoff s amputation. After either Syme’s or Pirogoff’s operation, patients can run ; which they cannot do after amputation of the leg in any part. The Subastragaloicl Amputation is another mode oi disarticulating 1C foot. The incisions, as recommended by N(baton, somewhat resemble those for Syme’s operation, but are carried farther forwards, both on the dorsal an plantar aspects of the foot. In operating on the right foot, the incision is commenced about three-quarters of an inch below the external maUedi^ opposite the outer tubercle of the calcaneum, and carried, at hist forwards for a short distance, and then in a curved direction downwards to the sole oi the foot, so as to pass just behind the base of the fifth metatarsal bone, then crosses the sole, and is brought up to the inner side of tbe foot ci-mi- nating at the tuberosity of the scaphoid. The extremities of this line aie then joined by a curved incision across the dorsum of the foot icachin downwards to the lower edge of the scaphoid. The soft parts are then laise from the bone on the outer side, sufficiently to reach the tendo Achilhs w is to be divided. The finger, pushed into the wound, can now feel the uppei surface of the calcaneum, and the line of articulation with the artragalu • The point of the knife is now to be thrust into the ai-ticuiatiou andThe mte - osseous ligament divided, while the foot is wrenched forcibly mwa ds Ue must be taken not to injure the ligaments between the os calcis and cuboic, powei over the former bone would be lost, mien the interosseous hgament is divided, the astragalo-scaphoid articulation is to be ope^ die inner twisHno- the foot so as to put the parts on the stretch, the soft parts at tne mnei sM^d XmLder of1 the hell flap, are to be separated fromft. ««ta. and the foot removed. In this amputation a good, long, usefid stump resultsi, but he cases requiring it must he few, as it does not often happen that there “i“ theqcaleanenm together with the anterior range of tarsal bones, "tltoS £££ ;“;Sg amputation, it occasionally happens that the Surgeon cannot determine with certainty whether the moi bid condi tio "ed iX anterior range of tarsal bones, or extends so far bactwm* - seriously to implicate the artragalus and calcaneum ; and he ui con_ q J unable ^to decide whether the condition of the foot admafa of C1 linn art’s operation, or requires disarticulation at the ankle jo . S doubt 4 be cleared away, and the ,woper ^-1- formed by making an incision acioss the dorsum. rm^ned astragalo-scaphoid and calcaneo-cnboid “j®6 "d calcaneum be SiSn o“the sawpnstead if opening on w'Teveu of a ' po^Ato meVZ:“rX^°f cm aXby at Z ankle-joint, thongh neccssardy