LACERATION OF THE PERINJEUM. 869 stick, or a broom-handle, or the leg of a chair, is thrust forcibly up the rectum by a person falling on it, two dangers may result—extensive laceration of the sphincter ani and the perimeum, with haemorrhage, or transfixion of the gut and wound of the peritoneum, with consecutive inflammation of that mem- brane, which almost invariably terminates fatally. The consequences of such an injury present nothing very special, and require to be treated on ordinary principles. If in the fall the foreign body have been forcibly thrust into the vagina, there may be injury to the bladder or peritoneum; but the most common source of danger is laceration of the labium, and free haemorrhage from this source. I have several times seen enormous quantities of blood thus lost. This haemorrhage is best arrested by plugging firmly with lint soaked iu a solution of the perchloride of iron, and by the pressure of a bandage. A variety of things, such as pieces of stick, glass-bottles, gallipots, tumblers, Ac., have been introduced into and impacted in these canals. Their extraction is often very difficult, in consequence of the swelling of the mucous membrane over and around them, and the depth to which they have been pushed. In order to remove them, the use of lithotomy or necrosis forceps may be required. I11 some cases the foreign body produces ulceration into the bladder ; and it has been found to transfix the wall of the canal in which it is lodged, and, by penetrating the peritoneum, has speedily occasioned death. A remarkable case of this kind occurred in my practice, in which a cedar pencil, five inches long, and cut to a point, had been forced up by the patient herself, a young- woman, through the posterior wall of the vagina into the abdominal cavity. Here it transfixed two coils of the small intestine, and after being fixed there for eight months, I extracted it by an incision through the anterior abdominal wall, midway between the umbilicus and Poupart’s ligament, where its point was engaged in the fascia transversalis. It had occasioned repeated attacks of peritonitis; and, after extraction, death resulted from that cause. Laceration of the Perin2EUjVI.—The perimeum is occasionally ruptured during parturition. The extent of the laceration varies greatly, and influences materially the ultimate tissue of the case. In some cases there is merely a slight rent at the fourchette; in others, the whole perimeum has given way as far as the sphincter ani; in a third case the sphincter also is torn; and in a lourth the rent has extended into the recto-vaginal septum. The worst cases are those in which the perimeum has been torn, and the recto-vaginal septum destroyed by sloughing from prolonged pressure of the foetal head. In such cases, the loss of soft tissues and the existence of dense cicatricial bands render complete union by operation very uncertain. The length of time that has elapsed since the occurrence of the injury is of little consequeuce. . It is as easy to repair a perimeum that has been lacerated oi ten years, as for ten days. A very serious evil arising from ruptured peiimeum is the loss ol support to the pelvic viscera, and the consequent ia a it) to prolapsus of the uterus or of the vaginal or vesical wall giving rise 0 mutability of the bladder. When the sphincter ani or the recto-vaginal sep um ias^ given way, incontinence of faeces forms the most troublesome . yinp orn. Ihe frequent escape of small quantities of semi-solid or liquid no 10ns must not be mistaken for diarrhoea, and is often associated with the uecumu a ion ol hard faecal matter in the upper part of the rectum and the on. ic neighbouring parts are from this cause liable to excoriation;