191 A ANTISEPTICS—GA TIB OLIO A CID. The prevention of putrefaction may be carried oufc by the exclusion of any one of the essential conditions for the process (p. G4). The first of these is the presence of dead organic matter. It is our object, therefore, by drain- Iage of wounds and abscesses, either entirely to remove the putrescible matter or to reduce it to so small a quantity that its effects will be insignificant. The next three conditions, the presence of oxygen, water, and a certain degree of temperature, cannot be excluded from any abscess, wound, or cavity of the body ; but the discharges flowing from these may be either received in some absorbent material or allowed to dry in the air, and thus their decomposition may be prevented; and it will be seen, in the treatment of wounds, that these methods are sometimes adopted. The last condition of putrefaction is the presence of the organised ferment ,• and the destruction or exclusion of this forms the essential feature of those modes of treating wounds, abscesses, or ulcers, which aim at the absolute prevention of the inflammation which results from the irritation of the chemical products of putrefaction. The simplest mode of exclusion of the organisms floating in the air is bj filtration. It has been shown by experiment that the air filtered through cotton-wool is incapable of giving rise to putrefaction; but this mode of preventing decomposition is rarely practicable for surgery. Consequently, our chief reliance has to be placed on chemical antiseptics—that is to say, on chemical substances capable of destroying the vitality of minute vegetable fungi. It must not be forgotten, however, that all chemical antiseptics are in themselves irritants ; and* consequently, in using them, care must be taken to protect the tissues' as far as possible from their direct action, otherwise, although preventing putre- faction, they may act as causes of inflammation. As we shall have frequently to refer to the use of antiseptics in the treatment of abscesses, ulcers, and wounds, it will be most convenient here to mention the chief substances at present employed, with their properties and peculiarities. Antiseptics vary much in their power, in the irritation they give rise to, and in their effects if absorbed; these points will therefore be alluded to. It may be stated that no antiseptic vapour which can be of any practical use m surgery has as yet been discovered. Carbolic Acid is, perhaps, the most extensively used of all antiseptics shmfl^hp7 no ™ans the most powerful. In surgery the purest acid only should be used, the form known as absolute phenol being perhaps the least objectionable in its smell. The impure form of the acid, such as1 is used for disinfecting drains, is more difficult of solution in water, and its smell is very offensive. The pure crystallised acid may be made permanently to assume the form of a dense oily liquid by the addition of about ^ of its bulk of water „“j on&hT1 tak!fla“ tiU the °f wa “is 19 I? 1 0t,the ac.ld\tluis foiling the 1 m 20 solution. The efficient strength of te recuS r,rr an|“ti8eI>? is ?b0nt 1 50> Mow wWch it must not part? mail A lsIeadl^ly soluble m oil in any proportion np to equal ™ - A 81} cenne *„ even more soluble. The preparations used in surgery wounds^o T™ ’1A md 1 in «• former is applied only tofoul to the air fn- PmP0Se 0 c eamn"' ^lcm> to wounds which have been exposed which an onor^0'110 -im,C’ anc^ to fcde mibroken skin round the region in operator’s hanrlR n01i if t0 JG Performed > the latter is used to wash the and to irrigate thtf ^i 8Pons'cs’ and ad instruments during tlie operation, irugate the wound during the performance or to wash it out with at