LOCAL disturbances and inflammation. iSo mation, ounces returning from the diseased part where drachms return from the corresponding sound part. I t is evident, therefore, that the elfect pro- duced on the blood during inflammation may be very considerable, and will vary with the extent of the inflammation and the amount of local destructive tissue-change which is going on. One substance, which must frequently be present in considerable quantities in the lymph returning from an inflamed area, viz., the so-called “ fibrin-ferment,” possesses very powerful pyrogenic properties. This, it will be remembered, is the third element which is con- cerned in the coagulation of fibrin. It is of doubtful composition, but is supposed to be yielded up by the white corpuscles which become des- integrated during the process of clotting of the blood. It is found in con- siderable excess in the serum, which can be squeezed out of a freshly formed coagulum; and as coagulation of an inflammatory exudation is the same process as coagulation of the blood, it may be reasonably concluded that fibrin-ferment exists in considerable amount in the serous fluid that drains away from a surface or an area in which au inflammatory exudation is coagulating, to form the so-called “ plastic lymph.” Kohler, Edelberg, Birk, and others have investigated the effects of the injection of the free ferment into the circulation of living animals, and have found that in very large doses it causes rapid coagulation of the blood in the right side of the heart anc death. In smaller doses it gives rise to a febrile disturbance closely resembling that produced by the injection of putrid substances. The fever varies in intensity with the quantity of the ferment injected ; and, if this he sufficient y small, the animal recovers without serious symptoms after an cle'. ation o temperature of short duration. There seems no reason to doubt the accuracy of these observations. Large numbers of white corpuscles are known ^ to become disintegrated in the process of coagulation, either of pure blood or of an inflammatory exudation. The theory of “ferment-poisoning ' may thus, in part at least, account for the fever that always accompanies simple inflammations and large wounds, even with aseptic discharges, and that occasionally follows extensive extravasations of blood. Only under very exceptional circumstances in the human subject could the dose of the ferment be sufficient to cause the more severe symptoms that have been experimentally produced m amnia s; but possibly the explanation of some cases of death from cardiac thrombosis, t ia is to say, ante-mortem coagulation of the blood in the right side of the heai and the pulmonary'artery, may be found in the presence of an excess of free fibrin-ferment. The fever produced by the entrance into the circulation of the products of healthy inflammation is the only_form to which the tern inflammatory should be properly applied ; but practically, in a very aigcj P ’ portion of cases, the pure inflammatory fever is complicated by a distu ™ resulting from the admixture of the products of putrefaction or of specific infective processes with those of the simple inflammation. In fact the pro- ducts of decomposition arc amongst the most powerful o a pyx‘ e substances, and we have already seen that locally they arc amongs " p"»sos of inflammation. The products of p«tvcfact.on of n.um^l sub- stances are so varied and uncertain in their chemical composition that it l betano to attempt to specify them. This much, however, may be saidto "cd, that, in the ease of ordinary putrefaction, the chem.«d l" and not the microscopic organisms which invariably accompa ly 1 ; are the real exciters both of the local inflammation and of the febrile d.s