SUPPURATION AND ABSCESS. 224 That all the pus-cells are derived directly or indirectly from the white corpuscles of the blood, may now be regarded as an accepted fact in pathology. The proof of this fact is derived partly from the direct observation of the formation of pus, as it has already been described, and partly from the experi- ments of Colmheim, Hoffmann, and Yon Recklinghausen. These observers injected aniline blue or cinnabar into the blood-stream of the animal to be experimented on. It had before been shown that when solid matter in a state of extremely fine division is injected into the blood-stream, the white cor- puscles pick up the particles in much the same way as an amoeba takes its food ; and the dark coloured particles of aniline blue or cinnabar arc easily recognized in their substance. A frog having been prepared by the injection of the colouring matter, inflammation of sufficient intensity to cause suppu- ration was excited; and it was found that, whether it was in a vascular part or in a non-vascular, as the cornea, the pus-cells contained particles of the sub- stance which had been injected. _ . a .. .r Lastly there is the negative observation, that m acute mflammati ms t original cells of the affected part undergo no change so long as they can be observed ; that is to say, before they are concealed by the crowds of migrating ^Characters of Pus.—Pus presents considerable variety in its general character, according to the cause that gives rise to its formation and the general constitutional state of the patient. The pus from an acute abscess in a person otherwise healthy, is an opaque, creamy fluid, thick, smooth and slightly viscid, of a yeffowish-white colour with in some cases a greenish tinge : it has a faint odour and an alkaline reaction. Its specific gravity is from 1030 to 1033. It contains abon or. (o 90 ner cent of water. Of the solid matter about two-thirds is albu- men - third, about one half is composed of fatty mat er, including as a rule some cholesterine, and the rest consists chiefly of sal s with leucin, tyrosin, and a variety of other unimportant compounds. The salts are the same as those found in blood-serum, chloride of sodium- being the most abundant. Pus presenting these characters is termed healthy or laiyariouPsUother terms are applied to indicate appearances deviating from that of healthy pus; thus, when tinged with blood it is called samous, whe thin and ^watery, ichorous ; when containing cheesy-looking flakes con i/ and when diluted with mucus, muco-pus. Besides these, pus presents < the varieties thus for instance, when it is formed in the brain it is of a greenish tint and when in the neighbourhood of the alimentary canal it has a peculiar fetid odour. Its chemical composition may likewise vary undei dffiS circmnstanccs ; thus, ordinary pus formed in the soft parts contains merely a trace of phosphate of lime, whereas that which is formed m connec- tion with diseased bone is said to contain a large quantity of that salt ^ presents other peculiarities which in some cases are rccogmzab e only by their effects on the system ; thus the pus from specific soies possess K,,«» -35* »*• rsr,rir,,r-::.; - *2 is that gives the pus its infective pto- "o/c fact has been cleat,y shown *** ^ "cK contain organisms readily to bo observed by the m.cioscopc. 1