USE OF IODIDES IN SYPHILIS. 1x05 the patient is under the influence of mercury the skin should be kept in a healthy state by baths. In summer there is no objection to a morning cold bath, but in winter some warm water should be added to prevent a chill. I he patient should wear flannel next his skin both in summer and winter. A chill during a course of mercury may cause a violent attack of diarrhoea, sometimes accompanied by much griping pain and vomiting. The diet should be plain, and anything likely to irritate the bowels, as excess of fresh fruit or made dishes, should be avoided. Beer is usually not to be recom- mended, as it is apt to cause purging. Claret is perhaps the best alcoholic drink that can be taken. All these things must, however, be left, to a certain : extent, to the common sense and experience of the patient. Moderate exercise is of the greatest value, but should not be carried to the extent of fatigue. Other Drugs used in the Treatment of Syphilis.—In the primary and early secondary stages of syphilis no drug but mercury can be said to exert any real influence on the disease ; but in the later secondary and tertiary stages the preparations of iodine produce effects not less clearly marked. [Iodine is supposed to be a specific in a minor degree to mercury. It has also been proved that in patients who have undergone a course of mercurial treatment iodine liberates the mercury which may have become stored up in the body, the mercury re-appearing in the mine and other secretions on the IE administration of the drug. Its effects are not, however, due to this, for they are well marked in patients who have never taken any mercury during the early stages. The preparations of iodine are most useful in the various forms of visceral syphilis, in syphilitic disease of the nervous centres, and in treatment of gummata wherever they may be situated. Useful as iodide of potassium is, however, I do not believe that syphilis can be eradicated from the system by its means; indeed, I cannot call to mind a single case pre- senting marked tertiary symptoms which has been permanently relieved with- out the administration of mercury. Iodine is commonly administered, as Iodide of Potassium, in doses of from five to twenty or even thirty grains. It is often conjoined with some bitter infusion, but there is no advantage in this unless the patient requires a tonic. A most convenient mode of giving iodide of potassium is the following : Take a turn-ounce bottle, put into it one ounce of the iodide and fill it up with water ; let the patient take eight drops of the solution in a wineglass of water or in milk three times a day, and gradually increase the dose by two drops every two or three days till he finds by the symptoms of iodism that he has reached his limit. An intelligent patient will soon learn to regulate his dose without the necessity of constantly applying to the Surgeon. The addition of a few drops of aromatic spirit of ammonia is said to make the iodide more acthc. 11 the patient is anaemic it may be taken in conjunction with the iodide of iron. Iodide of Ammonium can sometimes be taken by patients who cannot 1 tolexate the potassic iodide, it may be given in doses of ten grains and upwards, and two or three grains of carbonate of ammonia must be added to i! each dose to prevent the decomposition of the iodide. Iodide of Sodium also has been recommended in closes of five grains and upwards. It is said to be less depressing than the potassium salt. In whatever way iodine is administered if pushed beyond a certain point it V0L> r* 4 B