TREATMENT OF BURNS. 377 remaining 17 cases, 8 died in the second week, 2 in the third, 2 in the fourth, 4 in the fifth, and 1 in the sixth. Mode of Death, from Burn.—When in an ordinary conflagration a person is “ burnt to death,” the fatal event is occasioned not by the charring of the body, but by the induction of asphyxia. Life is mercifully extinguished by suffocation in the smoke and noxious vapours resulting from the fire, before the body itself is consumed. To what particular product of combustion the asphyxia is due, is somewhat undecided. There is reason to believe that in most cases carbonic oxide rather than carbonic acid is the cause of suffocation. When a person is severely and extensively burnt, and dies in the course of a few hours, or a day or two, death arises usually from shock, which is most severe and continuous. D.upuytren was of opinion that during this stage the sufferer died from the excessive pain, and stated that “ too great a loss of sensi- bility might kill as well as too great a loss of blood.” Whether this be so or not, it is perhaps difficult to say; but the fact remains certain that, in indi- viduals who die during this stage, the brain and its membranes will invariably be found congested, usually with more or less effusion of serous fluid into the ventricles and the arachnoid. This I have invariably found in every case that I have examined. In one half of the cases I have found congestion of the thoracic organs, and in the majority congestion of the abdominal organs, more especially of the mucous membrane of the stomach and ileum. Death during the second stage is usually dependent upon internal septic inflammations, more particularly of the gastro-intestinal mucous membrane and lungs, and less fre- quently of the brain and its membranes. If the patient survive into the period of suppuration, and then succumb, he will usually die from exhaustion or pyaemia. Treatment.—The treatment of burns must have reference to the constitu- tional condition, as well as to the local injury. A vast variety of local appli- cations have been recommended by different Surgeons, such as flour, starch, cotton-wadding, treacle, white paint, gum, solution of India-rubber, &c.; the principle of all these applications is, however, the same, viz., the protection of the burnt surface from the air. I shall here content myself with describing the methods that are usually followed with much success at the University College Hospital. J he Constitutional Treatment is of the utmost consequence. We have seen how death arises at various periods after these accidents from different causes, and we must modify our treatment accordingly. The first thing to be done after the infliction of a severe burn is to bring about reaction; the patient is trembling in a state of extreme depression, suffering great pain, is cold and shi vering, and may sink from the shock unless properly supported, u cose of liquoi opii, 'varied according to the age, should be given at once m some warm brandy-and-water, and repeated, if necessary, in the course of an horn or two. mHmn"- ')0t^ offensively but superficially burnt, the immersion of the rpmnvi IU| f WiUm g'Ues instantaneous relief, assuaging the pain and removing the depression. bv tlH>CI)Ve'lC^?U ^aS fa!rly in’ khe patient’s secretions should be kept free inflnmmot-,11."18 1‘^1011 °* an occasional mild purgative and salines. Should any it will bo synipt°ms about the head, chest, or abdomen manifest themselves, ecessaiy to have recourse to treatment appropriate to their nature.