S04 INJURIES OF THE FACE AND ADJACENT FARTS. vasation of blood into tlie eyeball, completely filling' the anterior chamber, hiding' and complicating the deeper mischief within the globe. In other cases there may be haemorrhage into the vitreous body, with or without detachment of the retina. This condition, termed Juemophthalmia, is frequently associated with separation of the ciliary margin of the iris. In other cases, the crystal- line lens may be driven backwards into the vitreous humour, or forwards into the pupillary aperture, or the anterior chamber. In more severe contu- sions the cornea may be ruptured, or, more commonly, the sclerotic gives way, the vitreous body escaping, and vision being permanently destroyed. In some rare cases, the lens is displaced through a rent in the sclerotic, and lies under the conjunctiva. The exact nature of all these injuries is necessaiily more or less concealed at first by the extravasated blood. As a consequence of such injuries, the eye usually becomes inflamed, with intense frontal and circum- orbital pain ; disorganization of the ball ultimately ensuing. The Treatment of these accidents varies with the degree of injuiy. Perfect rest of the eye is essential; for this purpose, both eyes must be closed for four or five days, after which it may suffice to close the injured eye only. _ If the globe is not ruptured, all that can be done is to apply a pad of wet lint over the eye, and leave the cure as far as possible to nature. The patient should be kept quiet and on moderate diet. If there be much pain, a few leeches may be applied to the temple, but the repeated general blood-letting and the free administration of calomel and opium, formerly recommended, are now uni- versally recognized as being not only useless, but positively injurious, ihe bowels must be regulated by the administration of purgatives when necessaiy. In some cases opaque masses and bands of adhesions will lie fomied m the anterior chamber or the pupillary aperture, preventing the entry of light mure or less completely. If the lens be displaced it should be left till the early in- flammation has subsided. If it be in the anterior chamber, it may require removal, and the same may be necessary should it become opaque at a later period, even if it have not been displaced. If the cornea or sclerotic be rup- tured, any protruding iris or choroid must be replaced if possible, and the eye closed and covered with a pad of wet boracic acid lmt, which must be fre- quently changed. The injury is often followed by inflammation and suppura- tion of the eyeball, necessitating removal of the globe. Wounds of the Eyeball may be divided into those that are merely super- ficial, and do not penetrate into its chambers ; and those that perforate 1 * oo'its /I Non-penetrating Wounds.-Superficial abrasions of the cornea or wounds raising a small flap of its epithelial covering, such as may sometimes be 1 flirted by scratches of the eyeball with the nails of children, are extreM painful and troublesome. Splinters of iron, or other metaUiO become fixed in the cornea, and cause constant irritation till they , <- In the Treatment, of these superficial injuries, the first point is to a . . whether the symptoms are due to a simple abrasion or to the foreign body. If it be a simple abrasion, the symptoms will * • lx. relieved by putting a drop of castor-oil in the eye. If a foreign body£ £3,1 must & once A removed. If it be fired «*££££, monly happens, it may be picked off noth the po.n o fa — f1 |r needle, or a “spud.” If it be a ££"4*imbedded, removed by means of a common magnet; but it it ne more up)