85 SUMMARY. foot, 17 ; after secondary amputations at the shoulder, 6G ; of the arm, 31 ; of the fore-arm, 28 ; of the thigh, 80 ; and of the leg, 7G. Or, for the upper extremity, the whole rate of deaths after primary was 15, against 41 after secondary amputations ; whilst, for the lower extremity, excluding the foot, it was 4G per cent, for the primary, against 78 for the secondary. In the American army during the war of the rebellion, the mortality after primary amputation of the thigh was 54-13 per cent. ; and after secondary amputation, 74-7G. In the French army in the Crimea, on the other hand, the mortality after primary amputation of the thigh and arm—amounting in the formei limb to above 90 per cent, was greater than that after the secondary operation. As has already been observed, not only does the rate of mortality differ in primary and secondary amputations, but also the cause of death. Primary amputations are most frequently fatal from shock, haemorrhage, and exhaus- tion, although death from pyaemia and septicaemia is by no means rare in these cases. Secondary amputations for injury most commonly carry off the patient by the supervention of septic diseases. Amongst the secondary affec- tions that are of most frequent occurrence, gangrene of the stump stands in the first place, especially after amputation of the thigh for injury, and more particularly if the limb have been in a similar condition before the amputation. hen, again, erysipelas, phlebitis with pyaemia, secondary haemorrhage, and some of the low forms of visceral inflammation or congestion, as pneumonia pleurisy and diarrhoea-—all probably due to septic poisoning—often produce death. Pyaemia, complicated by congestive and suppurative pneumonia, is the most frequent cause of death after secondary amputation of the leg and arm. .Secondary haemorrhage to such an extent as to prove fatal is of very rare occurreuce. J Summaby. On reviewing the whole subject of the causes of death after amputations, we cannot but come to the conclusion that the mortality is influenced more directly and distinctly than that of any other operation - cept peihaps ovariotomy,, by the hygienic conditions to which the patient is . bjected after the operation. The evil influences arising from exposure to an atmosphere vitiated by the emanations from the decomposing discharges ftom suppurating wounds, and to those various combinations of conditions that are summed up under the one general term “ Hospitalism ” exerciseZ ' a b?armg Up0n the deatll-rate after amputation, that, in order to amve at a just estimate of the probable chances of recovery in any o-iven case it becomes necessary not only to consider whether the operatic°bc doTfor 2 n bC * -onda.72,.etl2l« dtet - in con trover ti Ido I h h° *1 "IV° °*' ,tPe *acfc> lfc remains certain and large city hosniMl " f r ***? ?> mortalifcy after amputation of all limbs in the leaifffe1;; ?reat B"tam X't° a recenfc l*"0d has been at statistics of which* w°'* u Ti ot,Pans’ out of *>656 amputations, the died, or nearly • ^ co1 ected by Malgaigne and Trelat (Simpson), 803 by Bristowe and TTnl ^e<!S° ^ ^ **lle Government statistics collected wive and Holmes show that in 18G1 the amputation death-rate in