LOCAL DISTURBANCES AND INFLAMMATION. 190 infection), pyceraia, or malignant pustule. At present we are not acquainted with any means of definitely destroying the poison in such cases ; we can only support the patient in every way in our power, by food and careful nursing, so as to enable him to withstand its evil influence. In those cases in which the nervous symptoms of fever are predominant, sedatives must be ad- ministered internally. Lastly, certain drugs are used empirically, from their known power of reducing the temperature in fever, amongst the most im- portant of these being, alcohol, quinine, salicylate of soda, and aconite. The application of cold generally to the body by baths or wet packing, or locally to the head by an ice-cap, as recommended by Knowsly Thornton, useful as they undoubtedly are in cases of very high fever, are but empirical modes of treatment, as they attack one symptom only, leaving the cause untouched. No Surgeon should have recourse to these unless it is beyond his power to discover, or to remove, the cause of the fever. The above principles serving more or less as our guides, we can now con- sider more in detail their practical application in the treatment of acute inflammation. The Preventive Treatment of inflammation can be employed only in cases of injury. All injuries of any severity—as cuts, bruises, sprains, or fractures—must necessarily be followed by a certain degree of inflammation ; but this simple traumatic inflammation has no tendency to spread beyond the area injured, which, in the case of a clean cut wound, is little more than a microscopic layer of tissue, nor does it tend to pass beyond the stage of simple exudation into that of suppuration or ulceration, unless some further cause of irritation come into play after the injury. When we talk, therefore, of the prevention of inflammation, we do not mean the prevention of the simple adhesive inflammation which follows an injury, for that is impossible ; but we mean the exclusion of all sources of irritation which could intensify 01 prolong the process or make it assume a spreading form. While describing the causes of inflammation, it was pointed out that in all surgical injuries in which the injured part is exposed to the air, the initants which we have chiefly to guard against are the products of putrefaction and the specific poisons of the various infective inflammations. It was also shown that the cause of putrefaction is not the admission ol the atmospheric gases, but of solid particles which float in the air, and are now ahnost universally acknowledged to be living microscopic organisms, and that the virus of the various infective inflammations is, certainly in some cases and possibly in all, a specific microscopic organism. The means, therefore, that prevent putre- faction by exclusion or destruction of the microscopic organisms, will, in a oi-eat proportion of cases, serve also to ward oil the infection of specific inflammations ; but not with equal certainty, for, as has before been statei, the causes of putrefaction cannot find their way to the putrescible matter bv the blood, while the organisms which are associated with specific miectne -processes may do so, those characteristic of some, diseases being capable ot livino- in the blood-stream. In the prevention of inflammation, it is only the direct contamination of wounds, abscesses, &c., from the air that can c o-uarded against by local means; and the association ot putiefaction * specific infective inflammations is so close that the two subjects cannot be dealt with separately in so far os local treatment is concerned, and lieic, thercfoi , need deal only with the prevention of putrefaction.