227 MODE OF DETECTING ORGANISMS. assume the form of micrococci, but their exact relation to the specific diseases in question is as yet very uncertain. The examination of pus for microscopic organisms has been rendered so simple by the methods introduced by Koch, and the interest attaching to the subject at the present time is so great that it may be well here briefly to describe the process. The reagents required are, a solution of methyl-violet (one of the aniline dyes), of the strength of half a grain to one ounce of distilled water, carefully filtered, and some pure Canada balsam, which has been heated to drive off its volatile oil. The method of observation is as follows: Spread the pus on a glass cover-slip in the thinnest possible layer, and dry it care- fully over a spirit-lamp, taking care not to overheat it ; dip a clean glass r°d in the methyl-violet solution, and spread a thin film of the dye over the dried layer of pus ; after from thirty to sixty seconds, wash the dye off care- fully with a gentle stream of distilled water. A darkly stained film should remain behind, which must be again dried over the spirit-lamp ; then while the cover-slip is still warm, put on it a drop of the Canada balsam, rendered fluid by heat, and place it quickly on a glass slide which is also slightly warmed; squeeze it gently down, and when cold it is ready for examination. The micrococci are distinguished from other granules by their definite round form and uniform size, and by their arrangement in groups or chains ihey, moreover, take the dye readily, while fatty and albuminoid granules remain uncoloured. Blood or mine may be examined by the same process.* Diagnosis.—The diagnosis of pus is usually easy, but some fluids resemble it so closely to the naked eye, that the microscope is necessary to establish their characters. From healthy mucus there is no difficulty in distinguishing pus ; but when mucus has been thickened and rendered opaque by inflamma- tion, and is mixed with exudation-cells, it is impossible, and can never be necessary, to distinguish it from pus. Turbid serum, containing broken-down and granular fibrme, frequently met with in serous sacs, and softened fibrins nus'ceffi S “4?/ mflamed vessels’ cflf. distinguished from pus by the absence of fheroma 18 recognised by the presence of cholesteriue-scales and jA ' \ bj non-existence of the characteristic pus-corpuscle. When pus is Sfbf.ir? ias m,re °f iacteai abscess>the „f this fluid of mi Thflbe T ff a,“! fearei'> with a more defined outline than those andthe “ “'''k “ hal£ the °£ a P—H PoiuwTut’T «* TaSmaJ *> Svpundim.~U has already been cov n dn J0haPter 011 Inflammation, that suppuration is merely a casXtfdTon the d ‘"“T T'f ““ degree of inflammation in Inj the cause of8the slnri 6' T ° ,ving tisslles ^ the irritant which is necessary tint n rlPo p^i Iu 0rdf ,tha| sllPPuration may take place, it is vessels which shall wu °f1damag® s ia11 be doue to the walls of the small the blooffstream^witb^i J° formal adhesmn of the corpuscles, retardation of If the damao-e In cV, ° lencocytes and exudation of blood-plasma, corpuscular exudatim .01-f u 11S P0lnt, mere hyperemia will result without be produced anil thV ' 1 ^ JC/01K.’ stasis terminating in thrombosis will 1 winced, and the process of migration being arrested! suppuration is no « S’lFf in tl,c iln'1 tissues of the body in Vcbo IVuiuhvJcctionskraiikheiten,’’and(Eton’s ’1V,w- 'v- of Koch's work, fe-1 s l.iiioi m the Lritisli Medical Journal, vol. i., 1 SSI, p, 339,