DISLOCATIONS OF CERVICAL VERTEBRAE. 797 Avherc between the fifth and seventh cervical vertebra. Dislocation without fracture can scarcely occur in the dorsal region, and theie is no lecoice case of a pure dislocation in the lumbar region. . . I11 Fig. 332 we have an instance of dislocation of the fifth from the sixth cervical vertebra, -with the separation only of a scale of bone which was adherent to the intervertebral fibro-cartilage. The patient had fallen on Ins head from a van and died of asphyxia in twenty-four hours. The spine may be so seriously injured that dislocation is at any moment: imminent, and yet the patient may live for some days before the displacement occurs, by which the cord is compressed. A man was admitted into University- College Hospital, who had been crushed by falling between the platform and a train" in motion. Amongst other severe injuries he had paralysis of the* circumflex and musculo-spiral nerves of the left arm, but no hyperesthesia.. On the third day, whilst being moved in bed, his head fell to one side, and he. suddenly died. On examination after death, it was found that the second' cervical vertebra, carrying the atlas and head with it, had been dislocated from the third (Fig. 333) ; the connecting ligaments being completely torn through on the left side, so that the head falling to one side had caused fatal compression of the cord. Dislocation of the Occipital Bone from the Atlas has been described; in two instances only—by Lassus and by Paletta. In the case by Lassus, death ensued in six hours, and the right vertebral artery was found to be rup- tured. In the other case, the patient is said to have lived for five days, but the report is so incomplete that little value can be attached to it. Dislocation of the Atlas from the Axis is of more frequent occurrence. It may happen with or without fracture of the odontoid process. I11 either case, the atlas is carried forwards and the spinal cord thus compressed. This, accident is said to have been caused by a person in play lifting a child off the- ground by its head ; the combination of rotation and traction in this move- ment being especially liable to occasion the accident. For the same reason, it has been met with in those who have been executed by hanging. Death would probably be instantaneous in these circumstances. It has, however, been stated that, in dislocations of this kind, life has been saved by the Surgeon- placing his knees against the patient’s shoulders, and drawing or twisting the head into position. This, however, I cannot believe possible if the displace- ment have been complete, as death must be instantaneous, the cases of supposed dislocation and reduction having probably been instances of con- cussion of the cord with sprain of the neck. Dislocation of any one of tlie five Lower Cervical Vertebra may occur. The third vertebra is least frequently dislocated ; the fifth is more- commonly displaced (Fig. 332). These injuries arc usually associated with fracture ; sometimes, though rarely, they happen without this complication. In these dislocations, as in those that have already been described, the dis- placed bone carries with it the whole of that portion of the vertebral column which is above it. In dislocations, the articulations between the two vertebra arc torn open. Ihe supraspinous and interspinous ligaments, the ligamenta subflava, and the- common posterior ligament, are torn through, so that the spinal canal is opened. ie intervertebral fibro-cartilage may be torn, or it may be entire, a scale of the body of the subjacent vertebra being detached with it. When the spine