SEPTICEMI A AND PYAEMIA. 940 peculiarly deteriorated, or else that the hygienic conditions to which they are exposed after the injury or operation are more than usually faulty. That it may he prevented, has been abundantly proved by the experience gained in the i Franco-German war of 1870. In that great struggle, the fact, which had been previously well known to all scientific Surgeons, was established beyond all possibility of cavil, that the danger of pyaemia increased, cccferisparibus, | in proportion as the hygiene was faulty and as wounded patients were closely crowded, so that the atmosphere surrounding them became contaminated by foetid exhalations from the decomposing discharges of suppurating wounds. It was found that, in the great mass of the wounded, pyaemia was developed among those who were aggregated within the walls of hospitals or regular j buildings, such as churches, barns, school-houses, and conservatories, which, I though clean and airy, did not admit of thorough ventilation : while it was > almost, if not entirely, absent among wounded soldiers of exactly the same class who were treated in hastily constructed open and draughty huts. SEPTICAEMIA. The two forms of disease known as septicaemia, septic poisoning, and septic infection, are not always to be clearly distinguished from each other iu surgical practice, partly because the symptoms of the two affections closely ■ resemble each other and partly because the true infective process is frequently H complicated or preceded by the non-infective. They are sufficiently distinct, however, to justify a separate description. Septic Poisoning, Septic Intoxication, or, as it has sometimes been called, Saprsemia, is the general affection produced by’ the absorption of a sufficient dose of the chemical products of putrefaction to endangei life. The milder effects of the same poison are classed as septic traumatic fever. Such a division as this is unscientific, and will no doubt before long he done away with, but at the present time to speak of the milder forms of septic . wound-fever as septicaemia would ouly increase the confusion already existing. . For septic poisoning to take place it is necessary that there should be a j considerable quantity of decomposing matter so situated that absorption o^ the poison can readily take place. The conditions, therefore, undei " i'j 11 | is most likely to occur are large and irregular wounds, such as those resulting . from compound fractures of the bones of a limb ; hollow wounds, such as those left by the removal of tumours; wounds of joints; wounds invoking the pleura 'and peritoneum and large abscesses opening externally iff insufficient aperture. Perfect drainage of injuries of this land so iar nn the quantity of septic matter as to render acute septic poisoning almas impossible. Absorption takes place most readily from recent v oun *-, sc or synovial cavities. When suppuration has set in absorption a ■as 1 much less readily, as healthy granulations take up the poison with di unless the septic matter is pent up in contact with them at some i D 1 The symptoms of acute septic poisoning or eo]U ic mn’x1’c'a^1',^^0 following. On the second day after the injury or operation * Tlc ,L considerably, read,in, from ln3° F. to 1.M* JV» skin is dry, and feels hot to the hand. Ilicie may >e a i there is rigor, but this is by no means constant. The patient fee Is , complete loss of appetite, with headache, a quick pulse, < • *