INJURIES OF TIIE CHEST. 840 within them. Bat although this was the practice up to a comparatively recent period, the views of military Surgeons on this point seem now to have undergone a complete change ; and the experience derived from the great war of the rebellion in America and from the Maori war in New Zealand, has led to the promulgation of different doctrines and the adoption of a different line of practice. In the American war, venesection appears to have been generally abandoned, while reliance was placed on rest, cold, and opium for the sup- pression of haemorrhage; and this practice is said to have been generally satisfactory. In New Zealand, Mouat states that bleeding was almost entirely discarded. Longmore says that, if the patient should survive, the loss of blood by venesection seems to interrupt the process of adhesion between the pleural surfaces, and other reparative measures adopted by nature, while it induces a condition favourable to gangrene, or the formation of ill-conditioned purulent effusions in large amount. If extravasation of blood into the pleura be going on, its further effusion must, if possible, be arrested by the same means. Should, however, the haemorrhage continue notwithstanding the employment of the means indi- cated, Guthrie advises that the wound should be closed, so that the blood that flows into the pleural sac may, by accumulating in this, compress the lung, and thus arrest the further escape of blood from the wounded vessels ; the patient at the same time should be made to lie on the injured side, in order to increase the pressure exercised upon the wounded organ. When the bleeding has been checked in this way, the blood must be removed as early as possible from the pleural sac; for, if it be allowed to remain, it will in most cases speedily putrefy, the putrefactive ferment having found its way in before the wound was closed. Death then may take place from absorption of the products of putrefaction, or should the patient escape this, suppurative pleurisy inevitably follows. To prevent this, the pleura must be tapped with a large aspirator-needle on the fourth or fifth day, or earlier if the temperature be very high. Should it be found that the blood is free from any putrefactive change, which may possibly be the case, the extravasation is best removed by repeated aspirations, care being taken not to remove too much at one time, lest by causing a forcible expansion of the lung the haemorrhage may be started again. If the fluid withdrawn is undergoing decomposition, a free opening must be made from the original wound with a probe-pointed bistoury, and a large drainage-tube inserted. The after-treatment will be the same as for septic empyema. During the American war various drugs were made use of, with the intention of aiding the arrest of haemorrhage, amongst them being tartarized antimony, aconite, gallic and tannic acids, and acetate of lead ; but their effects do not seem to have been such as to justify any reliance being placed upon them. In the Crimean war the Russian Surgeons administered digitalis ; but according to the present views of the action of that drug, its use could be productive only of harm. Pleurisy ancl Empyema.—If the patient survive to the third day, the danger to be apprehended is no longer from haemorrhage, but from inflamma- tion and suppuration in the cavity of the pleura, consequent upon the decom- position of the discharges accumulated in that cavity. This is in some cases complicated by inflammation of the lung spreading from the track of the wound. Military Surgeons formerly recommended venesection as a means both of preventing and of reducing inflammation. Since, however, the pu-t