CO UNTER-IRRITA NTS. 217 is some danger of the absorption of the cantharidine, and of consequent con- gestion of the kidneys, haematuria, aud strangury. This will of course happen more readily if there be a raw surface beneath the plaster. Blisters must always be used with great caution in very old or feeble subjects, and in those suffering from Bright’s disease, or any other serious visceral affection, as in such cases they occasionally cause sloughing. Suppurants or Pyogenic counter-irritants are those agents which are of sufficient intensity to give rise to inflammation reaching the stage of suppuration. The most common of these are croton oil, issues, setons, and the actual cautery. Issues are of especial service in chronic inflammation of the viscera, joints, and bones, before suppuration has taken place. They should be applied in Pig. S6. —Introduction of a Seton. the soft parts over the affected structures, and may be kept open for a very considerable length of time. They are best made in the Mowing manner. A piece of adhesive plaster, about two inches square, having a hole of the size of a shilling cut in its middle, is fixed upon the part where the issue is to be made ; a piece of potassa fusa, about the size of half a cherry-stone, is then placed on the surface left uncovered by the circular central aperture, a square piece of plaster being laid over all. The patient experiences a burnino- pam for about two hours, when it ceases ; on removing the plasters, a black slough, corresponding in size to the central aperture, will be found. Water dressing should be applied fora few days, until it separates, and the raw surface then dressed with savine ointment, or stimulated by an issue-bead. Whenever SXlaST t0 h<3a1’ ^ ^ be kept °PeU bj aU occasional application A Seton is more useful than an issue when counter-irritation is to be applied foilnJin? Tr ort8; The seton ma.y most conveniently be made in the • • AWay ^l \s: 8(’)‘ A fold of skm about two inches or more in breadth is pmched up, and its base transfixed by a narrow-bladed bistoury. The blunt sfik t Z I7"'1 fZZ fchl’eadcd With °ue or more threads of thick wen-waxed f™ pUshe* alonS the back of the blade from heel to point ; and the the wniinrl*2111 iw' l * |awa as the probe is carried onwards, the seton is left in the wound Water dressing should then be applied. hpfovp ulUal,CaUtery )S A eiT successful in chronic inflammation of joints when thprp 10° CartilaSe8 Pas set hi, and it is especially useful use is off-on •r'lca Pam with nocturnal startings. The relief obtained by its nmne iate and permanent. In the application of the cautery it