6 GENERAL REMARKS ON OPERATIONS. exercise an injurious influence. Thus, persons of an irritable and anxious mind do not bear operations so well as those of a more tranquil mental consti- tution Those also of a feeble and irritable habit of body, especially nervous and hysterical women, with but little strength of circulation, cannot bear up against severe surgical procedures, and often sink after comparatively shgh ones • being apt to become depressed and to sink without 1 allying. - who are overloaded with fat are not good subjects for surgical operations In them the circulation is usually feeble ; the wound heals slowly an is P become sloughy ; and general or local infective processes readily occur. Short of actual structural disease of important organs, as the lungs, M kidneys, I know no condition more unfavourable to success aftei opuation. than premature or excessive obesity. , Patients with a high temperature should never be operated on except fo relief of that very condition which occasions the elevation of temPc™^ ® as the accumulation of pus, or rapidly spreading gangrenous inflamnRation o in one of those four great surgical emergencies that “d every circumstance immediate operation ; viz. : 1, dangeious 1 ° [ impending asphyxia ; 3, strangulated hernia and intestinal obstruction , and 4, over-distended bladder. The urgency of these conditions ^ch may be termed the four classes of primary surgical urgency, overrides all other Sidlf td" vidual of a sound constitution, that has never been impaired by excessesof any kind, .hose habits have been temj^te and setawh«£* has been snffloient and of good quality whose mindJiLl bfe and strained bv the anxieties of business or the labours of a professional me, ana "Sence has been spent in nival occupations £ country, is necessarily placed in a far move favouinble positioi^to ^em the effects of any mutilation, whether it be the result of injury oi be mnictec y ihfsufgeoJs knife, than the man whose physical active and unceasing busmess-avocations or piofesnc' ^ so lh,m lhc system is exhausted by Ins anxious laboms s an - earliest poor inhabitant of a large and densely peopled town, who bat childhood inhaled an impure and foetid atmospheic, ‘ J u consisted of the refuse of the shops, or the smi-decompsedoffam the^talU and whose nervous system has been rotated and atti .. ‘ habitual in the dailv struggle for a precarious livelihood, oi ovei - - f lutecrfeute Ve plaoS8 under exactly the same h^i« ^ performance of an operation, yet the results vnll influenced as they must he by their past rather than by1 ®^^“a'Cuisite In the one case, the inflammation resulting from ^ £ ^y for for the cure of the wound, will not and tor- tile healing process. In the ot ici i ma; presently be adverted ininate in some of those secondary affections which win piesuu y to as occasioning death u11der unfavourable livgiein<- ^ 0f Important £r5 WST-ST. SS » IT, obshiele