RUPTURE OR WOUND OF THE BLADDER. 863 In a case of knife-wound of the intestine which was under my care, the patient, who was progressing very favourably, and eventually recovered, nearly lost her life by eating the pulp of an orange on the tenth day. Treatment of Traumatic Peritonitis.—In the treatment of this com- plication, we must be guided by the character of the inflammation. If the peritonitis be localized, leeches may be abundantly applied over the tender part of the abdomen, followed by hot fomentations, and opium must be freely administered, so as to keep the patient fully under the influence of the nar- cotic. Calomel may be given with the opium; a pill, composed of two grains of calomel and one grain of opium, may be administered every sixth hour, or oftener if the patient be not influenced by the narcotic ; and rigid abstinence from food should be enforced, ice and barley-water alone being allowed. In diffuse peritonitis, the result of a wound of the intestine, the calomel must be omitted, but opium freely given. Should it be apparently due to extravasation of fmces, and should there be signs of gas in the peritoneal cavity, with accumulation of fluid in the flanks, the patient will certainly die if left alone ; possibly a chance of life might be given by opening up the wound and inserting a large drainage tube. Drainage is frequently adopted after the 1 operation of ovariotomy with good effect, and there is no reason why it should not be employed in proper cases after a wound of the abdomen. When the peritonitis occurs in an old or feeble subject, our principal trust must be in the administration of opium and in leeching of the abdomen. In these cases, 1 however, early support will be required, with perhaps the administration of 1 wine or stimulants. The inflammatory extravasation will gradually be ab- ■ sorbed as the peritonitis subsides. Bladder. Rupture of the Bladder, from blows upon the abdomen, is not of very unfrequent occurrence. It can scarcely happen when the organ is empty, as it then sinks down under cover of the pelvic bones. But when the bladder is distended, rising above the pubes, and thinned proportionately to its distension, it may very readily be ruptured, even by slight degrees of external violence, as by one man rolling over another in a drunken scuffle or by a person running against a post, or falling out of bed. When the bladder is ruptured by a blow on the abdominal wall, the rent I L8kP.S lllllPP qIwqVB flu T*rvn n*]-» ~~ ~J? i.1 • t • •. INJURIES OP THE PELVIC VISCERA. the organ has been ruptured which is uncovered by mine may infiltrate the areolar tissue between this