BENDING AND CONTUSION OF IIEAD-BONES. 7W , Should it, however, slough, and a large portion of the skull be exposed, exfoliation of the outer table, though probable, does not necessarily happen ; for, in some cases, granulations will spring up on the exposed portion of the : skull, and a covering be formed to the bone. FRACTURES OF THE SKULL. Injuries of the Bones of the Skull, especially Fracture, possess great interest, 1 not s0 much from the lesion of the bone itself, as from its frequent complication with injury of the brain and its membranes. This cerebral complication may either be produced by direct injury, the fragments of the fractured bone com- pressing or wounding the brain ; or it may be the result of concussion or laceration of the brain by the same violence that causes the fracture. Bending-in of the Cranial Bones without Fracture is an accident that may occur in infants and young children, before the bones of the skull are completely ossified. In several instances, the displaced bone has been raised by aspiration with an india-rubber sucker. But no harm comes of leaving the bone depressed, as it will generally recover its proper level in time. Contusion of the Cranial Bones without fracture, occasioned either by ,j ordinary direct violence or by the oblique impact of bullets, is a very serious 1 injury, more particularly when complicated with wound of the scalp. In it ! there are four sources of danger, any one of which may be followed by a fatal i result ; viz. : 1. Necrosis of the part of bone struck, leading to exfoliation of j the outer table, or to separation of the whole thickness of the cranium and ex- Iposure of the dura mater ; 2. Suppuration under the bone, between it and the dura mater ; 3. Pyaemia with secondary visceral abscesses, consequent on suppuration of the diploe around the necrosed point of bone, and the entrance of pus into the cranial veins—a condition to which reference has already been made ; and, 4. Laceration of the brain immediately beneath the ■ point struck, or at the corresponding spot on the opposite side of the brain. I The former condition occurs only when the blow is very violent, sudden, i and limited to a small area, as when the skull is grazed by a bullet. Under other circumstances the chief laceration is always on the opposite side of the ! brain. BThe following statement, taken from the records of the War-Department of the United States army, gives a good summary of the results of gun-shot con- tusions of the skull without fracture, or, at any rate, in which the fracture was limited to the inner table. In many of these there was without doubt some superficial laceration or bruising of the brain. Of 328 cases, there died 55 ; were disabled, 173 ; recovered, 100. The deaths arose from haemorrhage, 2 ; tetanus, 4 ; pyaemia, 4 ; dysentery and fever 8 ; compression from blood or pus, 17 ; various intracranial injuries, 20. In 221 cases the seat of injury is mentioned with the percentage of mortality ns follows:— Cases. Deaths per cent. Frontal bone 54 15 Temporal „ 33 15 Parietal „ 95 13 Occipital „ 33 !) More than one bone G 0