BONES OF THE FACE. 553 face against the out-railings. The superior maxilla} were broken across trans- versely above the line of the teeth. So that these and the hard palate could be gently turned backwards and forwards. This patient died from a splinter of the sphenoid bone having penetrated the dura mater. But I have known several cases of transverse fracture of one superior [maxillary bone do well. In such cases the aid of the dentist is required to tie together the teeth, or to fix the displaced fragments by means of suitable vulcanite moulds. The question of feeding the patient is usually one of diffi- culty and the food often requires to be introduced by means of the stomach- bottle. In Gun-shot-Injuries of the Face, there is usually great splintering of the bone. As, however, the vitality of the part is great, necrosis is not so likely to ensue here as elsewhere ; and the partially detached and loosened fragments may accordingly be put back into position, and will usually become fixed. There are, however, two principal dangers in these cases ; viz., haemorrhage, either primary or secondary, and abundant fetid muco-puriform discharge. The haemorrhage, when primary, usually ceases spontaneously, or on the application of cold. If secondary, it may be arrested by cold, by plugging, and by pressure ; or, if continuous, and from deep sources, it may possibly require ligature of the carotid. The fetid secretion from these wounds is not only a source of great discomfort to the patient, but of positive danger, as, by finding its way into the stomach it may seriously disturb the patient’s health; and, drainage being difficult, he may also suffer from absorption of the septic matter from the raw surface. This risk is best obviated by repeated injections of warm antiseptic solutions, of which the solution of permanganate of potash or boracic acid is the best. Whenever it is possible to reach the raw surface in any way, it must, after it has been well washed, be dusted over with iodoform. This exerts a far more powerful and lasting antiseptic influence than any lotion. Lower Jaw.-—This bone is frequently broken, owing to its prominent situa- tion ; though its arched shape and great strength enable it to resist all but extreme degrees of violence. All fractures of this bone which implicate the alveolar border are necessarily compound, the laceration of the gum causing them to communicate with the external air. In other cases an external wound, as in gun-shot fractures, may communicate with the fracture. Not unfrequently they are comminuted. Fracture of the lower jaw may occur in various situations. I have seen it most frequently in the body of the bone near the symphysis, extending between the lateral incisor and the canine teeth. The symphysis itself is not so commonly fractured, the bone being thick in this situation. The angle is more frequently broken. The coronoid process can suffer fracture only from the most severe and direct external injury, as from a bullet-wound. The neck of the condyle is occasionally broken across. Fractures near the symphysis are usually vertical. Those near the angle are commonly oblique from before backwards, so that a long spiculum of the outer table is connected with the upper fragment. Ihcse fractures are sometimes double: either symmetrically so, or, more requently, one on the side near the symphysis, and the other near the angle. e Signs of fracture of the lower jaw are very obvious. The great mo ni y of the fragments, the crepitus, the irregularity of the line of teeth an of the arch of the jaw, laceration of and bleeding from the gums, and