ANATOMICAL CLASSIFICATION OF TUMOURS. 963 nodule grow in tie cicatrix left after tic removal of a cystic sarcoma of tic breast. Besides tiese various forms of tumours, others are met with, of a constitu- tional and specific character, such as those that occur in connection with scrofula and syphilis ; hut tiese are usually looked upon in this country rather as modifications of chronic inflammation than as tumours. A classification founded upon an anatomical basis not only enables the observer to comprehend the precise relation which any particular growth under observation hears to others that resemble it; but it leads him to trace the origin of the new formation from the pre-existing structures of the part in which it occurs, thus forming the first step towards a knowledge of the etiology of the disease. Tumours are said to be heterologous or homologous, according as they present a greater or less deviation from the normal condition of the tissues from which they spring. These terms are essentially relative ; and it is only to instances at the extreme ends of the series that either term can be definitely applied. At the same time it must be borne in mind, that Virchow’s law holds good even for the most heterologous growths ; this law states, that “ the same types of anatomical structures exist in new formations as are found hi the body generally,” and he thereby denies the possibility of the occurrence of a true heteroplasia, and the existence of specific elements iu new formations, differing from any normal cells in the body. The more heterologous the growth, that is, the greater the departure from the normal structure of the part in which it occurs, the more malignant, as a rule, will be its action upon the system generally ; whilst the reverse, with some exceptions is true of homologous formations. In classifying tumours according to their anatomical structure, they are divided primarily into four chief groups. First, those composed of one of the 1011ns of connectue tissue; secondly, those composed of tissue resemblin°' oue of the higher tissues of the body,- thirdly, those composed of embryonic tissue, either pure or developing into connective tissue ; and, fourthly, those in which epithelium foims the essential part of the growth. Cystic tumours are classed bv tbpmsplvfis fnvmino' a fifrf-li n-mim