534 FRACTURES. the permanent arrest of primary haemorrhage in a compound fracture. If, then, proper means directed to the wound, such as position, pressure, or perhaps the attempt at ligature if the artery can be easily reached, be not successful, no course is left to the Surgeon but to amputate the limb without delay. This is more especially the case if it be the lower extremity that is injured : in the arm, there is a better prospect of our being aide to arrest the bleeding without having recourse to this extreme measure. Secondary haemorrhage occurring in the course of treatment of a compound fracture of the lower extremity is far less serious than primary. It has been arrested by pressure and bandaging, and in many cases by ligature of the superficial femoral. Amputation, therefore, may be delayed in these cases until after the con- secutive employment and failure of these two methods. 4. Comminution or Splintering of the Broken Bone is always a serious complication of a compound fracture. Here the case is very different from what occurs in similar circumstances in a simple fracture. Extensive suppura- tion will set in : the splinters, if completely or nearly detached, will lose then- vitality, and not only produce all the irritation that would result from the inclusion of rough and pointed foreign bodies in the interior of a limb, but, if numerous, will, on their removal or separation, leave the member shortened and permanently deformed. The treatment of such cases will depend on the seat of the injury, and the extent of the comminution. Compound and com- minuted fractures of the femur, may, except when occurring in the upper third, generally be looked upon as cases for immediate amputation {vide p. 344) ; the only other exceptions being when the comminution is trifling, the splinters large, and lying in the axis of the bone, and the subject young. In the arm, fore- arm, and hand, and in the leg, provided the knee and ankle-joints be not involved, much may be done in the way of removing splinters of detached bone, and sawing off smoothly the rugged ends of the fixed fragments. The larger attached and “ secondary ” pieces should be left, as they will throw out callus, and become buttresses of support to the broken bone {vide p. 510). If a con- siderable quantity of splintered bone have been extracted from a limb, care must be taken that in putting up the fracture too complete extension is not maintained, lest a gap be left, which cannot be filled up by new bone, and a weakened limb result. It is better to place the bones in proper apposition, and to let the patient recover with a shortened but strong and otherwise useful limb. 5. The complication of a bad Compound Fracture requiring Amputation low down in a Limb, with a simple Fracture high up. is a serious one. The question that will here arise is : Should the amputation be performed above the compound and below the simple fracture, or above both ? The answer to this must depend on the condition of the limb between the fractures. Suppose that there be a badly comminuted and compound fracture of the lower third of the leg, with a simple fracture of the middle of the thigh ; or a crush of the hand or fore-arm, with simple fracture of the middle ot the humerus : how should the Surgeon act ? It appears to me that the proper coui-se to adopt in such a case as this, would mainly depend on the conditions of the inter- mediate soft parts. If these be sound, free from extravasation, not contused or lacerated, the limb may with safety be removed just above the lower fracture, the upper fracture being treated on ordinary principles. But it there be exten- sive bruising of the limb with ecchymosis or deep extravasation between the fractures, then it would clearly be useless to amputate low down, as not only