S66 INJURIES OF THE ABDOMEN AND PELVIS. Arrow-heads also have been met with in the bladder. There is, in the Army Medical Museum at Washington, a remarkable specimen of an Indian arrow- head which formed the nucleus of a large phosphatic calculus. In the female also, various foreign bodies are occasionally passed up the urethra, and slipping from the lingers are lost in the bladder. Hair-pins, bougies, pencils, pen-holders, and a vast variety of similar objects have here been met with. As a rule, they may easily be extracted through the urethra, which should be expanded by a proper dilator. Rupture of the Ureter.—Stanley has related a remarkable case in which the Ureter was ruptured by external violence, and in which the patient re- covered ; a very large accumulation of fluid forming on the injured side of the abdomen, with considerable circumscribed tumefaction and fluctuation, and which required repeated tapping. In another case, in which the Pelvis of the Kidney was ruptured, a similar collection of urine took place within the abdomen, requiring tapping ; as much as six pints being removed at one sitting. On examination after death, which occurred in the tenth week from the accident, a large cyst was found behind the peritoneum, communicating with the pelvis of the kidney. Wounds of the Organs of Generation in the male may be accidental, occasioned by sharp instruments or gun-shot, or may be self-inflicted. When involving only the integuments, they present nothing peculiar and do not differ from similar wounds in other situations, except in the great reparative power that the scrotal and penile coverings possess. Even when the whole of the skin of the part has been cut or torn away, the organ is speedily recovered. In one curious case under my care, in which a jealous wife had unsuccessfully attempted to cutoff her husband’s penis with a carving-knife, the organ, which had had the whole of its integuments torn off from the root forwards, quickly became covered with a new integument, which speedily assumed the soft and supple character natural to the skin of these parts. When the penis is more deeply wounded, there arc two special sources of danger, viz., haemorrhage, and wound of the urethra. The haemorrhage is usually very profuse. If it proceed from a distinct arterial trunk, such as the dorsal artery or that of a corpus cavcrnosum, the vessel must be ligatured. If it occur from general oozing from the vascular tissues of the penis, it may be arrested by coid, pressure, or astringents. Pressure is best applied by passing a large catheter into the bladder, and then compressing the organ against this by means of a narrow bandage or circular strip of plaster. Injury of the genital organs by self-mutilation is occasionally met with in cases of sexual mania or melancholia. In some cases the patient has cut o one testis; in others, the penis; in others, again, the whole oi the exteina sexual organs. Injuries such as these present no very special character, an require to be treated on ordinary principles, the great point being <ff course to restrain the haemorrhage and to prevent contraction of the urethral oiificc. URETHRA.-—Wounds of the Urethra by gunshot-injury, or sharp in.-tm ments, is a troublesome accident, on account of the liability to the infiltration of urine and ultimately to fistula. It may be recognized by the escape o blood from the meatus, and of urine from the wound. The Treatment ,c0"slf! in the introduction of a gum-catheter, which should be tied in; am 1 cdo-es of the wound be clean cut, they may be brought together by mterriq than is necessary. Alter sutures. The catheter should not be kept in longer