66S SPECIAL DISLOCATIONS. with it; and that it is quite as great when the patient is anesthetized as when he is not. He must therefore enlarge the slit in the capsule, and divide the tense bands formed on each side by the tendinous attachments of the short flexor. This operation is best done by passing a tenotome through the skin in ... ... ^ ,1 n ii. ... mi. -i • p front of the joint, and cutting first on one side, then on the other. The chief resistance will be found on the ulnar side of the thumb, where the' tendinous insertion of the adductor pollicis is probably divided at the same time as that of the short flexor of the thumb. After these structures have been cut through, the phalanx can be replaced, and the thumb should be put up securely between splints. When reduction has been effected, care must be taken to prevent recur- rence of the displacement. This is best done by keeping the thumb bent into the palm, and retaining it there by means of a gutta-percha cap moulded over it and bandaged down. If the dislocation be left unreduced, the thumb will to a great extent become useful, but necessarily shortened, deformed, and incapable of much flexion. In Compound Dislocation of this joint, the bone may usually readily be replaced ; should there be any difficulty in retaining the bone in position, the head of the metacarpal bone must be removed, the dislocation being then reducible with great readiness, and the wound treated in a simple manner.. Dislocations between the Phalanges rarely occur. These dislocations are partial or incomplete, and usually consist of a twist of the second upon the proximal phalanx. I do not think that simple dislocation of the ungual phalanx from the second is possible. Partial dislocation of the middle pha- lanx, which is a very common accident, is readily recognized by the deformity it entails (Fig. 286), and is easily reduced by pressure and traction in proper directions. A ^ cry con- venient mode of applying traction is by means of the toy called an “ Indian puzzle ” (Fig. 285), which grasps the finger more tightly the more it is pulled upon.. The finger will continue to be stiff and comparatively useless for some length of time ; the joint being swollen and tender ; the patient can geneially bend it, but cannot extend it fully or bear any traction upon it. This condition is especially apt to be troublesome and chronic if the patient be gouty, or if his general health ie otherwise deranged, and requires rest and local counter-irritation, with an anti-podagric treatment for its remedy. In Compound Dislocation of the phalanges, the bone should be replaced, the finger supported by a g percha splint, and the wound dressed lightly. In some cases it is necessary to remove the projecting end of bone before this can conveniently be done. ankylosis then results, a sufficiently useful finger being left. Fig. 2S6.—Partial Dis- location of the Mid- dle Phalanx of the Middle Finger. DISLOCATIONS OF THE LOWER LIMB. Dislocations of the Pelvis.—It often happens that, in conscience_of severe blows upon or compression of the pelvis, the Symphysis o ® Bones or more frequently the Sacro-iliac Articulation, ^displaced. Here the nature of the injury is indicated by the deformity thatiosu * , ^ the same treatment is required as in fracture of the pelvis, with which these accidents arc commonly associated.