POISONED WOUNDS. 35° CHAPTER XI. POISONED WOUNDS. A very important variety of wound is that in which a poison is introduced.. The poisons that can he thus inoculated belong to two great classes ; first, the non-infective, which have no power of increasing in quantity in the living body, and, secondly, those which possess true infective properties and multiply amongst the tissues or in the bloocL In the former class the effect is propor- tional to the dose, in the latter it is not; in the former the effect begins to • manifest itself immediately, in the latter there is sometimes a period of incu- ■ bation, during which no symptoms indicate the presence of the poison. Both t classes may act locally or generally. When the non-infective poisons produce • grave general symptoms, it is due either to the quantity introduced or to the • intensity of the virus. The most important of the non-infective poisons are the venom of various insects, the poison of snakes, and the chemical products of putrefaction. Amongst the most important of the true infective poisons are the virus of rabid auimals, of glanders, of malignant pustule, and of certain unhealthy processes in the living human body. STINGS OP INSECTS. Stings of Insects, as of bees, wasps, mosquitoes, gnats, &c., though painful, seldom produce any serious inconvenience ; yet occasionally they may do so, and may even prove fatal, by serving as a starting point for erysipelas in some unhealthy constitutions, or by giving rise to intense irritation from the multiplicity of the stings, as when bees in great numbers swarm upon and sting a person ; or they may be dangerous in consequence of the nature of the part that is stung, as the eye, or the interior of the mouth, or phaivnx, as has happened from swallowing a bee in a piece of honeycomb. Mosquito-bites are peculiarly irritating, and, when numerous, poison the blood, producing nervous depression and great febrile irritation. The venom of a mosquito is very powerful, weight for weight probably more so than that of the rattlesnake. The bites of some insects, as scorpions, or the tarantula in Italy, give rise to more serious and even fatal disturbance. A peculiar train of nervous pheno- mena is said to follow the bite of the tarantula, hence called “ tarantismus; a disease that is generally stated to be peculiarly influenced by music, though this has been denied by Gozzo. , , Treatment.—In the treatment of stings of insects the application of cooi- ino- lotions or of a cold poultice, or rubbing the part with olive-oil, will be found the most useful means of allaying irritation. In some cases more especially m mosquito-bites, or the stings of bees or wssps, touching the part stang mth strong liquor ammonias or potassse gives relief, if applied at once. Tn the . ■ of stings from wasps or bees, it should be ascertained that the sting has n been left in the wound. If so, it must be extracted, and the alkali applied.