719 FRACTURES OF TEE SKULL—FISSURED. [, sionally proved by the presence of foreign bodies tightly grasped in them. Thus, hairs have been found firmly held in the crack, and Hoffmann records a * case in which a fold of dura mater was nipped in a fissured fracture. The rending force thus exerted by the compression of the skull in one direction and y its elongation in another explains perhaps more readily than any other theory 11 the distance to which a fissure often extends, and the way in which it often follows for a certain distance along the line of a suture, entering the solid ii bone again when the suture comes to an end, and also the fact that a foramen, || even the foramen magnum, offers no impediment to the extension of the fracture. In certain cases the thin orbital plates of the frontal bone have been found to be fissured after violent blows on the back of the head, and in these it has been suggested that the fractures resulted from the impact of the brain sub- 1 stance driven against the bone by the force of the blow. If all these different forms of fracture be excluded, but little is left that needs I the theory of contrecoup for its explanation. Although, therefore, Aran’s rule, that all fissures radiate from the point struck, is not absolutely accurate, yet it is so nearly so that it forms the best guide we have to the course of a fracture. Thus, if we have clear evidence that a man has received a blow on the parietal eminence, and he has profuse bleeding from the nose, we may reasonably conclude that the fracture roughly corresponds to a fine drawn from the point struck to the cribriform plate. In a case under my care in University College Hospital the patient had received a violent blow, not causing a wound, on the right occipital region, and was I bleeding freely from the left ear. Soon after admission the respiration became greatly embarrassed without any signs of general compression of the brain. Following Aran’s rule, the diagnosis made was, that a fissured fracture crossed the foramen magnum, and that extravasated blood was pressing 011 the medulla oblongata; a conclusion which was confirmed by the post-mortem examination. Fissured Fracture.—An ordinary undepressed fracture of the skull consists in a fissure, sometimes single, at other times starred, extending often to a considerable distance through the bones, radiating sometimes across the H skull, and in other cases completely detaching its upper from its lower part, or its anterior from its posterior segment. In some cases the fracture extends into one of the sutures ; and in other instances, which, however, are very rare, the sutures are separated without any fracture. A fissured fracture usually results from direct violence, but is also the only form of fracture that can possibly arise by contrecoup. A fissure gives rise to no signs by which its diagnosis can be effected, and often escapes detection altogether, more particularly when the scalp covering it is not wounded, or, if contused, when so large a quantity of blood is extravasated as to render it impossible for the Surgeon to feel the subjacent bone. If, however, the scalp covering the injured bone have been wounded, the existence of a fracture may be ascertained by running the finger-nail, or the end of a probe, over the exposed surface of the bone, or by seeing a fissure which remains filled with blood after wiping the surface, or from which blood may be freely oozing. As the whole importance and danger of fracture of the skull depend, not upon the injury that the bone has sustained, but on the concomitant or secon- ■ dary lesions of which the contents of the cranium may be the seat, no special