INJURIES OF TIIE HEAD. 740 vasated blood may have forced its way into tho substance of the brain., and even have burst into the lateral ventricle ; but this is veiy laic. If the patient survive beyond the third day, marked inflammatory changes may be found at the injured spot; this is especially the case in lacerations due to penetrating wounds or accompanying compound fractures in which the dura-mater is torn. In these cases the brain-substance is softer than natural at the injured spot, and is washed away readily with a stream of water. At the injured part are the remains of the extravasated blood ; round about it the brain substance is redder than natural. In addition to the local mischief, the whole brain usually presents the appearances before mentioned, as indi- cating meningo-encephalitis; the pia-mater is gorged with blood, and nihl- trated with greenish, puriform, inflammatory exudation, starting horn the injured spot and extending more or less widely in all directions ; there is a slight excess of cerebrospinal fluid in some cases, but in others the surface is almost dry, and the convolutions are slightly flattened from swelling o tie brain; the grey matter is everywhere redder than natural, the red points seen in sections of the white substance are too numerous, and the ventricles o ten contain an excess of fluid. Supposing the patient to have escaped the imme- diate dangers of acute local inflammation and meningo-encephalitis, it is still possible that death may occur at a later period from softening round the injured spot. This softening is a result of the interference with the cutula tion from the injury to the vessels and the consequent hemorrhage, anc o the local inflammation following the injury. As the effect of thisthe W tissue and the inflammatory exudation together undergo fatty degeneration, formino- a yellowish pulpy mass, which washes away readily under a stiea water, the condition being known as yellow softening. The microscope shows innumerable fatty granules and granular cells, with sometimes recognizable debris of the nerve-fibres of the white matter. It is possible that recovery may take place even after softening of an area of some size, t le egenei » . tissue being absorbed and a small superficial defect left m the surface '“'teases in which recovery takes place without these unMt ctogjs small tough, opaque scar, depressed below the surface s><?“ .“^frit which the membranes become firmly adherent. In the centre of the c«tm may be a darker patch containing crystals of h^matoidm mdrratmg^ haemorrhagic origin. If much blood have been extravasated into the cavity of the arachnoid, it occasionally happens that, msteac 0 often absorbed, it becomes decolourized and partly organizcd foi „ k be very readily determined. , , • t cri.p merely those The ordinary symptoms of laceration of tie r. * Mconcussiou of of concussion already described (p. bC )• * ... ^ ^ ^ g iu which the the brain” is a clinical expression only, and probably in all caa.