TUMOURS. 9S4 tumours form an exceedingly interesting group, being of comparatively frequent occurrence, and sometimes assuming a large size. In structure, a chondroma closely resembles normal hyaline cartilage (Fig. 371). The cells vary much in size and shape. In the most typical form they are large to inch), round, oval or polygonal in shape, contain a single large nucleus and nucleolus, and arc sometimes inclosed in a capsule as in normal cartilage. Occasionally the cells are found to be irregular in shape and Fig. 371.—Encliondroma (1SS diam.). From a small tumour near, but distinct from, an ossifying cuchondroma of the femur, shows the variety in shape of the cells and capsules. At tlic lower part calcification is taking place involving first the matrix and then the cells. Fig. 373.—From an encliondroma of the linger ; matrix faintly iibriUated. branched, the processes of one cell communicating with those of another, as in a myxoma. This form resembles the cartilage normally found only in the cuttle-fish. The matrix may be hyaline, as in normal foetal or articular car- tilage, or contain a few fibres. It varies much in density, occasionally being so soft as to give the tumour a false sense of fluctuation. This softness is usually found in the more rapidly growing varieties. The tumour may consist of a single mass of cartilage, or may be composed of innumerable lobules, bound together by vascular bands of fibrous tissue. It is this vascularity that often forms the most striking difference between normal cartilage and enchon- droma. Its surface may be covered by a distinct fibrous layer, sharply limiting it from the surrounding tissues, or the mass of cartilage may be surrounded by a vascular zone of embryonic tissue, sometimes composed of round, and sometimes of spindle-shaped cells, which may infiltrate and invade the sur- rounding structures. It is this variety, which is more properly classed as a chondro-sarcoma, that assumes the characters of malignancy. Enchondromata are liable to various secondary changes. Thus they may undergo true ossifi- cation. The ordinary pedunculated or spongy exostosis is usually found to be covered with a thick layer of cartilage, so that it might be spoken of as an ossifying chondroma. Calcification is a far more common change than true ossification (Fig. 371). Not unfrequeutly mucous softening takes place in the matrix. The cells in this condition float free in the fluid, and undergo degeneration, becoming filled with large globules of fat. This mucous softening maybe so extensive as to give the once solid tumour the appearance of a tliick- waflcd cyst. In a case of a very large enchondroma of the ribs under my care a few years ago, I was enabled to make the diagnosis by microscopic ex* animation of a small quantity of such fluid, removed by means of the aspirator.