ERYSIPELAS. 922 very extensive mischief may be recovered from ; if, on the other hand, it be depressed or broken by want of the necessaries of life, by fatigue, over-exertion, or indulgence in stimulants, a very slight amount of disease may prove fatal. The most dangerous complication, and one which when it exists almost pre- cludes the hope of recovery, is chronic disease of the Iculneys, either in the form of the granular contracted, or of the large white kidney. I have never seen any patient labouring under these diseases, and attacked with phlegmonous erysipelas, escape with life ; the sloughing and suppuration running on unchecked by any treatment that could be adopted. Pathological Anatomy.—The most characteristic local feature is the dis- tension/of the spaces of the areolar tissue with an abundant coagulable exudation, and the subsequent suppuration and sloughing. The viscera present nothing special. There will be the signs of septicaemia (see septicaemia), or pyaemia (see pyaemia), should these affections have been the immediate cause of death. Treatment.—In the early stage, our object is to prevent the inflammation from running into gangrene of the affected tissue. The fever being at this period commonly sthenic, the administration of purgatives, or effervescent salines may give relief. I have never seen a case in which blood-letting was required ; and depressing remedies, such as salines, must be given with great caution. Medicinal tonics and dietetic stimulants require to be given early and late. As the disease advances, and symptoms of depression come on, a more stimulating plan of treatment must be adopted. In doing this, the pulse and the tongue must be our guides ; as the one becomes feebler, and the other browner, so must ammonia, bark, and especially port wine, and the braudy-and-egg mixture, be administered. In the more advanced stages of the disease, when sloughing and suppuration are fully established, our sole object must be by nourishing diet, and the use of stimulants and tonics, more particularly the tincture of perchloride of iron, to bear the patient through the depression. The Local Treatment of cellulo-cutaneous or phlegmonous erysipelas must be conducted on essentially the same plan as that of the cutaneous variety, though with more active means. The part affected must be kept at rest, must be elevated, if it be a limb, and have hot chamomile- and poppy-fomentations assiduously applied, cold being even more prejudicial here than in the form of disease last described ; in this way, the swelling and tension may perhaps be removed, and sloughing of the areolar tissue prevented. In the majority of cases, however, other means will be required to effect this, and with this view none are more efficacious than incisions made iuto the part ; by these an outlet is afforded for the blood and effused scrum, which, by distending the areolar spaces of the part, produce strangulation of the tissues and conse- quent sloughing. This mode of practice, originally introduced by Mr. I. Hutchinson, is generally allowed to be the most effectual means we possess for the 'prevention of sloughing ; hence the incisions should be made early, before there has been time for the tissues to lose their vitality. So soon, indeed, as they have become brawny, indurated, and tense, incisions properly made an placed will afford the greatest possible relief to the part and the patient, taking down the tension by the gaping, and the swelling by the exit they afford o the inflammatory exudation. Much difference of opinion has existed among Surgeons, as to the extent to which incisions should be practised in t iese cases ; some recommending that one long cut should be made throug 1 c