63 TEALE'S AMPUTATION. anterior and a short posterior rectangular flap, I he long flap is perfectly square, and the rule for its formation given by Tcale is, that its length and breadth should each be equal to half the circumference of the limb at the place at which the bones are to be sawn (Fig. 24). If the circumference be 12 inches the length and breadth of the flap, both at its base and at its free extremity should be 6. The short flap cut from the posterior aspect of the limb, or the palmar aspect, if the operation be in the fore-arm, is to be one-quarter the length of the anterior flap ; in the case above supposed it would be 14 inches. In performing the operation the measurements must be carefully made, and the outline of the flaps marked on the limb with ink (before the amputation is commenced. Both flaps are to be made to include all the soft parts of the limb, and the short flap will always contain the chief vessels and nerves. The bones are sawn exactly at the angle of union of the flaps, without any previous retraction of the soft parts. After the vessels have been secured, the long flap is folded over the end of the bone, and Fig. 24.—Lines of Incision in Teale's Amputation. Fig. 23.—Teale’s Amputation : Stump. I attached by suture, partly to the short flap, and partly to itself; thus the first ; quarter of the long anterior flap is first accurately sewn to the short posterior flap ; the remaining part of the anterior flap is then doubled over on itself, , its free end being accurately fitted to the free end of the short flap, and 1 attached by sutures ; finally stitches are applied where the terminal part of the flap is in contact with the second quarter, as in the figure (Fig. 25). The ! results of amputation by this method in Teale’s hands were very satisfactory. The advantages claimed by Teale for his method of amputating were, that it . provided an abundant covering free from tension. This it evidently does, as !the covering amounts to If diameters of the limb. Secondly, it provides a dependent opening for the exit of discharge ; and thirdly, that when it is healed the cicatrix is behind the bones, and that consequently the patient i can bear the whole or a part of his weight on the end of the stump ; this is especially advantageous after amputation in the thigh or leg, when direct pressure can scarcely be avoided, and when a solid firm stump admitting it is of very essential service to the patient. Teale advises, however, that the whole ! pressure be not borne by the stump, but that it be reduced to one-half, the remainder being distributed in the usual way on the upper part of the limb : I thus not only relieving the stump, but securing greater steadiness of gait and 1 firmness of step. In the upper extremity, however, no direct pressure is made upon the end of the stump in the adaptation of artificial limbs ; hence, the rectangular appears in these situations to possess no advantage over the other double-flap methods, so far as the utility of the stump is concerned. But, whilst fully admitting the advantage possessed by the rectangular method in the formation of a well-covered stump, especially in the lower extremity, we must not close our eyes to certain disadvantages which appear to