SUPPURATION AND ABSCESS. 240 fluid into a part, as in urinary extravasation, it must be evacuated without delay. The pus should always be let out early, before the skin covering it is thinned, when the abscess is situated in the neck or in any other part where it is desirable that there should be as little scarring as possible. In Chronic Abscess, the rule of surgery is not so explicit. Here the collec- tion is often large, coming on without any very evident symptoms and giving rise to no material inconvenience; but, if it be opened, putrefaction of the pus, consequent upon the entry of air into the extensive cavity, will give rise to the most serious constitutional disturbance, setting up fever, or giving rise to septicaemia or pyaemia; and, should the patient escape this danger, the drain of an abundant suppuration may speedily waste him. Hence, it not uncommonly happens that a patient may carry a chronic abscess unopened, without any very serious disturbance, for many months or even years; but when it is once opened, he dies in a few days. When this happens, death occuis from diiect poisoning by the chemical products of putrefaction, not by any infective process in which the poison multiplies in the blood. The effects of the putiid matter being proportional to the dose, if putrefaction cannot be prevented by anti- septic treatment, we must try to diminish the quantity of decomposable mattei in the sac of the abscess. Free incisions and large drainage-tubes do much to diminish the risk attending the opening of a chronic abscess without antiseptic •precautions If the chronic abscess be so small that no danger is to be appre- hended in opening it, or if it be situated in parts where it may give rise to dangerous pressure, the matter should be let out without delay. There are three modes by which abscesses may be opened, each of which possesses advantages in particular cases these are Incision, Tapping with a trochar or aspirator, and making an aperture into the cyst with Caustic. T-n/.ioinn k the onlv plan that should be practised 111 acute abscesses. lor Fig. 94.—Abscess Bistoury.