1067 so FT CUA XCRE—SPECIFICITY. of the disease. Ib may occur on the cutaneous, and the mucous, or muco- cutaneous surfaces, most commonly on the latter, on accoun pai } oreater exposure to contagion, but chiefly from their being- less perfectly pro- tected by epidermis. Chancres present much variety as to their appear anc and to the course which they pursue : so great indeed are tic vaiieies, 1 they have been looked upon by some Surgeons as affording evidence of distinct diseases proceeding from different poisons. This doctrine, however, is entneiy erroneous ; the varieties in their appearance depend 011 seat, constitution, and other accidental circumstances. A chancre, then, is a specific venereal soic 01 ulcer, originating invariably from contagion, and capable of propagation to other parts of the same or different individuals by inoculation. Like all other ulcers, a chancre presents two distinct periods : the first, in which it is either spreading or stationary, in which alone it is specific, and which may be ot almost infinite duration; and the second, in which it has commenccc to granulate, and a process of repair is set up in it. Specific Nature.—Ricord and numerous other observers have shown, clearly by experiment, that pus from a chancre, during its first period, it in- oculated into any part of the surface of the body, will produce a specific soie of the same character. After the inoculation has been repeated a certain number of times the individual seems to become insusceptible to the poison, and no chancre follows the introduction of the pus. Boeck states that this occurs usually after three or four months of repeated inoculation, but the time varies with different individuals ; some uever acquire an immunit), and in all it is only temporary. No pus that is not chancrous can occasion the specific venereal ulcer. A simple chancre is a local infective inflammation, produced by the action of a virus which increases in quantity in the affected area. The increase, of the poison is supposed to take place by a rocess analogous to fermentation occurring in the inflammatory exudations. Thus we sec that the result of the in- oculation of an infinitesimal dose of the poison may be the formation of a sore from which many drachms of infective pus may be discharged before the process ceases. The intensity of the local action of the poison is such as to cause a pro- gressive destruction of the tissues by ulceration. As a rule ib shows but little tendency to diffuse itself amongst the tissues, the area of inflammation beneath and around the ulcerating surface being usually very limited. Occasionally, however, from causes which arc not fully understood, the intensity of the virus is greater ; it then extends more deeply, causing more rapid destruction, the dead tissues not being removed by ulceration, but remaining as an adherent pulpy slough. This form is described as the phagedmnic or sloughing chancre. The virus of a simple chancre may be taken up by the lymphatics and carried to the nearest lymphatic glands, where it may set up an inflammation of the same character as that at the primary seat of disease. Beyond this it never goes, and although we must suppose that it is possible that it may enter the blood-stream, it certainly produces no general infection under any circum- stances. Of the exact nature of the virus we know but little. Chancrous pus is said to lose its activity after drying, or after being kept for some time in capillary tubes. Its infectivity is readily destroyed by alcohol, corrosive sub- limate, and many other chemical substances. No specific organism has as yet been shown to be constantly present in the discharges from a chancre. Origin and Progress.—A chancre is necessarily contracted in most