ioiS TUMOURS. 11. We observe the same tendency to recurrence after removal, and even to | secondary growths in distant organs, in other tumours which are incontestably local at first, such as the sarcomata and the cnchondromata, and which only j become general in certain constitutions under special conditions in their more i advanced stages, and in a secondary manner. The theory of the local origin of cancer is undoubtedly a very captivating one. It explains in the readiest and the simplest way possible most of the phenomena of the disease. But it is a doubt with many, if it be competent to give a satisfactory solution of all. There are at least four conditions that may be supposed to militate against the theory of the primary localization of cancer, and which have been, or may be, adduced as evidences of the constitutional origin of the disease. These are—1. The almost absolute certainty of the recurrence of the disease after the removal of the primary growth ; 2. The frequent liereditariness of the disease ; 3. The varying degrees of rapidity with which cancers run their course and the different degrees of virulence they affect in different individuals ; and 4. The geographical distribution of cancer. Let us briefly examine those conditions, which have mainly been relied on in support of its constitutional origin. 1. As to the Mobility to recurrence after removal, as will be more fully stated when we come to speak of the operation for cancer, there can be no doubt. But in truth this argument can have but little weight, when we consider the rapid tendency to diffusion that has just been described as characterizing cancers above all other tumours, owing to the peculiar mode of growth already described and the relation of the cells to the lymphatics. The fact is, that the cancer-cells have already become diffused through the neighbouring structures, and may have entered the lymphatics or the blood long before the primary tumour has attained such a size as to attract attention so as to render opera- tion possible. If it be admitted that a cancer may commence this process of diffusion at auy period after its formation as a distinct growth, it is impossible to deny that the recurrence of the disease after operation, whether local in the neigh- bouring areolar tissue, more distant in the lymphatic glands, or, further still in the viscera, may be due to the early transplantation of the cells, each of which has become the centre of a new growth. It would be too late to uproot the thistle after its seeds had been widely scattered abroad. One main source of confusion, if not of error, in respect to the origin of cancer has been, that it has usually been studied in organs, such as the mamma, in which its early origin cannot be discovered. In such a situation a tumour must attain the size of a nut, at the least, before it is diagnosed or even detected, llow many months may it have required for the first small group of cells to have led to the development of such a mass as this, and how widely the local contamination and general infection may have spread, before such a size even as this is attained by the primary tumour. 2. The next point is the liereditariness of cancer. As has already been stated, this is undoubted. But a hereditary tendency to a disease must not be confounded with a constitutional disposition to it. It is a fatal error in etiology to confound liereditariness with constitutionalism. Hereditarincss may be local as well as constitutional. The hereditary transmission of a