DRAINAGE OF THE WOUND. 3°5 and breadth and arc best warmed by being passed through hot water. In the case of an antiseptic dressing, the plaster may be rendered aseptic .by being dipped in a basin containing a pint-and-a-half of boiling water to which one ounce of pure carbolic acid has been added, and well stirred so as to ensure complete solution. All superfluous hair having been removed, and the surface well dried, each strip should be laid down evenly between the points of suture, when these have been used, so as to compress and support each side of the wound with equal force; the longer the strip, the firmer will be its hold, and the less likely it will be to become prematurely loose. In removing the plaster, both ends should be raised at the same time towards the wound, and the strip should then be taken off without either lip of the wound being unduly dragged upon. The strips should be allowed to remain undisturbed as long as possible, and each one replaced before the next is removed. In a certain class of incised wounds, of limited extent, where the edges can be accurately adapted to one another by sutures or plaster, or by the combina- tion of both, and when but little oozing is to be expected, very fair union under a scab may be looked for without any further dressings. The formation of the scab, however, may be hastened and imitated by the use of Collodion, painted freely over the line of incision with a camel’s hair brush, after the surface has been well dried, or of Styptic Colloid, which has the further advantage of being haemostatic and antiseptic. The film thus formed may be further strengthened by some shreds of charpie or fine lint. A second or third application of the collodion or styptic colloid will be required, if the crust show any sign of becoming detached ; otherwise it may be allowed to remain until it separates of itself, which it usually does in the course of a few days. Similarly, a piece of lint soaked in blood, or in compound tincture of benzoin, may be applied over the wound, and under it. Union without suppuration may take place as if under a scab ; but the Surgeon must watch for any signs of the formation of matter, as redness of the surrounding skin, heat, throbbing pain, and perhaps fever, and if these appear, the crust must be removed immediately. 4. The 'provision for Perfect Drainage.—The arrangement of the parts should be such that there may be a ready escape for the serous oozing, which must necessarily ensue in all wounds during the first twelve or twenty-four hours after their infliction. This should be allowed to take place from what will be eventually the most dependent point of the wound. In former times when ligatures of compressed whip-cord or waxed silk were used, the threads were all brought out at one spot, and, if thick and numerous, served as a conduit or drain. In the present day, haemorrhage is almost invariably arrested by torsion or by means of ligatures of carbolized catgut, fine unwaxed silk, or some other material, which if left in the wound, will become absorbed or encapsuled without giving rise to suppuration; consequently, it is necessary in most cases to insert a “ drainage-tube ” (Fig. 99) well into the wound, and retain it there from 48 hours to several days, according to the amount and c aiactei of the discharge. The value of the drainage-tube in preventing the acc.umu cl*:ion blood, of bloody serum, and of pus, cannot be over-estimated. is le greatest safeguard we have against the accumulation of decomposable "I 8111 ,^e w°und, and, more than any other means, favours cohesion of its oppjsi e sic cs, and secures the patient from all danger of septic contamination, s use s lould never be omitted, especially if the wound be deep and irregular,