INJURIES OF THE CHEST. 836 violence, but as has been already pointed out, are much less likely to occur in fractures by indirect violence, as in these the pointed ends of the fragments are directed outwards. These injuries rarely extend deeply into the lung. The usual symptoms are slight haemoptysis, ceasing by the second day, fol- lowed by rusty sputa and limited dulness round the injury, and, possibly, at the base of the pleural cavity from extravasated blood. There may be a little coarse crepitation from blood in the lung. Emphysema is of frequent occur- rence, but pneumothorax is a rare complication ; it seems that a little air readily finds its way across the pleural cavity, without any separation of the visceral from the parietal pleura, probably in consequence of the natural adhesion of two smooth moist surfaces. Occasionally the absence of air in the pleural cavity in these cases may be due to the presence of adhesions. 1 he emphysema in these cases is rarely extensive. These slight wounds of the lung in a healthy subject scarcely add to the gravity of the case, and require no treatment beyond that of the fractured rib. More severe wounds of the lung may occur from fractures of the ribs, accompanied by pneumothorax, extensive emphysema and hsemothorax. These are occasionally followed by pleurisy, with effusion or even empyema. Ihe majority of these severe injuries, however, do well so long as the patient is healthy and there is no open wound. Penetrating Wounds of the Thorax with Wound of the Lung. A penetrating wound is recognized by the presence of an external opening, through which air is frequently drawn in and out during respiration, with the signs before given of wound of the lung. These cases are always serious, as from the admission of air from without there is great risk of the occunence of septic pleurisy and pneumonia. Moreover, in a large proportion of cases the injury to the lung extends more deeply than any wound which can possibly be inflicted by a broken rib. Wounds of the Lung bg sharp penetrating instruments, as knives or swords, are specially liable to be complicated by profuse haemorrhage, both into the pleura and into the air-tubes. When penetrating the chest-wall obliquely, so as to leave a valved opening, they may give rise to emphysema and pneumo- thorax ; in fact, it is in this class of cases that these conditions have most commonly been met with in an extreme degree. Septic pleurisy and empyema are common complications, but from the clean, incised character of the w oun and the absence of foreign bodies carried into it there is a fair hope of pre- venting these complications and obtaining union of the external wound by t e first intention if proper treatment be adopted. Wounds of the Lung bg blunt instruments, as in bullet- or shell-wounds oi m machinery-accidents, form by far the gravest class of these injuries. In con sequence of the form and size of the external opening emphysema is a some what rare complication, and when air is present in the pleura it is seldom a any degree of pressure. Haamothorax, to a greater or less extent, a «ays present, and in the majority of cases, as the external wound can scarce y 10a by the first intention, septic pleurisy and empyema follow the injury. t ia sometimes complicated by spreading inflammation of the lung, terunna mg in suppuration or gangrene. These cases are frequently complicated . lodgment of foreign bodies, such as bullets or pieces of clothing The Prognosis in wounds of the lungs is necessarily extremely unfcvour able if the injury be severe. The danger will depend greatly upon w k