atheromatous cysts. 967 natural secretion, in consequence of which the acini, or tubules, of the gland L become expanded, or the duct becomes dilated to such an extent as to form a distinct cyst. The process by which the cyst is formed is not. one of simple dilatation ; it is accompanied by a new growth of fibroid tissue, resulting from the irritation caused by the tension of the retained secretion, so that in almost all cases the wall of the fully developed cyst is many times thicker than the structure from which it originated. If the cyst springs from a duct, the walls of which contain involuntary muscular fibre, this will be found to have disappeared, the new tissue being purely fibrous. The cyst-wall is lined with epithelium of the same character as that naturally lining the cavity from which it has originated. The contents may still resemble the natural secretion, but more commonly they arc altered by degeneration and inspissation, or by exuda- tion from the wall of the cyst. Eetention cysts may be divided into three groups : (a). Atheromatous cysts ; (£). Mucous cysts ; and (7). Cysts from the dilation of large ducts. The two first groups are also spoken of as “ follicular cysts.” (a). The Atheromatous Cysts are those arising in connection with the hair or sebaceous follicles ef the skin. The minor forms of obstruction to the ducts of the sebaceous follicles give rise to the condition known as comedo and molluscum, which are not generally classed with cysts. Atheromatous Cysts are usually situated upon the scalp, face, neck, or back ; sometimes, however, they occur elsewhere—thus I have removed a very Fig. 2G0.—Contents of Atheromatous Cyst (454 dinm.). a. Epithelial cells undergoing various degrees of fatty degeneration. h. Tlie same with calcareous degeneration. <•• Crystals of eholesterine. d. Oleaginous and fatty particles. Fig. 301.—Wall of Atheromatous Cyst(lSS dinm.). an. Epithelial lining, the superficial cells swollen and fatty, d. A flake of fatty cells peeling oft. lib. Fibrous capsule, c. Surrounding connective tissue. large one from the fore part of a girl’s arm, and others from the labia and groin. The size of these tumours varies from that of a pin’s head to an orange ; the smallest occur on the eyelids, the largest on the shoulders and scalp! They lave been met with also on the palmar aspect of the fingers, a situation in winch hairs and sebaceous follicles are usually absent. Their origin then is Unceitain, as it is doubtful if they can arise from sweat glands. Athero-