44-S TRAUMATIC ANEURISM. aperture, this cicatrizes. The blood that is extravasated becomes surrounded and limited by inflammatory exudation. This may be followed by the gradual development of fibrous tissue, as in the process of the formation of a scar. There is thus formed a distinct fibrous sac, the tissue of which, although suffi- ciently firm to prevent any diffusion of the blood, is not strong enough to resist the distending force of the heart; it consequently slowly yields, and the tumour increases in size. The yielding of the sac is not a process of simple stretching, for it does not'become proportionally thinner as it increases in size; it is accompanied by a constant growth of new fibrous tissue. As the aneurism increases, however, and produces more and more irritation by its pressure, and consequent inflammation of the surrounding parts, the growth of the fibrous tissue is less perfect, and finally becoming too soft to withstand the pressure of the blood, the sac may rupture and the aneurism become diffused. The sac is externally adherent [to the surrounding parts, internally it is soon lined by layers of fibrine deposited from the blood that passes through it. This tumour, usually of moderate size, and of tolerably firm consistence, pulsates synchronously with the beat of the heart, and has a distinct bruit, both of which cease when the artery leading to it is compressed. This form of cir- cumscribed traumatic aneurism most commonly occurs from punctured wounds of small arteries, as the temporal, plantar, palmar, radial, and ulnar. The Treatment to be adopted depends upon the size and situation of the artery with which the tumour is connected. If the artery be small, and so situated that it can be opened without much subsequent inconvenience to the patient, as on the temple or in the fore-ann, it should be laid open, the coagula turned out, and the vessel ligatured above and below the wound in it. If the tumour be so situated, as in the palm, that it would be difficult and hazardous to the in- tegrity of the patient’s hand to lay it open, the Hunterian operation for aneurism should be per- formed, as was successfully done in a case (Fig. 161) in which the brachial was ligatured for an aneurism of this kind in the ball of the thumb, following serious injury to the hand from a powder-flask ex- plosion. When it is connected with the superficial palmar arch I have, however, successfully adopted the old operation of laying the tumour open, Explosion. taking out coagula, and ligaturing the artery at the seat of injury. It is but rarely that this form of traumatic aneurism is connected with a large artery; when it is, the vessel may be ligatured above, but close to the sac, in the same way as in the next variety. If this form of traumatic aneurism have increased greatly in bulk, so that the skin becomes thin and discoloured, or if inflammation ensue, and symptoms of impending suppuration take place around it, then it would be useless to ligature the artery above the tumour, as this would certainly give way, and secondary hmmorrhage follow. Here the proper course is to lay open the sac, turn out the contents, and tie the artery above and below the part that is wounded. 2. The next form of circumscribed traumatic aneurism is of rare occurrence, mi ..ei— .. T>,1