PATHOLOGY OF ULCERATION. 255 All these forms of ulceration have one feature in common ; the original tissues are first infiltrated and pressed upon by cells foreign to the part, which destroy them and occupy their place ; then in their turn the new cells perish, and are thrown off superficially with a fluid discharge, and thus a progressive destruction of tissue takes place. In the first two examples the invading cells are the white blood corpuscles which have migrated from the vessels, and in the last they are the special cells of the cancerous growth. In the present chapter we have to deal only with ulceration as it occurs as a part of the process of inflammation. An ulcer passes through two stages, viz., 1. Extension ; and 2. Repair. To the former of these only is the term “ ulceration ” applied. Pathology.—The process of ulceration when dependent on inflammation hardly needs a detailed description, as it differs in uo essential feature from that already described as taking place in the formation of an abscess, the only variation being that in the latter case the formation of pus and destruction of tissue take place in a closed space, while in the former it occurs upon a snilace. The separation of a dead piece of tissue from the surrounding living parts is thus accomplished. The tissue immediately in contact with that which is dead must necessarily have suffered to some extent from the injury which has caused the mischief, and its vitality thus being lowered the phenomena of inflammation are manifested in it with an intensity corre- sponding to the degree of damage, and consequently diminishing as we recede from the parts that have been actually killed. Where the living tissues touch the dead the condition of stasis will be reached, and those vessels which pass from the dead to the living tissue will become plugged with clots extendin'- as fai as the next branch m the living parts. Beyond the area of stasis°we should find that of retarded flow, accumulation of white corpuscles and migration ; and, beyond this again, that of simple dilatation with increased mpidity of flow or fluxion. The width of the area in whicT these flammatory phenomena take place varies greatly. It may be merely ^ ? Separati0n 0f a Piece of dead tissue which has been pmented from decomposing by antiseptic treatment, or it may extend for J>~"EW “ conditions cl"” sea clinically by the effect produced by the pressure of the finger ■ in the tint m this area is a more dusky red than in ti-mf nf u, • . ’ toe red dots may be noticed in the pale patch "kick'1!L^dosV'to’^Ehc° deaT’t “''‘’““'“I ‘“T* eSC"!>etl from the by pressure indicatTno-^ tL A? J T- “W,» “-red line unaltered red corpuscles have escaped fron^tlw T*3 ^ ^rombosis, in which also many the stage of i K ? f T?g&d ves8els* Fl’om the vessels in of the corpuscles take place ^ Tl' CVudafclou of blood-plasma and migration into the plsXe laver o 0L ceIls move in great numbers destroy such remains of vitfritw °UClin§ the dead part, and by their pressure and disintegrates its nl l ^ ^ may b° eft ’ the original tissue softens leucocytes ;'^Teu ocv s, T? °°fUpied. b? closely-packed crowds of turn degenerate and hoc " collt<lct "lfcl1 t,le irritating dead tissue in their “ orate, and becoming granular and losing their adhesion, are separated