ULCERATION. 266 laudanum, 3ss ; water, to 3viij.; pour a small quantity of the lotion into a saucer and add an equal quantity of boiling water ; moisten with this diluted lotion a piece of lint of sufficient size to cover the whole reddened area ; apply it warm and cover it with oiled silk, then wrap the whole part in a sheet of cotton wool. We thus get warmth and moisture, with a powerful astringent and sedative, and experience has shown that the quantity of acetate of lead present is sufficient to prevent any decomposition of the discharges. If pre- ferred, tincture of belladonna may be substituted for the laudanum. Sloughing Ulcer.—When not specific, this is an increased degree of the inflamed variety, usually occurring in feeble or cachectic states of the consti- tution, and generally accompanied by a good deal of fever. The surround my shin presents an angry, dusky, red blush ; the edges are sharply cut ; and the surface is covered by a greyish slough. The discharge is serous: there is a sense of heat and pain, and the inflamed area is acutely tender. The ulcera- tion, unless arrested, spreads rapidly. Treatment.—The general health must be improved by a nourishing, but un- stimulating' diet, combined with the use of tonics. Opium is of the greatest value. One grain should be given twice or thrice daily. The patient must be put to bed, and the part elevated. If the surface of the sore be \eiy foul, it may be sprinkled with iodoform, after which hot fomentations must be applied to the whole reddened area. As the inflammation becomes less acute, the warm lead and opium lotion above mentioned may be applied, and when the sloughs have separated, aud the surface has become clean, the ordinary treatment of a healthy sore must be adopted. See Chapteis on Hospital Gangrene. . Eczematous Ulcer.—This term is applied to those ulcers in which the surrounding shin is affected by eczema ; it is red and at first covered by minute vesicles ; these burst, and a raw-looking surface is left, on which the corneous layer of the epithelium is wanting. It. discharges an abundant, yellow, serous fluid, strongly alkaline in reaction, which stiffens any linen rag which may be applied to soak it up. The ulcer itself presents nothing peculiar, and may assume any of the forms already described. The ulceration may arise as a secondary complication of eczema, or the irritation of the skin by the discharge from a badly tended ulcer may be the cause of the eczematous eruption. Treatment,—The boracio acid ointment, prepared with vaseline and paraffin, will usually be found the best application to the eczematous ulcer. If there is much irritation, it can often be allayed by the addition of half a drachm of extract of belladonna to each ounce of the ointment. Strict cleanliness is at the same time essential, but in washing the limb common soap must never be used ; warm water alone, or with a small quantity of soft soap, will be found the best application. If the patient be gouty, the usual remedies lor gout must be administered. „ , . , Varicose Ulcer derives its chief characteristic from being complicated with or dependent upon, a varicose condition of the veins ot the leg. In this affection of the venous trunks the skin gradually undergoes degeneration, becoming brawny, of a purplish brown colour, and being traversed m al directions by enlarged aud tortuous outaueous veins 1 lie ulcer forms at one of these congested spots, by the breaking down of the already degenerating tissue, producing a small irregular chasm of an unhealthy appearance, and