THE A TMENT—RED TJCTION. 5“ Reduction.—When all has been got ready, the reduction of the fracture, or the bringing the fragments into proper apposition, must be proceeded with. This should, if possible, always be done at once, not only lest any displacement that exists may continue permanently—the muscles, after a few days, becoming shortened, rigid, and unyielding, not allowing reduction to be effected without the employment of much force—but also with the view of preventing irritation and mischief to the limb, by the projection of the sharp and jagged ends of bone into the soft structures. A great deal of time is sometimes lost, and much unnecessary pain inflicted upon the patient, and great irritation set up in the limb, by the Surgeon leaving the fracture unreduced on a pillow for several days, and applying evaporating lotions to take down the swelling and avert the threatened inflammation, which are consequences of the non-reduc- tion of the broken bone. The application of cold lotions, irrigation, &c., in compound or even in simple fractures is decidedly injurious. It lowers the vitality of the part, retards union, and occasions oedema. By early reduction we may sometimes prevent a sharp fragment from perforating the skin, and thus rendering a simple fracture compound, or lacerating muscles and nerves, inducing perhaps traumatic delirium and certainly undue local inflammatory and spasmodic action. The chief cause of displacement in fractures has already been stated to be muscular contraction ; hence, in effecting reduction of a fracture and in removing the displacement, our principal difficulty is the action of the muscles of the part. This usually may be counteracted, by properly relaxing them by position; so soon as this is done, the bony fragments will naturally fall into place ; but no amount of extension and counter-extension can bring them into position, much less retain them there, unless all muscular influ- ence be removed. In ordinary fractures, no force is necessary or should ever be employed for accomplishing this ; but attention to the attachment of the muscles of the limb and proper relaxation of them is all that is required. In impacted fractures it is occasionally necessary to use force in order to dis- entangle the fragments, but this is the only form of fracture in which its employment is justifiable. In effecting the reduction, not only must the length of the limb be restored, but its natural curves must not be obliterated by making it too straight. Muscular action being the chief, and, in most cases, the only obstacle to reduction, it would seem the most natural way to over- come the difficulty to administer an anaesthetic, which would at the same time save the patient the severe pain usually attending the setting of a broken bone. It is a rule, however, in reducing a simple fracture to avoid anaesthetics. We never can tell beforehand whether the patient will become quietly insensible, or whether insensibility will be preceded by a violent fit of struggling, during which there would be the greatest possible danger of a simple fracture being- made compound. If from any reason, such as the nervousness of the patient, or the difficulty in overcoming the muscular action by position, it becomes necessary to give an anaesthetic, there must be plenty of assistants at hand to restrain the patient if necessary. The limb must then be put in the best position possible, and firmly supported by splints rather lightly applied. W hen everything is ready the injured limb must be confided to the charge of one assistant only. If two attempt to hold a leg, one by the foot and the other by the knee, they may cause the very mischief it is intended to prevent. Prevention of Return of Displacement.—After the reduction has been