INJURIES OF THE SEINE. 764 CHAPTER XXY. INJURIES OF THE SPINE. Injuries of the spine, like those of the head, derive their importance mainly from the lesions of the inclosed nervous structures by which they are accompanied. Speaking clinically, by “ the spine ” is meant not the vertebral column only—that is merely its skeleton—but the whole of those structures - which in the living body connect together, or are included within the various - bones of which that column is composed. These structures are of the most ; diversified character; they include muscles, tendons, ligaments, cartilage, fibro-cartilage, synovial membrane as bonds of union. As included structures • we find the spinal cord, its membranes and blood-vessels, the roots of the spinal nerves, the nerves themselves, ganglia and branches of the sympathetic. Clinically these must all be considered as constituents of the spine—as forming . parts, indeed, of one organ. In an injury of the spine, whether it lie direct or indirect, all these structures are liable to be implicated to a greater or lesser extent. In a severe injury such as a fracture, it is evident that the lesion is not confined to the bones, but implicates more or less extensively all the external structures that enter into the conformation of the spine, as well as the included . structures—the cord and its membranes, and the spinal nerves in their exit from the canal. So also in less severe and direct injury, as in a concussion, the effect is not limited to one anatomical constituent only, whether that be ! the bones or the cord, but implicates more or less severely one and all of the t structures that enter into the formation of the spine, or that are included iu its canal. The degree to which each suffers will necessarily vary greatly according to the force, the character, and the direction of the violence, but all are liable . to the effects of the injury. It is of the utmost importance to bear this fact in mind, in making the diagnosis and considering the possible after-conse- quences of these injuries. In some cases the ligaments and muscles, in others * the bones, in others again the spinal nerves, or the cord itself, will appear . to be the part that has chiefly suffered; but in no instance will it be h'1111 that the damage has been confined to one structure, to the exclusion 0 a the rest. _ , By Concussion of the Spine, then, I mean the case in which b\ a ' ow upon the back, by a severe shake of the body, or by a fall from a height 011 to the buttocks or feet, the various anatomical constituents of the spine ha\e >een severely jarred, shaken or strained. When the injury is confined mainly to the motor apparatus ot the spme, it is apt to be followed by much pain on movement of the body, c*pe cially in such directions as to stretch the injured parts. These pains cat instinctive fixity of the injured parts, and the painful rigidity so resu tm0 often of a most persistent and intractable nature. _ . , In other cases, the nervous structures mainly are injured. \\ hen 1 d nerves are stretched or their sensory roots damaged, neuralgic pains 0