1092 VENEREAL DISEASES. a spreading ulcer. This form is most common on the leg. All tertiary- ulcers tend to spread slowly, often extending on one side while healing on the other. They thus are often crescentic or serpiginous in form. The changes observed in the smaller arteries consist of a gradual narrowing of the lumen by a growth apparently originating by proliferation of the en- dothelium. The external coat is also thickened, but in a slighter degree. These changes have been observed in the cerebral and renal arteries of medium size, and in the smaller vessels in the neighbourhood of gummata. In the larger arteries no distinctive changes are met with, but it is a well-known fact that the great majority of aneurisms of the larger vessels in young subjects occur in those who have suffered from constitutional syphilis. Overgrowth of the connective tissue is met with in the lung, liver, spleen, . testicle, and other organs, and with it must be classed the diffuse hypertrophy of bone, which is not an uncommon consequence of syphilis. An organ affected in this way is tougher and harder than natural, and at first increased in bulk. If it is inclosed in a fibrous capsule, as the liver or testicle, this is thickened and opaque, sometimes uniformly, sometimes in patches. When the organ is covered by a serous membrane this also shows signs of chronic inflammation ; thus a syphilitic lung or liver always shows firm fibrous adhesions between the visceral and parietal layers of serous mem- brane. A testicle is almost invariably surrounded by a hydrocele often divided into separate sacs by adhesions between the visceral and parietal layers of the tunica vaginalis. In a later stage the affected organ may shrink and become puckered on the surface. A section shows, in the early stage of enlargement, that the proper structure is infiltrated by a whitish or semi- transparent material of considerable firmness lying in the natural situations of the connective tissue and following the lines of the vessels. In the testicle the septa may thus be increased to half a line or more in thickness. In the later stages, when the active process has ceased, dense cicatricial bands of fibrous tissue may pass through the organ in various directions leading to puckered scars on the surface. The process is painless, and the performance of the natural function of the organ is diminished in proportion to the destruction of its proper structure by the pressure of the new growth. The microscopic appearances presented in organs thus affected are those of chronic interstitial inflammation. The interstitial connective tissue, sometimes throughout the affected organ, sometimes in bands or patches, is found to be infiltrated with small round cells, about the size and shape of white blood corpuscles. Between the cells is a delicate stroma, usually finely fibrillated. Vessels of new formation are abundantly present in the new tissue. The growth seems to commence round the vessels and to infiltrate along their course. At a later stage it becomes developed into flense fibroid tissue, and at the same time undergoes considerable contrac- tion, and this may lead to deformity and puckering of the affected organ. The normal structures of the part are pressed upon by the growth, and ma.\ degenerate and be completely absorbed in parts. The original vessels show the changes just described, and are frequently obliterated. This process manifests itself in bone by a gradual enlargement extending over a considerable area, and accompanied by a great increase in density 0 the structure (sclerosis of bone). The Haversian canals are narrowed, am in