2 GENERAL REMARKS ON OPERATIONS. tive, plastic, or imitative, it can be carried only to a certain definite point of excellence. An art may be modified—it may be varied—but it cannot be perfected beyond certain attainable limits. And so it is, and indeed must be, with that of Surgery. There cannot always be fresh fields for conquest by the knife. There must be portions of the human frame that will ever remain sacred from its intrusion—at least, in the Surgeon’s hand. That we have nearly, if not quite, reached these final limits there can be little question. When we reflect that every large artery in the human body up to the aorta itself has been repeatedly ligatured—that each of the six large articulations and many of the smaller bones have been resected—that the am- putation of each limb up to the shoulder- or hip-joint is a matter of ordinary surgical occurrence—that large tumours having the most intricate anatomical connections have been removed from every surgical region in the body, from the base of the brain to the lowest organ in the pelvic cavity—that the larynx, the spleen, the kidney, the pregnant uterus, and even portions of the stomach have been successfully removed—when we reflect on triumphs of the Surgeon s art that are expressed by operations such as these, we can scarcely believe otherwise than that little remains for the daring of the boldest to devise, or the skill of the most dexterous to accomplish, in the extension of that art in the direction of its operative department, and that the Surgeon must in future be content to repeat, though possibly in a modified and improved maimer, those operations that have been inaugurated by the genius and perfected by the skill of his predecessors. It is true that some of the operations recently performed for the removal of important organs have been far from successful, and it has yet to be de- termined whether they are more than bold experiments ou the power and endurance of the human frame; whether they are surgical triumphs or operative audacities. To my mind, it appears as if we had already reached something like finality in the mere manipulative art of Surgery ; though I hesitate much to use the word “finality,” for I know well how apt a man is to suppose that ait. to the prosecution of which he has devoted his life, to have attained its final limit of perfection. Yet, looking at the question as dispassionately as possible, we cannot but come to the conclusion—that we can scarcely hope to pass fai beyond the line at which we have arrived in the direction of extreme piccision and almost absolute certainty in the mechanical performance of the operations of surgery, and that in this direction the progress of modern Surgery is nearly barred. At the same time, we may reasonably expect that the details of the methods of practising operations may from time to time be materially modified and improved by the skill of individual operators, by the ingenuity of suigical mechanicians, or possibly by the introduction of new agents as aids to om art. But if modern operative Surgery has attained to so high a pitch of perfection in all that relates to boldness of conception and to precision of execution that we can scarcely hope to see any further progress in these directions ; anc, indeed, if the most advanced modern Surgery is seeking to lay aside the scalpel and the bistoury for milder methods of treatment—if, in fact, the practical department of Surgery has, so far as our present means and our present know - ledge arc concerned, reached, or nearly so, its final development the case is widely different with the other great branch of Surgery—the scientific. For here, truly, so far from having approached the final limits of our subject,