DIAGNOSIS OF SPINAL CONCUSSION. 7S1 II, 0f the case, the gradually progressive character of the symptoms, of spinal , concussion, the absence of all fixed pain except at one or more points m the • back, the cerebral complications, the gradual occurrence of loss of sensibility < of tinglings and formications, the slow supervention of impairment or loss ot - motor power in certain sets of muscles (symptoms that do not occur in rlicuma- : tism), the diagnosis will be rendered comparatively easy ; the more so, when , we observe that in spinal concussion there is never any concomitant articular inflammation, and that, although the urine may continue acid, it does not usually show a superabundance of lithates. 3. Hysteria is the disease for which I have more frequently seen concussion of the spine, followed by meningo-myelitis, mistaken ; and it has always appeared extraordinary to me that so great an enoi of diagnosis could easily be made. Hysteria, whether hi its emotional or its local form, is a disease of women rather than of men, of the young rather than of the middle-aged and ! old, of people of an excitable, imaginative, or emotional disposition rather than of hard-headed, active, practical men of business. It is a disease that runs no definite or progessive course, that assumes no permanence of action, that is ever varying in the intensity, in the degree, and in the nature of its symptoms ; that is marked by excessive and violent outbreaks of an emotional character, or by severe exacerbations of its local symptoms; but that is equally characterized by long-continued and complete intermissions of its various phenomena. This in no way resembles what we see in concussion of the spinal cord, or in the consecutive meningo-myelitis ; and it seems to me quite unreasonable to call a case one of hysteria in which a man active in mind, accustomed to self-control, : devoted to business, suddenly, and for the first time in his life, after the ■ infliction of a severe shock, finds himself affected by a train of symptoms indi- cative of serious and deep-seated injury to the nervous system. In reality, there can be hut little difficulty in establishing the diagnosis between chronic meningo-myelitis and hysteria. The persistence of the symptoms, their slow development, their progressive increase in severity, notwithstanding occasional fluctuations and intermissions in intensity, the invariable presence of more or 1 less paralysis of sensation, or of motion, or both, will easily enable the Surgeon to judge of the true nature of the case. That mental emotion is occasionally manifested by an unfortunate individual who has been seriously injured by an accident which tends to shake his whole nervous system, can scarcely he matter of surprise ,* but the term “hysteria,” elastic as it is, cannot, it appears to me, be strained so far as to include this condition ; and even if it be considered applicable to the patient’s mental state, it can in no way be looked upon as the cause of those bodily sufferings and disabilities which constitute the most important and serious part of the disease. 4. Syphiloma of the Cord and its Membranes is a condition that may be confounded with the effects of concusston, and when it already exists its symptoms may be greatly aggravated, or the disease called into activity by the injury. In these cases the antecedent history, and the con- comitant evidence of constitutional syphilis in one of its minor forms perhaps will determine the diagnosis. IhtOGNosis.—The prognosis of concussion of the spinal cord and that of the consecutive meningo-myelitis is a question of extreme interest in a medico- legal point of view, and is often involved in much difficulty. fhc prognosis requires to be made with regard, first to the life, and secondly