EXPERIMENT A L INVEST IGA TIONS. 937 blood was in that case of a different form. Both Davainc and Koch iound that the infective process was more certainly induced by fluids in an early stage of decomposition. The infective processes in this way have been described as “ septicaemia ” by both Davainc and Koch, but as that term is also applied to the simple chemical poisoning from putrid matter it is better to speak of the infective disease as septic infection, and the non-infective as septic poisoning. The foregoing experiments have shown, therefore, that an acute infective process, unaccompanied by the formation of secondary ceutresof inflammation, can be induced both in mice and rabbits by the injection of putrid animal fluids beneath the skin. Koch succeeded iu further experiments in producing an infective disease, in which the development of secondary centres of inflammation formed a part of the process. A fluid, prepared by macerating a piece of the skin of a mouse, was injected beneath the skin of a rabbit. After two days the animal became ill, and gradually growing weaker died 105 hours after the injection. The post-mortem examination showed a diffuse purulent inflammation at the seat of inoculation, which had extended to the peritoneum ; the spleen 1 was swollen and the liver contained grey wedge-shaped patches, and dark red airless spots the size of a pea were found in the lungs. Micrococci were fouud in great numbers throughout the body, especially in the parts that had undergone changes visible to the naked eye. In the vessels in many parts, dense masses of micrococci mixed with red corpuscles were found adherent to the walls, and Koch felt justified in coming to the conclusion that capillary thrombi were thus produced, and that the patches in the lungs and liver were caused in this way. In the metastatic deposits, not only were the vessels plugged with mixed red corpuscles and micrococci, but the organisms had penetrated the walls of the vessels and were invading the surrounding tissues. Some blood from the affected animal injected beneath the skin of another rabbit produced essentially the same condition which terminated fatally in forty hours. The disease thus induced was, therefore, a general infective process accompanied by secondary or metastatic deposits closely resembling those met with in pyaemia in man. Lastly, numerous experiments have been made by Cruveilhicr, Sedillot, Yirchow, 0. Weber, Henry Lee, Savory, and many others with the view of ascertaining the part played by embolism in the production of the secondary ' abscesses in pyaemia. Their result has been to show, that if a fluid holding in suspension solid particles of sufficient size to lodge in the smaller arteries of the lung be injected into the blood-stream, the effect produced will depend upon, whether the solid matter is irritating or not. Non-irritating emboli lodging in the terminal arteries of the lung cause the part cut off from the direct blood-supply to be intensely injected with blood. The walls of the capillaries soften and give way, and haemorrhage takes place into the tissue of the lung. A wedge-shaped airless patch is thus formed of dark purple colour on the suiface, or as it is called a hccmorrhctgic infavet. The whole infarct is gradually absorbed without suppuration, leaving a cicatrix on the surface. e ter also states that very fine solid particles may pass through the capi anes of the lung and give rise to embolism in the course of the systemic ?U„CU Should the embolus, however, possess irritating properties, the n <llc^ s°ttcns and breaks down, inflammation and suppuration follow in the