TUMOURS. 970 the cysts may bo lobulatccl so as closely to resemble a fatty tumour (Fig. :;G4). But even in these cases they may be distinguished by the Surgeon pressing on the edge of the tumour ; if cystic it will remain fixed, and the finger can be pressed through it ; if a lipoma it will roll away. When this cyst has become epitheliomatous, its origin can be ascertained oidy from the history. The Treatment of a tumour of this kind consists simply in its removal, after which it is never reproduced, unless a small portion of the cyst-wall have been left behind. So long as these tumours are small, and do not give rise to deformity or inconvenience, they may be left without surgical interference. But when large, and more particularly when they have become inflamed, they should be removed. The method of operation will vary according to their situation and the thickness of their walls. When situated on the scalp, where Fig. 304.—Large Atheromatous Cyst from the Back, simulating Fatty Tumour. (Half the natural size.) | the cyst is dense and tough, the tumour may very readily be removed by transfix- ing it and the skin covering it with a scalpel, scpieezing out the atheroma, and then seizing the cyst-wall with forceps and pulling it out. In this little opera- tion there are two points that require attention : first, the base of the cyst should never be transfixed; and, secondly, no attempt at dissection should be made: if either of these precautions be neglected, troublesome haemorrhage may ensue. No dressing is required after the operation, beyond a piece of dry absorbent or salicylic cotton-wool laid on the wound, which will generally heal by the first in- tention. When these tumours occur upon the scalp, a large number may be removed at one sitting ; as, however, there is always some danger oi erysipelas following operations in this situation, it is only prudent to select a favourable season of the year, and not to operate if the health be out of order. Erysipelas is the only danger to be apprehended : it is especially apt to occur in eldcilv people of a stout make and florid complexion. When seated about the face, back, trunk, or limbs, they usually require to be dissected out, being thin and more closely incorporated with the skin ; and often, in consequence of former inflammation, adherent to the subjacent parts. In doing this, care should be taken that the whole of the cyst-wall is extirpated ; the wound, which should be dressed lightly, speedily heals. If, however, any portion of the wall be left, it should be freely rubbed with nitrate of silver, lest a troublesome fistula remain. When the tumours are situated between the shoulders or on the back, and the patient is unwilling to submit to an operation, I have some- times easily and successfully removed them by opening up with a probe the small black orifice, which will always be found leading into them, squeezing out the contents of the cyst, and then pushing in two or three silk threads.