£28 INJURIES OF THE THROAT. Hard and perfectly indigestible foreign bodies, such as artificial teeth, arc sometimes accidentally swallowed during sleep or an epileptic fit, and, passing through the pharynx and oesophagus, drop into the stomach.’In these circum- stances, there are two courses open to the Surgeon ; either to endeavour to •extract5the foreign substance, or to leave it, and allow it to pass, if possible, per cuvum. I think that the line of practice to be followed should depend on whether the foreign body produce irritation in the stomach or not. If it Irritate, giving rise to continued efforts at vomiting, it should, if possible, be extracted. In order to do this, an ivory-balled probang should first be passed ■in to ascertain the situation of the foreign body. After this has been heard and felt, we may adopt the plan successfully employed by Little—who removed a hooked plate containing five artificial teeth from the stomach of a woman— of introducing a “coin-catcher” so as to search for, secure, and then extract it. 3 In doing this, there is of course a great probability that the mass will be drawn up sideways ; and that it may, if broad, hitch in the pharynx, whence it must be detached as well as the Surgeon can manage by a judicious combination of force and skill. Should the foreign body be small, as a coin, or even angular and sharp-pointed, as a plate with artificial teeth, and should it not initate the stomach, it had better be left to pass through the intestines. When it is thus left, the patient should take neither purgatives nor opiates. Both are injurious : the purgatives by increasing the irritation of the bowels and the chance of their being wounded by sharp and projecting points from the plate ; the opiates by arresting its progress. The better plan is to keep the patient in bed, perfectly quiet, and to give him an abundance of pultaceous food. By adopting this plan I have succeeded in getting a gold plate, with three molar teeth and a sharp curved clasping hook at each end, to pass without the slightest difficulty or pain four days after it was swallowed by n gentleman about 25 years of age. No attempt need ever be made to ■extract small coins from the stomach, as they will always easily pass through •the intestinal canal. . If the body be of such a nature that it is impossible to remove it through fhe oesophagus, and it is equally unlikely that it can pass safely through the intestines, the operation of gastrostomy must be performed. ^ This is seldom required except in the case of the swallowing of a fork or knife, or some such instrument, either intentionally by a lunatic, or accidentally during drunken- ness, or while performing a trick. The foreign body when of this size can usually be felt without difficulty through the abdominal wall. The operation of gastrostomy for the removal of foreign bodies has been singularly successtu . •Durham states that of ten recorded cases only one died, and in that one msophagotomy had been previously performed. The operation will be described iin'.the chapter on stricture of the oesophagus.