640 SPECIAL DISLOCATIONS. CHAPTER XXIII. SPECIAL DISLOCATIONS. DISLOCATIONS OF THE LOWER JAW. Dislocations of the Dower Jaw are not common accidents. They occur more frequently in women than in men, and have been but very seldom met with at either extreme of life ; but Nelaton and Malgaigne relate cases occurring in edentulous subjects of G8 and 72 years of age, and Sir A. Cooper has seen the accident in a child, occasioned by another boy thrusting au apple into its mouth. These dislocations are most frequently occasioned by forcible action of the depressor muscles of the jaw—by opening the mouth too widely, as in fits of laughing, of gaping, or in attempting to take too large a bite. Occa- sionally this accident has resulted from blows or kicks upon the chin when the mouth is open, or from the violent strain upon the part in tooth-drawing, or rather in digging out stumps with an elevator. The mechanism of the dis- location is simple. When the mouth is opened, the interarticular fibro- cartilage with the condyle glides forwards on to the articular eminence . if this movement be continued too far, and the external pterygoid muscle contract forcibly at the same time, the condyle slips forward over the articular eminence into the zygomatic fossa, the axis of the ramus being directed obliquely back- wards, and the dislocation being thus complete. In this way both condyles may be displaced, or only one. Maisonneuve and Otto Weber, by producing dislocation on the dead body, have found that the condyle lies in front of the root of the zygoma. The coronoid process rarely reaches the malar bone, but usually lies below it, being completely surrounded by the tendon of the temporal muscle. From original observation, C. Heath confirms this view of the position of the coronoid process. The interarticular fibro-cartilage is attached to the condyle, and follows its movements. The capsular ligament is stretched, but not ruptured : the external lateral ligament is tense, and passes from behind forward instead of from before backward : the internal lateral and stylo- maxillary ligaments also undergo stretching, which is increased by raising the chin. The temporal muscles are stretched according to Maisonneuve, or partly torn according to Weber. , , When the dislocation is Bilateral, as most frequently happens, both condyles being displaced from the glenoid cavities, the signs are as follows. The incisor teeth of the lower jaw are separated from those of the upper by a market interval, varying from half an inch to an inch and a half, and the mouth is kent more or less widely open. Deglutition and speech are impairei, t ic labial consonants not being pronounced ; there is dribbling of the sa^niow the lower lip ; the chin is lengthened, and the lower line of teeth ai . about half an inch beyond those of the upper jaw ;the cheeks are flattened, and there is a depression in front of the meatus auditorms exteim ... is also an oblong prominence in the temporal fossa between the eye an