803 INJURIES OF THE EYE. and downwards against the eyeball. The lid may also be everted without using a probe. The method of so doing is thus described by Streatfeild. The Surgeon, standing before the patient, places the end of his forefinger sideways on the lid near its outer edge, without involving any folds of loose skin ; and pressing a little on the eye, intakes the lid slide downwards, as Bar as possible, over the lower lid. The lid (not the lashes) is then seized firmly by the end of the thumb applied sideways ; and the end of the forefinger is turned down- wards, while the lid is held firmly by the thumb and finger. The lid is thus everted (Fig. 335). The little operation cannot, however, be always done the first time it is attempted. The patient may move back his head just as the turn is to be completed (therefore the head of the patient must be steadied by being placed against the wall, or the back of his chair, or by the other hand behind it) ; or the lid is not secured between the finger and thumb before the eversion is attempted; or the lashes only and not the lid are held ; or one fears to press the forefinger sufficiently into the eye to effect the eversion. It is very much more difficult if the patient be fat, or the eye deeply set. When the lid is everted the patient should look down in order that the whole of the upper part of the con- junctiva, where the foreign body will probably be found, may be carefully examined. If it be dirt or lime that has to be removed, this is best done by a small scoop, after which the conjunctiva may be gently washed with a stream of water A drop of olive- or castor-oil may then be put into the eye and the hcls closed and covered with a pad of wet lint. The conjunctiva may also be lacerated by scratches or contused by blows these injuries are accompanied by extravasation of blood beneath the mem- hrane At the same time there is often extravasation into the skin of the lids, lotion aCk eyG 1S beSt fcreafcecl by fcbe confciuuous application of a weak spirit , Injaries of the Eyeba11 are 80 commonly followed by impairment or total 0 vision, as to constitute a most important series of accidents ; the deli- IowpA ^ 8trwUre °f this '°rgan beinS suclb fchat injury of it is often fol- • • *y compete opacity of the lens or other media and loss of sight. The S™? °f V18;on may be fcbe result of direct violence applied to the organ, Z- bffr ansparenfc parfc8 or facing the lens ; or it may arise in- dneetly from various causes which will be presently described conionSwou^ *** may be divided into IN* Eyeba11' With°Ut mpture « M-pxont superficial injury, the£t Z ° ttTr01'J °r P™a!lelt blind'“s from haemorrhage from ophthalmoscope^ C°nC"SS,°“- Tl™ « easily recognizable by the Fig. 335.—Eversion of Upper Lid for Detection of Foreign Bodies. oftt?2TVt With N*™ °f — of the Structures tcrnal the outer r ’ 8c,l0.lls accident. Most frequently the injury is iu- ’ 0“tei lmnes C“P'"S “jury In this case we may have an extra- 3 F 2