70 AMPUTATIONS. must necessarily be guided by the circumstances of the case. I! the^patie t were very greatly depressed, the infliction of so severe an injury as a o j amputation might probably extinguish life at once ; and, if it. , wait after the removal of the first limb, until the shock of the operation had passed off before the second was amputated, it might be desirable to • , Clfl patient were not too much depressed the simutoueous or rather rapidly consecutive double amputation would probably be the safer course. STUMPS. On examining the structure of a stump after one or two years h.ae clap wl from the time <2 its formation, it will be found to be eomposed of a mass of fibro-cellular tissue, any muscular substance which maj u ■ fibro SS y rmation haTillg completely atrophied and disappeared. Any tendons which may have been divided will be either lost in the fibrous tissue of the scar, or wih be found to have formed new attachments to the bones, ihe end of the bone is rounded and the medullary canal closed by a layer of compact bone. The vessels are obliterated as high as the nearest branch and converted into fibrous cords. The ends of the nerves are thickened, and com- monly assume a bulbous form (Fig. 27). On examining these rounded or oval tumours they will be found to be composed of fibrous tissue, among which are great numbers of new nervous fibrillm twisted and rolled upon :7.—Endings of Nerves eacp other in all directions. . . ! inastump- The proper adaptation of Artificial Limbs is a matter of considerable consequence ; and the in|^101^ The the mstrument-makei ; but lie siioiua j cncl 0f the. sistently with sufficient strength and suppoit and «t th^ stump is never injuriously pressed upon J • ’ from thJ of the thigh, the artificial limb immecfialcly below the lower part .of the pelvis and njn mt0\he socket of the instrument! knee, this joint should be bent am iecoi stamp be extended’ and, if the amputation be at a tower pressure, into the artificial limb, its enc mus j \ Surgeon has succeeded in In all amputations of the lower limb inboiie, and with producing a ^factorybo eiBouraged to boar part of Ilia the scar well behind it, the patic tump- N0t only does this give weight, at least, directly on t e .g gaid to diminish the tendency to increased steadiness in walk in b Rnmctimes occurs in old stumps, excessive atrophy °f the softaccustoming the end of the The plan recommended by Ltalc ol „ Ljsfactory. The patient must stump to hear pressure ui c oun . f t],c samc diameter as the prepare a number .ffi circular P’^ofra™ number of these to socket of the artificial hiiih. He ns 1 d l daily till the form a pad just touching the J® of pressure. In all stump becomes accustomed! o c „mujvlcs of the femur, and in Symes amputations through the knee joint or condyles of Fi: