552 SPECIAL FRACTURES. If the septum alone he broken, the same treatment must he adopted \ the nose being supported and moulded into shape. As a iule, attei it has heen replaced, the position is maintained: hut in some cases, wheie tlieie is a tendency to sinking of the soft parts of the nose, the introduction of a plug of oiled lint round a quill, left open for breathing, will be required to replace and retain the organ in proper shape and prominence. The haemorrhage, which is usually rather abundant in the first instance, may be stopped by the applica- tion of ice ; but occasionally the nostrils require plugging, in order to prevent it from continuing to a dangerous extent. If the lachrymal hone be broken together with the nasal, the ductus ad nasum may be obstructed, and the course of the tears diverted. In an injury of this kind, I have seen exten- sive emphysema of the eyelids and forehead occur on the patient attempting . to blow his nose. In some cases, the injury inflicted on the nasal bones extends through the ethmoid to the base of the brain, and may thus occa- sion death. This I have seen happen from a severe blow on the face with a 1,1 mYlar and Upper Jaw-Bones.—These are seldom broken unless great and direct violence have been employed ; and their fracture is usually accom- panied by external wound, as in gun-shot injuries of these parts ilore commonly the alveolar processes are detached, and the teeth loosened. I he treatment then consists in binding the teeth together with gold wire. In fractures of the zygoma, the fragments may be driven into the temporal muscle and produce so much difficulty in mastication as to require removal. In some rare cases, all the hones of the face appear to have been smashed and separated from the skull by the infliction of great violence. Thus, South relates the case of a man who was struck on the face by the handle of a craue^ and in whom all the bones were separated and loosened feehng like be^s in a bag.” Yidal records the case of a man, who, by a fall from a gieat lit , separated all his facial bones. A patient was admitted into L mversity College Hospital under my care, who had fallen thirty feet over the balusteis of a spiral staircase. He had in some way struck Ins face, eithei on ieackm0 ground or in the fall. He lived only about two hours after admission. U making a post mortem examination, the following injuries were found, lhe Zer fawias fractured through the ramus on the left side, and tlmough the body between the molar teeth on the right side. In the upper jaw .trans- verse fracture ran completely across from one side of the face to the other it about the level of the inferior border of the anterior nares. It passed through both superior maxillary bones, the vertical part ot the palate bones, bo pterygoid, processes of the sphenoid bone on both sides and the vomer , so 1« the whole of the alveolar portions of the supenor; maxrUaand &•£*££ one piece. This was displaced backwards into the phan n.. ' , fractured on both sides, and a vertical fracture ran on eat*..do ft cm 4c margin of the orbit through the walls ot the anti urn , ' * there was one huge fragment composed of part of the zygoma, the malar boe, »d the pmt of the superior maxillary bone with LJ£ mmi bones the nasal processes of the superior maxillary bones, the os un u "Stand the e\hmoid, were smashed into There was no fracture visible from the interim of the skull, . Ttr^eX JEXhg out of a third-storey-window struck the