INJURIES OF THE HEAD. 71S This shows these injuries to be most dangerous in the temporal and frontal regions, and least so in the occipital. Amongst the 173 disabled, the following complications are specified as the 1 § causes of the disability :— 10 Persistent pain in the head. Vertigo, giddiness, and dizziness were j some of the commonest complaints among pensioners. 23 Paralysis of limbs more or less marked. 16 Impairment of vision ; wound mostly in frontal region. 14 Impairment of hearing ; wounds mostly in parietal and temporal regions, but some frontal and some occipital. 9 Epilepsy. 10 Insanity. Fractures of the Skull are invariably the result of external violence. This may act directly in breaking and splintering the part struck, the fissures often extending to a considerable distance and detaching large portions of the skull ; or the violence may act in an indirect manner, producing the fracture either without being applied immediately to the cranium, or else at an opposite part of the skull to that which is struck. Thus the base of the skull may be fractured by the shock communicated to it when a person, falling from a height, strikes the ground heavily with his feet. A variety of indirect frac- ture in which the lesion occurs at a point of the skull opposite to that which has been struck has received the name of Fracture by Contrecoup. Fracture by Contrecoup has been described by some Surgeons as of frequent occurrence, whilst it has been denied by others. Aran laid down as an absolute rule that all fissured fractures without exception start from the point in the skull to which the violence has been applied. Every hospital Surgeon must, however, occasionally have met with fissures, especially in the thin parts of the base of the skull, which could not be traced to the point in the vault which directly received the injury, but such cases are undoubtedly very rare. Moreover, it must not be concluded at once that such fissures are the result of contrecoup. A man may receive a violent blow on the frontal bone, wounding the scalp, and the fracture may be found in the occipital reo-ion. In such a case, it often happens that the fissure was really caused by a blow on the back of the head received in falling. In other cases in which the patient falls directly on the vertex and fractures the base of the skull, the fracture is often caused by the weight of the body communicated through the vertebral column to the condyles of the occipital bone. It has been shown experimentally by C. Bell, Bruns, and Felizet, that the skull possesses a consider- able degree of elasticity, and that when a violent force such as a blow acting on a considerable extent of the surface, or powerful pressure is applied to it, it undergoes an alteration in shape not merely at the point struck, but as a whole" There is a shortening of the diameter corresponding to the direc- tion of the force, with lengthening of the other diameters. Thus, a force applied to the vertex tends to shorten the vertical diameter, and to cause •i corresponding lengthening of the antero-postcrior and transverse diameters. A skull thus squeezed out of shape may yield at the weakest part, and a iusiire lav Zs be formed at a point remote from that to which the force was applied although much more commonly the blow determines the s a mg S t of the fissure. That the fissures in a fractured skull may actual!) gape at the moment and close again as soon as the force ceases to act, is occa