I I I 2 VENEREAL DISEASES. applied to it. These conditions most frequently result from syphilis, hut cases are often met with in which no history of the disease can be obtained • they are permanent, the normal papillary condition of the tongue never being regained. Simple ulceration is not uncommon in the opaque patches, and in later life epithelioma frequently attacks the diseased mucous membrane. The treatment of this condition is very unsatisfactory. Perchloride of mercurv lotions are often of use. Internally iodide of potassium produces most effect. If it fails, and the patient is in a state to stand it, a course of mercury may be tried. The tongue is affected also in some cases by diffuse overgrowth of its con- nective tissue, occurring in patches and extending deeply into its substance from the mucous surface. More commonly it is the seat of gummata. These form, as a rule, in the muscular substance of the organ, and sometimes in the fibrous septum. They form indolent tumours, gradually reaching the mucous membrane, and implicating it. They run the usual course of gum- mata, and when they soften and open on the surface, leave deep, foul ulcers, which may be mistaken for epithelial cancer. The diagnosis of these affec- tions, and their treatment, will be more fully considered under the diseases of the tongue. The syphilitic diseases of the Throat are amongst the most common mani- festations of constitutional syphilis, and frequently occur early. They present three chief forms, occurring in the early secondary, the later secondary, and the tertiary stages of the disease. The early secondary eruption is a deep-red exanthematous efflorescence of the soft palate and pillars of the fauces, either without ulceration or with but superficial abrasion. It occurs about the period of the invasion of the roseola and requires no special treatment. In the later secondary period, correspond- ing to that at which the squamous and papular eruptions appear on the skin, ulceration of the tonsils is very common. It appears first as white patches and mucous tubercles, in the centre of which the ulceration commences. The ulcers have sharply cut edges, often somewhat undermined. Superficial mucous patches may surround the ulcer, and extend on to the soft palate and pillars of the fauces. These ulcerations give little or no pain in most cases, and never cause any serious destruction of the mucous membrane. They require the ordinary treatment of constitutional syphilis, and locally may be occasionally touched with the perchloride of mercury solution (gr. ij to 53). or with nitrate of silver. The tertiary ulcerations of the pharynx are far more serious. They seldom occur till three or more years after infection, and then only in patients in a debilitated state of health. The ulcers commence by a gummatous infiltration of the mucous membrane, similar in character to the tubercular syphilides of the skin. This breaks down, and a serpiginous ulceration starts from the affected spot, and may spread widely and rapidly. The ulcer has an irregular form and a foul gray surface, and may destroy in a few weeks a great part of the pillars of the fauces or of the soft palate. When the solt palate is de- stroyed, there is usually considerable difficulty in deglutition, and speech becomes altered. This form of ulceration occurs sometimes simultaneously with rupia on the skin, and requires the same constitutional treatment. The best local application is a gargle, composed of corrosive sublimate, gr. iv: hydrochloric acid, upviij ; and water, 3.x. If the patient cannot gaigle, or