SUPPURATION AND ABSCESS. 234 perforate a fascia, as this becomes thickened by the growth ol new fibious tissue rather than thinned by ulceration or pressure. Secondly, it burrows in the spaces along which the larger arteries run ; thus, a psoas abscess after L following the muscle beneath the fascia to the groin comes in relation with the profunda, and follows it amongst the adductor muscles, often sending out processes along the circumflex arteries and their branches reaching to the gluteal region. These abscesses do not readily point, and their duration is often very remarkable. I have seen large chronic abscesses in the iliac fossa and groin perfectly stationary for nearly two years. The fluid contained in i such abscesses is thin, flaky and curdy, though in some cases the pus is healthy in appearance. Sometimes they contain masses of a soft yellowish substance, apparently formed of coagulated fibrin entangling the fatty remains of degenerated pus-cells, but more commonly the shreds and flakes are of small size. No microscopic organisms are found in the pus of a chronic a iscess ; and, however long it may remain unopened, it shows no tendency to putrefac- tion until air is admitted from without. When such an abscess has been opened the wall of the sac is found in most cases to be lined by a thin layei of adherent cheesy matter, in other cases it may be covered by a smooth layei of imperfect granulation-tissue almost resembling a mucous membrane m appear- ance. The cavity is often crossed by bands containing vessels of consideraie size. Occasionally the fluid contents become gradually absorbed and the abscess undergoes spontaneous cure, its site being indicated by some dry cheesy matter enclosed in a dense mass of fibroid tissue. . . Chronic abscesses of a somewhat similar character often form in connectio with diseased joints, but the course of these is usually more rapid and the extent to which they burrow is not so great. Another form of chronic abscess is that occasionally met with in the mamma ; in which a few drops of curdy pus become surrounded by soW-mse^a wall of fibroid tissue as to simulate a solid tumour. A similai f° the cancellous tissue of bone, but in this case the enclosing wall ^fomed^of ve 7 dense compact osseous tissue. Such abscesses may exist for an indefinite per . Chronic abscesses often form in connection with the lymphatic glan^ m consequence of the gradual softening of caseous inflammatory products, abscesses are not uncommon in the neck, axilla, groin and iliac fossa. InstrZous children it is not uncommon to find a localised chrome inflam- matory process set up in the subcutaneous tissue without any appm^nt cam* The inflammatory products undergo fatty degeneration and slowly soften lhe An becomes p^L and congested, and gives wa, at ^e p^ aUow- ing the curdy fluid to escape, leaving a cavity beneath the under which is extremely difficult to cure. Hssue Occasionally abscesses of considerable size form in the subcutaneous tiss without any evident cause, and with but slight precursory symptoms, 01 e cn w bout Z at all. The patient, who has usually been cachectic and as