FRACTURES. Si4 the materials usually employed. For some kinds of fracture, special, and often very complicated apparatus, is very generally used ; but the Surgeon ' should never confine himself to one material, or one exclusive mode of treating these injuries, as in different cases special advantages may be obtained from different kinds of splints. Wood and tin are employed principally in the lower extremity, where great strength is required to counteract the weight of the limb and the action of its muscles ; and care must be taken to pad very thoroughly splints made of these materials. Leather, gutta-percha, paste- board, and poroplastic splints are more commonly useful in fractures of the upper extremity, though they may not unfrequently be employed with advantage in those of the lower limbs. In applying them, a pattern should first be cut out in brown paper, of the proper size and shape ; the material must then be softened by being well soaked in hot water, and moulded on to the part whilst soft: as soon as it has taken the proper shape, it should, if gutta-percha be used, be hardened by being plunged into cold water; paste- board, leather, or poroplastic splints must be allowed to dry on the limb. The edges may then be feathered and the corners rounded, and the interior lined with wash-leather or lint. These splints have the advantage of great durability, cleanliness, and lightness. The material of which the splint is composed is of less consequence than its mode of application. There are three points that require special attention in this respect :—1, that when the splint is flat it should be everywhere wider than the limb, so that the limb may lie on the splint, and not the splint rest upon the limb ; 2, that it should embrace securely and fix steadily the two joints connected with the fractured bone ; if the thigh, the hip and knee ; if the leg, the knee and ankle; and 3, that it be well padded beyond the edges. From want of attention to these points of practice much trouble is often occasioned in keeping the fragments in steady apposition, and much deformity may result. It is impossible to keep the fragments perfectly immobile, and in close and accurate apposition, unless these very important points be attended to. Special Apparatus should be employed as little as possible in the treatment of fractures. It is scarcely ever necessary in simple fractures, and is far more cumbersome and costly than the means above indicated, which are all that can be required. I have no hesitation in saying, that a Surgeon of ordinary in- genuity and mechanical skill may be fully prepared to treat successfully every fracture to which he can be called, by having at hand a smooth deal plank half an inch in thickness, and a sheet of gutta-percha, undressed sole-leather, pasteboard, “ poroplastic material,” perforated zinc, or thin sheet-iron, to cut into splints as required. To the means above described, some form of rigid apparatus, moulded to the limb, forms an invaluable addition. Although various plans lor stiffening and fixing bandages in cases of fracture had been employed at various times, it was not till about thirty years ago that their full value became recognized, chiefly through the practice and writings of Baron Seutin. Since that time a variety of substances, as gum and chalk, glue, paraffin, tripolith, and water- flass, have been recommended for the purpose of stiffening bandages, but the two which are practically most useful, aud have longest maintained their repu- tation, are the starched bandage and the plaster-of-Paris-bandage. These represent two different types of fixed apparatus. The starched bandage is applied oyer a mass of cotton-wool, which is firmly compressed during the