955 VARIETIES OF PYAEMIA. Acute Pyaemia.—In this form the rigors are well marked, the fcTer is high, secondary abscesses form early, and almost invariably affect the viscera ; death takes place usually before the tenth day. Acute pyaemia is found after death to be almost constantly associated with softening thrombi in the veins, and embolic abscesses. It is most common after operation or injuries involving the bones, as amputation or compound fractures, and is frequently preceded by septic osteomyelitis. It is invariably fatal. The part taken by embolism in the production of the secondary abscesses is often so evident in this form that it lias been described as embolicpyccmia. Chronic Pyaemia.-—In this form of the disease the fever is less intense; there may be but a single rigor, hut occasionally it may be repeated frequently throughout the case. The secondary inflammations affect chiefly the subcu- taneous cellular tissue and the joiuts, and occasionally the pleura, the viscera not being affected. Sometimes the secondary abscesses appear at points ex- posed to pressure, as the shoulders, or elbows, or the back; in other cases suppuration takes place in subcutaneous injuries, as bruises or simple fractures. The patient may linger on for weeks, and finally die from exhaustion ; or recovery may take place, leaving him in shattered health, with perhaps one or more joints firmly ankylosed. Chronic pyaemia is most frequently met with after injuries of the soft parts, especially the genito-urinary organs, and it foinis a not uncommon form of puerperal fever. It has been known to follow gonorrhoea, and is allied to some forms of “gonorrhoeal rheumatism.” Should the patient die, as a ride no softening thrombi are found in the veins. Umbilical Pyaemia is a name which has sometimes been given to a form of the disease occurring in infants from thrombosis of the umbilical vein, with subsequent softening of the clot. Pyaemia without an Open Wound.—This may occur as the result of ulcerations oi the alimentary canal, as in typhoid fever or dysentery, or as a consequence of some infective inflammation of a deep part. A general febrile disease with rigors, and the formation of metastatic abscesses has been observed also as a complication of gonorrhoea. Perhaps the most common example ol pyaemia from a subcutaneous inflammation is the form that so frequently iollows acute necrosis of bones in children. This is an acute infective inflam- mation terminating rapidly in the formation of pus beneath the periosteum, t is very frequently complicated by thrombosis of the veins leading from the bone, and subsequent softening of the thrombi and embolism. The emboli are impregnated with the infective products of the local inflammation, and wherever hey lodge they give rise to abscesses. It is not known with certainty what is wnnn ia e f tlC m*e?1Ve material «feer iii pyaimia from an open ho va T m both cases ifc « disseminated throughout the sjstern by the blood-stream, and consequently the anatomical distribution fent C°ndaiT ° inflammation will be the same even if the virus is Idmpathic py^xa is a term applied to those rare cases in which the .L 1 °' m"j8 llle aiKJ the Post-mortem appearances arc those of pyaemia, and yet no local source of infection can be found. “ InveWn f°rm? °if Pyseima ancl SePtlcseniia.—Although these diseases met with ^ iseparately, > must not be supposed that they are always IWtmui^ho n I f Pia fstmcfc fi'om cach ofcbcr- 111 m«st cases of pa ion suffers at the same time more or less severely from septic