EFFECT OF SEPTIC INFLUENCES. 37 Simpson collected the particulars of 2,008 amputations of all kinds occurring in the country and in private practice in towns; of these 229 died, or 1 in 9-2 ; whilst of an almost equal number, viz., 2,089 amputations, performed in the large city hospitals of Great Britain, 855 died, or 1 in 2-4. It is quite possible that Simpson’s figures were not absolutely but only approximately correct, and that certain sources of fallacy had intruded them- selves, more especially with regard to the condition of the patient before the operation, to which undoubtedly great importance must be attached {vide p. 75). But still, making full allowance for all this, the difference is so great between the two sets of cases, that the general result, viz., that the mortality after amputation in hospital practice was nearly four times as great as when the same operations were performed out of hospital, cannot be very materially affected; and it was impossible to escape from the conclusion that the high hospital-mortality was greatly influenced by the exposure of the patient ~to those septic conditions existing in the air of large hospitals, which have been so ably and graphically described by Parkes, and which exercise the most injurious effect on patients with large wounds who are exposed to them. That those septic influences may eventually saturate hospitals, and exercise a most important influence in causing fatal pyaemia, septicaemia, and osteo- myelitis, after amputations, from which, as has already been shown, a large proportion of those operated on formerly died, is evident from the following- considerations. ° 1. From the commencement of this century up to a comparatively recent period during what, 111 fact, may be termed the pre-sanitary age—no im- provement had taken place in amputation-mortality in hospitals • The P*?ailin? Ugh rate of mortality varied greatly in different hospitals m the same town, m which the patients were of the same class of society followed pretty much the [same occupations, and were subjected to the same kinds of injuries and diseases ; the hospitals being officered by Sur-eons of equal professional skill, and the only inequality existing being in the different sanitaiy conditions to which the patients were exposed in different hospitals. S: ?? difference m the amputation-mortality in different London hospitals varied from 18 and 25 to 47 per cent. In Calcutta, the death-rate after thmh amputations varied m different hospitals from 42 to 80 per cent. (Downie) & reduced been materially 5. This reduction is contemporaneous with, and, as all the other conditions con- « before must be dependent upon, the greater attention iZtoZnZi Hygiene and the employment of antiseptics, in the treatment ofrwounds 1 found io ”e taiLSr tth<i /S6 °f m0rtaiil7 aftcr station has been tive processeofInHct , aggregl,t,on «f «”> wounded , and infec- tion 0 the p^ tint? gm a,m0St’ ’f ”0t * averted by isola-