MECHANISM OF COLLES’ FRACTURE. 581 ——- - — ifa -s. m i . =- p 1 amount and character of the resulting deformity. When a person falls on his hands outstretched to save him, the limb is usually not completely pronated. It is half-way between complete pronation and the mid-state between pronation and supination. Complete pronation is a forcible muscular effort which is not carried to the full extent at the moment of danger. The hand is in fact three-quarters pronated—not wholly so. The effect of this position is, that the ulnar border is directed slightly downwards and first comes into contact with the ground, and the fracturing force is directed in a line that is somewhat towards the radial side, as well as backwards and upwards. Hence the hand is driven from the ulna towards the radius, causing the strongly marked projection of the styloid process of the nlna ; and, the radius being broken across at its lower end, the fragment, carrying with it the carpus and hand, is driven backwards, upwards, and slightly outwards, causing the double deformity of a projection at the back of the fore-arm immediately above the carpus, and the concavity along the outer line of the radius. But if, as sometimes happens, the hand be completely and forcibly pronated at the moment when it touches the ground, then the shock, which is received principally on the ball of the thumb and the radial side of the wrist, impinges in a direction obliquely from before backwards, and from without inwards, as well as from below upwards, and thus has a tendency, as soon as the ' bone is broken, to rotate the lower fragment on its own axis, and jto tilt the articular surface somewhat upwards and outwards. As the upper fragment descends, its pos- terior surface of compact tissue is forced into the cancellous structure of the lower fragment until the two posterior portions of compact tissue come into contact; and thus the upper line of compact tissue is driven into the lower fragment, to an extent corresponding to the degree with which the fragment is rotated upwards and backwards. If the bone be brittle, or the force be con- Itinued after this amount of impaction has taken place, the lower fragment will be splintered. The prominence of the styloid process of the ulna in this case is the result of the shortening of the radial side of the wrist and hand, consequent upon the impaction. When the fracture is simple, or when it is comminuted without impaction, I agree with R. W. Smith that the displacement of the lower fragment is the result of muscular action alone. This I have had an opportunity of observing in the following case. A man, 64 years of age, fell to the ground from a height of twenty-five feet. In his fall he broke the left radius just above the wrist, but also met with such serious injuries of the pelvis and abdomen, that he died in an lour aftei admission into the Hospital. On carefully dissecting the arm a, ou wenty-four hours after death, I found that the radius was fractured W 7 ab°Ut half an inch above ifcs lower articular end, and that the all th ,a"men*J was completely comminuted. The wrist, which presented 1S1pls kbis fracture in a very marked, but not an extreme degree, could n° /C reS^0re(^ k° ft8 normal shape by any amount of traction that I emp oy. On exposing the muscles of the limb, it was found that the Fig. 217.—A section of the bone from which' Fig. 215 was taken. Showing the impac- tion of tiie compact tissue of the pos- terior aspect of the Upper Fragment into the cancellous tissue of tiie Lower.