994 TUMOURS. the nates, as well as occasionally in the larynx and fauces. They are always dependent on a syphilitic taint. When situated on the mucous membranes, they are often pointed, somewhat pendulous, nodulated on the surface, very vascular and bleed readily when touched; but when they occur on a muco- cutaneous surface, they are flattened, expanded, soft, and white, constituting the true condylomata or mucous tubercles. Some forms of polypi are properly classed amongst papillomata, ihus the simple polypus of the rectum may be a soft papilloma bearing columnar epi- thelium. In some rare cases, the epithelium has been found to be sea y. The papillae may branch again and again, the peduncle being comparatively small. It is difficult, however, to draw any accurate line between such papillomata and the columnar epithelioma to be described hereaftei . The common form of villous tumour of the bladder, frequently described as “ villous cancer,” should also undoubtedly lie included under papillomata. This tumour is composed of long delicate processes floating freely m the cavity of the bladder, attached only at their bases. They each consist of a di a cu capillary loop, surrounded by an almost homogeneous connective tissue, con- taining a feiv scattered round or oval cells, and covered with an an irregular shape, often resembling spindle-cells m form, and s^lai to ffiat naturally lining the bladder. Tins epithelium is very difficult to find, as it soon separates by maceration hi the urine after death. The base from wh the villi grow is composed merely of fibroid tissue tunnelled in all directions by dilated vessels. These tumours, if left unrelieved, mvanaffiy tenmn^ fatally from the abundant hmmorrliage to which they give rise and the eflect they have in interfering with the escape of mine fromTheib addrn; bffittay never o-ive rise to secondary deposits nor invade surrounding.structures, and are consequently non-malignant. They will be more fully described under diseases °f The Central principles of Treatment of these affections consist m their removal by excision, ligature, or caustics, according to their size, situation, an Siel Excikon is usually preferable when they are ffi Imge s, • I they are seated on a mucous surface, and are pedunculated, the hgawxe is^ safest means of removal. In many cases Paquehn s cautery wffi be fom d ug useful in removing large papillary growths. Smah^ warty jo* ths on t e hm or on a muco-cutaneous surface may be conveniently dertrojed b cmubc The term “ polypus ” may perhaps be more conveniently defined here a elsewhere. It is purely clinical, and has noi patho elsewhere. It is purely enmuu, <mu — i— o . paying a means a tumour growing from the mucous surta^ mg o > «v > . " distinct peduncle and a rounded, oral, or papillary form. Thus polypus of the nqse is “'ally a ““'f" , ' d,f tie met™ lYAuniiij o a * * , . . Polypus of the uterus is a am usuaUy often a papilloma, and sometimes a iuim - WT'„"Z„ ‘ iJA they grow, covered by a prolongation of the mucous ^ win-ciliated Thus the mucous polypus of the nose is covered by a membrane CP!SL. Glandular Tunroura.-Thesc tiimoiu, glands in structure. Secreting glands are racemose ’ quently adenomata arc divided into two conespon ^ tubules resembling The Tubular Adenomata are imposed^ fpc surface. They the crypts of Liebcrkiihii, some closed aud some oi.c