SEPTICAEMIA AND PYAEMIA. 95° colour and imperfectly coagulated, as in septicaemia, but in the vast majority of cases presents no naked-eye abnormal appearance. The Veins of distant parts are occasionally found to contain softening thrombi similar to those observed at the seat of infection. In the 110 cases of pyaemia collected by the Committee of the Pathological Society this condi- tion was observed in six. These cases arc of great interest as indicating that the general infection of the blood may, in some cases at least, be an important factor in causing thrombosis at the original seat of infection. Secondary Centres of Inflammation occurred in the following order of frequency in the 110 cases reported in the Transactions of the Pathological Society of London, 1870. The table is divided into two columns, A and B, A showing the frequency with which the secondary inflammation was limited to one organ or tissue, and 13, the number of cases in which the special part was affected in combination with others. Joints A. 12 n. 8 Total. 20 Subcutaneous and intermuscular areolar tissue . . 4 8 12 Muscles () 1 1 Bruises and other subcutaneous injuries . 1 1 2 Serous membranes (i 4 10 Lung . 33 24 57 Liver 1 11 12 Spleen . 1 10 11 G Kidneys 0 G Brain 1 5 (> Heart, substance of 1 4 5 Endocardium 0 1 i Parotid gland 0 1 i The cases of inflammation of serous membranes do not include those in which the mischief was merely secondary to abscesses in the organs they cover. The relative frequency of the affection of the different membranes was as follows : pleurisy, 4 ; meningitis, 3 ; pericarditis, 2 ; peiitonitis, 1. The Heart is frequently the seat of small extravasations, winch may l>e found either beneath the pericardial or endocardial lining, or in the muscular substance itself. Sometimes, though not very often, abscesses are found situated either in the wall or in the papillary muscles ; these are usually small collections of puriform matter, rarely much larger than a pea, and often sur- rounded by a zone of congestion or haemorrhage. The muscular substance is flabby, and the lining membrane of both the heart and aorta is usually moie or less deeply stained by imbibition of the colouring matter of the blood. Pericarditis may occur independently or in connection with metastatic abscesses in the heart, or may be secondary to the inflammation of the pleura. sionally diffuse acute inflammation of the muscular structure of the hear is found, without any distinct abscess having been formed. _ _ The Lungs are much congested, especially at the posterior bases, u heic i tissue is friable ; sometimes this congestion passes into true pneumonia. ® most important condition present in these cases is the existence ot me a* ■ 2«Z, which may vary much in number and size. These are found scattered over the surface, and are most common m fchc\^ ' , the lower lobes, and the interlobular fissure. Them pos.t.on is; md.e ted by induration and a slight elevation, to be felt on passing the hand