453 VESSELS OF THE HEAD AND NECK. CHAPTER XYI. WOUNDS OF SPECIAL BLOOD-YESSELS.* VESSELS OP THE HEAD AND NECK. Carotid Artery.—Wounds of the Carotid Artery, and of its primary and secondary divisions, are more frequent in civil practice than similar injuries of any other set of arteries in the body, in consequence of the neck being frequently the seat of suicidal attempts. The haemorrhage from wounds of the main trunk is so copious as often to be immediately fatal. In the event of a Surgeon being at hand, both ends of the bleeding vessel must be at once ligatured. Should the jugular vein be also wounded a ligature must be applied, if possible, by pinching up the wound and applying the thread in such a way as not to completely occlude the vessel. Should the haemorrhage, whether primary or secondary, proceed from a deep branch of the external carotid, as the internal maxillary, so situated as not to admit of the vessel being exposed and ligatured at the seat of wound, the ordinary rule of practice of tying a wounded artery at the seat of injury must be departed from, and the main trunk be tied at the most convenient spot. Considerable difference of opinion has existed as to whether, under these circumstances, it is better to tie the external or the common carotid. Guthrie strongly advocated the application of the ligature to the external carotid, but most Surgeons have preferred to tie the common trunk above the omo-hyoid, fearing that the application of a ligature amongst the numerous branches of the external carotid would be followed by secondary haemorrhage. The results of this operation, however, have been far from satisfactory ; not only have many patients died directly from the operation itself, but in a very large pro- portion the haemorrhage for which it was performed has recurred and proved fatal. Harrison Cripps has collected 50 cases of ligature of the common trunk for haemorrhage, 28 of which terminated fatally. He therefore advo- cates a return to Guthrie’s practice of applying the ligature to the external carotid, and the exact point he recommends is between the superior thyroid and the lingual. This operation is not difficult of performance, and seems in itself to be less dangerous than the deligation of the main trunk. Madelung has collected the records of 60 cases, of which only 7 died. There seems every reason therefore for preferring it, when possible, to the more serious operation of tying the common trunk. Internal Carotid.—If the internal carotid is wounded, ligature of the common carotid gives the best chance of recovery. In consequence of the speedy fatality of the wounds of the carotid artery and its branches, Traumatic Aneurisms are rarely met with in this situation ; they do, however, occasionally occur, and the records of surgery contain at Vol. 1 nfamptSa’^in nnd ^LIV'°nS m|"irci’ for tlle ligature of the various arteries will be found in