INJURIES OF SOFT PARTS. 3IQ unpleasant symptoms of carbolic-acid-poisoning, such as a general sense of illness, pain in the back, or even hasmaturia; that it may depress the patient and add to shock by chilling the surface; that the spray-apparatus is costly, difficult to keep in order, and inconveniently cumbersome to carry about in private practice; and lastly, the amount of success that attends the antiseptic treatment of accidental wounds is sufficient evidence that good results may be obtained without it. The truth probably lies between the two extremes. The spray is no doubt not necessary in all ordinary cases ; Lister himself holds it to be the least essential part of his treatment. In all cases in which cavities are opened, it is a great additional security, especially if the cavity is one in which putrescible matter is likely to accumu- late, and which it is impossible thoroughly to cleanse or drain; thus it is of great use in small openings into the pleura, abdomen, or joints. In operations such as ovariotomy, in which the cavity of the peritoneum can be thoroughly cleansed before the wound is closed, and in which the amount of exudation afterwards will not be more than is rapidly absorbed by the serous membrane, experience shows that its use is not essential, although it may gn e additional security. In an ordinary operation-wound it gives inci eased certainty of an aseptic result, but with great care and attention to detail in irrigation and in the use of a “guard” during dressing, as described in the treatment of abscesses (page 247), very good results may be obtained. If the spray be used, the obstruction to the view of the wound can be avoided by not putting the apparatus too near; and the chilling of the patient must be prevented by covering the parts not necessarily exposed with blankets and waterproof sheeting. In cases in which the operation-wound is complicated by the presence ot old sinuses, such as are met with in many cases of joint-disease, these must be scraped out with a sharp spoon, and afterwards sponged with a solution of chloride of zinc (40 grains to 1 ounce). If the sinuses be numerous it is, perhaps, safer to wash the whole wound out with chloride of zinc lotion, the good effects of which were pointed out by Campbell De Morgan many years ago. Sinuses should not be injected before the operation, as there is some danger of rupturing their walls, and if the chloride of zinc lotion should thus become injected into the cellular tissue, the most extensive and dangerous sloughing may result. In all cases of wound, whether resulting from accident or operation, drainage forms an essential part of the antiseptic system o treatment. The irritation of the antiseptic, applied to the raw surface, increases considerably the flow of the natural serous discharge during the hrst twenty-four or thirty-six hours. There are no ligatures to form a dram tor it, and the edges of the wound are rather firmly pressed together by the dressing. It is necessary, therefore, to provide for the exit of the discharge by means o drainage-tubes. These tubes are prepared and inserted in the same way as m the antiseptic treatment of abscesses (pages 244, 245). One or more must « inserted to the very bottom of the wound, and the edges ot the skin may thei be brought together as closely as possible, a continuous suture even being use if the Surgeon prefer it. The tubes must vary in size and number with the extent and nature of the wound, and must be brought to the suiface at t most convenient and dependent parts. The drainage-tubes should n moved for the first two days, by which time they will have formed a tiac themselves, and can be readily re-introduced if necessary. Sometime I