TUMOURS. 986 especially on the metacarpus and phalanges, it commonly springs from the medullary canal, which becomes expanded by gradual absorption of the com- pact tissue, with a constant growth of new bone beneath the periosteum. Thus the tumour remains long covered by a thin shell of bone. Finally the growth perforates its bony covering at one side, and then advances more rapidly in that direction. These tumours occur in childhood or young adult life. They never assume a malignant form, nor do they ossify. Calcification is common, and mucous softening occasionally, but rarely, takes place in their interior, leading to ulceration of the skin. The Treatment consists either in excision of the tumour, or in amputation of the affected part. Excision may be practised when the tumour is seated in the parotid region, or otherwise unconnected with bone. \\ hen forming part of the osseous structures, it cannot well be got rid of without the removal by amputation of the bone that it implicates. When it occurs in the hand, removal of the affected fingers and metacarpal bones, to an extent proportioned to the amount of the disease, will be required ; but it should be remembered that in this situation enchondromata are always perfectly innocent, and con- sequently the operation should not be performed if the finger be useful to the patient, unless he is willing to sacrifice an useful finger to get rid of an unsightly deformity. In Fig. 86 may be seen the kind of hand left after operation in the case from which Fig. 373 was taken. If, in these circumstances, excision of the tumour only be attempted, it will be found that the whole mass caimot be removed, and that it rapidly grows again ; or that the wound formed by the operation remains fistulous and open. Removal of a pure chondroma is followed by a permanent cure. The mixed cartilaginous tumours, as chondro-sarcoma or adeno-sarcoma, sometimes letum after removal, both locally and in internal organs. (cl) Osteoma. Exostosis. Bony Tumour—In order to render the review of the different varieties of tumour complete, it will be necessary biiefiy to mention the osteomata in this place, though their clinical characters will e more fully treated of in the chapter on the Diseases of Bones. In the first place, it is necessary accurately to distinguish mere calcification from me formation of true bone. The former is extremely common, the latter some what rare. Bone appears in tumours under lour chiel conditions ; 1st, as t le result of the ossification of a fibroma; 2nd, of a sarcoma ; 3rd, of an enc ion droma ; and 4th, as a special growth covered with a firm layer of pciiostcumj Bone has been described as occurring also in connection with carcinoma , u this assertion has not been confirmed since the separation ol cancels am sar comas. Only the last two forms mentioned above are usually spoken o as bony tumours or exostoses. They differ essentially from each othei in wur seat and consistence, as well as in their mode of growth. Those dc\ c opm,-, from cartilage or spongy exostoses, arc situated almost invariably in the imm diate neighbourhood of an epiphysis, and rarely, if ever, start into grovt i a c the twenty-fourth year; those developing from a fibrous periosteal co'C r, ivory exostoses, are of extreme and remarkable density, and are usua y • ^ on flat bones, such as those of the head, face, scapula, and pelus. o growths closely resemble normal bone in structure, the spongy exosto.... agreeing with the cancellous tissue of the extremity of a iong^bone, « ^ ivory or hard exostosis corresponding to the petrous portion of t '