xv CONTENTS. —Impacted Extracapsular Fracture—Compound Fracture of Surgical Neck- Separation of Great Tuberosity—Compound and Comminuted Fracture of Head of Humerus—Fractures of Shaft—Near Elbow-Joint—Separation of Lower Epi- physis Transverse Fracture of Lower End—I racture of Condyle Injury of Nerves in Fracture of Humerus—Compound and Comminuted Fractures of Elbow- Joint. Forearm—Olecranon—Compound Fracture of Olecranon—Coronoid Process of Ulna—Middle of Forearm—Lower Extremity of Radius—Deformity— Mechanism—Treatment—Metacarpus and Fingers .... 569—584 Feactuhes of the Pelvis and the Lower Extremity— Pelvis— Acetabulum- Sacrum— Coccyx— Coccydynia.—Thigh-Bone—Of Pelvic End—Intracapsular Cause — Signs—Mode of Union—Impacted Intracapsular — Extracapsular Fracture—Unimpacted Fracture—Impacted Fracture—Pathology—Diagnosis- Compound Fracture of Neck of Bone—Fracture of Trochanter Major—Of Shaft— Treatment—Of Compound and Comminuted Fracture—Fracture near Knee-Joint. —Patella—Union—Treatment—Compound and Comminuted Fracture—Ne- crosis.—Bones of Leg—Treatment of Simple Fracture—Period of Union—- Complications—Compound Fracture of Tibia—Treatment—Htemorrhage—Frac- tures near Ankle-Joint—Pott’s Fracture—Signs—Treatment—Internal and Ex- ternal Malleolus—Compound Fracture into Ankle-Joint—Badly-set Fractures near Ankle.—Bones of Foot—Fracture of Calcaneum—Astragalus—Tarsal Bones—Metatarsal Bones 584—625 Chapter XXII.—Dislocations. Dislocations defined—Causes— Signs—Effects—Treatment—Mechanical Contri- vances—Manipulation—After-treatment—Dislocations of old Standing—Ob- stacles to Reduction—Anaesthesia—Accidents in Attempts at Reduction—Com- pound Dislocation — Treatment — Complications—Spontaneous Dislocations— Treatment—Congenital Dislocations ........ 626 630 Chapter XXIII.—Special Dislocations. Dislocations of the Lower Jaw—Causes—Bilateral—Unilateral—Subluxation— Reduction—Congenital Dislocation 640 642 Dislocations of the Upper Limb—Clavicle—Sternal End—Outer End—Simul- taneous of both Ends.—Scapula.—Shoulder-Joint—Signs—Varieties—Sub- coracoid — Subclavicular — Subspinous—Subglenoid—Partial—Causes—Relative Frequency—Diagnosis — Reduction—Compound—Complications—Congenital- Unreduced—Accidents in Attempted Reduction.—Elbow-Joint—Both Bones Ulna—Radius—Complications—Reduction—Compound—Old Unreduced Dislo- cations.—W rist—Hand and Carpus—Backwards—Forwards—Diagnosis—Com- pound Congenital.—Single Carpal Bones—Os Magnum—Pisiform Semi- lunar.—Metacarpal Bones.—Metacarpo-Phalangeal Joints—Thumb- Reduction.—Phalanges of Fingers . . . 649 66S Dislocations of the Lower Limb—Pelvis-Pubic Symphisis-Sacro-iliac Articu- lation—Coccyx.—Femur—Cooper’s Classification—Importance of Ilio-femoral Ligament Bigelow’s Classification — Varieties — Modes of Reduction — Ilio- sciatic—Reduction—On Thyroid Foramen—Reduction—on Pubic Bone—Re- duction—Subspinous Dislocation—Supraspinous Dislocation—Everted Dorsal— irregular Dislocations — Reduction of Old Dislocations — Complication with B racture Simultaneous Congenital.— Patella—Directions.—Knee—Varie- tl,(!s Complications Compound Dislocation—Congenital Dislocations—Sublux- auon—Rupture of Posterior Crucial Ligament—Head of Fibula.—Ankle— aneties — Compound — Treatment.— Astragalus — Varieties — Treatment— ^ompoum •— 1 arsal Bones Calcaneum and Scaphoid—Calcaneum Scaphoid Toe. Ub0ld ~Intemal Cuneiform. — Metatarsal Bones — Phalanges of 668—696