1039 TREATMENT OF CANCER—PRESSURE. is large and rapidly growing, ib may be most advantageously destroyed from the circumference, at its junction with the healthy tissues. Ihis may be done by the plan adopted by Maisonneuve—of making the paste into small sticks, or pencils, which are pushed deeply and at short intervals into the substance ox the tumour around its circumference, so that its tissue becomes penetrated by the action of the caustic in all directions, and its vitality thus rapidly destroyed. In small tumours, and those that grow with less rapidity, in which there is no great risk of the rapidity of their growth overtaking and passing beyond the destructive effects of the caustic, the paste may be applied to and around the centre, and the disease in this manner extirpated. In other cases, the tumour may be deeply and rapidly attacked by applying a layer of the chloride of zinc paste over the whole of its surface. The slough produced by this application is then incised, or scored longitudinally at equal distances of about half an inch, until the parts beneath, to which the caustic has not penetrated, are reached by the incisions so made : pieces of lint covered with the deliquesced chloride are put into them, and afterwards fresh incisions are made until the cauterizing influence has extended to the bottom of the tumour, which finally sloughs out in a mass. Of the utility of the chloride of zinc as a caustic, there can be no doubt; but the chief objection to its use lies in the intensity and continuance of the pain occasioned by it. This, however, may be lessened by an admixture of extract of opium, or, as L. Parker has suggested, by freezing the part before the caustic is applied, and continuing the application of the frigorific mixture during the time of the action of the caustic. Landolfi has recommended the use of the chloride of bromine in combination with those of gold and zinc ; but this caustic does not appear to possess any decided advantage over the simple chloride of zinc, and is objectionable on account of the fumes evolved during its use. Arsenic exercises a powerful action upon cancerous growths, and is the chief ingredient in many of the secret preparations used by empirics ; it is, however, a dangerous agent, and excites great inflammation and pain. If too freely used, it may induce poisoning, and not a few deaths have resulted in this way; it should, accordingly, not be applied at any one time to a surface exceeding a shilling in size. The most convenient mode of applying it appears to be Manec’s paste, composed of one part of arsenious acid to eight of cinnabar and four of burnt sponge, rubbed down to a proper consistence with a little water. Sulphate of zinc, dried, finely levigated, and made into a paste with glycerine, or an ointment with lead, has been very strongly recommended by Simpson, as one of the most efficient and convenient of all caustics in rodent and cancerous ulcers. In action it somewhat resembles the chloride of zinc, but is less painful. Of all these caustics, I should certainly say that the deliquesced chloride of zinc is the safest and most efficacious, more particularly when a scirrhous tumour has to be destroyed. When an encephaloid fungus has to be attacked, the concentrated sulphuric acid is preferable, owing to its coagulating and haemostatic properties. When small cancerous sores have to be destroyed, the nitric acid, the arsenical paste, or the chloride of zinc, made into a paste with flour and extract of opium, may very conveniently be used. Compression is a plan that has been alternately greatly extolled and much depreciated. It was fully tried at the Middlesex Hospital, by Young, more