INJURIES OF THE SPINE. 780 When Myelitis occurs, the inflammation attacking the substance of the •cord itself, the most usual pathological condition met with is softening, with more or less disorganisation. This softening of the cord, as a consequence of inflammation, may occupy very varying extents. Sometimes the whole thick- ness of the cord is affected at one point, sometimes one of the lateral halves in a vertical direction ; at other times the disease is most marked in or wholly confined to its anterior or its posterior aspect ; or the grey central portion may be more affected than the circumferential part. Again, these changes of struc- ture may be limited to one part only, to the cervical, the dorsal, or the lumbar. . It is very rarely indeed that the whole length of the cord is affected. The most •common seat of inflammatory softening is the lumbar region ; next in order • of frequency is the cervical. In very chronic cases of myelitis, the whole of the nervous substance disappears, and nothing but connective tissue is left at the part affected. Ollivier observes that, when myelitis is consecutive to menin- gitis of the cord, the inflammatory softening may be confined to the white substance. Though softening is the ordinary change that takes place in a cord that has been the seat of chronic inflammation, sometimes the nervous substance becomes increased in bulk, more solid than natural, and of a dull white colour, like boiled white of egg. This induration may co-exist with spinal meningitis, with congestion, and increased vascularization of the membranes. It is important to observe that, although spinal meningitis and myelitis are occasionally met with distinct and separate, yet they most frequently co-exist, When existing together, and even arising from the same cause, they may be associated in very varying degrees. In some cases the symptoms of meningitis. In others those of myelitis, are most marked ; and, after death, corresponding •characteristic appearances are found. Diagnosis.-—There are four morbid states, with one or other of which the symptoms of spinal concussion, which have been just described, have sometimes been confounded, and from which it is necessary to diagnose it. 1 hese are, 1. The Secondary Consequences of Cerebral Concussion; 2. Rheumatism! % Hysteria ; and 4. Syphiloma of the Cord. I. From the secondary effects of cerebral concussion it is not difficult as on the cord ; and the secondary inflammations of the spine, M m 1 ^ the concussion, even when that is primarily limited to the \crtebi a eo inn and its contents, have a tendency to extend along the continuous fi nous a serous membranes to the interior of the cranium, and thus to gi\c use 0 synip toms of cerebral irritation. _ • ii_ ;n 2. From rheumatism the diagnosis may not always be easy, espci > the earlier stages of the disease, when the concussion of th? tiud consecutive meningitis have developed pain along the com** of the , increased cutaneous sensibility at points. By attention, however, to the lusto j to diagnose the consequences of concussion of the spinal cord, in those cases I • 1- j-i ■—i----* U10 vertebral column. The tenderness and m which the mischief is limited to the _ . . rigidity of the spine, the pain on pressing upon or 011 moving it m any direction, and the absence of any distinct lesion about the head, will sufficieu y mark the precise situation of the injury. The two conditions of cerebral and spinal concussion often co-exist prunarm. The shock that jars injuriously one portion of the nervous system, very com- monly produces a corresponding effect on the whole ol it, on the biain as ^