REMOVAL BY CAUTERY OR LIGATURE. 1049 Faquelin’s Cautery has in many cases superseded the ecraseur in the removal of tumours. The red-hot knife of this instrument di\ ides the tissues cleanly, and efficiently arrests haemorrhage. The heat at which it can be used may be easily regulated, and if not raised above a dull red heat secondaiy haemorrhage rarely follows its employment. In removing superficial grow ths, I such as an epithelioma of the vulva, it can be used at a higher temperature. It then arrests the parenchymatous oozing, but leaves the large vessels spout- ing, so that they can easily be secured by ligature. When used at this tempe- rature it cuts more quickly and cleanly, and chars the tissues more superficially, and leaves a surface on which a scarcely appreciable layer of slough is formed. The Ligature is nowT never used except for pedunculated growths or for naevi. It was formerly applied to small epitheliomata of the tongue, but the presence of the foul sloughing tumour in the mouth was not only unpleasant but a positive source of danger to the patient. When the ligature is applied, the part having been well insulated, and effectually strangled by stout whip- cord ligatures, sloughs and separates in a few days. A modification known as the elastic ligature was introduced into practice by Dittel some years ago. It consists of a thin band of indiarubber, which is tied round the mass to be removed, and gradually tightened as it cuts its way through. It is possible that such a means may be useful hi certain small pedunculated growths, which dry on being strangled; but its application to large tumours, as of the breast, is simply a revival of mediaeval barbarism with the aid of modern appliances. The slowness of its action, the pain as it cuts through, the large wound that is left, the feetor from the necrosed tumour, and the chance of septic infection from this cause, all tend to make it a method that should be avoided whenever the knife can be employed. Far more tedious, and certainly not safer than the knife, it is also inferior to caustics, which at all events arrest putrefaction, and many of which, as chloride of zinc, have a powerful antiseptic action.