148 LOCAL DISTURBANCES AND INFLAMMATION. progress of the inflammatory process, the student must consult works on general pathology, and the writings of those observers in this country and abroad who have made inflammation the subject of special investi- gation.* Up to a comparatively recent period Inflammation was regarded by all pathologists as a process consisting essentially of “ a perversion of the natural acts of nutrition of the part,” and most regarded it as a condition of increased activity of the processes of nutrition, if not throughout its course, at any rate, at its commencement. In 1858, Lister as the result of his observations, arrived at the conclusion that, from the very earliest stage, inflammation is not an increase but a decrease of the vital activity of the alfected tissues. This theory being, however, difficult to reconcile with the “ Cellular 1 athology of Virchow, in so far as that system referred to inflammation, met with but little favour till after the re-discovery by Cohnheim in 1807 of the migration of the white corpuscles of the blood from the vessels during inflammation, a process by which the appearance of new cells in an acutely inflamed area was fully accounted for, without the necessity of supposing any increased activity, either nutritive or formative, in the original tissues of the part during the early stao-es of the process. From this time forwards all observations have tended in the same direction, until at the present day, the definition of inflammation o-iven by Burdon-Sanderson in 1870, would be almost universally accepted. “ Inflammation is the succession of changes which occurs in a living tissue when it is injured, provided that the injury is not of such a degree as at once to destroy its structure and vitality.” Our knowledge of inflammation is derived chiefly from observations of the process artificially induced in some transparent tissue in a living animal. Ihe web of the foot and the mesentery of the frog, and the tongue of the toad, have been chiefly made use of. In order to prove the fact that the processes observed in the frog are identical with those that occur, under similar circum- stances, in mammals, the wing of the bat was used by Paget, and more late y the mesentery of the rabbit has also been successfully experimented upon. Lastly Hueter, by observations made on the mucous membrane of the lip, showed that the processes observed in man are identical with those that occur in the lower animals. Microscopic examination. of prepared specimens o inflamed human tissues also shows appearances which are readily explained n what is seen to arise during actual observation of the process of inflammation * tTic iVo®* If the web of a frog’s foot be spread out and examined with the microscope, the blood is seen to flow in a continuous stream through the small arteries, capillaries and veins. In any vessel which is of sufficient size to allow seve corpuscles to pass at the same time, the red corpuscles.flow in the centre of the stream, forming a yellow' line, while on each side of this is a colomless zone, • Till! following are amongst tlio most iin]Ut‘lIlfc ^?r{[59OKi10ialcliVmaosl,it’liivcsVise^to :—li. Information on the process of ",fnrtulXttonV CornU et Kanvier. “Manual of Pathological “ Lectures on Surgical 1 ethology t'. h u svst >m of Surgery " 3rd edition : Article on “ Inflammation,