INJURIES OF THE SPINE. 766 laceration or compression of the cord by fracture with displacement or disloca- tion of a vertebra. Symptoms indicative of concussion of the spinal cord frequently occur, in consequence of injuries sustained in railway-collisions, and have been very forcibly brought under the observation of Surgeons in consequence of their having been the fertile sources of litigation ; actions for damages for injuries alleged to have been sustained in railway-collisions having become of such frequent occurrence as now to constitute a very important branch of medico- legal inquiry. The symptoms that arise from these accidents have been very variously interpreted. Some practitioners have ignored them entirely, believing that they exist only in the imagination of the patient; or, while admitting their existence, have attributed them to other conditions of the nervous system which could not have arisen from the alleged accident. And when their connection with, and dependence upon, an injury have been in- contestably proved, no little discrepancy of opinion has arisen as to the ulti- mate result of the case, the permanence of the symptoms, and the curability of the patient. I cannot too strongly urge the fact that there is in leality nothing special in the symptoms of concussion of the spine produced by railway-colli- sions, except the severity of the accident by which the concussion is occasioned, and that it is consequently a mistake to look on a certain class of symptoms as special and peculiar to railway-accidents. Injuries received on railways may differ in their severity, but do not differ in then nature, from injuries received in the other accidents of civil life. There is no more real difference between that concussion of the spine which results from a railway- collision and that which is the consequence of a fall from a home or a scaffold, than there is between a compound and comminuted fracture of the leg occa- sioned by the grinding of a railway-carriage over the limb and that resulting from the passage of the wheel of a cart across it. In either case, the injury arising from the railway-accident will be essentially of the same nature as that which is otherwise occasioned ; but it will probably be infinitely more severe and destructive in its effects, owing to the greater degree of violence that occasions it. Concussion of the spinal cord may be produced either by direct violence, as by severe blows or falls on the back, giving rise to local pain and signs of contu- sion or by slight blows: or by indirect violence, as when a person meets vitn a fall, or general concussion of the body, without any evidence of a o having been inflicted on the spine itself; or by twists and sprains, or wrenches, of the vertebral column. , , Concussion from Direct Violence.—Concussion or commotion ot tne spinal cord, as a consequence of severe and direct blows upon the bac long been recognized and described by those writers who have occupied them- selves with the effects of injuries to this part of the body. The Primary Symptoms of concussion of the cord immediate y < directly produced by a severe blow upon the spine will neccssari y severity and extent according to the situation of the injnry the fere which it has been inflicted, and the amount of organic lesion that the del c« Ttnlrn Of the cord has signed from the shock " " subjected. A severe blow upon the Upper Cervical Region in. P instantaneous death; a less severe blow may produce paralysis o ^ all the limbs, with every possible modification of combined o