_ ORGANISMS IN PYAEMIA. 953 L cbange is observed in the tissues around the vessel, but occasionally inflam- matory exudation has taken place, and the group ol micrococci seems tofoim s the centre of a commencing abscess. These colonies ol micrococci are found in the lymphatic glands nearest to the seat of infection, in the liver, heart, ■ thyroid body, and especially frequently in the tufts of vessels in the Malpighian : bodies of the kidney. The accompanying drawings (Figs. 357, 358) copied from. !J the Transactions of the Pathological Society, of London, 1871), and from Koch’s Fig. 357.—A colony of micrococci lying amongat the muscular fibres of the heart. IB " (From Path. Soc. Trans. 1S79.) work on Infective Processes in Wounds, show very clearly the appearances presented by the micrococci in pyaemia. General Pathology.—On contrasting the symptoms and the post-mortem appearances just described with those observed in the diseases experimentally produced in animals (see p. 935), it will be seen that they closely resemble, if they are non identical, with them. In those cases in which a softening thrombus is found in a vein, and the secondary abscesses in the lungs only, the conditions are identical with those obtained by injecting putrid matter containing 1 coarse solid particles in suspension into the : veins of an animal. In other cases the dis- i seminated abscesses, with capillary thrombosis d and the distribution of colonies of microscopic |! organisms throughout the system closely re- semble the results obtained by Koch from the injection of putrid fluids beneath the skin of a rabbit. In the hmnan subject the con- ditions under which the disease arises also ■closely resemble those obtained experimentally in animals. The thrombosis which forms so frequent a precursor of pysemia, is predis- posed to by all those conditions which favour thrombosis in general (sec Diseases of Veins), but it is usually determined in one of two ways. In Many cases an unhealthy diffuse inflammation spreads upwards from the wound m the areolar tissue surrounding the vein. This periphlebitis cai s to inflammation ol the coats of the vessel followed by coagulation , 1 .f!6 ccmtamecI 1,lo0(b T,1C cl°t becoming impregnated with the pro- |Uc ,s ^'ie unhealthy inflammation, softens and becomes disintegrated. o ter cases, the thrombus forms in the vein either in consequence I lts m’inS bceu divided and ligatured, or from death of the tissues m whlcb it derives its blood, as in necrosis of bone. If under these Fig. 35S.—Colony of micrococci, from a lymphatic gland. (Path. Soc. Trans. 1879).