SENILE GANGRENE. 877 ceptible. In some eases cutaneous ulcerations ensue. These symptoms commonly exist for a considerable length of time before gangrene actually comes on, and should always be looked upon with anxiety in old people. "W hen the circulation becomes arrested from the conjoined influences of diminished cardiac power and arterial obstruction, gangrene in- | evitably results. It is met with in the lower' extremities of people past the middle period of life, and the tendency to it increases as age advances. Senile gangrene may set in in different ways. In many instances it commences without any apparent exciting cause. I he toes and foot simply shrivel, without any sign of local inflammation and with but little constitutional disturbance. The part that is destroyed becomes black, dry, and shrunken, resembling in appearance the limb of a mummy : hence the change is often termed Mummification (Fig. 350). The toes often look like the shrivelled skins of over-ripe or sucked- out black grapes. This form of gangrene is usually due to the complete occlusion of a previously diseased artery by thrombosis. _ other cases the gangrene is the immediate result of some slight inflammation accidentally induced, as from the excoria- tion produced by a tight boot, or from a trivial wound in cutting a com 01 toe-nail. In these cases the slight injury, which in healthy tissues would be 'harmless, causes the formation of a small slough. This decomposes, and the products of putre- facton acting on the surrounding tissues, give rise to a spreading inflammation, which, owing to the greatly di- minished vitality of the part, terminates in gangrene, and the process thus started may spread almost indefinitely. In other instances, again, the disease is ushered in by more acute symptoms. The whole foot becomes swollen, cedematous, and red ; inflammation, apparently of a gouty character, being set up in it. The gangrene may at first affect only one toe, or it may from the commencement involve several toes. It most generally begins as a purple or blackish-red spot on the side of one of the toes, usually the inner side of the great toe; this spot may be surrounded by an inflamed areola, and accompanied by much smarting and hurnino- pain of a paroxysmal character; it spreads by gradually in- volving the inflamed areola, which continues to extend in pro- portion as the gangrene progresses. The pain, which is often Of the most intense character, subsides when the gangrene becomes complete. I whichever way the gangrene commences the affection gradually creeps formation 'of t v , fW>t T* *•» heel > unless it terminate by the snlTbri a ,of rfomareatlon. or death put an end to tile patient’s Hirelings, it may extend up the ankle or leg. In other instances, the janorcnc Fig. 1)40.—Pop- liteal anil Ti- bial Arteries obstructed by Thrombosis. 350. — Senile Gangrene: Ex- posure of Bones of Foot.