GENERAL REMARKS ON OPERATIONS. 3° safety of ether, it is equally certain that it is less convenient and less generally applicable as an Anaesthetic. This question, then, has to be examined from three aspects :—1. As to the applicability ; 2. As to the convenience ; and 3. As to the safety of the two Anaesthetics. 1. As to Applicability.—There can be no doubt that in the vast majority of cases both are equally applicable. But there are certain cases in which ether, and others in which chloroform, appears to possess superior advantages. Ether is preferable in those cases in which from severe shock the nervous powers are greatly depressed, and in those in which there is atony of the heart, whether from fatty degeneration or from an enfeebled and dilated state of the ventricles. Chloroform appears to he more applicable in all those cases in which it is necessary to maintain the anesthesia for a great length of time—for many hours—as in the compression of an artery in the treatment of aneurism ; and in those cases in which the galvanic cautery is used in the neighbourhood of the mouth or air-passages, the vapour of ether under these circumstances being liable to ignite with explosive violence, as I have seen happen. In all abdominal surgery chloroform is preferable, as the violent respiratory movements, that so commonly occur in consequence of the accumulation of mucus in the lungs and larynx during the administration of ether, may prove a most serious inconvenience to the Surgeon. The relaxation of the abdominal muscles is much more perfect with chloroform ; and as this is of the first importance in the treatment of strangulated hernia, whether by taxis or operation, in abdominal sections, and in examination of abdominal tumours, chloroform should always be used in such cases. In young children, also, chloroform is always to be preferred, firstly, because no apparatus is required, it causes less choking and discomfort, is much more easily given, and frightens the patient less ; and secondly, because experience has shown that children take chloroform with remarkable ease and safety. 2. As to Convenience.—In this respect, chloroform undoubtedly possesses a vast superiority over ether, and indeed it was its superiority in this respect that led so rapidly to its substitution for that agent. Snow formerly compared the two agents to a lucifer-match and a tinder-box respectively; and also to an express and a slow train, in which we regard convenience rather than safety. Chloroform is infinitely more convenient than ether in many ways. By it the anesthesia is more rapidly induced, and when once induced, it is more easily maintained complete and unbroken. The quantity required to produce anesthesia is far smaller. This is a most important advantage in midwifery and in military and naval practice, where the larger bulk of the ether that is consumed in inducing anesthesia would often render its employment very difficult. So also in ordinary country practice, where Surgeons have to work single-handed or with imperfect assistance, the readiness with which anesthesia is induced by chloroform is a very important consideration in its favour. The penetrating and long-persistent odour of ether, though of minor import, is not without its disadvantage to many who are delicate or susceptible. 3. As to Safety.—No anesthetic is absolutely safe. It is impossible to annihilate, even temporarily, mental consciousness and physical sensibility with- out some risk. With ordinary care and some degree of experience, this risk is