524 FRACTURES. cases in which the fracture is treated by the unskilful application of an immovable apparatus, whether of starch, plaster of Paris, or other similar material, than ' where splints are used. Indeed, if the splints be well wadded, and no bandage be put on under them, it is almost impossible that so dangerous an amount of constriction can be exercised on the limb, as to interrupt the cir- culation through it. I believe that this accident would rarely, if ever, occur, if the Surgeon were to avoid the direct application of a bandage to the limb, however lightly, in fractures, more particularly in children. The danger of strangulation is especially great if, as happened in the case from which the accompanying cut is taken, the limb be bandaged whilst straight, and then flexed, as the bandage will then cut deeply at the flexure of the joint, and certainly destroy the vitality of the part, if not of the whole limb. The pres- sure of an axillary pad, used in many of the fractures of the upper extremities, may also tend to the supervention of gangrene by interfering with the return of blood through the axillary vein, and thus causing slow strangulation under the Fig. 181.—Gangrene of Forearm and Hand from Tight Bandaging. bandage. Hence in these cases the fingers should be left free at theii tips, and examined daily. Even if no direct bandage have been applied, the apparatus should at once be removed, and the limb examined, whenever the patient com- plains, even of slight uneasiness : or, indeed, if any appearances of congestion, such as blueness, coldness, oedema, or vesication of the fingers and toes, show themselves. If it be left on beyond this, gangrene will probably set in, slow strangulation going on under the bandages without much, it any, pain. Vesications often create much alarm, but too much importance must not be attached to their mere appearance. They will often occur of very large size, as has already been stated, as a consequence of the raising of the cuticle by the transuded serum of extravasated blood. It is only when associated with col ness of the limb, a dusky purple hue, and a putrescent odour, that they are indicative of gangrene. An excellent plan of judging of the acti\ ity of the cir- culation in a fractured limb after it has been put up, is to leave the ends of the fingers or toes uncovered by the bandage ; when, by pressing upon one oi the nails, the freedom of the circulation may be ascertained by noticing the rapidity with which the blood returns under it. A question of much medico-legal importance occasionally arises in connection with gangrene of the limb after simple fracture. It is this—is the gangrene owing to over-tight, and conse- quently negligent, bandaging by the Surgeon, or to passive strangulation by inflammatory swelling of the limb under bandages not originally too tight y applied ? The diagnosis of the two conditions on which the answer is depen-