INJURIES OF THE HEAD. loose. So soon ns ifc is, he withdraws it in the crown of the trephine, or raises the bone by means of the elevator. In this operation the dura mater must not be wounded ; if it be injured, fatal consequences may ensue. The objects ,1 for which the trephining has been had recourse to must now be carried out, depressed bone being elevated or removed, and pus or blood evacuated. The scalp should then be laid down again, and a few sutures applied, leaving good space for drainage. The operation should, whenever possible, be performed with all antiseptic precautions. The dressing may be either carbolic gauze, or dry iodoform-, or salicylic-wool. Of these, the gauze is preferable, as an ice-cap can be applied over it if necessary. If no antiseptic material be at hand, the burgeon must avoid the use of water ; he may wipe away the blood with the dry lint, and apply a dry dressing afterwards. By this means he will give the patient, the best chance of escaping putrefaction of the discharges and septic meningitis in those cases in which the dura mater is wounded. There are certain parts of the skull—over the venous sinuses, for instance, and near the base—to which no prudent Surgeon would apply the instrument. If it were ever thought necessary to trephine at the frontal sinuses, the outer table must first be removed with a large crown, and the inner table sawn out with a smaller one. . The escape of cerebro-spinal fluid through a trephine aperture is a remark- able occurrence. In one such case recorded by Clement Lucas, the cerebro- spinal fluid began to escape the day after the operation. The patient, however, so far recovered as to be on the point of leaving the Hospital, when erysipelas set in, and he died of acute meningitis. After death, the track of damaged brain was found leading to the ventricle from which the fluid had escaped through the scalp. This case confirms the important observation made by Clement Lucas, that where cerebro-spinal fluid escapes through the calvaria, the ventricular cavity of the brain has always been opened. After the operation, careful attention must be paid to antiphlogistic measures of a preventive and curative kind, the great direct danger to be apprehended being inflammation of the brain and its membranes. In some cases, also, there is reason to believe that suppurative phlebitis of the sinuses and veins of the fli-nlnZS VlP.PTl till ft OcLUSG of clGclth. the head, 16 in number, in which the trephine he hospitals during fifteen years, terminated fatally.