SUPPURATION AND ABSCESS. .248 situations the Surgeon mast exercise his ingenuity in applying it in such a manner as to fasten the edges of the dressing securely on the part. It must, of course, not he applied so tightly in any case as to interfere with the circulation. The introduction of the few turns of elastic webbing in the application of the dressing has done more than any other late improvement to ensure the success of the treatment. The gauze dressing thus applied acts in two ways:—1st, mechanically, by filtering any air which may pass through it, and thus excluding dust; and 2nd, chemically, by slowly yielding up to the decomposable fluids which soak into it a sufficient quantity of carbolic acid to prevent their putrefaction. A carbolic gauze dressing must always be changed once in the first twenty- four hours after the opening of the abscess ; or sometimes even before this if the discharge be very abundant. After this, it is customary not to change the dressing before the discharge shows at one edge ; and this is found sufficient to exclude any signs of putrefaction, and practically to prevent the febrile disturbance and profuse suppuration which decomposing matter so frequently gives rise to. Experience has, however, shown that if the dressing be changed only when the discharge has soaked out from beneath it, the pus frequently becomes sour in smell and somewhat irritating, as indicated by a slight increase in the amount of pus discharged, and sometimes by reddening or'excoriation of the skin. Observations made by Cheyne on Lister’s cases, have shown that when this occurs, micrococci are always found in the dis- charges ; rod-shaped organisms are found only when the dressing has failed entirely, and offensive putrefaction has set in. It seems, therefore, that the micrococci give rise to a fermentative process in the pus, the products of which are almost, though not quite, innocuous. Ogston has shown that by anticrpat- ing the soaking-out of the pus, by more frequent dressings, the development of micrococci can be prevented ; and he is of opinion that the benefit derived from this is worth the extra trouble involved in dressing the abscess a few times more. It would seem that the micrococci are less easily destroyed by carbolic acid than the bacteria, and consequently as the dressing begins to lose its carbolic acid, partly by volatilization and partly by solution 111 the dis- charges, they make their appearance in the pus. . In changing the dressings, all the precautions observed at the opening 0 the abscess must be repeated. . , T . Certain modifications of the above dressing require to be noticed _ it evidently impossible in many cases to make the dressing extend 6 or ^ me eg beyond the opening of the abscess ; in these cases the diminished extent of the dressing must be compensated for by increased thickness twenty 01 more layers being applied in the place of the eight recommended above. In hairy parts it is often difficult to disinfect the skin thoroughly before opening the abscess. I11 such cases, a thicker layer 0 wet gauze 11111s ic applied, or the skin may be anointed with a solution of carbolic acid 111 0 i\e- oil (l in 101 or in glycerine (1 in 8). It must not be supposed that in the absence of all the materials and apparatus above mentioned, it is impossible to carry out the antisep prfricipteof treatment; that is to say, to prevent absolutely all decomposition 01 The instrument most frequently wanting is the spray-apparatus1; and fortunately this is the one which can most readily be spared. The spray