636 II DISLOCATIONS. that coyer and enter into the formation of the joint as to give rise to the most severe forms of traumatic arthritis, but the bones are often fractured, and the < main vessels of the limb perhaps greatly stretched or torn. The Treatment of a compound dislocation must be conducted on the same principles that guide the Surgeon in the management of a wounded joint, viz., rest, drainage, and the prevention of decomposition. Owing to the rupture of the ligaments and muscular attachments, there is usually no difficulty in the reduction ; but the danger consists in the destructive inflam- mation that so frequently follows in the joint. This, as was before pointed out, is due chiefly to the accumulation of decomposing discharges in the cavity; but in the case of a compound dislocation, it is aggravated by the severe bruising and laceration of the surrounding structures. Consequently extensive inflammation and suppuration with sloughing may follow the injury. In all cases it is better not to make any attempt to close the wound by suture, as this would only interfere with the drainage, and union by the first intention is practicably impossible. Cleaning the Avound and dressing it must be conducted on the principles laid doAvn in the chapter on wounds of joints (p. 492). If the joint be a large one, the line of practice will vary according to circumstances other than the mere dislocation. Thus, if it be in the upper extremity, the patient being healthy, and the soft parts not very extensively contused or torn, the bones may be replaced, after the joint has been properly cleaned with carbolic-acid-lotion (1 in 20), or some other antiseptic solution, and may then be dressed by one of the antiseptic methods already described. Dry cold may be applied over the dressing if possible. The limb must be placed on a splint to ensure rest for about tivo weeks, after which if all goes . well passive motion may be commenced with care. Should suppuration take place passive motion would only ensure the destruction of the joint; the limb 1 must then be firmly fixed on a splint with the hope of obtaining ankylosis. If there be fracture conjoined with the dislocation, resection should be piac- ■ tised, as was successfully done by Hey in several cases of injury of the elbow of this description; but if the soft parts be greatly injured as well, and esp - daily if the blood-vessels and nerves of the limb have suffered, amputation must be performed. In the lower extremity, amputation is more frequently necessary ; in the knee, almost invariably so. Sir A. Cooper states that he knows no accident that more imperatively demands amputation thancompo nd dislocation of this joint. Yet there are exceptions to this rule ; thus 'Mute had a case of compound dislocation of the knee-joint 111 a boy, nine 7 age, at the Westminster Hospital, in which he saved the limb by sawm the condyles of the femur and reducing the bone. In compound d lions of the ankle and the astragalus, an attempt should generally be made to save the limb, in the way that will be more specially pointed out come to treat of these injuries. • After recovery from compound dislocation, the joint will often icmam permanently stiffened; hence attention to position during the treat,! Ll ] essentially Squired. In many cases, however, very good mot.o.ns ul.nnatcly obtained, though the stiffness may continue lor someLong Bones increases considerably the difficulty of re- duction. In those circumstances, it has been >^°mm“ded do'tluTis only to fracture first, and then to attempt the reduction. But to