5°7 PROCESS OF UNION. rhp new tissue 1S exposed to the smallest degree of disturbance by any acci- dental movement, lime-salts are deposited in the ^^-sub^ ^nSs the osteoblasts -without any true deve opment ofw StaeSe occur in the medullary canal, true cartilage being- formed only at the immediate S™Thc ^ompllte ossification of the provisional callus.—The formation of new bone in the soft callus commences by the appearance of yellowish-white points or streaks appearing first in the part in contact with the bone at the point furthest removed from the seat of fracture. These points and streaks gradually increase till the callus becomes converted into soft spongy bone, containing wide cancellous spaces filled with red vascular- medullary tissue. The ossifica- tion o-raduafiy spreads from above and below, towards the seat of fracture, till the process of conversion of the soft callus into bone is complete. The changes that occur within the medullary canal are of the same character. The new bone thus formed differs from normal compact tissue in being softer, more vascular and spongy. If a longitudinal section of the bone be made, it will be seen that the callus is covered by a thick vascular periosteum which can be stripped off without difficulty ; it leaves the surface of the callus rough and spongy, with wide Haversian canals containing some red medullary tissue. The trabeculae of the callus are set at right angles, or nearly so, to the surface of the compact bone beneath, from which the callus can at first be separated without difficulty. If this be done, how- ever, the surface of the compact bone is seen to be slightly more spongy than natural, the openings of the Haversian canals being enlarged. Microscopic observation shows that when ossification of the callus takes place without the previous formation of car- tilage, the cells most distant from a vessel assume the angular form of osteoblasts, lime-salts are deposited in the ground- substance between them, and true bone is developed. On the surface of this lamella of bone a layer of osteoblasts remains, by the activity of which the process is continued, and the space around the vessel gradually nan-owed, till it is reduced to the form of a Haversian canal. If car- tilage have previously formed, new vessels penetrate it, both from the bone beneath and from the periosteum, as a preliminary step towards ossification. The ossification of the callus in the medullary canal proceeds in the same way. The development and ossification of the intermediate or clefinitive callus, proceed in the same way as in the formation of the provisional callus. The time at which it forms will depend greatly upon the perfection of the apposition, and the immobility attained by treatment. It is evident that no process of repair can take place between two surfaces of compact bone so long as they are grinding against each other at each movement of the limb. The first change observed is an enlargement of the Haversian canals. This is ejected by the growth of new cells within the canal. These, according to some pathologists, are migratory white corpuscles, but according to others, cells developed from the medullary tissue in the Haversian canals. Be this as it may, the bony, wall of the canal is absorbed before the new cells. As Fig. 175. — Fracture . of Tibia with pro- visional callus.