SYPHILITIC AFFECTIONS OF THE SKIN. 1107 leaving stains of a brownish or purplish hue, and in their giving rise to 110 itching or other painful sensations. The general pathology of these affections has been already described (p. 1090). Besides this, syphilis may modify materially the general character of the cuticle, causing it to assume a yellow or earthy tint, and to be rough or powdery. Syphilitic skin-diseases arrange themselves under the following groups. Syphilitic Roseola consists of blotches of a reddish-brown or coppery tint, becoming more distinct as the redness declines ; they vary in size from small circular spots to large and diffused patches, and are usually first observed about the abdomen. Syphilitic roseola is the most constant, and the earliest of all the syphilitic eruptions, often appearing before the primary sore is healed. It usually appears about seven or eight weeks after infection, and may last from a few days to two or three weeks. It is very frequently accompanied by an erythematous redness of the throat. The Squamous syphilide, or, as it is often called, syphilitic psoriasis, occurs in small patches of an irregular shape, of a dusky red colour, sometimes assuming a coppery tint, covered with thin filmy scales. In many instances the patches are, however, quite smooth, so as to have a glazed and almost shining look. They are usually situated on the inside of the arms and thigh, often on the scrotum and penis, even occurring on the glans. They also frequently appear on the palms and soles, where deep fissures and cracks are met with. In moist parts, as in the folds of the groin in fat people, at the margin of the anus or between the toes, they become more elevated and merge gradually into the “ mucous tubercle ” or flat condyloma to be described hereafter. About the lips the squamous syphilide gives rise to deep and troublesome fissures. It differs from simple psoriasis in its showing a prefer- ence for the softer and moister parts of the skin, whereas the simple affection is most abundant on the drier parts, as on the back of the elbow or the front of the knee. The scales also are less abundant. Squamous syphilide forms the most common eruption, after the roseola, during the first year of syphilis. It is often associated with ulceration of tire tonsils and iritis and not uncom- monly with periostitis. Papular Syphilide, or Syphilitic lichen, consists of small hard elevations, at fiist led, but afterwards becoming dusky or brownish. There is some slight orawny desquamation on the surface. They are most common on the forehead and shoulders, and last about three weeks before fading. . The Vesicular syphilide is of very rare occurrence. The vesicles vary in size from a pin’s head to a pea. They soon dry, and when the scales so formed separate a coppery red patch is left beneath. In one case which fell under my observation, the rash appeared in the form of clusters of small pointed vesicles, which on drying left grey or brownish crusts and coppery marks. Many varieties have been described and named according to the no 11-syphilitic skin affections they resemble, as eczematous, herpetifonn, varioliform, and vari- ed 1 if orm. Pustular syphilides occur somewhat rarely in the early stages, but arc more common atei on. I he early pustular syphilide commences as a small vesicle which early becomes pustular. It soon dries into a crust, which falls off leaving an elevated coppery spot beneath. It is merely an aggravation of the vesicular eruption and leaves no ulceration or scar behind it. Larger pustules ■1 n 2