662 SPECIAL DISLOCATIONS. coronoicl process be fractured, this entanglement cannot take place, and tlie joint then readily slips into its position, though it is very difficult to maintain it there. The reduction of the displaced ulna, when uncomplicated by fracture, may always be effected, as Sir A. Cooper has recommended, by bending the arm over the knee. The patient being seated on a chair, the Surgeon rests one foot upon the seat, and, placing the knee in the bend of the injured elbow, grasps the forearm with both hands (Fig. 281); fixing the arm, he presses the knee firmly against the inner aspect of the forearm, so as to disengage the ulna from the lower end of the humerus, and at the same time he bends or pushes the forearm into proper position, into which, indeed, it has a tendency to return by the action of its own muscles, so soon as the opposing osseous surfaces are separated. In dislocations of the radius, this move- ment across the knee is not necessaiy. All that is required is to fix the upper arm, and then, employing extension from the wrist, to straighten the arm well; when, by bending the elbow at right angles, the head of the radius may be pressed into a proper position. After reduction has been effected, the limb should be firmly put up in lateral angular splints, the hand being kept semi- prone. If the radius have been displaced, a pad should be applied over its head, so as to prevent a return of the displacement, which is very apt to occur when the or- bicular ligament is torn. In the case of dis- location of the radius forwards, however, reduction is best maintained by placing the arm in the extended position, and ap- plying a straight splint, well padded, along the palmar aspect of the limb. The in- flammation which usually results must be combated by the application of evaporating lotions. When it has subsided, passive motion maybe com- menced, and frictions and douches employed, so as to remove the stiffness that is apt to be left about the joint. _ „ In those cases in which the dislocation is complicated with fiacture o som part of the articular ends, and in which the diagnosis of the precise nature o the injury, owing to the swelling or other causes, has not been very c ear y made out, the joint should be placed in as good a position as possi e, y process of traction, flexion, and moulding, so as to bring the osseous points into proper bearing with one another; the angular splints must then be app ie and local antiphlogistic treatment employed. At the end of a mont or weeks passive motion maybe commenced, lest permanent rigidity, w 11c very apt to supervene, come on. . . • Compound Dislocations of the Elbow arc always very serious injuries, although by the employment of a rigorous antiseptic treatment their J may be much lessened. By these means a useful joint may usually Fig. 281.—Dislocation of the Ulna: Reduction.