VENEREA L DISEASES. 10S0 The second, or Primary Stage, includes the appearance of the characteristic initial manifestation, the indurated sore, accompanied by indolent enlargement • a of the nearest group of lymphatic glands. The third includes the period during which the so-called Secondary Symptoms make their appearance. These consist of more or less symmetrical eruptions on the skin and mucous membranes, ulceration of the tonsils, condy- lomata, periostitis, iritis, loss of hair, &c. The fourth stage, or Tertiary Syphilis, includes the more remote effects i of the disease, such as the formation of gummata, deep uusymmetrical ulcera- tion of the skin or mucous membranes, and various deep-seated visceral affec- tions. Only a comparatively small proportion of those infected suffer from tertiary symptoms. Between the secondary and tertiary stages an interval of perfect health may intervene, perhaps interrupted by occasional relapses of the secondary symp- toms. During the intervals of health, the syphilis is said to be “ latent.” The duration of these various stages is uncertain. According to j Berkeley Hill, the period of incubation in thirty-seven trustworthy cases of experimental inoculation collected from various sources, varied from ten to forty-six days, the average being twenty-four. The most common periods were twenty-five and twenty-eight days. The duration of the primary symp- toms depends very much on treatment, but it seldom extends beyond a month or six weeks. The secondary symptoms commence from two to three months after inoculation, and last from a few weeks to a year. The period of develop- ment, and the duration of the tertiary symptoms, are too indefinite to be stated with any approach to accuracy. Symptoms classed as tertiary may appear immediately after the secondary signs, or may prove fatal after many years of apparent health. One attack of syphilis confers upon the patient, as a rule, an immunity for the future from the primary or secondary forms of the disease. Second attacks are, however, not unknown, but they are not more frequent than in small-pox or measles. When the patient has the misfortune to suffer a second time, the symptoms are never so severe as in the first attack. From a consideration of the course of the disease as above described, with its periods of incubation, and of invasion, its sequela:, and the immunity it confers from a second attack, Jonathan Hutchinson long ago pointed out its analogy to the specific fevers. He regarded the disease as a specific fever of a very chronic nature and irregular course. As at the present time the acute specific diseases and syphilis are equally included in the group of general infective processes, Hutchinson’s views may be said to be generally accepted. Origin of Syphilis.—It would be altogether foreign to the scope of this work Avere I to enter into the very curious and interesting question as to the origin of syphilis, a subject that admits of much dispute, and which has been keenly argued. After an attentive examination of it, I think there can be little doubt that syphilis Avas either introduced into Europe, or originated there dc novo, toAvards the end of the fifteenth century. There is no mention made by the medical Avriters, historians, or poets of antiquity of any-contagious disease arising from sexual intercourse affecting the genital organs, and folloAved by constitutional symptoms. The disease, Avhen it first attracted public attention, at the close of the fifteenth century, Avas looked upon as a pre- viously unknoAvn affection. It Avas supposed to be infectious as well as