TREATMENT OF COMPOUND FRACTURES. 535 would the Stump have to be formed of severely injured ^ se^c inflammation set in at the seat of operation, it would speec y p 1 to the higher fracture, converting it into a compound one °± J orse hind. In such cases, therefore, where there is extensive disorganization oi he inte vening soft parts, it appears to me that the proper course lor the‘ Snx*eon pursue is to remove the limb at or above the line of the higher *ac^ G. The complication of a Dislocation high up with a had Compound Fracture low down, as when the shoulder is dislocated, and the hand is crushed is not so serious ; the dislocation having been reduced, the limb may be amputated low down with safety. This practice I had occasion to adopt who met with a bad crush of the hand and some years since m a young man fore-arm, with dislocation of the humerus into the axilla, in consequence of the limb having become entangled in machinery. If, however, the compound fracture, unattended by any of the complications that have just been mentioned, occur in a young or otherwise healthy subject, we must, of course, attempt to save the limb, and shall generally succeed in doing so. In some cases in which there is great doubt as to the possibility of saving the limb, especially in compound fractures of the upper limb and foot, the injured part may be dressed antiseptically, and amputation, if necessaiy, pel- formed at a later period. The entire exclusion of putrefaction will prevent the septic fever, the spreading inflammation, and the dangers of general in- fection, which in former times made it safer to perform a primary amputation in all cases in which the prospects of recovery without were very doubtful. Treatment of Compound Fracture.—In the management of a compound fracture, more especially of the lower extremity, special apparatus, such as MTntyre’s, Liston’s, or the bracket-splints, double inclined planes, swing-boxes, and fracture-beds, are often necessary, in order to obtain access to the Avound, so as to dress it properly, and to place the limb in the best position for union. In many cases the starched or plaster-bandage may very advantageously be used ; but it requires caution, as swelling and consequent strangulation of the limb may take place under it. There are several points that require special attention. These are : 1, the Reduction and the Management of any Protruding Bone ; 2, the Management of Splinters ; 3, the Treatment of Oozing of Blood; 4, the Treatment of the Wound. Together these make up the whole treatment of these injuries, in cases in which the limb admits of being saved. 1. The Reduction of compound fractures must be accomplished Avith the same care and gentleness as that of simple ones. In the majority of cases, no great difficulty is experienced ; and after reduction, the limb should be placed on a well-padded splint, properly protected in the neigh- bourhood of the Avound Avith oiled silk, so as to prevent soiling of the pads by blood and discharge. In some cases, hoAvever, considerable difficulty arises in the reduction, from the protrusion of one of the broken fragments which has been driven through the skin, at the time of the accident, or by careless handling of the limb in carrying the patient, or else by the muscular contractions dragging the lower fragment forcibly upwards, and thus causing perforation of the integument. The protruded bone, after being carefully cleaned Avith some antiseptic solution, must, if possible, bo gently replaced, by relaxing the muscles of the limb, and then bringing the soft parts over it. Sometimes, however, it is so tightly embraced by the skin, Avhich appears to be