97i CYSTS OF NEW FORMATION. ,5 which, acting like a seton, have excited the requisite amount oi lnflamma ion e to bring about a closure of the cyst. . In some cases, in which, from the constitutional condition of the patient, 01 : from prejudice on his part, the use of the knife is objectionable, these cysts m;q I be removed by rubbing the skin in a linear manner with potassa iusa or fuming nitric acid. When the slough so formed separates, the cyst comes away with ; it or may be squeezed out. The horns and malignant ulcers that result from these growths, may require i- excision. If, however, the ulceration be connected with the cranium by its base, or be very extensive, as in the case depicted (Fig. 3G3), it will be safer to treat it by the application of the chloride of zinc, or by occasionally touching it with potassa fusa. (/3.) Mucous Cysts arise in mucous membranes in the same way as athero- ' matous cysts in the skin. Their walls are usually thin, and, as a consequence, •> they seldom reach any great size. Their contents usually consist of a turbid viscid fluid and cholesterine is sometimes present. They are most commonly h met with in the mouth, and occasionally in the tongue. They form one variety of ranula; and the so-called dropsy of the antrum, is hi most cases ,I a mucous cyst developed within the cavity. They are also met with in the ■labia, arising from the glands of Bartholini, and Cowpef’s glands in the male are said occasionally to undergo a similar change. They are best treated by excising a piece of the wall and inserting a few threads of silk into the cavity. (y.) Cysts arising from the dilatation of the ducts of glands are less i!' common. They are met with in the mamma from obstruction of the lacteal - ducts, in the mouth as ranula from obstruction of Wharton’s duct, and in the i testicle, forming the so-called encysted hydrocele or spermatocele. Cysts of similar origin are also met with in the liver and kidney. The consideration of the symptoms and treatment of these cysts must be deferred to the chapters on the diseases of the organs in which they occur. II. Cysts of New Formation.—Cysts of new formation may be divided into (a) Simple or serous cysts ; (b) Haematoma or blood cyst; (c) Cystic : tumours, compound and proliferous cysts ; (cl) Cysts in tumours. (a.) Simple or Serous Cysts may occur in any part of the body. They arc composed of a thin wall lined with a flat endothelium, like that of a serous or synovial membrane. Their contents are a slightly viscid serous fluid. They are supposed to arise from effusion of fluid in the spaces of the areolar tissue ; by the pressure of the fluid the surrounding flbres are pressed together and thus form the membranous wall of the cyst, which subsequently becomes thickened by new growth of fibrous tissue. False or Accidental Burscc arise in this way over any bony prominence which is exposed to pressure and friction, in fact there is some reason to believe that all bursae are thus formed. Whether this be the case or not, false bursae when once iorrned are liable to the same .diseases as those that arc usually assumed to be of normal development. The most common and troublesome false bursa is that formed over the projecting head of the first metatarsal bone which forms the condition known as a “ bunion It is probable that many oi the tumours classed as “ganglia” are formed in the same way, especially those on the back of the hand, as the extensor tendons m that region do not possess a sheath sufficiently definite to allow of a hernial protrusion from it.