426 ARREST OF ARTERIAL HAEMORRHAGE. on in this direction, its point emerges through the cutaneous surface of the , flap—the site of the tube of the bleeding artery being in this way left pinned down in a compressed state by the arc or bridge of steel that is passed over it. The needle thus passes first through and from the skin of the flap inwards to the raw surface of the wound, and, after bridging over the site of the artery, it passes secondly from the raw surface of the wound outwards again to and through the skin. Sometimes the needle will be best passed by the aid of the eye alone, and without guiding its course by the finger-tip applied to the bleeding orifice. It compresses not the arterial tube alone, but also the struc- tures placed over and around the site of the tube. When the needle is com- pletely adjusted, all of it that is seen, and that not necessarily so, on the surface of the raw wound, is the small portion of it passing over the site of the artery (Fig. 156) ; while externally, upon the cutaneous surface of the flap, we have remaining exposed more or less of its two extremities, namely, its point and its head (Fig. 157). The rest of it is hidden in the structures of the flap or side of the wound. The degree of pressure required to close effectually the tube of an artery is certainly much less than Surgeons generally imagine ; but in the above proceeding the amount of pressure can be regulated and increased when required, by the acuteness of the angle at which the needle is intro- duced and again passed out—the cutaneous and other structures of the flap serving as the resisting medium against which the needle compresses the arterial tube. The second method of acupressure consists in taking a short sewing needle 'iii'i in 1 nun.11 mi • • "• Fig. 158.—Acupressure. Sefond Method. Fig. 159.-Acupressure. Third Method. with a piece of twisted iron wire attached, for the purpose of withdrawing it when necessary. This is dipped down into the soft tissues on one side of the artery ; then bridged over the vessel; then dipped down again into the soft structures on the other side of the vessel (Fig. 158). In doing this care mus be taken to press the end of the needle down upon the bleeding trunk or tube of the artery with sufficient force. , The third method is the one that is likely to be most frequently followed, an is upon the whole the most practical and the best. It consists in compicssing the artery between the needle, threaded with a piece of tvistec iron vne, passed below or behind it, and a loop of inelastic iron wire passed ovei 01 a it. The needle is passed as in the last cases, but on the opposite side o 1 artery. The loop of iron wire is thrown over the point of the ncei c , 1 ] then passed across the artery, drawn tight so as to compress the vesse , an secured by a half twist round the eye end of the needle (Fig. 1 •>•')• In c .' remove this apparatus, all the Surgeon has to do is to pull the t'Yishi with which the needle is threaded ; this, in withdrawing the needle, the loop, which may then easily be removed.