iS3 MICROSCOPIC CHANGES IN INFLAMMATION. Williams pointed out the fact that the white coi'pusclcs are present in augmented numbers in the vessels of an inflamed part; but it was Dr. Addison, who, in the same year, first described the passage of the white cor- puscles out of the vessels. This observation was confirmed by Dr. Augustus Waller in 184G ; but its importance was but imperfectly appreciated even by those who had observed it, and it was in fact generally doubted, till Cohnheim in 1867, published an accurate account of the process, and pointed out its importance in the pathology of inflammation. As a result of this process of migration of the corpuscles, the tissues of an FiSTn2iwr^^nf0+fi.thl Wh.ite from a small vein. w. Wall of vessel. 1. Leucocyte-layer blood corpuscles ("xial stream) ’ ’ ’ “ 4’ Leucoc>’tes ^ of migration. Red inflamed part soon become crowded with wandering leucocytes, which may accumulate in such numbers as to conceal the normal structures more or less completely. As the inflammatory process becomes more intense, red cor- puscles also leave the vessels, finding their way out chiefly from the capillaries, in the same way as has been already described as occurring in mechanical ny perm mi a. The number that escapes will depend very much on the degree of obstruction caused by the choking of the capillaries with adherent coipusc cs. J he migrating cells were at one time supposed to find their way out by natural openings or “ stomata,” which were believed to exist in the i inf , Capillancs bcfcwecu the single layer of endothelial cells, of which to pv‘\eSSC S aiG comPosccI- Although no definite openings are now supposed tho p'.u’. ^ lfc 18 probab^e that the migrating corpuscles do pass out between in Hin S.’ uatural adhesion of which to each other is lessened by changes ce«s ' T|SWfJ! " ;ibs> which form an essential part of the inflammatory pro- and whit ° m?6 causes the escape of the corpuscle, differs with the red e* 10 ret^ arc forced out by the intra-vascular pressure only, being