CONSTITUTIONAL AFTER-TREATMENT OF OPERATIONS. 51 infrequently happens, however, that a totally different course must be pursued. It is not my intention to enter upon the great question of the use and abuse of alcohol as an article of diet. But as a medicinal agent in severe surgical cases there can be no doubt of the great utility of alcohol in some shape. If the patient have been much reduced by long-continued suppuration, or other depressing causes before the operation ; if he be old and weakly in constitu- tion, or have been in the habit of taking a very considerable quantity of stimulants, it will be absolutely necessary to adopt a tonic and stimulating mode of treatment. Indeed, in hospital practice especially, this is by far the most successful mode of treating patients after severe operations ; without it, many would have sunk, whom I have seen saved by the free administra- tion of large quantities of brandy, wine, porter, eggs, and beef-tea from the very tune of the operation—that stimulant being given to which the patient is accustomed in a state of health. This plan of treatment is also one of the best preventives of those diffuse forms of inflammation that are so commonly •fatal in these cases ; and when they come on, I know no better remedy than the brandy-and-egg mixture, freely administered. In all this, however, the Surgeon must be guided by the patient’s pulse, his previous habits, and the strength of his constitution ; and nothing requires greater judgment than the administration of stimulants, according to these particulars. The temperature is also a most important guide to the diet of a patient. If it be high, animal food must be avoided, but stimulants need not necessarily be abandoned ; in fact they may be required in increased quantity, especially if with the fever there is rapidity and weakness of the pulse. The great importance of attend- ing scrupulously to the general cleanliness of the patient, and to the ventila- tion of the ward or room in which he is lying, as the best means of preventing the occurrence of unhealthy and spreading forms of inflammation, need scarcely be insisted 011, as these hygienic precautions are universally recognised as being of the first importance under such circumstances. Ihe remote effect of the major operations is a subject that requires inves- tigation. Do people who have undergone any of the greater operations, and v ho have recovered from the immediate effects, as a rule, live as long as those who have not sustained a mutilation ? I am disposed to think that they do not. When we reflect on the enormous number of persons who, before the age of thirty, suffer amputation of one of the limbs for injury, it is remarkable how seldom one sees an old person in a hospital or elsewhere, who has lost a limb in early life. I am, of course, speaking only of amputations for injury: for those who have undergone this operation for strumous or malignant disease, frequently die early from recurrence of the constitutional vice in •other parts of the body. So also with respect to lithotomy. Very many boys are cut for stone every year and recover ; but I scarcely recollect to have met with a middle-aged adult who had been operated on in childhood. The various Special Operations will be considered when treating of the scveial Injuries and Diseases for which they are required; but, as Amputations riv lca,c^y ^ llllc^er any special head, being required for a great variety ot different conditions, it will be more convenient to consider them here.