INJURIES OF BONES AND JOINTS. 492 prognosis in cases of wounded joints has been materially improved, and the treatment not only greatly simplified, but rendered far more successful than ' formerly by the employment of antiseptics and drainage. Indeed the whole surgery of joint-wounds has been completely revolutionized, and cases that a few years ago were at once submitted to amputation are now saved without difficulty, and this applies not only to incised wounds but equally to those of a lacerated character or that are complicated even with fracture of the articular ends. If then it be determined to save the joint, we must keep three objects steadily in view : first, the synovial cavity must be thoroughly drained ; secondly, the joint must be kept perfectly at rest, and firmly fixed so that movement is impossible ; and thirdly, the discharges must be prevented from decomposing by some efficient system of autiseptic treatment. To drain a joint perfectly, as before stated, is not always easy, but every articulation can, without difficulty, be sufficiently drained to prevent the development of tension in its cavity. If an efficient system of antiseptic treatment can be carried out, minor imperfections of drainage are, however, of little consequence. The Antiseptic Treatment of a wounded joint is carried out on exactly the same principles as in that of any other wound. The wound must, if neces- sary, be enlarged ; the cavity of the joint is then well syringed out with carbolic acid solution in water (1 to 20). This is best done by means of a stiffish piece of India-rubber tubing long enough to reach to any part of the joint, fixed on the end of a syringe. The joint may be carefully moved at the same time, so that the lotion may find its way to every part of the articu- lation. The fluid is then squeezed out of the joint, a drainage-tube inserted, and the wound closed by sutures. If the case be one of a large lacerated wound, with dirt ground into it, it must be carefully cleaned with a sponge. If the wound is in such a situation that it is not likely to drain well, a counter-opening may be made on a probe at the most dependent part into which another tube may be passed. The gauze-dressing is then applied and the limb fixed on a splint or by some rigid apparatus in such a way that the slightest movement is impossible. The drainage-tubes can usually be removed at about the end of the first week, but this will depend upon the amount of discharge. Great care must be taken not to move the joint at the dressings. Instead of applying the carbolic gauze, the joint after being disinfected may be wrapped in a mass of iodiform or salicylic wool and left undisturbed, unless the temperature rise over 101° Falir., with severe pain, till the discharge soaks through, or till the wound may be supposed to be healed. A good plan of treating these cases is to apply one dressing of carbolic gauze to receive the first twenty-four hours’ discharge, and at the end of that time carefully to remove the sodden dressing and apply iodoform-wool, enclosing the limb in a plaster-of-Paris-bandage to maintain rest. Should antiseptics not be available, the following treatment should be adopted. If the joint be opened by a puncture, or small clean-cut wound, this may occasionally be closed by bringing the edges together, and placing a piece o lint soaked in collodion upon it, or a strip of plaster washed over with resin varnish. The joint must then be placed in a splint (plaster of Paris is the best), so as to be rendered absolutely immovable, and should then be sur- rounded by India-rubber bags containing pounded ice, or kept cold by the