TREATMENT OF ASTHENIC CASES. 207 form, if there be reason to believe, from the broken constitution of the patient, or from the character of the local inflammation, that the constitutional symptoms will not long continue of tin's type, we must be extremely cautious how we lower the patient by active depletion; for, however high the fever may at first run (and in these cases there is often febrile disturbance of a very active character for the first few days), the disease speedily expends its force and rapidly subsides into a low form. In cases of this kind, which are of very common occmience in London piactice, more particularly in hospitals, we should never bleed, but content oruselves, after cleaung' out the bowels, with keepino* the patient quiet on a moderately low diet, and administering diaphoretic salines. As the symptoms gradually merge into the typhoid type, the pulse increasing in frequency, but diminishing in power, the tongue becoming dry and dark, and the other symptoms of asthenia beginning to show themselves, we must begin to give some stimulant in combination with the salines. The carbonate of ammonia in three to five grain doses, or even more, may be given with bark, or m an effervescent form with bicarbonate of potash and citric acid every third or fourth hour. A convenient form of this mixture is fifteen grains of bicarbonate of potash and an equal quantity of carbonate of ammonia, and twenty-five grains of citric acid. These must be thoroughlv dissolved, the citric acid in one glass, and the alkaline carbonates in another each containing about four ounces of water. The two solutions may then be mixed and taken whilst effervescing. The nourishment must be increased- and wme or alcoholic stimulants must be conjoined with it, in proportion as the symptoms of debility become more and more marked. In effects this change, however, we must be careful not to run into the error of ovem stimulating our patient; this may be avoided by observing the influence treatment.011 P temPerafcme by the change in In the majority of cases, this stimulating plan is not well borne during' the firs few days after the setting in of an inflammation, especially^ifS ttzsszs a*?*- —■* ch«t: STe “ W Sif ;nt0 “ “ administratLTfZoTZd LS * M “7 * ««* “1 fc. ammonia and bark, ,rine handv Tt n ,mU nourisl™“‘> such as of these, large quantities may be required’to ttafonr^ Tf aiT“™ot: and patient evincing a tendency to sinl-wJn . 6 teui-and-twenty hours, the stimulants be freely administered in thell 1CU’ ^se 18 interrupted. Although capable of easy assimilation Tt ; cse cases> the f°od should be bland and tee patient c™tXtt ft'- but W?® ^ 1186,688 fco §’ive meat, &c„ when gven in large quantities with advantage*’!4, "7 and is t,w best brown sordes to clear ofTfrom^6 -t0U^Ue Wl11 be f°iind to become moist, the steady and full, the temperature to In°f tbe moufch’ thc Pulse to become tempeiatuie to fall, sleep to be procured, and thc strength