WOUNDS OF SPECIAL BLOOD-VESSELS. 454 Icivsfc six instances of the kind, in each of which the common carotid was tied, and the patient ultimately recovered. Aneurismal Varix in tlie Neck, dependent on puncture of the Internal Jugular Vein and Carotid Artery, usually the result of sword-thrusts, is apparently of more frequent occurrence than traumatic aneurism in this region ; probably owing to the close proximity of the vein rendering it difficult for the artery to be wounded on the outer or anterior sides, without first perforating that vessel. The symptoms offer the general characteristics of aneurismal varix, but have several points that are worthy of special remark. The wound of the vessels has been in every instance followed by the effusion ol a large quantity of blood into the loose areolar tissue of the neck ; the extravasation acquiring the size of even a child’s head, and threatening immediate suffocation. As this extravasation subsided, the ordinary characters of aneurismal varix began to manifest themselves. The period at which these symptoms first made their appearance varied somewhat in the different cases, but they always occuiied. within four or five days of the receipt of the injury. In none of the cases did the disease appear to shorten life, or to occasion any dangerous or inconvenient effects with the exception of some difficulty in lying on the affected side, and occasional giddiness or noise in the head on stooping. No operation is permissible in these affections. . Varicose Aneurism is very rarely met with in this situation. 1 here is indeed only one case on record. It was situated close to the skull, and resulted from a bullet wound. Temporal Artery.—Traumatic Aneurism of the Temporal Artery, and of its branches, occasionally occurs as the result of partial division o these vessels in cupping on the temple. I have met with two cases of this kind in both of which the disease was readily cured by laying the tumour open’, turning out its contents, and tying the artery on each side of it. Internal Maxillary.—This artery is occasionally injured and wounded in gun-shot wounds. If the haemorrhage is too copious to be restrained by cold or styptics, the external or common carotid must be tied. Lingual Artery.—This vessel is occasionally injured in gun-shot wounds. If the Surgeon can be perfectly certain that the blood is coming from m lingual, he may tie that vessel above the hyoid bone (See Diseases of e Tono-ue) ; otherwise it is better to ligature the external or common carotid. Vertebral ARTERY.-Woumls of the Vertebral Artery occasionally occur as the result of stabs in the neck ; and several cases of traumatic anem ism in this situation have been recorded. In these wounds there is a danger o mistaking the source of the hemorrhage, as pressure on the carotid, it made below the transverse process of the sixth cervical vertebra, arrests the o blood in the vertebral as well, which, up to this point, lies immediately beneath it This transverse process is at least two inches above the cla\ lcle, am much higher than one is apt to think. There are no less than eleven cases on record in which the carotid has been tied for a wound of the vertebral m con- sequence of this mistake. When the wound of the artery is situated betwee two transverse processes, ligature is almost impossible, and the Suigeon be obliged to trust to plugging the wound, and to the use of styp • • recorded cases of this injury are fully reviewed by Holmes in his lectures on the Surgical Treatment of Aneurism.