480 INJURIES OF NERVES, MUSCLES, AND TENDONS. cause pain so long as they do not put the injured fibres on the stretch. By careful attention to these points, it is easy to distinguish these injuries from fractures of neighbouring bones which they sometimes resemble—especially in the neighbourhood of the shoulder-joint. Sprains or Strains of muscular parts, without rupture of fibres, are of very common occurrence, especially about the shoulders, hip, and loins, and are accompanied by much pain, stiffness, and inability to move the part. When they occur in rheumatic subjects, these injuries not uncommonly give rise to severe and persistent symptoms ; painful atrophy, rigidity, or local paralysis of the injured muscle being in some cases induced. It is then often difficult to determine how much is due to the direct strain of the muscle, and how much to chronic neuritis resulting from a simultaneous strain of the nerves. When complete atrophy of a muscle preceded by much pain follows a strain, it is probable that the nerves have been implicated in the injury. In the Treatment of these accidents, when recent, it will be found that kneading or rubbing the part with a stimulating embrocation gives relief, but, if the pain be severe, the application of hot fomentations with rest is more efficient. In the later stages, blisters applied to the points at which the pain is most severely felt are often beneficial. If the injury occur in persons of a rheumatic constitution, the effects are much more severe and persistent than in those who are otherwise constituted. In such persons, douches, frictions, and passive motion will, after a time, be necessary, together with proper constitutional treatment. In strumous subjects, a sprain may lead to the development of very serious articular inflammation. Muscles that have been sprained sometimes undergo a species of rigid atrophy, with much impairment of motion of the limb or joint. In such cases, frictions, douches, and above all, electricity, will be found useful. Rupture op the Sheath.—It occasionally happens that the muscular sheath is ruptured, so that the belly of the muscle forms a kind of hernial pro- trusion through the aperture ; or the tendon may be displaced by rupture of its sheath. This usually happens with the biceps, or the extensors of the fingers or rectus femoris. Dislocation or Displacement op Muscles and Tendons.—1 he long slender muscles of the forearm, and the complicated muscles of the back with their innumerable interdigitating tendons and bellies, and ah tendons lying m orooves in bones are liable to be displaced by some sudden and unusual move- ment The accident is popularly spoken of as a “ rick.” The characteristic features of the accident are, that during some forcible movement the patient feels a sudden severe pain, localized to a single spot, and at the same time he finds himself unable to execute certain movements. The Surgeon in the majority of cases by careful examination and by finding out exactly u ha movement causes the pain, will be able to ascertain which is the affected muscle. In the case of the slipping out of a superficial tendon the displaced part may be felt moving in its abnormal situation. Callendei laid oun SoS rules for the treatment of this injury. First, guided by the M decide as to the muscle, or dotation of a muscle, probably the scat of the iniurv Secondly, relax the muscle as far as possible by putting the par the position which would be induced by its full contraction 1lordly by Arm manipulation such as by rubbing with the hand, or by kneading * »pZ» “ ■ hurtbly, if this fail, make pressure over the