TREATMENT OF SOFT CHANCRE. io73 V O Tj . I. cation of caustics in a sufficiently concentrated form to destroy radically and at once the specific character of the sore, so as not only to save the pain, but to prevent the irritation attendant upon frequent applications. The nitrate of silver, which is often used for this purpose, is too weak to secure the I effect it is intended to accomplish, being apt to irritate, and not to destroy the chancrous surface, thus necessitating repeated and painful applications. I 1 consequently prefer to this the strong nitric acid, one application of which will very commonly suffice to annihilate the specific character of the sore : though more energetic in action, it does not give rise to more pain than the nitrate of silver. It should be applied by means of a piece of wool, or a glass rod ; with this the sore may be freely rubbed, and then, a stream of cold water having been poured over it to wash away any superfluous acid, a wet dressing should be laid on ; after the small slough produced by the caustic has separated, a healthy granulating surface will be left. The caustic may be applied at any : time during the continuance of the specific condition of the sore ; but when once this has been destroyed, it should not be re-applied. The patient should be kept as much at rest as possible if the sore be of any size, and he should when . moving about have the penis supported against the lower part of the abdomen ; by means of a handkerchief. After a chancre has been cauterized, as soon as the slough separates, the surface may begin to granulate healthily at once, requiring but simple dressings ; but in many cases it will continue in a somewhat unhealthy con- dition, demanding special topical applications to cause it to cicatrize soundly. If it be weak and fungating, an astringent lotion, such as the following, will ■ be found most useful, ft Tannin, gra. xx ; Tinct. lavandulm comp. $ij ; Vini rubri, 3iv. Ft. lotio. Or a solution of sulphate of copper may be applied, and the sore touched from time to time with nitrate of silver. In using lotions to any form of chancre, care should always be taken to keep a piece of lint soaked in the fluid constantly applied between the prepuce and the glans, and, in women, between the opposite labia ; for, unless this be done, il the contact of the diseased and inflamed mucous surfaces with one another will i'j tend to keep up the irritation and ulceration. These are the means that are generally most useful in Simple Chancres. In :<j some cases, however, inflammation of the sore, or peculiarities in its situation. M demand modifications of the treatment, j If there be much inflammation about the sore and prepuce, this must first ii be subdued by the application of wet dressing', or of lead and spirit lotion. When this is removed, if the sore have not lost its specific character, the i; caustic should be applied in the usual way. Should there be phimosis with discharge of Ipus from under the tightened prepuce, this must be slit up, so as to expose the subjacent chancres. It is H better at the same time to complete the operation of circumcision by removing i! the foreskin with the knife or scissors after it has been slit up along its dorsal ;>! aspect. Otherwise when it heals an inconvenient pendulous flap of skin will he left, requiring subsequent removal. In order to avoid infection of the raw surface from the chancre, the operation should be thus .performed. The fore- 71 skin is first slit up and the chancres exposed ; the surface of the glans and | the prepuce are then thoroughly cleaned with carbolic lotion (1 in 20) and I, the sores wiped out with chloride of zinc solution (40 grs. to *j). The surface of the sore may be rubbed forcibly with a dossil of lint soaked in this solution