MALIGNANT PUSTULE. 361 J.ch to jth of a grain every third hour. This powerful drug undoubtedly para- lyzes the voluntary muscles, and may thus arrest the spasms. But its use is attended by a special danger—viz., that of paralyzing the muscles of respira- tion, and thus asphyxiating the patient; and, indeed, by it, and by similar means, we but treat a symptom, and do not attack the real disease. Still, the mitigation of so painful a symptom as repeated spasms is a great comfort to the patient, and smooths the way to the grave—hence the use of it, and of other sedatives is justifiable. Tracheotomy has been recommended by some in order to avert death by spasm of the glottis. But what possible good can result from preventing death by this cause when it is impending from another ? What advantage can there be in submitting a patient to tracheotomy when he is about to die from coma or exhaustion ? Lastly, the Surgeon must bear in mind that he has to treat an exhausting disease, and that he must conse- quently support the patient by wine, beef-tea, and such nourishment as can be taken. MALIGNANT PUSTULE. Malignant pustule or charbon is the name commonly given to the affection produced by the inoculation, on the cutaneous surface in man, of the virus of the disease of cattle known as splenic fever, anthrax, or the quarter-evil. Splenic fever is fortunately rare amongst animals in this country, while in France and some parts of Germany it occurs with considerable frequency amongst horned cattle, horses, and sheep. Malignant pustule is consequently also rare, being met with chiefly amongst workers in foreign hides or wools ; on the Continent it is common also amongst butchers. The virus has now been clearly proved to be a large, easily recognizable microscopic organism, the bacillus anthracis. It may find entrance into the body in the form of dust by the lungs or intestines, and then gives rise to a general disease running a lapid and fatal course without the formation of an external centre of inflamma- tion. This affection which is known as “ woolsorter’s disease ” has lately been brought prominently into notice by the occurrence of several fatal cases at Bradford amongst workmen engaged in sorting Persian and Bokharan wools. Malignant pustule assumes an importance quite out of proportion to the frequency of its occurrence ; first, because of the necessity of recognizing it early for its successful treatment; and secondly, because it forms a type 0 a true infective process, both local and general, and its exact pathology is better understood than that of almost any other similar disease. Symptoms.—The first symptom of malignant pustule is the formation of a small angry red pimple 011 some exposed part of the body—either the face The Patienfc b« conscious of having scratched or pricked aSl itt H1 T Whi0h the <*PPe“. ” fco 'nay rightly or wrongly int “k 1 tlle P'te™ stl"g of “n "'sect. The pimple is accompanied by burst hv nng, anc after some hours a vesicle forms on its summit, which is Sell wl P -ut S ""W** There now forms a distinct indurated the second Y'^Yi ^ °X^0Uf S 5 at brsk # 1S grey in colour, but by the end of becomes red ^ 1 " c®ntral part is black. The skill in the neighbourhood vesicles is “?,««*• of «* patch a ring of seeds. Thorn ,7 le nub vKbl;b vesicles are about the size of mustard enlargemeni JY ° .°,v? ^sidorable swelling of the surrounding parts with ° ic neighbouring lymphatic glands, and if the pustule is seated