TREATMENT OF FRACTURED FATELLA—WIRING. 613 bed knee-splint (see Diseases of the Knee-Joint), which need not accurately fit the patient, provided it be of sufficient length, should be at once applied. The leg is to be retained in position by the usual extension apparatus of adhesive plaster, the ends of the strips being fixed round the end of the splint. I 0 the bandages which secure the extension-plaster round the leg is sewn a piece. of elastic^webbing with adhesive material spread upon half its length ; this being thus fixed below is stretched over the fractured patella and attached by adhesion to the skin of the thigh above the upper fragment of the patella, which it thus constantly draws gently down and exer- cises also very slight surface pressure over both fragments, pressing them into the space between the condyles of the femur and head of the tibia.” The bandages are now applied over the thigh and leg, and a support arranged, either of leather or adhesive plaster, behind the popliteal space, sufficiently tight to hinder any backward strain on the knee-joint. As soon as it can be made, a walking “caliper” knee-splint with a boot must be fitted to the patient ; after which he can leave his bed and move about during the remainder of the treatment. Thomas recommends that the treatment should be continued uninterruptedly for nine months at least. In order to bring the two fragments of a transverse fracture of the patella into accurate apposition, it has been recom- mended to make a longitudinal incision in the front of the knee of sufficient length fully to expose the broken bone, and to drill its fragments obliquely, taking care not to reach the cartilaginous surface in so doing, and then to unite them by a strong wire suture. By this operation, the knee is neces- sarily opened, and the patient is exposed to the dangers of a wounded joint. This operation seems to have been performed many years ago by Cooper, of San Francisco. In this country it was first suggested by Lister as beiug free from danger, provided strict anti- septic treatment was adopted. It was first performed by Cameron, of Glasgow, and subsequently by Lister, Henry Smith, Royes Bell, and many other Surgeons. Lister recommends that the wire should be cut short, and the ends hammered down, the wound being allowed to heal over it. Passive motion is to be commenced at the end of the second week. It is essential that good drainage should be provided from the joint during the first few days. This is best done by a small incision at the most dependent part of the outer side of the joint, through which a drain of horse-hair or an india-rubber tube may be inserted. The operation has been performed now a considerable number of times; and all recorded have so far been successful, good bony union having been obtained in most cases. It has been done both in recent fractures and in old cases in which the union was so bad that the limb was practically useless. In spite of this success, however, when the serious consequences that would inevitably follow if septic inflammation were accidentally set up in the .lomt, and the excellent results that are obtained as a rule by simple modes 0 treatment are taken into consideration, it is evident that the operation is adapted only to exceptional cases, in which either other modes of treatment lave ailed, or the importance of a firm knee is so great to the patient as to justify him in running the extra risk involved in the operation. Fig. 252. — Thomas’s Knee - splint, ap- plied for Fractured Patella.