433 PRINCIPLES OF TREATMENT. in the wound, and clearing it as well as possible, the injured vessel must be sought for. The situation of this may sometimes be ascertained at once by the gaping of the cut in its coats ; but, in many cases, it is necessary to relax the pressure upon the artery, so as to allow a jet of blood to escape, and thus indicate the position of the aperture. The ligature may then be applied by passing an aneurism-needle under the vessel, if it be partially divided ; or, if it be completely cut across, by drawing forwards the end and tying it, as in an open wound. In doing this, care must be taken that the ligature be really applied to the vessel, and that a portion of the sheath infiltrated with blood, ox- thickened by adherent coagulum, be not mistaken for the artery. In applying the ligature under the circumstances here indicated, viz., in a wound that is sloughy and suppurating, the tissues will necessarily in a great degree have lost their cohesion and firmness ; and although the arterial tissue resists the disor- ganizing influence of inflammation much longer than areolar or muscular tissue, yet it will also have become softened and less resistant. Hence the vessel must be isolated with gentleness and care, and the ligature very care- fully tied—no undue force being used. A silk ligature will usually separate in such cases several days before the ordinary time. The incisions down to the wounded artery should genei-ally be made on the side of the wound in the vessel, and through the wound in the soft tissues covering it. G-uthrie, however, advises that, in those cases in which the wound passes indirectly to the prin- cipal artery from the back or outside of the limb, the Surgeon, instead of follow- ing the tiack of the wound, shall cut down on the vessel where it lies neai'est the surface ; then, on passing a probe through the wound, the spot at which the artery has probably been injured will be pointed out, and the ligature must be applied in the way usual in cases of primary hemorrhage. In 'primary hemorrhage from wound of an artery, no operation should be undertaken unless the bleeding be actually continuing. If the bleedino- have been arrested, however furious it may have been, the Surgeon should never, unless it burst forth again, search for the wounded vessel, nor undertake any operation A man was brought to the University College Hospital with a deep stall m the groin, directly in the course of the external iliac artery ; a very large quantity of arterial blood had been lost, but the haemorrhage was arrested on his admission by the application of pressure, &c. From the great and sud- den loss of blood it was supposed that the external iliac had been punctured, reeun-pT8 Ti ^ t0 perform ^ °Peration unless haemorrhage Mp t d n0t retUm’the wound healing without any further aim it In sec™d“ry h®moirhage the case is different. There the Surgeon ceastl P Pared S6CUre thG VeSSe1’ even tll0uSh bleeding have for the time a Irnimn ^ r .treatment of wounded arteries is, that ormtksil Iff f tk t]lG vmel> V* U comPMJ CUt CICTOSS ; The vp l f lG ape!'tUre m %H lfit U only Pithily divided. well as on rntpHn ,lls/'ulc of Practice is founded on physiological grounds as in the arteries nf il cxP(rllence* 1 ^ie anastomoses of the part be very free, as end, uninterruntp n pa m 01 01 earn, bleeding may continue from the distal be less free a strent 7 '8’i]"r0 0.11 fctle proximal side of the wound ; if they the course of two nt dai:k-lookn^ venous blood will probably issue in sufficiently established ,, YiT thc collateral circulation has been VOL. I. ' ’ 11 glit scarlet blood will burst forth from the distal F F