502 FRACTURES. The Direction of the Displacement is influenced principally by the direction of the fracture, the position of the limb, and muscular action; it may be angular, transverse, longitudinal, or rotatory. In the angular displacement there is an increase pf the natural curvature of the limb, the concavity of the angle being on the side of the most powerful muscles; thus, for example, in fracture of the thigh, the angle projects on the anterior and outer side of the limb, because the strongest muscles, being situated behind and to the inner side, tend, by their contraction, to approxi- mate the fragments on that aspect. This displacement occurs principally in oblique and comminuted fractures. The transverse or lateral displacement occurs when a bone is broken directly across. The fragments often hitch one against another, so being, as it were, entangled together, and in this case there is often but very little deformity. Longitudinal displacement is invariably shortening when the fracture occurs in the shaft of a long bone. It is due in!most cases to muscular action, the broken ends of bone being brought together so as to overlap or “ ride ” over one another. In other cases, the shortening may be owing to the impaction of one fragment in the other. In some cases there is preternatural separation of the fragments, the weight of the limb tending to drag the lower one down- wards, or muscular contraction drawing the upper one away from it, as in fracture of the patella. The rotatory displacement may be owing to the contraction of particular sets of muscles, twisting the lower fragment on its axis as well as producing shortening of the limb. Thus the supinators in some fractures of the radius have a tendency to rotate the lower fragment outwards. In other cases the line of obliquity of the fracture may determine the rotatory displacement; and in the lower limb the weight of the limb will always turn the lower fragment outwards, just as the limb of a dead body rolls on to its outer side. 2. The occurrence of Preternatural mobility in the Continuity of a bone cannot exist without fracture, and separation of the fragments from one another ; hence, its presence may always be looked upon as an unequivocal sign of broken bone. But fracture may exist without it: thus, it occasionally happens that fracture takes place, and, owing to the impaction or wedging together of the fragments, mobility is not perceived. 3. Another sign of much value in practice is the occurrence of Crepitus or rather of the Grating together of the Rough Surfaces of the Broken Bone, which can be felt as well as heard on moving the limb. This grating can occur only when the fragments are movable and in contact, and is especially perceptible when the rough ends of the broken bone are rubbe directly against one another. It is not, however, an invariable accompaniment of fracture ; being absent in some cases, in which the fracture is firmly impacted or the fragments are widely separated. It must not be con- founded with the crepitation that occurs in the limbs from other causes, as from emphysema, or from the effusion of serous fluid into the sheaths ol the tendons, which gives rise to a peculiar crackling sensation, very different from the rough grating of a fracture. There is a species of false crepitus also experienced sometimes in injuries of joints, consisting of a snap or chc' rather than of true grating, which is sometimes mistaken by inexperience practitioners for true crepitus of broken bone. The roughened surfaces o a joint in the later stages of chronic rheumatic arthritis will, however, give use