ERYSIPELAS. 9X4 frequently occurred tlio poison may be constantly present, waiting only lor favourable conditions to manifest itself. The different forms of erysipelatous inflammation are most conveniently described as they affect different tissues and organs. With this view, we may divide them primarily into External and Internal Erysipelas. External Erysipelas is that variety of disease which affects the skin and subcutaneous areolar tissue. This form has been described with an absurd degree of minuteness, so far as the transitory and accidental characters of its duration, shape, and appearance are concerned, by many of the writers on Diseases of the Skin ; who, in their anxiety to record minute and often acci- dental shades of difference in appearance, have entirely lost sight of the true nature of the disease. The division adopted by Lawrence into the Simple, the (Edematous, and the Phlegmonous forms, is a practical arrangement that is commonly adopted by Surgeons. I prefer, however, and shall adopt, the division made by Nunneley in his very excellent work on Erysipelas, as founded on the true pathology of the affection. He arranges external ery- sipelas under three varieties: 1. Cutaneous ; 2. Cellulo-cutaneous ; and o. The statistics of University College Hospital give the following results, showing the relative frequency of these affections. During a period of ten years 106 cases were admitted under the care of the Surgeons or arose in the suro-ical wards. Of these 148 were cutaneous, 24 cellulo-cutaneous, oi phleg- monous, and 24 cellular or cellulitis. To these may be added 36 cases of called idiopathic cutaneous erysipelas admitted under the caie of sicians, making a total of 184 cases of the cutaneous form out of -o-, 1 Cutaneous Erysipelas is the slightest form of the disease, impheatmg . merely the skin ; it comprises many of the species of crytlwm of dtont writers, and corresponds to the simple erysipelas of Lawrence To desenbe it merely as a cutaneous disease, a dermatitis, as has often been do ’ ’ ever, not only highly incorrect, but unphilosophical, and evinces a i cry limited . acquaintance with its true nature. Ikpqsc as it The constitutional disturbance forms as essential a part of the d scasc as does in scarlet fever or measles. In fact a constitutional fever may occui of precisely the same type as that which « observe to precede and the local inflammation, without any such complication. 1^1 ,i,cc none occasion to observe in a very fatal outbreak of erysipelas Uni.took: ^ of my wards some years ago. On that occasion, all 1 c< , •fntioird cutaneous form of erysipelas appeared were marked by a* disturbance, attended by much gastro-nitestmal . n ‘f'thc st0^Mh same type of general febrile symptoms, and the sail c ■ Qr surface and bowels, occurred in patients in the same ward m wliou manifestation of the disease took place. alternate Symptoms.—The invasion of cutaneous erysipelas £ maik^ ^ ^ ^ chills and flushes, but seldom by a distinct ngoi. iu from headache, nausea, a quick pulse a coated ^ comes twenty-four to forty-eight hours the rash app^, ^g! ^ # wonnd, out simultaneously with the constitutional K and the its surface becomes dry and the margins bccom ^ skin. The •characteristic rash spreads away from them into the sun