FACTS FOR AND AGAINST THE GERM-THEORY. 899 organism fco which the poison is supposed to be due has been cultivated in suitable media out of the body for many generations, and, finally, when inoculated on a fresh subject, has given rise to the original specific disease. There is abundant evidence also to show that in many of these diseases the poison is particulate and not in solution, and that it is destroyed by those agents, whether physical or chemical, which are inimical to the lower forms of vegetable life. The close analogy, moreover, between some of these processes and splenic fever, in which the bacillus anthracis is undoubtedly, directly or indirectly, the cause of the disease, tends to support this view. Lastly, to many pathologists the hypothesis of a living virus, a contagium vivum, explains more rationally than any other theory the increase of the poison in the living body by a process resembling fermentation, its durability, and its evident dependence on favourable conditions, not only in the wound or in the individual but in his surroundings, in the time of year, the character of the season or climate, and many other circumstances. Lastly those modes of preventing these diseases which are the outcome of the application of the hypothesis of a contagium vivum to surgical practice have so far been the most successful. The chief arguments urged against it are the following. In the first place, in the human subject many observers have failed to detect the presence of organisms in these diseases. The constancy, however, with which they have been found has of late years been steadily increasing with the improved methods of observation introduced by Weigert, Koch, and others ; so much so that this objection is becoming of little weight. It has also been urged that many processes, dissimilar in every respect, are found to be associated with the presence of organisms apparently perfectly similar. Thus micrococci are found in a simple acute abscess, in diphtheria, in erysipelas and in pytemia ; but with bodies of such extreme minuteness differences may readily exist which it is beyond our power to recognize. Cohn, while referring to this question, called attention to the apparent similarity of the sweet and bitter almond, which yet differ from each other so widely in their chemical pro- perties. A much more important objection, which is pointed out by Koch himself, is that in many cases in the human subject the number of' micro- scopic organisms found has been singularly small, so small in fact as to make it difficult to understand how they could be the cause of such grave disease. Lastly, it has been maintained that the microscopic organisms are merely an accidental accompaniment of the process and not the cause, or that at most they serve merely as carriers of the virus and are not the producers of it. It is difficult to refute this assertion with the means at present at our command. When, however, as in the case of erysipelas, the organism can be cultivated tor twenty generations out of the body in an artificial medium, and finally on being inoculated on another individual will produce a genuine attack of ,, dlsease’.lfc 8ccms difficult to regard it as other than an essential factor in me production of the specific inflammation. fW T?f-bC acknmvl?dged fcherefore’ that, although it is highly probable fan n hlS .g!'°Up 01 dlseases arise direcfcly from the action of microscopic its truth'0 CVldenceis nofc as }’ct sufficient to furnish demonstrative proof of wouS0were’J-OWGiVev'’ ^ .funS0ld theory of infective processes in l io\ed beyondadoubt.it would in no way disprove the facts 3 m2