902 INFECTIVE DISEASES OF WOUNDS. that it cannot be wiped off, being- merely moved or swayed to and fro when an attempt is made to remove it. There is usually some dirty yellowish-green or brownish discharge, and occasionally some bleeding; the pain is of a severe burning, stinging, and lancinating character ; and the foetor from the surface is great. The ravages of this disease, when fully developed, are very extensive. The soft parts, such as the muscles, areolar tissue, and vessels, are transformed into a grey pulpy mass, and the bones arc denuded and necrosed. The larger blood-vessels resist the progress of the disease longer than any other parts, hut may at last be exposed, pulsating at the bottom of the deep and foul chasm. There is, however, little risk of haemorrhage in the early stages: but, when the sloughs are separating, an artery may give way, and bleeding to a dangerous or fatal extent ensue. Hennen states that there is most danger of this about the eleventh day. When the sloughs are thrown off, in the form of reddish-brown or greyish-green, viscid, and pulpy masses, a very sensitive granulating surface is left, having a great tendency to bleed, and to be again invaded by the gangrenous process. Blackadder has described an ulcerated form of this affection, in which a vesicle containing a bloody ichor forms, with a hot stinging pain ; this breaks, leaving a circular ulcer of about the size of a split pea. The ulcer once formed, rapidly extends by sharp-cut edges into the surrounding integument. On the two occasions in which I have had, in former years, the opportu- nity of witnessing outbreaks of this disease in University College Hospital, the surface of the wounds affected became rapidly covered with a yellowish-grey pultaceous slough. In some cases there was haemorrhage, but most commonly a small quantity of foetid discharge only was poured out; the edges of the sore became sharp-cut and defined, and the ulceration extended further in the skin by an eighth or a quarter of an inch than in the subjacent areolar tissue. In most instances the disease was confined to the skin and areolar tissue, exposing but not usually invading the muscles and bones, though in some cases these were affected. The ulcers were somewhat circular, and were surrounded by dusky inflamed areoke of some width. When once the morbid process was stopped, they cleaned rapidly, throwing out large vascular granulations. Constitutional Symptoms.-—In the early stage there may be active febrile disturbance, with high temperature and quick pulse. But these soon subside into symptoms of prostration. In the majority of cases they follow the local invasion of the sore ; Blackadder, Hollo, Delpech, and B ellbank have all found this to be the case, and in the instances at University College Hospital it certainly was so. Hennen and Thomson, on the other hand, state that the constitutional symptoms precede the local. In this I believe them to be certainly in error. They have confounded that state of ill health which occurs in the wounded who are confined in the foul and reeking atmosphere of an over-crowded military hospital, and which predisposes to the invasion of hospital gangrene, with the symptoms produced by the phagedama itself. Causes.—All wounds and sores are liable to be attacked in this way, but the disease most frequently affects those that arc of recent origin : the more chronic affections, and those that arc specific, very usually escape, lhe experience of many wars has led incontestably to the conclusion that hospital- gangrene will certainly be developed amongst the wounded if they are aggregated in too large numbers under one roof, however large nun