AMPUTATIONS. 74 of too many patients suffering from open wounds in too confined a space. The , chief varieties are :—Pyemia, a general disease, resulting from infection of the whole body from the unhealthy discharge of a foul wound, and accompanied by secondary inflammations, terminating in suppuration, in various internal organs and other parts of the body; Septiccemia, a similar condition, terminating fatally, without the occurrence of secondary local inflammations or abscesses ; Septic Poisoning, due to the absorption of the chemical products of putrefaction ; Traumatic Fever, which is a mild form of septic poisoning; Hospital Gangrene, an acute spreading inflammation, terminating rapidly m death of the affected part; Erysipelas, an infective inflammation of a specific nature spreading widely from the wound and accompanied by grave constitutional disturbance. All these diseases arc to be attributed directly to foul wounds and over-crowding. . The Congestive pneumonia often mentioned as a cause oi death after ampu- tations, is most probably always an effect of septicaemia, pyaemia, or septic 1 Lastly” one of the commonest cause of death in Hospital reports is Exhaus- tion. This term is used with excessive looseness. Some Surgeons seem to employ it occasionally as even synonymous with shock or collapse. In the majority of cases, however, it really means that the patient is gradually worn out by the profuse discharge from a suppurating wound, combined with chronic poisoning by the absorption of the chemical products of putrefaction. Inothei! it means that the patient died from the effects of severe —c fever of septic origin, commencing on the second day, befoie he had Ml) recovered from the shock of the operation. It doubtless covers, therefore, many conditions which should fairly be included amongst septic peases Shock is a frequent cause of death after primary amputations of the larger limbs • but till quite recently pyaemia was the most frequent cause of dead , nearly one haif of the patients that died P^Ung this disease Bryant, in 1850, has shown that, at Guys Hospital, it was fatal in ten' per cent, of all amputations, and in forty-two per cent, of fatal cases and that it was most frequent after amputations through limbs, the tissues of which were in a normal condition, and where a large surface o heMhv bone was exposed, as in amputations for injury, and in the removal of hmtafor—! talipes, ankylosis, te. It was not so common after ampu- taTZo^itrwUrmr"ylnfluence the general result of am- putations, as well as the P~ -se 'm th^ml^A that are connected with the operation itself. , . 9 General Health; 3, Shock; a.-To the first class may be refencd 1, Ag , -> ”‘1 4^te“n important influence on the result of amputation^ As sro^nfsS^ matter^ StntodSn'of U.c antiseptic treatment of wounds has however,