324 INJURIES OF SOFT FARTS. and, drawing the sides into close apposition, placed the parts in the most favourable condition possible for union by primary adhesion. This practice might, perhaps, in many cases be advantageously imitated in the present day by means of a cupping-glass and syringe. Amongst the varieties of punctured wounds that are most commonly met with in ordinary practice arc those which are occasioned by needles penetrat- ing into, and breaking off in the body. These accidents occur chiefly in the fingers and feet, and about the nates; and, though trivial, are often extremely troublesome, both to the Surgeon and the patient. When the Surgeon is called shortly after the occurrence of the accident, he must endeavour to remove the fragment left behind, by cutting down upon it. In doing this lie will be guided by the situation of the puncture, and by the seat of the pain, and sometimes by feeling the point projecting under the skin. In many cases this is a sufficiently simple proceeding ; in others, however, a deep and trouble- some dissection may be required, especially when the fragment of needle gets into or under the sheath of a tendon. I have had occasion to undertake , somewhat troublesome dissections between the biceps tendon and the brachial artery or in the close proximity of the ulnar artery, for the removal of frag- ments of needles lodged in the bend of the arm or of the wrist. For the pur- pose of extracting needles, thorns, splinters of wood, and other foreign bodies of small size and pointed shape lying in narrow wounds, the forceps shown m the annexed woodcut (Fig. 105) will be found most serviceable, as they have Fig. 105.—Forceps for removing Small Pointed Bodies. very fine but strong and well-serrated points. One of the most dangerous: situations for a needle to penetrate is into the anterior part of the knee-joint, lodging in the head of the tibia or the patella, and breaking off short. In such cases the broken fragment should be dissected out at once, the stnd.es antiseptic precautions being adopted, so as to prevent inflammation of the joint The limb must then be fixed firmly on a splint. I have knowi .0 most'disastrous and disorganizing inflammation and suppuration of the knee- joint ensue, with imminent peril to life, and followed by ankylosis, m con- sequence of a portion of needle having been allowed to remain embedded in this situation for some days. n ~ „orin In many cases, if the needle have been lodged for some days, the Surgeo will fail in his endeavours to extract it; and, unless the indications of its pre sence be very clear, I think the wiser course would be to leave it undistuibed, and to trust to nature for its expulsion from the body as it can seldom found when sought for, and, indeed, may not exist, although supposed to present. The following plan of ascertaining whether a portion of needle really impacted has been suggested by Marshall. A powerful magnet is to be held upon the part for a quarter of an hour, so as to magnetize; the fragment a finely hung polarized needle should then be suspended over it, when, if any other barbed instrument has be® n* into the flesh, no attempt should be made to withdraw it tlnoug 1 ic -1