704 INJURIES OF THE HEAD. partly or entirely by stupor, from which the patient is roused with difficulty, the pupils gradually dilating, the breathing becoming heavy and stertorous, the pulse sometimes continuing with its former I'apidity, at othcis becoming slow and oppressed. The slcin is hot but clammy ; the patient hills into a hea\y, dull, unconscious state, which alternates with convulsive twitchings or jerkings, and occasional delirious outbreaks. As death approaches, the sphincteis lelax, the pulse becomes more feeble, the surface cooler, the coma more intense and continuous, until the patient sinks from exhaustion and compression con- joined. In cases of this kind, pus may be found upon the surface or within the substance of the brain, in one case being diffused, in the other collected into a more or less distinctly circumscribed abscess. In other cases, again, the symp- toms of compression appear to be induced by a thick layer of lymph lying upon the surface of the brain, or by a quantity of serous fluid being poured out into the ventricles and about the base. Chronic or Subacute Encephalitis is the most interesting and important variety of inflammation following injuries of the head. It max come on a few days after the infliction of the injury, or not until months have elapsed. It may arise from accidents that implicate simply the skull, as well as from those that directly affect the brain and its membranes. The patient in many cases has apparently recovered entirely from the accident, though in others it will be found that some one symptom indicative of the brooding mischief still cou- tinues, such as headache, or impairment of sight or of hearing. Occasionally, the coming mischief is foreshadowed by unusual irritability of temper, by loss of mental vigour, or by some other functional disturbance of the brain. In such cases, the subacute encephalitis may suddenly come on, ushered in perhaps by an aggravation of the persistent symptom, or by an epileptic he. In other cases, the symptoms set in suddenly without any warning, but usually with much intensity, and speedily prove fatal. The Symptoms of subacute encephalitis, when it has fairly set in, consist of those of inflammation, irritation, and compression of the brain conjoined ; m some cases one, in other instances another, of the conditions appearing to pre- dominate. The symptoms consist of pain m the head with heat of the scalp, and either dilatation or contraction of the pupils, occasionally one being dilated and the other contracted. Squinting, intolerance of light, delirium, moaning, or screaming, unconsciousness, with convulsive twitchings of the limbs and face, commonly occur with the ordinary symptomatic fevei ; and lastly, symptoms of coma, rapidly terminating in death. In the subacute encephalitis, the same appearances are very generally found after death as in the more acute form of the affection ; but commonly the iS irane is principally affected So constantly is this the ease, that some Surgeons have proposed, and not altogether with injustice, to apply thftem to thk form of traumatic encephalitis, looking upon the inflammation of the arachnoid as the principal lesion. . “ TritACRANlAl. SurroBATlON.—This may be of three distinct kinds n Subcranial; b. Intrameningeal; c. Cerebral. " a The Subcranial form consists in the deposit of pus between t le s and*the dim mater. It occurs always at the point struck, and .a hunted « pirrnmscribed. It is never the result ot contrecoup. TtaS'conditio,is may lead to this variety of intracranial suppuration. r A blow on the head which, with or without wound ol the scalp or fracture a.