CELLULO-CUTANEOUS ERYSIPELAS—DIAGNOSIS. 921 that amputation of the limb may be required to save the patient’s life. No operation of this kind, however, should ever be practised for the effects ol erysipelas, unless they be strictly localized, and without tendency to spieac.; nor until the fever has subsided completely, except such as is ol a hectic character, and dependent on the septic influences of suppuration. During the progress of these local changes, the Constitutional Symptoms ha\ e j assumed corresponding modifications. At first of an active inflammatory character, the fever, when suppuration and sloughing have set in, often sud- denly becomes asthenic. Although in some cases there is at first no diminu- tion in the severity of the symptoms, the constitution gradually gives way after the patient has struggled for a few days against the exhausting influences of the disease, and death speedily supervenes. If the patient survive the stage of sloughing, pyaemia with metastatic abscesses, septicaemia or hectic, from pro- fuse discharge may carry him off. If recovery eventually take place, it may he with a constitution impaired and shattered for years. This disease is most fatal in the old and infirm, in habitual drunkards, or in young children. The immediate danger is always greatest when the head is affected. The remote danger from the effects of suppuration of areolar tissue, necrosis of bones, and inflammation of the joints, is greatest when the lower extremities are the seat of the disease. A variety of the cellulo-cutaneous erysipelas has been described as (Edema- tous Erysipelas. By this is meant not merely the effusion into the areolar tissue which occurs in all the varieties of the disease, but a peculiar form, spe- cially marked by oedema of the areolar tissue, with less inflammation of the skin than usual. There is much swelling, which pits deeply on pressure, with but little pain or tension, and but moderate redness of the skin ; the constitu- tional symptoms are less marked than in the other varieties of the disease ; it is principally met with in old people, or in persons of a dropsical tendency, in whom it occurs especially about the legs, scrotum, or labia, sometimes giving rise to permanent and solid enlargement. Diagnosis.—Phlegmonous erysipelas is easily recognized by the charac- teristic symptoms just described, when arising from some slight superficial injury or spontaneously ; but if it should happen to complicate a deep wound or compound fracture, it is easily confounded with simple septic inflammation consequent upon pent up decomposing discharges or blood. In all probability a very large proportion of the cases formerly described under the name of erysipelas were in reality simple septic inflammations not of a specific character. The so-called phlegmonous erysipelas of the scalp following a wound is, for example, almost invariably the result of the burrowing of putrid discharges beneath the pericranial aponeurosis. From spreading gangrene, it is distinguished by its slower progress and the absence of foetid gases in the sloughs before the skin gives way. Prognosis.—The prognosis in phlegmonous erysipelas is always grave. Of twenty-four cases admitted into University College Hospital seven died. It may be dangerous to the part affected or to life. It is especially dange- rous if it affect the head or parts in which the areolar tissue is abundant and lax, as the scrotum or orbit. Much also will depend upon the prompt- ness with which efficient treatment is begun and the means adopted to prevent septic poisoning from putrefaction of the sloughs. The disease is most dangerous at either of the extremes of life. If the constitution be sound,