737 TREATMENT OF DEPRESSED FRACTURE. depressed and continue so without giving rise either to compression of the brain or to inflammation of its membranes. I had once under my care a case which illustrated this point forcibly. The patient, a middle-aged man, fell on his head into an area, and stripped off the greater part of the scalp from the anterior part of the head and the vertex ; on the upper, part of the left parietal bone was a starred and depressed fracture of the skull as large as a florin. As the depression was smooth, not more than a quarter of an inch in depth, and there was no symptom of compression, I drew the scalp forwards and left the bone untouched, the patient making an excellent recovery, without any symptom of intracranial mischief. I am acquainted also with a gentleman upwards of fifty years of age, who has a depression in the parietal bone as large as the bowl of a table-spoon, the result of a fracture by a fall from a horse when a lad, and from which no inconvenience has resulted. I think, ! however, that the expectant treatment should not be followed too implicitly, but that we must be guided by the circumstances of the particular case. If the depression be nearly uniform, of inconsiderable depth, and occupy a large extent of skull, which is depressed in a smooth hollow or bowl-like manner, and more especially if the patient be young and the scalp unwounded, it may be better doubtless to follow the advice of Cooper, Abernethy, and Dupuytren, and to wait for symptoms of compression manifesting themselves before we interfere. If, however, the scalp be wounded, the depression sharp, deep, and comparatively small hi extent, we may reasonably suspect the existence of considerable splintering of the inner table ; and here, I think, the safer plan would be, even in the absence of all symptoms of compression, to elevate for the same reason that we trephine in punctured fracture—the prevention of inflammation that would be occasioned by the irritation of the splinters of the inner table. I would not, however, venture to dogmatize on this very important and difficult point of practice. The opinions of the most expe- rienced Surgeons are at variance ; and cases may readily be adduced on either side in support of conflicting doctrines. It would appear that military Suigeons generally are in favour of the expectant plan, and cases may be found in the works of Guthrie and Ballingall in support of this practice ; and it is a remarkable circumstance that, in many of those instances in which recovery resulted in cases of depressed fracture of the skull which were not subjected to operative interference, the patients were exposed to great priva- ' ^ous» possibly during a hurried retreat, and left in circumstances apparently the least favourable to recovery. So far as my own experience is concerned, vlnch is necessarily drawn purely from civil practice, I can say that, with the exception of the case that has just been referred to, I do not recollect ever Having seen a case recover in which a compound depressed fracture of the skull occurring m the adult had been left without operation ; but I have, on X other hand, seen several instances of recovery in which the bone had been derated and fragments removed. The. sooner elevation is done the better. Danger docs not arise from early delay- The Presence of depressed and spiculated fragments in •ini'j111 °. 1(j( uia ma^er must speedily induce meningo-encephalitis, and 1! ^,S° 1 iey become bathed in decomposing discharges. I have several UI1U l11 Imaii|y *n 8Ucb circumstances as these with success, and have whirli ii* occas'on k° regret doing so. Indeed, there is no class of cases in vol't °Peia 10n °* trephining is attended by such successful results as in