TIBIA—COMPOUND AND CONGENITAL. 6S9 than the last accident. I11 it, the lower end of the femur is felt projecting into the ham, occasionally compressing the vessels to such an extent as to anest the circulation through the lower extremity, lacerating the ligaments, and stretching the muscles in this situation. The tibia projects formal els, its head forming a considerable prominence on the anterior part of the knee, with a deep depression immediately above it and the patella, which is rendered moie I evident by the relaxation of the extensors of the thigh ; the leg is usually rotated somewhat inwards or outwards, and there is shortening to the extent of about two inches. These antero-posterior dislocations are very commonly incomplete. When this is the case, they present the same symptoms, but in a less marked degree, as those which characterize the complete displacements. In the Treatment of these dislocations, extension should be made from the ankle whilst the thigh is fixed in a semiflexed position. When the leg has been drawn down sufficiently, proper manipulation will bring the bones into i accurate position ; splints must then be applied, means taken to subdue local inflammation, and the joint kept perfectly at rest for two or three weeks, at the end of which time passive motion may be commenced. Complications.—Dislocations of the knee-joint are more liable to serious complications than those of any other articulation. Not only are the ligaments torn, and the muscles injured, but stretching, and perhaps laceration, of the popliteal vessels, followed by gangrene of the limb, may occur ; or the injury may be followed by destructive inflammation of the joint. Compound Dislocation of the Knee-joint is one of the most serious injuries to which the limbs are liable; the external wound being usually large, ragged, and accompanied by the protrusion of the condyles of the femur, with much laceration of the soft structures in the vicinity of the joint. These are cases that certainly, as a general rule, call imperatively for amputation. Cases, however, have occurred in which the limb has been saved. Hence, if the patient be young, if the vessels of the ham do not appear to have been seriously injured, and if the wound in the soft parts at the same time be not very extensive, nor much bruised, an attempt may with propriety be made to save the joint. In a case of compound dislocation of the knee forwards in a boy, A. White sawed off the projecting end of the femur which protruded through the ham, and, bringing the wound together, succeeded in saving the limb. Congenital Dislocations of the Knee have been occasionally met with, ■ with displacement of the tibia forwards. Cases of this kind have been recorded Y Hilton, Guerin, Barwell, and Godlee. In some it was complicated by a sence of the patella. In Barwell’s case flexion was extremely limited, but y pushing the tibia backwards it could be carried to a considerable angle, and by fixing it in this position with a plaster-of-Paris-bandage, the disloca- tion was completely cured at the end of six weeks’ treatment. Subluxation of the Knee, or “ internal derangement of the knee-joint,” is a more fiequent accident than any ol those that have just been described. triT)1SUa °CCUrs ^om ^ie Patent, whilst walking, striking his toe against or nab'1" jT'°n a stone, when he is suddenly seized with acute and sickening 1 , 0 . oe> often so severe as to cause him to fall. Before doing this, p ^ei’.le 18 conscious of having strained or otherwise injured the joint. On limb nr 10'!i ^')C ^oim<^ semiflexed, the patient being unable to extend the voL°^er '>r> aU^ eveH* effort being attended by severe pain; and the edge of v Y