SA ROOM A TO US BLOOD-G YSTS. 1005 ifc is frequently distinctly encapsuled, and, if removed freely, often does not return in the scar. The secondary tumours form in every part of the body ; constantly in the lungs and liver, almost constantly in the brain and spinal cord, spleen, kidneys, and subcutaneous tissue ; very often in the heart, }j intestines, medulla of bones, and lymphatic glands. Like the cells of the ii' primary tumour, some of the secondary growths are found to be pigmented 11 and some not. The diagnosis of melanotic sarcoma is made by the colour and , | rapidity of the growth. It must not be confounded with the simple pigmented wart. This is always of slow growth, more or less firm, pedunculated and Fig. 304.—Melanotic Sarcoma, from a Secondary Tumour in the Heart. Figure to left (1SS diam.) shows the different degrees of pigmentation and variety of shape in the different cells. Figure to right ('454 diam.). From a fresh scraping, illustrates the differ- ences in the size of the pigment-granules. Fig. 395.—Melanotic Sarcoma of Eye— natural size. The eye lias been divided in the antero-posterior diameter. The tumour started from the choroid and afterwards burst through the sclerotic. lobulated. It must be remembered, however, that melanotic sarcoma may start from a wart of this kind, or from a congenital mole. As to true melanotic cancer, that is to say, pigmented encephaloid or epithelioma, it is doubtful if such a growth exists, at any rate, it must be of extreme rarity. The only Treatment of melanotic sarcoma is the immediate removal of the ; tumour, unless secondary deposits can already, be recognized. Psammoma is a rare form of tumour found only in connection with the E membranes of the brain. The chief characteristic of these growths is the presence of small concentric calcareous globules, the so-called “brain-sand.” They are composed chiefly of peculiar flattened cells. They give rise to no | symptoms, except in infinitely rare cases. Sarcomatous Blood-cysts, or Hsematomata.—Tumours have been fre- quently described under the name of “blood-cysts,” of which the most characteristic feature is the presence of a large collection of fluid or partly < coagulated blood in a cyst, the walls of which are imperfectly defined. If the blood be evacuated by puncture or incision, free hemorrhage, difficult to control, or, at least, speedy re-accumulation of the fluid, is the only result, if seated on a limb, free excision of the cyst and its contents, or amputation, ' was justly looked upon as the only mode of treatment holding out any prospect of success. The nature of these tumours was not well understood; it has, however, recently been shown that in all probability they are, in the great majority of cases, soft sarcomata, broken down by haemorrhage into their structure. The walls of these cysts are formed of a thin layer of sarcoma- tissue, either of the round or spindle-celled variety. A very interesting case