36 GENERAL REMARKS ON OPERATIONS. evaporation of very pure ether. The application of a frigorific mixture of ice and snow, as introduced by J. Arnott, may very conveniently be em- ployed in many cases in which the internal administration of anaesthetics is cither inadmissible or inconvenient. It can be produced with certainty, how- ever, only in those cases in which the incisions implicate merely the skin and subcutaneous structures, as in opening abscesses, slitting up sinuses, avulsion of toe-nails, or removing small and superficial tumours. For all such purposes, however, it is extremely valuable. The mode of using the frigorific mixture is as follows. About a tumblerful of rough ice is put into a strong canvas bag, and finely powdered with a mallet. It is then poured out on a sheet of paper, and half its bulk of salt is quickly mixed with it by means of an ivory or wooden paper-knife. The mixture is then put into a muslin or gauze bag, suspended from a wooden ring, and applied to the part for from five to ten minutes. So soon as the skin becomes white, opaque, and hard, anaesthesia is produced, and the incisions may be made without any pain being experienced. The frozen part speedily recovers, no inconvenience resulting. The rapid evaporation of highly rectified ether has been very ingeniously and successfully applied by Richardson in the production of cold sufficient to freeze a part, and thus render it temporarily insensible. A fine spray-jet of ether of a low specific gravity is thrown upon the part to be anaesthetised. The skin rapidly becomes white and hard—is, in fact, frozen. This method of inducing local insensibility to pain is more exact and efficacious than that by the frigorific mixture, and is generally preferred. It is applicable in the same class of cases. The ether should be tested before it is used by pouring a little into the hollow of the hand, where, if it is of the proper quality, it will boil violently. PERFORMANCE OF AN OPERATION. In the performance of an operation in private practice the Surgeon must see for himself that the preparations are properly made. The room must be light, of sufficient size and properly warmed. The table upon which the patient is placed must be of the ordinary height. The strong deal table usually found in kitchens answers the purpose fairly well. It must be very steady on its legs, and if it is not more than three feet wide it will be more convenient. It must be covered with a blanket folded into four layers ; another blanket must be provided to place over the patient’s body, and pillows must be comfortably arranged for the head. A tray filled w ith saw- dust, or an old blanket folded very thickly may be placed on the fiooi to catch the blood. The friends must be asked to provide in the room, a dozen towels, four washing basins, and two large cans, one of hot and one of cold water, and a slop-pail or foot-bath. A gallon or more of carbolic acid lotion of the strength of 1 to 20 should be in readiness, uhich may be diluted to 1 in 40, for washing the sponges. The necessary amount of carbolic lotion, according to the extent and nature of the operation, must first be prepared, and the cans of common water must then be carefully removed to one corner of the room, and orders given to the nurse not to touch them ; for, unless she is thoroughly experienced, she is almost certain to use plain water instead of carbolic lotion during the excitement of the operation.