621 FRACTURE OF BOTH MALLEOLI. If the foot be twisted much outwards, as often happens in Pott’s fracture, Dupuytren’s splint may be applied to the inner side of the limb, so as to counteract the displacement (Fig. 2(10). In applying the apparatus, three points require attention. 1. The pad should be folded double at the lower end, and not descend below the upper fragment, so as to form a fulcrum, across which the foot may be drawn to the inner side. 2. The bandage should be applied first to the upper part of the splint. It should not be carried above the knee, but terminate just below the flexure of the joint. 3. The knee should be bent, so as to flex the leg on the thigh, and thus to I relax the strong muscles of the calf, which, by drawing up the heel, and causing the toes to point downwards, offer a serious obstacle to the maintenance of the foot in a good position. Much stiffness is always left after union has taken place, the ankle remaining rigid, weak, and useless for a long time. Fig. 260.—Application of Dnpuytren’s Splint in Pott’s Fracture. This is especially the case in elderly people. When this fracture occurs in advanced life the mobility of the ankle-joint is rarely, if ever, regained, and lameness is the almost inevitable result, due partly to adhesions in the sheaths of the tendons, partly to some slight displacement of the articular surfaces. In such cases wrenching, followed by passive motion, douches and frictions may do much to restore the mobility of the fibres. In Pott s fracture, where the malleolar arch is split through, a peculiar deformity is apt to result, consisting of widening of the lower end of the leg by separation of the malleoli. The astragalus is driven upwards, the shaft with the inner malleolus projects somewhat to the inner side, whilst the outer half of the malleolar arch is carried outwards with the lower end of the fibula. The transverse line between the malleoli is increased by half an inch. Fracture of the Internal and External Malleolus occasionally takes place, with great displacement of the foot backwards. It most frequently occurs from catching the heel in running down stairs. The displacement backwards is occasionally overlooked, as the malleoli having gone back with the bones of the tarsus, the appearances are very deceptive, and the patient may thus be left with the toes pointed down and an almost useless foot. ,, treatment. This displacement may be treated by the application of one of tbe jointed splints above mentioned (Fig. 258), or should that fail, Syme’s fmn iT ? ^ b0 USetL This is a BbmiShfc splint, long enough to reach from the head of the tibia to below the foot 5 its lower extremity is cut out o a d h ^ notch, wideenough fco take fche insfc bcbwcen cotton Jo i-Inusi' 1)C padded by a double pad, made of two rolls of to nrotpof^t- a! °a 100 ’ fcdese must He one on each side of the spine of the tibia asnect of H 1 °m l)lessurc- i l1G splint is then firmly bandaged to the anterior prongs and unf’ ^ f°°fc drawn forward by bandages passing round the ‘ der the heel>fche heel being protected by a thick soft pad.