813 TREATMENT OF WOUNDS OF AIR-PASSAGE. by making every effort to prevent as far as possible the accumulation of de- composing discharges about the wound. It must, however, be remembered that the mental depression, and the bodily exhaustion from loss of blood, that are common in these cases, do not allow of any lowering treatment. The administration of food in these cases always requires much attention. As a general rule, the patient should be kept on a nourishing diet, with a moderate allowance of stimulants. If, as not uncommonly happens, the food- passage be opened in consequence of the wound extending into the mouth, the pharynx, or the oesophagus, it is of course impossible for the patient to swallow, and the administration of nourishment becomes very difficult. This is best accomplished by means of a gum-elastic-catheter passed through the mouth into the gullet or stomach. This is easier than passing the instrument through the nose, and much better than introducing it through the wound. In this way a pint or more of the strongest beef-tea or soup, mixed with two or three eggs, and having an ounce or two of brandy added to it, should be injected regularly night and morning, until the patient is able to swallow. In those cases in which the wound is above the larynx, there is occasional danger of the supervention of oedema of the glottis ; should this occur, tracheotomy may be necessary to prolong the patient’s life. As consequences of wounds of the throat, we occasionally find stricture of the trachea, or aerial fistula. If the vocal cords have been injured, loss of voice may follow. Aerial Fistula may sometimes form owing to the skin doubling in and becoming adherent to the edges of the wound in the air-tube, and most fre- quently occurs when the cut is in the thyro-hyoid space ; adhesion taking place between the inverted integuments and the os hyoides above, and the surface of the thyroid cartilage below. The same may occur in the crico- thyroid space, and indeed at any part of the larynx that has been opened. When this happens, the fistula tends to remain patent. In these circum- stances, I have found the following operation successful. The edges of the fistulous opening having been freely pared, and the knife passed under them for some distance so as to detach them from the subjacent parts, a vertical incision is made through the lower lip of the opening, so as to split it downwards. Two points of suture are then inserted into each side of the horizontal incisions, bringing their edges into contact, hut the vertical cut is left free for discharges and mucus to drain through, and for the expired air to escape, lest emphysema occur. Unless this outlet be afforded, these fluids will burst through the sutures, and thus destroy union of the edges. _ It is not in every case that an aerial fistula can be safely closed. In some instances the larynx becomes contracted either by drawing in of the wound, or by thickening of the mucous membrane above the artificial opening to such an extent that the fistula becomes essential, in addition to the orifice of the glottis, for the purposes of respiration. Tn such circumstances, any attempt at c osmg ifc will be attended or followed by symptoms of impending asphyxia ; and ifc may be necessary to leave the opening free, or even, as happened in a Hi ft!’ TUI V PQl'P in nrHinlv on onnn a* mnn * _ 1 1 • , 1 • i asc under my care, in which an opening was left in the crico-thyroid mem- iane of a girl who had attempted suicide by cutting her throat, to enlarge the opening and to introduce a silver tube in order to relieve the breathing from e efrects of the laryngeal constriction. Iorbign Bodies in tiie Aiii-Passage.- -A great variety of substances