EXCITING CAUSES OF INFLAMMATION. 161 drinking ; for, as only a certain amount of food can be properly digested and assimilated, excess above this tends to interfere with healthy nutrition. Chronic lead-, mercury-, and phosphorus-poisoning are other examples of the same class of causes. The absorption of the chemical products of putrefaction from a wound, as we shall see hereafter, causes severe fever; and the rapid wasting of the body that occurs in this condition, is' clear evidence of the serious disturbance of nutrition that it gives rise to. It is the experience of all Surgeons that wounds made during septic fever are exceptionally prone to inflame, and generally do badly. Saccharine diabetes, which of all conditions exerts the most injurious influ- ence on wounds and injuries, may perhaps be most conveniently classed under this heading; as also may jaundice when due to simple obstruction of the bile ducts. Amongst the causes of impurity of blood from insufficient elimination of the normal products of tissue change, Bright’s disease of the kidneys is the most important. Gout also is perhaps most properly included under this heading. Both these conditions are powerful predisposing causes of inflammation. Diseases of the lungs and liver act in the same way. Amongst conditions due to the insufficiency of some of the normal constituents of the blood is antenna, such as is so commonly seen in young women ; and here also might be classed those conditions due to a deficient supply of the necessary elements of food, such as scurvy, from want of fresh, green vegetables, and the general condition of mal-nutrition brought about by deficiency of oxygen in the air habitually breathed and want of food in general. Lastly, there is the. constitutional condition known as scrofula, in which there is a tendency to inflammations occurring under the influence of excitim- causes, less in degree than those which affect healthy subjects; but the essential nature of this condition is still but imperfectly known. Exciting Causes of Inflammation.—Inflammation is usually said to be the immediate result of local “ irritationf and the causes of inflammation are t°ken 0f, aS “lrntanhr Irritation properly means excitement L- “IrffThTCOnSnq7,?tlj the P^010^ speak of tissues possess- m niliability, when a healthy manifestation of functional activity can be n uced by the application of external stimuli. At the time when inflamma- tion was believed to be an exaggeration of the normal activity of the inflamed issues the cause that produced it was very naturally spoken of as an irritant \ow that inflammation is known to be essentially a condition of diminished vflal activity of the tissues in the inflamed area, the term may oi “ ! or persistent! v\> ° , i mam estations of normal function ; if more severely may be o-jTen ’ni! causcs 1(j death of the. tissue upon which it acts. Heat about 100° V h, aU C'ifinP e‘ * tbe sbl'1 Po exposed to a temperature of as shown bvViPvT^ IT-11 s 8imP}e hypermmia with increase of normal function, inflammation ? and merely for a second causes VOL. I. icr -Jiot iron would, of course, give rise to immediate death ar