891 TREATMENT OF BOILS. for athletic contests are supposed to be due to a too exclusively animal diet. Sometimes boils may be traced to exposure to sewer-gas. In other cases, the system appears to have fallen into a cachectic state, often without any evident cause, and this terminates by a critical eruption of boils. A sudden change in the habits of life, as from sedentary to active pursuits, a course of sea- bathing, &c., will also occasion them. They are commonly met with in the spring of the year, but may occur at all seasons, and are occasionally epidemic. Local irritation is also a common cause, as in the case of boils on the hands from the contact of decomposing animal matter in post mortem examinations, or on the nates from the friction in rowing. Treatment.—The Constitutional Condition, on which the disease is dependent, requires to be carefully attended to. No one remedy is capable of curing boils. The disease is the result, in some cases, of fault or defect in nutrition ; and the gradual modification and improvement of those processes that are subservient to it are necessary before the local affection will cease to appear. In other instances, it appears to be due to want of proper elimination of effete materials. Hence less is often to be expected from medicines in these cases, than from a general regulation of the hygienic con- dition of the patient. N ature will do more for his recovery than art ; and the utmost that the practitioner can do is to administer such remedies as will assist in the improvement of the constitutional condition. If it be debilitated and cachectic, iron, quinine, sarsaparilla, and cod-liver oil ; if it be plethoric, and the system loaded, purgatives, salines, and liquor potassm will be appro- priate. In the one case an abundant nourishing diet, in the other case a spare and simple one, with avoidance of stimulants, will be required. In some cases empirical means are of service. Thus, when the disease is associated with pompholyx, or preceded by painful vesicles, arsenic may be of benefit. In other instances, yeast or charcoal has been advantageously given. Ringer strongly recommends the administration of sulphide of calcium both for pre- venting the formation of fresh boils and hastening the separation of the slough in those that have already appeared. A tenth of a grain may be given hourly or every two or three hours. The Local Jteatmenf is simple. When the boil is in its earliest stage, if a hair can be seen projecting through the pimple, it should be pulled out with forceps. The development may in some cases be arrested also by touching it vuth nitrate of silver, or with a saturated solution of perchloride of mercury. Vi lien the boil is evidently forming the red area around it should be painted vith equal parts of glycerine and belladonna. This usually relieves the pain am protects the skin from the irritation of the poultices or other applications, m , momt applications must then be employed; four layers of wet boracic- wrU eief wifch °ded silk and cotton-wool, or a linseed-meal-poultice oil greased on the surface, forms the best application. Poultices, however, in frond cascs ^he surrounding skin, and encourage the formation of a suimnr'r1 ° )0' ^'u^lln8- ^ jb be lormd to give so much relief or to hasten hni nn fi1011 T1C k mu ^ie aPl’heation of a sponge squeezed out of water, as is con^Vf^1' ,CaU bear ifc’ ancl cllflll8'cd every few minutes. If the patient lionm I*0'- ° .1" '?USC’ bc can cariT oufc this treatment himself for several the the day‘ Most commonIy a boil may be allowed to break, but o n may in some cases find it necessary to open it by a crucial