75 INFLUENCE OF AGE AND GENERAL HEALTH. greatly reduced the dangers of amputations after middle life. Volkmann of Halle has published the results of 48 cases of major amputations performed in patients above 50 years of age. He excludes from consideration all cases in which the amputation was performed during septicaemia, all double amputa- tions, and some few cases in which the patient died of causes independent of the operation. Of the 48 only 2 died; 1 of tetanus, and 1, an habitual drunkard, GO horns after the operation. The patient’s ages were, 30 between 51 and GO, 18 between 61 and 70, 4 between 71 and 80, and 1 patient, aged 84, recovered from an amputation at the knee. Although the exclusion of all complicated cases makes these statistics more favourable than they would otherwise have been, the results must be looked upon as most encouraging, showing that under the improved treatment of wounds, we may hope for a fail- degree of success even in very advanced life, provided that old age alone is the only unfavourable condition present. 2. The General Health of the patient previous to the operation exercises necessarily a most powerful influence on the chances of recovery. The state of the kidneys, more especially, is of great importance in this respect; for no' condition tends more certainly to a fatal termination than a chronically diseased state of those organs. The results of amputation are also necessarily widely different, according as the operation is practised on the healthy inhabitant of a country district, or on the cachectic and debilitated denizen of a large town. o and 4. The influence of Shock and of Septic Diseases is very differently felt in different amputations. The greater the portion of body that is removed, the more severely is shock felt. In these cases, also, the influence of septic agencies becomes more marked. This is owing to two causes : 1. The depres- sion of the nervous system consequent on the shock, and on the loss of blood that is the frequent accompaniment of a great operation, tending to lower the resisting power of the system to all noxious influences, and thus to predispose the patient to suffer, both locally and constitutionally, from the absorption of septic matter ; and, 2. The large surface of wound exposed, rendering local contamination more likely to occur. Out of 80 consecutive cases occurring at University College Hospital, there were 3 deaths from shock (all primary), and 10 from pyaemia and erysipelas ; leaving- only 8 deaths to be accounted for by exhaustion and the other causes that 1 have mentioned. Out of a total of 631 amputations collected from the reports of some of the Metropolitan hospitals between 18GG and 1872, 239 deaths occurred, and of use llu died from shock and pyamiia together, being 17'5 per cent, of the \ho e operated on, or 4G per cent, of the total deaths—and this is irrespective “wTu ^ fP°rtud as of “exhaustion,” or from “erysipelas,” d|- J ulltl®’ aud l01'ms of scPtlc dlsuase other than pyamiia. This terrible Khnr'l i i / n 111 as uearly as P°ss,1)le 3G per cent, of all the deaths, and ™ ’Sons Pei’ Cent> °f the dcaths’ 01 * Per cent, of all the tatioiii/wiVf^0^^ *uduenccs °* these two great causes of death after ainpu- primarv Kr,„ .ound not only to vary greatly, according as the operation is influence hSdiSnSho^ifrH18^ ^ ^ t0 eXei'CiSe YOry diffbrent de§Tees of WaS most dl primary amputations, in the proportion of 25 per