CARBUNCLE. 894 incision to be determined by the amount of tension existing in and around the carbuncle. Should the parts be soft, relaxed, and comparatively painless no advantage can result from incision ; but, on the other hand, if the tension be considerable, the agony great, and the constitutional disturbance dependent on both proportionately intense, nothing gives such immediate relief, local and constitutional, as early and free incision. This may be done in two ways ; either subcutaneously, by entering a long bistoury at one side of the carbuncle, and making two or three subcutaneous sweeps through the inflamed tissues in planes of different depths ; or by a free crucial cut, carried fairly through the diseased parts into the healthy tissues beyond them. By either method the constitutional disturbance accompanying and resulting from the extreme tension is at once removed, the local progress of the disease is checked, and extension of sloughing by strangulation of the tissues is prevented. Should incision of the carbuncle not have been performed early, it may become necessary at a later period, in order to prevent the confinement of the pus and slough. Pyaemia is so frequent a cause of death in bad cases of carbuncle, that it becomes very important to prevent putrefaction in the sloughs. If an incision be made before the skin has given way, it should be done with antiseptic precautions. The surrounding skin should be washed with carlxdic lotion, and as soon as the cut has been made some efficient form of antiseptic dressing should be applied. At subsequent dressings the surface must he irrigated with carbolic lotion. Iodoform sprinkled on the sore is a most useful antiseptic. Ordinary poultices should be avoided as tending to encourage putrefaction. The old port-wine poultice is useful and not liable to decompose. If warmth and moisture are required, a thick layer of boracic- acid-lint wetted with a concentrated solution of boracic acid will be iound the most convenient application ; or if this be not at hand, the carbuncle may be •covered by some lint soaked in carbolic oil (1 in 10), or terebene and oil, or some other antiseptic dressing, over which a poultice may be applied. As the sloughs loosen, they should be separated.; and the granulating surface which is left, and which will usually be found to be sluggish in its action, should be dressed with some of the more stimulating ointments, such as those of elemi or resin, or with the balsam of Peru. The ulcer, though large, will when thus treated cicatrize rapidly, and will leave but a small scar. Facial Carbuncle. —Under this name has been described by Ludlow, 1. Smith and others, a somewhat rare form of gangrenous inflammation of the face, appears first as a pustule or vesicle on the lip—according to T. Smi th, most com- monly on the upper lip. It is surrounded by a red blush, and the tissues beneath are swollen and ccdematous. The swelling spreads rapidly, often involving a great part of one side of the face ; in a few days its edge is less clearly defined, and the swollen tissues arc more cedcmatons and less brawny than in a corn mon carbuncle. Suppuration takes place after two or three days, in pate les scattered through the swollen tissues. The skin in the central pare becomes dusky in colour, and the subcutaneous tissue breaks down into soft shre j slouo-hs soaked in pus. The constitutional symptoms are of the gravest 'in , considerable elevation of temperature at first, with dry tongue an there is -rcat prostration. Should the patient survive to the period of sloughing suppuration, death may take place from pyamiia or septicaemia. The fatal result is preceded by rigors, and is evidently due to him ® in-- of a rapid and aggravated character. The infection of the b t and