788 INJURIES OF TIIE SPINE. not properly artcrializcd; and hypostatic pneumonia often causes death in two or three weeks. 8. When the injury is situated in the Lower Cervical Region, not only do all the preceding symptoms occur, but there is paralysis of the upper extremities as well ; and, inspiration being entirely diaphragmatic, the circulation speedily becomes affected, the lungs surcharged and cedematous, and the countenance becomes suffused and purplish. If the cord have been divided immediately above the brachial plexus, there will be complete paralysis of the whole of the upper extremities ; but if the injury be opposite the sixth cervical vertebra, they may be only partially paralysed. This hap- pened in two cases of fracture of the spine in this region that were some years ago under my care at the Hospital. In both, the paralysis existed on the ulnar but not on the radial side of the arms, owing to the external cutaneous, median, and musculo-spiral nerves arising higher from the plexus than the ulnar, and thus just escaping injury. It is remarkable that, in both these cases, there wag acute cutaneous sensibility in the arms along the whole line of junction between the paralysed and the sound parts. There is this remarkable fact connected with injuries of the lower portion of the cervical spinal cord, that the tempera- ture frequently presents a marked deviation from the normal standard. In some cases it rises very considerably, in fact to a higher point than has been noticed in any other surgical affection. Brodie found in one case that the thermometer marked 111° F. But in other cases again the temperature has been found greatly reduced, even to 81° or 82° F. Ho explanation of these extraordinary differences has as yet been discovered. In cases of injury of the cord in this situation, death occurs usually by asphyxia in from 48 hours to a week. . . ., When the division of the spinal cord takes place above the Origin ol tne Phrenic Nerves opposite to or above the third cervical vertebra, instantaneous death results from paralysis of the diaphragm, as well as of the rest of the respiratory muscles, inducing sudden asphyxia. It necessarily happens in partial division of the cord that the symp o are less clearly marked. In many of these cases resulting from fracture or dis- location, the symptoms due to actual injury of the cord are complicate m pressure on one or more nerves in the invertebral foramina. 1 he most detinue of these injuries are met with in partial division of the cord by a sta >. i these cases it has occasionally happened that the weapon has nuec on the lateral halves of the cord. The effect of this is to cause paralysis vitn hyperesthesia and elevation of temperature of the parts below the mju y ‘ the same side, with anesthesia of the opposite side. This is o" nig 0 chief decussation of the motor tracts taking place in the medii ai ° o' » while the sensory fibres cross to the opposite side almost mime u e. they enter the cord. MECHANICAL INJURIES OF THE VERTEBRAL COLUMN. The mechanical injuries to which the vertebral column is liable, consist o Snrains or Wrenches, Fracture, and Dislocation. , SpjUiWor Wrenches or Tin: Spink, without fracture or dislo cation of the vertebral, may occur in a variety of ways. Boyer re a cs a ca“ occurring from an injury received in practising gjunnastres^ Sn A. Cooper gives an instance of a fatal wrench of the spine, fiom a lop. - »