998 TUMOURS. colour. They very often infiltrate surrounding parts. They are excessively vascular, and often present scattered patches of haemorrhage or cysts resulting from extravasation of blood. They yield no milky, juice when quite fresh, hut when decomposition sets in, it can easily be obtained by pressure or scraping. Their chief seats are the skin, bones, subcutaneous areolar tissue, muscles, and occasionally in glands. Their diagnosis cannot be accurately made till after removal. They show a malignancy equal to that of the worst cancers. Pier. 3S5.—Round-celled Sarcoma, from a large ° tumour iu tlie muscles round the upper end of the femur (1SS diam.). The cells vary in size and have a very clear nucleus and nucleolus ; the matrix which has shrunk away from the ceUs is faintly granular: Fig. SSC.—Spindle-celled Sarcoma, from sub- cutaneous tissue of groin (1SS diam.). Cells of medium size ; no intercellular fibres. Their growth is rapid, and they early give rise to secondary deposits, especially in the lungs, and the lymphatic glands are frequently affected. One form of small round-celled sarcoma has been described by A irchow under the name of Glioma, from its resemblance in structure to the neuroglia or connective tissue of the brain. It is composed of an excessively delicate areolar stroma, having round cells embedded in its meshes. These tumours vary much in consistence, being sometimes soft and sometimes quite firm. They occur almost invariably in connection with the nerves or nervous centies. The tumour formerly known as soft cancer of the eyeball is in fact a glioma arising from the retina. It is most common in young children, and frequently runs a malignant course, projecting beyond the eyeball, infiltrating surrounding paits, and giving rise to secondary deposits. Spindle-celled Sarcoma. Fasciculated Sarcoma. Recurrent Fibroid Tumour. Fibro-plastic Tumour. These tumours arc composed of spindle- shaped, fusiform, or oat-shaped cells, either lying closely in contact with each other or separated by a homogeneous or fibrous intercellular substance (Fig. 386). The cells vary greatly in size in different tumours, but arcusua y tolerably equal in the same growth. They may be little more than -,troo 1 inch in length, or they may reach entirely across the field ot the microscope. This has given rise to the distinction between large and small spindle-c sarcomata. The intercellular substance is usually more abundant and mom u v developed into fibrous tissue in the small than in the large-celled grow 1 ’ and it is the former, therefore, that gradually merge into “ ome is often difficult to determine under which heading to class then , • ^ writers have given them the name fibrosarcoma. Al .»s ^“ually small, contain an oval nucleus with one or more nucleoli. 1 cells. - J