554 SPECIAL FRACTURES. dribbling of saliva, indicate unequivocally the nature ol the injury. lhe displacement and mobility of the fracture are greater, the nearer it is to the < symphysis. If the bone happen to be broken on both sides ol this line, the middle fragment is much dragged out of place by the depressor muscles attached to it ; indeed, in all double fractures the displacement is veiy great. In fracture about the augle and lower part of the ramus, the deformity is not so great, owing to the muscles that coat and protect each side of the bone in this situation preventing the fragments from being displaced. "When the neck of the condyle is broken through, that process is often much displaced by the action of the external pterygoid. When the fracture is near the symphysis, the dental canal escapes; but when it is further back in the body of the bone, and especially near the angle, the canal must necessarily be lmpli- cated. It is remarkable, however, that the inferior dental nerve usually escapes injuij or division in many cases altogether, in others for several days, until, perhaps, owing to great displacement or to some effort in reduction, it may be torn across. When this happens, the soft parts of the lower lip, supplied by the mental branch of the in- ferior dental, are necessarily for a time de- prived of sensation, but they soon recover. I have never known any permanent mischief from nor fMm ** haemorrhage following laceration of the inferior dental The Treatment is simple enough m principle, tho B ^ . ,, aee“menr It oons'ists in maintaining the parts in apposition hy suitable Fig. 18S.—Fracture of Lower Jaw. Fig. 189.— Gutta-Perclia-Splint: Original Sliape. Fig. 190.—Gutta-Perclia-Splint, moulded to Shape of Jaw. apparatus for four or five weeks, during wluoh fame “““‘on “TO 1* mhn_ dieted—the patient living on sops, sonps, and fluid nourishment <.fallAmd. and talking prohibited. The apparatus.that common wutta-percha splint (Fig. 189), moulded to the part (Fig. « )>“ ”" Tint and fixed on with a four-tailed bandage; the two oie-eiu are ’tied behind the neck, whilst the other two are knotted over ^ head (Fig. 191). When the ramus is broken, the side of g > 1 Sntlhd hi made proportionately long. The toet m tom * ini attention. Any that arc loosened must be left m, as tney contract adhesions, and fix themselves firmly ; be Hod to the sound teeth with silver wire, 01 dentists silk. taken that any tooth that may have bcc“ Uii’s’tiiuwiion'■ i.'Tone rase dropped between the fragments he removed fiom tins situation.