ERYSIPELAS. 91S surface, such as a strong solution of the nitrate of silver, are recommend 7 no progress for a long time often heal rapidly after an attack of cutaneous erysipelas. The disease is most dangerous in the extremes of life. Treatment.-—Preventive Measures.—The occurrence of erysipelas is best guarded against by attention to hygienic measures, more particularly proper ventilation with pure air, and the avoidance of overcrowding of patients. In hospitals, the frequency of its occurrence may most materially be lessened by careful regulation of the hygienic conditions that surround the patient. With every care, however, erysipelas can never be completely eradi- cated from surgical wards, as it is often epidemic, brought into the hospital from without, and in many cases the conditions that lead to its development have influenced the patients so deeply before their admission into hospital, that no subsequent attention can prevent its occurrence afterwards. It often hap- pens that erysipelas is unusually frequent in certain wards and even in certain beds. Its persistence in these respects will be found to be owing to some local cause, such as the emanations from a drain or dust-bin, on the removal of which the disease will cease. Scrupulous attention to cleanliness also on the part of nurses and dressers should be enforced, and the latter should not be allowed to go straight from the dead-house to the ward without previously washing their hands in some disinfectant or antiseptic solution. When erysipelas has already occurred, its further spread may be prevented by isolating the affected patients, and at once taking active measures to purify the ward from which they have been removed. The Curative Treatment of cutaneous erysipelas must always be conducted with reference to the depressing character of the disease. The apparent intensity of the local inflammation observed in some cases, must not lead the Surgeon into the fatal error of employing any so-called antiphlogistic treat- ment. The treatment required is essentially of a tonic and stimulating character. The principal medicinal remedies consist of bark, quinine, iron, and ammonia. If there be much thirst, these remedies may be given in an effervescent form. But in any case they should be administered in frequent doses. If medicines are not well borne, the stomach rejecting them, I have seen the best possible results follow the free administration of the brandy-and- egg mixture, to which I am in the habit of trusting in the majority ot these cases. During the progress of the disease, simple purgatives must be given from time to time. Tincture of the percldoride of iron, originally recommended by Hamilton Bell in small and repeated doses, is now often given in large doses, forty minims every four hours, by Russell Reynolds and others. It is sup- posed to exert a specific influence on the disease, and is certainly useful. The Local Treatment is of equal importance with the constitutional. In- numerable modes of treatment have been recommended by different Surgeons, but all are agreed that the first essential is to keep the inflamed part ''arm- Cold lotions should never under any circumstances be employed ; they lessen the vitality of the part, and may thus cause local sloughing. In slight cases the part should be covered with flour or starch powder dusted over it, an wrapped in cotton wool. In the more severe forms, warm applications assi u- ously continued, especially poppy and chamomile fomentations appuc J means of flannels or spongio-piliuc, afford the greatest possible relief, surface may at the same time be covered with a paint composed °f eqiia p. - of glycerine and extract of belladonna. Astringent applications to the in a