935 EXP.ER1 MENTAL INVESTIGATIONS. subject is now so possible summary If a septic liqu tissues have been subcutaueous tissue —-•——j i-rwnrlnpprl death the animal quickly recovers its normal health, even though severe gastro-intestinal symptoms may have been induced. When smaller doses are used a febrile disturbance of limited duration is the only result. If an animal killed in this way be examined after death, tolerably uniform appearances are met with ; the blood is dark-coloured, and sometimes im- perfectly coagulated, the inner coats of the vessels and the endocardium are darkly stained, and the serum is reddened by the colouring matter of the red corpuscles, which have become, to a certain extent, disintegrated in the blood even before the death of the animal. Small extravasations of blood (petecliim) are found beneath the pericardium and pleura, and occasionally in other parts ; the lungs are congested, the glandular viscera swollen, and the spleen enlarged, soft, and pulpy. The mucous membrane of the intestines is intensely iujected, and its epithelium is found to have been sepaiated. Further experiments have shown that the blood in an animal thus killed is not infective, and contains no recognizable microscopic organisms. The process is, therefore, assumed to be one of simple poisoning by a chemical poison, and no more an infective process than if arsenic or any similai sub- stance were injected into the blood-stream. 1 rom the time of Gnspaid efioits have been made to ascertain the exact chemical nature of the toxic substance developed in animal fluids during putrefaction. This, however, has not as yet been accomplished. By adding strong boiling alcohol to a clear filtered solution of putrid meat-infusion a precipitate is obtained, which can be again dissolved in water, and the clear solution possesses the most intensely toxic pro- perties, giving rise, if injected, to the characteristic symptom of septic, poisoning. The poison is, therefore, soluble in water and precipitable by alcohol. Bergmaun succeeded in further extracting a crystalline substance, to which he gave the name of “ sepsin,” but it has not by any means been conclusively proved that this is the sole poisonous principle in putrid fluids. The clear solution of the septic poison is perfectly free from microscopic organisms. The relation of microscopic organisms to the process of putrefaction has already been discussed (p. 1 (>4) ; and assuming the germ-theory of decomposition to be true, bacteria, although not themselves concerned directly in the production