PROGNOSIS IN SYFIIIIIS. io95 I the induration round the primary sore and in the lymphatic glands. Theie is, however, one essential difference—the discharges from softening gumma a are, so far as is known, not infective, consequently it seems probable that the specific virus of syphilis is not present in them. It has therefore been suggested that the changes in the vessels, the diffuse overgrowth of interstitial tissue of organs, and the formation of gummata, arc not the direct effect of t ic virus, but are due to some modification of the mode of growth and nutrition of the tissues, impressed upon them by the poison while it was active in the svstem. The unsymmetrical character of the later eruptions would indicate that they are not dependent on an active virus circulating in the blood-stream. At present we have not sufficient knowledge of the nature of the a irus of syphilis, or of its mode of action, to render these speculations of any real value. Prognosis.—The severity and form of the manifestations which follow con- tagion are very various. Diday states that in 93 cases treated by him without specifics, 7 suffered only from a single eruption on the skin, and after that showed no further signs of the disease ; in 53 the disease lasted fiom ten to eleven months, with eruption on the skin and mucous membranes, occurring irregularly with repeated relapses ; 29 suffered from severe cutaneous erup- tions, periostitis, iritis, &c., the average duration of the disease being twenty months ; and in 4 only did the disease assume a grave form with early appear- ance of tertiary symptoms. Berkeley Hill considers that these statistics form a valuable index of the natural course of syphilis. The Circumstances influencing the Progress of the disease are chiefly the following :— Age.—Other things being equal, the disease runs the mildest course in young adults. Infants suffer more severely, and after middle life syphilis is very apt to prove intractable. According to some authorities, it is practically incurable if contracted after forty, the patient being constantly troubled by relapses for the remainder of his life. Sex.—Females are apt to suffer severely, because, from the more concealed situation of the primary sore, they often do not come under treatment till the secondary symptoms are fully developed. Pregnancy usually aggravates the course of the disease. Personal Habits and Surroundings exert a considerable influence on the course of syphilis. The disease is seen in its worst forms amongst those who suffer from insufficient food, clothing and washing, and are addicted to alcoholic excesses. In a young adult of sound constitution, who leads a healthy and steady life, with plenty of out-door exercise, syphilis is very rarely followed by any of. its graver consequences, and usually ceases to give rise to any symptoms in about one year. The state of the patient’s health also determines to a great extent the kind of attack he will undergo. In scrofulous or tuberculous subjects the disease usually runs a severe course, and tertiary ulcerations are very prone to occur. In gouty subjects the skin eruptions are very apt to relapse, and periostitis is common. Rheumatism also is said to render the patient prone to inflam- mations of bones and iritis during the progress of syphilis. Disease of the kidneys is always a most serious complication. After the symptoms of the disease have subsided, they may again be called into activity by any cause which seriously impairs the general health. It is remarkable for how long a time the syphilitic poison will continue dormant in