845 SYMPTOMS OF WOUND OF HEART. the different cavities of the heart in relation to the superficial structures is constant. Thus, a stab below the fifth rib, about one inch to the sternal side of the nipple, and two inches below it, will wound the apex of the heart; a stab through the second intercostal space close to the right side of the sternum would wound the most prominent part of the ascending aorta after passing through the lung. One through the third to fifth intercostal spaces to t right of the sternum would wound the right auricle. The pulmonary artery would be reached by a thrust through the third rib on the left side at its junction until the sternum. . . ‘ Olivier, Jamain, West, and especially Fischer, have collected statistics with reo-ard to'the relative frequency of wounds of the different cavities of the heart. Fischer has collected 452 cases, in which the right ventricle is stated to have been wounded in 123, the left ventricle in 101, and both ventricles in 26. In 28 cases the right auricle, and in 13 the left, was the seat of injury. The apex of the heart was wounded in 17. The reason of the frequency of wound of the right ventricle is the obvious anatomical fact that it lies more anteriorly than the left, and hence is more likely to be injured by wounds that penetrate the chest from the front—this being the most common situation of wounds that injure the heart. According to Fischer, in 258 cases the heart u as wounded from the front of the thorax, in 26 from the abdomen, in 11 from behind, and in 5 from the side. The pericardium is necessarily wounded in most cases of wounds of the heart. But there are instances on record in which a ball has entered the chest and caused a laceration of the heart-substance without penetrating the peri- cardium, which escaped in consequence of its firmness and fibrous character. Again, as has already been stated, the pericardium alone may be injured : Fischer has collected 51 such cases. The Symptoms of a wound of the heart, when immediately fatal, are as follows. The person struck springs up convulsively, or falls suddenly prostrate ; sometimes with, sometimes without, a sudden and sharp shriek. Death results from haemorrhage, which will be profuse, and pass out beyond the pericardium, if the wound be large and that membrane be widely opened ; or into the pericardium, preventing action of the heart by compression, if the wound be small. In either case, death is hastened by collapse arising from shock to the central organ of the circulation itself, and to the system at large from the wound of so important an organ. If the wound be small and death be not immediate, there are evidences of great shock in the intense depression of vital power, the pallid and anxious countenance, and the relaxation of the limbs. The action of the heart itself is tumultuous, weak, and irregular ; the pulse is scarcely perceptible ; the breathing is frightfully embarrassed. If the patient survive a few days, these symptoms partially and intermittingly subside, and the ordinary signs of pericarditis come on—friction, gradually disappearing more or less completely as the pericardium becomes distended with fluid, when there will be increased dulness on percussion, with a weak impulse and elevation of the heart’s apex. By auscultation the heart’s sounds will be found to be feeble and muffled, especially at the apex. To these may possibly be added evidences of endo- cardial inflammation. Of these consecutive inflammatory complications and of their consequences the patient will most probably die, though perhaps at a remote period and after prolonged suffering.