372 EFFECTS OF HEAT AND COLD. CHAPTER XII. EFFECTS OF HEAT AND COLD. BURNS AND SCALDS. A Btirn is the result of the application of so great a degree of heat to the body as to produce either inflammation of the part to which it is applied, ox- charring and complete disorganization of its tissues. A Scald is occasioned by the application of some hot fluid to the body giving rise to the _ same destructive effects as are met with in burns, though differing from them m the ^P^ocal^^ffects!—Burns and scalds vary greatly in the degree of destruc- tion of tissue to which they give rise ; this variation depending partly upon the intensity of the heat, and partly upon the duration of its application. The sudden and brief application of flame to the surface produces but veiy slight disorganization of the cuticle, with some hypermmia of the skin. If the part be exnosed for a longer time to the action of the flame, as when a womai clothes take fire, the cutis itself may be disorganized ; and if the heat be still more intense, as when molten metal falls upon the body the soft parts; may be deeply charred, or the whole thickness of a limb destroyed. So, also the effects of scalds vary greatly, not only according to the temperature of the liquid, but according to its character ; the more oleaginous and thick the fluid, These6various result!’of the application of heat to the surface have been arruno-ed by Dupuytren into six different degrees of burn. This classification “ not merely a fanciful, nor a purely pathological, arrangement of the effects produced by the application of heat; but it is of great practiu Stance as the decree and character of the resulting cicatrix are dependent oiAhe depth to which the burn penetrates into the tissues. Hence the futiue cASLnct be determined by ascertaining, in the first instance, the degree t0 of to has bean momentary. It has bee. in uicjiihi uqjiv , ir dilatation of the vessels, simple “to'afSS *e heat is sufficient to cause ««£ S the vessels, rotated Sow, £ —^ g ~ ^ the cuticle is loosened and raised from to JS or blisL are fonned. from the vessels of the mtoned cu ts -* \ '%'S“ Iwdj coveted with sir