15o LOCAL DISTURBANCES AND INFLAMMATION. contracted, but the combined sectional area of the capillaries is increased only by a fractional part. It is evident, therefore, that the rapidity of the flow must be increased , , The cause of the arterial dilatation is twofold. _ It has been shown by experiment that irritation of a sensory nerve causes dilatation of the arteries in the whole area supplied by that nerve. This is a purely ^ex Phe^on. Part therefore of the dilatation is due to this cause, and is not accurately limited to the area injured. In the injured area itself, however, the dilatation is due to the direct effect produced upon the vessels of the part by the in]my Jhat has caused the disturbance ; here the muscular tissue of the small arteries is paralysed. That this is so is further shown by the fact that the degree o the dilatation is fixed and uniform, all those variations before mentioned occurring in health being absent. « . ., If the irritant applied to the web of the frog’s foot he more powerful it will be difficult to observe either the stage of contraction, * to occur or the stage of dilatation with increased rapidity of flow, for before the microscope can be brought to bear on the web, the circulation will iav i third change. The vessel will be dilated as widely as possib e, buW/5 flow of blood, instead of being increased in rabidity, will be retarded or ^m lreld: In oiler to observe the development of this state of the m- dilation with greater accuracy the mesentery of the frog must be “ade of and no further irritation than exposure to the air be applied. In • mesentery properly prepared and protected from needless sources of matation, the retardation of the blood-stream may be delayed for many hours. Com i- nt wfrh the first signs of retardation of the blood-stream a change * observed in idle X an Se inert layer. It is not surprising, therefore, that the firs sign o SBSSBi|§§§iS fails, the red corpuscles also begin to become anested the forming, m tno n d> J arrested : a condition known as stasis, recognised. All cn “ , , ciio-ht movement forward may Immediately before stasis becomes complete a slight moicme