787 DIAGNOSIS OF SEAT OF COED-LESION. relaxation of the sphincter ani, with consequent incontinence of flatus, and, tu a great extent, of feces. There is, at first, retention of urine in consequence of paralysis of the bladder, which is unable to expel its contents ; aftei a time, however, the urine dribbles away as fast as it is poured into the overdis- tended organ, the neck of which has lost its sphincter-like action. The reason why there is incontinence of feces but retention of urine in these cases is this. The sphincter ani and the muscular fibres of the bladder are both under the control of the spinal nerves. When paraplegia exists, the restraining power of the sphincter ani and the expelling power of the bladder are both lost. Hence the bladder cannot expel its contents : while the anus cannot retain those of the intestines, which are brought down to it by the peristaltic movements which are not spinal, but under the influence of the sympathetic nervous system. After the first few days the urine becomes ammoniacal in odour, and alkaline in reaction, in consequence of the forma- tion of ammonium carbonate from the urea. The exact cause of this fermen- tative change that occurs in the mine is not clearly settled. It is invariably accompanied by the presence of microscopic organisms, which, in the opinion of many, are the direct cause of the process. Those who hold this view main- tain that they are admitted from without, most commonly being introduced on the instrument with which the water is drawn off. Their growth would be 1 favoured by the retention of urine, and especially by the accumulation of alkaline mucus in the fundus of the bladder. On this view it is possible in these cases to prevent this most serious complication. Others believe that the ! decomposition of the urea is due to the presence of an excess of mucus, which acts as a chemical ferment. Whatever be the cause of its decomposition, the ammoniacal urine acts as an intense irritant to the bladder, setting up severe cystitis, accompanied by an abundant secretion of viscid alkaline mucus, often mixed with pus, and sometimes with blood. Finally, it may lead to ulceration of the bladder, followed by septic poisoning by absorption from the raw sur- faces ; or the mischief may extend to the kidneys and terminate fatally by | septic nephritis. Later in the case the bladder often becomes contracted, and dribbling of urine takes the place of retention. In the early stages of these injuries to the cord, the penis will usually be observed to be in a state of i semi-erection. . Patients who have met with injuries of this portion of the spinal cord may hve on for many months, or even for a year or two, in a cachectic state ; death then occurs usually from sloughing of the nates, or from the effects of the diseased condition of the bladder. 2. A hen the cord is divided in the Upper Dorsal Region, about the level of the third dorsal vertebra, we have not only the train of symptoms that have just been mentioned as characteristic of this injury lower down, but respi- ration also is interfered with in consequence of paralysis of the greater portion of the expiratory muscles. The intercostal muscles, and those con- s 1 uting the abdominal wall, no longer acting, imperfect expiration is effected s°ey jy the elasticity ol the walls of the chest ; and the purely muscular i °rP!,a101y movemcn^s’ su°h as sneezing and coughing, cannot be accom- pisiec. In these cases, during inspiration, which is effected chiefly by the lapimgm, the ribs arc depressed instead of being expanded and raised ; and <l, jjm'ual wall, which is soft and flaccid, is protruded far beyond its uia units. In consequence of the impediment to respiration the blood is 3 k 2