151 MICROSCOPIC CHANGES . IN INFLAMMATION. be noticed with eacli systole of the heart, followed by a return of the corpuscles to their former situation during diastole, an appearance to which the name of “oscillation” is given. The time occupied in the development of complete stasis is entirely dependent on the nature of the injury which causes it. It may be induced instantaneously by the application of any strong irritant to the web of a frog’s foot; while, in a carefully tended mesentery, its advent may be delayed for a whole day or even longer. It is evident that the condition of stasis involves a complete arrest of nutrition in the surrounding tissues, which must, unless relieved, inevitably end in their death before long. Should this occur, the liquor sanguinis which still remains in small quantity amongst the closely packed corpuscles coagulates, and stasis becomes converted into thrombosis ; that is to say, plugging of vessels with coagulated blood. On the other hand, should the tissues not be injured beyond recovery, the condition of stasis gradually passes off ; at first some oscillatory movement is noticed ; then a few of the corpuscles at the margins begin to break away into the blood-stream, and finally they all seem to lose all tendency to stick to each other or to the vessel, and move off, and the circulation gradually resumes its normal character. The retarded flow and stasis are degrees of the same condition, and it remains now to consider the causes which bring it about. In the healthy state of the circulation, as before stated, the corpuscles show no tendency to adhere to each other or to vthe walls of the vessels through which they are flowing ,• on the other hand, both red and white corpuscles show a very con- siderable degree of adhesiveness when removed from the body. In sticking to each other and to the walls of the vessels, they are therefore behaving' in the living body as if they were in contact with dead matter ; and the conclusion derived from this is, that in the healthy living tissues there are forces at work, of the nature of which we are ignorant, which counteract the natural adhesiveness of the corpuscles ; but that when the vitality of a part is lowered by damage of any kind, this power is diminished or lost, according to the degree of damage the tissues have suffered, and consequently the natural adhesiveness of the corpuscles comes into play, causing increased resistance to the flow through the vessels and a corresponding degree of retardation of the blood-stream. The accumulation of the white corpuscles is explained by the fact that they possess a greater degree of adhesiveness than the red ; their form also favours their adhesion to the sides of the vessels. That the change is not m the corpuscles themselves, nor in the liquor sanguinis, is shown by the fact that if an irritant be applied to a very small area, so that a corpuscle can be watched through it, it will be seen that the adhesiveness shows itself only w 11 e tie coipuscle is in the affected area; the moment it passes beyond it, it moves iec y on as befoie. I hat the retardation of the flow is not the cause of toe adhesion of the corpuscles is shown by the fact that, if a ligature be placed *jj1 ? 10U!K ^10 the ^'°8' so as to arrest circulation entirely, no ; r10!1 ot. the corpuscles to each other or to the vessels is observed till the acs C?in k° ^ose fcheir vitality—a condition which, in the frog, will not • 011 01 twenty-four hours. Cohnheim attributes all the phenomena of vitfrii-111^ 'i!11U ^.rs^ l^ace t° molecular changes, accompanied by loss of in u-wi"!, 'e Wa^s ol *^c vessels; and probably in many cases of inflammation wnlU cn fr .'r source of irritation is carried to the part by the vessels their ei nst. No doubt also, if the capillaries could escape in the case of