753 INTRA-CRANIAL HAEMORRHAGE. rontive means at our command ; if by this we succeed in warding off spreading inflammation in the brain-substance round the laceration, there will lie no tendency to hernia cerebri. Should the fungus form, the treatment is extremely unsatisfactory. If the tumour be shaved off, as is usually recommended, it generally sprouts again until the patient is destroyed by irritation and coma conjoined. In some fortunate cases, however, the removal of the tumour is not followed by its reproduction. All that can be done is to slice off the growth on a level with the brain ; to apply a pledget of dry lint, and a compress and bandage over the part, thus allowing it to granulate and the wound to cicatrize. Extravasation- of Blood within the Skull commonly occurs in all injuries of the head accompanied by laceration of the brain, and in many of those in which the skull is fractured without that organ being injured. Indeed, when we reflect on the great vascularity of the parts withinthe skull, the large sinuses, the numerous arteries that ramify both within the bones and at the base of the brain, and the close vascular network extended over the surface of this organ, we can easily understand that extravasation of blood is one of the most frequent complications of these injuries and a common cause of death, when they terminate fatally at an early period after their occurrence. Causes.—Intracranial extravasation of blood may take place either with or without fracture of the skull. When it is the result of fracture, it is in conse- .quence ot tlie fissuve tearing across one of the meningeal arteries distributed on the inside of the skull, or of a fragment of bone wounding a sinus or the vascular network oil the surface of the brain ; or it may proceed from lacera- tion of this organ breaking down its capillary structure. In other cases, as m gunshot-wounds, the haemorrhage may be a consequence of wound of the vessels by the bullet or other foreign body; but it may be the result also ot apparently tnflmg injuries of the head without wound of scalp, or fracture ot skull, from the rupture by concussion of one of the meningeal arteries Situations.—The extravasation may occur in four situations : 1. Between ie c ura mate)’ and the skull, ivhere it is most commonly met with • 9 Within the cavity of the arachnoid ; 3. Upon the surface of the brain ; or, 4.' Within s substance and its ventricles. It is usually most considerable when poured out upon the dura mater, or within the cavity of the arachnoid at the base of or vh hi1''-!1 1 ? Sma ? U^antity immediately on the surface of that organ the rS of vfr? ii ft Ver’ Seld0m found iu the situation as of'lolence’ mfch°ut being met with more superficially. The quantitv n re 1?7 01™“S > •»*. ^ in such ^ quantity, it pioceeds usually from rupture of the meningeal arterv I hnvn Sluts °E t,le Results.—Extravasation of blood is one of the most frequent causes of The blood11 that!” '““‘t’ !’J “W”8 vmm 0,1 “* coma. There can b , U l T* J' co!«ulates i,lto » tom gmm.br dot. branes of the nt ’ T™' extravasation of blood into the mom. '’Cing attended by fatal conse 1- Tlie extravas-.terl 11 ' i ' s0 extravasated may undergo various changes : and a Ueft 1X1 ,1 W “* 1 *• Th. serous portion, vie, : ‘ co outing matter, may be removed, leaving a fibrinous