FEMUR—REDUCTION OF OLD DISLOCATIONS. 685 duction inwards and eversion, by which the dislocation is rendered dorsal, and may be then reduced as already directed. . , .. fcl „ Everted Dorsal Dislocation may occur when, in _ ‘ . dorsum, the outer branch of the Y-ligament is broken : the integrity portion being necessary for the inversion of the limb. Irregular Dislocations of the head of the thigh-bone occur when the Y-lio-ament is wholly ruptured. The displacement may take place m any oi the above-described directions : but the characters are inconstant Reduction of old Dislocations of the Hip-joint is attended not only with great difficulty, but with no small amount of danger. The probability of effecting reduction rapidly decreases with the length of time that the bone has been left unreduced, and more rapidly in some dislocations than in others. Thus it is easier to reduce an old dislocation on the dorsum ilii than one below the tendon of the obturator internus. Dislocation of the head of the thigh-bone on the dorsum of the ilium may usually be reduced without any great difficulty, up to the end of the first fortnight. After that time the difficulty increases considerably; and, although reduction has frequently been effected in these cases up to the sixth or eighth week, yet it has also not unfrequently failed, notwithstanding persevering and repeated attempts. After two months have elapsed, the reduction is not only a work of great uncertainty, but also of no slight danger from suppuration in the soft parts, or fracture of the femur ; and it is then seldom practicable. But cases have been reported, and are referred to at p. (333, in which these dislocations have been reduced at a much later period, even as late as six or nine months. If the bone be left permanently unreduced, it will in time acquire consider- able mobility, more particularly in the lower dorsal dislocation, the patient walking readily with a shortened but otherwise useful limb. The attempt to reduce old dislocations of the hip-joint is necessarily attended with more or less danger. In some cases the soft parts have been extensively lacerated ; in others fatal inflammation of the joint has ensued ; and, in eleven cases with which I am acquainted, the thigh-bone was fractured. This accident has happened to Surgeons of such eminence as Travers, Vincent, Malgaigne, Physick of Philadelphia, to G wynne of Brighton, to Blackman of Cincinnati, to Harris and Randolph of the Pennsylvania Hospital, to the Surgeons of the Northern Hospital in Liverpool, and to a practitioner in London now' living. In most of these cases the bone gave way at its neck or below the trochanters ; the dislocation wras of course left unreduced, but the patients recovered without difficulty, the fracture being treated in the usual way. The cause of the fracture appears usually to have been the employment of force in a transverse or rotatory manner, after extension had been kept up for some considerable time. There is no proof that undue violence was used in any of these cases. It is probable that in some the femur had become weakened by disuse of the limb. The Complication of Fracture of the Femur with Dislocation of the Hip-joint occasions a very serious state of things, that may baffle the most slcilful efforts on the part of the Surgeon. The line of practice to be adopted must depend in a great measure on the seat of fracture. If this be situated below the middle of the thigh, the limb should be put up tightly in temporary splints, and an attempt made under chloroform to reduce the dislocation in the ordinary way, by manipulation or by pulleys applied over the splints. If