INJURIES OF THE SEINE. 794 to make the whole about six layers thick. The patient is then carefully lifted and laid on the bandages, which are folded over and rubbed smooth, as in an ordinary plaster-of-Paris bandage. A pad should be put over the epigastrium, which can be withdrawn when the splint is film. In the cases recorded by Konig, and in Hill’s case the results were most satisfactory. Two cases have, however, been recorded, in which the patient could not bear the bandage, but no harm was done by the attempt to use it. Another plan of treatment, originally recommended by Wormald, is to raise the patient carefully up, and place beneath him a large sheet of softened gutta-percha, and so to mould a splint to the back. In cases in which the cord is injured, attempts at the reduction of the fractured and displaced spine must not be lightly undertaken. It may prove unsuccessful, greatly increase the sufferings of the patient, or hasten his death. In cases of injury to the lower cervical vertebrae, it would rarely, if ever, be proper to make such attempts. In the upper and middle dorsal they would not be likely to succeed, owing to the want of mobility of this part of the column. In the lower dorsal and lumbar regions they would be less dangerous, and more likely to prove advantageous. All our efforts must be directed to prolonging life, if the fracture be in such a situation (at any point below the upper dorsal vertebrae) as to hold out a prospect of con- tinuance of life for a few weeks or months. Means must be taken to prevent the occurrence of sloughing of the nates, an accident that is commonly fatal in these cases. The patient should be laid at once on a water-bed, cushion, or mattress, and must be kept scrupulously clean. If possible, a mattress should be obtained, with, a segment that will pull out to admit the bed-pan, or some Fig. 331. — Apparatus for Fracture of the Spine. such arrangement to avoid disturbance of the spine. Every precaution should be taken to prevent the supervention of cv&titis. For this purpose the urine must be drawn off by a catheter, regularly, at least twice in the day. The catheter should be dipped in a vessel containing a l-in-20 solution of carbolic acid before being used, and oiled with carbolic oil (1 in 10). If, in spite of these precautions, ammomaca decomposition of the urine should take place, the bladdci must c was ic o with an antiseptic solution every time the water is drawn o . 0 u ' of permanganate of potash, or three grains of quinine, with three mmm of dilute sulphuric acid to the ounce of water, will be found the most emeu* preparations. (See Cystitis.) If, as usually happens after a time, the bowel become confined, relief must be afforded by castor-oil or turpentine enc A nourishing diet must be administered and perfect rest in one posi enjoined. In this way life maybe maintained for a considerable length« time, and bony union of the fracture may sometimes take place, thou patient may not recover from the paralysis, and may die even «u . disease of the cord. But in some cases a much more sat'B^r*v obtained ; the patient gradually gains power m the paralysed pa L I cases much assistance will be afforded him by wearing as soon a is sufficiently consolidated, the apparatus shown m 1 ™ J * ^ firm pelvic band, with a strong iron rod shaped to the spine, and rommC