SQUAMOUS EPITHELIOMA. x 029 epithelial growths though arising from a different type of epithelium. Squa- mous epithelioma arises from any situation in which squamous epithelium is naturally present. The essential feature of the growth by which it is distin- guished from a simple wart or papilloma is that the epithelium no longer merely covers the papillae, but forces its way between them into the structures beneath. Causes and Situation.—Epithelioma, rare in the young, is common in middle-aged or elderly people, the tendency to it increasing in proportion as age advances. In this respect it follows the course of other cancers. The hereditariness of epithelioma is not so marked as that of scirrhus, so much so that it has been doubted. I have no evidence in either way on this point. My impression is that it is not distinctly hereditary. It has been said to have been communicated by contact from the uterus of the female to the penis of the male, but this is extremely doubtful. It is certain that in the great majority of cases in which such contact has taken place no evil consequences follow. It is frequently occasioned by the long-continued or repeated application of some source of irritation, and may thus be established in constitutions other- wise perfectly healthy. Thus, the irritation of a broken tooth upon the tongue or cheek may produce epithelioma of those parts. The scrotum in chimney- sweepers not unfrequently becomes the seat of epithelioma, in consequence of the lodgment and irritation of soot in its rugae. Cancer of the tongue or lip is frequently attributed to the irritation caused by smoking. In some cases epithelioma arises in parts which have long suffered from an abnormal condition of the epithelium. Thus the so-called “ smooth or scaly tongue ” has a great tendency to terminate in cancer sometimes after the condition has lasted for ten or even twenty years. Epithelioma not unfrequently originates in old scars. Its most common seat on muco-cutaneons surfaces. During the ten years, 1870 to 1880, 123 cases of squamous epithelioma were admitted into the surgical wards of University College Hospital. They were distributed as follows : tongue, 52 ; lips, 18 ; skin of limbs and trunk, 10 ; penis, 8 ; vulva, 7 ; cheeks and gums, 7 ; anus, 4 ; scars in various parts, 3 ; skin of face, 3 ; scrotum, 2; oesophagus, 2 ; larynx, 2; bladder, 2; soft palate, 1; and antrum, 1. During a similar period 47 cases of cancer of the uterus were admitted into the women’s ward, but the hospital report does not distinguish between the different forms of the disease in these cases. Eleven cases of malignant stricture of the oesophagus, probably all epithelioma, were also admitted into the medical wards. The selection of a particular site by epithelioma appears often to be capricious, though it is doubtless dependent on anatomical peculiarities of the part. Thus it is common in the lower lip, but so rare as scarcely to have been observed in the upper. In women it rarely attacks the lower lip, in men often ; when occurring in mucous canals it chiefly affects their ends. Thus the lower end of the pharynx, the upper end of the oesophagus, and the onus are all favourite sites. Progress. Squamous epithelioma commences either as a small flat tubercle, or a warty growth, which rapidly ulcerates. Sometimes when it 1st comes under observation, it may already form an intractable fissure, or ulcer, of limited size, with hard everted edges and a foul surface. In other