VESSELS OF THE TRUNK AND UPPER LIMB. 455 VESSELS OF THE TRUNK. Internal Mammary.—Wounds of this artery rarely come under treatment, as its course lies chiefly in front of the heart and great vessels, so that pene- trating wounds implicating it are usually immediately fatal from injury to the parts beneath. The treatment, in case the patient escapes fatal injuries to deeper parts, is to tie the artery at the wounded spot, if necessary removing a costal cartilage in order to expose it. No other treatment is likely to arrest the bleeding, because of the free anastomoses with the intercostals. Intercostal Arteries.—These are rarely wounded except in gunshot- fractures or stabs fracturing a rib. The haemorrhage is seldom severe ; but should it require treatment, the lower border of the rib corresponding to the artery must be exposed by a free incision. On removing the fragments the bleeding artery may come into view, and can be twisted or tied ; or it may be turned out of its groove by means of a periosteal elevator, and sufficiently exposed to be tied. If necessary, a piece of rib may be removed to expose the I vessel more fully. As a temporary means of arresting haemorrhage, pressure may be applied in the following way. A piece of linen is to be pushed through the wound into the pleural cavity, so as to form a pocket inside ; a sufficient quantity of lint or tow is pushed into the pocket to make it too large I to pass out by the intercostal space; it is then forcibly pulled upon by the part of the linen outside the chest-walls, and secured in position by a couple of puis pushed across the neck on a level with the skin. VESSELS OE THE UPPER LIMB Subclavian Artery.—A Wound of the Subclavian Artery may be looked upon as almost invariably fatal ; though, in consequence of the manner in which the vessel is protected by the clavicle, this injury can scarcely occur except from gun-shot-violence or stabs. From the rapidly fatal nature of wounds of the subclavian artery, Traumatic Aneurisms in this situation are not met with ; but where the artery passes into the axilla below the margin of the first rib, they are not unfrequent. Aneurismal Varix, resulting from wound of the Subclavian Artery and Vein, has been seen, notwithstanding the separation that exists between the two vessels throughout their whole extent. These injuries have likewise usually been the result of sword-thrusts, and do not admit of any surgical interference. Axillary Artery.—In Open Wounds of the Axillary Artery and of it* Branches, the rule of practice consists in cutting down upon the bleeding ■vessel and ligaturing it on each side of the wound. It must be borne in mind t vat, the arterial branches given off between the lower edge of the first rib and the fold of the axilla being very numerous, a punctured wound of the axilla or iL Cf0 ^l,10 c^e,s^ raay l r'.iurc one of these vessels ; though from its course, and ,, e ow arterial blood that has followed the stab, it may be supposed that e axi aiy aitcry itself has been punctured. The particular vessel injured can LttTi °,lly by followinS op the wound, and ligaturing the artery that i ripr>r> 8 t10 ! • ’ ant^ bl or(^er do this successfully it may sometimes be fibres8'11^ ° tbe Pectorabs maj°r and minor across the line of their