313 INJURIES OF SOFT PARTS. and lacerated wounds it frequently happens that the incisions pass through this doubtful area, and the extra injury thus done determines the death of the. part, even though, at the time, it may have appeared uninjured. The chief danger to be apprehended in wounds of this description is the supervention of Gangrene, which may occur in three ways. 1. In some cases the violence done to the part is so great as directly to kill its whole substance. Thus, if a limb be crushed to a pulp by machinery, or by the passage of a heavy waggon over it, all circulation is completely and at once arrested, the vitality of the part is destroyed outright, and it will speedily fall into a state of putrefactive decomposition, with all the usual signs of mortification. This is a local traumatic mortification, evincing no disposition to spread beyond the part injured, but being bounded by a line of demarcation along which it will separate. It is not always easy to distinguish this direct form of gangrene from such discoloration and disorganization of a limb as are still compatible with life. In all cases of doubt the Surgeon must wait, and a very short time—a few hours—will be sufficient to declare whether the vitality of the part can be maintained or not. In cases of much doubt an incision might be made into the part, and the true state of things thus ascertained : but this should not be done-if it can possibly be avoided, and if undertaken the most rigid antiseptic treatment should be adopted, as the decomposition of the extravasated blood in the tissues of the bruised part would inevitably extinguish such vitality as remained. In many cases it is a good plan to disinfect the part carefully, dress it antiseptically, and wait for the line of demarcation between the dead and living parts to form befoie undertaking any operation. 2. The injury may be inflicted chiefly upon the great vessels of the limb, damaging them to such an extent as to completely interrupt the circulation ; gangrene being thus induced indirectly in the parts supplied by them. . This form of gangrene we shall have occasion to treat of fully when speaking of Injuries of the Arteries. . 3. The true u spreading gangrene,” the most fatal variety of mortification, is most commonly the result of severe contused aud lacerated wounds, par- ticularly when complicated with fractures. This is a most acute infective inflammation, terminating rapidly in gangrene, and will be described with the other infective processes occurring in wounds. , . . Treatment of Contused and Lacerated Wounds. In the treatment of the slighter form of these injuries, we must bear in mind the occurrence of the two distinct periods : 1, that of sloughing ; and 2, that of granulation. There is also in all injuries of this description a special tendency to the occurrence of erysipelas and allied diseases. . Care must be taken to clean the parts thoroughly from foreign bodies that are frequently impacted or ground into them. However contused and torn a flap of skin may be, it should, as a general rule, never be removed, provider it maintain any attachment to the neighbouring tissues, but should always be replaced on the chance of its vitality being preserved. If it live, as it will often do, especially about the scalp and face, under apparently the most dis- couraging circumstances, much will be gained; if it slough, no harm can result from the attempt to preserve it. There are cases on record m u uc parts that have been even completely separated have become attachec, iy ein0 immediately reapplied to the surface from which they had been torn or cut.