ARREST OF ARTERIAL HAEMORRHAGE. 422 Fi". 155.—Absorption of catgut ligature, six days in an aseptic wound. Surface of catgut is splitting up. Leucocytes cover it and wander into the fissures. Z. leucocytes; c. catgut fibres. only superficially destroyed, about one-fifteenth of its thickness having disap- peared. The gut was prepared by the old process, without chromic acid, and had been in carbolic oil for about three years. A portion of the same hank had been successfully used to ligature the femoral artery m a case of popliteal aneurism. . , . ,. Finally as has been shown by Lister, the ligature completely disappears, a little ring of new fibrous tissue being developed round the vessel in its place. Thus the artery is not cut through, the continuity of the external coat remain- ing uninterrupted. The inner and middle coats are as a rule cut through in the application of the ligature ; but should it be thought advisable not to do this, as in the case of some of the larger arteries, it can be avoided by using the thickest obtainable gut, and employing less force in its application. The use of the catgut-ligature has not however been limited to wounds treated antiseptically, and good results have been obtained in cases treated by other methods. I* these cases the fate of the ligature is less certain. If it becomes buried m thecoa^abeexiL dation which in the first few hours unites the surfaces of a and -rested wound, it is protected from decomposition, and then -Ho the course above described. If it should become bathed m septic discharges it softens rapidly, and the knot is usually thrown off like a small slough ; the ligature may break up and disappear altogether. .... f t The changes that occur within the artery after the application of a cat0 - lig2£.TK differ, so far as is known, from Arose follorvmg any other mode of arresting arterial haemorrhage. , The use of the catgut-ligature, although at least as successful as y ^ mode of arresting arterial haemorrhage, has not been altogether unattended y ir or ^ tr ke rta redded bTX rm“oy"ftePnew'famofZtgut prepared by m«as SZ" add. The1 slipping of the knot is so— due» too rigid to tie elosely ; such gut should never t will tie as closely as silk of the same thickness. / V l t -»hliterate the U continuity, the eatgut-ligature has in some vessel. Thus, in a case under the care of Christopher Heath, at u j College Hospital, the femoral became pervious shorty a u <- 1