611 ARTERIAL SUPPLY OF PATELLA. fixing the upper fragment by two broad strips of plaster firmly applied above it. A back splint of pasteboard is required to fix the knee, and a good pad of lint with a figure-of-8 bandage should be applied above and below the fracture to keep it in position. In several cases I have obtained very close and fiim union between the fragments in this way, without confining the patient to bed after the third day. Various attempts have at different times been made to bring down and to fix the upper fragment, so as to keep it in contact with the lower one ; or, if this be impracticable, to shorten the distance between them, and thus to lessen the leno-th of the bond of union. With this view, an apparatus consisting of two broad bands of leather, buckled above and below the knee, and united by longitudinal straps, which can be shortened at pleasure, is very commonly employed. Malgaigne, with the same view, constructed a pair of double hooks, which, being fixed into the two fragments, were drawn together by a screw; and Eve, of Tennessee, accomplishes the same object by means of a ring passed round the fragments. All these means undoubtedly secure the object for which they are intended, and each may be found an useful adjunct to position in any given case. Malgaigne’s hooks are undoubtedly the most effectual; but the great objection to their use consists in the pain and irritation that are often induced by their penetration of the skin. W. Manning, a former House Surgeon of University College Hospital,has made some very careful dissections of the arterial supply of the patella (Fig. 249). He finds that the vascular arch by which the upper fragment of a broken patella is supplied is situated at the very spot where the greatest amount of pressure is usually applied, and that not unfrequently the internal superior and inferior articular arteries arise from a common trunk, which must inevitably be compressed against the internal condyle of the femur, so that both fragments may thus be starved of blood; and that this want of proper blood-supply has an additional tendency to prevent firm union. As an additional evidence of the compression of the nutrient arteries of the patella by the ordinary apparatus, I may mention that Manning has found, on injecting a limb thus put up, that all the arteries were filled except those sup- plying the patella. In addition to this, Manning is of opinion that, in the ordinary treatment of frac- tured patella, the apparatus in use does not retain the fragments sufficiently long in position, or control the muscles efficiently. With the view of remedying these inconveniences Fig‘ 2iViwSial supply of Manning has constructed the splint (Fig. 250), of winch the following is a description. It consists of a wooden back-piece, I/’ than fche knee-joint, and long enough to reach from the sole of 10 . 0 ?c gluteal fold, and provided at the lower end with a foot-piece, A. 10 rC’t0f ^ie m'c^c anc! l°'m’ thirds is a transverse oblique slit, b, i aiK <l a hiches long. Strips of strong plaster, two inches broad, and * cnoug o encircle the thigh and overlap by some inches, are attached R u 2