SEPTIC/EMIA ANJJ PYAEMIA. 95^ poisoning; the early blood-staining, the soft and swollen spleen, the sub- scrons petechias, and the other characteristic signs of that condition form prominent features at the post-mortem examination. In other cases, with the exception of an unhealthy wound, a softening thrombus in the vein, and some softening infarcts in the lungs, the post-mortem appearances may be those of a healthy body. Between these extremes every variety may be met with. It is this that has led some Surgeons to the conclusion that septicaemia and pyaemia are mere modifications of a single process. Prognosis.—The prognosis in pyaemia is always bad. The disease is dan- gerous to life, to health, and to limb. When active acute pyaemia has fairly set in, recovery rarely, if ever, takes place, the patient usually dying between the fourth and the twelfth days. One or two rigors may occur, and yet the t patient may recover. Each repetition of the attack adds to the gravity of the ■ case. In fact, the danger and the rapidity of the fatal termination in any given case will, cceteris paribus, depend on the frequency of the rigors and their severity. When the pyasmic attack is from the first subacute or chronic, it may be < recovered from, usually after prolonged illness, the formation of numerous or large abscesses, and great and continued disturbance of the general health. In these less active and acute forms of pyaemia, the joints are liable to special implication, more particularly the knee and elbow. Destructive ■ suppuration may be set up in it, and loss or permanent impairmeut of utility of the limb will be the inevitable result. Diagnosis.—The diagnosis of pyaemia requires to be made :—1, from ordi- nary Surgical Fever, the Inflammatory Fever which accompanies wounds and Injuries, and Typhoid Fever ; 2, from Ague ; 3, from Rheumatism ; 4, from Septicaemia. 1. The Diagnosis from ordinary Surgical Inflammatory Fever and Typhoid Fever is usually sufficiently easy, the course of these fevers being unbroken by severe rigors, by sudden fluctuations of temperature, or by sweats. These symptoms, which are characteristic of pyaemia, do not occur in these other forms of febrile disturbance. An ordinary fever may be ushered in by a rigor ; but this is seldom so intense as that which marks pyaemia, and certainly does not recur during the attack. The temperature also in ordinary fevers is more uniform. It is not marked by those sudden exacerbations, followed by equally rapid declines, that are so characteristic of pyaemia. . 2. From Ague the diagnosis would not be easy in the earlier stages, it the patient had been exposed to malarial influences, and was at the same time suffering from surgical fever resulting from a wound, as then the characters ic feature of intermittent fever, the prolonged period of normal tempera lire between the rigors, will he wanting. Thus in a person injured whilst living in a malarial country, there may be much doubt as to the natuie o a- attack; but in large towns, the general absence of ague and the surgical cause of the pyaemia will render the diagnosis more easy, n later stages, the signs of articular inflammation and suppuration, the secern , visceral and areolar abscesses, will all tend to clear up the diagnosis. ^ » doubtful case a chart should be made of the temperature when t ic „ «.g periodicity of the attacks in ague will be very apparent it tin 1 3. From Rheumatism it is easy to make the diagnosis of pyamiia. provided