FRACTURES. 538 two to three weeks, it will be found to have been completely replaced by granulation-tissue, which has gradually grown up from beneath and absorbed 1 it. There is no reason to believe that the clot itself becomes organized. If the wound be very small and the fracture unaccompanied by much injury to the soft parts, it frequently happens that the dressing can be left unchanged for two weeks or more, when the wound will be found to have healed as if under a scab. In carrying out the antiseptic treatment by the carbolic-gauze- dressing, the spray will be found to give additional security, but it is the least essential part of the treatment. Unskilful dressing will, however, undo half the good done by the prevention of decomposition ; the superficial clot is broken down, the growing granulation-tissue torn, and suppuration frequently follows from rough handling during the time the dressing is being changed. I he results of this treatment of compound fractures have been very satisfactory. The dry antiseptic dressings, as iodoform-wool, salicylic wool, and salicylic silk, have also given excellent results ; as also has the terebene-and-oil-diessing. These, as they do not require changing so frequently, give more perfect rest than the antiseptic gauze-dressing ; but they are not as certain in the preven- tion of decomposition. If, as must frequently happen, the necessary materials are not at hand for a genuine antiseptic dressing, the wound must be treated by strict attention to cleanliness, rest, and drainage. Antiseptic lotions may be used, and the wound be left as open as possible for the exit of discharges. If these be retained in the limb by the external wound being kept closed by the dressing, deep infiltration of the areolar inter-muscular planes will ensue, with much tension and diffuse suppuration accompanied by severe constitutional disturb- ance, and followed probably by pyaemia. It is, I believe, in consequence of the free vent thus afforded to the discharges, and of their retention being avoided, that many of the worst-looking cases of compound fracture, especially of the leg—those in which there has been extensive sloughing of the soft parts around the wound, with exposure of the fractured fragments—eventually do the best. The danger in such cases is a remote one, from hectic and exhaustion ; not an immediate and grave one, from septic absorption, resulting from the infiltration of the limb. If the antiseptic treatment fail or cannot be made use of, and suppuration takes place, with decomposition of the discharges, an endeavour must be made to moderate the inflammation and lessen the constitutional disturbance. 11ns is best effected by fixing the limb on a splint in such a way that, althoug the wound can be cleaned and attended to, the apparatus shall be fete undis- turbed and untouched as long as possible. The great art in the successful treatment of a compound fracture under these circumstances consists m not disturbing the limb ; for days or even weeks it may sometimes advantageous y be left without interference when once it has been carefully put up. Should muc swelling take place, and the wound become inflamed and sloug y, an s lou much inflammation be set up in the limb, this may be moderated >) t ie app i cation of warm antiseptic applications, the best when available icing oiacic acid lint moistened in warm water. The part should be elevated and but lightly covered, the bed-clothes being well raised by means of a cm e, so* not to press on the limb; care being taken, at the same time, that the an ^ be applied very loosely, merely with a sufficient degree oi force to> i. limb upon the splint, as inflammatory infiltration, that might iapu .