I96 local disturbances and inflammation. so enormous that this is scarcely to be wondered at. As an external dressing to a wound, the edges of which have been brought accurately in contact, it has never been known to cause poisoning, though when applied on the raw surface left by a large burn it may give rise to some of the above- mentioned symptoms. The urine, in all cases of iodoform poisoning, has been found to contain iodine. The treatment consists in the immediate and com- plete removal of the drug, which will usually be followed by speedy dis- appearance of the symptoms. n , , n Mil ' Permanganate of Potash, a solution of which forms Condys fluid, is a powerful oxidising agent. It possesses very active powers as a disinfectant, destroying the smell of decomposing matter even when used in very dilute solutions. In stronger solutions it is a powerful antaseptic, <lestro;png the vitality even of the spore-bearing bacilli, but m order to do this itsi strong must be such that it could hardly be used on living tones. It oirns a valuable wash for foul wounds; but if used m sufficient strength to excit really powerful antiseptic influence, it stains everything with which it come, in contact a dark brown. It possesses practically no toxic properties. Benzoic acid possesses extremely powerful antiseptic propel ties, but not been used pure in the treatment of wounds. It forms an important con- stituent of Compound Tincture of Benzoin, Friar’s Balsam, or A ound Balsam, which was formerly extensively employed as an external application to wounds, and is still sometimes applied to compound fractures. Turpentine was, in former times, a constituent of a. most all salves for wounds, and doubtless did excellent service as an antiseptic. At the p> esc rime it is scarcely ever used. A highly refined form ,s sold und, terdnu, which, dissolved in olive oil in the proportion of 1 to 5, forms ,l1 Th^uol is the aromatic principle of thyme. It is said to be an efficient antiseptic if dissolved in water in the proportion of 1 m 1000 Ifc sJ'ut l irritating and is not poisonous; but it presents few other advanta ei3, md rarely used except for washing out a cavity, as the rectum ’om w ic acid might be absorbed in dangerous quantities if injected ,, Glycerine possesses decided antiseptic properties but its efficient st e . 0 is uncertain. It is chiefly useful as an addition to boracic or carbolic lotions to prevent them from drying too quickly. , Alcohol.—The antiseptic properties of alcohol aie require mention. It is said to be efficient in the strength of one pait of v^ter or roughly, one ounce of proof spirit to a pint of water. It is frit little used in surgery as an antiseptic, because of its evaporating 001‘T , • ' but it may be employed as a wash for wounds or for the hands and instru- ments if none more efficient is at hand. _ . . . ,, q.oe Amongst the most powerful means of preventing application of cold. This causes contraction « - - * ^ Hon thus preventing tension and swelling, the cold siioma » s-ift-jsfi K Mr-HS gsr. the intervals between the cold applications unc • & im'ury be dole during the time that the part has been really cooled. If the injmj