AllliEST OF ARTERIAL HAEMORRHAGE. 433 perfect occlusion of this portion of the artery, and partly from its greater , liability to slough, in consequence of the ligature interrupting its supply of blood through the vasa vasorum. It is no objection to this opinion that the fatal haemorrhage is often arterial; for, though it is true that the blood which is carried to the distal end is, for the first few days after the application of a ligature, of a venous hue, yet, after the collateral circulation is once freely established, it gradually assumes a more scarlet tint, and at last becomes com- pletely arterial. Periods at which it occurs—Secondary hemorrhage may come on at any time from twenty-four hours after the operation to the closure of the wound. When the separable silk ligature is used, it is particularly apt to occur about the period of the separation of the ligature. _ 1. When hemorrhage occurs about the time of the separation of the ligahoe, it may arise from any of the causes already specified as interfering with the due formation of an internal coagulum, or that occasion ulceration and sloughing of the coats of the vessel. The occurrence of hemorrhage at this time is often connected with the rapid and full pulse accompanying septic traumatic fever in an otherwise robust and healthy patient. 2. In some cases in which the ligature has separated, but the wound tins remained open, the hemorrhage may take place from the cicatrix m the artery being too weak to support the impulse of the blood. Continuance of he open state of the wound after the separation of the ligature, is, most probably dependent either upon the presence of a small slough at the bottom of the wound where the noose of the ligature has lain, or upon insufficient drainage of the long suppurating track left by the ligature. The length of tune that sometimes elapses between the separation of the ligature and the occurrence of haemorrhage is very remarkable: thus, there is in St Thomass Hospital a preparation of a carotid artery, from which secondary haemorrhage took place in the tenth week after ligature ; and South mentions a case of hgatuie o tie subclavian in which the thread separated on the twenty-seventh day, the fatal haemorrhage occurring in the thirteenth week. When an absorbable ligature is used, if from any of the causes before mentioned, it fails to become absorbed, secondary haemorrhage may occur at the same time as with the separable ligature. It may, however, come on a an earlier period, the third or fourth day, from premature softening of the catgut, if that material be used. Experience has, however, shown that this is a verr rare accident; and it can scarcely occur if the gut be properly prepared, an i it be protected from the influence of decomposing discharges. The Treatment of Secondary Hemorrhage must be considered as the bleeding takes place, 1, from a Stump ; and, 2, from an artery tied m i s C°In.1I1all cases of ligature of arteries, care should of course be taken to prevent this accident, if possible, by keeping the patient perfectly quiet. o-ivim' no stimulants, having the bowels kept open and the secietious » and avoiding any undue traction on the thread, itself if a separab e iga 1,6 When the pulse is full and rapid, and when from any cause the wound is airnnnratino' and so for open that the main vessels can be seen seveial day after the operation beating forcibly at their further ends, there is grea c ang ^d^tmorrhage^urring, and the patient must be closely watched,