327 CHARACTERS OF GUN-SHOT WOUNDS. the Projectiles, the Force with which they are driven, and the Direction in which they strike. . . . . , , Nature and Force of Projectile.—Gun-shot injuries of a serious character may be inflicted by weapons charged only with powder. They may arise from the mere concussion of the explosion ; thus a pistol charged with powder, and dis- charged with the muzzle resting against the chest of a man, has been known to kill by concussing the heart. In other cases, a portion of the unexp ocled powder may be driven into or even through the skin by that which is exploded behind it. In this way, very troublesome and disfiguring marks are sometimes inflicted on the face, and other parts of the body, by the charcoal of the powder lodging iu the skin. That a weapon so charged may actually kill when dis- charged at a little distance appears from a case related by Dupuytren, in which a fowling-piece charged with powder only, and fired at the distance of two or three feel from the abdomen, pierced the belly with a round hole and killed the man. The mere force of the explosion will sometimes produce serious lacerations. Suicides occasionally forget to put a bullet into the pistol, and firing into their mouths, blow open the cheeks, and injure the pharynx and glottis by the ex- plosive force. Some years ago, a man was brought to University College Hospital, who had discharged some powder from the tube of an Italian iron into his mouth, and he died in consequence of the injuries he received. In another case in the same Institution, a man died, on the fifth day after firing a pistol into his mouth, of asphyxia, occasioned by sloughing of the pharynx and inflammation of the glottis and larynx, consequent on the scorch of the explosion. Wadding and soft materials, as pieces of clothing, will occasionally inflict serious wounds by the force with which they are driven. These injuries often happen on the stage, at reviews, fairs, &c. Taylor relates several instances of the kindone of a girl killed by a gun charged with paper pellets ; also, one of a man who was killed by a kid glove fired from a blunderbuss. Small shot often inflict serious injuries, and these are most commonly met with in civil practice. If the person wounded be withiu a few feet of the muzzle of the gun, a terribly torn and lacerated wound, even worse than that occasioned by a bullet, will be inflicted ; for the shot, not being scattered, are driven through the body in a comparatively compact mass, and tear the tissues to a great extent. The compactness of a charge of shot when striking close to the muzzle of the gun may be very remarkable, making a wound like that of a bullet. A lad was admitted into University College Hospital under my care, who had accidentally shot himself. The whole charge had passed from before backwards between the skin of the inner side of the arm and the brachial vessels and the accompanying nerves, leaving a bridge of skin about three inches in width and the vessels and nerves uninjured, the triceps, how- ever, being torn. The patient made an excellent recoveiy. When shots scatter as they fly, they produce at a greater distance a less serious injury, usually lodging in the subcutaneous areolar tissue, where they may remain for years, requiring to be picked out with a lancet; or they may give rise to suppuration. Occasionally, shot, by penetrating an important part, may cause serious or fatal results ; thus, a single shot penetrating the eyeball will destroy vision ; or, lodging in the heart or in the femoral vein or other large vessel, may give rise to rapidly fatal results. A patient was once nought to University College Hospital, who had fired a pocket-pistol loaded