TREATMENT OF DEPRESSED FRACTURE. 733 j 0f sabre-cuts, portions of the skull have been sliced or split down the subjacent membranes and the brain itself being wounded, and yet a good recovery has resulted ; arid I have had several cases under my own care m which, though j the dura mater has been punctured by spicula of depressed bone, and portions of brain lost, the patients have made good recoveries. In many of the cases in which recovery has thus taken place, the injury has been such as to provide I efficiently for drainage of the wound without the interference of the Surgeon. The Treatment of a depressed and comminuted fracture of the skull varies not only according to the nature and extent of the accident, but also to the ■ existence or absence of symptoms of compression of the brain. If there be no wound in the scalp, but the occurrence of symptoms of com- pression and the existence of some irregularity of the skull at the seat of injury : lead the Surgeon to suspect a depressed fracture, he should make a crucial or "T-shaped incision down upon the part in order to examine the bone ; and, if ■ this be found depressed, he should elevate or remove it. If the scalp be already wounded, all that need be done to ascertain the nature of the fracture, is to pass the finger very gently into the wound and thus examine the bone. If any fragments be lying loose, they should be picked out, as they can only excite injurious irritation ; any bone that is driven below its level must be raised, and, if completely detached, removed. In order to raise these depressed portions of bone, it is in many cases necessary merely to introduce the point of an elevator underneath the fragment, and, using the instrument as a lever, raise it into position (Fig. 317). If there be not an aperture sufficiently wide for the introduction of the elevator, one may be made by sawing out an angle of bone at a convenient spot by means of a Hey’s or cranial saw (Figs. 318, 319), or by clipping off a projecting point with the bone-forceps. In this way, sufficient space may usually be gained without the necessity of applying the trephine. If, however, the inner table be splintered to a considerable extent, or if there be no convenient angle that can be removed, the trephine must be applied in such a way that at least half its circle is situated upon the edge that overhangs the depressed bone; the Surgeon sawing out by means of this instrument a portion of the undepressed skull, in order that he may more conveniently get at the fragment. After a half circle of bone has been removed in this way, the depressed splinters may be taken out, a Hey’s saw still being occasionally required before the whole can be removed. It is interesting to note that the instrument familiarly known as Hey’s Saw does not appear to have been invented, though it was largely used and described, by Mr. William Hey, of Leeds. He states (“Practical Observations on Surgery,” London, 1814, p. 9), that the instrument was first shown him by Dr. Cockell, of Pontefract, and that a saw, formed on the same principle, is represented in Scultetus’ Armamentarium Chirurgicum. In the works of Ambroise Pare (edited by Malgaigne, Yol. II., p. 14), will be found an exact representation of the instrument, with a straight edge, as depicted