SHAFT OF HUMERUS. 57i , contact with the head of the hone, and retain it there : this ^ may he done i either by mechanical means, or by relaxation of the muscles. The tieatment 1 by mechanical means consists in placing a pad in the axilla, and bringing the ,j elbow to the side so as to throw out the head of the bone, at the same time t that, by means of a compress, the tuberosity is pressed into proper position, the I arm being supported in a sling. The treatment by relaxation of the muscles t consists in elevating and extending the arm from the trunk ; in carrying this ,3 out, it is necessary that the patient he confined to bed, the arm being supported n on a pillow. The Period of Union in a Fracture of tlie Neck of the Humerus is about five weeks, at the end of which time the apparatus may be removed, , but the patient will not recover the use of the arm fully till about the end of I the seventh or eighth week. Compound and Comminuted Fractures of the Head of the Humerus can occur only as a consequence of gun-shot-injury. In these cases there may be splintering also of the acromion or coracoid processes, of the neck of the scapula or glenoid cavity, and possibly injury to the axillary vessels and plexus ! of nerves. The Treatment must depend upon the extent of the complications. If the ' injury be confined chiefly to the head of the humerus, with little damage to the soft parts, and none to the main vessels or nerves, excision should be 1 practised, any splinters in connection with the scapular processes being removed : at the same time. Should, however, the soft parts be extensively disorganized, and especially the great vessels and nerves torn, amputation is the sole resource. 2. Fractures of the Shaft of the Humerus are usually somewhat oblique from above, downwards and outwards. They may occur from any kind of external violence, but are more frequently the result of muscular action than those of any other long bone. The nature of the accident can be at once de- tected by the great mobility of the fragments, the ready production of crepitus, and the other ordinary signs of fracture. The direction of the displacement depends upon the seat of the fracture. If the bone be broken above the insertion of the deltoid, and below those of the pectoralis major, latissimus dorsi, and teres major muscles, the lower fragment will lie to the outer side of the upper, 1 and will be drawn upwards while the lower end of the upper fragment will be drawn inwards. If the fracture be below the insertion of the deltoid, the upper fragment will be abducted by that muscle, and the lower will be to its inner side. In proportion to the frequency of fracture of the shaft of the humerus unuuited fracture occurs more commonly in this than in any other bone. The Treatment is of the simplest character. A rectangular internal splint should be applied, reaching from the axilla to the wrist, and two or three short pasteboard or wooden splints to the three other sides of the limb, and the e bow and fore-arm may be supported in a sling. In applying the splint to ie ninei side of the arm care must be taken not to press upon the axillary vem, lest oedema of the limb occur, and a small circular hollow pad should be arrange so as to protect the inner condyle. In many cases an angular outer spin came from the acromion to the hand is the best apparatus that can - ^n these cases the elbow must be well supported, contrary to a is cone in fractures of the surgical neck. For if in fractures of the