INJURIES OF THE HEAD. 742 sciousncss, or, if lie did, it was certainly for less than one minute. In punc- tured fractures the patient frequently walks to the hospital unconscious of having received any further injury than a cut head. It is not even uncommon to see a patient with a wound from which broken down fragments of brain substances are protruding, and who is yet perfectly conscious and has suffered only from a few minutes of insensibility. On the other hand, when the laceration is due to a more diffused blow on the head, in those cases in fact in which it is situated on the opposite side to that struck, concussion is almost always more or less distinctly marked. In these the injury is more diffused, and seldom at first capable of accurate localization, for in addition to the local injury the whole brain has been shaken and concussed. Under such circum- stances, it is not surprising that the return of consciousness is often delayed for days or even weeks. The Locality of the Injury. Until comparatively recently we had no means at our command by which we could with any certainty recognize the exact part of the brain which was bruised or lacerated by an accident unless the nature of the injury was such as to leave no doubt that the cerebral substance was wounded directly beneath the part of the skull to which the violence had been applied. It was known that injuries to one side of the brain caused paralysis of the opposite side of the body and face, and that sometimes the paralyses affected merely a part of one side, and were very temporary in their character; that in other cases extensive injuries of the brain were not accompanied by any interference -with motor power ; but there was no accurate knowledge by which the seat of the injury could even approximately be determined by the symptoms. The earliest definite attempt to localize an injury in the cerebral hemi- spheres was made by Broca, who pointed out in 1861 that the condition now known as aphasia, in which the patient loses the faculty of converting his ideas into articulate speech, is associated almost invariably with some definite lesion of the posterior part of the third left frontal convolution ; but it is to the experiments of Hitzig in 1870 and 1871, and of Perrier in 1873 and the following years, that we owe the full establishment of the doctrine of the localization of the cerebral functions. The observations of these Physiolo- gists have been confirmed, and their important bearing on practical medicine and surgery demonstrated by the clinical and pathological researches of Charcot, Lucas-Championiere, Bergmann, and many others. As the result of experimental observations upon the brains of dogs, monkeys, and other animals, it has been demonstrated that the cortical matter of the biain in t ie region of the sulcus of Rolando is the seat of various centres which are connected, in some way at present not fully understood, with the \ohuitary muscular movements of the body. Hitzig and Perrier showed that if certain definite points in this area are stimulated by an extremely weak I-anuiic current definite groups of muscles on the opposite side of the body arc thrown into action ; when the strength of the current is increased the resulting move- ments are no longer accurately limited but extend to a whole limb or e whole side of the body ; a still stronger current gives rise to a general epuep i- form convulsion affecting the whole body and accompanied by loss o con- sciousness. Destruction of these definite areas causes paralysis of the coiie- snondiim group of muscles, but the evidence as to the permanence o i ■' paralysis is somewhat conflicting. 11 seems probable that it is more permaiicn the higher than the lower animals, as in monkeys Ferrier succeeded l in