TREATMENT OF FRACTURE OF THE EASE. 727 the temporal bone as to become paralysed at the time of the accident. But more frequently paralysis of this nerve does not come on until a latei peno< , about the second or third week after the injury, and disappears after lasting about a month. This transient facial paralysis, accompanying some forms of fracture of the base of the skull, has been studied by Marshall, who explains it as being occasioned by the pressure of inflammatory exudation, which gradually becomes absorbed as the fracture unites, and thus the compression of the nerve is removed after a time. Treatment.—In the treatment of fracture of the base of the skull it muse not be forgotten that whenever bleeding appears externally, the fracture is compound, and that decomposition of the discharges, with consequent septic meningitis, forms one of the greatest dangers of the case. Fortunately, how- ever, in a large proportion of cases the dura mater is intact, and consequently the danger is greatly diminished. In fractures implicating the ethmoid and sphenoid bones, with litem orrhage from the nose, nothing can be done to prevent decomposition. In fractures affecting the tympanum, with rupture of the membrana tympani, the prevention of decomposition is more hopeful, although the Eustachian tube communicating with the upper part of the pharynx causes some degree of uncertainty. Yet, as it is lined with ciliated epithelium, it is quite possible that the causes of decomposition may not reach the fracture by that route. The ear should in such cases be carefully syringed out with a solution of carbolic acid in water (1 in 30), and it may then be plugged either with carbolic gauze or iodoform-cotton-wool, a larger pad of the same material being placed outside and secured by a bandage. The syringing must be gently done, and the carbolic solution should not be too strong, or it may cause some inflammation in the middle ear. The dressing must be changed as often as may be necessary. We have yet to learn how much is to be expected from the antiseptic treatment of compound fracture of the base of the skull, but so far as reports have at present been published they are very encouraging. In other respects the treatment of fracture of the base of the skull must be conducted on those general principles that guide us in the management of simple fractures of the cranium, such as ice to the shaved head, a calomel purge, low diet, and absolute quietude in a darkened room. In many cases, the brain is so injured in its most vital parts that speedy death is the result. When recovery takes place, it is necessarily slow and protracted, liable to retardation from meningitis of an acute or sub- acute and chronic character. Depressed Fracture of the Skull.—It occasionally though very rarely happens that, in consequence of a blow, a portion of the skull is depressed without being fractured, and even without any serious cerebral symptoms occurring. Such depression without fracture can, however, occur only in children, whose skulls are soft and yielding. In adults it cannot happen without the occurrence of partial or incomplete fracture. Many, if not all, of the so-called “ congenital depressions ” that are met with in the skull are the result either of violence inflicted on the cranium at birth, usually in instrumental labours, or of falls and blows upon the head in early infancy, t uch depressions are smooth, concave, and sometimes symmetrical, and present leiy different characters from the irregular outline of an ordinary fracture. icy never present the characters of a fissure ; there is no such thing as a congenital fissure of the skull.