405 FORCIBLE FLEXION—TORSION. arteries of the limbs, has in recent years been advocated by Heath ot Newcastle, Adetmann of Dorpat, and others. Its application is founded on the fact, specially pointed out in 1843 by Formey, that flexion of the arm at the elbow-joint weakens or arrests the pulsation at the wrist. Malgaigne, Vidal, Fleury, Fry, and some other Surgeons, have reported cases in which the plan was employed successfully ; but until lately the method has attracted little attention. Heath, from a number of experiments made by him in the Newcastle Infirmary, has found that flexion of the arm at the elbow, or of the leg at the knee, diminishes or arrests the pulse in the distant arteries. In this respect he confirms the observations of Hyrtl and others ; but he finds also that in the arm the process is greatly aided by placing a piece of lint or a handkerchief rolled up in the bend of the elbow ; and in the lower limb, by bending the thigh on the abdomen at the same time that the leg is bent at the knee. Where flexion acts successfully as a means of haemostasis, as it is reported to have done in several cases—especially in wounds of the palmar arteries and the vessels of the fore-arm—it probably does so by weakening the current of blood, so as to favour the closure of the arterial wound in the Fig. 188.—Torsion of Brachial Artery. manner described in speaking of the Natural Arrest of Haemorrhage. The apparent simplicity and safety (when carefully applied) of flexion render it worthy of further trial in cases of injury of the arteries of the fore-arm and hand or of the leg and foot. A roll of lint or other soft material having bcen piaced m the flexure of the joint, the limb should be bent until it is pucened that the haemorrhage is arrested, and should then be maintained tnl-on 'i'°r tV mean.s a handkerchief or bandage. Care must of course be nrnri. 1 a-rSe to° Sreafc compression, by which gangrene might be nation i« a. f r 0X1011 should be kept up till the Surgeon, by careful exami- > ■ a is led that there is no further risk of haemorrhage, ousiox of Cut Arteries for the arrest of haemorrhage is mentioned