INJURIES OF TIIE ABDOMEN AND PELVIS. 868 The ultimate results of a lacerated urethra are uo less serious than the immediate effects. If the floor on ly ot the urethra have been lacerated, leaving the upper part of the Avail of the canal intact, the continuity ot the urethra aauII not he lost, hut a permanent traumatic stricture of the Avoist kind will ensue. If the urethra have been completely torn across, or slough as a result of the injury, obliteration of a portion of the canal may take place, and an incurable urinary fistula will be left in the perinasum. The Treatment consists in the early introduction of a catheter into the bladder. If this can be done before the patient has made an attempt to pass his urine, much of the immediate danger of the case may be averted, by the prevention of urinary infiltration. The catheter, winch should be an elastic one, must not be too small; as a rule, No. 8, English scale, will be found the most convenient size. A catheter coude will usually pass more readily, as the point is kept towards the roof of the canal which usually is uninjuied. If this do not enter readily, an English gum-elastic catheter on a stylette bent to a proper form, various angles and curves being tried one after another, will often be successfully passed. No force must on any account be used there is no resisting stricture to overcome ; the passage is free enough if the right way in be found. When a catheter has been passed it must be left in for about a week. It should not be plugged, but should have a Auficauized India-rubber tube attached, so that the urine may escape as fast as secreted. If any hard- ness, throbbing, or other sign of irritation occur in the perinamm, a free incision should be made into the part, so as to afford a ready outlet for urine that may have been effused. If the Surgeon find it impossible to introduce a catheter into the bladder, the urethra being torn completely across, he should pass it as far as it will go, and then, putting the patient in the position for lithotomy, make a free incision in the mesial line upon the point of the instrument, so as to make an opening in the per in mum that will communicate with the deeper portion of the urethra ; any arteries that bleed freely should be tied He must then endeavour to pass the catheter into the bladder, through the proximal portion of the injured urethra. This is often extremely difficult If the floor of the urethra only have been torn, it maybe accomplished by keeping the point of the catheter well against the upper wall of the canal: but if the urethra have been completely torn across, it will tax all the skill o 11 Euro-eon to direct and pass the instrument into the vesical end ot the cana . An ingenious plan for overcoming the difficulty in such cases was suggested by T P Tcale (senior), of Leeds. A director is first introduced into the F'xm end of the opening in the urethra, and over it a dilator is passed; the director being then withdrawn, the catheter is readily introduced.through the dilat . Should the urine become extravasated, the Surgeon must follow its c‘ol'J>e free and deep incisions, supporting the strength ot the pataen\ a «'• time by a due allowance of stimulants and nourishment. If, when the wet is completely torn across, a catheter cannot be passed, and the urine fin* » difficulty in escaping, relief not being afforded by the perniajal inciMo , • the bladder becoming over-distended, this organ should be tappec 1,0 - rectum in the way that will be described when we come to speak of to* S?Salary or^ne. But tapping through the ,""cr before the perinmal incision is made, and is scared) cau ■1 V„nx, A, IIIOTCM.-Foreign Bodiee ;u;; oc.,0. ■ I t*, into or impacted in the vagina or rectum. H hen a loiti0n