SUPPURATION AND ABSCESS. 226 In the pus of acute abscesses, in addition to the corpuscles, granular debris of the tissues may in some cases be recognized. During the last few years much attention has been paid to the presence oi microscopic fungi in pus, the conditions under which they develope and the importance to be attached to them. This subject has been investigated by Bur&on-Sanderson, Ogston, Cheyne, and others in this country, and by ob- servers too numerous to mention in Germany and France; but it is chiefly to Weigert’s method, perfected by Robert Koch of Berlin, that we owe the Fig. S9.—Pus-cells from Pyaemic Abscess. Fig. 90. Pus-cells from Scrofulous Abscess. ease and certainty with which the presence or absence of micro-organisms can now be determined. The results of these observations may be briefly summarised thus : in all acute abscesses minute round fungi (micrococci) aie found in the pus when freshly drawn, but their origin, and the part they play in setting up the irritation to which the abscess is due, are still disputed points ; after the abscess is opened, if rigid antiseptic precautions are adopted, the micro-organisms soou disappear from the discharges, but this result can be obtained only by very frequent dressings with carbolic gauze, or some other powerful anti- septic ; under ordinary antiseptic precautions micrococci are present in the discharges as often as not. The pus containing micrococci shows no signs of decomposition. Pus exposed to the air, and more osneciallv if it comes in contact with ordinary water, is soon found to St to “ to the microcooci, short rod-shaped It then decomposes and gives off the ordinary’ofI onsn ^ J In some cases of acute septicaemia t e pus & bacilli) In pyaemia, has been found to contain long rod-shaped lnna ( . )■ , mkiroeocci are always present both in the local sonree o secondary abscesses. The pus from ^omo ah««« into„. organisms of any kind when flesh y t'a^n. m. jufective periostitis, mations, as gonorrhoea, sma pox, PU1U mai0rity of these processes they microscopic fungi are always found. In the majoiii) i in Fig 9i.—A colony of Micrococci ° gland X 300. gl. Gland tissue ; t. Pus from an Acute Abscess; m. Micrococci in chains. a lymphatic Micrococci; p. Pus-cells ;