Coo SPECIAL FRACTURES. I have taken three opportunities of ascertaining by dissection the condition of parts that leads to the projection forwards and lateral displacement of the ' lower end of the upper fragment in fracture of the femur. The first case was that of an old man who died about three hours after meeting with a com- pound comminuted fracture of the middle and lower thirds of the right thigh- bone, and in whom this displacement of the upper fragment was very distinctly marked. It was found that the gluteus maximus and medius could be divided without affecting the position of the bone ; but when the gluteus minimus was cut across, it yielded somewhat. The pyriformis and external rotators were now felt to be excessively tense ; and, on cutting these across, the end of the fragment could at once be drawn inwards, all opposition ceasing. The projection forwards still remained, however ; and this, which was evidently due to the tension of the psoas and iliacus muscles, yielded at once on dividing them. It would thus appear that there must be a double displacement of the upper fragment; outwards, depending on the action of the external rotators ; and forwards, owing to the contraction of the psoas and iliacus muscles. The second case was one of displacement forwards and inwards. It was that of an elderly man, who died of internal injuries about half au hour after meeting with fracture of both thigh-bones, at the junction of the upper and middle thirds, by the passage of a cart-wheel across the thighs and body. In this case nearly the same conditions were presented in both limbs. On the left side there was an oblique fracture, with shortening, to the extent of about two inches ; the upper fragment was tilted forwards and rather inwards, the lower one being drawn up behind it to the extent indicated. On dividing the psoas and iliacus, the upper fragment could be depressed slightly. The adductor brevis and pectineus were now seen to be tense ; on cutting them through, it could be still further depressed. It was now drawn strongly inwards, in con- sequence of the extreme tension of the internal rotator muscles ; on cutting them through, the fragment yielded completely. Part of the adductor magnus and of the adductor longus was torn. The other muscles were uninjured. When extension was made with the limb straight out, the flexors of the leg offered a slight resistance : they were divided. The vastus externus was next cut through ; the lower fragment could then be drawn down a quarter of an inch ; on dividing the vastus interims and crureus, it yielded one inch more ; on cutting through the adductor magnus and longus, it came dowu three quarters of an inch more ; thus making up the two inches of shortening. On the right side, the fracture was the same as that in the other limb. The effect of the section of the different muscles was the same ; but the vastus externus seemed to take a somewhat larger share in the displacemeut of the lower fragment. The Treatment of fractures of the shaft of the thigh-bone may be conducted in different ways, each of which presents advantages in particular cases ; hence an exclusive plan of treatment should not be followed. Whatever treatment is adopted, and however carefully it may be carried out, the Surgeon must not be disappointed if, in the adult, a certain amount of shortening be left. This is more particularly the case where the fracture is oblique and high up : the more transverse and the nearer the condyles, ou the other hand, the less will be the liability to shortening. In children, union may almost always be procured without any shortening of the bone. Put a slight