10S1 VA GCIN0-SYP1II LIS. „f seventeen, received syphilis with the vaccine disease, ™*ing a total of fortv-six out of sixty-three children simultaneously inoculated n *31 Tl mountain village. Some months elapsed brfore the ^ccmatron was suspected to have been the source ot the children s bad boa 1. >y October, when attention was drawn to this spreading disease, s x of J six syphilized children had died without receiving any treatment fouiteei were‘recovering, and three were in a precarious condition Twenty-three veie dispersed through the country, and their condition was unknown until luitne researches traced them out. In addition to the children, twenty women suckling them were inoculated with syphilis from the children ; through the mothers, the disease had reached some of the husbands and even the elder children of the different families. The history of this outbreak of vaccmo- syphilis shows that the disease appears in only a certain proportion ot those inoculated with the lymph. It has been attempted to explain this by sup- posing that syphilis is only spread when blood is mixed with the lymph and that pure lymph will not spread syphilis even when taken from a syphilitic child. The evidence, however, at the present time is not sufficient to prove this definitely, but it is enough to impress upon every vaccinator the necessity of not only carefully examining every vaccinifer for syphilis, but also of obtain- ing the lymph free from contamination with blood, even when taken from an apparently healthy child. Syphilis has been transmitted in one well authenticated case (see p. 262) by shin grafting. In this operation the grafts are cut of sufficient thickness just to draw blood, so that there is no difficulty in understanding lion the poison may be conveyed from one person to another. 2. Transmission of Syphilis from Parent to Offspring.—The mode ol communication of syphilis to the ovum, or to the foetus in utero, is an investi- gation that has much occupied the attention of Surgeons, and is of consider- able practical interest. It has been considered probable, that the poison may be communicated to the embryo in at least four ways ; viz., 1, the father may have a constitutional taint of which lie has been imperfectly cured, and, without communicating any syphilitic disease to his wife, may be the parent of an offspring that exhibits indications of being infected ; or, 2, the mother, having a similar constitutional disease, may in like manner taint her own offspring ; or, 3, the diseased child may be born of parents, both of whom are constitutionally infected; or, 4, the mother may become pregnant with a healthy embryo, but, afterwards, contracting syphilis, may transmit it to her offspring. There are very good reasons for believing that the disease does not pass from the father to the child without also implicating the mother. In the first place, this faculty is shared by no other contagious disease. No father can give his offspring small-pox, though the mother frequently communicates that disease to her foetus. In the next place, it is well known, as Colics of Dublin long ago pointed out, that a congenitally syphilitic child never locally infects its mother, though it will transmit its disease readily to a wet-nurse, whose breast it sucks ; this apparent exemption of the mother being due to the fact that she has been already infected. Again, the symptoms of syphilis arc often exceedingly mild in women, and constantly overlooked. Hence, in the present state of our knowledge, it is safer to conclude that the father infects the mother, and that she transmits her disease to the offspring.