VENEREA L EIRE A SES. iii4 bones, the vomer, and ethmoid ; sometimes excavating the whole of the interior of the nose, scooping and cleaning it out into one vast chasm. When this happens, the nasal bones also are usually flattened, broken down, and destroyed ; the aim and columna ulcerating away, and producing vast dis- . iigurement. In other cases the hard palate is affected, and perforation takes place from the nose into the mouth. Occasionally the disease extends to the bones of the base of the skull, and in this way may occasion impairment of vision, epilepsy, or death. Cerebral symptoms, however, do not necessarily occur when the base of the skull is implicated. In 1870 I removed the- whole body of the sphenoid from the nasal cavity of a man who had never suffered at any time from any disturbance of the cerebral functions. The Treatment of these nasal affections must be conducted in accordance with general principles. In many cases mercurial fumigation is extremely useful, though as a rule iodide of potassium has more effect. Iodoform sniffed up the nose, either pure, diluted with nitrate of bismuth, or starch powder, is more efficient than any other application in destroying the intolerable stench that proceeds from syphilitic disease of the bones of the nose. The cavity must also be washed out twice a day by means of a nasal douche. When loose the dead bone must be removed. (See Diseases of the Nose, Yol. II.) The mucous membrane of the rectum is frequently affected in syphilis. In the early stages of the disease mucous tubercles are common at the anus. Small superficial ulcers, similar to those on other mucous membranes, may also be met with. These are, however, not of serious importance. The tertiary affections of the rectum, on the other hand, are always serious and often fatal. They occur most frequently in women. Two conditions are usually met with together—fibroid induration of the coats of the gut and ulceration of the mucous membrane. Submucous gummata are very rare. The induration of the coats of the gut, as a rule, precedes the ulceration ; it commences by a growth of imperfectly developed fibroid tissues in the sub- mucous tissue, starting from the region of the anus and extending upwards. The new tissue, as it develops, contracts like that of a scar, and thus the wall of the gut becomes indurated and the canal narrowed. In the later stages the fibroid growth extends into the muscular coat, and the peritoneal covering may be thickened and opaque. The thickening of the submucous tissue interferes with the proper vascular supply of the mucous membrane, and ulceration follows. The ulcers have a foul gray floor and slightly raised edges. They may slowly perforate the gut into the vagina or peritoneum ; but general peritonitis is rare, as from the slowness of the process firm adhesions to surrounding parts have usually formed before perforation takes place. (See Syphilitic Stricture of the Rectum, Yol. II.) As the induration of the coats of the gut at first causes but little inconvenience, these cases seldom come under the care of the Surgeon till some ulceration has taken place. In some cases serpiginous ulceration may lie the primary change ; but these are certainly the less common. 4. Syphilitic Iritis usually occurs during the first year after infection, and often in people who are otherwise strong and healthy. The ordinary symptoms of iritis, somewhat modified, characterize the affection. The patient complains of dimness of sight, pain in the eye, and often of very severe cir- cumorbital or hemicranial pains. On examining the eye, the conjunctiva will be found to be slightly injected, and a zone of pink vessels to be seated