CAUSES OF INFLAMMATION. *59 ulceration is, indeed, identical with that of the formation of a localised collection of pus. The original tissues become infiltrated with migrating cells ; they then degenerate, their place being taken by the rapidly multiplying leucocytes which in their turn degenerate and break loose from the surface as pus-cells. This will be further considered under Ulceration. In some forms of inflammation, as will be seen hereafter, the process is brought to an end by the death of the affected part. This is spoken of as the “ termination of inflammation in Gangrene.” From the above description of the process of inflammation, it will be seen that the essential features are the retarded flow in the vessels, and the exudation of cells and liquor sanguinis. The simple hypersemia or determination of blood, that occurs as the result of milder degrees of irritation, cannot be looked upon as constituting a part of the true inflammatory process ; and, on the other hand, when the stage of stasis is reached, inflammation must soon be brought to an end by the death of the affected part, unless the circulation be restored by the subsidence of the process. Acute inflammation is identical in all cases; it may vary in degree, in extent, and in termination according to the nature of the cause, and the vitality of the tissues on which the cause is acting, but the process is always the same. When, therefore, varieties of inflammation are spoken of, it must be borne in mind that the variations do not depend on differences in the essential nature of the process, in so far as the chaimes within the vessels and the exudation are concerned, but are the result ^of variations in the cause, and in the degree to which the vessels and other tissues are damaged by it. Causes of Lox.AiotATi03r.-The causes of inflammation, like those of all ot lcr morbid processes, may be divided into predisposing and exciting tw le *redlsposillg causes ma7 be briefly said to include every condition that tends to lower the vitality of the tissues, and thus to render them less able to resist external injurious influences. The conditions necessary for healthy ZTrf WthTbl7Ttlj f0r a hi^ degree 0f are’ « abundant S f tl } bl°0d’ conueX1011 with a healthy nervous centre, periodical of fcSSJf^ional activity and at the same time a normal exercise GenS mflueuces disturbing these conditions may be Local or fl1L°CalrPrediS,P0Sing Causes. The local conditions which interfere with T of blood supplied to a part, have been already discussed under Local Amemia and Congestion. In Passive Congestion, it white^mrnemb red that, although the part habitually contains an excess of blood them k n anectcd pait, and thus render it prone to inflame from slight causes structdoiw n°^nexwn mih a healthy nerve-centra may be the result of de- “e to iteeIVr f in^ t0 tbe nerves 1^ from condition is seen in conh-i t^ ", !° beSt ^lustration of the effect of this and paralysis from sen to 8 mg bara J’?1S of a ®fub from cerebral hemorrhage, limb is still in v- Sp!!!a ni.yehtis. In the former case, the paralysed avoiding pressure fcbe healthy spinal cord, and ordinary care in the slightest pressure oitrifr r"7 f°rmati.on of bed-sores. In the latter case, picssuie 01 irritation causes inflammation rapidly terminating in