183 SYMPTOMS OP FEVER. necfced with acute suppuration and some forms of blood-poisoning are ushered in by chilliness, shiverings, or a rigor. A well marked rigor commences with a sensation of cold, accompanied by great nervous depression and anxiety, often amounting to fear, on the part of the patient. The feeling of cold is so intense that the patient covers himself with hot clothing and shivers beneath a heap of blankets till his teeth chatter. If during this, the cold, stage of the rigor the temperature be taken in the mouth, it will be found to be greatly above normal, often as high as 105° F. If the temperature had been taken before the rigor commenced it would have been found that the rise in the thermometer begins some time before the sensation of chilliness sets in. During the cold stage the face is pale and the whole surface of the body is more or less blanched. This is due to the contraction of the arteries of the skin, which is the essential feature of the cold stage of a rigor. The bloodless condition of the skin thus induced is the cause of the sensation of cold, and by lhniting the loss of heat from the surface it takes some part in producing the rapid elevation of temperature. After a time varying from ten to twenty minutes or even more, the contraction of the cutaneous arteries yields, and a corresponding dilatation follows. The surface of the body becomes reddish, the face flushed, the skin moist, and gradually a profuse perspiration sets in—sufficient, in many cases, to soak the sheets of the bed. During this, the hot stage of the rigor, the patient feels intensely hot, although the thermometer shows that the temperature is rapidly falling, the loss of heat from evaporation of the perspiration being necessarily very great. In half an hour or more the sweating ceases and the whole rigor is over, leaving the patient weak and exhausted. In all forms of fever there is increased frequency of the heart's heat. This is, as a rule, proportional to the elevation of the temperature and to the degree of weakness of the patient. The face is usually flushed, but by no means always so. Another feature common to all forms of fever is emaciation and loss of strength. The increased production of heat must, in the light of modem science, be regarded as work; and, consequently, during febrile disturbance the patient may as truly be expending force as if he were carrying weights or climbing mountains. At the same time, his appetite is lessened and his powers of digestion and assimilation of food reduced. The rapid exhaustion and emaciation of many fevers is not therefore to be wondered at. Thirst is always one of the most prominent symptoms, and the appetite is diminished or lost. In almost all high febrile conditions there is dryness of the skin; ior, although in fever there is an increased elimination of water, this akes place chiefly by the lungs. The mucous membrane of the alimentary canal also secretes less than natural, and to this cause are due the dry tongue, e ciccuinu ations on the teeth and lips, or sordes, and the constipation so commonly met with in fever. I? ^ febrile conditions there is a feeling of lassitude or weariness, and a ' 18;n.c™ati?n to bodily or mental exertion. In the earlier stages of later ''I-1 ° C 'u ^1‘s^ur^)iluCG) there may be delirium of a violent form: in the ormnff1^8’ Wn skrengfch is becoming exhausted, wandering of the mind he is rosH C e . uma coercion symptom. The patient’s sleep is disturbed, the day ^ ^ anc^ delirium's more common at that time than during