219 GA TA REHA L I NFL A MM A TION. gent that is commonly preferred ; and this, applied either solid, or in solution containing from ten grains to one drachm of the salt in one ounce of distilled water, will produce a very marked beneficial influence in congestive inflamma- tion of the mucous and cutaneous surfaces. Pressure by means of well-applied bandages, elastic webbing, or strapping, is of essential service in supporting the feeble vessels in congestive inflam- imations. In many cases pressure may be advantageously conjoined with absorbents and rubefacients, as mercurial and camphor liniments, or the plaster of mercury and ammoniacum. This treatment, by removing conges- tion, and promoting the absorption of inflammatory effusion, is especially useful in chronic forms of inflammation accompanied by thickening of parts, as in the joints and testes. CATARRHAL INFLAMMATION. Catarrh or catarrhal inflammation is a form of the process of inflammation affecting mucous membranes and other epithelium-covered surfaces. All these are liable as other structures to traumatic inflammations of the ordinary type, in which as a consequence of the action of some irritant, the vessels dilate, the circulation is retarded, the white corpuscles migrate and the liquor sanguinis exudes, and the functional activity of the original cells is suspended or permanently abolished. The peculiarity of the catarrhal form, however, consists in the fact that although the vessels are dilated and exudation of blood-plasma and even the abundant escape of white corpuscles is taking place, yet the epithelium continues to exist and perform its function, and in most cases its cel^ multiply with unnatural rapidity. Catarrh may arise from the direct application of an irritant to the surface of the mucous membrane, as in the case of decomposing urine irritating the bladder or of gonorrhoeal pus acting on the urethra. That in these cases the vessels of the corium and the sub- mucous tissue should show signs of damage, by their giving exit to an abundant exudation and by the white corpuscles passing through their walls, while the epithelium is comparatively uninjured, showing signs rather of stimulation than 0 impaired function, at first seems rather inexplicable. It must not be forgotten, however, that epithelium is a structure which possesses in a high degree the Siemforp !njuri°US influences; and it is quite conceivable, ti e h " CaUSr WhjCh GXertS n° more fchan a stimulating action on the epithelium may, if it penetrate to the parts beneath, give rise to the phenomena of inflammation. attacked^ Sr f ™taxvh is nofc 80 clear, as when a patient is “oM,’7 H ’ °atafhal nephrifcis’ or ^ the result of “catch- vessek ^auseJIvT CaSGS ? f Pr°bable that the contraction of the cutaneous u ,?teniaI bafc hyperaamia alone is not the case of the In' '"i' j.-P-!° >ab ^tbe inflammation is due in part, at least in in the elimimHon vK to incrcased ^ork thrown upou these organs off by the skin n° i-10SC plodu.cts °t tissue-change which should be given rationally the r 4 • U1 p n,^W CC°G 18 not> however, as yet sufficient to explain lationally the origin of all catarrhal inflammations. In the mildest fn fcbe■ aflected membrane depend on the degi’ee of the process. partly d^end hT 1 ^ ? 80,0(5 8WellinS duc to exudation of serum. This and partly flows awav°from J?UC01? tlSSl,C’ a,ld drains off the lymphatics, ‘ y m the surface of the membrane. At the same time