OPERATION FOR LACERATED PERINJ2UM. 871 be involved in the rent, it must be clipped into but not passed through the freshened surface of this part, so as to draw it well forwards and against the new perinceum. The sutures should be introduced at a distance of one inch from the cut edge, should pass about three-quarters of an inch in depth, and be brought out on the other side at the same distance from the freshened surfaces as that at which they entered. The great difficulty in this operation will be found to consist in the removal of the mucous membrane from the aperture in the recto-vaginal septum, and in bringing its edges together. In proportion to the loss of substance that has occurred, this difficulty will increase. Sometimes a narrow band, the result of some previous ineffectual attempt at union, will be found to stretch across the gap at the verge of the anus. This should not be retained, as it will be greatly in the way of the operator, and useless as far as after- union is concerned. The best material for the deep sutures is thick silver wire or silkworm gut, and the simple suture is now preferred to the quilled. The superficial sutures may be of fine silver wire. Baker Brown’s method gives very good results in simple cases, but is less successful in those in which the septum is extensively torn. In these cases the operation recommended by Bantock will be found to It combines the more recent improvements of Emmett, Thomas, Le Fort and other workers in this field of Surgery, and differs in some very important respects from Baker Brown’s. In the first place, the raw surface is made in the form of a wedge, being about one inch deep posteriorly, and tapering off’ towards the nyrnphm. When the septum is torn a flap of mucous membrane a quarter of an inch or more in width is raised on each side with the base away from the middle line, both from the vaginal and rectal edges of the raw surface. A sufficient number of fine carbonized catgut-sutures are then in- ti oduced in such a way that when they are tightened they shall bring the raw suifaces of the small rectal flaps into close contact, the free edges of the flaps looking into the rectum. The deep perm teal sutures are then passed a quarter of an inch from the margin of the skin in front of the anus, carried into the recto-vaginal septum, in the middle of which it emerges, then immediately re- introduced so as to leave none visible, and brought out on the opposite side at, a point corresponding to that of entry. These stitches should not be quilled, an tie best material to use is strong silkworm gut (such as is used in salmon s ling). A sufficient number of fine stitches are then introduced in the vaginal flaps in the same way as has already been done in rectal flaps. The S'V]U<n are Vien ^rawn tight, beginning with those in the rectum, and ending Wl 1 lose 'n khe vagina. Finally, a sufficient number of superficial inter- pitches arc introduced in the skin between the deep sutures. The ends •nil'1 h, ° S^ures are cut short. Bantock, following Marion Sims, Emmett . /!■ c ocs "°k divide the sphincter ani. This operation has undoubtedly ■ 1 ,18 an advance in the surgical treatment of ruptured perinceum. The pe 01 unniitating sutures are a great improvement on the quilled, which Fig. 34S.—Operation for Lacerated Perinceum. give better results.