EXCISION OF JOINTS IN GUN-SHOT INJURIES. 345 wounds which have been recorded since 1792, states that excision of the hip . has been performed 139 times ; 16 of the patients recovered, 122 died, and the result of the remaining case is uncertain. _ .... Bullet-wounds of the knee-joint are among the most serious injuries 111 surgery ; and this whether the bones be much comminuted or not, provided the'epiphysis of the tibia or femur be perforated, or the articulation be fairly traversed or even penetrated by the ball. Prior to the American war there were but seven cases in which excision of the knee had been done for gun shot injury—five in military, two in civil practice ; the two latter cases recovered, the other live died. In the American war the operation was done eleven times : in two cases, one primary, the other secondary, recovery took place ; nine deaths resulted, chiefly from pyaemia. In three cases in which the patella alone was excised, death ensued. Gfurlt has collected the records of 146 cases, of which 33 recovered, 111 died, and the result was uncertain in the remaining cases. These results are so bad that the operation for the future will probably be abandoned in military surgery. It is in this class of cases, however, that Bergmann and Reyher have obtained a very considerable measure of success by conservative treatment, with strict antiseptic dressing. Bergmann had 15 fresh gun-shot wounds of the knee under his care after one of the battles in the Russo-Turkish war. These were all treated by superficial clean- ing of the skin with carbolic lotion and the application of a mass of salicylic wool, especially thick at the knee, secured by an elastic bandage and covered with a plaster-of-Paris apparatus. They were then immediately sent on a four days’ journey, under great difficulties from roads and weather, to the hospital at the base of operations. Of these 8 recovered without suppuration, 2 suppurated slightly and 5 severely. Of these five, two recovered without amputation, two after amputation, and one died of pymmia. Reyher, by the employment of carbolic gauze, either as a permanent dressing to obtain healing by scabbing, or with drainage, obtained the following results. In 18 cases which came under his care before they had been probed or examined he got union of the wound under the dry dressing, without suppuration, in 10 ; in 6 he treated the wound by antiseptic drainage and of these 3 died ; and in 2 drainage was commenced at a later period of the case and both recovered. Thus in the 18 cases treated primarily by antiseptic dressing, 3 died, and all the survivors preserved the limb with a considerable degree of mobility in the joint. Forty cases which had been “ fingered ” before he saw them also came under his observation. Of these 19 were treated by drainage after occlusion had failed and 18 died ; in 9 more intermediate amputation was performed, with 7 deaths ; in 12 secondary amputation was performed, and with 9 deaths ; making a total of 40 cases, with 34 deaths, and only one limb saved. Conservative treatment was attempted without antiseptic dressing in 23 cases, and of these only one finally recovered, and in his case healing took place by scabbing under a dry dressing. In all cases in luhich antiseptic treatment is impossible, and these will piobably form a large proportion of all gun-shot wounds occurring during actual Avar, conservative treatment contrasts most unfavourably with primary amputation in the loAver third of the thigh. When amputation is determined on, the operation requires to be performed early, not because the apparent nijmy may be very severe, or the mutilation of the limb so great as obviously anc imperatively to call for immediate amputation, but because experience