435 CAUSES OF SECONDARY HAEMORRHAGE. vessel that may be found, as the mass of coagulum between the surfaces would form a serious obstacle to uuion by the first intention. If at an operation the patient be very faint, and the smaller arteries which might be expected to bleed cannot be found, they may sometimes be made apparent by bathing the wound with carbolic lotion or water at a temperature of about 98° Fahr. In private practice it is better to do all operations if possible early in the morning, so that if reactionary haemorrhage should occur, it may take place in the day and not in the night. Secondary or Recurrent Haemorrhage.—By Secondary Haemorrhage is meant, bleeding which comes on after the employment of any of the above- mentioned modes of arresting haemorrhage at any period after the first twenty- four hours. This accident may arise from a variety of causes, which may be divided first into two great classes Constitutional Causes ; and 2, Local Causes. Constitutional Causes.—It has already been pointed out that the healthy closure of a wounded artery is a process analogous in every respect to union by first intention ; the internal coagulum serving the important purpose of pro- tecting the soft new tissue, by means of which the mouth of the wounded vessel is being closed, from the direct impulse of the wave of blood from the heart. All those constitutional conditions which have already been described as being unfavourable to union by the first intention, are therefore equally unfavoui able to the closure of a wounded artery, and consequently act as pre- disposing causes of secondary hmmorrhage. In some cases of sejpticcenvia and in pyannia the blood is found to coagulate imperfectly, and in these the internal coagulum may be more or less completely wanting, thus exposing the feeble granulation-tissue, closing the vessel, to the direct impulse of blood from the heart. In such cases, even if a clot of blood does form at first it is liable to disintegrate and to be washed away. In some cases secondary haemorrhage appears to be in part due to the forcible and excited addon of the heart during the early stages of traumatic fever. Ihe patient is restless, and the pulse quick and bounding. In such circum- stances if the bleeding be not too profuse, it sometimes appears to give relief to the symptoms, Chronic Bright's disease, with increased arterial tension and hypertrophy of He heart, sometmes acts as a predisposing cause of secondary hemorrhage, spare^haMfr0 ^ 7 °CCU1' ^ pletW subiecfcs>than “ those of a more Local Causes.—These may be thus divided • }■ Carnes dependent on the Lujature—lt the ligature be composed of coats and Z mm, “ appi'od m,£lloh a as to cut through the* arterial “on reach L To 7 7 T "* excites inflamma- it h7, cut Sfro, th 1 age ,ei!1)p"!'a maintams the process till tion will d! ”„T . VK"f by uloerat1011' Tlle extent of the inflamma- hc very fine ™T' i ? (,(«M »P°" the size of the ligature. If it Morl rtl be “L'f VVrd.E?aS t0 bC aImost »ou.absorbeut, the inflanma- however it be thiT!7 ,t0 L parts contact with the thread. If, may extend merit -Ti soaPc! 111 decomposing discharges, the inflammation graLlatim-S”! “d ,mtertee the proper development of the as soon as the nro ° °S'7® f ('7 ded 'mK'r and middle coats; consequently, “ the P100® of ulceration has perforated the external coat, the blood F F 2