326 GUN-SHOT WOUNDS. CHAPTER X. GUN-SHOT WOUNDS. Op the special varieties of contused and lacerated wounds, none are of more interest than the different forms of gun-shot injury. Though compara- tively rare in civil practice in this country, yet gun-shot wounds are of suffi- ciently frequent occurrence to render an acquaintance with them indispensable to the general Surgeon. To the military Surgeon the study of them is neces- sarily one of peculiar interest and importance ; and to him I woidd specially recommend the perusal of the works of Macleod, Longmore, Stromeyer, Esmarch, Fischer, and other Surgeons who have had unusual opportunities of studying the nature of these injuries on the field of battle, and by whom they have been considered with all the minuteness of a speciality. The works of Guthrie, Hennen, and Larrey, whose experience was gained in the wars at the early part of the present century, are well worthy of study, and much that is interesting wifi be found also in the writings of Ambroise Pare, Wiseman, and John Hunter. I purpose in the following observations to confine myself chiefly to such a general discussion of the subject as is required by the civil Surgeon. Gun-shot injuries constitute a species of contused and lacerated wounds, often partaking also of the nature of punctured wounds in the disproportion between the subcutaneous mischief and the external aperture. They are characterized in some cases by the peculiar appearance presented by the coloui, shape, and size of the orifice; and in others by the extensive injury inflicted on the tissues, both superficial and deep-seated, in consequence of which the u ounds may prove rapidly or immediately fatal. If the sufferer survive the im- mediate effects of the injury, acute inflammation with much pain and tension, deep-seated suppuration, profuse discharge, and other serious and very protracted after-consequences, are apt to supervene. These peculiarities have at different times been attributed to the parts being burnt by the ball, to the poisonous nature of projectiles, to the generation of electricity m the bullet during its passage through the air, or by its friction against the barrel. All these opinions, however, have been shown to be erroneous ; and every pecu- liarity presented by these injuries can be accounted for by the bluntness o the contusing body, the rapidity of its motion, the force with which it is driven and by the insufficient exit for the decomposing discharges that necessarily accumulate in the track of the bullet, unless some means be taken to prevent it. That the sloughing which almost always occurs in t e track of a bullet is due to the bluntness of the body with which themji i inflicted and not to any peculiarity arising from its being propelled by gun- powder ’is evident from the fact that sharp splinters of shell have been known Sumclient wounds. As John Bell has pithily remarked, - There rs a peculiarity, but no mystery, in gun-shot wounds f Characters.—1Gun-shot wounds vary greatly accordmB to the A.