9°S 11" 31 s TREATMENT OF 110 SPIT A L-GA ngrea e. wool soaked in this is laid on the raw surface and pushed into any me * hollows or cavities of the wound, and allowed to he there foi fiom five to twenty minutes, according to the severity of the case. It is theniemoved a some efficient form of antiseptic dressing applied. The pain is usually eie and a hypodermic injection of morphia should be given to relieve it. \ slouo-h formed by the chloride of zinc will separate in from three to ten days, leaving a healthy granulating surface beneath, which may be treated on ordinary principles." In military practice, in which alone it is probable that hospital-gangrene will be met with in the future, chloride of zme is by far the most convenient caustic, as it is carried in the solid state, while fuming nitric acid is dangerous and difficult to transport. Should arterial hemorrhage occur, it may be arrested by the application of a ligature to the bleeding point: but if this do not hold, as will probably be the case from the softened state of the tissues, the actual cautery must be applied ; or the limb must be removed if all other means fail. In some cases, though the sloughing is checked at one part of the sur- face, it has a tendency to spread at another. When this is the case, it may be necessary to apply the caustic or cautery repeatedly. In other instances, the sloughing cannot be stopped, but opens large arteries, and destroys the greater part of the soft tissues of a limb ; and then it may be a question whether amputation should be performed during the spread of the disease, or the patient left to die of haemorrhage or exhaustion. Such a contingency is not of common occurrence ; yet it may happen and the operation be successful, as appears from the following case, though there would necessarily be great danger of a recurrence of the disease in the stump. The wife of a butcher applied at the Hospital, with a slight wound of the forearm, inflicted by a foul hook. It was dressed in the ordinary way, but in the course of a few days she returned with extensive sloughing phagedsena of the part. She was imme- diately admitted, and the disease was arrested by the energetic employment of the local treatment above described ; not, however, until after considerable destruction of the tissues on the inside of the forearm had taken place. She left the Hospital before the wound was completely cicatrized, and returned in a few days with a fresh attack of the disease, more extensive and severe than the first, which could not be permanently stopped, either by the actual cautery or by nitric acid. The radial artery was opened and required ligature, and the whole of the soft parts, from the wrist to the elbow, were totally dis- organized, and the bones exposed. There was now very severe constitutional disturbance, and the case was evidently fast hastening to a fatal termination. In these circumstances I amputated the arm midway between the shoulder and elbow; and, notwithstanding that the local disease was progressing at the time of the operation, and the great constitutional disturbance that existed, the patient having a pulse of ICO to 170, at which it continued for more than a fortnight, she made a good recovery ; to which the free administration of quinine and stimulants greatly contributed. The Constitutional Treatment consists in as nourishing a diet as the patient will take, with a liberal supply of stimulants ; and these may be increased by the addition of the brandy-and-egg mixture, or of ammonia, in proportion as depression comes on. From five to seven grains of the sulphate of quinine should be given every four or six hours, with a full dose of opium at bed-time, or more frequently if there he much pain and irritation.