594 SPECIAL FRACTURES. Fig. 226.—Simple Extracapsu- lar Fracture of the Neck of the Thigh-Bone: Detach- ment of the Trochanter. This fracture may be of two kinds; the simple, or the impacted. In both cases the neck of the bone is commonly broken at, or immediately outside, the . insertion of the capsule of the joint. The fracture is almost invariably com- minuted when it occurs in a young subject or as the result of great violence. Indeed, I have never seen a case of this kind in which the great trochanter was not either detached or splintered into several fragments. In many instances the lesser trochanter is detached, and the upper end of the shaft injured (Fig. 226). This splintering of the trochanter is owing to the same violence that breaks the bone, forcing the lower end of the neck into the cancellous structure of this process, and thus, by a wedge-like action, breaking it into fragments. When the neck continues locked in between these, we have the impacted form of fracture. In older subjects, however, whose bones are atrophied and softened by age, it is common to meet with extracapsular impac- ted fractures without any splintering of the trochanter- The Signs of extracapsular fracture vary according as it is simple or impacted ; but in both cases they partake of the general character of those of fracture within the capsule. The individual signs, however, present certain well-marked differences. The hip will usually he found much bruised and sivollen from extravasation of blood, which is often considerable. In the uninipacted fracture, the crepitus is very distinct and loud, being readily felt on laying the hand upon the trochanter, and moving the limb. The separate fragments into which the trochanter is splintered may occa- sionally be felt to be loose. The pain is very severe, and greatly increased by any attempt at moving the joint, which to the patient is impossible. The eversion is usually strongly marked, and the position of the limb is chaiac- teristic of complete want of power in it. Inversion occurs more frequently in this fracture than in that within the capsule. Smith finds that of < cases of inversion of the limb in fractures of the neck of the femur, 5 occurred in the extracapsular fracture ; and of 15 cases of intracapsular fracture, this condition was met with in 3. When there is much comminution of the trochanter, the foot will commonly remain in any position in which it is placed, but geneially has a tendency to rotate outwards. The shortening of the limb is very con- siderable, being never less than from an inch and a quarter to two inches and a half, or three inches. In the extracapsular fracture of the neck of the femur, death not uncommon y results from the severity of the injury, the pain and irritation of the fracture, and the consequent shock to the system. The great extravasation of blooc in o the tissues of the limb has been known to be sufficient to account for the a a result. When the patient lives, bony union takes place, large irregular sta ac- titic masses being commonly thrown out by the inferior fragment, so as to over- lap the several splinters of bone and thus give the appearance of great t ic - cning and projection of the trochanter. This callus is most abundant pos teriorly in the intertrochanteric space (Fig. 230). ^ The Impacted Extracapsular Fracture of the neck of the th s occurs when, in consequence of a heavy fall on the lup, the neck is uo'c