MYOMA —NEUROMA-ANGIOMA. 989 - muscular fibre has, at present, been found only in a few congenital tumours, H chiefly in large growths in or near the kidney, in which it is mixed with spindle-celled sarcoma and cysts lined with epithelium. Non-striatcd muscular fibre is found in abundance, as before mentioned, in the so-called fibroid i tumours of tbe uterus (see p. 983), and of the prostate, but it is always P associated with large quantities of fibrous tissue, so that the tumour is more properly spoken of as a myo-fibroma. The older tumours are found to be ... composed almost entirely of fibrous tissue, the muscular fibre-cells having undergone atrophy. Pure myomata have, in very rare cases, been found in i connection with the oesophagus. Fagge has recorded an interesting case of this, which was accidentally discovered after death, at Guy’s Hospital. It . gave rise to no symptoms during life, although the tumour was as large as a P good-sized egg. Myomata are always non-malignant. B. Neuroma. True Neuroma. Nervous Tumour.—The term neuroma is clinically applied to any tumour growing on a nerve, whether it be a fibroma," myxoma, sarcoma, or true neuroma. The term should strictly be limited to those tumours in which there is an actual new growth of nervous tissue. I Tumours containing newly formed nervous tissue are rare. Neuromata com- 1 posed of grey matter (non-medidlated fibres and ganglionic tissue) have been described, but they are so infinitely rare, that they need no further mention here. The vast majority of true neimomata are composed of bundles of medullated or white nerve fibres, interlacing with each other, or sometimes rolled up into masses, and separated by connective tissue, more or less rich in small cells. True neuromata occur only in connection with nerves. The bulbous extremities of nerves, often seen in stumps after amputation, have been shown by Valentin, Lebert, and others, to be specimens of true neuromata. True neuromata occur also without previous injury of the nerve. They are then frequently multiple. They cannot be diagnosed from other 1. firm tumours of nerves. They arc sometimes painful and tender, and some- i times not. The most characteristic sign of any tumour seated on a nerve ; is, that when the nerve upon which it is seated is put on the stretch by the position of the part, the tumour is almost immovable in a direction .1 parallel to the course of the nerve, while it is more or less freely movable in the transverse direction. True neuromata are always non-malignant, and should not be interfered with in any way unless they give rise to serious in- convenience from pain. C. Angioma. Vascular Tumour.—Under the name of angiomata are included only such tumours as are composed of vascular tissue of new growth, and not such swellings as arise fi-om the dilatation of pre-existing vessels. The so-called cirsoid aneurism, or aneurism by anastomosis, being supposed to be due chiefly to a dilatation of pre-existing arteries, although doubtless accom- panied by some new formation of vessels, is not usually included amongst angiomata, nor are the swellings formed by convoluted masses of varicose veins. True angiomata are usually divided into two classes :—the /Mr 1 form angioma or telangiectasis, and the cavernous angioma. The pk.rifonn angioma is composed of a mass of tortuous and dilated capillaries bound together by cou- necti\c tissue (figs. 378, 879). The blood vessels comprising it are normal in structure. This forms the ordinary superficial nmvus, mother’s mark, or port- wine stain. It is, probably, always congenital. The cavernous angioma, or erectile tumour, resembles in structure the corpus cavernosum penis, being made