SPEC I A L UISLOCA TIONS. 684 extension made downwards and backwards. After this lias been continued for a sufficient time, an assistant lifts the head of the bone by means of a towel , over the brim of the acetabulum (Fig. 307). The head of the thigh-bone may also be thrown under the anterior Fig. 307.—Reduction of Pubic Dislocation by Extension. inferior spinous process, constituting the Subspinous Dislocation of Bio-elow. There is shortening of the limb, which is everted, but less abducted or advanced than in the dislocation on the pubes. The head of the bone can be felt in its new situation. One peculiarity of this dislocation is that in some of the recorded cases the patient has been able to walk immediately after the accident. Bige- • low explains this by the position of the Y-ligament over the upper part of the neck of the femur (Fig. 308). Reduction of the dislocation is ac- • complished in the same way as in the pubic form. In the dislocations above described the Y-liga- ment remains entire. Bigelow describes also Su- praspinous dislocation with or without rupture of the outer branch of the ligament. In this dis- • location the head of the bone leaves the socket on the outer side of the ilio-femoral ligament. If * this be not ruptured, the dislocation is called by him anterior oblique: in it, the thigh lies across - the upper part of the corresponding limb, and is - firmly locked in that position, with much shortening and some eversion. Reduction may be effected by extension of the limb and increased circumduction across the symphysis, with a little eversion n necessary to dislodge the head of the bone. y J inward rotation, the head of the bone is thrown on the dorsum. . In the true supraspinous dislocation, the outer branch of t]Jeng ruptured : the limb is shortened and everted. In a case rel^ Ijy 1 ^ the limb was shortened three inches. Reduction may be effected y Fig. 30S.—Subspinous Dislocation. The Y-ligament is stretched across the Neck of the Bone, which lies beneath it. (Bigelow.)