after-effects of chloroform. 27 1 circumstances, to produce a sudden depression or arrest of the heart’s action. In many, perhaps the majority, of the cases of death from chloroform, the fatal event has been traced to this cause. In valvular disease of the heart, I believe that it may be more safely given. In persons who are epileptic, and in those who suffer from congestion of the brain, it requires to he cautiously adminis- tered, as in the early stages of anesthesia much cerebral excitement is apt to be evinced. I11 hysterical subjects, chloroform is said to induce a tendency to laryngeal spasm. The most dangerous condition in which to administer chloroform is advanced renal disease ; in such cases epileptiform convulsions are readily induced, with lividity of the face, and a tendency to stertor and coma. Should chloroform, or any anaesthetic, be given in operations rendered necessary by severe injuries, during the continuance of the shock of the accident, as in primary amputations ? In such circumstances, its use has been objected to on the ground that it would act injuriously by still further lower- ing the already depressed vital powers ; and that the pain of the operation, if performed without it, would prove a good stimulant, and thus serve to rouse the patient. But would this really be so ? Is the pain of an operation a stimulant ? In order to answer this question, let us observe the condition of a patient immediately after the performance of a severe operation—as an amputation—without his having been anaesthetised ; and we shall find that, so far from having been restored or stimulated, he will have been seriously depressed by it. The pulse will be small, feeble, and slow ; the surface cold ; and the mind, perhaps, scarcely conscious : in fact, though a slight degree of pain, as a pinch or a prick, may act as a stimulant, very severe suffering is a most powerful depressing agent, capable in itself of destroying life. The pain of an operation performed soon after the occurrence of a severe injury, so far from rousing the patient, appears to me to act most injuriously, by inflicting a second shock upon the system before, perhaps, it has fairly recovered from the depressing effects of the first; and it is by preventing this that chloroform is of such inestimable advantage. In these cases, it is not necessary to give chloroform to an extreme degree of anaesthesia. It is requisite to give it only to a moderate extent, chiefly so as to benumb sensation during the incisions made through the skin. After this, and during the later stages of the operation, the inhalation may be suspended entirely, or nearly so. ° It is an interesting physiological fact, that the physical effect of shock is produced on the system even though the patient be completely anaesthetised. This is particularly noticeable in cases of castration in which, at the moment when the coid is cut, the pulse will be found to fall several beats or to stop momen- tarily, even though the patient be quite insensible. Hence, it may be argued that, although anaesthesia saves the patient that amount of shock which arises horn pain, it does not relieve him of that which results from the physical impression produced on the system by a severe mutilation. The administration of Ether may be effected by the application over the mouth and nostrils of a hollow sponge saturated with the best washed sul- pmne ethei ; but it is far better to employ some form of inhaler, as from its extreme volatility, unless some means are taken to economise it, the quantity requuec becomes a serious inconvenience. When given by means of a 'ailcn recommends anointing the face with, some protective unguent prevent the pungent effects of the ether 011 the skin. 1 mongst the numerous inhalers which have been invented of late years,