GENERAL REMARKS ON OPERATIONS. products may be excluded from the wound, either by their destruction in the rTy ohJcal agents, such as carbolic acid or then- £»jon from , by filtration, as by layers of muslin or of co lon wool It m this, doctnnc that has revolutionized the practice of modem Suige y. > which it is earned out are necessarily changeable. Ihe inneipe itseu ' immutable for it is based on, and is the outcome of, direct experiment and 0bSlmo”ess"in the results is, after all, the thing to aim at, and no amount of mS dexterity can compensate for its want But « must no^ s=d Hvdt manual dexterity is to he undervalued—far fiorn it. Manual uexa y is necessarily of the first advantage in the performance* of any^ 10"; and the Surgeon should diligently endeavour to acquire the ^ ofjm „ his instruments with neatness, rapidity, and ceitainty. ' - ‘ . It, statras: ijS? mWMmm become a dexterous opeiatoi it ^ ^ rem0Ta, of somc successful Suige . J interferes with the comfort and utility condition that either threatens life, 01 “ ™ „ Sm.„eon can accom- successful will he be m ms piamuo removal of a source tion, whether that result be the opera- of discomfort, is the thing o aim a . ’ re Yarious other considerations ting are in a high degree condu vve ■ ta them me vanm ^ ^ by equally or still moie necessaiy, ■ Science of Surgery and of Medicine, an intimate general acquaintance w , of extent of its con- The Diagnosis of the nature of the mnst be detected and, if nections, has to be made s of the paticllt m„st lie prepared ; he possible, removed. ' . ,, hygienic conditions which are most must, as far as possible, be p < f fcpe performance of the operation favourable to recovery ; tic es . fc| aeneral health must he attended must he seized ; and, after its ^ difficulties Uc ho8 to in such a way as shall best cany' *' thafc arise must be subjected to to encounter ; and any sequelae, oic simplc performance of the opera- appropriate treatment. Ihese, as a manner in which they are por- tion, are the duties of the Surgeon , < manual dexteritv formed, as much as, or even perhaps displayed m the operation itsc , much in the practice of different known that the result of ope1 atio this variation in the proportionate Surgeons of acknowledged dextei , > ' ', difference in the degree number of recoveries cannot be accounted m bj mi) Me ^ ^ ^ of manual skill displayed in the opci s ons t0 t]ic constitutional tread the greater attention that is pan y so ^ ?arf011 aild to their more perfect ment of their patients before and aft 1 the succesBOf all the opera- acquaintance with those gcnei a an s i. Surgery mainly depends on two tions of Surgery. Indeed, success m Operatee Suigay . 1