879 GANGRENE FROM EMBOLISM. blood perishing simultaneously, there being no tendency for the mischief to spread ; pulsation ceases in the terminal branches of the obstructed artery, and intense superficial pain is felt in the limb, ceasing after about a week. The limb is at first pale, but soon undergoes the characteristic changes in colour, when decomposition commences. The gangrene is always of the dry variety. In the leg, as Billroth points out, the foot soon becomes mummified, while near the line of demarcation the parts remain more moist. The line of demarcation forms in these cases immediately below the knee. Gangrene from embolism may prove fatal from septic poisoning before any attempt can be made by nature to separate the mortified part. After death, the affected vessel is found firmly plugged by the embolus, above which is a dense coagulum reaching as high as the next branch. The accompanying drawing (Fig. 351) represents the bifurcation of the common femoral artery occupied by a fibrinous plug, taken from a man aged 32, who ched of gangrene of the left leg. In this case the patient, after -recovering from rheumatic endocarditis, whilst straining at stool, suddenly felt his left leg tingle painfully, then become numb and cold. The circulation in it ceased, and gangrene speedily supervened, which extended as high as the knee. Death followed ampu- tation of the limb. Here there can be little doubt that the sudden supervention of gangrene was the result of obstruc- tion to the arterial circulation of the lower extremity, con- sequent on the detachment of a vegetation from the valves of the heart, and its arrest at the bifurcation of the femoral artery. In addition to the forms of spontaneous grangrene just ■described, some other rarer forms are occasionally met with. Von Winiwarter has described a peculiar form of overgrowth Fig;ssi.-ojstmc ,* j n i . _ tion of Femoral of the endothelial cells of the inner coat of both arteries and Artery at its m veins (endarteritis and endophlebitis nvnHfpvcmtA 1™ their lumen becomes obliterated UJ wmon Embolus and as- Thrombi are formed in the ,ce,1flius ^“'un- affected vessels, and these become organized and penetrated by new vessels, as in the closure of a ligatured artery. This affection is said to be caused by syphilis and alcoholism, and occurs usually at an earlier ao-e than ordinary senile gangrene. According to Billroth the ordinary signs of im- pcifect blood-supply may be present for some years before gangrene takes place. When gangrene does set in it is usually of the moist variety. Kaynaud has described a rare form of spontaneous gangrene which attucH the fingers, and sometimes the toes, symmetrically. The premonitory symptoms are that the fingers readily become “dead,” often from very slight expos ire to toomeo™ livid r 7°™!? ?“» ““ oecome of a livid colour, cold and insensitive, but intensely painful a con dition described by Raynaud under the name of “ local as, hvxia ” T1 fZTthi £rr hrs> rd 7 beSXfableb»;s cuTcle s emoved n ^ ^ which a ^ongh is found when the mummified T* UU^al Phalanx may become simultaneoiislv mi ^sPondln? of fcllc opposite hand may be affected be?w on ' 18and 30 “ H ^ is * women Ws fri the in ; IA,re8e“bIe81 Severe Plains in some respects, but ‘1 y 0 t lc Pam> l;'lc character of the gangrene, and the a<m >3