852 INJURIES OF THE ABDOMEN AND PELVIS. of the intestines by the free administration of opium. The treatment of trau- matic peritonitis will be more fully described with Wounds of the Intestine. Wounds of the Diaphbagh may be occasioned by stabs or by gunshot- injury. Sometimes, however, this muscle is perforated by the fragment of a broken rib without external wound. The lesion, though not in itself mortal, is necessarily usually complicated with so much visceral injury as to be very generally followed by death. If the patient survive, the aperture may be closed by a cicatrix, to which the adjacent lung will probably adhere ; and thus the separation between the cavities of the chest and abdomen will be maintained. Should this not happen, a hernial protrusion of some of the abdominal viscera may take place into the pleural cavity, as will be more fully described when we speak of “ Diaphragmatic Hernia. ’ WOUNDS of the Abdomen.-—Wounds of the Abdominal Wall that do not penetrate the Peritoneal Cavity, if uncomplicated with internal injury, usually do well, and require merely to be treated on ordinary prin- ciples. If they be incised, and so extensive as to require sutures, the stitches should be introduced through the skin alone, never through muscular or tendinous structures, the union of which could not be effected in this way ; the parts injured must also be relaxed by careful attention to position. When they are the result of gunshot-injury, they suppurate extensively, and are very slow in healing. The epigastric artery is occasionally divided in these injuries, and may give rise to extravasation of large quantities of blood into the sheath of the rectus ; the wound must then be enlarged, if necessary, the extravasated blood cleaned out, and the artery secured by a ligature. Wounds that Penetrate the Cavity of the Abdomen are of especial interest, on account of the frequency with which they are complicated with peritonitis, and with injury of the viscera. They may, for practical purposes, be divided into, 1, those that Penetrate the Peritoneal Sac, without wounding or causing the protrusion of any of the contained organs ; and, 2, those that are complicated with Protrusion or Wound of some of the Viscera. I. Penetrating Wounds of the Abdomen, without Visceral Pro- trusion or Injury, are often somewhat difficult to distinguish from simple wounds of the abdominal wall, though the escape of a small quantity of reddish serum may reveal the nature of the accident. In these cases the Surgeon should be careful not to push his examination too far, by probing or otherwise exploring the wound, lest he really perforate the peritoneum which was pre- viously intact. The cavity of the peritoneum has often been perforated from front to back by bullet-wounds or sword-thrusts, without there being anj sign of visceral injury. In the absence of peritonitis or other signs of mischief, the wound must be treated as a simple one ot the abdominal wall, and any complication that may occur must be met in the way that will immediate y be described. 2. In a Penetrating Wound with Protrusion or Injury of Viscera, the risk is necessarily greatly increased; here the chief danger is from pen- touitis induced either by extravasation of the intestinal contents into t ie peritoneal cavity, or by decomposition of the extravasated blood or serous effusion in the peritoneum consequent upon the communication ot the 1. with the air by the external wound. This is all the more likely to occur the wound be of such a nature that it cannot unite by the first mtent in most gunshot-injuries. It but seldom happens that death results