850 INJURIES OF T1IE ABDOMEN AND PELVIS. incapable of secreting, or the ureter being torn across no bloody urine finds its way into the bladder. A man was admitted into the Hospital under my care for a buffer-injury of the back ; he passed urine untinged with hlood, but after death his right kidney was found completely smashed by the blow, and there was an extensive extravasation of blood in the fat around it; here it was evident that the disorganization was so sudden and complete that no urine could find its way into the bladder. In another case, in consequence of a fall from a window, an elderly man died in the course of an hour, having struck his back and sustained several fractures of the limbs. The left kidney was ruptured in a starred manner, with extensive extravasation of blood into the tissues around it, but there was not a tinge of blood in the urine which was retained in the bladder. Rupture of the kidney is by no means necessarily fatal. Patients have lived after exhibiting all the signs of it—the passing of bloody urine, and the presence of circumscribed peritonitis ; and, when death has occurred at a later period, cicatrices have been detected in the organ. A patient was admitted under my care into the University College Hospital for a severe blow upon the back from the buffer of a railway-carriage, followed by haematuria and other symptoms of renal injury; on his death from pneumonia nine weeks after the accident, an extravasation of blood, with the marks of recent cicatrization, was found in the left kidney. When the Stomach, is ruptured the nature of the accident is usually revealed by bloody vomiting, with pain in the region of the stomach, and the most profound shock. These signs, however, do not occur in all cases. A man was admitted to the Hospital under my care, whose abdomen had been squeezed between a cart-wheel and a lamp-post; during the five houis that he lived he vomited several times, bringing up a meal which he had taken immediately before the accident. In the vomited matters there was no blood to be seen ; but on examination after death it was found that not only the liver and spleen were ruptured, but the stomach was torn almost completely across near the pylorus. Rupture of the Intestine is much more common than that of the stomach. It may occur at any part of the gut, but is most commonly met vs ith in the duodenum or at the junction of the duodenum and jejunum. The frequency with which the duodenum is ruptured is due partly to its position, and partly to its fixity. The third part of the duodenum crosses the spine in front of the second lumbar vertebra, or about one inch above the umbilicus, and thus receives no protection from the costal cartilages. In this part of its course it is uncovered by peritoneum, and is consequently fixed so firmly that it receives the full force of any violent pressure, being unable to slip away from beneath it. as do those parts of the intestine which are completely covered by peritoneum, and attached to a loose mesentery. When the force is applied in an oblique direction from right to left, rupture occasionally takes place at the junction 0 the movable jejunum with the fixed duodenum. Rupture of the duodenum rnav occur therefore with or without injury to the peritoneum. Rupture of the (rut into the peritoneal cavity is indicated by intense pain in the belly w ith se\ ere shock Peritonitis speedily sets in, with vomiting, at first bilious, but >-00 becoming dark-coloured or almost black. The abdomen becomes tympamfre and tensely distended, with gradually increasing dulnoss m each Haii v. gas in the peritoneal cavity may sometimes be recognized by tv i<