I 1 lO VENEREAL DISEASES. is sometimes useful. In ulcerations between the toes dilute white precipitate ointment, with a small quantity of extract of belladonna added, is the best application. 2. Mucous Tubercles and Condylomata.—Mucous tubercles are flat pitches, seldom more than half an inch in diameter, slightly elevated, soft, andlpapillary on the surface. They are situated in moist parts of the body, very commonly on muco-cutaneous surfaces, as the anus, labia, and angles of the mouth ; they are also frequently met with on mucous surfaces, as on the tongue, tonsils, palate, and larynx, and exactly similar growths are found in any part of the skin that is kept moist by the natural secretions, and not properly cleaned, as between the scrotum and the thigh, in the fold of the groin in fat people, and between the toes. They are moistened by a good deal of mucous secretion when seated on mucous membranes, or by perspiration when on the skin. In the mouth and throat they are usually small and not so distinctly elevated, but rather like a thickened and opaque condition of the mucous membrane in these situations. At the anus they sometimes attain a considerable size, so as to project a quarter to half au inch above the surface, and it is then that they are commonly termed condylomata. They are fre- quently mistaken by the patient for piles. They consist essentially of an over- growth of the papillre stimulated in part by the irritation of dirt or unhealthy secretions. They are common in conjunction with the squamous syphilide on the dryer parts of the skin, and every gradation can sometimes be traced be- tween a scaly patch to a mucous tubercle, according to the moisture of the part in which the patch is situated. They are met with most commonly dining the first six months of the disease. They differ from the venereal warts already described (p. 1079), not only in their flatter form and less marked papillary structure,but in being dependent on a constitutional disease, and not on local causes solely, such as the irritation of discharges and want of cleanli- ness. The discharge with which they are moistened is intensely contagious, and it is from them, when situated in the mouth, that the disease is trans- mitted by kissing, or by means of drinking-vessels, or pipes, and from infants to their nurses. Their Treatment must be constitutional and local. The constitutional treatment is merely that of early syphilis. Locally they are best treated by the application of white precipitate ointment when seated at the anus or on the skin. If this does not relieve them they may be rubbed with nitrate of silver or sulphate of copper. In the mouth the application of a solution of perchloride of mercury (gr. ij to 3i), or of the solid nitrate of silver, is the best treatment. Xot being pendulous, they do not, like simple venereal warts, require to be cut off. ?>. The mucous membranes of the mouth, pharynx, and lari/nx arc commonly affected with secondary syphilitic eruptions, which assume the form of mucous tubercles, and of the exanthematous, squamous, and ulcerat- ing syphilides; and in the later stages of the disease submucous gummata may form. The exanthematous affection, corresponding to the roscolar form of cutaneous syphilis, and arising from the same cause and in the same constitution, prin- cipally affects the palate and throat. The tubercular variety corresponds to the squamous cutaneous eruptions, and is met with chiefly as flat, hard, amt elevated tubercles in the interior of the mouth, nose, and throat.