SYMPTOMS OF DEPRESSED FRACTURE. 731 symptoms of coma increased and proved fatal on the tenth day, when the I inner table of the left parietal bone was found extensively starred and depressed (Fig. 316), without auy fracture of the outer table (Fig. 315). There was a wound of the dura mater and an abscess in the cerebral hemisphere —in fact, all the appearances and sequences of an ordinary “ punctured frac- ture.” This interesting case demonstrates clearly the possibility of extensive fracture with depression of the inner table, whilst the outer remains unbroken. The Symutoms of a depressed fracture of the skull are of two kinds : those that are dependent upon the injury to the bone, and those that result from the concomitant compression or laceration of the brain. When the scalp is not wounded, the depression may sometimes be felt; but very commonly it is masked by extravasation of blood about it. In all cases of doubt, when these symptoms of compression exist, an incision should be made through the scalp at the seat of injury, and the state of the skull examined. When there is a wound in the scalp communicating with the fracture, the Surgeon detects at once the existence of depression and com- minution by examining the bone with his finger through the wound. When the fragments that are depressed are impacted and firmly locked together, so as to form an unyielding mass, symptoms of compression of the brain, to a more or less marked degree, may result. But if the fracture be very extensive, and the fragments, though somewhat depressed, lie loose, and if they be yielding and do not exercise a continuous pressure on the brain, it occasionally happens that the symptoms of compression are entirely wanting, and no cerebral disturbance comes on for some days, even though the injury be very extensive. A man twenty-four years of age was admitted into University College Hospital, . having been struck on the forehead with the sharp edge of a quoit. The frontal I bone was extensively comminuted, twelve fragments being removed, and the dura mater being exposed to a considerable extent ; yet no bad symptoms occurred until the ninth day, when inflammation of the brain and its mem- branes set in, and he speedily died. In other cases again, more especially in children and young persons, in whom the bones are soft and yielding, fracture with depression may exist to a considerable extent, and no symptom whatever of compression be produced at any time—the patient living with a portion of his skull permanently beaten in. I have several tunes seen middle-aged persons with large flat depressions of the skull, the result of injuries sustained in childhood, who presented no signs of cerebral disturbance. It is rare, however, to meet with a recent case of depressed fracture in the adult without signs of compression of the brain. But, though rare, it is not impossible ; and Green mentions the case of a man whose skull was depressed to the extent of the bowl of a dessert- spoon, without any symptoms of compression. In cases in which the signs of compression are well marked, it must not be assumed that the pressure caused by the depressed fragments of bone is in all cases the sole or even the chief cause of the symptoms. It is scarcely possible for a man to suffer from a severe depressed fracture without serious bruising and laceration of the brain-substance beneath and a more or less extensive intra- cranial extravasation of blood. Both these conditions are important factors in producing the symptoms. The celebrated case so often quoted, in which Chue trephined a man who had been unconscious for thirteen months after a lull on the head, which caused a slight depression in the skull, restoring