TREATMENT OF ACUTE INFLAMMATION. 189 limit the exudation ly diminishing the Hood-pressure and, failing in that, to relieve the tension it gives rise to. The blood-pressure may be limited, first, by general means acting upon the heart, as aconite, antimony, and general blood letting; and, secondly, by diminishing the quantity of fluid circulating- in the body, as by general blood-letting, saline purgatives, or low diet. The local blood-pressure may be diminished by causing dilatation of the vessels of some other parts—as of the intestines by purgatives, in external inflam- mations, or of the skin by diaphoretics in internal affections ; secondly, by causing contraction of the vessels supplying the inflamed area by the direct application of cold, belladonna, or astringents, or by applying a stimulus at a distance, so as to cause a reflex contraction of the vessels of the diseased part, as in counter-irritation by blisters or mustard plasters ; thirdly, by causing a uniform dilatation of all the vessels of the inflamed part and its immediate neighbourhood, so as to lessen local resistance, as in the application of heat; and, fourthly, by elevation of the affected part of the body, by which the return of blood from the part is favoured, and, as has been shown by Lister, a certain degree of arterial contraction induced. Direct pressure on the main artery of the limb would also come under this heading. When exudation is taking place, elevation of the limb favours its return by the lymphatics, and so lessens swelling. Should the part become so tensely distended as to threaten gangrene from pressure on the vessels, the exudation may be allowed to escape directly by incisions, punctures or scarifications. The migration of the cor- puscles is limited by cold, which arrests their amoeboid movements, and by all means which diminish blood-pressure. Heat favours their migration, and also encourages their moving out of the inflamed area into the lymphatics in cases in which resolution is taking place. It is only the return of vitality in the walls of the vessels, however, that can completely arrest the process of migration. The tendency to inflammatory congestion, that is to say, choking of the distended vessels with scarcely moving blood, can be relieved in some'"cases by drawing blood directly from the part by scarification or puncture, or the force of the heart’s action may be stimulated in order to drive the blood past the obstruction by the administration of alcohol. St&sis can be relieved only by the general means above mentioned for favouring the return of vitality in the inflamed area. " 1 iPaiU,’ !brms so Pr°minent a symptom in many inflammations, will , 6 rekeved locally by those means, already mentioned, which tend to diminish ension; but m addition, local sedatives—as belladonna, opium, or subacetate of lead-are often of much use. If these fail, sedatives must be given internally. 0. Lastly, the treatment of inflammation includes that of the febrile dis- 'Z X tl TTniCS ifc- ™s’ aS we h-e may be due chiefly if the infl nil ? adra:f ui;e WIth the Wood of the exudation returning fr om limit flip ov i^'-1 16 DnPbatics ; W sncb cascs the means adopted to the favor "U< a ’011’ 01 to drain it away externally, as in a wound, will limit ducts Of L otllcl'.cases the sfcream of lymph bears with it the chemical pro- additioml (eomPoslnS ninfctei* from the inflamed area, and thus acquires an antisentic TM-°Weri.-0 causin£ fever ; this can be prevented only by proper infective infi^ aU 1?-nS’ 0V ^ draining off the exudation externally. In specific the nivsenrJ111'1*™ 10nS ^10. *cver may be due to contamination of the blood by 0 some poison multiplying in it, as in septicaemia (septic