RESULTS OF AMPUTATION OF T1IE TIIIGII. J33 divided circularly, and the soft parts retracted for a distance of about two inches, and the bone sawn at that point. The retraction is greatly facilitated by raising the limb to a right angle with the table, as recommended by Spence. The results of this operation are most satisfactory. It may be performed equally well at any part of the thigh from the trochanters to the lower end, where the skin of the patella is included in the anterior flap. In all amputations of the thigh more or less trouble arises from the contrac- tion of the flexor muscles tending to displace the posterior flap upwards, and so to leave a gaping wound behind to heal by granulation. This is aggra- vated by the flexed position in which the patient invariably places the limb. The amount of covering should therefore never be less than twice the diameter of the limb at the point at which the bone is sawn. Thus, suppose the antero-posterior diameter to be four inches, the anterior flap should be inches long and the posterior 1§- in., and the muscles should be retracted for two inches. If there is sufficient skin to be had in a primary amputation it might perhaps be better even still further to lengthen the posterior flap, making it equal to the anterior. Amputation of the thigh may be performed also by the pure circular, or the modified circular, method, both of which give excellent results in very fleshy thighs. Amputation through the Trochanters may sometimes be advantageously practised, either in severe compound fractures of the lower part of the thigh, or in cases of non-malignant tumours of the lower and middle thirds of the femur ; and thus the more severe and dangerous operation of disarticulation at the hip may be avoided. Indeed, should it be found, after section of the bone, that it is so much injured or diseased as to require removal at the joint, this may readily enough be done by dissecting the head out of the acetabulum with a strong scalpel or bistoury. Results.—The mortality after amputation of the thigh is very considerable when the operation is done for injury, more particularly for compound fracture of the femur itself. The mortality after amputation for injury in civil hospitals amounts, according to the table at page 84, to 59'7 per cent. In the lenci aimy in the Ciimea, and in Italy, it was very high, amounting to , per cent In some hospitals primary amputation of the thigh seems to have been almost invariably a fatal procedure ; whilst in other institutions the UnS > rV0t eXCeedfd 50 °r G° per cent Afc Gurs Hospital and at Umveisity College, secondary amputation of the thigh has been more fatal tnan the primary. entTrplvuUlt °f,ainpUfca1tiou °f fche thi«h for discasc of the knee-joint depends disorgSLWh?^ri ^ affeCtl°n iS aCUtG °r Chl'01lic- Tu acute suppurative h oh t TP \°5° knf; amputation of the thigh is most fatal; indeed, so ne?Lmtlt nn i m° ! lt7, at ifc 18 d0ubtful whether ifc is proper' to dLcte o^8Pei^ i m1th;t Stage 0f the ^on. ^ chronic knee-joint death solrln '° ° e! iand’ fcke operation is most satisfactory and successful ; The rrenoi" i™ r.°SU ,mg uncss tke operation has been deferred too long. 32*5 b ' pci con age ol mortality after amputation for disease is about is uerformprT °r dcatb var^ according to the condition for which the operation bv exlnnsHr' ^ IirimaiT amputation, the fatal event is brought about chiefly n, raurQatic gangrene of the stump, or secondary haemorrhage.