55o FRACTURES. opposite fragment is then treated in the same way. I lie two bevelled ends are then brought into contact and wired together. To do this, a hole must < be drilled obliquely from the surface of each into the medullary canal. A stron"' piece of thick, tolerably soft, silver wire must be passed through the holes'5and the fragments drawn into accurate apposition. Sir W. Fergusson speaks buddy of wiring together the ends of the bones. At the end of six weeks to" three months the wires may be cut down upon and removed. Should they produce no irritation they may be left. Bickerstctli, instead of using wires, splices together the freshened ends of the bone with iron peg*. In all cases some shortening of the limb must necessarily result, but if so id union can be obtained, this is of but little consequence. In operating on the fore-arm or leg, if both bones are affected, care must be taken to remove an equal quantity from each. If the fracture be very oblique, the section of the bone must be in the same line, so as to cause as little shortening as possible. Professor Nussbaum, of Munich, has successfully transplanted bone in a case where a portion of the ulna was lost as the result of a gunshot-injury. _ Operations for ununited fracture rarely succeed when the disunion is owing to other than local causes. They may succeed in old people. I have united a femur disunited for twelve months m a man between sixty and seventy, by Dieffenbach’s method. The more thickly the bone is covered by the parts, the more likely will an operation be successful Hence, the humerus and femur are more favourable for operation than the tibia. On reviewing the various methods that have been recommended for re- establishment of union between the separated fragments, it would appeal that if the period of normal union has been exceeded by but a few week*, railing the ends of the bones forcibly together, or percussion, may be tried, followed by the application of a plaster-of-Paris-bandage. Should this have no effect, further1 efforts may be made to excite a sufficient degree of uffiammation by g^rataneous section and scraping of the ends of the fragments. Should his fail it is not advisable to pass a seton, as it is quite as dangerous a proceed, ino- as one of the larger operations, and not so certain. The seat of fracture should therefore he cut down upon and if it be found union the insertion of Dieffenbach’s pegs might be sufficient, as if the proper