796 INJURIES OF THE SPINE. body of a vertebra thrust back against it. Little more than temporary relief can be expected from the removal of the pressure from behind by cutting away .the arches. But, when these portions only of the spinal column are fractured and displaced—a rare condition it is true—then permanent good may be expected :! to follow the operation. If signs of such injury exist, as evidenced by distor- - iion or depression of one or more spinous processes, it would most certainly be quite proper for the Surgeon to adopt the only means in his power of affording relief. The principal danger, and usual cause of death after cutting away a 1 portion of the spine is either the continuance of the inflammation excited by the injury in the cord and its membranes, or its increase or production by the operation itself. Dislocations of the Spine.-—On looking at the arrangement of the arti- cular surfaces of the vertebrae, the very limited motion of which they are . -susceptible, and the way in which they are closely knit together by strong ligaments and short and powerful muscles, it is obvious that dislocations of f Fig. 332.—Dislocation between the Fifth ancl Sixth Cervical Vertebra1. Fig. 333.—Dislocation of the Axis from the Third Cervical Vertebra. these bones must be excessively rare. So seldom, indeed,^ do they occur tlmt their existence has been denied by many Surgeons. Let there are a su cicnt number of instances on record to prove that such accidents may happen. The cases that have been met with have usually been associated with partial fracture, but this complication is not necessary. In all, the displacement was incomplete ; and, indeed, a complete dislocation cannot occur. Iractuie may ■occur ailyyvherc in the spine, but dislocation without, or with very s igi . fracture is met with only in certain situations. Dislocation of the spine may occur in the following parts. 1. Between the occiput and atlas. 1 his is 'eD rare. 2. Between the atlas and axis. This, though rare, is much less so 1 the preceding, and may occur with or without fracture of the odontou pu* cess* and when the odontoid process is broken, death at once ensues. location between the second and third cervical vertebra is very rare—aswai dislocation between the atlas and axis. 4. Dislocation generally happens .01