SUTURES FOR WOUNDS OF THE INTESTINE. 861 the stomach or large intestine, but from the thinness of the coats of the small intestine it is not quite so easy of application in that part. If there is any f difficulty the suture may be applied in the same way, but may be made to P penetrate the whole thickness of the gut on each side, as recommended by i Jobert (Fig. 345). The only objection to this is, that the stitches are apt to become irritating by absorbing the contents of the intestine. The continuous suture must never be nsed, as should one stitch happen to cut out the whole would become loose. 'Wlien the lips of the wound have been brought into Fig. 343.—Application of Suture to Wounded Bowel. Fig. 344..—Lembert’s Suture, a, serous ; b, muscular; and c, mucous coat. apposition, the ends of the sutures should be cut short close to the knots. If the suture be of prepared catgut it will gradually be absorbed ; if it be of carbo- lized silk it is possible, that it may become gradually absorbed, unless it be applied so as to penetrate the mucous membrane, when it will find its way into the gut by ulceration, and be discharged from the bowel. After the aperture has been closed the intestine must be washed in lukewarm carbolized water and reduced. Should the protruded gut be completely divided, the two ends may be united to each other by the suture that has just been described. Jobert in 1822 recommended the form of suture illustrated in the accompanying diagrams (Figs. 34G, 347). The lower end of the gut is to be folded in on itself, and the suture inserted as in Fig. 34(i ; on tightening the stitches the upper end is invagiuated into the lower, as in Fig. 347. The chief dif- ficulty in this method arises in recent cases from the difficulty in clearly recognizing which is the upper and which the lower end. In old cases in which a fiecal fistula has existed, the lower end is often so contracted as to render the method impracticable. Should the protruded gut be too extensively torn, and especially if it be lacerated by gunshot-injury, it would be useless to attempt merely to stitch it UP‘ . llcje C0lu'ses are then open to the Surgeon. First, the gut may be ■t^u y re need, special care being taken not to push the wounded coil of intestine far into the abdomen, but to leave it close to the external orifice, so Fig. 345.—Jobert’s Suture for partial division of the gut.