864 INJURIES OF THE ABDOMEN AND PELVIS. membrane and the abdominal wall, and, diffusing widely, produce destructive sloughing of the tissues amongst which it spreads. In these cases life may Ik* I prolonged for some days, when the patient commonly sinks from absorption of septic matter from the gangrenous tissues. The danger of a Around of the bladder is due to the effusion of continually increasing quantities of urine. It is in exact proportion to the difficulty that ! the cxtravasated urine has in finding an exit. Hence an open Avound of the bladder is by no means so dangerous as a subcutaneous rupture. Many patients have recovered Avhose bladders have been perforated and traversed bv bullets, for the urine finds a free exit through the apertures, and consequently does not tend to extravasate. Guthrie relates several cases of this kind: and Thomson suav fourteen cases after the battle of Waterloo, in a fair way of recovery. In the American War, out of one hundred and eighty-three re- ported cases of gunshot-Avound of the bladder, eighty-seven patients survived, “ though a large majority suffered from grave disabilities, and many from dis- tressing infirmities, Avhich resulted fatally in a feAV cases after years of suffer- ! ing.” Thus, although we may look upon this accident as of the gravest character, yet it is by no means necessarily fatal. Symptoms.—The situation of the injury in the hypogastric region, the super- vention of collapse folloAved by intense burning pain in the abdomen and pelvis, Avith inability to pass urine, or, if any have escaped from the imethra, its being tinged Avith blood, are usually sufficient to point to the nature of the accident. If, in addition, it be found on introducing a catheter that the bladder is contracted and empty, or that but a small quantity of bloody mine escapes, not in a uniform stream, but rising and falling Avith the movements of the abdominal muscles, the Surgeon may be sure that this organ has been ruptured. In the case of gunshot-injury, the escape of mine Avhich generally takes place through the track of the bullet will afford incontestable evidence of the mischief that has been produced. When the bladder is ruptured through that portion which is covered by peritoneum, the urine escapes into the abdominal or pelvic cavity; there, hoAV- ever, it does not at first diffuse very Avidely—remaining, under the influence of gravity, chiefly in the pelvic cavity, with the small iutestines floating above it. This localized extravasation may be emptied by the catheter through the rent in the bladder, hence the escape of urine is not imcompatible with rupture of the bladder. This important practical point is Avell illustrated by the following case. A man Avas admitted into the hospital under my care, Avho had sustained rupture of the upper and posterior wall of the bladder by falling down stairs ; when admitted he was profoundly collapsed and scim- unconscious. The abdomen was sAVollcn, tender, tympanitic in front, dull m the flanks. On passing a catheter the bladder Avas found to be empty an contracted ; but Avith a little gentle manipulation the point of the instrument could be passed through the laceration in the posterior Avail of the blam ei, and a large quantity of clear urine was draAvn off. For tAvo days the patien seemed to be doing avcII. The catheter was taken out to be cleaned, con not be introduced afterwards, little urine escaped, and the patient died of pen- tonitis. In another case under my care, the patient lived ten days, bladder being kept drained. _ , . j ,linst When the bladder is ruptured through its peritoneal coat, the first• important point in the treatment consists in drainage of the organ, so a