1081 CONTAGION OF SYPHILIS. contagious, and its treatment was not understood. This would scarcely have been the case had it been previously known by personal observation or even by tradition, to those then living. If it had previously existed 111 the old world in a mild or modified form, different from what we now observe, it is certain that about this time it suddenly assumed greater intensity, all its symptoms being aggravated in a remarkable and fearful manner, presen mg characters which had not been previously alluded to, but which have otto been reproduced in modern times ; as, for .instance, in those severe forms that were observed in the British armies during the Peninsular war, and, according to Larrey, among the French troops during Napoleon’s German campaigns. Contagion- of Syphilis—Syphilis is communicable, 1st, by the direct inoculation of any fluid containing the specific virus ; and 2nd, from parents to their offspring. . . 1. Direct Inoculation—In discussing this question, it is necessary to j consider first what fluids or secretions of a syphilitic subject contain the virus, and secondly, the various ways in which the virus may be communicated iiom 1 one individual to another. . That the discharge from the primary sore, whether it be thick and purulent 1 or simply serous, is inoculable, is too well known to require further notice. The contagiousness of the discharges from secondary syphilitic sores ^has ■ also been demonstrated by numerous experiments. The thin secretion from mucous tubercles of the vagina, anus, and mouth, has frequently been shown to be capable of causing infection. The blood itself, in more than one instance, has been inoculated with success. Professor Pellizzari, of Florence, inoculated a young Surgeon, Dr. Bargioni, on the 6th of February, I860, with blood taken from the vein of a woman suffering from syphilitic eruptions. The site of the inoculation, which was carefully protected by a watch-glass cover, re- mained quiet for twenty-five days ; then a papule developed, which in forty- four days became an ulcer with hard base. On the sixty-fifth day after inoculation, a roseola broke out on the trunk. Some uncertainty still exists as to whether the natural secretions of syphilitic persons are contagious of themselves, or become so by admixture with the blood or the discharge of syphilitic affections. The saliva, the milk, and the semen have been inoculated on healthy individuals with almost invariably negative results. So far, therefore, it may be said to be proved beyond a doubt that the discharges from all secondary syphilitic infections, and the blood of patients suffering from acute syphilis, contain the specific virus, but there is 110 definite evidence to show that the secretions of apparently healthy mucous surfaces or glands in a syphilitic subject are capable of transmitting the disease. The actual inoculation of the virus may take place in many ways. There is no reason to believe that it can enter the system through an unbroken epithelial surface. On the other hand, it readily infects any surface from which the epithelium has been removed, by abrasion, vesication, or ulceration. Wounds or punctures are also readily inoculated. Infection naturally takes place in most cases during coitus, and the primary manifestation is usually situated in those parts most likely to suffer from abrasion during the act. Whether the vaginal mucus of a syphilitic woman is capable of conveying the poison, if she be not at the same time suffering from primary sores or mucous tubercles, is uncertain.