557 RIBS AND COSTAL CARTILAGES. the first two ribs from a fall, without any injury to neighbouring bones. This fracture is always very dangerous, on account of the liability to injury of important subjacent structures. The lower ribs, being less firmly fixed than the others, commonly escape, unless very great and direct violence be inflicted upon them. Any part of a rib may be broken by direct violence ; but when the fracture is the result of compression of the chest, it is usually the point of greatest convexity or the neighbourhood of the angle of the rib that gives way. These indirect fractures commonly occur in elderly people, in whom the elas- ticity of the thoracic parietes has lessened as the result of age, and they are peculiarly liable to occur in some cases of general paralysis of the insane, in which the bones are weakened by atrophy. Symptoms.—The chief symptom is a sharp pricking and catching pain at the seat of injury, increased by breathing deeply, or by coughing. In order to avoid this, the inspirations are shallow, and the breathing is principally diaphragmatic and abdominal. On placing one hand on the sternum, and the other on the spine, and pressing gently, the patient will complain of pain at the seat of fracture. This is often a valuable means of diagnosis. On laying the hand over the seat of injury, and desiring the patient to cough, crepitus may often be felt ; and in most cases this is audible on applying the ear to the chest. The diagnosis of the fracture is necessarily more easily made where the ribs are thinly covered, than where they lie under the muscles of the back. Occasionally the outline of the rib will be found to be irregular; and in some instances, where several ribs are broken, the whole side of the chest is flattened and depressed. Besides these local symptoms, special com- plications resulting from laceration of the pleura and lung, such as haemop- tysis, pneumothorax, or emphysema, may occur. These complications, which will be fully described in the Chapter on Injuries of the Chest, are much less freejuent than might d priori be supposed, owing to the fracturing force being usually indirect, causing the rib to bend outwards, and thus to break away from, instead of into, the chest. Per se a fractured rib is in no way dangerous. It is only when the fractured ends are driven inwards, so as to wound the deep parts, that danger arises. Hence the prognosis will mainly depend on the mode of occurrence of the fracture. If this be the result of a direct blow on the chest, as the kick of a horse, the fractured ends will be driven inwards, and so may do much mischief. The danger of fractured ribs, indeed, depends wholly on the thoracic complications, and these will be occasioned chiefly by one of two conditions : either by the forcible driving in of the fractured end of one rib, so that the pleura and lung become wounded by the sharp and ragged fragment; or else by a large number of ribs being- broken by a severe squeeze of the chest, and the thoracic organs injured by the general compression. It is surprising, however, what an extent of injury of this kind may take place without serious consequences. I have had under my care a young man, who, in consequence of a crush of the chest, in a railway accident, had the upper seven ribs broken on the right side, and the lower five on the left, the chest, especially on the right side, being greatly flattened; lie recovered without a bad symptom. In gunshot-injuries of the chest, with splintering of the ribs, there is always wound of the contained organs, which ccomes the main source of danger to the patient and of attention on the part of the Surgeon. Treatment—In treating fractured ribs, the Surgeon need not concern