54 AMPUTATIONS. Amputation by the Circular Method.—The first improvement of the circular method of amputating, made after the invention of the tourniquet, was the introduction of what was known as the operation “ by the double incision.” This mode of operating was introduced into practice almost simul- taneously by Cheselden, of London, and J. L. Petit, of Paris. In this mode of operating, the skin and fat were divided by a circular incision; the assistant then, grasping the limb, pulled the integuments forcibly upwards, and the muscles were cut through to the bone by another circular sweep of the knife, and the saw applied as high up as possible. This method of operating did not aim at completely covering in the bone, but it provided such an amount of covering that it was possible for the stump to heal com- pletely by granulation, usually after separation of the protruding end of the bone. The results of this operation were not so bad as might have been expected. The first Monro, who wrote in 173G, tells us that out of ninety- nine cases of major amputation performed by himself and his colleagues in the Edinburgh Infirmary, only eight died, and none of these from the imme- diate effects of the operation. Monro secured the vessels by ligature, and dressed the raw surface of the stump with dry lint, which remained on till it was loosened by suppuration. A modification of the operation by the double incision was introduced by the French surgeon, Louis, in 17G8. He noticed that in making the circular incision through the muscles, the retraction of the superficial layers was greater than that of those near the bone. In order therefore to obtain a higher and more level division of the muscles, he divided the superficial layers with the skin and fat, and having drawn them forcibly upwards, cut the remaining muscle with a second sweep of the knife. A linen retractor was applied between the first and second incisions, and in order to allow the muscles to retract to the fullest possible extent, Louis was inclined to abandon the tourniquet and to trust to digital compression of the main arterial trunk. So far, Surgeons had advanced little beyond the opera- tion of Celsus ; in fact, it is doubtful whether in amputation by the double incision, as performed at this time, the bone was better covered than in that by the Koman Surgeons, who raised the soft parts very freely before sawing. The first attempt to diminish the size of the raw surface left after amputation was made by Samuel Sharp about 1750. He passed two broad ribbon-like ligatures, each composed of eight well waxed threads, through the edges of the wound about three-quarters of an inch from the margin of the skin, and drawing them tolerably tightly, tied them in a bow-knot. It was soon found, however, that the tension thus caused produced such an amount of pain and fever that the plan was abandoned almost as soon as it was recommended. Between 1770 and 1780 the great fact became recognised that the only way to obtain speedy healing of a stump is to provide sufficient covering to enable the edges of the skin to be brought together over the end of the bone, so as to meet easily without tension. This led to the invention of the mode of operating known as amputation by the triple incision, which was introduced into practice almost simultaneously by Benjamin Bell, of Edinburgh, A illiam Hey, of Leeds, and Alanson, of Liverpool. The two former performed the operation exactly as it is done in the present day by those who practise that method (Figs. 20 and 21). The skin and fat were first divided by a single sweep of the knife and dissected up for a distance equal to half the diameter of the limb ; the muscles were then divided by another circular sweep of the