712 INJURIES OF TIIE HEAD. however, that the needle is pushed straight onwards in the direction intended, all lateral movements being carefully avoided, and in this way several punc- tures in different parts may safely be made. When the paralysis is limited, as to one limb or to the face and arm, the modern discoveries as to the localiza- tion of the functions of the brain may serve as an indication to the situation of the abscess. In this way Macewen was able to recognize the position of a cerebral abscess, and the diagnosis was confirmed by post-mortem trephining, the friends of the patient having refused to permit the operation during life. In spite of the few isolated cases of recovery such cases must necessarily be almost hopeless. Though pus be actually found under the skull, between it and the dura mater, and be evacuated, I fear that the patient’s chances of recovery will not be very materially increased, as the encephalitis will continue, and eventually lead to his death. In my own experience, I have never met with a case of recovery under these circumstances ; and P. Hewett states that the successful termination of a case of trephining for pus within the skull, even between it and the dura mater, is all but unknown. Yet, in the face of this unfavourable prospect, it appears to me that trephining is the proper course to pursue. As the pus cannot evacuate itself, it is perfectly certain that death must ensue if it be not let out. As the only chance of life, therefore, is in the use of the trephine, it appears to me to be proper to have recourse to this, however doubtful may be the result. The Treatment of Pyaemia from injury of the skull must be conducted on those ordinary medical principles that guide us in the management of pyaemia, from whatever cause arising. Summary of Treatment.—The following treatment should be applied in all cases of head-injury attended by unconsciousness, whether special operative interference be needed or not:— 1. The head must be shaved and elevated on hard pillows. 2. Any scalp-wound treated antiseptically. 3. The icebag applied to the head—hot bottles to the feet. 4. From two to five grains of calomel placed on the tongue. 5. The lower bowel emptied by a turpentine enema on the second or third day. 6. The room darkened—the necessary fire and lights being screened. 7. ISTo conversation in the room allowed—all noises avoided—slippers sub- stituted for creaking boots—the coal put on with the hand—the fire stirred with a stick. 8. The diet to consist of spoon-food—iced milk or at most chicken-broth, thickened with arrowroot or cornflour. 9. If the patient cannot swallow, nutritive enemata may be given every fourth hour. INJURIES OF THE SCALP. Contusions of the Scalp from blows are of common occurrence, and present some peculiarities. However severe the contusion may be, it seldom happens that the scalp sloughs. This is evidently owing to the great vascu- larity and consequent active vitality of the integuments of the head. In many cases, a contusion in this situation is followed by considerable extravasation of blood, raising up the scalp into a soft semi-fluctuating tumour. It occa- sionally happens, especially in blows on the heads of children, that this