OF THE TARSAL BONES. 695 and trusting to the formation of a new joint between the tibia and the os calcis. So, also, if a simple dislocation of the astragalus become compound 111 consequence of the sloughing of the superjacent tense integuments, t le exposed and necrosing bone should be removed in part or in whole, according to the circumstances of the case. If together with the dislocation oi the Fig. 309.—Dissection of Foot in Compound Dislocation of Astragalus outwards. astragalus, the foot be extensively crushed, amputation may be required either at the ankle-joint or at some convenient part of the leg. Dislocations of the other Tarsal Bones are of extremely rare occur- rence. Most of these bones, however, have been found luxated at times. The Calcaneum and Scaphoid, carrying with them the rest of the foot, are sometimes dislocated from the astragalus, which is left in situ under the mal- leolar arch. In these dislocations the bones may be displaced in either lateral direction—outwards or inwards. The Treatment consists in the flexion of the leg and attempts at reduction by extension of the foot in the ordinary way. If moderate extension fail in effecting reduction, Pallsel has recommended division of the tendo Achillis, and, if necessary, of the posterior tibial tendon, as a means of facilitating this, on the same principle as in dislocation of the astragalus. The Calcaneum has been dislocated laterally from its connection with the cuboid in consequence of falls from a height, the sufferer alighting upon his heel. Chelius mentions a case in which this bone was dislocated by the effort of drawing off a tight boot. Reduction seems to be readily effected by relaxing the muscles, and pressing the bone back into its proper position. The Scaphoid and Cuboid Bones have been dislocated upwards, in con- sequence of a person jumping from a height and alighting upon the ball of the foot. In these instances the limb is shortened and curiously distorted, the toes pointing downwards, and the ai’ch of the instep being increased so as to resemble closely enough the deformity of club-foot. Reduction may be effected by drawing and pressing the parts into position. The Internal Cuneiform Bone has occasionally been found to be dislo- cated. Sir A. Cooper mentions an instance of the kind. If reduction be not effected by pressing the bone into its position, no great evil appears to result to the patient, the motions of the limb not being seriously interfered with. Sometimes ^1G tarsal joints are extensively torn open without any one bone being distinctly dislocated. I have seen this happen to a young man who caug it his foot between the spokes of a revolving wheel; the foot was