42 GENERAL REMARKS ON OPERATIONS. of the tightening of the tourniquet is to compress the large veins of the limb; the second, to arrest the flow of blood through the arteries : hence the more slowly it is caused to act, the greater will be the venous engorgement of the limb. The blood that flows from the limb during an amputation when the tourniquet is applied as above described, is almost entirely venous, coming from the lower part of the member. _ . A screw tourniquet maybe equally well applied without a pad (rig. 1 ) ; but it is then necessary to put a piece of card, folded paper, or leather, beneat 1 the screw to save the skin from being pinched. The pad has the disadi antage of being liable to slip, and if not very accurately applied, it tends rather to protect the artery from pressure than to compress it efficiently. 1 he screw tourniquet is now almost completely abandoned in favour of the simple elastic band. It is, however, a useful instrument when the Surgeon is s oi o skilled assistants, and especially in such cases as wounds of large arteries, m which an occasional relaxation of the tourniquet is required to gui e e operator to the injured vessel. . , i Compression by Elastic Tubing or Bandage.—The circulation through a limb may be completely arrested by two or three turns of an elastic bandag applied with moderate firmness. The bandage may then be securec iy a ' i or by a pin. During the Franco-German War, the field tourniquet served out to the German army, consisted of nothing more than a narrow elastic bandag about one inch m width, and tlnee feet long. Esmarch, of Kiel, intro- duced as a substitute for the band- age, a piece of india-rubber tubing about three-quarters inch in dia- meter, and 2 feet in length, having a hook fixed to one end and an eye to the other. This is stretched and wound firmly and rapidly round the limb two or three times. It often happens that the hook does not meet the eye exactly as it is wanted to, so that either an extra turn of the tube must be put round the limb, or the former turns must be unduly relaxed. This may be obviated by replacing the hook and eye bya™ of stout tape, bound on to the ends of the .nd.a-rnbto taba. U n Hu.n bo aimlied with exactly the amount of force lequned, and secuie 1. ) y ng the S of ilm tape together. It must be rememternIt a*m apjdv ng the band, enormous pressure is easily .obtained by a few to- other so much so, that m situations in vine loct-imr for where it can be conveniently applied. . the applicatj0n of the In certain regions special plans have to be adopted ii ^Si^amputations of the shoulder, the india-rnhber tnbe must ho