1 912 ERYSIPELAS. important in these cases not to confound a simple septic inflammation due to the presence of decomposing matter in an ill-drained wound, with genuine erysipelatous inflammation. Injuries about the head and hands are said to be more liable to be attacked by erysipelatous inflammation than those of other parts. Constitutional Causes.—Some persons appear to be naturally predisposed to erysipelas to so great a degree, that the application of cold, or slight stomach-derangement, or a trivial superficial injury, may excite it. This predisposition is most generally acquired by habitual derangement of health, and is especially induced by any of the depressing causes of disease, such as oyer-fatigue, anxiety of mind, night-watching, and habitual disregard of hygienic-rules as to diet, exercise, air, &c. The habit of body, however, in which erysipelas is most frequently met with as a consequence of very trivial exciting causes, is that which is induced by the habitual use of stimulants to excess. It is more especially in that state of the system characterized by an admixture, as it were, of irritability and of debility, in which all inflammations tend to reach the stage of suppuration, or to assume a diffuse form that erysipelas is most readily induced. This state is met with amongst the labouring poor, as the result of the privation of the necessaries of life, con- joined with the habitual over-use of stimulants and exposure to the various depressing conditions of bad food, impure air, &c. Amongst the wealthier classes it occurs as a consequence of high living, want of exercise, and general indulgence in luxurious and enervating habits. Some diseased states of the Hood, consequent upon visceral disease,'appear to predispose, in the highest degree, to the supervention of erysipelas. This is especially the case in diabetes, and in disease of the kidneys attended by albuminuria. As a consequence of renal disease, erysipelas often occurs from the most trivial causes ; such as a scratch, the sting of an insect, or any of the minor operations in surgery, more especially about the lower part of the body. Not only is it readily induced in this way, but it will extend in an uncontrollable manner in these states of the system, and will often assume a gangrenous form, there being apparently an utter want of power in the tissues to resist the influence of the virus. Persons of a gross and plethoric habit, with a tendency to gout, are predisposed to the occurrence of erysipelas. The blood-degeneration that attends malignant disease peculiarly disposes to erysipelas, which accordingly more frequently takes place after operations on persons having such diseases than after the removal of simple tumours. Persons whose nervous systems are habitually depressed, the semi-idiotic and idiotic for instance, are very prone to inflammations of an erysipelatous form. A person who has once suffered from erysipelas is said to be more liable to the disease. Fehlcisen states that his inoculation experiments showed that after the attack there is a short period of immunity, lasting a few weeks or months. 2. Extrinsic Causes.—Amongst the circumstances that surround patient and that tend to the protection of this disease, season of the year an atmospheric changes exercise a marked influence. Erysipelas is usua y supposed to be more frequent in the spring and autumn, and the experience at University College Hospital, where records of such cases have been verj accurately kept, tends to confirm this idea. Thus we find that dun ^ years 1871-2-3-1, 151 cases of erysipelas were treated in the Hospit. ,