98 - SPECIAL AMPUTATIONS. It is better to cut the two nerves short, in order to prevent their implication iU error in performing this operation and one ^idr must be carcfullv guarded against, is commencing the incision foi the I^hnai l p on a" above the patient's head, so that it may drain better, and the ^frequently required for disease or Amputation of the Po a ^ operati„„, as long a stump tas i ^3 artificial limb that may be fitted to it e ope rounded dorsal and palmar flaps. In a muscular ^ to the antero- posterior diameter of the limb at the point at which the bones are sawn, as the palmar flap especially has a oreat tendency to retract. In am- putating the right fore-arm, the Surgeon stands above the arm, so as to have his left hand to the dorsal flap, which he will have to raise by dissection. The hand being pronated, the incision for the dorsal flap is commenced at the palmar aspect of the radius, is earned for- ward for the necessary distance parallel to this bone, and then across the back of the arm in a slightly curved line, until it reaches the palmar aspect of the ulna; it then passes along this until it reaches a point opposite to that at which it was commenced, and the flap thus made be taken that this flap is wide enoug 1« The l uav flap is Uext made a rectangular flap with its corners rounded off. Thu J cleared by a by transfixion (Fig. 45). As soon as ;it s cut^^ones^ ^ ? ^ couple of sweeps of the knife, anc e ni |ono. and wiU be found on bones are then sawn together. T ie vesse _ <■ ^U(r on the left side of each side of the palmar flap at he ^ e"d* W, as before, the body, the Surgeon stands below the aim, ™ s to the flaps, and the incision is c°mme»cegfix-°n iu amputation of the fore-arm, men the palmar flap is formed by tiansfi 1otrusion of the mass of considerable inconvenience is often orn^f tl be made by tendons and muscles inchided in t. thJ ^ flap a Httle cutting from without inwards. It™ a™ may feU wll aWay longer than the palmar, so u i.'ou be thus performed (Fig. 46). from the ends of the bones. 1 ‘ h his icft hand, and lioldmg the The Surgeon, standing so as to take the naps m IV 45-—Amputation of the Fore-arm, r ° of the Anterior Flax). Transfixion