359 PATHOLOGY AND TREATMENT OF IiABIES. elements is slight granular degeneration. The appearances are, m short, merely those of inflammation of the affected region. These appearances were very marked in a case which occurred under my care in University College Hospital in 1871. Benedikt, and others, have found identical changes in the dog. Taking the post-mortem appearances and the symptoms together, it would seem probable that the essential feature of the disease is an infective inflammation, the source of irritation coming from within the vessels. The first sign of damage to the nerve-elements is their loss of resistance, and the occurrence of violent and irregular action from slight causes. If the patient does not perish at an early stage from exhaustion, damage of the nervous tissue progresses till the latter comes to respond more feebly than natural to the different impulses it receives ; this corresponds to the period of calm before death that so frequently occurs. Finally, it becomes incapable of performing its functions, and the heart ceases to beat. Coats states that he has found in addition to the congestion of the fauces always met with, actual infiltration of the salivary glands with leucocytes. Beyond these no definite appearances are met with. What the nature of the poison is, and why it should lie so long latent and finally attack a limited portion of the central nervous system, are questions which it is at present beyond our power to answer. That the poison inoculated locally multiplies in the system and infects the whole body can scarcely be doubted, as experiments have shown that the disease can be communicated from man to dogs by the blood. Hydrophobia, therefore, most nearly resembles an acute specific disease, the period of incubation being however longer than in any other known infective process. The fact of its being communicable solely by inoculation, would not exclude it from that class of affections. Hydrophobia is not in reality more extraordinary than such a disease as mumps, in which a period of perfect health, lasting for three weeks, intervenes between infection and the appearance of a local acute inflammation attacking the parotid gland. The nature of the poison has not yet been ascertained. The efforts to discover a specific microscopic organism in the saliva and blood of rabid animals cannot as yet be said to have been successful. Treatment.—This must be principally preventive and palliative. We can- not speak of curative treatment of hydrophobia; for, after the disease has once set in, the utmost that can be done will not accomplish more than to lessen the patient s sufferings, and stay for a few hours the almost inevitably fatal termination. When a person is bitten by a rabid dog, or even by one that is reasonably i supposed to be so, the Surgeon should always adopt energetic means to save the patient from the invasion of so fatal a disease. In having recourse to preventive treatment, it should be borne in mind that the larger pro- portion of persons actually bitten by rabid animals do not fall victims to hydrophobia ; the probability of the occurrence of the disease depending partly upon the animal that bites, and partly upon whether the bite is inflicted on the 11a e oi on the clothed part of the body, and possibly also on individual sus- cep i i lty to the disease, as has already been stated. It is in consequence of 1 ProP°i’tion of persons taking the disease out of the total number n on, lat so many popular remedies and superstitions have obtained an un- merited reputation for preventing the disease. s soon as possible after the bite has been inflicted, a string or bandage of some nn s muld if possible be applied on the proximal side of the wound, so