INJURIES OF TIIE HEAD. 736 set up if the splinters of the inner table and pent-up decomposing discharges he allowed to continue irritating the membranes and brain. Hence it is a rule in surgery, in all cases of punctured fracture, to apply the trephine at once. 1 In these cases a trephine with a large crown should be used, and the circle of injured hone itself must be sawn away (Fig. 320). Should, however, the use of the trephine have been delayed in these cases until inflammatory action has been set up, the instrument may still be applied with advantage. Many years ago a boy was admitted into University College Hospital, on the sixteenth day after having been struck on the side of the head by a large nail, which pro- jected from a door that fell upon him. No symptoms of any kind had occuired until the eleventh day after the accident, when he became dull and lost his appetite ; on the sixteenth day, that of his admission, he had suddenly become drowsy and delirious, but answered rationally when spoken to, and complained of pain in the head. The pupils were dilated, the skin hot, and the pulse quick. On examination, a small round aperture, from which some fetid pus exuded, was discovered on the right parietal eminence. On introducing a probe, which the hole just admitted, some rough bone could be Fig. 320.—Trephined circle felt. S. Cooper immediately trephined the boy, removing tm”ld NatoirsiL.Fiac' a circle of bone including the small aperture. The inner table corresponding to this was found splintered to some extent, and the dura mater was thickened and inflamed; but the patient recovered without a bad symptom. Linear Cuts, as by sabre or hatchet, into the skull, penetrating the outer table, are apt to splinter the inner one, in the same way as occurs in a “ punctured ” fracture, to which they bear a close analogy. They require the same preventive trephining that is needed in the true punctured fracture, having for its object the removal of splinters and spicula, which would infal- libly produce a fatal meningitis if left. In those rare cases in which there is a Depressed Fracture, without symptoms of compression or even a wound of the scalp, the rule of prac- tice is somewhat unsettled, as to whether the depressed portion of bone should be left where it is, or an attempt be made to elevate it. Sir A. Cooper, Abernethy, and Dupuytren advise that, if it do not give rise to any symptoms of compression, it is better not to interfere with it; and there are several cases on record of patients who have recovered in whom this course was adopted, the depression continuing permanent. That nou-interfereuce is the proper course to pursue in some cases, more particularly iu children, there can bo no doubt. I have had under my care a child in whom, iu consequence of a fall, there was on one of the parietal bones a depression as large as a crown- piece, its edges being sharply defined : no signs of compression or ol inflam- mation of the brain ensued, and it was consequently left without interference, the child making an excellent recovery, and continuing well. Indeed, in children, the amount of injury that may be inflicted on the brain, not only by compression, but by actual laceration, and yet be followed by recovery, is very surprising. . In the adult, the cerebral substance does not accommodate itself so readily to injuries, and here the line of practice is not quite so definite. But even in persons of mature age, under certain favourable circumstances, bone may be