522 FRACTURES. aucl in contusion or laceration of a fatty liver. At the same time the pressure ol the extravasation of blood and the inflammatory exudation accompanying these injuries favours the entrance of the fat into the circulation. The fat- cells are in like manner broken up in acute inflammation of the marrow of a bone, and in many diffuse gangrenous inflammations of the subcutaneous areolar tissue, and in all these conditions fat-embolism has been met with. Fat-embolism as a complication of simple fracture may occur within the first twenty-four hours, as the direct effect of the injury, or on the second or third day as the result of the inflammatory exudation pressing on the injured adipose tissue. The symptoms caused by it are somewhat doubtful. Itiedel and Scriba state that the fat is eliminated by the kidneys, and will, in a very large proportion of all fractures of long bones, be found microscopically in the urine about the third or fourth day. At a later period, from the tenth to the fourteenth day, it is often met with again, which Scriba attributes to the dis- lodgment of the embolisms from the lungs and other viscera and their elimination by the kidneys. A trace of albumen and some casts are sometimes met with at the same time. These appearances need not be accompanied by any constitutional symptoms. Should the quantity of fat which enters the circulation be very large, it is supposed to be capable of causing grave or even fatal symptoms, of which, according to Scriba, the following are the most characteristic : slight lowering of temperature, dyspnoea, occasionally slight haemoptysis, and, in extreme cases, fatal collapse, spasms or localized paralysis, ending in coma and death. Scriba is of opinion that whenever fat-embolism proves fatal it is from obstruction to the vessels of the brain, and that the interference with the pulmonary circulation is never sufficient to cause death. That death does occur in some rare cases after simple fractures with some or all of the above-mentioned symptoms is certainly true, and that fat-embolism can be found post-mortem is equally certain ; but that it is the cause of the symptoms is still doubted by Cohnheim and many authorities, as experiments have shown that very large quantities of fat can be injected into the circula- tion of animals, so as to cause most extensive embolism, without being followed by death or even any serious symptoms. In cases of septic inflammation following a compound fracture or a severe laceration of adipose tissue, the fat-embola may become impregnated with the septic poison, and thus set up inflammation wherever they lodge. The embola from subcutaneous injuries are said occasionally to give rise to haemorrhagic infarcts around the point at which they are arrested, and in some cases to cause oedema of the lung by extensive obstruction to the circulation ; but being perfectly unirritating they never set up inflammation. No treatment has as yet been suggested in fat-embolism. In fractures of the lower extremity occurring in old people, there is a great tendency to Hypostatic Pulmonary Congestion, as a consequence of the long confinement required in the recumbent position ; these fractures often prove fatal in this way. The use of the starched bandage, by enabling the patient to move about, is the most effectual preventive of these accidents. The treatment of the more general accidents presents nothing that need detain us here ; but those that are more special and peculiar to fractures, require consideration. Crutcli-palsy of the hands and arms may occur as the result of compres- sion of the brachial nerves against the pad of the crutch. The whole plexus,