AMPUTATIONS. 6 2 sinuses, form excellent flaps ; but it must be borne in mind that, their vitality, bemg somewhat lower than natural, they must be carefully handled to avoid ' ' unnecessary bruising, and that they are liable to shrink considerably as the • stump heals, and consequently their length must be slightly greater than if the tissues were healthy. Such flaps yield a large amount of serous exudation | during the first few hours after the operation, and ample drainage must lie [ provided for this. The Mode of Raising the Covering.—This may lie done by cutting j from within outwards, or from without inwards—in other words, by trails- fixion or by dissection. Most Surgeons now prefer the latter method, the 1 objection to transfixion being that it leaves the Surgeon no choice as to the relative amount of skin and muscle that he will take in his flap, and is con- j scquently ill suited for all amputations in muscular subjects. Its chief ad- vantage was its rapidity, and since the invention of anaesthetics this is of little or no consequence. A minor advantage is, that it is less difficult of per- formance than cutting from without inwards, but the amount of skill required for the latter is not such as to justify any Surgeon in resorting to the former method on that account. The covering, as before stated, may be raised circularly or in flaps. The relative merits of these two methods have already been discussed. In some of the modern methods of amputating about to be described, it has been the object of the Surgeons to combine, as far as possible, the advantages of both methods in one—following the rules just laid down as to the essentials of a good amputation. Amputation by the Modified Circular Method.—In 1839, Liston proposed a combination of the double flap and circular operations, which greatly improved the shape of the stump of the circular method, and somewhat increased the ease of the operation (Fig. 23). Two semilunar incisions, with their convexities downwards, are made through the skin from side to side of the limb: the flaps are then dissected up so as to expose the muscles somewhat higher than the angles of union of the flaps : and the operation is completed as in the ordinary circular method. This method of operating is especially indicated in muscular parts, such as the arm, thigh, or leg. The advantage of this procedure over the ordinary flap-operation is very great in stout muscular Amputation by the Long Anterior Flap.—The late Mr. Tealc of Leeds, in 1853, invented and practised a mode of amputation by a long