916 ERYSIPELAS. Delirium is especially marked in erysipelas of the head, and was formerly supposed to be due to affection of the membranes of the brain. It has l>een shown, however, by jjosi-'inovtGTn examination of fatal cases, that meningitis is very rare except in cases of erysipelas attacking a compound fracture of the skull, or spreading into the fat of the orbit. The delirium is usually due to the blood-condition, and is always a grave sign. The tongue is at first much coated, and soon becomes dry and brown ; there are also in most cases a good deal of derangement of the digestive organs, with tenderness about the epigastrium, and complete loss of appetite ; the evacuations are dark and offensive, and not uufrequently there is diarrhoea. Cutaneous erysipelas is a most depressing disease, the patient even aker a comparatively slight attack being frequently much reduced in stiength, anaemic, and emaciated. The duration of an attack of cutaneous erysipelas is very uncertain, it raaj last from three days to three weeks, and relapses are very common by which it may be prolonged to a month or more. Pathological Anatomy.—After death the red tint fades, leai ing the skin -Fj„ Micrococci in the lymph-spaces of the skin from a case of cutaneous erysipelas. The rta\h<patch hi the upper right hand corner is the deeper layer of the ep.denms. (From a photograph hy Kocli.) of a yellowish tint; if it he cut into, it is found to contain an excess of serous fluid. If the spreading margin he examined microscopically, numerous migrating leucocytes are found in the spaces of the fibrous tissue, especial y around the vessels, and the lymphatic vessels also are blocked hy similar cel s. Lukomsky and Y. Recklinghausen first pointed out that the lymphatic vessel and spaces in the spreading margin contain numerous micrococci, m sonic cases so closely packed as to form an opaque granular mass (tig. These are not present when the rash is receding, nor m the F1 s which it lias passed. These observations have been fully confirmed Ifr a • quent observers. The relation of these organisms to the process a are not found in the blood-vessels or n- Hiller states that if the blood be examined .numerous white connisd^^ ^ state of degeneration arc found, haying become comerted f highly refracting granules. Busk has described the«» <*J%\ such corpuscles in the capillaries of the lung, and Bastian *