INJURIES OF THE HEAD. 706 In sonic cases of abscess examination of the eye with the ophthalmoscope lias shown the presence of optic neuritis similar to that met with in tumour of the brain, but this has not been sufficiently constant to render it of any real value in diagnosis ; and, on the other hand, it may be present aftei an injury without suppuration having taken place. Occasionally, as will be seen here- after, the situation of the pus may be recognised by the effect produced on the cortical centres. Pyaemia, with its characteristic visceral secondary abscesses, is by no means an unfrequent complication of injuries of the head. It may occur as a conse- quence of any lesion of the scalp, skull, or brain, in which the patient survives sufficiently long for the development of the characteristic phenomena of this disease. Hence it is chiefly after the slighter forms of cerebial injuiv that pyaemia and secondary abscesses have been met with ; occasionally after wounds of the scalp, rarely after those of the brain or its membranes, but more commonly, and indeed not unfrequently, after injury of the skull, more especially after severe contusion of the bone without fractuie. The sequence of pathological phenomena in these cases is the same that is observed in all in which pyaemia follows injury or wound of the osseous struc- tures. The part of the bone that is struck usually necroses ; inflammation and suppuration are set up in the surrounding portions of the skull; the cancelli of the diploe become filled with pus; its veins, which are large, inflame, and become the media of transmitting septic material to the general circulation; the ordinary constitutional symptoms of pyaemia develop, and secondary abscesses eventually form in the lungs, liver, and joints, with effusions into the serous cavities, more particularly those of the pleura an pericardium. The older writers on Surgery had noted and had marvelled at the strange phenomena of hepatic abscess following slight head-injuries, and had generally overlooked the occurrence of secondary deposits in other organs and structures. More modern investigation has shown that these abscesses are pytemic, that they are a part of a general .nfection 0 f the system, and that they are almost invariably accompanied by pulmonary abscesses : indeed, it is these and not the hepatic that are the common conse- quences of pyaemia resulting from cerebral injury. Of eighteen cases, P. Hewett found the lungs studded with abscesses m thirteen, and the fiver m th u,, and of these three, in one case only was the fiver alone affected. It has been supposed by some that intracranial suppuration is a necessary precursor of these secondary abscesses : that it frequently co-exists is undoubted ne on . meet with pus in these cases between the dura mater and the contused bone but to suppose that it is a necessary concomitant is an error I have see* cases in which the most extensive secondary deposits were found m the luii , fiver joints, &c., but in which not a drop of pus existed m the interior of the Sia any part; but I have never seen a case in which the d.p oe around the injured bone did not contain pus, sometimes diffused through its cells, sometimes filling its venous sinuses. . . When intracranial suppuration co-exists with secondary pytem.c depute, " " rt may be a compiete absetme of aU — r*a -—