452 TRA UMA TIG A NE UBISM. probably continue to enlarge until sloughing of the integuments covering it ‘ occurred, followed by hemorrhage. In some cases, the aperture of commum- tion between the vein and sac becomes closed, and the tumour is converted into a simple circumscribed traumatic aneurism. Treatment.—The treatment of this disease must be conducted on dill emit principles from those that have been laid down as required m the ordinary cir- cumscribed traumatic aneurism ; the difference depending upon the fact that in the varicose aneurism there is always a double aperture in the sac, and that thus the proper deposition of laminated fibrin necessary for its occlusion can- not take place. The sac of such an aneurism may be compared to one that has been ruptured, or accidentally opened, in which we could consequent y not expect the occurrence of those changes that are necessary for the cure of aneurism by the Hunterian operation. , In a varicose aneurism, consequently, the sac must be freely incised, an the artery tied on each side of the puncture in it. Tins procedure may unless the Surgeon he careful, and properly understand the pathology of this disease beattended by some difficulty (Fig. 167). The operation mil, however be o-reatly simplified by exsanguinating the limb by means of the elastic ro er and the tourniquet. If this device be adopted, the Surgeon will be able to see clearly what be is about. After the first incision has been made through Se inteo-uments the dilated vein wifi be laid open, and an aperture will be seen at the bottom of the vessel, from which arterial blood may be made to issue tourniquet. If an attempt be made to find the artery mimedi- dfately below this aperture, the Surgeon will be disappointed, for the sac of ^ aneurism intervenes between the two vessels. Thar this — lends into thesrm,and notinto the artery• wmmmmsB ^ then he passed above and bciow the 1 Yanzetti has recorded a case to tS Xy above the humour, and to the orifice■ Wta* {£ “mpS sure is a hopeful mode of treating such cases.