S8o MORTIFICATION, OR GANGRENE. of the patient. It is supposed to lie due to vaso-motor disturbance consequent upon central mischief situated in the cord; but its pathology is not definitely made out. Gangrene from Venous Obstruction.—Obstruction to the veins by pressure or thrombosis is scarcely ever the sole cause of gangrene; but if at the same time the main artery is occluded, as when it and the vein are com- pressed together, or when the femoral vein is wounded accidentally at the time when the artery is ligatured, mortification is especially apt to take place. Gangrene from this cause is always of the moist kind, attended by much oedema, with discoloration and rapid putrefaction of the part. Gangrene from arrest of the Circulation by Strangulation.—A part is often purposely strangled by a Surgeon in operative procedures; or its circulation may in this way be arrested as the result of certain accidents or diseased conditions. (See p. 297.) In either case, the strangulation acts by stopping more or less completely the whole of the circulation through the part. If the strangulation be sufficiently severe, it may kill the tissues out- right : for instance, when a nsevus or a pile is tied, all flow of blood to or from the part is suddenly arrested, and its vitality is destroyed, the tissues that have been strangled shrivelling and separating by ulceration along the line of ligature. When the strangulation is not so severe as this, great con- gestion ensues, consequent on the amount of blood sent into the part being Greater than can escape by the veins, which are more affected by the constricting force than the arteries ; the part strangled becomes dark and cono-ested, phlycteme or vesicles arise on its surface, and effusion takes place into3its tissue. As the part swells the compression of the vessels becomes more powerful, till finally the flow through the arteries is arrested as well as that throuo-h the veins; the circulation is completely arrested, and thus sloughing arises. All this we find in the constricted gut of a strangulated Gangrene as a termination of Inflammation.—It has already been pointed out (see the chapter on Inflammation) that all the causes of inflam- mation are agents which tend to lower the vitality of the parts upon which they act, and that, if acting with sufficient intensity, they bring the process of inflammation to an end by killing the tissues upon which they arc exerting their influence. The effect produced by an irritant is dependent: first, on the intensity of the irritant itself; secondly, in many cases on the duration ot its action ; and thirdly, on the power of resistance, or, m other words, on th vitality of the tissues upon which it is acting. Thus to take an example, a mustard plaster if applied for a short time on a healthy part causes simp inflammation without destruction of tissue ; if it be of sufficient strength and be kept on a longer time, it will cause death of the skin upon whic'j acting. Supposing, however, it be applied to the skin ot a part, fcl L *, a‘s of which is lowered either by constitutional causes of mal-nutution, sue diabetes or Bright’s disease, or from local interference nil1 n" ter’on from disease of the arteries, sloughing may result. In '. itv Inflammation it was pointed out also that an mutant of suffime causes arrest of the circulation, by stasis, in the vessels of the 1 a P ^ it acts and that this condition, unlesB relieved, must terminate r -th Lastly,' all acute inflammations are attended by migr^mn of^co^ ^ abundant coagulable exudation, which distends the lymph spf ,