COMPLICATIONS DURING TREATMENT. 523 or only one of its component nerves, as the musculo-spiral, or ulnar, may be affected. The remedy is obvious—it consists in the discontinuance of the use of the crutch, and, if need be, the employment of electricity to the palsied muscles. Spasm of tlie Muscles of tlie Limb, owing to the irritation produced by the fragments, is often very severe so long as the fracture is left unreduced; the sharp end of the broken bone puncturing and irritating the surrounding muscles. It is best remedied by reduction, and the maintenance of the frac- ture in proper position by moderate pressure with a bandage over the splints. In troublesome cases, compression of the main artery of the limb has been recommended by Broca. If the spasm be dependent upon nervous causes, full doses of opium will not unfrequently afford relief. In some cases it is of a permanent character, producing considerable displacement of the fragments. In these circumstances, division of the tendons has been recommended ; but this practice appears to be an unnecessarily severe one, and may certainly most commonly be avoided by attention to the other plans of treatment which have been suggested. CEdema of a broken limb may occur from several causes, viz., over-tight bandaging, dependent position, pressure of blood, extravasation, or inflamma- tory effusion. It is of no great moment in itself, but may be of consequence, as indicative of approaching gangrene. Relief may usually be afforded by loosening the bandages, and elevating the limb. The oedema, which is often very persistent, after the cure of the fracture, is best relieved by diligent friction, douching, bandaging, and attention to position. Considerable Extravasation of Blood is frequently met with in cases of simple fracture, causing great swelling and tension. By the continuous appli- cation of cold evaporating lotions, the collection is usually readily absorbed ; and the Surgeon should never be tempted by any feeling of fluid or of fluctua- !tion to open it, as he would thereby infallibly convert the simple into a com- pound fracture. In some of the cases of extensive extravasation, the limb appears to relieve itself of the serous portion of the blood effused, by the forma- tion of large bullae or blebs, which may be punctured, or else allowed to burst and subside, without any material inconvenience. This extravasation very rarely, indeed, runs into abscess; if it do, it must of course be opened, and treated upon anti-septic principles. If deeply effused it may lead to gangrene, by the constriction and compression which it exercises on the vessels of the limb. Gangrene as a complication of simple fracture is a most serious mischance, and one from which it is difficult for the Surgeon to exonerate himself without blame. But he is not always in fault. It may arise from causes residing in the limb. It may be contributed to by the negligence of the patient in not drawing the Surgeon’s attention to early symptoms, after having been duly warned. Gangrene of the limb (Fig. 181) may occur after simple fracture as e result (1) of tight bandaging ; (2) of the swelling of the limb and com- pression of the vessels consequent upon extravasation of blood, or (3) of inflam- ma ory infiltration causing strangulation within a bandage that has been at St. . h8ht,y applied. Gangrene is almost invariably the consequence of the pernicious and dangerous practice of applying a bandage directly to the limb un er le apparatus. I have never known gangrene to occur after fracture, excep w eic this has been done, since it is much more likely to occur in those