476 INJURIES OF NERVES, MUSCLES, AND TENDONS. by some antiseptic method if possible; union by the second intention being iatal to success. The limb must be put in such a position as completely to relax any strain on the nerve. In about half the cases treated in this way good union will be obtained with restoration of function. If the first attempt fail from suppuration in the wound, another attempt may be made later on as a second- ary operation. Lastly, if the nerve have been divided, the wound long healed, and no repair have taken place, a secondary operation may be performed with a hope of success even at a very remote period after the injury. Such opera- tions would, however, be probably useless if the muscles supplied by the affected nerve failed to respond to the continuous current slowly interrupted. The operation is performed by exposing the nerve freely. Its central extremity will usually be found by its bulbous condition, which can readily be felt; the lower end is often atrophied and more difficult to find. The ends of the neive may then be pared, so as to remove the dense scar-tissue with which they aie covered, but no more should be taken away than is. absolutely necessary. After this they are sutured as in a fresh wound. This operation has been successfully performed by Jessop in a case of wound of Jffie ulnar nerve which had happened some years before. Wheelhouse, in 1875, cut down upon the sciatic nerve in a case in which it had been wounded by a scythe nine months previously. The limb was completely paralysed and useless; the muscles were much wasted and their electrical irritability almost lost; the ends were two inches apart, the upper large and bulbous, and. the lower slio-htly atrophied. The bulb was removed from the central end, and both ends pared till healthy nerve-tissue appeared, and then brought together with fine catgut sutures. It was only by flexing the knee forcibly that the ends could be got into sufficiently close apposition to allow of the sutuies being tied. Sensation returned in about a month, and then the leg was gradually straightened. The sensibility remained unimpaired and motion returned soon after. At the end of three months the patient coidd walk with the aid of a stick; and two years afterwards, although the limb had no regained its full size, he could work in the fields and walk without aitificial Treatment of the Paralysed Limb.—In all those cases m which the nerve is not completely divided, treatment of the paralysed parts w alone possible, the object being to prevent wasting and to maintain the nutritio of the limb in'such a way that, when restoration of the ^rye takes place, the muscles shall be in a state to respond to the influence of the™U, ; over, much can be done by judicious treatment to maintain the temper ture, to avoid the formation of chilblains or other bom* 1:o prei^ent development of deformities, and in children or young subjects to keep up he growth. In order to keep up the nutrition and to overcome the congests which is always met with in the paralysed part, it must be made of a h^) rad colour at least twice a-day. There is no more this than by the use of the continuous electric current. The sponge home cZee ed with the positive pole of the battery of the nerves, while the limb is freely sponged with the other. AttheMBK time each separate muscle should, if possible, be made to contract by irruptions of the eurrent. In a minute or more the whole paralysepart will become bright red. In the absence of ““'iSd tetSlr protected properly applied rubbing or massage. The part should be caielu ) 1