xm CONTENTS. Chapter, XIV.—Arrest of Arterial Haemorrhage. Natural Arrest of Hemorrhage—History of Investigations—Temporary Means Coagulation of Blood and Diminution of Heart’s Action—Retraction and Con- traction of the Artery—Formation of Coagulum—Permanent Closure of Artery —Adhesion—Contraction—Arrest of Haemorrhage from Punctured or Partially Divided Arteries - • • • ■ 394 400 Surgical Treatment—Temporary Means—Compression of Artery—Tourniquet— Permanent Means—Cold—Hot Water—Styptics—Cauterisation—Direct Pressure —Forcible Flexion—Torsion—Torsion and Ligature Compared—Forci-pressure— Ligature—History—Application—Effects of Ligature—Wire and Catgut Liga- tures—Carbolized Catgut—Carbolized Silk—Ox-aorta Ligature—Tendon Liga- ture—Temporary Ligatures—Acupressure—Acupressure and Ligature Compared —Collateral Circulation—Principles of Treatment of Wounded Arteries . 400—431 Accidents after Arterial Occlusion by Surgical Means—Intermediate or Reactionary Hemorrhage—Causes—Phenomena—Treatment—Secondary or Re- current Hemorrhage—Causes—Phenomena—Periods of Occurrence—Treatment —Gangrene following Ligature—Causes—Character—Treatment . . 434—444 Chapter XV.—Traumatic Aneurism and Arterio-Venous Wounds. Traumatic Aneurism—Diffused—Treatment—Circumscribed—Treatment . 445—44«) Arterio-Venous Wounds—Aneurismal Varix—Symptoms—Treatment—Varicose Aneurism—Pathology—Symptoms—Treatment 449—452 Chapter XVI.—Wounds of Special Blood-Vessels. Vessels of Head and Neck—Carotid Artery—Aneurismal Varix in Neck—• Traumatic Aneurism of Temporal Artery—Haemorrhage from Deep Arteries of Face—Injury of Internal Maxillary, and Lingual Arteries—Wounds of Verte- bral Artery 453—454 \ essels of the Trunk—Internal Mammary—Intercostal Arteries . . . 455 "Vessels of Upper Limb—Wound of Subclavian Artery—Aneurismal Varix— Axillary Artery — Open Wounds—Traumatic Aneurism—Brachial Artery— Wounds—Traumatic Aneurism—Varicose Aneurism—Aneurismal Varix of Arm —Vessels of Forearm and Palm—Traumatic Aneurism of Radial and Ulnar Arteries—Wounds of Palmar Arches—-Circumscribed Traumatic Aneurism in 1 aim .............. 455—452 V essels of Lower Limb—Traumatic Aneurism of Gluteal Artery—Femoral Artery—Diffused Traumatic Aneurism—Varicose Aneurism—Vessels of Leg and Foot—Wounds and Traumatic Aneurisms 462 464 Chapter XVII. —Entrance of Air into Veins. Air in Veins Results of Experiments on Animals—Spontaneous Entry in Man— jocal Ihenomena — Constitutional Effects—Cause—Preventive Treatment— Curative Treatment—Indications to be followed .... 465—