785 WOUNDS OF THE CORD—SYMPTOMS. With regard to internal treatment, I know no remedy in the early period of the secondary stage, when subacute meningitis is beginning to develop itself, that exercises so marked or beneficial an influence as the perchloride of mercury in tincture of quinine or of bark. I have seen this remedy produce the most beneficial effects, and have known patients come back to tbe Hospital to ask for the “perchloride” as the only medicine from which they had derived advantage. At a more advanced period, and in some constitutions in which mercury is not well borne, the iodide or the bromide of potassium in full doses will be found highly beneficial, more especially when there are indications of the presence and the pressure of inflammatory effusion. When all signs of inflammation have subsided—when the symptoms have become those of paralysis, whether of sensation or of motion—but more especially in those cases in which there is a loss of motor power, with a generally debilitated and cachectic state, cod-liver oil, strychnine, and iron may be advantageously employed. But I would particularly caution against the use of these remedies, and more especially of strychnine, in all those cases iu which inflammation is still existing. In such circumstances the administration of strychnine is attended by the most prejudicial effects, in- ! creasing materially and rapidly the patient’s sufferings. But in the absence of inflammatory irritation it will, if properly administered, be found to be most useful, more particularly in restoring lost motor power. In those cases, in which strychnine may be advantageously administered, great benefit will be derived also from warm salt-water douches to the spine, and galvanism to' I the limbs. At a more advanced period, when general cachexy has been induced, and . more or less paralysis of sensation and motion continues in the limbs, and ' 110jhiug °f a specific nature can be done in the way of treatment, our whole object should be to improve the general health on ordinary medical principles, so as to prevent as far as possible the development of secondary diseases, such as phthisis, dependent on malnutrition and a generally broken state of health, 1 which may after several years lead to a fatal termination. WOUNDS OP THE SPINAL CORD. These injuries may occur from stabs with pointed instruments ; from gun- shot-violence; or, most frequently, from the pressure of fractured vertebrae. Q ie a ei 01m of injuiy there is an association of wound and compression, giving rise essentially to the same symptoms as if the cord were divided. Symptoms.-When the spinal cord is completely divided, certain symptoms, occur that are common to all cases, at whatever part of the cord the injury 1“ ffS provided it be not so high as to cause instant death, them\ 11V’ u there 18 comPhte Paralysis of sensation and motion in all tina! l i °'i, hC SCat °f mjury’ th0Ugh tho mental state of the patient con- of the ■ ■T T precise seafc of mW w offcea be diagnosed by the extent of all th!ln'n\y 0f the lower Parfc of spine, there may be paralysis- ]iJi'‘ ;e parts supplied by the nerves of the sacral plexus, whilst those from the inflicted' 'i'i n° fi °Cte( ’ thus leading to the inference that the injury has been is comnlete IT . / ° °ne *?el°'v tPc °tber s°t of nerves. When the paralysis- V0L r ’ 10 cml,(iatwe below the seat of injury is lowered, often consider-