LACERATION OF THE BRAIN. 739 it is found immediately beneath the part of the skull which received the blow. Laceration of the brain is the commonest cause of death in simple fracture of the skull, the fracture itself when not compound being no more dangerous than a similar injury of any other bone. It is attended by extravasation of blood proportional to the amount of injury done to the brain-tissue, and in severe cases this is sufficient to give rise to symptoms of compression which ii completely mask any special signs of cerebral laceration. The regions of the brain most commonly injured are the anterior parts of the frontal and temporo-sphenoidal lobes. This is due partly to the irregu- : larity of the surfaces of the bones against which these lobes lie, but much more I to the fact that the posterior and postero-lateral parts of the skull, and the vertex are the most exposed to injury from falls and blows. Thus when a person slips suddenly up in frosty weather and strikes the back of his head on the pavement there may be no external sign of serious injury, nor any fracture of the skull ; yet laceration of the anterior portions of the cerebral I hemispheres frequently occurs at the point exactly opposite to that struck. The explanation before given of this fact—that the chief laceration is opposite the point struck—is that the blow starts a wave in the soft cerebral substance which breaks against the bone on the other side. In very rare cases it is possible to trace the course of this wave by hemorrhages in the cerebral substance in its track. Thus not long ago a case occurred in Univer- sity College Hospital in which a man received a blow from a fall on the left side of the forehead. He lived ten days, and at the post-mortem examination a bruise was found of the brain in the frontal lobe at the point which first received the violence, and exactly opposite this on the right occipital lobe was another bruise ; in a straight line between the two bruises was a haemorrhage into the right optic thalamus. Very sudden and violent blows, such as non- penetrating bullet-wounds, usually lacerate the brain immediately beneath the part of the skull struck, and some of the most typical cases of localized cortical injuries of the brain are consequently to be found in the records of military surgery. The brain and its membranes are often lacerated by the sharp spicula of a depressed fracture, which may penetrate to a considerable depth in its substance. And, lastly, the injury may be occasioned by foreign bodies, such as bullets, r traversing or lodging in the head; by sabre- or axe-wounds, or by stubs and | Punctures through the thinner portions of the skull, especially the orbital plate of the frontal bone. In this way a piece of stick, tobacco-pipe, the point of a knife, or a scissor-blade, may puncture the anterior part of the brain. The Post-mortem Appearances of laceration of the brain vary with the degree of injury and the time the patient survives before death takes place. In a recent case every stage may be met with, from a mere superficial bruise,' marked by a few points of extravasated blood in the grey matter, which still maintains its natural form and consistence, to extensive laceration and crush- mg, m which the grey matter, and a greater or less amount of the white is reduced to a pulpy, disintegrated mass, mixed with clots of blood. In the 11 °„ bruising there is no extravasation of blood in the neighbour- ' 0 . ln.iuly ; iu severe laceration clots are found superficially adhering '' the injured part of the brain, and extending widely both in the sub- • Cino',c 8Pacc‘ a,1(l the cavity ot the arachnoid, sometimes completed cover- g one hemisphere with a thick layer of coagulum. Occasionally the extra-