SYMPTOMS OF WOUND OF LUNG. 83 r The Symptoms of a wound of the lung are usually sufficiently well marked, though they necessarily vary with the extent of the injury. There is, in the first place, the immediate shock that usually accompanies the infliction of an injury on an important internal organ, in severe cases amounting to extreme collapse. The patient is at the same time seized with considerable difficulty of breathing, and in consequence of the injury to the parietes, the respiration is as a rule chiefly abdominal; this is followed by much tickling and irritating cough, and the expectoration of frothy bloody mucus ; or, if a large vessel is wounded, great quantities of pure blood may be brought up. On auscultating the chest immediately after the infliction of the injury, loud coarse rales will be heard, caused by the presence of blood in the smaller bronchial tubes. Complications.—In order to save repetition and to make the subject more clear, it will be better first to describe the complications that may attend wounds of the lung. The principal dangers attending a wound of the lung arise from bleeding, both external and internal, the occurrence of Htemo- thorax, Pneumothorax, Emphysema, Pneumonia, and Empyema. 1. The Haemorrhage varies with the part of the lung wounded, and the extent of the wound. If the large vessels near the root are implicated, death occurs almost instantaneously from loss of blood and suffocation. If the surface only is injured, the bleeding may be very slight. When it is abundant the patient spits up large quantities of florid frothy blood, a considerable amount of which may be swallowed and subsequently vomited. If it do not prove fatal, this bloody expectoration generally ceases in a great measure in the course of forty-eight hours, giving way to sputa of a rusty character. If there be a free external wound, there may also be copious bleeding from it; but not unfrequently the blood finds its way into the plemal sac rather than through the external aperture and accumulates in it. If there is no external wound, such blood as is poured out from the surface of the lung must necessarily find its way into the pleura. Death may arise either from, the exhausting effects of this internal and concealed hmmorrliao-e, or from suffocation through the pressure exercised on the lungs by the blood m the pleura. Although bloody expectoration, to some extent at least, is an almost necessary and invariable accompaniment of a wounded luno- ’yet I have seen a laceration in that organ three inches in length, occasioned by the projection of broken ribs, which proved fatal on the seventh day from hmmo- thorax and pleuritic effusion, unattended by any expectoration of blood or raobraHrtpTffltSnt°!’ ? the.lang' The W°°d m these cases would piobably be infiltrated mto the loose tissue of the lung around and above the wound, where it would coagulate so as to offer a barrier against its escape into he bronchi, while ,t was being poured out where least insistence was Tffel'ed to it—viz., at the point of injury in the pleura. The symptoms of this ofte^i ®*mot*°ra*’ are„th08e ^ generally characterize loss ■tend new to til T* 1 °f thc 8Urfacc’ weak pulse, and a hi t iLhiht / !•' ^creasing dyspnoea. The more special signs consist bulffintot t ? \°? U,UTr0d Slde’ with’ in extreme cases, some part of the wot tf1?0SS1 Spa°f’ a’ld au ecckymosed condition of the posterior r * £J°n S1t ?f hS chesL If thcre is an open wound there will important J;<r gUsheS„of blood from it when the patient coughs. The most blood <rnvifnLS f1C UymS1CC ^ l)hysicaI examination of the chest. As the b < es owards the back of thc chest, between the posterior wall and