TUMOURS. ioi4 process caused considerable friction of the scrotum against the trousers, and this, combined with the irritation of the mixed soot and perspiration, seems to have been the determining cause of the growth of the cancer. Now that soot is of little value it no longer pays to sift it, and consequently chimney-sweep’s cancer has almost disappeared. It is a strong argument in favour of the theory of the local origin of cancer, that a form of the disease should cease to appear on the removal of the source of local irritation that produced it. But local irritation is more likely to produce cancer if it be applied to a part that has already been for some time the seat of structural epithelial change. Thus, in a common wart, mole, or cicatrix, cancerous growths are very apt to develope under the influence of persistent irritation. And, as J. Hutchinson has truly observed, a cancer may in this way be “ grown.” The mode in which a local injury or source of irritation produces a cancer is unknown. Does it do so by some peculiarity of local action, or by a constitu- tional state of a cancerous nature causing what might otherwise prove to be a simple irritation to assume a malignant form ? The answer to these questions involves the whole theory of the local or constitutional origin of cancer, to which I must refer the reader. (See next page.) It is very important to bear in mind that all tissues and organs are not equally liable to cancer. Every part of the body in which epithelium (as distinguished from endothelium) is naturally present is liable to become the seat of cancer. But it occurs more frequently in some parts than in others. In the female it is most common in the mamma and uterus ; in the male epithelioma of the lips, tongue and penis is the most common form of the disease. In the alimentary canal it is most common at the narrowest parts which presumably arc most exposed to mechanical injury. Thus commencing at the mouth we find the common situations of cancer are, the lips, the tongue, the fauces, the oesopha- gus at the back of the larynx, the cardiac orifice and the pylorus. Alien follows the small intestine in which the contents are fluid and the diameter almost uniform, and here cancer is extremely rare. It is less rare at the ilio- colic valve, and becomes common in the sigmoid flexure, which is the narrowest part of the great gut and contains solid fames. In the rectum it occurs usually where the gut is slightly narrowed as it passes through the recto-\esica fascia, and finally it is common at the anus. The form of cancer met with in all these places is dependent on the epithe- lium normal to the part. As far as the cardiac orifice it assumes the form o squamous epithelioma, at the cardiac orifice it is usually one form of glam u ai cancer, at the pylorus and as far as the anus it is columnar epithelioma, am a the anus it is again squamous epithelioma. It has been observed that in t lose organs which have an intermittent functional activity, cancer is more frequent than in others, and in them it is especially apt to occur at the pcrioi s o commencing senile degeneracy. The Geographical Distribution of Cancer is a most interesting an important element in the problem of its origin, and by a closer study o i than has hitherto been made, I believe that much light may be thrown on Cancer appears to be a disease favoured by, if not actually dependent on, the aggregation of individuals under the influence of an advanced civiliza mi. Amongst savage tribes, as amongst wild animals, it is unknown. In the „ centres of civilization, as amongst domesticated animals, it abounds.