962 TUMOURS. cancer is a malignant growth. Some tumours occasionally present the clinical characters of malignancy, though structurally they are intimately related to others which arc usually looked upon as essentially non-malignant; and we are thus obliged to consider, that these terms are merely relative, and that these two great classes pass into one another by insensible gradations. It will be subsequently seen that the sarcomas and some cartilaginous tumours stand in this intermediate position between the more typical examples ot these two great groups. Those apparently benign tumours which have a tendency to recur after removal, and thus to run as it were a locally malignant course, are usually very rapid in their growth and development. Indeed, great rapidity of glow th may n usually be looked upon as evidence either of malignancy, or of liability to speedy recurrence after extirpation. In some cases, after repeated lemovals, the tendency to recurrence appears to wear out, and the patient eventually overcomes the disease. But in other instances this fortunate lcsult does not (I occur. Where tumours of any kind recur after removal, it will often be found 1 that the secondary differs in some respects from the primary giowti. Thus it maybe found to be softer, more vascular, and more diffused. In microscopical structure, it may be found to present evidences of gicnteL ac.ivityj f of growth, and to depart more widely from the normal type. _ Pao-et makes the important observation that tumours, apparently similar in structure, may run very different courses in different individuals, in some 1 being in every way innocent, and in others malignant. Thus a tumour, com- posed purely of spindle-shaped cells, may in one case show no tendency to < recur after removal, or to affect distant parts ; whilst in another it may not only infiltrate surrounding tissues, but give rise to secondary grow ths in internal organs. Paget makes also the very interesting practical remar V which agrees entirely with the result of my own observation, that the childre of cancerous parents may be the subjects of tumours not carcinomatous^ 1 structure, but closely resembling such growths m the rapidity oftheirpiogie^ their liability to ulcerate and to bleed, and their great disposition to return The term Semi-malignant may be employed to include those Worths which occupy the doubtful position indicated above . it must, 10"e ’ distinctly understood that this term cannot be employee 111 am v ei\ Innocent and malignant tumours are occasional!) met with in ^ person, four or five different kinds of growth even occurring in ^ I have seen in one patient a scirrhous breast, enchondromatous leg, and an atheromatous cyst 011 the back, with scrofulous g am s . New formations of different types may be found even in ic thus, cncephaloid cancer and spindle-celled sarcoma hav c j to the testis. This, hosvevev, must not be taken possibility of the conversion of one into the other, but 1. • is a departure in different directions from the normal mode of indeed no proof that a non-mahgnant can be conveited 11 ‘ ^ take on into a malignant tumour of a different type : a 111 sarcoma at last rapid growth and assume the characters of a mahe ‘ be’changed destroying the patient, but there is no evidence that it c ^ ^ ^ of a into a cancer. A malignant tumour may, toroejc , < 1^ & scirrhous noil-malignant growth that has been removec .