Soo INJURIES OF THE FACE AND ADJACENT PARTS. CHAPTER XXYI. INJURIES OF THE FACE AND ADJACENT PARTS. Face.—Cats about the Cheeks ancl Forehead are of common occurrence. These injuries present nothing peculiar, except that the structures of the face show the same ready disposition to repair that characterizes the scalp when injured. In the Treatment of these wounds, it is of much consecpience to have as little scarring as possible. The edges, after being well cleaned, should be brought neatly into apposition by fine hare-lip pins and twisted suture, or by one or more wire sutures deeply applied to take the chief strain, and a number of fine horsehair interrupted sutures to bring the edges in accurate apposition. If the wound penetrate to the nose or mouth, so that there will be sufficient drainage from the mucous surface, the skin may be covered with collodion. When the wound is in the neighbourhood of the eyelids, especial care must be taken to prevent any loss of substance, lest the contraction of the cicatrix produce eversion of the lid. In those cases in which a portion of the nose or lip has been lost, much may be done to repair the deformity by properly conducted plastic operations, such as will be described in Chapter LVIII. The bleeding, which is usually very free in wounds of the face, in consequence of the division of some arterial branch, may often be arrested by passing the hare-lip pin under the vessel, and applying the twisted suture above it, so that it may be compressed. If the LiIp le cut from within, by being struck against the teeth, the coronary, artery may be divided, the patient swallowing the blood that flows into the mouth. Some years ago, a man was brought to the Hospital, drunk, and much bruised about the face. Shortly after his admission he vomited a large quantity of blood, which was at first supposed to proceed from some internal injury : but, on examining his mouth, it was found that the blood came from the coronary artery of the lip, which was divided with the mucous membrane. Parotid Duct.—It occasionally happens in wounds of the cheek that the parotid duct is divided, in consequence of which the wound does not close, and a trickling of saliva takes place upon the outside of the cheek; a Salivary Fistula, a source of much disfigurement and inconvenience, being established. The surface surrounding it is puckered and somewhat excoriated, and the fistula opens by a granulating aperture. If from its anatomical situation a wound is known to have divided the parotid duct, the formation of a fistula may be prevented by bringing the skin surface accurately together, leaving the mucous aspect of the wound freeh open and covering the surface with a piece of lint dipped in collodion. If the divided ends of the duct can be seen in the wound it has been recommended to pass one end of a fine piece of silver wire down into the mouth and the other up the duct towards the parotid for a short distance and then throug i