169 CAUSATION OF INFECTIVE INFLAMMATIONS. True infective processes in wounds are rare, even when the discharges are decomposing, unless at the same time the patient is exposed to unhealthy sur- roundings. In private practice erysipelas is uncommon, pyaemia is scarcely ever met with, and hospital gangrene is unknown, even when no special means are adopted to prevent decomposition of the discharges. If, however, a number of patients whose wounds are treated without antiseptics, be crowded together, as in the case of the wounded after a battle, even if it be in a building which has never before been used for such a purpose, infective pro- cesses are certain to manifest themselves. How it is that infective processes characterised by the presence of a specific virus capable of transference from one individual to another, make their appearance under unfavourable hygienic conditions is still far from being fully understood. Assuming that the micro- organisms constantly associated with infective inflammations really stand to these processes in the relation of cause and effect, it has yet to be determined whether each form of infective inflammation is due to a specific organism, constantly present in the air or in water and ready to attack the patient when the unhealthy surroundings to which he is exposed, or other causes of mal-nu- trition, such as prolonged wound-fever, or constitutional disease, have reduced his strength so far as to make it possible for the parasitic fungi to inyade his body ; or whether simple, non-pathogenic organisms may, by growing in the discharge of a wound rendered unhealthy by putrefaction, develope a virulence they did not before possess, and so become capable of invading the livin°- tissues. This subject involves the whole question of the “ mutability of bac* tena,” and cannot be discussed here. Suffice it to say that Koch and other observers have shown that, however the organisms may acquire them virulent properties, and whatever may be them origin, when a characteristic organism has been found associated with a distinct form of infective inflammation it can be transferred from animal to animal by inoculation and even cultivated artificially in proper media outside the body; and that generation after genera- “ the sam8 form’ an<1 when inoculated produces the latfeZw jyf'®™86 of pathogenic organisms in the surroundings of the of ZLZZZZlfn admiflou t0 the ajafeni ? The direct inoculation i.ifecHon Z hrf Z f, ^ ma'M% °f 8m'gioal cases- the m°de of been Zw,, to ?' »**« »*• «• air of a hospital ward has cells til , !"’ m add,tl0n t0 fragments of clothing, epithelimn- driedfcaL Zl w “ ***** 1*» «&. foments of IF—^ Wire orgMtoTfeSZZZT61'’ “Z il is P°ssible- “ case of pathogenic Microscopic roZntZ1™ Zt Z,local SCttt of inflammation from within, inflammations in u-1 - a /n °Und 111 a^ acute abscesses and in many infective they have been snn * '7° 1S n° °ben .wounc^; and, unless we assume that they have fount/1-/ aucous 7 generated within the body, we must admit that 7 0Wld thcir "V* by the lungs or alimentarv canal. We have