* SYPHILITIC AFFECTIONS OF MUCOUS MEMBRANES, nu iulcerative affection of the mucous membranes assumes a variety of forms, which, will immediately be described, and occurs principally in the throat and nose. The exanthematous affection of the mucous membrane is usually an early sign of constitutional syphilis, frequently showing itself a few v eeks after the primary occurrence of the disease. The other varieties belong to the more advanced secondary or tertiary periods. Contractions of various mucous canals often occur as the result of syphilitic affections, the narrowing being- due to firm, fibrous bauds, often excessively dense in structure. These are ofteu merely cicatricial, formed on the healing of syphilitic ulcerations. In other cases they seem out of all proportion to the extent of the destruction by ulceration, and would appeal- then to be due to diffuse fibroid induration of the submucous tissue, followed by contraction. They are most frequently met with in the rectum, vagina, and pharynx. The syphilitic affections of the mucous membranes are most conveniently considered according as they affect distinct organs dr parts of the body. The Lips are commonly affected in persons labouring under squamous syphilide, with fissures or cracks usually somewhat indurated, and very painful in the movement of these parts. In the Treatment, the application of a pointed piece of nitrate of silver to the bottom of the crack will give the most effectual relief. The insides of the cheeks are not unfrequ'ently affected in a similar manner, or become the seat of mucous tubercles, which must be treated as has already been stated. The Tongue may be affected in various ways : when severely, its disease usually constitutes one of the tertiary manifestations of syphilis. In the early period of the secondary stage of syphilis, small papules, similar to those on the skin may appear. They are of little importance, and cause no inconvenience. During the second half of the first year of syphilis, and often at a later period, small superficial ulcers on the sides of the tongue, having an irregular or oval outline, and a gray, surface, are not uncommon. They cause considerable discomfort. They are best treated by being touched twice a day with a solution of perchloride of mercury (gr. ij to 5]). The surface must be previously dried with a handkerchief. Solid nitrate of silver is often as effi- cacious. Another form of late secondary manifestation on the tongue is a small fissure, or crack, at one side, surrounded by a zone of thickened epithe- lium, which gives the mucous membrane at the affected spot an opaque blue tint. These ulcers require the same treatment as those just described. Mucous tubercles are not uncommon on the tongue, but are less frequent than on the lips or cheek. At a later period the dorsal surface of the tongue, usually only in its anterior half, undergoes a chronic change. The epithelium becomes opaque, white, and thickened, sometimes in patches, sometimes uniformly, and if the tongue be dried and then examined, it will be observed that the papilla) in the affected area have disappeared, the surface being almost smooth. The disease is a chronic inflammation affecting the corium of the mucous membrane* and the submucous tissue, with overgrowth of the epithelium covering the affected part. It has received various names, according to the appearance produced : when the surface is smooth, and bluish in tint, it is spoken of as the “smooth tongue,” or chronic super final glossitis; when the opacity is greater it has been called psoriasis of the tongue; and when the epithelium is heaped up so as to form scales, the term icthgosis linguae has been