MICROSCOPIC CHANGES IN INFLAMMATION. 149 from red corpuscles, known as the inert layer. I11 the inert layer is seen an occa- sional white corpuscle, passing somewhat lazily along, with some tendency to adhere to the wall of the vessel. If from any cause the stream be slow enough to allow of the individual red corpuscles being observed, it will be seen that they show no tendency to adhere to each other or to the wall of the vessel ; although, as every one knows, when removed from the influence of the living vessels they show a remarkable degree of adhesiveness, sticking not only to each other but to every solid body with which they come in contact. The arteries show constant slight variations in calibre, which are not rhythmical, and are depeudent on causes the exact nature of which is uncertain. The flow through the capillaries varies in rapidity with the state of the artery, being more rapid when the vessel is dilated and slower when it is contracted. In observing the foot of the frog, there will also be seen a beautiful system of branched cells containing pigment-granules, by means of which the animal is able to change the tint of his skin. When the pigment is collected into a closely packed mass round the nucleus of the cell, the frog is pale ; when it is diffused evenly throughout the whole cell, the animal becomes of a darker tint. These variations of tint occur under the influence of light, the frog becoming pale when exposed to bright light and dark under the opposite condition. Thus, then, in the healthy web, there are three phenomena of easy observation, which indicate the vital activity of the tissues, the want of adhesiveness of the coipuscles, the variations in the calibre of the artery and the movement of the pigment cells. rl here is yet another sign of health which is not to be observed v ith equal ease, and that is that the capillaries allow no more serum to exude thiough their walls than is necessary for the healthy nutrition of the sur- lounding tissues, and the amount is such that any excess can be readily drained away by tire lymphatics. Supposing now that some irritating substance be applied to the web, the normal phenomena just described will be disturbed proportionately to the potency of the irritant employed, or, in other words, to the degree of injury done to the tissues. The immediate effect of such an injury is, in most cases, ^dilatation of the arteries, with an increased flow of Mood to the area injured. I his is spoken of as determination of blood to the part,—active hypersemia, active congestion—or fluxion. Some irritants, such as ammonia or mechanical violence, cause contraction of very short duration, ;;“rcedes!he dllafcafcl0n> but this is always of brief continuance and of of bln iVT1 anGC', widening ol the artery allows a greater quantity for? m° flowmto fche caPmai’ies which consequently become dilated in their e^ihHH6 ""“I flow. °f bl00d ^onsh them is accelerated , lastly of the fbn10U wiGndS 1° ?e Tein- Ifc wouW seem afc first sight, that dilatation of the nrm S 11 onp which the blood is flowing, would lead to a slackening the dilm ? rat iei’ ihaU fc° “ mcreased rapidity of flow; and so it would, if not fi t on °c,currcd equally in arteries, capillaries and veins,-but this is Bornetimp«Se' i. 1Gsma arteries are capable of very great variations in size, times thP!,COnvlaC.mff a most to obliteration and at others expanding to many of nronorfim” 'f !)ie’ . ddc. capillaries, on the other hand, arc capable purely nn<s«; ^ f 1TlUC 1 css dilatation, and such widening as does take place is relaxation mm/111 a conserJucnce °f the increased pressure caused by the capillaries it K 1G i-11 teile8, ^ ^'C aidei7 in a dilated state will admit to the UPP les times the quantity of blood it allows to pass when