1071 SOFT CHANCRE—SITU A TION—DJA GNOSIS. ulcer, with a thin margin of white slough situated at the junction of the dead and living structures ; that which covers the surface of the sore having usually become darkened by exposure to air, to dressings, and to secretions. The phagedcmic chancre with black slough differs but little from the last, except in tiie colour of the slough, which may he in a great measure accidental, and in its tendency to somewhat rapid extension. Phagedmnic sores are most commonly met with in persons suffering from debility from want of food, or after exhausting diseases, and in scrofulous subjects. Chancres are also very apt to assume this form amongst troops exhausted by the hardships of a campaign. Phagcdamic sores when spreading rapidly are often accompanied by much pain and a good deal of constitutional disturbance. Situation.—As simple chancres almost invariably result from connection with persons suffering from sores of similar nature, they commonly occur on the genital organs. In the male they may be met with in any part of these ; their characters vary somewhat, however, according to the situation in which they occur. They are by far most commonly seated in the angle formed between the glans and the prepuce ; the situation next in order of frequency is the orifice or the inner surface of the prepuce, next the framum, then the glans, more rarely the orifice of the urethra, in some cases extend- ing a short way down the canal, and lastly the skin of the body of the penis. Those about the framum are often sloughy and irritable, have a great tendency to perforate or destroy this membrane, and are more frequently followed by haemorrhage or bubo than any of the other varieties of the disease. Chancres may also form on other parts where they have been accidentally or purposely inoculated. Thus I saw many years ago (1839) in Ricord’s wards, a man, labouring under eczema of lice legs, in whom the cutaneous disease had been converted into a series of immense chancres by accidental inoculation from a sore on the penis. lu women, chancres are most commonly situated on the external organs of generation, usually just inside the fourchette or labia minora, very rarely indeed on the lining membrane of the vagina, but sometimes on the cervix or os uteri ; lienee it is impossible ever to pronounce a woman free from chancre without examining these parts by means of the speculum. When situated upon the external organs, they are not unfrequently concealed between the rug®, or in nooks and corners of the mucous membrane. In these cases, their presence may sometimes be detected by the labia being swollen and oedematous from the irritation produced by them. Diagnosis.—The diagnosis of chancre is usually not difficult, the peculiar character of the sore enabling the Surgeon to recognize it in all its forms. In some instances, however, it is by no means easy to say positively whether an ulcer on the penis be or be not chancrous. It is especially difficult to distin- guish some forms of excoriated chancre from herpes on the prepuce or glans or from those slight excoriations that many men habitually contract after a somewhat impure connection ; so, also, the wound resulting from a ruptured framum often presents a suspicious appearance. Herpes of the prepuce is recognized by the closely-set crop of small vesicles with some redness round them. Herpes may become inoculated with the poison of a chancre. Pustules then quickly form in the place of the vesicles