UNION BY GRANULATION. 277 healing by scabbing the same conditions are necessary as for union by first intention ; anything that causes a persistence of inflammation, by leading to continued effusion, will soften or loosen the crust. If the scab forms before the serous effusion has ceased, and thus retains it in the wound, the surfaces will be separated, and tension, causing persistent inflammation ending in suppuration, will follow, which in many cases will be aggravated by decomposi- tion of the pent-up discharge; for although the scab may exclude organisms from without, the wound will probably contain large numbers which have entered before it was closed, and are ready to develope if they find a suitable fluid in which to grow. In the human subject, therefore, it is only in small, cleanly cut wounds that healing by scabbing is likely to occur ; it is, however, more common in the lower animals. The processes that occur beneath the scab are identical with those already described under imion by first intention. The natural process of scabbing is sometimes imitated by the Surgeon when he closes a small punctured wound, such as that of a compound fracture, with a piece of lint dipped in blood, collodion, styptic colloid, friars’-balsam, &c. under which union may take place. 4. Union by Granulation, in those cases in which from the nature of the wound union by first intention is impossible, or in which from the broken state of the patient’s constitution, or from some local interference with the process, it fails to be accomplished, healing by “the Second Intention” as it is termed, occurs ; and we may often see in the same wound one poition unite by primary union and the remainder by granulation. Amongst l e injuries m winch we look for union by the second intention are included ontused and lacerated wounds of all kinds, in which, from the mechanical violence^done to the tissues, a layer of variable thickness is completely deprived is vitality and has to be cast off as a slough by ulceration before the process of repair can commence ; incised wounds with loss of so much substance that 1 is impossible to bring the surfaces into apposition, as after the removal of hthoLTv fcT°U1\and WTdS thr°Ugh Avhich some secrefciou Sows, as in lithotomy. Poisoned wounds also must unite in the same way, as they are accompanied by a persistent and often spreading inflammation due to the i i W1 j I) 101 ^ey are infected. The raw surfaces following burns and ws"caTrt,ee le,t remorai »f b{ 8TanuIation’ althon8'h apparently differing so widely from that bv isgss;33! consequently inflammation will a ’ cvery S0lu?e of irritation is absent, and the injured tissues hnve 1 ! 8 acc°rnpanymg exudation ceases as soon as they were tWn tjfh^ the State °f lowercd ^a% into which there is always somp In, • f UpdU/l } 11 wounds which unite by granulation considerable time after Ce.°. llntation present which continues to act for a inflammatory process with Tlm'I’ gives rise to a prolongation of the wound with loss of TnbTit kn f°lmafcl0n of P™. Thus, in a simple open cold air to the me 1 • 10 .raw surface ]s exposed to the influence of i^tiony^Srr1p,ra^,0n 0f the dresshlgs and t0 thc cliemical 1 utions in some cases and decomposing discharges in