1003 SARCOMA—ALVEOLAR—PLEXIFORM. They show a considerable tendency to local recurrence after removal. In rare #! cases, ossifying sarcomata are found unconnected with pre-existing bone. Alveolar ancl Large Round-celled Sarcoma—In these rare tumours, which were first clearly described by Billroth, the cells are of considerable size, 11 sharply defined, and each containing a large round nucleus (Fig. •'•*-)■ lbe} !i thus closely resemble epithelium-cells in appearance. They are separated from j each other by a distinct and somewhat abundant fibrous stroma, but on careful ui examination this stroma will be found to penetrate between the individual cells. In some parts, probably from the pressure of the growing cells, the stroma may •; be partially absorbed, so that the cellular elements seem to lie in alveolar ,, spaces in immediate contact with each other, but further examination of the . tumour will always show parts where the stroma and cells are closely inter- ;i mixed. On carefully pencilling out the cells from a thin section, a delicate 1, stroma is brought into view, passing between the individual cells and sub- i dividing the spaces formed by the bands, which give the growth its alveolar :j and cancer-like appearance. In some cases, however, the distinction between 1: these tumours and scirrhus is very difficult. Alveolar sarcomata occur chiefly in the cutis, bones, and muscles. 1 In the cutis they form hard rounded tumours, often multiple, of tolerably 1 sIoav growth, and free from pain. ' They lead ultimately to ulceration of the skin and the formation of an :! intractable sore. In the bones, they : are more often single and of more 1 rapid growth. Three cases affecting i the cutis have occurred in Univer- | sity College Hospital during the last i few years. In the first, three ampu- 1! tations were performed for recur- j rence of the growth after removal, by Christopher Heath, commencing with one finger and ending with the ; fore-arm. The tumour, when first removed, was supposed to be a specimen of scirrhus of the skin. Finally similar tumours appeared in the cheek and scalp, and two more operations were performed. The man died shortly : afterwards, and there was reason to believe that the cause of death was a ! similar growth in the lung. The whole history of the case lasted more than : seven years, and at no time had the lymphatic glands been affected. In the H second case, Berkeley Hill amputated the leg for a number of similar tumours ! situated below the kuee, from one of which the accompanying drawing is 1 taken ; and in the third, Marcus Beck amputated half the foot for a similar growth, which commenced at the roots of the second and third toes, and had recurred three times after removal. Fig. 392.—Alveolar Sarcoma from Skin of Leg (1SS diam.). a. To show general arrangement. b. After prolonged pencilling.shows the intercellular as well as the alveolar stroma. Plexiform Sarcoma or Cylindroma.—A rare form of tumour has been escribed by Billroth, Sattler, and others, under this name. It consists of small cells of a polygonal form arranged in cylinders communicating with each othci in a plexiform manner, between which is a varying quantity of hyaline, 01 finely fibrillar connective tissue. Knob-like projections or globe-like masses 0 tiie cells are also met with. The individual cells are in immediate contact Wl 1 each other, without any apparent intercellular substance. The peculiar