G UN-SHOT WO UNDS. 33<> rhage must be permanently arrested by making an incision down to the bleeding vessel, and applying a ligature on each side of the wound, for reasons that will be fully stated when we come to speak of Injuries of Arteries. In military practice such operations, however, appear to be very rare, and the ligature of a large artery for primary haemorrhage after gun-shot injury is scarcely ever practised. The fact is that, if a large artery be wounded, the patient usually dies outright from haemorrhage before anything can be done to arrest it. If a small vessel only be divided, the haemorrhage will speedily cease of itself. The second point to be attended to is the Extraction of Foreign Bodies, such as shot, slugs, or bullets, wadding, pieces of clothing that have been carried in with the ball, splinters of bone, and other matters of a like kind. These will generally be found near the aperture of exit, through which they may often be more easily extracted. If the Millet lodge, it, together with foreign bodies accompanying it, such as pieces of clothing, must be extracted through the wound, or cut out by a counter-opening. This second opening is often of great utility in affording a ready exit for subsequent discharges, &c. Palpation of the limb or region struck will often lead to the discovery of the bullet, when it lies amongst the muscles or beneath the skin. A consideration of the direction whence the bullet came, and the position of the patient when hit, will often direct attention to the spot where the ball has lodged. If possible, the same position of body or limb should be assumed ; the track of the bullet will thus be straightened, and the finger or probe can be carried down to it more readily. In searching for bullets and other foreign bodies, care should be taken not to probe the wound unnecessarily from mere curiosity, or so as to excite irritation; in many cases, the introduction of the finger is far more useful than that of the probe. The advice given byAmbroise Pare, three hundred years ago, with regard to the examination of gun-shot wounds, can scarcely be hnpioved upon. After advising that the examination of the wound be made as soon after the injury as possible, before swelling and inflammation set in, he says : “ This is the principal thing in the performance of this work, that you place the patient in just such a posture as he was in at the receiving of the wound ; for other- wise the various motions and turnings of the muscles will either hindei or straighten the passage forth of the contained bodies. You shall, if it be pos- sible search for these bodies with your finger, that you may the more certainly and exactly perceive them. Yet, if the bullet be entered somewhat deep m, then you shall search for it with a round and blunt probe, lest you put the patient to pain.” The extraction of the bullet should be accomplished without delay, before inflammation has set in, and the lips and sides of the wound ave become swollen. As Macleod justly observes, the extraction of the ball no only removes a source of physical irritation and suffering, but also of meutal disquietude. The mind of the patient becomes more tranquil and easy. Bullets cannot be allowed to remain lodged in the body with impunity. i is true that in some cases they become encysted, and so cease to irritate ; out m the great majority of instances they produce suffering and constitution:! us- turbance and may at last occasion fatal mischief ; tor, although a bullet in.. cratinue fixed fo'r years, yet it may at last, under the influence of muscular action gravity, or the absorption of fat, begin to move and to give r & injurious consequences. If any foreign body be very tightly fixed, so tha