1056 SCROFULA AND TURK ROLE. cess of ulceration or caries, usually commencing in their articular ends or can- cellous tissue. The bony tissue becomes invaded and destroyed by an advancing growth of small round cells, amongst which will usually be found giant-cells, epithelioid cells and lymphoid corpuscles, arranged as already described in tubercle-forming non-yasoular areas amongst a fungating mass of vascular granulation tissue. The inflammatory products tend to early degeneration and softening, and chronic abscesses containing unhealthy curdy pus are formed. This condition is especially prone to occur in the spongy tissue of the articular ends of long bones or in the cancellous tissue of short bones, more particularly the vertebra} and the bones of the foot. When the disease extends from the bones into a neighbouring joint, a chronic inflammation of a similar character springs up in the whole synovial cavity, giving rise to the condition known as white swelling. The membrane becomes covered by a mass of fungating granulation-tissue, scattered through which nodules are usually met with identical in structure with those already described under tubercle. In other cases the chronic inflammatory process commences in the synovial membrane and secondarily affects the bones. Necrosis of the compact tissue of long bones is also frequently ascribed to the constitutional taint of scrofula; and the process above described is often complicated by death of considerable portions of the cancellous tissue. Another common scrofulous affection of bone is that known as strumous dactylitis (Fig. 411). It is of frequent occurrence in children. One or more phalangeal or meta- carpal bones become gradually enlarged. The medullary canal becomes distended with chronic inflammatory products, the compact tissue is absorbed and a fresh layer deposited from the periosteum, and thus the bone becomes “ expanded.” The inflammatory products caseate, then soften, and finally form unhealthy curdy pus, which slowly makes its way to the surface and is dis- charged. Secreting Glands arc less frequently affected by scrofulous inflammations. The testicle perhaps most commonly suffers ; a large mass of caseatiug inflammatory products slowly forming in connec- tion with the epididymis. Lastly, the lymphatic glands are peculiarly prone to scrofulous disease ; in fact, the affections of the glands are usually looked upon as the most constant and characteristic feature of scrofula. It is not, however, only the glands that suffer ; wherever lymphoid tissue exists, as in the follicles of the tonsil and pharynx, or in the submucous tissue of the bronchi and intestines, it tends to undergo hypertrophy in strumous subjects. The enlargement of the glands in scrofulous subjects can almost always be traced to some irritation at the part from which they receive their lymph supply. In the mildest form the gland simply enlarges, and may after a time subside or be left perma- nently larger and harder than natural. In most cases, however, there is distinct chronic inflammation, and the gland becomes greatly increased in size. This is found to be due to an increase of lymph-corpuscles and to 411.—Scrofulous Diseases of Finger anil Arm.