185 VARIETIES OF SURGICAL FEVER. indicate an increase of both or either of these in the general mass of the blood ? There is no reason to believe that in simple inflammations there is any material change in the number of red corpuscles ; but in infective in- flammations, and in those accompanied by the absorption of the products of decomposition, there is undoubtedly a rapid destruction of the red corpuscles, so that as pointed out by Wharton Jones and Simon, they fall below the natural standard. They are said by some observers to manifest increased adhesive- ness, and a tendency to aggregation into clusters by cohesion of their flat surfaces when removed from the body during inflammatory fever. As to the white corpuscles, we know that they are present in augmented numbers in the vessels of the inflamed part: whether they are really more numerous in the blood in inflammation is doubted by Paget, Simon, and others. Fever is said to terminate by Lysis, when the symptoms gradually subside; and by Crisis, when the fall of temperature is sudden. In the latter case, it is often accompanied by a “ critical evacuation ” as a free flow of urine con- taining a large quantity of lithates, a profuse perspiration, or a watery dis- charge from the bowels. Varieties of Surgical Fever.—Inflammatory fever presents an infinite variety of form, the type which it assumes being dependent : firstly, on the nature of the pyrogenic substance, the admixture of which with the blood is the cause of the disturbance; secondly, on the state of the nervous system; and thiidly, on the occurrence of certain local and specific symptoms determined by the seat of the inflammation. These varieties in the type of the fever arrange themselves practically into two classes—1, sthenic ; or 2, asthenic. The terms sthenic and asthenic are not used at the present day with reference to varieties of inflammation as they were in former times; but for the designation of the different forms of febrile disturbance, as observed clinically, we have no better names, and it is convenient to continue to employ them. In all forms of fever there are three distinct stages: those of invasion, exacerbation, and decline. I11 practice, the recognition of the type or form that the constitutional fever of in animation assumes is of the first consequence. The treatment of the pa lent, irrespective of the topical means that the special local affection may equne, being altogether determined by the particular form that the concomi- t cousti utional disturbance assumes, it cannot be too sedulously borne in 116 S1S;1IS’ “the redness> swelling, heat, and pain,” do not in themselves comprise all the morbid phenomena of inflammation ; there is ZSSn constitutional disturbance, and it is the character of this treatment 01j ?ever thafc wlU afc lasfc determine the kind of L tW.enl \ ^ lfc cousecluen% squires to be closely studied, of healthv conoccurs in young or middle-aged individuals results from ,, “10n* Jfc 1S form usually assumed by the fever that larm wound durim/ti^fl^ ° ^ chemical products of putrefaction from a inflammations nf ° Z8 ^ 00 v a^er Mjhction, and is often seen in acute ableTes lmp°rfcant 01^anS’ or during the formation of acute with a feehnvt invasion is slightly marked : there is chilliness or shivering to escape observatfo^1 ? ,)Ufc tbese, symptoms may be so transient as tional disturbance f u'1 ^ of cas°s it is not until the constitu- now hot and th • " ? developed that it attracts attention. The skin is ’ tllC1'e 18 a nse ln thc temperature of the body of from 2° to 5°