i°54 SCROFULA AND TUBERCLE. under the care of the Surgeon, and were formerly classed as simply scrofulous, but are now regarded by many pathologists as tubercular. Inflammation Consequent upon the Development of Tubercle.—h, general tuberculosis the deposit of tubercle is frequently followed by a diffuse inflammation of the surrounding tissues. The best example of this is the diffuse inflammation of the membranes of the brain which occurs in tubercu- lar meningitis. In what way the formation of the grey granulations excites the acute inflammatory process in the surrounding parts is uncertain. When a tubercular nodule or a mass of yellow tubercle softens, it excites inflammation and suppuration in the surrounding tissues. The process is usually a chronic one ; a collection of pus slowly forms in the affected part, and a chronic abscess results. When this reaches a surface and is opened or bursts, pus containing curdy shreds of fatty granular matter escapes, and the walls of the cavity are found to be of a yellowish colour, with ragged flocculi of softened caseous matter adherent to them. A section through such a wall may show the surrounding tissues studded with grey granulations in various stages of caseation. Tubercular abscesses are most commonly met with in surgical practice in diseases of bones or joints, and in lymphatic glands and the testicle. If the tubercle become formed in the submucous tissue of a mucous membrane, an ulcer is left after the softened mass has been discharged. The floor of the ulcer is yellow and granular, the base slightly indurated, and the edges raised and sometimes undermined. The tubercular ulcer tends slowly to spread, the base and edges becoming progressively infiltrated by fresh tubercle, which in its turn caseates, softens, and is discharged. Such ulcers are chiefly met with in surgical practice in the bladder, rectum, and tongue. They are common also in the larynx. When softened tubercle becomes exposed to the air, the inflammation surrounding the diseased focus may be aggravated and hastened by decomposition of the discharges. Scrofula or Struma.—Scrofula is a constitutional condition character- ized by a tendency to inflammation of a peculiar type. These inflammations arise from slight causes which would be innocuous to healthy subjects ; the course of the" process is slow and feeble ; when affecting a mucous surface it tends to assume the form of chronic purulent catarrh ; in deeper parts the inflammatory products are abundant in quantity, have little tendency to develop into a higher tissue, but are prone to early degeneration and casea- tion, followed by softening, with the formation of thin, unhealthy, curdy pus. After suppuration has been reached the process tends to persist, and gradually to extend, giving rise to ulceration with progressive destruction of the affected tissue. After apparent recovery relapses are common, the feeble cicatricial tissue breaking down, and the destructive inflammation beginning again. The nature of scrofulous or strumous inflammations will be made more clear by briefly describing some of the more common forms as they appear in different structures. In the Skin scrofula declares itself by a variety of cutaneous eruptions : of these, eczema is one of the most common, and it tends to be complicated by suppuration, forming the eczema impetiginodes so common on the scalps of scrofulous children. Another common form of skin affection is the mbrulanmis sirwnous abscess. This arises as a small, flat, indurated growth, commencing immediately beneath the cutis vera. The patch slowly extends till it reaches the size of a sixpence