629 OBSTACLES TO REDUCTION. much of the resistance as is overcome by putting the patient under the in- fluence of ether or chloroform, is dne to muscular contraction. All that which continues after this, is due to purely mechanical causes connected with the arrangement of the osseous and ligamentous structures of the joint, or with the injury inflicted on them. The resistance offered by the muscles is of several different lands, and is dependent on different causes. The influence exercised by the patient’s will, and the tonic contraction or passive force exerted by the shortened and displaced muscles, undoubtedly often offer great obstacles to reduction. But more serious than these by far is the reflex or spasmodic action, which the patient is unable to control, and which can be overcome only by force, by faintness, or by the paralysing influence of anesthetics. The longer the dislocation is left unreduced, the more powerful does the resisting force become; being less at the moment of the accident and immediately after- wards, than at any subsequent period. Hence reduction should be attempted as soon as possible after the occurrence of the accident; and, if the patient be seen at once, the bone may sometimes be replaced without much difficulty by the unaided efforts of the Surgeon. Thus Liston reduced a dislocated hip by his own endeavours immediately after the accident occurred. If a few hours have elapsed, the muscular tension becomes so great that special measures must be adopted in order to diminish it; and if some weeks or months have been allowed to pass by, the dislocation may have become irreducible, partly owing to permanent secondary shortening of the muscles, which it is impossible to overcome, but chiefly to the matting together of the surrounding tissues, and the formation of adhesions about the head of the boue. The muscular resistance is greatest when an attempt is made at reduction by forcible traction in the direction of the longitudinal axis of the limb, and parallel to the course of the muscles. In the reduction of a recent dislocation, advantage may sometimes be taken of the occurrence of faintness, or of the patient’s attention being distracted to other matters, the muscles being then taken, as it were, by surprise, and the bone readily slipping into its place. Such aids as these, however, cannot be depended upon; and muscular relaxation should be induced by the administra- tion of chloroform or ether. By the employment of these valuable agents, the ! muscles of the strongest man may be rendered so perfectly flaccid and powerless in a few minutes as to offer no opposition whatever to reduction, which is thus wonderfully simplified and facilitated. In no department, indeed, of practical surgery has the administration of anesthetic agents been attended by more advantageous results than in this. 2. The reduction of dislocations is impeded also by the mechanical resist- ance arising from the anatomical structure of the joint and its ligaments. The observations of Bigelow, Busch, and others have proved that this impediment to reduction is of more importance than was formerly supposed. Brnelow has shown by dissection of dislocations of the hip, produced in the dead body that the characteristic attitude of the limb and the difficulty of reduction is due to the tension of the unruptured parts of the capsule and its accessory bands nsequent upon the abnormal position of the head of the bone, and thus it rPrWim fch(rse are relaxed, by placing the limb in the proper position, that slmnlrJ)nCanj- accompHshed- Busch has shown that the same is true of the m • . • 'l0'2 * * * * * * * * 11 ’ kie characteristic position of the chief forms of dislocation beimr < mec v en the whole of the soft parts have been removed except the