WIIITLOIF—TREATMENT. 929 cuticle. Pus rapidly forms in the finger, and may extend to the palm of the hand, finding its way into the common sheath of the flexor tendons, and spreading up the forearm under the annular ligament. Whitlow affecting the little finger or thumb is much more likely to cause suppuration in the common sheath of the flexor tendons than when it occurs in any of the other fingers. This is due to the fact that the synovial sheaths of the flexor tendons of the thumb and little finger generally communicate with the common sheath, while those of the three other fi ugers do not. There is usually no fluctuation to be felt in the finger, even though pus may have formed, but in other parts of the hand it may readily be detected in the usual way. In these cases there is always much sloughing conjoined with the suppuration ; the areolar tissue of finger and hand, the tendons and their sheaths, and the palmar fascia being all more or less implicated. In some cases the end of the finger, as far as the first phalangeal joint or the middle of the second phalanx, falls into a state of gangrene and has to be separated. In many cases the joints of the fingers are destroyed, and the phalanges necrose ; or, if this do not happen, the tissues of the part may be so matted together, as the result of sloughing and suppura- tion, that rigid and contracted fingers, or a stiff and comparatively useless hand, may be permanently left. In the Treatment, the patient should be well purged and kept upon a moderate diet during the early stages. In all cases of whitlow affecting the pulp of the finger the part should be soaked in hot water for a short time, after which the thick cuticle should be carefully shaved down with a sharp knife. If a specially tender spot can be recognised it often happens that as the cuticle is removed at that part a drop of pus escapes, which gives imme- diate relief. By this plan of treatment incisions can be very frequently avoided and the mischief cut short. In severe cases the two essentials in the treatment consist : First, in the arrest of the inflammation, and secondly, failing in that, in the prevention of necrosis of tissue, whether areolar, tendinous, or osseous, by strangulation from the extreme tension of the inflamed parts. The first object is best accomplished by smearing the affected part thickly with belladonna and glycerine, covering it up in cotton-wool, and keeping the hand slung. In many cases this treatment will arrest the inflammation, limit- ing the disease to its first degree. Should the inflammation, however, exteud, spreading with deep throbbing to the back of the hand and palm, or creeping- up the course of the lymphatics of the arm to the axillary glands, no time should be lost in giving exit by means of free incisions to the engorged and tense tissues, and thus preventing the occurrence or limiting the spread of slough and Pus- Wl’th this view, a free incision should be made in the palmar aspect of the finger, its length and depth proportionate to the extent of the inflammation. In opening a deep-seated palmar abscess, there is danger of wounding the branches of the median nerve, the superficial palmar arch, and (ll"ltal aytcnes- . These structures may all be avoided, and the operation one sn c y, ly making the incision toward the head of a metacarpal bone, ipon the bone itself and parallel to its axis, so as to avoid the digital inter- •Mces. the sheath of the flexor tendon should be spared if possible; but if it a ec ec it must be Ircely opened, or the tendon will certainly slough and e linger be permanently stiffened. This incision should be made from the r t 0V,1U<S cnc^ ^he finger, so that if the patient involun- 3 0