INFLAMMA TOUT GANGRENE. 88r on the vessels of the inflamed part, thus still further arresting the cir- culation through it. In gangrene as a termination of inflammation there are thus three causes involved: first, the direct injury done to the tissues, including the walls of the vessels, by the irritant which causes the process; secondly, obstruction to the circulation from within by stasis, and thirdly, obstruction from without by the pressure of the inflammatory exudation. Ihe relative part taken by these different causes varies in different forms of gangrenous inflammation. In some, the irritant that causes the process is so powerful in its action, or as it is more commonly expressed in clinical lan- guage, the intensity of the inflammation is so great as to kill the part almost directly, however healthy its texture or sound the constitution of the patient may be. More commonly, however, it is not so much the actual as the relative intensity of the inflammation that destroys the part: there being some debility, local or constitutional, by which the resisting power is lessened. Thus gangrene aiises especially in persons whose tissues have become degenerate in consequence of old age, of defective food or of other materials of life, or tin ough habitual intemperance. It is remarkable to observe what slight injuiies ip induce gangrenous inflammation under these circumstances. The nature of the tissue also exercises considerable influence; thus areolar tissue land fasciae slough more readily than the skin or muscles, and the proper tissue o g auds is seldom so affected. As a rule, the least vascular tissues slough most readily. The pressure of the exudation exerts a marked influence In many forms of spreading gangrenous inflammation of the areolar tissue. Ihus 111 phlegmonous erysipelas free incisions may avert the danger of sloughing of the skin and subcutaneous tissue by relieving tension and allow- ln8 a ready exit for the inflammatory exudation. Gangrene may form the termination of an inflammation arising from simple mechanical, physical, or chemical irritants. It is then localized, and has ft 6 tendency to spread beyond the area directly injured. It is much more frequently met with as a characteristic feature of certain forms of infective ZlJV11 phlegmouous ei7sipelas, sloughing phagedana, hospital L r ? lu'g §angrene’ cancrum 01'is, or malignant pustule. The peual features of infective inflammations have been already pointed out the r 6 ^ fangren°us forms of infective inflammation, death of the tissues may be due directly to the intensity of the virus as in ST TrtS are ***** 88 « * the action of a powSl of ti e knidationf^ “Jr00 °f th® cu’flatl0U fchc extent and abundance vided aSSS i 1 Pffm.onous erWelas, in which, if free vent be pro- vented snn 7 7 inC1S10n’ fche deafch of the tissue may be pre- hospital iZ gangren0ns “tarnation are intensely contagious as inoculation f ; 0 ' ier's’ .as ina!lgnant pustule, are communicable solely’by “ "T 0rfS’ "'“'“"S'1 hn™S character patie” t to a t,0n’ “ “* ***** °f W>'S from one infl"enc“ grcati-v *■» **<*«« of vitality of the part. ' oiu l"ucll ar’ "'variably resulting in tbc loss “Iways'conneoted'with1 i'1 111 13 “f .‘ho moist or acute kind, being G. “ mth " rete,1<aou ot Wood in the part affected. We may