LOCAL DISTURBANCES AND INFLAMMATION. i8S sufficient severity to lower the i-itality of the affected part, but not actually to kill it. The agents that act in this way, as we have before seen, are spoken of in surgical language as irritants. Our first object, theicfoic, in the prevention of inflammation, is to protect the tissues from all sources of irritation and, fail- ing this, to remove the original irritant as quickly as possible, anil to prevent the introduction of fresh causes of irritation. Under this heading are included :—the removal of foreign bodies; the avoidance of irritating applications; the prevention of tension, by drainage of wounds and position of injured parts ; the relief of tension, as by early opening of abscesses, or by incisions in cellulitis, to allow of the escape of inflammatory effusions; and the prevention of decomposition in the dis- charges of wounds and abscesses, and the exclusion of specific infective poisons, such as that of pytemia, erysipelas, or the like. 2. All irritants lower the vitality of the tissues upon which they act, and if of sufficient intensity, cause death of the part. The degree of damage done is proportional, firstly, to the intensity of the irritation, and, secondly, to the vitality or, in other words, to the power of resistance of the tissues. In the prevention of inflammation, or in the limitation of the process, our first object must be to do everything in our power, both by general and local means, to promote the healthy nutrition of the tissues. .. Under this heading comeattention to diet; avoidance of alcoholic excess; regulation of the action of the bowels, skin, and kidneys ; the treatment of constitutional conditions, such as gout, rheumatism and syphilis. I^cal y the chief objects in view are—to preserve a normal state of the circulation y removing causes of congestion, or local amemia, as by the excision otooms pressino- 0n vessels, the cure of varicose veins, and the relief of the distended capillaries by uniform elastic pressure ; by elevation ofth °oid ovJ^ork of strangulation ; to maintain a normal temperature ; and to aioid over-work of the part, as in excessive use of the eye or larynx. . , , When the inflammatory process is established, we cannot too strong v in mind that the vitality of the part it lowered, and that our^maini objectsiare to avoid further depression, which might extinguish such life as J encourage the return of vitality by the maintenance of a noirnal tempeiat and by the regulation of the disturbed circulation by such means as we have at our command; and to ensure as far as possible both functional and mechanical r1nlm^n“etss able to withstand the effects of heat and cold of chemical irritants, or mechanical violence. Thus, the application of cold or "rful antiseptic solutions (all of which are. more m less - the necessary injury of a surgical operation, may, in an inflamed pa.t, J the process, and even cause sloughing-. , , dilatation of 3. The essential phenomena of inflammation aie : - ), ‘ aihtc(j the arteries with increased blood pressure m the area supphed • vessels 1 secondly, the exudation through tar things totals the white corpuscles; fourthly, the pressure; thudly, the mi er at ion vascular dilatation and complete arrest of the circulation ” tension, which, exudation cause the ^vales' the inflammatory process, acting as a fresh solute »1 '1“'»' * a== t illflammatjoa is Ihmfin to One of the primary objects in the treatment