AMPUTATION THROUGH THE HIP-JOINT. *37 ! tliis must of course vary according to the length of the anterior flap. When the amputation is performed on the right side, the anterior flap is made by I entering the knife just above the tuberosity of the ischium, and bringing it out two fingers’ breadth below the anterior superior spine of the ilium (Fig. go) ; the remaining steps of the operation being performed as in the last case. In transfixing from the inner side, if the point of the knife be directed too much upwards, it may enter the thyroid foramen. In order to avoid the inconvenience caused by standing in a cramped posi- tion between the patient’s thighs, many Surgeons transfix from the outer side Ion the right side as well as on the left. In consequence of the extent to which the limb that is about to be removed may ha^ e been injured, or have been encroached upon by disease, it is not always easy to make the anterior flap of the size or shape described. A little management on the part of the Surgeon will however enable him to take the requisite amount of covering from the outer or inner parts, by inclining the point or the heel of the knife downwards, as the case ma,y require ; or he may make the anterior flap by incision from without inwards, instead of by transfixion. When the femur is entire and unbroken, Assistant No. 2 uses it as a lever, bringing the lower end of it in the second stage of the operation downwards and outwards, thus causing the head of the bone to press against the anterior part of the capsule, and to start out with a peculiar sucking noise as soon as the latter is opened. Should, however, the bone have been fractured high up, this movement cannot be given to it; and then the Surgeon must grasp the upper end of the femur below the trochanters, so as to steady and push it back as he is disarticulating its head. In two of the cases m which I have amputated at the hip-joint, it has been necessary to do this— m one m consequence of the crush of the bone, two inches below the trochanters, by a railway accident ; in the other, in consequence of its spontaneous fracture at the junction of its upper and middle thirds, in a case of rapidly growing malignant disease of the bone. This fractured con- dit on of the femur necessarily makes the operation somewhat more difficult, 1 e by XVLeTT hm l0ng i6^' aff0rded b? the limb * its sound on l , bead “ tdted uPwards and forwards, and the capsule put t0 ^ br0UgM ***** againSt the P°infc of tbe knife as it hen!wi7°Utatl°U at biP"-i°int’fche 8'reafc immediate danger formerly appre- hended was excessive hemorrhage, the incisions being made so high up that the bf fPplied- By means of Pancoast’s compressor, danoei h,thZt^0Uf/he abdomiual aorta maybe arrested, and thus the theopeiatffin mnJr ^ * T* n°W the arresfc of the hemorrhage during Afl??hfabZ l ° assistant wbo can be fully relied on. throuffii the'inrtn'nia oomP1.esso1. bas been applied, and the flow of blood the brim of fhe /™ e<?’ ,11S busmess should be to compress the artery above ^ the first incision, and, above and below'^ made, slip his fingers under it and grasp-it firmly as the knife enta >° ^ ° com^’.e8s tbe femoral artery in it, which is divided will be but littlo i-’ V"1/ i°Wt b ^ grasping the flap tightly,, there abdominal aorM ° ia3morrbag® fr°m the femoral artery, even when the ias not been compressed by the application of the tourni-