287 PATHOLOGY AND TREATMENT OF SHOCK. importance of the part wounded. Thus, if the whole of a limb be torn away by a cannon-shot, or crushed by a railway train, the shock will be se\ere from the extent of the mutilation, though the part injured be not immediately necessary to life ; whilst, on the other hand, if a man be shot by a pistol-bullet through the abdomen, though the extent of the injury be trifling, and merely a few°drops of blood escape, yet the shock to the system will be severe, owing to the importance in the economy of the part injured. The Surgeon not unfrcquently employs this fact as an accessory means of diagnosis. Thus, if a man break his leg, and at the same time strike his abdomen, and the shock be very serious and long continued, without sign of rallying, the probability is that some severe injury has been inflicted upon an internal organ ; injury of the viscera occasioning more severe and continued shock than a wound of a less vital part. In extreme cases the depression of power characterizing shock may be so great as to terminate in death. Jordan describes two kinds of death from syncope, as being produced by shock. In cases where the impression is sudden and violent, the heart is contracted and empty, or nearly so. More frequently, however, there is a sudden arrest of the contractile power of the heart, and its cavities contain more or less partially coagulated blood. In the great majority of instances, however, reaction comes on, and the disturbed balance in the system is gradually restored. Not unfrequently the reaction runs beyond the limits necessary for this, and a febrile state is induced, the traumatic fever, which will be presently described. Shock must not be confounded with the effects of concussion of the brain, nor with the syncope that results from loss of blood. It may be associated with, and its intensity materially increased by one or both of these conditions ; but it commonly occurs independently of either. It is due to the impression produced on the nervous centres by the violent afferent impulse caused by the injury to the peripheral nerves during the accident. The exhaustion of the nervous centres thus induced is shown by the general state of muscular relaxation, the loss of tone throughout the vascular system, the feeble action of the heart, and the state of semi-unconsciousness into which the patient is thrown. The general relaxation of the vessels throughout the body thus occurring simultaneously with an extremely feeble action of the heart, leads to an accumulation of blood, with partial stagnation in those parts of the vascular system which are most dilatable. This is especially marked in the veins of the abdominal cavity. The lungs are also frequently gorged with blood. The abstraction of so large a portion of the blood from the circulation causes anaemia of other parts, and it is thus that the pallor of the skin and the anaemia of the brain have been explained. This theory, however, though highly probable, is scarcely yet definitely proven. Pathological Appearances.—There are no characteristic post mortem appealances after death from shock. The heart, rarely contracted, is more often found full of blood, especially the right auricle and ventricle, and the w ole venous system is somewhat gorged, unless the patient has lost much 1 ood from the accident. The blood was said by Hunter to remain fluid in some cases of death from shock, but this is certainly of very rare occurrence. igoi mortis is usually well marked. The lungs are engorged, the abdominal viscera congested, but the brain is pale and amende. Reatjient. If the shock be chiefly mental, the patient will usually rally