SPECIAL FRACTURES. 568 the shaft, a little above or at the line of insertion of the capsule. This fracture is occasioned by severe falls or blows on the shoulder. It cannot result from indirect violence. A hill on the hand or elbow may dislocate the humerus or fracture its shaft, but it cannot break its upper aiticulai end. The signs of this injury arc by no means very distinct, though much light has been thrown upon them by the labours of it. W. Smith. There is loss of motion in the shoulder, with some swelling and consideiable pain, together with some deformity; an irregularity, produced by the upper end of the lower fragment, can be felt towards the inner side of the joint; crepitus is easily produced ; and there is, on measurement from the acromion to the olecranon, shortening to the extent of about one-third of an inch. When this fracture is impacted, the upper fragment penetrates the lower one. In consequence of this, the axis of the humerus is directed somewhat inwards towards the coracoid process; here also some irregular osseous swelling may he detected. The head of the bone can be felt in the glenoid cavity, but is not in the axis of the limb, the elbow projecting slightly from the side, there being at the same time a hollow some little distance under the acromion. There is consequently more deformity about the joint in the impacted than in the simple intracapsular fracture, with the same impairment of motion, but crepitus is wanting, or a slight grating may be felt, on firmly grasping the shoulder and rotating the elbow. . I- In fracture of the anatomical neck of the humerus, the portion of bone broken off may be completely loose, like a foreign body in the joint. Lncer these circumstances, theoretically it might necrose and give rise to destruction of the articulation, but I can find no recorded case of such an accident. It is probable in most cases, as E. W. Smith supposes, that its vitality is preserved in consequence of some partial union being kept up between it and the rest of the bone by untorn shreds of capsule, and in other cases it may be due to im- paction. But supposing it were free, there is no reason why it should neces- sarily cause suppuration, any more than a loose piece of cartilage chipped o the femur in the kuee. If perfect rest were maintained, it is possible that the loose fragment might form new adhesions to the shaft. In any case, the repair necessarily proceeds from the lower fragment. . Treatment—As there is often much swelling from contusion m these cases, evaporating lotions should be had recourse to for a few days. A pad may then be placed in the axilla, and a leather- or gutta-percha-cap fitted to tlies1'0111 and upper arm, the limb having previously been bandaged The band m be supported in a sling, and the elbow fixed to the sm e. n examini reducing these intracapsular fractures, no violence should be employe , any impaction of the fragments be disturbed, or portions of untorn caps of much importance for the ultimate osseous repair of the injury, c l h Extracapsular Fracture of the Neck of the Humerus.-In this injury, the bone is broken through the surgical neck, or that portion w m i is x. °' tuberosities, but above tho insertions of the pectoral* major, latounus do«, tet; maA and deltoid muscles. This accident is most frequenU * hut it mav occur in children as well, the separation then taking p act . the ine of .motion between the epiphysis and the shaft of the bone fa tacture there is a double displacement: the “Pf' outwards by the infra-spinatus and teres minor, and abducted y