TREATMENT OF CANCER. io35 infiltration of the connective tissue would lead to a suspicion ol malignancy. If the base be examined and the proper structure of the tumour be found im- plicating the muscular coat or extending to neighbouring parts, its malignan nature is put beyond a doubt. . T The secondary growths met with in the glands and liver maintain tne characteristic features of the primary tumour, so that a tissue, looking like crypts of Lieberkiihn irregularly massed together, may be found m the lymphatic glands or in the liver. In the lymphatic glands of the groin these tumours may break down and ulcerate, as in squamous epithelioma. Diagnosis.—The diagnosis of the nature of the growth can be made only when it is situated in the rectum. It is then often possible to remove a small L portion for microscopic examination. Prognosis is always very grave on account of the situation in which the tumour forms. Limited growths may be safely removed from the rectum, and lately such tumours have been excised both from the colon and pylorus, the parts being united by suture of the intestine, but these operations have so far not been attended by any great measure of success. Other Forms of Cancer were formerly described, the chief of which i were Osteoid Cancer and Melanotic Cancer. Osteoid Cancer was the name i given to the tumour now known as Osteoid or Ossifying Sarcoma (see p. 1002). The growths formerly described as Melanotic Cancer are also now classed with the sarcomata. It is possible that there may be a pigmented form of j epithelioma, but if such a tumour does exist it must be of great rarity. Treatment op Cancer,—The treatment of cancer will necessarily be in a 1 great measure dependent on the view that is taken of its origin. The constitu- i tionalists would naturally endeavour to discover some method of preventing ' the development of or of eradicating that blood-poison, or that general ' tendency which they suppose to underlie the local affection. They would necessarily discard operation as being not only useless, but erroneous in i principle—as erroneous as it would be to amputate the foot to cure the gout. I The localists, on the other hand, necessarily rely on the removal of the primary local disease at as early a period as possible, as the only means of preventing secondary deposits, and constitutional infection. Hence the dis- ! cussion as to the origin of cancer has a most important practical bearing on the treatment of the disease. All Curative Constitutional Treatment is ■ certainly useless, no constitutional remedies appearing to exercise any material influence on the disease. I am not acquainted with any case of cancer, either from my own observations, from conversation with other Surgeons, or from published statements, that affords satisfactory evidence of cure by an internal 1 remedy. It is true that many so-called cases of cancer have, at various times, been stated to have been cured by different medicines ; but it must be borne in mind that, in a less advanced state of pathological knowledge than exists at the present day, almost all hard chronic tumours were called “ scirrhous,” i and many intractable ulcers “ cancers ” ; mistakes which are not unfrequently ; committed, and sometimes unavoidably so, even with the improved means of | diagnosis that we at present possess. Hot one of the many remedies that have been vaunted as being specific in this disease, and by which cures have been stated to have been effected, has obtained the confidence of the profession, or has, on further trial, corresponded in its effects to the statements of those who introduced it. I therefore think it but waste of time to discuss the