io74 VENEREA L DTSEAEES. to remove any adherent slough. Everything being thus thoroughly cleaned the operation of circumcision maybe completed ; after ligaturing any bleeding vessels, the parts must he thoroughly sprinkled with iodoform and wrapped in iodoform wool. By these means infection of the wound can generally be avoided. There should be no delay in. performing the operation. When pus comes from under a long foreskin and its source cannot be seen, the patient should always be advised to submit to circumcision, uidess there is some very marked improvement, following the application of fomentations and the injection of antiseptic solutions, by the third day at latest. If the pus is offensive the operation should be performed at once, as it probably arises from a sloughing chancre. If the chancres be situated round the orifice of an elongated and tight prepuce, circumcision is the best means of removing the disease and the in- convenience at the same time. The precautions just described must he adopted to prevent infection of the cut surface. In the Sloughing Chancre, when the prepuce is greatly tumefied, in a state of inflammatory phimosis, and of a deep red or purplish colour, with threaten- ing of extensive gangrene, a director should be passed between it and the glans penis, and the swollen prepuce slit up. In this way tension is removed, and- the sloughing arrested. The chancre when exposed will be found to be covered with a pulpy grey tenacious slough. This is best removed by forcibly rubbing the surface with a piece of sponge or lint soaked in a solution of chloride of zinc (gr. 40 to ^j), after which iodoform must be applied. The application of nitric acid is seldom necessary. If the state of the parts is such as to admit of it, the operation of circumcision may be at once completed. If there be much sloughing of the prepuce it is better to delay the completion of the operation till the sloughs have separated, when perhaps it may be found unnecessary. During the separation of the sloughs the penis should be wrapped in lint soaked in some warm antiseptic solution, as boracic acid or per- manganate of potash. The patient should sit in a hot hip-bath, to which - some solution of permanganate of potash (Coudy’s fluid) may be added, for i half an hour or more twice a day. A little haemorrhage need cause no anxiety, and is usually early arrested by dry cotton wool and pressure, but if it occur to an alarming extent, the patient should he put under chloroform, - and the actual cautery freely applied. This not only stops the bleeding, but i arrests the progress of the sloughing. When once the chancre is healthily J granulating, it must be dressed in the same way as any common ulcer. The local treatment of the Phagedsenic Chancre depends on the form it l assumes. If it be the eroding ulcer without slough, iodoform will often arrest 1 it, but its action is by no means certain. If it fails bichloride of mercury (gr. ij to 5]'), diluted if it is too painful, is often of great service. Should) this fail the strong nitric acid may be applied, after which it may be dressed with 1 a dilute nitric acid and opium lotion. If the phagedamic process be spreading rapidly with a white or black slough, the sore must be treated like hospita gangrene. The slough must be scraped away, and fuming nitric acid, or in bad cases the actual cautery, applied freely, after which iodoform and boracic acid fomentations, or lint soaked in the nitric acid and opium lotion may be used, the caustic being applied again whenever there is any tendency to extension of the disease. In obstinate cases of phagedamic chancre liebra i Germany and Hutchinson in this country have recommended That thepitien