SPECIAL FRACTURES. 6i8 Fractures in the Vicinity of the Ankle-Joint are among the most common injuries of the bones of the lower extremity. They are usually occasioned by twists of the foot, by slipping off the kerb, by catching it in a hole whilst running, by jumping from a height to the ground, or off a carriage in rapid motion. These fractures are usually associated with severe strain, or even dislocation, of the ankle. Twist of the foot in these cases must not be confounded with dis- location of the ankle. In a twist the foot carries with it the lower fragments of the leg-bones, and the mal- leolar arch in a more or less perfect state. In a dislo- cation, the foot is thrown out from under this arch. The twist of the foot is almost invariably outwards, with the inner side downwards and the outer edge turned up, and the sole usually remains in this direction, though not always to the extent that Dupuvtren states, and the inner malleolus projects under the skin. Most commonly the toes are turned somewhat outwards, and the heel inwards. Fractures of the lower ends of the tibia and fibula present four distinct varieties in degree. 1. The fibula may be broken at its weakest point, two or three inches above the malleolus exteruus, the deltoid ligament being either stretched or torn. 2. The fibula may be fractured about three inches above the ankle, the tip of the malleolus interims being splintered off as well (Fig. 255). This constitutes the form of injury called Pott’s Fracture, and is perhaps the most common fracture in this situation. It \ery frequently becomes compound, the sharp edge of the root of the malleolus cutting through the skin as the foot is twisted outwards. 3. The fibula may be fractured about three inches above the ankle, and the lower end of the tibia at the same time be splintered off in an oblique direction from without, downwards, and inwards (Fig. 257). _ _ 4. The internal malleolus may alone be broken off, the fibula remaining sound, but one of the divisions of the external lateral ligament being torn through. . . . The Signs of these fractures vary somewhat according to the bone that is injured. ' When the fibula alone is broken, there is but slight displacement ot the foot, but great pain and much swelling, with perhaps indistinct crepitus, and irregularity of outline, at the seat of fracture. When the lower part of tlie fibula is broken, pain is produced at the fractured part by squeezing the icnes of the leg together at a point distant from the scat of injury. If the tip o the inner malleolus be broken off as well, this may be ascertained >y ccc in» the depression above the detached fragment. In these cases the eupmi> u more distinct, and the displacement of the foot is much more marked, the sole being turned somewhat upwards and outwards, and the patient resting up its inner side. It is this peculiar twist of the foot with its Fig. 255.—Displacement of Bones and Foot in Pott’s Fracture (Richard). outer edge itK inner SICIC. it is mis nuunuiu unou u* —— " . . . <■ turned up, aud the inner side down, that constitutes the characteristic sign ^ Pott’s fracture. In those cases in which the lower end of the