METHODS OF OPENING ABSCESSES. 243 cheesy matter can be felt in the cavity, it must be carefully removed by means of a small scoop or sharp spoon. In the treatment of chronic abscess in connection with joints, very free incisions, laying the cavity completely open from one end to the other, at its most dependent part, will be found to give the best results. In small chronic abscesses, such as those arising in connection with caseating glands, or in scrofulous subcutaneous abscesses, which frequently occur in situations in which it is desirable to avoid a scar, the best mode of treatment is to make a puncture, through which a small “ sharp spoon ” (Fig. 95) can be introduced, by means of which all the half-softened cheesy matter can be removed. After the cavity has been thoroughly scraped out, a small drainage- tube should be inserted. These operations as a rule succeed much better if performed with antiseptic precautions. Potassa Fnsa, though its application be painful, may be advantageously used for opening those chronic subcutaneous abscesses, the skin covering which is much undermined, congested, and discoloured. In these cases I commonly employ it with great advantage. In some forms of chronic abscess it will be found that those processes which Fig. 96.—Introduction of Seton into Abscess through Cannula. are necessary for the contraction and closure of the cavity, after its contents lave )ecn evacuated, do not readily take place; and it becomes necessary to nave recourse to measures, which, by exciting inflammation in the wall, brine about changes which are followed by healing. With this view, a Seton of two or three threads may very usefully be passed across the cyst bv means of a n^vus-neeclle or by a long straight needle pushed up through a cannula used h s*10ldd in for a few days, by which time ealthy inflammation will be set up. In other cases again, after the cyst has been Upped, the red wash or diluted tincture of iodine should be injected when thew Thes^.methodsof exciting inflammation are especially useful veiv tWcl!^ f thm’ and °f-a Ver^ chro™ ^racier. When the wall is CaS STefclmGS haPPeus abscesses of very old standing- dissected mil 1C V’ ,U1 01Ptl.ca P*ece °i' fPe superficial portion should be This nlnn rf 1 '"'l °c.aT1^ hghfcly Messed, and allowed to fill by granulation, in the neck m6n 1S • , 1 vcr^ successful; and I have by it cured abscesses plan employed ^ °U 01 ei8^lt yofll's standing, which have resisted every other WaS hdroduced "do modern surgical practice by Chas- ls 0 10 8reatcst value in keeping the cavities of abscesses, and,