86o INJURIES OF THE ABDOMEN AND PELVIS. the openings to one another, and by that means prevent extravasation. To ' this practice the great objection exists, that extravasation will probably occur before there has been time for the effusion of lymph, and agglutination of the . contiguous surfaces ; besides which, it is impossible to secure the necessary • correspondence between the two apertures, the wounded gut being very liable j to alter its position after it has been replaced. It has been found by experi- ence also that one of the objections urged against the employment of a suture— that it cannot prevent the escape of feculent matter—is not valid. If it be • properly applied, it may effectually do so, as was shown by a successful case under my care, the details of which were published in the Lancet for 1851. That the stitches act as sources of irritation to any extent, is also doubtful. Travers found by experiment that, when a womided gut was sewn up, and returned into the abdomen, the sutures quickly became bridged or coated over . with a thick layer of lymph, and, gradually ulcerating their way inwards, at last dropped into the cavity of the intestine, being discharged per anum, and leaving a firm cicatrix at the point to which they had been applied. For these - various reasons, Guthrie, Travers, and other Surgeons of experience, advocated the practice of stitching up the wound in a protruding intestine in suitable cases, with which opinion I entirely agree. The treatment, however, must necessarily vary in different cases. Much must depend on the nature, cause, . and extent of the wound in the gut. If it be the result of gunshot-violence or other contusing force, the simple application of a suture is not likely to be of much service ; for not only might it be difficult to bring the edges together, but they Avould probably not adhere to one another, nor to the abdominal wall. If, however, the wound be punctured or incised the case is different. Much will depend also upon the way in which the stitches are applied, and the material used. The sutures should consist of carbolized catgut or of silkworm-gut, such as is used for fishing, or of strong fine sewing-silk well carbolized. They must be introduced by means of a fine round needle in such a way that the peritoneal surfaces on each side of the wound are brought into contact. It is almost needless to observe that unless the serous surfaces arc brought into contact no union will take place. Two serous surfaces will readily unite il brought into good apposition, but no union can possibly take place between two mucous surfaces, or between a serous and a mucous surface. Hence, in stitching up the wounded gut, the Surgeon must carefully see that the serous surfaces are well and firmly brought together, and need not trouble himself about the other coats provided they are kept out of sight. With the view of stitching together the serous surfaces, much ingenuity has been displayed, and many devices have been practised. The mode of application most frequently adopted in the present day is that recommended by Lembert. The needle is introduced about a quarter of an inch or a little more from the wound, and made to penetrate as far as the sub-mucous tissue ; it is then brought out again about one-sixth of an inch from the edge of the cut on the same side ; on the opposite side, it is made to enter one-sixth of an inch from the edge of the cut and brought out at a quarter of an inch fiom it (Figs. 343, 344). The stitches must not be more than a line apart, andit c whole number required must be introduced before any are tightened. >> ien the sutures are tightened the mucous membrane is inverted, and the serous surfaces are brought into accurate contact. This suture is easily app ie 1U