INJURIES OF THE HEAD. 752 looking mass of cerebral matter protrudes from the wound. Ihe pciiod alter the receipt of an injury at which this protrusion takes place, varies from a few clays—eight or ten—to several weeks. It has been remarked by Guthrie, and the observation has been fully confirmed, that hernia cerebri is more likely to take place through small than large apertures in the cranial bones. The protrusion is always the result of abnormal intra-cranial pressure, from inflammatory swelling of the brain-substance round the injured spot, or occa- sionally from the formation of an abscess in the hemisphere. As the protrusion increases in size, it becomes partially strangulated by the narrow opening through which it passes, and its size becomes increased by oedema, and by haemorrhage and effusion into its substance. Thus the tumour increases rather Fig. 325. Hernia Cerebri following Compound Comminuted Fracture of Right Parietal Bone. rapidly, pulsates synchronously with the brain, and may shortly attain the sir „/a hen’s egg, or become even larger (Fig. 325). In * size 7XKZ ssrart its .* structure it varies. In some instances it is composed chiefly of blood; but the true fungus cerebri is composed of softened snd d mtt grated cerebral matter, infiltrated with inflammatory exudation and W Softening of the brain, with red discoloration extends for some under the base of the tumour. The mental condition of the patrols m many cases not much disturbed at first, there being merely some degreeof cerebral irritation. Speedily, however, stupor comes on, and death u> in- cases eventually occurs from encephalitis, ending m coma, consequent o inflammatory effusions that take place within the skull. . , Although the prognosis in fungus cerebri is extremely bad, it isn 111 ■ In the American war seven cases of recovery are recorded. Iu Hie its of 1859, Demme saw five recoveries out of tweuty-one cases. Treatment.-Preveutive treatment is of the greatest importance, foif be complication be once established, its cunlis very prc- scptic treatment of the wound by some eftcicnt method is o y 1