9°3 CAUSES OF HOSPITAL-GANGRENE. T&zzsi ■natients n a wai’d and the putrefaction of the discharges fiom then wounds. The aii- is thus contaminated by the products of respiration, the exhalations from the bodies and excreta and the effluvia from the decomposing animal matter, while the wounds themselves are rendered prone to suffer fiom t infection by the irritation of the septic discharges m which they are bathed [ believe that the disease may at any time be produced by overcrowding of patients with suppurating wounds in the same ward or room. The last out- break that occurred at University College Hospital, more than twenty years ago was evidently due to this cause. In one of my wards, which is intended to contain 15 or 16 patients only, owing to accidental and unavoidable cir- cumstances, 21 patients were admitted, and slept for one night, many of them having suppurating wounds. The result was an outbreak of hospital-gangrene, which”spread through the Institution, and was most serious and persistent. But though it commonly has its origin in this way, especially in the crowding of military hospitals after a hard-fought action, it is met with out of hospitals. Well-marked cases of this affection, some of a very severe character, have at times occurred amongst the out-patients of University College Hospital. In these cases, as in many others, it is probable that the disease was occasioned by the neglect of hygienic conditions, in the close and ill-ventilated houses of the poor, aided possibly by some atmospheric or epidemic influence; erysipelas and phlebitis being also very prevalent at the time. This had been obsei \ ed at the time of the first occurrence of the disease at our Hospital, in 1841 ; and it is impossible not to recognize a similarity of cause in these difleient affections. Hospital-gangrene is a highly contagious disease, and when once it has broken out it will readily spread from patient to patient by contact with nurses’ or Surgeons’ fingers, instruments, dressings, and above all if the pernicious custom of using sponges in cleaning sores be adopted. It is im- possible to be too careful in these respects. It may also be carried by organic particles in the air, and thus be said to be “ infectious. Pathological Anatomy—The slough is composed of the tissues of the part infiltrated with inflammatory products, the fluids having undergone coagulation. The individual cells arc not recognizable, the whole presenting a finely granular appearance. When stained and properly prepared, innumer- able micrococci are seen amongst the granules; they are in colonies or chains, or single. The perishing tissues immediately beneath the slough arc infiltrated with migrating cells, which press upon the vessels, some of which are obliterated, and others filled with clots. Micrococci arc recognizable in this region also. The relation of the micrococci to the process has not yet been definitely ascertained. Koch succeeded in inducing in mice a gangre- nous process closely resembling hospital-gangrene by the inoculation of a form of micrococcus which showed a regular mode of growth in chains. The infec- tive process was purely local, death occurring without infection of the blood. The micrococci were originally obtained from putrid blood, but subsequent inoculations from one animal to another were constantly followed by the same