163 THE ESSENTIALS OF PUTREFACTION. blisters on the feet or hands, (d) Tension. Abnormal tension acts both as . a primary and a secondary cause of inflammation ; a tight stitch, pent-up discharges in a wound, or obstruction of the duct of a gland, are all familiar examples of tension acting primarily as a cause of inflammation. As a secondary cause it is still more important, as it comes into play to a greater or less degree in all inflammations as a consequence of the dilatation of the vessels and the exudation. In an acute abscess, it is the tension produced by the accumulation of fluid that causes the persistence of the inflammation, which subsides more or less completely as soon as the pus is let out. It is' partly the diminution of tension by emptying the over-distended vessels that gives relief hi elevation of an inflamed part; in fact it will be seen hereafter that the relief of tension is one of the chief objects in the treatment of almost every inflammation. 2. Physical.—Under this heading are included heat, cold and electricity. The effects of the two first are too familiar to require further explanation. Electricity acts as a cause of inflammation only when it gives rise to decom- position of the tissues by electrolysis. o. Chemical.—All strong acids and allcalies and innumerable salts, such as corrosive sublimate, chloride of zinc, &c., act as irritants when applied to the tissues. Numerous natural products of the vegetable Icingdom, such as croton oil, mustard, &c., and some animal products, such as cantharides and the poison of various venomous reptiles and insects, act as more or less power- ful exciting causes of inflammation. The most important, however, of all bV°f in'1f,ant® m. sul=lcal Practice are the chemical products of putiefaction. It is to the irritation caused by these that the inflammation and suppuration which so frequently accompany open wounds are due in the great majority of cases ; and the great improvement that has taken place in surgery during the last fifteen years has been brought about chiefly by tel " m less perfect exclusion of this source of irritation. It is necessaiw tblw ellmnos^lnordr' fir? HeCessar^ editions of putrefaction, ^composition 01 Putrefaction of annual matter is now universallv recoo- , ft aS a proc.esj °f fermentation, the essential conditions of which are which have migrated from the n ^ Vast number of white corpuscles, tory lymph or %Ztic 1 fonnil,S S0‘Called lymphatics or acoumuhtes in n ’ " U 6 t le serum either flows away by the open wound the plastic exudatl^^8 natlUal fco fc,ie Parfc- I" the case of an shall afterwards see the first 1 <lccimiulates on the surface and forms, as we unless, from any 7m 7 f 1 °f 11111011; while the serum drains away, the cavity of the 2?°! “ 10 treafcment, it is allowed to accumulate in natural cavities of tf10 1" 1 U comPouucl fractures and wounds opening the P^stic exudatl f rfl drailla§'e « not always possible. The be looked upon „„ j- .p0sc'c. 0 80 iU'S'G an extent of living cells that it may putrefaction, Ti .lssuc’. and consequently incapable of undergoing Extravasated blood . lmv].Be serum, which is highly putresciblc. ’ eltl,cr m 0* spaces of the areolar tissue, as in a bad