X CONTENTS. Chapter III.—Special Amputations. Amputations op the Upper Limb—Fingers—Metacarpo-Phalangeal Articulations —Thumb — Metacarpal Bones —Wrist — Forearm — Arm — Shoulder-Joint — By Transfixion—Lisfranc’s Method—Larrey’s Oval Method—General Results of Amputations of the Upper Limb .. . . . . • • Amputations op the Lower Limb—Toes—Metatarso-Phalangeal Articulations— Amputation of Great Toe—Anatomical Guides in the Foot—Metatarsal Bone of Great Toe—of Little Toe—Amputation of Metatarsus—Key’s Operation—Ampu- tation through Tarsus—Chopart’s Operation—Stoic's Disarticulation at the Ankle-Joint—Pirogoff’s Amputation—Subastragaloid Amputation—Results of Amputations of Foot—Amputation of Leg—Flap Amputation—Circular Opera- tion—Results—Amputation through Knee-Joint—By Anterior and Posterior Flaps—By Lateral Flaps : Smith’s Method—Amputation through Condyles: Carden’s and Lister’s Operations—Results of Amputation through Knee-Joint 01 Condyles-Amputation of Thigh—Yermale’s Operation-Amputation of Middle and Upper Thirds of - Thigh—Through Trochanters—Results of Amputation of ^ Thigh—Amputation at Hip-Joint—Results Ml Chapter lY.—Local Disturbances of Circulation, and Inflammation. T ... 142—143 Local Anemia • • • • ‘ ,,T Active Local Hyperemia. Active Congestion, Determination op Blood, or Fluxion—Causes—Symptoms—Effects Passive Congestion—Causes—Effects—Symptoms—Treatment . . . ] Strangulation * . * * ’. c.0C,-0 Inflammation—History—Microscopic Changes in : Active Hypeimmia Stasis —Oscillation—Thrombosis—Migration of the White Corpuscles Inflammatory Lymph — Modes of Termination : Resolution — Suppuration — I lceration —Gangrene.-Causes of Inflammation: Predisposing—Exciting. —Irri- tants! Mechanical-Physical-Chemical-Products of Putrefactmn.—Organ- ised Irritants—Micrococci—Bacilli.—Functional Irrit t - • - IRRITANTS-Varieties of Inflammation-Local Signs. Inflammatory Fe'EK —Symptoms—Varieties.—Irritative Fever . . • • * ‘ r. ll(1 Treatment of Acute Inflammation Preventive Treatment: Antiseptic^ Co —Rest—Acute Inflammation with Sthenic Fever—Constitutional Local 18’.l_2(lS ment of Asthenic Cases ‘ o,—,. Chronic iNFLAMMATloN-Pathology-Causes-Phcnomena-Constitutional SyjJP^ toms—Treatment, Constitutional and Local . . • ; . * * , 7 J,,, ” Catarrhal Inflammation—Pathology—Purulent Catarrh—\ aneties 'np219^_22I —Treatment ...••••• Chapter Y.—Suppuration and Abscess. £ “ ic—Albuminoid, or Amyloid V »■ AMOTSS Definition—Acute or Chronic—Lymphatic or Congestive—Tympam 1 . Abscess—Of and Size—Effects—Diagnosis—Prognosis Treatment Ol Acme a