SPECIAL FRACTURES. 574 the fingers arc flexed into the palm (Fig. *200, a), they can be extended rapidly, and with some degree of force, at the first inter-phalangeal articulations, as far as is represented in Fig. 200, b. This limited movement of extension is due to the action of the interossei and lumbricales muscles, which, l>eiug supplied by the ulnar and median nerves, do not participate in the paralysis that affects all the long extensors of the fingers. M. Duchenne de Boulogne pointed out that the interossei muscles extend the second and third phalanges and flex the first phalanx, flexion of the two distal phalanges being accomplished entirely by the long flexors. When the posterior interosseous nerve only is paralysed, the loss of supination and extension is necessarily not so com- plete as when the whole trunk is affected ; Lnese movements being still practicable to a limited extent, thiough the medium of the long supinator and the long extensor of the wrist, which are supplied by the radial branch. If the paralysis of the extensors and supinators be allowed to continue for some time, the fore-arm and arm jecome drawn into a state of permanent flexion and pronation, by secondary, or so- called pathological, shortening of the muscles that act in those directions ’ The"" treatment of this complication of simple fracture of the humerus must be Fig. 206.—Paralysis of Hand (Wrist-Drop) after Fracture of Humerus. these Fig. 207.—Permanent Flexure from Paralysis after fracture of Humerus. Fi" 20S.—Apparatus for Wrist-Drop after Fracture of the Humerus. conducted on the principles laid down in the Chapter on Injuries of Nerves. The patient should be encouraged to use the hand as much as possible as soon . the state of the fracture will allow of it, and a splint may be applied at nig to prevent the occurrence of deformity. In order to overcome the flexion of flip hand and Aimers due to the unopposed action of the long flexors, the splint (Fig. 208) may be employed with advantage, the hand-piece admitting of upward movement, so as to raise the hand and extend the fingers forcibly In a case in which the symptoms denoted pressure on the musculo-spiral neJve by Sne ot the fragments or by the callus, Ollier of Lyons out down on the bone removed a portion of the callus by chisel and mallet, so as to expose e nerve, and excised also a portion of bone (apparently of the lower fragment), which wi strangulating thJ nerve. Gradual improvement took place ; and, J the end of she and a half months, the patient had regained considerable power of extension of the wrist. Whitson of Glasgow performed a similar operation, and in his case the improvement was more lapid.