244 SUPPURATION AND ABSCESS. indeed, the interior of wounds generally, free from those fluid accumulations which are apt to undergo decomposition, and thus become the source alike oi local irritation and of constitutional infection. „ . In 1855, in the “ Gazette dcs Hopitaux,” was published the following description of Chassaignac’s method of employing surgical drainageThe principle of Surgical Drainage consists in establishing a continuous outward flow of the fluids, or, in other words, in bringing about a sort of drymg-up o purulent collections. It is necessary to employ tubes of vulcanized caoutc iouc of different diameters, the medium size being that oi a crow’s quill, pierced at intervals with small holes li ce those of the eye of a catheter. These tubes are placed across abscesses or purulent collections in such a way that the liquids penetrating through the holes m the sides of the tubes may easily flow along their whole length, and continuously drop from their ends or from that one which is more dependent. These tubes are introduced in the same way that a seton is ... . the end of the tube is split in two, and each piece is fixed to the skin by a strip of plaster.” To this des- cription nothing need be added. No improvement has been made on the method devisedjoy Ghassaignac more than a quarter of a centuiy ago.. Drainage-tubes are especially useful in the treatment of chronic abscesses. The tubes made of the r India-rubber are the most durable. They must cor- respond in size to the capacity of the cavity they are intended to drain ; not so much because a small tube could not carry off all the fluid that escapes but be- cause the larger tubes are less likely to get accidentally choked, and the larger the cavity, the more serious would be the consequences of such an accident For a^ psoas-abscess the tube first used should be at least as , ,, , vp fimror A Couple of threads about 2 inches m length must be tlnck as the foie-hngei a coup , , These he upon attached one to each side of the superficial end of i^ tabfcl ^ the skin beneath the dressing vim ieJu. < important, as many its slipping into the cavity. This Precaution !S )' F patient accidents have happened from its not c fc^orifcies 0f a hospital, because threatened an action for damages agan . £ dresser the tube had slipped through the neglect of this doted on the par aJLt into the cavity of an abscess, and ha een _ ‘ intended to be used as part the cure was considerably delayed. If i ‘ soiution of carbolic acid in of the antiseptic treatment, they must be kept m a soiuwou u water C1 in fo) for at I- twenty-four hours betotaug u^ A drainage-tube is used in the following nay m^nred punctured and the pus allowed to escape, the depth ot the icy , a centuries ago in the case of Philip the . Hid ti.c surgical drainage of abscesses was employed “““ ‘livJthc following most interest- pi„. 97.—“ Sinus Forceps.”