COMPLICATIONS DURING TREATMENT. 521 clean, firm, light case, which can be cut up and treated like a starched bain the treatment of ordinary simple fractures of the shafts of long bones, the following are the chief points that require attention : 1. To effect reduction at once, and with as little disturbance of the limb as possible. 2. Not to apply any roller to the part of the limb m which the fracture is situated, nor under the apparatus. 3. To line, pad, or wad the apparatus thickly. 4. To include and fix in the apparatus the two joints connected with the injured bone. 5. To disturb the apparatus as seldom as possible. 6. To use starched pasteboard- or plaster-apparatus, when practicable, in pre- ference to any more special form of appliance. Accidents and Complications during Treatment.—Various accidents and complications are liable to occur during the treatment of a fracture ; some of these are general and others special. Amongst the more common complications to which these injuries are liable, in common with all others, are tetanus and erysipelas, but these rarely complicate simple fracture. They require no further notice here. Traumatic Delirium, or Delirium Tremens, is by no means an un- common complication, and is always serious. The general treatment has been already given (p. 291). Locally, as soon as the symptoms show themselves, the fracture must be firmly supported by splints or by a starched or plaster-of- Paris-bandage, and the injured limb must be slung from a cradle. It must on no account be tied to the bed. This, as a rule, fixes only the lower fragment, while the upper works about during the struggles of the patient, and may cause the most serious mischief. Fat-Embolism.—If the limgs of a patient who has died shortly after a severe accident crushing one or more bones, be examined microscopically, after staining with osmicacid, a certain number of the capillaries, and perhaps some of the terminal arteries, may be found plugged with liquid fat. The appear- ances are very characteristic, the fat being stained black by the osmic acid ; and it is easy to recognize the plugs in tortuous capillaries surrounding the air vesicles or in the small branching arterioles. If the remaining organs be examined, similar embolic plugs may be found in all parts of the body and in the nervous centres. In the kidney the loops of vessels in the Malpighian vessels are frequently found distended with fat. The subject of fat-embolism has been fully examined by Zenker, Busch, Bergmann, Czerny, Flournoy, Dejdrine, Scriba, Hamilton, and many others, and the following conclusions have been arrived at. If liquid fat or oil be in any way set free amongst the tissues it may find its way into the circulation either by means of the lym- phatics or by the veins. If injected into the healthy subcutaneous tissue it enters the circulation more slowly than from the pleura or peritoneum. Pressure favours the process ; thus, if the fat of the medulla of a long bone be broken down and a laminaria digitata tent inserted, fat-embolism is speedily induced. In many surgical injuries we have the conditions necessary for fat- embolism. In fractures crushing the medulla of a bone a large number of the fat cells of the marrow are broken up and the liquid fat set free; and the same may happen in violent contusions of the subcutaneous tissue in fat subjects,