461 the palmar argues. wounded, no difficulty will be found in securing it; but if it be the deep, lie will very likely fail. In some cases the artery can be seized 111 a pair ot forcipressure forceps, which may be left in the wound for twenty-four hours an then' carefully removed. Under any circumstances, no effort should be spared to secure the vessel without using the graduated compress. One ot the clnel dano-ers of incisions into the palm of the hand is the occurrence of septic suppuration, extending to the synovial sheaths of the flexor tendons. In order to prevent this, it is very important that such wounds should be treated, anti- septically, thoroughly well drained, and preserved from every source of irrita- tion. A graduated compress by its pressure causes considerable irritation, and interferes&seriously with drainage. Moreover, if a compress is applied with suffi- cient force to stop the flow of blood through the artery, it must necessarily render the whole area it presses on bloodless. If, therefore, a compress be applied efficiently, and kept on, as is sometimes recommended, for three or four days, it must inevitably cause gangrene of the tissues with which it has been in contact; or, supposing the tissues are not quite dead, acute inflammation will set in as soon as the blood is admitted to them. This has but too often been the experience of Surgeons after the use of the compress ; when it has been removed, a foul sloughy wound has been brought into view, with diffuse inflammation spreading round it. Under these circumstances the artery cannot be safely occluded, and secondary haemorrhage is very likely to occur. Still, if all other means fail, the Surgeon must fall back on the graduated compress, which, if well and firmly applied, will often succeed in arresting the bleeding. If it be loosely and ineffectually put on, it will be worse than use- less. The proper mode of putting on this compress is as follows. A tourni- quet having been applied on the brachial artery, the wound must be carefully cleared of all foreign bodies, and wiped dry ; each finger is then to be sepa- rately and carefully bandaged. A wooden splint is then to be put on the back of the hand and the lower part of the fore-arm. A firm well-made graduated compress is now to be placed with the apex downwards on the wound, so as to bring and press the edges together, and securely bandaged against it by a separate bandage. The patient should then be put to bed with the hand ele- vated. At the end of eighteen to twenty-four hours the bandage may be carefully removed without disturbing the splint or the compress, and re-applied with just sufficient force to keep the compress in position sticking to the wound without pressing strongly enough to empty tissues beneath of blood. It is sometimes recommended that the circulation through the limb should be controlled by a ring-tourniquet, applied on that artery above the wrist which appears most to correspond with the arch wounded, or better still, on the brachial itself; or the elbow may be forcibly flexed, and the fore-arm bandaged to the arm in this position, so that the hand rests upon the shoulder. These precautions are, however, unnecessary, if the compress is properly applied ; but they may with advantage be made use of after the bandage has been relaxed. The compress may be left undisturbed for five or six days, unless there be redness, swelling, and pain, indicating the formation of pus beneath it, when the sooner it is taken off the better. Should the wound be found healing and looking v ell, there need be no fear of further haemorrhage ; but should the palm be sloughy and infiltrated, there will be a considerable risk of the bleeding rccur- nng. Under these circumstances, it is useless again to resort to compression, and other means must be employed.