PREFACE. VI kindly undertook the revision of the Chapter on the Surgical Treatment of some Uterine and Ovarian Diseases—a subject for which his special acquaintance with these affections peculiarly fitted him. To Stanley Boyd the Author is indebted for much valuable assistance in carrying the work through the Press; and to Victor Horsley for some of the new drawings by which it is illustrated. About one hundred and fifty new Figures have been added, drawn from nature by W. H. Wesley, and engraved by G. Pearson, some of the old ones are cancelled, and many re-drawn. Whenever a woodcut has been taken from another work, the name of the author of the work whence it has been taken has been appended to it. When no such acknowledgment is made the Figure is original, belongs exclusively to this work, and, except in the case of diagrams, has been drawn from nature. The Author may be excused from laying stress on these points, as many of his illustrations have been copied into other works on Surgery without acknowledgment of the source whence they have been taken. Arrangements have been made for the appearance, simultaneously with the English Edition, of a new American reprint of the work, and of new Translations of it into Italian by Dr. Antonio Longki of Milan, and into Spanish by Dr. Ulecia-y-Cardona of Madrid. The Author feels that a responsibility, weighty in proportion to the very extent of this wide diffusion of his Instruction, is incurred by him who takes upon himself the task of teaching others that Science which underlies the Art, and that Art, the exercise of which constitutes the application to Practice of a great branch of Medical knowledge, which more directly than any other department of Medicine involves the physical well-being, and more immediately affects the life ol those on whom it is exercised. It is not sufficient that the Teaching of a Scientific Art, such as Surgery, should be sound in those General Laws that constitute its Principles. It must also be accurate in those minute details that ore