AKTIFICIAL RESPIRA TION. 823 In the more severe cases of asphyxia, warmth should be applied by means of a hot-air bath, by which the natural temperature of the body may be re-estab- lished. The most direct and efficient means, however, that we possess for the re-establishment of the circulation in these cases is certainly Artificial Respiration. In this way aloue can the pulmonary artery and the capillaries of the lungs be unloaded of the blood that has stagnated in them, and the left side and substance of the heart will be directly and rapidly supplied with red blood. The whole value of artificial respiration depends, however, upon, the way in which it is employed. Inflation is not very effectual from the mouth of an assistant into the nostrils or mouth of the sufferer, as air once respired is not well fitted for the resuscitation of the few sparks of life that may be left, but it is in many instances the readiest and indeed the only mode by which respiration can be set up, especially if water or other fluids have found their way into the mouth. The bellows, if properly constructed for artificial inflation, so that the Fig. S41.—Silvester’s Method—Inspiration. quantity of air injected may be measured, are no doubt very useful; and if furnished with Leroy’s trachea-pipes, or, what is better, with nostril tubes, may be safely employed. About fifteen cubic inches of air may be introduced at each stroke of the bellows, and these should be worked ten or a dozen times in a minute. The lungs should be emptied by compression of the chest before cgmning to inflate, and, after each inflation, by compressing the chest and abdomen ; but care must also be taken not to employ much force, lest the an cells be ruptured. Richardson has devised a pocket-bellows for artificial respiration, consisting of two elastic hand-bellows with a single tube for intro- duction. into the nostril. A safe, and at the same time a very efficient mode of in toe ncing pure air into the lungs, is, by the clastic expansion of the walls ° ic c iest. 1 his may be effected by alternately compressing the chest and ai omen vith the hand, and then removing the pressure so as to allow the orax to expand by the natural resiliency of its parietes, and thus, each me 1 expands, to allow a certain quantity of air to be sucked into the