1 'ENEREA L 1) [SEA SES. I 0S2 The next most common source of infection is the secretion of the mouth As before stated, the saliva alone has not been proved to be capable of con- veying the poison, but if mingled with the secretion from mucous tubercles or the discharges from secondary ulcerations of the tongue or tonsils, it is un- doubtedly infectious. The disease is then most commonly communicated by kissing, and the primary sore appears on the lip or cheek. Authentic cases are also on record in which the infection has been carried by drinking vessels spoons, or pipes, and in one case the primary sore appeared on the knuckle in a cut received whilst striking the affected person in the mouth. Infants suffering from inherited syphilis have infected their wet-nurses, the primary manifestation appearing at the nipple. This point is one of very great import- ance, inasmuch as actions for damages have been brought by women who have stated that they have become diseased from the child that they have nursed. There are so many cases of the kind recorded, that there can be no doubt as to the possibility of the occurrence. Hunter and Lawrence related cases in which an infected child communicated the disease to several nurses in succes- sion ; in Hunter’s cases three wet-nurses were successively infected, two of whom gave the disease again to their own children. A considerable mass of evidence upon this point is to be found iw Ranking's Abstract, vol. iv. The disease is especially apt to be communicated in this way, if the nurse have any crack or abrasion upon her nipple, and the infant sores on the mouth. Colles, however, who had great experience in syphilis, states that the disease may be communicated to the nurse from an infected child by mere contact, without excoriation ; but when we consider that a period of three weeks or more may intervene between inoculation and the appearance of any sign of the disease, the statement must be accepted with considerable caution. Whether a wet-nurse can infect the child she suckles through the medium of the milk is a more doubtful question, and cannot be said to be finally deter- mined. Kicord and many others of equal authority believe it to be possible, and my own opinion is that syphilis has been transmitted in this way, though very rarely. In Ranking's Abstract, vol. iv., a number of cases are recorded iu proof of its occurrence. Primary sores on the finger are unfortunately by no means uncommon amongst Surgeons and accoucheurs, who become infected whilst dressing syphilitic sores or attending diseased women in labour. Washerwomen are said to have been infected in the hands by washing linen soiled by the dis- charges from venereal sores. The transmission of the disease by vaccination with lymph taken from a child suffering from congenital syphilis was until comparatively recently denied by most authorities. It has now, however, been placed beyond a doubt that the disease can be thus communicated. One of the most unquestionable of these accidents is that which occurred in the Sub-Apennine valley of Rival tain Pied- mont, in 1861. Hr. Paechiotti, of Turin, who was employed by the Italian government to report on the attack, has published an account of it. The facts are shortly these. In May, 1861, an apparently healthy child, named Chiabrera, was vaccinated at Rivalta with lymph sent from Acqui for the purpose. Ten days after this vaccination—on June 7th—forty-six healthy children were vaccinated at one sitting from this child. Again, on the 12th June, seventeen other healthy children were vaccinated from one of the forty- six. Thirty-nine of the first series of forty-six. and seven of the second series