UNIOX BY THE FIRST INTENTION. 271 described. This material, to which in the present day the term “plastic exudation” is perhaps most conveniently applied, is spoken of also as “ coagulahU lymph” “inflammatory lymph” or “ lymph.” After the process has continued for some time, the scrum, which was at first almost as red as pure blood, becomes almost colourless, and diminishes greatly in quantity. The two flaps, being now covered by the adhesive plastic exudation or lymph, adhere to each other readily with a certain degree of firmness if brought together, and thus a temporary union is obtained, which provides for the perfect rest and apposition necessary for the permanent growing-together of the opposed surfaces. The cessation of the exudation occurs as& soon as the damaged tissues recover their full vitality. The plastic exudation, just like a blood-clot, becomes gradually dryer and firmer as the serum drains completely away from it. Any microscopic shreds of tissue which may have been killed outright by the injury become imbedded in the plastic exudation, and are finally absorbed by the whndering cells without causing any suppuration or other disturbance. This process of temporary union should be complete at the end of from twelve to twenty-four hours, the time varying with the size of the wound and the amount of damage done to the tissues in its infliction or in its treatment. If the surface of the wound be washed over with some strono- antiseptic solution such as carbolic acid lotion (1 in 20) or chloride of zinc §ls- fo 1 oz.), both the quantity and the duration of the exudation will be increased ; but even then it should practically cease at the end of twenty-four hours In large irregular wounds in which it is impossible to obtain perfect apposition a small quantity of serous discharge will continue to escape from thesm faces not m contact, a condition which must necessarily occur in all tlW U™S n0t Pr0ri" ^ ““ i-r-meLje "‘ithehi A wound m which union by first intention is taking place if removed at fc«d.f taffll,.f.kora and examined by microscopic Actions ZLts the following appearances. The vessels on each sir]/ if i 1 ,.ese ts change. Between thp RiudWo , , ceils the Parfc show no hemorrhage was arrested before the surfaces off hi In h ?ie caPllhlJ apposition. ' °* “ie " ouud were brought into tion, resulting from the damam dLn't^i7 I?1011 is m.ere1^ one of mflamma- wound and in the subsequent nrorr > w ° , "r ,1SSU?S during the infliction of the and bringing the surfaces together AlTtlrsT^ ^ aiTestinS hemorrhage, ceasing to act as soon ns fh?! l i causcs are merely temporary, is purely traumatic, and as such has 111S, J1?U8' lfc together. The inflammation the area originally iniured rf .1 e.1'^n.c^r to persist nor to extend beyond of the infliction of the wound in * "8'iu'>Sfc sta8'e within a few minutes the arteries passes off and is succeeded’lw n°f ?S thc temPorai7 contraction of ana is succeeded by dilatation; and its natural course is to