DIABETES—INJURY OF CEREBRAL NERVES. 751 directly backwards from the external angular process of the frontal bone for 7 centimeters (Fig. 323, EOP-A); from the posterior extremity of this, draw a vertical line 3 centimeters in length (Fig. 323, AK'), the upper end of this corresponds to the termination of the Sulcus of Rolando. Thane gives the following : “The upper end of the Sulcus of Rolando is placed about half an inch behind a point mid-way between the root of the nose and the external occipital protuberance ; its lower end is close to the posterior limb, and about an inch behind the bifurcation of the fissure of Sylvius. The bifurcation of the fissure of Sylvius corresponds to a point one inch and a quarter behind and a quarter of an inch above the level of the external angular process of the frontal bone.” Saccharine Diabetes is an occasional consequence of injuries of the brain. A man 43 years of age was admitted into Hospital under my care with para- lysis, the result of a fall on the back of his head. On examining his urine, it was found to contain sugar in very large quantity. Previously to the accident, he had been perfectly well and robust; and, as the paralytic symptoms disap- peared, the diabetic sugar gradually lessened in quantity, until it ceased entirely to be formed, and this notwithstanding the continued use of saccharine and amylaceous matter in the food. Claude Bernard has recorded some similar instances in illustration of the interesting physiological fact pointed out by him, that in rabbits wounds or irritation of the central portion of the medulla oblongata, between the origins of the vagus and the auditory nerves in the floor of the fourth ventricle of the brain, occasion saccharine diabetes, and that in the dog artificial traumatic diabetes may be induced by fracture of the skull and injury of the brain. In patients already suffering from diabetes, a blow on the head is frequently followed by fatal aggravation of the complaint. The Cerebral Nerves are occasionally injured at their roots, or torn across and detached from their connexion with the brain, in injuries of the head. These nerves may be wounded by the same violence that injures the brain, as when a bullet traverses the head ; or they may be detached from their con- nexion with the brain in laceration of the cerebral pulp ; or, lastly, they may e tom across in fracture of the base of the skull, by the fissure extending across the foramen through which the nerve passes. From these causes, or from extravasation of blood into its sheath, blindness may result from injury to the optic nerve at any part of its course; ptosis and strabismus in different directions, according as the third, the fourth or the sixth nerve has been injured. But the nerve that most commonly suffers is the seventh, which, either in its facial or in its auditory portion or both is not uncommonly tom across in fractures of the petrous portion of the temporal hone, producing either paralysis of the face or deafness. Injury to the eighth X!! uf common, or rather it is not common for patients long to survive with nilnh ridenCCu°f thc leS10n; 1 have’ll0wever’ seen repeated vomiting, aiuvIrrS ; T1 a SeUSe °f sllffocatiou continuing for months after iSon ! T17 ° ,he °ngmS °f the Plleum°-gastric. In other cases, from :i fci T . ?CCGSS017’ SpaSm of the trapezius and sterno-mastoid muscles, simulating tetanus, may set in. ^--1- Puxgu.s Cerebri. In those cases in which a laceration of the ally found e!'COrrniCates with a fracture of the skull, it is occasion- y found, more particularly in children, that a dark brown or bloody fungus-