PATHOLOGY OF MALIGNANT PUSTULE. 363 considerable size—the bacillus anthracis (Fig. 122). This organism was dis- covered by Pollender as long ago as 1849, but its complete life-history and its definite relation to splenic fever have been but recently worked out by Chauveau, Davaine, and Pasteur in France, Ivoch in Germany, Ewart and Greenfield in this country, and a multitude of other observers. The bacillus anthracis is a rod-shaped organism, varying in length from ttsVo to 1 aVo °1 an inch, and of an average breadth of about Thus in human blood their length may reach between two and three times the diameter of a red cor- puscle, and their width to about one-quarter of its thickness. By cultivating it in suitable fluids out of the body its mode of growth can be observed. It multiplies when growing actively by increasing in length till it reaches a certain size, and then dividing by fission at or near its middle. When grow- ing in this way the filament remains homogeneous in structure throughout; it is easily destroyed by exposure to a moderate degree of heat, by carbolic acid, and all other chemical antiseptics. Under conditions less favourable for this active mode of growth minute highly refracting dots, which have been proved to be spores, are seen to appear in the protoplasm of the bacillus. After this the organism may break up, leaving7 only the spores recognizable, surrounded by a little jelly-like material; or the spores may be quite free, or still situated in very short segments of the original rods. It has been proved by experiment that under proper conditions these spores grow into the fully-developed bacilli, that they are really genuine genus of the fungus. From their extremely small size it is evident that if dried they could without difficulty be transported from one place to another as dust in the air, and it is, in fact, these dried spores that serve as the poison both in malignant pustule and woolsorters’ disease as seen m this country. The power of resistance of the spores to injurious in- uences is so great as to render the task of disinfection after splenic fever undoubtedly difficult. The experiments of Bobert Koch have shown that Wood containing spores of the bacillus may be cbied, and allowed to even putrefy in drying, and kept afterwards for years without losing its virulence. ie spores may be exposed to a moist heat of 212° F. for a very short time, AU° a heafc for a lon8'er period, without injury. Alcohol, glycerine, soffit onS,°lf °nS Carb°liC aGid (1 t0 20)’ salicylic acid, thymol, and weak Fig. 122.—Bacillus Anthracis in connec- tive tissue, v, Small vein, contain- ing bacilli; be, Capillaries, choked with bacilli; x, Nuclei of cells, form- ing capillary wall; n', Nuclei of con- nective-tissue-corpuscles ; l, Small amount of lymphoid tissue. snlllf- „ n ttoiu, uny 11101, ana wean On th °n Pe,fanfnate P°^ash, are impotent to arrest their development, solution^? haUC’ freshly prepared chlorine-water, bromine (2 per cent, or nenn bl,cblonde of mercury (1 per cent, solution in water), difficulty ° tiW,C ° l’^ash 0> per cent, in water) destroy their vitality without putrefaction y! 80 bnr as 18 at present known, the ordinary bacteria of tion of snnrp«arU ? micrococcb multiply solely by fission, without the forma- without difficult110 C011SC(luently arc destroyed by heat and chemical antiseptics s organism is the actual cause of the disease is proved by the fact