849 RUPTURE OF THE SPLEEN—KIDNEY. by lymph. There was a large rent in the thick border of the liver, which was ■ beginning to cicatrize. Injury over the region of the liver, probably occasioning laceration ot that organ, followed by peritonitis and jaundice, may be recovered from. Of this I have seen several instances in my own practice. The following is a good example. A man, about forty years of age, fell from a scaffold to the ground. In falling, he struck violently against a beam, injuring his abdomen on the , right side. He was brought to the Hospital in a state of collapse, from which he slowly rallied. There was no injury but that of the abdomen, of which he complained much, more particularly over the region of the liver, which was verv tense. Peritonitis speedily set in, with great tympanitic distension of the belly, vomiting of bilious matter, and the passage of colourless stools. These symptoms continued many days, and the man became jaundiced. As the tympanites subsided, it was found that there was dulness on percussion in both flanks, and that the fluid, which was evidently extravasated into the peritoneal cavity, rose to a level with the umbilicus when he lay on his left side, which he did habitually. He was treated with opium, and put on a very mild unstimulating diet. He gradually but slowly recovered, the vomiting becoming less frequent, and eventually ceasing, and the fluid in the abdomen being slowly absorbed, bile at the same time appearing in the motions ; but the tenderness over the region of the liver continued up to the time at which he left the Hospital, nearly two months after the accident. In this case the long and severe collapse, the seat of pain and injury, the peritonitis, the bilious it vomitings, and the white stools, all pointed to serious injury of the liver; and rapid intra-abdominal extravasation could only be accounted for by rupture of that organ. If the Spleen have been lacerated, there will be all the effects of severe shock of the system, accompanied by those of internal haemorrhage ; coldness, I and pallor of the surface, a small and feeble pulse, anxiety of countenance, and great depression of the vital powers, with pain at the seat of injury, and | dulness on percussion from extravasated blood. These symptoms usually terminate rapidly in death. Rupture of the spleen is specially liable to occur from slight blows when that organ is enlarged as the result of exposure to a malarious climate. If the Kidneys be injured, there will commonly be a frequent desire to ; Pass urine, and this will be tinged with blood, often to a considerable extent. If the ureter become plugged by a clot there may be severe renal colic, the pain shooting down to testicle and thigh. Sometimes the bladder becomes distended with coagulated blood. After the discharge of blood ceases, the urine will become albuminous, and may continue so for a great length of time. On examining such albuminous urine under the microscope, it will generally he found to contain a few blood-corpuscles, and possibly some tube-casts, at first, perhaps, containing blood-corpuscles, and later on becoming granular. us and mucus, with epithelium-cells from the pelvis of the kidney, and occasionally lenal epithelium may be met with later on, showing the existence • ot inflammation in the kidney. It is a remarkable and important practical act that, so far as my experience goes, I have never seen albumen in the l ~ ^10 1CSU^ °f ucnal injury, unless it had been preceded by blood. ie absence of blood from the urine must not, however, be taken as anindica- °nvo'a / 10 kklney *S n°k iniured 5 ^ may he so disorganized as to be totally 3 1