214 LOCAL DISTURBANCES AND INFLAMMATION nourishment increased until stimulants, as beer, wine, or brandy, arc allowed. Nothing requires greater nicety in practice than to proportion the diet, and to determine the cases in which stimulants are necessary. It may be stated generally that, the more the disease assumes the asthenic and passive form, the more are stimulants required ; until, at last, in the truly adynamic type, our principal trust is in these agents, and large quantities of wine, brandy, and ammonia are required to maintain life. Mercury is of essential service in the more active forms of chronic inflam- mation ; but in all cachectic and strumous constitutions it should, as much as possible, be avoided. It is of great use not only in arresting the further progress of the disease, but especially in causing the absorption of the effusions, and in removing some of the other effects of chronic inflammation, such as thickening, hardening, and opacity of the parts. It should be given in small doses for a considerable length of time, until the gums are slightly affected. In many cases of depressed power it may be very advantageously conjoined with quinine and sarsaparilla. The most useful preparations are calomel or the oreen iodide of mercury, in half-grain doses, or, if a gradual and continuous effect be required, the perchloride in doses of one-sixteenth to one-twelfth of a gram. ciui. Iodide of potassium is an alterative and absorbent of the greatest value, especially in the chronic inflammations of fibrous or osseous tissues, or of the viands, occurring in strumous constitutions. In these it may often be substi- tuted with great advantage for mercury, and given in those cases in which that mineral would otherwise be administered. In many cases it is of essential service after a mercurial course ; some days should, however, be allowed to elapse after the mercury is discontinued before the iodide is given, otherwise salivation or even sloughing of the gums may lesult. Sarsaparilla is a very useful remedy, and forms an admirable vehicle for the preparations of mercury or iodine. The fluid extract of red Jamaica sarsaparilla is the best; and where the inflammation is associated with want of power, its value is certainly very great. Cod-liver oil is of the very greatest value in the various strumous forms of chronic inflammation, or in those occurring in debilitated, emaciated, and cachectic subjects. It may be given in some vehicle, such as mdk, orange- wine, or -juice, that covers its taste. In some cases it is advantageously con- joined with the iodide of potassium ; or, where there is much want of power, and strumous anaemia is present, with the preparations of iron. It is more particularly in children and young people that it is of service in removing the various effects of chronic inflammation. Purgatives are often required in chronic inflammation. In robust subjects in whom the disease is active, salines may be employed ; to which, if there be a rheumatic tendency, colchicum may advantageously be added. In children a powder composed of one part of mercury and chalk, two of carbonate of soda, and four of rhubarb, will be found very serviceable. rl'lie sulphides of calcium and potassium, especially the former, arc recommended by Ringer as being of great service in chronic inflammations m scrofulous subjects, especially when they are accompanied by a tendency Riinnuration. They hasten the process of suppuration, and the elimination by that means of the caseous inflammatory products. Ringer recommends lor a cMd a mixture of much the same strength as the Harrogate waters-™..