INJURIES OF THE ABDOMEN AND PELVIS. 870 and not unfrequently the rectal mucous membrane becomes prolapsed or hsemorrhoidal. The operation for the closure of ruptured perinamm is comparatively modern. Although it had been done in France by Guillemeau in the 10th century, and by Smellie in this country, little attention was paid to the subject until Rouse, in 1884, published five cases, in four of which he had effected a cure by means of the quilled suture. From that time the operation took its place in surgery, and has now been perfected and simplified by Baker Brown, Emmett, Bantcck and others. The operation may be done at two distinct periods after the occurrence of the lacerations, viz., immediately or remotely. The immediate operation is done as soon as possible after the occurrence of the accident. It is performed as followsThe patient lying in the obstetric position, the vagina is to be plugged with a sponge having a string attached. The edges of the fissure are then cleaned and brought together carefully with two or three points of suture. The sponge is then removed. The vagina must be washed out thrice daily with a tepid antiseptic solution, the best being Gondy’s fluid and water, or a concentrated solution of boracic acid. The urine must be drawn off regularly. The sutures may be removed at the end of a week. The remote operation consists, in chronic cases, of a plastic procedure, having for its object the bringing together and the union by adhesion of the opposite sides of the rent. The difficulty of this operation will vary according to the extent of the laceration, and its prospect of success will depend on attention to several points in its performance ; but also, as is the case with most plastic procedures, on the state of the patient’s health. This should he brought up to the best possible condition before the Surgeon proceeds to operate. All local irritation should be removed, piles or prolapsus aui cured, and the parts brought into as healthy a state as possible. Operation for Ruptured Perinasum.—The operation as performed by Baker Brown is thus carried out. The bowels having been well cleared out, the patient should be placed in the position for lithotomy. The upper wall of the vagina being held out of the way by means of a “ duck-billed ” speculum, the edges and sides of the rent must be freely and deeply pared in a horse-shoe shape, so as leave a raw surface about an inch in width. Most Surgeons prefer the scalpel for this dissection, but some use the scissors as being more handy and followed by less bleeding. Great care must be taken not to carry the paring too far forwards so as to encroach on the nymphte, or too contracted an outlet will be left for future parturition. Every particle of mucous membrane and integumeutal structure must be removed from the fissure, and if the recto- vaginal septum is implicated special care must be taken to pare the upper angle thoroughly. Any portion of these structures that may be left behind, however minute, will, of course, be an obstacle to union, and will either com- pletely prevent it or leave a fistulous opening at its site. Brown recom- mended that the sphincter ani should then be freely divided, but experience has shown that this is not necessary. Three quilled sutures (Fig. 848) should then be passed deeply through the freshened side of the laceration, and the edges brought together by a few superficial interrupted sutures. The deej) sutures are best introduced by long naevus-needles. rlhe one nearest the anus should be passed first; and if the recto-vaginal septum