BONES OF THE FACE. 551 CHAPTER XXI. —♦— SPECIAL FRACTURES. Ix considering- the nature and treatment of fractures of particular bones, we shall at present confine our remarks to Fractures of the Bones of the I ace, Trunk, and Extremities. Injuries of the Bones of the Head and Spine derive their principal interest and importance from their complication with lesion of the/contained organs ; hence the consideration of these will be deferred to special Chapters. FRACTURES OF THE BONES OF THE FACE. Nasal Bones.—These, being thin as well as exposed, are not unfrequently broken (Fig. 186). When fractured, they may remain undisplaced, but they are more commonly depressed; the ridge of the nose being beaten in. The swelling and ecchymosis that usually attend their fracture often render de- tection difficult, and must be reduced before any treatment can be adopted for Fig. ISO.—Fracture of Nasal Bones. Fig. 1S7.—Spring-Clip for straightening the Nose. the removal of the deformity. The depressed bone should be raised with the narrow end of a director, or by the introduction into the nostril of a pair of polypus-forceps, which, expanding on being opened, push the bone into proper position. To do this thoroughly it is often necessary to administer an anaes- thetic. A flaccid vulcanized India-rubber dilator, of proper size and shape, introduced empty, and then expanded with water, will be found to answer ad- mirably in restoring the shape, and removing the disfigurement of a “ broken nose,” even though some weeks have elapsed since the injury. Union of the bone takes place very rapidly. It is often moderately firm at the end of a week and solid in two weeks. The nose without being exactly broken is often twisted to one side, more particularly if the organ be naturally long and pointed. This deformity alters completely the expression of the face, often producing a somewhat ludicrous appeal ance. When recent, and more especially when the patient is young, it may be remedied by the use of a spring-clip (Fig. 187), which presses the distorted end of the nose back to the straight line.