993 PAPILLOMA—CONDYLOMA. The chief forms of papilloma are :—corus, simple warts, condylomata and mucous tubercles, and some forms of polypi and villous tumours. Corns consist of an undue development of cuticle, with a slight increase of the vascularity of the subjacent cutis ; subsequently the papilla? themselves be- come enlarged, especially when the irritation has been prolonged or consider- able. A soft corn is merely one which from its situation is kept constantly moist, so that the newly formed scaly epithelium, instead of forming a dense crust, peels off, leaving the vascular and sensitive papilla; but thinly covered. Warts are the result of a primary hypertrophy of the papilla?, accompanied by the formation of new vessels, and a great increase in the development of the epidermis, which forms laminated strata, and sometimes produces, in the hollows between the papilla?, masses with a concentric arrangement of the cells, closely resembling the nest-like structures seen in epithelioma. The true warts are most commonly found on the skin, aud are then often very hard and horny ; sometimes they may develop a long horn-like growth. Softer varieties are, however, found on the muco-cutaneous surfaces, especially 6 ' centre! P ' m the tleePer *arts tlle cells a»= wore deeply stained and radiate from the 1 vKUout ly“!nS the llallillffi’ int° tllG ramifl0ati0ns of wllich i« prolonged. of the prepuce ami vulva, and are usually of a specific origin. They may also occur on the mucous membrane of the mouth or soft palate (Fig. a 82)" and h y are not uncommon m the larynx. Warts may be the residt of a local tlMy **“ * ^ -C The warty growths from the vulva, as the result of gonorrhoeal irritation «y teach the sme of a foetal head. Simple cut^Ss ate ofS colour. are In these the papilla? may spaces between being tilled up with is readily demonstrated by the micro- pigmented, being of a bluish-black not be. evident to the naked eye, the epithelium, but the papillary structure scope. j_ y occlu a^out ttle auus an(I iii the perinseum and folds of 3 S s*- VOI,.