VENEREAL DISEASES. 1106 gives rise to toxio symptoms known as “ iodism." The amount of the drug required to produce these effects varies with every case. The symptoms resemble a bad cold in the head; there are redness of the eyes, running at the nose, and frontal headache. Every patient who is taking the iodides must be warned of these symptoms, and be told to reduce the dose immediately they appear. Prolonged administration of iodides not unfrequently gives rise to a pustular eruption resembling acne, or more rarely to large pustules on an indurated base, which dry up, leaving a scab behind them. Purpura and albuminuria have also been attributed to its influence. The Sulphides of Calcium and Potassium are said to form most useful adjuvants to mercury, promoting its action and preventing its accumulation in the system. How much real value they possess is still uncertain. The Aix-la- Chapelle treatment, which has obtained great celebrity for the cure of syphilis, consists of the administration of mercury by inunction, combined with the use of the natural hot sulphur-waters, both for bathing and drinking. The chief advantage derived in most cases from a visit to Aix-la-Chapelle arises from the fact that the patient, having little else to do and being carefully looked after by the physicians and the rubbers, and regularly dieted in his hotel, cannot neglect the treatment as he is too apt to do at home. It is for rich patients who are not taking proper care of themselves that a visit to the baths is to be recommended. A course lasts from six to seven weeks. Sarsaparilla formerly enjoyed a great reputation in the treatment of syphilis, but at the present time it is little used. It may, however, be given in the late secondary or tertiary stage, especially if the patient have fallen into a cachectic state, having lost flesh, colour, appetite, and spirits. In this condition of the system dilute nitro-hydrochloric acid, in doses of fifteen to twenty minims, with half an ounce of the liquid extract of sarsaparilla in four ounces of water, may be taken three times a day. Cod-liver Oil is often of great use when there has been considerable loss of flesh. It may be given at the same time as the iodides of potassium or iron. Biller Tonics and the Preparations of Iron are frequently useful in the tertiary stage. They are given on general principles after or in the intervals •of specific treatment. LOCAL SECONDABY AND TEBTIABY MANIFESTATIONS OF SYPHILIS. Local Secondary Affections.—We shall next proceed to describe the character and treatment of the different local forms in which constitutional syphilis manifests itself. These may be considered as they affect different tissues and organs, and require separate examination, according to the part that is influenced by them. We shall consider them as affecting the skin ; the mucous membranes of the mouth, nose, tongue, palate, and larynx ; the eye, bones, testes, muscles, viscera, and nervous system. 1. Syphilitic Affections of the Skin.—Syphilo-dermata or Syphilides present various modifications of appearance, corresponding closely to the different groups of simple cutaneous diseases ; thus we find exanthematous, papular, squamous, vesicular, pustular, and tubercular syphilitic affections of the skin, with various ulcers and growths. These differ from the corresponding simple cutaneous diseases, in their redness being more dusky or coppery, m