487 TREATMENT OF STRAINS. of the extent of the laceration of the ligaments that has taken place. F01 the repair of this rest is as necessary as for the healing of an open wound 01 the union of a broken bone. As a rule, however, unless the Surgeon makes it impossible, the patient, finding that he can still use the joint, although with some pain, continues to do so. This is the reason that sprains are so often tedious in the cure, and so frequently leave weakness or stiffness behind. If the Surgeon therefore see the patient immediately on the occurrence of the B accident, or before much swelliug have set in, the best plan is to envelope the joint either in a flannel bandage or iu a thick layer of cotton-wool, over which a plaster-of-Paris-bandage is to be applied. The plaster should be kept on for two weeks, at the end of which time the patient may cautiously use the joint. This method of treatment, which comprises rest, perfect immobility, and com- pression of the joint, puts it into the best possible condition for the repair of the injured articular structures, and for the prevention of consecutive inflam- mation. Another plan of treatment is to strap up the joint very firmly with long strips of soap-plaster, but this is not as efficient a means of procuring rest. Should the patient not have been resting the joint, and should inflam- mation with much swelling have set in, in most cases the best treatment null be the application of a starched bandage, as a plaster-of-Paris-apparatus is apt to become loose as the swelling subsides, and it cannot be opened and refilled with cotton wool as the starched bandage can. Should the inflammation be too acute for the immediate application of a rigid apparatus, the joint may be put on a pillow and covered with a piece of linen-rag, well moistened with an evaporating lotion or kept wet by means of irrigation, or covered with ice-bags. Should this not check the inflammation, leeches may be freely applied ; and, when the swelling has somewhat subsided, the joint should be supported with an elastic roller and plasters, a plaster or starched bandage, or leather splints. In the more advanced stages, when pain and stiffness alone are left, it should be well douched with cold water twice a-day, and afterwards rubbed or kneaded with soap-liniment, until its usual strength and mobility are restored. This, however, very commonly does not occur in sprains of the knee and ankle for many weeks ; a degree of painful stiffness being left. Persistent Pain or Weakness in a joint after a severe sprain may arise from various causes, each of which requires appropriate treatment. The following are the chief conditions requiring attention. 1. Adhesion vntliin the joint and in the neighbouring synovial sheaths con- sequent upon the inflammation following the sprain. In this condition the swelling has completely subsided, but the movements of the joint are limited and any attempt to forcibly exceed the limits is accompanied by intense pain, usually localized at one spot. This form is best treated by forcible movement or wrenching under an anaesthetic. 2. Imperfect repair of the torn ligaments usually results from want of rest cuiing the treatment. There is little or no swelling, and the movements of e joint are perfect, but there is a sense of weakness, accompanied by slight pam r any strain is thrown upon the injured ligament. This is best treated y ixing the joint for three or four weeks iu a plaster of Paris bandage, after 077'1 elasfcic support may be worn for some time. le effusion mag have been imperfectly absorbed.—The joint presents ien 10 oulinary appearances of chronic synovitis, and must be treated for that disease. (See Synovitis).