So2 INJURIES OF TllE FACE AND ADJACENT PARTS. forcibly syringing the ear with tepid water, injected by means of a large brass syringe in a full stream, the pinna being drawn up so as to straighten the external meatus. In this way the bead or pebble is soon washed out by the reflux of the water striking against the tympanum. It may be laid down as a good general rule, that if a round or oval body cannot be dislodged by syringing it will not be removed by instruments, and if the proper use of the syringe do not suffice, it is better to leave matters alone, and to allow the foreign body to become loosened when it can be easily syringed out, than to poke instru- ments into the ear with the view of forcibly extracting it. These attempts are ill-advised; and I have known death from inflammation and suppuration in the middle ear extending to the meninges of the brain, to follow from prolonged and unsuccessful efforts at the extraction of a pebble from the ear. Orbit.—Injuries of the Orbit may be dangerous, either to the brain or to the eye. If wounds be deep and directed upwards, they are always serious, on account of the proximity of the brain ; thus a pointed body, such as a piece of stick, the end of an umbrella, or a knife thrust into the orbit, may perforate its superior wall, and produce a fatal wound of the brain. The injury to the brain through the orbital plate of the frontal bone may be fatal by the cerebral inflammation that is induced ; or the thrust may extend deeply, and, lacerating the internal carotid artery, occasion fatal haemorrhage. In one remarkable case recorded by Nelaton, a young mau was wounded by the tlnust of the point of an umbrella in the orbit; the cavernous sinus and internal carotid artery on the opposite side were wounded, an arterio-venous aneurismj formed, the eyeball became prominent, and death from haemorrhage eventually resulted from the giving way of the aneurism. Occasionally inflammation is set up in the loose fat of the orbit, giving rise to abscess which may point in either eyelid ; or to inflammation which may extend to the membranes of the brain. In other cases, wounds of the orbit may be followed by loss of vision, without the eyeball being touched ; either in consequence of injuiy ol the optic nerve, or at a later period from the division of some of the other nerves of the orbit producing sympathetic amaurosis, as occasionally happens even from ordinary wounds of the face implicating some of the terminal branches of the fifth pair. _ Eye.—Injuries of the Conjunctiva.—A foreign body undci the lids on the surface of the conjunctiva gives rise, as every one knows, to the most intense and painful irritation, accompanied by injection of the conjunctival vessels, an increased flow of tears, and some swelling of the membrane. More severe effects are produced by lime ; caustic fluids or heated metal pro uce more serious effects. If they actually destroy the epithelial surface a leMon may form between the lids, and opacity of the cornea, causing total bin mss, may result. In order to remove foreign bodies lodged between the ball and t ic eye lids, the latter must be everted so that the angle between the palpebra an the ocular conjunctiva may be properly examined. For this purpose m lower eyelid need only lie drawn down, whilst the patient is directed to oo ' up; but the eversion of the upper eyelid requires some skill. It w effected by laying a probe horizontally across it, innnediatffiy above t it • ^ cartilace • the Surgeon then, taking the eyelashes, m the middle o l%htly°between bis Huger and thumb, draws the eyelid downwards; andte- wards, at the same time that lie everts it by pressing the probe firmly bachwai ..