95 AMPUTATION OF METACARPAL BONES. Fig. 40.-Result of Am- putation of Thumb. adducted, and care must be taken not to haggle over the sesamoid bones, and at the same time not to notch the flap by turning the edge of the knife too much towards the palm in trying to avoid them. The palmar flap being cut, the Surgeon hands the thumb to an assistant while he dis- sects back the dorsal flap by a few touches of the knife. This being accomplished, he again takes the thumb, and forcibly abducts it, while he carefully passes the knife down towards the joint, along the palmar aspect of the metacarpal bone, separating the remaining attachments of the short muscles, and finally opening the articulation from its inner and palmar aspect. During this part of the operation the knife must be kept turned towards the bone, so as to avoid wounding the radial artery as it passes between the heads of the first dorsal interosseous muscle. As soon as the joint is opened, the thumb should be separated by twisting it round while the edge of the knife is sawed gently against the base of the bone. The radial artery, as it winds below the styloid process, is easily wounded at this stage of the operation, unless the knife is kept constantly in contact with the bone. In opera- ting on the left side, exactly the same course is followed, except that it is not necessary for the Surgeon to cross his hands, and the first incision !S made from the web to the base of the bone, and the transfixion from that point to the web. . dn tbe. ovai mefch°d of amputating, which is, as a rule, to be preferred the incision is commenced opposite the outer tubercle at the base of the metacarpal inch nrlT!? °vS thL°Uter b°rder 0f fche b01ie fc0 within about half-an- in w nvf, H fr0m b i 1i°mfc aU °Val iuCisi°U is Carried rouud’ Posing f 0 lt ovei.the metacarpo-phalangeal articulation, thus completing a racket- shaped incision The flaps are then turned back, care eluded b! fhp metacarpo-phalangeal articulation, and the operation is con- ducted in the same way as in the transfixion-method. Should the tnetacarno- p lalangeal articulation be opened, the phalanges must be removed and the dii v^n rf • bT-leized in a Pair of lion-forceps, after which no fficulty will be found in finishing the operation. Fig 40 shows the hand after amputation of the thumb tlle Mud performing them, care should be taken to make <mod flaps ofsuffi '"'f 5- “ but to avoid cuttino- infn .! ^00cl naPs ot sufficient size, the lower ends of the hnn ■ ' m 1 POSS1J e' dt is weP not to disarticulate them°d^wltli bon,e forcenTor a° V° °Vf the wrist-joint, but rather to cut from tL exlsZ ac;irPal • little above this. In injuries shattered it is of mnat v?UU" aSvS 01 gun-barrels, when the hand is much an extent aiul ft is w ,°T™ t0 aVOld Cutt^ *P the palm to too great be of more use to the mii CaSCS t0 8ave a dnS'cr it’ possible, which will structed (Fio-g 4! .lUf[ 4-> ,U1 wi^ any artlfioial limb, however ingeniously con- finger, with the thnml r ' ^ ? 011J 0ne fog® is left, as the index or little or for disease the di-iui VaSeS POirtlal amPutation of the hand after injury sense, the digit that remains not only becomes more mobile than formerly,