CAUSES OF UNUNITED FRACTURE AND FALSE JOINT. 545 excellent health, strong, and robust. I11 spontaneous fractures, union seldom takes place very readily or perfectly. Pregnancy is said to have a tendency to interfere with the proper union of a fracture ; this, however, I consider doubtful, as I have had under my care, and have seen, a considerable number of cases of fracture in pregnant women, which united in the ordinary time. Billroth has made a similar observation. Age.—Failure of vmion in fractures is very rare in children, and when it occurs in them is seldom remediable, unless it be the result of neglect or of improper mechanical treatment. It is more common at the earlier adult and middle ages. Union will readily occur in aged individuals. Indeed, advanced age appears to exercise no adverse influence on the repair of fractures. I have on two occasions, in my own practice, known very firm and perfect consolida- tion of fracture of the shaft of the femur to take place in women of ninety years of age and upwards. The Local Causes are various and important. The anatomical condition of the fragments, as regards their vascular supply, is perhaps that on which want of union is most immediately dependent. For proper union to take place, it is necessary that the callus be formed from both sides of the fracture. If one fragment be so situated that sufficient blood is not sent to it for this purpose, not only may want of union, but necrosis, occur. This is exemplified in fractures of the superior articular ends of the humerus and femur. In intra-capsular fracture of the anatomical neck of the humerus, the globular head, being detached from all its vascular comiections, may necrose. In intra- capsular fracture of the neck of the femur, the head of the bone, still retaining some vascular connection through the medium of the ligamentum teres, has sufficient blood furnished to it to prevent its death, but not enough to form callus—hence fibrous union takes place. In the shafts of the long bones, the degree of union will be dependent in a great measure on the conditions of the vascular supply to the fragments, through the medium of the nutrient artery. The influence of rupture of the nutrient artery of a bone by the line of fracture running across it, and thus interfering with the vascular supply of one of the fragments, has been investigated by Gueretin ; and the occasional occuirence of atrophy of the bone after - fracture, has been shown by Curlin°- to be dependent upon the interruption of the supply of arterial blood through tins vessel. He states that the portion of bone on that side of the foramen towards which the blood flows, being deprived of its proper vascular supply, undergoes certain changes; the medullary canal becoming expanded and the osseous tissue less dense. Gueretin has collected cases that tend to prove the direct connection between the occurrence of ununited fracture, and the want prol)eJ ai'fccml suPP]y t0 one of the fragments. Thus, in the humerus the course of the nutrient artery is from above downwards ; and of thirteen a eso unnmted fracture, nine were found to be situated above the canal in nn««i f16 T°fe 18 l0dfd- Iu fche fore-arm> where the nutrient artery bolmv f-K°m K *!W nPwards, of cases of ununited fracture, seven occurred numW I6880 ’ and °,n 7 °ne above- Adams’ has> however, shown that the co“ Slze’as wel1 as position, of the arteries entering the bone, vary of nrw 11?Uce objection that non-union may occur in a fracture onlv m Pai t ° ,‘C Shaft of a hnS bone, whereas the nutrient artery is found only^at one spot, can scarcely be considered a very valid one. N N