634 DISLOCATIONS. Jn order to overcome these obstacles a considerable amount o i loice must he used, us adhesions and contractions have to be stretched and torn asunder. This'is effected by the multiplying pulleys and by manipulation under chloro- form. In employing the necessary force, care must be taken to protect the skin from abrasion, or even laceration, by the use of wet flannel-bandages or wash-leather. The force exercised by the pulleys must be considerable ; but it should be accompanied by free rotatory manipulations and movements of the head of the bone, so as to loosen it from its adhesions ; and reduction will usually be effected in this way rather than by forcible traction only. Aiuesthesia is of inestimable service in these cases ; and it is by its means that the Surgeon has been enabled to prolong materially the limit of possible reduction. But, in the reduction of old dislocations, anaesthetics do not afford exactly the same kind of service as in those of recent date. UU IIUU C1/UUIU ~ -J, In a recent dislocation one great obstacle is muscular contraction ; and, by relaxing this, anaesthetics enable the Surgeon to replace the bone at once without difficulty. In old dislocations the obstacles, as has just been stated, consist in various pathological changes that have taken place around and in the displaced bones. These conditions cannot be influenced by anaesthesia ; and hence, except as a means of producing insensibility to pam and preventing instinctive or voluntary muscular resistance, chloroform will not aid the Surgeon It must be borne in mind that the reduction of old dislocations is not only a work of very considerable difficulty, but also of danger. . If several months have elapsed, the obstacles arising from the pathological changes already mentioned will usually be so obstinate as to lender the reduction impossible without the employment of a dangerous amount of force; and in many cases they will prevent reduction, whatevei loice be CmThey Accidents liable to occur during attempts to reduce old dislocations, whether successful or not, are the following :-l. Laceration of the constriction and pressure of the bands to which the pulleys are* attacbeffi 2 Laceration of muscles : thus the pectoral has been torn through m attempt mg reduction of old dislocation of the shoulder. 8 The development of m to- mation and suppuration around the dislocation, by the violence to which Toft mrffi have been subjected. From this cause death has several tunes resulted, in attempts at reducing old hip-dislocations. 4. Extensive ^ tionof blood from the rupture of small vessels m the lacerated soft L^> giving rise to wide-spread ecchymosis. 5. Laceration f th ?eins? A patient of Froriep’s died from this cause, after rupture of the axillary vein in an attempt to reduce an old dislocation of the shoukk . • LtoS of an artery, and the formation of a diffused ***** ■" This serious accident has happened at least twehc times m a 011 L , , a tion of old dislocations of the shoulder. The braclual artoytapoteen torn in attempted reduction of dislocated elbow. nerves Those of the axillary plexus have been torn m attempted ^location of the shouldered the median_in thathe dW». Flaubert of dislocation of the shoulder, and tne median ^ ^ into the brachial