INJURIES OF THE SPINE. 768 When tested by the thermometer, in the mouth or axilla, the temperature will often be found to be from four or six degrees below the normal standard ; but when the thermometer, which perhaps marked only 90° F. in the axilla, is placed in the rectum, it will be found to rise above normal to 99° or ]00° F. This is very important as shewing that the whole body is not uniformly of a lower temperature than normal. It points rather to a disturbance of the vaso-motor action of the sympathetic nerve than to any direct influence exerted by the spinal cord, and may be connected with that condition of abdominal congestion which is so common a sequence of these injuries. The Secondary Symptoms of severe concussion of the spine are usually those of developing inflammation in the meninges and in the cord itself. They consist of pain in some part or parts of the spine, greatly in- creased by pressure and motion, and rigidity of the vertebral column, the patient moving it as a whole. The pain is greatly increased by all movements, but especially by those of rotation. It frequently extends as a line down the limbs or as a circle round the body, giving the sensation of a cord tied tightly. If the case go on to the development of acute inflammation in the mem- branes of the cord, spasms of a serious character come on ; at first, usually of the nature of trismus ; then general spasms of the body and limbs, mostly followed by speedy death from the exhaustion produced by their repetition. If the inflammation become chronic or subacute, permanent alterations in the structure of the cord will ensue, leading to incurable paralytic affections, usually confined to the lower extremities, and associated with great and deep- seated derangement of the general health. White softening of the cord, unassociated with signs of inflammation of it or its membranes, may be the result of a blow on the back. In this condition paralysis of sensation or motion, often accompanied by peculiar rigidity of the muscles, may come on, and idtimately advance to general paralysis. Causes of Death.—Concussion of the spinal cord from a severe and direct blow upon the back may prove fatal at very different periods, depending partly on the situation of the blow, and in a great measure on the lesions to which it has given rise. Sudden and fatal paralysis has often occurred, without leaving after death any lesion of the cord that could be assigned as the cause of death. Abercrombie says, “ Concussion of the cord may be speedily fatal without producing any morbid appearance that can be detected on dissection.” ^ And he refers to a case related by Boyer, and four recorded by Frank, in confirma- tion of this remark. In other cases, the fatal result may be occasioned by direct and demonstrable injury of the spine or cord. There appear to be four forms of lesiou that will lead to death in spinal concussion from direct severe violence. 1. Haemorrhage within the spinal canal :—a. Between the vertebrae an the dura mater ; h. Between the membranes and the cord ; c. In both situa- tions. In these respects, intravertebral extravasations resemble closely those which occur as the result of injury within the cranium. 2 Laceration of the pia mater and hernia of the cord. « Extravasation into the substance of the cord. _ . 4. Inflammation, and, perhaps, suppuration of the meninges, with softom''? and disintegration of the substance of the cord. This disintegration is, d less, of an acute and probably inflammatory character.