710 INJURIES OF THE HEAD. presence being often produced by the effusion of serum, or of puriform lymph, on the brain or its membranes. But although there may not be any symptom that unequivocally indicates the formation of pus in this situation, the Surgeon is not unfrequently enabled, by the assemblage of general symptoms and local signs, to infer its existence with considerable accuracy. In these cases, however, it is usually impossible to determine the exact seat of the pus with sufficient precision to admit of its evacuation by the trephine—whether it be between the skull and the dura mater, between the layers of the arachnoid, underneath this membrane, between the cerebral convolutions, or deeply seated in the substance of the brain; whether it be situated under the seat of injury and be there circumscribed, or so extensively diffused as not to be capable of complete evacuation. The side that is either wholly or chiefly the seat of the suppuration is necessarily determined by the existence of opposite hemiplegia; but the precise localization of the pus in the intra- cranial structures of the side affected constitutes the point of diagnostic diffi- culty. As a general rule, it may be said that when the signs of suppuration supervene early after the receipt of a head injury, the pus is diffused and its seat is in the membranes. When the symptoms are slow in onset, being those of compression rather than of inflammation, it is circumscribed and in the brain substance. That these difficulties are real must be obvious to every practical Surgeon ; and in illustration I may mention the following two cases, out of many that I have witnessed. A man was admitted into University College Hospital with an extensive lacerated wound of the scalp, denuding the pericranium. He continued free from all cerebral disturbance until the tenth day after the accident, when he complaiued of headache, and had a quick pulse and a hot skin; at this time it was observed that the pericranium had separated from the skull. Active antiphlogistic treatment was followed by subsidence of symptoms, and the patient went on favourably until the thirty-fourth day, when he suddenly became delirious and then unconscious, though easily roused when spoken to loudly, and then answering rationally ; his pulse fell to 48. He died on the thirty-ninth day, comatose. On examination after death, the pericranium was found detached at the seat of injury ; under this the dura mater was thick, yellow, and opaque, but no pus was observable. On separating the hemi- spheres, however, a large abscess was found situated deeply in the anterior lobe on the injured side, and protruding into the median fissure. It contained about one ounce of pus. In such a case as this trephining would evidently have been useless; for, although it was probable that there was pus within the skull, yet its seat could not have been diagnosed, and the abscess could never have been reached. Another case admitted into the Hospital was that of a man who had received a large lacerated wound on the left side of the scalp in conse- quence of a fall. There was no injury to the bone, and the patient went on perfectly well until the seventy-seventh day, the wound having cicatrized. He was then suddenly seized with hemiplegia of the right side, from which he recovered partially on being bled ; some twitching of the muscles, however, continued. On the ninety-ninth day after the accident he became coma- tose, and was trephined by S. Cooper, but without relief, dying with symptoms of compression of the brain on the third day after the operation. On exami- nation thick yellow lymph was found, covering the whole of the upper surface