TREPHINING FOR ILEMORRIIAGE. 157 fourteen days, and then proving rather suddenly fatal by inflammation. A woman, whilst walking with her sister, fell in the street. She was taken up insensible ; thought to have a fit; became comatose, hemiplegic on the right side, and died the next day. After death the left parietal bone was found fractured, and a clot that weighed five and a half ounces was found lying over the ruptured middle meningeal artery on the dura mater. Or the injury may be so slight as barely to attract attention: a lady going into the opera stumbled as she went down some stairs, and struck the side of her head against the wall. She felt giddy and confused, returned home, went to bed, was found comatose the next day. I was sent for, but before I could trephine her she had died. On examination, a four-ounce-clot was found on the dura mater, under a ruptured meningeal artery, but without fracture. I have seen the same in a boy, who, running down stairs to his dinner, struck his head against the opposite wall; he ate his dinner, vomited, became drowsy, and died. A large clot was found on the dura mater at the part struck. In neither of these cases was there any external bruise or other sign of injury. The insensibility of drunlcenness may usually be distinguished from the coma resulting from injuries of the head, by the absence of local mischief, by the smell of the breath, and by the face of the drunkard being flushed and turgid, and not pale as in a person who is suffering from the effects of a severe injury. When a drunken person has met with an injury of the head and is insensible, he should always be carefully watched, however slight the injury may appear to be, until sufficient time has elapsed for him to recover from his drunken fit, as it is impossible to say whether the stupor be the result of intoxication, or of mischief within the skull; and I have known cases to be sent away from hospitals as drunk, when in reality the stupor was occasioned by the pressure of depressed bone upon the brain. In the stupor from poisoning big opium, the condition of the pupils, which are contracted to the size of a phi’s point, instead of being widely dilated as in coma from cerebral compression, will enable the Surgeon to make the diagnosis. I he Treatment of extravasation of blood may be conducted oil two prin- ciples either by means of general and local antiphlogistic measures, having lor their object the arrest of further haemorrhage, the promotion of absorption, and the subdual of inflammation ; or else by the application of the trephine, with the view of allowing the escape of the effused blood. The place adopted should I think, have reference to the character of the symptoms. Although Trephining in cases of extravasation was formerly much in i ogue, it is seldom had recourse to by modern Surgeons, and is proper only in the meningeal form of extravasation. When the symptoms indicate cercbml extravasation, trephining can be of little service, and we must be content with geneial measures ; but when the extravasation seems to be meningeal, then an attempt may be successfully made to evacuate the extravasated blood. The most serious difficulty in determining on the mode of treatment does no consist so much in ascertaining that blood has been effused within the ■skull, as m the difficulty of diagnosing that it is so seated between the dura ma ei and the bone as to admit of removal; not being effused at the base, nor so v l e y coagulated over the surface of the brain as to be unable to escape iroug i t ie aperture that may be made. The likelihood of the co-existence of ac me ol the base of the skull and of laceration of the brain, giving rise to ie ceienu foini of extravasation, must also be taken into account. For