703 TEA UMATIG ENCEPHALITIS. inflammation of the brain and its membranes may set in with great intensity, the symptoms being strongly marked; in other instances it gradually creeps on in a slow and insidious manner, not attracting attention until it has given rise to some severe and ulterior consequences, as effusion or suppuration, when its symptoms become so mixed up with those of compression and irritation, as to make the exact diagnosis of the patient’s condition far from easy. The period at which symptoms of inflammation of the brain may manifest them- selves, after an injury of the head, varies greatly. In some instances they set in almost immediately the patient has recovered from the effects of the con- cussion ; the reaction from this state gradually assuming an inflammatory character. Septic meningitis and encephalitis usually commence on the second day, and the symptoms reach their maximum intensity by the third or fourth day. In other cases it is not until after several days that inflam- mation declares itself; and again, it sometimes happens that the inflammatory affection does not supervene for weeks or months: but then, occurring perhaps under the influence of comparatively trivial causes, it may destroy the patient. Pathological Changes.—After death, we find usually both the brain and its membranes inflamed. The arachnoid is, however, the structure that appears principally to suffer, especially in septic meningitis, being thickened, so as to become milky and semi-opaque. Adherent lymph of a greenish-yellow colour and opaque purulent appearance, covers one or both hemispheres of the brain, being deposited chiefly in the subarachnoid space and in largest quantity at the seat of the injury, but not unfrequently extending across and into its fissures, occupying especially the depressions about its base. The vascularity of the brain and its membranes is greatly increased ; the arachnoid being- reddened in patches, and the vessels visible in the pia mater becoming turbid and very numerous, forming a vascular network over the surface of the brain. The sinuses also are distended with blood; the cerebral substance when cut into exhibits an increase in the number of red points; the grey matter is redder than natural, often presenting a somewhat rosy hue; and the ventricles are filled with reddish semi-turbid serum, a large quantity of which is effused about the base of the brain. In some of the more advanced cases, inflam- matory softening of the cerebral substance may occur. Symptoms.—In considering the symptoms of traumatic encephalitis, it is useless to endeavour to make a distinction between the inflammation of the bram and that of its membranes ; the two structures being always more or less implicated at the same time. The most practical division of this disease following injury, is into the acute and the chronic or subacute encephalitis Acute Encephalitis usually comes 011 within eight-and-forty hours of the infliction of the injury. The patient complains of severe, constant, and increasing pam in Ins head; the scalp is hot, the carotids beat forcibly the pupfls are contracted, the eyes intolerant of light, and the cars of noise the pulse is full, vibrating, and bounding; and wakefulness, with delirium, usually fa violent character, speedily comes on. All the symptoms of severe pyrexia ■ tin at the same time. The temperature rises rapidly, usually reaching F., or more, by the third day. anc^ ProPer treatment, this condition may gradually subside flnmi 'Ca 1 18 1 ^-established, but more commonly the symptoms of in- rnation merge into those of compression—the delirium being replaced