VENEREA L DISEASES. 109S by the Surgeons of the last and early part of this century, that mercury acted as a specific against the syphilitic poison. This docrine was so firmly established, that Hunter, and many of the great Surgeons of his school looked on the curability of a sore without mercury as a proof that it was not syphilitic. About the commencement of this century, however, it was found by obser- vations of the Army-Surgeons, amongst whom Rose took a principal share in the inquiry, that the different forms of venereal ulcer (no distinction being then drawn between the local non-infecting sores and the ulcers which resulted from the contagion of the constitutional disease) were curable without the necessity of administering mercury, or indeed of having recourse to any specific treatment whatever. These observations, which appear to be founded on what was witnessed in Spain and Portugal during the Peninsular War, led to the introduction of an important modification in the treatment of venereal sores ; viz., the non-mercurial or simple plan, as it is termed ; a mode of practice that obtained great favour and was extensively tried. On the definite separation of the simple non-infecting chancre from the true syphilitic sore, however, a reaction took place in the minds of most Surgeons, and mercury is now almost invariably employed in the treatment of the latter, and is administered more moderately and scientifically, and consequently more successfully, than before. The arguments in the favour of the non-mercurial plan of treatment are briefly these : that by this system of treatment the constitution of the patient is saved the introduction of a mineral which occasionally acts injuriously, and which, as the disease can be cured without it, may at all events be looked upon as unnecessary ; that secondary affections less frequently follow this plan than they do the administration of mercury ; aud, lastly, that those distressing cases of constitutional syphilis which are common after mercurial courses, and which are said to depend upon a peculiar combination of the syphilitic poison with the mineral in the system, are never met Avith in persons who have under- gone the simple treatment. These arguments, however, on closer examination and further experience, have been proved to be not quite so conclusive as the supporters of the simple treatment appear to believe. Before the simple sore Avas clearly distinguished from the initial manifestation of syphilis the early healing of the chancre and the absence of secondary symptoms after ic Avere taken as evidence of the efficacy of the non-mercurial treatment of syphilis. Noav that the tAvo forms of sore are clearly separated from each other this fact has of course no bearing on the question, and experience has undoubtedly shown that although the true indurated sore Avill heal in time without the administra- tion of mercury, yet the process of cicatrization is slow and often imperfect, the scar readily breaking doAvn again for some time after apparent healing; whereas if mercury be given the healing is rapid and permanent. This is, hoAvever, but a small part of the question. It is a most serious error to con- found the healing of ulcers with the cure of syphilis. The cicatrization of an ulcer and neutralization of the virus are two distinct things ; and the test of the relative value of these two plans of treatment must depend rather on the influence they haA'c over the course of syphilis, and on the character that the symptoms assume under one or other of these methods, than on the mere skinning over of the ulcer. I cannot agree with the statement that secondary symptoms are less frequent after the simple than after the mercurial treatment. In fact,