TREATMENT OF COMPRESSION BY PUS. 7°9 in0-, and mercurializing the patient. Complete rest, the lemoval of all mental and sensual excitement, shaving the head, the application of ice, a mild aperient or an occasional enema, are all that can be done in the way of medical treat- ment. As the constitutional powers are depressed, they must not be too much lowered by complete abstinence from food, and small quantities ol stimulants may usually be advantageously given. A tea-spoonful of brandy m a little water, or beef-tea, every hour or two, according to the condition of the pulse and the temperature of the skin, will generally be required. In some cases, where there is great restlessness, and some delirium, without any sign of encephalitis having supervened, chloral will be found of great value, or an opiate even may be given to quiet the patient and induce sleep. This cerebral irritation is the only form of primary cerebral disturbance in which I have seen opiates act beneficially ; but their administration requires great care, and must not be ventured on if there be any elevation of temperature or quickness of pulse. After a tune these signs of depression give way to those of subacute meningitis, the patient becomes noisy, shouting and crying, restless and sleep- less. At this period, and in such circumstances, venesection may be practised with great advantage. The bleeding should be followed up by the administra- tion of bromide of potassium or of chloral, and ultimately by the more special treatment of meningeal irritation. In the treatment of all these conditions, it is impossible to insist too strongly on the paramount importance of absolute rest and quietude. No conversation, lights, or noise should be allowed in the patient’s room, and no injudicious attempts should be made to rouse him or to ascertain by inquiry if he is conscious. Much depends on careful and quiet nursing; on attention to minor details, as the avoidance of noises and flickering lights, and the frequent administration of liquid food in small quantities, or per rectum. In all cases of Coma from Compression, the pressure must be relieved before it can be expected that the coma will subside. But, besides this great and obvious indication, which must be carried out in different ways according to the nature of the compressing cause, there are certain general considerations to be attended to, by which the patient’s condition may be much relieved. Thus the bowels should be freely opened by placing a drop of croton-oil, mixed with a little mucilage, in the patient’s mouth, or by the use of oleaginous or terebinthinate enemata. The urine is to be drawn off twice in the twenty- four horns, the room darkened and kept quiet, and ice or an evaporating lotion applied to the head. When symptoms of compression occur as the result of inflammation inside the skull, the treatment becomes surrounded by difficulties. If, notwithstand- ing that antiphlogistic measures have been pushed to their full extent, rigors occur and coma supervene, conjoined with a certain amount of continuous in- flammatory fever, the question will always arise as to whether trephining should be had recourse to on the supposition of matter having formed. In these cases two great difficulties present themselves ; the first has reference to the existence of pus within the skull, and the second to its situation. The question as to the actual existence of Pus within the Skull, and to the dependence of the symptoms of coma upon the compression exercised by it, is always a difficult one to decide. There are, as has already been stated, no absolute and unequivocal symptoms indicative of the formation of pus within the skull; symptoms closely simulating those that accompany its