556 SPECIAL FRACTURES. by means of thick pliant silver wire. He finds that the ordinary cross-twist docs not hold ; he therefore coils the wire at each side (lugs. 1.)-, l.Jfj. In 1 order to facilitate this operation, he has devised a set of instruments, compris- ing- a tubular needle to return the wire, and a key for coiling it (Fig. 193). In Fractures of the Sody of the Lower Jaw by Gun-shot Injury, there is great comminution and splintering of the bone, followed by copious and fetid discharge, which, being in part swallowed, may reduce the patient to a state of extreme debility, or may even prove fatal. The free use oi disin- fectants, and especially of iodoform, will however do much to counteract tins. In extreme cases, Dupuytren recommends the lower lip to be cut through, t le splinters taken away, and, if necessary, a portion of the bone resected, so as to convert the wound into one similar to that which results after the partial removal of the lower jaw for disease of the bone. Fracture of the Hyoid Bone is of very rare occurrence ; and, though usually the result of direct violence, as a forcible grasp, has been seen ay Ollivier D’Angers to occur from muscular action. The signs are always very obvious. The fragments form a sharp salient angle : there are much pain and irritation, increased by speaking and deglutition. There is usually salivation; and considerable difficulty in breathing may be present Reductions accom- plished by pressing the fragments into position, either externally m J passing the finger into the mouth. Should one piece of the bone be driven much in, it might possibly require to be drawn forwards with a tenaculum The neck should then be fixed with a stiff pasteboard collar to prevent displacement. FRACTURES OF THE BONES OF THE CHEST. Fracture of the Bibs and Costal Cartilages.—These injuries may occur in two ways : 1st, from direct violence, the part that is stmekbemg driven in towards the thoracic cavity, and thus broken ; _nd, the fiactur occurs from indirect violence, the forepart of the chest bemg forcffily messed so that the rib is bent outwards, and snaps. When the injury is Result of direct violence, and the broken fragments are forced m, the pleuia, lung liver or diaphragm, may be wounded, thus giving rise to the most serious amf fata?1 consequences, such as hemorrhage, emphysema, and inflammation of the narts injured. When it is occasioned by indirect violence, as the fu c tore tics place in a direction outwards the thoracic organs ^e^ontwi, and thus injured, but they arc not liable to be In some rare cases, the ribs have been known to be broken b3 the violent traction of the abdominal muscles during parturient efforts ^ Fractures of the ribs maybe single; multiple when sc ’ . whole of the ribs on one side, or several on both sides, are fiactiiredL, ^ as in ordinary violence ; and compound, as 111 gunslio lnjui cs, blt; ^ne o"s^S, and frequently several are fnmtumd at tS. The middle ribs, from the fourth to " as well. But this is not an invariable complication. I have seen