LOCAL DISTURBANCES AND INFLAMMATION. i86 Fain*. The evening temperature is one or two degrees higher than that observed in the morning. There is a feeling of general languor, and the head is often heavy and hot. The pulse is full, bounding or thrilling, and quickened to thirty or forty beats in the minute above its normal rate. The character of the pulse varies with the part affected and with the cause of the fever. In ordinary traumatic fever, when it assumes the sthenic form, in the formation of acute abscesses, and in the early stages of many specific inflammatory fevers, as erysipelas, it is full and bounding; in inflammation of glandular struc- tures, as the testis or mamma, the pulse is compressible though full; in acute inflammation of serous membranes, as in pleurisy, peritonitis, or meningitis, it is small, incompressible and wiry. The secretions are arrested or diminished in quantity, the tongue is coated with a white fur, and the mouth clammy, usually with much thirst ; the bowels are confined, and the skin di). ie urine is scanty and high coloured. < . If a favourable termination occur, the fever terminates either gradua y, iy lysis, or more suddenly by crisis, often accompanied by critical evacuation. The tongue cleans, the pulse lessens in frequency and m strength, the secre- ' tions become more free, the thirst diminishes, and strength and appetite return This favourable termination can occur in most surgical cases only by the removal of the cause of the fever, as by the opening of an acute abscess, the removal of septic matter by drainage, or the- growth of healthy granu a- tions preventing its further absorption. Should the cause persist, the e\ ei may terminate in death, either by exhaustion or by the supervention of some visceral complication, as pneumonia; or the sthenic form may gradually merge into the type that is characterised by 'debility. 9 Asthenic Inflammatory Fever occurs principally m those individuals whose constitutions are broken by privation, dissipation, or by any ot tne general depressing causes of disease, as grief, anxiety long ^dence in a vitiated atmosphere, or old age. In constitutions such as these, frequently met with in all classes,but especially amongst the poorer residents rn^e towns, inflammatory fever almost invariably assumes this type. The ca the fever, however, in many cases, determines the type quite as; much as t • constitutional state of the patient. The asthenic form is met with m eases of true infective blood-poisoning from wounds ; that is to say, intko.e> cases in which the poison which enters the system is not merely ^hem^pioducte of putrefaction, but a ferment-like substance capable of inultiplyin^ mi t frying body, as in acute septic infection, pyamua and malignant pustide. In all snrcadiim gangrenous inflammations the fever assumes the sam > andai^erysfrTlas^ although, as before stated, there may be sthenic fever for a SrtttaTto signs Of equation vapidly sot in. As the asta.oformtf fever depends so frequently on general infective processes it is accompanied by secondary complications, as pleurisy, pneumonia, viscei al lWhcn the asthenic form comes on as a sequence of the sthenic, the symptionis ofT one gradually merge into those of the £ •pulse becomes feebler though its frequency is kept up, the ton ue brown and dry, and there is tendency to °^| g“tS depLion is When the fever assumes the asthenic form from the wi) • . 1 . « often strongly marked during the period of: state is fully established, the symptoms aie not vei) active.