POISONED WOUNDS. 37° In the more seven form of dissection-wound, the patient is seized, about twelve or eighteen hours after the puncture, with rigors, anxiety ot coun. e- nance, and depression of the nervous system; with a fever On examining the finger, a pustule, or vesicle, with an inflamed areola may be observed in the situation of the puncture ; from this a few ied fines may be seen extending up towards the arm-pit, where there •md tension. In the worst cases, however, the signs at the seat ol inocu lation may be either wanting or scarcely recognizable. _ Suppui-ation ^i much min takes place in the pectoral and axillary regions; it is usually diffuse1 the pus being mixed with shreds and- sloughs. The general symptom, gradually assume an asthenic type; the fuguejb^omes mulate about the lips and gums, low delirium sets m with a rapldfeeble pul - and death occurs in from ten days to three weeks. ^ hen incisio . <. into the brawny tissue, it is found infiltrated with thin pus, and in a s oug h state If the patient live, large circumscribed abscesses form under t le pec muscles in the axilla, and above the clavicle, accompanied by much exhaustion r"s*n of the system. The convalescence is tedious and prolonged. and the constitution is often shattered for life. -th the In other cases a diffuse inflammation identical m all ^s chamoters i tl tl cn rolled nhleo-monous or cellular erysipelas spreads directly from the seat nocthtiin 'Th™l is form of dissection-wound is of a truly speeific character is e“S from the fact that patients labouring under fatal erysipelas to their nurses and attendants ; as happened m le ea. ;t l P Po e of University College Hospital, whose early death was much o be' lamented It is this kind of dissection-wound that is especially apt to occur after punctures, received from patients who have died of d.ffm inflammation of th.6 serous memlnanes. . 1^1 "res the intensity of the spreading inflan^ation is mchUrat, it terminates rapidly m gangrene of the affected P” • ■ . rene. A resembles in most of its features genuine spreading or traumatic>»( y case of this kind occurred in a nurse under the care of Ch istopher l y ii sixth day after the accident. In this case, as is usua in tins form ot di. ea-e, there im no enlargement of the lymphatic glands m the axilla. The Lptoms produced by contact, independently of bodies of persons who have died of erysipelatous diseases 01 pjtemia some ttat vm-y', though still referable to the l — wh^tra SSJ “wo*°hS“t“.(Sthe areolar tissue under the p-J-J and in the axilla ; one was seised with a lend of maniacal delmum. two were seriously, though not had typhoid fever ; and the remaining dBT?S«fflT -On the receipt of a puncture in dissection, or in making a examination, the best mode to prevent injurioua* 5* a string tightly round the Anger blood to flow, and perhaps to ean7 ont the ™.is it 1 jn a jfJM stked^r some minutes , in