LOCAL disturbances and inflammation. 142 CHAPTER IV. LOCAL DISTURBANCES OF CIRCULATION, AND INFLAMMATION. Local Disturbances of Circulation.—These may be of three kinds. Local Amemia; Active Hyperaamia, Active Congestion, or Determination of Blood; and Passive Ilypermini a or Passive Congestion. LOCAL ANIEMIA. Local Amemia may be complete and permanent, as in obliteration of the arteries leading to a part by the formation of a clot of blood within them, by disease of their coats, by pressure from without, or from a wound. Com- plete amemia may result also from diffused pressure actingmn the capdlanes. This condition must necessarily lead to the death of the affected pait. and will be considered when treating of gangrene. It may also be incomplete and permanent from the same causes acting m a less degree. Whenever from any cause the arteries leading to a part are permanently diminished m calibre the amount of blood circulating through the area supplied by them must necessarily be diminished, and the tissues will suffer m proportion to the diminution. Such a condition is very common, as we shah afterwards see, from degenerative changes in the coats of the arteries in old people. Under such circumstances the nutrition of the part is impaired. It is colder and paler than natural, the growth of the epithelium is imperfect, and the surface is often dry and scaly; in a limb, the nails are brittle and grow more slowly than natural; the muscles are weak and are liable to irregulai painful con tractions or cramp. The power of resistance to external injuries is lessened . a slight degree of cold causes gangrene; wounds tend to slough and ulceration to ocmr in the skin from superficial abrasions ; and inflammation in general arises from causes that would be harmless to a healthy part, and tends readily to assume a spreading form and to terminate in suppuration or gangrene. Permanent local anaemia acts therefore as one of the most important pic- disposing causes of inflammation. Temporary local amemia may be pioduccd intentionally by the surgeon, as in the bloodless methods of operating aliea ) T rXd or by pressure applied to arrest bleedmg. Physiologically it is nSuS’by contraction of the muscular fibre colls in the middle coat of he arteries This may be brought about by direct stimulation of the arte 7 such artciies. Jh i l { : y cold or exposure in a wound, or through the MT „f themotor nei™. Stimulation of the sympathetic nerves, direct mX “uses temporary contraction of the vessels in the area 1 lied bv the nerves to which the stimulus is applied. As familiar examples supplied y contraction of the arteries, we may take the dcad-wlutc °V°^„fTn“rs^IStalfS-" colei, aud the amemia of the to. udthTscnsibili ty which forms the condition known as concussion after a blow