INJURIES OF SOFT FARTS. 322 operates; and also that it be not a mere limited slough, but sufficiently exten- sive to jeopardize the patient’s life. — * • 1*1 I-VlCi HT/MITl/l nOvl\7 fl TO Till l.fl - 31 ve to jeopai ui&u WIC pauicuu o mu 7. In cases in which spreading gangrene attacks the wound early, amputa- tion is the only hope of saving the patient. _ The question as to the 'period at which amputation should be performed in contused wounds from gunshot will be considered at p. 349. It may be o'encrally stated, that the sooner a condemned limb is taken oil, the less is the suffering, and the better the chance of recovery of the patient; and that, con- sequently, primary amputation should be practised in these cases. Ly refer- ence to the tables on p. 82, it will be seen that, although the average mortality for all primary operations is less than the average mortality for all secondary operations, yet primary amputation through the thigh is more fatal than secondary amputation in the same region. Notwithstanding this, it a absolutely necessary in many cases to remove the injured limb within the nrst twenty- four horns. The higher rate of mortality of primary thigh-amputations may be due chiefly to the greater severity of the injuries that manifestly require mmediate operation, than of those in which it is thought justifiable to attempt to save a limb; and certainly, of the two alternatives-of leaving a badly crushed and mangled limb until suppuration has set m, and thus exposing the patient to all the risks of gangrene, erysipelas, pyaemia, &c., or removing it at once—the latter is the one attended with least danger to the patient. A limb is sometimes so severely and hopelessly crushed and torn that any attempt at its preservation must be useless ; whilst at the same tune e patient is so severely injured internally, or is so prostrated by the geneia shock to the system, that amputation as a formal operation would be as use ess as it would be unjustifiable, the patient having at most, perhaps, but a feu hours to live. In'these circumstances the best thing that can be done is u out on a tourniquet tightly, partly to restrain haemorrhage, and partly to restrain the painM quivering of the muscles, and to wrap up the maimed limb in a wet cloth. Should the limb have been nearly completely detached- merely hanging on by shreds of the lacerated muscles-these may be divided, and its removal thus effected without additional shock or suffering Brush-Burn.—There is a peculiar species of wound, that partakes peihapa more of the characters of those wounds that we have just been considering than of any other, and is occasioned by rapid and severe friction of the suiface of the body so that the skin becomes abraded and the subjacent tissues so - It goes by the name of a - * auentiv produced in the manufacturing districts, by the surface ot the oooy Sng into contact with straps or portions of machinery m rapidrevolut,« It has* also been known to occur in consequence sliding rapidly down a long and steep Alpine snow-slope.^ In rtns mjm:y integumental structures are, as it were, ground oft, and the areolai ana anoneurotic structures converted into an eschar. r- .... The Treatment presents nothing special, but may c con uc ec .' principles. The separation of the eschars must be facilitated by moisan Sic applications ; the resulting sores will heal by ^anulaion; jd the general health must be supported during the suppuiatnc pui c necessarily ensue. gTABg AND punctured wounds. These wounds, made by narrow sharp-pointed instruments, vary greatly m