1096 VENEREAL DISEASES. the constitution without producing any local manifestation of its existence until this is developed under the influence of a broken state of health. I have had under my care an extremely severe case of constitutional syphilis, in which twelve years elapsed after the occurrence of the primary disease, during the whole of which time no secondary affection was observed until the patient’s health gave way from other causes. And I have also had under my care an officer, in whom a very severe form of constitutional syphilis occurred for the first time, after salivation for hepatic disease, five years after the primary sore had been contracted—no constitutional manifestation having attracted the patient’s notice in the meanwhile. Not only does a state of ill- health hasten the occurrence of secondary syphilis, but neglect or indifference to its existeuce may keep it up indefinitely. That the treatment of the primary sore exercises considerable influence, can- not be doubted. The severity of the course of syphilis is, I believe, materially lessened by a mercurial course, if that course be properly conducted. The question as to there being any connection between the nature of the primary sore and the character of the consecutive constitutional affection has been much discussed, and very different opinions have been entertained. The generally received opinion at the present time is, that no safe conclusions as to the future course of the disease can be drawn from the appearance of the primary sore. Tertiary symptoms are, in fact, frequently met with in patients who have not a trace of a scar left by the primary sore, and sometimes even in those in whom the initial manifestation has been so slight as to escape notice. The character of the secondary symptoms seems to give a much more valuable indication of the probable course of the disease. A copious early squamous or papular eruption is believed to indicate a quick course, terminating at an early period. Those cases in which/the skin disease persists long and frequently relapses, have been observed to suffer but rarely from visceral affections. It is a remarkable fact, noted by Lancereaux, Berkeley Hill, and "Wilks, that a large proportion of those who suffer from visceral syphilis have passed through a very mild secondary stage, often so wanting in symptoms as to be scarcely recognizable. This fact is particularly noticeable in tertiary syphiloma of the nervous system. It must not be concluded, however, from these facts that severe tertiary symptoms must necessarily follow a mild secondary stage. It is only when the tertiary symptoms appear that their severity may be said to be in the inverse ratio to that of the secondary. In the great majority of cases a mild secondary stage, when it occurs, forms the end of the disease. Berkeley Hill states, that marked general glandular enlargement is a bad sign, being usually accompanied by antenna and general debility. Death from syphilis, directly, during its secondary stage is practically un- known. The disease kills move often by its tertiary manifestations, such as the development of gummata in the central nervous system or liver. Gowers is of the opinion that locomotor ataxy is most common in patients who have suffered from constitutional syphilis. Many aneurisms are believed to be due to syphilitic changes in the vessels. The proportion of cases, however, in which syphilis even indirectly shortens life is so small that it is not considered necessary to make any addition to the premium charged for life-insurance, be- cause a patient has passed through an attack of syphilis, unless some definite tertiary symptoms are present.