401 THE USE OF COLD—OF HOT WATER. and thumb. Thus, in amputation at the hip and shoulder-joints, the assistant readily controls the rush of blood from the femoral and axillary arteries by grasping them between his lingers. Above all, the Surgeon should never dread haemorrhage, nor lose his presence of mind when it occurs. If recourse be had to proper means, it can always be, at least temporarily, arrested. On no account should anyone who pretends to the character of a Surgeon employ inefficient means to stop it, and imagine that he can, by covering up the wound with rags, handkerchiefs, &c., prevent the escape of blood. These procedures ouly hide the loss that is going on, and, by increasing the warmth of the parts, prevent the contraction of the vessels, and favour the continuance of the bleed- ing. Under all circumstances, therefore, bleeding wounds should be opened up, the coagula gently removed from their surface by means of a piece of soft sponge or a stream of cold water, and the part well cleaned. In this way “you look your enemy in the face,” and can adopt efficient means for the permanent arrest of the haemorrhage. The methods of controlling the flow of blood temporarily by digital com- pression and by the various forms of tourniquet have been fully described on p. 40, el seq. It is usually necessary to adopt some of these during the appli- cation of means intended to produce permanent arrest of the bleeding. The screw tourniquet and digital compression will usually be found the most con- venient, as the pressure can be rapidly relaxed, in order to guide the Surgeon to the bleeding point, and re-applied if necessary. The different means that may be employed for the permanent arrest of haemorrhage are :—1, the Application of Cold; 2, the Application of Hot Water ; 3, Styptics ; 4, Cauterization with a Hot Iron ; 5, Pressure ; G, Flexion ; t, Torsion ; 8, Forcipressure ; 9, Ligature ; and 10, Acupressure. 1. Application of Cold is sufficient to arrest the general oozing of arterial blood which is always observed on a cut surface. The mere exposure to the cold aii of a wound, which has bled freely so long as it has been covered up by pledgets and bandages, is often sufficient. When this does not succeed, the application of a piece of lint, soaked in cold water, will usually arrest the flow of blood. When it is necessary to do this speedily, as in some operations about the air-passages, a small stream of cold water may be allowed to drip into the wound, and thus cause rapid contraction of the vessels, and consequent cessation of bleeding. In cases of bleeding into some of the cavities of the body, as the rectum, vagina, or mouth, the application of ice is advantageous. Its use should not, however, be too long continued, lest sloughing occur, indeed, if cold do not speedily, almost at once, arrest the bleeding by constricting the vessels, it is better to have recourse to other and more efficient means. 2. The Application of Hot Water is a most valuable means of arrest- in° dm;ing°1; ^mediately after an operation. It is especially useful blo^W , " nab?U f 16 faCe and tru,,k hl which ifc is impossible to adopt any ofthe, ,Trat'ng’ and yet in which it is important that the view mediately ? MU ^ n0fc,be obscured bF persistent oozing of blood. It im- of Esm Jr-Va if8 reG bleedmS from small vessels which follows the removal 1879 bvHim'n Ul i'fe’ db*s moc c °i treatment was introduced in America in of between 150°°F Hamilt(Mtl applied water at a temperature recommended JL,, ' wi ok Lund^ °n f°rCeps- Br0Wa the whole wound with water of the same temperature. recommended washing vol. 1. 0 D D