93° ERYSIPELAS. tarily draw it back it may meet the knife. But these incisions if deep are horribly painful, and an anesthetic should never be omitted. After incising the finger the limb should be well bathed and fomented several times in the day, the finger itself dressed with carbolized lint, covered with a piece of gutta-percha tissue, joined along the edges by a touch of chloroform. Poultices make the parts sodden, and are injurious by their decomposition. In cases of extensive implication of the hand the limb should be supported by a splint, and in all cases the dressings covered with cotton-wool. The dead and sodden cuticle should be cut away with, scissors, as it frequently seriously interferes with the escape of the discharges and sloughs. After the opening has been made, and any slough which may have formed has come away, it not unfrequently happens that a large and fungoid granulating mass sprouts up ; this will, however, gradually subside, as the swelling of the finger goes down and the inflamma- tion abates. If the nail become loosened, it had better be removed, as it may otherwise keep up irritation ; it must not, however, be torn off if adherent, but merely scraped and cut away so far as it is loose. When the whole of a finger is affected, the hand should be placed on a splint as soon as the inflam- mation has been somewhat subdued, lest contraction of the affected finger, which may eventually extend to the neighbouring ones, ensue. The finger should not be placed in a fully extended position, or it will be impossible after recovery to break down any adhesions that may form between the flexor tendons and their sheaths. Should the lymphatics of the arm become implicated, belladonna and gly- cerine should be freely applied, the limb covered Avith cotton avooI and supported in a sling. When the joints are implicated, destruction of the cartilages commonly ensues ; yet, by position, and rest on a splint, a tolerably useful though stiffened finger may be retained. When the bones are implicated, some operative pro- cedure usually becomes eventually necessary. If the ungual phalanx alone be necrosed, it may be excised through an incision on the palmar side of the finger, the pulp and nail being left; in this tvay I have often preserved a finger that must otherwise have been removed. Amputation of the finger at the metacarpo-phalangeal articulation will usually be required when the second or proximal phalanges are involved ; though here partial excision, by cutting and scraping away the, diseased bone, may sometimes be usefully done. During the later stages of these affections, tonics, good diet, and stimulants will be required for the re-establishment of the health. Senile Teno-Synovitis.—There is a form of acute suppurative inflamma- tion of the fingers and hand sometimes extending to the wrist-joint, which occiu's in old people of feeble constitutions. It usually arises from some trivial irritation or infection, and runs its course of disorganization with rapidity. It appears to be a disease of the hand due mainly to senile degenera- tion, in this respect resembling the gangrena senilis of the foot, but differing in its more acute character and suppurative tendency. The joints of the fingers, metacarpus and carpus, become disorganized and the bones necrose. This disease requires an aeti\’c tonic and nutritive treatment. 1 he affected parts should not be too much soddeued by Avet applications. Amputation, partial or complete, may at last be required.