779 CONDITIONS IN CONCUSSION. PATHOLOGICAL increase of temperature : whereas, by dividing the ascending sympathetic filament between the second and third ribs, the vaso-motor phenomena arc developed in the head without any influence being excited on the eye through the medium of the oculo-pupillary filaments. He sums up his observations as follows. “ The vaso-motor and the oculo-pupillary nerves do not act m the same way. Thus a slight irritation of the auricular nerve occasions only vas- cular dilatation on the corresponding side ; whilst the same irritation produces reflex movements in both eyes at the same time. The reflex vascular actions do not appear to be capable of being produced on the opposite side to that which is irritated (d’une maniere croisee) ; and, besides this, they are limited and do not extend beyond a certain determined line of circumscription. All this is in striking contrast with the oculo-pupillar actions, which are on the contrary general and crossed.” Clinical observations support the result of physiological experiment as to the connection that exists between the oculo-spinal axis of the cord and the integrity of vision. The records of surgery contain numerous illustrations of the injurious influence on the sight of blows inflicted on the lower cervical and upper dorsal spine. Allbutt remarks, that those injuries and concussions of the spine that occur high up are more injurious to vision than such as arc inflicted on the lower portion of the vertebral column. To what is this impairment of vision due ? Allbutt, who has studied the subject with much care, gives his opinion, in which I fully coincide, so clearly, that I cannot do better than quote his own words. “ In default of a series of autopsies, we seem to be led towards the conjecture that hypertemia of the back of the eye, following injury to the spine, is probably dependent upon a greater or less extension of the meningeal irritation up to the base of the brain. How, have we any reason to suppose that spinal meningitis does creep up into the encephalon ? AVe have : for, setting aside the curious head-symptoms such patients often present, here the actual demonstration of autopsy comes to aid us. It is tolerably well known to careful pathologists that encephalic- meningitis is a very common accompaniment of spinal meningitis. It is scarcely needful to point out that, if this explanation of an ascending menin- gitis be the correct one, it accords with my observation, stated above, that, in general, the higher the injury to the spine, the sooner the affection of the eye.'’ Pathological Conditions.—Two distinct forms of chronic and subacute inflammation may affect the contents of the spinal canal, as the results of injury or of disease ; viz., Inflammation of the Membranes, and Inflammation of the Cord itself. In Spinal Meningitis, the usual signs of inflammatory action in the form of [ increased vascularity of the membranes are met with. The meningo-rachidian veins are turgid with blood, and the vessels of the pia mater are much injected, sometimes in patches, at other times uniformly. Serous fluid, reddened and :i clear, or opaque from the admixture of lymph, may be found largely effused in the cavity of the arachnoid. In distinguishing the various pathological appear- ;mccs presented by fatal cases of chronic spinal meningitis, Ollivier makes the very important remark that spinal meningitis rarely exists without there being > at the same time a more or less extensive inflammation of the cerebral men- inges ; and hence, he says, arises the difficulty of determining with preci- S|on the symptoms that arc special to inflammation of the membranes of the !|: spinal cord.