1036 TUMOURS. supposed benefit to be derived from hemlock, sanguinaria, condurango, Chian turpentine, iron, arsenic, iodine, cod-liver oil, or lemon-juice, in the treatment of cancer. But though curative treatment can effect nothing in these cases, much may he done by proper Palliative Treatment towards retarding the progress of the cases that do not admit of operation. With this view, the diet should be mild, nutritious, easy of digestion, unstimulating, and sufficient to support the strength under the wearing influence of pain and discharge ; and the preparations of opium, of conium, and of hyoscyamus, must he freely administered in order to relieve the patient’s sufferings, and to procure rest. The Local Means are those upon which the Surgeon justly places the chief reliance in these affections. The Palliative Local Treatment consists in the use of means calculated to retard the growth of the tumour, to lessen the pain attending it, and to remove the foetor that arises if it be ulcerated. In order to prevent the rapid extension of the tumour, it is of great importance to subdue all local excitement within and around it; the disease will usually extend with rapidity, proportioned to the amount of action existing in the part, any inflammatory condition of the neighbouring tissues being especially prejudicial in this respect. Hence, in these circumstances, the occasional application of a few leeches will often be of considerable service. No counter- irritation, however, ought to be employed in the vicinity of the cancerous part, as it hastens the process of ulceration; the skin being apt to become rapidly infiltrated by the cancerous disease under it, if irritated by the application of iodine and other stimulants. If the tumour be painful, and the skin coa ering it still unbroken, great relief may be obtained by the application of belladonna- plasters. In some cases I have found powdered conium, spread on cotton- wadding, useful in the same way. As it is of importance to prevent, as long as possible, any breach of surface, the application of these sedative pla^teis and powders should be persevered in with the view of supporting the integument. The local application of ice, so as to freeze the tumour moie or less completely, has been recommended by J. Arnott; it may, possibly, in some cases retard the growth or lessen the pain, but there is 110 evidence to show that it can be considered as a curative agent. When the tumour is ulcerated, the foetor must be diminished by the application of weak solutions of chloride of zinc, of chloralum, or of permanganate of potash, to which opiates may be advantageously added with a view of lessening the pain. Iodoform sprinkled over the ulcerating surface will often be found to diminish both the foetor and pain. If the smell of the iodoform is unpleasant to the patient, an ointment may be used composed of iodoform 5b eucalyptus 01 5.1> paraffin and vaselin a.a. ^iiss. This may be applied 011 a piece of musin. and the parts covered with a sheet of salicylic wool. The Curative Local Treatment of cancer embraces three methods, viz.: destruction by caustics ; absorption by pressure ; and removal by the kmc. All these local means are employed on one principle, viz., on the supposition that the cancerous tumour which it is proposed to destroy, to absor or extirpate, is primarily a local disease ; that, if this local malady caii be remov sufficiently early, constitutional infection may be prevented ; and that, <. if this have to some extent taken place, fatal contamination o’ the sys o may be retarded by the removal of the local source of that constitutional infection.