4o 6 ARREST OF ARTERIAL HAEMORRHAGE. by Galen • but the practice seems to have been forgotten until about 1828. It was revived in France by Amussat, Velpeau, and Thierry ; and m Germany by Fricke, who experimented upon and practised this method of tieatmg divided arteries, with mnch ingenuity and perseverance. Gut, notwithstan mg the efforts made to force it on the attention of Surgeons, it was gradually abandoned, even by its strongest advocates. Torsion has never come into general use amongst Surgeons in this country, and has, certamly, been o much neglected. It may be practised m various ways. Thus, Am . < recommended that the artery be drawn out for about half an inch by one pan- off creeps ; that it then be seized close to the tissues with and that the end be twisted oft' by about a dozen turns (Fig. 1*8). Thi» p an is applicable only to the larger arteries which can be cleanly isolated fiom surrounding parts. Velpeau and Fricke advised that the end be not taken off Tut merely twisted seven to eight times, according to the size of the vL x5Sr simply seized the artery and twisted it in the direction of’m Tis In seizing the artery it is particularly important, as Dupuytren has nointed out that the whole vessel be grasped by the forceps, and that caie be take^not to introduce one blade into the open end of the vessel, and thus twist only half of it. There can be no doubt that haemorrhage fiom the Hro-est vessels may be effectually stopped by torsion. Amussat and Velpeau 1 b , iw nopri it to close the femoral, brachial, ulnar, and radial aitones m ££? Bryant, other mode of occluding a wounded artery. . „ , o In order to apply torsion successfully, a strong- pair of forceps,, 1 accm-atelyffitting serratures, must be used (Fig. 139), and the width of the Fig. 139.—Torsion Forceps. blades should vary with the size torsion to a large vessel, it is better not to t™^ thaendera y or four sharp turns usually " Smir vessels may b. are felt to give way, and all resisitance to off Eyen Kith small twisted till the part included m . , , lie vessel cau he isolated the vessels it will be found that the applied to more certainly will the bleeding e s opi • forcepS • it is most ditiicult large vessels, which cau situated i^nse structures, or in with small vessels, especially il t ey , itrvint states that degenera- tes infiltrated with inflammatory products.diffleulty in tion of the inner and middle coats m ■ a leased than securing the artery, fewer turns m fact being require ■ sacs «w i-1“ >•«*—: zxxxxsz r tstJt rarsi ■— ■»*•—