716 INJURIES OF THE HEAD. Laterally, the tendon is thin, covered in part by the attollens and attrahens aurem, and in front of the ear runs down, superficial to temporal fascia, to be • attached, like it, to the zygoma ; pus gravitating in this direction, therefore, . forms a bag of fluid just above the zygoma, never extending into the cheek. In front, the fleshy fibres of the muscle are blended with those of the corrugator supercilii and the orbicularis palpebrarum; while in the middle line they are continued down over the nose into those of the pyramidalis nasi ; and the pus under this part will therefore collect in the upper eyelids, . and in a pouch over the root of the nose. When the wound is too tightly closed, either by sutures or by a pad of lint allowed to stick to it by the dried blood, the serous fluid, necessarily elf used . j in the first few hours, forces its way into the loose areolar tissue • ] beneath the pericranial aponeurosis. If the wound be small it may possibly occur that the fluid is absorbed, and the wound heals without trouble. Frequently, however, it distends the lymph-spaces and decomposes, and thus starts a spreading inflammation which may affect the whole of the subaponeu- rotic areolar tissue. This septic cellulitis commences usually about the third day after the injury, and terminates, as such inflammations generally do, in diffuse suppuration and sloughing of the cellular tissue. There is a general ! puffy swelling of the scalp and diffused redness, often extending over the face, . and it is probable that this state of things has often been confounded with erysipelas, and has given rise to the idea that stitches in the scalp cause that < disease. This condition is frequently fatal, especially in old people, unless actively and efficiently treated; death occurring either from septic poisoning, pymmia, or exhaustion. As soon as pain, with some swelling round the wound and elevation of temperature, raise a suspicion that diffuse inflammation is spreading fiom the .* wound, all dressings should be removed. It will frequently be found that edges of the wound are adhering to each other ; if this be the case they must . be separated with a director, when a small quantity of thin offensive pus • frequently escapes. A hot .dressing of boracic-acid-lint may then be applied, and covered over with oil-silk, and over this a sheet of cotton-wool and a bandage. This must be changed, like a poultice, about every four hours. In most cases this treatment will be successful in arresting the unhealthy in■ 8™" H mation, but should it fail and the cellulitis extend more widely, it will be necessary to make free incisions, reaching through the pericranial aponeurosis -| wherever the inflammation has extended. Before doing this the head mus be shaved; without this cleanliness is impossible. It is more essential that . this should be done with women even than with men, howevei muc l t ley may object, as their hair is longer. The incisions should be each about one inch in length, and vary in number according to the extent of the mis- chief. They must be carefully planned so as to avoid the mam arteneB. After bleeding has been arrested hot dressings must be applied as before described. . , • . Simple erysipelas after a scalp wound presents nothing specia treatment. . , When the skull itself is extensively denuded m consequence of t c ] cranium being stripped off the subjacent bone together with a flap of t ic su P> ScL not necessarily follow that necrosis and cxfoliat.on of the enpoKdtana will occur The flap must be laid down on the denuded osseous surface, ! wilich“t may ll.liy contract adhesion through the medium of granulations.