TREATMENT OF SYPIIILIDES. 1I09 and comes out in large quantities, often so as to cause baldness—syphilitic alopecia. Occasionally it may separate in patches. The baldness is not per- manent, in fact it resembles the fall of the hair so often noticed in erysipelas and various fevers. Diseases of the Nails are common. During the early stages the nails fre- quently become brittle and irregular in growth. A more serious affection is Syphilitic Onychia, which consists in a chronic inflammation of the matrix, with fetid discharge from under the nail; the end of the affected digit is swollen, purple in colour, and intensely tender, the nail becomes black, more or less bent, and scales off, leaving a dirty ulcerated surface exposed beneath. One nail only is usually affected. Ulceration between the Toes with excessively foul discharge and much swelling of the foot is not an uncommon condition in syphilis. It apparently arises from the formation of soft flat. growths of the same character as the mucous tubercles at the anus, the ulceration being due to the irritating secre- tion between the toes and want of cleanliness. It is easily recognized, for it may be taken as a rule that all ulcerations between the toes are due either to .syphilis or scabies. The ordinary soft corn discharges no pus. The Treatment of Syphilitic affections of the Shin must be conducted in accordance with the general principles already laid down. All the symmetrical eruptions occurring in the early stages of the disease are best treated by the administration of mercury according to the rules already laid down. The tubercular eruptions and the squamous ulcer, when occurring after the first year can often be relieved by iodide of potassium, especially if the patient has been treated with mercury in the earlier period. Donovan’s solution is often -of the greatest possible value, the disease rapidly disappearing under its use. The same plan is required in the management of syphilitic boils. In the pustular forms, syphilitic rupia and ecthyma, as the constitution is commonly shattered, a tonic plan of treatment is required in the first instance ; after which the perchloride of mercury with tincture and decoction of cinchona, or decoction of sarsaparilla should be steadily administered. In these cases also much benefit will be derived from mercurial fumigation. In most cases no local treatment is required for the squamous or papular ■eruptions, but should they occur in the face the patient is often anxious to hasten their disappearance. For this purpose dilute white precipitate oint- ment, or calomel made into a cream with olive-oil and lard, may be applied. M arshall recommends the application of a ] 0 per cent, solution of oleate of mercury with some morphia added. In all ulcerating syphilides iodoform, either applied pure or made into an ointment with vaseline, will be found most useful. In deep ulcerations iodide of starch ointment often produces a good effect. It these fail, yellow wash or perchloride of mercury in the strength of two grains to the ounce, diluted with water if it cause too much pain, will often arrest the spread of the ulceration and hasten its healing. If nothing else succeeds it may be necessary to cauterize the surface with fuming nitric acid or the acid nitrate of mercury. In syphilitic alopecia the internal administration of mercury has most influence in arresting the loss of hair : at the same time a stimulating lotion may be applied. B. Hill recommends the following : Tinct. Cantharides, Solution of Ammonia, ail 5SS.; Spirit of Rosemary, 5i ; Glycerine, 3SS. ; Rose water to 5viij. In syphilitic onychia the nail should be removed and iodoform applied. Black wash or yellow wash