373 DEGREES OF BURN. of the cuticle. The raw surface left may discharge a little puriform fluid, the cells which it contains being partly young epithelium from the Malpighian layer and partly leucocytes which have wandered to the surface. Although no cicatrix results in these cases, yet discoloration of the integument is often left. If the cuticle he not removed, the inflammation speedily subsides and is followed by some desquamation. In the third degree the whole of the cuticle is destroyed, with a portion of the true skin ; but the cutis vera is not entirely destroyed. This is a most important point, as it influences materially the character of the resulting cicatrix. The thin layer of the true skin remaining contains sweat-glands, hair- follicles and elastic tissue—structures which are not reproduced if once destroyed. Moreover, round each hair, in the ducts of the sweat glands and in the hollows between the papillai, epithelium is left undestroyed, from which new cells can start growing. The tips of the papillae have their epithelium completely destroyed, and consequently become covered with granulation- tissue, so that the whole surface becomes vivid red and suppurates freely. It covers, however, with epithelium with marvellous rapidity, owing to the innumerable points from which the new cells start growing. It scarcely contracts in healing, and the scar that results is elastic and contains all the elements of normal skin. Owing to the exposure of the nerve-endings in the papillae this form of burn is intensely painful. In the fourth degree there is destruction of the skin through its whole thickness, so that the subcutaneous tissue is reached. The eschar separates by ulceration from the surrounding parts, and a large granulating- sore is left which can become covered by epithelium from its edges only. Consequently the healing is slow and attended by long continued suppuration and great contraction. The resulting cicatrix is, therefore, much smaller than the original raw surface, and is devoid of glands, hair, and elastic tissue • ft. ^st it is tlnn, red or purplish, glazed, often in the form of bands or bridles, and is liable to occasion great deformity by the cohesion of parts as ot the fingers, or by contraction, as at the elbow, and the side of the neck and face, or by the closure of apertures, as of the nostrils. In the. fifth and sixth degrees the destructive influence of the burn penetrates o a greater or less depth into the muscles, bones, or joints. In the fifth degree the more superficial muscular structures are implicated : in the sixth degree the whole thickness of the limb is destroyed and charred. fins is very briefly the celebrated classification introduced by Dupuytren oa the subject as a practical expositor of the OT wT; fe7anT **""» are found associated to a 01 laf ex‘ent! mcM> m tie more severe cases, the first three or four egiees are almost invariably met with together. exteml1^ fourfch deSree .is the m°st important, and most severe burns between ii •. ^ Pi ac lce ^ 18 difficult, if not impossible, to distinguish both the si-ir,1'10 anc, omtd deSrees the sloughs begin to separate. In portance of" h i)aif mient-hke and of a brownish yellow colour. The ini- thickness of 11° °iU- 1 t eqTce 18 due complete destruction of the whole purating surfaced tW n^i ft® COnffqU(;11lt exteDsive granulating and sup- contraction of the r..w • °ft; aUd t0 tlc teudoncy t0 deformity from the U1AVy LlOclLl 1CGS.