486 INJURIES OF BONES AND JOINTS. INJURIES OP JOINTS. Contusions.—Joints are often contused by kicks, falls, or blows, so as to be severely injured, with much pain, and consecutive inflammation of the capsule, synovial membrane, or other structures entering into their formation. As a result of contusion the joint may be suddenly distended with blood, hcemar thro sis. The blood so effused, mixed as it always is with much synovia, slowly undergoes absorption, without leading to any inconvenience. The Treatment should consist of complete rest of the part with the application of a splint. An evaporating lotion or an ice-bag may be applied over the joint. Should the amount of effusion be very considerable the tension of the joint and the consequent pain may be at once relieved by removing the effused blood by means of the aspirator. Before inserting the needle it is safer to wash it through several times with a 1 in 20 solution ol carbolic acid, and care must be taken to keep the needle perfectly steady while it is in the joint. In some cases a bursa, situated in the neighbourhood of a joint, is seriously bruised, and becomes inflamed : in consequence, there is often troublesome suppuration. When this takes place, free incision into the inflamed part, with antiseptic treatment, will afford speedy and effectual relief to the patient. Sprains.—When a joint is twisted violently so that its ligaments are either much stretched or partially torn across, though there be no displacement of the osseous surfaces, it is said to be sprained. These injuries are exceedingly painful and troublesome in their consequences. They most frequently occur to the wrist-, knee-, and ankle-joints. The- pain is very severe, and often sickening. The intensity of the pain in a sprain is very remarkable when we reflect on the low degree of sensibility possessed by ligaments in the normal state. They may be cut and divided on the cross without pain, but if stretched in a longitudinal direction or twisted, so as to tend to separate the articular surfaces, pain of the most intense character is at once set up—a wise provision of nature guarding against articular displacements. At the time of the sprain a certain amount of blood is effused into the articular cavity and the sunouna- ing tissues, in consequence of which the limb in a few days becomes dis- coloured for some distance above and below the joint. The sprain is rapidly followed by swelling and inflammation of the joint and investing tissues, often very chronic and tedious. As the inflammation subsides, stiffness and pain in using the part continue for a considerable length of time, and are in some cases followed by a kind of rigidity and wasting of the limb. In individuals of a rheumatic or gouty habit of body, the inflammation of the joint consequent on the sprain is often most tedious and chronic, and will yield only to appropriate constitutional treatment. In strumous subjects, destructive disease of the joint may ultimately be induced. _ . Treatment.—If the sprain be slight, rubbing the part with a stimulating embrocation, and giving it the support of strapping or a bandage, are all that need be done. But if it be at all severe, more active measures must be had recourse to. These must vary according to the condition of the joint "hen the Surgeon sees the patient'; but they are all conducted on the principles o securing perfect rest, and subduing inflammation. In the vast majority o these injuries all that is necessary is to put the part at rest for two wee's. The amount of discoloration that often follows a sprain is sufficient eude