SPECIAL FRACTURES. 57° n the lateral median line, in order to counteract the forward displacement of the upper end of the shaft, and thus to throw it backwards towards the ' head of the humerus; 5. To apply a sling so as merely to support the hand and wrist, allowing the elbow to hang unsupported, and thus letting the weight of the arm counteract the displacement upwards (Fig. 203). By these means the triple displacement of the upper end of the lower portion of the shaft inwards, forwards, and upwards will be counteracted. The whole is then to be steadied by means of a leather- or gutta-percha-cap, carefully moulded and fitted to the shoulder and arm. As the bruising and extravasation are often very considerable in these cases, it is as well to apply evaporating lotions in the first instance. In the management of some of these fractures, I have found a very con- venient apparatus in a leather splint about two feet long by six inches broad, bent upon itself in the middle, so that one half of it may be applied lengthwise to the chest, and the other hah to the inside of the injured arm ; the angle formed by the bend, which should be somewhat obtuse, being well pressed up into the axilla. In this way the limb is steadied, and the tendency to displacement inwards of the lower fragment is corrected. . . , , In some cases, fracture of the neck of the humerus is followed by atrophy of the bone, though good union has taken place. . Compound Fracture of the Surgical Neck of the Humerus is not of common occurrence. I have had a case under my care in which this accident happened to a lad from a fall out of a window. The fracture was transverse, and the upper extremity of the lower fragment was driven upwards, and pro- truded through the deltoid, to the extent of an inch and a half. It was reduced with difficulty : as great irritation was set up around the seat of injury, and as there was a tendency to recurrent protrusion of the upper extremity of the lower fragment, this was turned out by enlarging the wound, and about an inch and a half of it sawn off. Union took place between the fragments, and recovery was effected with a very useful arm. Separation of the Great Tuberosity of the Humerus occurs occasion- ally from falls and blows upon the shoulder; but more commonly as the result of the violent action of the three external rotator muscles which are lnseited in it In this injury there is a double displacement; the tubercle is carried up- wards and outwards away from the head of the bone, and under ^ to the acromion process ; the head is drawn upwards and mwa^ by the muscles passing from the trunk to the arm as well as by the ofahe: am, in such a way that it lies upon the inner edge of the glcnonl canty um coracoid process, and is indeed almost luxated. The consequence of this double displacement is’a great increase in the breadth of the si* which b- nearly double its natural size ; on examination, a rounded tumoui—the lie- o^the bone—movable on rotating the arm, can be felt under the cornxad process whilst another osseous mass—the great tubcrosity-ma> he felt a outer^ud back part of the joint; between these a sulcus is perceptible, and crepitus may lie felt by bringing the two portions of bone into apposition» * rotatin'1' the arm. This accident, which is rare, has been most carefa y Merited hi Guthrie and Smith, to whom we are indebted lor our knowledge °f ^L1 Treatment consists in an attempt to bring the detached tuberosity into '