TREATMENT OF SPINAL CONCUSSION. 783 •oi' his future condition, provided there be a progressive amelioration ot his symptoms, and no evidence of the development of any inflammation, acute 01 •n chronic, of the membranes of the cord. Hut our opinion as to his ultimate recovery must necessarily be very unfavourable if the progress of amendment I cease after some weeks or months, leaving a state of impaired innervation ; the more so if, subsequently to the primary and immediate effect of the injury, symptoms of meningo-myelitis have declared themselves. In such circum- stances partial restoration to health may be looked for, but complete recovery is scarcely possible. When a person has received a concussion of the spinal cord from a jar or shake of the body, without any direct blow on the back, or perhaps on any other part of the body, and the symptoms have progressively developed them- selves, the prognosis will always be very unfavourable ; for this reason, that, as the injury is not sufficient of itself to produce a direct and immediate lesion ■of the cord,' any symptoms that subsequently appear must be the result of structural changes in it consequent on its inflammation ; and these secondary structural changes, being incurable, must to a greater or less degree, but per- manently, injuriously influence its action. For the same reason, the occurrence of a lengthened interval, a period of several weeks for instance, between the ! infliction of the injury and the development of the spinal symptoms, is pecu- liarly unfavourable. In forming an opinion as to the patient’s probable future state, it is of far less importance to look to the immediate or early severity of the symptoms than to their progressive and insidious development. The time that the symptoms have lasted is necessarily a most important matter for consideration. When they have been of but short duration, they may possibly be dependent on conditions that are completely, and perhaps ■easily, removable by proper treatment; for instance, on extravasation of blood, or on acute serous inflammatory effusion. But when the symptoms, however slight they may be, have continued even without progressive increase, remain stationary for a period of many months, they will undoubtedly be found to depend on those secondary structural changes that follow inflammation. I have never known a patient to recover entirely the state of health that he enj oyed before the accident, in whom the symptoms dependent on chronic inflammation of the cord and its membranes, and on their consecutive structural lesions, had •existed for twelve months. And though, as Ollivier has observed, such a patient may live for fifteen or twenty years in a broken state of health, the probability is that he will die within three or four. There is no structure of the body in which a structural lesion is recovered from with so much difficulty as the spinal cord and brain. And, with the exception probably of the eye, there is no part of the ffiody in which a slight permanent change of structure produces such serious disturbance of function as in the spinal cord. Treatment.—The general principles of treatment of concussion of the spinal cord are the same, from whatever cause the injury may have arisen. In the Early Stages of a case of Concussion of the Spine, the first t ing t,o be done is undoubtedly to give the injured part complete and abso- lute rest. The importance of rest cannot be over-estimated. Without it, 110 0 lei treatment is of the slightest avail; and it would be as irrational to attempt to treat an injured brain or a sprained ankle without rest, as to try to enelit a patient suffering from a severe concussion or wrench of the spine un ess he be kept quiet. Jt is the more important to insist upon absolute and