811 COMPLICATIONS AND DANGERS. i for suicidal attempts. In many cases, the incision is carried so low as to shave E off or partly to detach the epiglottis and the folds of mucous membrane around it. In other cases, the edges of the glottis or the arytsenoid cartilages arc injured, the cut extending back to the bodies of the vertebrae. Here also there are great difficulty in swallowing and great risk of the sudden supervention of | oedema of the glottis, and consequent suffocation. (When the Larynx is wounded the incision is usually transverse ; but I have seen a longitudinal cut made through the larynx, so as to split the thyroid and cricoid cartilages perpendicularly. In these cases of wounded larynx, there is much danger of the blood from the superficial parts trickling into the air- passage and asphyxiating the patient, and of inflammation of the bronchi and lungs supervening at a later period. Wounds of the Trachea are not so common as those of the larynx, from which they differ but little in the attendant dangers. The (Esophagus is seldom wounded, and such wounds still more rarely come under the care of the Surgeon, as it can be reached only through the trachea by a deep cut, which will probably implicate the large vessels. Effects.—There are various sources of danger in wounds of the neck im- plicating the air-passage. The haemorrhage, whether it proceed from any of the larger trunks, or consist of general oozing from a vascular surface, may prove either directly fatal by the amount of blood lost, or indirectly in conse- quence of the blood trickling into the air-tube, and accumulating in its • smaller divisions, producing suffocation. Asphyxia may supervene, either in the way already mentioned, or, when the wound has been inflicted above the larynx, from the occurrence of oedema of the glottis. It may likewise occur when the external opening is very small, and occasionally happens suddenly when the wound is nearly closed. Another source of danger is the loss of the natural sensibility of the glottis, in consequence of which it no longer contracts on the application of a stimulus. Hence food taken in by the mouth may pass into the larynx and appear at the external wound, even though neither the pharynx nor the oesophagus has been wounded. This I have observed in many cases of cut throat; hence the presence of food in the wound cannot in all cases be considered an evidence of injury to the food passage. In some cases this may possibly be due to wound of the superior laryngeal nerve, but it quite as frequently occurs in cases in which it is certain that this nerve is uninjured. It is then a bad sign, and is never met with until a semi-asphyxial condition has come on, by which nervous irritability is blunted, or until inflammation has been set up about he nma glottidis, giving rise to so much swelling as to interfere with the natural action of the muscles, and to deaden the perception of the part to ne contact of a foreign body. In these cases also the sensibility of the air- LZT g?ei’a y 18 much lowcred’ so mucus accumulates in the bronchi, tion n° ^ C iinhrer(?us extent, the patient not feeling the necessity for expectora- effoiV« nl - mdled> havin? Tch difficulty in emptying his chest; his couo-li l* •f c!ailll8 t ic bronchi being reduced to a forced expiration, a true Th 8 lmpoS8lWe while the wound is open below the glottis, cause ofTrCC ]>wnc^l^s alld septic broncho-pneumonia is a frequent This is rlnp6^ 1 1U pa^Crds w^10 survive the immediate effects of the wound, its heincr m llla^ cases. partly to the direct admission of cold air, without o rmec ty passing through the nasal cavities, but much more often