532 FRACTURES. period in the progress of the case, amputation may be required, in order to rid the patient of a suppurating limb that is exhausting him by pi of use discharge. It is true that primary amputations arc very commonly fatal, especially when practised near the trunk ; yet this cannot with justice be uiged as an argument against their performance, as recourse should never be had to primary amputation except in cases in which it is evident that the patient’s life must in all probability be sacrificed by an unsuccessful attempt to save the limb. In determining the cases in which immediate amputation should be peifoimed, no very definite rules can be laid down, and much must at last be left to the individual judgment and experience of the Surgeon. One will attempt to save a limb which another condemns. But, in coming to a conclusion upon this important question, he must bear in mind that, though it is imperative to do everything in his power to save a limb, yet the preservation of a patient s life is the main point, and that course is the proper one which oilers the greatest prospect of effecting this. A wise conservatism is much to be ap- plauded, but decision in determining the expediency of amputation is equally characteristic of a good Surgeon. In deciding on a question of such vital moment as this, he must consider not only the nature and extent of the fracture, but the age, constitution, and habits of the patient: and though he may be guided by those general rules which have_ already been laid down at pp. 320 and 341, when treating of amputation in contused wounds and in gun-shot injuries, yet he will often show more wisdom and a greater amount of skill, in departing from the strict letter of surgical law, and in making a successful effort to save a limb, which, by adherence to surgical precepts, would be condemned ; or in attempting to preserve the patients life, by sacrificing a limb that is not injured to a degree that would usually be considered to justify amputation. ... , •h 1. Those fractures must be looked upon as most unfavourable m which the wound is the consequence of the violence that breaks the bone, and, m + :! there is much Laceration of, and Extravasation into, the Soft Parts; more particularly if the integuments be stripped off, portions of the muscular bellies protrude, and the planes of areolar tissue between the great muscles of the limb be torn up and infiltrated with blood. Injuries of this description occurring in the lower extremity always require amputation The danger the patient increases not only in proportion to the amount of comminut in i the bones and of injury to the soft parts, but almost m the exa°t r^aho of the proximity of the injury to the trunk. Thus, amputation of the thigh for bad compound fracture of the leg, though a very serious operation, “ successful; but when the femur itself is badly frac ured and amputation of tlw thigh high up is required, recovery can indeed but seldom be exPecte ' bad compound fracture of the thigh, high up, may be looked upon ai ahnost a fatal accident (vide pp. 105 and 344). In the arm such accidents am not so serious, and the member may be saved, unless the bones e gi . Tile complication of a compound fracture with the Wound of a large Joint more especially if there to crashing or splintering of the bones which enter into its formation, with extensive laceration of the soft, parts, is the most serious injuries that can bo inflicted on a limb ; in the lower extremity of an adult, is a case for amputation unless Sprint that is damaged, when there will generally be so much injury of the