592 SPECIAL FRACTURES. that finds its way through the vessels of the ligamentum teres, is insufficient for the proper production of callus. , | 111 some cases, however, bony union does take place. This can happen only when, in consequence of the cervical ligament being untorn, or the fracture being impacted, the surfaces are kept in some degree^of apposition, and the supply of blood to the head of the bone is speedily augmented by that carried to it through the medium of the vascular tissue formed between the fragments in the process of repair. In no other circumstance is it probable that osseous union takes place in these fractures : hence the infrequency of its occurrence, there being in all probability not more than eighteen or twenty cases on record as having thus terminated in this country. When bony union does take place, the head of the femur will usually be found to be somewhat twisted round in such a way that it looks towards the lesser trochanter, owing to the eversion that has taken place in the lower fragment. Treatment.—As these fractures do not unite by bone unless the fragments be in good contact, it is useless to confine the patient to bed for any long period, if the signs, especially the amount of shortening, indicate considerable separation between the fragments, or if the patient be very aged and feeble. In these circumstances, lengthened confinement to bed most commonly proves fatal by the depressing influence which it exercises on the general health, causing hypostatic pneumonia or inducing bed-sores. It is therefore best to keep the patient hi bed merely for two or three weeks, until the limb has become somewhat less painful, and the tendency to muscular spasms, often very distressing, has passed away. The patient should be laid flat on the back, on a fracture-bed or a suitable couch properly provided with a pan for the reception of the excreta. This is most important, for if the urine and freces be passed under the patient so as to wet the buttocks bed-sores will infallibly result. In fact the utmost attention to dryness and to cleanliness is needed in order to prevent them. The knees should be bent at an angle of 45° over pillows and the legs tied together. At the end of from two to four weeks a leather splint should be fitted to the hip, and the patient be allowed to get up upon crutches. There will be lameness during the remainder of life ; but, with the aid of a stick and properly adjusted splint, but little inconvenience will be suffered. Another mode of treatment which will be found extremely useful is the early application of a well-fitted Thomas’s hip splint. (See Diseases of Hip Joint.) Until the splint is ready the patient may be kept in bed, either with the legs bent, as before described, or with a weight extension apparatus (Fig. 235) to diminish shortening, and sand-bags to steady the limb and prevent eversion. The splint may safely be applied at the end of a fortnight, and the patient may then leave his bed and move about on crutches. When the fragments do not appear to be much separated, there being but little shortening and indistinct crepitus, and more particularly if the patient be not very aged, and in other respects sound and well, an attempt may be made to procure osseous or at least close ligamentous union. This may be done y the application of the long thigh-splint, in the same way as for a fracture o i he shaft • or, if this cannot very readily be borne, by the double incline U1C , , , _ J Tlic annn.raf.119 111:1V be This apparatus may be mth or five weeks, and If the Thomas's splint cannot be obtained, or plane, with a padded belt strapped round the hips. replaced by a Thomas’s hip splint at the end of a month or five ueeks,, the patient allowed to get up