TUMOURS. I04S resulting wound is small and puckered in, and often heals with but little trouble. If the mass to be removed be large, two or more ecraseurs may be used at the same time, the chains having been passed through the tissues by means of a needle. The action of the beraseur differs according to the kind of instrument used. Chassaignac’s original ecraseur, armed with a steel chain, and having a to-and-fro movement, acts like a saw. That which is now often employed {vide vol. ii., Diseases of the Tongue) acts as a simple con- strictor ; and its use is therefore less likely to be followed by haemorrhage. This instrument appears to be applicable chiefly to cases in which, as in epithelioma of the tongue, excision is hazardous on account of the haemorrhage attending it, while the ligature is objectionable on account of the feetor and discharge resulting from the slow separation of the constricted mass, which sloughs" and becomes putrescent. The French Surgeons, however, extend the use of the ecraseur to many cases in which in this country the knife is pre- ferred. They suppose that pyaemia is less likely to follow removal by this instrument than by the more ordinary means, purulent absorption less readily occurring while the vessels on the cut surface are crushed together. Expe- rience has not, however, shown this to be the case. A modification of the ecraseur in which the wire was heated by electricity Fig. -10S.—Ecraseur applied. at the same time that the noose was gradually drawn in was much in use a few years ago. The galvanic ecraseur has, however, fallen somewhat into dis- repute. The increased rapidity with which it cut the tissue, and the perfect absence of luemorrhage during the operation, seemed at first great points in its favour ; but experience showed that the wound left was more likely to slough, and secondary haemorrhage much more frequently occurred than after the use of the simple ecraseur. _ , , . ., , ,1 The Ecraseur is undoubtedly a useful and valuable instrument, but it shorn never be employed when the knife can be safely used.