983 SPECIAL FIBROMATA. Fibromata of Bone.—These may grow from the centre of the bone, as is not unfrequently seen in the lower jaw, or from beneath the periosteum. Ihe diagnosis between these latter and the firmer varieties of sarcoma can be made only after removal. Virchow lays great stress upon the fact that periosteal fibromata do not penetrate into the structure of the bone, or show any ten- dency to infiltrate the surrounding soft parts, while the reverse is the case with the sarcomata. Fibromata of Nerves.—These are commonly spoken of as neuromata, although this term would be more properly limited to those tumours in which newly-formed nerve-filaments are found. They form rounded tumours, over which the fibres of the nerve are stretched ; they are frequently multiple, sometimes extremely numerous, very hard and dense, and almost invariably painless, and not affecting the function of the nerve upon which they grow. They are more movable in a direction transverse to the course of the nerve upon which they are seated than in any other, when the limb is put in such a position as to tighten the nerve ; a symptom which is of some importance in their diagnosis. Fibromata of Glands are rare, being ahnost confined to the mamma. Painful Subcutaneous Tubercle is a peculiar form of fibroma, found beneath the skin, usually of one of the extremities, but very rarely of the trunk. It is seldom more than half an inch in diameter, and is so small as scarcely to cause a prominence on the surface, yet it gives rise to pain of the most intense and agonizing character, usually called forth by some slight touch or pressure, and then lasting perhaps for an hour or more. These tumours are not neuro- mata ; at any rate, no connection has as yet been traced between them and nerve-filaments. They are by far more frequent in females than in males. Fibroid Tumour of the Uterus.—These tumours, as before stated, arc not pure fibromata. In addition to the fibrous tissue, such as is found in pure fibromata, they present numerous long spindle-shaped cells, which were shown by Virchow to be involuntary muscular fibre cells, and consequently these tumours are classed by many writers under “ myomata ” or “ myo-fibromata.” In the tumours of old women these muscle-cells frequently undergo atrophy, and the tumour then presents the appearance of a pure fibroma. Fibroid tumours of the uterus project either into the cavity of the organ, forming uterine polypi, or into the cavity of the pelvis. They are liable to softening and ulceration, accompanied by much haemorrhage when they assume the poly- poid form. Under any circumstances they frequently calcify, and occasionally, as above stated, soften, forming enormous cysts. Somewhat analogous tumours are found in the prostate gland in the male. The Ireatment of fibromata is in a great measure palliative ; but when I they are so situated as to admit of removal, as in the neck, lower jaw, I antrum, mamma, or subcutaneous tissue, they should always be extirpated. Tumours closely resembling fibromata in naked eye appearance and con- i sistence, have been known to recur after removal with much tendency to ulceration, sloughing, and haemorrhage. They may even give rise to secon- eaiy deposits in internal organs. These tumours will always be found on microscopic examination to present the signs of one of the forms of sarcoma 0 )e described hereafter. Pure fibromata are invariably benignant. c. Enchondroma Chondroma — Cartilaginous Tumours. — These