Soo FRACTURES. The Longitudinal Fracture consists of a splitting or fissure of a bone in the direction of its axis (Fig. 173, b). Longitudinal fracture, or splitting of bone, is not very common in civil practice ; but in military practice it is frequent, especially from the action of conical rifle-balls. In such cases, when the shaft is struck and shattered, the splitting of the bone may extend widely in either direction—sometimes into the neighbouring joint (Fig. 100, p. 328), although, as Stromeyer has remarked, it usually stops short of this, terminating at the epiphysis. When the fracture is produced by a blow, which need not be a very severe one, upon the articular end, the bone may be split and the joint opened. In flat bones, the fissures may radiate from the spot to which the violence has been applied, forming the stellate fracture; or a sharp instrument may perforate the bone, giving rise to a punctured fracture. The Separation of the Epiphysis of one of the long bones from the shaft, at the line of junction, is an accident that occasionally occurs in children and young people at any period up to that of the completion of the ossification between the parts. Hence it is met with under the age of 21 or 22. This kind of fracture is always transverse. It is apt to simulate a dislocation very closely ; but the diagnosis may be made by finding that the articulation is always intact, and its move- Fand7\m?gbitudie ments usually free. Union readily takes place by bone, and nai Fractures, the longitudinal growth is consequently in many cases seriously interfered with. Not only are the epiphyses of the long bones liable to this separation through the line of junction, but the same thing may happen to various processes, as the acromion, olecranon, &c.; and some osseous structures, as the acetabulum and sternum, are apt under external violence to separate into their original component parts. Sig-sts of Fracture.—The history given by a patient who has broken a bone will usually be that he has met with a violent accident, during which he felt, and perhaps heard, something break or snap, and that, immediately, be found himself unable to move the affected part, and any attempt to do so caused the most agonizing pain. These facts are common to many other injuries besides fractures, and serve merely to direct the burgeon s attention to the seat of injury. The patient must be carefully stripped, the injured part being disturbed as little as possible, the clothes being cut wherever it is necessary, rather than pulled off, as any violent movement might convert a simple fracture into a compound. The limb being fully exposed, the Surgeon proceeds to examine it first by inspection, secondly by measuring, and lastly by manipulation, comparing it in form and size with the uninjured part on the opposite side. It is better to leave the painful process of manipulation till last, as in many cases the existence of a fracture can be determined without resorting to it. The limb will often show some increase in size, due eithci to the extravasation of blood round the fracture, which often takes place to a very considerable extent, even without the wound of any principal vessel: or to the approximation of the attachments of the muscles by the shortening o the limb. Diminished bulk, or flattening, occurs in some cases, in consequence of the weight of the limb drawing the part down, and thus lessening natura