I I ox SYPHILIS—EFFECTS OF MERCURY. without treatment. It is equally certain, however, that mercury shortens the stao-cs and lessens the severity of the disease, and that if carefully administered cannot do any harm. The administration of mercury is therefore advisable in every case of syphilis in which its use is not contra-indicated by one of the conditions above mentioned. As age increases, its use becomes more essential, for, as before stated, the disease becomes more obstinate in proportion to the age of the patient at the time of infection. °B. The general effects of mercury, and the degree to 'which, it should he pushed ■in treatment.—The observations of Liegeois, Hughes Bennett, and Keyes, show that mercury administered to a healthy subject in very small doses acts Ins a tonic. Under its influence the red corpuscles increase in number, and in animals a gain in weight has been noted. In larger doses it diminishes the red corpuscles. In syphilis, in which the red corpuscles are diminished in number, it causes an increase if administered in moderate doses. All forms of ■mercury administered by the mouth tend to act upon the bowels, and unless this tendency is checked, the desired alterative effect is not easily produced. The most marked sign of the action of mercury is the effect upon the gums and mouth. The first sign that the drug is affecting the constitution is the appearance of a red line along the gums, close to the teeth ; there is at the same time a slight sense of tenderness on biting any hard substance. In the present day the administration of mercury is not pushed beyond this point, and in the primary stage of syphilis, it is not even necessary in most cases to carry it so far before its good effects are apparent on the sore. Should the drug be pushed further, either intentionally or accidentally, the swelling in- creases ; the gums become soft and spongy, and overhang the teeth ; the tongue swells, so as to show the impression of the teeth along its sides, and it becomes covered with a thick fur. The breath becomes offensive, and there is an increased flow of saliva, and a metallic taste in the mouth. This con- dition of “ mercurial salivation ” was in former times regarded as the proper effect to be obtained by the administration of the drug. In the present day it is regarded as an evil to be carefully avoided. If the drug be pushed still further, the teeth may be loosened, and fall out; the gums and tongue may become ulcerated, and acute inflammation may take place in the salivary glands. At the same time there may be considerable febrile disturbance. The effects produced by mercury vary very greatly in different individuals, a dose which would salivate one patient producing no effect on another. In the administration it is necessary, therefore, in all cases, to begin with a small quantity, which may be gradually increased till the patient’s dose is ascer- tained. When symptoms of salivation set in, the mercury must be imme- diately discontinued. A brisk saline purge may be given, and the mouth must be washed with a strong alum or chlorate of potash gargle (10 to 15 grs. to the ounce of water). In the treatment of syphilis the effect upon the primary sore is often a useful guide in the administration of mercury. If, under the influence of a certain dose, the sore rapidly assumes a healthy appearance and begins to heal, it may be taken for granted that that quantity is sufficient to act bene- ficially on the patient, and it may be adhered to during the whole course, even il it does not affect the gums, unless special circumstances require an increase. In fact, it is better in all cases to be guided rather by the effect on the disease than by the effect on the gums. Swollen gums show that the limit of safety