467 CAUSES. any but vague statements as to the length of time during which the patients survived. If the patient survive the immediate effects of the accideut, he may probably recover without any bad symptoms, as happened in the case to which I have referred as occurring at the University College Hospital, and in an instance recorded by E. Cooper. In some of tire cases that survived some days the fatal result is said to have been due to bronchitis or pneumonia, as happened to the patients of Boux and Malgaigne. Cause.—Tire cause of the spontaneous entry of air into the veins has been very completely investigated and determined by the French Commission. If we open a large vein at the root of a dog’s neck, near the thorax, in which the venous pulse, or flux and reflux of the blood, is perceptible, we shall see that air rushes in at each inspiration—but only at this trine—never gaining- entry during expiration. This is owing to the tendency to the formation of a vacuum within the thorax during inspiration. This suction action, or “ venous in- spiration, is confined to the large vessels in and near the thoracic cavity, being limited by the collapse of the coats of the veins at a little distance from this. If the veins were rigid tubes, it would extend throughout the body; but as they are not, it ceases where the coats collapse. It is indeed practically limited to that part of the root of the neck and the axilla where the venous flux and reflux are perceptible ; and the space in which it occurs has been termed the “dangerous region.” But, in certain circumstances, air may spontaneously gam admission at points beyond this. Ifc,Js YeU J'!10'01 fcb;ifc what is caUed by the French Surgeons the « canaliza- tion of a vein, or its conversion into a rigid uncollapsing tube, is the con- dition which is most favourable to the introduction of air into it. Indeed except m those situations in which there is a natural movement of flux and leflnx of the blood in the veins, this accident cannot occur unless these vessels of th7v3 °r’ 0ther WOrdJ .prevented from collapsing, This canalization be t!i be;jccasifed m a variety of ways. Either the cut vein may vein- or the tlSSUe’ which keeps ifc opeu like a hepatic n, or the coats of the vessel may have acquired, as a consequence of Si «£*of «**»»to Feveai their falling'togX lien divided. Then, again, the principal veins at the root of the neck have as Berard has pointed out, such intimate connections with I neio-hbo^- c poncrn otic structures, that they are constantly kept in a state of tension so pWSl and e„ tTM apart, WlT » out Aoss. T“ nontaS S shorn, llave a n°ck may likewise’ as Sir M has about he neck 1 T™*8- * tnmour> aIso> thafc * situated vein, upon its pedicle may, if this contains a incomplete and in a tv T01 an y canalized; especially if the section be dT?10n’When fche will be rendered the incision in the vrin L °f the bounding tissues. This patency of sarily given to the 1 . i^ ° ,G lncreased by the position that is neces- the shoulders and no l* anc la. ad operations of any magnitude about favoured W tlm t In Las % pe introduction of air into a° vein will be made open-mouthed c.lvided m tbc angle of a wound, the vein being lifted up. 1 c S‘iping when the flaps that form the angle are In ali cases in which air hi: as gained admittance into the veins during an n h 2