TUMOURS. 1028 cedematous soft fibromata, and some glandular tumouis which had undergone colloid degeneration. Diagnosis of Glandular Cancer.—In the diagnosis of a cancer the age of the patient is an important consideration, such tumours being very rare before 30. Too much importance must not be attached to an hereditary history of cancer, or it may lead us into error. A most important sign of cancer is that the tumour forms part of the structure it is invading. It may be tolerably clearly defined in outline, but it is not separable from the sur- rounding tissue. It early becomes adherent to the skin when occurring in a superficial part. In the later stages the adhesion is evident, but at first it can be recognized only by pinching up the skin widely with the finger and thumb when it will be seen to dimple slightly at the part over the tumour. Both I these signs, the implication of surrounding structures and the dimpling of . the skin may, however, also be present in chronic inflammation with fibroid induration. . -it The diagnosis of the different forms of cancer is not always easily made. Scirrhus, when not widely infiltrating, may very readily be confounded with fibrous tumours and adenomata, or with the indurated atrophy ofa part; m many of these cases, indeed, the diagnosis cannot be correctly effected until after examination by incision. In other cases, however, the rugged feel, the I lancinating pains, the implication of the lymphatic glands or the affection of the general health, will commonly serve to establish the diagnosis. A hen ulceration has taken place, the previous condition of the tumour, the general character of the sore, and the microscopic examination of the debris, may serve to denote its true character. Enceplialoid may he confounded with abscess, with cysts, or with eiectile and sanguineous tumours, and with the various soft varieties of sarcoma ; and, when pulsating, with aneurism. In these cases careful palpation, the exisfence of elasticity without fluctuation, and the presence of the large and toituous veins ramifying over the surface of the mass, may establish its tiue chaiacter. When it is fungating, it may be confounded with the sprouting mtracystic growths that sometimes spring from the interior of a cystic tumour.. ere, however, the history of the case and the contamination of nei0hbou a lymphatics, will show the true nature of the affection. . . 7 In all cases in which there is doubt as to the nature of the growth an incision should be made into it, if it is a case fit for removal by operation, and if necessary, a slice should be removed and examined by the naked eyes ^ a scraping of it may be put under the microscope. It is much better to do this than to lose valuable time by waiting till the symptoms become more The diagnosis of a tumour as a cancer is sometimes materially obscured by the accidental development of abscess in the tissues around or above it U such cases the continuance of a swelling which is evidently not inflammatory, 2r the pus has been evacuated, may lead to a suspicion as to the true nature 0t ^Squamous Epithelioma..—Squamous epithelioma, or as it has also teep called epithelioma, epithelial cancer, or cancroid, was at one time considcre heIstTct from true cancer. There is nothing, however, to justify such a distinction The term epithelial cancer or epithelioma is not a goo <>i , for lias just been pointed out, the scirrhus and enccphalo.d are equally