296 INJURIES OF SOFT PARTS. spirits of wine to eight or ten of water should be constantly applied. Leeches —commonly used in these cases—should not be applied to a bruised part ; they cannot remove the blood that has already been extravasated, and often set up irritation, which leads to suppuration. The bag of blood should not be opened, however soft and fluctuating it may feel, so long as there is any chance of its being absorbed. If once it be punctured and unpurified air be allowed to enter, putrefactive suppuration will be set up in it. The fluid blood may, however, in such case be safely removed by means of the aspirator, a large needle being used, and the puncture being closed by collodion. It signs of inflammation occur, the parts becoming red, hot, and painfully throbbing, free incisions should at once be made with antiseptic precautions, the blood—already disorganized and mixed with pus—evacuated, and the cavity allowed to granulate. In the third and fourth degrees of contusion, it is often useless to attempt to save the life of the injured part; but, if this is attempted, much may be done to prevent the fever and suppuration that sometimes attends the separation of the sloughs. The skin, being in such cases unbroken, must be washed with a solution of carbolic acid (1 in 20), after which an antiseptic dressing may be applied, beneath which the sloughs will separate with scarcely any febrile disturbance, and but little suppuration; the ulcer that results must be treated on general principles. . Disorganizing contusions of the most severe kind may be recovered from provided there U no external wound, even though the soft structures of the limb or part be extensively crushed, the bones comminuted, and the joints opened. It is not the subcutaneous lacerations and disorganizations that are to be dreaded ; so long as the main blood-vessels of the part injured are intact, these may be recovered from. But it is the admission of air bearing with it the cause of decomposition, into the interior of a badly injured limb that con- stitutes the great danger. If this can be avoided there is little feai of undue inflammation being excited; but if impure air be admitted to the laceiated tissues, putrefaction followed by suppuration and sloughing is at once set up, and the safety of the patient will be seriously imperilled In such cases as these, amputation is usually the sole resource, unless the progress of the mischief can be arrested by the employment of an efficient plan of antiseptic difference between the effects of a subcutaneous laceration and one accompanied by open wound is well exemplified m the cases of a simple and a “ compound » dislocation. In the first case, although the ligaments mid capsular muscles are extensively torn, often with great extaavasation of b 0 , repair takes place without any serious trouble; whilst 111 a compound d location, in which air has been admitted and has given rise to putrefaction of the extravasated blood and the inflammatory exudation, the most extensiv suppuration necessarily ensues, and joint, limb, or life, one or otliei, is great treatment, according to the part that is affected, and the extent of its 1U The blood which has been extravasated in simple subcutaneous contusions sometimes undergoes certain changcs-not of a ( ^ true, but still of such a nature as in many cases to lender its absoiptio