127 AMPUTATION THROUGH THE KNEE-JOINT. both ways, ancl have from my experience found it most advantageous to leave the patella. There is only one objection to this ; and that is the chance of the patella being drawn up, as occasionally happens, upon the anterior part of the thigh. This is best prevented by cutting across the tendinous in- sertion of the quadriceps extensor during the operation. There is a difference of practice in the management of the cartilagi- nous surface of the femur in these amputations. Some Surgeons prefer leaving it; others saw it off. If the articular surface be sound, the cartilage had better be left, as thus the cancellous structure is not opened, and one predisposing cause of pyaemia is avoided. If the cartilages be eroded or otherwise diseased, they should be removed. This I generally do, after the dis- articulation has been completed, by means of a iine-bladed Butcher’s saw, cutting round and not across the end of the bone ; thus not shortening the stump, but simply removing the cartilage, which would otherwise necrose or disintegrate, and thus interfere with ready union. If the cartilage be left on the femur, it should also be allowed to remain undisturbed on the patella. But if it be removed from the femur so as to expose the cancellous bone, then the under surface of the patella should be removed in a similar manner, before the flap is laid down. This will be found to furnish an excellent covering to the bone; the patella, and the thick, toug'h, and extensile integuments of the knee, forming a good basis of support for well adapted for pressure. The cut surface cL Z nd 1 aP??fltSff tCVvd Umte with> the cancellous surfaces of the c°n yles, and thus add to the solidity of the end of the stump. discwl fQat t,1'°Ublc T? arisc from accumulation of the drainao'c' r> f 16 sJn?via 1)0UC ies> ^bis cau be prevented only by proper a wav that thoi^w °Sm^ 10 wound, tVl’0 long tubes must be put in, in such pouches1 and M ° ^1 extlemit'es 10 111 fche extreme upper parts of the synovial wound These Tl °" f1' must be bought out at the angles of the • hese tubes should not be touched till the third day ; after that Fis i 4. Amputation through the Knee, bv Long Anterior Flap.