1025 ENCEPHA LOTD CANCER. Fig. 393.—Scirrhus of Breast (1SS cliam.). Much cicatrized; the stroma bears a large proportion to the cells, which are small and granular : in a fully cicatrized specimen there would be similar alveolar spaces containing only granular debris found imbedded in spaces in a stroma of coarse fibrous tissue. These spaces communicate with each other like those of a sponge. The stroma and cells at this part usually form about equal bulks of the growth. The stroma shows signs of active growth, having spindle- cells scattered here and there through it, sometimes in abundance. A little nearer the centre we find that the stroma has become more dense, the spindle-cells being replaced by elon- gated tailed cells, with scarcely any protoplasm around the nucleus. The cells of the cancer are here beginning to degenerate, the nuclei becoming hidden by clouds of fat-granules, and a similar change may also be apparent in the stroma. Towards the centre the fatty cells disappear, and a few granules only mark where they were ; the stroma becomes dense and hard, and even the nuclei before mentioned are difficult to recognize. The above is a description of the ordinary scirrhus of moderately slow growth. In more vigorously growing specimens the degeneration is delayed, the cicatrization is less perfect, and the proportion of the bulk occupied by the cells is increased. It is not always easy to determine the exact mode of growth in scirrhous cancer, as the young spheroidal epithelium-cells closely resemble the small round cells infiltrating the 'tissues at the growing margin. In the softer and more diffused forms, it is often possible, however, to observe the earliest changes in the acini. It will then be seen that the morbid process does not start from a single acinus. Many acini lying near each other may show various stages of overgrowth of the epithelium. At first the new cells are contained within the distended membrana propria of the acinus, but as the process advances, they burst beyond its limits, and penetrate ’amongst the surrounding tissues. In the harder tumours of slower growth this often cannot be recognized, as the area of the gland affected is smaller, and by the tune it comes under observation the acini have disappeared, and columns of cells only are found extending into the surrounding tissues. Enceplialoid.—-As before stated, this is not separable from scirrhus The peater part of the tumours which were formerly classed as enceplialoid cancers are now included under the sarcomata. A glandular cancer growing with such rapidity, and of such softness of structure, as to merit the name of enceplialoid s m feet a rare occurrence m surgical practice. During the ten years 1871 to 1880, there were admitted under the care of the Surgeons of University College Hospital only eight cases which were classed as encophaloid cancer. Five of oiblTi6 m 11 . m the testicle> and one was believed to have <anX«5 °1' ?16 ghmds in ifcs neighbourhood. Enceplialoid 2X1 k T mS’ anSCS °n 7IU stractures containing glandular or spheroidal vol x * though occasionally somewhat