83 PRIMARY AND SECONDARY. influences its mortality. Thus amputations for malignant growths are more fatal than those for caries of bone or diseased joints. In cases of diseased joint, there is a greater tendency to recover when'the affection is of a simple than when it is of a tuberculous nature. Birkett has pointed out that disease of internal organs, often of the same nature as that for which the operation is peiformed, is found after death in a large proportion of patients who die after amputation. When suppurative disorganisation of a joint is very acute amputation, more particularly if the affected articulation be of large size as the knee, is attended by very unfavourable results. In these cases the patient is usually suffering from severe febrile disturbance, the result of absorption of septic matter from the diseased joint, and amputation under such circumstances is frequently followed by fatal septicaemia. But when the disease has once become chronic the precise period at which the amputation is performed exercises but little influence on the mortality, provided it be not deferred to too fate a stage, when the patient’s constitution is worn out by hectic Amputations of expediency—those performed for the convenience of the patient, as 111 cases of talipes or ankylosis, but not necessary so for as life is concerned—are especially fatal. Bryant has shown that, at Guy’s Hospital, death has followed m 40 per cent, of these amputations in the lower extreinity! mined TX°fl “ ^ °f 'T'Z an imPortant question has to be deter- m.ne l, viz the mfluence exercised by the Time that has elapsed from the infliction of the injury to the performance of the amputation. Not only the are iuflZced'bv th " C°ndlti?ns ^ lmmediafcely occasion the fatal event, ie influenced by the period at which the operation is performed. ancl, wlT Z m]mJ “"i COmTlly divMed by Sur§'eons int0 and Secondanj- the primary being those that are performed durino- the first twenty-four or thirty hours, before any spreading inflammation Ttr«S eesults of primary and secondary amputations in cases of injury AT UNIVERSITY COLLEGE HOSPITAL ’ SEAT. Primary. Secondary. CASES. deaths. | CASES. deaths. Thigh Leg and Foot 14 22 6 6 8 8 21 14 Shoulder and Arm 16 3 Fore-arm Total . 2 0 6 1 2 0 48 18 43 19 toe ■JL7?'yrP"“i0,IS’ mw'I S-geons mean ethers 'T**’*™ suppuration has been fnllv Z 1 r 1 1 GI1U tdose that are done after subside asW16n the Sm-ical ^er is beginning to by the lymphatics of the ■ , .^llnPs UP to present a barrier to the absorption term P"”- wh° «">» ** the nsc of the day and t “Lie „ f l T r ^1°^ bchM“ «*> of the first of some “ intermediate.” The distinction is extremely fatal In’ the S' '°"S Pel'toi'ra^d during liigli surgical fever are 1 ' thc toliownig table, the cases arc divided merely into