TUMOURS. 1002 Occasionally patches of ossification may he found. Myeloid tumours grow almost exclusively from hone, and hy far most frequently from the medullary cavity or cancellous tissue at the head ol a long bone. They attain to a large size, sometimes slowly and gradually, and o'- at other times with very great rapidity. The growth gradu- ally causes absorption of the hone, but at the same time a new deposit takes place from the periosteum, so that the tumour is enclosed in a thin bony shell, which, on pressure, yields the peculiar sensation known as an “ egg-shell crack- ling.” On reaching a carti- lage-covered surface it pushes the cartilage before it, but rarely if ever per- forates it. On examination of such a tumour after removal, a bony plate will frequently be found separating it from the medullary canal. In other cases it may extend a long distance, infiltrating the medulla. Myeloid tumours are most common , at the lower •Myeloid Tumour of Radius. Fig. 391.—Myeloid Tumour of the Metacarpal Bones of the Index and Middle Fingers. Successful Removal of those Bones and Fingers. end of the femur, the upper end of the tibia, and the upper end of the humerus. They also, when growing from the jaw-bones, form one va- riety of epulis. I have removed them from the lower end of the ra- dius, and from the metacarpal bones (Figs. 390, 391). In the majority of cases they may be safely removed without the prospect of recurrence, but occasionally they return after removal. The true myeloid rarely, if ever, gives rise to secondary de- "lands or internal organs. Myeloid tumours are said posits in the lymphatic 0- - . to have been seen in the parotid region and the mamma, but this is doubtful. Ossifying and Osteoid Sarcomata.—These tumours were former y classed amongst the cancers, under the name of osteoid cancer. Ahnost any form of sarcoma may undergo ossification. Thus round-celled, spindle-cl ei , and myeloid sarcomata may occasionally show7 abundant formation o 'one. The development of bone in these growths seems to give rise to no lac i change in their nature. They still show the same tendency to unlimited gi owt and sometimes the same liability to recur locally or to give rise to secon ary deposits in distant parts. The secondary deposits developc bone like tue original growth. The bony parts of these tumours usually present the appeal - anccs of true bone, but somewhat irregular in structure. Occasionally tumours growing from bone are met with, which present the structure of tlic g <> * tissue found beneath the periosteum in inflammation or in normal growl i ; « is to say, small round or polygonal cells with simple or multiple uuc ci. rated by a small amount of homogeneous or fibril ated intei celhilas . • These growths readily ossify , they lbrar under the pcr.ostcum and the l«ne. beneath is often thickened, so that the medullary canal may he