297 STRANGULATION OF PARTS. source of constitutional disturbance. Hence it occasionally follows that this absorption of large extravasations is followed by some of the minor evidences of blood poisoning—such as boils, sallowness of skin, low health, and rheumatic pains. These effects arc best remedied by sulphurous waters, free purging, alteratives, change of air, &c. Strangulation of Parts.—This, when accidental, occasionally occurs as the consequence of the application of a constricting ligature or bandage, or the slipping of a tight ring over a part. I11 such cases, the first effect of the con- striction is to prevent the return of the venous blood ; this impediment to the circulation occasions serous effusion, and swelling of an oedematous character. If relief be not afforded to the circulation by the removal of the constricting body, distension of the vessels, stagnation of the blood, loss of vitality of the part, and gangrene will speedily ensue. In many cases in which the strangu- lation is relieved by the Surgeon, the loss of vitality is far advanced but not complete, and the restoration of the circulation is then followed by inflamma- tion, varying in intensity with the degree of damage that the tissues have suffered. This is, indeed, merely an illustration of the fact experimentally demonstrated by Cohnheim, that arrest of the circulation or exclusion of blood from a rabbit’s ear gives rise, when the circulation is restored, to inflam- mation, the intensity of which can be determined by the duration of the interference with the flow of blood. The most familiar example of this condi- tion in actual practice is the inflammation of the gut that so frequently follows reduction of a strangulated hernia. The treatment of strangulation consists in at once dividing’ or removin0' the cord or ring, as the case may be. Usually this is easily done, but in some cases it is attended with no little difficulty. This happens especially when a small ring has been hurriedly put on a wrong finger, or when the penis has been diawn through a brass ring. In such cases as these the member swells gieatly, and the difficulty of removing the foreign body is very considerable. The finger-ring may usually be removed by slipping a director under it, and clipping or filing it across upon this. Sometimes the following popular plan may advantageously be adopted. A strong silk thread is carefully hound round the finger as tightly as possible from the tip down to the rim- under which the free end is carried with a needle : the thread is then slowfy untwisted, and the ring is thus carried upon it off the finger. Curtain or other jrass rings compressing the root of the penis have been known slowly and gradually to cut through the organ, without destroying its vitality or render- ing le urethra impervious; but such a fortunate result is altogether the exception ; m the great majority of such cases, unless the ring be speedily cut , notification of the organ would ensue, and might be followed as it has been in some instances, by the death of the patient ’ resnect0^°™'~The remarks thafc have just been made with subPcutanoon, lCffeCtf 01 fche admissmn of air into extravasations of blood and wounds • inrl > !ous 01 contusions, apply with equal force to subcutaneous iug. subcuHnpeC StlC 1 aceratl0us> ruptm?es, and injuries, are, properly speak- and 1 W0U1! ; k 18 t0 Say’ bones> ligaments, tendons, ^n tveZ it’ bc bl'°ken’ t0Vn’ co«, and ruptured, and yet if the comnlete ro-m'^ b<U Sibe UUbr° •S0 ^ba*i the entrance of air is excluded, beyond tbp oi,1 take l*!3,00 without the inflammation at any time passing h c uumatic or adhesive stage, and without more than the