250 SUPPURATION AND ABSCESS. diminish the decomposable matter to the smallest possible quantity ; and by avoiding the use of water, both during the opening of the abscess and after- wards—dry cotton-wool or linen rag being employed to wipe away the blood and discharges, and dry pads of cotton-wool or simply a piece of oiled rag being applied as a dressing. If it is desired to apply warmth and moisture after the opening of an abscess, it is best done by means of a few layers of boracic acid lint, dipped in a hot, concentrated solution of boracic acid, and applied like a fomentation, being covered with a piece of oiled silk and a sheet of cotton wooL As an antiseptic, however, this is somewhat uncertain ; but it is an efficient disinfec- tant in cases in which the discharge is already foul. If decomposition has taken place, either from the want of antiseptic dress- ings or from the failure of the treatment, complete disinfection is extremely difficult, if the cavity be of any great size, such as that of a lumbar or psoas abscess. The abscess may be washed out by injection of some antiseptic solution, such as Condy’s fluid, carbolic acid lotion (1 in 40), or boracic acid, and by this means the offensive smell of the discharge may be diminished ; but the suppuration is kept up, or even increased, by the repeated apphcation of these irritating fluids, and, at the same time, if they are discontinued, the signs of putrefaction soon return. Callender pointed out that this is in many cases due to the irregularity of the cavity and the impossibility of making the antiseptic reach every part of it, and he therefore recommended that the fluid should be pumped in at some degree of pressure, so as completely to distend the sac. After this has been done, some antiseptic dressing may be applied. The injection must be done under an amesthetic, so as completely to relax the parts round the abscess. This treatment has been followed by very good results. The solution Callender used was the 1 in 20 carbolic lotion diluted with half its bulk of hot water. Chloride of zinc, 40 grains to the ounce of water, has been employed for the same purpose; but it is a dangerous remedy, and had better not be used. A very dilute solution of iodine has also been used with good results. In injecting an abscess-cavity, however, with any antiseptic solution, great care must be taken not to use too much force, or the sac may be ruptured and the fluid diffused in the areolar tissue, an accident which might be fatal, especially if the stronger antiseptics were being used. Another plan lately recommended, is to introduce iodoform into the cavity by means of a brush, or on the end of the drainage-tube. It must not be for- gotten, however, that iodoform dissolves very slowly and adheres to the wad of the abscess, so that if some is introduced daily, it may accumulate until a quantity is present sufficient to give rise to symptoms of poisoning. A case of this kind occurred in University College Hospital, which nearly proved fatal before the cause of the strange symptoms from which the patient suffeied was discovered and removed. . Constitutional Treatment.-With the view of preventing the occurrence of suppuration, the Surgeon must be careful to maintain the powers of e system! and no! to reduce the patient too much, even ,1 the mfla^d.on to Of an acute character at the outset. Suppuration is a condition of debility, and is especially predisposed to by any previously existing enfeebled^ state i the system, or by malnutrition. Another reason for the avoidance of the ea y employment of debilitating means is that, if suppination once be established the drain on the system may eventually be so considerable as to require all the