INJURIES OF THE CHEST. 838 The Treatment of wounds of the cliesfc, implicating the lungs, must have reference to the various sources of danger that have just been indicated and to the nature of the wound. The Local Treatment in cases of injury of ihe lung from a broken rib without an external wound is very simple. The routine system of bandaging or strapping up the chest tightly must not be followed in all cases. There are two conditions in which it is not advisable : the first is when the frag- ments of the broken rib are sharp and angular, and, projecting inwards on the pleura and lung, produce pain, distress, and no slight danger of further injury to these structures if pressed down upon them; second, when the lung has become compressed by the effusion of air, serum, or blood into the pleural sac. In the latter cases, tight bandaging of the chest will produce great distress; for, the lung on the injured side being already rendered useless, or nearly so, as a respiratory organ by the compression, respiration is altogether carried on by the lung on the uninjured side. If the chest be uniformly or tightly compressed, the use of this lung also is interfered with to such an extent, that a semi-asphyxial condition may ensue. In such cases, rather than bandaging the whole chest, the better plan is to strap up only the injured side from spine to sternum, so as to restrain its movements and leave the sound side free. In a penetrating wound of the chest by a sharp cutting instrument, if it be a clean puncture, an attempt should be made to close it in such a way as to obtain union by the first intention. For this purpose some form of antiseptic treatment should always be adopted. The skin around the wound must be cleaned with some efficient antiseptic solution, such as carbolic acid lotion (1 in 20), and the wound itself may be wiped out by means of a sponge soaked in the same solution and held in a pair of forceps. The edges may then be brought together by sutures and the surface covered with an antiseptic dressing. In the absence of an antiseptic dressing the wound may be closed by lint and collodion, or a piece of lint may be soaked in the blood and allowed to dry upon it. If the wound be thus closed the patient must be carefully examined daily for effusion into the pleura, and the temperature must be watched. Should there be increasing dulness, with a high temperature, the fluid mast be removed by means of the aspirator, and examined. Should it be turbid or purulent a free vent must be at once provided for it, either by opening up the original wound, or by making a new one at the most convenient spot. Should the wound be large and deep, with blood and air issuing freely through it from the injured lung, it should not he completely closed, other- wise pneumothorax, and emphysema, or hmmothorax will certainly occur. It may be cleaned with an antiseptic solution, and partly closed bv sutures, a large drainage tube inserted, and an antiseptic dressing applied, or in the absence of antiseptics it may be covered with a piece of oiled lint. The patient should be laid on the wounded side, and the wall of the chest may be fixed by long broad strips of plaster applied to the injured side only, an aperture being left between the strips opposite the wound. Mount states that excellent results have followed this practice in military practice. In Bullet-wounds of the Lung the wound should be carefully examined with the finger, and all foreign bodies that arc within reach should be extracted. If there be any difficulty in doing this, it may be necessary to enlarge the aperture; but the Surgeon must not go too deeply or perseveriugly in scare