GUN-SHOT WOUNDS. 334 sive as was at one time supposed, and that, could perfect drainage he combined with prevention of decomposition, gun-shot wounds would be robbed of half their dangers. There is every reason to believe that warfare in modern times is fully as destructive to life as it was formerly, if not much more so ; not in the propor- tion of the killed to the number of combatants engaged, but in relation to the recoveries among the wounded. This at first sight appears remarkable, when we consider the great advances that have of late years been made in surgical treatment and in sanitary arrangements. But unfortunately the means by which these great advances have been brought about are seldom at the com- mand of the military surgeon. A very large proportion of all gun-shot wounds must occur under circumstances which render antiseptic treatment uncertain or impossible ; whilst the enormous number of men engaged has yielded so large a number of sick and wounded that, after the first few w eeks, the sanitary arrangements have hitherto broken down under the pressure, and secondary septic diseases have committed the most frightful ravages. More- over the size and form of the projectiles now used, and the force with which they are driven, are such as to render the wounds inflicted by them infinitely more destructive than they used to be; and the advance in surgical treatment is thus more than neutralized by the more deadly nature of the Treatment.—The slighter and purely superficial gun-shot injuries generally require merely to be treated on the ordinary principles that guide us in the management of contusions and lacerations generally. When they affect the head chest, or abdomen, they present so many circumstances of special im- portance, that we must defer the consideration of them until we treat of injuries of those regions. . . . . In all cases of gun-shot-wound, whether amputation be ultimately lequired or not certain immediate attentions are necessary in order to place the sufferer iu some degree of comfort and safety until more definite treatment can be adopted. Thus, if a person be shot through the fleshy part of a Inn i, no bone or vessel of importance being injured, the part should, if possi ole, be well washed or syringed with a 1 in 20 solution of carbolic acid in wa er, or with chloride of zinc, 20 grains to the ounce, and then covered with a pad of salicylic wool, or jute, carbolized jute, iodoform wool, or some other dry anti- se tic dressing, or a pad of lint soaked in the carbolic lotion may be applied and the limb placed in an easy position. In actual warfare a solution of chloride of zinc, prepared from the solid salt as needed, appears to be the most practically useful antiseptic. If a bone or joint be injured, the same plan must be adopted, and the limb placed on a splint of some kind, extern porized from such material as may be at hand. A bayonet forms a usefril splint for the leg, arm, or fore-arm ; and for the thigh a rifle may be applied to the outer side of the limb with the stock against the side of the body. Above all no finger or probe must be thrust into the wound till the examination can be limb should Raised ; and if this do not arrest the Weeding, a compress should be used. If the harmor- rhage be arterial, a tourniquet must he applied. So, also, a tourniquet sliou tanKS"Sl“^“qiet should he applied re.