io94 VENEREAL DISEASES. tion round the softened mass. The pus finally reaches the surface, and the tissue of the gumma is cast off as a slough. The slough is tenacious I and slow to separate even after the pus has been discharged. It has been 3 very aptly compared to a piece of wet wash-leather. In this it differs 1 entirely from caseated tubercle, which, when under similar circumstances, forms a granular mass which can be readily scraped away with a sharp I spoon. In the liver, testicle and brain growth may cease, and the surrounding zone of cell-infiltration, instead of degenerating, may be developed into a fibrous capsule, which may enclose the caseated mass and completely encyst it. In this condition it may remain permanently without causing,further mischief. Calcification occasionally takes place, but is far from common. A fully developed gumma, free from softening, presents to the naked eye on section the following appearances. The cut surface is smooth, of a pale straw yellow colour, of tough consistence, and on scraping yields but a small amount of granular debris, sometimes] scarcely any. Though its outline is tolerably well defined, it can always be seen that the growth is not circumscribed, but is sin-rounded by a greyish semi-transparent or opaque zone infiltrating the surrounding tissues, and often sending processes in various directions along the lines of the vessels for some distance. The organ in which it is situated is, in many cases, the seat also of general interstitial fibroid induration. From the above description it will be seen that a gumma resembles tubercle 1 in being a new growth of the type of granulation-tissue, prone to early fatty degeneration, followed often by softening and elimination by suppuration. It differs from tubercle in being vascular during the whole stage of evolution, in its capability of being absorbed or of undergoing a development in part into fibrous tissue, in the toughness of its tissue, and in the absence of the charac- teristic tubercle follicle or nodule, with its giant-cell, epithelioid cells, lymphoid corpuscles, and reticulated stroma. Clinically in those parts in which a gumma comes under the observation of the Surgeon, it forms an indolent tumour of slow growth, often accompanied by a good deal of aching pain. If superficial it slowly approaches the cutaneous surface, the skin becomes adherent, and then dusky red. The mass softens and fluctuates distinctly, and an opening forms from which some thin unhealthy pus escapes. This gradually increases in size by ulceration in many cases, till the whole reddened skin is destroyed. 1 he tissue of the gumma is seen as an adherent, tough slough, like a piece of wet wash-leather, which slowly separates ; the cavity becomes lined with healthy granulations, and heals without difficulty, leaving a deep cicatrix. If a bone be affected, a carious patch is left, sometimes complicated by the presence of sequestra of varying size. Small gummata, not more than one-quarter of an inch in diameter, may form in the cutis vera, and afterwards soften and run the same course as deeper and larger growth of the same kind. In this situation the\ form the skin disease known as tubercular syphilide. Gummata do not necessarily cause any enlargement of the neighbouring lymphatic glands, though this may occur when softening and suppuration are taking place. Gummata will be further referred to with the organs in which they arc met with. , Gummata have been occasionally met with in an early stage ot syphilis, and some authorities have maintained that the processes concerned in the formation of a gumma differ in no essential respect from these, occurring m