THE PROCESS OF REPAIR. 2 7 2 subside gradually as the tissues recover from the damage done to them at the time of the injury. The process of union by first intention will be disturbed or entirely prevented by the introduction of any cause which will prolong the inflammation or make it assume a spreading or infective character. Under these circum- stances the transudation of liquor sanguinis and the migration of the white corpuscles will continue, and instead of the thin layer of dry firm plastic exudation, composed merely of living corpuscles entangled in the meshes of the coagulated fibrin, there will be a soft exudation, excessive in quantity, the more superficial layers of which will soften and break down into pus, a fluid layer thus being interposed between the surfaces of the wound, effectually preventing primary union. Amongst the causes which lead to persistence of inflammation in a wound and consequent suppuration, the following may be mentioned as the most common. 1. The nature of the injury ; a blunt or jagged weapon may so damage the tissues as to cause actual death of a layer ot some thickness, which must be separated by a process of ulceration and suppuration (see p. 25~j). 2. The tissues themselves may be feeble either from general or local causes, and consequently possess a diminished power of resisting injury and of rallying from its effects. . 8. The raw surfaces may be constantly rubbed against each other it the wounded part be not kept at perfect rest, and the mechanical inflation fiom this cause is quite sufficient to maintain the process of inflammation. 4. If proper provision be not made for the escape of the serum that neces- sarily flows from the fresh wounded surface, the cavity of the wound becomes distended by it, and not only are the surfaces separated from each other, but they are exposed to the irritation of tension, and while this is acting the inflammatory process cannot subside, but the exudation will continue and intensify the evil, the cavity of the wound coming to resemble that of an acute abscess. Tension from tight stitches causes a similar persistence of the inflammatory process. 5. If in such an unchained wound the causes of decomposition are present, putrefaction of the serous fluid speedily sets in, and the irritating products ot decomposition, pent up as they are in contact with the raw surface at some choree of pressure, soak away into the lymph-spaces of the surrounding tissues, and thus cause a spreading inflammation which may extend to a considerable distance beyond the area actually injured by the instrument which inflicted the wound. The firm plastic exudation that is left uniting the surfacesof a well-chained wound being composed almost entirely of living cells is not liable to putrefaction, and any of the ordinary bacteria which may come in contact with it are powerless to produce any evil effect. It need hardly be pointed out that unless decomposable matter, either in the form of excessive blood-clot or pent-up serum, is present in the wound, no decomposition will take place. 0 The persistence of the inflammation may be due to the presence ot a foreio-n body in the wound. A foreign body may give rise to suppuration either from its being in itself irritating, either mechanically or chemically or from its being porous in character, and thus absorbing serum, which after- wards decomposes. On the other hand, smooth non-absorbent bodies such as metals or soft absorbent substances, as unwaxed silk, under successful anti-