6SS SPECIAL DISLOCATIONS. bone becoming twisted ov entangled under it, or, as Malgaigne supposes, to the superior angle of the bone being wedged in the subcondyloid space. If relaxa- tion of the muscles of the thigh, and the employment of proper pressure upon the patella, do not succeed, reduction may perhaps be effected by the patient making a sudden and violent muscular effort at extension of the limb, or by attempting to walk. In other cases the bone has been readily replaced by bending the leg, and rotating it on the axis of the tibia, at the same time that the patella is pressed into position, as Vincent recommends. Upon the whole, forcible flexion of the knee under an anaesthetic followed by sudden extension, while the projecting edge of the bone is forced into its place, appears to have answered better than any other method, and will probably be seldom attended by difficulty. Should these plans not answer, I do not think it would be advisable to have recourse to subcutaneous section of the tendon of the quadri- ceps extensor and of the ligamentum patellae. In one case in which both these structures were divided, the patella remained as firmly fixed as ever, and the patient eventually died of suppurative inflammation of the knee-joint; and in no case in which division has been practised does it appear to have facilitated reduction. 4. Dislocation of the patella Upwards can occur only in consequence of the rupture of its ligament. This accident, which is always accompanied by much inflammation of the joint, requires the same treatment as a fractured patella. Dislocations of the Knee.—This joint, owing to the breadth of its articular surfaces, and the great strength of its ligaments, is seldom dislocated. When such an accident happens, it usually arises from falls from a great hei°-ht, or by the patient jumping from a carriage in motion. The tibia may lie displaced in four directions : to either side, forwards, or backwards. Besides these displacements, the joint is subject to a partial luxation, dependent upon displacement of one or both semilunar cartilages. 1. The Lateral dislocations of the tibia are the most common. They are always incomplete, and are usually accompanied by a certain degree of rotation of the limb outward. These displacements may either be External or Internal. In the first,' the outer condyle of the femur rests upon the inner articular sur- face of the tibia. In the other, the inner condyle is placed upon the outer articular surface of the head of this bone. In either case, the knee is slightly flexed : there is a marked sulcus in the situation of the ligamentum patellae; the extensor muscles of the thigh are relaxed, and the deformity of the joint indicates at once the nature of the displacement. In these cases Reduction is always easy ; indeed, it is occasionally effected by the unaided efforts of the patient or by a bystander. It may be accom- plished by flexing the thigh upon the abdomen, then extending the leg, and, at the same time, by a movement of rotation, replacing the bones in their proper position. _ 2. The dislocation Backwards may be complete or incomplete. \\ non it is ■complete, the posterior ligament of the joint and the posterior crucial ligament are torn, the muscles of the ham are stretched, the limb is shortened to the extent of an inch and a half or two inches, and is semiflexed ; the head of the tibia can be felt in the ham, and there is a deep transverse depression in front of the joint immediately below the patella, 3. The dislocation of the tibia Forwards is of more frequent occurrence