CARPAL AND METACARPAL BONES. 665 the same time the hand is extended. There is, however, a great tendency for this hone to slip out again, leaving considerable weakness oi: the joint ; so much so, that in two cases recorded by Sir A. Cooper, the patients found it necessary to wear artificial supports. The Pisiform Bone is occasionally dislocated upwards. In a case under my care, it was displaced by an effort to lift a heavy weight, and drawn up the arm to a distance of nearly an inch by the flexor carpi uhiaris. A case some time ago occurred to me, at the Hospital, in which the Semi- lunar Bone was dislocated. The patient had fallen from a height, injuring his spine, and doubling his right hand under him. On examining the wrist, a small hard tumour was felt projecting on its dorsal aspect; it readily disap- peared on extending the hand and employing firm pressure, but started up again so soon as the wrist was forcibly flexed. It was evident that this bone belonged to the first row of the carpus, articulating with the radius ; and from its size, its position towards the radial side of the carpus, and its shape, which could be very distinctly made out through the integuments, there could be little doubt that it was the semilunar bone. Taaffe, of Brighton, has related a case in which the semilunar bone was dislocated anteriorly, so that it projected upwards and forwards between the radius and ulna. Dislocations of the Metacarpal Bones.—The Metacarpal Bones may possibly, though very rarely, be dislocated from the carpus. This acci- dent happens usually to a single metacarpal bone ; which, in consequence of some extreme degree of violence, is forced out of its bed and is thrown back- wards on the carpus. Most frequently, this accident is the result of injury and shattering of the hand by gun-barrel or powder-flask explosions ; and in such cases the metacarpal bone of the Thumb is the one that commonly suffers, the dislocation being also usually compound, and complicated with fracture of the bones and extensive palmar laceration. Dislocation of the metacarpal bone of the thumb, however, is rare, though the articulation between this bone and the trapezium appears at first not to be of a character to resist much external violence. This is probably owing in a great measure to the powerful muscles by which the bone is supported in all cases in which the force is ap- >1 plied upon ^ its palmar aspect, as it most frequently is, as well as to the little eveiage offered by so short a bone. Luxation, however, of the metacarpal fi lone of the thumb has been observed to take place forwards as well as baclc- tj wm 1 s, the latter being the most common. The Reduction is in general easy, extension being made from the thumb by means of a piece of tape applied round the first phalanx. ^ IS ext to the metacarpal bone of the thumb, those of the Index and Middle ingers are most liable to dislocation backwards : sometimes complete, at others incomplete. hnJ am',ot acquainted with any case on record in which all the metacarpal fYe Jeeu ^located from the carpus. The annexed engraving (Fig. thelwH a in Universifcy College Museum, taken from a patient in hand lioF' & Am W10m ^ believe that this accident must have occurred ; the rounder! 1 uowu forwards and shortened, and the carpal bones forming a convex am .“*“'** Prominence on the dorsum of the metacarpus. The and differs aianCG °* ^1)S corresponds with the outline of the carpal bones, radius remai'bably from the concave aspect of the lower end of the u a, as seen in the radio-carpal dislocation (Fig. 282), that I