349 PRIMARY VERSUS SECONDARY AMPUTATION. effusion has taken place in the whole limb ; and abscesses aie foiming in the great beds of cellular texture throughout the whole extent of the extremity, fn three months, if the patient have laboured through the agony, the bones are carious ; the abscesses are interminable sinuses ; the limb is undermined and everywhere unsound; and the constitutional strength ebbs to the lowest degree.” If we appeal to facts, we shall find that of 300 secondary amputations reported by Faure, after the battle of Fontenoy, only thirty were successful ; whereas Larrey saved three-fourths of his primary amputations in the Napo- leonic wars. In the Peninsular war, the comparative loss after secondary amputations of the upper extremity was, to that following the primary, as twelve to one; and of the lower extremity, the loss after secondary amputation was three times as great as after primary. During the siege of Sebastopol, among 80,000 wounded Prussians there were 3,000 amputations. Of the primary amputations of the upper extremity, leg, and foot, about one-half, and of the lower and middle third of the thigh, about one-third recovered ; but of all the secondary amputations more than two-thirds died. Primary amputa- tion, therefore, should always, when practicable, be performed in preference to secondary. But how soon after the infliction of the injury should it be practised ? It is the opinion of some Surgeons that there is often an interval between the infliction of the injury and the supervention of the shock to the system, in which the limb may more advantageously be removed. Should the depression of “ shock ” have come on, it then becomes a question whether immediate amputation should be practised, or the removal of the limb delayed until reaction sets in. On this point it is obviously difficult to lay down any very definite ride ; but it may, I think, be stated generally as the result of the experience of the best Army-Surgeons, that, if the shock be not very intense, the limb may, under chloroform, be safely removed. Should the prostration be excessive, and there be reason to fear the possibility of internal injury, it will be wiser to delay operation. But if an unsuccessful attempt at the preservation of the limb be made, and if occasion for its subsequent removal should arise, the Surgeon must wait until suppuration has set in before he operates, the period of acute inflammation and septic fever being allowed to pass by. The most favourable time is usually about the tenth day. Among the cases that require secondary amputation are any in which traumatic gangrene may happen to set in; here the limb must always be removed without delay. If profuse haemorrhage from the wound occur, and do not admit of suppression by the ordinary means, secondary amputation may become necessary. So, also, when the bones do not unite, the patient being worn out by discharges and the irritation of necrosis and caries, and left with a wasted, shattered, and useless limb, its removal is the only means of saving life. The great mortality after secondary amputation in military practice is, in great measure, owing to the unfavourable hygienic conditions to which the wounded soldier is usually exposed from over-crowding and want of necessary appliances. ( is thus rendered peculiarly liable to the occurrence of pyaemia, septicaemia, 1 and hospital gangrene. he natme and treatment of gun-shot injuries of special regions, as of the lead, chest, and abdomen, will be considered in the Chapters devoted to the description of Injuries of those parts.