332 GUN-SHOT WOUNDS. stated, a wound from a conical ball causes more shock than a corresponding injury from a spherical bullet, as the extent of the damage done by the former is always greater. In some cases the shock alone appears sufficient to kill; thus, a man shot by a pistol-bullet, which traversed the distended stomach, died in a few seconds from shock, there being no bleeding of importance, or other discernible cause of immediate death (Taylor). In some cases, however, that are mortal, the symptoms of shock arc but slight. The Primary Haemorrhage from gun-shot-wounds varies necessarily according to the situation of the injury and the size of the vessels injured ; c cater is paribus, these wounds bleed less than other injuries ; hut in all cases a certain, and in many a large and fatal, quantity of blood is lost. hen the fleshy parts of a limb are perforated by a bullet, the haemorrhage is usually very trifling, the vessels divided being small, and contused rather than cut across. But, though it may be stated as a general rule that gun-shot-wounds do not bleed much, yet when a large artery, as the carotid, iliac, or femoial, is torn across, violent and rapidly fatal haemorrhage will occur—the vessel bleeding as freely as if divided with the knife. Bullet-wounds of the large and deep arteries of the chest and abdomen are almost immediately fatal from haemorrhage. The greater number of those who die on the field of battle perish from this cause. It has often been observed that arteries escape, though lyino- apparently in the direct track of a bah. In such cases, however, though primary haemorrhage do not occur, the liability to secondary haemorrhage is o-reat, in consequence of the artery, which has been contused by the passage of the bullet, sloughing at a later period. If the whole of a limb be torn away by a cannon-shot, the arteries of the jagged stump do not bleed, for the same reasons that those of a limb torn away by machinery do not; viz., the con- traction and retraction of the ruptured internal and middle coats, and the twisting of the external cellular coat over them. , Gun-shot-wounds, under ordinary circumstances Inflame with much Swelling, Infiltration, and Tension. That this should be the case is not surprising when we consider the nature of the wound and the mode of its infliction. The tissues through which the bullet passes are violently contuse , the parts actually touched by the projectile are killed, and those a little more remote are bruised and damaged to such an extent that if exposed to any further irritation, as tension or the presence of putrid matter, they read y perish. The bones, if they lie in the track of the bullet, are splintered and fissured, and the fragments are displaced and driven into the surrounding s parts. At the same time the haemorrhage which takes place fin^ but a imperfect exit from the apertures of the wound and the ^er^ffiar pkne of a limb and any cavity that may be opened become distended with extraya sated blood. The exudation from the injured soft parts, that necessanyj follows immediately on the injury, still further distends the fluid As the nature of the external wound renders it impossible for it to I ca by first intention the whole of this decomposable matter is frejyj ® munication with the external air, and the ferments contained nitheatmo =r st find admission from without. This is often rendered even a“elopS in a gnu-shot wound unless special one of the most dangerous conditions to which a patient can - f