JIORBID CONDITION'S OF STUMPS. 7i 29.—Extreme case of Conical Stump. or Pirogoff’s amputation at the ankle, the patient should be able to bear his whole weight on the stump without difficulty. Morbid Conditions of Stumps.—Septic osteo-myelitis, that is to say, septic inflammation of the medulla of the bone, when the canal has been opened in removing the limb, is one of the most serious accidents that can happen after an amputation. It most frequently occurs during the second or third week after the operation. The symptoms and pathology are fully described in the Chapter on Diseases of Bone. It was formerly a frequent cause of pymmia. With the present im- proved treatment of amputation wounds it has become excessively rare. Necrosis.—It not unfrequent- ly happens that a small scale of bone which has been injured by the saw dies, and is separated some three or four weeks after the operation. This occurs most frequently in those stumps which unite by second intention, and in which the bone consequently lies bathed in pus for a con- sideiable time. It is to be prevented by adopting such means of dressing as shall ensure union, at any rate °of the Fig. 2s.-Necr0.sea end c*eePer Parfcs> ^ firsfc intention, and the chances of its of Femur from stump, occurrence are reduced to a minimum if decomposition of the discharges is prevented. Great care must also be used m sawing the bone not to denude it needlessly of its periosteum More extensive necrosis used to be a frequent consequence of septic osteo- mycitis, where the patient escaped the fatal complication of pyamiia but unde.' lie unproved systems of dressing it is comparatively rare! i" such cases fistulous openings will lie left leading down to the necrosed bone which usually separates three or four months after the operation, after which the stump becomes firmly consolidated. The sequestrum in such cases presents Z SrM'TT7thc T 1>art is “0 annular, and Lcl, d •i t I ' bo“e; 11 is sluo°th externally, where it has been ll'™;; bj the periosteum. About an inch or less above this it becomes tie rdXwTmnTl- ‘K™6™03,1 part of “» fcow-Ox* which surrounds from the adi-wmVi nT 1S rofgienecl externally, where it has separated be 0,!, b0“.! a,wve it is spiculated and very tegular, SSsSml ! ,'mcr (P,8:- 28)- The Part of «* hone which escapes is deposited slim l ’ T ' aS-a o'msequencc of osteo-plastic periostitis, new bone Z wS OS n, 7 °n ’? 8m aoe- lcadi"S *> * great increase in its thick- oiS recogn.sed readily through the soft parts. cither in consconcnWrW n Sp“1>s’ “s. Piey “re called, commonly form, the bone not h., ■ \ ' i'e fiopshavmg originally been cut too short, or from but in other cases'thev [ sufficiently high above the angle of the flaps: } nay occur, though the stump has been skilfully fashioned,