942 SEPTICAEMIA AND PYAEMIA. The post-mortem appearances are due, first to the changes in the blood, the most marked of which is the rapid disintegration of the red corpuscles, causing the staining of vessels and tissues. This disintegration takes place in extreme cases before death. The corpuscles arc found not to run together in rouleaux but to form irregular clumps. This also has been observed during life, and the blocking of the vessels by these masses of corpuscles is probably the cause of the capillary haemorrhages found throughout the body. Secondly, there is a marked tendency to passive congestion of the viscera consequent on the feeble action of the heart before death ; and, lastly, there is cloudy swelling of the epithelium of the glandular viscera. In more chronic cases of septic poisoning similar changes arc found, but less marked in proportion to the chronicity of the case. Diagnosis.—Septic poisoning can be confounded only with some malignant specific fever, but the distinct connexion of the symptoms with their cause is in most cases so evident that an error is scarcely likely to be made. In former times many cases of septic poisoning after operations were classed as collapse, or exhaustion. Prognosis.—The prognosis depends upon the severity of the symptoms and the possibility of removing the cause. If the accumulation of septic matter can be cleared away and its re-accumulation prevented, cases appar- ently hopeless may sometimes recover. Treatment.—The treatment consists in removing the cause, as by laying a joint freely open, enlarging the aperture in au imperfectly opened abscess, or establishing good drainage in a cavity, as the peritoneum or pleura, or in a wound. The occurrence of septic poisoning can generally be prevented by antiseptic treatment, and efficient drainage. The patient’s strength must be kept up by stimulants and liquid food. Septic Infection.—An acute general disease accompanied by symptoms closely resembling those just described as resulting from septic poisoning is not unfrequently met with in circumstances which preclude the possibility of its being due merely to the absorption of a chemical poison. The conditions which would lead us to believe that a given case is the result of a true infec- tive process are, first, its arising from a wound of such size as to render it impossible for the necessary dose of septic matter to be formed in it; secondly, evidence of infection from one patient to another ; and, thirdly, the presence of active living organisms in the blood. The first condition is met with in those cases of septicaemia that follow the inoculation of the poison of dead bodies, by a scratch or puncture during a post-mortem examination. In these the local inflammation may be very slight, the patient dying rapidly from blood-poisoning. Similar cases are sometimes met with after operations in which the wound is too small to furnish a fatal dose of the chemical products of putrefaction. The second condition, infection from another patient, is seldom observed in surgical practice. It is, however, very marked in the septicaemia which forms one of the varieties of puerperal fever, the fearful infectiousness of which is but too well known. The last condition, the presence of specific organisms in the blood, has been observed in many cases of septicaemia, but our knowledge on this subject is at present very imperfect when compared with that which we possess with regard to septic infection in animals. It must be remembered, however, that until recviii:} the non-iufectivc and infective forms of septicaemia were confounded toga 1 ,