GANGRENE AFTER LIGATURE. 443 venesection in the cases operated on; the consequence of which was, that mortification was of frequent occurrence. A more common cause of gangrene is the difficulty experienced by the venous blood in its return from the limb. This difficulty always exists even when no mechanical obstacle impedes the return, being dependent on the want of a proper vis a tergo to drive on the blood. The propulsive force of the heart, the main agent in the venous circulation, is largely expended in driving the blood through the narrow and circuitous channels of the anastomosing vessels. This difficulty to the onward passage of the venous blood may, if there exist any cause of obstruction in the larger venous trunks, be readily increased to such an extent as to arrest the circulation, and so cause the limb to mortify. This mechanical obstacle may be dependent upon the occlusion of the vein by thrombosis occurring within it opposite the ligature, by its transfixion with the aneurism-needle, or by its accidental wound with the knife in exposing the artery. When such an injury, followed by inflammation, is inflicted on a vein, which, like the femoral, returns the great mass of blood from a limb, gangrene is almost inevitable. The supervention of erysipelas in the limb after the application of a ligature, though fortunately not of very frequent occurrence, is a source of considerable danger, being very apt to give rise to gangrene by the tension of the parts obstructing the anastomosing circulation. I have on two occasions seen gangrene of the fingers, from this cause, follow ligature of the vessels of the fore-arm. Abstraction of heat from the limb, either directly by the application of cold, or indirectly by the neglect of sufficient precaution to keep up the tem- perature of the part, often occasions gangrene : thus Sir A. Cooper saw mortifi- cation follow the application of cold lead-lotion to a limb in ‘which the femoral artery had been tied ; and Hodgson witnessed the same result when the opera- tion was performed at an inclement season of the year. The incautious application of heat may, by overstimulating the returning circulation of the limb, especially about the period when the rising tempera- ture is an indication of distension of the capillary vessels, occasion mortifi- cation. In this way the application of hot bricks and bottles to the feet has given rise to sloughing; and Liston was compelled to amputate the thigh after ligature of the femoral artery, for gangrene induced by fomenting the limb with hot water. The application of a bandage, even though very cautiously made, is apt to induce sloughing and gangrene. I have seen this happen when a roller was applied to the leg after ligature of the femoral artery, with a view to removing the oedema. Character.—The gangrene from ligature of an artery is almost invariably of the moist kind, as it usually arises from diminished vis a tergo and conse- quent stagnation of blood. The limb first becomes oedematous ; vesications theu form; and the skin assmnes a purplish or greenish-black tint, rapidly extending up to the seat of operation. In some cases, though they are rare, “7e. qualification of the limb comes on ; the skin assuming a dull ye owisi-white hue, mottled by streaks that correspond to the veins, and iccoming ry, horny, and shrivelled, about the extensor tendons of the instep, m. reqmeqt- Much may be done with the view of preventing gangrene. us, ie imb should be slightly elevated, wrapped up loosely in cotton-