ACCIDENTS IN REDUCTION OF OLD DISLOCATIONS. 635 serious accident lias usually happened when the Surgeon, after the employment of extension, has attempted to put in force transverse movements of the bone, or has used the bone as a lever ; it has given way, usually, high up near the head, at other times in the shaft. It is probable that in most cases this has been predisposed to by the bone having become weakened by want of use. It has occurred several times in the humerus, and at least eight times in the femur, in attempts at reducing old dislocations of these bones. In most of the recorded cases the bone has readily united, and the condition of the patient has not been materially, if at all, influenced for the worse, except that reduction of the dislocation has necessarily been rendered impossible. 9. Neigh- bouring bones have been fractured, such as the ribs and the glenoid cavity in the endeavour to reduce dislocation of the shoulder, and the acetabulum in attempted reduction of a luxated hip. 10. The limb has actually been torn off. This remarkable and distressing accident happened to Guerin of Paris, in attempting the reduction without pulleys, but merely by the traction of four assistants, of a dislocation of the shoulder of three months’ standing, in a woman 68 years of age, the limb being suddenly torn off at the elbow. The patient died on the twelfth day ; and on examination, the bones were found porous, the muscular and other soft structures pulpy, the limb having evidently lost its natural strength and elasticity. The occurrence of these various accidents and injuries, in the attempted reduction of old dislocations, cannot always be justly attributed to the employ- ment of an improper degree of force by the Surgeon. The liability to them must rather be looked upon as a necessary and inevitable accompaniment of all attempts at putting back into its place a bone which has been dislocated, and left unreduced for many weeks or months. During this period the bone usually contracts adhesions of a very dense kind to the parts amongst which it lies ; and, as it cannot be replaced in its articular cavity until these adhesions have been torn or broken through, it is easy to understand how, m the attempt to do this, neighbouring soft parts, vessels, or nerves may o-iTe way, or the bone itself may yield to. the force that must be applied to it in order to lift it out of its new bed. The liability to the occurrence of these accidents should make the Sura-eon very cautious how he recommends an attempt to reduce old-standing &dis- ocations. If after a time the new joint have become tolerably mobile, and n° painful, it may be better to leave the bone unreduced, rather than pose the patient to great risk, with a slender prospect of eventual success IttnTtf be stiff and Painfol> m^h may be done by passive otiou, ftictions, and douches, to improve the patient’s condition. in hT Sub?Utaneous Section of muscles, tendons, and bands of adhesions as a feriK?t thC d,,Blo(cated 1,as been Pr°l>°s«l % Dieffenback i„stan“in 15^* 01i ? 0 d*tandi'g «*»; and ha relates an yearn “as 7 T K “ *oa“« llad b«n dislocated for two success bL no^' “f8 "! '?lctl thi3 Plan ]los be“ «ed, *8 and in other Lo “"TT?*?'tho “Potions raised respecting it; been followed libb °r ■ " "C, b,ave soea fcwo or tbree> fcbe operation has attended by anv benefit’"’f anj ?fch“' fn?us cvils. "Pile it lias not been (V , benem 111 facilitating reduction. can be subfectSbLNotTmT 18 °^° °f ^ m°St se.rious iniuries fco which a limb only is there such extensive laceration of the soft parts