INFLUENCE OF HYGIENIC CONDITIONS. it &g. Of the exact nature of the contagium in most of these diseases we are still ignorant. This much, however, is tolerably certain, that in most, if not all, of them the poison is particulate ; it is not gaseous, and in most cases its activity can be destroyed by those chemical substances that we call antiseptics. In the vast majority of cases it occurs in conjunction with putrefaction of the discharges from the wound ; and those modes of treatment which are best calculated to prevent decomposition also serve best to prevent the occurrence of infective inflammations. The observations of Burdon Sanderson, Koch, and many others, have shown that all these unhealthy inflammations are accompanied by the presence of microscopic organisms in the discharges, and often also in the lymphatic spaces near the wound ; and these observers are of opinion that the micro-organisms are directly or indirectly the cause of the unhealthy process, and that infection is brought about by the actual transference of some of these living particles from one patient to another. Koch has shown unmistakeably that diseases closely resembling gangrenous inflammation, erysipelas, septicaemia, and pyaemia, as they occur in the human subject, can be artificially produced in animals, that each disease is accom- panied by the presence of a distinct form of microscopic fungus, and that it can be transmitted from one animal to another by means of infinitesimal quantities of the blood or exudation fluids containing the characteristic organism. That the organisms or their germs retain their vitality after being- dried has been clearly proved with regard to the somewhat analogous disease of splenic fever in cattle. This disease is due to a rod-shaped organism, the bacillus anthracis, of such size that its life-history can be accurately studied. It has been found that under certain conditions minute spores are found in the bacillus, and that when this has taken place blood containing- the -\iius may be dried and kept in that state for years without losing its viiulence. In this state it is easily conceivable that it could be disseminated by the air. It is well known that the virus of vaccinia, small-pox, and scarlet fever equally resist the effects of drying. Another fact ot equal importance, which has lately been discovered by Pasteui and floussaint, is that the virus of splenic fever and that of a peculiar form of septicaemia, common in fowls, known as chicken cholera, lose con- siderably m virulence if the organisms which form their essential part are cultivated m a medium which is not suited to their growth. The converse, although not so definitely proved, is probably true also,—that the virus increases m intensity if cultivated in a medium suited to its growth and development. a mcdlum for thc growth of pathogenic organisms is found in the feeble tissues and unhealthy sores of patients weakened by breathing the impure atmosphere of an overcrowded ward, and it is thus that under these circum- stances infective processes of intense virulence may be developed. Our know- ge ot tho exjlcfc nature of fche poisons of erysipelas, hospital gangrene, and pyasmm is still very imperfect; but this much is certain, that they are essen 1.1 y t i-discases, and may, if the term is allowable, be manufactured n any hospital or house, however clean or well situated, by the accumulation i 111 1 0 k?° aige a number of patients suffering from wounds thc dis- aigos o which are in a state of decomposition. It is probable that the ii ,„?l° SOm(r of thosc diseases are destroyed by oxidation ; but, be this as « ‘5 ' ™ evi! eut that a want of free ventilation must lead to a concentra- suo i poisons as are disseminated by the air, and at thc same time thc