171 VARIETIES OF INFLAMMATION. tional activity for healthy nutrition, but it is very seldom that the want of such rest can act as more than a predisposing cause of inflammation. Occa- sionally, however, inflammations of joints or of the eyes seem to be directly dependent on excessive exercise of function. G. Nervous Irritants.—The part played by the nervous system in the direct causation of inflammation has always been a question involved in considerable obscurity. That inflammation can take place, and readily does so, in a part completely cut off from any connection with the central nervous system, has been proved by numerous experiments ; in fact, such a condition has already been described as a predisposing cause of the process. The clinical phenomena usually given as examples of inflammation arising from injurious influences transmitted to the affected part by means of the nervous system, are the so-called sympathetic inflammations of the eye and of the testicle, and herpes zoster. In the eye, it is a well-known fact that, when one globe is. affected by destructive inflammation following a wound, unless the diseased organ is removed early, the other eye is liable also to become inflamed. The latest observations tend to prove that the inflammation in such cases in reality spreads from one eye to the other by direct extension along the optic nerve to the commissure. Gonorrhoeal inflammation of the testicle is in like manner now usually regarded as a direct extension of the inflammation by means of the vas deferens. Herpes zoster is an inflammation of the skin arising from no known external cause, and usually limited to the area supplied by a single sensory nerve. In this case we can scarcely doubt that the cause, whatever it may be, acts in some way through the nerve. Although it is difficult to prove that the nerves take, ordinarily, any active part In the causation of inflammation, there is no doubt they exert an important in- fluence on its progress by their controlling influence on the circulation. Irritation of a sensory nerve is known to cause dilatation of the vessels in the whole area supplied by the nerve; and the painful stretching of the nerves in inflammatory tension, by causing such a dilatation, increases the blood pressure in the inflamed part, and consequently augments the exudation and aggra- vates the tension. 00 . VarieUes of Inflammation.—John Hunter divided inflammation first into two kinds, viz., the healthy and the unhealthy. “ The healthy,” he says, T kmd’ nofc bein8 divisible but into its different hoahh I!,10 U'' ;C;dthy’ admifcs of vasfc ™™ty,” “ according to the kind of S f COnf 0V Parfcd He d*> divided inflammation according The term the adhesive> the suppurative, and the ulcerative” Yearn so^m11m? T1Vei mmation” haS taken for nea% one hundred briefly to Zf Vi,?06 m s^cal kll8'ua8'e, that it will be better here temnLrilv t /dbesive mflammation is the result of an irritant acting blood-nlasma anrl ^ W CR1^C ,°f sevcrk7 as to cause exudation of almost pure on the iniured a™ ^ tke corPuscles, ""'ith coagulation of the fibrin in or not be of snoG ' ^tku same ^me»tbc damage done by the irritant must tissue • nor °-(l y as .^° causc the death of any appreciable amount of impaired vitality in'll o°ntlIT t0 aCt after ifc lias Pr°duced the degree of example ■ fhP / 10 vessels necessary to cause the exudation. To take an livino- tissnpc •ama|f done by the passage of a sharp knife through healthy inflammation (.iL^U.,K'!Cld ,to develope in the area acted upon the stage of ac ensed by retardation of the blood-stream, exudation of a