588 SPECIAL FRACTURES. part. It appears sometimes to originate independently of external violence, and is then probably due to retroversion of the uterus. In some cases the coccyx may be in its normal position, but in others the whole bone is found to have been displaced by the injury which caused the affection, and to be projecting forwards almost at right angles to the sacrum. It can be felt from the rectum, causing a distinct projection into the bowel. It is maintained in its abnormal position chiefly by the action of the coccygei. This condition is in fact rather a dislocation than a fracture. The bone can easily be forced into its normal position with the finger from within the rectum, but it returns again to its former position immediately the pressure is removed. The Treatment recommended by Sir J. Y. Simpson consists in the free subcutaneous division, by means of a tenotome, of the muscular and tendinous structures connected with the coccyx. The section of these structures is made first on one side, then on the other, and finally around the tip, so as completely to isolate the bone. I have often performed this operation, and have as often as not been disappointed in the results. When it succeeds the good effects are immediate. When it fails it has been recommended to remove the bone by a longitudinal incision over its middle, exposing its poste- rior surface. This operation is free from danger, but most uncertain in its results. . Fractures of the Thigh-Bone are of great practical interest, from their frequency and severity. They may occur in the Upper Articular End of the bone, in its Shaft, or in its Lower End. In these different situations, every possible variety of fracture is often met with. 1. Fractures of the Pelvic End of the Bone may be divided into those that occur through the Neele Within the Capsule of the jomt, those that occur Outside the Capsule, and those that implicate the Trochanters alone. Intracapsular Fracture of the Neck of the Thigh-Bone maybe either simple, the bone being merely broken across ; or impacted, the lower portion of bone being driven into the upper fragment. . This intracapsular fracture may almost be looked upon as a special injury of advanced life, being but seldom met with in persons under fifty. Thus Sir A. Cooper states that, of 251 cases with which he met in the course of his practice, only two were in persons below this age. It may, however, happen at an early period of life ; Stanley has recorded the case of a lad of eighteen, who met with this injury, and Hamilton has described it as occurring m a gir YYJJLU LllCb YYlull uiiio aaj.j _ , • aged sixteen and in a man aged twenty-five. A remarkable circumstance n connection with this accident is, that it commonly happens from very slight degrees of violence, indeed almost spontaneously. Thus, the jarring of the foot in missing a step in going downstairs, catching the toes un er e carpet, tripping upon a stone, or entangling the foot m turning in c , sufficient to occasion it. Women are most liable to this injury. , Cause.—The occurrence of this fracture in old age is owing indirectly to the changes in structure, shape, and position of the head and neck of he femur tl.e spaces large, loose, and loaded with soft fat. The compact structure l corn!thinned, and proportionately weakened, especially about the nndd aid under part of the neck, which, appearing to yield to the we.gh of the body is shortened ; and, instead of being oblique in its dnection, t hor^ntai, inserted nearly at a right angle into the shaft. In consequence of The cancellous structure of these parts becomes ex-