ACCIDENTS IN REDUCTION OF OLD DISLOCATIONS. 657 I I eminence. It has happened to Petit, Pott, Larrey, Berard, Denonvilliers, and others. The surgical neck of the bone appears to have usually given way ; and the accident has not occurred so much from forcible extension, as in i carrying the arm across the chest so as to tilt the head of the bone into its place, when the shaft becomes exposed to fracture by pressure in a transverse direction. Such an accident necessarily prevents all further attempt at reduction. Fracture of the ribs, by the pressure exercised against the wall of the chest, is supposed to have occurred in some cases. The extravasation of a large quantity of blood into the areolar tissue of the axilla has occasionally occurred, without any evidence of the rupture of one of the main vessels. In these cases the swelling has gradually subsided under the employment of ordinary treatment, by rest and evaporating lotions. More serious by far than this is the rupture of one of the large blood-vessels in the axilla. This may happen either from the pressure of the Surgeon’s heel— as in a case reported by Hamilton, in which an attempt was made to reduce a dislocation of old standing by this means, the Surgeon unfortunately for- getting to remove his boot, and thus contusing and lacerating the artery—or from the humerus having become adherent to the vessel, and lacerating it when torn away. The instances on record of laceration of the axillary artery, and the consequent formation of a diffuse traumaMc aneurism in the axilla, in the reduction of old dislocations, are so numerous—there being at least twelve cases in the records of surgery—as to act as a warning to the Surgeon not to employ too much force. _ the great majority of these cases—in at least ten out of the twelve—the diffused traumatic aneurism appeared immediately after the employment of forcible and long-continued extension. In the remaining two instances, the aneurismal tumour did not appear until after the lapse of some time. In Dupuytren’s case a woman, (10 years of age, had reduced a dislocation into the axilla of six weeks’ standing. Two or three months after this, a tumour appeared in the armpit. This was mistaken for an abscess, and opened • arterial bleeding ensued, and the patient died on the eighth day from secondary haemorrhage. In Nekton’s case the patient, also an old woman, had a subglenoid dislocation which was easily reduced. But an aneurism appeared m the axilla, which, three months after the reduction, compelled that dis- mguished Surgeon to tie the subclavian. Both these aneurisms were probably circumscribed. 1 J Dupuytren s case was not the only one in which the fatal mistake was com- mitted of opening the aneurism in the axilla-the same was done by Pelletan Tn °k th,6 i1"1?11 emphysema ; the result being of necessity fatal’. ‘illruv'rVW1G^01 ^ ^eiduc’ Platner, and Leudet, the aneurism was ™. \° run lts c1°"rse nncheclced by efficient surgical treatment, and in emffino TTp n1 ^ Sa° giving Way’ and secondary haemorrhage in whkb H C\BC reC01Tls a case fchafc occmTed at the Newcastle Infirmary, aram n n^iPe GSaVVe11 aS fcbe artery were torn, and immediate Ikatured ' «\uainen®cessaiy- four cases the subclavian artery lias been of Cincin'mH . i^ iapp^,ied 111 America; two to Gibson, one to Blackman hmmorrhaoe Vr"'. °n,e fc,° Wan’en‘ ^rce of them proved fatal by secondary Wlnt Tron / ail,en 8 bemg the only one in which recovery took place. vol. 1. men slould be adopted in this distressing accident? If the u u