645 CLAVICLE, OUTER END—SCAPULA. Fig. 2(36.—Dislocation of the Clavicle on the Acromion. deucy to the return of the displacement. This is owing partly to the shallow- ness of the articular surface of the acromion, partly to the tension of the trapezius, by which the acromial end of the bone is drawn upwards and out- wards, and in a great degree to the mobility of the shoulder. In every move- ment of the body or neck there will be found to be a tendency to rising upwards of the end of the dislocated bone, and in the majority of cases this will be insurmountable by any mechanical means that can be employed. It is best limited, if not obviated, by a pad and gutta-percha plate laid on the projecting clavicle, and strapped tightly down by a band passing parallel to the arm and under the flexed fore-arm, this being retained in position by being at- tached to a strap passed round the opposite axilla. If the displacement continue to be irremediable, a very useful arm will still be left, only somewhat limited in its upward movements. The outer end of the clavicle has been dislocated under the Acromion by the application of direct violence to the end of the bone. This form of displace- ment is very rare ; several instances have, however, been mentioned in the journals. The diagnosis is easy, simple digital examination pointing out the nature of the accident; and the treatment must be conducted in the same way as that of fractured clavicle. The acromial end of the clavicle has been known to be displaced under- neath the Coracoid Process. Here, also, simple examination and the clavicular bandage suffice for diagnosis and treatment. The only instances of Simultaneous Dislocation of both ends of the Clavicle with which I am acquainted have been reported by Richerand and Morel Lavallee. Dislocation of the Scapula.—Under this name has been described a very remarkable kind of displacement of the Lower Angle and Dorsal Border ot the scapula which is occasionally met with, in consequence of which it pro- jects at a considerable angle from the trunk, giving a winged appearance to the back This displacement has been attributed to the bone slipping away from under the latissimus dorsi muscle ; but it is probable that in the majority of cases at ieast, it has been really due to paralysis of the serratus magnus. Jacob attributed this to a morbid condition of the muscle itself, but Nelaton gaids it as due to paralysis of the long thoracic nerve. Paralysis of the 1 it pr°jfCfci0n °f the scaPula is mosfc marked when the aim s put forwards at right angles to the trunk ; if both arms are put in tonvS r ? ;ViU >, f0'“d ,tl,at the f** the Inform Wn“ wJh,°“ !,° T ", T thlm tlle other’ the seapulm movement in raisimr 11 0 ht para!rc! 81?e ; m SOme cases there has been difficulty the affected In'" 'U t t'Ti ’. cxPansion °f Die chest is less perfect on of the mnsel G’ aUt J ,,1C PaDenb 18 thin it can be seen that the digitations (I.V Ponro -C t! ° , Gej) ^r niarked. In a case of this kind recorded by plexus the rot'll 1' T 1 fc^° Pala^s's followed chronic neuritis of the brachial treatment r 1 ° 1 straill> the patient gradually recovered under electrical ia\ e seen some benefit derived in such cases from the cndermic