862 INJURIES OF THE ABDOMEN AND PELVIS. tlmfc a ready outlet may be afforded to any faecal extravasation ; this method is almost inevitably fatal. Secondly, the coil being partially reduced, the edges of the opening in the gut may be fixed by suture to the margins of the external wound in the skin, and in the hopes of an artificial anus being formed which may possibly afterwards be closed, either by the contraction of the. wound or by operative proceedings at a later period ; this mode of treatment is best adapted to wounds of the great intestine. Thirdly, the injured part of the gut may be cut away, and the case treated as one of complete division of the intestine. The amount of success that has attended the removal of por- Fig. 346.—Jobert's Suture for complete Transverse Division of the Intestine, a, serous ; b, mus- cular ; c, mucous coat. Fig. 347.—The Suture Tightened. The figure shows a Lembert's Suture introduced to give ad- ditional security. tions of intestine for gangrene in strangulated hernia, for adhesion to ab- dominal tumours, and for malignant growths in the gut, and the almost hopeless nature of the case if a lacerated coil of intestine is reduced into the abdominal cavity justify the adoption of this plan in favourable cases. In all cases in which the gut is sutured, the wound in the abdominal wall must be closed, as in cases of protrusion of uninjured viscera. Should there be any fear of faecal extravasation, the wound may be left open, or, if exten- sive, partially closed, one end being left open to allow of the escape of the discharges. During all these procedures, it is wise to adopt strict antiseptic precautions, for in no cases in surgery are these more valuable than in wounds of the peri- toneum, unless it be in those of synovial membranes. The after-treatment must be conducted in all respects on the same principles as in the case of an intestine wounded without protruding. Care must be taken, by attention to the position of the patient, and by the free administra- tion of opium, to keep the bowel as quiet as possible near the external opening: the urine should be drawn off twice in the twenty-four hours, and no purgative whatever administered, lest, by the excitation of peristaltic action, adhesion be disturbed, and extravasation take place. After the lapse of six or eight day? an enema may be thrown up, and repeated from time to time. No food should be allowed for the first three days, during which time ice and barley-water should be freely taken ; after this, beef-tea, and light food that leaves no soli residue, may be given. It is of great importance that no solid food should >e administered for at least two or three weeks after the occurrence of the injury.