423 CARBOLIZED SILK LIGATURE. ligature foiled to accomplish the purpose for which it was applied. It is most probable that in all it was due to premature softening of the gut. Treves also has recorded a case in which after 108 days the carotid artery was found to be patent but narrowed at the seat of ligature by a kind of perforated diaphragm. In a case at University College Hospital, in which the right carotid was tied below the omo-hyoid for an aneurism opposite the larynx, the vessel, when the man died of an aortic aneurism one year after, was then found to be obliterated from the aneurism to the innominate. Its coats were continuous, the seat of ligature being recognizable only by some cicatricial tissue adherent to the external coat. It seems possible, therefore, that as the continuity of the external coat is not destroyed, restoration of the lumen of the vessel may take place occasionally even after occlusion lasting a con- siderable time. In the vast majority of cases, however, in which the catgut- ligature has been employed, the vessel has been permanently and safely obliterated. Carbolized Silk.—The slight degree of uncertainty that has attended the use of catgut, the occasional premature disappearance of the ligature and restora- tion of the circulation through the vessel, has led some Surgeons to employ instead of it fine silk, that known as “ Chinese twist ” being the best. Silk being an animal substance, and from its softness being unlikely to irritate mechanically, there seems no reason why, if it can be prevented from becoming impregnated with the irritating products of putrefaction, it should not lie harmlessly amongst the tissues, and become finally absorbed or encapsuled. That such may be the case has been abundantly proved by the experience derived from those cases of ovariotomy in which the pedicle has been secured by silk, and returned into the cavity of the abdomen. In order that silk may be used with safety and certainty, it must in the first place be rendered aseptic. This is most efficiently done by boiling it for some time in water and afterwards placing it for twenty-four hours in a 1 in 20 solution of carbolic 1 ' 1 i mrSt. °n n° accounfc be waxed, as this makes it incapable of being absorbed. A silk hgature thus prepared will in the great majority of cases give nse to 110 irritation or suppuration in its neighbourhood. If, however, it siould from any cause become exposed to decomposing matter, it will absorb the products of putrefaction, and will then be cast off and discharged from the wound by suppuration. & The fate of a silk ligature when left amongst the living tissues has bepn ; ' ™md ™ silk ligature applied to the carotid of a "Sl l eV f “ ™k* “d bedded to fibrous tissue, the 1,?Z i he,a®1‘ed a Slr,ukr bgsture to the external iliac artery in yt Z hXir r he ‘Td the °PP°rt“itJr 0f ““"S' ‘be parts one abscess had for, 1 1 ^ parfc of the h8'ature absorbed, but a small C1Utfc0U haS reC01'ded a c4se in which ligatoe of th? T ? -raS dlsclm'8’ed from an abscess six weeks after a*’similarVI " r ^ B°yd .had the opportunity of examining wound haviiin- 1 1 !^i^V°C rt0 ^ caTotld thirty-five days before death, the changed sun-onnA T 1 ^ ]lltcnti°o. ^be silk was found perfectly un- In another case roo a niass of smu11 _round cells with some giant-cells, after seven weeks ^ ^ *3rsle^.a silk ligature was found unchanged ie connective tissue formed a strong fibrous capsule