TUMOURS. 982 examination, pure fibromata are found to be composed of interlacing bundles of white fibrous tissue, scattered amongst which are cells, few in numlxir, and spindle-shaped, stellate, or oval in form (Fig. ;J70). These are often rendered apparent only by the addition of acetic acid. In most cases the vessels are not abundant, but frequently these tumours can be shown by in- jection to be very vascular. Sometimes coarse cavernous spaces may lx; found. The vessels are intimately adherent to the fibrous structure of the tumour, and consequently, being unable to contract or retract, they pour out enormous quantities of blood if opened by wound or ulceration. This is especially the case in those fibrous tumours which grow from the bones of the head or face, as in the fibrous polypi growing from the body of the sphenoid F!°-s 369, 370.—Finn fibromata (1SS diam.). Fig. 369, from a small Fibroma of tlie forehead, shows the circular arrangement of the fibres. Fig. 370, from a nasopharyngeal polypus, resembles ordinary fibrous tissue. bone. Haemorrhage is moreover often a marked symptom of fibroid tumours of the uterus. Fibromata form most commonly about middle life, and may remain stationary for years, and this is the condition in which they are often pre- sented to the Surgeon. They may, however, suffer various changes. They may undergo disintegration, becoming cedcmatous, and softening in the centre, or at various points of the circumference ; they then break down into a semi-fluid mass, the integuments covering them inflame and slough, and unhealthy pus, mixed with disorganized portions ol the tumour, is poured out, leaving a large and sloughy chasm, from which fungating growths may sprout, readily bleeding on the slightest touch, and giving the sore a malig- nant appearance ; the patient eventually falling into a cachectic condition, and becoming exhausted by the haemorrhage and discharge. In other cases these tumours may calcify, or more rarely undergo true ossification. In rare cases the central parts of these tumours may undergo a process of softening, so as to form large cysts containing fluids of various shades of colour. Paget relates the case of a very large cyst of this kind formed by the hollowing out of a fibroid tumour of the uterus, which was tapped by mistake for ovarian Some of the forms of fibroma require further mention here, though they will be again mentioned under the diseases of the organs in which they oeoui.