STRUCTURE OF SQUAMOUS EPITHELIOMA. 1031 found to be composed of masses of cells of the type of scaly epithelium, forming irregularly cylindrical processes communicating nit 1 eac 1 0 ier. From the irregular course of these processes, they are cut in a variety of i directions in every thin section, so that the groups of cells do not give t ie Iidea of cylinders, but rather of circular, oval, and irregular masses not in direct connection with each other. Between these cylinders is a fibrous tissue bearing abundant vessels for the nutrition of the non-vascular epithe- 1 puni. rphis fibrous tissue is more or less infiltrated with small round cells, in proportion to the rapidity of the growth of the tumour. It will be seen from the above description that the structure of an epithelioma, although differing Fig. 404.—Epithelioma of Anus (40 diam.). Shows the lobules extending down into the connective tissue, which is infiltrated with small round cells; four globes are seen. The isolated masses are probably cylinders cut obliquely. in detail, is in the main similar to that of scirrhous and encephaloid cancer ; that is to say, cells of an epithelial type, imbedded in spaces in a fibrous stroma, which freely communicate with each other (Fig. 404). As in normal squamous epithelium covering a papilla of the skin, the cells next to the fibrous and vascular tissue are softer and rounder in form than those of greater age. In the centre of the terminal portion of a cylinder of cells or in a branching process from it, the epithelium often becomes flattened by pressure, and arranged circularly so as to form a globe (epithelial nest, epithelial pearl). These nest-like formations arc produced, according to Virchow, by the remarkable tendency to endogenous cell-growth exhibited by some of the central cells, and the development of large “ brood-spaces ” within them. The pressure produced by this formation of brood-spaces, and the endogenous cell-growth accompanying it, causes the marginal cells to become flattened and to take on a concentric arrangement. Possibly these globes may be formed in both ways; but the appearance usually presented by them rather