WATER-, DRY-LINT-, AND COTTON-WOOL-DRESSINGS. 307 this may be changed whenever necessary. This method of treatment is some- times followed by very good results. The cleaning of the surfaces, the approxi- mation of the edges, and the drainage are conducted on ordinary principles and require no further notice ; but the prevention of decomposition is very imper- fectly carried out. If the drainage is perfect, and nothing but healthy plastic exudation remains between the surfaces, no decomposition will take place in the deep part of the wound. Tl, however, there happen to be a pocket or cavity containing serous fluid, this will certainly decompose, and septic fever and suppuration will follow. Such discharges as flow away, are partly removed by changing the waterproof material beneath the wound, and partly become dry about the edges, and when dry are incapable of decomposition. Thus, with perfect drainage and dry air, a wound treated in this way may run an almost peifectly aseptic course ; but such a result is wholly exceptional, and cannot in any way be relied on. Rest is obtained tolerably perfectly, as the disturb- ance of dressing is almost completely avoided. The prevention of infection is entirely neglected. On the whole it may be said that although this mode of treatment is vastly superior to any attempt at complete occlusion, it is not to be recommended, as in the majority of cases it fails completely in the pre- vention of decomposition, and consequently leaves the patient exposed to the dangers of septic absorption and of infective inflammations. The Simple Water-Dressing strongly advocated by Liston as a substitute for the older method of poulticing wounds, was a mode of treatment extensively adopted until about twenty years ago. It closely resembles in its principle the open treatment just described ; the only difference being, that instead of leaving the wound absolutely exposed, it was covered by a piece of lint moistened with “pure water,” in the first instance left open and subsequently covered with oiled silk. This treatment was often attended by the most satisfactory results ; by it the wound was kept clean and cool. Inflammation was prevented and the discharges were allowed to drain away. In many cases . 161’e was bufc vei7 little suppuration. I have seen many large wounds, such as those of amputations, or after excision of the breast, heal almost by the fl^m^ntmn^thout any suppuration except such as took place along the imdoubtPdlvLtf reS'i 11 fhe pre'antiseptic days fche “water-dressing” was doubtedly the simplest, cleanest, and safest method of treating laro-e incised wounds, and it still is so in all those cases in which antisep/csa?e not at taortan«°oVtT™ “f PTeTti0n hSS h*” M'3' and the mpoitance of its pievention has been recognised, the simple water-dressi 11 o- as been practically abandoned for the antiseptic methods. 0 iJ-niC Dry-Lint-Dl’essing was used by Syme and many others before the on efchCside o°f 2t™Amsat- , Tt COnsisfced of a Pad of dry lint placed interfering'lith tbpTT^ *r “i g 7 t0 pm5S fche surfaces together without lint abouf 1W eXl°f dlSGdarSe- 0ve1’ thi« was placed another piece of was left untouched^8 fthlckfand fchc whole surrounded by a bandage. This become soaked in tbo ^ ^0Ur days’ which time it had usually This mode of h-poi ' '1° iai "es ail(i more or less offensive from decomposition, delayed decoirm •'.n'el! secuietl rest, apposition, and chainage, and perhaps s*rr r hj^ymg the to ^ ^ A uncommon occurrence^^ ^ ^ bUt 8Uppurafcion» followed by pymmia, was no on Wool-Dressing was introduced by A. Guerin, of Paris. In