976 TUMOURS. such as bone, tcetli, cartilage, &c., have been ascribed to this cause, but the evidence of their origin is far from certain. They are most common in the abdomen, especially about the ovaries, mesentery, and omentum ; they have also been observed in connection with the testes, having probably descended into the scrotum with this gland. A very remarkable case of this kind once occurred at University College Hospital under the care of Marshall. They have also been found in the lung, but never, I believe, in connection with the extremities. (cl.) Congenital Cysts of Doubtful Origin.—A class of congenital cysts has been described under the name of cystic hygroma, the origin of which is uncertain. They are most commonly met with in the neck, usually in front, but are also found in the subcutaneous tissue in other parts of the body. They form also one variety of the congenital sacral tumours. They are composed of fj a number of thin-walled cysts, sometimes completely closed and sometimes s communicating with each other ; the separate cysts are held together by areolar i tissue, in some cases containing fat. The contents are clear and serous. They • attain often a great size in the neck and sacral region, but in other situations ■ they are seldom very large. The walls of the cysts are lined in some cases with . an endothelium like that of the lymphatics, and these have been supposed to be lymphatic mevi; that is to say, multilocular cysts formed by dilatation of the lymphatics. If their size permits of it, they can be removed ; other modes of I treatment have not proved successful. ( 5.) Parasitic Cysts.—Cysts also occasionally come under the care of the Surgeon which owe their origin to the presence of a parasite. The most common of these is that known as the hydatid cyst. This is due to the presence of the i scolex of the taenia echinococcus. The parasite in this stage of development . is cystic in form. It never reaches its fully developed state in the human l body; the taenia (or tapeworm), of which it is the scolex, being known to ’ exist only in the dog and wolf. In the human body it is commonly found to present the following appearances. Most externally is a cyst-wall composed of I the tissues of the part, altered by the pressure of the cyst, and indurated by ' fibroid growth. Within this is the wall of the cyst, belonging to the parasite. This is often half an inch or more in thickness, and is composed of a semi-transparent, elastic substance, not unlike the white of a hard-boile plover’s egg. It is beautifully laminated to the naked eve, and a still hner lamination.0 is seen under the microscope. This cyst is spoken ot as the acephcclocyst. Sometimes the cyst is single, but frequently numerous secondary or daughter cysts are found in its interior. The contents of the cyst consis. ot a clear fluid of verv low specific gravity, usually not over 1007-, and contain- ing either no albumen, or only the faintest possible trace. The characteristic tcenia-hcads, as. they are called, are found either adherent to the cyst-wa , or free in the fluid. The head is small and rounded, about TUni. in diameter, and provided with four suckers and a ring of booklets. Frequent y no perfect echinococci can be found, but the booklets, being indestruc 1 e, usually be detected. Hydatid cysts arc found in almost all parts o icfr They arc most common in the liver, and occur in other organs in the < * order of frequency lungs, muscles and subcutaneous tissue kld»eys , nervous centres, bones, and heart. They are m rare cases fount The cyst-wall may undergo calcification, and the tumour cease to to i&T Occasionally suppuration may occur round the cyst, and the whole