AMPUTATION OF THE LEG. somewhat more dangerous, is yet one of the most successful operations in Surgery, the mortality attending it being but very small. The following are the figures given in Max Schede’s tables. Partial Amputations of the Foot for injury, in civil practice, 223 cases, 45 deaths, or 20‘2 per cent. ; for disease, 562 cases, 70 deaths, or 12-4 per cent. In military practice, the numbers are 831 cases, with 388 or 46-7 per cent, of deaths ; but . this fearful mortality has been chiefly in the French hospitals. If these are excluded, there remain 403 cases, with 65 deaths, or 16 per cent. The statistics of uncomplicated cases from the practice of Socin, VoLkmann, and Max Schede, under antiseptic treatment, show 65 cases, with 2 deaths, 1 in a v oman, aged 7 7, and 1 re-amputation. Those of Bruns, Bardeleben and Billroth, in the pre-antiseptic period, show 39 cases, with 10 deaths, 8 of which were from pyaemia. The highest mortality was from Pirogoff’s opera- tion, of which there were 13 cases, with 5 deaths, 4 from pyaemia and 1 from erysipelas. . Amputation of the Leg may be performed in three situations : either just below the knee, in the middle, or in the lower third of the limb. The selection of the hue of amputation must depend in a great degree upon the extent of the disease or injury, but, whenever practicable, the operation should be performed low down ; the mortality diminishing in proportion as the limb is removed near to the ankle. Of 106 amputations in this situation done in ans, there were only 13 deaths. Surgeons used formerly, even where the disease or injury was limited to the foot, to amputate immediately below the knee, m all those cases m which the patient would be obliged to wear a common wooden pm, the long leg-stump being highly inconvenient when the afford'the 6d °n f bCnu ^ ; Whereas’ in fchose individuals who could afford the expense of a well-constructed artificial limb, the amputation when practicable, was done in the lower part of the leg. But this difficulty has been removed by the introduction of a short wooden pin, in the socket of achffissible Tyif fiX6d m the extended P°sifcion 5 and amputation in ah “ amongst the »°°L ,diTi<ied wiU the Nation of the below the head of the ctTi °™ aS “ general mIe m amputations one inch asw&SHS the^mCtiTh^the I,e? Trafsfixio11 -ay be performed in t\*Zoz: tibia, c.SS£K ^ lfVS 6ntered afc thc posterior edge of the across the anterior mrf nf u aife °, 0n,e lncb and a half to two inches, then which the incision is nvi 1° i ^ 1° t ie Posterior border of the fibula, up right leg the same ° ° exteud to a corresponding distance. In the terminates on the tibial°U 333 °n t,le fibular side of the Iimb, and and well rounded isnevtrW <• i 3 tlUS formed> which should be broad ’ is next dissected up by a few touches of the point of the kuife,