21 I CAUSES OF CHRONIC INFLAMMATION. degenerative changes—partly as a result of the pressure to which they are exposed from the new growth. Thus the tubules or acini of a chronically inflamed gland become obliterated, and muscular fibre undergoes fatty degeneration. In this way the functional activity of organs suffering from chronic inflammation is more or less interfered with. The condition known as catarrh, or catarrhal inflammation, possesses so many special features that it will be better discussed separately. Thus we see that chronic inflammation, although differing widely from acute, is in reality an analogous process. The development of increased connective tissue is analogous to the adhesive or productive form of acute inflammation, and the formation of a cheesy centre, or a chronic abscess, differs merely in its chronicity from the process by which an acute abscess arises, while ulceration and some forms of suppuration are the same processes in both forms of inflam- mation, differing only iu their rate of progress and duration. Even infective processes may assiune the chronic form, as in the general tubercular infection from a softening cheesy centre, in glanders, and in some forms of chronic pyaemia. No sharp line can be drawn between chronic and acute inflamma- tions ; and the term “ subacute ” is often used to signify processes in the border-land between the two. Causes.—The causes of chronic inflammation are like those of the acute process, predisposing and determining. The predisposing causes are the same as those of acute inflammation ; anything that tends to lower the vitality and interfere with healthy nutrition, either generally or locally, predisposes to one as much as to the other. Perhaps passive congestion forms the most common of all predisposing causes, and it is often difficult to draw a distinct line between the non-inflammatory changes, the induration and pigmentation resulting from congestion, and those produced by true chronic inflammation. Certain congenital or hereditary constitutional states form important predispos- ing causes ; the most marked of these being the scrofulous diathesis, in which chronic inflammations, especially of the glands, bones and joints are very common. Amongst the acquired constitutional conditions, syphilis, rheuma- tism and gout form frequent predisposing causes ; so much so, that in all chronic inflammations it is the duty of the Surgeon to bear in mind the possibility ol one of these being present. The importance of the predisposing causes is undoubtedly relatively greater in the chi’onic than in the acute forms of the inflammatory process, and this fact must be borne in mind in the treatment of the affection. ibe immediate causes of chronic inflammation are of the same nature as those of the acute process, but they act with a less degree of intensity and more continuously. So long as the cause of the inflammation is present the process cannot subside. In chronic inflammation it often happens that the cause w nc 1 starts the process is of a temporary character, the persistent effect cmg due to other causes which come into play at a later period. Thus in a mnion ulcer of the leg the history of the case is frequently as follows. The tVnrnn ’ Posslb ^-nourished and feeble from want of proper food, suffers the w'K:0S<' Te!ns’ interfere with the return of blood from the sldn of fhp sif ^ r VSe k° a con(iiti°n of passive congestion. As a result of this wif-liotnr v m °° *s ba<iiy nourished and of low vitality, and incapable of „ ebucts of even mild degrees of irritation. Sooner or later to 1 injury, such as a scratch or blow, which would be harmless to