INJURIES■ OF THE HEAD. 728 In the Diagnosis of depressed fracture, it is important to remember that the apparent depression produced by an extravasation under the scalp may simulate this injury very closely. (See p. 713.) Varieties.— Depressed fractures of the skull may either be simple, without wound of the scalp ; compound ; or comminuted. In the majority of cases, whether the fracture be simple or compound, there is comminution of the bone; the fragments being perhaps driven into the brain. Sometimes, though very rarely, the external table alone is depressed and driven into the diploe. This is especially the case over the frontal sinuses, where it may be broken in, as I have seen happen from the kick of a horse, without the inner table being splintered, or any bad consequence ensuing. The inner table may be fractured without any apparent injury to the outer table ; and it may not only be so fractured, but a portion of it may be depressed, without the outer table being injured (Figs. 315, 31G). In all ordinary depressed fractures, both tables are depressed, but the internal table is splintered to a greater extent than the external one. This is Fig. 313.—Fracture of the Skull from Gun-shot Injury from within : Splintering of Outer Table. Fig. 314.—The same, natural size. especially the case when the fracture is the result of gun-shot injury, 01 when it has been occasioned by blows with a pointed weapon, as the end of a pick, or a large nail, or the sharp angle of a brick. In these latter fractures, which constitute the dangerous variety termed Punctured, the outer table may be merely perforated or fissured, whilst the inner one is widely splintered into numerous fragments, for the extent of a square inch or more. This splintering of the inner lamina of the skull to a greater extent than the outer one lias attracted much attention, being of considerable practical moment, and is often said to be owing to its being more brittle than the external tabic. 1 lm. however, I do not consider to be the only cause. I should attribute it rather to the fracturing force from without inwards losing a certain amount o momentum in passing through the outer table; the inner table being t ms splintered more widely than the outer one, for the same reason that t le aperture of exit made by a bullet is larger than that of entry. If this be the true explanation, the reverse ought to hold good if the force be applied in ie opposite direction. It is very seldom that we have an opportunity of examin- ing such a case ; but, some years ago, a man was brought to the Hospita " had discharged a pistol into his mouth and upwards through the brain.