PASSIVE CONGESTION. *45 culation in the congested part becomes completely arrested, stagnation is said to occur. Causes.—The force of gravity plays an important part in many cases as a cause of passive congestion, especially in the pelvic viscera, the veins of which are unprovided with valves. Its effects are, however, even more marked in the leg when, as the result of disease, the valves have become incompetent. Under these circumstances the increased pressure leads to dilatation of the veins and capillaries, and consequently retards the flow of blood through them. This condition is termed hypostatic congestion. The most familiar examples are congestion of the legs from long-continued standing, and of the posterior part of the lungs of those who have been long confined to a recumbent position. Any mechanical obstruction which increases the resistance in the venous or capillary circulation also gives rise to passive congestion. The obstructing cause in the veins may be outside or inside the vessels—the former being such conditions, as pressure of tumours, or of feces on the pelvic veins, partial strangulation, as in hernia, &c.; and the latter, coagulation of blood in the vein with or without inflammation of its coats, as in white leg or phlegmasia dolens. Congestion in the capillaries and smaller veins alone is most commonly the result of altered vital relation between the wall of the vessel and the contained blood ; it then forms a part of inflammation, and is most properly described with that process. Again, resistance remaining unaltered, passive congestion may be caused by a diminution of the normal forces of the circulation which should overcome it. Ihus we see congestion of the extremities in exhausting fevers in which the propulsive power of the heart is greatly diminished; and the same condition readily occurs in old people. Paralysed limbs are usually congested and cold the congestion arising to a great extent from the want of muscular contrac- tions, which help so powerfully to drive the blood into and through the veins. . astlU the propulsive power being unaltered, increased resistance may be interposed m the arterial system and so give rise to congestion. Thus in thefflvesseIs1 of the leS m:l7 he so much narrowed that, although admitting sufficient blood to fill the vessels beyond, the force is so much tfevehi^andrt lfc 18 rTSb comPletelF cxPended before the blood reaches e veins, aud thus partial stagnation occurs. The most extreme cono-estion When * o* «* anastano^ ' ' 1 1 eneSf becomes s^denly obliterated as by embolism. The blood- piesmie is reduced to nothing in the area supplied by the plugged artery, while pressm-cllex7stsdmS’ T c°mmunicatiuS capillaries, in which the normal Surffitant btnd G VGSSelS °f the affected Parfc become filled ^th simihr ! f ’ Ibl ? at the same time there is ”0 force to empty them. A the Suronon ffiT °1 con^esfcion is TG1T frequently met with bv P°rtl0nS °f Skin Whicb have bGCU drived of their nous ervsinpl j 1PP ^ destruction of the subcutaneous tissue, as in phlegmo- thus °rTficlal strumous abscesses. The blue undermined' skin healino- hurts Gver between life and death for months, delaying obtained ° m ° and reqidriiig destruction before a cure can be usually t'il-os t/080 m° ° much surgical importance. The first chaugc that Tor., i. P acc 18 transudation oi the more watery constituents of the