FRACTURES. 530 the fragments to a complete smash of the whole limb, such as is made by a railway-train passing' over it. Compound iractures therefore include many > injuries far more severe than any simple iracture can possibly be ; but, 111 a very large proportion of cases, the injury to the solt parts and the splintering of the bone are no greater than in many simple fractures, the sole difference being that, in the one case, there is a wound by which air, carrying with it the causes of decomposition, can find access to the decomposable blood-clots and inflammatory exudation surrounding the broken ends of the bone, while in the other it is excluded by the unbroken skin. As a consequence of this, unless special means are taken to prevent it, decomposition sets in, the blood-clot breaks down and is discharged, and the septic matter in the cavity of the wound excites inflammation, reaching the stage of suppuration, in the' sui- rounding tissues. Portions of the bruised muscles and the tom peiiostcuin, which in a simple fracture would either have recovered, or if too severely injured would have been penetrated by wandering leucocytes and absorbed, may perish in consequence of the additional irritation caused by the septic matter and finally be cast off as sloughs. From the same cause portions of the ends of the bones which may have become denuded of then* periosteum, or detached splinters, perish and come away as sequestra.. Iu many cases also the external wound is too small to allow of efficient drainage and conse- quently the pent-up septic matter burrows widely in the intermuscular spaces of the limb. If, therefore, the decomposition of the discharges cannot m some way be prevented, a compound fracture is not only far more tedious in its cure than a simple fracture, but infinitely more dangerous. It has to unite by a slow process of granulation instead of the more speedy mode ot union already described as occurring in simple fractures. The dangers o a compound fracture arise also from the decomposition of the discharges consequent upon the admission of unpurified air During the first week there may be severe septic fever ; and the stages of granulation am suppu- ration are often attended by profuse discharge of pus from the original wound and from abscesses forming amongst the surrounding muscles, maintained or a lono- time by exfoliation from the ends of the fractured bone. The patient may thus be worn out by the prolonged suppuration and the persistent absorp- tion of the products of putrefaction ; or the wound may become the seat o some infective process, and he may perish from septicamna, pyaemia or erysipe- las In other cases the septic inflammation may spread to the medulla of bone, causing diffuse osteomyelitis, followed by extensive necrosis, a condition frequently terminating in pyaemia. Thus a compound fract^ leads ^ unfrequently to the eventual loss of life or limb. Besides these a ’ which may be looked upon as indirect, the violence that occasions a compound fracture often shatters [he limb to such an extent, as to lead to the mimedm supervention of traumatic gangrene, to the loss of life by bunion iaB , the certain and speedy disorganization of the limb, as the consequence of “STof oZS Fractures. If the superficial wound 1,cal l,v the first intention or if the evil effects of the admission of uupurificd air and the consequent decomposition of the discharges can be proven c , a comff Sue may unite in exactly the same way as a simple fracture. Under other circumstances union takes place more *fT^***g££ ‘ f wounds of the soft parts healing by the second intention. If J i