156 LOCAL DISTURBANCES AND INFLAMMATION. original elements of the affected tissues. The discovery of the migration of the white corpuscles, however, fully accounted lor the appearance oi the new cells in the inflamed area, without necessitating the improbable assumption, that iniury to living tissues immediately increases their vital activity. ^The changes which occur in the tones as the result of mflamnmtion have been observed both in vascular and non-vascular structures, and both duiin life and in preparations made after death. .Amongst noil-vascular structures tire cornea may be taken as the most typical, and has most frequently teen made the subject of experimental investigation. The cornea is composed of a peculiar form of fibrous tissue arranged in strata, between which lie spaces o !m irregular stellate form containing corpuscles corresponding with them shane but not accurately filling them, thus leaving room for the passatoe ot shape one not- 3 *= blood plasma and, under certain condi- tions, of white corpuscles. When the cornea of any animal is irritated by passing a fine silk thread through it, there forms, before many hours are past, an opaque spot extending for a short distance round the part injured. At the same time the vessels of the con- junctiva and cf the sclerotic become en- -7W gorged with blood. If the cornea be 7W cut'out and examined about sixteen to twenty-four hours after the injury, in the inflamed area, instead of the single stellate corpuscle naturally seen in each space, there wifi be found a group of rounded cells having all the appearances of white corpuscles. Till comparatively recently it was thought that these were produced by the divi- „ sion, or, as it is called, proliferation, ot . ... the original corneal corpuscles. It has since been shown clearly that th< tbnSwfihTeuioc^s; A Arterioie!'"r!"* venuie. since been shown clearly that the appear- r>. Perimysium infiltrated with leucocytes, n. nrina «0 vpnllvnroduced bv an aCCUmula- Nerve. m. Muscular Fibres, cut across. Slliue uccu ouui.u ance is really produced by an accumula- tion of migrating cells in the space in wfbcb the coi-neei coi^de such 31“:^ area of the cornea with a solution of ci especially the auteiior the part touched, but leaves the htaous <Etoorneal vessels homogeneous lamina, appaicn y norma , Gold-method showed that was not produced. The spot remained cl m, ami to ^“ “ commomcd ; the cells around its margin mdenvenno*>>W ^ nothing S.lg- tlien they shot out-processes to ' “W “ UC‘ L however, the anterior gesting proliferation of the cells soon olouded. the same lamina was eaten throng i -3 1 ‘ ,, ,1.,,. the corneal margin, the anterior occurred if (3) the £1“^-did dilate. In each lamina remaining sound, but then the pc concealed the corneal of the two latter cases, clumps of small louml