CONSTITUTIONAL EFFECTS OF INJURY. 286 ix very trivial injury may produce an extreme degree of shock to the nervous system ; indeed, the mere apprehension of injury may, without the occurrence of any physical lesion, give rise to all the phenomena of shock in its most intense degree. People have been actually frightened to death, without any injury having been inflicted upon them. The state of mind at the time of the receipt of the injury, influences materially its effects on the nervous system. If the patient be anxiously watching for the infliction of a wound, as waiting for the first incision in a surgical operation, all the attention is concentrated upon the coming pain ; it is severely felt, and the consequent shock to the system is unusually great. If, on the other hand, the attention be diverted—if, as in the hour of battle, the feelings be roused to the highest pitch, and the mind in a state of intense excitement—a severe injury may be inflicted, and the patient may be entirely unconscious of it, feeling no pain, and experiencing no shock, perhaps not knowing that he is wounded till he sees his own blood. The severity of shock, when the brain 01 spinal cord is not directly injured, is in a great measure proportionate to the degiee ot pain attendant upon an injury. And, as sensibility to pain varies greatly in diffe- rent individuals, so will the attendant shock be greater in some than in otheis. The sensibility of different individuals varies much, and is greatly dependent on occupation, sex, and temperament. Men who live hardy out-door lives are less sensitive to pain than those who follow occupations ot an opposite kind. The skin, which is the main seat of sensibility in wounds, when hardened by exposure and work, is less sensitive than when it has been habitually protected from such influences. The higher man rises in the scale of civilisation, the more acute does his sensibility to pain appear to become, or possibly the less well able is he to bear it. A savage probably suffers less than a civilised man from any given injury, and hence may display more fortitude. An hysterica woman probably does not suffer more than one with a more healthy nervous system, but she complains more loudly, for she has her feelings in all things less under control. Race appears to exercise an influence on pain ; some ot the native races of India appear to suffer far less than Europeans under surgical operations of a similar kind. But there are other conditions besides pain that influence the severity of shock. Eurneaux Jordan has pointed out that the functional activity of the nervous system has an important influence in the production of shock. By young children, he observes, whose force is developmental rather than nervous or muscular, operations and injuries are better borne than by men in the prime of life, where all organs and functions are subservient to the exercise of lien e- force. And the same occurs in persons worn by long-standing local disease, which has lowered the manifestations of vitality without impairing the integrity of the organs essential to life. “ Shock,” he says, “ is essentially a depression or metamorphosis of nerve-force. Where nerve-force is predominant, shock also becomes predominant.” , . , The sudden occurrence of a severe injury will, however, induce &))hysiGal impression independently of any mental emotion or morall influence. 1 bus, if a limb of one of the lower animals, as of a frog, be suddenly ciushed by t . blow of a hammer, the force and frequency of the heart’s action immediately become considerably lessened. Here there can he no mental impression. > o n man it is found that the severity and the continuance of the shock are usua y proportionate to the severity of the injury, either from its extent or from the