TUMOURS. IOIO of cancer-plasma, may be as efficient as entire cells. \ ircliow considers that the fact that the secondary deposit docs not necessarily occur in the organ through which the blood must first pass, militates against the theory that cancer-cells are carried onward by the circulation, and become impacted in the smaller vessels of the part, in the manner of emboli. He inclines to the belief that the cancerous juices are absorbed and enter the circulation either directly by the veins or indirectly through the lymphatics, and that they gi\e rise to changes in the nutrition of certain parts, leading to the development of cancerous growths. . , . , • In favour of the simple transplantation theory is the important fact that in the secondary growths epithelium arises in situations in which it is not norma y present as in the lymphatic glands and bones and when the growth is situated in an organ in which epithelium is normally present, as m the liver or hi ney, the cells of the new growth are not those natural to the organ, but con met to those of the primary cancer. Thus Moxon and many others have recorded cases in which the tumours in the liver secondary to cancer of the great intestine have shown distinct evidence of their origin in being composed of a structure resembling in appearance the crypts of Lieberkuhn. That-the ceds mav nass alono- the lymphatics is sometimes shown by finding lymphatic vessels distended with nodules of cancerous growth. It is difficult juice or granular delris which could cause the development of glandular epi thelium in bone or columnar epithelium in the liver. . , The fact that the secondary growths do not invariably arise [ course of the lymph or blood-stream, as for instance when secondary unioms are found in the liver or bones and not m the lung may b e^ amed by supposing that the transplanted cells do not giov am a eq <_ ■ structures The experiments of transplantation of one km another, as periosteum into the subcutaneous tissue, have shownthat although it may grow for a time, it eventually perishes and is absorbed In the same way, up to the present time, no success has been meti with inl thej to transplant cancer from a diseased amnia o a rea 7 foreign soecies This power shown by a tissue of resisting the pouth of a lorn Sure within it is called by Cohnheim the ***** £%*£%£ of the tissues. Cohnheim therefore explains the Murem the: at empte to^ ocnlatc cancer by supposing that the physiological res stance of “ the growth of the foreign structure is in he normal »«esnffl«nt to prm m.t the development of the transplanted cells. 0 ' Uence of the subjects the resisting power is diminished, possi y |ays as poisoning of the system from the primaiy gioiA 1, * 1 iransnl'anta- important part in the development of secondary grow ' ‘ tjic ri|su|t 0f tion of cells. Against the theory that the secondary „ ^ r,rowth it the same constitutional condition which gate use i ^ . 'slioiiid ■iimear may be urged that, if this were the case, the « in the favourite seats of the primary growth, produce the torn of cancer natural to itself, which, as we have seen, reverse of that Avhich really occurs. 0f reproduction than Some forms of cancer show a much greater »wor »f 1 ,(llile mhors Thus glandular cancers recur rapidly tlnougl .