GUN-SHOT WO UNDS. 34° powerful non-volatile antiseptic, is most likely to be successful. Salicylic cotton-wool, salicylic jute, and iodoform-wool, are the seem most likely to be practically serviceable, and when applied they slioukl be left undisturbed for as long a time as possible, lleyher, in the Russo-d urkish war of 1877, adopted two modes of dressing. If the apertures 01 the wound wel-e very small, and no foreign bodies or splinters of bone required removal, ‘he simply washed the skin externally with a 1 in 20 solution carbolic acid, and applied a dry gauze dressing, which was> let miUludied the wound being allowed if possible to heal by scabbing beneath it. It the were tage, and splint™ of bone M to be — he ca^d Lister's treatment with all its details, with injection of the wound, drainage, and repeated dressings. By both these modes of treatment he obtained a '^In rater to^hnh'the^inflammation, it was in former times a common practice with military Surgeons, and still is so with the Prench, to enlarge by ’ t!m either injury to the one aheady teflon, tprevt the extension of sloughing, and to favour the escape cl discharge. ■> j.i,„ npppssitv of perfect drainage is so fully understood! it^ecom^ ^smah^to^give6:a^perfectly^ee antiseptic treatment, as it lend y jJ * cases before alluded to. for this reason it was adopted by Voikniann dre8smg, the best If the Surgeon is unable to adopt any s early stages, and mode of lessening inflammation in a' ^ ® . Qr if possible the application more especially in hot climates is co ’ conioined with drainage and of dry cold by means of ice m applications for rest. As suppuration comes on, matter and the separation of the the cold, so as to hasten the formatio: ‘ used to the whole cavity of sloughs, whilst disinfectants Jould musfc be carefully All bagging and buiiowmg ot m. counter- the wound. All bagging ana ™ " &nd if ueed be, a counter- guarded against by position, piessu , < n ^ These should not be opening. Free incisions may also now be icqum> ; fcQ remove delayed too long. They may be by inflammatory the tension resulting from deep infiltia ion ot tne ^ j ^ tQ thc effusions ; secondly, to open up puiu tiv ^ constitutional distnrb- decomposing discharges, and t ius cbemical products of putrefaction ; ance dependent upon the ^orptio of V ^ other foreign and thirdly, to instance. When the inflammation bodiesTat could not be removed in the first instance.