io rq ARGUMENTS FOR GENERAL ORIGIN. particular feature from parent to offspring cannot be considered a proof of a constitutional tendency. So also the hereditary transmission ol a malioima- tion, as of supernumerary fingers or of exostoses, is certainly purely local. I>ut diseases may also be transmitted through descent without being in anjr nay constitutional. Tumours that are not cancers are hereditary, as warts, lipomata, cnchondromata, &c. ; sebaceous cysts of the scalp are strongly 3 hereditary, and yet there can be uo pretence that these are in any way con- stitutional or blood-diseases. These are instances of hereditary local diseases that are not congenital, but develop after the body has reached maturity ; just, indeed, as a cancer does. We do not look upon these conditions as constitutional—dependent on some conditions of the blood, merely because they are transmitted from parent to offspring. All that we can at present assume is, that it is probable that in some cases there is a predisposition of unknown nature, hereditarily transmissible, which may tend to the development of cancer without the action of a known local exciting cause ; and this here- ditary tendency may be local, as in a certain tissue, or in a particular organ which is the usual seat of election of cancer, as the mamma, the testis, or the pylorus. 8. The greater virulence affected by cancers in some individuals than in others, and the varying degrees of rapidity with which they run their course, would undoubtedly lead to one of two inferences ; either that the primary cancer is more active, has greater inherent vitality, or that the constitution in which it occurs is more favourable to its development. The varying virulence of a cancer depends much more upon its anatomical structure than on any constitutional condition of the patient. All glandular caucers are more malignant than squamous or columnar epitheliomas ; yet those who hold the theory that cancer is a blood-disease, maintain that it is a mere accident where the primary tumour arises, and consequently what form it assumes. The locality in which the cancer develops has also much to do with the rapidity with which the glands are affected. H. Arnott pointed out that the softer, the more vascular, and the more movable the primary seat of the tumour is, the more rapidly do the secondary growths appear. Thus an epi- thelioma of the tongue always affects the glands very early, while with a similar growth on the skin of the leg the patient may escape glandular affection for many months. The fearful rapidity of growth and virulence shown by a cancer of the mamma during pregnancy consequent upon the physiological increase of the supply of blood to the gland is another example of a local condition affecting the malignancy of the growth. Moreover, if great rapidity of the growth were due to the presence of the poison in the blood in greater amount than usual, we should expect to find the development of the tumour most rapid in those who showed the most marked cachexia, whereas the reverse is usually the case. The younger the patient and the better the general health at the time of invasion, as a rule the more malignant will be the course of the disease. Still it is highly probable that there is a tendency in the tissues of certain individuals to favour the development of these cancer-growths, originat- ing primarily in some local irritation, whether this be traumatic or functional. Such a constitutional state, whether hereditary or acquired, is necessary to constitute a fitting soil for the cancerous element, in which to form and to