MORTIFICATION, OR GANGRENE. S78 being limited to a small extent, as to the toes only, the patient may recover with the loss of the fore part of the foot. The constitutional symptoms vary with the mode of invasion. In the inflammatory form there is usually considerable constitutional disturbance with elevation of temperature at first, subsccpiently sinking into marked depression with subnormal temperature as the patient becomes poisoned by absorption of the products of putrefaction; and the disease may thus often prove fatal in from a month to six weeks. On the other hand, in the dry form of gangrene, I have known the disease to continue with very little constitutional disturbance for more than twelve months, slowly creeping on during that time. In all forms of spontaneous gangrene there is a marked improvement in the constitutional state as soon as a distinct line of demarcation forms between the dead and living tissues. The thin skin on the anterior part of the leg at its middle and lower third is apt to fall into a state of gangrene in old people as the result of very slight injuries, and occasionally without any obvious external cause. In these cases a bleb forms which on breaking leaves a slough which gradually dries, becomes black and extends as the neighbouring pores are killed by a process of painful inflammation. Diabetes in old people is a fertile cause of spontaneous gangrene of the toes and feet. In diabetes-gangrene the disease usually begins with a large bleb which forms on the under surface of the foot or at the end of one of the toes. This bleb contains fluid which speedily becomes turbid, and is surrounded by a dusky purple areola. From this the disease slowly spreads, and, unless the diabetes can be checked, may largely invade and destroy the foot. Should degeneration of the arterial tissues have taken place in these diabetic cases, senile gangrene of the most intractable character will ensue. Thrombosis of an artery (Fig. 849) occurs only as a consequence of pre- vious disease of its inner coat, so, although it is frequently the immediate cause of gangrene, by obstructing an atheromatous or otherwise diseased vessel, it is never the primary cause of the disease. Embolism is a much more frequent cause of gangrene. An embolus is a solid body, which, having entered the circulation, is carried onwards by the blood-stream until it lodges in some vessel which is too narrow to allow it to pass. Emboli, if- of any size, almost invariably lodge at the point at which a main trunk bifurcates or gives off a large branch. If very small they may pass on into the capillaries, causing capillary embolism. When an embolus has lodged in an artery, a clot forms upon it, reaching as high as the first branch above the point of obstruction. Fibrin which has been deposited upon a diseased part of a large vessel, or in a fusiform aneurism, and vegetations from the valves of the left side of the heart, form the most common sources ot embolism in the systemic arteries; but occasionally a fragment ol a tumour which has penetrated the coats of a large artery may be washed awa\ into t ic blood-stream and form an embolus. , ,,,- Gangrene from embolism is most common in the lower limb, am bifurcation of the popliteal artery is the usual[place at which lod'-cs. If it be so small as to pass into one of the tibials, the cm ul. maintained by the unobstructed artery, and gangrene does not occur, grene from embolism is, however, also met with in the uppci d of the gangrene developcs suddenly, the whole of the parts d i cases