I93 ANTISEPTICS—CHLORIDE OF ZINC. washed out with the lotion, the urine undergoes a marked change. In the mildest cases it is passed clear, but after standing for some time gradually assumes an olive green tint; in the more severe cases it is passed dark in colour, and on standing becomes almost black. If no other symptoms are present this appearance of the urine, which is said to be due to the presence of indican, need give rise to no anxiety. In cases in which the graver symptoms of poisoning are present, the sulphates disappear completely from the urine. The most marked feature of carbolic acid poisoning from ab- sorption from a wound is severe and incontrollable vomiting ; if the dose have been very large collapse speedily sets in, with insensibility of the pupil, twitching of the muscles, a rapid feeble pulse, and a subnormal tem- perature. Albumen is said to appear in the urine. In other cases elevation of temperature has been noted, with vomiting, followed by insensibility and death. With the exception of a few recorded cases, which must be attri- buted to an idiosyncrasy on the part of the patient, dangerous symptoms have occurred only when the carbolic lotion has found its way into some cavity as the rectum or peritoneum or pleura, or when large abscess-cavities have been washed out with the lotion, or when it has been forced into the spaces of the areolar tissue, as in attempts to disinfect deep wounds or com- pound fractures. The treatment consists in removing immediately all carbolic acid dressings and substituting- some other antiseptic. The patient must be supported by stimulants, especially hypodermic injections of ether; and friction of the surface should be employed. Ice may be given to allay the vomiting. Bauman has recommended the administration of sulphate of soda in small doses frequently repeated, with the hope of converting the carbolic acid into the non-poisonous sulpho-carbolate. This treatment was suggested by the disappearance of the sulphates from the urine, which is possibly due to theii having been consumed in that way ; the graver symptoms supervening w len they were exhausted and free carbolic acid became present in the blood. I he drug can do no harm and should certainly be tried. Carbolic acid has now been more than twenty years before the profession as an antiseptic, and has derived great importance from being the agent selected T t ? ULantlSeptlC system of Seating wounds. In spite of the efforts lilf i!' !l?Sr! aildlTTy °ther Surgeons to find some efficient substitute 51,! ?e dee fi'om fche ^conveniences attending the use of carbolic acid, I PfCe aS tbe most couvenicnt antiseptic for cleaning the > ibeon s hands and instruments and for washing out the wound. Other -d— - *■" *» ogZinG.— Tlie efficient strength of this antiseptic, which is tire “hT inTs vc T 1 ,MmA1S donMf»'i but it probably acts antisepti- Its use in tl 5 f1 ° 5°pUfc laP a &Tai'u to ounce of water, or even less, more tlnn i5 *reafcmenfc of wouik1s was introduced by Campbell De Morgan or 40 p-nins 55 ^e<us ^ 1S usually employed in the strength of 20 surface hm H 10 ouuce of water. This solution produces a whitening of the of a visible oi T 101! 18 ver^ suPei’ficial, and it docs not cause the formation this Selib U'lleSS appUGd for sorae length of time, in fact, even in surface has heel a°CS n5 Preve.nfc nn'on by first intention. The whitened to the aWl S1T'I,byCXperiment to p)rm a remarkably efficient barrier vol. i. ^ °n ° die c^emicaI products of putrefaction, and experience