TREATMENT OF CANCER—EXCISION. 1041 inflamed, pressure cannot be employed with any advantage ; and, most com- monly, irritable sensitive patients cannot support the constriction of the chest I that it necessitates. Excision.—With regard to the question of removing cancers by the knife, much difference of opinion exists among Surgeons ; for, though all deprecate indiscriminate recourse to this means, some go so far as to dispute the propriety 1 of ever operating for this disease, whilst others would restrict the operation to 1 certain cases of a very favourable character. These divergences are necessarily I of considerable importance, and require attentive examination. The objections that have been urged against the general propriety of ] operating in cases of cancer, do not apply so much to the operation itself, the risk attending which is not greater than that of other operations of similar magnitude, but are rather based on the supposition that cancer is originally a constitutional affection, and that the patient is consequently liable to M speedily suffer from a return of the disease, so that an operation that is at least : unnecessary will have been performed. This objection, however, as has already been remarked, equally applies to all other means of local removal, as by caustics or compression, as well as to extirpation by the knife ; and, if carried to its logical conclusion, must necessarily preclude any attempt at : removal, by any means, of the local disease. That this objection, so far - as the liability to return of the cancerous disease after operation is con- ;■ cerned, is to some degree a valid one cannot be gainsaid; the experience of II all Surgeons tending to establish the fact, that the majority of patients i operated upon for cancer die eventually, and usually within a limited time, r from a recurrence of the disease. Thus, A. Cooper states, that in only nine i or ten cases out of a hundred did the disease not return in three years ; 1 and Brodie found that it proved fatal generally in two or three years after the operation. In cancer of the breast, however, better results have of late been obtained by o- free removal of the affected gland with the surrounding skin and the axillary ;! glands. Thus, out of forty-six cases operated on by Mitchell Banks, ten 1) patients were alive and free from recurrence at different periods, varying from a two to ten years, after the operation, and in five more no recurrence had taken v place from one to two years after the operation. Kiister states that in 20 per r cent, of his cases no recurrence had taken place three years after the removal ' of the breast. In determining the advisability of operating in cases of cancer, several ques- " tions of great importance present themselves to the consideration of the Surgeon. Si He has fiist to considei whether the operation is likely to rid his patient com- pletely of the disease ; or, in the event of its not doing so, whether life mav i<: not be prolonged by the removal of the cancerous tumour ; or, lastly whether ); his sufferings may not be much lessened by the removal of the local affection, j although there be no prospect of really prolonging life. The principle on which all operations for the removal of cancer are under- i taken is this : either that, the disease being local ab origine, the secondary manifestations can be prevented by a timely removal of the primary growth - ' or that, even if the tumour be the result of a constitutional predisposition or . v.ce roused into activity by local causes, the excision of this morbid growth ' re^ves from the system a new centre and source of constitutional infection • r° lf thc °Peratlou be unsuccessful in completely eradicating the disease, >0L' 11 3 x