LOCAL TREATMENT OF INFLAMMATION. 201 than mercury, administered, not as a purgative, but as an alterative to the system. And I confess that I can in no way give my adherence to the doctrines of those who, disregarding the daily evidence of professional experi- ence, deny the utility of the preparations of this mineral in the treatment of certain forms of inflammatory disease. Mercurial remedies are of special service in aiding the operation of other medicines. Diuretics, diaphoretics, and purgatives, will frequently not act properly unless conjoined with a mercurial. In inflammation, the preparations of mercury are of especial value in promoting the absorption of exudation-matters, as we may see happening under their influence in certain diseases of the eye. Care, how- ever, is required in the administration of mercury. In irritable or cachetic constitutions it should not be given at all, or not without great caution. It is best borne by strong constitutions, and in acute inflammation of the serous and fibrous tissues. Calomel, blue pill, and powder of mercury with chalk, are the preparations usually employed when the mineral is given by the mouth. When it is administered endermically the mercurial ointment is preferred. The mercury need never be pushed to salivation, but in some cases it may be given until the gums are slightly affected. It is especially the combination of calomel with, opium that produces the most beneficial effects in the treatment of active surgical inflammation. Half to one, grain of calomel, and half a grain or a grain of opium, or five grains of Dovei s powder with three of mercury and chalk, every sixth or eighth hour, tranquillise the system and diminish the force of the heart’s action in a lemaikable manner, especially in acute inflammation affecting the joints, the eye, or the serous membranes. °pium is of use nofc only in the way that has just been indicated, but is of essential service in allaying the pain and irritability that often accompanv inflammation, especially in many inflammatory affections of the bones and joints. In the form of Dover’s powder, it is of especial value in this respect, and m this form, alone or combined with James’s powder, it forms one of the most poweiful diaphoretics we possess. is sTkTnif!.rlermf miiCh0n of m01'pbia, invaluable as it is in assuaging pain, with i*r m-,the treafcmenfc of acute inflammation. Opium combined with ipecacuanha and a mercurial is preferable. theuatimfshn^n inanimation, it is of essential consequence that tine and ‘oi W r ^ Bt/68t*in au atmosPhere of well-regulated tempera- \ ^V ? 5Ct’ thG more ^Plete the abstinence in this cease< ’ apic y c 0 therapeutic agents act and the febrile symptoms fiugiLeesTjth<jKtiksi?1 X J " i TlliSi iS °f tlie ^most importance, as it directly in- JSryaud vesseis that are deranged in action. It consists of water and hot W ^ °PP°site characters. Heat and cold; iced all with success hnf ^ ’ astnngeuts and sedatives—are all employed, and and the art of' o i^?- °U!7 111 ccrtain stages and forms of the disease ; I adaptino-the vm-iV°nC UC *oca^ treatment of inflammation consists in case before us * 1S mcans afc our disposal to the particular conditions of the lessening theTmomu f f-6 m08i! efficient means we possess of directly ° amount of blood in an inflamed part, as by it in some cases we