846 INJURIES OF TIIE CHEST. Ruptures of the Heart from External Violence, without penetrating wounds of the chest, arc not of frequent occurrence. Gamgee has, however, collected 27 published cases of this accident. On analysing these he finds that, in at least one half of the cases, the pericardium was intact; 12 of the ruptures were on the right, 10 on the left side. The right ventricle was ruptured in 8, and the left in 3 cases ; whereas the left auricle was torn in 7, and the right only in 4 instances. Death is usually almost instantaneous, though there are instances on record in which the patient made some exertion after the rup- ture had taken place, and has even lived for several hours. In a case of rupture of the right auricle recorded by Rust, the patient survived fourteen hours. In most of the recorded cases, the injury occasioning the rupture was directly applied to the region of the heart. But instances are not wanting in which this organ has been found ruptured through one or both ventricles or in one of the auricles, without any evidence of direct injury in the cardiac region—the patient having fallen upon his head or shoulders, or having been merely thrown forcibly to the ground with serious injury to the lower extremities. In some of these cases, there is reason to believe that the rupture was produced by the spasmodic violence of the contractions of the heart, under the influence of oreat mental emotion or fear. The only case that has occurred in my practice was that of a man brought into the Hospital dead, having fallen from the top of a cart on to his right shoulder. On examination, the liver was found extensively torn, in fact smashed, and the pericardium was distended with blood—there being a triangular ragged aperture at the anterior part of the left auricular appendage, through which it had escaped. Wounds of the Aorta and Vena Cava are usually as immediately fatal as those of the heart itself. In this respect, they resemble wounds of the auricles rather than those of the ventricles. Heil has, however, recorded a case in which the patient lived for a twelvemonth, after receiving a stab that penetrated the ascending aorta. . . Wound of the Thoracic Duct may occur in surgica: or homicidal injuries. It has happened in the ligature of the left subclavian artery, and in wounds deeply penetrating the chest. The main diagnostic symptom is a constant drippino- or draining away of lymph. This condition is incurable, and would necessarily prove fatal, even if the patient escaped the primarily fatal conse- quences of the concomitant injury. Bradley lias collected and published the following six cases which illustrate well the characters oi the injuiy. “ Hoffmann’s first case was that of a woman wounded through the left si e with a knife. Following the wound there was a copious discharge of a sponta- neously coagulating fluid, which was observed to be milky during digestion, an t clear while the patient was fasting. In his second case, the escape of enyit followed the opening of an abscess of the posterior mediastinum, -lonro relates a case where the thoracic duct was wounded by a stab : the 1} nvpi escaped externally and also into the pleural cavity, interfering with the heart action. Guiffort’s case is of a similar nature. Bonnet gives the history of a Baron Heinden, who was wounded in battle by a bullet, which escajic n®\ the^eft scapula! From this wound there gradually began to flow an excessne miantitv of lymph.” In Quincke’s case, “the pleural oavit> became ■ < of' extravasated lymph that paracentesis had to be performed to pre\ i(location, from which, indeed, the patient eventually died. sni