SCROFULA AND TUBERCLE. io6o testation of the disease ; those cases being excluded in which glandular affection was evidently secondary to the primary local disease. Signs of General Tuberculosis.—The consideration of this subject, i belongs to Medicine rather than Surgery. When general tuberculosis occurs , as a secondary consequence of a local scrofulous disease it most commonly appears in the form of ordinary pulmonary phthisis, and runs the usual chronic course. Progressive emaciation, evening elevation of temperature and night sweats, which cannot be accounted for by prolonged suppuration from the local seat of disease, always lead to a grave apprehension that general tubercu- losis is taking place. In cases of acute general tuberculosis following a local scrofulous disease, such as are occasionally met with in joint-disease and more often in scrofulous or tubercular testicle, there is marked febrile disturbance, the thermometer reaching often 103° F. or 104° F., without, at first, definite affection of any organ. The symptoms may then closely resemble typhoid fever, or if there is an open wound, may be mistaken for septicaemia. Before long, usually not later than the second week, symptoms either of acute pulmonary phthisis, tubercular meningitis, or some other definite tubercular affection, make their appearance. Causes.—The causes of scrofula and tubercle, unless these be of a hereditary character, though very various in their nature, are usually such conditions as influence injuriously the nutrition of the body. The Hereditary Nature of both scrofula and tubercle is well known to the public and to the profession ; for, although the disease is not commonly y connate, yet the tendency to it is, and the characteristic nature of the affection often manifests itself at an early period. That a parent may transmit a tendency to malnutrition, just as he may a peculiar feature or mental condition, is un- doubted. There are certain conditions which, though not scrofulous, are supposed to have a tendency to develop this disease in the offspring to which they are transmitted ; thus, very dyspeptic parents commonly have strumous children ; so, also, the offspring of very old or very young people often exhibit a proneness to scrofulous or tuberculous affections. The influence of inter- marriage is still a matter of doubt, but I believe that it is but small; and it is commonly stated that the inhabitants of small communities who intermarry closely, such as those of the Isles of Portland and of Man, are not more liable, to scrofula than other individuals. The most powerful occasioning cause of scrofula, and that which inmost- civilized countries is likewise the most frequent, is malnutrition and nwl-assrmt i tation arising from an habitual disregard of hygienic laws; either 10111, insufficiency of nourishment, or the administration of improper food. nitiC' poorer classes ; or from overfeeding, and overstimulation of the digestive oro-ans, amongst the children of the wealthier orders of society, inducing chronic irritation of the mucous membrane of the stomach and interference •with the digestive powers, and consequently with nutrition. 1 he influence o i food that is innutritious in quality or insufficient in quantity, has been sioini bv Phillips, in Ins excellent Treatise on Scrofula, to he the most immediate cause of this disease; and, when conjoined with tbc injurious effects o a confined and impure atmosphere, it may bei considered as snffi^t the disease in those cases in which no predisposition to it exists, an < to develop hereditary tendency to it in the system. It is to the eon,..mod