176 LOCAL DISTURBANCES AND INFLAMMATION. one of the earliest and most striking; parts that are naturally perfectly pale, as the ocular conjunctiva, assuming the most vivid red colour when inflamed. The redness is due to the dilatation oi the \ csscls and the accumulation of red corpuscles, and, in very acute inflammations, partly to the escape of the red corpuscles from the vessels. The redness of acute inflammation varies with the intensity of the process. Where there is merely determination of blood it disappears completely and readily on pressure with the finger, returning again with the greatest possible rapidity the moment the finger is removed. When the circulation is retarded, the redness dis- appears and returns more slowly, and a few red spots may remain unaltered by pressure. These are either points at which the process has reached the stao-e of stasis, or at which red-corpuscles have escaped from the distended capillaries into the surrounding tissues. The tint of the redness varies also according to the activity of the circulation through the inflamed area. \\ lien the flow through the vessels is free and rapid, the inflamed surface assumes a brio-ht scarlet tint; but where there is a teudency to stagnation, either from the&feeble state of the patient’s circulation, or from the inflammation having approached the stage of stasis, the colour becomes a dull purple. The change from brio-ht red to dusky purple is well seen in phlegmonous erysipelas, v hen the circulation through the inflamed skin becomes impeded, and gangrene is threatenino-. After acute inflammation it is frequently weeks or even months before the vessels regain their normal tone, and until this has taken place, a certain degree of redness will remain. . . n Redness is not, however, a constant appearance m inflammation. In non- vascular parts it occurs in the nearest vascular tissues, and not in the part actually suffering from inflammation. In inflammation of the iris the dilated7vessels are concealed by the pigment and the change of tint is from the natural brownish or bluish colour to a greyish or greenish, m consequence of a yellow tinge given to the aqueous humour, by the serous exudation 1UThe" redness of inflammation disappears more or less completely after death Where there has been escape of the red-corpuscles red spots remain, S; rise to the appearance known as “punctiform redness. ’ In septicemia Svannia and malignant forms of the acute specific diseases the red corpuscle, break up in the blood before death, staining the serum and the lining mem , 1 p anci great vessels. A similar staining always takes place Trt ^"mfset fa. It is perfectly uniform, without spots or brmchiu" lues, and must be carefully distinguished from the mdnessof inflammation, increased redness develop* also m the most dependent, a,ts Ztaft from gravitation of blood before coagulation. Thus a co o intestine hanging down in the cavity of the pelvis may become reddei than the rest of the gut, and may be wrongly thought to be inflamed. V Alteration in Size.-The swelling of inflamed t.ssucs is due to the icreased afflux of blood and to^the exudation from the scssc .ULUbllUlj uuu ^ O ^ Stums, »cl "andilgament, there is, of course, very little swelhug.