265 IRRITABLE ULCER—INFLAMED ULCER. efficient, but if the sore be of any considerable size, it is possible that the patient may absorb sufficient cantharidin to cause symptoms of poisoning. Irritable Ulcer.—This is met with mostly after the middle period of life. It is usually of small size, and situated behind one or other malleolus. The sur- rounding shin is usually purple, slightly indurated and sometimes pigmented; the edges are slightly raised, very irregular in outline, and present no signs of healing. The surface is but slightly below the level of the skin ; it is either dark purplish-red in colour or covered with a thin slough. The base is but slightly indurated. The discharge is scanty and thin. The pain is the prin- cipal characteristic ; it is exceedingly great, and usually worse at night, thus preventing sleep and seriously disturbing the general health. In fact, such an ulcer, if unrelieved, may bring the patient into so exhausted a condition that death may occur from some apparently slight ailment, such as an attack of bronchitis. Hilton pointed out that if the surface of the sore be carefully touched all over with the point of a probe, one or more spots will be found most acutely tender. This is due to the exposure of a nerve-ending on the surface of the sore. In the Treatment of this ulcer, we must attend to the constitutional as well as to the local condition. The patient should be put upon an alterative course of medicine, with aloetic purgatives, and some sedative at bedtime to procure rest. The mode of topical medication which I have found to succeed best, is to brush the surface of the sore and the surrounding parts from time to time with a strong solution of nitrate of silver (gr. x to 31'.), and then to keep emollient and sedative applications applied to it, such as lead and opium lotions. If this does not succeed, the surface of the sore may be rubbed with nitrate of silver until a distinct slough is formed. This treatment is very painful, and may require an anaesthetic; but the smarting soon ceases, and the patient will often enjoy after it the first good night’s rest he has had for months. Hilton recommends that the tender spot should be found, and a knife or lancet point passed under it, so as to divide the branch of nerve pass- mg to it This treatment is often successful, and is less painful than that by nitrate of silver. J .Inflamed Ulcer.—This is characterized by redness, swelling, heat, and The edges are sharPcut. The surface is at lt.C ark red aud dryfrom stasis the vessels of the granulations, but C° I- a n yeU0W sl0Ugh- The base is swollen and bloodv 11 surrounding tissues. The discharge is serous and often bloody In the most acute stage the surface of the sore may be dry and covered with a thin crust or scab. It arises most commonly in peopffi who niv 0 excess, and is not unfrequently associated with gout. Any sore may ssbPeserzttt"aiici *'rcd to b“mc bettor for'b°th general and local As a rule, the patients are by sub.Inti g’ . 1may usuaUy be effected by a mercurial pill, followed few days If ,,ma^a?sia,p>ss’ m,u's'on of quassia, §i, three times daily for a to each dose I>C Pu -°outy’ teu cb’°Ps of vinum colchici may be added recumbent n'nQ,,v°Ca T, 10 md) n.lus^ bo elevated, and the patient kept in the relief Hot / l°n-’ (A aPplications will be found always to give the greatest swelling- AnnH^0 lomcutati0ns usually speedily reduce the pain and ^ lei excellent application is the following: acetate of lead, 5ss ;