i47 INFLAMMATION. but the desired effect is often hastened by the direct removal of blood by scarification, or by the application of leeches. The over-distended vessels may I in some cases be relieved by promoting a free secretion from the part, as by the administration of purgatives for portal congestion. In some parts, again, the judicious application of pressure by means of a bandage will prevent or relieve congestion by limiting oedema and by compressing the dilated I vessels, and so causing the blood to flow more rapidly through them, provided the pressure be not sufficiently powerful to interfere with the current through the arteries. With this view elastic pressure is applied to support varicose veins in the leg, and to diminish the mechanical hypermmia of the skin that usually accompauies them. The third indication in the treatment of congestion consists in constringing' the dilated vessels by the direct application of an astringent to them ; thus we apply nitrate of silver to congested mucous membranes, and cold douches to many external forms of passive hypertemia. STRANGULATION. Strangulation is the obstruction of the circulation caused by a narrow circle of pressure acting both upon the arteries and veins, as when a tight bandage is applied round a limb. Strangulation may be at once complete, the circulation through both arteries and veins being simultaneously arrested, as in the application of the tourniquet. The circulation below the band is at ouce arrested, but no visible changes occur in the part, nor would they do so till gaugiene and decomposition commenced. In cases in which strangulation is accidental or pathological it is more commonly incomplete at first ; the obstruction acts first 011 the veins, owing to the lower blood-pressure within them, the flow through the arteries continuing. As a consequence of this the phenomena of passive congestion appear in their most intense form; the parts below the constriction become gorged with blood, purple or black in colour, cold and numb. There is great swelling, and often abundant escape of red corpuscles from the vessels, or rupture of the capillaries with extravasation of blood. As the part swells the constriction becomes tighter, the obstruction to the arterial flow increases, and finally circulation is completely arrested and gangrene sets in. J INFLAMMATION. The study of the inflammatory process is one of the most difficult on which the Surgeon can enter ; but the labour required to master its details is well bestowed, inasmuch as an acquaintance with its nature, symptoms, and prom-ess .gives an insight into the greater part of the Science of Surgery. The management of inflammation as it affects different tissues and organs, and as it in return is anected by various concomitant circumstances, comprises a great part of the ^Ies °. ’ ljrge°u. The theory of Inflammation is a purely physiological * [ I1,1 10 °&lca study ; and, however interesting its investigation may be, as the discussion of this subject belongs rather to the domain of General aafL Poetical Surgery, it cannot consistently be entered ion eie ot icrwise than in outline. To gain a full acquaintance with present state of our knowledge regarding the intimate nature, origin, and