modes of administering mercury. 1103 headache, and what dose is required to produce the desired effect ou the disease. All these points can be ascertained only by observation of the parti- cular case. The form that will be found most generally useful is the following : Jt, grey powder, gr. j.; Dover’s powder, gr. j.; extract of gentian, q. s. to make a pill. The patient may begin with three pills a day for three days ; if they give rise to no effects, either beneficial or the reverse, the dose may be in- creased to four, and after a few days to five, if necessary. Six are very rarely required. If the pill purges, the Dover’s powder may be increased; if it consti- pates, it must be diminished. A few variations usually succeed in hitting the exact proportions and dose suited to the case, and the prescription may then remain unchanged for weeks or even months. The ordinary blue pill is of the same strength as the grey powder, and may be given instead of it, if preferred ; but it is slightly more apt to purge. It may be first tried alone, or with an equal quantity of extract of gentian, in grain doses, three, four, or five times a day. If necessary, powdered opium or Dover’s powder is added. In patients very insusceptible to the drug, as much as ten grains a day of bine pill can sometimes be taken. If these preparations do not suit the patient, the green iodide of mercury, in doses commencing at half a grain, and gradually increased to a grain, three times a day, may be employed. It should be made into a pill with extract of gentian, and, if necessary, a sixth to a third of a grain of extract of opium may be added. The only objection to this preparation is that it may decompose the red iodide and free mercury being- formed, it then acts much more powerfully, and may salivate. The per- chloride of mercury, or the bicyanide may sometimes be tried if the foregoing- fail. They are given in doses of from TV to TV of a grain, made up into pills with sugar of milk and varnished. Calomel is never to be recommended, being too irritating. Mercury can also be administered in a mixture, if the pills do not suit. In debilitated constitutions, and in the tertiary stage of the disease, the perchloride in doses of from to £ of a grain may be given, with compound tincture and infusion or decoction of cinchona. To this are some- times advantageously added a few grains of iodide of potassium, by which the perchloride is converted into the red iodide of mercury, which is held in solution by the excess of the potassic iodide. Plummer’s pill, in five grain doses, twice or three times a day, is very useful in the syphilides. (b.) Inunction.—In some cases the bowels are so irritable that the adminis- tration of mercury by the mouth invariably purges the patient; in these circumstances mercurial inunction may be conveniently practised. This is best done by rubbing a scruple to a drachm of the ordinary mercurial ointment into the inside of each thigh or arm or in the axilla before going to bed. The skin should be well washed before the mercury is rubbed in. After the inunction the patient should put on flannel clothes next his skin to encourage sweating, and go to bed. In the morning he should take a hot bath. The inunction must be repeated daily till some effect is produced, and it is best not to rub the ointment into the same part on two consecutive days. It must be borne in mind that the orifices of the sweat-glands and hair-follicles become filled with the ointment; so that, should salivation commence, it is not easy at once to arrest the absorption of the mercury. The use of the hot bath every morning diminishes the risk of the absorption of an undue amount. (c.) Subcutaneous injection of mercury has been employed by Lcwin and other