ERYSIPELAS. 920 is from the first pungent and burning, though it may soon assume a throbbing | \ character; the swelling, at first soft, diffused, and pitting distinctly, soon increases, and becomes tense and brawny, the skin being evidently stretched to its full extent, and the part appearing to be perhaps twice its natural size. Large vesications or blebs containing sero-purulent fluid, sometimes blood- stained, appear in many cases. This condition usually continues up to the sixth or eighth day after the invasion of the disease, during the whole of which time the constitutional symptoms have presented the ordinary type of sthenic inflammatory fever; about this time, however, a change commonly takes place, either for better or for worse. If, under the influence of proper treatment, and in a tolerably healthy constitution, the inflammation subside, resolution bakes place, with a gradual abatement of all the symptoms. If, however, as usually happens, the disease runs on to more or less sloughing or suppuration of the part, no increase of the swelling, pain, or redness takes place, but on the con- trary, some diminution of these signs may occur, aud thus give rise to a decep- tive appearance of amendment. The skin becomes darkly congested, and the part, instead of being tense and brawny, has a somewhat loose, soft-, and boggy feel, communicating a semi-fluctuating, doughy sensation to the fingers. This change from a tense brawny state to a semi-pulpy condition indicates the forma- tion of pus and slough beneath the integument, and occurs without any material alteration in the size, colour, or general appearance of the part ; pus can be detected only by careful palpation. Hence the Surgeon must daily examine with his own fingers the state of the part, and neither trust to the reports of others, nor to the general appearance of the diseased structures, for a know- ledge of the probable condition of the subjacent tissues. If an incision be now made into the affected part, the areolar tissue will be found loaded with an opalescent fluid distending its interstitial loculi, but not flowing from the wound ; the retention of this fluid gives a gelatinous appearance to the sides of the incision, which rapidly degenerate into slough and pus. If the alteration in structure have advanced to a stage beyond this, the areolar tissue will be found to have been converted into dense masses of slough, bathed in thin and unhealthy ichorous pus ; these sloughs have not inaptly been compared in appearance to masses of decomposed tow, of wet chamois leather, or to the membranes of an embryo a few months old. Whilst these changes are going on below the surface, the skin, at first congested, becomes somewhat paler, and assumes a marbled appearance, rapidly forming into black sloughs, and being undermined by large quantities of brolcen-up areolar tissue and of ill-conditioned pus, without any appearance of pointing, however exten- sive the subcutaneous mischief may be. These destructive changes expose muscles, fascia;, and blood-vessels, and may induce necrosis of the bone, or sup- puration of the joints. They occur most readily in those parts of the body that- possess the lowest degree of vitality, and lienee are more common in the legs than in the scalp. As soon as the skin gives way the sloughs undergo ordi- nary offensive putrefaction, and the products of this process cause local aggra- vation of the inflammation and the constitutional symptoms of septic poisoning- If the patient recover, there will be tedious cicatrization of the deep cavities that are left; or considerable oedema, often of a solid character—a kind of fa se hypertrophy of the part—which may continue for some considerable time. n other cases, there may be such extensive local destruction or gangrene of e soft tissues, with exposure and death of the bones or suppuration of the join s,