DEATH FROM CHLOROFORM. 25 vapour to maintain the respiratory function. This is especially apt to happen when a patient, being semi-narcotised, has a piece of lint saturated with chloroform suddenly applied to the mouth and nose, the heat of the operator s hand and of the patient’s body rapidly producing a large volume of vapour. 2. Lister describes the production of asphyxia as being due to spasmodic closure of the upper opening of the larynx, the folds of mucous membrane above the apices of the aryteenoid cartilages being carried forwards till they are in contact with the base of the epiglottis, which remains erect and unchanged in position. This theory was founded on observations of the larynx during the production of that peculiar laryngeal stertor which usually precedes the stoppage of the respiration. On pulling the tongue forcibly forward, the aryteenoid cartilages were seen to be drawn backward, and the opening of the larynx made perfectly free again ; and this seemed to be due to reflex action and not to the mere mechanical act of drawing the tongue forwards. This is quite possible during anaesthesia, as the reflex functions of deglutition and respiration are not affected by chloroform as administered for a siu'gical operation. The closure of the glottis may often pass unnoticed till the pulse stops, as the heaving of the chest may go on for some time after air has ceased to enter ; the only signs of the state of the patient being the gradually increasing lividity of the face, and the fact that no air is entering or coming out during respiration, which can be ascertained by feeling with the hand over the mouth. Lister is of opinion that many of the deaths from chloroform, in which the heart has been said to stop first, were cases of this kind. Tie insists on the necessity of pulling the tongue forcibly forwards with forceps, and not merely drawing it out in front of the teeth, if the spasm is not immediately relieved by the simpler process recommended by Clover of pulling the chin strongly upwards. 3. Asphyxia may also be caused by the impaction of half-digested food in the larynx during vomiting, and false teeth have also been known to slip into the larynx during the administration of chloroform, and the same accident has happened with the gag used in dental operations. In death from Cardiac Syncope,' the patient, after a few inspirations, sud- denly becomes pale and faint; the pulse beats in a flickering manner a few times and then ceases, though respiration may continue : the fatal event being evidently due to paralysis of the heart. This is an accident that may occur to individuals who are depressed either by mental emotion or by physical with a fatty heart. It is best guarded against by giving the patient a little stimulant, as brandy or ammonia, before commencing the inhalation. In some cases death has occurred from syncope suddenly at quite an early s age of the administration, and when a small quantity only has been given, without any morbid condition being: discernible Oil RXftmi nn.firm of f.lin linrlv debility before taking the chloroform ; and it is not unfrequcntly connected rare instances there exists an idiosyncrasy, owing to which a small quantity of chloroform acts directly upon the heart. Lister records a case of exactly the opposi e condition, in which the patient seemed incapable of being affected bv oven the largest doses. Effect3 of Chloroform may developc themselves in connection • ' 1 til tile head. 1,1 in Tll.YlflQ flV f.lio On 1! *l-i i • * i i