1040 TUMOURS. than fifty years ago, and unfavourably reported upon by Sir Charles Bell at that time ; it consequently fell into disuse in this country, but was revived by Kecamier in France, and employed largely by him. Although he published a favourable account of this practice, it made but little progress amongst French surgeons ; the only one who seems to have used it to any extent being Tanchou who employed a peculiar topical medication conjoined with it. In this countrv the practice fell into complete oblivion, until J. Arnott some years ago invented a mode of employing pressure by means of an elastic air-cushion ; since which time it has been often employed, but with no real success as a means of cure. In employing pressure, Young had recourse principally to plasters and bandages. Recamicr used amadou applied with an elastic roller; and Tanchou recommended spring-pads, under which small bags or pieces of cotton-wadding impregnated with various medicinal substances were placed, so as to protect the skin and act upon the tumour. Arnott’s plan consisted of pressure exercised by a caoutchouc air-bag, held in its place by straps, and pressed upon by a truss- spring, the pressure exercised by which was made to vary from two-and-a-half to twelve or even sixteen pounds. I have employed all these different plans, hut have never found permanent advantage from any of them. The first question that necessarily arises in reference to the employment of pressure in these cases is, whether it can effect a cuie. This it could be expected to do only by producing atrophy, and subsequent absorption, in the strictly local forms of cancer. The only case on record, with any pretension to a conclusive character in this respect, is one, related by Walshe in his excellent Treatise on Cancer, of a cure of a tumour of the breast believed to be cancerous, by compression. But even this instance I cannot look upon as by any means conclusive; for, although no one can entertain a higher opinion than I do of the very remarkable diagnostic skill possessed by Walshe, yet I think there can he no doubt in the mind of any Surgeon that it is absolutely impossible to determine in many cases, by any amount of knowledge or skill, the true nature of a chronic tumour of the breast; and, in fact, the most experienced practitioners frequently find, after the removal of the tumour, that it was of a different character from what they had previously anticipated. This difficulty attaches to Walshe’s case; aud I think that there is no proof that the tumour of the breast, which underwent absorption under the pressure of Arnott s apparatus, was of a truly cancerous nature, and that it was not a chronic inflammatory induration, which, as every one knows, will disappear under this kind of treatment. But, if compression cannot he shown ever to have cured a cancer, can it no retard the progress of this disease, or relieve the sufferings attendant upon it. I believe that in some cases it may certainly do both, though in others it is as unquestionably injurious. It appears occasionally to retard the growth of the tumour when applied in the early stage, simply by preventing its expansion, and perhaps by compressing its nutrient vessels, and so diminishing the supply of blood sent to it, and by causing absorption of surrounding inflammatory infiltration ; in these cases likewise it relieves for a time the pain by lessening the turgescencc of the part. In other cases, however, I have known it to act injuriously by pressing out and diffusing the tumour more widely, appean: g to increase the tendency to implication of neighbouring parts, and occasioning o-rcat suffering. When the tumour is ulcerated, or if the skm covering it be