6i principles of amputation. an y : more bone than if the flaps had been of equal length. The Surgeon will therefore adhere to the rule of taking the covering as equally as possible from the two sides of the limb only so far as is consistent with the other essentials of a good amputation—a dependent opening for drainage, and a scar away from the bone. A long stump is more easily fitted with an artificial limb and gives the patient greater control over it. These essential features of a good amputation being agreed upon, tiie questions of the best material of which to form the covering, and the best way of raising it, remain to be considered. All Sui-o-eons are now agreed that too much muscle in a flap is an unmiti- gated evil? The objections to muscular flaps are, that they are heavy, and consequently liable to be easily displaced ; that, supposing any voluntary move- ment or involuntary jerking or twitching of the limb to occur, the surfaces of the flaps are moved upon each other, and primary union is thus prevented, and that this is especially likely to happen if the sharp edge of the sawn bone is in direct contact with a muscular flap bent over its end ; that muscular flaps retract to a considerable extent after the operation, and continue to snrink for some time, thus causing a greater tendency to protrusion of the bone ; and, lastly, that as in the end the muscle completely wastes away, the idea that a muscular flap forms a better cushion than one composed of the skin and sub- cutaneous fat only is erroneous. None of these objections can be raised to a covering composed solely of the cutaneous and subcutaneous tissues ; but, on the other hand, in very emaciated subjects, such a covering is very thin, and is apt to suffer from the direct pressure of the bone against it, and consequently in such cases it is well to protect it by raising a certain amount of muscle with it. Skin flaps also, if very long, are apt to slough, as their vascular supply is somewhat limited, and this accident is especially liable to happen in old people. In any patient, whether young or olcl, fat or thin, sloughing will almost certainly occur if the Surgeon turns the edge of the knife towards the flap instead of keeping it directed towards the parts to be removed. Common sense would suggest also that it is wise to thicken the base of a flap with a little muscle when possible, if circumstances require it to be made of more than ordinary length. If the covering in most parts were made solely of skin and fat, the retraction of the muscles would leave the bone protruding sharply beneath the flaps, and the object of the Surgeon is therefore to save so much muscle that after full retraction has taken place it shall still be level with the sawn end of the bone. In order to obtain this result, the proportions usually sufficient are to provide one diameter of covering composed of the skin and subcutaneous structures, and half a diameter of muscle, or more if the retrac- tion is expected to lie considerable, as in the lower part of the thigh. In all cases the operator should bear the principles in mind, and be guided in his performance by circumstances, considering the age and state of health of the patient, the amount of subcutaneous flit, the length of the flaps, and the situation of the amputation, and suiting the relative proportions of skin and muscular covering to the nature of the case. A mere mechanical amputator can never be a good one. In amputating for diseased joints, it often becomes a question whether the structures covering the articulation are in a fit state to be used in the forma- tion of flaps. As a general rule, it may be stated that the chronically inflamed tissues covering a diseased joint, even when perforated here and there by