INJURIES OF THE CHEST. 842 areolar tissue. If no wound exists the pleura must be tapped as for fluid, and, if necessary, the cannula must be left in. I doubt whether emphysema alone can ever prove fatal. Hernia oe the Lung, or Pneumocele.—This is an extremely rare affection. It consists in the protrusion of a portion of the lung at some part of the thoracic walls, so as to form a tumour under the skin. It has most frequently been met with after an external wound, under the cicatrix of which the hernial swelling has appeared ; but it has been known to occur from fractured ribs without any wound, and even from violent straining during labour. I have seen a case in a man who gained his livelihood by playing the cornet. I11 these cases it is probable that, the intercostal muscles and costal pleura having been divided or ruptured by the efforts of the patient, and not having united afterwards, the lung has, during expiration, gradually insinuated itself into the aperture so formed, until at last the hernial tumour has appeared. . This protrusion may take place at any part of the thoracic parietes ; thus • Velpeau observed it in the supraclavicular region of a girl ; but most com- monly it occurs on one or other side of the chest. The tumour may attain 1 a large size ; I have heard Velpeau state that he had seen one half as large as the head. It does not appear to shorten life. The only case,other than the above, that has fallen under my own observation is one that I saw in 1839, in Velpeau’s wards at La Charite; and as the signs of the affection were well marked, I may briefly relate it, from notes taken at the l time. A man twenty-nine years of age, left-handed, received in a duel a sword-wound at the inner side of, and a little below the left nipple ; he lost . a considerable quantity of blood, but did not spit up any. The wound healed in about a fortnight, shortly after which he noticed the tumour, for which he was admitted three months and a half after the receipt of the injury. On examination, an indurated cicatrix about half an inch in length was found a little below, and to the inner side of, the left nipple. On expiring or cough- ing, a soft tumour of about the size of an egg appeared immediately underneath the cicatrix, which it raised up ; it subsided under pressure, or w hen t e patient ceased to expire or to cough ; and its protrusion might be prevented by pressing the finger firmly on the part where it appeared, when a depression was felt in the intercostal muscles. If the fingers were slid obliquely over the tumour, it yielded a fine and distinct crepitation, exactly resembling that pro- duced by compressing a healthy lung, and the spongy feel of the organ co be recognized. On applying the ear, a fine crackling and rubbing soun was distinctly perceived ; the tumour was resonant on percussion, lhe portion 0 protruded lung did not appear to re-enter the chest on inspiration, but was firmly fixed in its new situation. No treatment was adopted in the case, nor does any appear admissible in similar instances. . The only affection with which a hernia of the long can be confounded, is a circumscribed empyema which is making its way through the walls 0 ® chest. Here, however, the dulness on percussion, and the absence of respi tory murmur and of crackling under the fingers, will readily enable the Smgco to make the diagnosis. ^rfii^ It 'occasionally happens in extensive wounds of the chest, that a portion luno protrudes daring efforts at expiration. If the wound be flee, thel Z m ay return on presence or during inspiration. If left on-returned it .voon becomesV'id and gangrenous; in these circumstances it may be removed by