734 INJURIES OF THE HEAD. by Hey, and as used at the present day. He says : “ Par icelle on peut coup® de l’os (sans comprimer dessus) tant ou si peu qu’on voudra, sans estre en danger de comprimer l’os fracture sur les membranes ct par consequent sur le > cerveau.” In whatever way the operation be performed, the flaps of scalp should be laid down when it is completed, and a suture or two applied, care being taken not to sew up the wound so tightly as to prevent the escape of discharges. On the introduction of the antiseptic method of treating wounds, some ■ Surgeons hesitated to apply the strong solutions of carbolic acid used in that method to the membranes of the brain, and still more to the wounded brain substance, fearing that by so doing they might cause inflammation as fatal as that they desired to prevent. In order to furnish reliable evidence on this point, Herald Yeo undertook a series of experiments on monkeys. In the first place, he showed that in almost every case in which the skull was opened by a trephine and portions of the brain-substance removed 'without antiseptic precautions, death speedily occurred from meningo-encephalitis. He then performed a series of 26 operations, following strictly all the details of Listers antiseptic treatment; of these seven died, one from the chloroform, one from bleeding on the sixth day, one thirteen days after the operation without any sio-ns of inflammation of the brain, three from the effects of cold weather, and one only from diffuse meningo-encephalitis. In many of these animals huge portions of cerebral substance were cut away without causing any inflam- matory disturbance beyond the area actually injured. The experiments showed conclusively also that a five per cent, solution of carbolic acid may be applied with impunity to the brain or its membranes. The statistics given by Kramer, in an inaugural dissertation at Breslau in 1880 show no less conclusively the great advantages to be dernec iom antiseptic treatment. Of twenty-five cases of compound fixture of the_staU with wound of the brain, in which no operation was performed, ten died, from meningitis and one from pneumonia, and the rest directly from injury to the brain. Of twenty-five cases of primary trephining for injur^ nnlv two died, one from circumscribed meningitis and one from meningo-encephalitis ; in twenty-one the wound healed by first intention.