C56 SPECIAL DISLOCA T10NS. When the dislocation is complicated with a Fracture of the Shaft of iloe Bone, it should be reduced at once by putting the fracture up very firmly, and then attempting the reduction by one of the usual methods. In the cases to which I have already referred (p. 637), I succeeded without difficulty by means of the heel in the axilla. The fracture must then be treated by lateral splints. Congenital Dislocations of the Shoulder-joint have attracted much attention. R. W. Smith has ascertained, by post mortem examination, the existence of two varieties of this condition—the Sulcoracoid and Subacromial luxations. In these there is wasting of the muscles of the shoulder and arm, the motions of which are extremely limited, whilst those of the scapula are preternaturally great. The condition of the bones is also remarkable. In a case of congenital subacromial luxation of both shoulders there was no trace of a glenoid cavity ; but a well-formed socket existed on the outer side of the neck of the scapula, receiving the head of the humerus, which was small and distorted. These dislocations, though existing from birth, usually become more marked as age advances, but are necessarily irremediable, in consequence of the malformation of the osseous structures and the wasting of the muscles. Old Unreduced Dislocations of the Head of the Humerus are not un- frecmently met with. In the majority of these cases there is a considerable amount of pain and immobility about the shoulder at. fii st ; but after a time the head of the humerus forms a new bed for itself, and the movements of the arm become freer and less painful, so that eventually a limb, useful for all except the overhead movements, results. In cases of old dislocation of the head of the humerus, the question as to the advisability of attempting reduction always presents itself to the Surgeon. As a general rule this should always be attempted under chloroform, in accordance with the principles laid down at p. 632, if only a few weeks have elapsed from the time of the accident, and then it will usually be attended with success. Reduction has been effected in many cases at much later periods than this ; by Brodhurst, after twenty-five weeks had elapsed; by Smith (U.S.), after six, seven, eight, nine, and ten months ; by Malgaigne, after eight months ; by Caron du Pillard, after six months ; and by Sedillot, after a year. By the use of the subcutaneous division of muscles, &c., Dieffenbach is said to have succeeded in reducing a dislocation of the shoulder after it had existed two years. In many cases, however, at a much earlier period than these, the Surgeon will fail, notwithstanding the most persevering attempts at reduction; and in others again, certain accidents have occurred, Minch every Surgeon should bear in mind, so as to render him cautious m his 1 The Accidents that have occurred in attempts at reducing old-standing dislo- cations of the head of the humerus are such as may arise either from the employment of an undue amount of force, from the separation of the head 01 the humerus from the adhesions that it has contracted 111 its new situation, or from pathological changes in the limb itself. Among the first are laccratimi and bruising of the skin, subcutaneous areolar tissue, and muscles, m i 1 c ■ vasation of 'blood : amongst the latter are fracture of the humerus, laceration of the axillary vessels and nerves, and avulsion of the limb. %a7To}the humerus has occurred in the practice of many Surgeons of