311 OTHER ANTISEPTIC DRESSINGS. can be completely removed on the third day ; but usually it is safer merely to shorten them by cutting off a piece at each dressing, till they become reduced to about half an inch in length. In very small wounds a few strands of catgut or horse-hair will be found to make a very efficient drain. . . An essential part of the Antiseptic Treatment of Wounds as devised by Lister, is the protection of the raw surfaces and edges of the wound as far as 'possible from any direct contact with the carbolic acid in the dressings, which would infalliby cause sufficient irritation to produce suppuration. The small quantity of carbolic acid left in the wound when it is closed, is so temporary in its action as scarcely to require consideration. It is partly washed away by the serous discharge and partly absorbed, so that probably in a few hours, or perhaps less, the deep parts of the wound are free from any trace of the acid. To protect the raw surface, the wound is covered with the so-called “ pro- tective ” (page 246), which being in itself perfectly unirritating, and almost impervious to carbolic acid—as soon as the small quantity of the acid ad- hering to its under surface has been absorbed by the skin or granulations beneath—almost absolutely protect the wound from any direct action of the irritating antiseptic. The dressing is then applied in exactly the same way as in the treatment of abscesses (see page 247). The dressing must be repeated at first every day, till the serous discharge has ceased, and then every second, third, or fourth day, according to the amount of discharge. If it be thought necessary to apply strapping to the wound, it may be done under the spray, by dipping the plaster in a lotion of one part of carbolic acid and water (1 to 20), to which is added an equal quantity of boiling water. Although attention to detail is of great importance, and in description the dressing may seem com- plicated and tedious, its application to a wound such as that of an amputation, does not take more than five minutes ; and it is not more troublesome than the ordinary modes of treatment. In the rigid antiseptic dressing by Lister’s method, drainage is specially attended to on ordinary principles ; rest is favoured by the slight rigidity of the eight layers of gauze, by the gentle pressure of the bandage, and by the infrequency of the dressings; and decomposition and infection from without are absolutely prevented. Modified Methods of Antiseptic Treatment.—The chief modifications of Lister’s method of dressing consist firstly, in abandoning the spray, all other details remaining unchanged, and secondly, in the substitution of some other absorbent antiseptic material for the carbolic gauze. The substitution of irrigation or washing for the spray has already been sufficiently alluded to. The chief materials which have been substituted for the carbolic-acid-gauze in the dressing are the following. Eucalyptic gauze (page 195). This is used in the same way as the carbolic gauze, and has been found to be equally efficient. It is unirritating and non-poisonous, and should always be preferred in children and in patients who are readily affected, generally or locally, by carbolic acid. The chief objection to it is that it is slightly more expensive. Saltcylw cotton-wool or jute is applied in the same way as Guerin’s cotton- voo lessing and is most useful, though uncertain in its antiseptic properties w icncompared with carbolic or eucalyptic gauze. > a icyic sillc was introduced by McGill of Leeds, who reports very favourably c lecommends the employment of the spray of carbolic acid and all