INJURIES OF TIIE THROAT. Sio Wounds of the internal jugular vein are necessarily very dangerous. There is not only the ordinary risk of primary haemorrhage from a vessel of such large size, hut the special danger of the introduction of air into it; should these evils be safely got over, the secondary ones of recurrent haemorrhage, diffuse inflammation, and pyaemia, may yet have to be encountered. Ligature of the vessel above and below the wound in it, exactly as if it were an artery that had been opened, is the only course that can be safely pursued, unless the opening be very small, when it may be picked up and tied without occluding the lumen of the vessel. In one case, I saw and heard air enter the vein as it was being raised for the passage of the ligature, but the patient made a quick recovery. The large nerves, such as the vagus and phrenic, can scarcely, in a suicidal wound, be divided without injury to the neighbouring vessels, but they may be injured by stabs or gun-shot wounds. The division, however, of the respiratory nerves on one side only, or even of one of them, would in all probability be fatal in man, by interfering with the proper performance of the respirator)' act. In a case with which I am acquainted, where the phrenic nerve was divided during ligature of the subclavian artery, death resulted in a few days from congestion of the lungs. In the Treatment of wounds of the neck of this category, the principal points to be attended to are, in the first place, the arrest of haemorrhage by the ligature of ah bleeding vessels, whether arterial or venous ; and, secondly, bringing together the lips of the wound. If the cut be longitudinal, this may be done by strips of plaster; if transverse, by a few points of suture and by position, the head being fixed, with the chin almost touching the sternum, and retained in this posture by tapes passing from a nightcap to a piece of bandage fixed round the chest. I have had under my care one case in which, owing to the projection and mobility of the larynx, the wound did not unite, a large and deep gap being left, which required a series of plastic operations in order to effect its closure. . . 2. Wounds implicating tlie Air-passage.—Wound of the air-passage is common, and is revealed in suicidal attempts by the air being heard and seen to bubble in and out of the wound during respiration. These wounds vary much in extent, from a small puncture with the point of a penknife to a cut extending completely across the throat, and even notching the ver rae. They are frequently complicated with injuries of the larger vessels and nerves, and sometimes with wound of the oesophagus. Most commonly the cut made high up in the neck; for the suicide, thinking that it is the opei g into the air-passage that destroys fife, draws the razor across t la par o throat where this is most prominent and easily reached; and thus, througn wounding the larger vessels, which are saved by the projection of the la . ■, frequently fails in accomplishing his object. tt ., • uie These wounds occur in four situations : above the Hyoid Bone ; Thyro-hyoid Space ; through the Larynx ; and through the Trac u». The wound may be made above the Hyoid Bone, the cut e. . \ jg the mouth and wounding the root of the tongue A wound in t ns sit usually attended with much hmmorrhage ; and there is gicat tio the patient, as the power of swallowing is completely lost The wound may be inflicted in the Tliyro-hyoid Space, lay mg 1 . • open but being altogether above the larynx. This is the most common situation