446 tea uma tig a ne urism. ao-ulates very rapidly, the ordinary ancurismal bruit and pulsation may be very , obscure or ciuite absent. In such cases, the diagnosis is often extremely difficult. From the redness of the skin, the oedema of the subcutaneous tissue the rapid formation of the tumour, and the acute pain, a diffused traumatic aneurism closely resembles an acute abscess, and many cases are on record in which an incision has been made into it under this supposition. I lie true nature and gravity of the tumour may usually be recognized by observing that the pulse in the arteries at a lower point is absent, that there is great oedema of the limb from pressure on the veins accompanying the artery, and that the tumour is situated in the line of one of the main arterial trun ss. e immediate relief experienced by the patient when the mam trunk above the tumour is compressed may in some cases aid m the diagnosis, but too much reliance must not be placed upon this, as the pain of an acute abscess may pe to some extent relieved in the same way. In cases m which the diagnosis cannot be otherwise made the aspirator may be used. If pure blood is with- drawn in large quantities, the diagnosis of aneurism would be confirmed, if only a few d?ops of blood escaped it would be uncertain, as these might come from the inflamed tissues round an abscess ; if pus mixed with blood appeared in the syringe it might still be an aneurism if the tumour had existed any length of time ^s suppuration might be taking place round the extravasated blood. These tumours, if left to themselves, rarely undergo spontaneous cine, out they either increase in size until the integument covering them sloughs and ruptures or the external wound, which has been temporarily plugged by coa^- lnm enves way • or else they inflame and suppurate, pointing at last like an the flow through the ^-^epr^ure on the ™ns ^73^“ SSss ssrss ffW 80 f"SHS— "—-rj: s; difference being1 that, in the case of the dtotad —£«£ tnre in ^ not to he misled by the term subcutaneous laceration, ay mHiolo"ical aneurism the blood is con- management of aneurism proper. I t 1- » ‘ js essential for the process tained wffhin a sac, whichiherc is L sac, of cure of the disease. I i „ S1C js necessary cannot properly speaking; and hence those changes ' ■ ^ ^ Hnnteriim take place. I doubt whether there is a■ ease^ ^ ^ MDsidemtion, has death to the patient, and in grievous disappo.nt- mCThe proper treatment of diffused —chrism "Bd trfious b