SA RCOMA—RO UED-CELLED. 997 The cells of sarcomata vary greatly iu shape and size, and it is chiefly according to these variations that this group is subdivided. I he cells consist simply of a mass of protoplasm surrounding one or more nuclei, and enclosed in no cell-wall. They may be small and round, exactly resembling the white corpuscles of the blood, or large and round, looking almost like epithelium- cells ; they may be oval, spindle-shaped or fusiform, stellate or tailed ; laige mother-cells crammed with nuclei may be found, and occasionally the cells are pigmented. The intercellular substance may be scanty or abundant, homo- geneous or fibrous, but whenever it is recognizable it is seen to penetrate between the individual cells iu the greater part, if not in the whole of the tumour, and thus a broad distinction is established between these growths and carcinomata, in which the stroma forms alveolar spaces, the cells lying free within them. Occasionally the growth may ossify. The blood-vessels of sarcomata are usually abundant aud thin-walled, resembling those of newly formed granulations. This makes these tumours prone to bleed, both into their own substance and externally, aud may perhaps account for the readiness with which many sarcomata propagate themselves in the direction of the cir- culation. Of the lymphatics of sarcomata we know little or nothing. These growths are usually prone to early degeneration. They most commonly undergo fatty degeneration in their central parts, but occasionally they may calcify ; mucous softening also may take place. When they reach the surface they may slough aud ulcerate, forming foul cavities, sometimes of great size. Cysts are of frequent occurrence in some forms of these tumours. On scraping after a section has been made, sarcomata do not yield a milky juice when fresh, but after about twenty-four hours it can often be obtained. Some sarcomata are distinctly circumscribed and enclosed in a fibrous capsule, others infiltrate sur- rounding parts like the carcinomata. Sarcomata are most frequent in youth and middle life. As a rule, it may be said that sarcomata infect the system generally through the medium of the blood-vessels, while carcinoma is dissemi- nated chiefly by the lymphatic system. This ride has many exceptions, yet nothing is more common than to see secondary growths of sarcoma in the lungs, liver, aud other organs, without the lymphatic glands having ever been affected. The reverse is certainly the rule in carcinoma. It may be broadly stated also that, the more closely a sarcoma approaches to fully developed connective tissue in its structure, the less likely it is to prove malignant; but this rule is not free from exceptions. Sarcomata vary greatly in their rate of growth, some proving fatal in less than a year, others lasting many years with- out attaining any considerable size. Sarcoma-tissue sometimes occurs mixed with other kinds of growth. Varieties OF Sarcoma. Small-Round-celled Sarcoma. Granulation Sarcoma. Encephaloid Sarcoma.—These tumours were formerly included among soft or encephaloid cancers. They resemble in structure the superficial layers of granulations, being composed of small round cells about the size of a white blood-corpuscle, or a little larger, each containing a round or oval nucleus, and embedded in a homogeneous intercellular substance (Fig. 385). Sometimes the intercellular substance is scarcely perceptible, sometimes it is more abundant, as in the accompanying figure. It may be more or less dis- tinctly fibrillated. The tumour may thus closely resemble a lymphadenoma, but on careful examination the stroma will be found not to be so clearly reti- cular. These tumours are soft, sometimes even pulpv, and grev or whitish in