SPEC IA L DISLOCA TIONS. 67 2 ovale in a man—the other a dislocation on the dorsum ilii in a hoy. In the first case the pulleys had been used ineffectually several times, when the “ lacque ” slipping, their use was discontinued. Mr. Anderson says : “ I was ' convinced that attempting the reduction in the common method, with the thigh extended, was improper, as the muscles were put upon the stretch, the action of which is perhaps sufficient to overcome any extension we can employ. But by bringing the thigh to near a right angle with the trunk, by which the muscles would be greatly relaxed, I imagined the reduction might more readily take place, and with much less extension. I raised the thigh, to about a right angle with the trunk, and, with my right hand at the ham, laid hold of the thigh, and made what extension I could. At the same time that I did this, with my left hand at the head and inside of the thigh, I pressed it towards the acetabulum, while my right gave the femur a little circular turn, so as to bring the rotula inwards to its natural situation, and at the second attempt it went in with a snap.” In the second case, the reduction was not attempted till the eighteenth day after the accident. The patient was laid across the bed, and the thigh raised so as to form an acute angle with the trunk. In this situation, the knee of the dislocated limb lay considerably over the sound thigh. “ Considerable exten- sion was then made ; with my left hand I laid hold of the middle of the leg which I brought inwards. By this the femur made a circular turn, which directed its head towards the acetabulum, into which it went with a sensible noise ” (pp. 426—428). , . ,T ,, Q , . The method was, however, first distinctly advocated by Aathan smith, in 1881 and extended by Reid, of Rochester (U.S.A.), in 1851 ; but it was not until* the publication of Bigelow’s work that the scientific principles of manipulation were fully laid clown. At the present time no Surgeon would resort to extension by means of pulleys m a recent dislocation of the hip with- out havino- first attempted reduction by manipulation. In those of old siandr inn extension by means of the pulley is still required, as by manipulation sufficient force cannot be exerted to overcome those secondary causes of resist- ance that become developed in such cases. _ . ifter Treatment— The fact of the reduction being accomplished is ascer- tained by comparing the bony points of the limb with those of the opposite side, and seeing if they correspond. A long splint and spica bandage shot now be applied to fix the thigh, and the patient be kept m bed foi a foitmjit. so that reunion of the ruptured tissues may take place. I shall describe both methods of reduction m connection with each of the nrincipal forms of dislocation of the hip. , 1 Dorsal Dislocations, or Dislocation Upwards and Backwards. Causes —The dislocations upwards and backwards which are most conunon y met with in the hip, are occasioned by violence acting upon the hiffiiidul flexed and slightly adducted : as when a person is struck on the back mtl a heavy weight whilst kneeling, or is thrown forwards, or falls whilst carding a heavy load upon his shoulders, when the upper and posterior part ofRhe ffiint receives the whole strain. Thus, in a case under my care 111 Umvenrfy College Hospital, it was caused by a heavy weight falling from a crane up L > i 1 L was knceliim on one knee and reaching down to put a ticket ""the sffie rf SaM In another case it was caused by the patient s feUincr between the carriage and platform 111 a railway-station m suci a w y