no SPECIAL AMPUTATIONS. dorsum of the foot (Fig. 5G). The small flap thus formed is dissected well down, the knife passed round the under surface of the bone, and the joint opened by the toe being forcibly drawn outwards, and its ligamentous con- nections lightly divided. . The middle metatarsal bones, when diseased, do not admit of separate removal so as to leave a foot that would be useful to a patient. . Amputation of the Metatarsus.—When the metatarsus and anterior part of the foot are diseased or injured so as to require removal, the amputa- tion may be effected by. one of two methods ; viz., 1. By making a flap hom the sole and a transverse incision across the dorsum, and then sawing across the metatarsus as a whole above the seat of injury or disease ; or, ~. By dis- articulating the metatarsus from the tarsus. . The first operation—that of sawing through the metatarsus—is sometim ^ called Lisfranc’s ; but in reality it was practised and described oy ey o before Lisffanc’s time. By “Hey’s Amputation is usually^ meant^ the disarticulation of the metatarsus from the tarsus, and the formation of a flap from ttmanterior part of the sole of the foot. But Hey describes three different amputations, only one of which corresponds to this method. In hfr “ Practical Observations, London, 1814,” p. 550, he says, I have jud,_e it to be the safer method to take away all the diseased integuments by a transverse and a longitudinal incision made at right angles to each o , and then to saw off the metatarsal bones as far as the morbid mtegume > ^At^553 he says, that in operating on a girl about 18, a method suggested itsdf to him “ of finishing the operation, which proved highly advantageous otepat«. Having assented' oat the —albon. toes by a transverse incision made at their junction with the nietataiMl nones, Hlevated the integuments and muscles forming the sole of the foot, 4c. 'p“b4> Ss« he operated asfollows “Iremoved all the toes at their’ junction, with the metatarsal boms and bone which supports the great toe,1 " “ ° mm t],e metatarsal Thus it would appear that in he to*oaseHey all the bones after having made the flap. sole_ In tpe third case, he metatarsal bones, and then made a ‘ P dissected out the four smaller first made the sole-flap, and hen ;° ims combining the metatarsal hones, sawed across the mteinaf cuncnoi , tion^originally^pt^fand’exSed by the rMn;tihofwul—^Tt ttm tubercle of the fifth metatarsal bone,