COLLATERAL CIRCULATION. 429 supply of blood is carried to the lower extremity. 11ms also, when the common carotid is ligatured, the circulation to the parts it supplies is not maintained through the medium of the opposite carotid, although the mosuu- lations between the ultimate branches of the two vessels are so free upon lie throat and the face, and within the cranium ; but it is by means of the inferior thyroid and vertebral arteries (branches of the subclavian on the same side), which become greatly enlarged, that the supply of boot is kept up to the parts on the outside, as well as m the inside of the The supply of blood that is sent to a limb, after deligation of the mam trunk is at first but small in quantity ; being merely sufficient for the mainte- nance’of its vitality, but not enough for the continuance of the usual function of the part. Hence, although the life of a limb may be preserved after the limature of its artery, it becomes cold, and the patient is often unable to move it"for some time, the muscles appearing to be completely paralysed ; in a few hours, however, the supply of blood increases, until it reaches its usual standard, when the normal vigour of the part returns. By the end ot tv enty - four hours the limb will be fouud to be redder than natural, aud the tempera- cure often rises one or two degrees beyond the normal standard, whilst a great sensation of heat is experienced in it by the patient. This period of increased heat may last a week or more. The re-establishment of the blood-supply to the limb after obliteration of the main trunk is accomplished chiefly by changes taking place in the Anas- tomosing Avtsv/ps. A1 most immediately after the ligatuie is tightened they become dilated to their extreme capacity. This is due partly to the increased tension caused by the sudden obliteration of the main trunk, but chiefly to relaxation of their muscular coat. This relaxation is probably a reflex phenomenon consequent upon the want of blood in the parts beyond the point of obliteration of the artery. We have already seen that a similar dilatation of the vessels occurs when a limb has been rendered bloodless for a short time by an Esmarch’s bandage. The dilatation is not limited to the anastomosing vessels which are directly concerned in carrying the blood from I above to below the ligature, but affects the whole arterial system of the limb. It is this that causes the increased redness a few hours after the ligature has been applied. The resistance to the flow of blood is necessarily reduced to the smallest possible degree by this general vascular dilatation, and this to some extent compensates for the increased resistance which necessarily results 9 from the blood having to be driven through a number of small anastomosing arteries, instead of through a single main trunk. The preliminary dilatation is followed by a permanent enlargement of the anastomosing arteries, which increase both in diameter and in length, and thus assume a tortuous or waved form. Thus in a case of spontaneous obliteration of the first part of the axillary artery, met with in the dissecting-room of University College, a tortuous vessel, about the size of a crow-quill, and measuring, when straightened out, nine inches in length, was found passing from the internal mammary in the third intercostal space to the external mammary branch of the axillary. Occasionally a number of such arteries may form an interlacement. The anastomosing arteries that carry on the circulation are, as a rule, easily dissected out in a well-injected subject in the dissecting-room, and at one