S76 MORTIFICATION, OR GANGRENE. Obstruction to the flow of blood through the arteries may be occasioned by two primary sets of causes :—a, from injury or operation, as wound or ligature of the main trunk ; b, from disease, as by thrombosis or by embolism; by calcification, and subsequent occlusion of the vessel. Gangrene from arterial obstruction varies materially in its symptoms, prognosis, and treatment, according as it arises from one or other of these causes. When the obstruc- tion is seated in the arteries alone, the gangrene will be of the dry kind ; but if there is also an impediment to the return of blood through the veins, the disease will partake more or less of the character of the moist variety. a. A limb gangrenous in consequence of the Ligature or Wound, of its Main Artery, without any other injury to the vascular system, becomes cold, feels heavy, and loses its sensibility; at the same time it assumes a dull tallowy- white colour, mottled Avith greyish or brownish streaks. This state of things is met with chiefly in the lower extremity. In a short time the pallid colour is lost, the part becoming brown or blackish ; the integuments of the foot become semi-transparent and horny-looking where they are stretched over the tendons of the instep, and the part presents a shrivelled appearance. This form of gangrene may invade the Avhole of the lower limb, but most commonly is limited to the foot, stopping either just above the ankle, or it not there, immediately below the knee, as Guthrie has observed ; the arrest taking place in one or other of these tAvo spots, on account of the greater freedom of the collateral circulation here than in other parts of the limb. If any of the large venous trunks become obstructed or otherwise implicated, so that the return of blood through them is interfered with at the same time that the supply by the arteries is arrested, the limb generally assumes a greenish-blue oolour, and rapidly runs into putrefaction. In some of these cases it happens that sloughs of the integument and subcutaneous areolar tissue form, although the limb generally preserves its vitality. The treatment of these foims "f gangrene, AArhich are strictly local, is described in the chapter on the Anest of Arterial Humorrhage. (6.) Gangrene may occur from the arrest of the circulation tlnough an artery as the result of disease of the coats of the vessel. This is the Aariety that is commonly called spontaneous. Spontaneous gangrene is termed Senile Avhen it occurs in old peopeui ■consequence of the arteries becoming rigid and their calibie naiunui >y Atheroma or Calcification of their Coats, the pathology of these al uin DS of the arteries will be more fully discussed in the Chapter on Diseases ot the Blood-vessels in Volume II. It is sufficient here to state that 1le e ec 0 these changes is to render the arteries unable to maintain the piopei ciku -s tion of blood through the limb, and further from the roughening 0 |c ,inH coat to predispose to thrombosis, that is to say, to the deposit 0 mn Avhieh the vessel may become completely obliterated. 1 he aa an " supply of arterial blood in these cases is owing not only to the < lseascc - of the arteries, but also in a great measure to the weak prop 1* j, the heart, and the consequent feebleness of the circulation esPccia ^ the lower limbs. When the circulation is so far mtemip et •- ^ the nutrition of the limb, the following premonitory symptom » ® fche A sensation of weight in the limb, with coldness itching,« of thc feet, and cramps in the calves, is complained oi. >>ut scarcely pet- part is habitually defective, the pulsation of the t.bials being scaicc. 1