VARIETIES OF FRACTURE. 499 is greatly lessened, on account of the reparative tissue that has humed at the seat of the injury having closed the medullary canal m such a way that septic osteomyelitis is not likely to occur. The blood-clot and the early exudation are also to a great extent absorbed and the intermuscular spaces around sealed by coagulated inflammatory exudation or granulation-tissue, and thus deep bin-rowing of septic matter in the limb is not likely to take place, and the danger of septic absorption or pyaemia is greatly diminished. /fracture is said to be Complicated when the injury to the bone is con- joined with other conditions which are perhaps of more importance than the mere fracture ; the complication constituting often the most serious part of the injury, and influencing greatly the general result of the case. Thus, a fracture may be complicated with injury of an important internal organ, as of the brain, lung, or bladder ; the injury to the organ being inflicted by the pro- jection against it of one of the broken fragments. A fracture is not unfre- quently complicated with the wound of one of the principal arteries of the part, as happens especially in the leg, where the tibial arteries, being in close contact with the bone, are often torn by the broken ends. In other cases again, the fracture is associated with injury of a joint or with dislocation. °Besides these varieties of fracture, it occasionally happens that a bone is only cracked, or partially broken. This especially occurs in the bending of bone in children, in which cases the fracture may be Partial or Incomplete, merely extending across the convexity of the curve made by the bone. This is some- times called the “green-stick” fracture. Direction.—The direction assumed by fractures varies greatly, and depends materially on the cause of the injury, as well as upon the bone that is fractured. The line of fracture may run through a bone in three different directions : either transversely, obHgwly, or longitudinally to its axis. The Transverse Fracture is the simplest, and is seldom complicated with injury to the neighbouring parts. It chiefly occurs in children, and very fre- quently between the articular extremity and the shaft of a bone ; it unites readily, and is attended by but little displacement. It is most commonly the result of direct violence, but it may arise from muscular action, as in the case of the patella, which is usually broken in this way. The Oblique Fracture commonly occurs from indirect violence ; the breaking force being applied to the ends, and not across the shaft. It often runs a long way, more than half the distance of the shaft of a bone, and is more dangerous than the transverse, owing to the obliquity of the fracture causing the ends of the bone to be sharply pointed (Fig. 173), and thus frequently to puncture the skin, or to perforate an artery. It is more tedious in its cure than the transverse, owing to the extent of surface over which the process of repair has to be carried on, and the difficulty of keeping the fragments directly in apposition ; hence, also, there is a greater liability to shortening of the limb. It is principally met with in the shafts of the long bones of adults and elderly people. The Spiral Fracture is the result of violent twists, and is most frequently met with in the tibia and femur. In it the fissure runs obliquely round the axis of a long bone. The fracture is usually rendered complete by a second fissure joining the line of the spiral; but it has been occasionally met with in an incomplete form. K K 2