i39 AMPUTATION THROUGH THE HIP-JOINT. anco, aucl consequently the oval method, which presents many advantages, has been much more frequently practised of late years. The oval amputation is performed in a variety of ways, and more experience is, perhaps, still required to determine which is the best. The following plan has been found to answer well at University College Hospital. The patient is to be placed on his sound side, and the thigh of that side is to be flexed as far as possible and secured in that position by two bandages, one attached to the thigh immediately above the knee with a clove hitch, the two ends of which are passed round the patient’s neck and under the arm of the same side and firmly knotted together. This bandage maintains the flexed position of the thigh, which gives steadiness to the trunk. The second bandage is to be passed also round the sound thigh and seemed to the leg of the table beneath the patient’s head, in order to prevent his slipping down during the operation. The patient’s body must be further steadied by an assistant placed opposite the shoulders. Another assistant takes charge of the tln'gh, and a third, who stands opposite the Surgeon, will take the vessel by thrusting the fingers of one hand into the wound and grasping the artery between them and his thumb. The patient being thus prepared, and the india-rubber band or aortic clamp applied, the Surgeon stands so as to have his left hand to the flaps, that is to say, behind for the right thigh, and in front for the left. An amputating knife of moderate length is to be chosen. In operating on the right side the incision is commenced about two inches above the trochanter and carried firmly down to the bone and along the femur to about six or seven inches below the upper end of the bone. At this point the incision is made to bifurcate, one part being carried in a curved direction forwards for about two inches and the other backwards in the same way. This marks the point at which the transverse part of the incision is to be made. The limb is now abducted, and, if the first incision has been made with sufficient firmness, the operator will be able to push his thumb into the longitudinal slit which has been made in the owe.- parts of the two smaller glutei. The muscles thus to put Oil the stietch, the point of the knife is made to cut over the tro- chanter and down the upper part of the bone, completely separating the muscles attached to it, first iu front and then behind. The limb is then forcibly adducted, and the assistant at the same time tries to lift the head as hull l ilf l ’i 111one of lus l>ands on th,: timer side of the thigh mt i the hW T tT T«eTrat0r tta °I>ens the by making a fan and to d vMe the r "“"“e « « *> make a slit in the capsule easy Another to, ■ y °ldlg™ent’ a,ld tlms to reader dislocation more t luclslori is then carried backwards in the capsule in the aid 1 iofautrV ?lK head0f,the bMle ““ a“a from the sockit If the head dop^ n "m ° 1S 1fsclteLf 80 as to divide the round ligament, trochanter with ■ °- °lf 1 cadily, the assistant may seize the exposed mmatoder !Pa'‘' ? 1,on,foraPa and drag it forcibly outwards. The on™tocl,ltor T ,1 •?fthe'\0Ut’ “4 the assistant tan now lay hold Itt to hS t il f0mbk 0ut of wound, while the operator. Sic wav ti n"v , T 8,10 while he holds the soft parts out of menlB ll i 'Jf 'O',1,1' Sr'adnully separates the hone from its attach- tio“the Ihl “r,m f ‘°'t,a8 i3 rc1"ireJ- Daring this part of the opera- reached the point afwbicfi ^ ^ 8Tcatcsfc Possible extcnt- Having 1 1 hich the commencement of the transverse part of the