PHENOMENA OF SECONDARY HAEMORRHAGE. 437 of danger, Abernetky, and some other Surgeons, adopted the plan of dividing the artery in every case and tying the two ends; and the practice has lately been revived by Walsham at St. Bartholomew’s Hospital. Bleeding, resembling true secondary haemorrhage, may occasionally take place some days after the artery is tied, when the collateral circulation is fully established, from the Surgeons having neglected to secure the distal as well as the proximal end. 4. Pathological conditions of the coats of the artery.—Atheroma and calcifica- tion of the coats of the artery will often predispose to rapid ulceration or sloughing of the vessel in the immediate neighbourhood of the ligature, which consequently separates prematurely : at the same time repair takes place less perfectly within the vessel. The danger is less with absorbable ligatures, which do not necessarily cut through the outer coat. It has happened that fatal secondary haemorrhage has occurred from a large artery, such as the femoral, in consequence of a small atheromatous or calcareous patch having given way immediately above the ligature, a day or two after its application. 5. Unhealthy processes occurring in the wound.—These form by far the most common and most important causes of secondary haemorrhage. If the end of the vessel, instead of being surrounded by healthy granulation-tissue, is in actual contact with septic pus, or if the surface of the wound be affected by some form of spreading gangrenous inflammation, as hospital, or spreading gangrene or erysipelas, it is evident that the processes of healthy repair cannot go on in it. It is by the exclusion of these unhealthy processes more than by anything else that secondary haemorrhage is to be prevented. If the vessel is solidly sealed outside by firm granulation-tissue at the end of the third or fourth day, we may feel perfectly confident that the internal processes of repair will be safely accomplished. This can occur only if the haemorrhage has been arrested by torsion, or some form of non-irritating absorbable ligature; otherwise suppuration must be kept up at the injured part of the vessel till the ligature is cast off. It is to be hoped, therefore, that the use of absorbable ligatures or torsion, combined with the modern improvements in the treatment, will render secondary haemorrhage from operation-wounds one of the rarest of surgical accidents. Phenomena, The occurrence of secondary haemorrhage is usually some- what gradual, and not without warning. The blood does not burst forth in a sudden gush, but appears at first in small quantity, oozing out of the wound and staining the dressings ; it may then cease to flow for a time, probably from the opening in the artery becoming plugged by a piece of clot, but it breaks out again in the course of a few hours, welling up freely in the wound, and either exhausting the patient by repeated losses, or else debilitating him so that he falls a victim to some secondary disease, such as pneumonia, erysipelas, or pyaemia. In other cases again, after a few warnings, the blood may burst out in a gushing stream that quickly destroys life. •c, °PP01 tun ities which I have had of examining the state of the vessels in ruth'"-' CaSCf sccondaiT haemorrhage, lead me fully to concur with in if-/10 . ldcrj ^at when haemorrhage occurs from an artery ligatured j- f I llmity, the blood in the great majority of instances comes from the ibp 'rUofC] 110 10m ^lc Proxi'mal side of the wound. The greater tendency in a en of the vessel to bleed, appears to arise partly from the less