152 LOCAL DISTURBANCES AND INFLAMMATION. a local iniury, such as the application of mustard to the wch of a frog’s foot, the vascular phenomena of inflammation could not occur. But it is impossible, even in imagination, to separate the tissues from the capillaries m vascular parts; and whether the source of damage comes Bom without, or from within, the vessels if it is of sufficient power to cause inflammation, the surrounding tissues practically must suffer with the vessels. In the evpenmcnts on ie froo-’s foot. Lister showed that the movements of the pigment in the blanchc celfs ceased whenever the flow in the vessels was retarded, proving that they suffered equally with the vessels from the effects of the irritant. . Having thus traced the changes that can be readily observed in the circula- tion of an inflamed part, we must now turn our attention to the processes observed in the surrounding tissues and in the walls of the vessels themselves. For this purpose the web of the frog s foot is not well suitec, tile mesentery of the frog or tongue of the toed being more eon«tfoi observation. Supposing the mesentery to have been exposed and piepaicd io examination the first effect observed will be the dilatation of the vessels ; ju If Zp^reolions be taken, the vitality of the part trill not for tap or more hours'be sufficiently lowered by simple exposure to the air to cause remidation of the flow By the application of an irritant, it might be induced instan- taneously but this would needlessly confuse the experiment As soon as re- tardation’sets in, the accumulation of corpuscles takes place as before described. If a small vein in which the white corpuscles have arranged themselves alo its walls be now watched, the following phenomena will be observed. An individual corpuscle being chosen and carefully watched, a small button-lil p"o ectffin will be seen to rise from the outer wall of the vessel opposite the Lit to which it is adhering ; this gradually increases m size till it becomes l hemispherical prominence corresponding in width to the remainder■of the coiWe within the lumen of the vein. As the external part greases that inside the vessel is seen to diminish till the greater part comes to he outad . It then assumes the form of a pear-shaped body attachedl to^ .nl> which finallv gives way, and the corpuscle is flee outside the ^c.se. Whet the process of migration is completed the contour of the unchanged no visible rupture of its coats being observable. The mi^ate oomtscle is irregular in shape, can be seen to shoot out delicate pocawij Sffcctions, which are fern in again, ^"detedd farther away from the vessel in which it formerlyday ^ ™ba thedave blanee of these changes of form to those observed .. the . mecK hc^ received the name of “amoeboid movements lheuffioe 1[iroois k. o as migration of the white corpuscles. I'.g. 82, which MSjmm mm life by V. Horsley, beautifully illustrates ^Xudacfldn exposed for "seven the direction £ dssZ—uddTS- r number represented m the dramg, tlic ace® nn i"= “ of the £SS£ to admit of their being seen as drawn. As lo D