1061 SENILE SCROFULA—TREA TMENT. jI influence of agencies such as these that we must attribute the prevalence ot . scrofula amongst the lower orders both of town and of rural populations. Both scrofulous and tuberculous manifestations are often called into im- ii mediate action by the debility induced by previous diseases, such as measles, 'I i ■ scarlatina, hooping-cough, &c. The inoculability of tubercle has been fully established by the experiments of Villemin, Wilson Fox and Burdon-Sanderson, and the recent observations of Robert Ivocli have suggested that the bacillus discovered by him is the actual virus. What part infection plays, however, in the causation of tubercle is still undetermined. That infection of the system may take place from a m local focus of tubercular inflammation is beyond a doubt; and there is strong ji. evidence in support of the belief in the transmission of the disease from ! individual to individual by close cohabitation, social or sexual. Yet, however j§v great the part played by infection may be, it is beyond a doubt that the virus ij • requires a proper soil for its development, and that the body of a healthy individual does not furnish that soil. In the prevention of the disease it is m therefore to the constitutional predisposing causes that our attention must be jii chiefly directed. The possibility of general infection from a local focus of It disease suggests also the importance of the removal by operation of all old *i tuberculous masses in glands or bones, lest they become centres of tuberculous & dissemination. Excluding diseases of the lungs, scrofula usually develops at an early aye, though seldom before the child has reached its second year. It is most : commonly about the period of the second dentition that the affection declares ■a itself, and it is rare to meet with it for the first time after the ages of twenty- five or thirty-five. According to Phillips, when it is fatal, it usually proves •so before the fifteenth year ; 60 to 70 per cent, of the deaths occurring before this age. Sex does not appear materially to influence the disease ; though, according to the same authority, the deaths of males from scrofula '■ exceed those of females, in this country, by 24 per cent. Senile Scrofula.—Middle-aged and elderly people are occasionally attacked by an acute form of scrofulous disease. The individuals so affected have usually been tuberculous in their youth, or come of strumous families. But the disease has apparently been cured, and they may have enjoyed good health P and led active lives for a long series of years. Under the influence of depress- ■ ing physical oi mental causes, or as the result of debility and ill health conse- ■ quent on some serious illness, typical symptoms of scrofulous disease will ■j manifest themselves in the soit parts, the joints, and the bones. The disease may run an acute course, and the patient will die of tuberculosis of some of the jr organs. Treatment. 1 his should consist rather in endeavouring to prevent the r- occurrence or full manifestation of scrofula, than in removing it when it is actually existing. Indeed, the Preventive Treatment is perhaps of most |i consequence, and by proper attention to it, I have no hesitation in saying, the I development of the affection, even when hereditary, may be stopped ; and the Icnld of stiunions parents, presenting perhaps the features indicative of the I uthesis, may pass through life without the disease having an opportunity of I ec cii ing itself. In order to accomplish this, however, the preventive plan of I’ treat™eni; he commenced early, and continued uninterruptedly for a ! considerable time, even for years.