5I3 APPLICATION OF BANDAGES—DANGERS. undue pressure on the limb. Pads and compresses ol all kinds intended to force the bone into position by pressing on the projecting fragment, should, if possible, be avoided; they do no good that cannot be effected by proper position, and even occasion serious mischief by inducing sloughing of the in- teguments, over which they are applied. A screw-apparatus has been invented with this view, but nothing can be more unsurgical and unscientific than such barbarous contrivances. The Bandages used in the application of splints and other apparatus to fractures should be the ordinary grey calico rollers, about two to three inches in width, and eight yards in length. In applying them, especial care must be taken that the turns press evenly upon every part, and that the bandage be not ■ applied too tightly in the first instance. No bandage should be applied under the splints, more particularly at the flexures of joints, and care must be taken that the limb be not bent, or its position otherwise materially altered, after bandages have been applied. A bandage under the splint is not only useless, but highly dangerous, by inducing risk of strangulation. No bandage should be applied to the part of the limb that is the seat of fracture. The part below the fracture may be sometimes advantageously bandaged, in order to prevent oedema ; thus, in fracture of the humerus, the forearm may be bandaged with this view, but no turns of the roller should be brought above the elbow. This point of practice I consider most important, as the application of a bandage to the immediate seat of fracture not only causes great pain and disturbance of the limb, but danger of gangrene. When once a fractured limb has been put up, the less it is distui'bed the better. No good can possibly come, but a great deal of pain must necessarily result to the patient, from meddling- with it. The Surgeon should always bear in mind that, in the treatment of a fractured bone, he can do absolutely nothing to promote its union, beyond placing it in a good and easy position. Nature—the natural reparative action of the body—solders the bone together ; and the less the Surgeon interferes with the natural processes of repair, the more satisfactorily will union be ac- complished. But it is requisite to examine the limb from time to time durin°- the treatment, and especially about the second or third week, when union is commencing, in order, if necessary, to correct disulacement. Tn pm-w L L