SEPTICAEMIA AND PYAEMIA. 938 surrounding tissues, and thus an abscess is formed. If the irritating embolus ; be so small as to lodge in the capillaries only, it will directly excite inflamma- tion and suppuration at the point at which it lodges. The experiments have shown that similar results follow whether the embolus owes its irritating pro- , perties to its mechanical condition, its chemical composition, or to its containing . a specific virus. Thus abscesses in the lung have occasionally followed the injection of charcoal, and mercury. Decomposing fibrin or blood-clot or putrid fat never fail to produce them. If the emboli enter the general circu- lation, abscesses may form in other viscera or tissues. These observations ■ show that the existence of secondary or metastatic abscesses does not neces- sarily indicate a true infective process, as the causes of the disseminated local inflammations may be carried by the blood without developing or multiplying . in that fluid. Experimental pathology has thus thrown great light upon the nature and causes of septicaemia and pyaemia, but much still remains to be explained. It t will be noticed that the genuine infective diseases are associated Avith the presence of definite microscopic organisms Avhich, according to the majority of modern pathologists, arc supposed to stand in some direct causal relation to the process, yet they all arise from the injection of apparently similar putrid fluids. Microscopic examination shows that in the early stages of putrefaction numerous different organisms—bacilli, bacteria, and micrococci aie fouud in ti the putrid fluid; but it has not been clearly slioAvn that each of the forms sub- • sequently found in the blood of the affected animals is present. As putrefac- tion advances, the ordinary septic bacteria which, as sIioaati by Hiller, cannot : develop in a living animal, become more abundant, choking the other forms, . and this fact has been suggested as an explanation of the diminished virulence of the fluid after the second day. Septic poisoning by the chemical products of putrefaction can be produced ■with certainty in any animal by the injection of a sufficient dose of the putrid fluid. The symptoms produced are nearly identical in all species, though some animals, as the rodents, suffer more severely than the carnivora. On the othei hand true septic infection cannot always be produced at will. The same dose of the same fluid injected into different animals of the same species may induce the disease in some and fail in others ; and different species are differen \ affected. It is evident therefore that there are other causes dependent upon the animal itself, which are essential to the development of the infective disease, and of the nature of these we are still ignorant. When once, however, the disease is developed, it can be communicated from one animal to ano ler of the same species Avith perfect certainty ; but frequently it is iucapa 1 e o being transmitted to animals of a different species. . Our knowledge may be briefly summarised thus: that all putnd annua fluids contain a chemical poison Avhich, if absorbed, Avill cause a con stitutional disturbance proportional to the dose, and that they frequen y ? and perhaps always, contain also a virus capable under favourable com110“® scttin"' up a true general infective disease ; and lastly, that shorn particles, as from a softening thrombus enter the blood-stream, they au , impregnated either with the simple chemical poison or the specific a , up disseminated centres of inflammation and suppuration w herever t ° The importance, therefore, of avoiding putrefaction in the discharges of wounds cannot possibly be over-rated in the prevention of pyaemia and septicaemia.