1013 ETIOLOGY OF CANCER. number living, cancer is more common in men than in women after 80. Sibley states that the average age of patients with uterine cancer is 43, and with mammary 48 years. The colloid variety rarely if ever occurs before 30. The age of the patient exerts a considerable influence on the rate of growth and malignancy of the tumour. As a rule, the younger the patient, the more rapidly does the tumour grow, the earlier does it affect the lymphatic glands, and the more widely disseminated are the secondary growths. This rule has, I however, many exceptions. Mental Emotions of a depressing character, if long-continued or frequently repeated, may possibly predispose to the occurrence of cancer. I have seen so many cases of cancer, more particularly of the abdominal organs, in in- dividuals who have suffered much from grief, anxiety, or harass of mind for years before the development of the malignant disease, that, although the doctrine is incapable of proof, I cannot but look upon it as probable, that the cancer was the result of the antecedent long-continued mental dis- quietude. We know, by every-day experience, that functional derangement of the abdominal and pelvic organs of the most inveterate character may be occasioned by mental disturbance ; and it appears to me not improbable, that such functional derangement may at last lead to perversion of nutri- tion, terminating in malignant growth in such organs, as the uterus, the liver or the stomach, as are more readily influenced by the condition of the (j patient’s mind. Sex.—The influence of sex is well marked, not only in the absolute frequency of cancer, but in its occurrence in organs that are special to each sex. Cancer is absolutely far more frequently met with in women than in men, simply because cancers of the uterus and mamma constitute by far the largest pro- portion of these diseases, being infinitely more common than cancers of the male organs. But when we come to cancers of organs that are common to both sexes, as the tongue, the lip, the intestinal tract, &c., we shall, I think, find that they are more frequent in men than in women ; the difference, how- ever, not being sufficient to counterbalance the preponderance in the female reproductive organs. Von Winiwarter states, that in Billroth’s hospital and private practice from 1867 to 1876, 278 cases of cancer of the skin and mucous membrane of the face and mouth came under observation. Of these 226 were men, and 52 women. The Exciting causes of caucer are of two kinds ; dii'ect external violence, or long-continued irritation of a part. A blow on, or other injury of a part, often appears to be the direct deter- mining cause of the development of a primary cancer. Scirrhus of the mamma is commonly attributed by the sufferer to the infliction of an injury. Long-continued irritation of a part also may cause a cancer to develop. This is a matter of every day observation in the development of cancer of the tongue fiom the persistent irritation of a broken or jagged tooth, or the production of cancer of the lip by the constant use of an unprotected clay-pipe. But, pei haps, the best marked instance of the production of this form of cancer, is t. at of the cancer of the scrotum in chimney-sweeps, developed by the irrita- tion of the soot lodged in the rugrn—a form of disease which is now very r.iicly met with. Lawson attributes this to the fact that formerly soot fetched a ugh price, and was always sifted to free it from particles of mortar before it was sold. This sifting was hard work, and the motion of the body during the