AMPUTATIONS. CHAPTER II. AMPUTATIONS AND DISARTICULATIONS. The term Ampul at ion means the separation or removal of a part of the body. It is most commonly applied to the removal ot a limb, but sometimes also to that of other parts, as the breast or penis. The frequency of amputation of the limbs has much lessened of late yeais „ other and less severe modes of treatment being now successfully followed in many cases of diseased joint, of aneurism, and of compound fracture. Still amputations are among the most frequent operations in surgery, and will con- tinue to he so as long as the human body is liable to severe mutilations, to o-ano-rene of the limbs, and to malignant and other incurable diseases of the hones and joints. It has been somewhat the fashion to decry amputation; and to speak of this operation as an opprobrium to curative surgery. But, though no Surgeon can deprecate unnecessary amputations more strongly than 1 do, I cannot admit that the removal of a limb is an operation of less merit than any other proceeding adopted when all other means have failed m curing the diseased part, or in saving the patient’s life from danger. Surely, it is rather a subject of just pride than the reverse, that the Surgeon is able to save the whole of the body by sacrificing by a simple operation a limb that has been utterly disorganised or spoilt by disease or injury. In the performance of an amputation, also, much dexterity may frequently be displayed ; and there is commonly great scope for surgical skill m the constitutional treatment ot tic patient both before and after the operation. . - The amputation of a limb is generally performed through the continuity of a bone ; when done at a joint, it is called a Disarticulation. . . . Amputation for diseases of joints, or for the immediate effects of injury, is an operation of comparatively recent date ; for the older surgeons undertook the removal of a limb only for gangrene. So much was this the awe, that the works of many of the older writers the only mention of the treatment of gangrene. Hippocrates, who lived about • Christ, recommended that the Surgeon in removing a gangrenous limb slioulc limit his incisions to the dead tissues in order to avoid the danger of bleedun . Celsus, who lived at the commencement of the Christian era, encourage « holder line of practice. The operation of amputation as described by him a thraperformed. A deep incision was made to the bone between the living and dead tissues encroaching rather on the living than leaving am of the dead. When the bone was reached, the sound flesh was drawn hack from it, andthesaw Mpphed as high as possible. The edges of the skin were then brought down and it was recommended that the covering should be lax, that it migi nearly as possible cover the bone completely. As, however Celsus advises that the par^wlitoh the skin did not reach should be dressed with hut cc^e^m^