UPPER END OF FEMUR—INTRACAPSULAE. 5S9 these changes in structure and position, it becomes less able to bear any sudden shock by which the weight of the body is thrown upon it, and snaps under the influence of very slight degrees of violence. When it breaks, the capsule may remain uninjured, but the prolongation of it which invests the neck of the bone is usually torn through. In some cases, however, this cervical reflection is not ruptured, the lower portion of it, especially, often remaining for some length of time untorn, at last, however, giving way under the influence of the movements of the limb, or from inflammatory softening. As the violence occasioning the fracture is generally but slight, and as the vascularity of this portion of the bone is trifling in old people, there is but little extravasation of blood. The fragments are almost always so separated that the fractured surfaces are not in apposition : the upper end of the lower fragment is drawn above Fig. 225.—Attitude of Limb in Intracapsular Frac- ture of the Neele of the Thigh-Bone. and behind the head of the bone, and at the same time is twisted so that its broken surface looks forwards. The head remains in the acetabulum, attached by the ligamentum teres, and sometimes preserving a connection with the lower fragment, through the medium of some untorn portions of the fibrous membrane investing the neck. It. W. Smith has observed, that in some instances the two fragments become interlocked or dovetailed as it were J1r^^another’in consequence of the line of fracture being irregular and Signs.—These are, alteration in the shape of the hip, crepitus and pain at he seat of injury, and inability to move the limb, with shortening and eversion it. lhese we must consider separately, as important modifications of each ii ; lnc ones noticed. Fiom the indirect nature of the violence whicli caused oil jury there are no signs of superficial bruising over the hip. of al\Alterati°n in the Sllape of the Hip is evidenced by some flattening pait, the trochanter not being so prominent as usual. This process is