INJURIES OF T1IE HEAD. 746 into a sound sleep, and from that time rapidly improved, being practically well by the fifteenth day. A gentleman, a.ge 39, w&s thrown from his horse, sti iking his head violently j on the around.’ He was taken up insensible, and was found to have a con- siderable extravasation in the right occipital region ; there were no signs of frac- ture. He soon regained partial consciousness ; he was quite unable to speak, and did not seem to recognize anyone, but from the first he got out of bed to make water, and showed signs of discomfort when he wanted to use the bed- pan. On the second day, he was restless and his mental condition the same. On the fifth day, he could give the right or left hand when asked, though his mind was very far from clear ; his speech was, however, evidently worse than the state of his mind could account for; he used only a few words, repeating them frequently ; there was no paralysis. On the sixth day, he had violent convulsions, commencing with twitching of the right side of face, followed by turning of the head to the right, a rigid spasm of the right arm, then of the lea . the spasm then became clonic and affected the left leg and arm, and finally the left side of the face. Between 10.30 a.m. and 2.80 p.m., he had twenty- one convulsions ; his head was shaved, and he was leeched and the convul- sions ceased. The following day it was noticed that the light side of the face was paralysed. From this time his recovery was slow, but uninterrupted. It was many months before he regained the full use of words, and dining a time he was haunted by an idea which he could not explain. Six months after, he had a violent epileptiform fit, preceded by aphasia, lasting some minutes but he recovered without any evil consequences ; he was suffering at the tin e from dyspepsia and constipation. On the first anniversary of his accident, he had a similar fit, from which time till the present he has remained weli^ In the surgical history of the American war is recorded the case of am who received a bullet-wound grazing the skull from t e ^ fc frontal region to the vertex. The right arm was immediately P^lysed, at first only partially, but gradually the whole limb became Arne months after the wound he was, however, well enough to be let ; Guthrie records a case of a soldier, aged 40, who was wounded at B ata oo by a bullet, which passed across his head close to the vertex, ^ depressing both parietal bones. He was stunned by the blow aud ^e recovered found he had lost power in both legs. He was trephined ten day after the battle and made a good recovery, ultimately regaining muc i p SScases sufficiently illustrate the chief clinical features of^injuries affect fro- the motor region of the cortex of the hemispheics. 11 ea .g motor region is an area the functions of which are not ye a®cel well known that large portions of the anterior parts of the frontal lo J be lost without the patient showing any appreciable change either menu J nhvsicallv • of the occipital region even less than this is kno\\n. _ As these cases may require the use of the trephine, it is o gica imp that we should be able clearly to answer the question whether th dependent on central or cortical lesion. If due to compression of a central tSon it is obvious thus the trephine would be useless lu to ^ narilvsis will probably have been immediate, its completeness ^ Sea, aTtho whole of one side of the body at least w,U m all probabd.t, suffer.