TREATMENT OF COMPOUND FRACTURES. 539 strangulation of the part, is apt to ensue. The constitutional irritation must ! he subdued by the administration of opiates, together with an apeiient; and these medicines must be repeated from time to time during the first few days. Moderate and cooling regimen must be employed, and the patient be disturbed i as little as possible. In many cases, if the patient be addicted to drinking, 8| the constitutional disturbance soon assumes the irritative form : in these cir- cumstances, it is of great moment that support, and even stimulants, be freely o-iven : they must be allowed from the very first, and increased in proportion to the depression of the patient’s strength, or as symptoms of nervous irritation come on. If there be much extravasation of blood into the soft parts, and bruising, great tension of the limb, followed by unhealthy suppuration and sloughing, will take place in the neighbourhood of the wound ; free incisions are then required to remove the tension and strangulation of the tissues, and, by letting out the decomposing blood and pus, to lessen the risk of the occurrence of gangrene, and diminish the fever resulting from the absorption of the products of putrefaction. It is in these cases that much injury results from blindly following as a routine-practice in all cases indiscriminately, the treat- ment which is undoubtedly of the highest value in some; viz., that of keeping over the wound, with a view to closure by the first intention, any impervious dressing, whether antiseptic, plasters, or a pad of lint soaked in blood, that has become hard and impermeable. The natural vent to the discharge through the external opening being interfered with, deep infiltration takes place through the areolar planes of the limb, and the most extensive local mis- chief may result, pyaemia being almost certain to ensue. As soon as suppura- tion is fairly established, fomentations of boracic lint or thick moist oakum- dressing should be applied, and the wound may be sprinkled with iodoform; the burrowing of matter must be prevented by making counter-openings where necessary, and by attention to the position of the limb. The wound must be frequently syringed with carbolic-acid-lotion, Condy’s fluid, or some other anti- septic. The fracture-apparatus must be kept scrupulously clean, especially in summer ; the bandages changed as often as soiled, and the pads well protected with oiled silk. During this period various complications, such as septicsemia, pyaemia, erysipelas, inflammation of the lymphatics and veins, and septic pneu- monia, are apt to occur, requiring special consideration and treatment ; so also, if the discharge be abundant, hectic, with its sweats, and gastro-intestinal irritation may come on, requiring full support of the powers of the system, and the administration of the mineral acids and other remedies, according to circumstances. As the confinement to bed is necessarily very prolonged in these cases, often extending through many weeks and months, the state of the patient’s back should be attended to, and he should early be placed upon a water-cushion, or hydrostatic bed, lest sores supervene. As the wound gradually heals it may be dressed with some stimulating lotion as the red or blue wash. Ihe bone will often be observed lying white and bare, bathed in pus, at the 10 om of the wound. But even in this apparently unfavourable condition it may lecovci, granulations gradually springing up on its surface and covering in , m other cases, necrosis to a greater or less extent takes place, and pei ec consolidation does not occur until the bone has separated. Curling as s own that those portions of necrosed bone which arc connected with the ver iagment are slowest in detaching themselves. In some instances a