37 INCISIONS. The sponges should be brought by the surgeon himself, and should be properly prepared. Improperly cleaned sponges have always been justly con- sidered a potent source of infection in wounds. New sponges are apt to be gritty from sand, and require very careful washing ; after which they should be soaked for at least twenty-four hours in a 1 in 20 solution of carbolic acid before being used. After an operation the meshes of a sponge are more or less filled with coagulated blood, which mere washing in water will hardly remove. In order to clean it thoroughly, it may be soaked m a strong solution of sulphurous acid; or, after maceration for forty-eight hours m a dilute solution of hydrochloric acid (about ten drops of the strong acid to the ounce of water), and for twenty-four hours in a strong solution of carbonate of soda, it may be well washed in common water, and kept ready for use in a bath of 1 in 20 carbolic acid lotion. Another plan is to put the sponge in a basin of common water till the fibrin in its meshes is decomposed and offensive; then wash it well in hot water, or boil it; after which it may be thoroughly washed again, and finally put into a bath of 1 in 20 carbolic lotion till it is wanted. . . Before commencing an operation, the Surgeon must look over his instru- ments, comparing them, if the operation be complicated, with a list previously made out ; he must see that they are arranged in the order in which they are wanted, and properly covered with a towel. Much of the successful performance of an operation depends on the attention and steadiness of the assistants. Of these there should be enough, but not too many. In all capital operations three or four will be required ; one for the administration of the ansesthetic, another to command the artery, a third immediately to assist the Surgeon, and the fourth to hand sponges, instruments, &c. The duties of the assistants should be performed in silence, and each man must carefully attend to his own business, and not neglect this, as is too often done, in his anxiety to crane over and see what the Surgeon is about. There should be no unnecessary talking when once the patient is on the table ; the Surgeon’s directions ought to be conveyed by a brief word or two, by a look, or by a sign with the hand. The incisions for the operation should be carefully and properly planned, so as to give sufficient space with as little mutilation as possible ; but it must always be borne in mind, that although a needlessly long incision may lead to unnecessary disfigurement, it does not add F‘3’ per" materially to the danger of the patient, while too small an incision hampers the surgeon and greatly increases his difficulties, especially in the arrest of htemorrhage. Incisions may be made by cutting from without inwards, or from within outwards, or subcutaneously. The most convenient instrument for all ordi- nary incisions is the scalpel. This should be set in a smooth ebony handle, which is less slippery than an ivory one when wetted with blood, and admits greater delicacy of touch ; it should be light in the blade, nearly straight- backed, and slightly bellied on the cutting edge. The heel should be as wide