I25 AMPUTATION OF T1IJ? LEG. (Fig. 73). In dissecting up the posterior flap, the limb should be raised so that the Surgeon can more conveniently see what lie is doing. It should con- tain only skin and fat. Both flaps being held well out of the way, the muscles I are now divided circularly, and the soft parts raised from the bones for a distance of from one and a half to two inches. In doing this, care must be taken not again to wound the anterior tibial artery. Finally, the bones are cleaned and sawn as high as possible. The sharp point of the tibia must be rounded off. In doing this it is well carefully to raise the periosteum with a knife or periosteal elevator before applying the saw or bone-forceps, as by so doing the tendency to necrosis is somewhat diminished, the periosteum not being torn away to a higher point than that at which the bone is actually sawn. If from any cause there should not be sufficient skin available to form the long anterior flap, the circular operation or the modification of it recom- mended by Liston, as described on p. 62, may be employed instead (see Fig. 23, p. 62). All these operations have the great advantage of getting rid of the heavy mass of the muscles of the calf, and that by the long anterior flap secures in addition that the cicatrix shall be well behind the cut ends of the bones, and that there shall be a dependent opening for the exit of the dis- charges. The long anterior flap tends to keep itself in position by its own weight, and no strapping is required as in the amputation by the long posterior flap, and thus a great source of pain to the patient and of disturbance to the stump is avoided. The tendency to protrusion of the bone is also much less, as the weight of the flap is hardly sufficient to cause ulceration, if the end of the tibia has been carefully rounded. Results. Amputation of the leg is, upon the whole, a successful opera- tion. The mortality, however, varies not only according to the situation at which the limb is removed, but also according as it is done for inj ury or disease, and the nature of that disease. So far as situation is concerned, it may be stated, as a general rule, that the nearer the knee the greater is the danger. In amputation of the teg for injury, the rate of mortality is, upon the whole, rather high. In the Crimea, 37 per cent, of the cases were lost. The table at p 82 shows an average mortality in civil practice of 46T per cent. • the death-rate, however, varies greatly in the records of different hospitals. Thus at the Edinburgh and Glasgow Infirmaries, and Guy’s Hospital, in an aggre- gate of 2_4 cases there were 116 deaths; white in 353 cases in country hospitals, the number of deaths was 09, and in 66 cases at St. Bartholomew’s hasXen’ S? ^ 20,deaQfchs- At University College Hospital, the mortality the I L f Per cenfc- Secondary amputation is more fatal than primary ; the deaths from the former, according to the table at p. 84, being 48, and moteahtv te 61’’ if 9 Pif CGnt' Aftei' amPutafcion of the leg for disease, the To 23 5 Vv f1 ^i! eri!-af°Unting’ 0n a calculafcion based on 1281 cases, stump, and exhausttem ^ °f ^ 816 P^mia, gangrene of the shm^fh^f8?8 C0llecfced from Polished hospital reports by Max Schede, 54 den tbs or middle third, for injury, 130 cases cent tewf.v ? Cent- ; for disease> 178 cases, 44 deaths? or 247 pel’ 128 cases in l Um 01 m^Ur^5 88 cases, 3 deaths, or 9'1 per cent.; for disease, cases 785 rte.^ 'i per ceut- ’ Parfc of fog not stated for injury, 1956 ’ s’ 01 "lb 0 per cent. ; for disease, 1695 cases, 215 deaths, or