COLUMNAR EPITHELIOMA. 1033 The scaly tongue undergoing conversion into epithelioma also offers a favour- able opportunity of observing the same process. Diagnosis.—The diagnosis of epithelioma from the other forms of cancer is not always easy. The principal points that should guide the Surgeon are : 1. The almost invariable occurrence of the epithelioma on the mucous or muco- cutaneous surfaces. 2. Its early ulceration; often almost irom the iei) commencement. 3. The rapidity with which ulceration follows on the new growth. 4. The origin of the disease from some evident source of external irritation. 0. The absence of all evidence of contamination of internal organs. The Prognosis of squamous epithelioma is far more favourable than that of scirrhus or encephaloid. Its superficial origin makes it possible for the Surgeon to recognize it early and remove it in some cases before the glands are affected, and even after glandular enlargement has taken place there is hope in some cases of completely eradicating the disease by removing the affected glands. Recurrence after Removal takes place in squamous epithelioma as in glandular cancer in the scar or its immediate neighbourhood, and in the lymphatic glands, and in these situations is due to the same pathological conditions. Distant recurrence is, as before stated, less common, but when it does not take place it is due, as in other forms, to dissemination of cancer- elements throughout the body. In one case in which I removed an epithelioma ;i of the tongue recurrence took place in one of the toes and in the lung after a lapse of nearly two years. Epithelioma presents the peculiarity, however, of re-appearing in some rare cases in the neighbourhood of the primary growth and yet not in connection with it. In these cases it would appear as if there was a tendency to epithe- lioma in a particular region of the body, which becomes more or less widely affected in different parts in a consecutive manner. Thus I have seen after the removal of an epithelioma of the lip on one side, recurrence of the disease iuside the mouth on the other side. This mode of recurrence is slower than the first. I have seen from three to four years elapse between the removal of the epithelioma on the left side of the lower lip and its recurrence inside the right a cheek. It would appear as if epithelioma were sometimes capable of transplantations or of inoculation so as thus to be locally multiplied. I have seen an epithe- lioma of one labium apparently inoculate an abrasion on the opposite one where a fresh centre of disease developed, and an epithelioma of the tongue infect the lower jaw through the contiguous alveolus of a loose tooth. 3. Columnar Epithelioma.—This form of tumour has frequently been called “ adenoid cancer,” but the term columnar epithelioma is less likely to lead to confusion and more correctly expresses the nature of the growth. It occurs as a rule at the same age under much the same conditions as squamous epithelioma. It is confined to those regions which are naturally covered by columnar epithelium, and forms the most common tumour of the pylorus and intestine, including the rectum. During the ten years 1871 to 1880 there were admitted into the surgical wards of University College Hospital twenty- five cases of cancer o( the rectum described as columnar epithelioma, and nine in which the form of cancer is not clearly stated, which were probably of the same variety. Four cases are recorded as having been met with in the