SIMPLE AND INFECTIVE INFLAMMATIONS. x73 vitality of the affected part so low that it is incapable of resisting even mild injurious influences, the death of the original tissue will take place with such rapidity that the dead mass will be visible to the naked eye, forming a slough, and the process is then spoken of as gangrenous inflammation. Thus there is no sharp line to be drawn anywhere between simple adhesive and gangrenous inflammation. One form merges into another, and the effect pro- duced is proportional to the degree of irritation, and the power of the tissues to resist the injiu'ious action of the irritant. Inflammations are also frequently divided, according to their real or supposed causes, as Traumatic, when arising from injury, Strumous, Sheumatic, Gouty, Syphilitic, &c., and finally, when the cause cannot be discovered, they are often called idiopathic. Perhaps, however, the most important distinction is into Simple localised inflammations and Spreading inflammations. The simple localised in- flammations are due to causes which act usually only on a limited area and in a temporary manner. A spreading inflammation is one in which the cause is of such a nature as to be continuously developed either in contact with, or in the affected tissues, and which, consequently, extends more or less widely beyond the area first affected. The most perfect example of a simple inflammation is that produced by tire action of a sharp knife on the living tissues. Here the cause is nearly instantaneous in action, and ceases as soon as the cut is made. The effect is accurately limited to the area injured; and, unless some new cause be intro- duced, the resulting inflammation will not extend, and will subside as soon as the tissues by their inherent vital powers have recovered from the injury. It is familiar, however, to everyone that this favourable result is not always obtained. In many wounds, the signs of inflammation, in spite of our efforts to prevent it, extend more or less widely beyond the injured area, and reach their maximum intensity at the third or fourth day—a time long after that at v hich tire tissues should have completely recovered from the temporary damage done them by the mechanical violence of the knife. It is evident that here there is a new cause introduced which acts much more widely than the original injury. The inflammation has assumed a spreading instead of a simple character. The spreading character may be due to one of two classes of causes. Either there may be some noxious material developed in the wound, and m ft only, which soaks away into the surrounding tissues, exciting- inflammation as far as it extends ; or the noxious material which excites the inflammatory process may have started from the wound and be developing amongst the living tissues themselves, and consequently be theoretically capa lie of almost indefinite extension. The former condition is still a simple inflammation, although extending beyond the area first injured ; the latter is a true infective, process. To make this more clear, it will be better to give examp es o t esetwo forms of inflammation, taking as before a wound as -ar,nSP°mt. a resi1^ °f bine simple traumatic inflammation which ti n'fV8 1(j uccessai7 consequence of the injury, a certain amount of exuda- onHi !VlCe‘ ^1C fibrin, as before described, coagulates on the surface, anv ("n ni°n 1C corl)ns<fi°s ln its meshes, while the serum flows away. If from i llllsc 10 SC1 u,n becomes retained between the surfaces of the wound, we sm-frippa 1Gsclble fluid at some degree of pressure in contact with the raw ’ anc un css special means are taken to prevent it, decomposition will