AMPUTATION THROUGH THE HIP-JOINT. I35 great danger—undue loss of blood—and enabling the Surgeon to complete it without hurry or anxiety on this account. The Surgeon must have three assistants on whom he can fully rely. Assistant No. 1 takes charge of the flap, compressing the femoral vessels ; and, in the absence of the abdominal compressor, on his trustworthiness the patient’s life is mainly dependent. Assistant No. 2 takes charge of the limb ; flexing it slightly on the abdomen in the first stage of the operation, whilst the anterior flap is being made ; forcibly abducting, extending, and rotating outwards during the second stage, when the Surgeon is opening the capsule of the joint; and rotating inwards during the time the posterior flap is being cut. On the way in which he performs these duties, the facility with which the Surgeon performs the operation is mainly dependent. To Assistant No. 3 is Fig. 79. Amputation at the Hip-joint: Formation of Anterior Flap in Left Limb. consigned the care of the compressor of the abdominal aorta. After the lemoval of the limb, Assistant No. 2 aids the Surgeon in ligaturing the arteries. These preliminaries having been arranged, and the duty of' each assistant assigned to and distinctly understood by him, the operation is to be peifoimed m the following way. m/1?6 Surgeof’ sending on the left side of the limb to be removed, feels for ^°m S I? 1 ^,mde ^n^e’ V]'z-> the tuber ischii and the anterior j pj , Spme of fc ie lllum- The knife> which must have a blade twelve Z, Tv T TnqXm-f t0 bG entered’ and the flaP t0 be made, in different ways, he nnd Lg 7°r/thei °f the. body 011 which fche operation is performed. If it i, I n ° e/:SKe’ ^ie bube should be entered about two fingers’ breadth hplvini if aU ei1?1 saPeiaor sP,no °f the ilium, and carried deeply in the limb npnv Hi, 1° f ossels, directly across the joint; its point being made to issue flip tpnri U)eiaS1^ the ischium well behind the prominent ridge formed by must bp mu' U adduc*'or l°ngus (Fig. 79). In transfixing on this side, care a -on not to wound the scrotum or the opposite thigh; the back of