LOCAL DLSTURBANCES AND INFLAMMATION. 212 hcaltliy tissues, gives rise to inflammation of sufficient intensity to reach the stage of suppuration. The pus raises the cuticle, forming a small pustule which bursts, leaving a raw surface beneath. The discharge decomposes and irritates the surface, the clothes rub the ulcer, the muscles working beneath in walking move it about, the dilatation of the vessels and the exudation, added to the obstruction in front which originally gave rise to the congestion, produce tension; and all these causes combined, maintain the inflammatory process, the suppuration continues, and the sore slowly spreads by ulceration. In such a case as this the predisposing cause, and the secondary causes, play far the most important part, and the exciting cause that started the process may be so slight as almost to escape notice. In many cases the nature or quantity of inflammatory products serves partly as a cause of the persistence of the process. Thus in the case of in- flammation of the synovial or serous membranes, the tension caused by the effusion of fluid is sufficient to maintain the inflammatory process long after the original cause of mischief has been removed. In other cases, in v Inch formation of new tissue is an important element in the process, the feebleness of the new growth, its imperfect development, or its insufficient vascularlsation make it unable to withstand slight sources of irritation ; and thus causes which would be harmless to healthy tissues perpetuate the inflammatory process in the new growth; or the new tissue may perish and, acting as a foreign body, excite inflammation in the tissues in contact with it. This we see well illus- trated in the condition known as white swelling of a joint. As the result of some slight injury in an unhealthy subject, inflammation is set up and reaches the stage of cell-infiltration of the synovial membrane, and the formation upon it of a layer of granulation-tissue. This feeble tissue gradually increases m quantity till the whole synovial cavity may be filled with it, the tension caused by its presence and the movement of the joint being sufficient to perpetuate the process. Finally, parts of the growth may degenerate and soften, and thus acquire chemically irritating properties, and aggravate the Phenomena.—The modifications of colour, size, sensation, function and temperature, described as attendant on acute inflammation, are present also m chronic inflammation ; differing, however, m origin and in degree, and often in order and combination. The colour is not always changed unless the part affected be very superficial; and the redness is rather of the dull than of the bright hue, not depending on the rapid transmission of an increased quantity of bright blood, but rather on a congestive condition. The aflected tissue may become permanently discoloured by the escape of large numbers of red blood- corpuscles, which break up and are imperfectly absorbed, leaving the pigment behind The pain is not often spontaneously acute, but partakes generally < the character of tenderness, being elicited only by pressure : sometimes, how- ever the pain is very severe. The increase of temperature is usually wan tin, and is never great. Swelling is an early and most important sign m c non inflammation It depends less on the enlargement of the vessels than on the effusion which takes place, and the production of new tissue vlnch ofte C°“ fr — of 'Zdisease may be attended less marked in ekronie *