64 AMPUTATIONS. me to be inseparable from it. One disadvantage consists in the necessity of sawing the bone at a higher point when one long flap only is made, than when two shorter ones more nearly equal in length are fashioned. Thus, for instance, .in an amputation of the thigh for injury about the knee-joint, the long rectangular flap in an adult would require to be about eight inches in length, and the femur must consequently be sawn at least as far as this above the patella: whereas, in the ordinary double-flap amputation, two shorter flaps, each about four inches in length, will be found sufficient to cover in the bone, which may consequently be sawn at a proportionately lower point. Thus the rectangular method contravenes the principle in amputation, not to remove the limb at a higher point than is absolutely necessary, the danger to life in- creasing with every inch that is removed: nor can it be considered to bo advantageous in those cases in which length is essential to the utility of the stump and the comfort of the patient. In amputations for malignant disease, also, the long flap, which has to be cut in close proximity to the morbid growth, would run a far greater risk of infiltration than would two shorter ones taken higher up in the limb : the bone in both cases being sawn at the same level. Should union by the first intention fail and suppuration ensue, in the rectangular amputation the thick fleshy mass which enters into the formation of the long flap becomes a source of great inconvenience, bulging out from under the skin, and requiring considerable management in the after-treatment. For these reasons the unmodified form of Teale’s amputation is hardly to be recommended. At the same time that Teale was recommending the long anterior flap in all parts of the body, Carden, of Worcester, was advocating its employment in a form of amputation invented by him for removal of the thigh immediately above the knee. In his operation, which will be described amongst the special amputations, a single long anterior flap was made, the extremity of which was rounded in form. Spence of Edinburgh, who fully recognised the advantages of Teale's method of amputation in the lower third of the thigh, suggested a modifica- tion by which he hoped to obtain them with less trouble aud without producing quite so large a wound. He made no posterior flap, but compeusated for it by retracting the soft parts from the bones to an extent equal to its length. The anterior flap was to be made a little longer than the diameter of the limb ; and its angles being rounded, it was allowed simply to hang over the end of the stump, without being folded upon itself as in Teale’s operation. The posterior parts were divided from without inwards by a single sweep of the knife. By this method, however, the boue was sawn as high up as in Teale’s method, so that the gain was not very great. In 18G0 Lister pointed out that the advantages of Teale’s method could lie obtained with considerably less sacrifice of length in the limb by taking the covering more equally from the anterior and posterior aspects. A dependent opening for the exit of the discharges, and a scar placed behind the bones may be°obtained in almost all situations by making an anterior flap two-thirds of the diameter of the limb in length, and a posterior half that length, as the bone is in almost all parts situated more towards the anterior than the posterior aspect of the limb. In all parts of the limbs the flexors, being the muscles with the longer bellies, retract more extensively than the extensors;