TREATMENT OF SPREADING GANGRENE. 9°7 hours. As the gangrene advances, the parts affected fall into a soft, pulpy, On making an incision into the parts so affected, it will be found that the gangrenous inflammation is primarily seated in the areolar planes of t le limb, and that the muscles are not affected in the first instance. It u ill he observed also that the disease extends through the areolar tissue, the skin falling secondarily into slough. The constitutional symptoms early assume the character of acute septic poisoning, the patient sinking into a prostrate condition, and the temperature falling below normal. Unless relieved by treatment death almost invariably ensues in three or four days after the invasion of the disease, and always shortly after the gangrene has reached the trunk. Eod-shaped organisms—bacteria—have been found in great abundance in the gangrenous tissues, and the fluids of the part in which the process is extending. These are most probably connected with the rapid formation of offensive gases in the dead tissues, but what part, if any, they take in causing the spreading inflammation is not determined. That there is no specific con- stitutional affection is shown by the amount of success that attends early am- putation above the affected part. Treatment.—In the treatment of spreading gangrene the Surgeon will be placed in a great difficulty, whichever way he act. If he trust to constitu- tional treatment, in the hope of a line of demarcation forming, he will certainly be disappointed, the gangrene rapidly spreading up to the trunk ; and if he amputate, he may probably lose his patient by the stump becoming affected. Yet amputation should, in my opinion, be performed at once, for, although this operation is necessarily very unfavourable when practised in these cases, yet it must be remembered that, if the Surgeon wait for the line of demarcation or trust to other means, such as incisions or general treatment, the patient will certainly die. The only chance of safety in these cases, then, lies in amputating early, and removing the limb high above the part affected ; thus, in spreading gangrene of the arm, at the shoulder-joint ; and of the leg, in the upper part of the thigh. In most cases it will be found that the infiltration precursory to the gangrenous mischief runs up one side of the limh—the inner or posterior—to a much greater extent than the other. In amputating under such circumstances, the Surgeon may often very advantageously so fashion his flaps as to exclude as much as possible of the affected part or side of the limb, forming them chiefly from that least affected. A principal source of danger and of death, after amputation in these cases, is recurrence of the morbid condition in the stump, more particularly in the lower extremity. Out of twelve cases in which I have seen or done amputation for this disease, this recurrence happened in seven instances. This tendency will be increased by the proximity of the line But, even under the most un- of amputation to the gangrenous limit. favourable circumstances, recovery will sometimes take place. Thus I have seen the flaps in amputation for spreading gangrene infiltrated with gelatinous- looking fluid, and yet recovery take place. In a man whose arm I amputated at the shoulder-joint for spreading gangrene of the limb, the infiltration had extended as high as the scapula : yet he made a very excellent recovery. Tn the lower extremity the liability to recurrence of the gangrene is, however, \ery much greater ; and there can be but very little prospect of saving the