463 THE VESSELS OF THE LOWER LIMB. sac laid open, and the bleeding vessel sought for and tied. Guthrie has col- lected a great number of cases, which prove iucontestably that the general principles of treatment in wounded arteries must not be departed from, when the arteries of the groin or thigh are wounded. On the contrary, the facility with which in most cases the circulation is kept up, and the readiness with which secondary haemorrhage comes on as a consequence of the free anastomoses in this situation, render the rule of practice of applying a ligature on each side of the wound in the vessel peculiarly stringent in all recent arterial wounds in this part of the body. Secondary haemorrhage and gangrene of the limb are the great sources of danger here. When gangrene is imminent, or has come on, amputation is necessarily the sole resource. With regard to secondary haemorrhage supervening after ligature of the artery at the seat of injury, there is, I think, no safe course but removal of the limb. Where the artery has been tied higher up, as, for instance, when the external iliac has been ligatured for recent wounds or traumatic aneurisms in the groin or upper part of the thio-h the haemorrhage appears to have returned, or gangrene to have supervened in all these cases. This fact was remarkably illustrated in the Crimean War. Thus, Macleod states that the French in one hospital at Constantinople lio-a- tured the femoral at a distance from the wound for secondary haemorrhage seven times, and that all the cases failed. If the traumatic aneurism have assumed a circumscribed character, it must be treated on the principles laid down for this form of the disease, the supply- ing artery being ligatured above the tumour ; and cases are not wanting in proof of the success of this practice. It occasionally, though rarely, happens that a Varicose Aneurism is formed in the groin or upper part of the thigh, as the result of wound of the artery and vein in this situation. It usually presents the ordinary characters of this disease, but some peculiarities have occasionally been met with. Thus in a case relaterl lw TTnvnHmm mnn r. l: .., n , 5 c iiuiu upwards co mac contained m the vena cava. In a case related by Mor- n son, 11 is stated that a tumour, as large as the human uterus at the third month 01 pregnancy, communicated with the iniured vein.