47i TREATMENT. femoral arteries may readily be made by the fingers of two of the assistants who are present at every operation of importance. 2. For the fulfilment of the second indication, that of maintaining tlie action of the heart until the obstruction in the capillaries of the lungs can be overcome or removed, artificial respiration should be resorted to as the most effectual means of keeping up the action of that organ. It seems also to help the circulation through the lungs, and thus to relieve the right side of the heart. For the purpose of keeping up artificial respiration, Silvester’s method is the best. Before employing it, it will be necessary to remove everything that compresses the chest, or interferes in any way with the free exercise of the respiratory movements. Friction with the hand over the prmcordial region, and the stimulus of ammonia to the nostrils, may at the same time be resorted to. 3. The third indication—that of overcoming the obstruction in the pulmonic capillaries—would probably be best fulfilled by the means adopted for the accomplishment of the second, viz., artificial respiration. That the action of respiration, if kept up sufficiently long, will enable the capillaries of the lungs to get rid of the air contained in them, appears to be a fact; for I have experimentally observed that, if a certain quantity of air be introduced into the jugular vein of a dog, and artificial respiration be then established, and maintained for half or three-quarters of an hour, a very small quantity indeed, if any, will be found, on killing the animal, in the cavities of the heart, or in the branches of the pulmonary vessels. I am aware that this is not altogether conclusive of the fact, as the air might be dissolved in the blood, or might still exist in the capillaries of the lungs, although none might be found in the larger branches of the pulmonary artery; but still it seems"to me that we can hardly account for the large quantity of air that will disappear when artificial respiration is kept up, in any other way than that some, if not all of it, passes out of the capillary vessels into the air cells of the luno-s & *