3 r 2 THE SCROFULOUS DIATHESIS. J°59 i parent skin, having" clear blue eyes with large pupils, light hair, tapering I fingers, and fine white teeth ; indeed, whose beauty is olten great, especially in \ early life, being dependent rather on roundness of outline than on grace of form ; and whose growth is rapid and precocious, in these individuals the affections arc strong, and the procreative power considerable ; the mental {activity is also great, and is usually characterized by much delicacy and soft- ness of feeling, and vivacity of intellect. Indeed, it would appear in such persons as these, that the nutritive, procreative, and mental powers are rapidly and energetically developed in early life, but become proportionately early exhausted. In another variety of the fair scrofulous temperament, we find a i coarse skin, short and rounded features, light grey eyes, crisp and curling sandy hair, a short and somewhat ungainly stature, and clubbed fingers ; but not un- commonly, as in the former variety, great and early mental activity, and • occasionally much muscular strength. In the dark form of the scrofulous temperament, we usually find a somewhat heavy, sullen, and forbidding appearance : a dark, coarse, sallow, or greasy- lookiug skin ; short, thick, and harsh curly hair ; a small stature, but often a powerful and strong-limbed frame, with a certain degree of torpor or languor of the mental faculties, though the powers of the intellect are sometimes re- markably developed. The other dark strumous temperament is characterized by clear dark eyes, fine hair, a sallow skin, and by mental and physical I organization that closely resembles the first described variety of the fair strumous diathesis. In all these varieties of temperament, the digestive organs will be found to be weak and irritable. This condition, which I believe to be invariably asso- ■ ciated with struma, and the importance of which has been pointed out by Sir James Clark, must be regarded as one of the most essential conditions con- nected with scrofula, and as tending greatly to that impairment of nutrition which is so frequent in this state. This gastric irritability is especially characterized by the tongue, even in young children, being habitually coated towards the root with a thick white fur, through which elongated papillae pro- i ject, constituting the “pipped” or “strawberry ” tongue ; the edges and tip, as well as the lips, being usually of a bright red colour. This state of the tongue is aggravated by stimulants, high living, and the habitual use of pur- gatives. In the fair varieties the bowels are usually somewhat loose, but in the dark forms of struma there is a torpid condition of the intestinal canal. In all cases the action of the heart is feeble, and there is a tendency to coldness, and often to clamminess of the extremities. Although these peculiarities of temperament are commonly observed in strumous subjects, yet cases of scrofulous disease are very frequently met with in patients who present none of them. After the definite manifestations of scrofula have made their appearance the general health usually suffers considerably. The individual usually emaciates, becomes sallow, cachectic and debilitated. The prolonged suppurations accom- panying many scrofulous affections are frequently accompanied by hectic or by amyloid degeneration of the liver and other viscera. In sci of ulous patients it is comparatively uncommon to meet with more than one of the graver manifestations of the diathesis in the same case. Treves states that of 50!) cases of scrofula obtained from the records of the Margate nfiimary, in only 5G did the patient exhibit more than one gross mani-