INJURIES OF THE HEAD. 700 truly observed, th;it no injury of the bend is too trivial to be despised, or teo serious to be despaired of. 2. Compression of the Brain.— lhis is a common condition in mjuijes of the head, arising from a great variety of causes from the pressure of a portion of bone, of extravasated blood, of inflammatory exudation, or of pus formed within the skull, or from a foreign body lodged there. In whatever way occasioned, however, the symptoms, although presenting some differences, are tolerably constant. The patient lies in a state of coma, stupor or lethargy, being paralysed more or less completely, heavy and drowsy, or insensible, not answering when spoken to, or only when addressed in a loud voice, and perhaps shaken at the same time. The breathing is carried on slowly and deeply, with a stertorous or snoring noise, and usually a peculiar blowing of the lips. The stertor appears to be owing to paralysis of the velum pendulum palati, which, hanging down as an inanimate curtain, is thrown into vibrations during expiration by the passage of the air across it; the distension o t e cheeks and blowing of the lips are due to the muscular paralysis of these pares. One or both pupils are dilated and insensible to light; the pulse is lull, often slow—in fact, a full, slow, laboured pulse is one of the most marked features in these cases ; the faeces pass involuntarily from paralysis of the sphincter am and the urine is retained from paralysis of the bladder ; the skin may be cool, but in many cases, on the contrary, is rather hot and perhaps perspinng ; the temperature may rise to 106° F. Not unfrequently during this condition of stupor violent fits of convulsions may occur. This state of coma may uecome complicated by symptoms of inflammation; and, unless the cause that p duces the compression be removed, it usually terminates speedily in death, the patient gradually sinking into more complete unconsciousness, and dying m an ^optetic condition. In other, bnt much rarer cases, the coma may— almost an indefinite time, for many weeks or even months, unt1The < 1 - ing cause is removed, when the patient may recover consciousness, and ^^Pi^osis^etween concussion and compression has been sufficiently indicated in the preceding description not to require But it must be remembered that, in many cases, one state merges i t t other so that the symptoms are not so distinctly marked as ha. indicated ; and they are more especially obscured when assocn a “t"d to compression it may be broadly stated that whenever the symptoms follow an injury to the head within to the pressure of fragments of bone m depressed fractures, foie ® i(m penetrating fractures, or extravasated blood in simple mjuiies. from inflammatory exudation does not occur till the in ‘ - ) > disturbance 3 Cerebral Irritation.-TIic third form of which is met with in injuries of the head, differs ^ the preceding. The patient presents of compression, nor is there any combination of he p a licncc cfnfnc . 1-mt fche svmrctoms are altogether pecul« . 'L 1 • these two states but the of description, they may menial. Tll. ntMtude of the patient is ™ * Id is curled UP - »