411 LIGATURE OF VESSELS IN CONTINUITY. After the ligature is tied, the ends must be cut off or left according to the nature of the material employed. 2. When the artery has to be ligatured in its continuity at the injured spot for a wound which, does not completely divide it, it must be exposed by as careful a dissection as the state of the parts will admit; the wound being enlarged, if necessary, in such a direction as to do the least possible injury to surrounding parts. If for any reason a Surgeon determine to apply a ligature at a distance from the seat of the disease or injury, he selects that part of the vessel which is best adapted to the operation, and guided by his anatomical knowledge exposes it in the chosen spot. The definite operations by which each of the main arteries may be exposed and tied will be described in the Chapter on the treatment of Special Aneurisms ; but the general principles which guide the Surgeon in the application of a ligature to a large artery in its continuity will be given here. Whenever it is possible, the ligature should be applied at some distance from any branch, in order that the formation of the internal coagulum may not be interfered with, either by the stream of blood leaving the main trunk immediately on the proximal side of ligature, or entering it by means of the collateral circulation on the distal side. When this is impossible, it is safer to apply the ligature on the proximal side of the branch, so that a clot may be formed above it and protect the injured part of the vessel from the direct impulse of the stream of blood from the heart. In some cases, especially if the anastomosing vessels are very abundant, it would be safer to ligature the branch also close to the main trunk. Other things being equal, that part of the artery is to be chosen which is most superficial, and in relation with the fewest important structures. Thus the point selected in the carotid is above the omo-hyoid, and the superficial femoral is always, when possible, tied in preference to the popliteal. Having determined the point to winch the ligature is to be applied, the operator first makes an incision through the skin and fat to the deep fascia ; he then, by a process of careful dissection, exposes the sheath of the vessel, and finally opens the sheath and passes the aneurism needle between it and the external coat. The first incision is usually made in the course of the vessel; for in most parts of the body the chief nerves, veins, and muscles, run in the same line as the main artery. When, however, an incision in the line of the artery would injure important parts, the Surgeon must make an oblique or transverse wound, the direction being determined by the anatomical relations of the part. Thus in ligature of the brachial at the bend of the elbow, the incision is made across the line of the artery, in order to avoid the median basilic vein; and in ligature of the external iliac it is made nearly parallel to Poupart’s ligament to facilitate the retraction of the peritoneum in exposing the artery. In making the incision, the Surgeon is guided by some fixed line known as the “ directing or guiding hid In some cases this corresponds with the anatomical line of e artery as m the operation for ligature of the anterior tibia!; in others it is t istmct from this, having reference rather to the structures which have to r\°n° s'^e k° exPose the vessel. Thus in the operation for ligature nf f|1C, Cf10 ' artei7’ directing lhic for the first incision is the inner edge ie s ci no-mastoid, while the line of the artery is from midway between the