DIAGNOSIS OF ABSCESS. *37 tion can readily be made by pressing on its edge with the tip of one finger. If it is a chronic abscess or cyst, unless it be very tense, the finger goes through the swelling without anything being- felt to move; in the case of a tumour the solid edge is felt to roll away. In some rare cases, even when fluid is present, fluctuation may be wanting, as the tension may be too great to allow of a wave being produced in the contents of the cavity. The occur- rence of fluctuation alone, however, is not of itself sufficient to determine more than that a fluid exists in the part. The question necessarily arises, is this fluid pus ? In the majority of instances, the history of the case, the character of the pain, the previous existence and the continuance of symptoms of inflammation, enable the Surgeon to answer in the affirmative. But if, as in chronic or cold abscesses, there be only obscure evidence of inflammation having existed, and if the swelling be of long standing, the fluctuation being perhaps deeply seated and indistinct, the safer plan will be for the Surgeon to introduce an exploring needle, and to see what the true nature of the fluid is ; by this simple means many embarrassing mistakes in diagnosis may be avoided. The tumours with which abscesses may more easily be confounded, are those soft solid growths in which there is a high degree of elasticity, giving rise to a species of undulation, as in some soft sarcomata. Fluid tumours of various kinds, such as cysts and enlarged bursse, may also be confounded with abscesses. In these cases the previous symptoms, the situation, and the general appearance and feel of the tumour, will usually enable the Surgeon to effect a ready diagnosis ; but should any doubt exist, the grooved exploring needle or a trochar may be introduced, when, if pus be present, a drop*or two will escape. The “ aspirator ” is of especial service in cases in which it is desirable to with- draw some of the contained fluid for closer examination. The most common form of aspirator consists of an exhausting syringe from which lead two short nozzles fitted with stop-cocks. To one of these is fitted an india-rubber tube, at the end of which is a sharp hollow needle with a terminal opening. The needle should not have an eye some three-quarters of an inch or more from the point, as is frequently the case. In using the instrument, it should first be tested with a solution of carbolic acid (1 in 20). By this we disinfect and cleanse the needle, and prove that everything is in working order. Both stop-cocks being closed, the piston of the exhausting syringe is raised and retained in its position by giving the handle a quarter turn. The needle is then pushed in till its opening is buried beneath the skin, when the stop-cock leading to it is turned on. The vacuum then extends into the needle, and if ic be gently and steadily pushed in the direction of the suspected abscess, the moment its point enters a cavity containing pus the fluid will pass up into the syringe. A piece of glass is interposed in the india-rubber tube, so that the nature of the fluid can be seen, even if the quantity be small. It is the use of the needle m this way, with the vacuum in it, that forms the essential feature ot the aspirator as invented by Dieulafoy, and distinguishes it from the old ,101?i \°C lai\ ^ avcn'^s danger of passing the hollow needle completely c'j cct,on °f pus before the suction is applied, and thus failing- to j.. , 10 U1 " ^11 chronic abscesses, even when a large needle is used, it thp fl ■)CjC(|Ulas c)°ked immediately by the flakes of cheesy matter floating in • r U, U t us rarely happens before enough fluid has been obtained to indicate its nature.