i9S LOCAL DISTURBANCES AND INFLAMMATION. he has to do but he must be influenced in the means that he adopts by the constitutional condition of the patient, by the type of the inflammatory fever, and by the state of the diseased part; for nothing presents greater variety than the management of the inflammatory process m different conditionssot the patient, and in the different types and phases of the d,sea6e- ^ e sha accordingly consider the treatment of acute inflammation as it is accompan bv the sthenic and the asthenic form of inflammatory fever. Treatment of Acute Inflammation with Fever of the Sthenic in - —In the treatment of this variety, active and energetic measures must early be had recourse to, especially if the patient be young and strong no condition that is more under the control of the Surgeon than this v i e occurs in a healthy constitution, and none m which more can be done y active means early employed. It is consequently of the first importance that precious time be not lost by the employment of inefficient "imores>) oth ■ - wise, important local changes and irremovable alterations of’etmotu e J ensue. It is also of great consequence to remove the disease in y , y to subdue, but to extinguish it, lest it degenerate mto some of the moic chronic and intractable foims. . , , » ,-i • „liri The first thing to be attended to m the treatment of this and of all the other varieties of inflammation, is the removal of the cause. Thus, iest mi . be afforded to a diseased joint, light withheld from an inflamed eye, and a foreign body taken out of the flesh in which it is lodge . The next great indication is to lessen the determination of blood to the ,, j nhp blood-nressure in the distended vessels. The measuies for accomplishing this form what has been termed the antiphlogistic treatmen . This consists of constitutional and local means. ^ Constitutional Treatn.cnt.-The object aimed at ,n constitutional anti- £ £3?=E or MS M inflammation, and who have not been weakened by d, and m yo f ao-ed subjects, that such treatment can be justifiable, i < y mation, as erysipelas, and all other Of their cause depressing m themselves; and m these active * ° ‘^^rSfmeans that we possess is certainly Btood letting !°anck when the inflammation the state of the patient “ ‘^ken away, but cannot abstraction of blood. But, as bloo u iimipcessarilv lest permanent readily be restored, we should never remove it uni - 7, 1 -ed ill effects to the health ensue. Blood-letting is car am ) a,,||y in the treatment of surgical inflammations ; an l f “ „f loni tow. s avoided in very young and in very old subject m Uie generally, and in persons who are “f^t importance character. It should never be employed ute m o. » b/followed « -in, be