TREATMENT. 469 mended that the chest and abdomen should be so tightly bandaged with broad flannel rollers or laced napkins, as to prevent the deep gasping inspirations, and to keep the breathing as shallow as possible, consistently with the comfort of the patient. I have often found that the entrance of air into the veins of a dog could be arrested by forcibly compressing the chest of the animal, so as to limit the respiratory movements; but that, as soon as a deep inspiratory effort was made, the compression having been removed, a rush of air took place into the vessel. When such precautions were taken, therefore, during an operation about the root of the neck or summit of the thorax, and the chest was bandaged, as here recommended, the Surgeon had to be careful not to remove the compression until the operation was completed, and the wound dressed; for if this precaution was not attended to, the patient would, most probably, on the bandage being loosened, have made a deep inspiration, and air might have been sucked in at the very moment when all appeared safe. It is now rarely possible to adopt these precautionary measures, for the danger from applying such constriction diming the administration of an anaesthetic would be greater than the risk of entrance of air, but I have retained a description of them partly on historic grounds and partly because circumstances might even now arise in which they might be necessary. Curative Treatment. Different plans have been recommended by Sur- geons foi the treatment of those cases in which air has already gained admit- tance into a vein; but, from the very fatal nature of this accident, it does not appear that much benefit has resulted from any of them : the recovery of the patient, in some of the cases, appearing to be due rather to the quantity of air that was introduced being insufficient to cause death, than to any effort on the part of the Surgeon. The two principal modes of treatment that have been recommended, are suction of the air from the right auricle, and the employment of compression of the chest. Thus Amussat and Blandin advise us to introduce the pipe of a syringe, a female catheter, or a flexible tube, into the wounded vein, if it be large enough to admit the instrument; and if not to open the right jugular, and pass it down into the auricle, and then to employ suction, so as to empty the heart of the mixture of blood and air. At the tha-1?1S 18 bemg donG’ we are> sa7 the7> to compress the chest as oicibly as possible, so as to squeeze more of the air out of the heart. Magendie £ to «*> —g tWoH •-ti<>nS that PreSent tteraclres “ the treatment appear to me to be 1. To keep up a due supply of blood to the brain. Until ^ °bStrUCti0n ^ lungs.10 lem°Ve’ lf P°Ssible’ the Emotion in the capillaries of the remove the air Vh d°l!bt be highly advantageous if we could, by its means, the pulmonic canillnri ^ r 8ain,CCl acccss fco the heart, and thus prevent 1 capillaries from being still further obstructed. But putting