231 NATURE OF IIECTIC FEVER. alternate with one another, melting the patient away, as it were, and hence are termed colliquative. The debility gradually increasing, the patient rapidly wastes, and at last dies from sheer exhaustion, the conjoined result of fever, malnutrition, and wasting discharges. The nature of hectic fever has of late given rise to considerable discussion. There can be no doubt that in a very large proportion of surgical cases at least, it is in reality chronic poisoning from the absorption of the chemical products of putrefaction. For this to occur it is not necessary that the pus should be foul and stinking ; a much milder degree of fermentative change is sufficient. The more essential condition is that the pus shall be confined in a cavity from which the drainage is imperfect, so that it accumulates at a slight degree of pressure sufficient to cause absorption of the products of putrefaction from the granulating surface. This view of the nature of hectic is supported by the facts, that no hectic occurs till after the abscess is opened, that improve- ment of the drainage will in very many cases relieve all the symptoms, and that very large superficial ulcers may exist for years and discharge abundantly without inducing the signs of hectic. Moreover, some of the symptoms of hectic resemble those known to be caused by the absorption of the products of putrefaction, as the profound antenna and the tendency to diarrhoea. But few cases of hectic remain in surgical practice, if all that probably depend on this cause are excluded. It is likely that any continued febrile disturbance, from whatever cause, would tend to assume the form usually described as hectic fever if its duration were sufficient and its course sufficiently slow and wanting in intensity. Albuminoid, or amyloid degeneration is a most important and serious cousequence of prolonged discharge of pus. It is a very common effect of old- standing joint- or bone-disease accompanied by suppuration, and when once established it exerts a most injurious influence on the progress of the case, and especially on all operations undertaken for the cure of the disease. In surgical piactice it is most commonly met with in children, as diseases of bones and joints are more common with them; but similar conditions cause a similar result in the adult. The pathology of the process belongs rather to Medicine than to Surgery but it will not be out of place to give here those symptoms with which every Surgeon should be familiar. Ihe organs chiefly affected are the liver, spleen, kidneys, and the intestinal mucous membrane. The chief symptoms are gradually increasing amemia cincl emaciation, not necessarily accompanied by any fever. The liver gradually but steadily increases in size till it may reach from the fifth rib to the rio-ht Z *ts suffe 18 sni00t]b and its sharp, hard edge can often be felt tinough the thin abdominal walls almost like a piece of india-rubber. There rn!° 0r fcifces- Tbe sl,Ieeu maJ be felt, but is seldom very large. Hen the kidneys become affected, the urine usually contains a small quantity imnliVn i*1]11 ffI1C a hyaline Cas^s’ -^-S the villi of the intestines become Trm-sirri C<7i c;mf1!lti011 increases and attacks of diarrhoea are common. l 1C,.LT)C ob *"be case rcdema °t the ankles is a frequent symptom, Death*3np0m <i.e} cness tbe heart s action and the watery state of the blood. Ther> •5UrS ,10ra oxbausti°n or from some intercurrent disease, of the “ °n \°ne treatment for the disease, and that is to remove the source ppm a ion ; and if that is impossible, to adopt every means in our