August, 1884. Works on MEDICINE, SURGERY, AND GENERAL SCIENCE, PUBLISHED BY MESSRS. LONGMANS AND CO., PATERNOSTER ROW, LONDON. Ilmtfunm, Sur^rjj mtfc ^jjrgstoLygjj. THE SCIENCE AND ART OF SURGERY; Being a Treatise on Surgical Injuries, Diseases, and Operations. By John Eric Erichsen, F.R.C.S., Surgeon-Extraordinary to H.M. Queen Victoria ; Member of Council and of the Court of Examiners of the Royal College of Surgeons; Emeritus Professor of Surgery and of Clinical Surgery in University College ; Consulting-Surgeon to University College Hospital, and to various Medical Charities. The Eighth Edition, enlarged and care- fully revised ; pp. 2,474, illustrated by 984 Engravings on Wood. 2 vols. 8vo, price Two Guineas. SYSTEM OF SURGERY, Theoretical and Practical, in Treatises by various Authors. Edited by Timothy Holmes, M.A., Surgeon to St. George’s Hospital, Membre Correspondant de la Societe de Chirurgie de Paris; and J. W. Hulke F.R.S., Surgeon to the Middlesex Hospital and to the Royal London Ophthalmic Hospital. Third Edition, in Three Volumes, with Coloured Lithographic Plates and numerous Illustrations engraved on Wood 1 vols royal 8vo, price Four Guineas. In this third edition the same general arrangement has been followed as in the two former : but many of the Treatises have been entirely re-written, others greatly modified, and all care- fully revised, either by the original Authors or by surgeons of known authority on the topics in question. The Editors have thus attempted to adapt the book to the great changes and advances which have been made in surgery during the interval since its last publication ; whilst the publishers have been en- abled, by careful condensation on the part of the Authors, and by the use of a less expensive style of typography, to issue the work at a reduced price, and at the same time to add largely to the illustrations. It is hoped that the new edition will main- tain the reputation of the System of Surgery as a faithful mirror of the teaching and practice of surgery in England at the pre- sent day.