GENERAL REMARKS ON OPERATIONS. IO An average adult man gives off per hour about -C cubic feet of carbonic acid gas, from 1 to ounces of water, and an undetermined quantity of organic matter. This organic matter is partly solid, consisting of epithelium and fatty matter from the skin and mouth, and partly a vapoui gi\en off from the lungs, the nature of which is somewhat uncertain. It is extremely offensive, and is so imperfectly diffusible that it is piobably in great part molecular ; it is nitrogenous and oxidisable, although but slowly. It is readily absorbed by damp walls or bedding, the most hygro-scopic substances taking it up most readily. It is this substance that gives the fusty smell to an ffl- ventilated room. Experiments have shown that it is highly poisonous, am this explains the fact that air fouled by respiration is much more deleterious than that vitiated by combustion or by the addition of pure carbonic acid o-as. Parkes states that “allowing the fullest effect to all other agencies, there is no doubt that breathing the vitiated atmosphere of respiration has a most injurious effect on the health. Persons soon become pale, and partially lose their appetite, and after a time decline m muscular strength am spirits. The aeration and nutrition of the blood seem to be interfered with, and the general tone of the system falls below par.” Under such circum- stances convalescence is prolonged ; the reparative power is less, and wounds tend to slough and become the seat of unhealthy inflammations, and the patient is more readily affected by any local or general infective process to the poison of which he may be exposed. » The special contamination of a surgical ward may arise, first, fi presence in the atmosphere of the gaseous products of decomposition; secondly, from a great abundance of the organic particles which act as the ferments in decomposition ; thirdly, from the presence of dried particles of th discharges from wounds or sores ; and, lastly, by the contagion of specific infective processes, whether general or local. l r) The gaseous products of decomposition, consisting of sulphuretted hydio0en, sulphide of ammonium, free ammonia, carburetted hydrogen, car ionic acn and many others, undoubtedly tend to aggravate the symptoms produced b) the ^cumulation of the products of respiration , but it ,s nupomible the effects produced by the former fr om those of the latten by wjuiffi h must almost necessarily be complicated m a hospital ward the putrefying animal matter which frequently accumulates about camps during wa/fonns one of the principal causes of diarrhoea and dysentery ; "is only in military practice, in which large numbers of wounded must occasionally be packed closely together and their wounds n^lectedUor|want of sufficient surgical assistance, that putrid discharges could accumulate such an extent as to develope these diseases. Secondly, the air of a ward containing many foul wounds has been show to contain a great excess of organic matter, but it is impossible to separate pffbots produced by it from those of foul air geneially. ""xffirdly microscopic examination has demonstrated the presence of dried possibly act as the material of contagion ; that tl ) ■. “tr Z“be contaminated by the contagion Of specific infective processes, such as hospital gangrene, erysipelas, pyaemia,