126 SPECIAL AMPUTATIONS. 12'7 per cent. In military practice, the French statistics show a mortality in all cases of 75) -8 per cent. Excluding French cases, other military reports show a mortality of 33’1 per cent, in primary amputations, 75-0 per cent, in inter- mediate, and 49-7 in secondary. In the cases in which the time is not stated, chiefly from the American Civil War, the mortality was only 20T> per cent. The combined results of Busch, Max Schede, Socin, and Volkmann, from cases treated antiseptically, excluding all those complicated by other injuries or grave disease, are as follows—for injury, 19 cases, no deaths; for disease, 50 cases 1 death from erysipelas, to which the patient was liable. Hie results obtained by Bardeleben, Billroth, and Bruns, without antiseptic treatment, all complicated cases also being excluded, were : for injury, 28 cases, f 5 deaths, 10 from pyaemia, and 2 from septicaemia ; for disease, 87 cases, 25 deaths, 19 from pyaemia, 5 from septicaemia, and 1 from secondary haemorrhage. Amputation through the Knee-joint, originally recommended m the last centiuy by Hoin, and reintroduced by Yelpeau, Markoe, and Brinton, has for some years found favour in this country and in America Amputation through the knee-joint may be performed m three different ways : 1, with a long posterior and a short anterior flap ; 2, with a long anterior and a short posterior flap ; 3, by lateral flaps. . 1. The operation with the Long Posterior and Short Anterior Flap may be readily performed in the following way. An incision is made directly across the knee-joint, just below the patella. The skin-flap thus formed is dissected back ; and, the joint being opened above the patella, and the liga- ments divided by a few touches of the knife, a long posterior flap is cut from the upper part of the calf of the leg, by passing the knife behind the tibia, and carrying it downwards for a suitable distance. This operation has the great disadvantage that the posterior flap has an almost uncontrollable tendency to retract, and it should never be ^le1 taken when the covering can be obtained more extensively or entirely from the front. 2. The operation by means of a Long Anterior and Short Posterior Flap is thus performed. A long square flap, rounded at the corners, is made >y entering the point of a short broad-bladed amputating-knife towards the pos- terior part of one condyle, carrying the incision downwards in a straight hue for four or five inches, then across the limb, and finally upwaids to a point on the opposite side corresponding to that of entry. patella are then dissected from the front of the joint (rig. / )• ‘ Lion is thus opened ; the ligaments are then successively divided, the limb and a posterior flap is formed by cutting with a deter- mined sweep from behind forwards, or by dissecting down behind the bones and then ratting backwards. The flap should be about 2i to 8I inches rag. If made shorter than this, it is apt to retract up the back of the thy . Indeed, in all cases there is a great tendency to this, even when the flap iso the length above given. The popliteal artery is divided, and, with edition of the articular vessels, is the only one requiring ligatuie. The management of the patella is an important question ; some Surgeons odvocathfo its removal, and others its preservation. I think hat it is d- cfdodWbetter to leave than to remove this bone If left, it forms an im- portant addition and protection to the end ot the stump. If it be removed,