TUMOURS. 966 undeveloped state amongst the mature tissues ; but there is little definite evidence to support the theory. CYSTIC TUMOURS. A Cyst is defined as a cavity of new formation, or resulting from the ab- normal distension of a natural space, surrounded by a more or less distinct wall, and filled with fluid or semi-solid matter. The wall of a cyst is lined by epithelium or endothelium, or has no definite lining, according to its origin. The accurate classification of cysts is difficult, because conditions which are pathologically similar are clinically spoken of as cysts in some parts of tin- body and not in others. The method usually adopted is that in which they are divided according to their mode of origin, as follows : 1. Cysts arising from the distension of pre-existing spaces. 2. Cysts of new formation. 3. Congenital cysts. 4. Parasitic cysts. 1. Cysts arising from the distension of pre-existing spaces.— These are subdivided into : {cl') Exudation-cysts ; and (&.) Ketention-cysts. {a.) Exudation-Cysts arise from chronic exudation into cavities which are not provided with excretory ducts, as, for instance, the bursie, which often attain a considerable size in these circumstances. Strictly speaking, chronic synovitis, with “ dropsy of the joint,” hydrocele of the tunica vaginalis, and spina bifida, should be included in this class,_ but clinically these affections are never spoken of as cysts. A form of exudation-cyst is sometimes met with in connection with serous and synovial membranes, which arises from a hernial projection of the membrane with subsequent constriction and obliteration of the neck of the protrusion, so that a separate cyst is formed. Some of the evsts met with in the popliteal space, and of those formed in connexion with the sheaths of tendons, or ganglia, are supposed to be formed in this way. Similar cysts are occasionally met with in one of the situations of abdomma hernia, which are evidently formed by the constriction and obliteration o the neck of the sac of the peritoneum, with subsequent exudation into the closed cavity. In cysts formed in connection with synovial membranes or bursae, opaque, white, or yellowish bodies, resembling melon-seeds in size and form, are not unfrequently met with. Sometimes these are attached to the cyst-wall. hj a narrow pedicle, but more often they arc free. They arc supposed to arise m three ways : first, as an outgrowth from the cyst-wall; secondly, by changes taking place in extravasated blood ; and lastly, from a fibrinous exudation from the wall of the cyst. The presence of blood-crystals, winch has been recognized in some cases, proves that they occasionally arise m the second way? The symptoms and treatment of these affections arc described m diseases of bursae (see Vol. II.). , . , , One form of cystic disease of the ovary may be placed under this head, . » arises from dilatation of the Graafian follicles. The cysts are usually nume- rous but do not individually reach any very great size. The) couta’ . serous fluid, and ova have been recognized within them, thus pro\ ing origin. {hi)—Retention Cysts arise from an obstruction to the escape of some