128 SPECIAL AMPUTATIONS. they may be drawn out half an inch or more at eacli dressing, and the project- ing piece cut off. They must on no account be completely removed in order to shorten them, as it would be impossible to replace them. Should pus form in the synovial pouches from failure of the drainage, it will be recognised by the swelling, redness and pain, with fluctuation. A free incision must be made into it as soon as the condition is recognised, or the pus may burst through the limits of the synovial pouch, and burrow up the thigh beneath the vasti. These precautions for drainage are necessary in all amputations in which the synovial pouches are opened. 3. S. Smith, of New York, amputates at the knee by Lateral Flaps in the following way. The incision is commenced about an inch below the tubercle of the tibia, and is carried downwards and backwards over the most prominent part of the side of the leg, until it reaches the under surface, where it is directed towards the median line. When this point is reached, it is carried directly upwards to the centre of the popliteal space. A second incision begins at the same point as the first, and pursues a similar direction on the opposite side of the limb ; the two incisions meeting in the median line behind. The flaps are then raised, the joint opened, and the leg removed. The inner flap should be rather the larger ; and the patella is left. After this amputation, the stump presents the appearance represented in Fig. 75. Amputation through the Condyles may be done by a long posterior or a long anterior flap, including the patella or not; or by a modification of the cir- cular method. Of these, that by the long posterior flap should never be employed, unless, from exceptional circumstances, no other flap can be obtained. Carden of Worcester was the first to employ the method of amputation by the long anterior flap in this situation. He took away the patella and made no posterior flap but subsequent operators have found that without a posterior flap the covering is frequently insufficient. The operation is therefore usually performed