io66 VENEREAL DISEASES. CHAPTER XXXYI. VENEREAL DISEASES. The term Venereal Disease is used to denote those affections which arise primarily from sexual intercourse. It was, until lately, held to include but two distinct specific diseases—Syphilis and Gonorrhoea. The special re- searches of Surgeons in this country and on the continent have, however, in late years, established the fact, that in the term Syphilis there have been included two distinct affections, both communicable by contagion during inter- course, but differing in their characters, and especially in this,—that the one is a purely local affection, while the other not only produces local effects, but, by the introduction of a specific poison into the system, infects the general constitution of the person to whom it is communicated. To the purely local disease the term Local Contagious Ulcer or Chancre may be applied; the word Syphilis being restricted to the constitutional affection. By some writers the term Chancre is limited to the non-infecting sore, but much more commonly it is applied also to that form of the primary manifestation of syphilis in which there is an ulceration at the seat of inoculation. "When used in this way the different forms of sore are distinguished as infecting or non-infecting, syphilitic or simple, hard or soft chancres. Hunter and his followers supposed that all the specific diseases arising from sexual intercourse originated from one and the same poison. But this doctrine has been proved to be erroneous ; for not only are the local appear- ances and constitutional effects of these diseases widely different, but Ricord has shown, in the most conclusive manner, that gonorrhoeal matter, when in- oculated on the skin or mucous membrane, never produces a chancre ; and that, on the other hand, chancrous pus can never be made to produce gonorrhoea. Each of the diseases—Local Contagious Chancre, Syphilis, and Gonorrhoea— propagates itself, and no other. Two of these diseases may, however, co-exist, in the same person. Thus, we shall have occasion to notice the coincidence,in some cases, of the local chancre with the phenomena of constitutional syphilis. Again, Ricord has pointed out, that a woman may at the same time be affected by gonorrhoea and by chancres on the uterus; and this probably explains those cases in which, after connection with the same woman, different men have contracted different forms of disease, or even both affections. In this Chapter, we shall describe—1, the Local Contagious Ulcer or Chancre ; and 2, Syphilis; reserving the consideration of Gonorrhoea till we speak of Diseases of the Urinary Organs.* 1. LOCAL CONTAGIOUS ULCER OR CHANCRE. The Local Contagious Ulcer, Simple Non-infecting Sore or Soft Chancre, is a sore of special form and appearance, characteristic of the nature The student who wishes for further information on Venereal Diseases may refer to the 2m][ of “Syphilis and Local Contagious Disorders,” by Berkeley Hill and Arthur Cooper, m which will he found a complete summary of all that is known up to the present time.