699 CONCUSSION AND ITS CONSEQUENCES. once the brain-substance have been so severely shaken as to render the patient unconscious, even though the insensibility last but a few minutes. All such cases require to be closely watched and carefully managed for months after the injury. The Terminations of concussion are various. We have already seen that in some cases this affection may speedily end in complete recovery ; al- though slight headache, some degree of giddiness, confusion of thought, and inaptitude for mental occupation, may last for a few days before the mental powers are completely re-established. In these it is probable that no coarse lesion of the brain substance has taken place. In other cases, the concussion may rapidly terminate in death, and in these it will always be found that distinct contusion or laceration of the brain substance has occurred. Between these conditions there are several intermediate states. Thus, recovery may be complete, but a permanently irritable state of brain may be left; the patient, though capable of the ordinary duties of life, becoming readily excited by slight excesses in diet or in the use of stimulants, or by mental emotion, though not of an inordinate intensity. Individuals thus affected, suffering from a preternaturally irritable brain, sometimes die suddenly in the course of a few months, or a year or two, after the receipt of the injurv. I11 other cases the recovery continues incomplete; although the patient may be enabled to follow his usual occupation, and to mix in the ordinarv business of life, yet his state is precarious, the brain being liable to the occur- rence of inflammatory disease on the slightest exciting cause. In such cases as these, there is frequently a certain degree of impairment of mental power; the memory failing either generally or in certain important points, as with reference to dates, persons, places, or language. The speech is perhaps indis- tinct and stuttering. Impairment of vision is a very common consequence of these injuries. Asthenopia, with perhaps squinting or paralysis of the eyelid, may be left. The hearing may be impaired, or noises of various kinds set up in the ears. Epileptiform convulsions occasionally occur ; sometimes, as the patient is recovering his consciousness, he may be seized with a severe fit; but more commonly the convulsions do not come on as a primary consequence, but rather as a remote secondary result of the brain-injury. There maybe diminution or loss of muscular and of virile power, especially, as Hennen observes, when the injury has been inflicted upon the back of the head ; and Holberton has noticed that, when the medulla oblongata has been injured, the pulse may continue preternaturally slow—an observation which I have had several opportunities of confirming in injuries both of the medulla, the ports Varoln, and the crura cerebri. For these symptoms to occur, it is by no means necessary that the original local injury should have been severe. In some cases, the whole nervous system appears to be jarred and concussed Mtnout any wound or apparent sign of external injury to the head. At first cue symptoms of concussion are but slight, perhaps even none are apparent, mmf m 8Uierer C011£rafculates himself 011 his escape; but gradually irnpair- men innfpllerV0US P°Wer’ manifestinS itself m one or other of the ways just ed, comes on, and the health continues broken through life. in ;,™Se8’ agaiu’ the symPtoms of concussion may gradually terminate mss rhpIC°^fref10ni and n0t unfreclueutly the reaction that comes on, healthv fnn'r J0UUC S ^bat are necessary for the re-establishment of the healthy f„Mti„us of the brain, terminates in inflammation. Hippocrates