SPECIAL FRACTURES. 614 Stiffness of the knee often remains to a very inconvenient degree after the treatment of a fractured patella. It is usually remedied by friction and manipulation. Thomas asserts that it is better left entirely to nature, and states that he has seen it take two years before useful mobility returned. But should it not yield to these minor means, an apparatus consisting of a thigh-and-leg piece of stiff leather, united by angularly hinged lateral iron rods, and having an india-rubber “ accumulator ” adapted behind, should be worn. The continued traction of the “ accumulator ” will gradually flex the knee. But, as the knee becomes bent, the close union that may have appeared to exist between the fragments gradually yields, and they often gape more or less widely, much to the disappointment of both Surgeon and patient, the ligamentous band stretching like a piece of vulcanized india-rubber. Tins cannot be helped; there is the alternative between a straight and stiff knee with close union, or a flexible and mobile one with gaping of the fragments. After the knee is flexible, lateral hinged splints may be worn without the elastic strap. The limb on recovery is usually perfectly strong, and good for any exercise except jumping. In Simple Comminuted Fractures of the Patella, the result of direct blows or kicks, the fragments are not much separated, and union takes place readily by bone. In these cases, after the inflammation, which usually is rather acute, has subsided, the starched bandage may be applied, and the knee and fragments thus both kept immovable. Compound and Comminuted Fractures of the Patella, especially if occasioned by bullet-wounds, and opening the knee-joint, are always most serious injuries. Under strict antiseptic treatment, howevei, they can usually be saved. The wound should, if necessary, be enlarged, and any loose fragments of bone removed ; the cavity of the joint should then be swinged out°with carbolic-acid-lotion, or some other efficient antiseptic solution. A drainage-tube must then be inserted on the outer side of the joint. This is best done by passing from the wound a pair of sinus forceps, or the finger, if the opening is large enough, and making it project at the lowest possible point on the outer side of the joint ; it may then be cut down upon and the tube passed. The wound must be dressed with some efficient form of antiseptic dressing and absolute rest maintained. A case of this kind in University College Hospital, which was complicated by a fracture of the thigh about the middle on the same side, progressed under carbolic-gauze-dressing exactly like a simple fracture. It was caused by a fall of about thirty feet, the patient coming down upon the bent knee. In the absence of the means of efficiently carrying out this treatment, as must sometimes necessarily be the case m military practice, immediate amputation would be the safest treatment to Necrosis of the Patella as the result of fracture is rare. In one such case which was under my care at the Hospital, the patient, amiddle-agcc man, had met with an ordinary transverse fracture of the patella, which united iy ligament ; two years after the accident, and without any fresh injury, be came to the Hospital, with necrosis of the outer half of the upper fragment, w ni l was completely detached, and lying in a cavity shut off from the joint. cut down upon and removed the necrosed fragment, which appeared to constitute about L quartet of the patella. No cause could be argued for the ueerosis, except defective vascular supply to this part of the bone.