FEMUR, ON TO DORSUM ILII—PATHOLOGY. 673 that he lay on his side on the footboard with his knee against the platform and his back against the carriage. As the carriage slowly moved, his leg became flexed, and the space being insufficient, the head of the bone was pushed out of the socket. Bigelow states that if the femur is flexed at right angles, and thrust directly backwards with sufficient force to dislocate it, the : head will tend to pass between the obturator internus and the pyriformis. At 1 an angle of forty-five degrees, it may be thrust upwards and backwards above the pyriformis. Both these displacements would give rise to the symptoms of dislocation upon the dorsum ilii. I11 extreme flexion, or in cases complicated i by forcible inward rotation, the head tends to pass out beneath the tendon of the obturator internus, and we then have the form of dorsal dislocation formerly described as dislocation into the sciatic notch. Pathological Anatomy.—The capsule is ruptured behind, but the ilio-femoral ligament is intact in all dorsal dislocations. The ligamentum teres is mostly torn, but not necessarily in all. Dupuytren and Stklillot both mention cases of dislocation on the dorsum ilii in which this ligament escaped without rupture. In dislocation on the dorsum ilii, the head will be found lying in a variable position on the ilium, above and behind the acetabulum. The trochanter is directed forwards, being held in that position chiefly by the unruptured external band of the ilio-femoral ligament, which is very tense. The muscles are tom to a varying degree in different cases. Sir Astley Cooper found the gemelli, obturators, aud quadratus, completely torn, and the pecti- neus slightly tom in one case. Syme found the gluteus maximus extensively torn, with the head of the bone imbedded in it; the gluteus minimus, the pyriformis, and the gemellus superior lacerated; and the head of the femur lying upon the gemelli and the great sciatic nerve. MacCarthy has described the appearances in another case. He found the deeper fibres of the gluteus maximus had been tom by the head of the bone, which was lying with its anterior part on the brim of the acetabulum, with the lowermost fibres of the gluteus minimus interposed, and the dimple for the ligamentum teres directed backwards and inwards. The posterior fibres of the gluteus medius were also tom, and the pyriformis, obturator internus, and gemelli muscles had been completely torn from their pelvic attachments. The quadratus femoris was uninjured. The capsule had given way posteriorly ; in front and above it was intact. Although some fibres of the ligamentum teres had been rup- tured, the ligament still resisted all attempts to break it. The ilio-femoral and pubo-femoral bands were uninjured, notwithstanding that the acetabulum had separated into its three component parts, the fracture traversing also the lho-pectineal eminence. The lowermost fibres of the external oblique muscle of the abdomen, and some fibres of the sartorius, psoas magnus, and iliacus internus muscles were also ruptured. In all these cases it is evident that the none had passed out above the obturator; in the last this muscle was torn. In dislocations below the tendon of the obturator internus the position sumer iy the bone is best explained by the accompanying figures taken ' m, °w s woik on the Hip. Fig. 091 shows the normal position of the uscle behind the head and neck of the bone. It is evident that in a state hp-iri ,!v"m 1exinn’ 01 m°dcrate flexion with forcible internal rotation, the „ ■ i t.AVi ^ 1 nadc to pass out beneath the muscle. Immediately after the or in via •10 ,IIn ’ 18 almost invariably extended either in lifting the patient V0L j10* lm on back- The ilio-femoral ligament being untorn, and