633 DISLOCATIONS OF OLD STANDING. • When a dislocation has been left permanently unreduced for a considerable length of time, as for years, the amount of utility in the limb will depend partly on the kind of joint that has been dislocated, partly on the particular variety of dislocation that has occurred. Thus, as a general rule, greater freedom of movement and greater utility of limb will be found in old-standing [dislocations of ball-and-socket than of hinge-joints. But in ball-and-socket joints some dislocations will, if left unreduced, be attended with less evil consequences to the patient than others. Thus, in the subglenoid dislocation of the shoulder and the sciatic of the hip, the limb will recover itself to a greater extent than in the other forms of the same kind of injury affecting these joints. Treatment.—In cases of very old and irremediable unreduced dislocation, much may be done by means of regularly conducted passive movements to increase the mobility of the part, and by means of friction and warm douches to relieve the painful stiffness. In cases not so old, but in which some time has elapsed since the occurrence of the dislocation, two questions always present themselves to the Surgeon :—1. Is it possible to replace the dislocated bone ? 2. Is it desirable or prudent to attempt reduction ? I he possibility of reducing the dislocation will depend partly upon the joint that is dislocated and the nature and extent of the dislocation, but chiefly on the length of time during which the bone has been out of place. Dislocations of the orbicular joints generally can be reduced at a much later period than those of the gingiymoid ; those of the shoulder can be reduced after a longer lapse of time than those of the hip. The subglenoid dislocation ot the shoulder and that of the hip on the dorsum ilii are capable of reduction at a later period than the other luxations of the same joints. The latest period at which reduction is possible has been variously estimated by different Surgeons. Sir A. Cooper gives three months for the shoulder and eight weeks for the hip. As a general statement, this was no doubt tolerably correct at the time when it was made, although reduction had been effected at later periods than those given by Cooper. Thus Breschet reduced a dislocation of the hip at the 78th day, and Travers at the fifth month. But we may now go ar beyond this as the limit of possible reduction. Brodhurst has reduced the shoulder on the 175th day; Smith (U.S.) in one case at the seventh mmth, in another at ten months and a halt; Sedillot one at a year ; Black- rTtmn7?r*V dlslocation of «* ft®® « u* dorsum ilii. at sis months, clEn i ?“'w t °7 at 0Tel' Six months-in a k°y> and this without patholoafcal tt’nT the. a*ar*?n °f old-standi”S dislocations are rather m “ mlte Pf',J8l0l0f“1;™' 7“ »s “>oase »f recent displace- rfTe' ,S , I”01 k7,S;-’- The PmvcrM contraction taken phee t I'm “US°le? ; 2' The organic changes that have formed in t|1P ,™ mnsc*cs Pal'tly from the contraction of the cicatricial tissue i»i™7 and n f P7 2? '‘TT™ wl>ich occurred at the time of the muscles to the in/fT w- shortening that has taken place to adapt the form betweenwil ?f “if lf'd of thc b»“o i 8. Adhesions that the bone • 4. T nfi.i ,a 11 " and the muscles and the displaced head of articulating surfaces’ 111,!! T*0 roniote cffocfc>. pathological changes in the the socket shallowed t- SC,V(jS’ W1,cl1 tlieir shape becomes altered and shallowed, contracted, and perhaps ultimately obliterated.