GENERAL REMARKS ON OPERATIONS. 20 peated it on several of Ids patients. Its success was not, however, constant; and having failed in several cases, he seems to have given up the attempt. In 184(5 Dr. Morton, a dentist, and a pupil of "Wells, used the vapour of ether instead of the nitrous oxide gas ; and, having succeeded in extracting several teeth painlessly, applied to the authorities of the Massachusetts General Hospital at Boston for permission to administer it to a man from whom Dr. J. C. Warren was about to remove a tumour of the neck. The result was most successful. The news of this great discovery was immediately sent to England, where the first operations on patients anaesthetised by the inhalation of ether, were performed at the University College Hospital by Liston, who amputated a thigh and tore out an ingrowing toe-nail without any suffering to the patient. At these operations I was present ; they were performed on Dec. 22, 1846 ; and from that time the use of anaesthetics has been established in surgical practice in every civilised country. For more than a year, sulphuric ether was the only agent habitually used for inducing anaesthesia. But during the whole of this period many profes- sional men were busy with experiments on the anaesthetic influence of various kinds of vapours ; and in November, 1847, Professor Simpson, of Edinburgh, published an account of the anaesthetic properties of chloroform. In this country this agent soon came to be generally employed, although ether held its ground with the American surgeons, by most of whom it has always been preferred to chloroform. , The employment of Anaesthetics in Surgery is undoubtedly one of the greatest boons ever conferred upon mankind. To the patient it is invaluable in preventing the occurrence of pain, and to the Suigeon in relieving him from the distress of inflicting it. Anaesthesia is not, however, an unmixed o-ood. Every agent by which it can be induced produces a powerful impres- sion on the system, and may occasion dangerous consequences when too freely or carelessly given ; and, even with every possible care, it appears certain that the inhalation of any aims the tic agent is in some cases almost inevitably fatal. We cannot purchase immunity from suffering without incurring a certain degree of risk from the very agent which gives us ease. There can be little doubt that many of the deaths that have followed the in- halation of Anaesthetics have resulted from want of knowledge or of due care on the part of the administrators; yet, whatever precautions be taken, there is reason to fear that a fatal result must occasionally happen. 11ns immediate risk, which is very small, is more than counterbalanced by the immunity from other dangers which used formerly to occur during 1 There is, however, another question in relation to Anaesthetics which deserves the most serious consideration on the part of the Surgeon ; viz., o they influence the rate of mortality after operations ? On this point there is conflicting testimony. Simpson has published statistics to show that the mortality after operations has lessened since the introduction of chloro oim. J Arnott, on the other hand, adduces figures to prove that it has material > increased, in amputation by 12, in lithotomy by as much as 28 per cent I •» inclined to believe that the rate of mortality has increased since the use of Anesthetics in operative surgery. But is this increase a toother, oi 111^^ to any decree, due to any effect produced on the system by the inha a Anesthetics ? Is it not in reality rather the indirect than the direct result