EXPERIMENTS ON ANIMALS. 465 CHAPTER XVII. ENTRANCE OF AIR INTO VEINS. The Entrance of Air into a Wounded Vein, though an accident of rare occurrence, is one that occasions such peculiar and alarming- symptoms, that it becomes necessary to be acquainted with the circumstances attending it ; and its study is the more interesting to the practical Surgeon, as it is chiefly in the course of operations that this condition occurs. . du slu’g'ical practice, we meet only with spontaneous admission of air into the circulation. This was first observed in the year 1818, in a case in which the internal jugular vein was opened during the removal of a large tumour from the right shoulder by Beauchesne. The investigation of this subject is con- sequently a comparatively recent matter, in which the labours of the Commis- sioners of the French Academy are conspicuous, and the names of Mao-endie Amussat, Cormack, and Wattruann are distinguished. Results oe Experiments on Animals.-As cases of entry of air into the vems occur comparatively seldom in man, it is necessary to study the phenomena accompanying it on the lower animals. It has long been known to physiobgists that the forcible introduction of air into the circulation would kill an animal; and Morgagni, Valsalva, Bichat, and Nysten have made this a subject of observation and experiment. The death of the animal in these earns appears to be dependent partly on the quantity of air injected and nartlv on he rapditj with which it is thrown in! Bichat supposed Thai2 feht^'tat tHs°ithe CkCUlati0n ™6d the “i™1 the rapidit/of nanminb , but this is erroneous, as shown by Nvsten T A „ J , occasions injected two or three cubic inches of air into the juguL reinT/a with 1 • <?ufc pi0ducins death, though much distress resulted. The raniditv r“i?horir " nn iU eXei'dSeS a COnsiderabIe influence u^e an^Wfl!^^ quickly,_a small quantity may kill; if thrown in slowly rLTwirsxr^dS1’1 hare " the a place whereIhe fliu'and reflux^'f IT' ^ n6Ck’ and Pun°turing it at perceived in lito ?°C 810 plail^ discernible, there is peculiar lappin' ortZS ft ^ ^ the animal aftel’ ™und, a depending partly on the Vo0 Til ,lsswS sound ; the nature of the sound the same tta a TVhlwV f ““ 81lUat,on of the opening i„ the vessel. At orifice in the vein m,e Tf “ 7"*.* be with blood at the struggle during the deen, • 1<l,,ce 0 10 ah' is immediately followed bv a admittance, teeutacf'ZZV^T ° whioh> quantities of air gain above described. On l,vc ■ aC 1 P01 1011 beuif? attended by the peculiar sound v°l. i. ln§ no'v i° i'de action of the heart, a loud churning u Ii