01 . SPECIAL AMPUTATIONS. A04 jn secondary amputations, and in those for disease, pyaemia, erysipelas, and exhaustion arc the usual causes of death. . . TTrvnnr third Max Schede gives the following statistics for civil practice : Uppa third for injury, 78' cases, 57 deaths, or 78‘0 per cent. ; for disease 42 cases, 1j deaths or 35-7 per cent. ; middle third, for injury, 67 cases 50 deaths, or 74 per cent.for disease, 137 cases, 55 deaths, or 40-1 per cent. ; lower thud for injury 147 cases, 74 deaths, or 50 per cent. ; for disease, 20o cases, 64 deaths or 31‘2 per cent. The military statistics (excluding the French cases) for all amputations of the thigh show the following results. 1 mnai) o . per cent, of deaths ; intermediate, 72 per cent. ; secondary, 6 J 6 pei cent time not stated, 84’9 per cent. The combined statistics of Busch, boom, Schede and Yolkmann of cases treated antiseptically, excluding all complicate 1 oases ai^as follows :—For injury, 23 cases, 5 deaths: 3 from shock, 1 from tetanus and 1 from septicaemia. For disease, 63 cases, 1 death from secondai \ K Those of Bardeleben, Billroth, and Bruns, from _ the pre- antiseptic "period, all complicated cases being excluded, are : for injury, -4 ' \ 4 deaths 6 from pyaemia, 5 from septicaemia, 1 from exhaustion, and die81 cases, 20 deaths 20 from pyremia 1 from exhaustion, 4 ’from septicaemia, 1 from secondary haemorrhage, and 8 from t:i ~r ^ IS with°ergotism, whose lower extremities had had separated at the hip-jomt, smvrved ;and,Xault of St. tet successful ampitation » ‘J3 ^ in England by Kerr of Maine. In the next year, 1. hip-disease and lumbar abscess. r ^ SiS a case dt the pati^d 47 day, Sd °thus its practicability was demons^.JjTEt’" has become^ an^tabli^reYone 'in drgmal pmctice, civil as wellas » Sr: JS Peninsular war a year previously. performed in a variety of Amputation at the hip-jomt may e au ‘' convenient operations are ways, which it is not necessary to detail. T e most antero- those by making a large posterior flaps is the easiei and mo A . posterior one from the and thick anterior flap by ‘ Iu order to perform this operation gluteal region and back part of the tln0 . forward upon the edge of properly, the patient’s body must be broug 1 steadied by strong the table, so that the nates project bgyo.« ; ™ high'and the bandages. One of these must be passed molh‘ sh„„,d be perinmum, and attached to the nppei cm .he sound limb must be tied to carried across the pelvis to the lower ^‘^X^Sdttaeu lv arrested the leg of the table. The circulation tl.rough the Umb , restrain t,ic by one of the means described on ld>.4-l,4, ; oration of its circulation through the lower extremities, thus depi in= 1