INJURIES OF THE HEAD. 73$ those of depressed and comminuted fracture. Even though several days have elapsed and inflammation has set in, the proper treatment will be to remove the depressed and splintered bone, and thus give the patient his only chance— a slender one, it is true—of recovery. In such adverse circumstances the patient may, however, he saved. A man was admitted undoi Liston viih a long depressed fracture on the side of the head, produced by the blow of a brickbat; though no sign of compression existed, yet symptoms of cerebral inflammation were speedily set up, and Liston trephined him on the fourth day after the accident ; the man, who was perfectly conscious, walking into the operating theatre. A considerable splintering of the inner table was found, the fragments of which were removed. The dura mater having been punctured by one of the spicula of bone, diffuse suppuration of the membranes of the brain set in, and the patient died in a few days. In this case, howe\ er, the necessity for early trephining was clearly indicated, notwithstanding the absence of any symptom of compression. The Ultimate Results of Fracture of the Skull in those who recover will more or less closely resemble the conditions given at p. 718, as the conse- quences of contusion of the cranium without fracture. Epilepsy was \en frequent in the American war cases ; so also partial or complete loss of vision was one of the common sequences of such injuries. When deafness occurred, it was generally connected with impairment of other special senses, and often of the mental faculties. When a depressed fracture of the skull is complicated with a ±-racture or other Injury of the Spinal Column, it is sometimes difficult to know which symptoms are due to the one accident, and which to the or ei. In such a case as this, however, we should, I think, treat the depressed fracture irrespectively of the spinal injury, thus giving the patient a chance of recovery, of prolongation of hfe, or, at least, of return of con- sciousness before death. A man was admitted under my care into the Hospital, with depressed fracture of the left parietal bone, and injury of the cervical spine, the precise nature of which could not be accurately determine . He was in a state of complete coma and paralysis. I trephine skull and elevated the depressed portion of bone ; he recovered his. con- sciousness to a great degree, but died in a few days apparently fromjnjray to the spine. On examination after death, we found a fracture of the httli cervical vertebra. INJURIES OF THE CONTENTS OF THE CRANIUM. Wounds of the Brain and its Membranes are frequent in injuries o the head, and are among the most important complications of these aceulcn • The extent of injury inflicted upon the cerebral substance has wie » from slight laceration without exposure, to denudation of the brain, dism 0 tion, and escape of large portions of its substance. . rri Causes.—Injury to the brain may be occasioned m various ua ^ simplest form is, perhaps, that which is frequently met ui Ig. le fracture of the skull and sometimes happens without fracture, the laceration of the cerebral subst^ o^ in most cases on the side of the head opposite to that on applied, usually at a point exactly opposite to that struck; much less treque