233 VARIETIES OF ABSCESS. discharges itself. Though acute abscesses, if left to themselves, usually run this course and burst through the skin, the mucous or serous surfaces, or even into the interior of joints, yet some collections of pus, if very deeply seated, cannot find their way to the surface, but extend through the areolar planes of the limb in a lateral direction, burrowing and undermining the parts to a great extent : or, if situated in dense and unyielding structures, as in bone, are imprisoned within a case through which they may be unable to penetrate ; in other rare instances, the pus becomes absorbed, and the abscess disappears. After an abscess has burst or has been evacuated, its walls contract and become corrugated, and the cavity is gradually closed by a process of repair identical with the healing of a wound by granulation (See Process of Repair, p. 277). In some cases, however, the cavity does not completely close, but contracts into a narrow canal forming a sinus or fistula (p. 252). Diffuse Abscess is a term which has been incorrectly used to describe a rapid formation of pus in the areolar tissue, as the result of a spreading or infective inflammation. In a true abscess the pus is collected in a cavity and it results from a localised source of irritation; in diffuse suppuration the cause is either some readily diffusible and irritating chemical substance, as the products of decomposition, which spreads widely amongst the lymph-spaces of the areolar tissue, or some infective poison which multiplies and extends amongst the living tissues and is always associated with the presence of microscopic organisms. Hence the pus often spreads widely, and there may be extensive destruction of parts before it is discovered. A particular variety of this form of abscess is the Puerperal, occurring in women after parturition in various parts of the body, especially in the iliac fossa, in the areolar planes of the thigh or in the joints, and in the adipose tissue of the orbit, often destroying the globe of the eye. To these forms of the disease the Metastatic Abscesses are closely allied. They commonly occur as conse- quences of pyamiia, and will be more fully described with that disease. They may be very numerous, and are met with in the substance of organs as well as m the areolar tissue and joints. The last three species of abscess are varieties 1 OT r,hp nnnra tm-m Chronic Abscesses, or as they are sometimes called Cold Abscesses, are p 7eiy C°mmon occurrence, and arise under somewhat various conditions. ■ rhaps the most typical form is that which is so commonly met with in connection with diseased bones, especially the bodies of the vertebras In withdeTof^ ’“if6 C,0mMTf with chronic inflammation and possibly Fr 1 tb? f 1 1 T °f fche b0Ue’ around which pus is slowly formed. C'ivTv for Tf V° u PUS’88 ifc inC1'eaSeS in fluantifcy’ slo% makes a irritation cnuTo ’lf fTlg ^ the direcfclon of least resistance. The from oraaniZR J f ^ pus’ which i!1 such ^ses is always free melr Zr 1 ^ lmnTifcafcin8,> is » slight that the surrounding leucocvtiZ^f becommS soffceued by infiltration with migrating and mrtlv bv fb an acu e abscess, becomes consolidated partly by compression distinctness fs f ° "Zi1 UGW dbro.us fcissue, till a wall of such density and Such an nbsn . 01T iat ^ Can be dissected °nt like that of a cyst (Fig. 91). from its oiao-in”^ I °!-y ex*:ends and may burrow to a considerable distance the fascia benow]S ^ r|'be course it follows is determined first by the iascia beneath which it may be burrowing. As a general rule it does not