403 THE ACTUAL CAUTERY—DIRECT PRESSURE. C&Z Fig. 137.—A fresh Artery from the dead body, cauterized—showing the firm adherent eschar. cautery blocks up the artery by a thick slough or eschar (Fig. 137), there is always some danger of a recurrence of the bleeding when it separates, and the Surgeon must be on his guard about the sixth or eighth day lest the haemorrhage break out afresh. In some cases, however, in which the cautery has been experimentally applied to the cut end of an artery removed from a fresh dead body, it has been found that the eschar is formed of the charred and shrivelled external coat only, the inner and middle coats being separated and turned up into the lumen of the artery. This result, however, does not seem to be constant. The actual cautery has been frequently employed of late years during operations on very vascular parts in which temporary arrest of the circulation is im- possible. It has been used chiefly in two ways : first as the galvanic ecraseur, and secondly as a red-hot knife. The galvanic ecraseur is simply a loop of platinum-wire which can be heated by electricity after being passed round the part to be removed. During the operation the loop is gradually tightened, by a screw in the handle of the instrument, until the part is removed. Operations performed in this way are almost bloodless; but the instrument, with its battery, is veiy cumbersome, its action is not certain, and secondary haemorrhage is common after its use; consequently it is now but little em- ployed. Its place has been taken by Paquelin’s red-hot knife. This is a flattened hollow blade with blunt edges, made of platinum, and fixed on a handle connected by an India-rubber tube with a bottle containing benzol The knife is fiist made red-hot in a spirit lamp, and its heat is maintained bv blowing a mixture of air and benzol-vapour into the hollow blade by means of an elastic ball. The benzol-vapour burns without flame, and the heat can be maintained at any point that is required by driving in a larger or smaller amount of vapour. Care must be taken not to allow any of the liquid benzol to get into the tube, or a flame would flash from the instrument ; this is best avoided by filling the bottle with pieces of sponge. The blade can be replaced if necessary by cauteries of various shapes. In removing very vascular growths, such as an epithelioma of the vulva, the knife, if at a glowino- red heat, arrests the flow of blood from the smaller vessels, only leaving the laro-er arteries spou ting from a perfectly dry surface, and they can thus be seized and M wrthout difficulty or, if preferred, touched with the cautery at alfl^d slonthil if r. ,18 ®perfl0,ally ohalTetl> and heals with little or no 11 'l,J desired t0 ™st the flow of all vessels completely the mtcCy “d * » “ h“t! “ “««<* more s.owlyU dram anttfafhJm^wf «"* is a ™7 mode of ilWrffcu*' T ;“*• K iB not’ ho're™'> applicable to jaecnt tolt 0 , ft? ! * "“Ti7 that tlle ressel should have a bone snb- be employed in'soft ?" 8 H n cm’nterpressure; hence it cannot readily may be Sj„ P““ .the th«»‘ <* perinteum. Pressure bandage is sufficient tnllVTtl ' "’"Otmiea the noiform compression of a may often be stoimoil bv ,“nes J*10 bmmorrhage; thus oozing from a wound tightly over them a ' allng ' ' ^ flaps’ alld applying a bandage rather b . them. Sometimes a weight applied upon this-as, for instance, D D 2