TREATMENT OF CONCUSSION. 7°7 tenderness, give unmistakable evidence of the formation of secondary abscesses. The prognosis of these cases is necessarily most unfavourable. I doubt much whether recovery is possible when once pyaemia has advanced to the formation of secondary visceral abscesses. Treatment.—The treatment of these various cerebral injuries, and of their concomitant affections, is one of the most important and difficult subjects that can arrest the Surgeon’s attention; the difficulty depending in a great measure on the various conditions that have just been described not occurring in prac- tice with that amount of distinctness and particularity by which alone their characters can be conveyed in description, but being associated together in such a way that the exact state of the patient cannot so readily be made out. There are few cases, indeed, in which practical tact and a nice discrimination and analysis of symptoms are more required than in those now under consideration. It would, however, be useless to attempt to describe the shades and modifica- tions of treatment required in the management of the different groupings of these various forms of traumatic cerebral disturbance. We must, therefore, content ourselves with describing the treatment of each state broadly and separately, and leave the consideration of the varieties that commonly present themselves in practice to the discretion of the Surgeon. In the Treatment of Concussion, the first great indication is to re- establish the depressed energies of the circulation and of the nervous system. In effecting this, we must be careful not to overstimulate the patient. The safest practice is that which is applicable to the treatment of shock generally —to wrap the patient up warmly in blankets, to put hot bottles around him, or to employ frictions to the surface, and, when he is sufficiently recovered, to allow him to swallow a small quantity of warm tea. Alcoholic stimulants of all kinds should be avoided, unless the dejrression of the nervous energ'v be so great that reaction cannot be brought about without their agency t but an enema containing some ether or aromatic spirits of ammonia may be administered. When reaction has come on, steps should be taken to prevent the occurrence of inflammatory mischief. If the concussion have been slight, it may be quite sufficient to purge the patient well, and to keep him quiet on a regulated diet for a few days, directing him carefully to avoid all alcoholic stimulants and mental exertion for some time. If the concussion have been more severe, and if the symptoms of reaction have been accompanied by indications of ’con- tinuous cerebral disturbance, or have been followed by giddiness, headache or confusion of thought, the safer plan wifi be to adopt immediate steps for the prevention of further mischief. Venesection used formerly to be extensively practised as a precautionary measure, in order to prevent undue reaction and inflammatory mischief following on head-injuries. Perhaps our predecessors erred m the too frequent and liberal use of the lancet in these cascs-I believe that Surgeons of the present day are too sparing in its use. In the young and robust the best possible effects follow venesection in head-injuries, to the extent of from 12 to 16 ounces. In children, leeches advantageously take the place le ance . ihe patient should be freely purged, kept on a low diet, and, above all, should remain quiet in bed for some days. Should impairment of the mental faculties or senses be left, the more pru- plan wlU be t0 have recourse to a mild antiphlogistic treatment, con-