MECHANISM OF FRACTURES OF TIIE BASE. 721 across to the base of the skull, after running through the petrous portion of the temporal hone or into the foramen magnum. 2. It may also possibly take place as the result of contrecoitp, the blow being received on the forehead, back, or side of the head, and the jar of the bones expending its greatest violence on and fracturing the base of the skull; and 3, by the impact of the spine against the condyles of the occipital bone causing a fracture that radiates from the foramen magnum. This kind of fracture of the bone is well illustrated by the annexed cuts (Figs. 310, 311), taken from patients of mine who fell from a height on the head. The effects will vary according to the character of the Fig. 310.—Splintering of edges of the Fora- men Magnum and Radiating Fracture of . Base of Skull from FaU on Vertex. Fig. 311.—Fracture of Base By Fall on Vertex. Both Condyles Broken off and driven in. Vertex ivas fissured. surface on which the person falls. If it be hard, as stone, the vertex will be smashed in, and if there be fracture of the base, it will be occasioned in the first way. If the head strike soft ground, the body will be violently projected against the base of the skull, and this variety of fracture may be occasioned by the force of the impact ; and it has occurred as the consequence of alighting- on the feet from a great height, when the shock has fissured the occipital bone from the edge of the foramen magnum outwards. One great danger in these cases arises from the concomitant injury to the brain, either by direct lacera- tion or by the extravasation of blood 011 its under surface. The important nervous centres that lie directly upon the parts of the skull that are broken are specially liable to injury, and free haemorrhage often takes place from a torn sinus or a ruptured cerebral artery. Another danger of equal importance is septic meningitis, which lulls a considerable number of these cases. Its occur- IZXl 'Y the facfc fchat a ver^ lar8'e Proportion of all fractures of with w°f he/uU are ?0mP0Und- AU cases wh|ch implicate the tympanum i-upture of t ic membrana tympani, all those which fracture the basilar thoseTmnll 1ar Y mU<;0US membrane afc the uPPer part of the pharynx, and all are coi2m/ Y 8pheno,ldal smus and ^e cribriform plate of the ethmoid iniuries aro i;., t Y'0 aY are exPoscd to all the accidents to which those V0L \ 1 e- A good example of the way in which such injuries may 3 A