THE STARCHED BANDAGE. 5*5 application of the apparatus, and thus exerts a gentle uniform elastic pressure, holding the fragments in position. As swelling subsides, it is lemoved, its edges pared, fresh cotton-wool put in, and it is then re-applied. I ho plaster of Paris bandage takes an actual cast of the injured limb ; it is not intended to exert any pressure—in fact, if applied in such a way as to do so, it is a dangerous application, and it cannot be removed and re-applied. The Starched Bandage.—The following is the mode of applying this apparatus that is adopted at the University College Hospital, and which will be foimd to answer well. The whole limb is enveloped, as recommended by Burggraeve, of G-hent, in a thick layer of cotton-wadding, thickest along and over the osseous prominences ; this, being elastic, accommodates itself to the subsequent diminution in size of the limb, and keeps up more equable pressure. Pig. 177.—Application of Seutin’s Pliers to Starched Bandage. Over the cotton-wadding are laid splints of thick and coarse pasteboard soaked m thm starch, properly shaped to fit the limb. The pasteboard should be soft, not milled, and be doubled and torn down, not cut, as in this way the edges are not left sharp. If much strength be not required, as in children, or in some fractures of the upper extremity, a few slips of brown paper, well starched, may be substituted for the pasteboard. A bandage saturated with thick starch is now firmly applied; and lastly, this is covered by another dry roller, the inner sides of the turns of which may be starched as it is laid on. I he bandages must be applied with sufficient force to compress the mass ot cotton-wool surrounding the limb. There is no danger of constric- Use.^' bandaSe must °u any account be applied hnnrin 1 a Pjlstcboard splints. Both the pasteboard splints and the starched , &0 s.ou . always include the two joints above and below the fracture, so wj* 'mmobiliLy °f the fragments may be secured : the hip and knee 10 !g i is broken ; the knee and ankle when the leg is fractured. L L 2