ARREST OF ARTERIAL HAEMORRHAGE. 398 conical shape ; but in some eases 1 liavc seen tlic contraction commence suddenly, the narrowed part being perfectly cylindrical for about an inch. The next change observable is the decolourized ion of the clot. T1 n's commences at the part which is in contact with the injured end of the vessel and gradually extends upwards. The red corpuscles in the clot break up and are absorbed, leaving a firm fibrinous plug closely adherent to the inner coat of the artery. This process of decolourization is accompanied by still further shrinking ol the clot. It is usually completed in about a week. The ultimate changes consist in a gradual absorption of the internal coagulum, with development of cicatricial fibrous tissue for a greater or less distance from the divided end, the ai tery being for a corresponding distance converted into a dense fibrous coid. In some cases the complete obliteration of the vessel reaches as high as the next branch ; but in others an extremely narrow channel may be found extending some distance into the contracted part of the vessel. If these processes be followed microscopically in specimens obtained at different periods from animals, the following appearances may be observed. The first exudation which forms at the cut end of the artery and infiltrates the base of the clot differs in no respect from the early exudation in union o a wound by first intention ; it is composed of migrated white corpuscles entangled in the meshes of coagulated fibrine. This exudation commences immediately after the injury. By the third day the base of the dot will be more extensively decolourized and the microscope shows that this is due to the o-rowth of new cells which have occupied the place previously filled by the lower part of the clot. The origin of these new cells has been a matter of dispute. Those which infiltrated the base of the clot in the first ^enty-four hours are undoubtedly migrated corpuscles; but it seems piobable that as soon as the artery has recovered from the damage done it by the wound, o-rowth commences from the endothelial cells of the inner coat Iheseait described by Oornil and Ranvier as multiplying rapidly and penetratinginto the substance of the clot in bud-like processes. Whatever the source of the new cells may be, this much is certain : that by the end of a lew day, the endothelium can no longer be recognized at the paid where> they uegiow nnd the new tissue replacing the clot is m direct contact uith the elastic layers of the inner coat. The mass of cells thus formed is soon penetrated by ne that the lumen of the artery for a variable distance ^f Uic msmsm is