WOUNDS OF SPECIAL BLOOD-VESSELS. 45^ In some cases, however, the state of the parts may be such, that it may be impossible to trace the artery at the depth at which it is situated, or even to expose it in a more superficial situation, as in the stump after amputation at the shoulder-joint. In these circumstances, the rule of ligaturing an artery at the seat of inj ury may he departed from, and the main trunk should be tied either above or below the clavicle ; and the success of this operation has been snfficicnt to justify our having recourse to it, rather than exhaust the patient by any prolonged attempts at the ligature of the vessel in the open wound, though I think that this ought first to be attempted. Of 15 cases in which the artery was ligatured either above or belowr the clavicle, for haemorrhage from wounds in the axilla or from stumps, I find that 9 wrere cured and 6 died. Although the success is about equal in whichever situation the vessel be tied, I should certainly give the preference to the supraclavicular operation, owing to the greater facility of its performance, and the comparative absence of. collateia branches at the seat of ligature. In some cases, however, especially after amputations at the shoulder, the clavicle is pushed up at its acromial end, and then the artery might be best reached below the clavicle, under or through the pectoral muscles. Traumatic Aneurism in the Axilla is not of unfrequent occurrence, arising from gun-shot-wounds, or from the thrust of a knife, sabre, oi other pointed weapon. In some cases the injury arises from a subcutaneous rupture of the vessel, the patient stretching out and straining his arm m an attempt to save himself from falling, and feeling a sudden snap in the axilla, which is followed rapidly by the formation of a diffused aneurism. There are several cases on record in which axillary aneurism has resulted from violent attempts made by Surgeons in the reduction of old-standing dislocations of the head of the humerus. Thus Pelletan mentions a case ot this kind, in which the tumour, being supposed to be emphysematous, was opened, and the patient perished of haemorrhage. Warren relates a case ot diffused axillary aneurism resulting from rupture of the artery, in consequence of the Surgeon attempting to reduce a dislocation, of the humerus by using his foot as a fulcrum in the axilla, but without taking off his boot. ^ son has related three cases of axillary aneurism following rupture of the artery, m the attempt to reduce old-standing dislocations with the pulleys. These cases are of much interest to the Surgeon, as showing the necessity for great caution in the use of powerful extending force m the reduction o o i u- locations, adhesions having possibly formed between the artery and head i LhIn°those cases of diffused traumatic aneurism of the axilla that arise from subcutaneous rupture or laceration of the artery, the con i 1011 0 P^r s essentially the same as in the case of an open wound of the a esse , w u exception of the absence of any external aperture in the mtegumen s. cases a tumour of considerable size, hard or fluctuating, according o of coagulation of its contents, forms with more or less lapidi \. formed very quickly, the artery being torn across, and it is effused, it will not present the ordinary aneunsmal signs, •. • resemble an ordinary extravasation; from, this, however, it may be d, t - lathed by the loss of the pulse at the wrist, and by the oedema of the arm. If Uform s owly, the blood continuing fluid, there will be the usual stgno LutSnTsulh m thrill, and pulsation. In all these oases, there » much