LOCAL TREATMENT OF LNFLAMM.ATION. 203 rhage from the bite ; should there be any difficulty, continued pressure with some scraped lint, felt, matico, or powdered alum, will generally succeed. If this do not, which may happen in some situations where pressure cannot be conveniently applied, as on the neck and abdomen, particularly in young- children, a piece of nitrate of silver scraped to a point, or a heated wire, intro- duced into the bite, previously wiped dry, or a needle with a twisted suture over and around it, may be required. Cupping may be either “ wet ” or “ dry ” ; dry cupping consists of the application of the cupping glasses to the skin without making any previous scarifications. It is a means of causing a determination of blood to the surface for the purpose of diminishing the flow to an internal organ. Thus in congestion of the kidneys following an operation 011 the urethra or bladder, dry cupping in the loins is often of considerable use. It is employed especially in those patients whose constitutional state does not justify the abstraction of blood. The instruments required are a spirit lamp with a large flame, and the cupping glasses. These are made of thick glass and are dome-shaped with smoothly-ground edges. The operation consists merely of rarifying the air in the cupping glass by means of the flame of the spirit lamp, and in- stantly applying the glass firmly and evenly to the skin. The intention is not to heat the glass but the air contained in it, and in fact to a great extent to replace the air by the products of combustion of the flame of the lamp. It is for this reason that a large flame completely filling the glass should be used. If the operation be properly performed the site of the glass will be marked by a bruise due to the rupture of the capillary vessels in the area included in the vacuum. In wet cupping the glass is applied in the same way over a number of superficial incisions which are made instantaneously by the “ scarificator ” an instrument provided with a number of parallel knives worked by a spring and released by a trigger. The quantity of blood extracted is regulated by e size of the glass, and the flow from the superficial wound ceases the moment 1 is removed. Cupping cannot, however, be employed upon the inflamed utace itself on account of the pain and irritation that it would occasion, and consequen. y chiefly applicable to internal inflammations. As the scars mactised Scarificfors continue through life, cupping should not be piactised upon exposed surfaces. tbenni .** ?*,SuppIy °f 18100,1 from «* Mmed p«t by the ligature of uflZatl™ Jf "f ? 11 haS been ad»Pted “ -*8' Thus,In acute for d iafl° ’ .6 mT of ,the limb has be« tied-the femoral, most patients H m 'be knee-joint. By many Surgeons, and by the cure of ™h,vj? !'e,nedlr wouhl be considered far worse than the disease for Luc cure of winch it is proposed. He has for ,lecomni®uc^ digital pressure on the arteries in inflammation, relieved bv hvtT r ^ ^ a,Case of severe acufcc inflammation of the hand, Neudorfer snmi-1 "i • 1°llrs continuous pressure on the brachial artery. afl others in effiracvgrcnrl°f-fche proceedin§'> which he regards as surpassing treatment. Ho • cnde*mS even unnecessary the ordinary antiphlogistic not more than .rc,<:®]nmenClS intermittent pressure for not less than three, and plicable to infi,,1 [■mumtes fcin'ce or four times a day. The method is ap- though we m.iv w ,0U of.my part o:f: winch the artery is within reach ; and, ‘ y o go so lar with Neudorfer as to suppose that it obviates all