639 CONGENITAL DISLOCATIONS. considerable length of time, so as to give the ligaments of the joint a chance of recovery. If there be a rheumatic tendency, it should be removed by suitable treatment; and if there be a paralytic condition ot the muscles, electricity and cold douches with friction may be advantageously employed. Congenital Dislocations are occasionally met with in the hip, shoulder, wrist, and jaw, and have of late years attracted the attention of Surgeons through the labours of Guerin, Smith, Chelius, Robert, and others. These dislocations are allied in cause and nature with other congenital defor- mities of the limbs, such as club-foot, &c. In them there is usually found arrested or imperfect development of some portions of the osseous articular apparatus. Whether this is original, thus causing the displacement of the bones, or consecutive upon disuse, occasioned by spasmodic action of one set of muscles or by paralysis of another, dependent on some irritation in the nervous centres, is scarcely worth inquiring here. In some cases it would appear as if faulty position of the foetus in utero, or undue violence during birth, may have occasioned the displacement. These dislocations are probably incurable, as there is always congenital defect of structure in the articular ends of the bones, or of the socket into which they are received. There is a peculiar form of dislocation which I have once, and only once, met with in a child, otherwise perfectly healthy, 12 years of age, and which had some resemblance to the congenital form. It was a dislocation of the head of the radius backwards, in consequence of want of development of the lower third of the ulna. In this case the radius was nearly two inches longer than the ulna. The want of development in the latter bone prevented the proper growth of the forearm; and the radius consequently, after having become slightly curved, became slowly, but completely, dislocated at its humeral end. All the movements of the bone, however, were perfect.