175 LOCAL SIGNS OF INFLAMMATION. shown to be constantly present in the inflamed area. This is the case in cutaneous erysipelas, spreading gangrene, malignant pustule, glanders, &c. On the other hand, no definite organisms have as yet been discovered in many other distinctly infective processes, as syphilis and soft chancres, and it is open, therefore, to suppose that in these cases the poison may be an unorganised ferment. When a definite organism is constantly found associated with a specific form of inflammation, and when it retains its power of inducing a similar inflammatory process if inoculated into a healthy animal, even after being cultivated in artificially prepared solutions for one or two generations, the organism may fairly be presumed to be the direct cause of the inflammatory process, and the exact mode in which it acts, though of great interest scien- tifically, is of little importance to the practical surgeon, and need not be discussed here. Such an organism is the bacillus anthracis of splenic fever in cattle, and malignant pustule in man; and as this disease serves as a type of such processes, the reader is referred to the chapter on malignant pustule for fuller information. Inflammation is also divided into acute and chronic, according to its intensity and duration. The symptoms, terminations and effects that have already been described are those which characterise the more acute and ordinary forms of the process. Chronic inflammation will be described in a subsequent pai t of this chapter. So-called catarrhal inflammation will also be described separately. Phlegmonous is a term applied to an acute inflammation in which the cardinal symptoms—redness, swelling, heat and pain—are well marked. Inflammations of organs are also divided into interstitial and parenchy- matous. By the former term is meant that the process is either limited to ox- most marked in the interstitial fibrous tissue of the organ; by the latter that the special structures, as the epithelium of glands, are the primary seat of the morbid process, such change as there may be in the interstitial tissues beino- secondary. <=> Croupous inflammation is a term applied to the process when it is accompanied by a firmly coagulated fibrinous exudation, either on the surface of a membrane or the spaces of its tissue. The Local Signs of inflammation may be referred to five heads: viz 1. Alteration in Colour; 2. Alteration in Size; 3. Modification of Sensation- Thffirslf °f T7T UVe\ aUd 5‘ Modification of Function of the Part Affected t ore u Dolore -. Celsus), have been described from time immemorial as the °f inflammati0- Certain of these condit”t oc^rn- inflammation b^ftT/*7 he™°M.toSefcher> without the existence of distinctly k, ,, ! 5“ peCullfir Sronpmg together of them all that most relative Lcnsftfnf i f Pm5enCe °f this Pathological condition. The is the scat of the infl c ™n°es vane.s greatly, according to the tissue which and of the skin H :|™U‘11011; thus, 111 inflammation of mucous membranes tho^owt^ehSdtrtlOUm COlOU1’ is most marked; in inflammation of ^vhen a fibrous H ’ ^angc 111 size always attracts special attention; and must not be foro'Stcu'^mi-eT^1!^^ SCnsiblIit-F becomes greatly increased. It especially pain and heat ^ °nG 0r ofcber of tbese siS'ns ma7 be absent, tion of Colour is invariably a local sign of inflammation, and