GENERAL REMARKS ON OPERATIONS. 28 Clover’s smaller apparatus is perhaps the best (Fig. 1). It consists of a face-piece to cover the mouth and nose, to which is attached by a short metal tube, a circular metal vessel to contain the ether. On the other side of this is a thin india-rubber bag, also connected with the ether-chamber by a short tube. The ether-vessel can Ikj rotated on the face-piece, and accord- ing to the position in which it is placed, the course of the air passing through the apparatus varies. When it is turned so that the small indicator pomts to “ no ether,” the expired air passes into the bag without entering the ether-chamber, and is breathed again at the next inspiration. When at “ full ether,” the air in inspiration from the bag and expiration into the bag must all pass through the ether- chamber, which is warmed partly by the patient’s breath, and partly by the administrator’s hand on the outside. Bv a simple mechanical arrange- ment these variations in the direction of the ah are effected without valves, and the instrument is for this reason less likely to get out of order. It is thus used. First the face-piece is fitted to the patient’s face with the ether- chamber, but without the hag, and with the indicator pointing to “ no ether.” The patient is allowed to breathe through it a few times to get accustomed to it. Then the hag is applied, and he commences to breathe the same air over and over again. This soon produces a slight stupefying effect, and after a few respirations the ether-vessel is rotated so as to gradually allow more and more ether-vapour to be mixed with the air. After a few more respirations the full amount of ether should be turned on. In this apparatus there is purposely no provision for the admission of fresh air, and if it were held firmly to the face for a sufficient time death from asphyxia must ensue. The administrator judges by the appearance of the face when air is needed, and removes the whole apparatus for one or more respirations as he may think necessary. The administration of ether by this apparatus gives rise to less choking than when the vapour is given from a hollow sponge. . . The effects of ether resemble generally those of chloroform ; the patient is brought to the same state of total unconsciousness, with complete muscular relaxation and abolition of all reflex movements, except those concerned in maintaining the action of the heart and respiration. Ether, produces, however, more excitement than chloroform, especially if the \aponr . >c considerably diluted with air. It causes also at the commencement a choking sensation, often very distressing. It always gives rise to a copious secretion o mucus both in the pharynx and bronchial tubes, which may cause considerable respiratory embarrassment, the respiration, both abdominal and thoracic, being violent and forcible. Ether exerts a more stimulating effect on the heart than chloroform, the pulse usually maintaining its force even when 0» patient is deeply under the influence of the anesthetic. Ihe pupil, as in the < ministration of chloroform, is variable until the extreme limits of safe admmis-