SEBACEOUS HORNS. 969 with on the head, on the buttock, and in other situations. The accompany- ing drawing (Fig. 862) is taken from a child four years old, brought to me to have its horn removed; a woman also once applied to me with one about an inch and a half long, growing from the upper lip. In other cases, these tumours inflame and suppurate; the skin covering them becomes adherent and reddened, ulceration takes place, and, if the cyst be small and dense, it may be thrown off by suppuration in the surrounding tissues. If it be larger, ulceration of the integuments covering it takes place, and the sebaceous matter is exposed ; this may then putrefy, become horribly Fig. 302.— Horn on Xose of a child. Fig. 303.—Ulcerated Encysted Tumour of Scalp. offensive, and break away in unhealthy suppuration. In other cases, peculiar changes take place in the cyst-wall: large granulations are thrown out in it, and the cyst-wall appears to vascularize, becoming irregular and nodulated, rising up in tuberous growths with everted edges, exuding a fetid, foul discharge, becoming adherent to subjacent parts, and assuming a malignant appearance, forming at last a sore as large as a saucer (Fig. 363), and then resembling epithelioma. Cysts that have undergone this change show great local malignancy, rapidly infiltrating and destroying the surrounding parts, but as a rule the lymphatic ■ glands are not implicated. I have seen a case in which the skin was destroyed from a little below the vertex, to the root of the neck, and from car to ear transversely. The surface was covered with fungating granulations, but there was no implication of the glands. Liicke states that in such cases a genuine transformation of the atheromatous cyst into an epithelioma has taken place, the epithelium penetrating the cyst wall and growing in the tissues beyond. It most commonly occurs after middle life. Ihar/nosis. Hie only diseases with which these tumours can be confounded arc abscesses and fatty growths. From an abscess an encysted sebaceous tumour may be distinguished by its history, slow growth, situation, elasticity, anc mobility, and the existence of the dilated orifice of the sebaceous duct, J nough which some of the contents can be squeezed, the microscopical exami- nation of which will serve to confirm the diagnosis. From fait// tumours these bjowths may be diagnosed by their firmer and more regular feel: and in case 0 ou it, by the evacuation and examination of their contents. Sometimes