INFECTIVE DISEASES OF WOUNDS. 900 previously known as to the influence of had hygienic conditions in the develop- ment of these diseases. The experience of generations of Surgeons has taught us that, although inflammation and suppuration with febiile disturbance result from contact with the raw surfaces of wounds of such simple septic products as must form in all dead tissues or putrescible animal fluids exposed to the ordinary air of a dwelling-house, the graver infective processes are of extreme rarity in cases treated in pure air and in the isolation of a private house. On the other hand, it has been established incontestably that if the cubic capacity of a ward be taken, and the rate of ventilation through it determined, a Surgeon may with certainty foretell how many suppurating wounds it will require in the absence of antiseptic treatment to generate infec- tive disease in it. Thus, although in the prevention of these diseases the use of antiseptics must take the first place as attacking the evil at its source, a strict attention to the laws of hygiene, as regards cubic space, ventilation, and general cleanli- ness, is also necessary to exclude those accessory conditions that fav our its development. By these means combined all this group of diseases can be prevented ; their occurrence is the result in almost all cases of some definite error in the treatment of the wound, or some infringement of sanitary rules. They are not accidental; they are preventable and ought to be prevented. Should a case arise, our knowledge of the nature of the diseases shows clearly how they may be carried from one individual to another, and the means to re adopted to prevent their spread. . . The whole subject of the relation of these diseases to general hygienic conditions has already been discussed (p. 8 et seq.), and need not be further considered here.* WOUND-DIPHTHERIA. This name has been applied by French and German writers to an unhea t ty condition assumed by granulating wounds or sores, m which they become covered by an opaque, white, or yeflowish-win te membranous layer closely resembling the false membrane of diphtheria. By English Surgeons it has more commonly been described as a mild form of phagedenic ulceration It arises invariably in connexion with decomposing discharges, and is not un- common in wounds over which urine is flowing. The granulating sore which may have been in a healthy and healing condition up to the time of he attack, becomes dark in colour, and here and there small hemorrhages my be noticed amongst the granulations. The healthy discharge of pus cu. , and is replaced by a very slight serous exudation. Then an opaque patch appears and soon spreads over the surface. lhe becomes reddened and slightly swollen, the edges are raised and sharp!} and the sore may slowly spread and deepen. The opaque white layer on the surface is difficult to remove, but if a small piece be peeled off and wd microscopically it will be found to be composed of the superficial lav ere the o-ranulation-cells which have perished and become finely granular, in - lith a coagulated exudation. Throughout the whole layer are abundant Those who wish more fully to study the retlmloin "U’for tl.e new Sv.lenham Society. An excell. i t Infective Discuses of Wounds, translated by U. ". tin m. lo U . j„ the Report of summary of the relation of septic bacteria to.hsense, lrMeto^Horst on s,llticil,nia and 1 ye-nm the Medical OMIrer of the I Jnvy or 1^-. • J tlu. literature and a complete history should read Koch on Traumatic is that bv Carl Onsseiibaiier. the subject. In this will be found a ratal