IOOO TUMOURS. reappeared before the wound had completely healed, and on examination pre- sented a much larger proportion of oval cells and spindle-cells, now having double nuclei. It recurred a second time, and now but few well-formed spindle-cells were found, but the tumour was chiefly composed of oval and flaslc-shaped cells, or rather masses of protoplasm, in which numerous nuclei were embedded. A portion of the spine of the scapula, which was removed Avith the tumour, showed that the groAvth had sprung from the cancellous tissue of the bone. Large spindle-celled sarcomata, formerly often spoken of as fibro-plastic tumours, are much softer than the variety last described. They are usually of a pinkish colour, frequently stained dark-red in parts from extravasations of blood, and if of any size, their central parts are opaque and yellow from the effects of fatty degeneration. They yield more or less transparent viscid juice on scraping, mixed with fragments of the growth. They may be distinctly circumscribed and encapsuled, but not infrequently they invade surrounding parts. They often contain cysts of some size, sometimes filled with straw-coloured fluid and sometimes with blood or a blood-coloured liquid. These tumours form frequently in connection with bones, especially commenc- ing under the periosteum of the shafts of long bones or about the bones of the face or nose. A few years ago I amputated a thigh at the hip-joint in Univer- sity College Hospital, for a large tumour of this kind growing beneath the periosteum of the femur ; and in another case the arm was removed by Heath for a similar growth. Both had caused spontaneous fracture of the bone, and both ultimately proved fatal from internal deposits. These tumours Avhen affecting bone, must not be confounded Avith the myeloid, which they closely resemble. Large-spindle-celled sarcomata grow also from fasciae and inter- muscular spaces, and not unfrequently from glands, especially the mamma ; and they may be found in rare cases in almost any situation. They very often run a malignant course, giving rise to secondary deposits in internal organs. Their tendency to local recurrence after removal is very great. From what has been said above, it will be seen that the spindle-celled sarcomata form a very large and important group of tumours, varying greatly in clinical characters and structure, but all resembling each other in the broad feature of the spindle cell forming the predominant element. As to their prognosis, it may be broadly stated that the more they approach the structure of the spindle-celled groAvth found in cicatrizing wounds, the less likely they arc to give rise to general infection of the system ; but that even the simplest may recur locally after removal, and consequently too guarded a prognosis cannot be given in such cases. Oval-celled Sarcoma (Fig. 387) maybe looked upon as merely an extremely rapidly growing and malignant spindle-celled tumour. Thus avc saw in the case above mentioned, that, as the rapidity of the growth increased Avith each recurrence, the spindle- cells became replaced by large oval cells with two or more nuclei. But similai growths may occur primarily. They arc soft, rapidly growing, rarely com- pletely circumscribed. They are of a delicate pinkish colour, and yield an abundant slimy albuminous fluid on section. I have tAvice had occasion Fi; 387.—Oval-celled. (188 clinm.). Sarcoma