ACUPRESSURE. 425 and others. I may, however, state, that the general result of the experi- ments made and the experience gained on this subject is the following. Jones found that, on cutting through the internal and middle coats of the carotid artery of a horse at three or four different points, with as many liga- tures, and then immediately removing them, an “ effusion of lymph occurred by which the artery was plugged up.” These observations were not confirmed by other experimenters, such as Hodgson, Travers, and Dalrymple. But Travers found that, if the ligature were left in for several hours, or even for one horn, and then removed, obliteration of the artery ensued. Roberts ap- plied a ligature to the femoral artery for popliteal aneurism, and, on removing it after 24 hours, found the artery closed ; and Travers ligatured the brachial artery of a man, and, on removing the ligature at the end of 50 hours, obtained an equally successful result. Their example was followed by Scarpa and Paletta. Notwithstanding these favourable results, the failure of the method in the hands of Astley Cooper, Hutchinson, Beclard, and of Travers himself, and the observation of Yacca, that, if the ligature be left on the artery long enough to cause its obliteration, the section of the vessel is effected sooner or later, caused the use of the temporary ligature to be discontinued in surgical practice even by those who had at one time most strongly advocated it. 10. Acupressure.—By Acupressure is meant the occlusion of an artery by the pressure of a needle iu such a way as to arrest the circulation through it or the haemorrhage from it. This method of treatment was introduced into surgical practice by the late Sir James Simpson as a substitute for the ligature. Acupressure may be applied in several different ways ; but there are four principal methods. The jh st method is carried out in the following way, which I give as nearly Fig. 150.—Acupressure. First Method. Raw Surface. Fig. 157.—Acupressure. First Method. Cutaneous Surface. as possible in Sir James Simpson’s own words. The Surgeon places the tip of the fore-finger of his left hand upon the bleeding mouth of the artery which he intends to compress and close ; holding the needle in his right hand, he passes it through the cutaneous surface of the flap, and pushes it inwards’till its point projects out to the extent of a few lines on the raw surface of the wound, a little to the right of, and anterior to, his finger-tip ; he then, by the action of his right hand upon the head of the needle, turns and directs its s inrp extremity so that it makes a bridge as it were across the site of the tube wvln -ding artei7’ inimcdintcly iu front of the point of the finger with flio'l UM 'S ^U1^'ng up its orifice ; he next, either with the same fore-finger of tbe 1° - A"" !p°V W1'^1 ^1C Slde °f ffc extremity of the needle itself, compresses neprll f^feeding arterial orifice and tube, and then pushes on the i.-li] ? '' 1 r'gfd hand, so as to make it re-enter the surface of the wound a ic e t side of the artery ; and, lastly, by pressing the needle farther