8l2 INJURIES OF THE TIIROAT. 1 it results from the inhalation of the septic discharges from the wound. At i the post-mortem examination of these cases the bronchi are found intensely injected ; the lungs are as a rule swollen and oedematous throughout, and here and there patches of consolidation will be felt. On cutting into these* they will be breaking down and softening in the centre, sometimes forming . cavities almost like abscesses. They differ, however, from the secondary (: abscesses of pyaemia in being scattered through the lung and not specially on : the surface ; and if a patch be found in an early stage, it will be seen that 11 there is no haemorrhagic infarct preceding the softening, but that the air- I vesicles are distended with opaque puriform secretion, and that the cavities < are formed by the coalescence of the distended air-vesicles through destruction of their walls. The pathology of the process seems to be that septic matter ( from the wound is inhaled and lodges in the smaller bronchi where it sets up acute purulent catarrh with decomposition of the secretions. The decomposing!, secretions excite inflammation terminating in gangrene of the surrounding:, tissue of the lung. In some cases extensive areas of the lung may thus become gangrenous. The depressed mental condition of the patient also is usually unfavourable to recovery in all those instances in which the wound is suicidal. Treatment.—The same general principles are required as in the manage- ment of those wounds of the throat that do not open up the mucous canals in this region. Haemorrhage must be arrested by ligature of all the bleeding vessels, whether arteries or veins, so that no oozing or trickling into the wound may take place. In some cases the haemorrhage consists principally of general venous oozing which cannot be stopped by ligature, the patient chawing a large quantity of blood into the air-passage through the wound. In these • circumstances I have found it useful to introduce a large silver tube into the aperture in the windpipe, and to plug the wound around it. So soon as the bleeding has fairly ceased, the plugs and the tube must be removed. The edges must next be brought together by a few stitches introduced at the sides, and by attention to position, the head being fixed by tapes as described at p. 810. I think, with Liston, that in these cases the wound should never be closely sewn up, nor stitches introduced into the centre of the cut. If the centre of the integuments be closely drawn together, coagula may accumulate behind them, in the deeper parts of the wound, so as to occasion a risk o suffocation ; and, as the wound must eventually close by granulation, no material advantage can possibly be gained by this practice. There is an exception, however, to this rule of not using stitches in the central part o tie wound in cut throat. In cases in which the trachea has been completely cu across, a stitch or two on each side of the tube is necessary, in order to pieven^ the 'wide separation of the two portions that would otherwise take place, owing to the great mobility of the larynx and upper end of the windpipe. In order to- lessen the liability to inflammation of the lungs, the paticn should be put into a room, the temperature of which is raised to a ou 70° Fahr., with a piece of lightly folded muslin, acting as a filter, lau ovc the wound. So soon as the cut surfaces begin to granulate, wet-diessinp may be applied, and the edge of the wound brought into apposition ) s ._1 of plaster, piieci, duu wie euge ol me w uuuu rr mrinal and a compress if necessary. During the treatment, the Pr danger proceeds from inflammatory affections of the chest; these must, acco ingly be counteracted by the temperature in which the patient is p ace , •