281 THE HEALING GRANULATING SURFACE. A typically healthy granulating surface presents the following characteristic features. The separate granulations are about the size of split mustard- seeds ; they are uniform in size, and of a florid red colour; they will stand a smart blow without bleeding, and, being devoid of nerves, are perfectly free from sensibility. The surface of the sore is very slightly depressed below that of the surrounding skin. The base of the sore is soft. The edges shelve gradually down into the surface, and, if healing is taking place, the new growing epithelium can be seen spreading over the surface of the granula- tions, and giving rise to three zones of different colour. Most internally is a dark red line, darker than the neighbouring granulations. This is due to some slightly increased vascularity beneath the growing epithelium, and to the presence of a very thin layer of perfectly transparent new epithelium- cells covering the granulation-tissue. That this is so can be shown by care- fully drying the surface, and watching it for a few seconds ; the uncovered granulations become moist again almost immediately, while the red line remains dry. Outside the red line is a blue line, resulting from the presence of a thicker layer of epithelium, seen through which the red granulations assume a bluish tint. Outside this again is an opaque white line, in which the new epithelium has been formed in sufficient quantity to be opaque when sodden by the discharges from the sore. The discharge varies with the mode of dressing.. If some slightly irritant lotion or dressing be applied, thick creamy pus is poured out from the surface ; if some non-irritating dressing be applied, thm serous fluid flows away, made more or less turbid by the presence of a few pus-cells. A granulating sore may present a perfectly healthy appearance with both conditions of discharge, but it will be usually found that the red line of new growing epithelium is much wider in those cases m which the dressing is least irritating, as under other conditions many dischar4°Ung epithelmm'cells Perish and single with the pus-cells in the The constitutional symptoms that attend union by the second intention will waiy much. The separation of a slough will in all cases be attended by some febnle disturbance if the dead tissue be allowed to putrefy, by antiseptic treat- ment however this may be entirely prevented, and ution by the second by “hrtoftatenSnPTled hj “S v ?OMtitutional disturbance as that observed the feirl d i I" °T “ f n° a“tisePti» precautions are oDserved, the febnle disturbance due to the absorption of the products of mitre s~;,thTTd aft7 nW, and jsssjsss: most cases the contraction filclcatllx’ (1° not cease with its formation. In after the completion nf ■ * 'ie.scar.doe® nofc attain its maximum until long puckering and deformity ^The^ir C1Cfnzafcion’ and fchis may occasion great solely on the size of tin /' • • tmounfc of contraction of a scar is dependent which it is seated e 011plna raw surface and on the laxity of the tissue in commonly made that tlmt ^ ^ a,!,atom of evidence to justify the assertion so 7 made that the scars resulting from the healing of sores produced by