7i4 INJURIES OF TIIE HEAD. The Pathology of this affection, has been studied by Yalleix, who found that the pericranium was separated from the bone by an extravasation of , blood, and that both bone and pericranium were covered with decolourized clot, but otherwise healthy ; the fluid in the centre was the serum from the ■ coagulated blood. He found also that the hard circle surrounding the depres- • sion was formed by a deposit of osseous tissue in the angle formed by the • raised periosteum and the bone beneath. This deposit was effected in such a way that, on a transverse section being made, the inner wall was found nearly perpendicular, whilst the outer sloped down upon the cranium, thus giving a crateriform appearance to the margin of the tumour. The Treatment must be conducted upon precisely the same principles as that of the other forms of extravasation. If seen early, the fluid is best removed by means of an aspirator. Occasionally it fills again after this, and the operation must then be repeated. The same treatment may be followed with advantage even after the bony rim has formed round the swelling. Wounds op the Scalp are of very common occurrence, and are more serious than corresponding injuries elsewhere, especially in persons about the middle period of life, and of unhealthy or broken constitution. Hot only are these injuries said to be more likely to be followed by erysipelas than those of other parts of the body, but the great tendency to the propagation of inflam- matory mischief inwards to the encephalon, and to the complication of cerebral mischief, often accompanying comparatively slight injuries of the scalp, gives to these accidents much of their serious and often fatal character. But, though there be this danger to life in scalp-injuries, there is comparatively little risk to the scalp itself ; its supply of blood is so abundant, and its vitality consequently so great, that sloughing seldom occurs, even though the part be much bruised and seriously lacerated. The Treatment of wound of the scalp necessarily varies somewhat accord- ing to the nature of the injury. If this be a simple cut, it will be sufficient, after shaving the parts around and cleansing the wound, to bring it together with a strip or two of adhesive plaster, and to dress it as lightly as possible. If the incision in the scalp be extensive, the lips of the wound must be brought together by a few points of metallic suture, or by hare-lip pins. If there be arterial haemorrhage, this may usually be best arrested by the pressure of a pad and bandage, the firm bone beneath providing excellent counter-pressure. Should this not be convenient, the bleeding vessels may usually be secured without difficulty by ligature or torsion, although occasionally some trouble may be caused by the density of the tissues in which the vessels are 1} ing. Should other means fail, a pin may be passed beneath the artery, and com- pression made over it by a figure-of-8 suture. In this, as in all other cases of injury of the head, especial attention should be paid to the state of the brain ; for, however slight the external wound may be, serious cerebral mischief may have been occasioned. It more frequently happens that the scalp is bruised and lacerated as well as wounded ; and very commonly that a large flap of integument is stripped off the skull, and is thrown down over the face or ear, so as to denude the bones. In these cases, advantage is taken of the great vitality of the scalp. 11 owe\ er extensively contused or lacerated this may be, however much it may be begrimed with dirt, it is a golden rule in surgery not to cut any portion of it away, but,