TREATMENT OF CANCER—CAUSTICS. 1037 The great objection that has been urged against operating in this disease is, that cancer being assumed to be from the first a constitutional affection, it is useless to remove the local tumour, leaving the constitutional vice unrelieved. If this objection were tenable, it would apply to the removal of cancers m any way, and would have as much force against removing cancerous growth b> caustic, by pressure, or by congelation, as against extirpating them by the simpler and speedier means of the knife, and in fact must lead to the conclusion that none but local palliatives are proper in this disease. For such an argument as this to have any value, it must first be shown that cancer is always ab origine a disease depending on the actual presence in the blood of a certain morbid material, and that it is not in any cases primarily local, in so far that any tendency to the formation of cancer has strictly limited its action to the part where we find the cancer developed. The arguments which have already been adduced, however, and the results of experience, appear to me to be conclusive • as to cancer being, for all surgical purposes, primarily a local disease, be- > coming constitutional secondarily by contamination of the blood and absorp- tion into the system, and consequently to justify operation for the removal of i cancerous tumours in suitable cases. Caustics.—The employment of caustics for the destruction of cancers has, in all ages and countries, been resorted to by empirics, who profess to remove tumours of a malignant nature, by secret remedies, less painful and more effec- tual than the knife. As their application, to use Velpeau’s expression, requires neither acquaintance with anatomy nor operative surgery, these remedies have always been popular with many who have neither the knowledge nor the skill to use the knife. In this country, however, they have never enjoyed any very extended reputation ; and in fact they have, perhaps, not been legitimately employed to the extent that they deserve, especially in ulcerated and recurrent cancers, or in those so situated on the skin and muco-cutaneous surfaces as not to admit of being very readily or safely extirpated by operation. The great objection to the nse of caustics has been the severity and the con- tinuance of the pain induced by them, which lasts not only for hours, but for days—more intense and prolonged than any occasioned by the knife : and as it is usually necessary, in order to destroy effectually the morbid growth, to repeat the application of the caustic several times, the suffering is often greater than the most resolute patient can submit to. The chief argument in favour of the use of caustics is the statement, that cancers thus destroyed are less liable to recur than when extirpated by the knife. There is, however, no evidence before us in proof of the truth of this doctrine. It is impossible to believe that the mere method of removal of the local disease can influence the progress of the case. If secondary infection have taken place, it can signify very little whether the local disease be extirpated by the knife or by caustics. If no infection exists, it appears to me that the patient must be equally safe in whatever way the local disease is removed, provided it be thoroughly and effectually extirpated. Another advantage urged in favour of caustics, in the correctness of which Velpeau acquiesces, is, that enlarged lymphatic glands are more likely to go down under their use than when the primary cancer is extirpated by the knife. •Subsequent experience has not however confirmed this statement. Some of the advocates of the use of caustics in the treatment of cancer pretend that the particular agent employed exercises on the morbid structure a specific