540 FRACTURES. large quantity of provisional callus is thrown out, in which the necrosed bone is implicated ; and then the process of separation becomes extremely tedious ' and protracted, and amputation may not uncommonly become necessary, from the powers of the patient being unable to bear up in so prolonged a struggle. So soon as some consolidation has taken place, the limb should be firmly put up in gutta-percha or leather splints, with a starched or plaster-bandage, so as to enable the patient to be taken out of bed, to change the air of his room, and thus to keep up his general health. In fitting these splints, care must be taken to make an aperture opposite the wound, through which it may be dressed (Fig. 178). Neudorfer has introduced a dry plaster-of-Paris dressing for compound frac- tures, especially those produced by gun-shot, and indeed, for all attended by excessive suppuration. From this means he derived the best possible results in the German wars of 1864 and 1866. His method is as follows. Beneath the seat of injury he places eight layers of linen cloth, and on this several pounds of dry gypsum are poured, so that it lies under and around the fracture until there is a wall heaped up on each side of the wound, which is also covered in. The linen cloths are then brought over like a many- tailed bandage, and the whole is tied up by short lengths of bandage. As the plaster becomes impregnated with pus, it is scraped off, but the wound is on no account to be meddled with ; new plaster is applied where the old, which has become pasty, has been removed. Neudorfer states that, when compound fracture has been treated by the fixed plaster-bandage, this should be generally removed at the end of fourteen days ; after this the dry method, as aboie described, may be applied, and no splint or other extending or containing apparatus is required. It may be observed that, as plaster of Paris does not “set” with albuminous fluids, it is not hardened by the pus, but merely absorbs it, becoming pasty. The time required for the proper consolidation of a compound fracture varies greatly, according to the amount of injury done to the bones and soft parts, and the age and constitution of the patient. In the most favourable circum- stances, it requires double or treble the time that is necessary for the union of a simple fracture. Much stiffness of the limb from rigidity of the muscles and tendons will continue for a considerable length of time ; this may gradually lie removed by frictions and douches. Secondary Amputation may become necessary from the occurrence of traumatic gangrene, and then it must be done in accordance with the prin- ciples already laid down when speaking of that operation ; but more frequently it is required from failure of the powers of the patient in consequence of septic fever, induced by absorption of the products of putrefaction from the wound and the infiltrated parts around, or by hectic resulting from chronic septic suppuration and slow necrosis of the bones. In . these circumstances, n removing the source of the mischief in time and seizing an interval when ic fever is at its lowest point, the patient’s life will in all probability be preserve , the results of secondary amputation for compound fracture in these conditions bcitm by no means unfavourable. Indeed it is remarkable to see how spec i y the constitutional symptoms subside after the removal of the source om which the absorption of septic matter is taking place ; the patient often s 1 - ing well and taking his food with appetite the day after the operation. The proper period to seize for the performance of secondary amputat