SECONDARY CANCEROUS GROWTHS. 1009 2. Cancers the cells of which are derived from squamous or stratified epithelium. Squamous Epithelioma. 3. Cancers the cells of which are derived from columnar epithelium. Columnar epithelioma; sometimes called also Adenoid Cancer. The special clinical and pathological features of the various forms will be considered after the general facts which are common to all varieties. Secondary Cancerous Growths.—The most marked feature of all cancers is their tendency to give rise to secondary growths of a similar nature in various parts of the body. These may occur in three situations. First, in the lymphatic glands which receive the lymph from the affected part. Secondly, in the cellular tissue in the immediate neighbourhood of the growth ; and thirdly, in distant parts, especially in internal organs. These secondary growths always resemble the primary growth in structure. The secondary tumours from a glandular cancer contain glandular epithelium cells, those from a squamous epithelioma, squamous epithelium, and those from a columnar epithelioma, columnar epithelium. The epithelium may be slightly modified from growing in a situation where it is far less exposed to surrounding pressure, or more abundantly supplied with blood, but its general characters always remain the same. In like manner the stroma of the secondary growth may be less abundant than that of the pri rnary, and thus cause some modifica- tion in the consistence of the tumour ; but the broad fact remains—that the secondary tumours are of the same structure as the primary. The mode of origin of the secondary tumours has given rise to much diversity of opinion. The view now usually accepted is that the secondary growths arise from the entrance of the cells of the cancer into the lymphatics 01 blood-vessels, by which they are carried to distant parts, and there lodging develop into tumours of the same nature as that from which they sprung. According to this theory, the cells of the new tumour are the descendants of the original cell which started from the primary growth. Simon, Creighton, and others believe that the new growth arises from the cells of the part in which the cancer-cell has lodged, and upon which it exerts T\hat they term a “spermatic influence.” Whether this be so or not it is impossible to determine with certainty. The view of the direct transference of the cells of the tumour to different parts of the body is known as the im- plantation theory. Opposed to it is the infection theory, according to which the system is poisoned by the juices of the primary growth. There is yet another theory maintained by those who believe cancer to be a primary disease of the blood,” of which the tumour is merely the local manifestation. Those who hold this view believe that the secondary growths are merely a further effect of the constitutional condition from which primary growth ginated Thus Paget is of opinion that in some cases, in which a rapid mdtiphcafaon °f cancers takes place, this may arise from an increase in the cancerous diathesis or morbid condition of the blood. But he believes that in most of these cases there has been a conveyance of cancerous material by the seen h/11 T T1, ’ wM°h have demined the local seat of the Sifft?n he SUPpor^ this view by referring to the analogy and Hi . . aVe aS exis m8' between the secondary deposits in cancer princinalTv nffV.pwl11,S??,SSC,S m ])^em'a ; fcll(' b'ver and lungs in both cases being that nil-;/ 1 LC W ’ C’ )(,wever> thinks that it is not necessary to suppose that entne cancer-cells are thus transferred ; cancer-jnice, or minute fragments vol. r.