INJURIES OF THE SPINE. 77S tovy affection propagated from the intracranial portion of the nervous appa- ratus towards its periphery, and thus inducing morbid changes in the optic nerve and its disc, we find that the ophthalmoscope reveals changes in the fundus of the eye. “ The disc,” says Wharton Jones, “is seen to be whitish and somewhat congested ; the retinal veins are large, though the fundus usually presents an anaemic aspect, with perhaps some pigrnentous degenera- tion of the retina round the disc.” One or other of these conditions occurs in the majority of cases of spinal injury. Allbutt says : “ It is tolerably certain that disturbance of the optic disc and its neighbourhood is seen to follow disturbance of the spine, with sufficient frequency and uniformity to establish the probability of a causal relation between the two events.” He goes on to say that in 13 cases of chronic spinal disease following accident, he found 8 cases of sympathetic disorder of the eye. My experience fully accords with that of Allbutt. I find that of 60 cases of obscure spinal injury, without fracture or dislocation, that I have consecutively examined, there was impairment of vision in 42 instances. Allbutt makes the interesting remark, which will be supported by the experience of all Surgeons, that, in the severer forms of spinal injury, those that prove fatal in a few weeks, evidences of eye-disease are not met with. Of 17 such cases he found no evidence of eye-disease in any one instance. This observation affords a most complete answer to an objection that has often been urged, that as sympathetic affection of the eye is rarely met with in severe injuries of the spine, such as fractures and displacement of the vertebrae with traumatic lesion of the cord, its occurrence in the less immediately severe and more obscure forms of injury can scarcely be looked upon as the direct result of the spinal mischief. It would appear, however, from the observations of Allbutt, which I can entirely confirm, that it is in these very cases that it is met with. That a certain portion of the spinal cord exercises a direct influence on the eyes, has been incontestably established by the experiments of modern physio- logists. Budge and Waller, in 1851, demonstrated that the filaments of the sympathetic that supply the eye take their origin from that part of the spinal cord which is contiguous to the origin of the first pair of dorsal nerves : and that the portion of the spinal axis which extends from the fifth cervical to the sixth dorsal vertebra, and, according to Brown-Sequard, as far as the twelfth dorsal, possesses a distinct influence on the organs of vision. Hence by these physiologists it has been termed the “cilio-spinal” and by Claude Bernard the “ oculo-spinal ” axis. It has been determined as the result of numerous experi- ments, that partial division of this cilio-spinal axis exercises various disturb- ing influences on the size of the pupils, on the fulness of the \esse so c conjunctiva, and probably of the deeper ocular tissues, and on the state of the blood-vessels of the car, exactly similar to those that arc occasioned by section of the cervical sympathetic. The conclusion that must necessan ) deduced from these observations is, that this portion of the spinal core —- oculo-spinal aris—includes within itself both vaso-motor and oeulo-pupi ary filaments which are connected with the cervical portion of the sympat ic k. Claude Bernard has pointed out clearly the fact that the vaso-mo o the oculo-nupillary nerves possess different reflex actions. v dn hi - 1 tot tooSnJ.nl roots, be Buck that the ocnlo-pupillar phenomena are produced without occasioning the vaso-motor effects of vascular injee ion a