886 MORTIFICATION, OR GANGRENE. be necessary in doing this to encroach on the living tissues ; this should be done as carefully and as sparingly as possible, for reasons already stated. The line of separation should be dressed with some mild antiseptic lotion or ointment, in order to keep the surface clean and to prevent the absorption of septic discharges. If sloughs do not readily separate, the balsam of Peru either pure or diluted with yolk of egg, or very dilute nitric acid and opiate lotions, are the most useful applications. After the separation of the sloughs, the ulcerated surface must be treated on general principles. The Treatment of Senile Gangrene, presenting some peculiarities, requires a few words to be specially devoted to it. Constitutional Treatment.—By some Surgeons this disease has been treated on a strictly antiphlogistic plan, on the supposition that the obstruction of the arteries is caused by inflammation of their coats. Since, however, it has been clearly proved that no such process takes place, and that senile gangrene always results from chronic degenerative changes in the vessels of the limb by which the supply of blood is diminished below that necessary to maintain the vitality of the tissues, such treatment has been altogether abandoned. If blood were abstracted from the system and the action of the heart weakened, the cause of the disease would only be aggravated. But, though depletory measures are not admissible, we must guard against running into the opposite extreme, and over-stimulating patients labouring under this disease. Senile gangrene commonly occurs in individuals belonging to the wealthier classes of society, who have lhed high, taken insufficient exercise, and consequently induced an irritable, pletkoiic, but enfeebled state of system. In many cases the patients are of a gouty habit, and occasionally the inflammation that precedes the development of the gangrene appears to be of this nature. In this condition stimulants auc the more powerful tonics are not well borne ; they accelerate the pulse, an interfere with digestion. As Brodie observes, it is of great importance in this disease to attend to the state of the digestive organs, in order that nutrition may go on, and that blood of a proper quality max be made, n order to accomplish this, a light nourishing diet, partly animal and part y vegetable, should be given, and a moderate quantity of wine, beet, or )ian y allowed. The bowels must be relieved from time to time by a rhubarb draught or simple aperient pill. Mercury depresses the patient, and hence it siou not be used as an aperient in any form in this disease, unless the state o r 10 liver imperatively demand it. If the digestion become impaired, a storage nc, as the infusion of oascarilla or the compound infusion of gentian wit 1 a 1 ammonia, may be administered. The administration ol opium in t lose cas®®> as originally recommended by Pott, has received the sanction of a mv>i c\c . practical Surgeon. Brodie’s opinion on this point is especially xa ua e , says, “ If I am not greatly mistaken, the result of a particular case "i wA much depend on this—whether opium does or does not agree with the pa ion . From two to four grains of opium maybe administered in divided doses n course of twenty-four hours ; the quantity being increased as t ic becomes accustomed to its effects. If, however, it disturb the sti . * occasion headache, notwithstanding the use of aperients, aB will o < H when there is febrile disturbance in persons of a full habit of »ot y, . discontinued. The pain in the foot, which is often very severe; dmmg^t ^ progress of the disease, usually ceases of itself when the