CONSTITUTIONAL EFFECTS OF INJURY. 292 brisk purgative at the commencement of the treatment ; in many cases no sedatives will have any effect till the purge has acted. The motions brought away by the medicine are usually excessively foul. The best sedatives arc bromide of potassium, morphia, and hyoscyamus. The bromide may be given m twenty-grain doses, repeated every two or three hours. Morphia may be o-iven in quarter-grain doses, repeated at intervals of four hours, till one gram is reached, or till sleep is induced. The effect of the drug must be carefully watched. It is always better to administer it hypodermically when possible, as in some cases it seems to be imperfectly absorbed from the disordered stomach. Hyoscyamus may be administered in half-drachm doses of the tinc- ture, but it is less effectual than morphia. Both morphia and hyoscyamus may be o-iven in combination with the bromide. Hydrate of chloral has also frequently been used ; but it is not so safe a drug as those just mentioned, as an exces- ' sive dose may kill the patient suddenly. The Surgeon must use his judgment as to the extent to which the sedatives may be pushed. If they fail to act, it is often wiser to discontinue them, than to run the risk of giving a poisonous dose Food is even of more importance than sedatives ; so long as the patient can take an abundant supply of good liquid nourishment, there is hope of his recovery. Solids must be avoided, as the stomach is never in a state to digest them. If there be much depression, it will usually be advisable to administer some stimulant, that to which the patient has habituated himself being t ic best. It is sometimes convenient to mix the sedative with the stimulant. It the patient be strong, there is no danger in cutting off all stimulants, even m the case of a confirmed drunkard. After sleep has been induced, the quantity of sedatives must be lessened ; but it will often be found necessary to continue them for some time, as there will be a tendency to recurrence of the delmum ^ Tlfpatient should if possible be put in a room by himself, and watched by a single attendant. If he is violent, he should be at once put m a stiait- waistcoat, as it excites him much less to struggle with an inanimate object, than with a couple of men. When the strait-waistcoat is firmly applied, the attendant should keep out of sight as much as possible while watching him If the injury is a broken bone 111 a limb, the injured part must he fixed firmly in splints well padded with cotton wool, and swung from a cradle ; it mus/on no account be fixed to the bed, for every movement of the patient would then grind the bones together, and. perhaps render a simple fracture compound. The patient seems absolutely insensible to the pam caused y 8UTh«™rfoms of traumatic delirium, the inflammatory and tlm nervous, are Xi found move or lose conjoined, and in such cases tta prognosis » always grave, as exhaustion speedily sets in : stimulants and abundant fluid nourishment must then be freely administered. REMOTE EFFECTS OF INJURY. These mav be constitutional or local. . •, , The Eemote Constitutional Effects of injuries arc of a very valued c a- , Tn some cases, persons who have met with serious injury will be feu d trulie siuldcnly some months after apparent recovery. In others, they gradually al out of health, the nutrition of the body appearing to become unpaired,