1072 VENEREAL LISE A SES. and burst, leaving a number of small sores which soon coalesce. A simple excoriation, or the wound from a ruptured fraenum, can only be distinguished from a chancre by watching the sore for a lew days ; but it is bettor not to wait till the characteristic appearances show themselves, but to treat every doubtful case as a soft chancre. When the prepuce is in a state of inflam- matory phimosis, it is always extremely difficult to determine without slitting up the prepuce whether there be chancres under it, or whether the discharge be due to simple balanitis or gonorrhoea. Sometimes, however, the inflamma- tory induration round the sores can be felt through the swollen foreskin. The diagnosis of the simple non-infecting chancre from the primary syphi- litic sore will be described with the latter affection. It is for this purpose only that the inoculation of the discharge or the administration of mercury could be suggested as a means of diagnosis. Treatment of Non-infecting or Soft Chancres.—The treatment of venereal sores has engaged the anxious attention of the most eminent Sui- o'eons ; and until the simple non-infecting chancre was clearh distinguished from the true syphilitic sore much difference of opinion and practice prevailed. It is now, however, fully recognised that the simple chancre, being a local disease, and occurring in the great majority of cases in persons otherwise in perfect health, requires no constitutional treatment beyond a general attention to the patient’s health. The gangrenous and phagedaenic forms, on the other hand being often accompanied by serious constitutional disturbance, or de- pending partly on a debilitated state of health, require constitutional treat- ment as well as local. _ , ,, Local Treatment.—This has for its object either the destruction or the modification of the specific character of the sore. With a view of modifying the specific character of the sore, there i» no application so efficacious as iodoform. It will usually cure a simple soft chancre in a week or ten days. The crystalline, and not the precipitated iodoform should be used, as the latter sometimes causes irritation, it is applied by simply dusting a small quantity of the powder on the sore twice a day and afterwards covering it with a small piece of cotton wool, either simple or impregnated with iodoform. At each dressing the sore must be carefully washed with tepid water. The only objection to this treatment is the powerful smell of the drug. If the pure iodoform is used, it. is better to apply it before dressing in the morning and after undressing at night, to avoid anv chance of its falling upon the clothes. Berkeley Hill recommends the use of" “ iodo-carbon paste,” composed of iodoform 111 fine powder, oJ ; charcoal, Xij ; glycerine of starch, Jij ; glycerine, 5J 5 oil of lavender mx\; or ^solution of'iodoform in eucalyptus oil : iodoform, 5*. ; .oil of enca^i* Si . olive oil, 3V. By both these preparations the smell is very efficiently concealed, but if the odour is not a very great objection, there is nothing so CffiShouldSthee iodoform not be at hand, or the objection to its use be very great, the specific sore may be destroyed by caustics. The■ «wngcg linn of the local virus should always, if possible, be effected , ‘ , t l, Early stage of the disease, the healing of the sore null he much pS B ,r ' en though considerable time have passed before the Surgeon xpecucuu # ninoTOiimv nnrl unisonous surface, that. ex }]1 L-UUoiUuitu. i /» ‘ ,, rp jt is well to destroy the ulcerating and poisonous surface, ■ its furUrcr^xbensioii may be prevented. This should be eftocted by the appb-