4i7 E E CHANGES OUTSIDE VESSEL AFTER LIGATURE. In some cases there is an imperfect formation of the internal coagulum, or even a total absence of it should a branch arise immediately above the liga- ture. In other cases the insufficient formation of the coagulum is apparently due to the constitutional condition of the patient. Sometimes the clot seems to undergo a kind of disintegration or liquefaction after it has been formed. This I have seen happen in a case of ligature of the carotid artery, in which death occurred from visceral disease ten weeks after the operation ; and in the femoral, in cases of pyrnmia (Fig. 152). When an artery is ligatured in its continuity, the coagulum formed in the distal cul-de-sac is seldom as abundant as that on the proximal side of the ligature. In other respects the internal changes that occur are identical on the two sides of the ligature. The changes that take place outside the artery are of equal, if not of greater, importance than those going on within. They require, however, no special description, for they are merely the ordinary processes of repair, such as go on in the union of a wound. As an immediate consequence of the in- juiy necessitating the application of the ligature, or inflicted in applying it, an abundant coagulable exudation takes place, and before twenty-four hours are past the space between the external coat and the sheath for soin 0 distance on each side of the ligature is tilled by firm “ coagulable lymph,” composed of migrated white corpuscles entangled in the meshes of coagulated fibrin. The ligature itself, the injured part of the artery, and, in the case of a divided vessel, the part beyond the ligature, are speedily embedded in the same material. The subsequent processes depend entirely on the nature of the material of which the ligature is composed, and the success attending the burgeon s efforts to obtain primary union of the wound. If the ligature itself is umrntating, and the conditions necessary for primary union of the wound (see page 269) are present, vascularization of the exudation commences on t ie second day, and the injured part of the vessel is, before many days are past, surrounded by firm granulation-tissue developing into the fibrous issue of the scar. The ligature, as we shah see hereafter, if absorbable becomes penetrated by leucocytes and disappears, this process beino- un- accompamed by acute inflammation or suppuration; and the experiments nm-Hou oHS6 f haV® *ow?. thab the 8ame process takes place in the poition of the artery beyond the ligature. The similar changes which are he e cirlr f UlS f eXudaMon-matfcer within the vessel can, under e icnuis anccs pmeeed without any disturbance from without. Under Mich favourable conditions as these, secondary haemorrhage is impossible and VY StavticS Sh0w fchat tke modern improvement iiUe'Z ment nrZZoliZ6 “ed, thG fre W of secondary himnorrhage “ processed vT^hTi w*71 ? d7lmiuished PJ*mia and other unhealthy Pas to Jut its w, H M ZwTC ? comP°sed of an imitating material which inflammation with7 thl°U? fche 1ll§'afcured vessel by ulceration, a localized the injured part of S"PlJU™tlon 18 kePfc nV m the immediate neighbourhood of immediate nein-hh .1’° aJ tGPJ, ;^s a rule fcllls process is closely limited to the through the external ° '-C.and> the time the noose ulcerates render it capable r^ni’ ]S sudlcicntly advanced within the vessel to adhesion 0^ If J1 ?8t^d,“g fch,e force of blood-stream-the firm important purpose of 1 coafc serving under these circumstances the vor. 1. P P °f breakmS the dirccfc impulse of the wave of blood upon