1047 REMOVAL BY TIIE ECRASEUR. case with malignant tumours, the rapidity of increase of which is greatly aug- mented by partial operations. The exception to this rule consists in the case in which a large ulcerating and necrosing mass may be removed with the view of giving the patient temporary ease, and save him from the annoyance of the putrescence of a disintegrating tumour. Should, however, the Surgeon have begun the operation with the inten- . tion of removing the whole, and have been deceived as to the depth and connections of the mass; it, for instance, he find, after commencing his I operation, that the tumour extends more deeply than had been anticipated, and comes into close relation with important vessels, as at the summit of the axilla or in the perimeum, thus preventing him from dissecting it , out without imminent risk of destroying the patient, the only alternative left is one that I have seen Liston adopt, and have had occasion myself to practise ; viz., to throw a strong ligature, above the apex of the growth as high \ up as practicable, and then to cut off everything below this. On the separation | of the ligature, any portion of the tumour that has been included will be brought away as if it had been removed by the knife. In some cases it will be found, after dividing the fascia covering the tumour, that the attachments of the growth are not so firm or deep as had been pre- i viously expected ; this is especially the case in some large tumours springing from the side of the neck and the parotid region, or in the groin. The growth may then often be removed in a great measure by separating the areolar tissue with the handle of the knife, merely dividing those portions of the deeper attachments that are peculiarly dense. If very free bleeding takes place during the operation two courses are open to the Surgeon, he may either finish the operation with the greatest possible rapidity, even perhaps cutting through outlying lobules of the growth and leaving them to be taken out afterwards, or he may arrest the bleeding as he goes on by Spencer Wells’ forceps (p. 408) or ligature. The former plan : is best if the bleeding is from multitudes of small vessels, the latter, if it < proceeds from a few large trunks. In difficult dissections the parts should, i when possible, be rendered bloodless. Where this is impossible the oozing : may be best arrested by the application of hot water (p. 401). The wound that is left after the removal of a tumour usually unites readily by first intention if properly drained and dressed by one of the antiseptic i methods described in the chapter on the treatment of wounds. If imperfectly 1 drained, and if the cavity be allowed to become filled with decomposing dis- charges, severe fever and prolonged suppuration will almost certainly result. Removal of Tumours by the Ecraseur. The ecraseur was invented '• by Chassaignac. It consists of a loop of fine steel chain or twisted wire ; (thick piano wire is the best), which, having been passed over the tumour or through the tissues to be removed, is gradually tightened by a mechanism in the stem to which it is attached. In applying this instrument it is often necessary, first of all, to insulate and raise the tumour to be removed by passing 1 a thread through or under it (Fig. 408); and then, having applied the loop of j the chain round its base, to tighten this and effect the strangulation by working 1 the handle every ten or fifteen seconds, until the mass is detached. By means of the ftcraseur (Fig. 407), cancerous and other growths of con- 1 siderablo size are removed with little or no haemorrhage, in the course of a few minutes, by a process of rapid strangulation and crushing. The