SIGNS OF FRACTURED BASE—WATERY DISCHARGE. 725 depressed and comminuted fracture of the skull. On the nineteenth day after the receipt of the injury, a large quantity of serous fluid began to escape through the wound, and continued to do so profusely until his death irom coma four days later. At first the fluid that is discharged is usually tinge with blood, but this soon ceases, and it then flows clear. There would consequently appear to be three situations—the ear, the nose, and a wound on the vault of the cranium—from which this discharge has been observed. It is an exceedingly valuable though most serious sign ; and Robert, who has investigated this phenomenon with much closeness, states that the cases in which it happens always terminate fatally. This, however, is an eiXor ; for a number of cases have occurred at the University College Hospital and elsewhere, in which the patients, adults, recovered, although many ounces of fluid were discharged from the ear. It is usually associated with symptoms indicative of serious injury to the base of the brain ; but to this there are also exceptions, for I have seen it in cases of injury of the head, unaccompanied by any severe cerebral symptoms. Most generally it occurs in young people. Robert says that it does so invariably ; but Hewett states that in most of the instances in which he has seen it the patients were above thirty years of age. In one of my cases, the patient was fifty-eight years of age ; and in six other instances in which I have observed it, the patients were all adults. In all cases of recovery that I have witnessed, some deafuess of the ear from which the discharge occurred has been left, though this does not seem to be an in- variable consequence of the injury. The Quantity of fluid that is thus discharged is always very considerable, the pillow usually becoming soaked by it, which may be the first thing to attract attention to it. It is often necessary to keep a piece of sponge or a pledget of hut against the ear, in order to prevent the fluid from wetting the patient as it trickles out ; and, if a cup be so placed as to collect it, an ounce or two will speedily accumulate. Laugier states that he has seen a tumblerful discharged in a short time, and as much as twenty ounces have been known to be poured out in three days. The flow is usually continuous for several days, and then ceases. Although the occurrence of a watery discharge from the ear after certain injuries of the head had been observed by Van der Wiel, O’Halloran, and Dease, in the early part and middle of the last century, no attention was paid to the subject by later surgical writers ; and the subject appears to have been completely lost sight of until Laugier, in 1839, again directed the attention of Surgeons to this interesting phenomenon. Since this period, it has been often observed and attentively studied ; and the nature and the sources of the dis- charge have been particularly investigated by Laugier, Chassaignac, Robert, Guthrie, and Hewett. Its physical and chemical characters are those of a per- fectly clear, limpid, and watery fluid, containing a considerable quantity of chloride of sodium, with a little albumen in solution, and a trace of sugar. It is not coagulable by heat nor by nitric acid. The Source of this discharge has been the subject of much speculation. augier believed it to be the serum of the blood filtered through a crack in the petious portion of the temporal bone, and so through the ruptured membrane yropani. This explanation, however, is evidently not correct ; for not only is ood extravasated in the living body incapable of this species of rapid and complete filtration, but the fluid differs altogether in chemical composition