LYMPH ADENOMA. 991 \X> Fig. 3S0. — Lympharte- noma. (454 diam.) Some of the cells have been removed to show the arrangement of the stroma. Fig. 381.—(188 diam.) Shows general ar- rangement. haemorrhages. They vary considerably in consistence ; sometimes they are soft and brain-like, and sometimes hard and tough. This difference depends upon the proportion borne by the cells to the stroma. The softer forms yield an abundant milky fluid on scraping, resembling the juice of a cancer. The lymphoid character of the cells in the fluid, however, at once shows the true nature of the growth. The development of these tu- mours forms the essential feature of the general affec- tion known as “Hodgkin’s disease.” In this disease there is an enlargement of the lymphatic glands, ac- companied in some cases by disseminated lymphoid tumours in the liver, spleen, kidneys, and other organs, and occasionally in the me- dullary tissue of bones. To this general form of the disease, Gowers applies the name of lymphadenosis. The chief general symptom is marked and progressive anaemia. The red corpus- cles of the blood are diminished in number, and the white may or may not be increased. The increase in the white corpuscles is met with chiefly in those cases in which the tumours are soft and disseminated throughout the viscera, and more especially when the spleen is enlarged. The disease may occur at any age, but is most common in young adults. For the further symptoms, the reader must refer to works on medicine. Lymphadenoma comes under the care of the Surgeon only as it occurs in the lymphatic glands. The glands of the neck and axilla are most frequently affected. They form painless swellings, usually firm in consistence, and of slow growth, and are at first indistinguishable from simple hypertrophy or chronic inflammatory enlarge- ment. The glands remain distinct till they have acquired a considerable size ; but later on they often fuse together, forming a large lobifiated mass. While they remain distinct, they form no adhesions to surrounding parts, and can be easily removed; but when the growth extends beyond the capsules of the glands, it may infiltrate surrounding structures. They show scarcely anv tendency to caseation, and never soften or suppurate. The skin covering them is not adherent and retains its natural colour. The affection may remain for a long time, or even permanently, limited to one set of glands. In these cases as a rule, the stroma is in great excess, and the tumours are hard and fibroid' Alter a time they may cease to grow. When large numbers of glands arc affected and disseminated growths are present in the viscera, the growths are usually, but not always, softer, and the case almost inevitably'terminates fatally after two or three years. Death may take place from the general disease, or from the effects of local pressure, especially when the growth extends beneath the sternum, or presses on the trachea or recurrent laryngeal nerve. J ° Lymphomata frequently come under the observation of the Surgeon.