J 102 VENEREAL DISEASES. bus been reached ; if the symptoms arc relieved without affecting the mouth so much the better. There is no evidence that any tolerance of the dnm is .acquired by its prolonged administration. 4. The effects of mercury in the different stages of syphilis.—The effect of the drug on the primary sore is almost invariably very distinctly marked, and mani- fests itself usually before the gums are affected. The hardness round the sore becomes less intense and less sharply defined. The smooth pale surface becomes of a healthy red colour, granulations spring up, often of a florid tint, and bleeding readily ; the thin serous discharge, characteristic of the typical hard sore, is replaced by pus, and by the end of a week or ten days the indu- rated chancre has assumed the appearance of a healthy granulating sore. As these changes take place, the sore usually becomes more tender and painful, and the patient may become alarmed at what to him seems a change for the worse. The induration at the base of the sore is not usually absorbed for many weeks after the surface has been covered by new epithelium. Simul- taneously with the softening of the induration, the glands in the groin become smaller, but they do not, as a rule, reach their normal size and con- sistence till long after the sore is healed. The influence of mercury is not, in all cases, so unmistakeable in the second- ary stage ; but, in most cases, it is evident enough. The rashes fade or diminish in abundance, or may even be entirely prevented, and the sore throat subsides under the influence of the drug. It may be necessary, however, to push the administration till the gums are distinctly affected before the effect is pro- duced. In the tertiary stage its effect is far less certain, and the state of the patient’s health is frequently such as to contra-indicate its administration. As a rule, it should not be given unless other means have failed, when it will sometimes be found to produce excellent effects if carefully administered. 5. The time during ivhich mercury should he continued.—The administration of mercury should commence as soon as the nature of the disease is recog- nised, and be steadily continued while the secondary symptoms are making their appearance. Even if no secondary signs appear, it is better to continue the administration uninterruptedly for from four to six months, after which an interval may be allowed. In a young subject, if no signs of the disease are present, its use may then be abandoned, and not renewed unless some fresh symptoms appear. In older patients it is safer to continue the administration of mercury for a year, allowing intervals now and then during the treat- ment. The patient must he carefully watched, and if any signs of depression from the use of the drug become apparent, its use must be at once suspended. If there be much febrile disturbance immediately before the outbreak of the secondary symptoms, it is advisable in some cases to withhold the drug for a few days. G. Mode of administration.—Mercury may be administered in four ways: (a.) by the mouth ; (b.) by inunction ; (c.) by subcutaneous injection ; or (d.) by fumigation. («.) By the mouth.—This, being the most convenient method, is usually adopted. As mercurial preparations are mostly purgative, it is necessary, iu most cases, to add a small quantity of opium, to prevent this action. In the treatment of any given case, it is necessary to ascertain what preparation has least tendency to purge the patient, what amount of opium is required just to neutralize the purgative tendency without causing constipation or