CAUSES OF DEATH AFTER OPERATION. i7 arrangements. In the local form it may, however, occur without being the result of want of hygienic precautions, from purely local conditions, as in a limb from excessive traumatic violence, or in a strangulated hernia in consequence of prolonged strangulation of the gut before operation. Tetanus but rarely occasions death after operations in this country. Wien it does occur, it is more frequently after the lesser than after the greater operations that it developes itself. Internal Inflammations of an acute and active character may carry off the patient after an operation in two ways. Inflammation of this kind may have existed antecedently to the operation, being the disease for which it is per- formed ; and, being unchecked by the operation, may continue its course and destroy life, dims, when a child dies after tracheotomy for croup, death is not in general occasioned by the operation, but by the extension into the lungs of the disease for which it has been performed. Or the inflammation may be the consequence of the operation ; as when peritonitis occurs after the operation for strangulated hernia, or meningitis after the skull has been trephined. But it is not by the action of any of these direct results that an operation usually proves fatal. In the great majority of instances, death is occasioned m a more indirect manner by the development of pyrnmic or erysipelatous inflammations, to which a neglect of hygienic laws acts as a powerful pre- disposing cause. 1 Septic chsease, in one or other of its forms, was certainly the most frequent cause oi death after operations, more particularly in large towns. Closely allied to pyaemia and septicaemia, frequently co-existing with them, and havino- thc same predisposing causes, are the various diffuse inflammations, whether assuming- the form of erysipelas, of phlebitis, or of inflammation of the absorbents, which are the dread of surgeons and the scourge of hospitals it was to •pyaemia, and to these various allied processes, that at least three-fourths ot the deaths after operations were formerly due. This proportion has, how- ever, been greatly reduced of late years by improved methods of treating It rt’ 3r 1attentioii to the sanitary arrangements of our hospitals* s m the production of these diseases that an impure blood, loaded with , ite materials, retained through habitual disregard of the ordinary rules of health or through defective elimination by the kidneys and skh^acts as a potent predisposing cause. In these circumstances, it is not the’extent of ie wound that determines the dangerous results. A mere breach of surface however trivial, is sufficient to form a starting point for these^morbffi 1 fatal*8' If TC) 0f fcho the amputation of a toe may be as fea , . tha / the thigh, or the removal of a small atheromatLrLt 0 a*'r*i ‘he «*«>*««»< haemorrhage. * ^ °perafcl0ns being the increased risk from shock and T’0!01* in » TOI"a *«• or without oon- fcho influence of those loiil ''A '' ‘'“'doped by direct contagion, or under diphtheria to annear in H h'demicsor constitutional influences that cause- Z tSe irZ, “ ,the fr,oes- Whe“ » ™und becomes affected in this swollen £ , f m!egl'me? f°r “me little distance around are coverS wlih f’ i01AJe<V 1;C!.colo“-; «» surface of the wound is febrile syiuntonw^f1, I, «\"tC ‘01’ ,"'llcl' Cllul,0t 1,0 cleaned off, and y 1 toms ot a low type develope themselves. vol. r.