344 GUN-SHOT WOUNDS. ■ 4. Gun-shot wounds of the foot, if perforating and splintering the tarsus, require amputation, either at or above the ankle. Those of the hand are of special interest from their frequency, in consequence of the bursting of guns, or of powder-flask explosions. In these cases, however extensive the injury may be that is inflicted upon the hand, fingers being blown away, the thumb thrown back, and the metacarpal bones splintered, we must endeavour, if possible, to save a portion of it, if it be only one or two fingers ; and, owing to the great reparative power possessed by the hand, we shall often, in the worst-looking cases, be able to accomplish this. If the thumb, with one finger as au opponent, cau be preserved, it will be of more service to the patient than any artificial contrivance, however ingeniously made. 5. It not unfrequently happens that amputation may be required in the more advanced stages of gun-shot injury, in consequence of mortification. In these circumstances, it must be practised without delay, and without waiting for the line of separation. If, in consequence of long-continued suffering and discharge, the patient’s health becomes greatly deteriorated, and the limb remain an useless appendage, amputation will at last be imperative. 6. Gun-shot injuries of joints are necessarily most serious and fatal—the danger depending on the size and complexity of the articulation, lathei than on the extent of the injury. Wounds of any of the three large joints of the lower extremity are especially dangerous and fatal; those of the uppei ex- tremity are more readily, and indeed commonly, recovered from. The fact of a joint being wounded is generally obvious enough from the direction taken by the ball, the comminution of the bones, and perhaps the escape of synovia ; but a joint maybe fatally injured by the longitudinal splitting of the bone into it, although the bullet has not passed within some inches of it. In bullet-wounds of joints, excision may be advantageously substituted for amputation in cases in which the soft parts are not too extensively torn, the large nerves and vessels are uninjured, and the shaft of the bone not too widely splintered, the mischief being confined chiefly to the articular ends. Bullet-wounds of the head, neclc, or trochanters of the femur, sjplintenny the lone into the articulation, are necessarily most serious. If they be left to palliative treatment, the death of the patient may be considered as almost inevitable ; if amputation at the hip be performed, the prospect is better ; and, though desperate, the case must not be considered as hopeless. This is well illustrated by the result of amputations in the great war of the American Rebellion (p. 105). In Primary amputations at the hip-joint for gun-shot injury, the mortality was, according to one estimate, 94, according to another, and I think more correct, 84 per cent. All Intermediate amputations were fatal; the Secondary ones only at the rate of 77 per cent. If the shaft be not too much implicated, it is probable that the best hope lies in the excision of the splintered head of the bone, and the careful removal of the loose fragments This operation, originally proposed by Guthrie, and first successfully per onnei bv O’Leary in the Crimean war, presents the most reasonable, though but a slender, hope of safety to the patient, and should accordingly be Poetised. With this view the wound must be laid freely open, loose fragments extiac ec, and the upper end of the bone detached, turned out, and sawn off. t six c 1 in S this was done in the Crimea, owe patient O’Leary s, recovered Chwlt who has collected all the cases of excision of joint, for gnn-shot