TRANSFUSION. 391 and fell into disrepute in England. Although the subject was occasionally revived, little attention Avas paid to it until about fifty years ago, ay hen trans- fusion Avas again practised by Dr. Blundell, who wisely restricted its employ- ment to those cases, occurring chiefly in obstetric practice, in Avhich, in consequence of sudden and profuse haemorrhage, the patient is threatened with fatal syncope. Dr. Blundell invented a syringe by which the operation might he performed more safely than heretofore ; and by his practice, experiments, and arguments, established the system on a secure basis. Transfusion is either mediate and indirect, when the blood is first received in Fig. 135.—Aveling’s Method of immediate Transfusion. A, Aim of Donor; B, Ann of Recipient. a vessel or syringe, and then injected into the veins of the patient; or imme- diate and direct, when a direct communication is established between the vein of the donor and that of the recipient. "Until recently the mediate method was almost invariably employed, but this is attended by two sources of danger, which no mechanical proAdsions are sufficiently accurate entirely to pre- vent, viz., the introduction of air, and the coagulation of the blood. Dr. Aveling in 1873 introduced a method of immediate transfusion by which these difficulties are to a great extent overcome by the employment of the apparatus which is seen in operation in Fig. 135. Fig. 136.—Introduction of Transfusion pipe into Vein. Avelmg’s transfusion apparatus consists of two silver bevel-ended tubes, one rp'ininf 18nutroduced int0 the vciu of thc dorior, the other into that of the inn- f]011 ’ ,1C V,m sdoidd de opened as recommended by Aveling, by expos- almo^rSel’-ir!then making a sharp cufc infc0 ifc (Fig- 136), otherwise it is The lnrV.k°SiV ° k° lnscvk a cannuia ini0 the collapsed vein of the recipient. ret-iinf.fi ti U1 'f101 paid. °i> ^lc aPP^atus is filled with warm ivater, Avhich is tubes in ti101*3 ^urning the two stop-cocks. It is then fitted on to the side of thnVeU1S,-and ^lG st°P"cochs opened. The India-rubber tube on the emntv thn ,C°*.n01 1S.then compressed, and the bulb slowly squeezed, so as to Va 01 whlch it contains into the recipient vein. The tube on the