UTTER END OF HUMERUS—INTRACAPSULAR. 567 the base of the acromion ; and an old specimen, from a subject in the dissecting- room, showing a fracture through the middle of the process united by a fibions band three-quarters of an inch in length. The attachment ot such poweiful muscles as the pectoralis minor, biceps, and coraco-brachialis, displaces the fragment considerably, and would do so still more, were it not that it is kept in position by the ligaments to which it gives insertion, and whose fibres are expanded over it. The only Treatment that can be adopted is to put the arm in a sling and fix it to the side. 4. Fracture of the Heck of the Scapula immediately behind the glenoid cavity is a rare injury. Its existence has been doubted : A. Cooper and South have stated that cases so described are, in reality, instances of fracture of the upper end of the humerus. There is, according to South, no preparation in any museum in London illustrating fracture of the neck of the scapula. A case, however, recorded by Spence in the Edinburgh Medical Journal for 18G3, puts the occasional occurrence of the injury beyond doubt. A man was brought into the Edinburgh Infirmary, who had fallen on his shoulder while iutoxicated. There was falling of the limb towards the axilla, with projection of the acromion and flattening of the deltoid; and crepitus was felt. The contour of the shoulder was restored by drawing the arm from the side and raising the limb. The man died some days afterwards from meningitis, the result of an injury to the forehead which he had received during the fall. O11 examining the shoulder, “ the fracture was found to pass obliquely from below, upwards and forwards, commencing about half-an-inch behind the origin of the long head of the triceps, and separating the neck and four-fifths of the lower part of the glenoid cavity from the scapula. The long head of the biceps and the whole of the glenoid ligament had also been torn from the upper fragment of the glenoid cavity, and carried along with the displaced portion.” In fracture through the neck of the scapula, the coracoid process would necessarily follow, the glenoid cavity being detached along with it. Mobility of the coracoid would, therefore, be a valuable sign in the diagnosis of this rare fracture. The Treatment of such an injury, if it were diagnosed, would consist in keeping the whole arm well raised and fixed to the chest, with a pad in the axilla. Fractures of the Humerus.—In studying the fractures of the humerus, we must divide that bone into three parts,—the Upper Articular End, the Shaft, and the Lower Articular End. 1. Fractures of the Upper Articular End of the Humerus not unfre- quently occur, constituting an important class of injuries which have been carefully studied by Sir A. Cooper, and more recently by E. W. Smith, whose work on Fractures deserves the attentive perusal of every practitioner. Five kinds of fracture of the humerus are met with in the immediate vicinity ot the shoulder-joint. Two of these are Intracqpsular, viz., Simple Fracture the Anatomical Neck, and Impacted Fracture of this portion of the bone, lie remaining three are Extracapsular, viz., Fractures of the Surgical Neck— irnpie and Impacted ; and Separation of the Great Tuberosity. ( U lacaf>311lar Fracture of the Neck of the Humerus.—When the ’ac uie occurs at the anatomical nccJc, the head of the bone is detached from