TUMOURS. i°38 action, which is confined to it, and docs not extend to the neighbouring healthy tissues. But this assertion is entirely destitute of foundation. Caustics are more frequently applicable to epithelioma than to scirrhus or cncephaloid. In certain cases the disease is so situated, as in some parts of the face or in the deeper cavities of the body, that it cannot be dissected out, and in these its removal may be effected by caustics ; but, if these agents be employed, care should be taken that they be freely applied and be sufficiently strong, so as thoroughly to destroy the whole of the morbid textures. Ineffi- cient caustics, such as nitrate of silver, irritate and do not destroy the tissues to which they are applied, and in this way do much mischief. Inflammation is excited around the growth, and the inflamed tissues become rapidly infiltrated by the abnormal structure, which thus extends with much greater rapidity than would otherwise have been the case. The caustics that have been and that are employed in the treatment of cancei-s are very various. They cannot be used indiscriminately, and consequently we must briefly consider them separately. 1. The concentrated mineral acids, especially the fuming nitric and anhydrous sulphuric acids, are often advantageously employed. The concentrated nitric acid may be usefully applied to small superficial cancerous ulcers ; it rapidly destroys the tissues, and does not spread too widely, but it is not potent enough for the destruction of tumours. The glacial sulphuric acid, made into a white paste with asbestos, as used by Michel, or rubbed into a black paste with powdered saffron, is the caustic which Velpeau extols as the most efficient in cancerous tumours, more particularly those of a fungating or bleeding kind. It converts the part to which it is applied into a thick, hard, carbonized eschar, with but little surrounding inflammation ; and, as its action is rapid, the pain is not prolonged. On the separation of the hard slough, a healthy granulating cavity will be left, which cicatrizes rapidly with contraction. It acts also as a haemostatic, rapidly shrivelling and drying up large bleeding and discharging growths. _ . ■ 2. The caustic alkalies, especially potash and lime, either alone or in cornbi- nation, in the shape of the Vienna paste, or fused iuto sticks, are very energetic in their action ; but they have the disadvantage of spreading widely if applied to a large surface, and, by softening or dissolving the parts, giving rise to a tendency to haemorrhage. They may, however, be advantageously applied to small epithelial cancers of the face. 3. Various mineral salts, more particularly the chlorides of antimony and zinc, the acid nitrate of mercury, and arsenious acid, are often employed with much success in the treatment of cancerous ulcers and growths. Of the various chlorides, that of zinc is the most useful. This is applied by being made into a paste containing one part of the chloride to four parts of flour, moistened with a little water, to which one-twentieth part of extract of opium may be added to diminish pain. It must, in order to act, be applied to a raw surface: hence it is customary first to destroy the skin with nitric acu . and then to apply the chloride. Canquoin states that a paste, made of equal parts of the chloride and of flour, four lines in thickness, and applied for forty- eight hours, destroys the parts to the depth of an inch and a half. \\ hen o less strength and substance, its action is proportionately limited. 1 fiere a two methods by which a tumour maybe attacked and destroyed by cam w paste : either from the circumference, or from the centre. M hen the turn