584 SPECIAL FRACTURES. The accompanying Figs. 220 and 221, represent two forms of splints that have justly many advocates, viz., Gordon’s and Nelaton’s. Another form of splint which will be found most efficient in overcoming the deformity and comfortable to the patient, is that invented by Carr a few years ago (Fig. 222). It consists of a narrow splint slightly hollowed out to fit the radius, obliquely across the end of which is a cylinder of wood about four inches long by one in diameter. This is padded with cotton-wool and applied to the fore-arm in such a way that the cylinder corresponds to the metacarpo- phalangeal articulations. A short splint, about two inches wide, is then placed on the back of the arm, and both are secured by a few turns of bandage. The fingers are now bent down so as to make them firmly grasp the cylinder of wood. A few turns of bandage may at first be applied to keep the fingers in position, but after the first week the bandage must not extend beyond the carpo-metacarpal arti- culation, the fingers being left perfectly free to move. By the use of this apparatus the ten- dency to stiffness of the fingers is greatly diminished. Fractures of the Meta- carpus and Fingers are of so simple a character as scarcely to call for detailed remarks. There is only one accident to a metacarpal bone that can lead to any difficulty in diagnosis. It is the case in which the neck of the bone is broken transversely, so that the head is carried forwards with the finger, and thus simulates closely a dislocation of the fingers towards the palmar surface. A comparison of the line of the bent knuckles, with crepitus on rotation, will pretty easily determine the real injury. In the Treatment, rest of the part upon a leather, gutta-percha, or pasteboard splint is all that is requisite. In compound fracture of these bones, every effort should be made to save the part ; if. removal become necessary, it should be as limited in extent as possible (p. 95). Period of Union—A fracture of one of the bones of the hand is firmly united by the end of the third week, when splints will no longer be required. FRACTURES OF THE PELVIS AND THE LOWER EXTREMITY. Fractures of the Pelvis.—The pelvic bones can be broken only by great and direct violence. The complete circle which they form, their solidity, and the strength of their synchondroses, enable them to resist all indirect causes of fracture. In civil life these bones are usually broken by crushes of the body, as between a cart and a wall, by falls of rock in mining accidents, or by the crushing force of railway collisions.