SPEC I A L DISLOCA TIDE’S. 690 the semilunar cartilage may sometimes bo felt projecting under the skin. In the course of a very short time the joint becomes swollen, being distended by . J synovial secretion ; and symptoms of subacute synovitis speedily appear. This J accident, originally described by Hey, and since investigated by Sir A. Cooper aud others, occurs usually in consequence of the semilunar fibro-cartilage slip- ping away from under the internal condyle, either before or behind it, so as to bring the surface of the condyle and that of the tibia into direct apposition, but cases have also been recorded in which the displacement affected the ex- ternal cartilage. The severe pain that is always experienced is owing in all probability to the nipping of the loose folds of synovial membrane that lie within the joint—the so-called mucous and alar ligaments, and also to the great stretching of the ligaments by the partial displacement of the bones. The Reduction may be effected by flexing the joint, and then, when the muscles are off their guard, the patient’s attention being directed elsewhere, rapidly extending it at the same time that a movement of rotation is com- municated to the leg. The evidence of complete reduction consists in the restoration of the power of extending the articulation. The synovitis that usually follows this injury requires to be treated by local antiphlogistic remedies and rest. No means are known by which the cartilage can be fixed again as firmly as it was before the accident, and in the great majority of cases s recurrence of the displacement takes place at intervals. The best means of preventing it is to support the knee either with a laced knee-cap, having a leather stiffener behind, or a flannel bandage firmly applied. Should reduction prove impossible, or should the displacement return immediately, when the patient uses his limb again, it is useless to try to fix the cartilage by prolonged rest. The patient should begin to use his leg freely as soon as the synovitis has subsided, and after a time the displaced cartilage seems to accommodate itself to its new position, and gives no further trouble. Rupture of the Posterior Crucial Ligament is an accident that occa- sionally occurs as the result of a violent blow on the anterior aspect of the head of the tibia, such as may be received in a railway-accident when the patient is thrown forwards against the opposite seat. The symptoms are at first effusion of blood and synovia into the injured joint. When this is absorbed, it will be found that the knee is weak, giving way slightly when flexed in walking. When the patient is seated with the knee flexed to a right t angle, and the foot firmly planted ou the ground, if the tibia be grasped at its upper end and moved backwards and forwards, it will be found to be capable of a slight displacement backwards into the ham. The Treatment consists in supporting the knee with a properly fitted apparatus. The Head of the Fibula has occasionally, though very rarely, been displaced by the application of direct violence. Boyer and Sanson have each recorded a case of this kind. One such case has occurred to me in my Prac' tice. It happened in a gentleman about 23 years of age, who, in descending an Alpine slope covered with snow, fell with one leg bent forcibly under him, so that he came down, as it were, in a sitting posture. The head of the fibula was thrown back off the articulating surface, and remained permanently in its new situation. The limb was somewhat weakened, so that the patient could not jump, but otherwise he suffered no inconvenience. The tendon of the biceps was very tense ; and when I saw the case, some time after the accidcn , its traction effectually prevented all attempts at reduction.