FRACTURES. of bandage will be required. It dries in from 12 to 24 hours, and makes 52° otlier side. The pins may now be removed. The seam serves as a hinge ; and when the whole has set, the splint may be taken off, the edges of the plaster ' trimmed, and those of the inner piece of flannel cut so as to leave sufficient to turn over and stitch down on the outer piece. The splint is then re-adjusted and fixed by a bandage (Fig. 180). 4. Another mode of the application of plaster, which lias been recommended by Croft, of St. Thomas’s Hospital, will be found very useful. Some common house-flannel or old blanket is cut into the form of lateral splints, and of such size as almost to meet round the limb. Two of these must be cut for each side of the limb. The one which is to lie next the skin is then placed upon a table,- Avith its inner side downwards ; the other is well soaked in plaster of Paris and water of the consistence of thick cream, and immediately applied to it. The two are then taken up together and placed upon the limb ; those for the opposite side having been prepared in the same Avay are quickly applied, and the whole surrounded by a muslin-bandage. The limb is to be held in Mg. ISO.—Bavarian Plaster Splint. position while the plaster sets. When all is solid the muslin-bandage can be cut down the front of the limb, and the apparatus taken off whenever it is desirable to examine the fracture. In all cases in which the plaster-bandage is used, there is danger of unsafe constriction of the limb after the setting of the plaster, either in consequence of the apparatus having been applied too tightly, or of the inner bandage, which has been directly applied to the limb, becoming tightened by the swell- ing of the member within it. Hence great care must be taken for several days after the application of the apparatus, to watch the limb carefully, and il signs of over constriction come on, such as pain, coldness, numbness, and oedema of the extremities, whether toes or fingers, immediately to cut it up, re-adjust, or remove it. No tune should be lost in doing this, as the limb may have become gangrenous in patches, with little suffering to the patient or constitutional disturbance. The Silicate-of-Soda- or Water-glass-Bandage is another very useful form of rigid apparatus. The materials required are a solution of silicate of soda of the consistence of syrup, which can be purchased ready prepared, and keeps Avell in a stoppered bottle, and some thin bandages. The bandages are to be thoroughly soaked by being drawn through a sufficient quantity of the solution in the bottom of a basin, and then rolled up again. A thick padding of cotton avooI is then put round the limb, and the silicate-bandage applied directly upon it. No pasteboard-splints arc used, and about four or five layers