CAUSES OF INFLAMMATORY FEVER. i8r turbance. The organisms of simple putrefaction, as before stated, can live only on dead matter; and, if they happen to enter the circulation, they speedily perish, unlike the true parasitic or pathogenic organisms which accompany many infective processes and grow and flourish in the living tissues or blood. The effect produced by the absorption of the products of putrefaction is, therefore, proportional to the dose ; the poison has no power of multiplying in the system, and, if the dose be not too great, it is speedily eliminated without serious consequences. If the dose be excessive, it gives rise to a train of symptoms which will be described in the chapter on septicaemia. The products of putrefaction are absorbed with great readiness from a raw surface or the charred surface left by a burn ; but it is said that the ease with which they are taken up is greatly diminished by the application of some chemical caustics, especially chloride of zinc. Healthy granulation-tissue forms an efficient barrier to absorption under ordinary conditions (presumably from its possessing no lymphatics) ; but at slight degrees of pressure the pyrogenic substance passes readily through it. Thus in a large wound, such as an amputation, if there is perfect drainage and no decomposition, the febrile disturbance is very slight and of brief duration, ceasing by the third day at the latest; if there is decomposition of the discharges the fever is higher, and reaches its maximum by the third day, subsiding gradually as the granula- tions spring up and form a barrier against further absorption ; if with decom- position there is insufficient drainage and the wound be of sufficient size, the patient may receive such a dose of the products of putrefaction as to die poisoned -a condition which will be further described in the chapter on septicaemia. If, after the granulations have sprung up and fever has ceased, an accumulation of putrid matter takes place in the cavity of the wound, and there is such a want of drainage that the fluid is pent up at some degree of piessiue, the fever and local inflammation will return; but should the drainage be made perfect, it will again cease. It is the fever due to these two causes- the products of destructive tissue-change and exudation in simple inflammation, and the pyrogenic products of putrefaction in septic inflam- mations—that is spoken of as surgical or traumatic fever. Some writers are inc mec to unit these terms to the former of these conditions as being a fever inseparable from any large wound or injury, even when subcutaneous, and to emp o} le eims septic fever lor the latter; and perhaps there would be some advantage m so doing. lever is also a constant accompaniment of acute infective inflammations; la is o say, of those conditions in which a virus is present which multiplies nr o-nC ^ H either locally, as in true spreading or infective inflammations, generally after entering the blood from the original local centre of infection, Romn n/fY ,,]nis 0 sffiHcsmiia and in pyaemia, malignant pustule, &c. In • ,,ese < on ltlons ]t has been shown that an essential feature of the ie picsence of microscopic organisms of a specific character which has Pr w G1 ° ^\°"ln® bbe ^lue parasites in the living body. This condition and pvanwi1’ aS ?,"C no rneans been proved for all febrile infective processes; eenemi aiwIf-1 n ‘"Seisin seems to be distinctly the cause of the local and Lastlv f,C1°n’. 10 CXflcfc way hi which it produces fever is uncertain. process of feve^ T?8 SyStCm T'^ pr<?bablJ Pk7s an important part in the influpnpp i„ fi ‘ , cau scai'cely be doubted that it exerts an all-important e rc8"lliation of the general heat of the body, and a hypothetical