COMBINATION AND OVAL AMPUTATIONS. 65 I and, consequently, if, when the operation is finished, the line of union of the I flaps is to the flexor aspect of the bones, it is quite certain .that the scar, when I the stump is healed, will be in a similar position. The method of operating, , therefore, recommended by Lister as best suited to the amputations of the i forearm, leg, and thigh, is the following. An anterior rounded flap, equal in. I length to two-thirds of the antero-posterior diameter of the limb at the point : at which the bone is to be sawn, is raised by cutting from without inwards. In the lower thirds of the leg and forearm the bones form so large a propor- tion of the limb that, in order to make sure that the scar shall be placed behind them, it is necessary to increase the length of the anterior flap to the diameter of the limb. In raising the anterior flap the operator will, if he think fit, try to take up some muscle at the base of the flap to thicken it up and so ensure its vitality. This is always to be recommended for all parts in thin or feeble subjects, and in the thigh in every patient. The flap is not, however, under any circumstances to be too fleshy and heavy. A posterior skin- flap, half the length of the anterior, is next raised. The muscles are then divided circularly and retracted from the bone for a distance equal to at least one quarter of the diameter of the limb; in the thigh it is better always to retract for half a diameter. It is evident that in the leg this retraction may be rather difficult, especially in. secondary amputations in which the tissues are swollen and infiltrated; but the difficulty is easily overcome by extending the incision upwards from the angle of the flaps, either on one or both sides of the limb, to the point at which the bones are to be sawn. This mode of amputating combines the advantages of both the circular and flap operations ; it has the light covering and absence of excessive muscle of the circular, with the accurate fit, the good drainage, and the well placed scar of the flap method. It is in fact a combination of the flap and circular operations, and is, there- fore, sometimes spoken of as the “ combination method.” Amputation by the Oval Method, which is especially adapted to removal of fingers or toes and disarticulations at the shoulder and hip, is essentially a circular amputation with a longitudinal incision made up one side of the limb, to facilitate the retraction of the soft parts and the exposure of the joint at which disarticulation is to be performed. The oval form is given by rounding- off the angles formed by the junction of the longitudinal with the circular incision. When the longitudinal incision is continued for some distance above the commencement of the true oval part, the operation is frequently spoken of as amputation by the “ racket-shaped incision.” Sawing the Bone.—In all methods of amputating, as soon as the incisions have been made through the soft parts, the bones must be cleared for the application of the saw. While doing this the soft parts must be firmly retracted by the assistant or by the Surgeon himself, if he stands so as to take his own flaps. For the purpose of retraction the hands are usually sufficient, though some Surgeons still use retractors made of pieces of stout calico or linen. The retractor must be about two inches wider than the diameter of the limb and about three feet long. If there is only one bone, one end must be torn into two tails. The retractor is soaked in carbolic lotion, and the two tails oi the divided end are then passed one on each side of the bone and slightly crossed on each other. The assistant then, taking the two tails in one hand and the undivided end in the other, pulls them forcibly upwards. If there are two bones, the divided end must be torn into three tails, the VOL. 1.