FOREIGN BODY IN FOOD-PASSAGE— TREAT MEM. s- 7 solids, and perhaps an urgent sense of suffocation, lead to the detection of the accident. Should any doubt exist, the Surgeon may, by introducing Ins fmgei, explore nearly the whole of the pharynx, and should examine the oesophagus. by the cautious introduction of a well-oiled probang. If the impaction be allowed to continue unrelieved, not only may deglutition and respiration be seriously interfered with, but ulceration of the oesophagus will take place, and abscess form either behind it or between it and the trachea •, or fatal luemorrhage may ensue by perforation or ulceration of neighbouring blood-vessels. . The Treatment must depend upon the nature of the foreign body ana its. situation. Should it be large, blocking up the pharynx so as to render respira- tion impracticable, it may be hooked out by the Surgeon’s fingers. Should asphyxia have been induced, it may be necessary to perform tracheotomy or laryngotomy at once, and to keep up artificial respiration until respiration is- fully re-established when the foreign body can be removed. If it be small or pointed, as a fish-bone or pin, for instance, though it have lodged high up,, the Surgeon will usually experience great difficulty in its removal, as it becomes, entangled between and is covered in by the folds of the mucous membrane, where from its small size it may escape detection. In these cases an expand- ing probang will be found useful. After the foreign body has been remov edr the patient will experience for some time a pricking sensation, as if it were still fixed. If the impacted body have passed low down into the oesophagus, the Surgeon must deal with it according to its nature. A coin can usually be caught by the instrument known as a “ coin-catcher,” and removed without difficulty. If the body be smooth and soft, as a piece of meat for instance, it may be pushed down into the stomach by the gentle pressure of the probang. If, however, it be rough, hard, or sharp-pointed, as a piece of earthenware, or bone, or a metallic plate, with false teeth attached, such a procedure would certainly cause perforation of the oesophagus, and serious mischief to the parts- around ; in these circumstances, therefore, an attempt at extraction should be made by means of long slightly-curved forceps, constructed for the purpose. The foreign body occasionally becomes so firmly impacted in the pharynx or oesophagus, that the employment of any degree of force for extracting it would be attended with danger of perforating the oesophagus or transfixing the large vessels of the neck ; in these circumstances it may become necessary to open the tube and thus remove it. The operation of Pharyngotomy or (Esophagotomy is seldom called for ; if required, it may be performed by making an incision about four inches in length along the anterior border of the left sterno-mastoid muscle, the oesophagus naturally curving somewhat towards the left side. The dissection must then be carried with great caution between the carotid sheath and the larynx and trachea in a direction backwards, the omo-hyoid muscle having been divided in order to afford room. Care must be taken in this deep dissection not to wound cither of the thyroid arteries, more especially the inferior one, which will be endangered by carrying the incisions- too low. When the pharynx or the oesophagus has been reached, a sound or catheter should be passed through the mouth into this cavity, and pushed forwards so that its point may cause the walls to project, and thus serve as a guide to the Surgeon. This must then be cut upon, and the aperture thus- made in the gullet enlarged, by means of a probe-pointed bistoury, to a suffi- cient size to allow the removal of the extraneous substance.