TRAUMATIC ANEURISM. -aricose aneurism is, in fact, a circumscribed traumatic aneui.s i 45° The Symptoms consist of a tumour at the scat of injury, which can he emptied by pressure upon the artery leading to it, or by compressing its walls. If subcutaneous, this tumour is of a blue or purple colour, of an oblong shape, and will be seen to receive the dilated and tortuous veins. It will be found to pulsate distinctly with a tremulous jarring motion, rather than a distinct impulse. Auscultation detects in it a loud and blowing, whiffing, lasping, or hissing sound, usually of a peculiarly harsh character. This sound has very aptly been compared by Porter to the noise made by a fly in a paper-bag, and by Liston to the sound of distant and complicated machinery. The thrill and sound are more distinct in the upper than in the lower part of the limb, and are most perceptible if the limb be allowed to hang down so as to become con- gested. Besides these local symptoms, there is usually some muscular weak- ness, together with diminution in the temperature of the part supplied by the injured artery. ... ,, Treatment.—As this condition, when once established, is stationary, a operative interference should be avoided, an elastic bandage merely being applmd. Should a case occur in which more than this is required, the artery must be cut down upon and ligatured on each side of the wound m it Holmes suggests that in aneurismal varix a cure might possibly be obtaine by pressure directed solely to the orifice in the v ein. . Varicose Aneurism—In this case the openings in the artery and vein do ,._A Varicose Aneurism at tlie Bend of tlie Arm unopened. not directly communicate (see Figs. 165 and 166) but an aneurismal sac is formed between the two vessels, into which the blood is poured before passi: 0 m The Pathological Condition of this form of injury consists in the fonna- l?ig. 106.—The same Varicose Aneurism removed from its connexions. , of a circumscribed traumatic aneurism, communicating on one side with °2y Ton the other with the vein, which is always in a state of vam-