VENEREA L DISEASES. iio4 Surgeons on the Continent, and by Walker of Peterborough in this country. The salt used is the perchloric!®, of which about one-sixteenth of a grain is injected in solution in 30 minims of water. Sigmund of Vienna, who tried this remedy in two hundred cases, used a solution of about four grains to one ounce of water to which he added eighty grains of common salt. He insists strongly on the necessity of rest after the injection, so as to obviate the occurrence of abscess and other untoward consequences which have been observed to follow it. The precise value of the subcutaneous injection of mercury in syphilis has, it seems, yet to be determined. Sigmund believes it to be most useful in those forms of the disease affecting the more superficial structures and the osseous, muscular, and fibrous tissues. Hill, who has extensively tried this mode of administration, is of opinion that it should be reserved for those rare cases in which mercury cannot be taken in the more ordinary ways. (cl.) Mercurial fumigation.—In some cases of constitutional syphilis in which the patient cannot tolerate this drug by the mouth, mercury may conveniently be administered by fumigation. This plan of treatment, which has been especially recommended by Langston Parker and H. Lee, consists of a combination of vapour-bathing and of mercurial fumigation ; and these gentlemen speak in the highest terms of the value of this remedy in syphilis, as shortening the duration of ordinary treatment, and permanently curing the disease without the constitution of the patient being in any way injured by its employment. The baths may also be associated with appropriate internal treatment. Fumigation is thus carried out ; the patient is seated naked on a wood-bottomed chair or stool and is covered by a cloak made of some thick woollen material reaching to the floor and fastened round the neck. It is fitted with a cane hoop to keep it from touching the body. A lamp con- sisting of a circular trough to contain about one ounce of water, and a central plate for the mercurial preparation, is used for producing the vapour. The water must be made to boil thoroughly before the mercury is put on the plate. It is then immediately put under the chair, and thus the patient’s body will be steamed for a minute or two before the mercury begins to volatilize. The best form of apparatus is that known as Lee’s lamp, but in the absence of all special apparatus fumigation can very easily be carried out by means'of two spirit-lamps and two metal vessels, one for the water and one for the mercury, the patient being covered by a thick blanket. A arious forms of mercury have been used, but the two best seem to be the bisulphuret as recommended by Langston Parker, in doses of from one to two drachms at each bath, and calomel, which has been extensively used by Henry Lee in doses of from twenty to thirty grains. "Whatever form of apparatus be used, after about twenty minutes, when the whole of the mercury will have been volatilized, the patient gets into bed wearing the cloak or blanket. He must not be left alone during the bath, as he may become faint. Tf perspiration does not begin at once a little weak hot tea may be given to encourage it. 7. General management of a patient during a course of mercurg.— 1 lie patient should be made to understand clearly that mercury does not directly cure the disease, but only aids the system in overcoming and eliminating the poison. Regular hours, sufficient exercise in the open air, abundant simple food, and the"avoidance of alcoholic or other excesses are of equal importance in the management of a case of syphilis as the administration of mercury.. \\ hde