CHRONIC INFLAMMATION. 209 to exude, have still sufficient vitality remaining to exert a selective influence on what passes through their walls. Thus in chronic inflammations of serous or synovial cavities, we frequently find them distended with a fluid of con- siderably lower specific gravity than that of the liquor sanguinis, and not possessing the power of spontaneous coagulation. The tissues of a part affected by chronic inflammation become, as in the acute process, infiltrated by new cells. In the acute process, it may now be said to be proved that all these cells are white corpuscles that have migrated from the vessels, and jiossibly multiplied by division in their new situation. In chronic inflammation, although migration does take place, it is doubtful whether some of the new cells may not be derived from multiplication of the original connective-tissue-corpuscles of the part. In very chronic processes in which the impairment of vitality is slight, this does not seem impossible. Be that as it may, the new cells which appear may undergo a variety of changes according to circumstances. If the part recovers, they may, as in acute inflammation, disappear, either finding their way back into the vessels or undergoing disintegration and absorption. In other cases, they may become heaped up, slowly destroying or displacing the surrounding tissues till they orm a mass, often of considerable size, as in chronic inflammations of the synovial membranes of joints; in these masses of cells new vessels are • J?’ bufc f‘e vascularization of the new growth is always more or less impel feet, so that degenerative changes early set in for want of sufficient supply of nutriment Thus, in chronic inflammation of joints, we may find SicteT0'"ntrmlTfl a SOft plUw raass »f tiss“> X» men in thickness The layer of this, m nearest relation to the vessels of the sunounding healthy structures, is moderately supplied with new vessels and presents the ordinary appearances of healthy granulation-tissue • nelt to thist elements are any longer to be seen ° Tlds^attv l"”*’ m “'“T n0 IndlTid™l down into a fluid which someJw™ , la-fw ">J “often and break soopic examination is foundtoX S ’? I™ “ tat on micro- of « thns formed XXa ^ ““ degeneration, the mass so formed 1 ^ mdergoing complete fatty tion of its fluids The e° 7 'P*™6 itJ a,ld cI>«V >>y tie absorp- fcan indeS peX tatat^v« H f0I™d “V ^in this state tat imperfectly unde,stood T^th! 7 T7 so,ten ftom causes as yet undergoes chemical changes which tllC chees7 mafcfce1' result of this, inflammation b ^ nutating properties; and, as the be set up leading1 to ulcprar • a 1.nor® acute character with suppuration may tion „,P’„ X, surronnding it, or to the forma- . ^ SUrfaCe,and thUS the CilSe0US of small size ; it&mav shvfill-80 ‘soiten,nS’ may take place, when the mass is be deposited in it for • v anc. C1J nP mor® completely, and lime-salts may V0L- 1. ’ ° a cbalky concretion, which remains permanently p