CONCUSSION OF THE BRAIN. 697 INJURIES OF REGIONS. CHAPTER XXIV. INJURIES OF THE HEAD. Injuries of the Head are among the most important subjects that can I ! engage the Surgeon’s attention. Their importance is derived not so much from the injury of the scalp and skull, as from the implication of the brain and its membranes, and the results which are thereby produced, in many cases directly, and in others indirectly and remotely, owing to the anatomical connections and consequent close pathological sympathies that exist between the external and internal structures of the head. In consequence of this [ tendency to cerebral complication, it is of the first moment in practice to study these injuries as a whole, with special regard to the affections of the encephalon that are produced by them, and from ivhich the injury of the scalp and the : fracture of the skull derive the greater part of their importance. It is there- fore necessary, in the first instance, to be acquainted with the nature and treatment of the principal forms of cerebral affection that supervene upon these ) accidents, before we proceed to study the injuries themselves. CEREBRAL COMPLICATIONS OF INJURIES OF THE HEAD. These may be primary or secondary. The brain is subject to three principal Primary States of Functional Disturbance arising from injury ; viz., 1. Concussion, 2. Compression, and 3. Cerebral Irritation. Any one of these may be followed by, or be complicated with, subsequent inflammation, that !: derives peculiar characteristics from the conditions with which it is associated, and from the injury by which it is occasioned. In describing these different conditions, we are compelled to define the symptoms that characterize them more distinctly than is the case in actual : practice, where they are not so clearly individualized, but become merged j together to a considerable extent. 1. Concussion of the Brain.—Concussion, or stunning, appears to be a shock communicated to the head from the application of such external violence as. will produce commotion of the substance of the brain, or m eieic v, ith the circulation through it; in consequence of which its unctions become suspended, usually in a slight and transitory degree, but occasiona y to such an extent that the patient does not rally for many hours 10m ie epressed state into which he is thrown, and perhaps sinks without recovery. 1 1