VARIETIES OF CANCER. 102 X 2. The second important point in connection with the structure of a can- cerous tumour is the absence of an enveloping capsule; unlike almost c\cry simple tumour, it is not in any way encysted or encapsuled. As before pointed out, there is every reason to believe that the processes of epithelial cells which force their way into the surrounding structures are actually lying in spaces directly communicating with the lymphatic vessels. There is no barrier between them and the tissues they are invading, nothing to limit their extending into them and destroying them. What circumstances or conjunction of circumstances can possibly favour i more highly the diffusion throughout the neighbouring tissues and of the whole system of a primary growth, than such a mode of growth stimulated by active hypermmia of the surrounding structures ? This invasion of the lymph-spaces may lead to a much earlier contamina- tion of tissues and of the system than is generally supposed. We do not know, and there is in the present state of science no possibility of ascertaining, how soon after its first formation, whilst still a microscopical nodule, a cancerous tumour may begin to shed its cells into neighbouring areolar spaces or lym- phatics. From the very first day of its formation—from the very first of the multiplication of its cells—the highly organized but fatal cells may have i started on their travels into areolar spaces, carried on by the increased lymph- stream, but capable of self-support whenever arrested, and in their new habitat developing into fresh cancerous centres capable of the same process of multiplication and of local infection, which may be indefinitely extended ; capable also, probably, of entry into the vessels, of being carried through them to distant organs, and deposited in them, like pymmic embola, forming- centres of new growth in the lungs or liver. It is this early tendency of cancer to dissemination that leads to the suppo- sition of its being constitutional. For the system may become permeated by cells shed from the parent primary tumour, before this has attained sufficient size to attract serious attention, if, indeed, it has been observed at all. Having thus described the cancer in general, we are in a position to con- sider more in detail the special varieties. 1. Glandular Cancers, or cancers the cells of which belong to the type of glandular or spheroidal epithelium, may arise as primary tumours in any parts in which glandular epithelium is normally present. They may thus arise in the breast, the salivary glands, the liver, pancreas, prostate, kidnev, and many other parts. They are subdivided into two chief varieties 1. Scirrhus or hard cancer, in which the stroma is very abundant and firm. 2. Encephaloid or soft cancer, in which the stroma is scanty and the cells abundant. These two forms merge insensibly into each other, and no sharp distinction can be drawn between them. A tumour that one Surgeon would call a rapidly growing scirrhus of the breast, another might describees eneeph- aloid. A third variety of glandular cancer arises from colloid degeneration of the cells of either scirrhus or encephaloid, and this is known as colloid cancer, which will be described separately. Hie glandular cancers yield on scraping or pressure a milky fluid, termed the Canccr-jmce, in which cells and granules are found in varying proportions. The granules are mostly fatty, and are the result of fatty degeneration of the cells of the tumour. This milky juice, it must be observed, is not absolutely characteristic of cancer. It is yielded by the lymphadenomata and by all the