12 GENERAL REMARKS ON OPERATIONS. patient’s body will be rendered more susceptible to their influence as its vitality becomes lowered. In the prevention of the effects of over-crowding we have to consider first the vitiation of the air by the patient by the natural processes oi respixation and excretion ; and, secondly, fouling of the atmosphere by the emanations from wounds and sores. The first of these causes of impurity is unavoidable, and it is only by providing sufficient air for each patient and changing it with sufficient frequency that its evil effects can be prevented. In determining the condition of the air of a room or ward the carbonic acid present is taken as the index of the degree of impurity, as it is easily estimated while the determination of the organic matter is almost impossible. Parkes and De Chaumont give 'G per 1000 volumes of total carbonic acid in the air as the limit of impurity allowable. Of this about '2 is derived from respiiation and the remainder is the normal quantity present in the atmosphere. In order to maintain the air at this standard an ordinary man requires to be supplied with 3000 cubic feet per hour. This is the minimum quantity of air that will suffice for the purpose, and it would evidently be unwise to trust to this. The rule, therefore, laid down is that at least 4000 cubic feet per horn must be provided In order that this amount of air may be obtained without exposing the patient to draughts, a sufficient cubic space must be allowed for each patient, so that if the air be changed from three to four times per hour the requisite amount may be supplied. Under exceptional circumstances 1000 cubic feet per head might thus, with good ventilation, be made sufficient; but no Surgeon would be content with this if he could obtain more ; as in ci\ ii practice he always can. The rule, therefore, laid down in the construction of hospitals is that each patient shall be allotted from 1500 to 2000 cubic feet of space, the larger space being required for infectious, or surgical cases. In order to maintain a proper degree of separation of the patients each must be allotted from 100 to 1G0 square feet of floor. The effective height of a vaid for the purposes of ventilation does not exceed 12 feet, hot only, however is space required, but change of air, by proper ventilation is equally_needfuL Military experience has shown conclusively that churches foim the very worst possible hospitals, for in these buildings, although the cubic space pci head is frequently enormous, but little provision is usually made foi efficient dlTho sect a cause of vitiation of the air of a surgical ward-the cmana- tiot frl wounds and sores-is more or less completely under the con rol of he Suro-con. If Wounds do not necessarily add to the impurity of the a. of a ™rcuts the decomposition of the discharges and the«fci.sc.develop that o-ive rise to the evil consequences formerly so familial to most bui ec . Experience tends to show that if decomposition oi the discharges> ea iso u y prevented, a case with a wound vitiates the air of a ward no moreono without • and in the present day, when the powers and properties of antiseptics *Xdcvsi)tl,orc 5 never any excuse for a wound ^commga source of impurity to the surrounding air. •ible as it still is in many cases, it is easy to absoib the cliscn h