COMPLICATED FRACTURES. 527 1. 1 the present day the dangers of suppuration and sloughing following in the cavity, may be greatly reduced, if not abolished, by the employment ol some efficient mode of antiseptic treatment, and the exposure ol the artery can be facilitated by the bloodless method of operating. If the means of treatment at the command of the Surgeon are such that he may hope efficiently to pre- vent the injurious consequences of exposing the fracture to the air, there is no reason why he should deviate from the acknowledged rule of surgery to tie the wounded vessel at the injured spot. 2. The circulation through the femoral artery may be arrested by com- pression or ligature of the vessel. I am not aware that compression has ever been tried in a case of diffused traumatic aneurism ; but there can be no reason why the effects of pressure upon the artery, by means of Carte’s or some other appropriate compressor, should not be tried before proceeding to more severe measures. Should it not succeed, the artery may be tied in Scarpa’s triangle. An operation there has several times been successfully done in such cases, more especially when the haemorrhage has been the result of laceration of the posterior tibial artery. But this operation should be done only in those cases in which, notwithstanding the existence of diffused traumatic aneurism in the ham, the pulsation has returned in the arteries of the foot, and the warmth and sensibility of the member have been in part at least restored. If these evidences of a return of circulation through the anterior tibial have not taken place, it will be worse than useless to ligature the femoral, as gangrene must inevitably ensue. 3. Amputation of the thigh may be performed. This severe measure need not be carried out at once. The Surgeon may wait a day or two and watch the progress of events. If he find that there is no sign of restoration of pul- sation in the arteries of the foot, that the coldness and numbness of the limb continue to increase, and, in fact, that gangrene is impending, then the sooner he amputates the better for the patient’s safety. If the artery have been tied, and gangrene result, the limb ought at once to be removed. To sum up, I would advise, in a case of diffused traumatic aneurism arising from and complicating a simple fracture of the lower extremity : 1. Not to lay open the tumour and search for the artery at the seat of wound, unless the local conditions are favourable, and antiseptic treatment can be efficiently carried out; 2. To compress or tie the femoral if pulsation have returned or continue in the arteries of the foot; 3. But should pulsation not have returned within two or three days, should gangrene be imminent, or actually have set m, or should the artery have been ligatured, and mortification have ensued, to amputate high in the thigh without further delay. It will thus be seen that, in a diffused traumatic aneurism complicating a fracture of the bones of the lower extremity, the ordinary treatment of diffused traumatic aneurism must, except under very favourable conditions, be departed from for these reasons. 1. That if there be great displacement of the parts, and laceration of the soft structures consequent on the fracture, it would be almost impossible to find the injured vessel; and 2. That, if it were found, e opening up ol the limb would leave a large ragged wound communicating \\i e y wi the broken bones, and, except under successful antiseptic treat- men , 1 wou d in all probability give rise to wide-spreading septic inflainma- 1011, accompanied by severe fever, and followed by prolonged suppuration, which would most probably terminate fatally.