SECONDARY EFFECTS OF CONCUSSION. 771 patient struck on the lower dorsal region feels as it an electric shock had passed through him ; he becomes feeble, and scarcely able to stand or walk. He takes to his bed, and for several days passes scarcely any urine, micturating only once in twenty-four or thirty-six hours. There is no distension of the bladder from retention ; but little or no urine is secreted. On passing the •catheter the bladder will be found to contain not more than from six to eight ounces. The cutaneous sensibility of the lower extremities is gradually diminished until it becomes entirely lost. There is no reflex movement on tickling the soles of the feet, and no electric sensibility, usually as high as the knees; sometimes the anaesthesia extends much higher. The patellar reflex, electric irritability and muscular tonicity continue for a time unimpaired, perhaps exaggerated, then decline, paresis of the lower limbs setting in. The temperature of the extremities and mouth, falls much below normal. The patient becomes anaemic, wastes, and is emotional, a hysterical condition developing. This state may continue for many months, a year, or two even, with many intercurring neurotic phenomena. But however hopeless the case may appear, recovery may be anticipated with confidence, though some years may elapse before this is complete. Secondary Effects.—Whatever may be the nature of the primary change that is produced in the spinal cord by a concussion, the secondary effects are clearly inflammatory, and are identical with those phenomena that have been described by Ollivier, Abercrombie, and others, as dependent on chronic meningitis of the cord, and subacute myelitis. One of the most remarkable phenomena attendant upon this class of cases is, that at the time of the occurrence of the injury the sufferer is usually quite unconscious that any serious accident has happened to him. The period of the supervention of the more [serious, persistent, and positive- symptoms of spinal lesion will vary greatly. Most commonly, after the first and immediate effects of the accident have passed off, there is a period of com- parative ease, and of remission of the symptoms, during which the patient imagines that he will speedily regain his health and strength. This period may last for many weeks, possibly for two or three months. Although there is often this long interval between the time of the occurrence of the accident and the supervention of the more distressing symptoms, it will be found, on close inquiry, that, there has never been an interval of complete restoration to health. His friends remark, and he feels that “ he is not the man he was.” He has lost bodily energy, mental capacity, and business aptitude. He looks ill and worn ; often becomes irritable and easily fatigued. He still believes that he has sustained no serious or permanent hurt, and'so long as he is at rest, he will feel tolerably well; but any attempt at ordinary exertion of body or mind brings back all those feelings or indications of nervous prostration and irritation characteristic of these injuries ; and to them will gradually be superadded more serious symptoms which evidently proceed from a chronic •disease of the cord and its membranes. After a lapse of several months—from nee to six the patient will find that he is slowly but steadily becoming voisc, anc he then, perhaps for the first time, becomes aware of the serious ana deep-seated injury that his nervous system has sustained. we countenance is usually pallid, sometimes even livid, and has a peculiarly Z10I7’. exI,leiS8i°dless look the patient generally looking much older tliau a ^ ls’01 t ‘■an he did before the accident. 1 have, however, seen instances 3 I) 2