io86 ) rENEll E A L DISEASES. first, and snob apparent increase as there may be results merely from in- fiammatory exudation, and the cells infiltrating the tissues are apparently all migrated white corpuscles, and show no signs of higher development, in the' initial manifestation of syphilis, in addition to the small round cells, larger cells evidently undergoing development are met with. In the simple chancre there is from the first evident loss of substance ; in the hard sore there maybe i distinct increase of tissue even when ulceration is taking place. The new growth in the initial manifestation of syphilis is imperfectly vascularized. The walls of the small arteries and veins in the infected tissue are sometimes found to be thickened, and the lumen obstructed by a growth from the en- dothelium. Consequently the indurated tissue tends readily to degenerate and break down. Clinically the initial manifestation assumes two forms, the desquamating papule, and the indurated chancre. The desquamating papule appears at the point of inoculation as an elevated hard dark-red or copper-coloured spot distinctly elevated above the surface, with slight desquamation of the epithelium covering it. At first it is very small, hut may gradually extend till it reaches half an inch in diameter. It is dense and hard, its edges are sharply defined ; it is practically painless, causing at most a slight itching. It occurs most frequently where it is little exposed to friction or to the irritation of accumulated secretions. If irritated in any way it readily ulcerates and then becomes an indurated chancre. In fact it rarely remains as a papule to the end. From its painless nature it may run its course and subside without attracting the attention of the patient. The Indurated or Hunterian Chancre commences as a papule, or may begin as an apparently simple sore which becomes indurated when the period of incubation is past. It assumes two forms dependent on the amount of the surrounding induration. In one form the sore is superficial, and the hardness, which is clearly defined, extends but little beyond it. In this variety, the sore is the most prominent feature, and the induration may even be difficult to detect, sometimes assuming the form described by Ricord as “ parchment in- duration.” The discharge, if the sore be kept clean and free from irritation, is merely serous, and under the microscope shows granular debris with a few epithelium scales. If the surface be irritated by dirt, or by any substance, used as a dressing, it rapidly becomes purulent. The extension of the ulceration is slow and painless. The superficial sore forms the most common variety of the initial manifestation. It occurs usually on moist surfaces as the glans or inside of the prepuce in the male, or labia in the female. The second form of indurated sore is that most properly described as the “ true Hunterian chancre.” It is surrounded by a dense mass of induration extending deeply into the tissues. It is considerably elevated above the sur- rounding parts, and the surface is often cup-shaped. Grasped between the fingers it feels almost like a piece of cartilage, the limits of the induration being clearly and sharply defined, and the surrounding tissues free front in- flammation. It is usually painless, and its surface is often almost dry, there being merely a very slight serous discharge. It is most common on the glans or on the corona. Every modification may be met with between these two forms of the indurated sore. It lias been maintained by Surgeons of great authority that induration at the site of inoculation may occasionally be absent. ! j