i8 GENERAL REMARKS ON OPERATIONS. PREPARATION FOR OPERATION. The Surgeon, being convinced of the necessity of having recourse to an operation, should fully and unreservedly lay before his patient the state oi the case, and, if necessary, give the reasons that render it imperative, in order to obtain his consent and that of his family. In the event of the patient refusing to submit, what course should the Surgeon pursue ? In this he must be guided partly by the nature of the proposed operation ; and partly by the state of the patient, and his capability of forming a correct judgment of his case. If the operation be one of expediency, merely for the relief of an infirmity or the removal of an ailment which does not directly jeopardise life, most certainly no Surgeon would think of undertaking it without the full consent of his patient. If, on the other hand, it be an operation that is imperatively necessary for the preservation of life, in which the delay of a few minutes or hours maybe fatal to the patient, as in one of the four cases of extreme surgical urgency, viz., dangerous haemorrhage, asphyxia, over-distended bladder, or strangulated hernia, and where the patient, unaware of, or incapable of being made to understand, the necessity for immediate action, is unwilling to assent to the proposal, the Surgeon will truly be placed in a dilemma of anxious responsibility—between allowing the patient to fall a sacrifice to Ins obstinacy, ignorance, or timidity, and attempting, perhaps unsuccessfully, to rescue him without his own consent from inevitable death. I believe the proper course tor the Surgeon to pursue under such circumstances, is to judge for the patient in a matter on which he is clearly unable to form an opinion, and to compel him, so far as is legal and practicable, to submit to the necessary steps for the preservation of his life, or to put him under anesthetics, and, when he is unconscious, to perform any operation that may be necessary. In the event of the patient being insensible, as after an injury of the head, the Surgeon mils necessarily take upon himself to act as the case requires. Children cannot be considered capable of giving an opinion as to the propriety of an operation ; the consent of the parents is here necessary, and quite sufficient; and, in their absence, the case being an urgent one, the Surgeon must stand in loco paren tis, and take all responsibility upon himself. , , These points having been determined, the patient should, if possi Me, Prepared for the Operation. In a great number of cases requiring operation, as strangulated hernia, bad compound fracture, &c„ no time is allowed for preparation, but the Surgeon must at once submit the patient to the kmte, whatever the state of his constitution may be. But in the more chronic cases, time is given for improving the constitution. This preparation mus not consist in any routine system of purging and starving, which is lll ca1^1, _ to support the constitution against the call that will be made upon its powers , nor, on the other hand, in blindly adopting a tonic or stimulating regimen; but in adapting our means to the condition of the patient and the natui < the operation to be performed. The tendency to erysipelas, PJ™, and diffuse inflammations generally, is materially lessened p suppoi in& patient’s strength, by means of a nutritious diet, previously to the performance Ke operation Indeed, in many of the more severe injuries and surgical diseases it is only by the use of a nutritious diet, and by the administration of tonics quinine, or iron, and stimulants, often in large quantities, that the be brought into . condition to bear the ** «d pressionof the operation. This is more particularly the case with hospital