i°97 SYPHILIS—DURATION AND TREATMENT. Duration of Syphilis.—It is extremely difficult to say when syphilis can be eradicated from the system ; and indeed it is a question whether it may not impress the constitution in a peculiar way, modifying certain processes during the rest of life, as we know to he the case in other specific diseases, such as cow- pox or scarlet-fever. Certain it is that, if neglected or improperly treated, it may affect the system for an indefinite time, declaring its existence by exciting and modifying various local inflammations years after the original absorption of the poison. It is tolerably clear that a person who has once had the usual course of syphilis and has recovered from this malady, cannot have it a second time, though he contract a fresh chancre. This rule is from time to time proved to be o-enerally true by the occasional observations of undoubted exceptions, where repetition of the disease from re-inoculation of the virus takes place. But such cases arc exceedingly rare, and occur only after an interval of some years has elapsed between the two attacks. Hutchinson has related a very interesting example of this kind hi a medical student, who also suffered from two attacks of small-pox. Daily experience shows that in many constitutions syphilis cannot be eradicated, and that in most others, when once it has oc- Icurred, it is apt, even when apparently cured, to modify certain cutaneous and other affections in a remarkable manner, after a lapse of many years ; showing clearly that, if the poison no longer exist in the system, the constitution has received a peculiar impress from it, which it is long in losing. Sir E. Wilson attributes many of the ordinary non-specific cutaneous diseases to the latent influence of constitutional syphilis. Treatment.—The treatment of the primary stage of the disease is local U; and constitutional. r > Local Treatment, which is as a rule all that is required in the simple chancre, is of comparatively little importance in the true syphilitic sore, the causes of the local manifestation being beyond the reach of any direct applica- tion. If the initial manifestation assumes the form of the desquamating papule every effort must be made to prevent its ulcerating by the application of some simple non-irritating substance, such as vaseline, to protect it from iritating secretions and friction. Attention to cleanliness by frequent washing is also essential. If an indurated sore forms, iodoform, which is of such singular benefit in the simple chancre, will be found of little use. Attention to cleanli- ness, the avoidance of all irritating dressings, and the application of a piece of lint soaked in black wash will be found inmost cases to be all that is necessary. Caustics are never required, and always injurious. It has been recommended by Ausspitz and others to excise the sore. This treatment was founded on the theory that the virus may be still localized at the seat of infection, and that by removing the initial manifestation the further progress of the disease may be arrested. Experience has shown that it does not produce the desired effect, a fact which confirms the l icw that the induration of the sore is in fact the first sign of constitutional affection. Should the sore assume a phagcdamic form, it must be treated as already described (p. 1074). The Constitutional Treatment of primary syphilis need not be separated from that of the secondary stage, as the same remedies that favour the healing of the initial manifestation exercise a beneficial influence on the secondary affections. The constitutional treatment of syphilis has undergone various changes according to the prevailing doctrine of the day. It had been decided