EFFECTS OF HEAT AND COLD. 376 It is in this stage of burn, that the very remarkable and serious sequela, perforating ulcer of the duodenum, is especially apt to occur. Curling, who first attracted attention to it, explained its occurrence by the supposition that Brunner’s glands endeavour, by an increased action, to compensate for the suppression of the excretion from the skin consequent upon the burn; and that the irritation thus induced tends to their inflammation and ulceration. This ulceration may, as Curling remarks, by rapidly proceeding to perforation, expose the pancreas, open the branches of the hepatic artery, or, by making a communication with the serous cavity of the abdomen, induce peritonitis, and thus cause death. It usually comes on about the tenth day after the occurrence of the injury; seldom earlier than this.. 1 he only exception u ith which I am acquainted was in the case of a child, nine years of age, who died on the fourth day after the burn, in University College Hospital, and m whom an ulcer, of about the size of a shilling, with sharp cut margins, was found in j the duodenum; the intestinal mucous membrane generally being inflamed. That these ulcers are not invariably fatal, is evident from a case mentioned by Curling, in which, on death occurring, from other causes, eight weeks after the injury a recent cicatrix was found in the duodenum. These aflections seldom occasion any very marked symptoms to indicate the nature of the mis- chief the patient suddenly sinking. In some instances there is haemorrhage; though this is not an unequivocal sign, as I have several tunes seen it happen from3simple inflammatory congestion of the intestinal mucous membrane. I am in the right hypochondriac region, and perhaps vomiting, may also occur. 3 The stage of Suppuration and Exhaustion continues from the second week to the close of the case. In it we frequently have symptoms of hectic, with much constitutional disturbance from the long continuance of exhausting discharges. If death occur, it is most frequently induced by inflammation of the lungs or pleura; affections of the abdominal organs and brain being less frequent during this stage of the injury. Pyaemia is not uncommon Of 7 cases in which the lungs were examined, they were found to be healthy in one only ; being hepatized, with effusion into the pleura, m the remaining 6 cases. Of 7 cases in which the abdominal organs were examined, a health) state was found in 4 ; inflammatory congestion in 2 ; and a cicatrized ulcer in the stomach in 1. Of 5 of the cases the cerebral contents were found healthy in 1 only ; there being inflammatory congestion m the other 4. Prognosis.—The influence of extent, degree, and situation, on the prognos 0f burns has already been stated. The most fatal element indeed o t ese injuries is superficial extent. It is generally believed by Surgeons that recove y cannot take place if one-third of the surface of the body be scorched oi burnt Not only do the cutaneous nerves become greatly irritated, and the neno system generally suffers severely, from the shock of an extensive burn; but, owing to the arrest of the cutaneous secretion over a huge suiiace of c -> congestion of the internal organs and of the mucous membranes ensues; hence death may happen directly from this cause, or from the supervention oi Summation in the already congested parts, more particularly in the ear 7 periods of life. The degree of burn influences the prognosis unfaAomaby rather so far as the part itself is concerned, than as the general sys affected. The most fatal period in cases of burn is the first wee - a accident. I find that, in 50 cases of death from these accidents, P ^ fatal before the eighth day; 27 of these dying before the fouith da).