I I 2 S VENEREAL DISEASES. covering the harder tissue. The periosteum covering the new growths is always distinctly thickened, and adheres firmly to it. There is almost always a distinct line of demarcation between the new tissue and the healthy bone beneath. The thickness of the growth varies from one-tenth to three-eighths of an inch on the long bones, but it may exceed this on those of the skull. In extreme cases almost the whole skeleton may be affected, but more commonly the diseased condition is met with in certain parts only. The most common situations are the lower end of the humerus, the tibia, the femur, and the ulna, where, unless the child be very fat, they can often be recognized during life. In the rachitic form the long bones may undergo modifications in form from bending or fracture, as in rickets. The bones of the skull present changes of a very marked character. These most commonly consist of the formation of “bosses” of new bone, from the outer table only, around the anterior fontanelle and along the line of the sagittal and interfrontal sutures. Between these bosses the sutures may at first form distinct sulci, but later on they are often bridged over, and premature union may take place. If the child dies the bosses will be found to be com- posed of soft bone, very red in tint, sometimes even of a dark maroon colour. If macerated the new bone is porous and granular in structure, and is often deeply grooved by vascular channels. There is little if any thickening of the periosteum. The anterior part of the skull may reach a third of an inch or more in thickness. The effect of these growths is to give the forehead the rounded prominent form which was pointed out by Hutchinson many years ago as being often associated with other signs of congenital syphilis in later life. Barlow and Lees have pointed out that the condition known as cranio- tabes is also met with in syphilitic infants. In this the bones of the vault of the skull become extremely thin in circumscribed patches, so as to yield to gentle firm pressure, feeling like parchment beneath the finger. In some spots the bony material may entirely disappear, leaving only a thin membrane. These spots are most common in the occipital region, where the bone is ex- posed to direct pressure while the child is lying on its back, hut they are also met with in the parietal bones. The bony growths are met with at any tune during the first two years, but the irregularity they give rise to may be re- cognized at any age. Craniotabes occurs at an early period during the first year of life. Both conditions may occur in the same skull. In addition to the above diseases of the bones gummata are occasionally met with in the skull, and dactylitis, similar to that described as occurring in acquired syphilis, is not uncommon. Up to puberty chronic inflammation of various long bones, especially of the tibia, is occasionally met with in syphilitic subjects. Under the name of Chronic Interstitial Keratitis, J. Hutchinson has described a disease which lie believes to be uniformly due to hereditary syphilis. It occurs between the ages of 5 and 18, but may occur much earlier, even during the first year. It consists at first of a hazy condition of the cornea, giving it the appearance of ground glass, followed by vascularization, without any tendency to ulceration. The opacity commences in the centre, and both eyes are usually affected. The vascularity is not confined to the surface, but seems to pervade the whole thickness of the cornea. One eye is usually affected before the other. Under a carefully conducted course of mercurials and iodides, accompanied by tonics and good diet, the transparency of the cornea can usually be restored.