5°4 FRACTURES. far better to put up an unbroken limb unnecessarily than to neglect to put it up if fractured. As has already been stated, the existence of a fracture when compound, and more particularly if comminuted, is usually readily determined. Here, the great mobility, the protrusion of fragments or splinters, and the ready crepitus, will seldom allow the Surgeon to be in error. Should any doubt exist, the introduction of the finger into the wound will enable him to determine with certainty, not only the existence, but the condition and extent of the fracture ; but on no account must a probe or metal instrument of any kind be used, or a simple fracture complicated with a wound may accidentally be made compound. But with all the assistance that may thus be afforded, the very existence of a bad compound and comminuted fracture may be unsuspected for many days, even though most careful examinations have been made with the view of ascer- taining its presence. Of this important fact, which may have weighty bearings in medico-legal investigations, the following- case is a good illustration. A young man was shot with a wooden ramrod through the left hand and shoulder, by the accidental explosion of his gun whilst he was loading it. The ramrod struck the humerus three inches below the shoulder-joint, full on its fore part. It was splintered against the bone, the fragments passing on each side, and mostly escaping through two apertures of exit posteriorly ; some passing to the inner side between the large vessels and the bone, the others to the outer side between it and the deltoid. The patient was brought to the Hospital, where I saw him a few hours after the injury, and, enlarging the wounds, extracted a number of splinters of the ramrod from around the bone. The limb was carefully examined, not only by me, but by several other Surgeons present, to determine whether the bone had been fractured, or the joint injured. There was no sign of fracture to be detected—no shortening, no mobility, no crepitus, no inequality when the fingers were freely passed into the wounds, no displacement at all. As no fracture appeared to exist, the limb was laid on a pillow, and irrigation employed. Diffuse cellulitis set in, followed by ex- tensive and deep suppuration in the limb. On examining this, with the view of giving a free exit to the discharges, eight days after the accident, displacement and crepitus were for the first time found, and it became evident that the humerus had sustained a comminuted fracture. The patient died of pyannia ; and after death the bone presented the appearance here given (Fig. 174), a long splinter having been detached in a longitudinal direction, a b, and the shaft broken across at o. Here, then, was not only a compound, but a comminuted fracture, detected for the first time a week after the infliction of the injury. It appeared probable that the blow of the ramrod had fractured the bone longitudinally, detaching the large splinter, which had become impacted; and that the shaft still held together by a narrow bridge of bone at c, which being broken across subsequently in moving the limb, now become heavy with inflammatory infiltration, led to the shortening of the limb and the lateral displacement of the fragments. Union of Fractured Bone.—A fractured bone is ultimately united by the formation of new bone arouud, within, and lastly between the broken Fig. 174.—Commi- nuted Fracture of the Humerus without dis- placement.