CONTUSED AND LACERATED WOUNDS. 3i5 ( three or four layers thick, moistened in a solution of boracic acid, and applied as hot as the patient can bear it. It must be covered with oiled silk and cotton- wool, and changed every four hours. If this be nob available, a small quantity of carbolic acid (about 1 to 50) may be added to the warm water, and applied on lint; or a hot solution containing two grains of chloride of zinc to the ounce may be used. Simple warm-water-dressings and poultices should be avoided, as they tend so powerfully to encourage putrefaction. If the discharge is very abundant, the actual wound may be protected with a piece of lint dipped in carbolic oil (1 in 10), and the whole part surrounded with a mass of oakum wrung out of hot water, and applied like a hot fomentation. If the wound be at all foul, the cavity must be syringed out at each dressing with some antiseptic solution, or a small quantity of iodoform may be powdered into it. When the signs of acute inflammation have subsided, strips of lint dipped in the lead lotion (p. 313), and applied like straps to bring the surfaces together, will be found a very useful dressing. When granulations have sprung- up and suppuration has fairly set in—that is to say, by about the tenth day— the granulating surfaces may if possible be brought together again by plasters and bandages, with a view to their uniting by “secondary adhesion.” If this should be impossible, the raw surface becomes a “ healthy granulating sore,” and must be treated in accordance with the principles that guide us in the management of ulcerated surfaces (p. 259, et seq.). During the period of sup- 1 pnration, the patient’s strength must be well supported by proper diet, and his 1 general health carefully attended to. Inflammation may occur at a later period of the case, owing to a failure in the drainage, and the accumulation of septic matter in the cavity, or to the infection of the wound with one of the specific infective processes, as hospital gangrene, erysipelas, wound diphtheria, &c. Under these circumstances any union that may have taken place breaks down. The symptoms and treatment of the specific inflammation will be fully described in the chapter specially de- voted to them. Inflammation from accumulation of decomposing discharges must be tieated by partially opening up the wound and re-inserting the drainage-tubes. CONTUSED AND LACERATED WOUNDS. These may be defined as wounds that are attended by more or less bruising or tearing about the edges and sides ; presenting every possible variety in the degree of contusion and of wound, from a cut on the shin to the crushing and laceration of a limb by a cannon-shot. They are commonly inflicted by • unJiinstruments, as by stones, bludgeons, &c. Lacerations by machinery, in winch parts are torn-off or crushed, the bites and gorings of animals, and gun-shot injuries of all kinds, come under this denomination. haracters. Whatever their mode of infliction, these wounds present certain eharacters in common, by which they differ from all other injuries, nen ups are irregular and torn, less gaping than incised wounds, but sur- l m°re10r less ecclL™osis and contusion. There is usually but little semorrhage, and. the pam is of an aching or dull character. ininrpJ i ' ^ .0m 'uc*se^ wounds in the fact that a distinct layer of tissue if of nnJi ■ \G mstnimenk which inflicted the wound is actually killed, and, can take ]lc, nesfb must be separated and thrown off, as a slough, before union kinds of ^'dCC'1 s'larP ^ne can> however, be drawn between the different voun s. Home wounds, which from then- mode of infliction and