439 SECONDARY HEMORRHAGE FROM A STUMP. the artery should bo digitally compressed, and the diet lowered. In these cases it may sometimes be advisable to have recourse to venesection. In primary haemorrhage the rule of practice is, not to interfere by operation if once the bleeding has been arrested by other means. In secondary haemor- rhage this rule does not apply; but the Surgeon may proceed to adopt effectual means for the preventing a recurrence of the bleeding after the first out- break, even though all flow of blood have ceased when he sees the patient ; and he must do so, and that without delay, if the haemorrhage have recurred more than once. When a repetition of secondary haemorrhage has taken place, the patient’s condition becomes most critical; the efforts of nature can no longer be relied on to arrest the bleeding, and the last and fatal gush may occur at any moment. Hence the Surgeon must in such circumstances lose no time ; there must be no dallying, no hoping that the bleeding will not recur, no resorting to temporary and inefficient expedients ; but the case must be at once and decisively taken in hand. In no circumstances are more coolness and more surgical knowledge required, than in adopting a decisive and im- mediate line of action in a case of secondary haemorrhage. There is no time for delay, no time for consultation, none for reference to books; but the Surgeon must act at once on his own responsibility. The treatment of secondary haemorrhage from a Stump will depend hi a great measure on the degree of union that has taken place between the flaps, and on the situation of the stump. When the haemorrhage occurs a few days after amputation, if there be but slight oozing, elevating the part, applying cold, and bandaging it tightly with a roller, so as to compress the flaps, will sometimes arrest the bleeding. If it continue, however, or become more severe, the flaps, which will have been torn apart by the effusion of blood, must be separated, and the bleeding vessels sought for and tied. When the stump is sloughy, and the tissues softened, ligatures will not hold; in these cir- cumstances, application of the actual cautery to the bleeding points will arrest the flow of blood. If the oozing appear to be nearly general from the number of points, the flaps being somewhat spongy, I have succeeded in arresting the hemorrhage by clearing their surfaces thoroughly of all coagula, and then bringing them tightly together by means of a roller. If the hemorrhage occur at a later period, after the tenth day, when tolerable union has taken place, and if it appear to proceed from the principal artery of the part, an effort may be made to arrest it by the application of the horse-shoe tourniquet, which will occasionally stop all further loss of blood ; or, if the union that had taken place between the flaps have been broken through, the stump may be fairly opened up, the coagula turned out, and the deeding vessel sought for and tied. If, however, notwithstanding the hsemor- rhage, the union between the flaps continue sound and firm, then the choice les e ween tnee alternatives: 1, opening up the stump, clcarin g away coagula, and tying the bleeding vessels at their open mouths ; 2, ligaturing the tvimr ii C1f above the stump ; 3, performing the Hunterian operation, and to ho • 1° \eSiS° 1 'n the a distance from the stump. The course which' w?i,et 'V khink, in a great measure depend upon the stump with the first nil^ < 0 5 bui?’ as a general rule, I prefer in these cases adopting the »fnnl Cl na ue placing a tourniquet on the limb, passing the finger into tumino- !! fat!Ci break'no down all adhesions, which are often very firm ; o u le mass of coagula, usually found distending the flaps;