577 BONES OF FOREARM. In Compound Fracture of the Olecranon, the joint must be syringed out with an antiseptic solution, and treated by some form of antiseptic dress- ing. ICouig recommends that, whenever possible, the fragment should be fixed to the ulna by wire sutures, care being taken to provide drainage from the joint on each side of it. In cases in which suppuration has taken place, and when there is a probability of ankylosis, the semi-flexed would be prefer- able to the straight position. If destruction of the joint follow, excision may be necessary. Fracture of the Coronoid Process of the Ulna has been supposed by many Surgeons to be a common complication, and, indeed, a cause of disloca- tion of the ulna backwards. There is every reason, however, to believe that this is an error, and that, in point of fact, it is one of the rarest accidents in surgery—at least, we must come to this conclusion, if we are to judge by the small number of recorded cases or of preserved specimens of this injury. Hamilton states that there are but eight cases on record in which the symptoms led to a belief that this accident had occurred ; that in none of these cases were the symptoms unequivocal ; and that in not one case did dissection afford an opportunity of positively demonstrating this fracture. There are but four preparations in existence, according to Hamilton, illustrative of this injury, and all these, he says, are doubtful. In the cases in which this accident has been supposed to have occurred, the injury has arisen from falls on the palm of the hand, by which the ulna has been driven backwards, and the coronoid process, striking against the lower end of the humerus, splintered off. In a case related by Liston, the injury is said to have been produced by muscular action in a boy, who, hanging for a length of time by his hands from a high wall, fell to the ground, and was supposed to have met with this fracture. Whether the fracture actually occurred is doubtful ; and, if it did, it is still more doubtful whether it was occasioned by the con- traction of the brachialis anticus muscle, or by the violence of the fall. In the present uncertain state of our knowledge, I forbear to speak of the supposed symptoms of this accident. If it were suspected, the proper treat- ment would consist in placing the limb in angular splints. 2. Fractures about the Middle of the Fore-arm are of very common occurrence, both bones being usually broken, with much shortening, angular displacement, and crepitus. Occasionally one bone only is fractured, from the application of direct violence. When this is the case, more attention will be required in establishing the precise nature of the injury. The Treatment is simple ; a plain wooden splint somewhat broader than the aim should be placed on each side of it, and a narrow pad laid along the interos- seous space a, order that the patency of this may be preserved ; no bandage S^^i! •lVldei;t!ie sPlinfc> nor musfc the bandages that are over the nro iatinn h °S °f the ar?: The fore-arm musfc he placed mid-way between the two I™'1 sup",afcl0n> f th,s 8'ives ^e greatest natural interval between uowarrk T* *. WhnGrn the arm 1S hanging down, the thumb should be seated wilhhh’actured forfann 18 however usually put up while the patient is right hi(r/ ft a''!1 lalsed to the level of his head, and the elbow bent at a forget % mu&lTge0n sfcanding hi front of him. The student is apt to this nnRi'h'mi "fi )0nes t° he mid-way between pronation and supination in If the 1 n \ i° lumh ITI,lst he pointing towards the patient’s face. vol. i. 1108 JC ptd 11P 1111111 improper position, or squeezed together, a mass p p