IJ 26 VENEREAL DISEASES. The Hair very commonly is thin, and is often lost from the posterior and lateral aspects of the head. The Nails are seldom affected, but may he brittle and grow irregularly. When we consider the influence exercised by the syphilitic poison upon the skin and its appendages, the hair and nails, we should d priori have expected that the teeth, being developed from the same embryonic layer, would par- ticipate in the morbid processes induced by it in the allied structures. The fact of their doing so does not, however, appear to have attracted the notice of any observer, until J. Hutchinson directed the attention of the profession to this very interesting subject, and pointed out the destructive and special influence exercised upon the teeth by inherited syphilis. This injurious influence manifests itself both in the temporary and in the permanent teeth ; but with its specific and peculiar characteristics only in the permanent set. It must not, however, be supposed that in all cases of infantile syphilis the teeth are affected ; indeed, in many instances they are not, and it has been particularly pointed out by J. Hutchinson that it is only when there have been attacks of syphilitic stomatitis, that we are to expect to meet with these changes from their normal types in the teeth. The temporary teeth of syphilitic infants are cut early, are of bad colour, and liable to a crumbling decay. The upper central incisors usually Fig. 412.—Syphilitic Teeth from a hoy aged 12 years. Fig. 413.—Two Central Syphilitic Incisors Deeply Notched (Hutchintuii Fig. 414.—One Central Incisor Notched (Hutchinson). suffer early, and always first; theu the laterals become carious and drop out; and lastly, in some cases, though rarely, the canines wear away so as to present a tusk-like appearance. I11 consequence of the early decay of the incisors, children are often edentulous, so far as these teeth are concerned, from an early age, until the permanent ones arc cut. _ The permanent teeth present the more marked characteristics of an inherited syphilitic taint; and in these, as in the temporary, the disease declares itself chiefly in the incisors of the upper jaw, and first in the central ones 1 hose will be observed to be usually of a bad colour, short, peggy, rounded at the angles, standing apart with interspaces or converging, and marked by a deep broad notch. They are soft and crumbling, are slender, and readily wear dow (Figs. 412—414).