OF THE ASTRAGALUS—TREATMENT. 693 there is no rotation of the bone, which is thrown directly behind the tibia, 111 Sthe space between it and the tendo Achillis. „ These dislocations invariably happen from falls upon or twists of the loot; more particularly when it is extended upon the leg. When the foot is m this ■ position, the lower end of the tibia either breaks off on the application of suffi- cient violence, or the head of the astragalus is forced out of the cavity of the scaphoid and its bed 011 the os calcis ; the particular kiud of displacement that occurs depending upon the direction in which the force is acting and in which the foot is twisted. And, as the foot is more frequently twisted inwards, the head of the astragalus is thrown outwards. Dislocation of the astragalus differs from dislocation of the foot in this—that when the foot is dislocated, the astragalus, though thrown out from under the malleolar arch, preserves its con- nections with the rest of the tarsus ; whilst these are always broken through when the astragalus is the bone dislocated, even though it have not completely escaped from between the malleoli. The dislocation of the astragalus forwards, with twist of the bone inwards, is said to be of most common occurrence : I have, however, more frequently witnessed that form of accident in which the bone is thrown somewhat outwards as well as forwards. In either case the displaced bone forms a distinct tumour (i upon the instep, in the outline of which the form of the astragalus can be dis- Stinctly made out. Over this, the skin is so tightly drawn as often to appear to be on the point of bursting. When the bone is thrown somewhat inwards, the foot is tinned outwards, and the internal malleolus projects distinctly. When the astragalus is thrown outwards, displacement of the foot inwards, with great projection of the lower end of the fibula, takes place. In some cases, fracture of the neck of the astragalus is conjoined with these dislocations; and not un- commonly the luxation is compound from the very first, or speedily becomes so if left unreduced, in consequence of the sloughing of the skin which covers the anterior surface of the bones, the exposed portion of which undergoes necrosis, and perhaps eventual exfoliation. The dislocation backwards, into the hollow under the tendo Achillis, is rare, there being but seven recorded instances of this accident. In the majority of these there was displacement of the bone inwards, as well as backwards. In these cases the diagnosis is easy, as the bone forms a distinct prominence, which can be felt under the tendo Achillis. In many cases the dislocation of the astragalus is not altogether complete, a portion of the bone still intervening between the under surface of the tibia and the upper surface of the os calcis. Treatment.—The reduction of the dislocation forwards, whether attended by lateral displacement or not, varies greatly in facility ; in some instances being- effected -with the greatest possible ease, in others being attended by almost insurmountable difficulties. This difference depends, I think, on whether the dislocation is complete or not. When the astragalus is not completely thrown from under the arch formed by the bones of the leg, a portion of it being still entangled between their articular surfaces and that of the caleaneum, it may usually be readily reduced by relaxing the muscles of the calf, and pushing the bone back into its proper position. But when the astragalus is completely dislocated, the upper surface of the caleaneum is drawn up under the arch of the malleoli by all the strength of the muscles that pass from the leg to be in- serted into the foot. In these circumstances, in order that reduction may take