SYMPTOMS OF SHOCK. 285 A momentary confusion, giddiness, and pallor, with tumultuous action of the heart, and a catch in the breath, may be observed. These symptoms speedily pass off, and are followed by no other effect than a feeling of depression, physical and mental. But if the injury be very severe, if it affect a vital part, or if the sufferer be of unduly nervous susceptibility, the phenomena are much more marked. In such cases, the sufferer becomes pale, cold, faint, and trembling; the pulse is small and fluttering ; there is great mental depression and dis- quietude, the disturbed state of mind revealing itself in the countenance, and in feebleness or incoherence of speech and thought; the surface becomes covered with a cold sweat; there is nausea, and perhaps vomiting, and relaxation of the sphincters. In severe shock, the temperature, according to Furneaux Jordan, fells to about 97° Fahr. in the adult. In the young, the fall is less ; in the aged, it is greater. I have several times found it below 95° Fahr. in the mouth and the axilla. Wagstaffe has met with cases in which recovery followed a fall of temperature amounting to four degrees. In fatal cases there may be a fell of as much as six degrees. These symptoms com- monly set in immediately on the receipt of the injury. In some cases, how- ever, there is an appreciable interval of time between the infliction of the injury and the appearance of the shock ; this is more particularly the case in persons of great mental fortitude, or whose miuds are actively engaged at the moment of the receipt of an injury. The condition of shock lasts for a variable period, its duration depending on the severity aud seat of the injury, on the nervous susceptibility of the patient, and on the state of his mind at the time. On lecoveiy fiom the immediate and depressing effects of shock, secondary phenomena, of various kinds frequently present themselves. These are chiefly such as arise from lesion of the sympathetic system of nerves, and consequent disturbance of its vaso-motor action. Various functional derangements of the biain and spinal cord often manifest themselves ; amongst these, headache sleeplessness, diminution of mental power, and chorea, are the most common] Tumultuous action of the heart, panting and dyspnoea under exertion, con- gestion of the abdominal viscera, and in some cases hemorrhages from the intestines, are also amongst the more common secondary phenomena of severe shock, and more remotely we find venous thrombosis. The depression of temperature consequent on severe nervous shock may last for a very oTeat length of tune. I have often seen persons who have sustained a severe shock m a railway collision have a surface-temperature from 2° to 3° Fahr. below normal for many months after the accident. During the whole of this period the mind and nervous system continue in a weakened state. Causes —The most severe forms of shock are those that arise from gun- H rafr V-c?Msions- The merely and deeply penetrating Knee H M “* «* ™Menness of their occur- their cffiS t?f0r ™plred th™’ in thB oth®. «plain the severity of J J®* !,°“ the nfvo"s sysLa" of tlle sufferer. Shock is partly due to thrift 1 ° pardy causes. Its severity and continuance arc degree and iatutf ILlnj’my °°nd“io11 of the l>atie,,t’ and thc those whotitf *r n m'd character, or of great nervous susceptibility— ra e to the occurrence ol syncope—more especially in females,