485 GREEN-STICK FRACTURES. CHAPTER XIX. INJURIES OF BONES AND JOINTS. INJURIES OP BONES. A bone may be bruised, bent, cut, or fractured. Bruising of the Bone and Periosteum often occurs, and is usually of no great moment. A moderate contusion, however, of a bone that is but thinly covered, as the shin or elbow, may give rise to troublesome symptoms from inflammation of the periosteum. If the contusion be severe, the vitality of a layer, or even of the whole substance of the bone, may be destroyed, as happens sometimes from the graze or contusion of a bullet; or the bone may become deeply inflamed, and suppuration take place in its cancellous structure. In old people, the contusion of a bone is frequently followed by atrophy and shortening, as happens in the neck of the femur; in strumous constitu- tions, it may lead to serious disease of the bone, ending in its complete disorganization. In the Treatment of bruised bone, immediate relief may be afforded by leeches, fomentations, or the application of warm lead and opium lotion. At a later period, and more especially if the pain be severe at night, iodide of potassium may be useful. There is a very troublesome condition following a graze of the shin, with bruise of the periosteum and tibia, in which the slight abrasion does not heal readily, and the periosteum becomes thickened and pulpy. In these cases, rest of the limb, the application of lead lotion, the support of a bandage, and the administration of the iodide with bark will be found to afford great relief. The consequences of bruise will be con- sidered when we come to speak of necrosis. Bending of Bone may occur in two conditions, viz. : without or with fracture. Bending without fracture is most commonly met with in very young- subjects, before the completion of ossification ; the bone being healthy, but naturally soft, at this period of life. It occasionally takes place in adult life, but is then the result of some structural change, by which the natural firmness of the osseous tissue is diminished. The bending most commonly occurs in the long or slender bones, especially the clavicle, the radius, and the femur, but sometimes is met with in the flat bones, or those of the skull, in which depression takes place from a blow without fracture having occurred. I11 niany cases ol bending both of long and of flat bones, there is partial fracture n the convex side—the “ green-stick fracture ” (see page 500). A lm/ment simple : the Surgeon gradually straightens the bone, by y. i U& ll SP on concave side, towards which the bone is pressed by a dage1 and a pad applied upon its greatest convexity, rac ares will be described in the following two chapters.