362 POISONED WOUNDS. on the arm, reel lines may run up towards the axilla. The rate of progress varies considerably, but by the fifth or sixth day the black eschar may reach the size of a florin, and the surrounding swelling may affect the whole side of the face or the greater part of the arm. Beyond the itching there is but little pain. The constitutional symptoms are not severe at first, but by the fourth or fifth day the temperature rises to 101° or 102°, the pulse becomes quick and irregular, the tongue dry, and the patient suffers from headache, and a feeling of general severe illness. There may be dyspnoea or fainting, diarrhoea and occasionally delirium. If no treatment be adopted, the case most frequently terminates fatally under a week from its commencement. The whole process may, however, remain local and cease by itself, the redness subsiding, the slough separating, and the resulting granulating sore healing with considerable disfigurement. This favourable termination is, however, of great rarity. In some exceptional cases, the result of the. inoculation may be a widely diffused oedema without the formation of a distinct localized inflammation. This form is rapidly fatal. If the patient survive beyond three or four days eschars and pustules may form in the swollen part. This form has been de- scribed by the French writers under the name of “ malignant ceclema. ■ The internal form—“ ivoolsorters' disease,” or, as it has been called, antlna- cccrnia—belongs rather to the Physician than to the Surgeon. The disease beo-ins with a great sense of illness—sometimes with a rigor vomiting, anc headache, followed by high fever, marked dyspnoea, and cold extremities; usually fatal collapse rapidly ensues. The disease may assume a pulmonary form, in which the symptoms resemble acute pneumonia or bronchitis ; or an intestinal form, in which vomiting and purging are marked features. \ ie whole illness may last under two days, or may be prolonged to four 01 v e. Woolsorters’disease is extremely fatal. The diagnosis of malignant pustule is not difficult when the characteristic features are well developed. The black eschar, surrounded by vesicles, around which again is a bright red zone, and the wide-spreading oedema are character- istic. If there is any doubt, microscopic examination of the blood or in- flammatory exudation will clear up the doubt. , . . , , fllA Pathology.—After death from malignant pustule, the body presents aimearances usually met with in cases of malignant blood-poisoning. R,S01'- mortis is of short duration and feebly marked, there being frequently ear} decomposition and marked post-mortem staining of the tissues. 1 he blood is durk in colour, and imperfectly coagulated, and minute petechuu and ex- fravasatio^isof blood are found beneath the serous and mucous membrane throughout the.body. There is swelling of most of the abdominal viscera, bu the snlcen especially in the lower animals, shows the greatest change , stCblack in colour, soft, on,l sometimes almost diffluent; the mucous membrane of tie stomach anil intestines is frequently icddoi than no . , anil may be marked by hmmorrliagic patches. The lungs arc usua J go - is bard and dry, and penetrates deep* into ttaL,cutaneous tissue, but not beyond. The neighbouring lymphatic ibotion Of the blood and of the Vise™ slows everywhere the presence of a distinct microscopic organism