INJURIES OF THE THROAT. S26 In such cases resuscitation by artificial respiration should always be attempt,,! if any signs of life be left. J x attempted Asphyxia from the respiration of Carbonic oxide is more frequent than ^irgeons are apt to imagine As has been already stated in the Jhapter on limns, death often takes place m cases where buildings are on fire from poisoning by the respiration of carbonic oxide. According to Leblanc it is . this gas that is the poisonous agent given off in the fumes of charcoal.’ The effect of the respiration of carbonic oxide gas is to deprive the red corpuscles of their power to carry oxygen, and death takes place rather from the want of oxygen than from the poisonous action of carbonic oxide itself. . . mlialation of oxygen is of service in such cases ; but it must be borne in mind that death is generally very rapid. In cases of Hanging, death seldom results from pure asphyxia, but is usually the consequence, to a certain degree at least, of apoplexy, and possibly ot simultaneous injury of the spinal cord. In these cases, bleeding from the jugular vein may be conjoined with artificial respiration. If there should be a difficulty in setting up artificial respiration throuo-h the mouth or nose, as is more especially likely to happen when the patient has been suffocated by breathing noxious gases, or in cases of hanging, tracheotomy or laryngotomy should at once be performed, and the lungs inflated through the opening thus made in the neck. INJURIES OP THE PHARYNX AND OESOPHAGUS. Wounds of the (Esophagus are met with chiefly in cases of cut-throat, in v hich, as has been already stated in treating of this injury, they occasion much difficulty by interfering with deglutition. Foreign Bodies not uncommonly become impacted in the pharynx and oesophagus, and may produce great inconvenience by their size or shape. If large, as a lump of meat, the substance may lodge in the lower part of the pharynx and compress or occlude the orifice of the glottis, and at once suffocate the patient. If of smaller size, as a gold plate with false teeth or a coin, it may lodge at the lower end of the pharynx where it is narrowed by the projection of the larynx backwards. It must be remembered that any flat body, such as a coin, if it lodge in this situation, will almost invariably lie with its surfaces looking backwards and forwards. If the foreign body be arrested beyond this point, it will usually be near the termination of the oesophagus. When it is small or pointed, as a fish-bone, pin, or bristle, it may become entangled in the folds of mucous membrane that stretch from the root of the tongue to the epiglottis, or that lie along the sides of the pharynx. In some cases it may even perforate these, penetrating the substance of the larynx, and thus producing intense local irritation, cough, dyspnoea, and suffocation. The foreign body, by transfixing the coats of the oesophagus, may seriously injure some neighbouring parts of importance. Thus, in a curious case admitted into the University College Hospital, a juggler, in attempting to swallow a blunted sword, by pushing it down his throat, perforated the oesophagus and wounded the pericardium ; death consequently resulted in the course of a few days. The Symptoms occasioned by the impaction of a foreign body in the food- passages are sufficiently evident. The sensations of the patient, who usually complains of uneasiness about the top of the sternum, difficulty in swallowing