TUMOURS. 972 The serous cysts met with in the neck do not belong to this class. They i' arc either congenital or formed by dilatation of pre-existing spaces as the bursae • about the hyoid bone or larynx. (Z>.) Haematoma or Blood-Cyst.—Under this term have been included £ four entirely different conditions. (1.) The true Hood-cyst. This is a thin walled cyst containing pure blood ; if its contents are withdrawn by puncture it rapidly fills again, and cases have been recorded in which death from haemorrhage has followed incisions made ■ into them. They arc most common about the neck, in close connexion with the sheaths of the vessels, or the parotid region ; but they have been met with i elsewhere. Their origin is very doubtful. Some, from their multilocular form t and direct communication with the veins arc supposed to have originated in ntevi. In others, the cyst is single, and has no connexion with any distinct vessel ; the blood seems in these to be furnished by an extremely vascular cyst- - ■ wall, as in a case recorded by Gay. The origin of these is very doubtful. These sanguineous cysts may sometimes resemble in general appearance . encephaloid disease. A case of this kind was sent to me by Henry Bonnet— a tumour of about the size of an orange, of nodulated appearance, existing in the leg of a woman below the knee, where it had been gradually increasing in size for about a couple of years. So close was the resemblance to malignant i disease presented by the tumour, that the limb had been condemned for ampu- tation by some Surgeons who had previously seen the case ; as, however, the growth, on examination, proved to be a sanguineous cyst, as its walls were thin and adherent, and as it extended too deeply into the ham to admit of ready removal, I reduced it by successive tappings, and then, laying it open, allowed it to granulate from the bottom. When practicable, however, the cyst should always be dissected out. (2.) Many cases have been described as sanguiferous or blood-cysts, which are in reality serous cysts into which an accidental heemorrhage has taken ■place. In these, unless the hannorrhage be very recent, the blood has undergone changes in colour from disintegration of the corpuscles. In some cases it is treacly from absorption of a part of the serum. (3.) The term haematoma is more commonly applied to cysts which have their origin in an extravasation of hlood. The changes that occur in extrava- sated blood have been already described (p. 296). In some cases, as is there pointed out, absorption fails to take place. The extravasated blood distends the spaces of the areolar tissue, or fills a cavity formed by subcutaneous laceration. A deposit of fibrin first takes place, and subsequently, in consequence of the irritation caused by the tension of the fluid, an ill-defined capsule of fibrous tissue is formed round the extravasation. The contained blood becomes altered in colour from disintegration of the corpuscles, and finally the contents assume the appearance of more or less darkly-tinged serous fluid. The haematoma of the car so frequently met with as the result of violence during the game of football, when played according to the Rugby rules, is a cyst of this kind. Similar cysts are not uncommonly met with in the ear of lunatics, and in these cases the cause is not so evident. I have seen a large luomatoma on each car of a lunatic. The contents consisted of semi-solid coagulum. Similar cysts are occasionally found in the arachnoid as a result of haemor- rhage into that cavity. The coagulated blood in the course of time becomes completely discoloured, and forms a thin membrane-like layer of tissue which