SPECIAL DISLOCATIONS. 650 consequence of falls upon the hand or elbow. The injury produces all the signs, but in a minor degree of the subcoracoid dislocations. The head of the ■ humerus lies on the edge of the glenoid cavity. It can easily be replaced, but as readily slips out again, and consequently the accident is very apt to lead to permanent weakness and disability of the shoulder-joint. The treatment consists in its reduction, and the retention of the head of the bone in its place by a carefully moulded leather shoulder-cap, fitted with a truss spring and pad to press the head of the humerus against the glenoid surfaces. Causes.—Dislocations of the shoulder-joint are in almost all cases the result of falls upon the hand or elbow ; the particular variety of dislocation depend- ing upon the direction of the shock communicated to the arm, and the position of the limb at the time of receiving it. On this account we almost invariably find the displacement in a direction inwards. When a person saves himself in falling with his arms widely stretched out, the head of the bone is driven with all the force of a long lever against the lower and inner portion of the capsule, which, being ruptured in this its weakest part, allows the bone to be thrown upon or to the inside of the inferior costa of the scapula, and thus into the axilla. When the patient falls upon his elbow, the inner part of the joint is still acted on ; but, the leverage not being so great, the head of the bone is thrown upwards or forwards under the clavicle. This dislocation is also often the result of direct violence applied to the shoulder. The dislocation backwards can take place only if the arm receive the shock at the time when it is stretched across the chest. As this is an unusual position for any injury to be received in, this dislocation is proportionately rare. An obstacle to this displacement may also be found in the great strength of the outer portion of the capsule of the joint, as compared with the inner. Relative Frequency.—Sir A. Cooper states that the dislocation into the axilla ” is the most frequent form of accident. This opinion is confirmed by that of most English Surgeons. But Malgaigne, and more recently Flower, have expressed the opinion that the snbcoracoid is the most common form 0 this accident. Flower, who has very ably investigated this subject, finds that of forty-one specimens in the different London Museums, thirty-one are un- doubtedly sill coracoid, and that, of fifty recent cases of which he has cognizance, forty-four were of this form. Next in order of frequency comes the subglenoid, and then the sub clavicular, which is rare. I believe that the subclavieulai is, as it were, an exaggerated degree of the subcoracoid ; the continuance of t e same force, whether mechanical or muscular, which has thiown 01 diawn t c head of the bone to the inner side of the coracoid process, carrying it upwards and inwards under the centre of the clavicle. The displacement of the icai o the bone under the spine of the scapula is so rare that Sir A. Cooper met wi 1 two cases only of it ; several cases have occurred at University C ollege Hospi a , which were reduced without difficulty. . , , Diagnosis of Injuries about the Shoulder.—In all cases of infill a to i shoulder the patient should be stripped so as to show both shoulders m oh a that the two sides may be compared. But little is to be learnt lorn > history, as different forms of injury may arise from apparently simi accidents. The attitude of the patient is often characteristic ; in al < ■ ' ‘ tions the elbow is separated from the body and the patient leans towards.m injured side, so as to allow the limb to hang perpendicularly in its n . - >