CHARACTERS OF PUS. 225 organism lias not, however, been shown to exist for each disease which can be communicated by inoculation of pus—as, for instance, small pox, soft chancre, gonorrhoea and purulent ophthalmia; nor has it as yet been definitely proved that the organism is the actual cause of the infective pro- perties of each kind of pus ; still, all the observations of the present day would tend to suggest that such is possibly the case. Pus is a liquid which readily decomposes when exposed to the air at the tempeiature ot the body, 01 even if the causes of decomposition be introduced subcutaneously as by an aspirator-needle or trochar. Thus we occasionally see that a collection of pus which, when tapped for the first time, is free from decomposition, becomes offensive in a few days unless proper antiseptic pre- cautions are taken during the operation. In some rare cases pus assumes a distinctly blue colour from the development in it of a special form of micrococcus. Microscopic characters.—On examining pus under the microscope, it is found to consist of corpuscles floating in a clear fluid, the “ liquor puris.” In pus drawn from an acute abscess or from the surface of a healthy sup- purating sore, two kinds of corpuscles .I7 are met with. Von Pecldinghausen, $$£0! Schultze, and others, showed that in such pus a large number of cells are ns. ss , ! 7. , , O . , , ‘-6- •00.—U. Healthy Pus-cells. 6. Treated with to be found which resemble the white Acetic AcilL. Magnified soo Diameters. corpuscles of the blood in every respect. If examined when quite fresh on a warm plate thev manifpsf (-]-,« 0 , . ,. amceboid movements. The nuclei of these i, , characteristic double, the protoplasm is faintly granular and the Sln^e> olj afc mosfc cognised without the use of reaiftT £ ° f "SU!% re‘ ^tLTmet - and then protoplasm is coarsely granular so that" the m?! ^ “ dlai^eter’ concealed. By treating them Jth rl hZ ’ ? h , nucleus 1S completely extent dissolved, “e protol 1 Ule 8ra““les are to a great clearly into v^ and U ifften f T? Ta,ld ““dens co»„ usually three, paTVmos clmnu.v H . 6 ^ Up int° »r more, of thehucleMith°”‘ a(™*„l„s. This breaking up the protoplasm some E^nules “n TA E'g" °f actiTe growth. In «P by the acetic acid, "ihe number of thee V10*1 are not c,earcd the less acute the formation of M... . c varlea with the age of the pus ; granules, till in chronic abscesses w ATP" m°re abo“dant will be the fat such an extent that it is no I.,,,.,, ■' ” ■ ,lem occopying tile protoplasm to These granules are^VoVeveT roX V° * »P witb ™7 old collections m potass*. Finally, in float free in the Honor hiris A b k Hp completely, and the granules blance to pns, or inhher cases W ”n emuls!on having but little resem- free in the* fluid and t „aH J V '"“ses "hkh hl part fl»at VOL. ,. u m I)a,t form a layer on the wall of the abscess.