ENCHONDROMA. 9S5 Cartilage may be found also mixed in one tumour with other structures, thus the cartilaginous tumours of the parotid region arc seldom, it ever, pure, but contain mingled together the structures ot myxoma, adenoma, and enchon- droma. Enchondroma and sarcoma are not infrequently found as constituents i of the same tumour. Encephaloid cancer and enchondroma ha\ e also been found combined in the testis. Cartilaginous tumours when composed of pure cartilage are always benign ; when mixed with embryonic tissue, as in the chondro-sarcoma, they frequently run a malignant course. The simple chondroma occurs as a hard or slightly y elastic tumour, ovoid or round in form, sometimes smooth on the surface but more often lobulated, and of small or moderate size, seldom exceeding that of :i an orange, and growing slowly without pain. The chondro-sarcoma grows I rapidly, often attaining an enormous size in a few months, and giving rise to >j secondary growths in internal organs. When cartilaginous tumours attain a large size and soften as above de- : scribed, the skin covering them may become duskily inflamed, eventually - slough, and form fistulous openings, through which a thin, jelly-like matter is ■i discharged. Locality.—Most frequently enchondroma occurs in connection with some ■ bone. It is most frequent in the metacarpus and phalanges of the fingers I Kg. Large Enchondroma of Index Finger. Fig. 374.—Ordinary Enchonili'Omata of Finger. H (Figs, o73, 374). It is rare, in this situation, to find only one bone or phalanx * affected : the tumours are almost invariably multiple. They form hard or i elastic lounded knobs, seldom larger than a walnut or a pigeon’s egg. Large S °hondromata are most commonly met with in or upon the head of the tibia or the condyles of the femur, forming in these situations rapidly increasing growths 1 of considerable magnitude. Chondromata are found also on the ribs and bones ' of the pelvis, m the intermuscular spaces of the neck, thigh, and leg, in connec- tion with the sheaths of tendons, and occasionally in glands ; but "in this last situation they are seldom, if ever, pure, being mixed with myxoma, adenoma, or sarcoma, and when in the testicle, occasionally with carcinoma. It is a curious fact that chondromata never arise in connection with pre-existing cartilage. When connected with the bones, chondroma may spring from the j Peuofkoum, gradually enveloping, absorbing, and eventually destroying, the > osseous structures, though at first not incorporated with them. It has then 1 been distinguished as “perichondroma.” This is its usual mode of origin icn occumiig in the femur or tibia ; but when seated on the short bones,