LOCALIZED AND DIFFUSE PERITONITIS. 355 the contiguous surfaces of the peritoneum to each other, and the serum drain- ing away into the cavity of the abdomen, from which it is rapidly absorbed. In these cases, in which there is no persistent source of irritation, the inflam- mation speedily subsides, the exudation becomes penetrated by new vessels, and finally firm bands of fibrous tissue are formed, uniting the coils of intestine or the injured viscera to each other or to the abdominal wall. In other cases again, firm adhesions may form at the circumference of the inflamed area, and the process may reach the stage of suppuration opposite the wound of the gut- in consequence of a very slight escape of its contents, or the same may occur opposite a wound or laceration of one of the solid viscera. There is thus formed a collection of pus bounded by the neighbouring viscera or coils of intestine, and shut off by firm adhesions from the general cavity of the abdo- men. Such a collection of pus may finally burst through the surrounding adhesions, and thus set up diffuse peritonitis, or it may make its way into one of the hollow viscera or to the skin, and be safely discharged. The symptoms of localized peritonitis are intense pain and tenderness over the affected spot : often aggravated by movement or respiration. There is some elevation of temperature, and there may be vomiting. Should a loca- lized collection of pus form, the tenderness and pain will remain, there will be a definite swelling and hardness to be felt at the affected part. The febrile disturbance remains unrelieved, and there may be one or more rigors. Should the pus burst through the surrounding adhesions and find its way into the general cavity of the peritoneum there will be intense sudden aggravation of the pain, followed by the symptoms of diffuse peritonitis. Diffuse Peritonitis occurs first, as the result of extravasation of the con- tents of the gut, either in penetrating wounds from without or from within the gut, or from ruptures from external violence ; and secondly, from decom- position of extravasated blood or inflammatory exudation in the cavity of the peritoneum. The putrefactive ferment may find its way into the cavity of the peritoneum from without by means of an external wound, or from within, from the intestine, either by rupture or perforation of its coats, or in consequence of sloughing of the wall of the gut from the violence to which it has been exposed. The experience of the operation of ovariotomy shows us that the peritoneal cavity may be opened and finely exposed to the air without any great risk of the occurrence of septic peritonitis provided that it be thoroughly cleaned and no decomposable matter be left within it. The subject has further been experimentally investigated in animals by Wegner, and the results obtained by him tend to show, that if only a portion of the peritoneum be exposed to irritation, the liquid exudation is rapidly absorbed by the healthy part of the membrane, so that the cavity is kept dry and free from putrescible matter. In rabbits it was found that a considerable quantity of simple water, or even of fluids containing septic bacteria, could be injected into the peritoneal cavity without evil results 0 owing, the fluids being rapidly absorbed and carried into the blood stream. It, however, the quantity injected was greater than could be thus rapidly disposed ot, septic peritonitis invariably followed. It seems probable, therefore, that the occurrence of septic peritonitis after wounds, opening the cavity of the a omen, whether in surgical operations or in accidents, depends to a great ox en upon the amount of putrescible matter in the cavity. If from a wound some considerable vessel a large quantity of blood is extravasated, or if in