CAUSES OF FRACTURE. 495 CHAPTER XX. FRACTURES. The management of fractures constitutes one of the commonest duties of j fche Surgeon, and hence the consideration of all that relates to their nature and i treatment is of the utmost importance. A fracture may be defined as a sudden and violent solution of continuity in a bone; but by the term fracture it is convenient to describe other lesions, which, strictly speaking, are not comprised in the definition. The displace- ment of an epiphysis from the shaft of a bone is not really a fracture but a separation ; as is also the displacement of a costal cartilage from a rib. Causes.—Fractures are almost invariably the result of local causes, but the liability to their occurrence is more or less modified by certain predisposing ) circumstances. Local Causes.—Fractures may occur from the application of external violence, or from muscular action. External violence may be applied in two ways : directly or indirectly. The worst forms of fracture are occasioned by direct external violence, the weight or blow crushing and splintering the bone, as by the passage of a heavy wheel or a gun-sliot-injury. When the bone is broken by direct violence, the fracture is always at the seat of injury, and is often complicated with considerable mischief to the soft parts, the result of the same force that breaks the bone. Indirect violence may break a bone in two ways. Oue that is more com- monly talked of than seen is by contrecoup, in which, when a blow is inflicted on one part, the shock that is communicated expends its violence on the opposite point, where the fracture consequently occurs. Tins form of injury is chiefly met with in the head ; and, although its occurrence has been denied, I cannot doubt it, as I have seen unequivocal instances. In the next form of indirect violence occasioning fracture, the bone is broken by being snapped, as it were, between a resisting medium at one end, and the weight of the body on the other. Thus, a person jumping from a height and alighting on his feet, may break his legs by their being compressed between the weight of the body above and the ground below. The long bones are those which are most frequently fractured in this way ; and the fracture occurs at the greatest convexity, or at their weakest point. When a person jumps from a carriage that is in motion, although the height of the fall be not great, yet its force is considerable, the feet coming violently to the ground and being suddenly fixed, while the body moves with the same velocity as that with which it was being carried onwards in the vehicle. Hence, fractures received m this way are usually severe, and often compound or comminuted. Muscular action is not an unfrequent cause of fracture of those bones into w uc 1 powerful muscles are inserted. This is especially the case with the patella and some of the bony prominences, such as the acromion, which are broken in