INJURIES OF SPECIAL MUSCLES. 483 always imperfect, and the divided ends form the most hopelessly firm adhesions to the surrounding parts. Should septic pus form in the wound, there is great risk of its burrowing widely in the sheath, or in the loose areolar tissue sur- rounding the divided tendon, an accident which may be followed by sloughing of the tendon, or which, if that be avoided, must necessarily lead to the forma- tion of extensive and dense adhesions. Injuries of Special Muscles and Tendons.—When the tendo Achillis is ruptured, the best mode of treatment consists in the application of an apparatus formed of a dog-collar placed round the thigh above the knee, from which a cord is attached to a loop in the back of a slipper ; by shortening this cord, the leg is bent on the thigh, and the foot extended, so that the muscles of the calf become completely relaxed (Fig. 170). After this simple apparatus has been used for two or three weeks the patient may be allowed to go about, wearing a high-heeled shoe for some weeks longer. The Quadriceps Extensor of the Thigh may be torn away from the insertion into the patella, or the tendon of the rectus may be ruptured about an inch above this. Such an accident occurs in the same way that a patella is broken across, namely, by a violent muscular effort to prevent falling whilst the knee is semi-flexed. Under these circumstances one of three things will happen ; the tendon of the rectus, the patella, or the ligamentum patellm, will give way. More com- monly the patella is broken across ; next the tendon gives way, and less requently the ligament. When the tendon gives way the signs are un- mistakeable. The patient falls on the ground, is unable to raise or stand on the injured limb, and a distinct gap occasioned by the retraction of the muscle can be felt above the patella between the fleshy masses of the vasti, which are very rarely torn. The accident is usually followed bv end ofWlh T °ff thi JOmt °win" t0 the §'reafc distance to which the upper end of the torn tendon is retracted, union may fail to take place, but even if “e„“ntS °f ^ the patj pa* - <*“ «*«» W'?1™ of,tlle tendon “d »f the ligament is Hie r .*• A- accident which I W-r> a ^ ^ree or f°ur cases of this long been left. ' D’ 80mcw iat troublesome stiffness of the parts )ias U Rupture „f the Muscles or Tendons of the Arms or Shoulder Fig. 170.—Strap for Rup- ture of the tendo Aclnllis. about^h^slmulder are sp®(?aJ Raiment needed.' When the muscles bably owino- t0 m ‘ • ,. a 0 inJm7> rapid atrophy is apt to ensue, pro- and consecpeut fnterf P circnmflex and suprascapula: v nerves, good illnstSu 7^1Wih th° "Utriti011 »f tire part. Fig. 171 is r ■“.on of the remote electa of such a strain of the capsular muscles I I 2