COMPRESSION OF MAIN ARTERIES. m the proper position by the ends of thc^stick, while 47 prevent it injuring the patient; the other end is .also well padded to protect the surgeon’s hand. The padded ring is then pressed forcibly down upon the artery in the situation before de- scribed (Fig. 15). In cases in which the clavicle is pushed up by an aneurismal tumour, Syrue recommended that an incision should be made above the clavicle through the skin and deep fascia, so that the fingers of the assistant might be brought to bear almost directly upon the vessel, which would thus be securely and effectually com- pressed. The brachial artery is best com- pressed by grasping the limb op- posite the middle of the arm in such a way that the tips of the fingers are placed immediately internal to the edge of the biceps, and thus press the artery against the bone while the thumb rests against the humerus Fig. 15.—Compression of Subclavian, with key, and Digital Compression of the Brachial. Fig. 16.—Compression of the Radial cTiul Ulnar Arteries. . on the opposite side (Fig. 15). The radial and ulnar arteries frequently require compression while the surgeon is searching for a wounded vessel in the palm of the hand ; and the assistant must, under these circumstances, steady the hand as well as compress “*5 ■ ^ W1.^esfc effect these objects by grasping the lower part of the foie-aim fiimly with both hands, his fingers being at the dorsal aspect, and his thumbs pressed upon the arteries immediately above the wiist ; on the radial, at the point at which it is commonly felt, as the pulse, and on the ulnar, at the outer border of the tendon of the flexor carpi uhiaris (Fig. 1C). Compression of the abdominal aorta is required m some cases of amputation at the hip- °r hlf,h ,up 111 the thigh, and in operations for aneurism of the iliac which it is most convenientlfcom^ itlwfnr^tLf fc'llijtet partof^te in ooopieljgtraorta ™ * 'HT‘ SC'0 Sht7H be Splied » and to Hr? left7/ihenS™’ t hand in this sSionVuUhff’ ^ T Eeadilj 1,e compressed with the for it to T» maintained for any t,“tl)T Unm “fJSf ^ h kimPosf.ble instrument 1?™™™!, J ^ , nine. In the absence of any other roand", stick aW the S"° t!w,“d °ight 3™* long is to bo rolled thus formed is held in "i^ ,,mS- The pad