375 CLINICAL HISTORY OF BURNS. troublesome symptom, ancl the patient, especially if a child, not unfrequently dies comatose ; death resulting from congestion of the brain and its membranes, with, perhaps, serous effusion into the ventricles or the arachnoid. Besides these lesions, the mucous membrane of the stomach and intestines, as well as the substance of the lungs, is usually found congested. The pathological phenomena of this period are altogether of a congestive character. Of 15 cases in which the contents of the cranium were examined, I found congestion of the brain and its membranes, with serous effusion, in all; in 14 of these cases the thoracic viscera were found to be congested in 9, healthy in 5; and of 14 in which the abdominal organs were examined, con- gestion of the gastro-intestinal mucous membrane was found in 12 cases, and a healthy condition in two only. 2. The next stage, that of Reaction and Inflammation, extends from the second day to the second week. The action of the heat which causes the burn is momentary, and produces its full effect instantaneously. The inflam- mation which is the direct result of the heat sets in therefore at once, and if no other cause came into play, it would be accurately limited to the part acted on, and begin to subside after the first few hours. This is, however, not the case in the majority of burns. By the end of the second day the inflammation ' is still increasing in intensity and extent. The burnt area is surrounded by a wide-spreading blush of redness; there are oedema, heat, and pain. With these there is fever proportional to the extent of the burn. It is important to consider, therefore, what is the cause that continues to act, and not only to maintain but to extend the inflammatory process long after the original cause has ceased to exert any influence. In burns accompanied by death of con- siderable portions of tissue, the presence of the dead matter no doubt causes some irritation in its immediate neighbourhood; but the great cause of the inflammation that occurs during the first week of a bad burn is the decom- position of the adherent sloughs, and the fever that accompanies the process is m peat part due to the absorption of the chemical products of putrefaction. It is during this period that a large burn becomes so horribly offensive unless special means are adopted to prevent it. Death, which is more frequent during this stage than in the preceding one, is usually connected with some inflamnm- tory condition of the gastro-intestinal mucous membrane or of the peritoneum I he lungs also are frequently affected, showing marked evidence of pneumonia oi congestion; but the cerebral affections are not so common as in the first stage; though, when they occur, they present more unequivocal evidence of inflammation. The following are the results of the post mortem examinations w . 1 lave made- 0f 17 cases in which the contents of the cranium were examined during this period, there was congestion, with evidence of inflamma- tion and effusion of serous fluid, generally stained with blood, in 14; a healthy he eo » reTmine 3- 0f 19 cases iu whiohL the lungs were examined, withlnrngf! ° fcl!CSC probably inflammatory, in most instances; brmo it w,01 mi"b ! 111 kie l') ema’ and redness of the bronchial mucous mem- minnul 116 lu"gS were bepatized in 5, and healthy in 4. The abdo- mucous m'US u 010 Cxaininod ~~ cases; of these there was congestion of the of the ^ lane’ sometimes with evidence of peritonitis, in 11; ulceration are in faoi ?,niUtl ln ® ; a healthy state in 5. The post mortem appearances bv a rrnn,li,', -"T . acllto septic poisoning, possibly complicated in some cases y a Seaume infective process.