34i AMPUTATION IN GUN-SHOT INJURIES. is very acute and will not yield to the measures just enumerated, it has been re- commended to compress or to tie the main artery leading to the part. At the period of the loosening and separation of the sloughs, there is always especial danger of the supervention of consecutive haemorrhage. The patient, con- sequently, at this time requires to be carefully watched : if the wound be in the vicinity of a large vessel, a tourniquet should be placed loosely round the limb, so as to be screwed up at a moment’s notice ; and, on the supervention of bleeding, the artery must be ligatured, if possible, at the seat of the wound, or, if this be not practicable, in the most convenient situation above it; and if this do not arrest the bleeding, recourse should be had to amputation. Serious results, such as abscesses, profuse discharges, osteomyelitis, necrosis, and the separation of splinters of bone, must be subsequently looked for in many cases ; and these results may be prolonged for many years, at last perhaps wearing out the patient if the cause of irritation be not removed. Thus G-eneral Bern required to have a bullet removed by Liston from the external condyle of his femur, nineteen years after it first lodged there ; and Marshal Moncey died forty years after the receipt of a gun-shot wound, from its effects. A soldier who was wounded at the storming of the Redan died under my care in the University College Hospital, two years and a half after that event, of exhaustion resulting from a large lumbar abscess. On examina- tion it was found that the bullet, which had entered the left side of the chest, wounded the lung, traversed the diaphragm, notched the spleen, passed between the kidney and suprarenal body, and perforated the spine, was lying encapsuled on the right side of one of the vertebras, pressing upon the right renal vessels. Its irritation, and that of the sequestra from the injured spine, produced the abscess, from the effect of which the patient died. The aperture of exit always heals sooner than the aperture of entry ; owing, probably, as Neudorfer observes, to the bullet having lost its lateral action in its passage through the tissues, and merely cutting its way out. It is at the point, he remarks, where the lateral action is lost, that healing begins. II. Amputation is required in gun-shot injuries in two classes of cases of very dissimilar character. In cases m which the limb has been wholly or in part carried away, or when it is evidently hopelessly shattered, the ragged, conical, and quivering stump or the mangled remains of the limb, must be removed. In such cases there can be no doubt whatever in the mind of any Surgeon as to the necessity for immediate amputation. J , But t1hc’;e is au«ther class of cases, in which amputation is also very commonly lequired, though to a Surgeon judging solely from the accidents of civil life *0t at appear necessary. These are, especially, cases of compound ?n n'°f! tMgh' luUei-™°™ids of the knee-joint, and many similar nraolipp °, • ftG*V . n.inrics Sll°h as these, occurring from other causes in civil ImTrnrv vw18^ adfnt °.f an afcfcempfc being made to save the limb. But in meansT1RStlC! S 18 dlffei’en5 : here thc attempt to save the limb with the by SUf.p , J a . 10 oomniand of a Surgeon in actual warfare, may be followed and nroh ii ]CT° i°Cd anc^ constitutional disturbance as to jeopardize seriously, tism is nf/r? ° c cstjoy> the patient’s life. In such circumstances, conserva- iniurv for vi 1 d error.; save bie the limb must be sacrificed. Thc 11c 1 an experienced Army-Surgeon knows that amputation is