232 SUPPURATION AND ABSCESS. power to diminish the quantity of pus discharged. Evidence is still wanting as to the curative effect of complete removal of the source of the pus, as hy amputation of the limb in which the diseased joint or bone is situated. In one case recorded hy Barwell in which amputation at the hip was successfully performed for disease of the joint in a child aged seven years, the general condition greatly improved after the operation, and the size of the liver decreased. A still more interesting case occurred under the care of my colleague, John Marshall, at University College. The patient was a boy aged about ten, who had long suffered from extensive disease of the hip. The signs of albuminoid disease were well marked, the liver reaching nearly to the umbilicus. Amputation at the hip-joint was performed, and the boy made a good recovery. Ten years after he returned to the hospital on account of a small abscess in the stump due to some necrosis of the bone near the aceta- bulum. At this time he was carefully examined, and no enlargement of the Ever could be detected. When the disease is far advanced, howev er, such operations are out of the question, as the condition of the patient is such as to make it impossible for them to withstand the necessary shock and loss of blood. VARIETIES OP ABSCESSES. Suppuration may occur on the mucous or serous surfaces, or on the surfaces of ulcers or wounds, constituting Purulent Exudation; or pus may be collected in the interior of a tissue of an organ, forming an Abscess. An Abscess signifies a collection of pus occurring in any of the tissues or oro-ans of the body. Surgeons divide abscesses into various kinds, according to the symptoms attending them, their duration, and their cause. Thus they spea c of Acute and Chronic, Hot and Cold, Lymphatic, Diffuse, Metastatic or Pyeemic, and Puerperal Abscesses. ,. Acute or Phlegmonous Abscess may be taken as the type of the disease. When it is about to form, the part which has been previously inflamed swells considerably, with a throbbing pulsatile pain; the skin becomes shining, glazed, and of a somewhat purplish red. If the abscess be very deeply seated, the super- imposed tissues become brawny and cedematous, without perhaps any other sign indicating the existence of pus. As the swelling approaches the surface it softens at one part, where fluctuation becomes perceptible, and a bulging o the skin covering its summit takes place. An abscess has a special tendency to approach a free surface, whether the be external or internal, skin or mucous membrane ; the tissues between it an the surface towards which it is progressing being gradually broken down. That the abscess always extends most rapidly m the dwection o ea resistance, seems most probably to be due to the fact that dlla^011 vessels and migration of cells will occur more easily on that side; the pressure of the accumulated pus tending to obstruct these processes on hat K on which there is the greater resistance. Tins process >s spok n of •IS “ the pointing of the abscess.” As the pus approaches the suifacc, the skin at first becomes more or less livid, tense and cedematous, indicating he Serfereuce with its circulation; as the summit of the ^ ^ the overlying skin loses its tension and becomes relaxed ; it then sloughs at e most central point, from which the cuticle has previously peeled off and the outward pressure of the pus speedily detaching the slough, t ic a see.