888 MORTIFICATION, OR GANGRENE. whole very unfavourable, the patient usually sinking from a recurrence of the disease in the stump, or from the constitutional disturbance that had previously set in. In spontaneous gangrene from disease of the arteries, it is a golden rule in surgery not to amputate until the line of separation has formed ; for, as it is impossible in these cases to say where the mortification will stop, the amputa- tion might be done either too high or not high enough. It is not even sufficient in cases of this kind to wait until the line of demarcation has formed before removing the limb ; these cases of spontaneous gangrene having often a tendency to remain stationary for some days, and then, creeping on, to over- step the line by which they had at first appeared to be arrested. Besides this, the local disturbance and inflammation set up by the amputation might be too great for the lessened vitality of the part, and might of itself occasion a recur- rence of the gangrene. Hence in these cases it is always well to wait until the line of separation has ulcerated so deeply that there is no chance of the gangrene overleaping this barrier, at the same time that means are taken, by the administration of tonics, nourishing food, &c., to improve the patient’s strength and fitness for the operation. So soon as this has been done iu a satisfactory manner, and all the soft parts, except the ligaments, have been ulcerated through, the mortified part should be separated by cutting through some cases tins win ue sumeieuuij icgmcn ™ r— -- it has cicatrized. In most instances, however, the stump is more irregular and unsightly (a result of which the accompanying drawing (big. .>.>.») is a good illustration) ; and the bones protrude to such an extent that it is necessary, in order to give the patient an useful limb, to amputate timing 1 the face of the stump, or higher up. All this must be left to the discretion o the Surgeon ; but no procedures of this kind should be undertaken until t ic patient’s strength has been restored sufficiently to bear the operation. In gangrene from embolism, the amputation may as a rule be performer a an earlier period, provided the patient’s general condition is such as to ju&ti) the operation, but it should not be undertaken until the supply of blood the tissues immediately above the gangrenous parts is fully restored, an a good line of demarcation has formed, close to which the incisions may sale y Fig. 353.—Spontaneous Amputation in Gangrene of Eiglit Foot and Left Leg from Embolism. be carried. In senile gangrene it has been proposed to amputate the thigh high up.