SUPPURATION AND ABSCESS. 230 seats the ordinary characters of active inflammation, being hot, swollen, red, and often painful; to these a discharge is speedily superadded. When suppuration is about to take place in the substance of tissues or organs, so as to give rise to an abscess in one of the forms to be presently described, the local symptoms of inflammation undergo certain modifications indicative of the supervention of this condition. When the formation of pus is acute, the pain becomes throbbing ; the part swells and becomes tense, but after a time softens ; and fluctuation may be detected in it. The skin becomes •dazed, red, shiny, and oedematons. In the formation of a chronic abscess, suppuration occurs without any evident sign of local inflammation, the presence of the pus revealing itself by swelling and fluctuation only. Constitutional Symptoms.—On the supervention of acute suppura- tion the ordinary symptoms of inflammation are often interrupted by the occurrence of chills, alternation of heat and cold, or, if the formation of pus be extensive, by severe and long-continued rigors. If the pus be enclosed in a cavity, forming an abscess, the temperature rises considerably above normal, reaching 103° T. or 104° F. The evening temperature is as a rule about one de°ree above that of the morning. This high temperature remains unclumge jn*a case of simple acute abscess till the pus is discharged either artificially or naturally It then falls rapidly, and if the cavity be completely drained, soon reaches the normal degree. When the abscesses are merely a part of the o-eneral process of blood-poisoning, repeated rigors occur, and although open- ino- the abscesses may relieve the patient, it seldom brings the temperature to a normal point. When suppuration occurs 111 a recent wotrnd or compound fracture, the fever which precedes it is due 111 the majority of cases to a ’sorp- tion of septic matter from the raw surfaces ; consequently, as granulations spring up and cover them and present an efficient barrier to the entrance of the pio- ductsof decomposition into the circulation, the fever falls, and tins usually occurs coincidently with the full establishment of a thick healthy purulent diSTlmslow formation of pus such as occurs in the development of a chronic abscess is unaccompanied by fever. If pus be formed m sufficient quantity for its discharge to act as a severe drain on the constitution, other symptoms sel in dependent on the loss that is going on. The patient becomes weak, the nutrition is impaired, and hectic is established, or albuminoid degeneration nf the liver, spleen and kidneys sets in. Hectic does not come on unless there be a discharge of pus from the system No hectic occurs so long as an abscess, however large, continues unopened; bi it may supervene with great rapidity when once its contents are discharged. I have known large abscesses to exist unopened for several years, without any constitutional disturbance; but, as soon as they were opened, well-marked hectic set in, which speedily carried off the patient. _ , Hectic is essentially a fever of debility; emaciation and general loss of nower invariably accompany it. The pulse, which is quick, small, and com- ressible rises from ten to twenty beats above its normal standard; the tou= becomes red at the edges and tip ; the checks arc often flushed, and the eyes ehstenffio- with dilated pupils ; all these symptoms have a tendency to exact - bations after meals and towards evening. There is also mcieased actio , bations a kidneys. Thus, profuse sweating, copious purging, and - *> ^ ^ ■ tbesedischa^ofteu