METHODS OF OPENING ABSCESSES, 241 filled with blood by the rupture of some small vessel situated iu its walls; this, however, is of little moment, the haemorrhage speedily ceasing on the applica- tion of pressure by a bandage, or of cold. Provided the incision have to be carried only through the integumental structures and fascia, in order to afford an outlet for the pus, there can be but little danger of hannorrhage from an accidental wound of any blood-vessel of importance ; and, should bleeding occur, it will probably be of a venous character, and may be arrested by pressure and position. It is wiser, however, for a Surgeon to make it a rule never to open even a superficial abscess without having the necessary means at hand for the arrest of arterial haemorrhage. W hci 1 the abscess is more deeply seated than this, lying under the superficial muscles, which it will then be necessary to penetrate, more serious consequences may ensue, and the incautious use of the knife may lead to the most perilous results. These are more particularly apt to occur in deeply-seated subperiosteal abscesses of the thigh; and I have more than once known such profuse arterial haemorrhage follow incisions made for the purpose of evacuating pus deeply lodged in the limb in these, cases, as to necessitate the ligature of the femoral artery. In order to avoid tins danger, Hilton advised that abscesses so situated should be opened in the following way. An incision is made through the integuments and fascia so as to expose the muscle under which the pus lies ; a director is then pushed through the substance of the muscle into the cavity of the abscess, and along the groove of this a slender pair of dressing-forceps is pushed : when it reaches the abscess the blades are opened up, the muscular fibres separated and free exit given to the pus. The opening thus made must be mamtamed by the insertion of a drainage-tube, or the patient’s condition will be but little improved, for the muscular fibres come together again as soon as the dressing-forceps are removed, and proper drainage being thus rendered Xl i,h!1PUSm ST re'accumulate’ and> ai>' having been admitted, i piobably decompose and give rise to septic poisoning. After the opening has been made, the cavity left eventually fills up either by the coalescence of its sides, or by granulating from below ; if it fill arniin with pus, a fresh incision, termed a “ counter-opening,” must be made frTthe most dependent part. Nothing is more dangerous than pent-np matter^ gfre^rise toToTT abfCefSSeS' ^ SpeCClily decomP°ses and becomes offensive, rence of ’ T °n and luflammation, and predisposes to the occur- recourse St b had foT™' ^ t0 pi'eVent these evil consequences, the drainage-tube °pem3,gH m dependent situations, and the use of i*« -J-deof open- sss z sts rendered necessary bv the to ^ -e c|xstom to wait until an opening was pressure bZl l7 ■ GnCy t0 imphcafclon of the skin, or by injurious 011 imr,rtfnt;frtS- Thc pilS then let out by the entry of air into tbr^T0-' . iTAbemethy, thc object being to prevent putrefaction of anv mis thn^T1 ^ ^ 16 abscess’ 80 as fco lessen the chance of drawing the skin ^L,,1 ' M ° fc‘ d le valvular opening was made by bistoury directly into tlJ”? 10 access. well to one s;c|e^ then passing the will flow out by the r> li Sac’ .®?d allowing as much of the pus to escape as voL. r 7 the CoUapse of fchc walls of the abscess; before the matte!- had