ANTISEPTIC TREATMENT OF ABSCESSES. 249 cannot at the present time be looked upon as more than an elegant mode of applying the carbolic lotion, its elegance consisting in its washing the air as well as the wound. In its absence, irrigation by means of a sponge squeezed over the part, or of an Esmarch’s irrigator allowed to run on it, combined with a judicious use of the guard, will very well supply its place during the opening of an abscess, and the insertion of the drainage-tube. At the subsequent dressings, irrigation may be carried on whenever the wound is exposed. A very small amount of dexterity, and the exercise of a little common sense, null enable the Surgeon to treat almost any abscess antiscptically without a spray, the only exception, perhaps, being some of those about the chest and abdomen’ in uhich air is freely sucked in and out of the cavity by the movements of lespiration. Still, a steam-spray-apparatus gives great additional security during the early part of the treatment of a large chronic abscess, and it is better to use it if it is obtainable. In absence of carbolic gauze, a neatly made pad of carded oakum of uniform thickness, forms an excellent antiseptic dressing. It must be covered by some water-proof material to prevent the discharge from soaking through It too quickly. Oakum is an antiseptic dressing of great potency, but it'"is very irritating if applied directly to a raw surface, and it blackens the skin wherever it touches it. Any raw surface must therefore be covered with the protective, and the skin around should be greased with carbolic oil (1 in 10). Absorbent cotton-wool impregnated with iodoform (iodoform-wool) makes a Zl MLIenfc antiseptic dressing for ah the smaller chronic abscesses, espe- “A Af ? »lth d,?easetl j°ints ™d b0MS; and in subcutaneous fuions abscesses, and m those dependent upon softening tubercle it is SPfree1Tbouer»e ^ 1 SPECi*C, C““tiTe influenoe- Tlle absctW miist be aid fieely open and scraped out with a sharp spoon to get rid of anv remain ZtZST '■ * feH of iodofOT” * induced iZ ZZ, < then if necessary, the drainage-tube is inserted. The iodoform-wool is fw PwUxL°,re aWmeSS’ Iightl? impressed, of about one inch and a bait and extending some se inches on each side of the opening • over this the dres'si™. mmblhfZ ^'iP' H "° dfa™age4llbe has beet inserted, out from underneath it or’ till %hr?°T ^ Glther tlU Some dischar8'e shows healed - often foraAn abscess may reasonably be supposed to be better lots" » * “ ZlZnZZrZ °f temperatoe’ is •» Nation for rernoAg conW^abot ten tr?e t ’TTt "**• « '™<f mended by McGill can be Ad t !" a°ld "’lth a llttl<! S'-Vefmie, as recoin- and cheaper than iS„™ “ j Bame ffag' . a™ free from smell, inferior. 00 ’ 3ufc t ieir antiseptic properties are somewhat JSTntS l'int “ c“h*> (1 fa 10), or carbolic acid be changed at least twin/ vG A C1^ cdl^,ent antiseptic dressings, but they must In the absmce of Zi r 6 ^ w,d once <**7 day afterwards, lotion, but it is not adnnt°lCfaC1 ’ SpU*fc and water is an excellent antiseptic alcohol. aptecI for a Pcnnanent application, as it so soon loses its minimum by seciuin) f" ant'“P?'C3> decomposition may be reduced to a y securing perfect drainage by free incisions and tubes, so as to