CAUSES OF ERYSIPELAS. 9“ Quite recently Fehleisen has succeeded m cultivating these oig^sms Gelatine. A small piece of the affected skin was removed and placed on the prepared gelatine ; after a short time a white film, which the microscope showed to be composed of micrococci, spread over the surface ol the gelatine. A small speck of this was then planted on another gelatine surface and again the film formed. This process was repeated many times, until it might reasonably be supposed that any chemical poison which might theoretically have been adhering to the original organisms taken from the skin, was per- fectly eliminated. " The fungi were then inoculated on rabbits, and gave rise to a spreading inflammation, exactly resembling cutaneous erysipelas. After- wards similar inoculations were made on eight patients in cases of cancer, sarcoma, and lupus, with the view of exerting the reputed curative action of erysipelas on these affections. Seven out of the eight patients, after a period of incubation of from fifteen to sixty hours, veie affected by genuine erysipelas, with all the characteristic local and constitutional symptoms. In the one case in which the inoculation failed, the patient had recently ieco\eiod from a spontaneous attack of the disease. At the Congress of German Surgeons in 1883, Fehleisen exhibited a patient in whom genuine cutaneous erysipelas had been produced by the inoculation of micrococci which were thirty generations removed from the original organisms obtained from the skin, the cultivation having been continued on gelatine from August 1882 to April 1883. It may be said, therefore, to be almost proved to demonstration that either directly or indirectly the micrococci are the cause of the specific inflammation. These observations explain also the infectious and inoculable nature of cutaneous erysipelas. There are at present no observations showing the nature of the virus in other forms of erysipelatous inflammation ; but analogy would lead us to infer that they also are due to the invasion of parasitic fungi. Predisposing Causes.—Local.—The principal local cause of erysipelas is certainly the presence of a wound or rate surface. The statistics of University College Hospital show that erysipelatous inflammation may attack a wound at any time from its infliction to its healing. This is especially true of the cutaneous forms ; other varieties of erysipelatous in- flammation more commonly start from recent wounds. The presence oi decomposing discharges in the wound is undoubtedly an important predis- posing cause, and antiseptic treatment has done much to prevent it. When erysipelas is epidemic, it is well for the Surgeon not to perform any operation that can conveniently be postponed ; and in no case should a patient on whom an operation has recently been performed be put in a neighbouring bed to a case of erysipelas, or even in the same ward. The size of the wound has little influence on the occurrence of erysipelas, which takes place as readily from a small as a large one. But although the mere size of a wound docs not influence the liability to the occurrence of erysipelas in it, which will as readily follow a puncture as an amputation-wound, yet its character does. Thus, lacerated wounds arc much more liable to be followed by erysipelas than clean-cut incisions. And the depth of the wound influences in an important manner the severity of the erysipelas, which is more intense in those injuries that penetrate the fasciae, even though they he cut to a very limited extent, when the disease may spread widely and fatally through the deeper subaponeurotic and intermuscular planes of areolar tissue. It is