SYPHILITIC AFFECTIONS OF NERVOUS SYSTEM. 1121 parts. It is often accompanied by rigidity. These differences arc due to the situation of the disease in the brain. Gummata in the dura mater or bone in I the region of the cortical motor centres may cause irregular paresis or complete paralysis of the parts corresponding to the affected centre. Syphilitic growths in the deeper parts of the brain may give rise to complete hemiplegia, coming on gradually, and occlusion of a cerebral artery affected with the changes already described as occurring in syphilis, may lead to the same symptoms I being developed suddenly. Aneurisms also of the cerebral arteries, ending in rupture with the ordinary signs of apoplexy, may occur as the consequence of syphilis. Optic neuritis is very common in syphilitic disease of the brain, especially in cases of very chronic meningitis, or when gummata are present. Epileptic seizures are common in syphilitic affections of the brain. They generally result from chronic thickening of the dura mater, or the develop- ment of gummata in the membranes or substance of the brain in the region of the cortical motor centres. Gowers states that they “ differ from the ordinary convulsions of epilepsy, especially when the motor zone of the cortex is diseased, in the deliberate onset of at least some of the attacks ; in consciousness being lost late, and in the patient being aware of the local onset of the convulsions in the face, hand, or foot. In other cases, probably when the sensory rather than the motor region is diseased, a sensory aura, often involving the special senses, may herald the fit.” According to Gowers, syphilitic epilepsy is recognized by its appearing usually at an age when the idiopathic disease seldom commences, by the headache between the fits, by the coincidence of optic neuritis, and often of local paralytic symptoms, and by the early and often progressive mental disturbance. The fits are often of a very violent character, and followed by coma. But dangerous as these attacks may become, there is always a prospect of cure by proper treatment, although in some cases the fits may persist even after there is every reason to believe that the syphilitic growth which originated them has been absorbed. In other cases again, the mental powers undergo gradual deterioration, delusions manifesting themselves, and the patient falls into a state of semi-imbecility. There is truly not a more pitiable object to be seen than a man, young or in the prime of life, suffering from syphilitic disease of the nervous centres— affected by ptosis, with one eye staring and immovable or squinting, the face distorted, the lip dropped and saliva dribbling, defective in his articulation, straddling and insecure in his walk, dragging one leg behind him, at times the victim of the most frightful epileptic paroxysms, often covered by rupial ■ sores—he is truly a fit object for commiseration rather than one for reprobation and reproach. Syphilitic disease of the Spinal Cord.—The most common syphilitic lesions of the cord are chronic meningitis and the development of gummata, which arise most frequently in the membranes, but sometimes originate in the ; substance of the cord itself. The gummata arc usually small, rarely exceeding : half an inch in diameter, though Wilks has recorded a case in which the 1: tumour reached the size of a large filbert. Most commonly only one gumma is met with, but cases have been described in which numerous small tumours the •;i size of millet-seeds were present. When the disease assumes the form of meningitis, there is usually considerable thickening of the dura mater, but the b other membranes also may suffer, and the superficial parts of the cord be im- vol. 1. .< „