COMPLICATIONS OP WOUND OF LUNG. 835 fill one side of the chest in two or three days. By about the third day it becomes turbid, and before the end of a week it assumes the character of pus. The discharge from the wound is often offensive, is extremely acrid, excoriat- ing the skin. The constitutional symptoms are most severe, the temperature rising to 104° F. or 105° F. The patient may perish during the first week from absorption of the products of putrefaction. Should he survive till sup- puration is fully established, the intensity of the symptoms subsides, the ca\ ity may gradually close, and recovery take place; or death may ensue fiom hectic or exhaustion from prolonged suppuration. The discharge in these cases is sometimes enormous in quantity, and composed of thin serous pus. It may be sufficient, not only to soak the bed-clothes, but actually to run through on to the floor, unless the dressings are very frequently changed. . Presence of fluid in the pleura may be recognized by the physical signs ; dulness on percussion and absence of respiratory murmur at the lower and posterior parts of the chest, up to a level which has a gradual ten- dency to ascend, and which varies according as the patient is upright or re- cumbent ; the vocal fremitus is abolished over the fluid, and the voice sound is muffled. At the border of the fluid there is occasionally mgophony. In cases in which there is no external wound, or in which it has been closed, the whole side of the chest may be filled with fluid. There is then complete absence of all breath- and voice-sounds and of vocal fremitus, with increase of size on measurement, bulging of the intercostal spaces, and compression of the lung against the spme ; and, if the left pleura be filled, displacement of the eart towards the right side—if the right pleura, descent of the liver below its normal level. When the pleuritic effusion and extravasation reach such a degree as this, there is necessarily great dyspnoea, and death will usually peedily ensue. If there be air as well as fluid in the cavity of the pleura 1 can e recognized by the combination of the signs of pneumothorax at the upper part of the chest, with those of fluid at the lower. Occasionally distinct splashing sounds may be produced by gently shaking the patient. If it is d sued to ascertain the nature of the fluid in the pleural cavity, a small quantity may be drawn off by means of a hypodermic syringe. to tb°!laPS? °f the Lung—In wounds of the chest as soon as air is admitted 0 be camty of the pleura the atmospheric pressure on the surface of the him? thatTflp 1 ^ aU;!esi)cles becomes e,JU;d and it would be naturally supposed hat the lung would at once collapse by virtue of its own elasticity 1 This however, is not the case. The chest may be largely opened and yet no adhedo'n Tthe^ ^ H ™8- "T ^ P1'°babIy to bc due to the colImse of tbeh 1 Sm 1 T .p,CUral SUrfaces t0 each other. When ■lapse of the lung occurs early it is often due to air enterinir the nlenrn of Z ;xriiken;ttller fT tl,e h",V fr0m With0llt- md consequent being nmKfct °" f ‘,1C "'ounded ta“S. <* oblique external wound, dtecfnd the Ini'Pe TratWni ““Wjoently, as the chest walls X sTX I “ml”®ed air. This may be repeated later staXXZe d "l fm'lher C0"a>f °f the 1,,n6 is P°Bfsibio. In the The comnlie. tZI f f compression by blood or by inflammatory etthsion. we arc now in ., ,? .r X w?unls fcbe lung having been described Sobcutane ' 0 consider the different varieties of that injury. injuries to the Inno °UUds of the LunK from Fractured Bibs.— Slight ' , are extremely common in fractures of the ribs by direct 3 H 2