978 TUMOURS. Fatty Tvunour. The diffused form of fatty deposition occurs iu masses about the chin or nates without constituting- a disease, though it may occasion much disfigurement. This form Avas described by Brodic under the name of “ fatty outgrowth.” Fatty tumours may form in all parts of the body as soft, indolent, inelastic doughy sAvellings, sometimes giving rise on manipulation to a feeling closely resembling fluctuation. They giw very sknvly, and are usually oval or round in form, but frequently lobulated to a most extraordinary degree. They occur most frequently in the subcutaneous fat about the neck and shoulders, and are occasionally met with between muscles, in the neighbourhood of joints and of serous membranes and of mucous canals, sometimes in Arery unusual situations, where such growths Avould scarcely be looked for. Thus I removed some time since a lipoma three inches in length, and as thick as the thumb, from under the annular ligament and the palmar fascia of a young woman. A very curious circumstance connected Avith these tumours is that they occasionally shift their seat, slowly gliding for some distance from the original spot on which they grew ; thus, Paget relates cases in which fatty tumours shifted then- position from the groin to the perimeum or the thigh. I have known one to descend from the shoulder to the breast. When growing superficially, they sometimes become pedunculated. They may attain a large size, but occasion inconvenience only by their pressure or bulk ; sometimes they ap pear in great numbers, upAvards of 250 tumours of various sizes having been found ini the same individual; and C. A'. Lutzau records a case in Avhich they reached the extraordinary number of 2,43G. They rarely ulcer- ate or inflame, nor do they undergo any ulterior changes of structure. The typical lipoma is simply a mass of fat, usually differing in struc- ture in no way from the ordinary sub- cutaneous adipose tissue (Fig. 307), but it is not uucommon to find crystalline deposits of the fatty acids in the cells. It is inclosed in a fine thin capsule of areolar tissue, living small vessels ramifying OArcr its sur- face. This capsule is adherent to the surrounding structures, but looseb connected Avith the tumour itself; so that, in operating for the removal of ... . . l. _ . l., nfrrimm- Fig. J507. —Fatty Tumour (1SS cliam.) Some of the cells show crystals of fatty acids. tjUIlLLUOUUU »v i uiL ujulv^ ULIIA1V./111 O these growths, it is important thoroughly to open the capsule before atremp ing to remove the tumour. ... i These tumours, Avhich present the least possible deviation from the nor structure of the parts in Avhich they grow, arc derived from the connec ivc tissue by an increased development of fat. They present occasionally some minor varieties of structure. Thus the fibrous tissue may be m excess, giM r, rise to the so-called “fibrous lipoma,” or the tumour may be perinea . numerous dilated vessels, as in the “ erectile lipoma ” or ‘ mevo-hpoma.