INFLAMMATION OF INCISED WOUNDS. 313 described, except in the case of foul wounds requiring to be cleaned. The best solution under these circumstances is a concentrated solution of boracic acid. Iodoform-Treatment.—This has been largely adopted 111 Germany for the last few years, especially by Billroth in Vienna, it is thus carried out. 1 i Lei bleeding has been completely arrested by torsion or catgut-ligatures, and the wound cleaned, the raw surfaces are freely powdered with the crystalline iodoform and then brought together, drainage-tubes being inserted and the whole covered with iodoform-wool. The results of this treatment have been 011 the whole good, although many cases of iodoform-poisoning have occurred ; but there seems no reason to justify the introduction of the iodoform, which can be regarded only as a foreign body, between the surfaces of the wound. Tn open wounds with loss of substance which cannot be treated by rigid antiseptic methods, however, such as those resulting from operations on the anus or rectum, or from excision of the tongue or jaw, the direct application of iodoform to the raw surface is of the greatest possible use, and is the best mode of treatment at present known. In conclusion, some forms of dressing may briefly be mentioned, which, in the hands of certain Surgeons have met with much success. Bryant, of Guy’s Hospital, recommends the use of a weak solution of tincture of iodine (5ij to oj) for washing the wounds, and sponges ; and as a dressing he applies lint soaked in a mixture of one part of terebene to five of olive oil (p. 194). This is undoubtedly a most simple and efficient dressing, but it is less certain as an antiseptic where there is much discharge than some of those already described. Hutchinson, of the London Hospital, recommends the application of a piece of lint constantly moistened in the following solution : Liquor plumbi 5SS., Sp. Beet. 3], Aq. Oj. This treatment was much employed in former times, and is attended by excellent results. The solution is power- fully antiseptic, and it is cooling and grateful to the patient. It requires, however, constant attention to prevent the lint from drying, and in this respect is somewhat troublesome, especially in private practice. The methods of treating amputation-wounds recommended by Callender and Bowland are mentioned in pages 68 and 79. The methods of treatment here recommended are all of established utility, but numberless others have been tried and abandoned, or are at present being tested ; and probably we have not yet discovered either the best antiseptic or the best mode of dressing. The tendency of the present time is in favour of some of the forms of lasting dressing, especially the absorbent wools, impreg- nated with some antiseptic, such as iodoform or salicylic acid. I cannot too strongly impress npon the young Surgeon the importance of not becoming the slave of any one system of treating wounds. He should be eclectic in the choice of his methods, using that one which appears to be best suited to the particular case before him, or that may alone be available in the position in which he happens to be placed. A Surgeon may find it necessary 0 take the most stringent antiseptic precautions when treating a wounded pa lent in the contaminated air of a large hospital in a crowded town. He may safely relax them in the purer air of a healthy country district. He may nd it necessary when restricted to the limited resources of an emigrant ship °i o a remote colony to learn to dispense with those more complicated chemical and surgical appliances which are to be found in all well appointed ospi a s, and which are essential to the success of many modern methods of