674 SPECIAL DISLOCATIONS. consequently the neck of the femur being more or less firmly fixed, the head moves upwards as the limb is extended till it comes to lie above the muscle in the position shown in Fig. 292, the obturator interims now lying in fronkof the neck of the bone and passing over it, thus limiting the displacement upwards. The injury to surrounding muscles is very various. Hillard cl’Angers found the gluteus maximus and medius lacerated and the gemelli torn, probably from the strain they bad been subjected to from the position of the obturator. MacCarthy found the gluteus maximus not torn, but the bursa between it and the vastus externus was ruptured and filled with blood. The sheath of the great sciatic nerve was also distended with blood, and the Pi". 291.—Pelvis and Head of the Peimiv with obturator internus in natural po- sition. (Bigelow.) Pi". 292.—Pelvis and Head of Femnr showing dislocation below the tendon of the obturator, with secondary dis- placement of the head upwards, and abnormal position of the obturator internus. nerve-fibres separated from one another. The posterior fibres of the gluteus minimus were torn and the areolar tissue beneath the muscle filled with blood The quadratus femoris muscle was torn completely m two, and the uppermost fibres of the adductor magnus, and some fibres of the gemelli and obturator internus muscles, were lacerated. The capsule was perfect m front The ligamentum teres had and above, but torn at the most posterior part. been torn off close to the femoral attachment. • . The accompanying drawing (Fig. 293) is from a case which was admitted into University College Hospital. The patient died from other injuries a few horns after admission. The dislocation was reduced without the slightest difficulty by manipulation and showed no tendency to slip out again, though the man was very restless before death. The dislocation was easily reproduced the limb had been dissected and rigor mortis had passed oil. - con®1 " ’ ' extravasation of blood was found beneath the glutens muscle torn was the gemellus inferior, the upper border of the quatote w slightly bruised, and the lower border of the glutens minimus.was ata..»' by a little extravasated blood, apparently from the pros®ue of the »d «f bone in its abnormal position, and there was extmvwuted blood sciatic nerve. A small fragment had been chipped from the of the UTBUiU DV/icvuiv/ ■ — — - cr . margin of the acetabulum, but was firmly fixed by the capsule Stoht.-If the head of the bone have been displaced great above the