365 GLANDERS AND FARCY. In London, malignant pustule has been most frequently seen at Guy’s Hospital, as the chief part of the hide trade is carried on in the neighbour- hood of that Institution; and during the last ten years seventeen cases have come under the care of the Surgeons. The treatment by excision has been employed in fifteen cases, and of these all but two recovered. The favourite application after excision has been chloride of zinc, either in a strong solution or as a paste. Davies-Colley, who reports these cases in the Transactions of the Medico-Chirurgical Society for 1882, states that “ it is very important to remember that, even after the swelling has extended to a considerable distance, and the adjacent glands have been affected, and after well-marked symptoms of blood-poisoning have developed themselves, the patient may be restored to health by the removal of the indurated area of skin which was primarily attacked.” GLANDERS. Glanders is a virulent disease, communicable by contagion to man from the horse, ass, or mule. In spite of the intense contagiousness of the disease and the frequency with which it occurs among animals of the equine race, it is rarely met with in man. The poison of glanders gives rise to two forms of disease in the horse, one known as glanders proper and the other as farcy. Glanders in the Horse almost invariably rims a chronic course. The first symptom is a thin watery discharge from the nose, which, as the disease progresses, becomes viscid and tenacious ; lastly it becomes purulent, offen- sive, and mixed with blood. The inflammation extends through the whole nasal cavity and frontal sinuses, and is accompanied by ulceration. There is also marked swelling of the lymphatic glands under the jaw. The disease may exist for some time without seriously impairing the health of the animal, but gradually loss of appetite and strength, emaciation, and cough set in, and death takes place from exhaustion. Before death the disease always becomes complicated by the second form or farcy. Farcy is characterized by swelling of the lymphatic glands in various parts of the body, especially on the inside of the thighs, and under the fore leg. The lymphatic vessels leading to and from the glands become inflamed, forming hard, tender cords with swellings opposite the valves. These form the “corded veins” and “farcy-buds” of the farriers. The swellings opposite the valves enlarge and become adherent to the skin, and finally ulcerate, forming foul sores. The disease may at any time become complicated with acute glanders. Acute glanders is merely a great exaggera- tion of all the symptoms with high fever, hurried respiration, and cough.'" | he post-mortem appearances of glanders in the horse arc a dark redness and swelling of the pituitary membrane, with numerous small white elevations and patches, softening in the centre so as to form ulcers. A similar condition ex one s to the mucous membrane ol the bronchi. In the lungs are numerous conso Mated patches, varying in size from a millet-seed upwards, opaque yellow °U1’iilU S0^cn,ng in the centre, sometimes having the appearance of rlpRpriW.J1 ):scessoS-. With these may be patches of pneumonia. Gamgce colour fin n occasiona^y present in the lungs large masses of a bluish white Dof-pnliJn,( au aceous appearance, sometimes as big as a lien’s egg. Sub-serous petccnue are common.