412 ARREST OF ARTERIAL HAEMORRHAGE. angle of tlic jaw and the mastoid ]iroccss to the stern o-claviculai <u ticulation. Both the anatomical line of the artery and the surgical directing line should he carefully studied and kept in mind. In making the first incision, the skin should he put on the stretch by the fingers of the left hand. The length of the incision will necessarily vary with the depth of the artery and with the amount of superficial fat; but it must always be of sufficient length to give the operator a clear view of what he is doing in the deeper dissection. If the artery be superficial, or if there he parts of im- portance in its vicinity, the incision should not penetrate deeper than the skin. But if the vessel he deeply seated and no parts ol importance intervene, it may be carried at once through the subcutaneous areolar tissue, until the fascia is exposed. This must then be pinched up with the forceps, and opened by the edge of the scalpel laid horizontally (Fig. 51, p. 39). through this open- ing a o-rooved director may then be passed, and the fascia incised upon it, without risk to subjacent parts ; or the fascia may be carefully divided by the method described on p. 40, Fig. 6. . If the vessel be superficial, its sheath will come into view as soon as the deep fascia is divided, and the operator proceeds at once to clean the artery and to pass the ligature ; but if it be more deeply seated, the dissection must be continued till the vessel is exposed. In carrying out the deeper dissection, the Suro-eon is still guided by definite anatomical points, each of which must, be made out in order, and clearly recognized. Malgaigne gave these the name of the “ rallying points ” of the operation, and laid down the following excel- lent rule “ The Surgeon should not at once set himself to look foi the artery, but should seek solely the first rallying point; then the second t len the third, if there is one ; and so on, till he reaches the vessel. Thus m the operation of ligature of the carotid, the first rallying point is the innei edge of the sternomastoid, and until that is made clear, nothing else should occup| the operator’s mind ; the second point is the upper border of ^ aatenor belly of the omo-hyoid, and it is not till this is found and drawn downwards that the artery itself need be thought of. During the deeper dissection required to expose the artery, the wound must be held open with blunt hooks oi coppe spatulas, and this duty should if possible be entrusted to a two undertake it, one is sure to pull more strongly than the other, and disturb the relation of the superficial wound to the deeper parts. Flavin0- reached the sheath, the next step of the operation consists i cxp0r^heTrtoy, and is one of great delicacy The object of the operate is to open the sheath in such a way that the needle can be passed between and the external coat, and at the same time to separate the artay’1«m * sheath for as short a distance as possible. Separation of an ato y sheath cuts off the blood-supply of its coats, as this s denvod ihom_thev» vusorum which ramify in the sheath; if, therefore, the artery be sepamtea extensively, the isolated part will slough, as used At the same time, it is very important that the arte .