TREATMENT OF CHRONIC INFLAMMATION. 213 acute inflammation. The patient is in most cases, however in impaired health ; being, in many instances, affected with some constitutional taint which has had its influence in producing or maintaining the chronic character of the inflammation. If an important organ be affected, or if the chronic inflammation, though affecting parts not essential to life, be very, extensive, the pulse will he found to be habitually above the normal standard, and exacerba- tions of fever, often of a distinctly periodic character, develop themselves. In these cases’ the temperature, as indicated by the Clinical Thermometer, should be closely watched, and a rise towards evening especially noted as an important indication of smouldering fever. Treatment. The treatment of chronic inflammation is far more difficult, and requires much more attention, than that ol the acute foim of the disease. Chronic inflammation is so frequently complicated with various unhealthy conditions of the system, and with an impaired state of the general health, by which, indeed, it is often kept up, that much practical tact and skill are re- quired in carrying out the therapeutic indications properly. Constitutional Treatment op Chronic Inflammation.—In the treat- ment of chronic inflammation we have not so much to subdue inflammatory action, as to remove structural changes and other effects induced by it. Hence, our object is not to produce a great and sudden impression on the system, as we are often required to do in the treatment of the acute affection. It is not in this way that chronic inflammation can ever be cured, or its effects removed. The patient might be bled almost to death, and still the diseased action would go on in the inflamed part. It is true that the same antiphlogistic means are employed in arresting the chronic as in cutting short the acute form of the disease, but they are used in a less energetic manner ; our object being to induce a gradual and continuous improvement in the state of the system and of the diseased part. Local nutrition is always deeply modified in chronic inflammation ; and it can be restored to its normal condition only by improv- ing the patient’s general health, and at the same time producing an impression on the part itself by appropriate topical means. Hence, in the treatment of chronic inflammation, hygienic measures are of the first consequence. In most cases, nothing can be done without proper attention to these; and much can be done by these that cannot be effected by any more direct medicinal means. The treatment of this form of inflammation must likewise be varied according as it is uncomplicated, occurring in an otherwise healthy constitu- tion ; or as it assumes a congestive or passive character hi a cachectic and feeble system ; or as it is met with, affecting a specific form, in an unhealthy constitution. In the management of these various forms of chronic inflammation the patient must be kept at rest, and, if the disease be at all extensive, confined to bed. He should be in pure air, and, as a general rule, have a light and unstimulating diet. The regulation of the diet is of much consequence, and the amount and quality of the nourishment afforded must be carefully pro- portioned to the age, strength, and previous habits of the patient, as well as to the degree and the seat of the inflammation, and the form of constitutional fever that accompanies it. In the more active form of chronic inflammation, farinaceous slops, at most beef-tea, and light puddings, can alone be allowed, In the less active forms occurring in feeble constitutions, with depression of general power, animal food of a light kind may bo given, and the scale of