GENERAL REMARKS ON OPERATIONS. 32 Ether. Shortest time taken to place under influence Longest time „ „ „ Average time „ „ „ Average time under influence Smallest quantity used in any one case . Largest quantity used in any one case Average quantity used in any case . Minutes. Seconds. 3 30 24 0 8 10 1!) G 2 ounces 4 drachms. 0 ounces. 3 ounces 1 drachm. Vomiting occurred in eleven cases during or after the administration of the drug. Excitement occurred in seven cases to a marked degree during or after administration of the drug. The anaesthetics were invariably given on empty stomachs, chloroform by means of a handkerchief or towel folded into the form of a cone, and ether by Mr. Morgan’s inhaler. Vomiting and excitement during or after administration of ether having occurred more frequently than one had been led to expect fiom formei experience, the anaesthetic was carefully analysed and was found to be per- fectly pine, and of specific gravity 720'2 at G4Q Eah. In conclusion, I would say that, with reasonable care and in fairly skilled hands, both chloroform and ether are agents that may safely be administered in the vast majority of cases requiring surgical operations : that in most cases they are equally applicable : that in some chloroform, in others ethei, is the preferable agent : that in midwifery, military, naval, and single-handed country practice, chloroform, being far less bulky, more portable, and more easy of administration, is preferable to ether ; but that, so far as we can at present judge, ether less frequently than chloroform produces a direct toxic influence on the heart, and is consequently so far the safer agent of the two. Nitrous Oxide Gas was the first anaesthetic used. Its employment was. however soon discontinued, ether, and subsequently chloroform, taking it* place. It was, however, re-introduced in 1863 as an anaesthetic by the American dentists. It is an admirable anaesthetic, capable of producing complete insensibility, rapid in its action, safe in administration, and seldom o-jving rise to anv unpleasant after-effects. It has, however, one drav Jack which prevents its applicability to prolonged operations. The class of cases to which the nitrous oxide is applicable as an anaesthetic is restricted, owing to the shortness of the duration of the anaesthesia produced by it, and the sud- denness and completeness of the return to consciousness, leaving the attcr- smart of the operation almost as severely felt as the sting of the cut itse could have been. Nitrous oxide is chiefly of use in operations unattended by outturn, as in the forcible flexure of stiffened joints, the avulsion of toe-nails extraction of teeth, &c.; or in those cutting operations which are completed by a single stroke of the scalpel or bistoury, as the opening of an abscess or the division of a fistula. . ... • , , . In order to produce the desired effect, without causing that violent excite- ment which gained it the name of “laughing gas it must be admmisteicc mre without the admixture of air. In order to do tins, a proper apparatus, with a closely-fitting face-piece, to cover the mouth and nose, must be used. The "as is supplied for use eon,pressed in iron bottles. The bottle ,s connected with "the face-piece by a tube, in the middle of winch » an md,a-mbber bag.