ARREST OF ARTERIAL HAEMORRHAGE. 43° time it was supposed that it was not sate to tic a large artery except in those situations in which such easily demonstrable anastomoses exist, thus, lor instance, after the ligature of the common carotid, the supply of blood is ultimately conveyed by the inosculations between the superior and inferior thyroid arteries and by the vertebral. When the subclavian is tied the circu- lation of the upper extremity is carried on by the anastomosis of the posterior scapular and supra-scapular, from the thyroid axis, with the acromio-thoracic and subscapular of the axillary, of the branches of the internal mammary and intercostal arteries, with the external mammary of the axillary, and of the superior intercostal of the subclavian with the superior thoracic of the axillary ; and when the external iliac is tied, the blood is conveyed to the Fig. 161.—Anastomosing Cir- culation in Sartorius anil Pectineus of Dog, three months after Ligature of Femoral. (After Porta.) Fig. 162.—Direct Anasto- mosing Vessels of Bight Carotid of Goat, five months after Ligature. (After Porta.) Fig. 163.—Change in the Trunk after Ligature; with Anasto- mosing V essel. lower limb by the inosculations between the internal mamnnuy and lumbar arteries and the epigastric and circumflex ilii, and by those between the o a - rator, gluteal, and sciatic arteries and the circumflex branches of the profunda feThas, however, repeatedly been shown that the ordinary muscular and subcutaneous vessels of the part are amply sufficient to carry on the circua tion, even when no anastomosing vessels can be demonstrated by dissec As the special vessels ultimately destined to take the plat e o . been obliterated enlarge, the general vascular dilatation of the limb sub s and the circulation is practically restored to its normal condition. During the enlargement of the vessels, much pain is often experience , owing c anastomosing branches approach one another, t^sp it, ejore “ into two or three ramusculi, which by uniting form a enue oi ai Besides this kind of collateral circulation, Maunoir, 1 orta, and g