SPECIAL DISLOCATIONS. 694 place, ifc is necessary first of all to separate the articular surfaces to such au extent as to admit of the astragalus being pushed back into its socket: this is almost impossible, owing to the great perpendicular thickness of this bone, to the extent to which it is consequently necessary to draw down the foot, and to the little purchase that can be obtained on it. In such cases, reduction has been greatly facilitated by the division of the tendo Achillis, by which simple operation the whole strain of the muscles of the calf is taken off. If reduction be still impracticable, and the bone continue unreduced and irreducible on the dorsum of the foot, what should be done ? Two courses present themselves to the Surgeon ; either at once to cut down upon the astragalus and to remove it; or to adopt a palliative treatment—to put the limb at rest on a splint, to apply evaporating lotions, and to wait the result, acting according to circumstances as they develop themselves. In some rare cases, the displaced astragalus has given rise to comparatively little incon- venience ; but this can seldom be expected. If the dislocation have been in the direction forwards, the skin will usually slough, and then a portion of the exposed osseous surface, which will probably necrose, may be excised, or the whole of the astragalus may be dissected out by freely exposing it, and severing its ligamentous attachments ; the patient recovering with a somewhat stiffened, but still useful joint. This plan appears to be safer than excising the bone in the first instance, so soon as the dislocation has been found to be irreducible. The operation of excising the dislocated astragalus may be greatly facilitated by the exsanguiuation of the foot and leg by means of Esmarch s elastic band- age. The tissues are pale and the operation is bloodless, so that the Surgeon can see exactly what he is cutting, and where. In luxation backwards, the bone has not hitherto to my knowledge been reduced, except in one case which occurred in University College Hospital, and in which the tibia and fibula were also fractured. It is by no means improbable that subcutaneous division of the tendo Achillis may in future enable the Surgeon to effect reduction. The result is, however, satisfactory, even though the bone be not reduced, the patient recovering with a useful foot. If the dislocation be left unreduced, the softs parts covering the bone may slough, as happened in a case recorded by It. C. Williams of Dublin, in which the bone was consequently extracted. In Compound Dislocation of the Astragalus (Fig. 309), the rule of practice must depend upon the extent of injury. If the integuments have merely been rent in consequence of the outward pressure of the displaced bone, an attempt must be made to reduce the dislocation by the aid, if necessaiy, o the division of the tendo Achillis ; and, if this be effected, to close the wound by the first intention. If the bone be comminuted as well as dislocated, t e proper practice will be to remove the loosened fragments, and to dress the wound antiseptically, allowing it to heal by granulation. If the bone >e irreducible, it is a question whether it should be left or dissected out. 1 i be left, the wound in the integuments will certainly extend by sloughing, the bone will inflame and become necrosed, exfoliating in fragments, aim t e patient will recover only after a prolonged, tedious, and dangerous c°m'se 0 treatment In these circumstances, therefore, it appears to me that simpler and safer plan both to limb and life consists in enlarging the wound in proper directions, so as to dissect out the irreducible astragalus, and l bringing the articulating surfaces into contact, dressing the parts antiseptica .,