TREATMENT OF WOUND OF THE BLADDER. 86S prevent the continued effusion of urine and its consequences. The drainage is best effected by the introduction of a full-sized soft catheter, which must be retained and left open. Full doses of opium, as in all other abdominal lesions, should then be given, and the patient kept on low diet,—cases have in this way recovered, or, in addition to this, the peritoneum maybe injected through the catheter and washed out with carbolized water, as has been done success- fall} by Fhoip. In one case, Walter saved his patient by making an abdominal section to allow of the escape of the extravasated urine. Willett and Heath have gone a step further by stitching up the rent in the bladder antiseptically, but without success. Erskiue Mason cured a patient by lateral perineal cys- totomy ; and this operation would be especially indicated in those cases in which the bladder was wounded below the peritoneum. Upon a review of the various methods of treatment that have been adopted, it appears to me that in the case of rupture of the bladder the wisest plan would be to dram by means of a large soft catheter, through which the peritoneum may be washed out antiseptically. Should this not be practicable through the urethra, then lateral perineal cystotomy should be done, with the double”effect of securing perfect drainage and enabling the Surgeon to wash out freely. In all cases of sub-peritoneal wounds, free drainage through the apertures should be practised. If they are blocked, then cystotomy must be done. The con- stitutional treatment must be conducted on the ordinary principles that guide the Surgeon m all abdominal wounds. Foreign Bodies, such as pieces of catheters, tobacco-pipes, pencils, &c. are ZZTa7 mV r1 the male lU'inai7 or§’aus5 having been introduced If l(d?t n fbpUw ma‘ nIU Tme C3SeS thGJ are soon Spontaneously expelled, f left m the b adder they become encrusted with phosphates, and thus1 often become the nuclei of large and irregularly-shaped calculi; hence it is absolutely necessary to remove them speedily. This may occasionally be done by fortu- nately seizing the foreign body with a small lithotrite or urethral forceps at one end, and withdrawing it in the direction of its long axis. But ff this ocedure be unsuccessful, it must be cut out. This is more safely done by the median than by the lateral operation of cystotomy ^ shotttndsM1tlf iCl0thiUg’ S’are 0CCfi0naUy lod§'ed in the Mwlder in gun- fknnlf-a d i 1 fc t 01?aU- 1 hese sPeec% become incrusted with phosphatic posits, and giving rise to the symptoms of stone in the bladder Require to L_ d cystotomy, an operation that has proved very successful in the result was successful . fi1D J • ope]aClon- Ju ten of these cases termination. In the Snigioal t°f l"° cases are recorded in i;u u J Amencan War, twenty-one nucleus; i “onTtho 1,,A t /. ”1,three’ » •&»*« of bone formed the on a cur! of hair from the nnira °""h “ plcc0 of cloth’ llL another of doubtful nature formed the nucleus ™maa* cascB sott °rSMli° ««« VOL, X, 3 K