ANEURISMAL VARIX. 449 and arises usually from a small puncture in a large artery, as the axillary or the carotid. The vessel bleeds freely; but, the haemorrhage being arrested by pressure, the external wound and that in the artery close. The cicatrix in the artery gradually yields, forming, at the end of weeks or months, a tumour which enlarges, dilates, and pulsates eccentrically, with distinct bruit, having all the symptoms that characterize an aneurism from disease, and having a sac continuous with the outer coat and sheath of the vessel. It is at first soft and compressible on being squeezed, but becomes harder and firmer, and cannot be so lessened after a time. It consists of a distinct circumscribed sac, formed by the yielding of the cicatrix in the external coat and sheath of the artery, no blood being effused into the surrounding tissues. The Treatment will vary according to the size of the tumour. If this be small or but moderate in size, it consists in the ligature or compression of the artery leading to the sac, in accordance with the principles that guide us in the treatment of aneurism from disease ; though, from the healthy state of the coats of the vessel, the artery may be ligatured as near as possible to the sac. As there is a distinct cyst or sac in these circumscribed aneurisms, the changes that will be described in the chapter on the Treatment of Aneurisms in general take place ; the tumour gradually becoming consolidated, and eventually absorbed. Should, however, the aneurism have attained an enor- mous magnitude, or should it, from being circumscribed, have become diffused by the rupture of the sac, then the tumour must be laid freely open, the coagula turned out, and the artery ligatured as in the ordinary diffused aneurism. ARTERIO-VENOUS WOUNDS. A wound in an artery may communicate with a corresponding one in a contiguous vein, giving rise to two distinct forms of disease—Aneurismal Vcirix and Varicose Aneurism. These preternatural communications, which were first noticed and accurately described by W. Hunter, were common formerly at the bend of the arm, as a consequence of the puncture of the brachial artery in bleeding ; but they have been met with in every part of the body in which an artery and vein lie in close juxtaposition, having been found occurring as a consequence of wounds of the subclavian, radial, carotid, temporal, iliac, femoral, popliteal, and tibial arteries. The two forms of disease to which the preternatural communication between ai'tei’ies and veins gives rise, differ so completely in their nature, symptoms, effects, and treatment, that separate consideration of each is required. Aneurismal Yarix results when, a contiguous artery and vein having been perforated, adhesion takes place between the two vessels at the seat of injury, the communication between them continuing pervious, and a portion of the arterial blood being projected directly into the vein at each beat of the pulse. pposite to the aperture of communication between the two vessels, which is a ways lounded and smooth, the vein will be found to be dilated into a usi orm pouch, with thickened coats. The veins of the part generally are consi eiaily enlarged, somewhat nodulated, tortuous, and thickened. The ‘ eiy a xove the wound is dilated ; below, it is usually somewhat contracted, nrfprf °1°^ca\ conditions are evidently due to a certaiu quantity of the j ita ,^°0(; filing its way into the vein, distending and irritating it the urterCSSU1 ^ *CSS consc(iuently being conveyed by the lower portion of VOL. 7 a G