898 INFECTIVE DISEASES OF WOUNDS. constitutional disturbance of the type of septic poisoning, but there is no evidence of a general specific infection of the blood. It is associated with the presence of rod-shaped organisms, hut is not known to be contagious. 4. Phlegmonous Erysipelas.—An acute rapidly spreading inflammation of the subcutaneous areolar tissue, secondarily affecting the skin. It is accompanied by very abundant exudation, and the gangrene that complicates it seems to be due chiefly to the tension caused by this. So far as is known it is not accompanied by any specific infection of the system, and its contagiousness is doubtful. It is associated with the presence of micrococci. II. General Infective Processes. 1. Cutaneous Erysipelas.—An acute infective disease characterized by a superficial inflammation spreading in the skin from the wound, anc >y a o-eneral febrile disturbance of a specific character. It is supposed that the poison infects the whole system as well as the local seat of inflammation It is associated with the presence of micrococci in the affected skin, and, according to some observers, also in the blood. _ , I ^ Septic Infection.-An acute general infective process rapidly termi- nating fatally without the development of secondary centres of inflammation. The poison infects the whole system and increases m it, the fatal lesult oeing apmmitly directly due to alteration in the blood consequent upon the development of the virus in it. The local affection may be insignificant. The disease is rare in man. In animals it is easily induced experimental y, and m them is always found to be associated with a definite organism in the 'loo , differino- in different species. It is most intensely contagious. v m y writers it is spoken of as septicaemia, its name being derived from the fac TtZ animals it is capable of being caused by injection of small doses of nntrid matter under the skin. The term septic infection is here used to distinguish it from septic poisoning caused by the chemical products o putrefaction, which by many writers is also spoken ot as 1 8 Pvsemia.—A general infective process, almost invariably staitin0 a woundXch has reached the stage of suppuration, and hence its name. it is characterized by the formation of secondary centres ot liiflammatio It is cnaiacceuzeu uy , , ,, b d Ifc is associated with the sunnuration disseminated tluougnouc uil uuuy. x shi IrSy' «■ tie This apparent confusion may, liowevei, be cqiia y^ 1 j nt maV co-existence of more than one form ,u the same caso. suffer from phlegmonous erysipelas with sloughiUo of the ^ to tic tissue, decomposition of the sloughs may follow and g poisoning, and, finally, death may and against the It is impossible here to discuss fi ) mnnorted by the presence theory of the fungoid origin ofth^d.^s aJ in the blood, of microscopic organisms in the loud a c. the universal presence which has been so frequently obserured m man '■ J »„d also of such organisms in similar ls and in crrsipclas in man, the by the fact that in analogous diseases in animals ana . i