CONVULSIONS AND PARALYSIS FROM LACERATION. 743 manently paralysing one side of the body by destruction of the cortical motor centres on the opposite side of the brain. _ _ „nnT7Aiinh'™B in Hip Clinical observations have shown that injuries o ie . , , region of the sulcus of Rolando in the human subject are accompanied y symptoms agreeing in every respect with those experimentally J Hitzig and Farrier in animals. These symptoms may be divided into prunaiy and secondary, according as they are immediately induced at the time ox the injury, or appear later on as the result of inflammatory mischief around the injured part of the cortex. When, as the result of either primary or secondary mischief a distinct group of muscles is paralysed, the term monoplegia is applied to the condition ; when a similar group is thrown into spasm, it is spoken of as monospasm. Thus, if the upper limb alone is affected it would be described as brachial monoplegia, or monospasm, as the case might be. It a patient receive a blow upon the head, and, on recovering consciousness, it is found that a localized paralysis is present, we conclude that there exists a laceration of some severity in the cortical centre corresponding to the muscles implicated. If almost immediately after the injury there is a distinct spasm, affecting a localized group of muscles, a monospasm, we conclude that hfemorrhage is going on from the lacerated brain substance, and initating or breaking down the tissue of the centre corresponding to the affected muscles; if the monospasm extends, first affecting the whole side of the body and finally both sides, so that the attacks assume the form of true epileptic fits, it is probable that the extravasated blood is extending over the surface of the brain and irritating more or less widely the whole motor area. As shown, however, by the experiments before mentioned, it is not necessary for both sides of the brain to be injured in order to produce a general spasm ; a violent irritation at one spot only is sufficient. Conse- quently it is possible that such convulsions might be caused by haemorrhage breaking down the brain-tissue in a limited area. The convulsions in these cases usually assume a regular course ; the fit commences by twitching of that part which, in the intervals of the fits, is most clearly paralysed; thus, in an injury in which the centre of the right side of the face is chiefly affected, and in which facial paralysis is well marked, the fit commences by twitching of the right side of the face, then the head is turned forcibly to that side, then the right arm enters into the spasm, then the right leg, after which the left leg, left arm and left side of face are affected in the order mentioned. During the spasm the muscles of respiration become fixed, the face becomes livid, and the patient froths at the mouth as in a genuine epileptic fit. The attacks of convulsions often occur in rapid succession, and after each the paralysis may be found to have extended; the return to the normal state between the fits may become less and less perfect, and finally coma may set in. In such a case if coma is complete within twenty-four hours of the accident haemorrhage from a laceration might,be diagnosed with tolerable safety, and the question of trephining might arise, the site of the operation being deter- mined, not by the situation of any external wound or bruise, but by the in- dications of cortical lesion furnished by the paralyses and spasms. It may happen, however, that the convulsions may not come on till the third, fourth, or fifth day. They are then in some cases of compound fracture due to septic meningitis extending over the motor area. In cases without an open wound convulsions at this period are due to inflammatory hypermmia extending