POISONED WOUNDS. the normal structures in minute spots. The only change m the nerve 353 any recognizable external stimulus, but just before death they may entirely cease. From an early stage of the case there is an abundant viscid secretion from the mouth and fauces, which the patient finds great difficulty in expectorating, often trying to pull it out with the fingers; and children may hi this way scratch and tear the skin of the lips and nose. One of the earliest symptoms, and one of the most persistent, is extreme Mental Agitation and Terror, a vague sense of dread and horror at the im- pending fate. Spectral illusions sometimes occur, the patient supposing himself to be surrounded by animals, by horrid forms, or by gaping, ghastly, and grinning countenances, by flies or wasps. The first symptom in the Duke of Richmond’s case was, that he fancied some poplar-trees opposite his bedroom- window to be men looking in. These delusions may alternate with fits of delirium, terror, and frenzy. In these it is said that the patient barks like a dog, and endeavours to bite ; but this is a popular error the pretended bark is merely the catch in breathing, and the attempt to bite is nothing but mo\ e- ments of the tongue and mouth induced by the viscid and ropy saliva. The temperature is not usually very high, not much over 100° F. Albumen and sugar have been found in the urine by F. A. Southern, the sugar doubt- less depending on irritation of the medulla oblongata. Duration and Termination.—The disease may prove fatal in four-ami- twenty horns, or life may be prolonged for six or seven days ; death generally occurring from the second to the fourth day, apparently from exhaustion.. Death may occur in various ways, from coma, from spasm of the glottis 01 from exhaustion. . , Occasionally the symptoms subside completely before death ; the increased sensibility of the surface disappearing, the mental agitation or delusion being removed, and deglutition and respiration being quietly performed. Thus, Latham relates the case of a man labouring under this disease, who sat up quietly in bed and drank a pint of porter half an hour before he died. In these cases the pulse gradually becomes slower and slower, and finally ceases to beat. This mode of death is not exhaustion, but is due to a destructive change in the cardiac centre in the medulla. Prognosis.—I am not acquainted with any case of recovery from hydio- nhobia, after the disease has fairly set in. It cannot, however, be pronounced absolutely and inevitably fatal; for Radcliffe states that, ot 109 authentic cases, recovery took place in 14. . . Pathology.—The appearances which are found after death m undoubted cases of hydrophobia are such as to harmonize with the symptoms during li e. The most definite and characteristic change is found in the lower part ot t le medulla, “ most intense in the hypo-glossal, glosso-pharyngeal and vagal nuclei and their neighbourhood.” Gowers found the changes identical and so clear y marked, that the nature of the affection could have been recognized from the post-mortem appearance alone in seven out of eight cases he examine . Nothing is visible to the naked eye, but the microscope shows ante-moi e clots in some of the minute vessels and the perivascular spaces m the a ec region crowded with leucocytes. In the regions in which the disease is most advanced, the leucocytes pass beyond the lymphatic spaces and im :u c the tissues of the medulla, sometimes being so closely packed as to «