FRACTURES. 528 However extensively a bone may be comminuted, good union will take place provided the fracture be simple ; that is, provided no wound exist iu the 1 limb by which air may gain admission to the fracture or to the soft parts implicated in it. I have seen the lower end of the femur crushed, as if by a sledge-hammer, into a multitude of fragments ; and yet excellent union resulted, the fracture being simple, without even a breach of integument. In such a case as this, if there had been the smallest wound to admit unpurified air into the limb, decomposition of the effused blood would in all probability have followed, with the most intense and destructive septic inflammation and sup- puration, and the patient’s limb, if not his life, would have been lost. It is impossible to over-estimate the advantage of an injury of this kind being subcutaneous. The whole of the dangers that arise from the admission of unpurified air result from the decomposition that it sets up. It is the object of the antiseptic treatment of compound fracture which will be described hereafter to counteract the dangers arising from the admission of air, and thus to render a compound fracture but little more dangerous than a simple one. A serious complication of simple fractures consists in their Implicating a Joint. The fracture may extend into a neighbouring articulation, and thus give rise to considerable inflammation ; in strumous subjects this may lead to ultimate disorganization of the articulation, requiring excision, which I have several times had occasion to perforin in these cases. But in healthy individuals a large articular surface may be traversed by lines of fracture in several directions, without material inconvenience resulting. This we see in impacted fractures of the condyles of the femur or of the lower end of the radius. In several instances of this kind in which I have examined the limb after death, no sign of disease of the part has been manifested beyond a moderate amount of injection of the ligaments; the fractured incrusting cartilage uniting by plastic matter, and the synovia being clear and free from inflamma- tory exudation. But, although union of fractures extending into articulations takes place readily enough, it cannot be expected that the patient will recover with as mobile a joint as if the fracture had traversed merely the shaft. In fact, in the majority of these cases, the patient will be left with a joint that is weak, stiff, and painful: and, if in the lower extremity, the limb may be unable to support the weight of the body for some considerable time. Possibly also, in many of these instances, an impaired joint will be left through life, as the necessary and unavoidable result of the injury, though not unfre- quently unjustly attributed to negligence and want of skill on the part of the Surgeon. Hence it is a wise precaution for the Surgeon when called to a case of fracture involving any one of the six larger articulations, viz., the shoulder, elbow, wrist, the hip, knee, or ankle, to warn the patient that some degree of impairment of the fine use of the limb will in all probability result. The occurrence of Dislocation at the same time aud from the same violence as the fracture often causes great difficulty to the Surgeon: as it becomes necessary to reduce the dislocated joint before the fracture is consolidated. In several instances of this description which have fallen under my care, I have succeeded in reducing the dislocation at once, by putting up the limb very tightly in woodeu splints, so as to give a degree of solidity to it, and to permit the lever-like movement of the shaft of the bone to be em- ployed ; and then, putting the patient under chloroform, 1 have replaced the bone without much difficulty. Should the Surgeon have omitted to reduce the