53r AMPUTATION IN COMPOUND FRACTURES. the soft parts be but slight and the drainage good, the first process is an abundant inflammatory exudation from the vessels of the injured tissues. This coagulates, the serum draining away partly by the open wound and partly by the lymphatics, and the fibrine, entangling the white corpuscles in the meshes of its coagulum, forms a layer of “ coagulable lymph,” or plastic exudation, which covers the injured soft parts and closes the intermus- cular spaces. The exudation is very abundant round the bone, and the swollen and infiltrated periosteum, fused with the neighbouring tissues, soon forms a soft mass surrounding the broken ends, as in a simple fracture. Similar changes occur in the medulla. Then follows the formation of new vessels and the development of granulation-tissue ; the wound slowly closes up from the bottom, the broken ends becoming gradually completely imbedded in the growing granulation-tissue. Finally, ossification takes place. This commences in contact with the bone on each side in the granulation-tissue at the point furthest from the seat of fracture. It occurs without the previous formation of cartilage, even in the lower animals, or at any rate with the development of merely a few irregular islets. The intercellular substance increases in quantity, the cells assume the angular form of osteoblasts, and then follows the deposit of lime-salts and the development of true bone. The new bone gradually encroaches on the granulation-tissue, and the fractured ends are surrounded by it. The remaining changes are the same as those in a simple fracture. In cases in which the injury has been more severe and in which the process is complicated by the presence of portions of muscle which have been either directly killed by the violence which caused the fracture, or have perished from the combined effects of the injury and of the irritation of decomposing dis- charges, or by loose splinters, the process of union cannot take place till these are slowly separated by ulceration from the surrounding living parts and are thrown off. In other cases in which the denuded ends of the bones perish, the process of separation may not be complete for many months after the mjury. Under these circumstances the sequestra may be surrounded by a mass of new bone uniting the upper and lower fragments and perforated bv openings for the discharge of pus from the granulations lining the cavity in winch the dead bone lies, and thus a tolerably firm union may take place lone ie ore the wound has healed. This process necessarily, in the great majority of cases, occupies a much longer time than that which is required for the union of a simple fracture A considerable proportion of all compound fractures, however, undoubtedly unite without the occurrence of necrosis Question of Amputation.-As compound fracture is attended not only by prospective dangers, but also by serious immediate risk, the first question that Zerrr s* iv itMs ^is- ^ *>» Mtat11 7 t mad\t0(sl™ It « Of great importance to settle Uh as httt M ’ ’ amputation be determined upon, it should be done » JitrR p0S8‘,le’ ther? bem« 110 period in the progress of the inM°eion, ole f ,°Pera*'on 08 tbe four-and-twenty horns. Should an wait until surmn^ f ma<^e at savin& ^10 limb, the Surgeon must subside before T'*1 10U 118 J-eeU 8Ct an<^ ^lc sePt,c fever is beginning to theoccurrenep 1 ^ ^ .then> he very commonly find that operation imnract^Tf °. L,f ^'use inflammatory affections will render any compel him to am,Cif.,fe °a tie suPervcnfci°n of traumatic gangrene may pu ate in the most unfavourable circumstances. At a late mm2