8 97 SEPTIC AND INFECTIVE PROCESSES. perfcies when growing in a suitable medium, such as the discharges of an unhealthy wound are assumed to be. Evidence is, however, wanting to prove this assumption. The more generally received opinion is that the specific infective processes are each due to a specific form of organism, and that putre- faction serves only as a predisposing cause of infection : first by exciting inflammation and suppuration, and thus providing a suitable medium—the inflammatory exudation or pus—in which the pathogenic fungi may develop ; i and secondly, by lowering the vitality of the tissues, in consequence of which they are more readily invaded by the pathogenic or parasitic fungi. However this may be, the practical fact remains that the prevention of putrefaction is also the most certain means of preventing infection. The mode of entrance of the virus has already been discussed (p. 1GG). In infective processes attacking wounds there is no doubt that in the great : majority of cases, so great in fact that we may almost say in all cases, the s virus enters the wound directly from without, and the surest means of pre- i vention are those directed to protect the wound from external influences. The local and general affections consequent upon septic processes in or (infection of wounds may be thus briefly classified. I. The Effects of Putrefaction.—True Septic Processes.—The poison is generated solely in dead matter, and is associated with the presence of rod- shaped organisms. 1. Local.—-Septic inflammation and suppuration dependent on the local irritation caused by the chemical products of putrefaction. It is a non-infec- tive process (p. 1G3). -• General.—A febrile affection dependent upon the absorption of the chemical products of putrefaction from the wound. It is a non-infective process, and varies in intensity with the dose of the poison. If the dose be small and the period during which absorption lasts is short, the resulting affection is known as Septic- Traumatic Fever (p. 179) ; if fthe dose be small and absorption continues for months, it gives rise to Hectic Fever (p. 230). If the dose be very large and rapidly absorbed it may be speedily fatal, the >' affection then forming one variety of septicaemia—Septic Poisoning—or Septic h Intoxication. 1 2. Infective Processes. 1. Local processes leading to a spreading destruction of the affected tissues L Wound-diphtheria.-This name has been applied by the Germans to a superficial infective process usually attacking granulating sores. The surface becomes covered with an opaque tough membranous layer, beneath which progressive destruction of the granulations takes place. There is febrile disturbance, but no specific constitutional affection accompanying it It i, contagious, and is associated with the growth of micrococci & attll^°Sftal;Gangl’enf;“A rapid!y 8£'eadinS gangrenous inflammation, inflammlh^T H "fTr g J The gJll,°renc follows closely on the nflaramation the dead tissues forming a pulpy adherent slough. There is ^^0 specific infection of the whole system, it is ssociated with the growth of micrococci, and is intensely contagious. Preadln£ Traumatic Gangrene.—An acute rapidly spreading inflam- a cLldS^disfa m dr °1 fe°ited tiSSUeS* Th° bl^mation extends accompanied bv tli1"06 fy,°nd ^ ^ t!SSUCS’ and fchc gangrenous process is vol. i. y k e\ olution ol gas and offensive decomposition. There is