67S SPECIAL DISLOCATIONS. the line of the femur will then usually bring the bone into position ; if more force is required the Surgeon may place his foot, covered only with a stocking, on the anterior superior spinous process, to steady the pelvis while he raises the bent knee. In the great majority of cases reduction will l>e easily effected by this plan. Rotation is thus performed. The Surgeon, standing on the injured side, grasps the ankle with one hand and the knee in the other as in Fig. 296. He then steadily flexes the thigh upon the abdomen, so that the head of the bone is lifted out from behind the acetabulum and the ilio-femoral ligament relaxed. At the same time that the thigh is flexed it is better to keep it slightly adducted. The limb must now be slowly abducted, and finally rotated outwards by bringing the foot of the injured side over the sound leg. By this manoeuvre the head is made to revolve around the great troch- anter, which is fixed by the outer branch of the Y-ligament, and to rise into its articular cavity (Fig. 297). Finally the limb is brought down parallel to the other. Bigelow has summarised the movements ne- cessary to effect reduction this way in the following words, “Lift up, hejicl out, roll out." Reduction by Extension, ac- cording to Sir Astley Coopers me- thod, is effected in the following manner. The patient, having been put under the influence of chloroform, is laid on his back upon a strong table. One staple should then be fixed in the floor near the head of the bed at the side corresponding to that of the dislocated limb, while another staple is placed in the wall at the foot, above the level of the body, in a direct line with the axis of the limb, and about twelve feet from the other. The counter-extending force must then be made by a jack-towel or a padded leather-belt pa^ed between the injured thigh and the permseum, and fixed to the staple in the floor. The pulleys must now be attached to proper straps, or to a towel fixed with a clove-hitch knot immediately above the knee, at one end , the other extremity being attached to the staple in the wall, which should be so situated as to be continuous with the axis of the lower part of the limb. The knee being then slightly bent and rotated inwards, traction is applied slowly and steadily until the head of the bone has approached the acetabulum, when the Surgeon rotates the limb outwards so that the head may slip into its socket (Fig. 298). . ci m it This method is seldom, if ever, required in recent dislocations, bliouici i be necessary, as in an old dislocation, it would be better to flex the thigh more than is shown in the figure after the bone had been brought down as far as iiossiblc by extension in tlic uxis of tlic limb. Reduction of tlie Dislocation below the Tendon of the Obturator is effected by the same processes of manipulation as in the other form o c dorsal dislocation. The first method, that of traction, is usually at once Fig. 297.—Dorsal Dislocation. Reduction t>y Rotation. The limb has been flexed and abducted, and it remains only to rotate it outwards, and so to render the outer Branch of the Y-ligament tense. (Bigelow.)