I I 20 VENEREA L DI3EA SES. affects the Nervous System. The brain and spinal cord and their meninges, and the trunks of the nerves, are all liable to suffer. Syphilitic affections of the nervous system have been described as occurring during the first year after infection, but such cases are of extreme rarity ; as a rule they do not manifest themselves till after the end of the second year and they may appear as late as the tenth, or, it is said, even the twentieth. They occur at all ages, and are not uncommon in young men. I have often seen syphilitic disease of the nervous system about the age of 25 or :■{((. It is the common cause of paralysis in early manhood. The development of the symptoms may follow some slight accident—a fall upon or a strain of the back, or over-exertion in walking, riding, or running. The primary disease has often been slight—the secondary symptoms trivial ; and indeed no great importance may have been attached to the venereal infection until the manifestations of its most terrible and destructive effects on the brain and cord. In other cases the patient may be suffering, at the time of the appear- ance of the nervous symptoms, from severe tertiary affections, such as ecthyma, rupia, serpiginous or sloughing ulceration of the throat, or painful nodes on the cranium, vertebral column, or long bones. Habitual excess in alcoholic stimu- lants forms a powerful predisposing cause of syphilitic disease of the nervous system. The pathological changes in the nervous system are of the same character as in other parts of the body. They consist of chronic inflammation, with thickening of the meninges ; overgrowth and induration of the interstitial tissue of the nervous centres and nerves ; the formation of gummata ; and the obstructive changes in the arteries already described (p. 1092). Certain chronic degenerative diseases of the cord, especially sclerosis of the posterior columns (locomotor ataxy), follow syphilis with sufficient frequency to justify the belief that the disease may stand in some causal relation to them. Syphilitic disease of the brain declares itself by two chief symptoms, either separately or conjoined: viz.,paralysis and epileptic convulsions. Before these definite signs manifest themselves, various premonitory symptoms may have existed. The most common is severe pain in the head, usually fixed in one spot, often Avorse at night; there may also be some mental disturbance and want of sleep. Paralysis from syphilitic disease of the brain usually assumes the form of hemiplegia. It may be preceded by paresis of special parts, as of one limb or group of muscles, which may be temporary in its character. The nerves of sensation also may be affected. Special cranial nerves may suffer. The third, fourth, sixth, and seventh are often early attacked, giving rise to ptosis, strabismus, or facial palsy. I have never seen the fifth nerve paralysed in syphilis, but cases luuvc been recorded in which it Avas affected. Oculo-motor paralysis in some form, on the other hand, is very frequently the result of syphilis, and Avhen it occurs in young men it should, hoAvever passing and slight, always attract the most serious attention, as it is often the precursor of more general paralysis. The early affection of the nerves that lie in the wall of the cavernous sinus is probably due rather to syphilitic thickening of the dura mater, Avith Avhich they are in such close relation, than to an affection of the substance of the brain. If the patient be hemiplegic, he may be completely so, but very often the paralysis is limited to one limb, or may be irregular in its degree in different