CONSECUTIVE SYMPTOMS OF SOFT SORES. 1075 should be immersed for ten hours daily in a bath of hot water, maintained constantly at a temperature of 1)8° F. The bath must be repeated daily till healing is distinctly taking place. Constitutional Treatment.—The Simple, Soft, or Excoriated sore re- quires no constitutional treatment beyond attention to the ordinary rules of health. In the Sloughing Chancre it frequently happens that the mischief is entirely due to local causes, such as the accumulation of discharge under a long foreskin. In these cases the constitutional disturbance, which may be severe, will subside as soon as the local condition is relieved. In other cases the sloughing is due partly to local causes and partly to a depressed state of health. In these ammonia and bark, good nourishment and abundant stimu- lants will be required. Opium may be necessary to relieve pain and irritability, and eventually the patient’s strength may be supported by iron and quinine. In a sloughing chancre mercury is never required. In the constitutional treatment of Phagedaenic Chancre it must be borne in mind that the patient is usually in a debilitated condition before the invasion of the disease ; consequently tonics, such as bark or iron, with good food and stimulants, are frequently required, together with opiates to allay pain and procure rest. The preparations of iron, especially the ammonio- citrate and the tartrate, either alone or in combination with sarsaparilla, are especially useful in these cases. It has before been stated that phagedaenic ulceration may start from a true syphilitic sore or occur in a patient suffering from constitutional syphilis. Mercury is, however, often inadmissible, and if given indiscriminately may do much harm in many cases by further debilitat- ing the patient. O11 the other hand some sores which have resisted treatment for a long time may rapidly improve if mercury be carefully administered in small doses. Wallace stated that its beneficial effects were most marked in those cases which are characterized by the presence of a white slough. It is best given as the perchloride, in doses of -Jj to Tw of a grain with tincture and decoction of cinchona. It is in these cases also that the local application of perchloride, in the strength of from one to two grains to the ounce of water, is so frequently useful. Consecutive Symptoms op the Local Contagious Ulcer.—Chancres are not unfrequently followed by a series of affections which may be termed consecutive, depending as they do upon the primary disease, but being local in their character, and presenting no evidence of constitutional infection. These consecutive symptoms are three in number : viz., Contraction of the Cicatrix of the Chancre, Bubo, and Warts. Contracted. Cicatrices.—Most excoriated chancres are healed without any maiked cicatiix being left; but, in the phagedaenic and the sloughing chancres, there is always loss of substance, often to a considerable extent, and consequently a depressed scar. If the ulceration happens to have involved the orifice of the urethra a very intractable stricture may result, which may subsequently necessitate division of the scar for its relief. The situations of a veneieal ulcers should be watched for some time, however readily the sore may hav e healed; for the virus of syphilis may have been introduced with that of the simple chancre, and if this have happened induration will commence at the point of contagion, when the time of incubation or inactivity of the Virus has elapsed. Thus a month or six weeks should pass away after the sus- picious connection, before the Surgeon pronounces the patient safe from syphilis