329 CHARACTERS OF GUN-SHOT WOUNDS. times happens, however, that the ball drops out through the aperture at which it entered, as when a spent ball strikes a rib ; or that it canics a pouch of clothing before it, which enables the Surgeon to withdraw it. One bullet may make even more than two apertures ; thus a round ball has been known to split against the sharp edge of the tibia, and to have one aperture of entry and two of exit; or it may pass through both thighs or both calves, and thus occasion four apertures; and cases have been recorded in which five wounds even have been made in the same person by one bullet. The direction of the openings is often of importance in a medico-legal as well as in a surgical point of view. Thus, Sir Astley Cooper, by attending to this circumstance in a case of murder, ascertained that the fatal shot must have been fired by a left-handed man; and this led to the detection of the criminal. These apertures, though usually opposite to one another when a ball passes right through a part, are not always so, the bullet being deflected by the bones, or by the elasticity of the skin, so that the two aper- tures do not correspond. Thus a spherical bullet has been known to strike a rib and to be then deflected, running under the skin to the opposite side of the body; again, striking one temple, a bullet has been carried under the scalp to the other side of the head, where it has passed out; thus it might appear, that important cavities had been penetrated when in reality they had not been wounded. The Apertures of Entry and of Exit, made by a bullet, deserve atten- tive consideration. Much dis- cussion has arisen as to whether there be any difference between these apertures, and, if so, to what it is owing. That there is a difference in the great ma- jority of cases there can be no doubt; though this difference is, as a rule, not so decided in the case of the modem rifle- ball as in that of the spherical. Thus, in the latter instance, the hole made by the entrance of the bullet is small, circular iu shape, less than the diame- ter of the ball in breadth, the edges being slightly inverted and ecchymosed (Pig. 110) ; whereas, in the former, the aperture of entry is more lace- rated and irregular in outline, often linear, crucial, or starred, and larger than the diameter of the ball. In either case, the hole made by the exit of the ia is a large, somewhat everted, and irregular aperture, into which two or three fingers may be freely passed (Pig. ill). Iu some cases, however, iere is no appreciable difference between the two ; and in others, as a result that» a-*3er^ure entl7 may> after a time, become larger than Theie can be no doubt that Guthrie has given the correct explanation of Fig. 111.—Gun-shot Wound. Aperture of Exit.