INJURIES OF THE SPINE. 77° ■spine.” lie says also: “ Every injury of the spine should be considered as deserving of minute attention. The more immediate cause of anxiety in such cases is inflammatory action, which may be of an acute or chronic kind ; and we have seen that it may advance in a very insidious manner even after in- juries that were of so slight a kind that they attracted at the time little or no attention.” Nothing can be clearer and more positive than this statement. These remarks of Abercrombie are confirmed by Ollivier, by Bell, and by other writers on snch injuries. Concussion from Indirect Violence.—There is a class of cases of an extremely insidious and protracted character, in which the patient has re- ceived no blow or injury upon the head or spine, but the whole system has had a severe shake or shock, in consequence of which disease is developed in the spinal cord, perhaps eventually extending to the membranes of the brain. These cases are more frequent in railway than in other injuries; but they .occasionally occur in consequence of ordinary accidents. One of the most remarkable circumstances connected with injuries of the spinal cord is, the disproportion between the accident and the mischief pro- duced thereby. Not only do most serious, progressive, and persistent symptoms of concussion of the spinal cord often develop themselves after apparently slight injuries, but frequently when there is no sign whatever of external lesion. The shake or jar inflicted on the spine when a person jumping from the height of a few feet comes to the ground suddenly and heavily on his heels or in a sitting posture, has been well known to Surgeons as a not uncommon cause of spinal weakness and debility. It is the same in railway accidents ; the shock to which the patient is subjected being often followed by a train of slowly progressive symptoms, indicative of concussion and subsequent irritation and inflammation of the cord and its membranes. It is worthy of remark, that the symptoms of spinal concussion seldom occur when a serious injury has been inflicted on one of the limbs, unless the spine itself have at the same time been directly and severely struck. A person who by any ordinary accident has one of his limbs fractured or dislocated necessarily sustains a very severe shock ; but it is extremely rare to find that the spinal cord or the brain has been injuriously influenced. It would appear us if the violeuce of the shock expends itself in the production of the fracture or the dislocation, and that a jar of the more delicate nervous structures is ■thus avoided. A familiar illustration of this is afforded in the injury sustained by a watch by falling on the ground. A watchmaker once told me that, if the glass be broken, the works are rarely damaged ; if the glass escape unbroken, the jar of the fall will usually be found to have stopped the movement. _ How these jars, shakes, shocks, or concussions of the spinal cord diieety influence its action, I cannot say with certainty. When a magnet is struck a heavy blow with a hammer, the magnetic force is jarred, shaken, or concussed out of the iron. So, if the spine be severely jarred, shaken, or concussed by a blow or shock of any kind communicated to the body, we find that the ncivous force is to a certain extent shaken out of the man, and that he lias in some "ay lost nervous power. What immediate change, if any, has taken place m t e nervous structure to occasion that effect, we no more know than what cliang barmens to a magnet when struck. There is a peculiar train of symptoms of the following character some n met with iu concussion of the spine, from whatever cause it may occur.