957 DIAGNOSIS AND TREATMENT OF PYAEMIA. the recurrent rigor and other early symptoms have been well and strongly f marked. But if these have been somewhat obscure, and if the secondary ,j, articular implication be early developed, then it may certainly be difficult to determine the exact disease with which the patient is affected. But, inde- pendently of the recurrent rigor, the great prostration, the early supervention of atonic symptoms, the development of the visceral abscesses, of areolar suppuration, and of patches of erratic erysipelas, will establish the true nature of the disease. Moreover, the temperature of rheumatic fever does not show the extraordinary variations seen in pyaemia and the sweating in rheumatism is continuous, and not merely the sequence of a rigor. In : pyaemia the tongue is usually dry, and perhaps brown, and never presents the creamy white fur characteristic of rheumatism. The smell of the patient is sweet or “saccharine ” in pyaemia, while in rheumatism it is sour; in either case, quite distinctive. 4. From Septic Poisoning and Septic Infection it is not always possible to make the diagnosis. In fact, as before stated, pyaemia is in the majority of cases more or less complicated by septic poisoning. In septic infection the acute symptoms, the single rigor, the marked signs of blood change, such as the icteric tint, the dyspnoea, and the early insensibility and the absence of secondary inflammations, may serve to distinguish the nature of the case; but in many cases the diagnosis is almost impossible during life. Treatment.—The Preventive, Treatment is Local and General. The Local Preventive Treatment consists in preventing the accumula- tion of decomposing discharges in the cavities of wounds or abscesses. This is effected, first, by properly draining the cavity in such a way that an accumulation of decomposable matter is impossible; and secondly, by employing antiseptic agents in the dressing in such a way as to prevent even the slightest' trace of putrefactive change in the discharges. It is evident that in many operations about the throat, rectum, and genito-urinary organs these principles cannot be fully carried out. In certain specific inflammations, as in infective endocarditis, or acute necrosis of bone, the inflammatory products possess' > infective properties independently of any contamination from the external air ; and if they enter the blood-stream they may give rise to embolism of distant parts with softening of the infarcts and suppuration around them. Pyrnmia cannot, therefore, be entirely banished from surgical practice, but it can be limited to a few exceptional cases. The experience of all surgeons who have adopted the antiseptic treatment of wounds, has shown beyond a doubt that in all such cases as amputations, excisions of joints, recent compound frac- tures, removal of tumours, and the like, pyaemia is preventable, that it can and should be entirely excluded, even from hospital practice. The General Means for the Prevention of Pyaemia consist in a scrupulous attention to those hygienic measures which have been described m the earlier chapters of this work ; and above all to a careful avoidance of over-crowding. Overcrowding is, however, a relative term; if, as must often happen m military practice, efficient antiseptic treatment is impossible, pyamiia is certain to break out though but a small number of patients are accumu- lated in a limited area ; on the other hand, if decomposition of the discharges can be prevented, a larger number may be treated in the same space without hanger. No wise Surgeon would, however, on this account neglect the well- known laws as to cubic space, free ventilation, and general cleanliness, relyiuo-