276 THE PROCESS OF REPAIR. It is evident that these changes can be recognized on microscopic examina- tion only in those wounds in which the surfaces have been separated from each other by an appreciable layer of plastic exudation or coagulated blood. ^ When the apposition of the surfaces has been more perfect, the layer of uniting material may be so. thin as to be scarcely recognizable, and four days after the infliction of the wound it may be almost impossible to recognize any bond of union, the line of the incision being marked only by the presence ol a few wandering cells, and some traces of unabsorbed red corpuscles, ihat true union, however, in such a case has not definitely taken place at this time is shown by the care which is necessary in preserving the specimen for microscopic examination, to prevent the surfaces from separating from each other. . So far we have described only the process of union as it occurs m the deeper parts of the wound. The repair of the divided epithelium is a more simple process and is earlier completed. As soon as the sm-faces are united by granulation-tissue, new cells are formed from each side by the ordinary processes of growth from the Malpighian layer of the epithelium. The new cells spread over the surface of the granulation-tissue, and soon meet and cover it in ; as the growth continues the superficial cells become corneous, and a perfect restoration of the cuticle is thus accomplished. As the teyer of granulation-tissue to be covered over m a wound, the edges of uhieh have been accurately approximated, is merely microscopical, it is evident that m such a case the repair of the epithelial layer of the skin must occui almo. immediately after the cessation of the serous discharge Where there is a wider interval it may be delayed for a varying time according to the mdth of the surface to be covered, but in all cases it is accomplished long before the comnlete development of the fibrous tissue of the scar beneath. I ll the process of superficial cicatrization, no new papillae are formed, and 1 is this which gives a scar its smooth surface. ^ . .. We have thus traced the development of a scar, anci s formation new Mood-vessels, new epithelium and new — ™ developed and as a rule these structures only form the bond of union at division of soft parts. In wounds of cartilage, muscle and central nervous tissue no regeneration of the original tissues takes place, the seal being com S’»ieTy“ of fibrous tissue. Large vessels when completely divided are obliterated ^md converted into a fibrous cord as far as the nearest collated branch As we shall see hereafter, bone is repaired by bone, and under favoui- iMe circumstances large nerves are completely united by normal nerve-tissue. larSe ^cal's> ^Lhtk^is'known^o^^^for^atica'of ^ym^iat^^i Si’sctri ; but injections show that the, are absolutely wanting in granulation does not require any detailed description. The forma- when once formed It mechanically excludes the causes of decomposition.