CONSTITUTIONAL EFFECTS OF INJURY. 2QO tin inflamed part by the lymphatics possess pyrogenic drain off from 1 Septic Traumatic Fever is clue to the absorption of the chemical products of putrefaction from the surface of a wound. Until granulations which oilm- an efficient barrier to the passage of septic matter have sprung up, the raw surface left by a wound absorbs it with the greatest readiness. It has been shown by experiment that salts, such as ferrocyamde of potassium, are taken up with great rapidity, andean be detected in the urine within a very short time after their application to a raw surface ; the rapidity of absorption is scarcely if at all less from a surface which has been cauterized with a hot non, but the application of a strong solution of chloride of zme materially retail s or even prevents the entrance of the salts into the circulation. The presence of septic matter in a wound, in addition to the constitutional disturbance it ctot y o-ives rise to, always causes more or less local inflammation the products ot which no doubt aid in producing the fever. The severity of septic traumatic fever is proportional to the dose of the chemical products of putiefaction vino enters the circulation ; consequently it will vary directly with the amount of septic matter present and the size of the wound. If the decomposing matter be1 pent up at some degree of pressure, the rapidity of absorption will be increased 1 Should the dose be sufficient, the patient may die rapidly fiom the direct toxic effects of the chemical products of putrefaction, a condition whic "tocXd jm one of the forme of septicaemia. “ aeptre matic fever and this, the difference is only one of degiee. Guided by these or^'hS- K ‘SgM Sts: often delirium, especially at night, and ^“gfrom fever, or defervescence, is sometimes rapid, ocper .od ^ 8^ twenty-four to thirty-srx hours , u s decomposin''-pus may be still drainage is difficult, as m a compound these cir- pent up in parts of the cavity at some egieo 1 ' ^ symptoms iumstaU the decline of the fever wUl be “«^LriXL.g- oT‘iduallv merge into those of hectic, atxtnucu u> u exacerbations^ the profuse sweats, and progressive loss ot strong . TRAUMATIC DELIRIUM. Traumatic Delirium not individuals with an 11TIta^“,““' °‘LltJ ol-who were intoxicated at the time