977 LIPOMA. may be discharged. A few years ago I opened a very large abscess in tire adductor region of a young woman’s thigh, and gave exit to nearly a pint of pus, iu which dozens of small hydatid cysts about the size of gooseberries were floating. The diagnosis of these cysts when seated in the subcutaneous or muscular tissues cannot be made with certainty, except by withdrawing some of the fluid with the aspirator, and submitting it to microscopic and chemical II examination. If it be of low specific gravity and free from albumen, it is (almost certain to have come from a true hydatid cyst. The Treatment of these cysts, when practicable, is the complete removal of the parasite. A few years ago I successfully removed a hydatid cyst of the size of a fist from the muscles at the back of the neck of a young man. In internal organs, tapping, aspira- . tion, simple acupuncture and galvanopuncture have all been successful. Aspira- ■ tiou and acupuncture, however, seldom succeed. The only efficient treatment is to open the cyst and to insert a drainage-tube. This should be done with h antiseptic precautions, otherwise septic inflammation is very apt to follow the » operation, and may terminate fatally. IX.—TUMOURS COMPOSED OP ONE OP THE MODIFICATIONS OP FULLY DEVELOPED CONNECTIVE TISSUE. The structures included under the term “ connective tissue and its inodifica- ii tions,” are fat, fibrous and areolar tissue, cartilage, bone, and mucous tissue. ' The tumours composed of any of these tissues in a state of perfect development I are almost uniformly benignant. Occasionally enchondroma assumes a malig- nant form, but it will then be usually found that, instead of being covered by a firm fibrous membrane at the margin of the growth, there is a zone of em- bryonic tissue which is infiltrating the surrounding parts on one side and becoming developed into cartilage on the other. It is from this tissue, pro- bably, that the system becomes iufected, and not from the fully developed n cartilage. Iu the same way, tumours which to the naked eye seemed to be !■•: composed of bone may assume all the characters of malignancy ; but on micro- scopic examination it will be found that these tumours do not grow as normal H bone does, either from a fibrous membrane (periosteum) or from cartilage, but are in fact ossifying sarcomata. These will be described amongst the sarco- I mata. Again, there is no absolute boundary between sarcoma and fibroma. I Many tumours composed almost entirely of spindle-cells contain a large proportion of fibrous tissue between the cells. If the fibres very much exceed the cells, the growth would be called a fibroma ; if the reverse a sarcoma ; and one between the two is often spoken of as a fibro-sarcoma. As a broad rule, it may be said that the benignancy of the growth will be in proportion to the perfection of the development of the tissue of which it is composed. a. ratty Tumour or Lipoma.—These tumours constitute an important class of surgical diseases, as they occur very extensively in almost every part of the body, and at all ages, though they are most commonly met with about the earlier periods of middle life. In the majority of cases they appear to origi- nate without any evident cause ; in other instances thev can be distinctly ' fcfced t0 Pressure or to some local irritation, as to that of‘braces or shoulder- straps over the back and shoulders. In one case I have known the disease to ■' oe hereditarily transmitted to the members of three generations of a family, fatty accumulations take place under two forms, one diffused, the other cucumscribed ; it is the latter variety only that is termed the Adipose or 3 li