SYMPTOMS OF LACERATION OF THE BRA1S. 741 patient rallies slowly, and certainly in those in which a return of co^cionsness fs delayed over twelve hours, there is more or less bruising and laceiation o the cerebral substance. If, as the patient rallies, the°00r cussion gradually merge into those of compression (p. 700), ^xtbin twdve ox eighteen hours, we maybe sure that this is due to luemoirhage. wiUrm the skull, either from a laceration of the brain or from wound oi a menin ca artery or a venous sinus. The diagnosis of this latter condition will be referred to further ou. If soon after the injury cerebral irritation (see p. < 00) sets in we may be certain that laceration of the brain is present. Violent convulsions occurring within twelve hours of an injury to the head are almost invariably due to haemorrhage from a laceration of the brain, either teaimg down the brain substauce in the region of the motor centres or diffusing itself widely in the arachnoid cavity. Lastly, impairment of function in any part of the brain, with the function of which we are acquainted, occurring as the direct result of injury, maybe looked upon as evidence of bruising or laceration of that part. On the second day the temperature rises to about 100 F. in all cases of laceration of the brain, and by the third day it is usually 101 I. oi 102° F., even when the air is excluded from the injured part. If the case becomes complicated by septic meniugo-encephalitis, the symp- toms of this affection (p. 703) mask all those winch are specially indicative of laceration. If the patient escape this danger he is stiff liable to local inflammation round the injured area. Supposing him to have regained consciousness, he will complain of fixed headache at the injured spot. This is especially marked if the laceration be in the anterior part of the frontal lobes. If Hitzig and Ferrier’s motor area be affected, the commencement of local inflammation is frequently marked by violent convulsions ; and alarming as this symptom is both to the Surgeon and the friends of the patient, it is by no means to be looked upon as a hopeless one. If between the fits the patient regains consciousness, there is stiff good hope of his recovery, especially if he is young and otherwise healthy. When the patient recovers, persistent localized paralysis or permanent loss of some mental faculty may be taken as conclusive evidence that the brain has been more or less severely lacerated. Suppuration round a lacerated area is indicated by gradual increase of the disturbance of function—as spreading pai’alysis, loss of consciousness, and perhaps convulsions—combined with the symptoms already given as indicative of the formation of pus within the skull (p. 709), comiug on some four or five days, or even some weeks after the accident ; but similar symptoms may occa- sionally arise from inflammatory or yellow softening without the actual forma- tion of pus. These being the general symptoms of laceration of the brain, it remains to he considered how they may be varied or modified by the nature of the injury and other circumstances. The Nature of Hie Injury. If the brain be injured directly by some sharp- pointed or cutting instrument, as a sword or hatchet, the symptoms of con- cussion may be entirely wanting ; the patient may not suffer from even momentary loss of consciousness. The same may occur when a blow with some angular body is received on the thin portions of the skull. Thus a young man was admitted into University College Hospital suffering from an injury to the brain which caused aphasia and facial paralysis, received in a fall against some steps. In spite of the severity of the injury he did not lose con-