400 ARREST OF ARTERIAL HAEMORRHAGE. artery curd its sheath, by which the relations between the wound and the < aperture in the sheath are altered. The direct effect of the injury is to cause some contraction of its muscular coat, and thus the blood finds its way readily between the sheath and the external coat, and the stratum of coagulated blood extends for some distance within the sheath, above and below the wound, opposite to which it is thicker than elsewhere. Coagulum may likewise be formed in the tissues of the part outside the sheath, by which the tendency to the escape of blood further lessened. The permanent closure of the puncture is effected by processes analogous to those which take place in repair of other tissues. If the wound be small and well closed by an external coagulum, and if the force of the heart be not too o-reat, the opening may be closed without complete obliteration of the artery. A small layer of clot may form internally, adhering to the wound in the inner coat. Exudation then takes place from the vessels of the external coat and from the sheath externally, and after this^ follow the ordinary processes of “vascularization of the plastic exudation, and development o fibrous tissue. Thus a small fibrous cicatrix is formed ^ the wah of the vessel. More commonly the clot gradually increases m size, till the the vessel is filled up opposite the wound, and then the subsequent chan es described above as occurring when an artery is divided take place, and te vessel is permanently obliterated and converted at the seat of obstruction into a fibrous cord. In order that the wound in the artery should unite simply by the formation of a cicatrix in the coats, without obliterating he cavity of the vessel it is necessary that it be below a certain size ; but this size wifi vary LcSino to the direction of the wound. If this be longitudinal or slightly nblimip It will be more likely to unite in this way than if transverse. Guthrie states that, in an artery of the size of the temporal,a small‘™y mav sometimes heal without obliteration of the vessel, though this ^ery laiely hanneTSkr'er arteries. If a large vessel, such as the femoral be opened lonoitudinallyto the extent of one-fourth of its circumference, theie is no proof that the wound can heal without obliteration of the cavityofthei artery but when a longitudinal wound in a large artery is very small, little moie tin i mmeture closure may possibly take place simply by its cicatrization ; but LrX altys continues weak at this point, and may eventually become ^Iftn iry of the second or third magnitude, as the axillary or femoral lie JdE £ fourth or more of its circumference, either fatal^morthagt£ the formation of a traumatic aneurism will take place, according and more or less direct character of the external wound. SURGICAL TREATMENT OP ARTERIAL HAEMORRHAGE. a-£&«?£ ssp fear bleeding from any artery on which lie ca 1 > n = > ^ 1 be