295 CONTUSIONS. purplish-red to greenish-brown, this variation being' dependent upon changes that take place in the extravasated blood as it undergoes absorption. In the second degree a bag of blood can often be felt fluid and fluctuating under the skin, in which state it may remain for weeks or even months without undergoing any material change, provided it be excluded from the air. In other cases it gradually becomes absorbed; or, if it communicate with the air— the bag being opened in any way—it will undergo putrefaction, unless special antiseptic precautions are taken to prevent it, and will excite inflammation and suppuration around it, the clots being discharged mixed with pus. In some cases-it would appear, from the observations of Sir P. Hewett and Sir J. Paget, that the clot resulting from extravasated blood may become organized and finally penetrated by blood-vessels. The French pathologists have described the formation of a cyst containing serous fluid in the site of the extravasated blood. The walls of these cysts are composed of a fibrous tissue ; they have no distinct lining membrane, and in their interior serous or grumous fluid, composed of disintegrated blood, is found. Lastly, extravasated blood may give rise to a sanguineous tumour, Hsematoma; the blood, which may con- tinue for months, or even years, fluid, slowly deposits its fibrin upon the tissues amidst which it is lying, thus forming a sort of imperfect cyst well, while the fluid coutents become dark and treacly. Iu the third and fourth degrees of contusion, the laceration and disorganiza- tion of structures usually lead to sloughing and suppuration, or to rapid gangrene of the parts, or to haemorrhage, ending in fatal syncope ; or, when the contusion is of an internal organ, this haemorrhage may prove fatal by taking place into the serous cavities. When the contusion is superficial, the haemorrhage -is subcutaneous, and though abundant, is rarely in sufficient cpiantity to influence the heart’s action. In one remarkable case, however, in which a schoolmaster was convicted of manslaughter for beating a boy to death with a stick, and in which I was called to make a post mortem examina- tion, death had evidently resulted, in a great measure at least, from this cause: the subcutaneous areolar tissue of the four limbs being extensively torn away from the fasciaa, and uniformly filled with extravasated blood, whilst the internal organs were in an anaemic condition, even the pulmonary vessels and the coronary arteries of the heart being emptied of blood. Diagnosis. This is not always easy. The more severe degrees may be mistaken for incipient gangrene, the discoloration being not very dissimilar, and the resemblance being sometimes increased by the formation of blebs upon the skm containing serous fluid more or less darkly coloured with blood ; but the part, when simply contused, preserves its temperature and vitality. In some cases the extravasated blood has a hard circumscribed border of clot, and is soft m the centre, which in the scalp resembles somewhat a depression in the subjacent bone. Ihe diagnosis of old cases of extravasation, leading to hamiatoma, from a iscess 01 ma ignant disease, is not always easily made by tactile examination °ne; but the history of the case, exploration with a grooved needle, and 1011 ^hc C011tents of the tumour under the microscope, will always clear up any doubt that may exist. lif. 1' L, -!n ^lc ^wo degrees of contusion, our great object should Hero CX<n a^.sPefd’ly as possible, the absorption of the extravasated blood, co c app ications are of especial service ; lotions composed of one part of