489 PATHOLOGY OF TRAUMATIC ARTHRITIS. The reason of this is not difficult to find. A joint consists in most cases of an irregular cavity, capable of very considerable distension and very difficult to drain perfectly. The effect of a wound is to cause an effusion into the cavity first of blood and, almost immediately after, of synovia, mixed with serous exudation from the vessels of the synovial membrane. The conse- quence is that the whole cavity becomes more or less tensely distended, according to the amount of drainage given by the wound, with putrescible matter, and this is brought into direct contact with the unpurified air by means of the external opening. The causes of decomposition thus being- admitted, in the great majority of cases putrefaction follows, and the whole synovial membrane and the surfaces of the cartilages become bathed in septic fluid. As the result of this the most acute inflammation is set up, rapidly reaching the stage of suppuration. This soon extends to the ligaments, which become softened and yield, allowing the articular surfaces to become displaced; at the same time abscesses form outside the joint, either from perforation of the capsule or by extension of the inflammation through it ; these may burrow widely beneath the muscles siu-rounding the joint. Within the joint the cartilages perish, in consequence of the irritation to which they are exposed, they become loosened from the subjacent bone, and by a process rather of maceration and friction than of true ulceration they become worn aw'ay at those points at which the articular surfaces have been most continuously in contact; the bone beneath is thus exposed, and from the combined irritation of the pressure of the opposed surfaces, a certain amount of friction, and the contact of the septic discharges, ulceration spreads rapidly into it. Thus the whole articulation becomes completely disorganized. This process is neces- sarily accompanied by very high fever. There is no surface in the body from which absorption can take place more rapidly than from the synovial mem- brane of a joint; as soon, therefore, as it becomes bathed in septic matter severe septic fever is developed ; the intensity of the fever corresponding with the size of the joint and the extent of surface from which absorption is taking- place. When the interior of the joint becomes covered by granulation-tissue, which presents a more or less efficient barrier to further absorption—that is to say, by about the eighth or tenth day—the fever subsides. Before this, how- ever, the patient may perish from septic poisoning, or the case may become complicated by some infective process, as septicaemia or pyaemia. The serious consequences, therefore, that follow wounds of joints may be traced entirely to the following causes : the accumulation of blood and serous effusion in the cavity of the joint, and the decomposition of the discharges consequent upon the admission of unpurified air, aggravated in some cases by want of rest and by the unhealthy constitutional condition of the patient and the bad hygienic surroundings in which he may be placed. There are two ways, however, in which, without any special treatment, a wounded joint may escape the destructive processes above described ; first, if, the wound being very small and the instrument inflicting it perfectly clean, no air be admitted, union of the external opening may take place by the rst intention, and the after progress of the case may be the same as in a su cu ancous injury; secondly, it the wound be very large, so as to give pen cc lamago 1° the cavity and thus to prevent the retention within it of ecomposa > c matter, recovery may take place with comparatively little local annua 1011 01 constitutional disturbance. It is a medium-sized wound, one