667 METACARPAL BONE OF THUMB. entertained a very similar opinion, looking upon the malposition of these ligaments as the principal source of difficulty. The folding m o e an ei 101 ligament of the joint, and the interposition of a sesamoid bone between the articulating surfaces, have also been regarded as giving rise to this peculiar difficulty in reduction. The more probable explanation, however, appears to he, that the narrow neck of the metacarpal bone becomes locked between, or ! constricted by, the two terminal attachments of the short flexor of the thumb, which must be carried back over its broader head, together with the displaced phalanx ; the head of the metacarpal bone being grasped between these tendons and the torn capsule of the joint, like a stud between the sides of a button-hole. The observations of Vidal, Malgaigne, and Ballingall point to this as the cause of the great difficulty in reduction that is often met with. Reduction.—Although, as has been said, great difficulty iu reduction is often met with, it would be a great error to suppose that it always exists. On the contrary, very many of these dislocations are, under chloroform, most readily reduced by simple traction and manipulation. Should any difficulty Fig. 2S5.—Reduction of Dislocation of Thumb. • l be experienced, the following plan will usually answer. The hand and meta- carpal bone being fixed by an assistant, the Surgeon bends back the thumb, so as to bring the phalanx to a right angle with the metacarpal bone on which it is displaced. He now employs traction in the axis of the displaced portion of the thumb, keeping the metacarpal bone well pressed down into the palm. Having thus unlocked the phalangeal articular surface from the back of that bone, he draws it well forwards, and, when it is opposite the head of the metacarpal bone, bends it down into the pahn. In this way I have reduced a dislocation of the phalanx backwards between five and six weeks after its occurrence. Simple traction in the straight direction, however forcible, and even when aided by the pulleys, will do little, if any, good in the reduction of this dislocation, as the only effect is to draw the slit in the capsule and the two heads of the short flexor more tightly than ever round the neck of the bone. Very severe extension has been employed without any effect ; and there is the tradition in the surgical profession in London of a thumb having been dragged off in the attempt to reduce this dislocation by pulleys. If the Surgeon fail in reducing the dislocated phalanx by manipulation under chloroform, as above described, or by traction, what is to be done ? In these circumstances, the dislocation should not be left without a further effort to replace the bone ; and this may usually be readily enough done by the subcutaneous section of the resisting structures. The Surgeon must bear in mind that the obstacle to re action is purely mechanical; that muscular contraction has nothing to do