475 TREATMENT OF INJURED NERVES. mass of young connective tissue is still doubtful, but most observers are of the opinion that they are formed by a growth proceeding from the axis-cylinder of the central end. After the bond of union is complete before the nerve can fully resume its functions, the peripheral end—which has, as before stated, undergone a certain degree of degeneration—must also be regenerated. This process proceeds slowly down the nerve from the injured spot. The restoration of a contused or divided nerve is always a slow process, and is frequently not complete for from three months to a year. The question whether nerves can heal by the first intention, has been much debated of late years. If the term be used in the sense of complete restoration of the function of the nerve in a few days, there is no evidence to show that it can take place. On the other hand the two ends can doubtless be united by young coimective tissue at a very early period, and the more closely the ends can be kept in apposition, the more rapidly will the fibres of the central end communicate with those of the peripheral. About a month is, perhaps, the earliest time at which motor power null return after division of a nerve. Treatment op Injuries causing Interruption op the Conducting Power op a Nerve.—The treatment of these injuries may be divided into two parts. 1st, the Local treatment of the injured nerve, and 2nd, the treat- ment of the Paralysed part. The Local Treatment.—In cases of subcutaneous injury nothing can be done. It may be taken for granted that although the nerve may be com- pletely paralysed, its continuity is not destroyed by any subcutaneous injury. On dissecting limbs amputated for , the most severe railway- or machinery- accidents, the nerves are almost invariably found untorn in the midst of the crushed tissues. To cut down, therefore, in a subcutaneous injury with the intention of suturing the nerve would be a grievous error. When the function of the. nerve is abolished by pressure, the cause of pressure must be removed if possible, as by the cure of an aneurism, the excision of a tumour, or the reduction of a dislocation. When the cause of the paralysis is the implication of the nerve in a cicatrix or in the callus of a fracture, nothing should be done locally until, after waiting many months, it becomes evident that nature will not effect a cure. It will be very rarely found necessary in such cases to adopt any operative plan of treatment, the symptoms disappearing as the scar becomes looser with age, or as the provisional callus of the fracture is absorbed. V\ arren, however, relieved a case of neuralgia resulting from implication and compression of a nerve by condensed cicatricial tissue by dissecting it out of the midst of this Avithout dividing or otherwise injuring it. In cases of division of a nerve in an open ivound no doubt exists as to the proper line of treatment—the two ends of the nerve shoidd be found and care- ully secured to each other by fine sutures. The best material for suture is c lomic catgut, as it is desired to keep the ends in contact only for a few days hoi™ i yi°im! co™ccfc,vc fcissue whidl &rms the preliminary bond of union is vprv'hhm e f ^ Which w?u^ nofc ')C absorbed for many weeks, would be o]1ni1ii"? ^ 0 cause some irritation and possibly severe neuralgia. The needle should be either bent into a cu dipped in cold hem info 1 a comm°n darning needle, Avhicli, if necessary, can easily be a Cuive m kbe flame of a spirit-lamp and hardened again by being needlesslv ,hn Wa er,; fc^e 01'cbnarJ flat surgical needle, with its cutting edges, annlied -wnn bbres of the nerve. Three or four sutures having been > 1 g to the size of the nerve, the wound must be closed and treated