SPECIAL DISLOCA TIONS. 632 of Camborne, and one by Luke. In it there is less eversion of the limb than in the thyroid dislocation (Fig. 303). Bigelow has pointed out that the head of the bone, when thrown below the lower margin of the acetabulum, may be further displaced ; either backwards on the dorsum ilii, or forwards to the thyroid foramen. In extreme flexion, however, the head may pass down as ■ far as the tuberosity or the ascending ramus of the ischium; in the former case the limb is everted, and in the latter inverted, and in all cases flexed. The head of the bone may pass also into the perinaeum, so as to be felt in its abnormal situation behind the scrotum. It has been known to compress • the urethra, and thus give rise to retention of urine. The thigh is extremely abducted and stands out at a right angle with the body ; and the toes may be Fig. 303.—Dislocation directly downwards. (Bigelow.) Fig. 304.—Dislocation downwards and inwards ■ towards Perinffium. either inverted or everted—which is ascribed by Bigelow to the want of firm bearing for the trochanter in the perinceum (Fig. 304). In the Reduction by Manipulation of these two rare forms of dislocation i downwards, the thigh is to be bent and its head guided towards the socket. . During this, the dislocation is sometimes converted into one of the thyroid or dorsal variety. In the dislocations downwards, vertical traction and slight ; inward rotation may be used; in the dislocations downwards and outwards, . traction upwards and inwards, with abduction and rotation outwards ; in the displacement downwards and inwards, traction upwards and outwards. I Probably allied to these forms of dislocation is that in which the head of : the bone has been found thrown downwards and backwards towards the lesser sciatic notch. In these cases there is considerable shortening, but the position of the limb appears to vary. In an instance that occurred to Iveate, the limb was abducted aud the toes turned outwards. In a ease reported by Wormald, the limb was turned inwards. Although the limb is - described as shortened in these cases, Warren has related a case in u uc i it was elongated. . ,,. A-. Dislocation Upwards, or Pubic Dislocation.—The Cause ol this ihs location is either direct violence applied to the back of the thigh uln s ® ■ limb is abducted; or it arises from the patient making a false step in w ing, and suddenly throwing his body backwards in order to avoid a a , twisting and displacing the limb. . , xi p m0. Pathological Anatomy.—The capsule is lacerated at its inner aspect, femoral ligament remaining untorn and causing rotation of the Inn t> ou