ANTISEPTIC TREATMENT IN MILITARY PRACTICE. 339 military practice the repair of gun-shot fractures without suppuration lias been frequently obtained by this mode of dressing. In cases occurring in civil practice the employment of antiseptics with all needful precautions is easy, and the results are correspondingly satis- factory. Ivraske has published a series of twenty-three cases occurring under the care of Volkmann in Halle, treated by strict antiseptic dressing with enlargement of the apertures, both of entry and exit, to facilitate drainage. Of these two died—one a perforating wound of the skull, and one wound of the abdomen perforating the liver, kidney, and pleura. The twenty-one cases that tecoveied were the following ; five flesh wounds two flesh wounds requiring primary ligature of the femoral artery for hemorrhage, two of the arm, with fracture, four wounds of the knee-joint; two perforating wounds of the skull, and six of the chest. In military practice the circumstances are usually such as to render the use of antiseptics difficult, if not impracticable, except to a very limited and modified extent. The enormous and rapid accumulation of wounded thrown upon the Surgeon s hands after au action leaves him but little time for the adoption of these minute precautions that are necessary for the full success of the antiseptic method. But the condition of the soldier himself, and that of his surroundings, are equally unfavourable to the carrying out of the treatment m its completeness—in the manner, in fact, in which it is employed in civil hospitals But yet experience has shown that it is better to employ it in a modified form than not at all. On this point all are agreed In the Russo-Turkish war of 187G-77, the Surgeons in the Russian army weie desirous to adopt the antiseptic treatment as thoroughly as possible • and afl speak favourably of it, even in the modified form in which alo^e7t was practicable. Bergmaim, according to Surgeon-Major Mefladew, found it hn- S' t0 cany rt out with anything like completeness at the crosZ of the auube, where the wounded were comparatively few. The river-water was full of and and mud, which soon choked tire spray-producers, and rSe el ttem nseless; and no amount of carbolic acid was sufficient to puXit so as to the knee-joint. The fate of thP Ji y . • \ ieu cfses guu-shot wound of hands of the Surgeon who fir?/- \i ! T m fclU as ^ussbanm has said, in the is at once used lie will have nn 7! a l3rilVLaiT antiseptic treatment method. aVG aD lnfimfcely betfcer chance than by any other detevmiuccl,"but at' prcsen t” diloride^ Id' ^ ^° fcreafcmenfc iu war is still un- useful antiseptic aount for elpnid • 11 secms fco be the most practically m the solid form and dissolved in water WOUnds’ as ifc cau bc carried immediately he well cleanpfl n i • ! ieu required. The womid should Above all, the Siiineoi/iumd I s.vrmgcd onfc with the antiseptic lotion, the wound with a m-imv f "V°*K . iafc 3jaosfc pernicious practice of exploring certaintyinfectino-jfc to tl'L vpvv1! °h nuc eau Probe> thus'at once and with agreed that one the forms i a firsfc dressinS’ aU Sm’geons are 6 l0,ms ot chy absoi’bent application, impregnated with a