xix CONTENTS. PAGE Chapter XXXIII— Septicaemia and Pyjemia. Septicemia and PYiEMiA-Definitions-Experimental Investigations-Causes^^^ Septicemia - Symptoms - Post-mortem Appearances — Diagnosis — Prognosis — Treatment — Septic Infection — Symptoms — Diagnosis — Prognosis—Treat- £ ,.••••• 940—943 Pyaemia Definition—Symptoms—Formation of numerous Centres of Inflammation " and Suppuration—Post-mortem Appearances—Secondary Centres of Inflamma- tion Kidneys—Intestines—Joints—Microscopic Appearances of Tissues and Organs—Microscopic Organisms—General Pathology—Varieties of Pysenna— Acute—Chronic—Umbilical—Without an Open Wound—Idiopathic—Mixed Forms of Septicaemia and Pyaemia—Diagnosis : from Inflammatory and Typhoid Fevers, from Ague, from Rheumatism, from Septic Poisoning and Septic Infec- tion—Treatment: Preventive and Curative . 944— 958 Chapter XXXIV.—1Tumours. Definition—Classification—Non-Malignant, Benign, or Innocent Tumours—Malig- nant Tumours — Signs of Malignancy — Semi-Malignant Tumours — General Characters of Typical Tissues—Connective Tissue—Embryonic Tissue—Epithe- lium—Classes of Tumours—iEtiology of Tumours ..... 959 966 Cystic Tumours—Classification—Cysts arising from Distension of Pre- existing Spaces — Exudation-Cysts — Retention-Cysts — Atheromatous Cysts —Mucous Cysts—Cysts arising from. Dilatation of Ducts of Glands—Cysts of New Formation —Simple or Serous—Hfematoma or Blood-Cyst—Cystic Tumours —Cysts in Tumours—Congenital Cysts—Dermoid Cysts—-In Imper- fectly Obliterated Foetal Structures—Formed by Inclusion of a Blighted Ovum in the Developing Body of a Foetus—Of Doubtful Origin—Parasitic Cysts 966—976 Tumours composed of one of the Modifications of Fully Developed Connective Tissue—Fatty Tumour, or Lipoma—Fibroma—-Soft Fibromata— Wens—Molluscum Fibrosum—Elephantiasis Arabum—Fibro-cellular Tumours— Finn Fibromata—Fibromata of Bone—Of Nerves—Of Glands—Painful Sub- cutaneous Tubercle—Fibroid Tumour of Uterus—Enchondroma, Chondroma, or Cartilaginous Tumours—Osteoma, Exostosis, or Bony Tumour-—Myxoma, or Mucous Tumour . . . . . . . . . . . . 977—988 Tumours which Resemble in Structure more or less perfectly one of the more Complex Tissues of the Body—Myoma, or Muscular Tumour— Neuroma, or Nervous Tumour—Angioma, or Vascular Tumour—Lymphangioma, composed of Lymphatic Vessels—Lymphadenoma, composed of Lymphatic Tissue—Papilloma, resembling Papillae of Skin or Mucous Membrane—Corns— Waits—Condylomata and Mucous Tubercles—Polypi—Villous Tumour of Bladder •—Adenoma, or Glandular Tumour—Tubular Adenomata—Racemose or Acinous Adenomata 988—996 Tumours composed of Tissue which is either purely Embryonic or is UNDERGOING ONE OF THE PRIMARY MODIFICATIONS SEEN IN THE DEVELOP- MENT of Adult Connective Tissue : Sarcomata—Definition—General Character—Varieties—Small Round-Celled Sarcoma—Glioma—Spindle-Celled Sarcoma—Oval-Celled Sarcoma—Myeloid or Giant-Celled Sarcoma—Ossifying .and Osteoid Sarcomata—Alveolar and Large Round-Celled Sarcoma—Plcxiform Sarcoma or Cylindroma — Melanotic Sarcoma — Psammoma — Sarcomatous Blood-Cysts or Haunatomata—Mixed Sarcomata 996—1006 l 2