421 THE CARBOLIZED CATGUT LIGATURE. supported by pebbles at a short distance above the bottom, to afford space for water that slowly subsides to accumulate in and keep it from coming into contact with the hanks of gut which are placed loosely in the upper part of the vessel. The process of preparation goes on best in a cool place, and should be continued for two months at least; and the gut goes on improving for an unlimited time if retained in the same oil.” Excellent results were obtained from the gut prepared in this way, but the length of time required before it was fit for use formed a serious objection to the process. Lister therefore undertook a series of experiments with various re-agents in the hope of finding some equally efficient and more rapid method. Among the substances with which he experimented, chromic acid was found to give the best results ; but if this is used alone or too strong, the gut becomes over-prepared and as unabsorbable as a wire ligature. The method of prepa- ration finally adopted is the following. Dissolve one part of chromic acid in 4,000 parts of distilled water, and add to the solution 200 parts of pure car- bolic acid or absolute phenol. Place in the solution a quantity of catgut equal in weight to the carbolic acid ; the gut must not be in loose hanks, but wound round some solid body to prevent its untwisting while soaking. If too much gut be added, it will be under-prepared and soften in the wound ; if too little, there is a danger of its becoming over-prepared and unabsorbable. At the end of forty-eight hours the preparation is complete, and the gut may be removed and dried. As soon as it is dry, it is to be placed in a 1 to 5 solution of carbolic acid in oil, and it is then fit for use ; or it may be kept dry and put in a 1 in 20 watery solution for a quarter of an hour before it is used. The fate of a prepared catgut ligature in a wound has been the subject of much discussion. The examination of ligatures applied in animals, and of pieces of gut used as sutures and ligatures in the human subject, have, how- ever, tolerably clearly proved that, provided all goes well, the following changes occur. Within a short time of its application the carbolic acid it contains diffuses out of it into the surrounding serum, and the catgut then becomes a peifectly unirritating thread of fibrous tissue, and consequently has no tendency to excite inflammation or suppuration in its neighbourhood. It may, however become uTitahng if, after losing its carbolic acid, it decomposes or becomes soaked m decomposing discharges. In this state it presents no advantage over ' f, s k or kemP tigature ; m fact, it is less safe, as by its premature cieffil^^lvTnla^i ^aye ex^e™al coat unsupported before repair has suffi- ? kreseryed from decomposition by the anti- de^Tonedfu ft r T* ! ^ absorbed in the granulation-tissue the absorntin pr°Cef of r®Pair of the wound. In properly prepared catgut but lim°CeeC? S° I17 r°m the surface’ the Mature swelling and it will be fm nr ft'f J SUC;h a lgatU1'e bG eXamined when partially absorbed, into hdlows tlfcfche.1s1ur.facelia8 losfc its smooth outline, being eaten out Occasionally n f 10with cells having the appearance of leucocytes, prepared litfcmt argeL many-nucleated cells are met with. In an imperfectly of the mit'hpfr ’c ce s can be seen penetrating deeply into the substance surface a 1M represents the stitch hi a wounrl f. / bo,lzed catgut -111. in thickness, used as a deep Tt was removnd I .'T' ecl antiseptioally, which healed by the first intention. a ic end of six days, and was still tough and strong, being