WOUNDS OF THE THROAT. 809 CHAPTER XXVII. INJURIES OF THE THROAT : AND ASPHYXIA. INJURIES OP THE LARYNX AND TRACHEA. I Fracture of the Cartilages of the Larynx.—The cartilages of the larynx may be broken and displaced by violent blows or by a squeeze, the fracture in some cases taking place transversely, in others longitudinally. Digital examination will at once detect the nature of the injury. In these injuries there is superficial extravasation of blood, with pain and difficulty in breathing, speaking, and swallowing. In some cases there is spitting of blood with cough. Fracture of the larynx is an extremely dangerous injury. Durham has collected 69 cases of which 53 died. The great danger is from asphyxia, which may occur immediately as a direct consequence of the displace- ment due to the fracture, or may come on at a later period as the result of in- flammatory swelling. In some recorded cases, simple concussion of the larynx without fracture has been known to prove fatal, apparently from shock. Should symptoms of serious dyspnoea appear tracheotomy must be performed without delay; if not attention to position and support of the injured parts ii will suffice. Wounds of the Throat.—These are of great frequency and importance, implicating as they do, some of the most important organs in the body. They may be divided into three categories :— 1. Those that do not extend into the Air- or Food-passages. 2. Those that implicate the Air-passage, with or without injury of the CEsophagus. 3. Those that are accompanied by injury of the Spinal Cord. All these injuries are most commonly suicidal, and may be inflicted with ' every variety of cutting instrument; except where the spinal cord is injured, which must, in cases of suicide, be the result of gunshot-wound, and is neces- sarily fatal. Though incised, they are often jagged, and partake somewhat of 1 the character of lacerated wounds, with great gaping of the edges. 1. Wounds not extending into the Air- or Food-passages.—Iu these wounds, there is very commonly free and even fatal haemorrhage, and this sometimes though none of the larger arterial or venous trunks have been divided ; the blood flowing abundantly from the venous plexuses or from the thyroid 'tody when the wound is low down. If the larger arteries be touched, as the earotid and its primary branches, the haemorrhage may be so abundant as to "lve nse to almost instantaneous death. Another source of danger in these oases proceeds from the admission of air into the veins of the so-called “dan- gerous region ’ of the neck. For this a free wound is by no means necessary, as is instanced by a remarkable case that occurred some years ago near London, m w ich the introduction of a seton into the fore part of the neck was followed ay death from this cause.