996 TUMOURS. typical forms the cells are merely such as arc seen in ordinary connective tissues • hut if the tumour be growing rapidly, large numbers of small round or oval cells are found (Fig. 384). Sometimes the tissue between the acini may be composed entirely of spindle-cells, in fact, may have the structure of a spindle-celled sarcoma ; the tumour is then often spoken of as an adeno- sarcoma. Sometimes tissue resembling that of a myxoma may be found. Yery frequently the acini become dilated into cysts, varying in size from a pin’s head to a walnut, or larger; this forms the so-called cystic sarcoma of the mamma. Not unfrequently in such cases cauliflower-like growths similar in structure to the rest of the tumour, may be found projecting into the cysts (intracystic growths—proligerous cysts of the mamma). These tumours are infinitely most frequent in the mamma, but they are sometimes seen m con- nection with the parotid, and have been recorded as growing from the racemose glands of the soft palate, from the lachrymal gland, and from the sebaceous glands of the skin. In the parotid they are often mixed with myxoma and enchondroma. They are rounded or oval m shape peifecfl| circumscribed, and surrounded by a fibrous capsule. They are. hard an elastic, occasionally presenting points of fluctuation when containing large cysts. They are always non-malignant, and there is no reason to jeht'^ that they ever assume a carcinomatous character. Then c linca and treatment will be fully discussed in the chapters on the diseases o organs in which they occur. IV.-TUMOUKS COMPOSED OP TISSUE ™ SirVSnS 'SSSSSS^cS'JS, To-Tective tissue. SARCOMATA. The laro-e croup of tumours now classed together under the name of sarco- matei mL winch were, till company variety of other names, and grouped in other divisions: and the term suimmu , which\as now received a definite meaning, was formerly applied to almost a (oft fieshv Growth Almost all soft sarcomata of bones, the glioma or gho-sa - °oma of Ihe e e sarcomata of secreting glands, and called soft earner; the melanotic sarcoma, and the ossifying sarcoma,-osteoid cancer; many film sarcomata lave01 described as schriius, and soft sarcomata ^ blood-cysts. Lastly, the tumours known as thc rent fibroid, malignant fibroid, and myeloid, have all great class b sarcomata. These tumours may any 1 ^ of « e Wy They may present every variety of consistence, colour, and_ shape, u} ^ be iron inscribed or diffuse ; they may be as innocent as . fatty ™ ^ malignant as the worst form of oncer TtainTanner found in embryonic tissue, a description ot which lias oecn m" (p Zy l« pathological analogue is seen n the productsof> mflamn. SSit betiveen tLe and sarcoma arc ££%££> inflammation, supposing they live, show a k, k - ' f t] ?rPowth show some more perfect tissue; but m a structure being jio higher development than the most recent the same l oedily to m a rule maintained throughout. Inflammatory nev powth cud limit themselves, sarcomata to grow .ndcfimtely. in »« elements are often larger than those seen in inflammation.