932 ERYSIPELAS. loose submucous tissue in these situations, is often amazingly rapid, the swelling boimr sufficient to induce suffocation at the end of thirty-six or forty-eight hours, or even sooner. If the patient be not carried off in this way, there will be a great tendency to suppuration and sloughing of the affected tissues, leading perhaps eventually to death from septicaemia or pyaemia. The Symptoms of this affection are strongly marked. The patient, after being attacked with erysipelas of the fauces, attended by some difficulty and pain in deglutition, and huskiness of the voice, is seized with more or less difficulty in breathing, coughs hoarsely and with a croupy souud, and com- plains of tenderness under the angles of the jaw and about the larynx. The difficulty in breathing increases, and may speedily threaten the life of the patient, giving rise to intense fits of dyspnoea, in one of which he will probably be suddenly carried off. The difficulty is greater in inspiration than in expi- ration, as the swollen parts above the opening of the larynx fall together like a valve in the former act, while they are easily separated by air coming from below in the latter. On examining the throat the fauces will not only he observed to be much and duskily reddened, but by depressing the tongue the epiglottis can be felt, and perhaps seen, to be rigid and erect. Examination Avith the laryngoscope readily shows the condition of the parts to be as above- described. Enlarged lymphatic glands can usually be felt early in the case behind the angle of the lower jaw. In the Treatment, local means are of the first importance. The tongue having been Avell depressed, the posterior part of the larynx, the epiglottis, and the arytceno-epiglottidean folds must be well scarified by means of a hernia- knife, Avith which this operation may be most readily and safely done. If no better instrument be at hand in case of emergency, a very useful amount of scarification may be done by the nail of the Surgeon’s index-finger, notched Avith a knife to make it tear the mucous membraue more readily. The patient should then be directed to inhale the steam of hot water, and several leeches may be applied under each angle of the jaw, to be folloAved by large and hot poultices ; at the same time, the bowels must be kept Avell opened, and the patient treated by antiphlogistic measures or otherwise, according to the constitutional condition. Most frequently, I have found antimonials of great- service in the early stages, followed later by support and stimulants. A few hours after the engorged tissues have been unloaded by scarification, the fauces, pharynx, and upper part of the larynx should be well sponged out aa ith a strong solution of the nitrate of silver (sixty grains to an ounce), 'which must be applied freely. If, notwithstanding the employment of these measures, the dyspnoea increase, the face becoming pale, livid, and bedcAved Avith a clamnij perspiration, it Avill be necessary to open the Avindpipe to save the patient from suffocation. In doing this I prefer laryngotomy, for reasons that will lie mentioned when I come to speak of the Diseases ot and Operations on the Air-passages. In order, however, that this operation may be successful, it must not be too long delayed, and should not be looked upon as a last resource: if it be done in time (and time in these cases is most precious, owing to the rapid progress of the disease), the patient’s life may probably be saved ; but 1 it be deferred too long, congestion of the lungs will come on, the blood v) cease to be properly oxygenated, and the patient will sink from slow asphyxia, even though air be at last freely admitted. If the patient survive to the st-a*