24 GENERAL REMARKS ON OPERATIONS. matic, is usually not sufficiently violent to produce any sound. What may be called the healthy snoring of deep anaesthesia must be distinguished from the loud inspiratory stertor indicative of spasmodic closure of the glottis. The latter is a sign of danger and necessitates the immediate removal of the chloroform until the spasm has passed oft- and has been followed by three or four healthy respirations. When fully anaesthetised, the patient is at the verge of death, and requires the most careful watching by the person who administers the chloroform ; his fingers should be kept constantly on the temporal artery, as the most convenient point for feeling the pulse, and his eyes should not be taken away from the coiuitenance of the patient. He must watch, on the one hand, for lividity indicative of impending asphyxia, and on the other, for pallor showing feebleness of the heart’s action. The breathing must be carefully observed, and the administrator must not be content with seeing that the movements of respiration continue, but must feel with his hand that air is actually passing in and out, as in spasmodic closure of the glottis the respiratory movements continue regularly for some time after air has ceased to enter. Many accidents doubtless arise from the patient being thus allowed to become partially asphyxiated, and the heart’s action greatly enfeebled ; and when, as usually happens, the spasm passes off and is followed by a deep inspiration, instead of pure air, which is so greatly needed, a concentrated dose of chloroform vapour is supplied, which suddenly checks the action of the weakened heart. If the inhalation of chloroform have been suspended, great care should be taken when its administration is recommenced, lest the already enfeebled heart be entirely overpowered by the influence of a volume of vapour suddenly given in a concentrated form. It should be borne in mind that it is not necessary in all operations to administer chloroform to the same extent. In all the greater opeiations, as amputations, lithotomy, and the ligature of arteries, enough should be given to completely paralyse muscular movement, as well as to suspend sensibility and consciousness. In operations for hernia, also, and all other proceedings implicating the abdominal walls, if complete muscular relaxation be not induced, great inconvenience and not a little danger may result. So, also, in very painful operations about the anus and genital organs, a full dose of chloroform should be given. But for the removal of many tumours about the trunk, or in many of the minor operations on the extremities and about the head and face, muscular relaxation is not so necessary ; and it will be suffi- cient to give enough chloroform merely to suspend sensibility and consciousness to pain. , . Death from Chloroform may occur in three different ways; viz., by Coma, by Asphyxia, or by Syncope; through the brain, the lungs, or the When death occurs by Coma, the patient is heard suddenly to breathe stcr- torously; he becomes livid in the face, and is convulsed ; the heart beats until the last moment of life, and death appears to result primarily Bom the circulation of dark blood through the nervous centres. Tins form of death occurs chiefly in individuals who are epileptics, or who arc suffering fiom advanced kidney disease. , , » Death by Asphyxia may be produced in three ways. 1. It may be the fa of the administrator, sufficient air not being admitted with the chloroform-