1116 VENEREAL DISEASES. bub more commonly it is partly or entirely developed into new bone, and thus j a permanent" thickening may remain. In the early stages the new bone is soft and spongy, and is sharply separated from the compact bone beneath which beyond some slight superficial rarefaction from enlargement of the Haversian canals shows no sign of change. As time goes on, however, the new bone becomes more compact till at last it seems merely a part of the compact tissues which may at the affected spot be a little denser than natural. Nodes may occur on almost any of the bones ; but they are most commonly met with on the tibia, the clavicle, or the bones of the forearm. They form indolent, elongated, uniform, elastic or hard swellings, usually tender on pressure, and generally but little painful during the day ; but at night the aggravation of pain is peculiarly marked, and constitutes perhaps the most distressing symptom. They cause no redness of the skin and have no tendency to suppurate. Sclerosis of Bone.-—-This corresponds to the diffuse overgrowth of fibroid tissue in other parts. It usually affects one of the long bones of the cranium. The affected bone becomes increased in size and density. The new osseous tissue is formed on the surface from the periosteum, but does not show the distinct separation from the old so clearly noticed in the ordinary node, the growth is, moreover, not limited as in a node, but widely diffused as through the whole shaft of a long bone or throughout the vault of the skull. At the same time that new bone is formed on the surface a similar change may occur internally till the medullary canal becomes gradually filled with dense new bone. The symptoms of this affection are merely the steady increase in size, with obscure aching pains, worse at night. Gummata of Bone.—These never form as the sole morbid condition; they are always associated with ithe periosteal node or with sclerosis of the sur- rounding bone. They most commonly form superficially, and are at first indistinguishable from the ordinary node ; in fact, as before pointed out, the gumma in its commencement is identical in its nature with the diffuse syphilitic overgrowth of fibroid tissue, differing merely in its localization and intensity and in its tendency to fatty degeneration and softening. A sub- periosteal gumma runs the ordinary course of such growths ; if unrelieved by treatment it gradually increases in size, approaches the skin superficially, and extends into the bone beneath ; finally, it softens, the skin gives way, the slough is discharged, and a deep ulcer is left, at the bottom of which spongy ulcerating bone is exposed. This forms the most common variety of syphilitic caries. In the cranium the gumma may completely perforate the bones, but more commonly it is associated with great sclerosis of the vault of the skull, the thickened bone being hollowed out and wormeaten in parts corresponding to the situation of the gummata. Occasionally the gummata form on the internal aspect of the skull, and may give rise to cerebral symptoms. Gummata of hone form rounded flattened tumours, growing from the bone slowly, with some aching pain, usually worse at night. After a time they soften, and may then resemble abscesses. However soft the part may be, they must on no account be opened ; as absorption may take place even after distinct fluctuation is present. Syphilitic Necrosis may arise in various ways. In the vault of the skull it is most commonly due to an exaggeration of the process of sclerosis, by which the Haversian canals become obliterated to such an extent that death of the