"boy round the neck whilst swinging. one S'FRA INS OF THE SPINE—PROGNOSIS. 789 u^xv In two cases under my care, the injury aroseTrom^iolence"applied to° the cervical spine ; in one from a railway- accident, in the other from a fall from a horse. , , , These wrenches of the spine are, for obvious reasons, most liable to occur in the more mobile parts of the vertebral column, as the neck and loins, just above the sacral region ; less frequently in the dorsal legion. In railway-collisions, when a person is violently and suddenly jolted from uiiC side of the carriage to the other, the head is frequently forcibly thrown forwards and backwards, moving as it were by its own weight, the patient havin'1' for the time lost control over the muscular structures of the neck. In such cases the patient complains of a severe straining, aching pain in the .articulations between the head and the spine, and in the Cervical Spine itself. This pain closely resembles that felt in any joint after a severe wrench of its ligamentous structures, but is peculiarly distressing in the spine, owing -to the extent to which fibrous tissue and ligament enter into the composition of the column. It is greatly increased by to-and-fro movements, however slight, and especially by rotation ; also by pressure upon, and by lifting up the head so as to put the tissues on the stretch. In consequence of this, the patient keeps the neck and head immovable, rigid, looking straight forwards. He cannot raise his head off a pillow without the assistance of his own hand, •or that of another person. The Lumbar Spine is often strained in railway-collisions, with or without •similar injury to the cervical portion of the column, in consequence of the body being forcibly swayed backwards and forwards during the jarring oscil- lations of the carriage on the receipt of a powerful shock. I11 such cases the same kind of pain is complained of. There is the same rigidly inflexible con- dition of the spine, with tenderness on external pressure, and great aggravation •of suffering on movement, more particularly if the patient bend backwards. The patient is unable to stoop ; in attempting to do so, he always goes down on one of his knees. The muscles, especially the erector spinse, and the fascirn of the back are also often sprained, stretched and torn, in cases of twists and strains of the spinal column. There may be consequent swelling and induration of these tissues from the presence of inflammatory effusions and inability to use the sprained muscles. But the great danger of these sprains is, that they are not un- frequently associated with some of the most serious affections of the spinal ■cord that are met with in surgical practice as a consequence of injury. These may prove most dangerous, or even fatal. The Prognosis will depend partly on the extent of the stretching of the muscular and ligamentous structures, partly on whether any inflammation lias been excited in them which may extend to the interior of the spinal canal. As a general rule, where muscular, tendinous, and ligamentous struc- tures have been violently stretched, as in an ordinary sprain, however severe, they recover in the course of a few -weeks, or at most within three or six months. If a joint, as the shoulder or ankle, continue to preternaturally mobile, in consequence of elongation of the weakness or atrophy of the muscles, beyond this period, it probability, never be so strong as it was before the accident, holds good be weak and ligaments, or will, in all The same with the spine ; and a vertebral column which has been so weakened as to require artificial support, after several months, in order to