999 SARCOMA—SPINDLE-CELLED. arranged in bands crossing each other in various directions, often gi\ mg t ic growth a fasciculated or fibrous appearance, and if a band happens to be cut transversely it presents the appearance of a group of small round cells. 1 ie vessels, as in other sarcomata, are abundant and thin-walled. The small spindle-celled sarcomata are usually firm in consistence, and of a pinkish or white colour, the central parts being yellow from fatty degeneration. Occasionally they contain cysts filled with straw-coloured fluid, and they may closely resemble in aspect the common fibroid tumour. They grow by prefer- ence in fibrous structures, as fascial, skin, or tendons ; they may occur in inter- muscular spaces, or occasionally in the sheaths of nerves. Thus I amputated a leg a few years ago for a large tumour of this kind seated on the posterior tibial nerve. Though these tumours are usually distinctly circumscribed and sometimes encapsuled, and run a perfectly innocent course, in many cases they show an extraordinary tendency to local recurrence after removal; but it is rare for them to give rise to secondary deposits in internal organs. Paget describes these growths under the name of recurrent fibroid tumours, and relates several instances of them. One was a tumour of the upper part of the leg, which between 184G and the end of 1848 had been removed five times, and reappeared for the sixth time after the last operation, when, as it had become large and ulcerated, amputation was deemed advisable; this procedure, however, was followed by death. The examination of the third tumour pre- sented “ very narrow, elongated, caudate, and oat-shaped nucleated cells, many of which had long and subdivided terminal processes ; ” in the last removed tumour, the cells were generally filled with minute shining molecules, as if fatty degeneration had taken place. In another case, a tumour of the shoulder had been removed, and returned four times between May, 1848, and December, 1849, reappearing in the following year for the fifth time ; it, however, after a time became stationary, and many years afterwards the patient, but for the presence of the tumour, might be considered to be a strong and healthy man. Paget relates also a case in which, between 1889 and 1851, Syme removed a tumour of this kind five times from the upper part of the chest: it recurred a sixth time and was followed by death. He refers also to a case by Gluge, in which a similar tumour was five times removed from the scapula, its sixth reappearance being followed by death. The most interesting of all is a case by Maclagan, in which four removals were performed in the course of thirty- six years, twenty-three years intervening between the second and third removals, and eleven between the third and fourth. Since this form of tumour was first described by Paget, a number of instances have been recorded by British and continental Surgeons. These recurrent tumours appear to become more malignant in the later than in the earlier recurrences, becoming more painful, rapidly degenerating, and giving rise to an ulcerating fungus, which eventually proves fatal by exhaustion and haemorrhage. The cells will then be found to have become larger, and the intercellular substance softer and devoid of fibrillation ; and, in fact, they merge into the large-celled form of spindle- celled sarcoma. This is clearly shown by a case which occurred under my care at University College Hospital. A tumour as large as a full-sized turnip was removed from the shoulder of a middle-aged man, and was found to be slightly connected with the spine of the scapula. On examination it presented all the characters of a spindle-celled sarcoma, consisting almost entirely of densely-packed fusiform cells, with oval or oat-shaped nuclei. A small mass