SCROFULA AND TUBERCLE. 1 062 The preventive treatment of scrofula and tubercle may be said in general terms to consist in close and continuous attention to hygienic rules. The diet . j must be specially attended to ; nourishing food, but of the lightest quality, being given. A great error is often committed in overloading the stomach with more or with heavier* tood than it can digest, under the impiession that strong food is necessary to give the patient strength. In consequence of this error, the irritability of the mucous membrane is kept up, nutrition is imper- fectly and badly performed, the surplus food is thrown off in the shape of lithates or other products of mal-assimilation, and health and strength, which are the results of perfect nutrition, become impaired rather than improved. The use of stimulants, whether wine or beer, should be very sparing, and the milder and weaker should be preferred to the heavier and stronger kinds of malt liquor ; the bowels must be kept regular with the simplest aperients ; the clothing should be warm, and must cover the whole of the surface ; and the patient should, if possible, be kept in well-ventilated rooms. He should lie allowed sufficient exercise in the open air, not carried to the point of fatigue, .. and should, if his circumstances will permit, have change of air from time to time, alternating a sea with an inland climate. Bathing also, whether in sea j or river, with the habitual use of the tepid or cold sponge-bath, and friction of the surface with horse-hair gloves or a rough towel, so as to keep the skin in tj healthy action, should be regularly practised. In carrying out this general plan of treatment, it must be borne in mind that the health and stiength of a i delicate and weakly child can be improved only up to the highest standard admissible by its individual constitution. A weakly, scrofulous child may be I improved in health and may be strengthened in body ; but it can never, by any hygienic, dietetic, or medicinal.process, have the original defect in its ? organization so completely eradicated as to be rendered as robust and vigoioiis, as°a child of good congenital stamina who had been equally well cared for. The Curative Treatment should be specially directed, like the preventive, to the general improvement of the nutrition, and through it to the augments- • tion of "the constitutional vigour of the patient ; all those hygienic means that : have -just been alluded to being continuously cairied out.. . . The more strictly medical treatment of scrofula consists in the administration * of tonics and alteratives with the view of improving the patient’s constitutional powers. Before they are administered, however, it is always necessary to see that the digestive organs arc in a healthy condition. Scrofula is a consequence i of malnutrition ; and unless we see that digestion, the first stage of the nutri- tive process, is properly accomplished, all other means will be useless Y\ hen i the tongue is covered with a white, thick, creamy fur, and has elongated papilla and red edges, the mucous membrane being in a state partly ot irrita ii 1 y ail. i nartly of debility, neither purgatives nor tonics can lie largely administers : the former irritating, the latter overstimulating the morbidly sensitive niucou membrane. In these circumstances the patient should be con fins o . mildest possible diet, which must principally consist of milk, boiled hs,> . meats, and light pudding, no stimulant of any kind being allcroj. - small quantity of claret or bitter beer ; and, unless the patient < ^ accustomed to the use of stimulants, these even had better be dispense • * Smlil doses of mcrc„.'v with chalk, of so,laand administered at bed-time, with some of the compound decoction and a few grains of the carbonate of soda 01 ot potas the following morning