SYMPTOMS OF CONCUSSION OF CORD. 767 loss of motor power and of sensation, of hyperassthesia and of anaesthesia; or it may give rise to various phenomena, dependent on irritation of the large nerves that take their origin from the medulla oblongata. I bus, when the vagus nerve is affected, a sense of suffocation, with irregular action of the heart, may be experienced, or severe vomiting may be established, and may continue for months. Sometimes the spinal accessory nerve is irritated, and the trapezius or the sterno-mostoid muscle thrown into a more or less permanent spasmodic state. From injury about the origin of the phrenic nerve, hiccup and a peculiar sense of constriction round the body, as if the patient were girt by an iron band, may be established. In other cases, again, the diaphragm becomes partially paralysed, it does not descend properly in inspiration, hence dyspnoea, often to a very serious extent, is induced. When the Lower Part of the Cervical Spine has been struck so as to concuss the cord, I have known paralysis of one or both arms induced, without any paralytic symptoms of the trunk or legs. In these cases the paralysis may go off entirely ; or it may disappear in one arm and continue in the other ; or one nerve only may continue to be affected—such as the circumflex, the musculo- spiral, or the ulnar. There may be complete paralysis of sensation and of motion in any one of these nerves ; or motor power may be lost, whilst sensa- tion is normal; or, more commonly, where the sensibility continues, it is exalted, and we may find loss of motor power with hyperassthesia. These modifications of innervation may be confined to one nerve, as the musculo- spiral, when there will be loss of motor power in the extensors and supinators of the forearm and hand, with loss of sensation or with hyperesthesia of the part of the hand supplied by the radial nerve. In other cases we find motor paralysis of the circumflex or musculo-spiral nerve, and hyperesthesia of the ulnar. In these respects there is every possible variety. A severe blow inflicted on the Dorsal or the Lumbar Region may induce more or less complete paraplegia. In some cases the paralysis of the lower limbs has been complete and instantaneous ; and has affected both sensation and motion, with loss of power over the sphincters. In other cases there has been only paralysis of motion, sensation continuing perfect or being in excess. The reverse has been met with, but less frequently and less completely ; there being loss of sensation, and impairment, though not complete loss, of power over motion. One leg is frequently more severely affected than the other. Or the two legs may be unequally affected as to sensation and motion ; both sensation and motion being impaired, but in varying degrees in the two limbs. There may be complete loss of power over the sphincters both of the bladder and anus, with incontinence or retention of urine and fames ; or the loss of power may be confined to the bladder, which is especially the case when there is paralysis of motion rather than of sensation in the lower limbs. The state of the urine will vary. If there be no retention, it will continue acid. When there is retention, the urine usually becomes alkaline, but sometimes, even when there is complete retention, it remains strongly acid ; and Ollivier noted the very remarkable circumstance in one case of retention, that there was an enormous formation of uric acid, so that the catheter became loaded wnh it. Priapism does not occur in concussion, while it does so often in cases or laceration and irritation of the cord. rl he Temperature of the body generally falls below the normal standard, 0 eu \ eiy maikedly so : the extremities and the mouth being especially cold.