COMPOUND DISLOCATION OF HUMERUS. 655 devised as to relax the tight bauds of the capsule and to make the opening gape. This method has, in Kocher’s hands, been very successful even with old dislocations : thus, he has successfully reduced one at three weeks, two at five weeks, three at seven weeks, four at three months, and two at iom months. In one case, an old woman of 70, with an unreduced dislocation eight weeks 1 old, fracture of the arm took place, and reduction became impossible. This method has been found extremely successful with recent dislocations at Uni- versity College Hospital. If these simpler methods fail, or the dislocation be of old standing, it may be necessary to have recourse to the pulleys in order to effect reduction. In applying these the scapula must be firmly fixed, the counter-extension being •made by passing the patient’s arm through a slit in the middle of a jack-towel, which should be fixed firmly to a hook or staple in the wall. The extending force may then be applied immediately above the elbow ; and traction being- made slowly and steadily in the direction of the axis of the limb. The head of the bone should be directed to the glenoid cavity by the pressure of the Surgeon’s hands, so soon as it has come on a level with it. In this way dis- locations of the humerus of many weeks’ or even months’ standing have been successfully reduced ; but in employing these powerful means, especially under the influence of chloroform, the Surgeon should always bear in mind that, unless care be taken, serious mischief, even laceration of the axillary artery, may result (pp. 634, 635). After a dislocation of the humerus has been reduced, the limb should be firmly fixed to the side for at least two weeks. It may then be put in a sling for another fortnight: and, at the end of a month, passive motion, with fric- tion, may be employed. If inflammation occur about the joint, recourse may be had to leeches and evaporating lotions. After reduction, there is a tendency for the head of the bone to be drawn upwards and outwards under and against the acromion, owing evidently to the deltoid and coraco-brachialis muscles not being counterbalanced in their actions by those that have been separated from the head of the bone. Compound Dislocation of the Head of the Humerus is a rare accident. !I have, however, seen two cases of it, and in two directions : downwards—• Subglenoid, and inwards—Subcoracoid. In both cases reduction was effected, and the patients did well. In it, even though the injury be extensive, it is better not to amputate if the axillary vessels and nerves be uninjured. The limb may be saved by reducing the bone at once ; and the wound should be treated according to the rules laid down in the chapter on wounds of joints. If the axillary artery be ruptured, either completely or through its inner and middle coats, obstruction to the arterial circulation of the arm will ensue, and amputation must be performed through the articulation. ; Complications.—A Simple Dislocation of the Head of the Humerus, with Rupture of the Axillary Artery and the formation of a diffused axillary aneu- rism, is serious but fortunately rare. The treatment will be discussed when treating of rupture of the artery during attempted reduction of an old dis- location. A very serious accident, and apparently difficult to treat, consists in the complication of a Dislocation of the Humerus with Fracture through the Epi- p lysis of the displaced bone. A case of this kind, to which I was called, is described at page 637.