SUPPURATION AND ABSCESS. 236 which protects them from injury. In some cases, however, they are obliterated by the conjoined effects of the pressure and the inflammation, in which they, as well as the adjacent tissues, partake. In other cases, more particularly in strumous and cachectic individuals, the blood-vessels have been opened by ulceration and have burst into the sac of the abscess, occasioning sudden and dangerous or even fatal hemorrhage. It is seldom, however, that a large artery or vein pours its contents into an abscess that has not been opened. These occurrences have taken place chiefly in the neck, in which situation both the carotid artery, as in a case described by Liston, and the internal jugular vein, have opened into the cavity of an abscess. The various mucous canals, especially the trachea and the urethra, may be injuriously compressed by neighbouring abscesses ; so also bones may become necrosed, and joints inflamed and destroyed from the same cause. Diagnosis.—The diagnosis of abscess, though usually easily made, at times requires close attention. The Surgeon believes that an acute abscess is about to form when, after rigors and some modification of the inflammatory fever he finds the local signs characteristic of the formation of pus ; more especially a throbbing pain in the part, with softening of any induration that may have existed, and oedema of the areolar tissue covering it. Iiis suspicion is turned into certainty, and he knows that an abscess has formed, when, after the occur- rence of these symptoms, fluctuation can be felt. Fluctuation is the sensation felt by the Surgeon on placing both hands, or one or more fingers of eac 1 hand as the case may be, with moderate firmness upon the part in which the fluid is situated, and then increasing the pressure with each hand alternate }. On so doing, if fluid be present a wave will be felt to pass from under the hand which is pressing more strongly, raising that which is applied less fir y. In feeling for fluctuation the Surgeon should always place as large a surface 0 each hand as possible over the supposed fluid. The fingers should.be^mred so as to adapt themselves evenly to the part, and the pressure should be> gent e and steady. If merely the tips of two fingers be poked into an inflamed pai it gives pL to the patient, causing him involuntary to wince and con ract the muscles in the neighbourhood, thus obscuring all df mtf fluctuation. In large collections of fluid, as m ascites, one hand_ may be ptoced on one side and the opposite side struck a smart blow with the tip ot the fin er of the other hand when a sharp impulse will be felt distinctly communicated through the fluid. This method of feeling fluctuation is, however, scarcely ever oracticable in the case of an abscess. . Fluctuation may readily be confounded with the undula oiy sensa ion »Siby some tissues from mere inflammatory infiltration into them. Tins, EX is a difference of degree rather than of Mnd = as pus ivotM maheijs appearance in the course of a feiv houis, if the tiimoui i\ . . Even without this, certain parts give very deceptive Mnsation^ ft natural laxity, as is sometimes the case in the areola thio-h in persons of lymphatic temperament. A still more pciieco se growths give a sense of fluctuation ^ even SS experienced. In the cise of an encapsuled tumour the distinc-