889 BED-SORES—TREATMENT. This practice lias been successfully adopted by Garlikc, James of Exeter, and others, and certainly appears to deserve a trial in all cases in which the health is otherwise good and the constitution tolerably sound. It has not as yet been adopted in a sufficient number of cases to warrant a positive opinion on its merits ; but it would appear that, for its success, the amputation should be done high up in the thigh, so that there may be a better chance of meeting with a healthy condition of the vessels and good vitality in the limb ; the operation being performed, on the principle, that this form of gangrene is dependent on local disease obstructing the vessels of the part, and not on constitutional causes. BED-SORES. When a part of the body is compressed too severely, or for too long a time, even in a healthy person, it loses its vitality, and a limited slough results ; this separates, and an ulcer is left, which cicatrizes in the usual way. But in certain deranged states of the health, more especially when the blood is vitiated, and the constitutional powers lowered, as during fever, or when the heart is diseased and weakened, more particularly if the patient be old and debilitated, or if innervation be acutely affected, and he be paralysed, the skin covering those points of the body that are necessarily pressed upon in the recumbent position, such as the sacrum, the trochanters, the elbows, shoulders, and heels, becomes congested and inflamed, assuming a dull reddish-brown colour, and speedily becomes excoriated, often without any pain being felt by the patient. One great cause of bed-sores is undoubtedly bad nursing. It would not be just to say that a bed-sore is always the result of negligent nursing, but it may truly be said that the chance of the formation of bed- sores, and their severity when formed, will be increased or diminished in the exact ratio of the negligence or care of the nurse. It is not so much the actual severity of the pressure that occasions a bed-sore, as moderate long-continued pressure applied to a part congested by position in a patient enfeebled by disease or want. If means be not taken to relieve the part from the injurious compression to which it is subjected, and more especially if it be allowed to become irritated by the contact of frnces or urine, the subcutaneous areolar tissue corresponding to the inflamed patch will be converted, with the skin covering it, into a tough greyish slough, from under which a thin ichorous pus exudes. This slough may extend by a process of undermining of the integuments covering it ; and on its separation extensive mischief will be disclosed, the fascia and muscles being exposed, or the bones even laid bare, and soon becoming roughened and carious. In some cases, even the inferior aperture of the spinal canal may be laid open, and death result from septic meningitis. In other cases, the patient is worn out by discharge and irrita- tion, or perishes from pyaemia or septicaemia. Iiu.atment. Ibis is in a great measure preventive. When a patient is '■cl) to be confined to bed for many weeks, especially by exhausting disease, 8 eps should lie taken by proper arrangement of the pillows, and by the use of a vatci -bed or cushions, to prevent pressure from being injuriously exercised upon an) one part. 11 the patient be unable to move himself his position s ou < ie changed by the nurse at regular intervals. At the same time, cleanli- ness <mc diyness should lie carefully provided for by proper nursing, by the use a c lav-sheet, and furnishing the bedstead with the necessary arrangements