INJURIES OF THE ABDOMEN AND PELVIS. 872 not only occasioned much pain, but led to sloughing and consequent weak 1111 ion. So also the abandonment of the division of the sphincter ani has materially lessened the severity of the operation. Success will, to a great extent, depend on the attention bestowed on the after-treatment, the mode of conducting which has been laid down with much precision hy B. Brown. The principal points to he attended to are the following. Immediately after the operation, a full dose of opium should be given, followed by a grain once or twice a day, so as to arrest all intestinal action. The patient should be laid on her side, and the water must be drawn oft three or four times a day by means of a catheter. It is better not to tie a catheter into the bladder as it is apt to cause cystitis, and a little urine often leaks out beside it, and by dribbling over the raw edges may prevent union. All haemorrhage should be thoroughly arrested before the surfaces are brought together ; but should any oozing occur afterwards it is best controlled by ice in the vagina. The deep sutures should not be so tight as to cause ulceration. They must be carefully looked to, and if they are causing no irritation they may be left for six days or a week. If suppuration be set up along their track they must be at once taken out. The superficial sutures may be left in for eight or ten days if they are of silver wire. The catgut stitches in the rectum and vagina do not require removal, as they ultimately melt away. Before the stitches are removed, I have found it advantageous to keep the part covered with collodion. When the stitches are removed, even if very imperfect union is found to have taken place, all hope of a cure need not be abandoned. The patient should be kept on her side and as quiet as possible, and it often happens that those parts which have not united hy the first intention become soundly healed by granulation. When the sutures are removed a pad of dry lint supported by a T-bandage should be applied. When the recto-vaginal septum has been implicated, the bowels should not be allowed to act for at least ten or twelve days, lest the freshly united surfaces be torn through. They are then best relieved by a large olive oil enema. When the perimeum only has been the seat of laceration, they may be allowed to act earlier. During the whole of the treatment, the patient’s strength must he supported by abundant nourishment; and scrupulous attention should he paid to the cleanliness of the parts, by frequent syringing with an antiseptic lotion, and the application of finely-carded dry wool. Plastic operations of this kind should not he performed unless the patient be in a good state of health, that there may be a good prospect of immediate union. The success of the case will at last depend mainly on the extent of laceration, or rather of loss of substance, in the recto-vaginal septum. If this be uninjured, or merely notched as it were, there will he but little difficulty experienced in effecting a cure. If, on the other hand, this wall be deeply lacerated, or, still worse, if a portion of it have sloughed away, the greatest difficulty may result in effecting union ; and in such untoward circumstances it may happen, that the perinamm unites, but that a fistulous opening is still left in the recto-vaginal wall, requiring a future plastic operation for its closure (vide Chapter LXVII.).