SYMPTOMS OF CONCUSSION. 775 SECONDARY electric irritability of muscles more intense than natural; whilst when the lesion of the cord has advanced to disintegration of its substance they are pro- portionately diminished or lost. But in practice these two conditions of in- flammation and of disorganization are so frequently combined m varying degrees that proportionate modifications of reflex and electric phenomena occur. And it is in determining the value and true significance of these that the diagnostic skill of the physician is shown. Coldness of one of the extremities, dependent upon loss of nervous power and defective nutrition, is often perceptible to the touch, and may be determined by the thermometer ; but in many cases the sensation of coldness is far greater to the patient than it is to the Surgeon’s hand, and not unfrequently no appre- ciable difference in the temperature of two limbs can be determined by the most delicate clinical thermometer, although the patient experiences a very distinct and distressing sense of coldness in one limb. The condition of the limbs as to size, and the state of their muscles, will vary greatly. In some cases of complete paraplegia, which has lasted for years, it has been remarked that no diminution whatever has taken place in the size of the limbs. It is evident, therefore, that loss of size in a limb that is more or less completely paralysed is not the simple consequence of the disuse of the muscles ; or it would always occur. But it must arise from some modification of innervation, influencing the nutrition of the limb, independently of the loss of its muscular activity. In most cases, however, where the paralytic condi- tion has been of some duration, the limb, on accurate measurement, will be found to be somewhat smaller in circumference than its fellow on the opposite side. Most commonly when a limb dwindles the muscles become soft, and the intermuscular spaces more distinct. Occasionally, in advanced cases, some contraction and rigidity in particular muscles set in. Thus the flexors of the little and ring fingers, the extensors of the great toe, the deltoid or the muscles of the calf, may all become more or less rigid and contracted. The body itself generally loses weight; and a loss of weight, when the patient is rendered inactive by a semi-paralysed state, and takes a fair quantity of good food, which he digests sufficiently well, may usually be taken to be indicative of progressive disease in the nervous system. When the progress of the disease has been arrested, though the patient may be permanently paralysed, a considerable increase of size and weight often takes place. This is a phenomenon of common occurrence in ordinary cases of paralysis from disease of the brain. The condition of the yenito-iirimry organs is seldom much deranged in the cases under consideration. Sometimes there is suppression of urine more or less complete for two or three days ; retention very rarely occurs. Sometimes irritability of the bladder is a prominent symptom. The urine generally retains its acidity, sometimes markedly, at others but very slightly. As there is no retention, it does not become alkaline, ammoniacal, or otherwise offensive. The sexual desire and power are usually greatly impaired, and often entirely lost; not invariably so, however. I have never heard priapism complained of. khe contractility of the sphincter ani has not, in any case which I have >bscrved, been so far impaired as to lead to involuntary escape of flatus or of Aces. Ihe heart will often continue to beat in a violent or tumultuous manner for