WOUNDS OF SPECIAL BLOOD-VESSELS. 45s muscles, turning out the coagula, and seeking for and ligaturing both ends of the artery ; for it must be remembered, that the distal extremity of the torn vessel will probably bleed freely, owing to the open anastomoses round the shoulder. Circumscribed Traumatic Aneurisms of the Axillary Artery are not uncommonly of slow formation, existing for several months or years before they require operation, although resulting from punctured wound of the arm- pit. In chronic cases of this kind, the aneurism is necessarily provided with a firm and distinct sac, and approaches closely in its characters to the patho- logical form of the disease. The Treatment here cannot be conducted on the principles that guide us in the management of a wound, or of a diffused aneurism of recent occurrence of this artery ; for not only is the circumscribed aneurism provided with a sac, but the vessel at the point injured will very probably be found to have undergone changes that render it little able to bear the application of the ligature. It will be softened, thickened, and laccrable, with perhaps a wide funnel-shaped aperture leading into the sac, which will be closely incorporated wfith the neighbouring parts. But, indeed, the treatment of this form of circumscribed traumatic aneurism by the ligature of the artery on the proximal side of the sac, has been found to be attended with remarkable suc- cess. In eight recorded cases in wdiichtliis operation has been performed, not shot-wounds, and had existed for various periods, between two weeks and four years. In four of the cases the artery was ligatured above, and in four below the clavicle : and in one case of each category there was suppuration of one fatal result has been noted. In all, the aneurism arose from stabs or gum the sac. , ,, -> TUo •nnrfiV.nlfl.v noint at which the artery should be ligatured must depend This vessel may occasionally be punctured which was formerly of frequent occurrence w j 1 srhen venesection was practised 0)