SPECIAL AMPUTATIONS. 88 CHAPTEE III. SPECIAL AMPUTATIONS. Thebe are, as lias already been stated at pp. 54—04, three distinct metbods of amputating limbs, viz., the flap, the circular, and the oval. The choice oi the method influences the shape, and to a certain degree, perhaps, the utility of the resulting stump. But it in no way affects the safety of the patient, ''hich dependent on far different and far more important conditions than ^ manner in which the Surgeon shapes his incisions for the removal of the diseasedre iinjured limb (p. 49). A skilful Surgeon will be able to produce a satistac i y stump by any one of the three methods, and it is desirable that he shoi < ie able to practise all. For although, as a general ride, one method may be more annlicable than another, yet exceptional cases occur at times m which it < > ^advantageous to depart from the method usually adopted, and employ one of the others. In fact, a Surgeon should be eclectic in Ins method of ampu- tate and select that which is most suitable to the circumstances of the case before’him. The flap-method or the combined flap and circular, is that -whifh most Surgeons give the preference in this country. _ In describe this or any other method of amputating, precise rules may be hid down for its performance through sound structures. But it often happens injury, that the destruction of tissue is so irregular us to compel the Surgeon to depart from definite rules of flan as best he may from the uninjured soft parts. There he must ieij on S, mm iruinment But so efficient is the moulding process of nature, that provided sufficient integumental covering be left on the muscles and bouts, a Ep that at first looks very irregular and perhaps in a short space of time acquire a regular outline and smoothsuite and my be eventually in all respects as useful as one that may horn AlZLZUatfTCHU/'Hiro.-The ringers often require amputation for without amputation, by making an incision through the pulp o he h e with a narrorv-bladed bistoury, and makingtlm flap ™ Lde from the palmar surface by transfixion, and the j^t In amputating the ungual phalanx famjta dodTrCiblv, so that the last -