INJURIES OF NERVES, MUSCLES, AND TENDONS. 474 9° Fahr. below that of the same spot in the opposite hand. Sometimes the part becomes cedematous; the skin often becomes rough, and peels; or in other cases, it is smooth, red, and shining, the nails grow badly, and are brittle or scaly. Chilblains readily form from slight exposure to cold, and they frequently become vesicular or slough, leaving sluggish and unhealthy ulcers. Wounds in such parts heal badly, and are peculiarly prone to be affected by unhealthy spreading inflammations. If the patient be a growing child, the development of the affected part will be more or less completely arrested. The changes in the muscles in these cases are of great importance. From the moment the nerve is divided, all voluntary power is of course lost. Ex- periments have shown that up to the fourth day in mammals, stimulation of the lower end of the divided nerve will cause contraction of the muscles. 1 or about the same time in the human subject it will be found that the muscles respond more readily than natural to the Faradic current, but after this the irritability of the muscles to the current becomes gradually less, while at the same time they waste distinctly. At the end of some weeks, the muscles cease entirely to respond to Faradism. With the continuous current slov 1\ interrupted, the course of events is as follows: first, the muscle responds too readily for a few days, after which the irritability of the muscle gradually diminishes until it disappears entirely. This takes place, however, very slowly, the muscle frequently continuing to respond to the continuous current, slowh interrupted, for many months after the Faradic current has ceased to act. These reactions are most useful guides in diagnosis, prognosis, and treatment. As the muscles become flabby and wasted, deformities of various kinds may ensue, from the disturbance of the proper balance of antagonism between the different sets of muscles of the limb. . , I If union takes place between the opposite ends of the divided nerve, tne various phenomena that have just been described gradually subside, and com- plete restoration, first of sensation and afterwards of motion, with a return to the normal nutrition of the part, eventually takes place. In many cases, how- ever, especially if a piece of the nerve have been removed, or if the wound in which it has been divided heal by the second intention, recovery fails to take place. Sometimes, under these circumstances, the. nerve at the seat of its division becomes implicated in a mass of dense cicatricial tissue, and its central end becomes bulbous, just as in similar conditions in stumps, and it may then become the seat and the source of the most intense sufferings—neuralgic pains darting like electric shocks downwards to the terminal branches an upwards along the trunk of the affected neiw e. Pathology.—If a nerve be completely divided its two ends retract very slightly, not more than a sixteenth of an inch. In cases that have been examined at a later period, the separation has been found to have increase to about a third or half an inch, or even more. Degeneration sets in in tne peripheral end about four days after it has been cut off from its communica- tion with the nerve centres. The medullary sheaths undergo fatty degenera- tion, and more or less completely disappear by about the end of a mon i. the central end degeneration docs not set in for a much longer peno . regeneration of the nerve takes place all observers are agreed ttat the 1ta step is the formation of a bond of union between the two ends of d 1 snindle-cell tissue, which connects the neurilemma of the uppei end of the lower By what process the new nerve-fibres are developed m tins