MECHANISM OF MENINGEAL HEMORRHAGE. 755 inspection a distinct fulness was noticed in the right temporal fossa, and on the parietal eminence of the same side was a bruise. He was trephined in the line of the artery and a large clot found and removed, bub the brain failed to expand, and he died a few hours afterwards. In another case, which occurred shortly afterwards, the patient fell eight or nine feet, and a quarter of an hour afterwards she came to the hospital. She was conscious, and related how the accident happened. There was a wound on the right side of the head, near the parietal eminence. She rapidly became unconscious, and two hours after the fall she was apparently dying. At this time the right eyeball was protruded, and the pupil widely dilated ; the left was dilated, but less so than the right. She was trephined on the right side, and a large clot foimd and removed; the symptoms of compression were relieved, but she died eighteen hours after the accident. In both cases the brain was uninjured. In some of these cases the respiration often becomes greatly embarrassed, and this must always be looked upon as a grave symptom, indicating the necessity for operative treatment. The mechanism of meningeal extravasation has given rise to much discus- sion, and the following remarks of Sir Charles Bell (“ Surgical Observations,” London, 1816) are well worthy of attention. “It is extraordinary that any one who has ever raised the skull-cap in dissection, and felt the strength of the universal adhesions of the dura mater to the lower surface of the bone, could for an instant believe that the arteria meningect media has power of throwing out its blood to the effect of tearing up these adhesions from the entile half of the cranium ! He then describes the following experiment to show that the dura mater is first of all separated from the skull, and that the extravasation is consequent on that separation. “Strike the skull of the subject with a heavy mallet ; on dissecting, you find the dura mater to be shaken fiom the skull at the part struck. Bepeat the experiment on another subject, and inject the head minutely with size-injection, and you will find a dot of the injection lying betwixt the skull and dura mater at the part struck, and having an exact resemblance to the coagulum found after violent blows on the head. I imagine this is conclusive ” (pp. 466—67). It is possible also that the alterations in form of the skull which accompany blows causin'1- fracture (vide p. 718) may tend to loosen the attachment of the dura mater That the meningeal artery does, however, pom- out blood with sufficient force to strip the dura mater further from the bone, when it is once loosened can hardly be doubted, as it is difficult to conceive that that membrane can be shaken from the base of the skull by a blow on the parietal eminence; and yet meningeal extravasation often extends as far as the cavernous sinus. It must not be forgotten that Avhen once a cavity is formed, the blood forced in acts somewhat on the principle of the hydraulic press. Taking the pressure uc^S7t0 befabout two P°uuds t0 fche square inch, when foursquare Z ' l ^ M'e SCparf,ed we have a f0KG of eight pounds pressing 5 ti lb 1 SeparatCd f01\three incheS 111 each Action the pressure mater have only the adhesion of the dura not sun 1 hC 5°°d;preSTe la the caPilIaries of the brain substance. It is such mLed"effects! ^ ^ ^ f01’Ce eXGrted by the escaPing blood produces brffin maf wa8atiT«°f bl°°d dePendenfc on laceration of a portion of the <v ° ama Cerebral Extravasation. It is far more common than 3 c 2