8i6 INJURIES OF THE THROAT. inflammation of the bronchi or lungs is apt to be set up ; in some cases, how- ever, this occurs only after a considerable time has elapsed, or, perhaps, not at all—much depending, of course, on the shape and character of the irritant. If the foreign body completely obstruct one bronchus, the corresponding lung becomes gradually collapsed ; and after a time abscesses form in it, apparently in consequence of the retention of the natural secretion in the smaller bronchi and air vesicles. If it continue to lodge, it generally forms for itself a cavity in the substance of the lung, whence purulent and bloody matters are con- tinually expectorated, until the patient dies of phthisis in the course of a few months, or a year or two. Occasionally, however, the substance has been coughed up after a very long lodgment, the patient recovering. Prognosis.—This depends more upon the nature of the foreign body and its size than on any other circumstances. If it be rough, angular, and hard, there is necessarily much more risk than if it be soluble in, or capable of disintegration by, the mucus of the air-passage. So long as the foreign body is allowed to remain, the patient is in imminent danger, either from immediate and sudden suffocation, or from inflammation at a more remote period. The danger depends greatly upon the length of time during which the body is allowed to lodge. Of 62 cases which I collected in 1850 (4 of which had fallen under my own observation), I found the time that the foreign body was allowed to remain in, and the result of the case, stated in 49 instances. PERIOD OF RETENTION. NUMBER OF CASES. RE- COVERED. DIED. | Less than 24 hours 8 6 2 Between 24 and 48 hours 4 3 1 Between 48 hours and 1 week 13 6 7 Between 1 week and 1 month s 4 4 Between 1 month and 3 months .... 3 3 0 Between 3 months and 1 year 6 4 2 More than 1 year 7 4 3 Total 49 30 19 From this it would appear that, if the patient escaped the danger of the immediate introduction, the greatest risk occurred between tbe second day and the end of the first month, no fewer than 11 patients out of 21 dying during this period ; and then that the mortality diminished until the third month, from which time it increased again. The cause of death varies also according to the period at which the fatal result takes place. During the first twenty-four, and, indeed, forty-eight hours, it happens from sudden asphyxia and convulsions. During the first few weeks it is apt to occur from inflammatory mischief within the chest: and after some months the patient will be carried off by the gradual exhaustion consequent upon the formation of abscesses in the lung. Spontaneous expulsion of the foreign body, usually in a violent fit of cough- ing, occasionally occurs. Gross of Philadelphia finds that there arc 49 cases on record, in which the body was spontaneously expelled, the patient recovering. Of these, in 87 it was expelled during a fit of coughing. Hie period dining which a 'foreign substance may remain in the air-passage before it is spoil-