659 RADIUS AND ULNA. and 44 between 10 and 20. Dislocations of the elbow are most commonly caused by indirect violence, chiefly falls on the hand complicated by a twist of the joint. In other cases they may be the result of direct violence, in conse- quence of which much swelling speedily sets in, their signs are obscured, and the diagnosis is rendered proportionately difficult; more especially when the dislocation happens to be complicated with fracture of the articular ends of the bones. In these cases, indeed, it is only by an accurate acquaint- ance with the normal relations of the osseous points, and by a comparison between those of opposite sides, that the Surgeon can detect the true nature of the injury. The Varieties of dislocation of the elbow-joint are very numerous, either both bones of the fore-arm or only one being displaced. 1. Both Bones.—The most common dislocation is that in which both bones are thrown Bade wards, without fracture of the coronoid process. In rare cases, however, this process may be broken off. This injury is readily recog- nized by the projection backwards of the olecranon, carrying with it the tendon of the triceps. Tire articular end of the humerus also can be felt projecting in front of the elbow. When the coronoid process is not broken off, it is fixed against the posterior surface of the humerus, the fore-arm being immovably placed in its new' position. In the rare cases in which this process is fractured, there is great mobility about the joint, and crepitation may be felt as the arm is drawn forwards. Dislocation of both bones Forwards can scarcely occur without fracture of the olecranon. Eare as this accident must be, there are at least five cases on record by Colston, Lana, Delpech, Canton, Forbes of Philadelphia, and Date, in which the bones have been so displaced without this process being broken. In this injury the elongation of the forearm, the projection of the condyles of the humerus, the presence of the sigmoid notch in front of the arm, and the depression of the posterior surface of this bone, render the diagnosis sufficiently easy. In one case at University College Hospital, the injury was produced by the patient, a man 20 years of age, slipping on the pavement and falling on his elbow. In this instance the elbow was much bent; it could be brought to a right angle, and straightened considerably. The fore-arm was three quarters of an inch longer than its fellow. The condyles of the humerus were on a level with the olecranon; the tendon of the triceps was very tight, and the sigmoid notch could be plainly felt on the fore part of the arm. The head of the radius could also be felt in front of the humerus. In the case recorded in the Lancet, 1872, by Date of Crewkerne, the dislocation was forwards and outwards, so that the head of the radius lay outside the external condyle. At the same time the epiphysis at the inner condyle was separated. When the olecranon is broken off, there is elongation of the fore-arm and great mobility, but the detached fragment can be felt behind the humerus. The Lateral dislocation of the bones of the forearm is almost invariably in- complete ; either the head of the radius hitching against the internal condyle, diRinf- a/°mmg lnt° confcact wifch fche external one. Complete lateral wiffrTi'0'] 0 ^1C ■,ones the forearm is excessively rare : the only instance wl • , Cr 1 am acquainted is a luxation outwards, reported by Nekton, of winch he has given a woodcut. •iro T !'ndiuB alouc ma-v 'JC displaced ; and in some cases, both bones are dislocated, but m opposite directions.