INJURIES OF THE HEAD. 744 round the injured spot. In favourable cases this frequently subsides, and the patient recovers; but in others it goes on to serious inflammatory oedema of the brain-substance, the convulsions increase in intensity and are repeated ■ more frequently, the return to the normal state between the fits becomes less and less perfect, and finally coma sets in and death occurs. If the laceration be situated near, but not in the motor area, there may be no paralysis till after the convulsions, and the paralysis may then gradually extend after each convulsion, indicating the gradual spread of the inflammation into the region of the motor centres. In other cases again, the superficial motor centre may be affected at a much later period by the formation of an abscess in the substance of the brain. It is in these cases, perhaps, that the study of the localization of the functions of the cerebral hemispheres is of the greatest importance, enabling the Surgeon to determine the exact seat of the secondary lesion. In the primary lesion, the external injury of the scalp or skull will often suffice to lead the Surgeon to a correct estimate as to the seat of the injury to the brain; but in secondary or consecutive disease, such guides may be entirely wanting. The following is a short summary of the combined results ot experimental, clinical, and pathological observations as applied to the human brain. 1. Aphasia is dependent on a lesion of the posterior extremity of the third or inferior frontal convolution of the left side—Broca’s convolution (Fig. «j-1» between F3' and R"). . 2. Facial Paralysis depends on a lesion of the lower third of the ascend- ing frontal convolution (F4), and the contiguous part of the posterior end o the second frontal. The anterior part of this area is chiefly concerned in the movements of the upper part of the face. The posterior part, which extends to the lower third of the ascending parietal convolution, controls the nun e- ments of the lip and mouth. The fact that these centres are close to Broca s convolution, explains the frequent combination of facial palsy and aphasia.