FRACTURE OF THE SPINE. 79r The Local Signs are usually pain at the seat of injury, greatly incieased by pressure on, or motion of the part; inequality of the line of the spinors processes, with depression of the upper portion of the spine, and c0™sp°nd „ prominence of the lower. There is an inability to support the body m the erect position, and to move the spine in any way; hence, when the upper portion of the column is injured, the patient holds his head in a stiff and constrained attitude, fearing to turn it to either side. The General Symptoms of fracture of the spine are dependent upon the injury which the cord has received. If the fracture have not implicated the spinal canal, as when only the tip of a spinous process has been broken off, or if it be unattended by displacement, although it may traverse the body and arches, no symptoms depending upon injury of the cord need exist. But even in these cases there is usually some paralysis, owing perhaps to the concussion to which the cord has been subjected at the moment _ of injury; and occasionally a sudden movement by the patient will bring on displacement, by which the cord is compressed and all the parts below the injured spot are paralysed. A woman was admitted into University College Hospital with an injury of the neck, the nature of which could not be accurately ascertained. She was in no way paralysed, but kept her head immovable in one position. A few days after admission, whilst making a movement in bed, by which she turned her head, she fell back dead. On examination, it was found that the spinous process of the fifth cervical vertebra had been broken off short, and was impacted in such a way between the arches of this and the fourth as to compress the cord. This impaction and consequent compression probably occurred at the time of the incautious movement, thus producing immediate death. When there is only partial dis- placement, there may be but incomplete paralysis of the parts below the injury ; of one arm, one leg, &c. In these cases there is usually great pain at the seat of fracture, and extending from it along the line of junction between the paralysed and sound parts round the body or along the limb. This symp- tom, which is of great importance as exactly defining the seat of injury, is due, as I found* in dissecting a case of fracture of the sixth cervical vertebra under my care, to the fractured bone compressing and irritating the nerve that issues from the vertebral notch opposite the seat of injury. When the cord is implicated, the symptoms will vary according to the seat of the injury and the extent of the damage. For a detailed account of the symp- toms presented by injuries of the different portions of the cord, the reader is referred to the section on “ Wounds of the Spinal Cord” (p. 786). If fracture of the spine be occasioned by indirect violence, as by the head being forcibly bent down on to the chest as the patient is driving under an archway, and a fracture be thus occasioned through the lower cervical or upper dorsal portion of the column, wc shall find that the cord being lacerated, and compressed transversely in one part only, the ordinary symptoms of a division of the cord at that part will be presented, the patient being paralysed below the seat of injury ; but the paralysed parts manifest signs of reflex irritability, the legs being drawn up when the soles arc tickled. When the fracture is by direct violence, as by a heavy fall on the back from a height, the cord will be concussed as well as paralysed, and then no reflex phenomena are presented by the patient. In a large proportion of cases of fracture of the spine, there is such displace-