MORTIFICATION, OR GANGRENE. §74 exposed. The colour gradually darkens to a dull purplish greenish black, mottled in patches with reddish-brown spots; and after a time there is an odour of putrescence evolved, very commonly with .an emphysematous crack- ling from evolution of gas in the tissues of the part. This shows that putrefactive changes have taken place in the solids and fluids of the tissues. The dry variety of gangrene occurs as a consccjuence of some obstruction to the supply of blood to the part, so that at the time it sets in the tissues contain less blood than natural. In it the colour is often at first of a pale tallowy- white, with a mottled appearance in parts. The skin soon shrivels, becomes dry, horny, and semi-transparent, and eventually assumes a brown wrinkled appearance ; in other cases the gangrenous part is brown, dry, and shrivelled from the very first. These characteristic signs of gangrene, although they may in some cases follow very rapidly on the loss of vitality, are in fact consecutive to it, and indicate more than the simple death of the part; they are proofs of putre- scence having set in, as well as of death having occurred. Constitutional Symptoms.—These vary greatly. When the disease is strictly local, affecting a part of but limited extent, and perhaps of no great importance to the economy, they are not very strongly marked. If, however, the gangrene, although limited, implicate important organs, as a knuckle of intestine for example, marked symptoms declare themselves. Whatever the cause of the condition may be, the full invasion of the gangrene, if it affect any considerable extent of tissue or any important organ is always attended by great depression of the system. In such cases the coun- tenance is dull and anxious and the pulse feeble, quick, and easily compressible; the tongue is brown, and the lips and teeth loaded with sordes. In moist gangrene the constitutional disturbance is aggravated in some cases by absorption of the products of the unhealthy inflammation from which the death of the part has resulted, and in others of the products of putrefaction from the decomposing slough. Death may in fact occur from this cause with all the symptoms of septic poisoning. In dry gangrene these symptoms are usually much less marked. When gangrene affects an internal organ the depression is always very great, and the special symptoms will vary with the part affected. Causes.—The causes of gangrene are predisposing and immediate. Any- thing that tends to lower the vitality of the tissues must necessarily bring them into a state in which a comparatively slight injury may cause their death. These conditions have already been fully discussed in the chapter on inflam- mation (p. 159). The predisposing causes of inflammation, when acting more powerfully, predispose to gangrene. Immediate Causes of Gangrene.—These may be divided thus : I. Causes acting primarily by arrest of the Circulation, these ma_' again be divided into :— (a.) Arrest of the Supply of Arterial Blood to a part.—1 his is a common cause of gangrene. It may be produced by accident, or by ligature or other surgical operation, or by thrombosis or embolism of the arteries. (/).) Obstruction of the Circulation through a part.—This is seldom a pri- mary cause of gangrene, and as such arises only from pressure either from within as from the growth of a tumour, or from without, as in the formation of bed-sores or sloughs beneath splints. Obstruction to the capillary circu-