SPECIAL FRA CTURES. 572 shaft, the elbow and whole of the fore-arm he not well supported in a sling or trough, their weight may drag down the lower fragment, cause elonga- ■ tion of 'the limb, and thus lead to separation between and disunion of the fragments. The Period of Union in Fractures of the Humerus is about five weeks. According to the statistics of Leisrink, consolidation should be com- plete by the thirty-third day, and the patient should have regained the use of his arm at the end of the seventh week. 3. Fractures in the Vicinity of the Elbow-joint may occur through any of the osseous prominences in this situation. They are very commonly complicated with dislocation, with severe contusion and injury of the joint, or perhaps with comminution of the bones, and considerable laceration of the soft parts covering them. In most cases swelling speedily comes on, tending to obscure materially the nature of the injury. They may be classified as—Sepa- ' ration of the Lower Epiphysis of the Humerus ; Transverse Fracture of the Lower End of the Bone ; Fracture of either Condyle ; and to these may be added Fracture of the Olecranon. . . In examining a supposed fracture about the elbow-jomt, the burgeontl should stand in front of the patient, who must have both elbows exposed,! and should carefully compare the injured with the sound side. lo do this he should flex the patient’s elbows to a right angle and let the upper part of each fore-arm lie on the palm of his hand, while he places his thumb upon the outer condyle, his index-finger on the olecranon, and his middle finger on the inner condyle. He thus readily judges whether these three points of bone are in their normal relation to each other. He should, then pass the thumb or finger of each hand simultaneously over the bony points on 'the two sides and carefully contrast them. An assistant may, if necessary, pronate and supinate the hands. , „ .„ Separation of the Lower Epiphysis of the Humerus before its ossifi- cation with the shaft is complete, is a frequent accident m children ; the^ frag- ment being carried backwards, with the bones of the fore-arm connected with it, so as to cause considerable displacement posteriorly. In this accident the trochlea, the capitellum, and the condyles, are broken oft from the shaft, wbcb remains in situ. It is the detached articular end of the bone that yearned backwards with the fore-arm by the action of the triceps muscle. The detac fragment may readily be replaced ; but as soon as it is left to itself, it again slips out of its position. As this happens without bony crepitus, owing to the fracture being between cartilaginous surfaces, although there maybe apecu soft crackling, the injury is apt to be mistaken for dislocation of the foic-am l)ilTransverse Fracture of the Lower End of the Humerus, just above the condyles, occurs occasionally in adults. The ^placement $ the fore-arm and lower fragment, the pain, and crepitus, indica th Fracture of either Condyle of the Humerus may arise from blow > and falls on the elbow. There is considerable pain about the seat of usually not much displacement; unless, as m Fig. -04, there shaped SSe of both condyles, constituting what may be termed the T-shaped fracture of the° lower epiphysis of the humerus. be felt by rotating the radius, if it be the external condyle that is inj