197 MODES OF APPLYING COLD. superficial, and not very severe, lint dipped in cold water, frequently renewed, may be applied ; or, if the skin be unbroken, an evaporating lotion may be used. Should a limb or joint be severely injured, cold irrigation will be a preferable mode of reducing its temperature. This may most conveniently be done by suspending over the part a large wide-mouthed bottle full of water, in which a few pieces of ice may, if necessary, be put ; one end of a skein of cotton, well wetted, is then allowed to haug in the water, whilst the other end is brought over the side of the bottle. This, acting as a syphon, causes a continual dropping upon the part to which the cold is to be applied (Fig. 85). But the direct application of pounded ice in a bladder or thin rubber bag is the most effectual means of applying cold, when it is intended that its effects should penetrate deeply, as in an injured joint, spine, or head. Fig. S5—Irrigating Apparatus. Another very efficient mode of applying cold is to surround the part with a cod of India-rubber tubing through which a stream of iced water is allowed a reSfVOil' placed above the becL This method was th" bj,0 lS as a ™de of ‘^Plying cold to the genital organs, and for weXf 1S7erJ effiCienL When aPpliecl t0 the head or a limb, the coil Pf l* aPfc t0 comPress the tube and arrest the flow. To over- me^l whin ffi°U 16 apparatus known as “ Leiter’s tubes,” made of soft introduced0^ T ° a™fc^ aPPlied fco au7 Part of the body, has been lately powe of the iT® ^ ^ Water mUSt n0fc be iced> as fche greater conducting P Tho , r b 1?ndera thls nofc onl7 unnecessary but dangerous. and tend^JeaB?^ aTld L°tion acts as a Powerful local sedative, ana tends gieatly to restrain local inflammation 1- the iS an essential elemeut in the preventive treat* SedioSSr/6? as fc0 movemeilfc or use is imperative; an from light 1 011 a SpHntj an N®4 e7° should be protected moderate an^weii11^ ^ °°.nsidtutional disturbance must be prevented by a of the bowels n' i ^ 10SCU rb^ rePosc °f body, by regulation of the action patient. ’ H 7 careful attention to the hygienic surroundings of the must noUflot'hfmsclf toTe^T Tre,atment of inflammation, the Surgeon 0 be led away by the name of the affection with which