320 INJURIES OF SOFT PARTS. The separation of the sloughs must be facilitated by the application of warmth and moisture, which serves also to subdue local inflammation. Boracic-acid- lint, moistened with hot boracic lotion and covered with oiled silk and cotton- wool, is the best of all applications. It is a most efficient antiseptic, easily applied, and perfectly clean. If the wound becomes very foul, the surface • may be sprinkled with iodoform in crystals. Carded oakum, moistened in hot water and covered with oiled silk, answers the purpose tolerably well; it is cheap and antiseptic, but dirties the skin. Linseed meal poultices should always be avoided ; they encourage putrefaction and greatly increase the sup- puration, the evil they do in this way more than counterbalancing the comfort j the patient experiences from their application. About the period at which the slough begins to be loosened, there is danger of the occurrence of haemorrhage, if a large artery have been implicated in the injury. When haemorrhage occurs in this way, it usually sets in from the sixth to the twelfth day, and may be speedily fatal; its treatment will be the same as that to be hereafter described for secondary haemorrhage after ligature of an artery in its continuity. After the ' sloughs have separated, an ulcer is left, which must be treated on general principles. Amputation.—In the more severe cases of contused or lacerated wounds, t any attempt at saving the part may be hopeless ; then the patient’s only chance lies in amputation. In determining the expediency of operation, two questions present themselves: 1, the nature of the cases iu which amputation should be performed; and, 2, the time at which it should be done, whether immediately after the infliction of the injury, or subsequently. It is difficult to lay down more than very general rules as to the hind of cases that require amputation; much depending on the age, constitution, and previous habits of the patient. In all cases the Surgeon should be careful not to condemn a limb that admits of a fair chance of being saved. As a general rule, severe injuries are more readily recovered from in the young than in the old, their vitality and elasticity of constitution being greater, and their tendency to consecutive diseases less. Much will depend upon the habits of the patient, or upon the existence of visceral disease at the time of the injury. In persons who have been free livers, and who have that peculiar irritability of system conjoined with deficient power commonly observed in such subjects, and more especially if there be already existing disease of the liver or kidneys, contused and lacerated wounds are apt to be followed by the worst forms of erysipelas and traumatic gangrene, and thus to be speeddy fatal. Injuries of the upper extremity are less serious than those of the lower ; its supply of blood being proportionately greater. In some badly contused wounds, also, of the arm and hand, as in bad lacerations with fracture about the shoulder, elbow, or metacarpus, resection of the injured part may lie per- formed instead of amputation of the limb. j ' Though there must be in many cases a doubt as to the necessity or amputation, there are certain conditions in which the Surgeon need never hesitate to perform this operation, as the only chance of saving the patients life The following are the cases of severe contusion and laceration in winch the'limb should be amputated; either noth the view of preventing the occur- rence of o-angrene, or in order to remove a mortified part from the body, ana thus to save the life of the patient at the expense of the injured limb. 1. If a limb have been torn off by machinery, carried away by a cannon-bai,