I?2 LOCAL DISTURBANCES AND INFLAMMATION. congulable fluid and migration of white corpuscles. _ The exudation coagulates on the injured surface and in the spaces of the injured tissue, the fibrin and the white corpuscles remain forming what is known as “ inflammatory lymph and the serum partly drains away and partly returns by the lymphatics to the circulation. This inflammatory lymph, or plastic exudation as it is bcttei called is the material of adhesion in adhesive inflammation, and if two surfaces covered by it are brought in contact, they adhere to each other. X e knife can of course act only while cutting the tissues ; the moment the cut is made the cause ceases, the effect only being left behind. If no new cause o irritation comes into play (such as the friction of the surfaces on each other, or the presence of foreign bodies, or chemical irritants as putrid mattei, per- sistently-acting, powerful antiseptics, &c.) the effect gradually subsides le injured tissues recover their vitality, exudation ceases, the coagulated inflam- matory lymph remaining glueing the surfaces to each other, and adhesne inflammation is said to have taken place. Should some persistent source of irritation, such as those above-mentioned be brought into play in^ ^ ™ ’ the exudation does not cease so long as the cause of irritation is acting con .equently such “inflammatory lymph” as may have been formed by the Sn of the exudation, becomes sodden and softened by the continuous flow from the vessels, and infiltrated by innumerable migrating c0^^till it breaks up and flows away as pus, and “ suppurative inflammation is said to have been developed. At the same time that this is.taking place, the tissues which form the surfaces of the wound, being unable in consequence o the presence of the irritant to return to their normal state of vitality, become infiltrated by innumerable wandering cells which fill all the spaces and pi ess upon the original tissues, finally absorbing them and occupying their place thus the surface of the wound becomes converted into a layer of closely pac leucocytes the superficial cells of which are continually degenerating, becomm0 loosene^anc^ floating away in the discharge as pus-cells their place being taken bv new cells forming below. If the development of this new tissue s equal to the disintegration and destruction on its surface pus continues to flow awav but no further destruction of the original tissues takes place j if it IZZ l tZotion, vessels develope in the new tissue and it sp« as sSSSS SSL “ absorbed, and its place occupied by the ctwMleuco- in their turn break down :%TprSs °c^e"aX, greseive destruction of inflammation ” is said to be m more severe, the inigtath,S « perish before they hare formed a distinct ust described, in which the original tissues ‘Lay themselves which then break down and melt. away a pus, tl c t^ undergo direct disintegration and the P »d^ ° J contain shreds of of the discharge, which under these “T"® in other words “ST SSXXZ 5 -i -...