REMOVAL OF DEFORMITIES FROM SCARS. 3Sl be not too old—not more than a year ; after that time, it will seldom yield without division. Corrosive liquids, such as strong sulphuric acid, when applied to the surface, produce effects very similar to those that result from the more severe degrees of burn ; leaving cicatrices contracted, irregular, and often, as in Fig. 129, rugged and warty. Operations for the Removal of the Effects of Contraction consequent upon burns are occasionally required ; and, if judiciously planned and executed, may do much to improve the patient’s condition. The operations that are practised with this view are of two kinds : 1. Simple division of the Faulty and Contracted Cicatrix ; 2. The Transplantation of a flap of adjacent healthy Skin into the gap left after the division of the cicatrix. 1. In the first operation, that of simply Bivicling the Cicatrix, three points require special attention : 1st, that the division extend completely through the cicatrix from side to side into the adjacent healthy skin ; 2nd, that the incision be carried through the whole depth and thickness of the cicatrix into the healthy adipose tissue beneath it, which may always be re- cognized by its yellow colour ; 3rd, that all contracted bands lying in this layer be fairly divided. The great obstacle to the success of this operation, however, consists in the fact that the new granulations, which spring up after the division of the contracted cicatrix, in their turn contract whilst healing. After the division of the cicatrix, also, it may be found that the subjacent structures have been so rigidly fixed in their abnormal position as not to admit of extension. It may then be necessary to employ screw-apparatus, or even to divide fasciae and tendons, before the part can be restored to its normal shape. Care must, however, be taken in doing this, that subjacent structures of importance, such as large blood-vessels, or nerves, be not so closely con- nected with the cicatrix as to render wound or division of them unavoidable. In the neck, cicatricial bands will often come into very dangerous proximity to the external jugular vein, which becomes greatly distended by the piessuie thus exercised upon it. And at the elbow, which is a common seat of contraction from burns, the brachial artery may become involved in the cicatiix to a dangerous extent. I have heard of one case in which this vessel was divided in cutting through the cicatrix, when amputation of the arm was immediately resorted to. These operations are most successful in cases of contraction at the flexures of the joints If the contraction be of very long standing, the arteries and nenes will have become shortened, and incapable of stretching under any force that may be safely employed ; hence they may easily be torn. Peiatl0'ls tliat are undertaken for the removal of the disfigurements that occur about the face and neck as the result of burns, require much manage- ment. In these cases, simple division of the cicatrix is insufficient; and cion^P ^10n of aFlap of Skin is required in addition. After the the mlp«a^ .i' .-CICa 11Cna i]avc i)Gen freely divided in accordance with mri of in "S ^IVei1’ a frlP ()f integument, of sufficient size to fill the greater chest nr n '^'Ti musk ,c dissected up from the neighbouring parts of the neck, or three nnh'i^r’ !UK ]'U*J° ^1C Beatrix. There it should be fixed by two nut unon 0 suture ; but extreme care must be taken that no traction be maioritv nf'iifo ' K °Uf1- 111011 taiccs place by the second intention in the 8 ances; but a very satisfactory result is left, as is shown by the