VARIETIES OF SUTURE. employed in all cases involving’ tlie integument, is the interrupted, which consists of the introduction of as many single stitches as may be necessary to close the opening. The distance between the stitches must bo determined by the amount of tension, and by the necessities of drainage. If there is even moderate tension, it is,better to insert a few sutures, of a thicker material, or “sutures of support,” extending deeply iuto the subcutaneous tissue, the needle being made to pierce the skin an inch or more from the edge of the wound. These sutures arc first tightened to such an extent as just to approximate the lips of the wound, which may afterwards be brought more accurately into contact by finer stitches or “ sutures of apposition.” If ample provision is made for drainage by the use of tubes the edges of the wound may be brought very closely in contact, otherwise in large wounds there should not be less than one inch between the stitches. When, as in some plastic operations, one edge of the wound is at a higher level than the other, if it is desired to depress the higher edge, the stitch must be so passed that it shall include a larger piece of the lower ; if to raise the lower edge, the chief hold must be on the higher. In longitudinal wounds, the first stitch should be inserted in the centre ; but if there be any angles, as must be the case after crucial incisions, the extremities should be first closed. The fastening is effected in the case of the silk thread by tying the reef-knot, and in that of the wire, by tying a half knot and then crossing the two ends over each other, by which two small hooks are made which hold very firmly; in both instances, the ends are cut off short. The knot or twist must not lie over the line of incision, but on one or other side of it. The time that the sutures should be allowed to remain, must depend greatly on the nature and progress of the wound. A septic silk stitch must be removed in from two to three days ; an aseptic silk or a silver suture may be left in as long as it serves any useful purpose, provided it is causing no irritation. A tight stitch necessarily causes irritation; in from twenty-four to forty-eight hours it will be surrounded by a blush of redness extending an inch or more from the edge of the wound, and. by the third day it will have commenced to cut its way out by ulceration. When this occurs, no good purpose can be served in most cases by retaining it, and it should be at once removed. All deep stitches should as a rule be removed not later than the third day. In withdrawing sutures, the knot or twist should be raised by forceps, and the thread divided on one side of it; gentle traction on the knot, the forefinger of the other hand being placed close near the point of exit in the skin, to prevent disturbance of the newly formed granulation-tissue, will then suffice to draw the suture out. When wire has been used, the bends in it should be straightened as much as possible before pulling them out. The Button-Suture is a very useful form of deep stitch in cases in which there is considerable gaping of the wound. It consists of a thick piece of silver wire penetrating deeply through the subcutaneous tissue and passing- through the skin from one inch and a half to two inches on each side of the wound. Each end of the silver wire is passed through an oval piece of sheet lead about one mch in its long diameter, and perforated with a hole in its ceirre , on the button are projecting wings round which the wire can be twisted after it has been brought through the hole. The two buttons are avu ogether and maintained in position by wire twisted round them, in sue a way as to bring the edges in sufficient apposition to allow of the finer