110S VENEREAL DISEASES. forming slowly with a dusky-recl or coppery areola are met with in cachectic subjects, forming the eruption known as syphilitic ecthyma. The pustules dry, leaving a dark flat scab, which after a time falls off, leaving an ulcer which heals slowly. Ecthyma is most common on the limbs. In the late secondary or in the tertiary stage in debilitated subjects, the affection known as rupia is not uncommon. It seldom occurs before the end of the first year, and may be met with as long as the syphilitic taint persists. Rupia commences as a bleb which rapidly becomes converted into a large pustule, surrounded by a wide brown, or coppery areola. It soon dries into a circular dark brown, or even black scab. Beneath this ulceration takes place, and the crust increases in thickness from the drying of the discharge, while at the same time it extends at its circumference ; it thus comes to assume a conical form, and somewhat resembles a limpet-shell in appearance. After its separation a troublesome ulcer of a circular shape, often with a somewhat foul surface, is left, which may continue to spread slowly. This disease may appear on the face, but is especially common on the extremities. It is always in- dicative of grave constitutional debility. Syphilitic Tubercles commonly occur as an advanced or tertiary symptom ; they are in fact gummata of the cutis vera. They appear as hard, smooth, flat elevations of a reddish-brown or purplish colour, usually arranged in groups of single tubercles lying closely together. They are seated on the face or extremities, the skin covering the patella and the ala of the nose being common situations. They may be resolved by proper treatment, but have a great tendency to ulcerate and to be followed by foul slowly spreading ser- piginous sores. The ulcerating syphilitic tubercle forms the affection known as syphilitic lupus. Subcutaneous syphilitic gummata, or, as they have been called, deep syphilitic tubercles, arise in the tertiary stage of syphilis as hard indolent masses in the subcutaneous tissue, usually accompanied by some slight aching pain or tenderness. They may vary in size from a pea to a walnut. They are of slow growth, but ultimately become adherent to the skin, which then assumes a dusky purple tint. If unrelieved by treatment the gumma softens and the skin gives way over it, exposing the characteristic adherent slough resembling wet wasldeather. This slowly separates, leaving a deep cavity. Subcutaneous gummata may occur at any part of the body; common situations are the back of the thigh and the upper part of the arm. Syphilitic Boils of an indolent character, but painful, and discharging a thin ichorous pus, with a core of shreddy areolar tissue, and leaving deep, irregular, and foul ulcers, are not uncommonly met with. Syphilitic Ulcers are superficial and deep. The superficial ulcere arise from pustules, ecthyma, rupia, superficial tubercles, or boils. In other cases, espe- cially on the leg, they arise like simple ulcers from some slight injury, hut assume peculiar features in consequence of the syphilitic taint. Syphilitic ulcers axe usually characterized by their multiplicity, by their appearing in parts not exposed to injury, as on the back or upper part of the leg, by their tendency to spread at one edge while healing at the other, and thus to assume a crescentic or serpiginous form, and by their unhealthy grey surface. They leave bluish or brownish cicatrices, often thin and smooth, and apt to break open again on any slight irritation. .. The Hair during the first year of syphilis often becomes lustreless and dull,