CHARACTERISTICS OF MALIGNANCY. 961 genitors have never evinced any tendency to similar affections, is invariably at first small, and is usually defined, with a distinct outline. 2. There is a constant tendency to extension of the disease by local infil- tration and absorption of neighbouring structures ; not only by their mere absorption by the pressure of an increasing growth, but by their actual incorporation into its substance followed by their destruction, and the development of the morbid mass in their place. 3. This process continues uninterruptedly; in many cases slowly, as in scirrhus of the breast; in others, in special forms of disease and in certain situations, as in encephaloid of the testis, very rapidly. 4. The rapidity of the growth of the tumour, and of the absorption and in- filtration of the neighbouring structures, is usually in the measure of and in proportion to the malignancy of the affection. 5. There is no limit to the size of the growth ; but when it reaches a certain point of development, its central parts undergo fatty degeneration, and in some cases a sort of cicatricial contraction. When it reaches the surface, it speedily sloughs or ulcerates towards its centre, giving rise to profuse discharge usually offensive in character, and not unfrequently to abundant haemorrhage. Even during this stage, its circumference continues to grow and to invade the surrounding parts. Thus a progressive destruction of the surrounding tissues takes place. This tendency to destroy the part in which the original growth ; is developed is spoken of as the local malignancy of the tumour. 6. At a certain period—early in some cases, and not until many months have elapsed iu others—secondary growths make their appearance in different n parts of the body. These are due to the cells of the tumour finding their ■ way either into the lymphatics or the blood-vessels, and lodging in distant ; parts. In some malignant tumours, as in the true cancers, the lymphatic i glands which receive the lymph-stream from the tumour are always affected ■; first; in others, as in most sarcomas, the lymphatic glands escape, the earliest v. secondary growths appearing in the lungs or liver. In the true cancers the internal organs are affected after the glands. The secondary growths are of n essentially the same structure as the primary tumour, though differing occa- sionally in minor details. They serve as new foci for the dissemination of the -i disease, and usually assume a more active character than the primary affection to which they owe their origin. This general affection of the system is spoken ! of as the general malignancy of the tumour. Some forms of tumour show yery 1 great local and but slight general malignancy, others great general malignancy but slight local. The cancers usually show intense general and local ; malignancy. 7. After the development of the secondary growths the patient exhibits evidences of serious modifications in nutrition and sanguification. The body wastes, the skin becomes sallow, the digestive powers become impaired, and ■ anaemia supervenes. 4. They cause death iu one of the following ways :—from the exhausting effects of the discharges, and haemorrhages from the local and primary ^ c 18ease , from special visceral disturbances induced by the secondary growths; or from malnutrition and consequent cachexy. Eiom the .above it will be seen that although the cancers form by far the greater proportion of malignant tumours, malignant and “ cancerous ” arc not symmymous terms. Every malignant tumour is not a cancer, though every 3 Q