6l2 SPEC IA L FRA C TUBES. to lit calico baud, c. The free end ol this baud is carried through the slit, and the straps of plaster are open on the upper part of the splint. A piece of , wood, E, is attached to the lower part ol the splint, and another piece of corresponding size is attached to a loop at the end of the calico band, so. that, when drawn down and the splint adjusted, these three pieces may be five or six inches apart. The foot and leg having been previously bandaged as far as the lower edge of the patella, and the splint padded so as to leave the slit uncovered, the strapping is heated by means of a bottle of hot-water (which is more con- venient than a strapping-tin), and while an assistant draws down the upper fragment by grasping the muscles of the thigh, the straps of plaster are earned firmly round'the limb from above downwards, extending from just below the o-luteal fold to within three inches of the upper border of tne patella. It beino- important that the band of calico should be kept in the middle line behind, the upper part of the thigh is then secured to the splint by a few turns of a roller. Lastly, as many elastic rings (those known as office-bands answer the purpose very well) as will serve to approximate the fragments with- out causing too much pain to the patient, are passed over the projecting end of the pieces of wood, as at p. Fig. 251, on each side of the splint, so as to exercise sufficient traction on the muscles pulling on the upper fragment H. 0. Thomas has recently published a paper on fractured pate a, m he maintains that the chief points to be attended to arc, first, to veep UP treatment for a sufficient length of time , secondly, to avoid mterferenee w.th the circulation around the patella; thirdly, that no strain in the dnee u flexion be allowed during treatment; and, lastly, “ that the temporary an ] produced by the treatment should be allowed to pass array spontaneously. The method of treatment he recommends (Fig. !») » the following. A Thomas