954 SEPT IC JEMTA AND PYAEMIA. circumstances the distal end of the thrombus becomes exposed to septic matter, as in a foul wound, the clot decomposes and disintegrates. The presence of the decomposing clot causes inflammation of the vein, and an extension of the thrombus ; the new clot in its turn decomposes, and thus the process - extends up the vein almost indefinitely. In whichever way the spreading thrombosis takes place, it may continue to extend till it reaches a point at which the affected vessel joins another large trunk, when the softened frag- ments may be washed on into the circulation, and cause the effects already described wherever they lodge. In some rare cases the cavity of a foul abscess may open directly into a large vein by ulceration of the wall. In those cases in which decomposing discharges are pent up in a deep Pi"'. 359. —Micrococci, plugging a small brandling arteriole in the muscular fibre of the heart. The tissues round are infiltrated with inflammatory exudation, (lvodi.) wound, the conditions are essentially analogous to those which exist when putrid fluids arc injected beneath the skin, as in Ivoch’s experiments. The explanation of the pathology of pyaemia may therefore be fairly sought in the experimental investigations which have already becn;described. The part played by the microscopic fungi is still open to dispute, but the opinion is steadily gaining ground that they take some essential part in the causation of the disease. That in all cases a true infective process is developed in which a specific poison enters the blood and multiplies in it is not proved. In some cases, in which the secondary abscesses are limited to the lungs, it is possible to explain all the phenomena by supposing that the fragments of a putrid clot enter the blood-stream, and lodging in the lung, cause a number o embolic abscesses which may prove fatal without any general infection of the Varieties of Pyaemia.—In the preceding pages a description has been oiyen of the general symptoms and post-mortem appearances of pyaunia. © disease, however, does not always run the same course, and a few dehm varieties may be mentioned.