1034 TUMOURS. sigmoid flexure and one in the antrum. Of the fifty cases of cancer of the stomach and fifteen of the intestine admitted into the medical wards, it is probable that many, if not most, were columnar epitheliomata, but the report contains no information on this point. It is met with also in the uterus and gall-bladder. Appearance and Progress.—A columnar epithelioma bears the same relation to the papilloma of the intestine that the squamous epithelioma does to the common wart on the skin. Just as many squamous epitheliomata commence as warty growths, so a columnar epithelioma may begin as a papillary growth from the mucous membrane. A simple papilloma as it in- creases in size keeps its superficial character, aud becomes in most cases pedunculated and shows little tendency to ulcerate. A columnar epithelioma spreads widely with a somewhat firm fleshy base. Its surface remainspapillary at the circumference, but soon ulcerates in the central parts, becoming rugged and irregular, and bleeding readily and abundantly. The growth extends through the whole thickness of the gut, and may implicate neighbouring viscera. Such growths come under the observation of the Surgeon chiefly in the rectum, and occasionally he is called upon to perform colotoiny for similai tumours of the colou. All the tumours of the pylorus that have been remo\ ed have been of this nature. Columnar epithelioma shows a much lowei degree of malignancy than squamous epithelioma. It grows as a rule slowh, and Fig. 40G.—Cohnmisu’ Epithelioma of tranverse Colon (1S8 diam.). One tube* .,-Vliniret'l 'in'more^^tnan^one transversely; the epithelium is irregular in shape and size, and is sometimes a = layer. 1'lie stroma is fibrous, containing small round cells. frequently does not affect the lymphatic glands till a late period of the case. Visceral recurrences are rare, and are met with chiefly in the li\er. Death commonly takes place from the local disease, either from exhaustion from the discharge and loss of blood or from obstruction of the bowel or pj orus. Structure.—A section of such a growth (Fig. 40(5) shows it to be compose I of tubes lined with columnar epithelium, bound together by a delicate con- nective tissue, more or less infiltrated with small round cells. Ihe u resemble gigantic crypts of Lieberkiihn. By the microscope aloue it is not always easy to distinguish these tumours from simple papillomata cove with columnar epithelium, in which the bases of the papillaon section the appearance of tubes. The irregularity of the structure and the greater cell