887 AMPUTATION IN GANGRENE. complete ; and before this, it is but little influenced by any sedatives, whether constitutionally or locally applied. . It may be stated generally that in those cases in which there is much fever, in which the tongue is loaded, the pulse quick, and the skin hot, in which the spread of the gangrene is preceded by a red angry blush, with much pain and heat, moderate diet and mild tonics will be most useful; whilst, on the other hand, when it is simply a shrivelling of the toes and feet, without any pre- ceding local inflammation, or febrile disturbance, a decided tonic or stimulating plan will succeed best. The Local Means to be employed in senile gangrene are simple. It is of °reat importance to keep up the temperature of the limb, and to encourage the flow of blood to the affected part as much as possible ; this is best done by the application of salicylic or iodoform-wool, or in the absence of these, of simple cotton-wool, in thick layers around the foot and leg, so as to envelop the limb completely in this material, over which a large worsted stocking may be drawn, or a silk handkerchief stitched. This dressing need not be removed more than once or twice a week, unless there be much dis- charge from the line of separation, when it must be changed more frequently ; the gangrenous part itself may be well powdered with iodoform, or may be simply left to dry beneath the cotton-wool. Should the gangrene be of the moist variety the dead parts may be painted with carbolic acid and glycerine (1 in 5), or some such powerful antiseptic, before being covered with wool. When the soft parts have been separated, and the bones of the foot exposed, these should be cut across by cutting pliers or a small saw, and the sores that result dressed in the ordinary way with some mild antiseptic lotion or slightly stimulating ointment. The balsam of Peru, either pure or diluted with an equal part of yolk of egg, is a very excellent application in these cases. In the event of recovery, the patient must be careful to avoid exposure to cold and to keep the legs warmly clad at all seasons of the year. Amputation in Gangrene.—The question of Amputation in cases of gangrene of the limbs is of great importance to the practical Surgeon, and is one on certain points of which the opinions of the best practitioners still vary. At first sight it appears rational to cut off a limb that is dead, and offensive ; and with propriety this may be done when the gangrene is, strictly speaking, a local condition, as, for instance, the result of a severe injury : any affection of the constitution in such a case being secondary to the local mischief, and dependent on absorption of the products of putrefaction from the decomposing tissues. When it arises from wounds or ligature of an artery we usually amputate at once. For the reasons which have been given (pp. 321, 444), the operation should be performed as soon as the gangrene has unequivocally manifested itself, without waiting for the line of demarcation. There are two exceptions to the rule of amputating in traumatic and local gangrene before the occurrence of the line of demarcation: viz., gangrene from frost-bite, and that from severe burns. In these injuries it is better to wait for the formation of the line of separation, and then to fashion the stump through or just above it as the circumstances of the case require. The question of amputation in those forms of gangrene consequent on specific infective processes, as phlegmonous erysipelas, spreading traumatic gangrene, or hospital gangrene, will be fully considered with those diseases. Such operations often give the only chance of life, but their results arc on the