TREATMENT OF INCISED WOUNDS. 301 wound was to close it up at once and to exclude the air by fixing upon its lips a mass of clay, of chewed leaves, or of cow’s or camel’s dung ihe admis- sion of air was further prevented by pouring oil into it, and putrefaction by the use of wine or balsams. At a later period in the history of our art, tents of various kinds were used, and employed up to a very recent period, m order to keep it open and thus to prevent the injurious accumulation m its cavity of discharges, which might there decompose and putrefy. The closure of the wound—the exclusion of air—the prevention of putrefaction in its discharges by the use of spirituous and stimulating antiseptics, or by facilitating the escape of the secretions—were the means employed from the most remote antiquity. That these methods were in many cases highly successful there can be no doubt. They were purely empirical—the outcome of prolonged experience there being no recognition of those principles involved in the use of the various appliances and medicaments adopted, which it has beeii reserved for a later and more scientific age to determine and elucidate. And it is still these four great principles,—the closure of the wound,—the prevention of putrefaction,—the facilitation of the escape of discharges,—and the maintenance of perfect rest between the opposed surfaces, that guide us in the treatment of all wounds, however different, and in some respects improved, the means may be by which we endeavour to carry them out. In the local treatment, then, of all incised wounds, there are six chief indi- cations, viz., 1, the Arrest of Haemorrhage ; 2, the Removal of Foreign Bodies; 3, the Coaptation of the Sides of the Wound; 4, the Provision of Perfect Drainage ; 5, the Maintenance of Perfect Rest; 6, the Prevention of Decom- position of the Discharges and Infection of the Wound. These we shall consider more in detail. 1. Arrest of Hsemorrhage.—If bleeding be general from the surface, it may be stopped by exposure to the air, by elevation of the wounded part, by accurate and firm coaptation, by the pressure of a well-applied bandage or of the finger over the spot, and by the use of cold or other styptics ; if it be arterial, by ligature, torsion, or acupressure. In making choice of a hamio- static, preference is to be given to that which will interfere the least with union by the first intention. Thus, among styptics, cold, in the shape of ice or of rags wrung out of cold water, is to be preferred to others of the same class, such as the perchloride of iron, which are all more or less caustic and irritant. Again, torsion should be employed when it can be done with safety, rather than other means; and if the ligature be used, it should be, if possible, of some material which can be absorbed and will not offer any obstacle to the occurrence of union by the first intention. 2. The Removal of Foreign Bodies, such as dirt, pieces of stone and glass, spicula of bone, coagulated blood, &o., is best effected by allowing a stream of water, to which some efficient antiseptic as carbolic acid, iodine or chloride of zinc has been added, to fall upon the part from a sponge or irrigator, all rough handling of the wounded tissue being avoided as much as possible. Sharp and angular bits imbedded amongst the tissues should be removed by forceps. Above all, this cleansing of the wound is to be done thoroughly, and once for all; a comparatively insignificant body, if over- looked at this time, may effectually prevent adhesion by setting up suppura- tion, whilst disturbance of the wound after it has been once closed, destroys the layer of plastic exudation which ought to form the early bond of union.