FOREIGN BODIES IN AIR-PASSAGE. 815 during this period, are much less severe when the foreign body is in the trachea or bronchi. . When there is a suspicion that the foreign body is lodged in the larynx, a laryngoscopic examination should be made, when it may, perhaps, if large- as a plate with false teeth—be seen between the vocal cords. Small bodies also have several times been detected in this way lodging in one of the ventricles of the larynx. 2. Symptoms of Irritation.—When the foreign body has passed into the air-passage, and the immediate effects produced by its introduction have passed over, another set of symptoms, dependent on the irritation produced by it, is met with ; and it is during the occurrence of these that the patient is most generally brought under the Surgeon’s observations. The General Symptoms consist of occasional fits of spasmodic cough accompanied by much difficulty of breathing, a feeling of suffocation, and an appearance of urgent distress in the countenance. These attacks do not occur when the patient is tranquil, but come on whenever the foreign body is coughed up so as to strike the larynx, and the upper and more sensitive parts of the air- passage. As a general rule, the distress is less, the lower the substance is lodged; the sensibility of the lower portion of the trachea and that of the bronchi being much less acute than that of the larynx and of the upper part of the trachea. In consequence of the irritation, there is usually abundant expectoration of frothy mucus. These symptoms often remit for a time, more particularly if the foreign body become fixed. In some cases, indeed, there appears to be so little distress some days after the accident, that considerable doubt may exist whether any foreign body really be lodged in the air-passage or in the lungs ; and much valuable time is often lost by the indisposition of the Surgeon to adopt active measures. The Physical Signs depend necessarily upon the situation of the foreign body. If this be loose and floating, it may be heard, on applying the ear to- the chest, moving up aud down, and occasionally striking against the side of the trachea. If it be fixed, it will necessarily give rise to a certain degree of obstruction to the admission of the air beyond it, perhaps occasioning sibilant or sonorous rhondii during either inspiration or expiration or both. If it be impacted in the larynx, the voice will be hoarse and croupy, and there will be a loud rough sound in respiration, with much spasmodic cough and distress in breathing. If it be impacted in one bronchus, the physical signs will vary according to circumstances. If the foreign body be angular or perforated peculiar sibilant and whistling noise may be heard as the air passes over or through it. If the foreign body completely obstructs the bronchus, the respiratory murmur will be wanting on the side on which it is lodged. As a rule the obstruction is somewhat valvular in character, allowing a little air to be forced out during expiration but none to enter in inspiration, and extreme collapse of the affected lung may thus arise. There will then be absolute dulness on percussion ; deficiency on measurement and a want of expansion during inspiration. In other cases in which the form of the body is such as not to obstruct the bronchus, the physical signs will be muc ess marked. If one of the subdivisions of either bronchus be occupied >) . ic oieign body, the entrance ol air will be prevented in the corresponding lohc of that lung, though it enter freely every other part of the chest, ... Inflammation.—After a foreign body has been lodged for a day or two.