TREATMENT OF CONTUSED WOUNDS. 3r9 Whether or not this be actually the case in contused or lacerated wounds, it is at all events certain that a very small tongue of skin is sufficient to maintain the vitality of a part. This we see exemplified in the operation for the restoration of a lost nose ; and cases have occurred to me in which the nose, nearly cut off, being retained only by a portion of one ala, has readily united on being replaced ; so likewise, in bad cases of compound dislocation of the fingers, the part has been saved, though merely attached by a narrow bridge of skin. After a part has been replaced in this way, it should be retained in situ by a few points of interrupted suture, and dressed with boracic acid oint- ment spread on thin muslin or some other unirritating antiseptic application. In lacerated wounds opening into the mouth or nose a piece of lint soaked in collodion may be applied externally, as there will be ample drainage from the internal aspect of the wound. The sutures in these cases must be left in for a somewhat longer time than usual, until good union has resulted. The haemorrhage, as before mentioned, is as a ride easily controlled ; position, application of cold, and the subsequent bandaging being sufficient in the majority of cases. When, however, the blood is bright-coloured and continues to drip from the wound, a vessel of some size has been divided : this should be searched for, and the opening closed by torsion or ligature. Ordinary cases of contused or lacerated wounds, whether superficially exten- sive or deep, are best treated on exactly the same principles as incised wounds. Although we cannot hope for union by the first intention, rest is necessary to favour such union as may occur, and to relieve the patient from pain ; drainage requires special attention, as the injury being more severe, the early exudation from the wound will be more abundant; and the prevention of decomposition becomes of the greatest importance, as the irritation of putrid matter might extinguish the vitality in tissues which would otherwise have recovered. In treating such wounds by the antiseptic method exactly the same proceedings must be adopted as in an accidental incised wound (page 308), but greater care is necessary in cleaning the wound with the carbolic lotion on account of its irregular nature. If there is no chance of union at any part, it is better not to insert stitches; for, as it must heal by granulation after the separation of the sloughs, nothing can be gained by their use, and they may seriously impede the drainage. There is no class of wounds in which the benefits of antiseptic treatment are more marked than in these. Under its use the sloughs may separate with scarcely any suppuration, and the inflam- mation accompanying the process may not extend a tenth of an inch beyond the dead tissue; and all this may occur without any general febrile disturbance in contused and lacerated wounds of the hand or foot, in which the parts are often extremely dirty, it is safer to put the limb in a bath of carbolic-acid- ° ion (1 m 40) for about a quarter of an hour before applying the dressing in order to ensure thorough asepticity. Should the antiseptic dressing fail, or should the case not be seen till decomposition has commenced, Disinfectants must be freely used. The wounds of !m?iWaVed 01 S"1 II1Se^ °dfc several times a day with weak solutions wav Klm^a ° Pei',nan.?ana^e of potash, or of carbolic acid. In this inflomm if-8 ^ecomP°sirig pus may be removed, and the tendency to local nvertorl a ti' ° -a sPreac^n& character, and to the development of pyannia, e llrc. Is nT1° more fertile cause of these disastrous effects than the rpfpnh'nn f I'J 1 . u.ibusi>iuus tmeuts mail tne oe id decomposing pus in the areolar tissue of a contused wound.