i A 2 SYPHILIS—TERTIARY SYMPTOMS. io9r as a rule, symmetrical; they have sharply-cut edges, and a grey floor, and the mucous membrane round is reddened. They cause singulaily little pain in most cases, and have no tendency in this stage of the disease to extend far beyond the surface of the tonsil, or to cause extensive destruction of the pillars of the fauces or soft palate. The remaining symptoms, belonging to the secondary stage of the disease are, loss of hair, pains in the bones, periostitis without any tendency to termi- nate in suppuration, caries or necrosis, and inflammation of the iris. The most constant of the foregoing symptoms are the roseola followed by papular and squamous syphilide, with ulceration of the throat ; mucous tubercles, loss of hair, and periostitis are common but by no means constant; iritis is, fortunately, met with only in a small percentage of cases of syphilis. During the time the eruptions are making their appearance chronic enlarge- ment, with induration of the lymphatic glands throughout the body, is not uncommon. The patient is usually anaemic and thin, but not necessarily so. The secondary stage may end in two months or extend over a year. When it has come to an end the patient may never suffer again from any symptoms of the disease, or he may pass on directly to the development of those pj symptoms which are classed as tertiary. Iu typical cases an interval of months ■ or years may intervene between the tertiary and secondary stage, during which occasional relapses of the secondary symptoms may occur. In other cases, again, the tertiary affections may appear before the secondary signs have subsided. Thus there is no distinct line of demarcation between secondary and tertiary syphilis. The tertiary stage of syphilis is characterized by the appearance of ulcers j on the skin, and mucous membranes, usually asymmetrical, and having a tendency to spread widely, and to cause considerable destruction of tissue ; by certain chronic degenerative changes in the blood-vessels ; by chronic fibroid induration of organs and tissues, and by the development of masses of new tissue forming definite tumours prone to early degeneration—syphilitic f gummata or syphilomata. The ulcers on the slcin begin in various ways. First, they may arise in much the same way as the secondary eruptions. A localized patch of the skin, a quarter of an inch or more in diameter, becomes inflamed, usually vesication takes place, the fluid in the bleb becomes rapidly purulent and then ! dries up, leaving a dry adherent scab which gradually increases in thickness and diameter. If this be removed, a circular ulceration of the cutis is found beneath, which may slowly spread with the formation of a fresh scab. This form of eruption, known as nqria, occurs scattered over the whole body, and in this resembles a secondary eruption. In fact, it forms an intermediate link between secondary and tertiary affections. Secondly, small gummata form in the cutis vera, forming flat dusky-red or ‘ copper-coloured elevations, known as tubercular syphilide, or syphilitic tubercles. These soften in the centre, and an ulcer forms which may spread (‘! slowly. Thirdly, a gumma may form iu the subcutaneous tissue; which softens, becomes adherent to the skin, and opens on the surface by ulceration, leaving i a deep excavated cavity, with an adherent yellow slough. Lastly, in syphilitic subjects, a simple injury to the skin may lead to