FEMUR, TOWARDS ISCHIAL TUBEROSITY. 679 successful. Sir A. Cooper found great difficulty in the reduction of this dislocation, and he, Lisfranc and other Surgeons, have tailed to 1 educe it iy extension. They believed that the difficulty arose from the head of the bone sinking into the great sciatic notch. The fallacy of this view and the part played by the obturator interims in resisting reduction by extension m the axis of the limb has been already pointed out. Should extension be necessary, it must be made with the thigh flexed at a right angle to the trunk. In either of these dislocations, if difficulty arise in raising the bone over the edge of the acetabulum, recourse may be had to the plan recommended by Sir Astley Cooper, of lifting the head of the bone over the edge of the acetabulum by means of a round towel placed under the upper part of the thigh and over the shoulders of an assistant, who, first stooping and at the same time resting his foot on the patient’s pelvis, should then raise his shoulders and draw the bone towards its socket. Dislocation downwards and outwards towards the tuberosity of the ischium is described by Bige- low as closely allied to the dorsal dislocation below the tendon. It arises from causes similar to those giving rise to a dorsal dislocation, applied when the thigh is fully flexed on the abdomen. The head of the bone bursts out through the capsule and passes below the tendon of the obturator internus, rupturing the gemellus inferior and quadratus, and comes to lie close to the tuberosity of the ischium. It can be felt in this situation ; there is extreme flexion and adduction and rotation inwards (Fig. 299). On extending the limb, the neck of the bone remaining fixed by the ilio-femoral ligament, the head passes upwards behind the tendon of the obturator internus, and the dislocation is thus converted into an ordinary “ dorsal below the tendon.” Dislocations of the head of the femur directly backwards with fracture of the brim of the acetabulum may occur when a heavy weight frills on 0 10 ')a°k °fil person who is kneeling. In this case the pelvis is driven down vio ently on to the femur, which is forced against the ground at its lower end. . imPact of the blow drives the posterior part of the brim of the acetabulum against the head of the femur, and this is thrust through the capsule at its Fig. 299.—Dislocation Down- wards and Outwards to- wards the Tuberosity below Tendon. (Bigelow.)