SARCOMA—GIANT-CELLED. 1001 w, remove such growths from the neighbourhood of the mamma In one case it recurred locally after the wound had healed, and m a short time loirned an enormous tumour, larger than the patient s head. >She ic nsec a seconc operation, and the case soon terminated fatally. In the ot ei, a ioua 1 a large portion of the pectoral muscle was removed with the tumour, it recurred before the wound healed, and, in spite of the free application of caustics, grew with enormous rapidity, in a few weeks forming a fungating mass as large as a foetal head. Myeloid or Giant-celled Sarcoma Avas formerly often classed under fibro-plastic tumours, and sometimes probably as soft cancer. It was described by Abernethy under the name of “ albuminous sarcoma.” It was first fully described by'Leber t, and its clinical and anatomical characters have been care- fully investigated by Paget. It is nearly related to the spindle-celled group of sarcomata. The most characteristic feature of myeloid tumours is the presence of large, many-nucleated masses of protoplasm—the so-called myeloid cells—somewhat resembling the cells found in the marrow of foetal bones (Figs. 388, 389). They are often of great size, sometimes T-,YAh or even Jgth inch in diameter, and extremely irregular in shape, having processes projecting from them in all Fig. 3S8.—Myeloid Sarcoma from the Lower Jaw (454 diam.). The small cells have shrunk away from the myeloid cells, the former vary from round to spindle shape. Fig. 3S0.—Constituents of a Myeloid Tumour (454 diam.). civ’. From a fresh scraping. b, c. From a stained section. </. Transparent nuclei from a fresh scraping. directions. The nuclei vary from eight or ten to thirty or forty in number, and are oval in shape, with distinct and highly refracting nucleoli. These myeloid cells are embedded in masses of spindle-shaped or roundish cells, between a\hich there is either no intercellular substance, or merely a small quantity ot homogeneous gelatinous material. These growths arc extremely vascular ; so much so, that the whole mass may pulsate distinctly. Myeloid umours frequently contain cysts, often of considerable size. On section ey present a soft gelatinous appearance and brittle structure ; they usually yie ( a slimy fluid on scraping, mixed with fragments of the tumour ; they are o a pink colour at their growing margin, Avhile the central parts are of an opaque agIIoav from fatty degeneration. The intermediate parts usually | present patches of a dark maroon colour, caused by extravasations of blood.