32S G UN-SIIOT WO UNDS. with small shot into his month ; after death, the shots were found to have penetrated the anterior portion of the vertebral column, in which they were deeply lodged. Splinters of metal, wood, or stone, carried by the force of an explosion, as . in blasting and mining operations, may inflict grave injuries. These latter inflict perhaps the worst forms of injury from bodies propelled by explosive force that are met with in civil practice. In siege-operations much injury is often inflicted also by the splinters from parapets, or by the forcible throwing up of gravel and small stones by the explosion of shells. In naval actions too, the force with which splinters of wood are driven, when struck and scattered by cannon-shot, is often so great as to inflict the most serious and fatal mischief. A particular form of injury sometimes met with in civil practice, and which belongs to this class, is a wound of the eyeball by the explosion and splintering of faulty percussion-caps. Wounds of the face and other parts from the splashes or splinters of bullets from the surface of targets are of common occurrence among markers at rifle-ranges. Slugs are irregular bits of lead of no definite form or size. They produce wounds more ragged than small shot, but, unless fired at very short range, they seldom penetrate deeply. The experience of the Ashantee War, in which the natives used slugs almost exclusively, showed that the proportion of severe to slight wounds was very small, the projectile not having sufficient power to break a large bone. Bullets occasion more serious wounds, lacerating soft parts, fracturing and crushing bones, tearing asunder vessels and nerves, per- forating the viscera, and occasionally cutting off parts, as a finger, the nose, or an ear. The general introduction of rifled fire-arms into modern warfare has greatly increased the destructive effects of bullets. The missile is now comparatively rarely deflected from its course by the resistance offered by bones, tendons, or by the elastic reaction of the skin, as happened with the spherical ball, but penetrates in a straight line from the point struck, tearing through the soft parts, and splintering the bones extensively. On the bones especially, the modern conico-cylindrical bullet produces the most de- structive effects ; not only comminuting the part struck, but often splitting up the shaft of the bone, by its wedge- like action, in fissures many inches long, leading into contiguous joints (Fig. 109). In consequence of the ofSlktFemwbyBuUet! more extensive injury, the shock to the nervous system Boneitud(United^States is greater when a person is struck by a conico-cylindrical Army Museum.) than by a spherical ball. Direction.—In the majority of cases, a bullet traverses the part struck, and the wound has two apertures—one of entry, the other of exit; occasionally it happens, however, that in consequence of the ball being spent or of the piece not having been efficiently loaded, or of the oblique direction with which the ball strikes the part, it leaves merely a contusion or dent, rebounding or glancing off. In other cases there is only one aperture ; and here the bullet, .partly spent, has probably lodged in the soft tissues, or in a bone, or in the cavity of a hollow organ, as the bladder. It some-