EFFECTS OF HEAT AND COLD. 374 The scars of burns have been credited with some peculiar power of contrac- tion, but there is no reason to believe that the granulation-tissue formed to repair a loss of tissue presents any differences corresponding to the particular injury which caused the mischief. Burns are the injuries in which the largest granulating sores are met with; and, as we have before seen, contraction is an essential part of healing, and the amount is directly proportional to the size oi the sore and the looseness of the soft parts. This process of contraction continues for many months after the sore has become covered with epithelium, giving rise frequently to the most distressing deformities, and to complete loss of motion and use in parts. these cicatrices are composed of dense fibrous tissue, and often extend deeply between and mat together the muscles, vessels, and soft structures of a limb, of the face, or of the neck. , . The Constitutional Effects resulting from burns are most serious aim important; they depend not so much upon the depth of the injury as upon its situation, the extent of surface implicated, and the age of the patient, lhus a person may have his foot completely charred and burned off by a stream ot molten iron running over it, with far less constitutional disturbance and danger than if the surface of the trunk and face be extensively scorched to the farsc and second degrees ; burns about the chest, the head and the face, being fai more likely to be attended by serious constitutional mischief than sinnlai injuries of the extremities. In children, the system generally suffers more severely from burns than in adults. The fever that follows a bad burn is probably due to several causes combined, such as the reaction after extreme primary depression, and the retention in the blood of waste products m conse- quence of the arrest of the cutaneous secretion in the burnt parts ; but the two chief causes are undoubtedly the inflammation produced by the bm-nandthe absorption of the products of putrefaction from the raw surface. Expci 11 e has shown that the charred surface resulting from a burn, so far fiom pre- senting a barrier to the entrance of septic matter into the system, as is sometimes supposed, is in reality equal in its power of absorption-to' * surface made with a knife. Unless special precautions are taken, therefoie to prevent decomposition in the sloughs, the amount of septic products absorbed is very large, and the resulting fever proportionally severe. ' The constitutional disturbance induced by bums, in whatever degree, may be divided into three stages : 1, Depression and Congestion , 2, Reaction and Inflammation; 3, Suppuration and Exhaustion. m-nffestion 1 The stage of Depression of the Nervous System and Congestion Of Internal Organs, occupies the first forty-eight hours; during which death « Immediately L the receipt of a severe burn the p« lent. Wnes cold and collapsed, and is seised with fits of shivering, wliudi »n nine to. a considerable time. He is suffering evidently from the shock of the injury , the severity of the shivering is usually indicative of the ex cn o' u c sss" ^’rr? Ss quiescence before reaction comes on. At this time vomiting