GENERAL REMARKS ON OPERATIONS. 44 parts of the bandage, which are then tied together, thus attaching the loop of the tube that surrounds the scrotum to the part which passes behind; any slipping of the tube during the operation is thus rendered impossible (Fig. 10). Bloodless Methods.—Various devices have been employed for many years past to diminish the loss of blood during operations on the extremities, and at the same time to get rid of the blood which otherwise fills the wound, and more or less conceals the steps of the operation, even when the tourniquet had been applied. The oldest of those is bandaging the limb firmly to the level at which the tourniquet is applied, before tightening the screw. This was I found not to be very efficient, especially when a pad was used over the main artery beneath the band of the tourniquet. Lister has shown that the limb 9 may be rendered absolutely bloodless by simply elevating it as high as possible for about one minute, and then rapidly applying an elastic baud ^ or a screw tourniquet without a pad. To hasten j the emptying of the blood-vessels the limb may be rubbed firmly in the direction of the circulation (Fig. 11). By experiment he has further shown that this is brought about not only by the emptying of the veins, but by contraction of the arteries which occurs when the limb is placed in the elevated j position. Esmarch of Kiel has attained the same result by applying an elastic bandage spirally from the distal extremity of the limb upwards to the point at which the tourniquet or elastic band is applied (Fig. 12). On removing the elastic band- age from below the tourniquet, the limb will lie found to be absolutely bloodless, even the bones very frequently yielding no blood on being cut. With the exception of the elasticity of the skml . and the retraction of the muscles, the operation exactly resembles one on a dead body. In this \\i, state, all vessels of any size can be seen and tied! before the tourniquet is removed. On removing j the tourniquet, when the blood returns to the wounded part, very free oozing will set in, which* often takes some time to arrest by means of cold and exposure to the air. Thus it may happen that the patient loses as much blood as if Esmarch’s method had not been employed hc asserts that most Esmarch has, however, lately adopted a p *n 5 blooclless. He first operations on the extremities can e WOund, and then, having put secures every vessel visible on the sm taco or t ^ a drcssing com. in the drainage tubes and m ioc ucc ^ impregnated with salicylic posed of antiseptic gaiize sun’Oiinded by Mtton w ool1 a Tlic limb is then acid, which is moderately him y >.vi t < ^ . . tourniquet is removed, placed in an elevated posit,on, and final yth ela c omn q l2 The elevated position is maintained for at least a half horn Fig. 11.—Lister's Method.