29 ADMINISTRATION OF ETHER. tration are reached, when it becomes widely dilated and fixed; at this time, also, the face is slightly dusky. The time required for the induction of the anaesthetic state varies, averaging, perhaps, five minutes, if administered without an inhaler, but much less if Clover’s apparatus be used. The same precautions as to relaxation of the dress, the recumbent position, and abstinence from food, that have been described as necessary during the administration of chloroform, must he attended to when ether is given. Ether, like chloroform, may give rise to troublesome vomiting both during and after its adminis- tration. Death, from the administration of Ether, although not a frequent occurrence, has occurred with sufficient frequency for certain facts to be ascertained with regard to it. Cawtley Dawson, in the British Medical Journal, March 2, 1878, has published a collection of eighteen cases in which death occurred either during or soon after the administration of ether. Of these he excludes nine, on the grounds that ether was not the only anaesthetic used, or that it is possible the death may have been due to other causes. In the remain- ing nine cases, in seven the heart continued to beat for some time after the respiration had ceased, and in two this point was doubtful. All the patients died from asphyxia, as indicated by the dusky face, and shallow respiration, and the long interval, varying from four minutes to fifteen or more, between death and the first manifestation of serious symptoms. At the post-mortem examination the lungs were found gorged with blood in five of the seven cases examined; in one more the pulmonary artery was said to be engorged ; in one only were the lungs pale, and in this case the symptoms did not come on till one hour and a half after leaving the theatre. The conclusion to be drawn from these cases is, that ether kills by asphyxia and not by syncope; and this is in accordance with the results of experiments on animals in which ether was found always to kill by arresting the respiration. Ether has therefore the advantage that when it does give rise to dangerous effects, the serious symptoms develope gradu- ally, and there is plenty of time to adopt such measures as may be necessary to restore the patient. Comparison between Ether and Chloroform.—The history of Anesthetics furnishes an additional illustration of the mutability of professional opinion. Ether was almost the only anesthetic employed for the first year after the dis- covery of its use as an anesthetic. It then rapidly gave way to chloroform: and so completely was this agent substituted for ether in this country and generallv throughout Europe, that a confusion arose in the public mind as to'’the real discoverer of Anesthesia; and Sir James Simpson, who was one of the first to employ chloroform and to whose energy its general adoption was mainly due, was very commonly considered to be the discoverer of Anesthetics. I11 some hospitals, however, and more especially those of Boston, the birth- place of surgical Anesthesia, the faith in ether has never been shaken, nor its use abandoned for that of any other agent. In this country a change of pro- fessional opinion has to some extent set in, and strenuous efforts have been made since the death of the illustrious discoverer of the anesthetic properties o cioioform to decry that agent, and to re-introduce ether as a general anesthetic. That ether and chloroform arc equally effective in the production of Anes- thesia, is undoubted. But the advocates of the first allege that it is the safer a^en 0 the two ; whilst those of the latter assert that, admitting the greater