1 022 TUMOURS. sarcomata, provided that at least twenty-four hours elapse after their removal before they arc examined and that decomposition has commenced. The Cell* (Fig. 397) are extremely variable in shape and size. They may be round, caudate, and even fusiform. Many varieties of form are usually found in the same tumour, but occasionally great uniformity prevails. The size may van- from -irsVo to inch. The nuclei are oval and highly refracting, often placed eccentrically ; they are of considerable size and frequently double, while in some cases five or six may be found in the same cell. They contain bright shining nucleoli. The size of the cells is not indica- tive of the variety of the cancer. Thus, in some scirrhous tumours the cells may be small, and in others large, and the same may be said of encephaloid. The distinction be- tween scirrhus and encephaloid is made not by the size of the cells, but by the relative proportions of cells and stroma in the mass. All cancer-cells are prone to early de- generation, usually becoming filled with fat-granules, and ultimately breaking down and in great part disappearing, so that what was once a considerable mass of cells may be represented by a, few granules. This is most marked in scirrhus. The stroma in glandular cancers is almost invariably fibrous, but in the softer forms it maybe composed partly of spindle-cells. The alveolar arrange- ment is always clearly marked. The cells lie loosely in the spaces often separated from each other by a small quantity of fluid. This fluid, with the cells, forms the “cancer-juice.” In the degenerating parts of the growth tire stroma frequently contaius numerous fat granules, and in very rare cases patches of calcification are met with. The blood-vessels are usually abundant, especially in the softer forms. In some rare instances they show curious bud-like processes and dilatations projecting from their walls into the alveolar spaces of the tumour. These may give way and distend the alveoli with blood, thus forming small rounded collections of blood dotted through tire growth. The unaided eye of the experienced Surgeon may in many cases recognize a cancer without difficulty, but in every case the tumour should he examined microscopically in order to determine without a doubt what its true Vig. 307. Cells from a large Encephaloid of the Breast. Cells from Scirrlms of the Breast. a. Stained. b. Unstained. (454 diaui.). nature is. Scirrhus.—The scirrhous or hard cancer is met with more commonly in the female breast than in all other parts of the body put together, and the cases that come under the care of the Surgeons arc almost always exclusively in that situation. Thus of cases of scirrhus admitted in the surgical wards of University College Hospital during the ten years 18/1 to *1880, 113 were situated in the female breast, 1 in the male breast, 4 in the skill near the female breast, 1 in the kidney, and 3 in die prostate. Nine other cases were admitted as “scirrhus of the rectum, and two as “ scirrhus of the sigmoid flexure,” but these were not submitted to micro-