COMPARISON OF ETHER AND CHLOROFORM. 3r capable of being reduced to very trifling proportions. So small is the risk, that many a Surgeon goes through a lengthened hospital experience without meeting with a fatal case. But, slight as is the danger from the administra- tion of anaesthetics by competent persons, there is still undoubtedly a certain definite peril attendant on their use. That this is somewhat-greater when chloroform is used than when ether is employed is generally acknowledged— how much greater is uncertain. There are no data before the profession from which a comparative estimate of the relative danger of these two agents can be drawn. That many fatal accidents have occurred from the administration of chloro- form during the twenty-five years in which it was almost the exclusive amesthetic used in this country, is mifortunately too true. In the ten years 1S68 to 1877, no less than 138 were recorded in the medical journals of this country alone. How many of these were inevitable—due to causes beyond the control of the administrator and solely referable to the toxic action of the anaesthetic—is uncertain. That but few fatal accidents have as yet followed the administration of ether is certain. How far this is due to this anaesthetic being actually safer—i.e., less toxic than chloroform—is uncertain; and the comparison is at present scarcely just. For, since the re-introduction of ether into practice, it has chiefly been employed by professed and experienced aiiEestlietists ; and much greater skill in the management of anaesthetics has been acquired by the profession generally than could or did exist in the earlier days of the practice. The following report places some of the facts respecting the comparative value of chloroform and ether in so clear a light that I have thought well to reproduce it. Report on the administration of Chloroform and Ether as Amcsthclks.—By Surgeon-Major J. II. Porter, Assistant Professor of Military Surgery. Dining the year 1875 chloroform and ether were administered at Netlcy Hospital in 21 and 26 cases respectively. The following is an analysis of the time taken to place the patient under its influence, the quantity used, and their general effects as taken from a Register kept for that purpose :— Chloroform. Shortest time taken to place under influence . Longest time „ „ ., Average time ., „ ., Average time under influence . Smallest quantity used in any one case . Largest quantity used Average quantity used ,, ., Minutes. Seconds. 2 30 11 30 (i 24 12 48 1 drachm. 8 3 drachms 9 minims. "Vomiting occurred in two cases during or after administration of the drug. Excitement occurred in ten cases during or after administration of the drug. Great prostration in one case after administration.