VARIETIES OF ULCER. 2 59 congestion and local anaemia being guarded against; as, without a normal supply and a sufficiently rapid change of blood, the growth of the reparative tissue cannot take place. Constriction by excessively tight dressings must therefore be avoided, and the part must be placed in such a position as will favour the return of blood from it. 3. Proper local applications adapted to the nature of the case must be employed, conjoined with uniform pressure, to support the dilated and weakened vessels of the part. The Constitutional Treatment must be carefully attended to. Unless this be done, the best regulated local plan may be employed in vain. Attention to the digestive organs, and improvement of the constitution, if it be strumous oi syphilitic, v ill do more in these cases than any other means can accomplish. The nutrition of the patient requires due care. VARIOUS FORMS OF ULCER. lien ulceis occur in the skin, as the result of non-specific disease they may be arranged under the following heads : the Healthy, the Weak • the Indolent; the Irritable ; the Inflamed ; the Phagedamic or Sloughum ; the v aiicose ; and the Haemorrhagic. Besides these varieties, each of which is marked by distinct characteristics, various other forms of ulceration dependino- on specific causes, as the^ Syphilitic, Scrofulous, Lupoid, Cancerous, &c„ are met with all of which will be treated of under their respective Chapters. he varieties presented by ulcers are by no means dependent on local con- toons merely.though these influence them flatly, but are in a great measure memo to constitutional causes. Indeed, the aspect of the nicer, and the the state ofhmIH™1fTfi iU,d °f 'Iis:h‘“-'J' 8re excellent indications of fte j“j cliseare g conclitio" °f "s ■» of uofats8!"?7The™ ulc“ "’'"‘re17, ” haTe t0 Paf ‘o the following ot tie »re j rft.1 The ed“es »f «« 80 re- 3. The surface 0. Pain°and tenewt ** »f 1 * Ovulating Sone.-This may be considered the type of seed. The l>ase of the sorp is -,>C1 ’’'p adout as lar8e as half a mustard as bones or fascia; The rh\ri ’ aU ■?i° ac ,iereut to deep-seated structures, thick, creamy HudabTe^ OTdi™7 circumstances, be irritation, it may be' made in U ^ caicud7 excluding every source of is absolutely no Fain or 7wiT™ \™VG,0V less serous character. There cases to brino- the other for nesfl- . fc is the object of our treatment in all Treatment ~h H * °f ^ mto fcbis Condifciaa- treatment should be as ,°f tlie Wealthy granulating sore, the a bandage usually eVnhli L -T fossld e ; ^ater-dressing and the pressure of employed, it 2 l S 1 ° °1Catrize' « simple water-dressing bo offensive from putrefaction "gW tlmCS a day’ otherwise it will become putictaction. Water-dress.ng is thus applied : a piece of lint