428 ARREST OF ARTERIAL HAEMORRHAGE. of these compressing agents, the vitality ol the artery not being endangered , and no terminal slough resulting. These arguments, though reasonable enough twenty years ago, are at the present time of no force whatever. The absorbable ligatures, now almost universally used, leave no suppurating track, and experiments have shown that the projecting end of the artery, if protected from decomposition, does not slough, but becomes embedded in the granulation-tissue iormed in the healing wound, and is either absorbed or maintains its vitality, its vascular connections with surrounding parts being re-established. As before pointed out, the same is true of the twisted end of the artery left in the wound ai ter torsion. There is no doubt also that, even at the time when acupressure was intro- duced, and when every ligature caused a line of suppuration, in estimating t le comparative value of the two methods of arresting haemorrhage, too much evil was laid to the charge of the thread, and too much advantage claimed tor the needle. Many other things besides the presence of a few fine silk threads tended at that time to render union of a large wound by the first intention a rare event. Drainage was very imperfectly carried out, antiseptic dressings were scarcely invented, and the hygienic arrangements of hospitals were far less perfect than they are at the present time. . . Acupressure, in fact, never came into general use ; but it is, nevertheless, a useful means of arresting haemorrhage under certain circumstances, lhus in lacerated or incised wounds of the scalp, and in some injuries of the hand or foot, in which it is difficult successfully to apply a ligature the bleeding may often be at once controlled by the pressure of a needle and wue. n ee > 1 appears to me that the Surgeon will act more wisely m being eclectic lat than dogmatic in the employment of his means for arresting arterial memo - rhage—using in some cases styptics, in others compression or torsion 01 the cautery, acupressure or the ligature, as the particular case seems o 1)ee ' Because one method is good, the others are not necessarily bad; because one is peculiarly applicable in one case, it does not follow that it is equal y 1U Collateral Circulation—When the main artery of a limb has been ligatured, or in any other way occluded, it is only the direct flow of blood that is interrupted ; the indirect supply which is conveyed into the limb or pait J the free communication between the anastomosing vessels of the different por- tions of the arterial system, being sufficient to preserve its vita i y, prevent the occurrence of gangrene. So free and ready are the lnoscu a kept up between different portions of the arterial system, that, aftei the . a arteries in the body, such as the subclavian, iliac, and abdominal aorta, ha been ligatured, sufficient blood to support life is at once com eye in o parts supplied by them. This collateral circulation is most active an most readily maintained in early life, when the vessels arc pliant and elastic, readily accommodating themselves to the increased quantity of blood tha they are required to convey. As age advances, the vascular s) stem ccom less elastic, and there is a greater difficulty in the establishment and mainte- nance of the collateral circulation. The anastomosing vessc s which sci\ mu-nose are invariably furnished by arteries contiguous to that which . -< tnrccl, and come off from the same side of the body. Tims, ^ '"Stanoe, alte lioaturc of the superficial femoral, it is by the profunda artery that