79s INJURIES OF THE SEINE. above the dislocated part is bent forwards, a wide gap is visible posteriorly, at the seat of injury. Causes.—The causes of dislocation are numerous, and the following may he given as examples. A person standing in a cart and driving under an archway finds, too late, that he is too tall to clear the archway; he bends forwards, but, miscalculating the distance, his head is pressed violently downwards. A per- son takes a header into shallow water; his head comes against the bottom, is forcibly flexed, and his spine is broken or dislocated. Such accidents are not very unfrequent. I have seen several cases of paralysis, as well as of death, resulting from this kind of accident. These accidents most commonly happen from forcible flexion of the neck though traction and rotation conjoined have occasioned them. In a icase of luxation of the sixth and seventh cervical vertebra;, recorded by J. Eoux, the accident happened to a sailor plunging into the sea for the purpose •of bathing, and coming head foremost against a sail which had been spread out to prevent the attack of sharks ; he died on the fourth day. In a patient of mine, who fell out of a window in such a way that the head was doubled for- •wards upon the chest, and who was brought to the Hospital with supposed -fracture of the spine, we found after death, which occurred on the fifth day, that the seventh cervical vertebra, carrying with it the upper portion of the spine and the head, had been dislocated forwards from the first dorsal, of the intervertebral substance, detaching with it an extremely thin and small layer •of bone from the body of the seventh vertebra. There was a wide gap posteriorly between the laminae. There was no fracture about the articular processes, which were completely separated from one another. In the instance already referred to, in which a man fell on his head from a van, and death resulted in 24 hours, a similar displacement was found of the fifth from -the sixth cervical vertebra, -with compression of and haemorrhage into the •substance of the medulla, and disorganization of it to the extent of nearly -an inch opposite the seat of dislocation, where it had been injured by the forward pressure of the dislocated vertebra. In the Dorsal Region, dislocation of the spine, though excessively rare may occur ; seldom, however, without being accompanied by fracture. 4 lit last dorsal vertebra has been several times found dislocated from the first lumbar with rupture of the intervertebral fibro-cartilage. In these cases, however, there has usually been found fracture of the transverse processes of the first lumbar vertebra, or, as in an instance recorded by Sir C. Bell, fracture of its body. ... . . I am not acquainted with any case in which dislocation without fracture o the Lumbar spine has been observed. The Symptoms presented by dislocation of the spine are, like those of fracture, dependent on the degree and scat of the injury inflicted on the spinal -cord. And death will ensue at varying periods, according to whether the dislocation be above or below the origin of the phrenic nerves, in accordance with those rulc3 that have been laid down at p. 780. The Diagnosis between a dislocation and a fracture of the cervical spine is not easily made. But there is one symptom which, according as it is presen or not, may throw much light on this point. It is the occurrence of pain, amounting to hypermsthesia, along the line of junction between the para ysed and unparalysed parts. In fracture this will commonly be found to be pres