TREATMENT OF COMPOUND FRACTURES INTO ELBOW. 575 Compound and Comminuted Fractures of the Elbow-Joint are neccs- ( sarily serious accidents. They are commonly occasioned by falls on the point I of the olecranon, which is the process of bone most frequently and extensively : fractured. In some cases the olecranon escapes injury, whilst the lower epiphysis of the humerus is splintered into many pieces ; and more commonly, perhaps, both bones, ulna as well as humerus, are injured. As the integu- ments over the point of the elbow are thick and hard, very extensive com- minution of the bones may occur with very little apparent injury of the soft parts. When these fractures are the result of gun-shot-injury, the soft parts may be extensively torn, and the bones greatly shattered. In the cases that occur in civil practice, I have seldom seen much laceration of the soft parts. The Treatment of these important accidents must necessarily depend on the amount of injury done both to bones and soft parts. If the articulation be simply opened with little laceration of the surrounding soft parts, and no com- minution of the fractured bone, the limb may very commonly be saved. If the bones be much shattered, the soft parts not being seriously implicated, removal of the splinters, or resection of the injured joint, will enable the Surgeon to save the rest of the limb ; but if the soft parts be extensively con- tused and torn, as well as the bones comminuted, amputation of the arm may be required. If an attempt be made to save the joint without operation, great attention must be paid to drainage, rest, and prevention of decomposition. If the cavity become filled with septic matter, not only will there be severe septic fever, but abscesses will form in front of and around the joint, the splintered fragments will necrose, and excision, or possibly amputation of the limb, will be necessary in a few weeks. These cases, however, as a rule, do very well when treated antiseptically, either by carbolic gauze or iodoform-wool. Perfect rest may in these cases be obtained by the plan recommended by H. 0. Thomas of slinging the hand up over the upper part of the chest by a bandage seemed by a clove hitch to the wrist, and tied round the neck. If the comminution is such as to render removal of the splintered fragments necessary, or if it be evident that recovery can take place only with "a stiff elbow-joint, resection should be performed. In these cases the question may arise whether a partial or complete removal of the articulation should be practised. This will depend much upon circumstances. If the comminution is such as to require the removal of a considerable length of the humerus, it is better, if possible, to leave the bones of the fore-arm untouched, otherwise a flail-like arm is certain to result. If but little length of bone has to be removed, there is some danger of a stiff elbow resulting unless the whole cartilage-covered surfaces of the bones are removed. In cases in which a secondary excision becomes necessary after an attempt to save the joint has failed, it is better to follow the ordinary rule of removing all the articular surfaces even if but one is injured, as in these cases the cartilages have often necrosed from the irritation of the septic discharges and would seriously delay the cure. W hen primary resection is determined on, the sooner the operation is done the better ; when a secondary operation is performed, after septic inflammation has ! to lowed the accident, the Surgeon must wait till the septic fever begins to I mi rf’iand suppuratiou is fu% established, and then he should do it with as 1 e c e possible lest hectic or pyaemia supervene. The operation as per- ormec 1 cis in no material respect from the same operation for disease of the articulation, which will be described in Chapter XLIX. I11 primary