SEPTICIEMIA AND PYAEMIA. 952 consistence. Infarcts unconnected with the pyseinic state are frequently met with in this organ ; metastatic abscesses are not, however, very common. The Kidneys are almost invariably swollen and soft; tire epithelium cloudy, excessively granular, and often choking the tubules in irregular masses. They are very frequently congested, and sometimes the seat of abscesses presenting the same varieties as those found in other parts. The Intestines rarely suffer, but abscesses may be found iu the submucous or subserous areolar tissue. Local peritonitis not unfrequently follows the formation of hepatic abscesses, and may become very severe. Of the other organs the brain is most commonly affected. Diffuse suppuration is occasionally met with in the parotid gland, and in rare cases abscesses have been observed in the prostate. One or more Joints are frequently found to be swollen, and on opening them a large quantity of pale yellow or thick, flaky, and puriform fluid escapes. There are congestion of the synovial fringes, and softening or destruction of the cartilage. Microscopic Appearances of Tissues and Organs in Pv^diia.— The blood in almost all cases contains a considerable excess of white cor- puscles, with a deficiency of red, but this condition is by no means peculiar to or characteristic of pyaemia. The red corpuscles are usually unchanged ; but, occasionally, they have been observed to run together into irregular masses instead of forming rouleaux. Microscopic organisms have been frequently observed in the blood, and these will be more fully referred to afterwards. The yellowish fluid found in the veins as the result of softening of the thrombi closely resembles pus in appearance, but on microscopic examination it is found in many cases to be composed merely of granular debris containing no true pus cells. In other cases, as I have frequently observed, cells having the ordinary appearance of pus-cells are more or less abundantly present. The so-called “ secondary deposits ” may in an early stage in like manner be found not to contain pus, being composed merely of gaugrenous tissue. In the later stages pus is always present. The epithelium of the liver and kidney is usually granular and swollen. Microscopic Organisms.—In almost all cases of pyaemia, micrococci cau without difficulty be recognized in various situations. At the seat of infection they are frequently found in large quantities in the discharges, and in the slough that so frequently covers the surface of the wound. They arc always present in the fluid resulting from the softening of the thrombi in the veins. In the blood they arc recognized with greater diffi- culty, and the evidence as to their presence has been very conflicting. Throughout all other parts of the body they have been observed in the pin tilen fluids in the secondarg abscesses, but their most characteristic appearance is as colonies or zooglical masses blocking the smaller arterioles or cajnllaries. u this form they arc readily recognized in sections prepared in the ordinary way, and stained with logwood or methyl violet. They form rounded granu ar masses, in which it is often difficult to recognize the individual organisms except at the edge of the mass. The vessel is slightly distended at the par at which they are lodging, and there is occasionally seen a coagulum a o and below the obstruction. Sometimes the wall of the vessel appears to . ■ given way, and the organisms are found outside it. Iu most specimens