774 INJURIES OF THE SEINE. times one limb only is affected; in other cases the arm and leg on one side, or both legs only, or the arm and both legs, or all four limbs, are the seat of uneasy sensations. There is the greatest possible variety in these respects, dependent of course entirely upon the degree and extent of the lesion that has been inflicted upon or induced in the spinal cord. Sensation or motion may be affected ; or both may suffer, either alike or in unequal degrees. Sensation and motion may both be seriously impaired in one limb, or sensa- tion in one and motion in another. The paralysis is seldom complete. It may become so in the more advanced stages, after several years ; but for the first year or two it is almost always partial. It is sometimes incompletely recovered from, especially so far as sensation is concerned. The loss of motor power is especially marked in the legs, and more often in the extensor than in the flexor- muscles. The extensor of the great toe is especially apt to suffer. The hand and arm are less frequently the seat of loss of motor power than the leg and foot ; but the muscles of the ball of the thumb, or the flexors of the fingers, may be affected. The loss of motor power in the foot and leg is best tested by the application of the galvanic current, so as to compare the irritability of the same muscles of the opposite limbs. The electric test is not under the influence of the patient’s will; and a very true estimate can thus be made of the loss of contractility in any given set of muscles. The loss of motor power in the hand is best tested by the force of the patient’s grasp. This may be roughly estimated by telling him to squeeze the Surgeon’s fingers, first with one hand and then with the other, or more accurately by means of the dynamometer, which shows on an index the precise amount of pressure exercised in grasping. It is in consequence of the diminution of motor power in the legs that those peculiarities of gait which have been above described are met with, and they are most marked when the amount of loss is unequal in the two limbs. Modification or diminution of sensed ion in the limbs is one of the most marked phenomena in these cases. In many instances the sensibility is a good deal augmented, especially in the earlier stages. The patient complains of shooting pains down the limbs, like stabs, darts, or electrical shocks, flhe surface of the skin is sometimes over-sensitive in places on the back ; or, in various parts of the limbs, hot, burning sensations arc experienced. Afrei a time these sensations give place to various others, which are very differently described by patients. Tingling, a feeling of “ pins and needles, a hea\ y sensation, as if the limb were asleep, creeping sensations down the back and along the nerves, and formication, are all commonly complained of. 1 hesc sensations arc often confined to one nerve in a limb, as the ulnar or t c musculo-spiral. Numbness, more or less complete, may exist independently o . or be associated with, all these various modifications of sensation. It may >c confined to a part of a limb, may influence the whole of it, or may extend to several limbs. Its degree and extent arc best tested by Brown-Sequarc s msthesiometer. _ . . In determining the condition of the spinal cord, special attention must paid to the tendon reflexes, and to the electric irritability of particular groups o muscles. It would be altogether foreign to the scope of this work to desen c the significance of the various phenomena presented by these several means o diagnosis. But it may be stated generally that in sub-inflammatory am m flammatory conditions the reflex manifestations are more active an