6o2 SPECIAL FRACTURES. Mr. Cr. Buckstono Browne, for employing elastic extension from the foot. It consists of a brass catch, such as are used for the strings of window-blinds, attached to a vulcanized rubber ring, which is connected with a transverse piece of wood fixed to the leg by adhesive straps (Fig. 233). By means of this contrivance, elastic traction can be kept up to any degree required, with- out the danger of galling the skin of the instep. If the perineal band occasion excoriation or undue pressure, so as to necessitate its removal, I have found advantage from keeping up extension with a heavy weight attached to the leg by plaster, counter-extension being made by the weight of the patient’s body, the foot of the bed being slightly elevated on a couple of blocks of wood. Another useful form of the long splint is the following : extension is made by a carefully padded handkerchief, the middle of which is placed above the heel behind, and the two ends are then brought forward and crossed over the instep and afterwards passed through the notches at the end of the long splint and securely tied ; counter-extension is made by a perineal band ; four short Fig. 234.—Compound Fracture of Shaft of Thigh-hone: Treatment hy Bracketed Long Splint. splints are secured by straps and buckles round the thigh, the anterior reaching from the groin to the patella, the posterior from the folds of the nates to the upper part of the ham, the inner from the perinseum to just above the pio- minence of the inner condyle, and the outer from just belowT the trochanter to above the outer condyle. A small sheet, folded till it reaches from the groin to the malleoli, is to be wrapped round the long splint so as to get a firm hold of it, and then brought round the thigh, passing under it, and secured by strong pins to the part of the sheet round the splint. A body bandage about eighteen inches wide is then applied in the same way. In this apparatus the long splint is used merely for extension and to fix the hip- and knee-joints, t le four short splints holding the bone in position. _ . In all forms of the apparatus care must be taken that the splint is wide enough, otherwise rotation outwards may take place. This is fuitliei piet elite by the apparatus represented in Fig. 233. This consists of a thick piece o board upon which are screwed two rectangular pieces of iron between w nc i the splint is placed. This serves not only the purpose of preventing eversion, but it tends to raise the licel from the bed, and thus to prevent the pam o ten caused by its pressing on the bed-clothes. > . . In cases of compound fracture, where the wound exists m the pos n and outer part of the limb, I have found a long thigh-splint, made of oak and bracketed opposite the scat of injury, the most convenient apparatus, cna > ing the limb to be kept of a proper length, and the wound to be dressed a same time (Fig. 234).