262 ULCERATION. It frequently happens that by the third or fourth day the giaft has enthely disappeared, hut becomes again recognizable a few days after. This is due to the desquamation of the opaque corneous layer of the transplanted cuticle leaving only the thin transparent Malpighian layer behind ; the re-appearance of thengraft takes place as soon as sufficient new epithelium has grown to be again opaque. „ . The adhesion of the graft is very greatly facilitated by some form ol anti- septic dressing. Perhaps the best is as follows : if the sore be not aseptic dress it every four hours with boracic acid lint moistened with a concentrated solution of boracic acid. In about forty-eight hours the sore will be abso- lutely free from any septic matter. Then apply the grafts, covering each with a piece of “ green protective ” oiled silk, and dress the sore with a thin layer of boracic acid ointment spread on muslin and dipped in the boracic acid solution before being applied. Over tins again must be placed a thick layer of iodoform cotton wool, or salicylic wool or silk, and the dressing may then be left undisturbed for four days. _ . , For the success of this little operation, it is necessary that the gianulatin0 surface on to which the transplantation is made, be a healthy one ; that it be not the seat of specific disease of any kind ; and that the process of C'catiiz.i- tion have commenced at its edges. The piece of transplanted skm should be tenderly handled, and at once applied and retained by moderate piessuie placing it in its new position, it is well that the granulations be uot b msed so as to be made to bleed, which would be fatal to success. It is be a to apply several small grafts of skin than one large one ; each new graft actin as /centre for the growth of epithelium, and the process going on more rapidly from several small centres than from one large one. , When many grafts are required, and especially if the patient be old 0 nervous it may be convenient to obtain some from another person. It must not be forgotten that syphilis may be communicated in this way 11 the are taken from a person suffering from that disease m its active stage. Deube ZolL a case in which, to repair great loss of skin from •in oldman grafts were taken from his son. The treatment uas appaien successful, and complete healing took place, but soon formed, and the whole scar was destroyed. Roseola appeared ten first graft was applied, and was followed by mucous tubercles ^he moot The son was found to have condylomata about the anus, and had suffered eighteen months before from a hard chancre. , potions Weak Ulcer.—This most commonly occurs from emollient applicatior having been continued too long, and especially fromthe:^SteaU rfc and It differs from the healthy sore only in the edges wanting the ^eahi)g hue, ana in the surface being raised above the surrounding s'ln ^ y * granulations, with a semi-transparent appearance about on., = in largo, exuberant, gelatinous, reddish-look,ng masses abotc the sore These high granulations have a feeble v.tahty, and readily slough. form 0/ ulcer consists in keeping the part elevated and carefully bandaged, and applying an S Lh ■m the “red wash,” or a weak solution of the suipnatc 01 “Pi*- . is prepared wjcoi'ding to the Mowing fonmda ;-Snlph^ of - , en^ grains; compound tincture of lavender, two drachm., uatei, e,0ht