1084 1TENEREA L DISEASES. llicord, however states that a mother, pregnant with a syphilitic foetus, the offspring of a father labouring under constitutional disease, can be infected - through it without herself having had primary syphilis; and Jonathan Hutchinson has advanced a considerable amount of evidence in support of this doctrine, which, nevertheless, fails to carry conviction to my mind that such communication ever takes place. Duration of Transmissive Power in the Parents.—This question is one of great importance as bearing on the question of marriage of persons who have suffered from syphilis. There can be no doubt that the power to transmit the disease lasts during the whole time that the secondary manifesta- tions are present. There is equally strong evidence for believing that during the tertiary stage the parent does not infect his offspring. I know instances of men who had contracted syphilis before marriage, and had been imperfectly cured, and had for many years (ten, fifteen, or even twenty) occasionally suffered from outbreaks of cutaneous syphilides, gummata, and other varieties of the advanced form of the disease, and yet have been the parents of per- fectly healthy children, and have never infected their wives. Cases have, however, been recorded in which the Avife and her offspring have been affected after very long periods, extending even to ten or twelve years, even when no evident signs of the disease Avere present in the parents ; and, on the other- hand, marriage at trvo years after infection has frequently been followed by the production of healthy children. When, therefore, the question is put to the Surgeon, Avhen may a patient marry who has suffered from constitutional syphilis, it is by no means always easy to give a direct and immediate answer. I11 answering the difficult question that is thus frequently raised, the Surgeon must be Arery cautious ; he must bear in mind that the health and happiness of a woman and the future of a family are often dependent on his reply ; and that, should he give his consent to the union and evil consequences follow, the whole responsibility Avill be throAvn upon him. It may be generally stated in the first place, that if any of the local symptoms of syphilis are deA'eloping themselves, the affected person should not marry, whatever time has elapsed since the commencement of the attack. As a general rule, even if all local symptoms have disappeared, it is adAdsable not to marry till three years after the commencement of the disease. If, hoAvever, there are reasons which make it difficult to delay so long, the Surgeon may give his consent to the patient's marrying at two years after the time of infection, provided he lniA'e shown no distinct symptoms of active syphilis in the preceding tAveh'e months. Marriage under tAvo years is most frequently folloAved by the production of diseased children, and should never be consented to unless the attack has been of a very slight character and no symptoms have been observed for a year. Progress of Acquired Syphilis. First Stage. Period of Incuba- tion.—The effects of contagion are not immediately manifested. The time that intervenes between inoculation and activity of the poison is called the inciibalion period. It may be occupied in three Avays. If the Aehielc containing the virus be of a non-irritating character, the broken surface heals, and all trace of the inoculation disappears until the incubation is completed : or, as the vehicle of the virus is often pus or discharge of an irritating kind, it may cause immediate inflammation at the point of inoculation. Ibis irritation subsides in a short time, and the part then remains quiet until the incubation is complete, when the syphilitic poison betrays its presence by