776 INJURIES OF THE SPINE. many months after the receipt of a spinal concussion or severe nervous shock, the pulse however being feeble. This disproportion between the force of the heart’s action and that of the pulse is very marked in many of these cases, and is an additional proof if any were needed of the important part played by the sympathetic in these cases. The Progressive Development of the various symptoms that have just been detailed extends usually over a lengthened period. In the early stages, the chief complaint is a sensation of lassitude, weariness, and inability for mental and physical exertion. Then come the pains, tinglings, and numbness of the limbs ; next the fixed pain and rigidity of the spine ; then the mental con- fusion and signs of cerebral disturbance, and the affection of the organs of sense ; the loss of motor power, and the peculiarity of gait. It is by this chain of symptoms, which, though fluctuating in intensity, is yet continuous and unbroken, that the injury sustained, and the illness subsequently developed, can be linked together in the relation of cause and effect. Impairment of Vision from Spinal Injury.*—One of the most frequent and most troublesome effects of spinal injury is a certain degree of impairment of vision, which assumes different characters, and comes on at very varying periods after the injury. Often a considerable interval intervenes between the occurrence of the injury and the development of the eye-symptoms ; and, if the patient be confined to bed, and be not called upon to use his eyes, it may be long before he discovers that their sight is enfeebled. This is more especially apt to be the case, as the attention of the Surgeon may not be directed to the state of the eyes in the first instance. The first and most frequent symptom that is complained of is a dimness or weakness of the sight, so that the patient cannot define the outlines of small objects, and cannot see in an obscure light. If he attempt to read, he can define the letters often of the smallest priut for a few seconds or minutes, but they soon run into one another, become obscured and blurred, and ill-defined. Glasses do not materially, if at all, im- prove this condition. There is often in the early stages some slight irregu- larity in the axis of the eyes, scarcely amounting, however, to a squint. This blurring, or indistinctness of vision, is often more marked with respect to near than to distant objects. After a time the patient usually suffers from irritabi- lity of the eyes, and cannot bear a strong light, even that of an ordinary window, in the daytime, or unshaded gas or lamplight. In consequence of this irritability of the eyes, the brows become involuntarily contracted, and the patient acquires a peculiar frown so as to exclude light as much as possible. This intolerance of light may amount to perfect photophobia, and is then associated with congestion of the conjunctiva and accompanied by lachrymation. One or both eyes may be thus affected. This intolerance of light is usually accompanied by musete volitantes and spectra, rings, stars, spots, flashes, and sparks, or an appearance of white-coloured ilame. The appearance of a fixed luminous spectrum, a line, circle, or coloured bar across the field of vision, is sometimes complained of. There is an undue retention of the image in many cases ; and where the patient has looked at any fixed object, such as the sun or the fire, complementary spectral colours, often of the most beautiful character, of varying degrees of intensity, • For a fuller consideration of the subject of Imiwimmil of 17.don ns n .1^i’H)T' \u Nervous System, 1 would refer the render to Lecture 10, " Concussion of the Spine, by the Auu.or Longmans, lSSli.