843 WOUNDS OF PERICARDIUM AND HEART. the knife or ligature ; but Guthrie advises that the protruded part should never be separated from the pleura costalis by which it is surrounded at its base, so that the cavity of the thorax may not be opened ; the wound must then lie closed in the usual way. WOUNDS OF THE HEART AND LARGE VESSELS. Wounds of the Pericardium.—The pericardium may be wounded with or without penetration of the chest, and with or without injury of the heart. Without wound of the chest-wall, it may be lacerated by a severe contusion ; with penetration of the chest-wall, it may be wounded by a stab or by gun-shot. Laceration of the Pericardium may take place from a severe blow on the chest. I have seen the membrane split down longitudinally for two or three inches, from contusion received in a fall. The Pericardium may be wounded by a stab without the heart being injured. Thus I have seen a wound of the pericardium in a young man, in- flicted by his sweetheart with a sharp-pointed pair of embroidery scissors. The pericardium may be bruised or cut by an oblique gunshot-wound without damage to the heart. This I have seen happen from a pistol-bullet penetrating the chest obliquely. In injuries such as these, collapse to a greater or less extent is always met with. This is followed by inflammation ; the ordinary auscultatory signs of pericarditis followed by effusion, such as friction, with extended dulness on percussion, become perceptible ; and there are intense thoracic oppression, dyspnoea, and restlessness, with pallor and a small rapid pulse. In some cases of wound of the pericardium, with a superficial injury to the heart, one of the coronary vessels may be divided, and blood effused into the sac. In these cases the interposition of the layer of blood causes the heart- sounds to be weak and remote, the impulse of the apex to be indistinct or imperceptible, and the cardiac dulness to be widely diffused. The Prognosis of cases of injury of the pericardium is necessarily very unfavourable. The heart may become choked by the intra-pericardial extra- vasation of blood or the inflammatory effusion. The Treatment of these cases of wound of the pericardium should be con- ducted as far as possible on antiseptic principles. In cases of a punctured wound, should the external wound close, and the pericardium become distended with effusion to such an extent as to embarrass the action of the heart and threaten to prove fatal, the fluid must be removed by means of the aspirator.. (See Tapping the Pericardium, Yol. II.) The general treatment must be con- ducted on those ordinary medical principles that guide us in the management of similar cases arising from causes other than traumatic. Wounds of the Heart.—The heart may receive a wound which does not penetrate through the walls ; or one or more of its cavities may be opened by the agent that inflicts the injury. Most commonly the wound is inflicted by stab or gun-shot, and then generally no foreign body is lodged iu the cardiac cavities or substance. But in some instances bullets, as well as pieces of stick, needles, iron pins, and other substances, have been lodged and encysted in the substance of the ventricles. In the vast majority of cases, wounds of the heart are immediately fatal.