399 EFFECTS OF IRRITANTS ON THE PROCESS. supposed by any pathologist that the fibrin or the red corpuscles can take any part in the formation of new tissue. The whole question, therefore, turns upon the fate of the white corpuscles in the clot, and, as in the first few hours after its formation the base becomes infiltrated with wandering cells, this question becomes merged into the wider one of the part played by migrating leucocytes in the formation of new tissue. (See Repair.) 0. Weber has described in the vascularization of the thrombus the formation of vessels communicating with the lumen of the artery ; but subsequent observers have not confirmed his views. It is probable, however, that when restoration of the channel of an artery takes place after it has been tied in its continuity with an absorbable ligature—an accident that has occurred more than once—the first channel of communication from above the ligature to below may be by means of the new vessels formed in the thrombus during organization, and that by the subsequent dilatation of these with absorption of the new tissue round them the lumen may be completely restored. The internal changes above described as taking place in the healthy closure of a wounded artery occur first at the injured extremity of the vessel, the complete closure and obliteration not taking place as high as the next branch till many weeks after the actual divided end is closed and sometimes not occurring at all. During the early period, the upper part of the internal clot serves the important function of breaking the force of the wave of blood and thus giving the necessary rest to the point at which repair is going on. In order that healthy closure of the vessel may take place it is essential that there shall be an absence of undue irritation at the cut end. If the end of the artery is exposed to direct contact with decomposing blood-clot or dis- charges, inflammation and exudation will continue, and, instead of the firm new tissue sealing the divided end of the artery, excessively soft granulation- tissue or merely puriform exudation may be formed ; and as under, these con- ditions the external support, as before stated, is also wanting, the safety of the patient depends merely on the adhesion of the blood-clot higher up, aud secondary haemorrhage is very likely to occur. A large ligature soaked in septic matter or a decomposing piece of catgut in contact with the injured part of the artery acts as an irritant, prolongs exudation, and softens the reparative material. On the other hand carbolized catgut or silk in an aseptic condition seems to cause little or no irritation beyond that caused by the mechanical violence used in its application. The changes that have just been described are those which take place in the proximal end of the artery. In the distal or inferior end, occlusion is effected jy processes essentially the same, but the retraction and contraction of the vessel are not so complete and extensive, and the coagulum is usually smaller !lefh,VmS1C VrCi °UtS1Cle ) T som\cafs> .iudeed> the internal coagulum is i , ' 10 ess Pei'fcct closure of the distal end may, as Guthrie suggests, the cause of the more frequent occurrence of haemorrhage from it ‘ ‘ WnvT« Ha/mouuhage fR0M A Pictured on Partially Divided been dlfi^l ? ^ masomewhab difl™t manner from that which has just , d scnbed> tlie difference consisting in the changes that npio-lilmnvL™ T ,1 “ ^ uuo cuanges cnao go on in the arte, S “ WTtl- If “* womd i» the soft parts covering the cscaiK wit? A S™ ™.d obll9ue in direction, so that the blood does not haemorrhao-p f.?i^1C<li aci lfcy> ifc will be found that the temporary arrest of the o aves pace by an extravasation of blood occurring between the