472 INJURIES OF NERVES, MUSCLES, AND TENDONS. CHAPTER XVIII. SPECIAL INJURIES OF NERVES, MUSCLES, AND TENDONS. INJURIES OF NERVES. Contusion.—Nerves are often contused; the injury producing a tingling sensation at their extremities, and pain at the part struck. Ihese effects usually pass off in the course of a few minutes or hours. If the blow have been sufficiently severe to cause haemorrhage amongst the fibres of the nerve, the symptoms may be more severe and persistent, and temporary paralysis of the parts supplied by the injured nerve may result. In certain conditions of the system, more especially in hysterical women, the symptoms may last for a considerable period, even after slight contusions, and may give rise to neuralgia of a very permanent character. In other cases the continuance of the symp- toms appears to be due to the supervention of chronic neuritis, accompanied by thickening of the neurilemma, causing compression of the nerve-fibres, and thus producing more or less extensive paralysis, accompanied by neuralgic pain in the part supplied by the affected nerve. Strains. Any violent movement, which stretches a nerve forcibly, may occasionally be slowly followed by the symptoms of chronic neuritis to be described later on. This is most common in the nerves of the brachial plexus in the axilla. „ , Compression.—This most commonly arises from disease, as from the pres- sure of tumours or aneurisms, but it may be the result of injury; thus, t le brachial plexus may be pressed on by the head of the humerus m a dislocation the spinal nerves may be compressed at the intervertebral foramina m cases of fracture of the spine, and the fragments of bone in a fracture of a lnnb may press on contiguous nerves. Another common form of compression is the so-called crutch-palsy, resulting from the pressure of the upper end of the crutch upon the nerves of the brachial plexus ; and a similar paralysis of the muscles ot the front of the leg is not uncommonly met with, as the result of pressure on t external popliteal nerve as it winds round the head of the fibula from spin, s applied without sufficient padding. Nerves may be compressed also by the o-rowth of callus from a fractured bone, or by the contraction of the cicatiicial tissue of a scar. The mildest effects of pressure are the numbness, tinghiu, and sense of weakness with which everyone is familiar, as a con^uence of pressure on the ulnar nerve from sleeping with the aim under the o • ^ effects of pressure are proportional to its severity and duration. • - • a sufficient length of time, complete loss of sensation and paralysis are pro- duced in the parts supplied by the nerve pressed upon, followed by wasting anddeeeneration of the muscles. Such cases usually recover in time, if the cause be removed and the limb be afterwards treated by the methods described ^ RUPTURE or LACERATIOX.-Healthy nerves arc never torn across except in