NECK OF FEMUR—IMPACTED INTRACAPSULAR. 593 cannot be borne, the patient must be kept in bed for at least two or three months, when a leather splint may be put on, and he may move about on crutches. During the whole of the treatment, a generous, an e\cn s imu lating diet should be ordered, and the patient kept on a water-lie or cus non. In these fractures of the neck of the femur, the starched bandage will often be found to be most useful. It may be applied as in fractured thigh, but should have additional strength in the spica part, and indeed may be provided with a small pasteboard cap so as to give more efficient support. When the patient begins to move about, great comfort will be derived from the use of a well- padded leather or gutta-percha case, made in two pieces, one for the hip, the other for the thigh, united by a hinge-joint, which can be set fast in the erect posture by chopping a slot over it. When this is raised it can be flexed, and so admit of the patient sitting in comfort. In old people, this plan of treat- ment is especially advantageous, as it enables them to sit up or even to walk about, and thus prevents all the ill effects of long confinement in bed. Impacted Intracapsular Fracture is a rare accident, and can scarcely be distinguished from a similar injury outside the capsule. In it the upper end of the neck is driven into the cancellous tissue of the separated head. In a case under the care of G-ay, of the Massachusetts G eneral Hospital, which is recorded by Bigelow, the nature of the injury was proved by post-mortem examination, death having occurred from pneumonia at the end of two weeks. The follow- ing were the symptoms. The patient, aged 76, fell, striking the right tro- chanter. He thought he had received only a bruise, and crawled upstairs to bed unaided. Two days after, when admitted to the hospital, the right leg was found to be shortened half an inch ; the foot was everted, and could not be inverted beyond the perpendicular ; the thigh could be flexed and extended without difficulty, but with pain ; the trochanter was less prominent than that of the other side. Before he died he could raise his foot some inches from the bed without assistance. After death the head was found to be “ broken from the articular extremity of the neck, which was short and thick, the fracture behind being almost at the line of junction of the articular cartilage and the bone, while in front it ran irregularly across the neck from a quarter to half an inch below this line. The head was bent obliquely backwards and downwards towards the lesser trochanter—the tilting of the head opening the fracture on the outside of the neck—and was so firmly impacted that considerable force was required to withdraw it.” Bigelow records also a case under the care of Cushing, of Dorchester, U.S.A., in which the exact nature of the impacted fracture was proved by examination after death, which occurred nearly five years after the accident. The patient was seventy years of age. The fracture closely resembled that just described, and union had taken place by bone. It is evident that these cases cannot be distinguished during life from impacted fiactures of any other part of the neck. The treatment is the same as that of extracapsular impacted fracture. Extracapsular Fracture of the Neck of the Thigh-Bone is commonly met with at an earlier period of life than the injury which has just been described, being most frequent between the ages of thirty and forty, but it is met with also at advanced periods of life. It is the result of the application of direct violence to the hip, and is equally common in both sexes. In young subjects it occurs only as a consequence of great violence, but in old people it may result from a simple fall on the hip. vol. i. „ „ Q Q