200 LOCAL DISTURBANCES AND INFLAMMATION. Bleeding from tlic external jugular vein sliould never be performed, as it is accompanied by the danger of entrance of air, and the effect produced differs in no respect from that of bleeding from the arm. Whether blood-letting be practised or not, we must endeavour to set the secretions free, and in this way to clear the blood of the morbid products accumulated in it. If we can bring about a full action ol the livei, with copious bilious evacuations from the bowels or an abundant acid perspiration from the skin, or a copious discharge of urine, we shall diminish tbe con- stitutional disturbance and mitigate, if not cut short, the local process. \\ ith these objects in view, purgatives, diaphoretics, and diuretics are to 3 *1'1 Purgatives, by causing dilatation of the vessels of the alimentary canal, reduce the blood-pressure in other parts, and this effect is still further in- creased by the diminution they cause in the general mass of the circulate 0 fluid. Moreover, they clear the intestinal canal, and thus favour digestion and assimilation of food. From the frequency with which “ . associated with unhealthy inflammatory processes it seems probable that the intestinal tract forms an important channel for the elimination of the produc s j S Such inflammations from the blood, and the necessity of maintaining a proper action of the bowels would thus be explained. Experience teaches us llso1 that in inflammatory affections constipation always aggravates the eleva- tion of temperature, and a brisk purgative will often bring it down one 01 two decrees This is especially the case with children. Purgatives should, there- fore always be given early, except in some special cases ot acute inflammation 0^the abdominal organs.^ !n general it will be found mo^ad^t= ^ administer a mercurial, followed by a brisk saline purge ; and this should repeated from time to time during the progress of the case. , , Diuretics and Diaphoretics are of much use when fever forms a marked feature of the case and they should then be administered frequently during S dav Free "^perspiration lowers the temperature by increasing the loss rf l—ftom the* surface of the body and the diiatatmn ot the cutaneous vessels tends to diminish the blood-pressure in internal parts. Both administered eithei m the , oombined with Dover's powder, salines above-mentioned, 01 as James s p Ushed too far, so Antimony is best given in smal ^^00 on the IS to induce distinct nausea, it exerts a pm\ eriui acpitss 0 visceral complications. It lowers the to* ^ #f tho jXeut. produces speedy and copious sweating, .„ h which affect the ,i”s a'jsrrrjsi • -—-