493 treatment of traumatic arthritis. application of Liter’s tubes (p. 107). In fact, the best chance of avoiding further mischief lies in the exclusion of air, perfect rest, and the continuous op- plication of dry cold. In this way inflammation may be prevented and union of the wound take place under the plaster ; but in the majority of cases the injury is followed by so abundant a secretion of synovia, that the dressing becomes loosened by the tension and outward pressure of the accumulated fluid which escapes from under it. If the preventive means fail to arrest inflammation, and the joint swell, becoming red, hot, and throbbing, with much constitutional disturbance, the cold applications must be removed and heat substituted in the form of fomentations. The synovial cavity should then be emptied by means of the aspirator. If the fluid that be withdrawn be merely turbid synovia, leeches may be applied and the hot fomentations con- tinued. Opium may be given to relieve pain. In this way the symptoms may be relieved and the joint recover. Should the fluid withdrawn be pure pus, or contain a large proportion of pus, it is useless any longer to attempt the closure of the wound. When suppuration has come on, long and free incisions should be made into the joint, on each side, if possible, and at the most dependent part of the capsule, so as to allow a ready exit to the pus. If this be done thoroughly, and perfect rest maintained afterwards, the symptoms are immediately relieved, and ultimately recovery may take place, usually with ankylosis, but occasionally with some degree of mobility. Small incisions into the joint are worse than useless ; by a small incision the pus cannot be evacuated from a deep and com- plicated joint, but air is admitted, and the result is to encourage the decompo- sition of the discharges, and to cause severe septic fever and possibly pymmia ; by making free and early incisions, however, and thus establishing perfect drainage, but little decomposable matter is left in the cavity of the joint, and the evils of decomposition are reduced to a minimum. The complete relief of tension procured by such incisions reduces the local inflammation and saves the patient much pain. After the incisions have been made, it is better to avoid poulticing or simple water dressing, as these encourage putrefaction. The wound must be syringed with some antiseptic solution as Condy’s fluid, car- bolic lotion (1 in 40), or tincture of iodine and water (jij to Oj), and be dressed with carbolic oil (1 in 10), or terebene and oil (1 in 6), or a strong lead and spirit lotion. If boracic-acid-lint be at hand, that doubtless forms the most efficient dressing, applied warm like a poultice and changed frequently. In the absence of all antiseptic material the open treatment, or the simple application of oil or lard will be the best. If the case proceed favourably, the discharge will gradually lessen, and the constitutional disturbance subside. The joint must then be placed in such a position, that, when ankylosis results, the limb may be serviceable to the patient. If, however, as very frequently happens when the larger joints are wounded, the suppuration within the articulation, and the abscesses that form outside it, reduce the patient to a hectic state, secondary amputation speedily becomes inevitable. Wounds op Individual Joints.—To the preceding general principles I have little to add with respect to wounds of the individual joints. I he Hip and Shoulder are so deeply placed, and so well protected, that they can scarcely be wounded except as the result of gun-shot injury, the treatment of which condition has already been discussed (pp. 344, 34G). 01111 o the Knee-joint is one of the most common and most severe of