917 DIAGNOSIS AND PROGNOSIS. similar condition in the brain. The internal organs present nothing that is characteristic. As in all diseases accompanied by high fever and general blood-poisoning, the epithelium of the kidneys and liver is found in a state oi cloudy swelling, and the spleen is in some cases enlarged. The lungs arc usually congested. Sometimes marked post-mortem staining of the blood- vessels and organs is found very soon after death, and occasionally small petechue are scattered beneath the serous membranes. Diagnosis.—The diagnosis of the cutaneous erysipelas is generally easily made. From the exanthemata, it is distinguished by the character of the eruption ; the way in which it spreads from a single spot, usually a wound or raw surface, and especially by the characteristic sharply defined margin. It is most commonly confounded with the red blush surrounding a wound in which septic matter is pent up ; in this, however, the margin of the redness is not sharply defined ; the enlargement of the lymphatic glands and the definite in- vasion are usually absent. From inflammation of the veins or of the lymphatics, the diagnosis is not always easy, more especially as the two conditions frequently co-exist. If a vein is inflamed, the general absence of cutaneous redness, the existence of a hard round cord, and the tenderness along the course of the vessel, are sufficient to establish the diagnosis. In in- flammation of the lymphatic vessels the redness is not uniform, but consists of a number of small and separate red streaks, running in the direction of the lymphatics, and affecting the glands towards which they course. These two affections—erysipelas of the skin and inflammation of the lymphatics—are so frequently conjoined that a differential diagnosis is not of much importance. Prognosis.—The prognosis in uncomplicated cutaneous erysipelas is by no means grave. Of 3G cases of idiopathic erysipelas admitted under the care of the physicians in University College Hospital during a period of ten years only two died, and one of them was suffering from chronic Bright’s disease. When traumatic the disease is far more dangerous. Of 148 cases admitted under the Surgeons or breaking out in the surgical wards during a similar period 35 died. In only five is no special complication mentioned in the report, and one of those was an infant. Two died from pneumonia, seven of pyaemia which attacked j.the patient after the erysipelas had sub- sided, two of meningitis from injury to the head, two suffered from Bright’s disease, two from severe constitutional syphilis, one from general albuminoid degeneration, two from advanced cancer of the breast, one from cancer of the liver, one from heart disease, two from suppuration of the kidney secondary to cystitis; one had a large cavity in the lung; one was an habitual drunkard, one was in very bad health, and one was dying at the time of in- vasion ; one died from bed-sores, one from secondary haemorrhage, one from an abscess, and one from thrombosis of the veins of the leg and slough- ing of the skin after the specific disease had subsided. These statistics show that cutaneous erysipelas rarely proves fatal unless it attacks an individual previously suffering from grave constitutional disease, but that by exhausting the strength it may leave the patient liable to fall a victim to other complica- tions of wounds such as pyaemia. Disease of the kidneys is always a most serious complication. High fever, violent delirium, profuse diarrhoea, and early prostration are grave signs during the progress of the case. Traumatic eijsipelas is more dangerous than idiopathic, as other unhealthy processes are apt to follow in the wound ; on the other hand, sores which have been making