ANTISEPTIC DRESSINGS—LISTER'S. 3°9 injected with, the solution of carbolic acid, and unpleasant inflammation may follow. The whole of the parts which will be covered by the dressing should be well washed with the 1 in 20 solution. If the wound be on the hand or foot, great care must be taken to clean the nails and between the digits. li- on the head or any other hairy part, the hair must be cut, and it is safer to oil what remains with carbolized oil, 1 part of carbolic acid to 9 of olive oil. In the case of an operation, the skin is first cleansed with the 1 in 20 solution for six or eight inches around the seat of the intended incision when this is possible; it is a good plan to wrap the part in a towel moistened with the 1 in 40 solution for half an hour or more before the operation. This being done, it is necessary to prevent the entrance of organisms to the wound during the operation. They can be carried into the wound in various ways. First, by the Surgeon's hands; to prevent this the operator and his assistants must first carefully wash in soap and water, and afterwards dip their hands in the I in 40 solution ; and the dipping must be repeated whenever the hands have been exposed to the air unprotected by the lotion. Secondly, by the instru- ments ; all the instruments must therefore be placed in a bath of carbolic acid and water, 1 in 40, taken out only when wanted, and immediately replaced when done with, if they are likely to be used again during the operation. Thirdly, by the sponges; these must be prepared as before described (page 37), and must be freshly squeezed out of the 1 in 40 solution when handed to the assistant. Fourthly, by the ligatures; these must therefore be composed either of carbolized catgut or unwaxed silk soaked in carbolic-acid-lotion (1 in 20) for some hours before they are used ; or the haemorrhage may be arrested by torsion, and the use of ligatures entirely avoided. Fifthly, by the air,• to pre- vent this, Lister devised the plan of operating under a spray. The use of the spray has already been described under the antiseptic treatment of abscesses (page 246). The spray is the part of Lister’s treatment which has met with the greatest amount of opposition. The careful disinfection of the Surgeon’s hands and instruments, and of sponges, the cleaning of the patient’s skin, and the washing of the wound with solutions of chemical antiseptics, are almost universally practised, and their utility is generally acknowledged ; but a large number of Surgeons do not employ the spray. The advocates of the spray urge the following points in its favour : it is the most perfect and continuous mode of irrigating a wound; if the spray be sufficiently fine, it is im- possible for any organisms floating in the air to escape contact with one of the minute drops of the antiseptic solution, and thus to be rendered innocuous; consequently, air mixed with spray may be admitted with impunity to the natural cavities of the body, to the deep parts of irregular wounds, and into other situations m which perfect irrigation by any other means would be im- possible or dangerous. Lastly, that by means of the steam-spray the Surgeon can examine the wound while dressing it at his leisure, and still maintain perfect mngatmn. In confirmation of these views, it may be stated that at Univer- y o ege ospital, aseptic results have been obtained with much greater certainty since the efficient steam-spray was introduced than while' haud- ^en.8 Aveie employed, and that the results of those cases in which the •iJ f8, )een 1;SC(^ *mve ^een more uniformly aseptic than when it has been snmv nv /,W^S.11U£.oufc the wound or by irrigation. The opponents of the 1 n .ia ‘k.18 inconvenient during the operation, wetting the Surgeon j’cuinig is view; and sometimes, in long operations, giving him