ERYSIPELAS. 9io Erysipelas is especially apt to become complicated with visceral inflamma- tions ; the membranes of the brain, the bronchi and the lungs, or the gastro- intestinal mucous surface, are commonly implicated in this way ; and it is often through these complications that death results. Causes.—The causes of erysipelas are : first, the essential cause, the virus or contagium; and secondly, thq predisposing causes, which may be either local or constitutional—the latter being again divided into those that are intrinsic to the patient, including those constitutional or local conditions predisposing him to receive the virus, and those that are extrinsic, such as are the conditions of life to which he is habitually exposed or by which he is surrounded after the injury or operation to which he has been subjected. The extrinsic causes may predispose the patient to receive the virus by impairing his general health, or may encourage the development of the poison and its transmission from one individual to another. The Essential Cause.—Erysipelas is undoubtedly contagious. The con- tagion of erysipelas, after having been repeatedly denied, can no longer be contested. Travers, Copland, Bright, Xunneley, and others, have adduced cases in proof of its contagious character ; and instances have repeatedly fallen under my own observation, in which erysipelas, often unfortunately fatal, has been communicated to the servants, nurses, or relatives of patients affected by it. A remarkable proof of the contagious nature of erysipelas occurred in the winter of 1851, in one of my wards at University College Hospital. The Hospital had been free from any cases of the kind for a considerable time, when, on the 15th of January, at about noon, a man was admitted under my care with gangrenous erysipelas of the legs, and placed in Bruudrett Ward. On my visit two hours after his admission, I ordered him to be removed to a separate room, and directed the chlorides to be freely used in the ward from which he had been taken. No twitstanding these precautions, however, two days after this, a patient, from whom a necrosed portion of ilium had been removed a few weeks previously, and who was lying in the adjoining bed to that in which the patient with the erysipelas had been temporarily placed, was seized with erysipelas, of which he speedily died. The disease then spread to almost every case in the ward, and proved fatal to several patients who had recently been operated upon. In some instances patients were affected with the constitutional symptoms without any appearance of local inflammatory action, but characterized by the same gastro-intestinal irritation that marked the other cases. The contact of dead or putrescent animal matters with recent wounds may occasion it. In this way the disease is not unfrequently originated in hospitals by dressers going direct from the dead-house, and especially from the examination of the bodies of those who have died of diffuse inflamma- tion, to the bedside of patients, without taking sufficient care to wash their hands or change their clothes. For this reason also it is of great consequence that the same instruments be not used for practising operations on the dead, and performing them on the living body. As before stated there is no evidence to show that the virus is the same in all forms of erysipelatous inflammation, in fact there is strong reason to believe that it is not. In the cutaneous form of erysipelas, it was shown by Lukoinslci some years ago that the lymph-spaces of the cutis at the spread- ing margin of the inflammation contained large numbers of micrococci.