SYPHILITIC DISEASES OF BOXES. 11T5 on the sclerotic, close to the cornea ; the aqueous humour has lost its trans- parency, giving- a muddy look to the eye, and the colour of the ms is alteied. The pupil is diminished in size and irregular in shape, usually angular towards the nasal side, and small yellowish or brownish nodules of lymph may be seen to be deposited on the surface of the iris. If the case be left to itself, or be improperly treated, it will advance to disorganization of the globe, and to permanent loss of sight. The retina often becomes affected, and incurable blindness results. . . The Treatment consists in local depletion by means of cupping and ieeclies to the temples, and the administration of calomel and opium internally, at the same time that a strong solution of atropine is put frequently into the eye. Most commonly, as the mouth becomes affected by the mercurial, the eye will clear, the lymph becoming absorbed, and the pupil regaining its normal shape and colour.' In some cases, however, a chronic inflammation continues ; here the best effects result from the administration of small doses of percliloride of mercury, with repeated blistering to the temples ; and, in a later stage, soda and bark may be advantageously given. 5. Syphilitic Diseases of the Bones.—The bones are liable to suffer both the secondary and tertiary stages of syphilis. In the secondary stage aching pains in the bones are nob uncommon. They are worse at night, and may be unaccompanied by any recognizable , change of structure. The characteristic bone diseases of syphilis are usually delayed till the tertiary stage, some two years or more after infection. By some Surgeons the graver forms are said to be the result of the administration of mercury, rather than of the syphilis for which the mineral is given. This doctrine I believe to be entirely without foundation. That they are met with in syphilitic cases in which no mercury has been given, there can be no doubt. I have had under my care patients with extensive disease of the cranium and of the clavicle, whose syphilis had been treated from first to last on the non- mercurial plan. One patient, especially, a soldier, from whom I removed portions of the cranium and of the clavicle for necrosis accompanying consti- tutional syphilis, had been treated in a military hospital without mercury. I have never seen or heard of mercury producing necrosis in any bones, except those of the jaws, when given for diseases other than syphilis. No doubt diseases of the bones are especially apt to occur when the patient’s constitution has been broken down by any means ; and an improperly conducted mercurial course may have this result. They occur usually after the patient has passed through the whole course of the less severe syphilitic affections, such as those of the skin, mucous membrane, and throat. The affections of the bones, however, may in some cases declare themselves at the same time with the affections of the skin and mucous membranes. They more commonly occur amongst the poorer classes, especially those who are exposed to atmospheric vicissitudes, and chiefly in strumous constitutions. The diseases to which the bones are liable as a consequence of syphilis are the following :— Syphilitic Periostitis or Node.—This consists of a localized inflammation of the periosteum, usually affecting one bone only, but sometimes many. The inflammation is accompanied by exudation into and under the membrane ; the exudation may be absorbed, and the part restored to its normal condition,