CELLULO-GUTANEO US ERYSIPELAS-TREATMENT. 923 inflamed structures ; others contending, on the contrary, that a number of small incisions better answer the proposed end. The objections to the on0 incision are, that so considerable a wound not only inflicts a serious shoe £ 0 the system, but that the loss of blood from it may be so great as to be ratal cases having occurred in which life has been lost from this cause, or the haemorrhage has been arrested only by the ligature of the main artery of the limb ; and also that a single long incision does not relieve tension so effectually as a number of smaller ones. These preventive incisions consequently should be of limited extent, from two to three inches in length : at most they should not extend deeper than into the gelatinous-looking subcutaneous areolar tissue, unless it happen that the disease have extended beneath the fascia, when* they may be carried through it also. South recommends that the incisions should be so arranged in fours, as to enclose a diamond- | | shaped space, and states that in this way the greatest relief is given | to the tension of the part. As it is not the object of the Surgeon to draw blood in these cases, any undue amount of haemorrhage should be arrested by plugging the wound. Much blood may be saved by elevating the limb and applying a tourniquet before using the knife, but it is better not to employ Esmarch’s bandage, for fear of driving the unhealthy inflammatory products into the circulation. In those cases in which the disease is not already complicated with an open wound and decomposing discharges, great advantage will be derived from the employment of antiseptic dressings, thus pre- venting decomposition of the effused inflammatory fluids which fill up the spaces of the areolar tissue exposed by the incisions. Before making the incisions, the limb should be well fomented for a quarter of an hour with cloths wetted with a hot solution of carbolic acid (1 to 40). The tourniquet is then applied, and the incisions made with antiseptic precautions. To arrest excessive bleeding, the wounds must be plugged with carbolic gauze. The treatment is then conducted according to the rules laid down when describing the antiseptic method. If the necessaries for this be not at hand, the part may be wrapped in hot oakum poultices, iodoform or salicylic wool or fomentation of boracic lint, or dressed with some other disinfectant application. After suppuration and sloughing have taken place, as indicated by a boggy feel of the parts, free incision should be made in order to let out pus and sloughs. After this, the skin will often be found to be greatly undermined, blue, and thin, with matter bagging in the more dependent parts ; if so, egress must be made for it by free counter-openings, and drainage-tubes inserted as required. During the after-treatment, frequent dressing is necessary to prevent an accumulation of pus, and the sloughs must be removed as they form. Care should be taken not to destroy any of the vascular connections of the skin with subjacent parts ; but, in order to get proper cicatrization, it will often be found necessary to lay open sinuses, or to divide bridges of unhealthy and blue integument stretching across chasms left by the removal of the gangrenous areolar tissue. If the loss of substance be great, the cicatrix that forms may be weak, imperfect, or so contracted as to occasion great deformity of the limb. In other cases, again, the diseased state of the bones and joints may be such as to call for ultimate amputation, either in consequence of the local deformity and annoyance, or in order to free the constitution from a source of hectic and of irritation. In all circumstances, the patient’s health will usually continue