WOUND-DIPHTHERIA—HOSPITAL GANGRENE. 901 micrococci, singly, in chains, and in colonies. There is usually some slight febrile disturbance, and the nearest lymphatic glands are swo en. Causes.—This unhealthy process is always the consequence of loo. o of cleanliness and general imperfection of hygienic arrangemen s. < y affect several wounds in a ward, but its contagiousness is not very clear y , marked, and it frequently occurs in isolated cases. It has no 1 elation diphtheria. It is true that a similar unhealthy condition has been obseived in wounds when the patient has been attacked by genuine diphtheria ; but the constitutional condition is then entirely different. Diphtheritic inflamma- tion in the throat does not lead to the progressive destruction of tissue observed in the so-called wound-diphtheria. It is much more nearly allied to hospital-gangrene ; in fact, the term wound-diphtheria is extended by many writers on the continent to that process, the affection here desciibed being regarded as the mildest form of the same disease. It is well, however, to separate the process above described from genuine hospital-gangrene, on account of its less evident contagiousness and its comparatively harmless character. The relation of the micrococci found in the slough to the process is not certain, though it is very probable they are concerned in causing the unhealthy process. Treatment.—This is very simple. It is necessary only to apply some strong antiseptic lotion, such as chloride of zinc (gr. 40 to 5]), carbolic acid (1 in 20), or the surface may be rubbed over with solid nitrate of silver or sulphate of copper. When a wound assumes this condition the hygienic sur- roundings of the patient should be carefully investigated, and any faults of ventilation, cleanliness or drainage corrected. In the mildest cases dusting the surface with iodoform may be sufficient to arrest the unhealthy process. HOSPITAL-GANGRENE. This affection is known also by the names of contagious or pulpy gangrene, or sloughing phagedsena, and by some Drench and German writers the term wound-diphtheria is extended to it. It is characterized by a rapidly destruc- tive and spreading infective inflammation, the affected wound becoming covered as the process extends by an adherent slough. It attacks open sores and Wounds. It is rarely met with in its fullest extent, except in military practice ; the accumulation of a large number of wounded persons with foul suppurating sores under one roof, and the want of proper cleanliness and attention during an active campaign, disposing to it. It used formerly to desolate the civil hospitals ; but, owing to the use of antiseptics locally and to the general sanitary measures now adopted in these institutions, it has practically disappeared from them. The occurrence of this foul disease is of itself condemnatory of the sanitary arrangements of the hospital in which it is developed, and in the present state of our knowledge is inexcusable. Local Signs.—When hospital gangrene invades a wound or open sore that has hitherto been perfectly healthy, the surface becomes covered with grey soft points of slough, which rapidly spread, until the whole of the surface of the wound is affected. At the same time the sore increases rapidly in super- ficial extent, and commonly in depth ; the surrounding integument becomes mdematous, swollen, and of a livid red colour ; the edges of the ulcer are everted, sharp-cut, and assume a circular outline ; and its surface is covered with a thick pulpy greyish-green tenacious mass, which is so firmly adherent