720 INJURIES OF THE HEAD. Treatment is required for the fracture itself when simple and undepressed, the j Surgeon’s whole attention being directed to the injury that may have been j inflicted on the brain or seal]). Should the fracture be compound the wound i should be carefully cleansed with carbolic lotion (1 in 20), and some antiseptic . dressing applied. The patient’s safety depends to a great extent upon the 1 prevention of decomposition. In all fissured fractures there is necessarily some blood extravasated between the dura mater and the bone, as well as in the diploe, supposing the fracture to be in a part where this exists. If this extravasated blood should decompose, the patient would run all the dangers of ' suppuration between the dura mater and bone or septic inflammation of the diploe. Moreover, it is always possible that the dura mater may be torn even beneath a simple fissure, though fortunately this is rare. Should this however have taken place, and decomposition of the discharges occur, the danger of septic meningitis setting in is very great; and should this happen, the death of the patient is a certain consequence. After the wound has been cleaned it may be dressed with Lister’s gauze or with iodoform or salicylic wool secured by a bandage. Should this not be available, lint dipped in carbolic oil (1 in 10) or in equal parts of glycerine of carbolic acid, and water, forms an excellent dressing. Although the most important precautionary measures for guarding against inflammation of the brain and its membranes are doubtless those intended to prevent septic processes in the wound, yet other measures should on no account be neglected. The head should be shaved if this has not already been done in dressing the wound, and cold may be applied. This can easily be done over Lister’s dressing or over the carbolic oil, but it can hardly be efficiently employed over iodoform or salicylic wool; and this, perhaps, in some cases forms an objection to their use. Care must be taken in all cases not to soak the dressing with water oozing through a half-putrid bladder ; the india- rubber ice-cap should be used when possible, or if that be not at hand a com- mon sponge-bag will answer the purpose fairly well. The bowels should be well opened, and the room kept cool and quiet. Should any symptoms of inflammation of the brain make their appearance, free, and if need be, repeated bleeding is, perhaps, of more service than any other means, and should never be omitted, except in feeble, very young, or aged subjects. In Chronic Hydrocephalus, the cranial bones are thinned and expanded; but, being at the same time preternaturally elastic and mobile, they are seldom fractured. When they are so injured, the presence of the water may save the brain from the direct effects of the blow. In one case that w as under my care, the hydrocephalic child fell from the top of a house on to its head, and sustained a long fracture through the left side of the skull, but without any scalp wound. Shortly after the accident, a large soft fluctuating tumour formed under the scalp opposite the line of fracture ; and, on this being tapped, about three ounces of cerebro-spinal fluid were drawn off. This operation was repeated, but the child died about ten days after the injury, with hemiplegia of the opposite side, and with convulsions. Fracture of the Base of the Skull.—The most serious, and indeed a very commonly fatal form of fissure or simple fracture of the skull, is that which extends through its base. It may occur in three ways. 1. This injury is usually caused by direct violence, as by a fall or a blow upon the vertex or side of the head, producing a fracture which extends from the point struck