222 SUPPURATION AND ABSCESS. CHAPTER Y. • SUPPURATION AND ABSCESS. Suppuration, or the formation of pus, has already been described in the Chapter on Inflammation. It was there pointed out that the process consists essentially of a continuance and exaggeration of one of the factors of inflamma- tion—the migration of the white corpuscles. The wandering cells accumulate outside the vessels, and possibly multiply by cell-division in their new situa- tion, hut this is extremely doubtful ; as the accumulation increases, the original tissues become pressed upon and absorbed, the new cells occupying their place ; finally, the central cells of the group degenerate from want of nutrition, their intercellular substance softens, and the liquid exudation from the surrounding part soaks in amongst them, and thus we get a creamy fluid, or pus.. If, as sometimes happens, we have the opportunity of examining microscopi- cally such a small collection of pus in the subcutaneous tissue, the following appearances are observed, proceeding from the circumference to the centre of the affected area. The first sign of deviation from health is that some scattered leucocytes are seen in the spaces between the fibres of the connective tissues, and often evidently in the neighbourhood of a small vessel; as the centre is approached, the number of these increases, gradually more and more com- pletely obscuring the connective tissue and its corpuscles, till at last nothing is to be seen but closely-packed small round cells, between which the amount of intercellular substance is too small to be recognized ; in the centre of this croup of cells may be a cavity from which the pus has escaped in preparing the section. The connective tissue, when it is last recognizable before being con- cealed by the infiltrating leucocytes, is seen to have its fibres swollen and vitreous in appearance, while its corpuscles are unchanged. They, evidently, are taking no part in the formation of the new cells, which are crowding amongst the fibres If any blood-vessels are recognizable, it will be seen that, near the point'at which everything is concealed by the leucocytes, they are filled with closely packed blood-corpuscles indicating the presence of a c ot ot blood, it is in this way that they are closed before, in common with the other tissues, they soften and break down in the presence of the invading leucocytes, and thus all hemorrhage is prevented. In this area also, although it cannot be seen with the microscope, the plasma which has exuded from the vesse s is coagi- wed and with the migrated cells forms a firm substance, the so-called inflam- matory lymph, which fills and plugs the spaces of the connective tissue, and thus forms a barrier round the collection of pus, and prevents its diffusing •l -if wictely amongst the tissues around. It is not possible in a sec made from aviation removed from the body to observe the state of the vessels beyond the area of stasis or thrombosis ; but if it ueie p<BSl e ^ mnrn Hipm in the living body, we should see, in ft spreading abscess, * u A Mai—, viz., from the eentre towards