77 INFLUENCE OF SHOCK. of blood, his age, &c.—for death from shock necessarily occurs more frequently under similar conditions of injury at advanced than at early periods of life—or even by season of year, yet it cannot in any way be affected by the conditions I to which the patient is exposed subsequently to the performance of the opera- tion, so far at least as hospitals or other external influences are concerned. We must, therefore, look upon death from shock as a part of the general accident to which the patient has been exposed and of the injury that he has sustained, aggravated, doubtless, by the further depressing influence exercised by so serious an operation as an amputation possibly high up in one of the limbs. It is interesting to observe that season exercises an influence on the liability to death from shock after primary amputations. According to Hewson, of Phila- delphia, it is most fatal in winter. The reason is obvious : the cold,' to which the sufferer has been exposed after the accident, is an additional cause of depression. _ If» therefore, we want to lessen the mortality consequent on these opera- tions, the fusu point to look to is not to amputate needlessly in hopeless cases of smash of the thigh high up, in order to give “ a last chance ” to a patient whose vital powers have already been depressed to the lowest ebb by a fearful mutilation. Such amputations, which sometimes consist in little more than the severance of a limb still attached to the trunk by shreds of muscle, ought scarcely to find their way into a statistical table professing to give the’results of opeiations the majority of which are more deliberately performed and with a better prospect of success. They ought, in point of fact, to constitute a class o . cases apart; the more so, as they are frequently complicated with internal injuries which are not detected until after the death of the patient. Shock, as has already been shown, exercises its influence chief! v in 1S> in which this source of error has been