g 26 ERYSIPELAS. greatly swollen, red, and cedematous; the eyeball protrudes, and vision is J impaired or altogether lost. Symptoms of cerebral inflammation may now- set in, the patient becoming delirious and finally comatose. The Treatment consists in fomentations, with early and free incisions into the orbit, made by pushing a lancet flat-wise between the eyeball and the orbital walls, through the inflamed conjunctiva, the eyelids having previously been everted. In this way inflammatory effusions and pus may be evacuated, and the eye saved. Destructive abscesses of the orbit, possibly of an erysipela- tous origin, occasionally occur in the puerperal state, requiring, when practica- ble, the free evacuation of the pus, in the way just mentioned. Diffuse Cellulitis of the Scalp following wound has been already described (pp. 715, 710). Idiopathic Erysipelas of the Head is always of the simple cutaneous form, having no tendency to end in suppuration or gangrene. The only peculiarity it presents is the excessive oedema of the subcutaneous tissue that . usually accompanies it, which completely obliterates the features. As the result of the tension caused by this, a little pus may occasionally form in the eyelids. Large blebs on the skin are very common. It is always accom- panied by some redness and soreness of the throat. The inflammation as a rule starts from the junction of the mucous membrane and skin, as at the angle of the eye, spreading quickly to the bridge of the nose, at the orifice of the meatus auditorius externus, or the angle of the mouth. Its origin without a small abrasion or wound has been frequently denied. The course, symptoms, prognosis and treatment are those of simple cutaneous erysipelas (p. 914). Diffuse Cellulitis of the Submaxillary Region was first accurately recognized by Ludwig, of Stuttgart, in 1836 ; hcuce the affection has some- times received the name of Ludwig’s Angina. It has been specially described also by Bickersteth, of Liverpool, and by Croly, of Dublin, aud in an exhaustive paper by K. W. Parker {Lancet, Yol. II., 1879). Submaxillary cellulitis is an acute diffuse inflammation of the areolar tissue beneath the deep cervical fascia, attended by the ordinary severe constitutional symptoms of diffuse cellulitis, and terminating rapidly in suppuration, with sloughing of the affected tissues unless relieved by prompt aud efficient treatment. The peculiar danger of the affection depends on the density of the cervical fascia, beneath which the inflammatory products arc pent up at a high degree of tension, and the importance of the parts affected. The disease may commence without evident cause after exposure to cold, and is said occasionally to hav e appeared in an epidemic form ; it may arise also from extension from the lymphatic glands in scarlet fever, or may follow wounds or other injuries. It may occur at any age ; in adults, according to Furncaux Jordan, it most frequently occurs in those addicted to excessive drinking. It commences as a brawny inflammatory swelling at the fore-part of the neck, or near the angle of the jaw surrounding the submaxillary gland, or more rarely the parotid. It rapidly spreads towards the chin, extending to the opposite side, and afterwards down the neck over the larynx. The tongue is pushed upwards, and the hardened tissue can be felt in the floor of the mouth on each side of it ; the movements of the ja« are interfered with, and deglutition becomes difficult. Sometimes there is o-reat swelling of the tongue from pressure on the lingual veins. A hen gan- grene of the areolar tissue sets in, the swelling becomes softer and boggy ; the mucous membrane may give way, and a foul discharge may come from