TUMOURS. 964 fclic formation of new tissue as a consequence of inflammation, they aie not supposed to take any share in the growth of tumours of the connective tissue type. . . The following arc the chief forms of connective tissue : areolar tissue, adipose tissue, white fibrous tissue, yellow elastic tissue, bone, and cartilage. Mucous tissue must also be included under the same type. It is met with in the Whartonian jelly of the umbilical cord and in the adult only as the vitreous humour of the eye. The simplest form of embryonic tissue is composed of small round cells about the size of white blood-corpuscles, connected with each other by a small quantity of homogeneous intercellular substance. The cell consists merely of a small mass of protoplasm with a nucleus in the centre, which is usually somewhat difficult to distinguish. The vessels in such tissue are abundant, and extremely thin-walled, like those of granulations. The modifications in this tissue observable in tumours are seen both m the cells and in the intercellular substance. The cells may be of great size, almost resembling epithelial cells ; they may be spindle-shaped, oval, or stellate. The inter- cellular substance may be small in quantity and amorphous, or it may be increased in amount without apparent change m its nature. The most common modification is a development of fibrous tissue between the cells. It must be remembered, however, that, in tumours classified under the type of embryonic tissue, with very rare exceptions, a recognizable intercellular sub- stance, either homogeneous or fibrous, extends between the mdiv ldual cells, and this serves as an important point of distinction between some modifications of embryonic tissue and epithelium. Epithelium is composed of cells united together by a homogeneous material or cement, which is not sufficient in quantity to be recognizable under ordinary circumstances. No vessels ever penetrate amongst the cells, nor do the fibr® > of the surrounding or subjacent connective tissue extend between the individual elements. Consequently if, on washing a microscopic section so as to remove the cells, a reticulate fibrous stroma is seen forming spaces in_ which. smgte cells have lain, the tissue is not epithelial. It will be seen hereafter that some forms of tumour, composed of one of the modifications of embryonic tissue may so closely resemble epithelial growths that it is only by carefully otom^ - a washed specimen that the distinction can be made. Ep.thehum-cel ranch in shape and size, and their outline is sharply defined They ^ usually one nucleus, sometimes two, with one or more highlyrefinetag, nuclooh. The nucleus is frequently eccentric. The form of epithehum met inft .mj primary tumour is always similar to that normal to ic pa . . nar tumour is growing ; thus in the skin it is squamous, in denies ' . , ,j J and in glands it is spheroidal, in secondary tumours, the type of e]’ corresponds to that of the primary growth. 1riniary °“ epithelium never originate except m connection mth pai ts ^ rd- rells are normally present. This fact has led to another classification, a i,! to the o io,'u of the part in which the tumour grows, from one or other 2 threc° layers into whlh the blastoderm divides in the WsUgcofdw* ^ii^ni^IL^ U kiuf fie cpi,.,^!