599 SHAFT OF FEMUR. grating, almost like true crepitus, on moving the joint. Here, however, the history of the case, the fact of the shortening not being of recent occuncncethe possible affection of other joints and the character of the gratog cient to establish the nature of the injury. The- diagnosis of thesem from dislocations will be considered in a subsequent chapter. Occasion,Id the fracture extends through the trochanter major and upper part. of t e shaft without implicating the neck of the bone. Here there is shortenin to about three-fourths of an inch, or an inch, with much eversion and crepitus readily felt. This fracture, which unites firmly and well by bone, must be treated in the same way as the last. . Compound Fractures of the Neck of the Thigh-hone can occur only from bullet-wounds. In these cases the choice lies between amputation at the hip-joint, resection of the injured portion of bone, or treating the case as an ordinary compound fracture. The choice of the Surgeon, for reasons stated at’p. 342, lies between the latter two alternatives, which are the only ones that afford a reasonable hope of safety to the patient. Fracture of the Trochanter Major, by which this process is broken oft from the rest of the bone, is described by Sir Astley Cooper, Aston Key, and Nelaton as being always the result of direct violence. It may be simple or comminuted. The fragment is usually drawn upwards and backwards, rarely forwards ; and more rarely it remains fixed by fibrous bands in its normal place. The symptoms are, separation between the fragments ; and crepitus, which is most readily obtained by flexing and abducting the thigh and rotating it out- wards, at the same time that the fragments are firmly pressed together. There is no shortening of the limb. The exact nature of the injury is often concealed by the swelling from extravasated blood. The fracture is very rare without accompanying fracture of the neck. In children the epiphysis of the trochanter has been known to be separated by direct violence. 2. Fractures of the Shaft of the Thigh-bone are of very common occurrence, every possible variety of the injury being met with here. They are extremely common in children, forming, according to Bruns, one-quarter of all fractures in children under ten. They steadily decrease in frequency with age. Excluding fractures of the neck, one-third of all fractures of the femur occur under ten, and about the same between 10 and 30. In adults they are always oblique, unless they are the result of direct violence: in children, especially when the child is very young, the fracture is more often transverse or nearly so. The most common seat of fracture from indirect violence is the middle third, and the obliquity is such that the sharp point of the upper fragment is directed forwards and outwards. The Signs are well marked. There is shortening, usually to a considerable extent, with eversion of the limb, crepitus readily produced, and much swelling from the approximation of the attachments of the muscles. The lower frag- ment is always drawn upwards, and somewhat to the inner side of the upper one, and is rotated outwards. When the fracture is at or above the middle of the thigh, there is a great tendency to angular deformity, in consequence of the projection forwards of the lower end of the upper fragment. In all cases there is this forward projection, and in most an outward displacement, or abduction, as well of the upper fragment. But in some very rare cases, it is drawn inwards as well as forwards.