So8 INJURIES OF THE FACE AND ADJACENT PARTS. is speedily arrested. Streatfeild recommends that a small round sponge squeezed out of the carbolic lotion, and compressed to make it go between the lids and a little way into the orbit, should be applied and kept firmly in posi- tion by a linen bandage. This will prevent any oozing of blood, and may be removed at the end of a few hours. It is then removed and the lids allowed to close, wet boracic acid lint, or lint moistened with any other antiseptic lotion, being applied over them till the stump of the eye is healed. Septic inflammation in the fat of the orbit is the only accident likely to occur after the operation, aud this is scarcely likely to occur if ordinary cleanliness is attended to, and care be taken that the lids do not become glued together by dried discharges in such a way that decomposing matter can accumulate behind them. Mouth.—Wounds of the mouth are seldom met with, except as the result of gunshot-violence. The amount of injury done to the soft structures, however great, is usually only secondary to the mischief that results to the brain, spinal cord, jaws, and skull, and must of course be treated on the ordinary principles of treatment of gun-shot and lacerated wounds. Tongue.—Wounds of the tongue usually occur from its tip or sides being caught between the teeth during an epileptic fit. They have been known to be inflicted by insane patients, in attempts to excise or to bite oft’ this organ. Should the haemorrhage be free, the application of a ligature, or even of the actual cautery, may be needed. These wounds generally assume a sloughy appearance for a few days ; they then clean up, and granulate healthily. It is useless to bring the edges together by sutures, which readily cut out. If, however, a large portion of the tip be nearly detached, it must be supported in this way ; but the threads should be thick and passed deeply. Pieces of tobacco-pipe are occasionally driven into and broken off in the substance of the tongue, and they either give rise to very free haemorrhage, or the wound may close and heal over the foreign body, the existence of which may not be known to the patient. In a case of jhis kind, where a man complained of much pain and stiffness in the tongue, with difficulty in deglutition, I found on examination, a hard swelling towards the base of the organ ; and on cutting down upon this1 extracted three inches of the stem of a clay tobacco-pipe, which had been lodged there for several months. The Palate and the Pharynx are sometimes lacerated by gunshot-injuries of the mouth : or the wound may result from something that the patient happens to have between his lips being driven forcibly backwards into his mouth. Thus, a tobacco-pipe may, by a blow on the face, be driven deeply into the substance of the tonsil, or perhaps into the pharynx, wounding and lodging behind the arches of the palate ; it generally breaks oft short, and the fragment that is left in gives rise to abscess, to ulceration of vessels, and perhaps to fatal secondary haemorrhage. In a case that was under my care some time ago, the soft palate was nearly detached from the palate bones by a deep transverse wound, caused by the end of a spoon beiug forcibly driven into the mouth ; good union took place eventually, the part having been stitched together by a few points of suture. In some rare cases the internal carou has been wounded from inside the mouth.