CONSTITUTIONAL EFFECTS OF INJURY. 28S speedily on being spolccii to in a kind and cheering mannci, 01 on having some stimulant administered. I t tlie shock be more severe, and he the lesult of considerable injury, the patient should be laid in the recumbent position, and the injured part arranged as comfortably as possible ; he should be , wrapped up in warm blankets, hot bottles should be applied to the feet, and friction to the hands and surface ; a little warm tea, wine, or spirits and water, may be administered, provided the insensibility be not complete ; ii it be complete, the fluid should not be given, lest it find its way into the larynx. In these circumstances, ammonia should be applied to the nostrils, and a stimulating enema administered, or ten minims of ether may be injected hypodermically, and repeated at intervals of about ten minutes ii necessary until the patient begins to rally. When there is much pain associated with the shock, a few drops of laudanum may advantageously be given, or a quarter of a grain of morphia administered hypodermically. By such treatment as this, the energies of the nervous system are gradually restored. Operation during Shock.—A question of considerable importance fre- quently occurs in these cases ; viz., whether an operation should be per- formed during shock. As a general rule, it certainly should be deferred until reaction comes on, as the additional injury inflicted by the operation would increase the depression under which the patient is suffering. In some cases, however, the presence of a crushed limb appears to prolong the shock and to prevent the patient from rallying, notwithstanding the admi- nistration of stimulants. In these circumstances the Surgeon would be justified in operating before reaction came on. Here the administration of ether is extremely beneficial : it exercises a sustaining influence, not only by acting as a stimulant to the nervous system, but by preventing the pam and dread o the operation from still further depressing the vital energies. Li these cases of long-continued shock, great care is required m ascertaining that there is no internal injury, such as laceration of one of the viscera, giving rise to e depression, but that the shock is really and solely dependent upon the mangled state of the limb. . . , After the immediate effects of the shock have entirely passed away, we must adopt means to prevent the remote consequences. With this view com- plete rest of body and repose of mind must be enjoined ; all business must be laid aside, and if the season admits of it, much time should be spent open air. Should nervous symptoms develop, warm sea-water douches 01 a sea voyage will be found most beneficial. In addition to this, the patients diet and habits of life should be carefully regulated, over-stimulation being especially avoided ; his bowels should be kept freely open, and his general health attended to on ordinary medical principles. TRAUMATIC FEVER. After the immediate effects of shock have passed off, the reaction which ensues may not exceed the limits of health ; but more commonly, even though the shock may have been but slight, a general febrile state ensues. 1 ic exac causes and nature of the febrile condition that follows injuries and surgical operations has occupied the attention of numerous observers, amongst whom av be mentioned Billroth, Bergmann, and Lucas-Champiomere. llie les Tlhelr hCigations have been to show that there are at least two d,st.net