REMOVAL BY THE KNIFE. i°45 should still be urged on the patient, provided the general health is unimpaired. In encephaloid cancer, or soft malignant sarcomata, the rapidity of the growth need not deter the Surgeon from operating provided the whole primary tumour and the large lymphatic glands, if present, can be removed ; early operation should be practised, with the view of prolonging life, if nothing more. In epithelioma the removal of the primary tumour with the glands in an early stage of infection is a more hopeful proceeding than in either of the forms of i glandular cancer. An important question in connection with operations for cancer is, at what period of the growth they may be done with the best prospect of success. In former times Hervez de Chegoin and Leroy d’Etoilles and others have advocated delay, asserting that the results obtained were better when the : operation was performed after the tumour had lasted. Such a statement as this can have been the result only of imperfect observation. Other things being equal, the earlier the tumour is removed the better the chance of pro- c longed or permanent relief. There is no fact in Surgery more certain than this. In the preceding pages it has been pointed out how strong is the I evidence that all cancers are primarily local, and that the glands and after- wards the viscera become infected by actual particles of the tumour trans- planted to them from the original growth. Accepting this as true, it necessarily follows, as was pointed out by De Morgan, that the disease may be local and capable of complete removal up to a certain minute, and the next it may have extended beyond the reach of operative interference. Wo i cannot possibly tell when this eventful change takes place. All we can do is to try to anticipate it by operating at; the earliest possible time. Not a day should be lost after the disease is recognized. In doubtful cases it is far better not to wait till unequivocal signs of the malignant nature of the growth ! appear, but to cut into it, and if necessary to remove a slice for examination at the earliest possible time, proceeding immediately to complete removal if it be found to be malignant. Errors will arise, do what we will to prevent them, i and it is far better to err by making an unnecessary incision, or even removing a mass of chronically inflamed tissue or a syphilitic gumma, than to leave a cancerous growth till its complete extirpation becomes impossible. EXCISION OF TUMOURS. Ill describing the different forms of encysted tumour, the operative pro- cedures necessary for their removal have been adverted to. We may now comeniently consider the steps that are generally necessary for the extirpation I of solid tumours from the soft parts. Tumours may be removed by the knife, by the ecraseur, by the cautery, or by ligature. Removal of Tumours by the Knife.—In the removal of tumours, the first point to be attended to is the arrangement, shape, and direction of the necessary incisions. These should not only have reference to the size of the growth, extending well beyond it at each end, but must also be planned with due regard to subjacent parts of importance. As a general rule, they should ie earned in the direction ol the axis of the limb or part, and parallel to the course of its principal vessels ; they must extend not only over the whole engt 1 of the tumour, but also a little beyond it at each end : no cross-cuts