692 SPECIAL DISLOCATIONS. In the Treatment of these autero-posterior displacements of the ankle, trac- tion of the foot in a proper direction, the leg being fixed and Hexed upon the thigh, will readily be attended by replacement; the application of lateral splints being afterwards sufficient to keep the parts in proper position. Some- times subcutaneous division of the tendo Achillis is necessary. Compound Dislocations of the Ankle-joint are serious and by no moans unfrequent accidents, the displacement occurring in the same direction and from the same causes as the simple forms of injury. The Treatment of compound dislocations of the ankle-joint must depend to a considerable extent upon the amount of laceration of the soft parts, and me condition of the bones forming the arch of the joint. If the wound in the soli parts be moderate in extent, clean cut, and with little bruising and injury to the bones, an attempt should be made to save the limb. This is to be done by the assiduous use of antiseptics. There is no class of joint-injuries in which this method has been attended by better success than in these. The details should be carefully attended to as given at page 492 et seq. Should antiseptics not be at hand, the case must be treated on ordinary principles, viz., by rest on a splint, and application of ice or cold evaporating lotions. In many instances this plan will suffice, and the patient will recover with a stiff but useful limb, the joint being only partially ankylosed. If, however, the bones be projecting and comminuted, and the soft parts ex- tensively lacerated, the question of amputation will necessarily arise. In many cases, the operation may be avoided by adopting the treatment recommended by Hey, of sawing off the malleoli, removing splinters of bone,, and supporting the limb at the same time upon a MTntyre’s splint. If the joint be still more seriously injured, the posterior tibial artery torn, or the foot greatly contused, and especially if the patient be aged and his constitution shattered, recourse should be had to primary amputation. I believe that the disinclination on the part of Surgeons to amputate in these cases, greatly owing to the strong ex- pression of opinion by Sir A. Cooper in favour of the attempt to save the limb, has in many cases been carried to such an extent as seriously to add to the patient’s danger. Secondary amputation may be rendered necessary m conse- quence of gangrene, erysipelas, or extensive suppuration. _ J Dislocations of the Astragalus.—The astragalus is occasionally displaced from its connection with the bones of the leg above, and with those of the tarsus below, being thrown either forwards or laclcwards. The displacement forwards happens far more frequently than that in the opposite direction. In the dislocation Forwards, the head of the bone may be thrown either out/rm as or inwards; but I do not think there is any evidence to show that complete lateral dislocation of this bone can occur irrespective of displacement forwards: the so-called lateral dislocations being displacements of the bone forwards, witn twists to one or the other side. The dislocation forwards, with lateral inclina- tion may either be complete or incomplete. When it is complete, the )0ne thrown out of its bed on the calcaneum, and separated from its connections wi 1 the malleolar arch above and the scaphoid in front, being forced 111 front of the tarsus and lying upon the scaphoid and cuneiform bones. A hen the 1 is t'iou is incomplete, the head is separated from the scaphoid, and isi thrown it, or on the external cuneiform or cuboid bones, he body maintainin'1- its connections with the malleolar arch and oscalois. The s Z Backwards is, i believe, always complete. In the tart.cn backwards