SPECIAL FRACTURES. 6io must be drawn down so as to be approximated to the lower one, which is fixed by the ligamentum patellie. This approximation of the fragments may be effected) < either by position and relaxation of the muscles, or by mechanical contrivance. Simple position usually suffices for this purpose, and must be attended to whatever mechanical appliances are used. By placing the patient in a semi- recumbent position, and elevating the leg considerably, so as to relax the muscles of the thigh completely, the upper fragment may be brought down to the lower one, and, if necessary, may be retained there, after any local inflam- mation that results from the accident has been subdued, by moulding a gutta- percha cap accurately to and fixing it firmly upon the knee, or by the applica- tion of pads of lint and broad straps of plaster. These straps of plaster may he Fig. 246.—Stellate Fracture of the Patella. Fig. 247.—Aponeurotic Union of a Frac- tured PateUa: Side- view. Fig. 24S.—Fracture of Patella, ° united by ligamentous tissue. applied above and upon the upper fragment in a diagonal direction from above downwards. They should be of sufficient length to embrace the limb and a back splint, to which they are to be fixed ; or a figure-of-8 bandage may be applied round the limb and splint together. This position must be maintained for at least six weeks ; at the expiration of which time the patient may )e allowed to walk about, wearing, however, an elastic knee-cap, or, what is better, a straight leather-splint in the ham, so as to prevent the knee from being bent for at least three months. If this precaution be not taken, the union between the fragments, which at first appeared to be in very close contact, will gradually lengthen, until in the course of a few months an interval ot several inches may be found between them. In these cases, however, even though the separation between the fragments be great, it is remarkable how well the limb may be used, especially on level ground ; and with the aid of a kuce-cap bu inconvenience is experienced by the patient. . . Anr:ne If the occupation of the patient is such that he cannot be kept at icst during the treatment, the starched bandage or pteter-of-Baris-sphnt will 1)e f^” '^ nscd'ul the patient being with it enabled to walk about during the whole ot tnc SSK The action of the bandage is much increased by drawing down and