424 ARREST OF ARTERIAL HAEMORRHAGE. round it, bub presented here and there signs ol chronic inflammation. The i results of experiments on animals by Spiegelberg and Waldeyer, and Tillmanns, agree in every respect witin those just mentioned. It appears, therefore, that a silk ligature may, with proper antiseptic pre- cautions, he safely applied and left in the wound with hut little risk of its giving rise to suppuration, and with a good prospect of its being either safely encapsuled in fibrous tissue or ultimately absorbed. Further experience alone can show whether its application is more safe or more certain than that of the chromic catgut. Ox-aorta Ligature.—In the application of the ordinary hemp 01 silk ligature, or of the carbolizcd catgut or silk, it is the object of the burgeon, as before stated, to tie sufficiently tightly to cut through the inner and middle coats of the artery, and by the compression of the outer coat to turn then- divided edges upwards and downwards into the lumen of the vessel, borne Surgeons have, however, attempted to apply a ligature in such a way as to compress all the coats without dividing any. Tins, as before stated, was shown by Jones to be a most dangerous proceeding if the ligature employed was of such a kind as to render it necessary that it should cut through ihe vessel by ulceration and so come away from the wound. The idea, however, that a vessel can be safely tied without injuring its coats has been revived in connection with the absorbable ligatures now in use. Lister at first suggested that the catgut-ligature might be applied in this, way ; but experience tas shown that its early absorption rendered the obliteration of the vessel uncertain unless the inner and middle coats were cut. R. Harwell, however, has lately introduced a new variety of ligature prepared from the middle coat of the aorta of the ox, which he has successfully applied m a considerable num lei o cases without injuring the coats of the artery. The ligature is prepared iy separating the outer coat and cutting the middle coat spirally into a long ribbon. This is stretched, by hanging to it a weight of from one to tine pounds according to the breadth of the ligature, and allowed to dry. Ten minutes before being used it must be soaked in a 1 m 20 °f carbohe acid in water. The breadth of the ligature makes it impossible to> divide inner and middle coats of the artery while tying it. In X®81 "“J® reported fourteen cases in which the ligature had been successfully applied o IXe arteries In every case the obliteration of the vessel was successfully accomplished and nothing mas seen of the ligature afterthe openton. Probably the same result might be obtamed by the ^ catgut, but the round form of the catgut makes it cut the coats of the . . mtTendou.^Ligatures.—Long tendons dried and aftenvards carbolised have also been used as ligatures. Girdlestoue of Melbourne has snccesshdly mde use of the long tendons from the tail of the kangaroo, hese, io\\ L ■’ PI to possess no advantage over properly prepared catgut. . especially with the object of promoting union bj the hist Surgeons attempted the use of Temporary ^ ^ noarly This subject fully occupied the attention of ^* matter 0f'history, half a century ago, and has now m a great men <• ' yelpeau, for the study of which 1 must refer to the writings of Jones, liaveis, 1