GENERAL REMARKS ON OPERATIONS. 34 larynx. The only conclusions to he drawn from these cases are, that it is not advisable to give it in cases of extreme phthisis or fatty heart, and that it is wise for the administrator to have by his side the instruments necessary for the operation of laryngotomy or tracheotomy whenever the operation is one involving the nse of a gag. Nitrous Oxicle and Ether.—As has already been stated, each of these agents possesses certain disadvantages—the anaesthesia produced by nitrous oxide not being sufficiently persistent to admit of the performance of prolonged operations, that of ether being slow of production and often attended by considerable excitement. By the successive administration of the two anaes- thetics, these inconveniences are removed, and the advantages of the two secured. The plan adopted by Clover consists in the rapid induction of anaesthesia by the nitrous oxide, and the maintenance of this insensibility by the use of the vapour of ether. In this way one anaesthetic supplements the other, and the safety of the one is combined with the persistence of the other. Bichloride of Methylene, originally suggested as an anaesthetic by Richardson, has lately been extensively used, especially at G-uy’s Hospital and at the Moorfields Ophthalmic Hospital. Its advantages over chloroform are said to be greater rapidity of action, complete and rapid recovery, and the absence of muscular rigidity during administration, and of unpleasant after- symptoms. Over nitrous oxide it has the advantage, that the anaesthesia can be maintained for any length of time. Though said to be safer than chloro- form, its use is not perfectly free from danger, more than one fatal case having already occurred ; and if used for operations lasting more than two minutes, it seems quite as liable to cause vomiting. To produce rapid anaesthesia, it is necessary that the vapour be inhaled in as concentrated a state as possible, all unnecessary admission of air being avoided. For this purpose an apparatus has been devised by Rendle, consisting of a leather cylinder, open at one end and shaped so as to fit closely over the mouth and nose, the other end being dome-shaped and perforated so as to admit sufficient air for respiration. In the interior of this cylinder is a loosely-fitting flannel bag, which overlaps the open end and is seemed by an elastic band. The administration is performed as follows. One drachm of the bichloride of methylene is sprinkled on the inside of the flannel bag, and the leathei cj lindei is immediately placed over the face of the patient; at first it must not fit accurately to the nose and mouth, but, as soon as the patient can bear it, it must be pressed firmly down so as to exclude all air, except such as passes through the bag. By these means anaesthesia sufficient for opening an abscess is usually produced under one minute, passing off as rapidly as it was induced. If the administration be prolonged until the drachm of the bichloride is com- pletely exhausted, the anaesthesia usually lasts about five minutes : the patient on recovering being able to walk away with only a slight feeling of giddiness. If necessary, a second drachm may be used to prolong the effect; but the after-symptoms then resemble those of chloroform, though in a somewhat minor degree. The signs of danger during administration are lividity of the face, and cessation of the pulse and respiration. If they occur, it is best, according to Bader’s advice, to place the patient at once in the recumbent position on the left side, with the tongue well pulled forward, when the symptoms will gradually pass off. Richardson has concluded from expen-