419 E E CHOICE OF LIGATURE. imperfectly attained. The ligature always becomes impregnated with the pro- ducts of putrefaction, and thus acting like a seton produces a suppurating track in its course. Inflammation and suppuration are thus kept up at the part of the vessel to which the ligature is applied until it separates, and the source of irritation is thus removed. Thus no true repair can take place out- side the ligatured vessel till after the removal of the ligature. In the vast majority of cases, however, the processes of repair going on inside the vessel are quite sufficient to close the artery safely; and thus haemorrhage on the separation of the ligature is ol comparatively rare occurrence. As has aheady been stated, the period at which the process of ulceration through the external coat is completed varies with the size of the artery and the thickness of the ligature. Malgaigne pointed out that the size of the liga- ture also exercises a marked influence on the time at which it comes away ; the thicker the ligature the more irritation it excites, and the sooner is the process of ulceration through the vessel completed. It is therefore safer to rise the finest thread possible, provided it is of sufficient strength, as thereby the danger of premature separation is to a great extent avoided, while at the same time the inner and middle coats are more cleanly divided. In some rare cases as, for example, when the coats of the artery are softened by inflammation it may be necessary to use a thicker ligature for fear of cutting through the external coat; but with healthy vessels the larger arteries require no thicker ligatures than the smaller. If it be intended to remove the ligature, one end may be cut short and the other brought out of the wound at the most bnfh em<jU 1 ft11 /ie h^fcure 0n tde main arter7 in an amputation may have both ends left, and knotted together as a distinguishing mark. After the first our days the ligatures on the smaller vessels may be gently pulled to see if they are loose, but no force should be used. The bgatufe 0/ the mainm tery in limb “ ^ th° ^ day “ the and the fourteenth thn^'fw CS ”e.miI0h,less frequently applied in this way at the present time P^ b^ZlZ 7’ ^ “ 0P“ “*"■ ^ WWch heal“S to 2 Ligatures which become enclosed in the wound durinq the mess of henlinn andremampermanently mcapsuled or become absorbed ^ of healmg, animalt rk* be Jd that tile from its use If the en k f tu ’ aS ound W'cat inconveniences resulting became embedded in a rnnss nf iT ™ Icft °ufc of the wound, the noose several weeks, required cnntirl /i ? “f1,0 “afc?r> dld not separate, and, after ends were cut short the sirl. orce to deta°h and disconnect it. If the encapsuled, but were hv „?S °. 1C wound healed over them; they became severe lieuralgia of th/,f ^ mcilus ,nnocuo«s; in some cases giving rise to b hG StumP Pressu™ on and irritation of neighbouring "S1