local disturbances and inflammation. 144 may cause dilatation of the vessels in two ways, first, in a reflex manner by actino- on the sensory nerves of the part; and secondly, by acting injuriously on the arteries themselves, and paralysing their muscular coats. Ihus, a blister when first applied causes redness by acting on the sensory nerves ; but after it has been on some time, its action extends sufficiently deeply to exert a directly injurious influence on the vessels themselves. This latter condition is a part of true inflammation. Hypersemia always accompanies the exercise of function; occurring in glands during secretion, muscles during exertion, &c. To this class of causes may also be referred the various forms of normal determination such as erection, or the enlargement of the mammary vessels during pregnancy. Lastly, amemia of one part may be associated with hypersemia of another, contraction of the arteries in the one causing sympathetic dilatation of the vessels of the other. Thus exposure of the surface to cold may cause hypersemia of the lungs, intestines, or kid neys. Symptoms.—The symptoms of determination of blood are those that we should expect to result from an increased quantity of blood rushing with increased Velocity through the affected textures. They are as follows:— Eedness of a bright scarlet hue, swelling from turgescence of the vessels, heat to the Surgeon as well as to the patient, a feeling of fulness and of throbbing, with an increase in the quantity of the secretions of the part. Effects —The effects of simple hypersemia can rarely he studied uncom- plicated by other conditions. It may, however, be broadly stated, that so long V the walls of the vessels are healthy, mere increased flow of blood causes no elil consequences in the affected area. In all cases in which it is the result of taStion, it is complicated by a greater or less degree of true mflamma- tion When due to division of a nerve, such as the sciatic, in which_a ■ r. ailq sensory as well as vaso-motor fibres, it is difficult- to determhie how much of the effect produced is due to the mere paralysis of the determine now hypersemia from pressure upon the muscular coa^of.^e 1 gome ^ of the face but no actual SyZfe TheV is also in many cases profuse sweating of the affected side of m A f. Tt o-ives rise to no tendency to capillary haemorrhage, provided the the fac . o l o. continued or frequently repeated determination Of the capillaries, and some thickening Of blood g active hyperaemia causes an excessive flow from the same cause. PASSIVE CONGESTION. ,. "Passive Hypersemia plays an important part in PaSS"p te scrim" “”Scbn,,gcs a‘„d acte M a powerW pre- surgery: it gives use to sc consists essentially of accumulation of disposing cause of mflammat . jfcg frfle vctuvn to the heart, blood in the affected par rom ™‘ j OTeatly increased in quantity, but it The blood in the affected area « 'm thc capiWies, it becomes " Wh“the ci-