FOREIGN BODY IN WINDPIPE—TREATMENT. FOREIGN BODY IN WINDPIPE—TREATMENT. 819 in 35 spontaneous expulsion occurred from the mouth, and in 58 it was removed by forceps or other instruments. Fifty-five died ; in 48 of these the body was retained till death, in 2 it was expelled from the mouth, and in 2 from the wound immediately after the operation, and in 3 it was removed by forceps. The reason why the foreign body usually passes out of the artificial opening in preference to escaping by the glottis, is, that the sides of the former aperture are passive, whereas those of the latter are highly sensitive and contractile. Before the operation is performed, it will be found that the great obstacle to ■expulsion is not only the sensitiveness of the larynx, great irritation being in- duced when it is touched from within, but also the contraction of the glottis, by the closure of which not only is the expulsion of the foreign body prevented* but respiration is impeded. Every time the foreign body is coughed up so as to touch the interior of the larynx, intense dyspnoea is produced, owiim to sudden and involuntary closure of the glottis, by which respiration is entirely prevented and suffocation threatened ; the expulsion of the body is consequently arrested, unless it by chance take the glottis by surprise, and pass through it at once in the same way that it has entered it, without touching its sides. If it be arrested by the spasm in the glottis it is inevitably drawn down into the trachea again by the deep inspiration that follows the re- laxation of the spasmIf there be a second breathing aperture, tliouo-h the larynx is equally irritated by the foreign body, yet this dyspnoea cannot occur, respiration being carried on uninterruptedly by one opening whilst the foreign body escapes through the other ; and thus, in these circumstances 1 may pass through the glottis with but little inconvenience. In performing the operation of tracheotomy for a foreign body in the air-passages, the opening must be made freely ; no tube must be introduced, but the edges of the wound must be kept open by blunt hooks, made of bent wire, and secured behind the neck by a piece of tape. In some cases, the foreign body is expelled at once after the trachea has been opened ; m others, not until some hours, days, or even weeks, have elapsed 1 hus, m Houston s case, a piece of stick was not coughed up until ninety-seven Uys after the operation; and in Brodie’s case, in which the celebrated engineer Brunei, was the patient, sixteen days elapsed before the half-sovereign came The expulsion lias in some instances been facilitated by inverting the patient, shaking him, or striking him on the back. In cases in which the foreign body has not been readily expelled, forceps and other instruments in the a though in many instances this has succeeded, as in a case in which Walters intoTte-remOVCd atrhea'tUbC that had ‘Accidentally shp^cl five 1'nches It fc betteSavaagten’ T rCeed:ngS shouId nofc bc W undertaken, ■expulsion has not t l "<U] 1 imu’ as 111 a bll'ge number of successful cases ■after he oteration^Tf ?1 ? T?00"8’7 tiU morc than twenty-four hours of the second Z J1the bod^?fs not com° up spontaneously by the end patient must l,c'tif" i°f ^ is PG1’fectly justifiable. The duction of the instrm f U-J, C1 au an8esthetic, and even then tlieintro- uatureof ti, rj 1 ? ,W1 causc a vlolent spasmodic cough. If the If it be of metal ^hs °C ^ c. known tbe instrument must bc adapted to it. fc , glaf3S) or cbllla> ^ position can first be detected by means 3 G 2