LOCAL DISTURBANCES AND INFLAMMATION. 2l6 mations, the good produced is probably rather by an increased afflux of blood to the affected part than by a diminution of the blood supply. Most counter- irritants arc applied solely with the intention of causing a certain degree of by per ami ia or of inflammation in the part of the skin on which they are placed, while others exert, or are supposed to exert, at the same time a consti- tutional effect, being absorbed into the system from the cutaneous surface. Counter-irritants are classed according to the degree of local irritation they give rise to. Rubefacients are those that cause merely dilatation of the vessels of the part to which they are applied. Hot fomentations and linseed-meal poultices, although not usually classed amongst rubefacients, certainly cause dilatation of the vessels. Friction with some stimulating embrocation produces hyperamiia, lasting for a longer time, and is useful in promoting the absorption of chronic inflammatory products, such as the thickening left round a joint after all in- flammatory disturbance has subsided. They undoubtedly act by causing a general afflux of blood to the limb. Camphor-liniment or, if a stronger action is required, the compound camphor-liniment is that most frequently used. The ordinary mustard poultices or Rigollot’s mustard-leaves produce the lowest possible degree of true inflammation, but if properly applied there is no blistering of the skin, although there may be slight oedema followed by desquamation of the cuticle. Mustard poultices are but little used in sur- gery. They are more commonly applied to the trunk for the relief of hyper- remia of internal organs. Oil of turpentine sprinkled over flannels wrung out of hot water is another common rubefacient. Vesicants are those applications which cause a degree of inflammation sufficient to give rise to abundant exudation, which raises the corneous layer of the cuticle from the Malpighian layer beneath, thus forming a bleb or blister. Vesicants are extensively used in surgery to promote absorption of the products of chronic inflammation, and in some cases to check the process, as in the application of blisters in chronic synovitis or periostitis, 01 to the perineum in chronic prostatitis. _ . Although there are other means of producing vesication, practically the preparations of cantharides are the only blistering agents employed : of these the two most common are the Emplastrum Cantharidis, or common Fly-blister, and the Liquor Epispasticus. The former is applied to surfaces free from hair, the latter to the scalp or perinaeum. In applying a blister, or the hquoi epispasticus, it is essential that the part should be as free from glease as possible, and for this purpose it must be washed with soap and hot water, and afterwards, if it can be conveniently done, sponged over with a very dilute solution of ammonia, before the blister is put on. The blistei siou rise in from eight to twelve hours. When the bleb is fully formed if it is not intended to prolong the action, it should be carefully pricke wi 1 a needle, but the cuticle should not be removed. It should then be covered with cotton wool and a bandage, or a little simple ointment on a piece or linen If it be desired to prolong the counter-irritation, the cuticle maj removed, and the raw surface dressed with savine ointment, by which means may be kept open as long as is wished. . ,, A blister does not, as a rule, leave a scar but it may do so, and therefore not to apply it to the face or hands if it can be avoided. there of surface to which it is applied must not exceed a few square niche ,