CONTENTS. xvu Chapter XXYIL— Injuries op the Throat : and Asphyxia. Injuries op the Larynx and Trachea—Fracture of the Cartilages of the Larynx Wounds of Throat—Not extending into Air- or Food-passage—Implicating Air-Passage—Effects—Treatment—Aerial Fistula—Foreign Bodies in Air-passage —Symptoms—Prognosis—Treatment—Scald of Mouth, Pharynx, and Glottis- Treatment • • • Asphyxia or Apngea—Causes—From Drowning—Artificial Respiration—Inflation of Lungs with Oxygen Gas—Secondary Asphyxia—From Noxious Gases—From Hanging 820- Injuries of THE Pharynx and (Esophagus—Wounds—Foreign Bodies—Symp- toms—Treatment—Pharyngotomy or (Esophagotomy—Gastrostomy . . S26— Chapter XXYIII.—Injuries op the Chest. Wounds of the Chest-Walls Injuries of the Lung—Contusion—Rupture—Wound—Symptoms—Complica- tions — Haemorrhage—Hannothorax—Emphysema and Pneumothorax—Pneu- monia—Pleurisy and Empyema—Collapse of Lung—Subcutaneous Wounds of Lung from Fractured Ribs—Penetrating Wounds of Thorax with Wound of the Lung—Prognosis in Wounds of the Lung—Treatment—Hernia of Lung, or Pneumocele 829— Wounds of the Heart and Large Vessels—Wounds of the Pericardium- Laceration of the Pericardium—Wounds of the Heart—-Symptoms—Rupture of the Heart from External Violence—Wounds of the Aorta and Vena Cava— Wound of the Thoracic Duct 843— Chapter XXIX.—Injuries op the Abdomen and Pelvis. Injuries of the Abdomen and Abdominal Viscera—Contusions of the Abdo- minal Walls—Buffer-Accidents—Rupture of Abdominal Viscera—Emphysema of Abdominal Wall—Wounds of Diaphragm—Wounds of Abdominal Wall—Non- penetrating—Penetrating—Without Wound or Protrusion of Viscera—With Wound or Protrusion—Wounds of Intestine—Treatment—Traumatic Peritonitis Localised—Diffuse—Symptoms—Prognosis of Penetrating Wounds of Abdomen —Treatment—Sutures—Treatment of Traumatic Peritonitis. . . . 847- Injuries of the Pelvic Viscera—Rupture of Bladder—Foreign Bodies in Bladder—Rupture of Ureter—Wounds of Organs of Generation—Wound of Urethra—Laceration of Urethra—Treatment—Foreign Bodies in Vagina and Rectum—Laceration of the Perinreum—Operation for Rupture of the Peri- neum rAGE -820 -826 -828 829 -843 -846 ■863 ■872 VOL. I. b