POISONED WOUNDS. 354 obscure. But it certainly appears to be subject to epidemic variations. In some years hydrophobia is never heard of—in others it is very rile. Hydro- phobia has followed the bite of an animal that has.shown no signs of rabies— one of those many inexplicable occurrences in this singular disease. It has been ( attributed to the influence of season, being most common in the early spring months ; thus Eckel found it most common in dogs in February and May. Want of water, sudden changes from heat to cold, bad food, and unsatisfied sexual desire, have also each been assigned as the cause of its occurrence in animals. When we inquire into the operation of these alleged causes, we fail to discover any direct and positive connection between any one of them and rabies. With regard to the influence of heat and want, of water, it would appear that in those countries in which animals of the canine and feline races are most exposed to these conditions, hydrophobia is unknown, limai Mr. Donovan, who has resided and travelled for many years m Central Africa, informs me that, in the deserts of that country, where water is so scarce that man and beast often die of thirst, lions are always to be found and aie occasionally seen going about in families, whilst hyaenas, jackals,and ^ d°gs are most numerous, and yet hydrophobia is unknown. BarrowXSoMa and observant traveller, makes a similar statement, viz., cannot proceed from thirst and heat, as it is unknown m Egypt, the West India Islands, and some other tropical parts. The theory of hydiopho na arising from ungratified sexual desire appears to be equally untenable It u not uncommon in Africa, Mr. Donovan says, for wolves, jackals and wild 0oa to prowl about mad with heat; and in this state they are moat *“8^ “ much so that domesticated dogs instinctively shun them, but. theie is no evidence of their ever having communicated hydrophobia. Having been to Ha Tbitches were allowed in Sark, I wrote to Dr. Cockridge of than Island to inquire if this were the fact, and if so, whether hydrophobia were preva- lent there He informed me that there were no bitches m the island, and that dogs were very numerous, but that no case of hydrophobia had, to his knowledge ever occurred there, and that the clergyman, who had bad tlmty Weiafience of the island, had never heard of a case of that disease p)oo-s more frequently become rabid than bitches; thus of a hundred and forty-one cies1 collected by Eckel only fifteen occurred » amongst dogs it is most common m those of a mongrel bleed, seldom aflectmg or frorr’raw surface, as a crack in the Bp, being bfed by the rabies, but in whom the characteristic symptoms have l ot devdoptd e selves. But it is important to know that the bite of » 1 * means certain to occasion hydrophobia, m a , ■ ^ xlius who are bitten by animals in a state of rab.es do not “e the “sease. u» Hunter and Vaughan (Halford) state that onl y one °" . ■ f bjj who are bitten by rabid dogs becomeso7a , nd dm, BWat on states that of wolf is far more dangerous than that of a mart The bifce 0f a 114 persons bitten by rabid wives. 6<jfccc o } - .g t]mt fche dog