FRACTURES. 544 In False Joint there has usually been, an abundant formation of the early soft reparative material preliminary to the formation of bony callus, but it has , failed to ossify and has become developed into more or less firm fibrous tissue, so that the ends of the bone are tied together by strong almost ligamentous bands. The structure of these false joints, which has been carefully studied by Kokitansky, presents two distinct varieties. In the first, which partakes of the character of a hinge-joint, we find that the ends of the fracture are smoothed and rounded, invested with a dense fibrous periosteum, and united to one another by thick bands of ligamentous tissue, m such a way as usual y to admit of considerable lateral movement, though sometimes they are tolera >ly firm. In the other variety the joint partakes of the ball-and-socket character, usually to a very imperfect degree, but sometimes in a sufficiently well-deve ope manner—one end of the bone being rounded, the other cup-shaped, and io 1 covered by a firm smooth fibroid tissue. The bones are united by a kind of capsule, in which a synovia- like fluid has occasionally been found. The form that the false joint will assume de- pends on the action of the muscles which influence it. Thus, when occurring in the shafts of long bones, where it is subjected to movements of flexion and extension, it will assume the hinge-form ; whilst, when it is seated in the articulai ends, where it is more subjected to movements of rotation, it will affect the ball-and-socket character. Non-union of fracture, whether resulting in false joint or in ordinary ununited fracture, is undoubtedly very rare. I have very seldom met with it in my own practice. The cases that have been undei m\ care at University College Hospital have almost all been sent up from various parts of the country, and probably present but a very small proportion of the fractures that have occurred in the districts from which they came. We probably exaggerate the frequency of non-union, if we say that it occurs ^ Causes ^^he^causes of i^ifrt^fracture mTof false^^^e "feS. cases the Constitutional Cause appea*I to be£ the system occurring ftom some diseases suenas ^a cancer, or from any depressing influence, ^ fonned it may, under diminished reparative power. H calms ha absorbed, and the the influence of these constituto^^^ £ bc especially liable to occur in fracture may thus be loosenc . definite constitutional disease, scurvy. Mere debility, independently of sojue aenni will not lead to want of union in a ^cture In uJnion be children, fractures will unite wi i ic *’ ‘rovemellt of health, readily take S£ detected, the patient being in Fig. 1S3.—False Joint in Humerus.