SYMPTOMS OF INFANTILE SYPHILIS. T125 is usually the appearance of mucous tubercles. These form at the angles of the lips, in the cavity of the mouth, in the pharynx, in the nose, at the anus, in wherever the skin is moist, as in the folds of the groin, and between the scrotum and thigh. They are of the same nature and appearance as those met with in acquired syphilis. The affection of the nose is amongst the most constant and characteristic features of the disease, and is usually the earliest local sign that declares itself. There is much congestive swelling of the mucous membrane, with a secretion of thick yellow offensive mucus, causing the child to make a peculiar snuffling noise in breathing, as if it had a chronic catarrh. This symptom is so constant that it has given rise to the popular name of “ the snuffles ” which is applied to congenital syphilis. The degree to which the nose is affected varies con- siderably. In the mildest cases the symptoms merely resemble those of a slight cold ; in the most extreme forms the discharge dries into scabs at the nostrils, beneath which ulcers may form ; mucous tubercles develop on the membrane, and ulceration may follow, leading to disease of the bones, with flattening of the bridge of the nose. In all cases free breathing through the nose is interfered with, sucking consequently becomes difficult, and the trouble in feeding the child is correspondingly increased. The mouth is similarly affected, but usually in a less degree. Radiating fissures, sometimes extending somewhat deeply, are common on the lips, espe- cially at the angles of the mouth. The mucous membrane of the cheeks and tongue is covered with mucous patches, and sometimes with superficial ulcers. The mucous membrane of the larynx is congested and swollen in most cases, and sometimes actual mucous tubercles may be formed at the opening of the glottis. The laryngeal affection is the cause of the hoarse cry which usually forms a marked feature in the disease. The Eruptions on the Skin are usually most abundant on the nates, scrotum, and the soles of the feet; hence, in examining a child, supposed to be syphilitic, these parts should always be looked at first. In moist situations the eruptions most frequently assume the form of smooth, flat mucous tubercles, varying in size from a pea to a threepenny-piece ; they are slightly elevated, and covered with a slimy whitish secretion. Cracks or fissures are common at the anus as well as at the mouth. In the drier parts the eruption is often described as squamous, though it is not really scaly, but composed of smooth flat patches of a coppery red colour. These patches are often well-marked on the soles of the feet, and are followed by peeling of the cuticle. Papular eruptions are not common. The vesicular, or bullous eruption, or pemphigus, is less common than those first mentioned, yet I have frequently seen it in syphilitic children. It appears in the form of vesicles which enlarge into bulla about the size of a split pea, with a dusky coppery areola ; they diy into brown scales or scabs, and commonly occur simultaneously with mucous tubercles in other parts of the body. It is most frequently seen on the soles of the feet, and is not met with in children except in syphilis. A pustular eruption or Ecthyma is also occasionally met with. The pustules dry early, leaving a black scab, beneath which ulceration may take place. It is met with only in very feeble children. Subcutaneous yummata are met with occasionally in inherited syphilis, but seldom before the second year.