906 INFECTIVE DISEASES OF WOUNDS. SPREADING TRAUMATIC GANGRENE. Spreading Traumatic Gangrene, or as it is often called, Spreading Gangrene, the gangrene foiulrogante of Maisonncuve, is a most acute and fatal form of infective inflammation usually following contused or lacerated wounds, particularly when complicated with fractures, or when opening a joint. The Causes of the disease are extremely uncertain. The cases occur spor- adically, and there is no evidence of infection, nor when one case arises in a . hospital ward does the disease tend to spread to other patients. It is met with at all ages. The only constant condition present is a wound, usually contused or lacerated, often accompanied by injuries to bones and joints, and always • complicated by an accumulation of putrefying blood or serum pent up within . it. It is especially liable to occur if a lacerated wound be injudiciously closed by suture without proper drainage or antiseptic precautions. It is most common after contused or lacerated wounds of the foot with con- siderable subcutaneous extravasation ; it also occasionally follows similar injuries of the hand. Symptoms.—Spreading gangrene always sets in before suppuration is established, usually on the second or third day. At first the symptoms appear to be merely those of ordinary septic inflammation, the result of pent-up decomposing discharges. There is febrile .disturbance of the septic type; there are pain and swelling in the wound, with a blush of redness extending for some distance on each side of it. The true nature of the affection, how- ever, speedily becomes apparent. The wounded limb at the seat of injury swells, becomes dusky-red, and the seat of a deep-seated, tensive, burning pain. The swelling, redness, and tension spread upwards, and are speedily followed by a dusky purplish tint, by a soft doughy feeling of the parts, and in the course of a few more hours by a deep blackish-purple discoloration, which spreads uniformly and with great rapidity through all the tissues affected. This is accompanied or immediately followed by emphysematous crackling, due to the presence ot gases which are developed by the decomposition of the parts attacked by the gangrene. The changes which arc of a putrefactive nature, first develop in the wound itself, and speedily extend from it to the surrounding parts. That portion of the limb which is below the gangrenous part becomes pale, cold, and oedema- tons. The portion which is above becomes rapidly infiltrated by serous exudation, which runs up the inner side of the limb to the axilla or groin, as the case may be. The part immediately above the limit of the tissues that are actually mortified is swollen by cedematous infiltration, tense, pitting slightly on pressure, and usually of a dusky brownish-red colour; and frequently beyond the edge of the advancing redness, there is a brownish discolouration, apparently due to pigment, formed by breaking up of the red corpuscles in the gangrenous tissues and diffused beyond the area ot inflammation, due process has no tendency to limit itself; the oedema and peculiar discolouration extend higher along the inner side of the limb, where it always first reaches the trunk. Emphysematous crackling rapidly spreads along the same pai ts, and the gangrene here travels with great rapidity, hopelessly involving t e tissues and entering into the areolar planes of the axilla or groin in a very ew