HUMERUS—SUBCORACOID—SUBCLA VICO BAR. 647 under the glenoid cavity-Subglenoid (Fig. 270). Thus three dislocations are more or less inwards, one only being backwards or inwaids. 1. Subcoracoid Dislocation—In the case of incomplete dislocation reported by Sir A. Cooper, the head of the bone was found to be thrown out of the glenoid cavity, lying under the coracoid process upon the anterior part of the neck of the scapula (Fig. 2G7) ; the capsular muscles were not torn, but the long head of the biceps had been ruptured. The description given by Sir A. Cooper, and the illustrative plate in his work on Dislocations, appear to point to a form of injury of the shoulder-joint which has been specially described by the French surgeons as a variety of the dislocation downwards ; that form of displacement, indeed, which by Boyer has been described as the dislocation “ inwards,” by Malgaigne as the “ subcoracoid ” luxation, and by Yelpeau as the “ subscapular ” dislocation ; in which the head of the hmnerus is placed in front of the neck of the scapula, and underneath the subscapular muscle. In this dislocation the head of the bone, instead of being thrown, as in the subglenoid, downwards and slightly inwards, is thrown inwards either directly or slightly downwards as well. Why Sir A. Cooper described this as a partial dislocation, I do not understand ; for not only was there rupture of the capsule and of the long tendon of the biceps, but the woodcut at page 401 of the last edition of his work shows clearly that the head of the bone had formed a new articular cavity for itself in the subscapular fossa, being appa- rently completely thrown out of the glenoid cavity. There is here less deformity than in the other luxations, the acromion not forming so distinct a projection (Fig. 271). The limb is usually somewhat lengthened, but at times is actually shortened, the elbow being generally carried backwards and always slightly away from the side ; the head of the bone is placed deeply in the upper and inner part of the axilla, and cannot always be very distinctly felt, owing to its being thickly covered with soft parts, by the coraco-brachialis as well as by the pectorals ; rotation of the arm and elevation of the elbow being usually required in order that it may be detected. There may be pain from the pressure of the head of the bone on the nerves or from stretching- and if the vein be pressed an oedema of the whole limb will occur. 2. In the dislocation Forwards, or the Subcla- vicnlar (Fig. 268), the head of the bone is thrown on the inner side of the coracoid process, lying upon the second and third ribs under the pectoral muscles, and immediately below the clavicle. This dislocation is merely an increased degree of the preceding one, the head of the bone, which at first lies under the coracoid process, being readily drawn inwards, so as to be placed to the inner side °,, ® piocess under the clavicle. In these cases the capsular muscles are much s ie c e 01 torn. In a case recorded by Curling, the infraspinatus and sub- capu ans muscles were torn away from the tuberosities of the humerus, and e cics minor partially lacerated ; the capsule being completely separated iom e neck of the bone, which pressed forcibly upon the axillary vessels l\cs. In three cases which I have had an opportunity of Fig. 271.—Subcoracoid Disloca- tion of Humerus. the and ner dissecting O