INJURIES OF THE nEAD. 724 I' conjunctiva in a very marked manner, which is rarely the case in an ordinary black eve where the ecchymosis is superficial to the palpebral ligament, and shut off bv it from the subconjunctival areolar tissue. In the more severe cases in which there is distinct protrusion of the eyeball, the hemorrhage may he venous or arterial. When venous, it probably arises from a fracture, im- plicating the body of the sphenoid bone, and tearing the wa 1 of the cavernous Sins. When arterial, it may, as Hewett has shown be the forerunner of a circumscribed traumatic aneurism of the orbit, attended by pulsation, mm and projection of the eyeball, requiring the deligation of the common carotid ‘° rneeding from the Nose or Mouth may of course arise from any mjmy of these parts without the skull being implicated ; yet m some cases of iiac- ture of the skull the hemorrhage proceeds from the interior of the cranium, throuo'h afissure in the roof of the nasal fossa ; it then indicates a fracture through the ethmoid and sphenoid bones. In a patient of mine who died e weeks^after an injury of the head, accompanied by bleeding from the nose a fracture occasioned by contrecoup was found extending across one orbital p ate “Le, aid separating its articulation with^he — „nRP the nature of the injury was suspected from the fact of tfie nose itseii havino- been uninjured by the blow, although the haemorrhage from it was I very considerable and continuous ; for it is in the quant.V and durarion o this haemorrhage that its value as a diagnostic sign of fracture of the Blood may occur in these cases, from the blood having found NssSSss rare cases, the blood that iss , portion of the temporal ever, being unbioken, no Weea p’nstachian tube. In some cases there escapes into the pharynx tbiorn, . ‘ mi a patient of mine at may he a combination of these different si . ’ 1 d from the left the" Hospital, there wererighTean following a nostril, copious vomiting of hlo > ^ wag made during life, and - V* temporal bone. Watery Fluid from the interior of the • 2. The Discharge of a thm Watery most certain sign of skull sometimes occurs ; and, when it happens, usuaUy takes place fracture of the base that we posses • , f ^hich I have seen one through the ear ; but it may occm from the nose, tokes place from instance, and Robert mentions another through a wound in the scalp commumca mg with t^actm I • been de this, and so being poured out Surgeons. One such scribed by Hey, O’Oallaghan,^Robert, of Univcl.sity College, itnr "’C—7> wound on the bach of the