• 1 94S SEPTICAEMIA AND PYAEMIA. the surface of these organs, or in the interlobular fissures. 1 hey form often without cough or pain, ancl the area of consolidation is iaiel\ sufficiently extensive to be recognized by percussion. 1 hey are usually tapidl} followed by pleurisy with effusion, which conceals any physical signs of the mischief in the lung-tissue. The organ that is most frequently affected next to the lung is the liver. Here also the abscesses are usually small and numerous. They can occasionally he recognized by irregularity of the sin-face of the liver in the superficial part in the epigastrium and by tenderness on pressure. Jaundice often forms a marked symptom. In some cases, especially when the disease is secondary to dysenteric ulceration of the intestine, the abscess is single and of considerable size. Secondary abscesses are not uncommon in thefspleen, where they can only occasionally he recognized by tenderness and pain in the splenic region. They are met with, with some frequency, also in the kidney, less commonly in the brain, and, in rare cases, in the parotid gland, the prostate, and testes. Inflammations of the serous membranes in pyaemia are usually secondary to abscesses of the viscera, but they are occasionally met with independently. There is usually abundant effusion, which rapidly becomes purulent. The pleura is most commonly affected, the peritoneum least frequently. The symptoms of these serous inflammations as a rule present nothing peculiar except in the rapidity with which effusion takes place. The joints are frequently affected, especially the knees and shoulders. They become rapidly filled with a thin yellowish purulent liquid. This is usually indicated by intense pain, often cutaneous or superficial, with fluctuation and swelling in the joint. Often, however, large accumulations of pus form suddenly in joints, without having been preceded by pam or any other sign of mischief in these cases the interior of the joint, though filled with pus, remains tolerably healthy, there being no erosion of cartilage or destruction of ligament, hut merely some inflammatory injection of the synovial When the pus is infiltrated into the areolar tissues and muscles of the t limbs and trunk, it forms diffuse collections of a thin serous matter, com- monly mixed with shreds of the areolar membrane of the part, having no ' boundary. These collections are met with in the axilla, down the flank and about the back, in the iliac fossa, thigh or calf, and may either he confined to the subcutaneous, or extend to the deep intermuscular, areolar planes m these regions ; or they may form even in the muscular substance itself, hew-, diffused between the fasciculi, which are softened and disintegrated. * commonly the presence of these collections is indicated by patches of cutaneous redness, and by a doughy, ccdematous, and boggy state of the supcrja integuments. Sometimes superficial patches of redness with some adema appear in different parts of the body, afterwards subsiding without!a* formation of pus, giving rise to one form of the condition know n as c 01 Amongst the rarer complications of pyaemia is acute ,SUP^^ ball or metastatic panophthalmitis, as it has been termed. All the stiucturcs « affeeied/ Virchow has shown that it is due “ infective emboli to the vessels of the eye. L.tten and retinal luemonbagc in many eases of puCTporal Iu ^ d doubtfc|. appeared to be the result of embolism, but m others this scan