;66 POISONED WOUNDS. Glanders • and Farcy in Man usually occur together and run an acute course, although- occasionally they may become chronic. The disease is always communicated by inoculation, usually into a scratch 01 other wound; but cases have been recorded in which it seemed to have been communicated through unbroken mucous membrane. The inoculation is followed by a period of incubation, which is said to last a variable time fiom two da^s to tw0 weeks. The invasion is marked by fever and a great sense of illness. There may be rigors, vomiting, and diarrhoea. In some cases there have been such severe' pains in the limbs that the disease has been mistaken for rheuma- tism. The seat of inoculation becomes inflamed, and the nearest lymphatic glands become enlarged and tender. Inflamed lymphatic vessels, with hard knots opposite the valves, may also be present. At a period after invasion varying from two days to a week or more, a characteristic eruption makes its appearance. This consists at first of red spots like flea-bites, which soon assume the form of elevated yellowish tubercles situated in the structure of the true skin or immediately beneath it. From their shot-like feel they ma\ at first resemble the early stage of small-pox pustules, but they are not umbilicated and are more deeply situated, as shown by Boyd. They soon soften forming minute abscesses in the cutis vera, the contents of which are at first haemorrhagic. They then burst, leaving small yellowish ulcers discharging a thin purulent fluid. With these may be also a vesicular erup- tion There soon sets in an offensive discharge from the nose, at first watery, but afterwards puriform, and the lymphatic glands under the jaw enlarge. Finally subcutaneous abscesses form in various parts, which may be ac- oomnanied by InBinorrhages into the muscles aud intermuscular tissue; imeumonia or pleurisy may occur before death. Abscesses may ae oun in internal organs, as the liver or lungs. The final stages resemble pyamna bn many respects. Throughout the case the constitutional symptoms are of Hie o-ravest kind. There are great depression, high fever, delirium, and rapid emaciation. In some exceptional cases the disease may run a very chrome C° Diagnosis. The disease may resemble rheumatism before the eruption unnears but the appearance of this soon clears up the case. The eruption, as Xe stated, somewhat resembles that of small-pox, but the general symptoms If this disease are wanting. The history of the association of the patient with slandered horses is an important element in the diagnosis. Pathology —The post-mortem appearances are much the same as those observed in the horse. There are the usual signs of grave blood-poisoning— rly decomposition, excessive blood-staining of the vessels and tissues, and subserous petechia. Scattered points of suppuration are found throughout the body and sometimes extensive hemorrhage into the muscles. The mu- Src usually more or less consolidated from pneumonia, and contain yellow nodules softening in the centre, like the so-called pyenne abscesses. The nature of the virus has been the subject of much discussion. At the l rf 1882 Schultz and Lofficr, two of the assistants in Koch s laboratory m llo bn ^discovered the presence if a bacillus of a definite form in all the parts n n rl with the specific processes of glanders. This bacillus was cultivated tCgtS out of the body in the serum of inoculated on two healthy homes. Both spe^y dmd t * a.Ul _ symptoms of glanders. It seems, therefore, that this bacillus ui .