1070 VENEREAL DISEASES. one side of the foreskin may be destroyed, or a round aperture may form in it, through which the glans projects, whilst the swollen and inflamed extremity of the prepuce hangs down behind it, giving the organ a very remarkable, and, at first sight, somewhat puzzling appearance. As soon as the pent-up discharges find exit in this way, the intensity of the inflammation becomes somewhat relieved. In other cases the whole foreskin may slough, and the glans be deeply implicated, and even the corpora cavernosa denuded. Severe haemorrhage from the dorsal artery or the artery of the fraenum may take place. Not uncommonly the pus, being unable to find exit from the orifice of the swollen prepuce, bursts through the reflection of the foreskin at the corona, and burrows beneath the skin of the penis for some distance superficial to the corpora cavernosa. I have seen it extending in this way for a distance equal to the two first joints of the finger. I11 other cases, when the sore is near the linen uni, it may perforate the urethra, leaving a fistulous opening which it may be impossible to close. After the separation of the sloughs, healthy granulations spring up, the sore loses its specific character, and cicatrization advances rapidly. 3. The Phagedsenic Chancre.—This differs from the sloughing chancre in not being evidently due to want of cleanliness. It attacks sores that can be freely exposed, as well as those that are concealed beneath a long foreskin, and if occurring in the latter condition does not show the same tendency to cease extending as soon as the retention of the discharges and inflammatory tension are relieved by slitting up the foreskin. The sore may assume the phagedamic character from the very first, or this may be set up at some period of its course. Phagedama affects both the simple chancre and the true syphi- litic sore. In fact some Surgeons, especially Jonathan Hutchinson, believe that it is invariably syphilitic, either attacking a primary syphilitic sore or a soft sore in a person already suffering from syphilis, and Berkeley Hill states that a considerable proportion of cases are followed by secondary symptoms. As soon as the phagedamic ulceration sets in, the characteristic appearances of the sore are lost, so that it is not possible to say what form it had originally assumed. The phagedenic chancre is characterized by a tendency to erosion, with extensive destruction of the parts that it invades. The progress of the sore varies greatly in its rapidity. In some cases it advances slowly and irregu- larly, healing at one part while spreading at another; thus forming the serpiginous sore. In other cases the advance is extremely rapid. In men the whole thickness of the penis may be destroyed for some distance, and in women the recto-vaginal septum may be perforated. Between these forms every variety may be met with. Wallace has divided phagedamic sores into three varieties : those without slough, those with white slough, and those with Hack slough. This classification appears to me to be a useful and practical one, and i accordingly adopt it. The phagedemic chancre without slough is a truly eroding ulcer, spreading with sharply-cut edges, attended by slight inflammation, and with moderate activity of progress ; it is commonly observed about the ffrenum and under part of the glans, and very frequently hollows out and destroys the organ in this situation to a considerable extent. When reaching the skin, it often assumes the serpiginous form. In the phagedamic chancre with while slough, we find an irregular eroding