765 CONCUSSION- OF THE SPINAL CORD. intense character, often occasioning ■wide-spread cutaneous hyperassthesia, will develope. If, again, the cord is the part that has mainly, or in conjunction with the others, been the seat of injury, symptoms that may more distinctly he referred to Concussion of the Spinal Cord will result. But these, it must be remembered, will always be found to be more or less complicated with or masked by the damage done to the locomotor and the other nervous con- stituents of the spine. What has here been said with regard to the effects of primary lesion of the spine is equally true with respect to the secondary consequences of such injuries. An injury inflicted on the ligamentous structures of the spine may readily develope local inflammatory conditions, that eventually extend by continuity of structure to the meninges of the cord. A lesion of a spinal nerve may give rise to a neuritis, which assuming an ascending and progressive character, will lead to permanent and organic disease of one of the lateral segments of the cord. And so an injury of the cord itself at one part may after a time lead to organic changes at a distant and higher point. The Spiral Cord is subject to Concussion, Compression, and Inflammation, as the result of external violence ; and any of these conditions may occur without injury to the osseous and ligamentous structures investing it, although, in the majority of cases, they are directly occasioned by fracture or dislocation of the vertebrae. The cord may also be partially or completely divided by cutting instruments, gun-shot wounds, or broken vertebrae. CONCUSSION OP THE SPINAL COED.* It is by no means easy to give a clear and comprehensive definition of the term, Concussion of the Spinal Cord. The term is clinical rather than pathological. It is generally adopted by Surgeons to indicate a certain state of the cord occasioned by external violence ; a state that is independent of, and usually, but not necessarily, uncomplicated with, any obvious mechanical lesion of the vertebral column, such as fracture or dislocation ; a condition that is supposed to depend upon a shake or jar received by the cord, by which its intimate structure is more or less deranged, by which its functions are greatly disturbed, and in which various symptoms indicative of loss or modifi- cation of innervation are immediately or remotely induced. It appears that Surgeons and writers on diseases of the nervous system have included four distinct pathological conditions under this one term, concussion of the spinal cord; viz., 1. A jar or shake of the cord, disordering, to a greater or less degree, its functions, without any lesion perceptible to the unaided eye; 2. Compression of the cord from extravasated blood ; 3. Compression of the cord from inflammatory exudations within the spinal canal, whether of serum, lymph, or pus ; and, 4. Chronic alterations of the structure of the cord itself, as the result of impairment of nutrition consequent on the occurrence of one or other of the preceding pathological states, but chiefly of the third. These various conditions differ remarkably from one another in symptoms and effects, and have only this in common—that they are not dependent upon an obvious external injury of the spine itself; in which respect they differ from the • I would refer the reader to Injuries of the Nervous System given here. my work on “ Concussion of the Spine, Nervous Shock, and other Obscure London, 1832, for a more complete exposition of this subject than can be