CONSTITUTIONAL TREATMENT OF INFLAMMATION 199 risk, to limit exudation lest it give rise to a change of structure, which, however slight, would be fatal to the utility of the part. The quantity of blood that should be taken necessarily varies greatly, according to the age and constitution of the patient, and the nature of his disease ; and it is of importance to bear in mind that, when blood-letting is really required, the system tolerates the loss of the vital fluid much better than at other times. The effect produced ou the pulse and on the system should be the guide to the quantity to be taken away. A decided impression should be produced by blood-letting, not so much on the frequency of the pulse, as on its character ; that should guide us, and not the number of ounces drawn. The point to be obtained is the greatest effect upon the system with the least loss to the patient: hence the blood should be taken from a large orifice, the patient sitting upright. In repeating the venesection, we must be guided by the impression that has been made upon the disease, and by the state of the pulse. In former times, blood-letting was sometimes practised from the temporal artery, and the external jugular vein ; but in the present day, blood is scarcely ever taken from any vessel but the median basilic vein at the bend of the elbow. The operation is thus performed : the patient being in a sitting posture, a tape or a piece of bandage is bound round the arm about midway between the shoulder and the elbow, with sufficient firmness to obstruct the return of blood through the veins, and yet not to interfere with the flow through the artery. When the limb below the bandage is fully distended with blood, the operator selects the most prominent vein at the bend of the elbow, which will almost invariably be the median basilic, and compresses it with his thumb below the point at which it is intended to open it; this serves the double purpose of steadying the vein, and preventing a premature escape of blood. He then takes the lancet, or any other small, sharp-pointed, cutting instrument if a lancet be not at hand, and, holding it by the blade between the fore- fingei and thumb, while he steadies his hand by resting the other fingers on the arm of the patient, he divides the skin and opens the vessel by a single incision about one-third of an inch in length, carried obliquely across the vein and dividing its anterior wall. He then takes a graduated vessel, and, 0 cling it m such a position as to catch the blood, he removes his thumb horn the vein and allows the proper amount to escape. During the operation the patient should hold some round body in his hand, which he can grasp firmly at intervals, by which means the blood from the deep veins is driven out from amongst the muscles into the median by the communicating branch w rich enters it just before its bifurcation. As soon as a sufficient quantity of blood is drawn, the constricting band on the arm is relaxed ; a pad of lint is ThPr nl wVei’ u YTd’ and SeCm'ed by a few tums of a figure-of-8 bandage, br rin ? 0' , , Can happe11 durin8' the operation is a wound of the vein ! Z1’ W!11C1l us? ly HeS immcdiate,T beneath the median-basilic of the 1! the,pomt selected for bleeding. This is avoided by holding the blade flnp f n,C,C s 101 an< Plinljr> and supporting the backs of the three inner the rminf1 rn ba 'eid S aim wdde a movement of extension of the wrist, to onen J!e InS Uimcid is made to move in a segment of a circle, and so is intended plrr11?eilfc w^Pou^ aily risk of penetrating more deeply than nosifirm 0 . 10111 madvertency the patient be bled in the recumbent the effect-'r " (}nanfaty Mood may be removed than is intended before tne effect 011 the pulse is produced.