364 POISONED WOUNDS. that when the bacillus is in the spore-bearing stage it may be washed with ' distilled water, alcohol, and ether, and then dried, and alter all this, il inoculated, it is capable of producing splenic fever in the animal experimented on. After inoculation it produces its local effects probably by setting up chemical changes of a fermentative character in the fluids of the part, giving rise to the production of intensely irritating products, which, by a process analogous to cauterization, cause inflammation, and, soaking into the surround- ing lymph-spaces, give rise to the spreading oedema and inflammation beyond the area in which the organisms are actually growing. When the bacilli get into the blood and grow widely throughout the body, they are supposed to act partly by causing mechanical obstruction of the capillaries, and paitly by robbing the blood of its oxygen; for, like all fungi, they absorb oxygen and excrete carbonic acid during their growth. This would account for the dyspnoea ^ and cyanosis usually met with before death from malignant pustule. One more point may be briefly noticed. Pasteur discovered the interesting fact that, by cultivating the organism in a medium not well suited to its o-rowth, the intensity of its virulent action becomes attenuated, until after a few generations have been thus grown a degree of attenuation is. reached 111 which the effect produced by inoculation, although severe, is certain not to be fatal; and that after the animal has suffered from the modified form of the disease it may be inoculated with the unattenuated virus without effect. lne analogy between this process and vaccination has given a peculiar interest to Pasteur’s observations, and numerous observers have repeated his experiments with the result of generally confirming his observations. The subject is, however, still incompletely worked out. In malignant pustule and splenic fever we have, therefore, a disuse which i is analogous to many conditions met with in unhealthy wounds There is a peculiar local inflammation, the products of which excite a similar pi oces., m the parts with which they come in contact; the poison multiplies m the living tissues and is communicable from one individual to another by modulation or, under certain circumstances, by the air ; finally the whole system becom affected, and grave blood-changes occur, which are incompatible with hi. The same conditions are met with in many forms of septic infection (septicaemia), in some forms of pyaemia, in dissection-wounds, in sprea 11 g Sgrene, in diphtheria, &c. ; and in all these affections microscope organisms of various kinds have been seen, both m the discharges and hfthe blood. Reasoning from analogy therefore, one would be mchned to assume that, as in splenic fever, so in these diseases, the orjpmsm " ^ immediate cause of the morbid process. In science, however, analog) cannet be accepted as proof ; the most it may be allowed to do is to suggest a hypo thesis. The hypothesis thus suggested has served for some yearn p « guide in all experimental inquiries in this class of diseases, and to> a hv extent also in their treatment, and it may reasonably be hoped that lx fore lomr definite proof of its truth will be obtained. The Treatment of malignant pustule must be energetic am at 110 , < ^ measures arc likely to be successful. The whole indurated area of the skm "Sd be removed by the knife, and to the raw surface thus left some strong SS SSSd be applied , perhaps the tat would he iodine, which has been shown by Koch to be capable of dost . 0 spores of the bacillus.