LOCAL DISTURBANCES AND INFLAMMATION. 174 take place. As a result of this process, readily di(fusible, chemical products ure formed, possessing intensely irritating properties ; and in consequence of the slight degree of pressure to which the pent-up fluid is exposed, this noxious material finds its way into the surrounding lymph-spaces, and wherever it goes it damages the tissues and sets up the inflammatory process. In this case, however, the irritating material is formed solely in the dead matter in the wound. Experiments have shown that the organisms which accompany and are supposed to cause the process of putrefaction of dead matter are innocuous to living tissues, and consequently the inflammation will extend only as far as the products of putrefaction diffuse themselves and no further. Thus, although the inflammation spreads beyond the area originally injured, the process is as truly a local one as if it were induced by filling the wound with arsenic or some other diffusible caustic. Although the poison increases in quantity, it does so only at the expense of dead matter in the wound which may be considered as really outside the body. The true infective inflammations are due to the accidental intro- duction of a poison or virus which possesses the power of increasing in quantity in the living tissues. The effect produced is, therefore, quite irre- spective of the size of the original wound or starting point of the inflammation. Thus the prick of a needle in sewing up a body after a post-mortem examina- tion may start an inflammation extending through the whole arm. In an infective process of this kind the virus exists abundantly in the products of the inflammation, that is to say, in the inflammatory exudation, and if by any means these products are transferred from one part of the body to another, they set up a similar unhealthy inflammation wherever they may lodge; andm like manner, a similar inflammation may be started m another individual by inoculatiou of the exudation. The local spread of the inflammation is due to the irritating inflammatory products containing the ferment-like poison finding their way into the lymph-spaces of the surrounding tissues. An infective inflammation may be limited to one part of the body, and spread merely y local infection as in spreading gangrene and phlegmonous erysipelas; or the poison may be taken up by the lymphatics, and cause inflammation similar in character to the original process in the nearest lymphatic glands without infecting the system generally, as in soft chancre and some forms of dissecting wound; or it may be carried throughout the body by means of broken-down clots from the veins of the primary seat of disease, giving rise to local inflam- mation wherever the fragments of clot may lodge, as in some forms of pyemia; and, lastly, the poison may enter the blood and multiply m it, giving 1 a general infective process as in septic infection, malignant pustule (splem fever") or syphilis. The term “infective” is, therefore, applied only to dime conditions in which the poison multiplies in the living tissues of the b<*A; when the infection merely spreads locally without affecting the whole system the result is called a local infective inflammation ; when the poison enters the system and multiplies throughout it, presumably m the blood, the affection S, oC of sis a « general infective process.” The multiplmation of the noison in the body and the effect produced not being proportional to the quantity originally inoculated, long ago suggested the resemblance of tl ““ c^bywhich the poison is developed to fermentation, and ... a large number of infective inflammations, organised irritants ill the foilii pathogenic fungi, supposed to be capable of acting as ferments, have been lately