TUMOURS. J 024 small-celled infiltration can be recognized, which surrounds a cancerous growth like a halo, and gradually shades off in the surrounding healthy textures, the tissues must be regarded as infected. It is of great importance in determin- ing the question of operation to bear this in mind, and not to act on the supposition of the tumour being abruptly defined. The secondary growths in scirrhous cancer form first in the lymphatic glands in almost every case ; later on they may occur in the liver, lungs, bones, and other parts. In the lungs and liver they are frequently much softer than the primary growth, so that in some cases they might be more properly termed encephaloid than scirrhous. In the lymphatic glands they are often almost as firm as the original tumour. Structure.—On cutting into a scirrhous tumour with the scalpel, it usually creaks somewhat as it is divided, and presents a whitish or bluish-white glistening surface, intersected by white bands, which apparently consist partly of new structure, and partly of included areolar tissue. This section has not inaptly been compared to the appearance presented by a cut through a turnip or an unripe pear. A curious feature about scirrhous cancer, in which it differs from almost all other tumours, is that it becomes cup-shaped on section. This seems to be due to the fact that in most scirrhous tumours a kind of process of cicatriza- tion takes place in the central parts, while the peripheral parts are still grow- Fi". 30S.—Sciri'lius of Brenst (1SS ilium.) The communication of the alveolar spaces between one another ° and the continuity of the contained masses of cells is well shown. The contour of the individual celu» is seldom delinite, and the nucleoli, as a rule, are not seen. ing. The cells undergo fatty degeneration and break up. The greater part of the products of degeneration are absorbed, and only a narrow streak of granules may be left to represent a once large accumulation of cells. It is this shrinking of the growth that drags in the nipple in scirrlms of the breast, and perhaps it is the evident state of tension in which the tumour is, that <rives rise to the peculiar pain of scirrlms in general. On examining a scirrhous cancer microscopically (Figs. 898, 899), it will be found to be surrounded everywhere by a zone of small round cells infiltrating the surrounding parts, penetrating between fat-cells or muscular fibres, and extending along bands of connective tissue. A little nearer the centre the alveolar arrangement becomes apparent, and groups of rounded or irregular cells, with large oval nuclei, are