INJURIES ON T1IE CHEST. *34 fcion, and possibly a recognizable dulness ; but more commonly the physical gigns are obscured by haemorrhage into the lung substance, and into the cavity of the pleura. The rusty sputa are more the consequence of the haemorrhage into the air-vesicles than of inflammatory hypermmia. Should spreading septic inflammation set in, the constitutional symptoms are much more grave, very hjo'h fever being caused by absorption of the products of putrefaction, the tem- perature reaching 104° F. or 105° F. It may then occasionally be possible to recognize the ordinary signs of pneumonia—hurried respiration, fine crepitation, dulness on percussion, increased vocal fremitus, tubular or bronchial breath- ing, and increased vocal resonance,—but far more commonly all these signs are wanting in consequence of the simultaneous inflammation of the pleuia, with effusion into its cavity. The pneumonia that occurs as a consequence of injury differs essentially from idiopathic crupous pneumonia. The disease has •of course no fixed locality, starting as it does from the wound, and it has much less tendency to spread. Moreover, it occurs most frequently in a collapsed or partially collapsed lung, and consequently there is not the same distension of the air-vesicles with inflammatory exudation. It is a most fatal complication, but not hopeless. If free drainage be provided from the pleura, the mischief may cease to spread, granulations may spring up, and the wound in the lung anay gradually close. Foreign bodies are frequently carried into the substance of the lung m gun- shot-wounds of the chest. If these are metallic, they may become encysted; if non-metallic, as pieces of clothing, they more commonly give rise to suppu- ration ; and should the patient recover, may ultimately find their way into the bronchi, and be coughed up. _ . 4. Pleurisy and Empyema.—Whenever the pleura is wounded, whether! It be by a fractured rib or by a direct open wound, and whether the lung be injured or not, localized traumatic inflammation necessarily results, and the first stage in the repair of the injury in the serous membrane is adhesion of the two opposed surfaces by means of the inflammatory exudation. After- wards firm fibrous adhesions are formed between the parietal and visceral pleura at the injured spot, thus obliterating to a certain extent the serous sac. sub- cutaneous injuries of the pleura, such as are made by the ends of a broken rn, rarely give rise to any serious trouble. The inflammation remains strict y limited to the injured spot, and shows little tendency to spread Even when ■the physical signs have shown that some amount of blood has been extrava- .sated into the cavity of the pleura, the inflammation rarely reaches the stage ■of suppuration unless there is an external wound. If there is an external wound, the condition is always one of considerable danger. _ Ihe cavity of the pleura is partly filled with cxtrftvasated blood and inflammatory -exudation, that is to say, with putrescible matter, to which the air lias tree -admission hy the external wound ; at the same time, m most cases, u drainage by the wound is very imperfect. Decomposition naturally " ' ' ' and the decomposing matter sets up the most intense inflammation o pleura rapidly reaching the stage of suppuration. The lodgment of . n Cite the pleural cavity or an unhealthy constitutional comht.on of the mtioiit necessarily favours the formation of pus in the pleura. patient necessarily imvu-o the pleural cavity which folbw this courae, the effu^d flu-d ^ ■ wjth blood StoV lymph floating in ■it is gently wf from the wounded lung. The effhsion takes place very lap.dly, so as