769 INJURIES OF THE VERTEBRAL COLUMN. Concussion of tlic spinal cord from a direct and severe injury of the back may terminate also in complete recovery after a longer or shorter time, or in incomplete recovery. The probability of the termination in recovery does not depend so much on the actual severity of the immediate symptoms that may have been occasioned by the accident, as on their persistence. If they continue beyond a certain time, changes will take place in the cord and its membranes which are incompatible with the proper exercise of its functions. Injuries of the Vertebral Column in Concussion.—In concussion of the spinal cord, there is, in addition to the lesion of the cord, serious injury inflicted on the ligamentous and bony structures of the vertebral column. This injury, however, must be considered as an accidental complication, as it does not necessarily occasion, or even aggravate, the mischief done to the cord. Thus the ligaments may be torn through so as to allow partial separa- tion of contiguous vertebrae ; or, a vertebra may be fractured, but without any displacement of the broken fragments, or other sign by which it is possible during life to determine the exact amount of injury inflicted on the parts external to the cord. In this respect injuries of the spine closely resemble those of the head ; their chief importance depending on the amount of injury inflicted upon the contained parts. In the spine, as in the head, it will some- times be found after death from what appears to be, and in reality is, simple- injury of the nervous centres, that the vertebral column in the one case, and the skull in the other, has suffered an amount of injury unsuspected during life; and which, though it may not in any way have determined the fatal result, yet affords conclusive evidence of the violence to which the parts have been subjected, and the intensity of the disorganizing shock that they have suffered. There is, however, a very essential difference between the spine and the head. A simple fracture of the cranium may be of no moment, except so far as the violence that has occasioned it may have influenced the brain. In the spine, the case is not parallel; for, as the vertebral column is the centre of support to the body, its function in this respect will be lost when it is broken ;• even though the spinal cord may not have been injured by the edges of the fractured vertebrae, but simply violently and fatally concussed by the same force that broke the spine. Boyer noticed the very interesting practical fact, that, when the interspinousr ligaments were ruptured in consequence of forcible flexion of the spine for- wards, no fatal consequences usually ensued, the integrity of the parts be inn restored by rest; but that, when the ligamenta subflava were torn through, and the arches separated, paraplegia and death followed. This he attributed to stretching of the spinal cord. Sir C. Bell, however, with great acuteness, has pointed out the error of this explanation, and states that “ it is the progress ol the inflammation to the spinal marrow, and not the pressure or the extension ot it, which makes these cases of subluxation and breach of the tube fatal.” lhere can be no doubt that this explanation is the correct one ; and that, when once the spinal canal is forcibly torn open, fatal inflammation will spread' co the meninges and to the medulla itself. *5ecfa Blows. 1 he consideration of the effects that may be l r1 J , 0n the/Pinal cord by slight, blows, whether applied to the back or to HHmipro ^ai ° t lC ha8 l°n§’ arrested the attention of observant prac- i-u jciciombie, writing in 1829, Says, that chronic inflammation of vol r 1 S mem^ranes ma7 supervene upon very slight injuries of the