SACIi UM—COCCYX. 587 readily be effected, by attention to three circumstances the dislocation its ready reduction with crepitus, and its immediate return when the limb is lett to itself. . The Treatment consists in the application of the long splint with a broad padded belt, so as to secure steadiness of the head of the bone. But with every care a return of displacement will readily take place, and an unsatis- factory result can scarcely be avoided; shortening of the limb, and consequent lameness, being almost inevitable. Fractures of the Sacrum are excessively rare, except as the result of o-un-shot-injury. When occurring from other causes, such as falls, they are almost invariably associated with fracture of the pelvic bones, and then they have always been fatal. The records of surgery contain but a very few obser- vations, probably not more than six or eight, of uncomplicated fracture of the sacrum arising from other causes than gun-shot. I have had two cases of fracture of the sacrum under my care. Both had a rapidly fatal issue. In one there was also fracture through the pubic bone ; in the other, the sacrum was the only bone injured. In it, the fracture was the result of a blow on the lower part of the back by the buffer of a railway carriage. The preparation is in the University College Museum. The only other preparation with which I am acquainted, is one in the Museum of the College of Surgeons. These frac- tures are almost invariably transverse, with displacement forwards of the upper margin of the lower fragment. This was the case in both the instances under my care ; but Bicherand has published a case in which this bone was split vertically in consequence of a fall on the face ; and its crucial and multiple fracture have been described by others. The injury can necessarily arise only from direct violence of a severe character, and is attended by much extravasa- tion and pain, together with neuralgia along the course of the posterior sacral nerves, which may be implicated in or irritated by the fracture. The Treatment is as for fractured pelvis, and should consist in the application of a padded pelvic band. The Coccyx, though more exposed, is seldom broken. But fracture of it may occur from falls backwards, or from direct blows on the part, the tip being bent forcibly forwards, and the elements of the bone separated. The displacement forwards is maintained by the action of the coccygei. The pain in these cases is excessively severe, owing to the bruising of the ligamentous and tendinous expansions that cover the bone. It is greatly increased in sitting and walking, and in defalcation, or in any violent expiratory effort, as sneezing or coughing. It is sometimes removed on reducing the fractured and displaced fragments by pressure through the rectum, but may continue for months, and even longer, constituting a truly neuralgic affection of the part. South relates the case of a gentleman who broke his coccyx by sitting on the edge of a snuff-box, and who suffered such severe pain that he was obliged to wear a pad on the tuberosity of each ischium, in order that the coccyx might be in a kind of pit, free from pressure when he sat. Under the term Coccydynia, Sir J. Y. Simpson has described a painful affection of the coccyx and its neighbouring structures, which occurs chiefly in women, commonly as the result of injury, and is often very severe and per- sistent, so as to prevent the patient from sitting, or even walking with comfort. is an affection that closely resembles in its symptoms the pain occasioned by ssure or ulcer of the anus and rectum. It usually arises from a blow on the