759 LINE OF MENINGEAL ARTERY. very rare for the main trunk to be ruptured ; almost invariably it is the anterior branch that suffers. This branch is first directed forwards across the great wing of the sphenoid to near the tip of the small wing ; here it takes a sharp curve backwards, and often enters a canal in the bone ; from 111s point it is directed backwards and upwards in the groove which crosses the anterior inferior angle of the parietal bone. Its course may be found externally by the following rale :—Draw a straight line backwards from the external angular process of the frontal bone ; take point at any distance between one inch and two and a half inches from the angular process in this line and draw a vertical line through it from the zygoma; measure a corresponding distance up this line, and the point so found will be over the artery. If the distance taken be under one inch and a half, the artery will very frequently be found in a canal in the bone ; beyond this it is usually in a groove. Accuracy is of importance only when a fissured fracture is found, as the centre of the crown of trephine should, if possible, be at the point at which the fissure crosses the line of the artery. In other cases a very sufficient and practi- cal guide is to put the pin of the trephine two and a half inches vertically above the condyle of the lower jaw. Having found the line of the artery, a T-shaped incision should be made with the horizontal limb parallel to the zygoma, the middle of the vertical incision being opposite the point at which the artery is supposed to lie. The incision divides the scalp and the temporal aponeurosis and muscle. In doing this a large branch of the superficial and one or both deep temporal arteries will be cut and require ligature ; the bone is then cleaned, saving the periosteum, and the crown of a large trephine applied, with the pin of the instrument over the spot where the vessel is supposed to lie. If the diagnosis have been correct, as soon as the circle of bone is removed a dark solid clot pushes its way up into the opening. As a rule, however, it is too solid to come out without the use of a scoop, and for this purpose a small lithotomy scoop may be used. The Surgeon, having- now trephined and removed the blood clot, is confronted with what is truly the greatest difficulty of the case. The artery in the majority of cases follows the dura mater, for it is only if it be in a canal in the bone that it remains superficial. If the brain expands immediately upon the pressure being removed, the injured artery may come into view; if not, all that is seen is a profuse flow of blood pouring out of the opening in the skull, and apparently in some cases threatening to be almost immediately fatal. Under these circumstances all that can be done is to raise the patient into a sitting position, to compress the carotid, and to apply ice to the side of the head and neck. Under this treat- ment the bleeding usually ceases rapidly and does not recur. If the actual bounded spot can be seen, a fine catgut or carbolized silk-ligature must be passed round it with a sharp needle. If the artery lie in a canal, and its torn end can be seen bleeding where the trephine has cut through it, the hemor- rhage may be arrested by inserting a small plug or by touching it with the cautery. In some cases the hemorrhage is due to the tearing of a large number of small vessels, and not to the wound of any special branch. Thus, in one of t ie fatal cases in University College Hospital, a child, aged seven, the most caie ul examination failed to detect any wounded artery. The hannorrhage '\as in this case situated behind the region of the large branches of the menin- geal artery.