407 TORSION AND LIGATURE COMPARED. of the vessel; the external coat is twisted into a kind of screw beyond them (Fig. 140). If a large vessel be treated in this way in the dead body and cut off about half an inch above the twisted part, it can be seen by looking- down the hunen of the vessel that the inverted inner and middle coats completely close the vessel in a manner roughly resembling the closed aortic valves. A coagulmn forms, ad- herent at its lower end to the injured coats, and the sub- sequent changes within the vessel are identical with those already described (p. 307) as occurring in permanent occlusion of a divided artery. The twisted end either becomes absorbed after being embedded in the coagulable exudation that imites the surface of the wound in the first few hours, or it separates as a slough if exposed to un- favourable conditions, as in an ill-drained wound with de- composiug discharges, or on an open surface. Torsion and Ligature Compared.—The employment of torsion as a substitute for the ligature is advocated on three grounds : 1, that, whilst equally safe, it is more easy of application; 2, that it is less liable to be followed by secondary haunorrhage; and 3, that when an artery is closed by torsion, no foreign body is left in the wound that could interfere with its direct union. Let us briefly examine the advantages claimed for torsion over the ligature. 1. So far as ease of application is concerned, there can be no doubt that the advantage is in favour of the ligature. This is very markedly the case with small vessels and those that cannot be drawn out of the sheath. In the case of the larger arteries, that can be denuded and drawn out of the neighbouring tissues, it is at least as easy to throw a thread round the exposed vessel as to twist it up securely. 1 2 With reference to the comparative freedom from secondary haemorrhage, we have few data; but all those Surgeons who have extensively employed torsion agree m stating that it is very rarely followed by secondary haunor- rhage. The same may, however, be said with equal truth of the catgut and other absorbable ligatures which are almost universally used at the present 3 The torsion of arteries was strongly advocated on the ground that, whilst o tflnn8 iaS 10 lgatU1'e’thei'6 WOuld affcer its employment be less liability to inflammation and suppuration, as no foreign body was left in the wound. tint theSr^\Wa7Sed especially by Amussat; Manec and others maintained In the nvowi ^ f &i”8® artery at rafce> is in reality a foreign body. day when the treatment of wounds is so much better under- at tlme> fclfc arguments are of but little practical im- lu-tcrv l,o,nl! knovv t iaf aP>ece of dead tissue, the size of the twisted end of an twentv-foi ?S sPcet'/ 1CC! plastic exudation that forms during thefirst properly di-hinTl'8 10 lll^'ct’on °f a wound, provided that the cavity is rest- and t,w / V'! n 10 ®ui7aces brought accurately together and kept at inflamm-ih'ri 'CS? circumstances it is readily absorbed without causing suppuiation. I11 (act, it acts as an irritating foreign body only Pig. 140.—A Femoral Artery from a fresh dead hody, twisted freely and laid open. The inner and middle coats are turned up into the lumen of the vessel for lialf-an- inch.