COMPLICA TED D ISLOG A TIOFS. 637 defer and increase the difficulties. At least seven or eight weeks must elapse before the fracture will be sufficiently firmly united to bear the requisite trac- tion to reduce so old a dislocation ; and then there will he great chance of rupture of the callus, and there will certainly be extreme difficulty in the re- duction. It therefore appears to me much safer, under all circumstances, to endeavour to reduce the dislocation at once, and afterwards to treat the fracture in the usual way. In reducing a dislocation complicated with fracture of the shaft of the displaced bone, the fracture must first he put up very firmly indeed, with wooden splints completely encasing the limb. The patient must then be put fully under the influence of chloroform, which is of the most essential service in these cases ; and, when the muscles are completely relaxed, extension and counter-extension being made in the usual way, the reduction may be effected. The extending means should always be applied upon the splints, so that there may be no dragging upon the fracture. In this way I have reduced, without any difficulty, a dislocation of the head of the humerus into the axilla, complicated with comminuted fracture of the shaft of the bone, in a remark- ably muscular man to whom I was called by Byam ; and about the same time I had under my care at the Hospital a case of dislocated elbow, with fracture of the shaft of the humerus, that was reduced with ease in the same way. The difficulty in reduction is necessarily increased by the proximity of the fracture to the dislocated joint, and when the epiphysis is broken off from the shaft and dislocated, the difficulty may be great; but it is not insuperable. Some years since, I assisted H. Smith and Dunn in the reduction of a dislocation of the humerus with fracture of the surgical neck of the bone, the displaced head lying to the inner side of the coracoid process. In this case the patient, a young man who had sustained the injury by a fall in an epileptic fit, was put under chloroform, and when he was fully anaesthetized the displaced head of the bone was easily replaced; the patient recovering with an excellent and useful arm. After the bone has been reduced, the fracture should be treated in the ordinary way. When a Simple Fracture extends into the Articular End of the Bone, as in some dislocations about the elbow and ankle, there is no material increase in the danger of the case or in the difficulty of its management. In Compound Dislocation with Fracture of the Articular Ends, removal of splinters, and partial resection or amputation, will be required, according to the seat and extent of injury. Spontaneous Dislocations may occur either suddenly or gradually, and may arise from a variety of causes. Spontaneous dislocation, if the term can be properly applied to such cases is often met with as the result of disease of the articulation. In all destructive inflammation of joints, as in white swelling of the knee, disease of the hip-joint or acute arthritis following a wound, the ligaments become softened, the carti- lages are destroyed, and the bones entering into the articulation altered in shape by ulceration; and under these circumstances the articular surfaces become readily displaced under the influence of slight muscular action. To f ,class ' ';lkma,m has given the name of Dislocation from Destruction. inini.nff rheumatl° arthritis, especially of the smaller joints, and in the 1 CC I0I'S m(k with in locomotor ataxy, it sometimes happens that the TYTPHsnm fU1 aCGS are gradually forced out of their normal relation by the 0 osseous out-growths, springing from the bones close to the margin