INJURIES OF SOFT PARTS. 3°4 stitches being inserted at the edges of the wound without undue tension. The button diffuses the pressure over the whole area upon which it presses, and thus a considerable degree of traction may be applied without causing ulceration or sloughing. It is especially useful nftci the excision of malig- nant tumours with a portion of skin. In the continuous suture, or glover’s stitch, the thread is carried on from stitch to stitch, instead of being detached from the needle, and fastened off as in the interrupted suture. The stitches are placed nearer together, so that the adjustment of the edges is more intimate. Either metallic or silk thread can be employed ; in withdrawing it, each loop must be divided, and each piece removed separately, as in the common stitch. This form of suture is not very often employed. It is chiefly used in wounds of the intestine. The quilled suture is employed where the sides of a deep longitudinal wound are required to be kept in contact throughout, as in ruptured perineum. It consists of a scries of double interrupted sutures of stout silk, whipcord, or silver wire passed deeply, through the loops of which, that hang out on one side of the wound, is passed a piece of bougie, or quill, whilst the ends of the thread are tightly tied or twisted over a similar cylinder on the opposite side. The stitches& should enter and emerge about half anl inch from the line of incision and be so placed that the cylinders when in situ. lie parallel to one another! Fine interrupted sutures may be used in addition, to connect the SU The twisted or figure-of-8 suture is very commonly employed in surgery. A slender pin, made of soft iron, with a steel point, is introduced through each lip of the wound, at a distance of about one-third of an inch from the maro-ins ■ and, whilst the latter are held in contact, a piece of silk twist is ■mssed in a figure-of-8 round the pin, care being taken not to draw it too tio-ht nor to compress the soft parts between the needle and the thread, lest slouching ensue. The projecting ends of the pin are now cut off with pliers, and'the skin beneath them protected with plaster. This suture is used in he treatment of hare-lip; but it is of great sendee wherever the bps of the wound are very vascular; it has the advantage, likewise, of taking the tension off the suture, so that it is less likely to cut its way out than the interrupted suture The pin may be withdrawn in about forty-eight hours. ■Plasters are of various kinds, those most commonly employed being the resin soap and isinglass plasters. Each of them possesses peculiar properties, it to- use in particular cases. The resin-plaster has the advantage of bclnv most adhesive, and of not being readily, loosened by discharge ; but, 1 the other hand, it is irritating, sticky, difficult to remove, and m consc- nuence of the lead that it contains, leaves a duty-looking incrustation behind The soap-plaster is less irritating, but at the same tune less adhesive ; it is" consequently not much used in the management of wounds The isinglass plaster is doubtless the most cleanly and least irritating of all, and,te|"S transparent, permits the Surgeon to see what » taking place beneath ,t; but ifc is readily loosened by the discharges, and is apt to run into a cou . The African rubber-plaster, which adheres with great tenacity without being cither wetted or warmed, will ho found very convenient m many cas*. 1 t will not stick, however, to a wet surface, but ,f once applied, is not easily i vwri hv rliReharsres as it is a waterprooi material. 10 pCtcil which require heating, must be cut into strips of convenient length