AMPUTATIONS. 76 cent, of the deaths ; was hut little fatal in secondary amputations, G per cent.; and was entirely absent as a cause of death in pathological amputations. Pyaemia was the cause of death in about one-third, or 33 per cent., of the fatal cases amongst the primary amputations, and in 44‘4 per cent of the secondary ; and in those for disease it again acquired nearly the level ot the primary—viz. 34-G per cent. . ,, „ Pytemia is proportionately more fatal after amputations of the upper than ot the lower extremity, occasioning about 40 per cent, of the deaths in the former, against 34 per cent, of the latter, after amputations for all causes. In primary amputations the disparity is more marked, being about 50 per cen . o a deaths in the upper, against about 32 in the lower limb ; shock, on the other hand, being more fatal by far after primary amputations of the lower than ol the upper extremity, owing doubtless to the larger mass removed. The influence of shock is necessarily most felt m primary amputations Indeed, its fatal results are almost entirely confined to amputations performed within twenty-four hours of the infliction of the injury Fatal shock,:in fact is the result of the combined depressing influence ot the injury and of operation. It occurs in exact proportion to the severity of the injury, amount of loss of blood, and the age of the patient. It is often referable rather to the injury than to the operation ; and it becomes a question whether m many cases of serious and ahnost hopeless smash of a ^ petition better to let the patient expire in peace, than to subject lnm to the yepeti _ of a shock which his nervous system will be utterly unable to enc • is more especially the case in extensive crush and disorganisation of the lo eXily up to or above the middle of the thighs, such as are not im raquent at the present day from railway accidents, in which the mangling o i rathe/that produced by cannon-shot than by an jbnary rn^ny civil life In these cases amputation through the uppei thud of the thig , ajTthe hip-joint, is the only' available operation. It *7 oases But is it ever successful in the full-grown adult ? That is a que. which deserves the serious consideration of h°sp1 tnl S'irsooris' ^ acquainted with a single case in which such on platoon m*xi ^ general hospital practice, in men in'which College M t equally those more hopeless cases of utter smasi o^ • ^pdren and young tice ? For my own part I shall never agan > - 1 , whether people, amputate in that situation for^such for°^he patient to be loft tokured by amputation, which all experience haL^s° of importance to observe, in reference to ^ese^es °f after primary amputations, that the a a umi • ^ Hence, although it within twenty-four, of the performance of t 1 < the influence