THE BRACHIAL ARTERY. 459 professed phlebotomists, now very rarely happens. Should a Surgeon be so unfortunate as to meet with this accident, the best practice is to cut dow n upon the artery at once and apply a ligature above and below the wound, and at the same time to tie the wounded vein. Should he not have at hand the means of doing this, he may perhaps prevent injurious consequences by keeping up a proper degree of pressure, by means of a graduated compress applied immediately oil the occurrence of the accident. With this view, the hand, and fore-arm having been very carefully padded aud bandaged, a well- Imade graduated compress should be firmly applied over the seat of puncture, and retained there for at least ten days or a fortnight. Should the aperture in the artery not be closed in this way, either a circumscribed false aneurism, a varicose aneurism, or an aneurismal varix will form, according to the relation of the puncture in the artery to that in the vein. In the Circumscribed Traumatic Aneurism at the bend of the arm, following a wound of the brachial artery, we have the usual soft or semi-solid pulsating tumour, which can readily be emptied by pressure, and possesses more or less bruit. This disease may be treated in one of three ways : 1, by compression upon or above the tumour ; 2, by ligaturing the artery leading to it ; or 3, by cutting through the sac, and deligating the vessel on each side of the aperture in it. The compression of the tumour has often been successfully practised. It may be done by means of a graduated compress on the tumour, and the appli- cation of a ring-tourniquet over the artery : the tumour becoming consolidated, Jand gradually undergoing absorption. In employing compression great 'care must be taken, however, not to induce sloughing of the tissues over the tumour by sudden and too forcible pressure. The limb should be carefully bandaged and maintained in the semi-flexed position. Should this plan not succeed, we must be guided in our ulterior measures by the particular conditions of the case. If the tumour be of recent origin, soft and compressible, or, though of longer duration, large, with a thin sac, and in danger of becoming diffused, it should be treated by direct incision, and the artery be deligated on each side of the wound in it. Should, however, the tumour be small, or of but moderate size, and the sac be tolerably thick and firm, so as to admit of the deposit of laminated fibrinc, we may treat it by deligation of the brachial artery, either in the middle of the arm, or, as Anel did with success, immediately above the tumour. In the event, however, of the disease not being cured in this way, incision of the sac must be had recourse to, as I have known to be necessary hi a case in which the brachial artery was tied above the sac, which was large and thin—the pulsations returning in a few days, and the tumour continuing to enlarge. Varicose Aneurism, at the bend of the arm, presents the ordinary cha- racter of the disease. Occasionally, though rarely, it would appear that the aperture of communication between the aneurismal sac and the vein becomes c osed, and thus the varicose is converted into the ordinary circumscribed traumatic aneurism. Treatment of this affection must be conducted on different principles trom that ol the ordinary circumscribed variety ; for whatever be the density ot the sac, it is never, as has already been explained (p. 452), a perfect one, aving a ways an opening into the vein which would prevent its proper c osure >y t ie deposit of laminated fibrinc. In four cases related by Sabatier,