68o SPEC IA L DISLOCA TIONS. posterior part. It is, perhaps, rather the pelvis that is thrust forwards than the femur backwards—but the result is the displacement of the head of the bone, and its being lodged directly backwards behind the cotyloid cavity. 2. Dislocation Downwards, or Thyroid Dislocations.—Causes.—This dislocation appears to be occasioned by the limb being suddenly and violently abducted, as by falls with the legs widely separated ; in consequence of which the head of the bone is tilted against the inner side of the capsule, and, ruptur- ing this, is thrown on the thyroid foramen. Pathological Anatomy.—The head of the bone escapes by a laceration of the inner side of the capsule where it is thin and membranous. The ilio- femoral ligament is untorn, and holds the root of the neck up while the head descends, and. passes somewhat inwards ; consequently the femur is flexed and abducted. The round ligament is torn. The pectineus and adductor brevis muscles have been found to be torn in this injury. Symptoms.—The hip is flattened, and the prominence of the trochanter completely absent, or indeed replaced by a depression. The limb is lengthened by about two inches, advanced before the other, and considerably abducted (Fig. 300). The knee is bent and incapable of extension; the foot usually points forwards, but is sometimes slightly everted and widely separated tiom its fellow. When the patient stands, the body is bent forwards, partly to accommodate the pelvis to the flexed position of the limb dependent on the ilio-femoral ligament, and partly on account of the tension of the psoas am iliacus muscles ; and in a thin person the bone may be felt in its new situation. When he lies on his back the knee is much raised, the thigh being flexed. according to Bigelow, to an angle of 35°. . Reduction by Manipulation must be done by rotation or traction as.follow. In rotation the limb, having been flexed on the abdomen so as to bring it into a perpendicular position, must be slightly abducted so as to disengage the hea of the bone. The thigh is then to be strongly rotated inwards, and adductc the knee being carried towards the floor (Fig. 301). Fig. 300.—Thyroid Dislocation. (Bigelow.) Fig. 301.—Reduction by Manipulation in Thyroid Dislocation. Rotation and Circumduction In- wards of Head of Femur. (Bigelow.)