S54 INJURIES OF THE ABDOMEN AND PELVIS. brought into contact by the pressure of the abdominal muscles and of the diaphragm, that it requires some force for the intestinal contents to overcome this uniform support, and to insinuate themselves between the coils of con- tiguous portions of intestine. The influence exercised by the continuous pressure of the abdominal walls upon the intestinal contents, is well shown by the greater facility with which these escape from a portion of wounded intestine that has been protruded, than from one that is still lying within the abdomen. In the former case, fmccs will escape from a much smaller aperture than in the latter, in consequence of the gut not being supported on all sides by the uniform pressure to which it is subjected within the abdomen. The close and uniform contact of the coils of intestine with each other also favours the adhesion of the wounded coil to the neighbouring parts, and thus tends either to completely prevent or to limit faecal extravasation. In some cases also it is probable that the shock of the injury arrests for a time the peristaltic movements of the gut, and in these circumstances adhesions sufficiently firm to prevent faecal extravasation may form within twenty-four horns. Thus, in a case under my care in University College Hospital, the patient, a young man, aged 22, cut his throat, and stabbed himself twice in the abdomen with a dinner-knife. One of these wounds divided more than a third of the cir- cumference of the jejunum. The patient survived thirty-six houis, and at the post-mortem examination the wounded coil was found to contain blood and liquid contents, but it was adherent by firm inflammatory exudation to the neighbouring coils of intestine, and no extravasation had taken place. The patient more frequently escapes without extravasation when the great gut is wounded, than when the small intestine is perforated. Bloocl is extravasated readily, as the force of the circulation is quite sufficient to overcome any resistance offered by the equable support of the abdominal Avails. Extravasations of blood usually diffuse themseh'es amongst the intes- tines, and gravitate to the flanks, and to the caArity of the pelvis. When the contents of the intestine escape into the peritoneum diffuse peritonitis most commonly results, the ffeces becoming mixed with the abun- dant inflammatory effusion. In other cases, hoAveA er, exti avasations, Avhet ler of fences or blood, if in small amount, may sIioav but little tendency to diffuse themselves, and may become localized in the neighbourhood of the part from which they were originally poured out; owing, in the first instance, to the surrounding pressure, and, at a later period, to the formation of ad lesions between the folds of intestine and the neighbouring viscera. The existence of these extravasations may, in many cases, be recognized by dulness on pci cussion around the wound, by the localized SAvelling to which they gi'C use, and sometimes by their escape through the external aperture. Traumatic Peritonitis is the great danger to be apprehended in a serious injuries of the abdomen. It occurs in two forms, the localized an diffuse. Localized peritonitis may folloAV a severe contusion, without rccog nizable injury to any viscus. It occurs also in cases of wound ^ rupture o the intestine, in which there is no extravasation of the contents of the g , in slight lacerations of the liver, spleen, or kidneys. Localized PcrltnI’’. _ accompanied by the pathological phenomena common to all ndlamni the vessels become engorged and exudation takes place, composed o plasma, more or less pure, and migrating white coagulates, the fibrin and the corpuscles forming the lymph