ULCERATION. 264 sore will become floricl, and granulations yielding abundant discharge will speedily spring up. Much of the success of this plan of treatment will depend upon the close attention that is paid to it. It the skin be irritable, no resin- plaster should be used, but merely the soap or lead ; and the plasters should be changed at least every forty-eight hours. If the discharge be very abun- dant, small holes should be cut in the strips to allow it to escape. \\ hen by this mode of treatment the edges of the sore have been brought down, and the granulations sufficiently stimulated, an astringent lotion with bandaging may advantageously be substituted for the piasters. The great difficulty in carry- ing out this treatment in hospital out-patient practice, in which the patient is usually seen only twice a week, arises from the foul state into which the sore gets in the intervals of strapping, and consequently it is very important to employ if possible some antiseptic mode of dressing. In order to do this, the first necessary step is to disinfect the sore, which when first seen is usually very foul. This is by no means so easy as might be supposed. It can be done by the free application of chloride of zinc (gr. 20 to 5]), but this is a cry painful, another plan is the application of a hotboracic acid dressing as before described, changed every four hours, for two days, and this is very efficient if the patient can only be trusted to do it. Perhaps the best plan is to powder the whole surface of the sore with iodoform in crystals ; this is efficient, simple, and as a rule painless. When the sore is quite clean it may be dressed as follows : apply a small sprinkling of powdered iodoform, over this place a piece of protective green oiled silk, then strap the limb, heating the strips of plaster by dipping them in a hot solution of carbolic acid (1 in 40), then apply a carbolic or eucalyptus o-auze bandage from the foot to the knee to protect the skin, over this put a thick pad of carded oakum to absorb the discharge, and over all place a common calico bandage. The improvement that results from this treatment is often most surprising. . Ar r Another mode of applying pressure has lately been introduced by martin, 01 New York. It consists simply in the application of a bandage made of pure india-rubber, free from sulphur. The bandage is applied directly to the sore, no dressing being used when it is on. It is worn only by day; and at night some simple dressing, free from grease, may be used. The bandage is thus applied ; before rising from bed in the morning, the patient rolls the bandage round the leg, taking care not to pull it in so doing. It must only just he smoothly on the limb, for any traction might seriously impede the circulation. The patient now rises from bed, and the slight increase 111 the size of the buffi from gravitation of blood into it tightens the bandage sufficiently to make it keep its position. At night the bandage is removed, sponged with warm water, and hung up to dry. The leg must also be carefully washed, and the sore may be dressed with some simple lotion. The only inconvenience of the treatment is, that from the obstruction to the escape of the perspiration, eczema is frequently set up. This is best treated by some oxide of zinc powder and usually, after a short time, the leg seems to become accustomed to Tim presence of the bandage, and no further trouble is experienced This treatment is usually very successful, especially 111 cases complicated \ w ^ Another mode of treating chronic ulcers is that which was recommended by S^loSng in the application of a blister to the inducted edges, an the surface of the sore, after which some simple dressing is used. This