GUN-SHOT WOUNDS. 343 Suvo'eons in the war of flic Rebellion than had heretofore been done. Fig. 120, taken from photographs in the possession of the Army Medical Department at Washington, represents six inches of the shaft of the humerus with its head, which had been thus excised ; and Fig. 121, the arm that was left. I saw the man who is an orderly in that splendid and unrivalled collection, the Army Medical Museum at Washington, and I can testify to the utility of his arm ; the bone so skilfully taken away he himself exhibited. . . Excision of the wrist, in whole or in part, for gun-shot injury has not proved very satisfactory, not so much from death as from inutility of the hand t ia was left. Of 27 done in the American war, only 3 died. In two instances, amputation of the fore-arm was practised. . Gfurlt has collected 133 cases with 112 recoveries, 20, or lo'lo per cent. deaths, and 1 uncertain. r,v The steps of all the excision-operations are the same, whethei the excision of the part be required for gun-shot injury, or for other accidents or foi disease - except that in gun-shot injury advantage may often be taken the wound in the soft parts, by enlarging which longitudinally, the shattere bone may be readily reached and extracted, and the splintered ends sawn “S' question as to the period at which amputation aught to ho performed after the infliction of gun-shot wounds is one of great importance and has green rise to much discussion among Surgeons. The older mthtary Surens P«d. Wiseman Ledran Pmnby, &c., taking a common-sense view of the question, advocated the removal of the hopelessly injured limb as soon as after the receipt of the injury. Wiseman’s advice is to cut off the hmb quickly, while the1 soldier is heated and in mettle and this advice has not been and "e»d upon. After the battle of ^ntenoy i^the middle of the last century, professional opinion underwent a ch^ p ^ Academy of Hi amputating in certain cases. Hunter, Percy Wiseman’s advice has been re-established. ical experience In determining this point we m-bJfad, of the result of such cases when left to atms, 11 £ - “ sil. Charles In appealing to experience we must, to use the .“in twelve hours, in Bell, contemplate what-wtfbe the the inflammation, pain, and six days, and m tlnee month.. nrmntpnance the brilliant eye, the tension of the whole limb, t ic m <unu -0J1 injm-y is making on sleepless mi restless c^^'™;^”kwers. In six days, the limb from the S°thefcbofcdy ;0aVTolen°n.hlegmonous inflammation pervades the whole ; scions