TREATMENT OF INCISED WOUNDS. 299 influence, different parts of the same tissue bleeding1 with different degrees of facility; thus the skin of the face yields when cut more blood than that of the leg. Again, the same parts will, under different states of irritation, pour out different quantities. The Separation of the Lips of the Wound depends on the tension and the position of the part as well as on the elasticity and vital contractility of the tissues ; it is also influenced by the direction of the incision, according as this is parallel witli the axis of a limb or muscle or across it. It is greatest in those parts that are naturally the most elastic or that possess the highest degree of tonicity ; thus the muscles when cut retract some inches, the arteries and skin gape widely when divided, whereas in the case of ligaments or bones, no retraction takes place. Management of Incised Wounds.—In the treatment of an incised wound, we must always endeavour to procure union by primary adhesion (p. 2G9) between a portion, if not the whole, of the surfaces, for reasons already assigned. The probability of procuring adhesion depends greatly upon the constitution of the patient; it is a decided and most dangerous error, and as unscientific as it is dangerous, to suppose that success or failure is entirely dependent on local conditions and the management of the wound itself. In some constitutions it is impossible, under the most favourable circumstances, to obtain it. The sounder the constitution, the more readily will union by the first intention take place ; and in all cases it is disposed to by the removal of all sources of irritation from the system, and by the achrption of a supporting regimen. Repair, like all other physiological processes, is attended with an expenditure of vital force directly proportioned to the extent to which plastic material is separated from the blood; hence anything approaching to a lowering plan of treatment is to be avoided, though the opposite error of over-stimu- lation is equally to be deprecated. Thus, in those operations, the plastic, for instance, in which it is necessary that the union be as direct as possible, the patient should be prepared by being kept for some time previously upon a diet consisting chiefly of milk and light animal food, by taking regular exercise, e ^ministration of iron ; we should look specially also to the state 0 the digestive and urinary organs. I11 cases of accidental wound, we must keep the patient quiet, put him on a moderate diet, and be very cautious in the administration of stimulants, as they have a great tendency to interfere with union by the first intention. It must be borne in mind, that the great 0 jec is to imit inflammation; for if this be carried beyond what is necessary lor plastic effusion, suppuration will certainly follow. Homogeneity of structure in the opposed surfaces is favourable to union by 1st mtention, but we must not imagine that union by first intention is not l°,,e befcwfn dissimilar tissues ; thus muscle may adhere directly to alre w!1' fofc. ^ . The medium of adhesion, as we have lioin-K qftnoi111 SUC 1 cases, 1 s the plastic exudation which forms in the first few at rest Hin-i 10 and keeps the opposed surfaces steadily in contact and fCvfloPJfnfc of the permanent bond of union takes place, zealous ntton/T” \ < ou.nds heal, but cannot be said to be cured. Over- man to‘th bS \ • curm& wounds often lead to the aggravation rather unoii it of (li«Gm<X paginal injury, and entail the superaddition nu— • .clse " nch is the direct result of the continued applications of i ,• , . "“IU1 me uuect res lotious and ointments. There is nothiiu ’• worse than pottering and meddle-