TUMOURS. 1012 cancer, wo cannot doubt that its development is connected with a hereditary tendency, and is influenced by age. The her editor iness of cancer has been established beyond a doubt. Velpeau states, as the result of his researches, that it is traceable hereditarily in one- third of the cases. Paget finds that amongst hospital patients the hereditari- ness amounts to about 1 in 0, but amongst private patients, whose family histories are better known, it is found to be hereditary in 1 in 3 ; thus agree- ing with Velpeau’s estimate. The hereditary tendency is in some cases not only to cancer generally, but to same form of cancer. Thus, Paget records a case in which three genera- tions were affected by uterine cancer. Sibley records an instance in which a mother and five daughters suffered from cancer of the left breast. It is not, however, by any means always so. Paget states that it is only in about one half of the cases of hereditary cancer that it is thus transmitted, and then almost exclusively in the breast and uterus. He relates one striking instance of the opposite mode of transmission. A lady died of cancer of the stomach ; one of her daughters died of cancer of the stomach, another of cancer ol the breast; and of her grandchildren, two died of cancer of the breast, two of cancer of the uterus, one of cancer of the bladder, one of “ cancer of the axillary glands,” one of cancer of the stomach, and one of cancer of the rectum. The hereditary tendency transmitted from parent to offspring would seem therefore to be not purely local, as in the case of a peculiar featuie, a fifth finger, or the like, but to affect the whole of the epithelial tissues, the peculiar spot at which the cancer appears being dependent on local causes usually unknown. The condition is more analogous to premature baldness or greyness of the hair. Admitting the hereditary nature of cancer to the fullest extent, however, it still leaves two-thirds of the cases unaccounted for. Age exercises a marked influence on the occurrence of cancer, both as to its frequency and its mode of growth. rihe statistics published befoie 1870 in this country, and perhaps a few years earlier in Germany, cannot be relied upon as giving a just notion of the influence of age on the occurrence of true cancer* Before that time all soft rapidly growing sarcomas were described as cancers. The malignant glioma of the eyeball, and sarcomatous tumours of the testicle and bone° being formerly classed as encephaloid cancer, that disease was said not to be uncommon in children. Now that these are excluded, all forms of cancer may be said to be almost unknown under 20. Gurlt, who possesses the patience and industry necessary for the collection of statistics to a degree rarely if ever equalled, has obtained from various spurces the records of 16,600 cases of tumours of all kinds. Of these, 11,131 were cancers. In 4,<<>'.' cases of cancer, of which the age is recorded, only 0.4 per cent, occurred under the age of 20. As some of the statistics extend back to the year 18o5, it is possible that even this number is in excess of the truth. In the opposite extreme of h there is no limit to the age at which cancer may occur. According to V alshe the proportion of deaths from cancer per thousand living at each age increases steadily up to -SO. Gurlt shows that the absolute frequency of cancer reaches its maximum between 41 and 50, 31.68 per cent, of all cases occurring between those ages. Age influences also the liability to cancer in special oigans. Thus, in extreme old age cancer of the breast is less common than in younger women, while old men are more liable to cancer of the bladder and pros a , and to epithelioma of the lip. Thus, Walslie states that proportionally to tlic