1042 TUMOURS. it may yet be productive of much good iu preventing the contamination of the system. The two following questions will therefore present themselves to the Surgeon in considering this subject. . . . t . 1. Can cancer he cured, or, rather, completely extirpated from the system by excision ? That in some cases a cancerous tumour may he removed with every expec- tation of the patient being completely freed from the disease, cannot, I think, LctUUIl UI uiio & r */ . -xr , ,i be doubted ; although it may be true that such instances are rare. Yet they DC CLOUUlAJU. , ctlUllUU^ix xu . - do occasionally fall under the observation of Surgeons, and certainly seem to prove that the affection is not primarily constitutional, and that, if happily we can succeed in removing it during its local condition the patient wi be rescued from a return of the affection. Velpeau states that lie has perfectly cured patients by the removal of cancerous tumours—at least, that no return has taken place for 12, 15, or 20 years after extirpation The evidence of Brodie on this point is extremely valuable ; writing m 1846, that eminen Surgeon states, that “So long ago as 1832, I removed a breast affected with a scirrhous tumour, and the lady is still m good health-a least she was so last year. Since the operation she has married, and had children. Last year I was called to see a lady on account of another complaint on whom I performed the operation thirteen years ago, and found that she continued free from the old disease ; and, very lately, I have heard of another lady whose scirrhous breast I removed six years ago, and who con- tinues well.” The opinion of Fergusson is also very positive on this point, and he speaks in a toie with which I perfectly agree. He says : “ Neverthe- less as excision gives the only chance of security—a point on which most parties seem to agree—an operation should always be resorted to, provided the knife can be carried beyond the supposed limits of the disease ; ^d- over I deem it one of the duties of the practitioner to urge the patient-to^ unit to such a proceeding.” The results obtained by and further illustrate the possibility of occasionally eiadicatm V }- operation The opinion of these eminent Surgeons, supported as it is by the General practice of the profession, tends to show that m some cases, at luis, the disease may be extirpated from the system by excising the tumour before the constitution has become implicated. _ prolonged 2. If cancer cannot be actually cured by excision, may not life be piolongea "} possible ; and that, though a path* JyT by some of the recurrent foams of ‘hse*, health may be improved, life may be prolonged, and much suffer,,! be spared, by a timely operation. It may often be observed tha , alter the cancer has been removed, the digestion becomes stronger an . 1|(, gains flesh; the colour of the complexion returns and the ^ improve • the system being relieved from a source c f < ‘ - S from a cause of disquietude that has nnderntmed m many cases, in P*°ion° ® , duration of life of those patients are peculiarly valuable. He states the avei primary affection is labouring under tins form of disease, m wh<>m too r J removed? to be about twenty-eight months ; whilst tlic avera* h of