573 SPECIAL FRACTURES. of callus together. may bo thrown out across the interosseous space uniting them Pronation and supination of the hand will then be lost, and the space in a fracture of the fore-arm. /ill UJ l iLUiW £i.V/«/u*j Period of Union.—The average time of union in the fore-arm is five weeks. Compound Fractures of the Fore-arm seldom give much trouble or require amputation, but they very com- monly lead to obliteration of the interosseous space, and thus impair the utility of the limb, by preventing pronation and supination. 3. Fractures of the Lower Extremity of the Radius, near the wrist, are very frequent, especially^ women after the age of 45. Their importance, not only from a diagnostic point of view, but also in reference to treatment, has caused them to be carefully studied ; and their nature and pathology have been specially investigated by Colles, Goyrand, Yoillermier, Nelaton, E.. W. Smith, and Gordon. The lower end of the radius is liable to several different kinds of fracture. The more common of these is that which is generally called “ Colies’s Fracture,” from the eminent Surgeon who first fully described it. In this fracture the carpal end of the radius is broken across, usually by a fall on the palm of the hand, the lower frag- ment being displaced backwards. Dr. Gordon, who has bestowed great attention on the mechanism and treatment of this fracture, states that, in twenty-seven old specimens examined by him, the line of fracture posteriorly varied from f to If inch, and anteriorly from *• of an inch to two inches above the carpal border of the radius, being in ten of the cases one inch and under, in ten more than one inch but not over If inch, m the others indefinable. The fracture is usually oblique from before backwards. Besides Colles’s, other fractures are met with in this situation. They are of three kinds ; 1, Simple Transverse ; 2, with Comminution of the Lower Fragment; and 3, with firm Impaction of the Upper into the Lower Fragment. The Signs of fracture of the lower end of the radius vary greatly, accord- ing to their nature. When simple, there is usually no very great displacement; but there will be noticed some tumefaction about the wrist, a swelling at its dorsal aspect, loss of the movement of the radius, and crepitus on rotating the bone whilst the hand is drawn down. When the fracture is comminuted, and still more so when impacted, the signs are very marked and characteristic ; so much so, that they may always be looked upon as diagnostic of these forms or this accident. The deformity thus occasioned gives rise to a remarkable undular distortion of the wrist. On looking sideways at the hand an arm which are held midway between supination and pronation, it will lie seen that there is a considerable dorsal prominence apparently situated just abo thf bal of the carpus (Fig. 213); immediately underneath this, on the pidma asnect of the wrist, just opposite the annular ligament, tlieic is a icrnai Ewer arch, confined d 'the radial side of the arm , a is to say on the lower part of the anterior aspect of the foie arm another rounded prominence, not nearly so large or distinct, however, as