TREATMENT OF CANCER—EXCISION. 1043 those in whom the disease is allowed to run its course, is not more than two years. I think that the introduction of anaesthetic agents into operative surgery has very materially affected the bearings of this important question. So long as an operation was a source of great pain, and of much consequent anxiety and dread, a Surgeon might very properly hesitate to subject his patient to severe suffering with so doubtful a result ; but now that a patient can be freed by a painless procedure from a source of great and constant annoyance, discomfort, and suffering, the Surgeon may feel himself justified in thus affording him a few months or years of comparative ease, though he may be fully aware that, at the expiration of that time, the affection may return, and will then certainly prove fatal. Even under these circumstances, the patient’s condition may be much improved ; for the recurrent is frequently less distress- ing than the primary disease ; since, as it often takes place in internal organs, it is not attended with the same amount of local pain and distress. The introduction of anaesthetics and the improved methods of treating- wounds have moreover enabled the Surgeon not only to remove the primary growth more freely and thoroughly, but to follow it up to the nearest lymphatic glands, without fear of the consequences of so extensive an operation. So much is this the case that many Surgeons make it a rule, especially in cancer of the breast, not to wait for evident infection of the glands, but always to remove them at the same time as the primary tumour, and this mode of operating has so far been attended with the most satisfactorv results. I11 discussing the propriety of operating in a .case of cancer the Surgeon can, however, have little to do with general or abstract considerations. He has to determine what had best be done in the particular case ; and it will serve him little, m coming to a conclusion as to the line of practice that he should adopt, to lefer to the statistics of the gross results of operations, or to general com- parisons between the results of cases that are not operated upon and those that are. The whole question narrows itself to the point, as to what should best be done m order to prolong the life or relieve the suffering of the particular individual whose case is being considered. In order to come to some definite conclusion on this, it is necessary to classify the different cases of cancer, and to arrange them under the heads of those in which, no operation is justifiable ; lose m which the result of any such procedure would be very doubtful • and those 111 winch an operation is attended with a fair prospect of success. Most of the io lowing rules apply equally to true cancers and the malignant sarcomata formerly classed as such. .fy“ case eho"'1tl »P«tion be raOmuam till the liver has been examined svmnZr10\ 1 Pf10',1 “nd f0md free *'om tltscase. If there are no 2eondZtI™ “ ’ P‘em'ItlC P™’ or asemoptysiB, it is probable that a bva | | t ".l 10 wen if present, would be too small to be recognized cheSr T h 1 751 exammatl,0n- Stm * » always safer to examine the a tmnom vhll 7 T “ Tf !“ 'V“' 8 Smgeon removed "PF jaw for 2e™Zn th . 8 a.eecondary soirrhus, when by palpation of he hv .Toll l™H"mT,0f th8 >’“s -™1 8econdary nodules in he eXuwasrel7^have been felt. I knew also of another casein which wZ y8“!bas rcm°™1 f01'.a mclaiMtlc «coma, when the liver was studded mth secondary growths which could readily have been felt through the 3x2