SEPTICEMIA AND PYEMIA. 934 CHAPTER XXXIII. SEPTICAEMIA AND PYAEMIA. Definitions.—The terms septicaemia and pyaemia have been used with different significance by different authors, and before proceeding to discuss the affections to which they are applied, it is necessary briefly to define the sense in which they will be used here. The term Septicaemia is applied to a constitutionahdisorder produced by the entrance into the blood-stream of a poison generated in a wound, the discharges of which are undergoing putrefaction or fermentative changes. The resulting process is not accompanied by the formation of secondary or metastatic centres of inflammation or suppuration. Experiments on animaLs have shown that two distinct forms of disease may arise from the entrance of putrid matter into the blood-stream. First, an acute general affection, not infective in character, resulting from the admixture of the chemical products of putrefaction with the blood ; this poison does not increase in the system, and its effects are proportioned to the dose. Secondly, a true infective process, dependent on a specific virus, which multiplies in the organism like that of an acute specific fever, so that its effects are not proportional to the original dose. The former of these conditions has received the name of septic poisoning', or septic intoxication, the latter of septic infection. By some authors the infective form of septicaemia has been described uuder the name of pyaemia simplex. Pyaemia is a general disease consequent upon the entrance into the blood- stream of a virus contained in the products of a local unhealthy inflammation. It is accompanied by the formation of secondary centres of suppuration dis- seminated throughout the body. The name pyaemia was originally derived from the theory that the disease was due to the entrance ot pus into the blood-stream, and, although this theory is no longer regarded as true, the void has come to have so definite a clinical significance that it would be incon- venient to change it. Pyaemia almost invariably arises in connexion with wounds the discharges of which are in a putrid condition, and is conse- quently frequently complicated with septic poisoning. It may arise also from wounds or sores which have previously been attacked by cutaneous erysipelas, diffuse cellulitis, or hospital gangrene. It is evident, therefore, that in actual practice these various secondary diseases often become more or less confused together, giving rise to forms apparently intermediate between the different affections, which have led to much confusion with regard to them. Experimental Investigations into the Nature of Septicemia and Pyaemia.—The earliest experiments on this subject were made by Gaspard m the early part of this century and first published in 1822, since which time investigations have been almost continuously carried on up to the presen time by Virchow, Panum, 0. Weber, Billroth, Bergmann, Burden Sanderson, Chauveau, Koch, Iluctcr, Klcbs, and many others. The literature of tic