ASPHYXIA FROM NOXIOUS GASES. 825 patient and press one rheophore well down on the phrenic nerve at the outer border of the sterno-mastoid, where the nerve lies on the scalenus anticus, and, while the person in charge of the Sylvester method of artificial respiration raises the arms he should press the other rheophore on tire right srde of the thorax irr the sixth intercostal space ; when the arms are depressed he should remove the rheophore. If it is successfully carried out a distinct rush of air will he heard to enter the mouth as the rheophore is applied to the side. Inflation of the Lungs with Oxygen Gas is likely to be of great service in extreme cases of asphyxia. I have found by experiment that the contrac- tions of the heart can be excited by inflating the lungs with this gas, when j the introduction of atmospheric air fails in doing so ; and there are cases on record in which resuscitation was effected by inflating the lungs with oxygen, 1 Avhen in all probability it could not have been effected by any other means. In my Essay on “ Asphyxia ” will be found a case of resuscitation, in which oxygen was successfully administered by Weeks after the asphyxia had continued three-quarters of an hour. Whatever means of resuscitation are adopted, they should be continued for at least three or four hours, even though no signs of life show themselves; and 1 after ordinary respiration has been re-established, the patient should be kept : quiet in bed for some hours. The danger of the supervention of Secondary Asphyxia after recovery has apparently taken place is much increased, and indeed is usually brought about, by some effort on the part of the patient that tends to embarrass the partially restored action of the heart and lungs. The patient, being to all appearance resuscitated, is allowed to get up and walk home, when the symptoms of asphyxia speedily return. Should symptoms of secondary asphyxia, such as stupor, laborious respiration, dilatation of the pupils, and convulsions, manifest themselves, artificial respiration should be immediately set up, and be maintained until the action of the heart has been fully restored. Asphyxia from the Respiration of Noxious Gases, such as carbonic acid, is best treated by exposing the surface of the body to cold air, by dashing- cold water upon the face, and by setting up artificial respiration without delay, if the impression of cold upon the surface do not excite these actions. There is a peculiar variety of this kind of asphyxia, which is occasionally met with among infants, the true nature of which was pointed out to me by Wakley, who, as coroner, had abundant opportunities of witnessing it, as it is not an uncommon cause of accidental death amongst the children of the poor. It is that condition in which a child is said to have been overlaid; the child, sleeping with its mother or nurse, being found in the morning suffocated in the bed. On examination no marks of pressure will be found ; but the right cavities of the heart and lungs are gorged with blood, and the surface is livid, clearly indicating death by asphyxia. That this accident is not the re- sult of the mother lying upon her child, is not only evident from the post mortem appearances, but was clearly proved by a melancholy case to which I was called several years ago, in which a mother, on waking in the morning, found her twin in ants lying dead, one on each side of her. Here it was evident, from the position of the bodies, that she could not have overlayed both. The true cause ° cat i is partly the inhalation of, and slow suffocation by, the vitiated air mm accumulates under the bed-clothes that have been drawn, for the sake of sarm i, O'.er the child’s head, and partly the diminished supply of oxygen.