ARREST OF ARTERIAL HAEMORRHAGE. 396 uneven channel the blood is projected, either flowing away freely externally or being extravasated into the neighbouring areolar tissue, according to the direc- tion'and state of the wound. As the blood flows over the roughened surface of the sheath, it becomes entangled in the fibres, and tends to coagulate upon them ; this tendency to coagulation is favoured by the increased plasticity of the blood as it flows, and by the diminution of the propulsive force with which it is carried on. By the conjoined operation of these causes a coagulum is formed, which, though lying within the sheath, is outside the artery, and extends beyond it; and is hence termed the external coagulum. It is usually somewhat cylindrical, and often looks like a continuation of the vessel, being at first perforated by a hollow track, through which the stream of blood continues to flow. As it increases in size, the hollow becomes closed by the concentric deposit of coagulum. The hollow track leading from the surface of the coagulum to the wound in the artery, has been especially described and dwelt upon by Amussat. This coagulum acts mechanically by blocking up the end of the artery, and thus constitutes the first barrier to the haemorrhage. The formation of the external coagulum thus greatly favours the retraction of the artery within its sheath. . . . Simultaneous with the changes that have just been described is the con- traction of the cut artery which commences immediately after its divi- sion, and may of itself be sufficient to close a small vessel. Thus, during an operation, we may often see the mouth of an artery which when first cut spouted out a stream of blood as large as a straw, gradually diminish in ize until it ceases to bleed, owing simply to this contraction In a ai.-er a’ J this process is not sufficient to completely close the vessel, but merely gives its cut end a conical shape, greatly diminishing the aperture in the artery, perhaps to the size of a pin-hole. . . The next change that takes place is the formation of the internal coagu- lum. As the open end of the artery becomes obstructed by its own contrac- tion and by the formation of the external coagulum, the blood ls Pr0P®Ue<J ^ more and more difficulty through it, escaping m a amaU and at last becoming completely stationary. Coagilaticn^ within the artery and the clot that is formed in this situation plajb an tapolnt part intte permanent closure of the vessel The internal ^apl| is conical in form, the base being firmly adherent to the injured M artery at the margin of the aperture and the apex extending up . • . I S of attachment cxcejt b, its base, the apex and free , at first it consists merely of ordinary blood-dot, bn be seen hereafter, important changes occur wiftmit The t|l0n^ internal coagulum as a temporary means of ane. » 1 , ntj] great, has, I think, been overestimated. In fact it is not formed^ a1 unri the flow of blood has been arrested by the contraction of the artery tma S. of the external clot; and in some oases the pmxum, J branch to the cut cud of tho vessel appears, by^ d it is the blood, to prevent its formation altogether. A hen it is toimea, useful in acting as a damper to break the force °f b°int duc^) the the cut end of the vessel. The contraction of the aitciy >e g , action of the muscular coat, must necessarily cease ^foruJong, ^ ^ is tion of the muscular fibre-cells takes place; b ; l t1 exteniai c0at. surrounded externally by a coagulum between the sheath ana