STERNUM— CL A VICLE. 559 most commonly uniting by a bony callus which surrounds the fractured 'll ends. Fracture of the Sternum.—The sternum is not often broken. Its frac- ' ture occurs usually from very severe and direct violence ; and when this is applied on the forepart of the chest, the ribs or costal cartilages are more liable to suffer. The clastic support furnished to the sternum by these structures, | explains in a great measure the rarity of its fracture. It may also be produced by violent bending forward of the body after the spine has been broken. It j has been known to be broken, though very rarely, by violent straining muscular efforts during parturition. Its fractures are always transverse, usually single, but sometimes multiple. I have seen it broken into three nearly equal frag- ments by a fall from a scaffold. The displacement of one of the fragments is sometimes considerable, the upper fragment being almost invariably behind the lower; but even if there be but little deformity, the very superficial situation of the bone will always enable the Surgeon to judge of the exact nature of the injury it has sustained, the signs of which resemble those of a fractured rib. The Treatment must be conducted on the same principles as in a broken rib, and presents nothing deserving of special attention. Indeed, when frac- ture of the sternum occurs from external violence, it is commonly associated with fracture of the ribs, near the angles ; and then the chest-bandage or plaster answers equally for both injuries. Should the sternum be broken during parturition, the patient should be made to sit up in bed, with the shoulders supported and leaning forwards slightly, so as to take off the tension of the abdominal muscles. If a portion of broken sternum be depressed, it should be left undisturbed. It will probably give rise to no serious inconvenience, while any attempt to raise it by surgical interference might be attended with the greatest danger. Fractures of the upper extremity may occur from direct or from indirect violence. When from direct violence any portion of any bone from the tips of the fingers to the trunk may be broken. But indirect violence is the more common cause of such fractures ; and the portion of the bone broken will depend on the way in which the violence is directed. Thus, when a person falls forwards on the palm outstretched to save him, the lower end of the radius is the part that usually gives way ; or, if it be a child, the lower epiphysis of the humerus may be detached. If the elbow strike the ground, the shaft of the humerus at its junction with the upper epiphysis, gives way ; and if the shoulder, the clavicle usually snaps across at its greatest convexity! The Clavicle is more frequently broken than any other bone in the body except the radius. For this there are three reasons. First, it is exposed to the influence of direct violence ; secondly, it receives all shocks transmit.^ FRACTURES of the upper extremity.