io68 VENEREA L DISEASES. cases during impure sexual intercourse with a person already contami nated by the disease. It usually commences with a small excoriation, which appears to have been directly inoculated with the specific poison. Iu other cases, though more rarely, it may be seen at first in the shape of a small pointed pustule, which speedily breaks, leaving an ulcer of a specific character in its site. Very generally, however, this pustule escapes observation, and the disease is presented in the first instance as an ulcer. The chancrous ulcer, whatever form it assumes, seldom makes its appearance until a few days (three to five), after connection. In some cases, however, I have observed it, evidently from the infection of a fissure or crack, on the day following impure intercourse ; and occasionally, in rare instances, its appearance may be delayed a few days longer than that time which has been mentioned. Berkeley Hill states that 99 per cent, of simple chancres are situated on the genital organs. They arc occasionally met with, however, in irregular situa- tions, as upon the fingers of Surgeons or Accoucheurs, from touching venereal sores, or attending diseased women during labour ; but this is far less common with simple sores than with true syphilis. Simple chancres are also rare in the face compared to true syphilitic sores. The reason of this is that in the simple chancre the discharge from the sore is the only source of infection, while in syphilis, the secretions from the mouth, the discharges from secondary syphilitic sores, or even the blood, possess infective properties. In some cases, the dis- order is contracted from the contact of filthy clothes or dirty ntensils with the person ; and not uncommonly, it is said, chancres are contracted at public water- closets. Although the latter mode of infection is not impossible, it should be received with doubt, as it is an explanation not uncommonly adopted by those who desire to account for consequences of an act of immorality, in a way that does not expose them to reproof. In speaking of the mode of propagation of syphilis, 'Wiseman says : “ It is frequent to mention other secondary ways of the propagation of it; as lying in the same bed with an infected person, lying in the same sheets after them, or wearing their cloaths Drinking with one so diseased, or sitting on the close-stool after them, are likewise numbered among the causes of infection. These are all such convenient excuses for the more shie and coy patients, who will not otherwise be brought to confess their distempers, that it is pity to discountenance them ” (Wiseman : “ Several Chirurgical Treatises. Of Lues Venerea,” London, 1G7G). Whatever the appearances presented by a chancre, there can no longer lie any doubt that the disease arises from one kind of virus only ; the modifica- tions in the sore depending on its situation, on the constitution of the patient, and occasionally on that of the individual who communicates the infection. That this is so, is evident from the facts that every chancre, when inoculated, reverts to one typical form ; and that, however much chancres may ultimately differ, they all present the same characters during their early stages. The progress of a chancre that bas been artificially inoculated on any pait of the cutaneous surface is as follows, and its study will serve to elucidate w hat takes place in other circumstances. During the first twenty-four hours after the introduction of the specific pus into the skin on the point of a lancet, ve find that some inflammation is set up around the puncture, which becomes hot, red, and itchy. About the third or fourth day, a pointed pustule is produce', which is at first deep-set, but becomes on the following day more supeifici