SPECIAL FRACTURES. 6o6 that, unavoidable as it undoubtedly is in some cases, as the only alternative left to the Surgeon, this operation, when practised primarily for compound' fractures of the thigh-bone, is one of the most fatal in surgery, and should accordingly not be too hastily resolved upon. 3. Fractures in the Vicinity op the Knee-joint.—The lower end of the thigh-bone may be broken across transversely, immediately above the condyles, and occasionally this may be complicated by a vertical fissure sepa- - rating the condyles from each other, and extending into the knee-joint. In other cases, the fracture extends through one of the condyles, detaching it ■ from the shaft of the bone. The readiness with which crepitus can be felt, the line of fracture made out, and the displacement removed by lateral pres- • sure, determines at once the nature of this accident. When the femur is fractured transversely immediately above the condyles, the lower fragment is powerfully acted on by the gastro- cnemius, plantaris, and popliteus muscles, which flex it upon the tibia, causing its upper extremity to project backwards • into the ham, while the lower end of the upper fragment rests on its anterior surface. Thus, although the limb may be apparently extended, the knee-joint is in reality flexed. If a limb in this condition were put up on a long splint and extension made, the displacement would be in- creased, and non-union of the fracture would very likely result; or, if union did occur, the utility of the limb would be most seriously impaired. By putting the limb on a double inclined plane in a flexed condition the deformity is at once removed,' the fractured ends of the bones coming into perfect apposition. Bryant has recommended in these cases to divide the tendo Achillis, and in case the double inclined plane failed to overcome the deformity, this might be of use. Fracture of the lower end of the thigh-bone, communi- cating with open wound of the knee-joint, is usually a case for amputation. Impacted Fracture of the Lower End of the rig. 239. — impacted Femur.—In these cases the shaft is always driven into the EmiCo7Thi°h-tone.er lower fragment. I have had several such cases under my care. In one, the upper fragment, which was very oblique, was firmly driven into the cancellous structure of the lower one (Fig. 239). In another case, the condyles of both thigh-bones were splintered into a number of fragments, amongst which the shafts were impacted. Excellent union, however, took place, the skin having been uninjured. The diagnosis is not always easy, as unnatural mobility and crepitus may both be wanting ; and in many cases, either from a fissure extending downwards or from the bruising at the time of the accident, effusion occurs into the knee-joint, which still further conceals the nature of the injury. The most characteristic feature in these cases is the shortening, and later on, as the swelling subsides, the deformity at the seat of fracture may be clearly recognized. Separation of the Lower Epiphysis of the Femur is not an uncommon accident in children. The wide surfaces are seldom completely separated, and the nature of the injury is further obscured by effusion into the joint; but it