1117 SYPHILITIC DISEASES OF BONES. bone follows. The sequestra thus formed are often of considerable size, some- times reaching that of the palm of the hand. They are composed of dense hard bone, much thicker than the normal skull, and always more or less wormeaten on the surface. This appearance is due to the previous existence of subperiosteal gummata which have softened and been thrown off. lhe skm of the scalp having been implicated in the gummata is destroyed partly by the Softening of the gummata and partly by subsequent ulceration, so that the surface of the sequestrum is usually bare and exposed. The process of separation is very slow, often lasting many years. Cerebral symptoms may be present, but are certainly quite as often absent. Necrosis of the bones of the base of the skull may arise in the same way, or may result from ulceration of the mucous membrane of the nasal cavity or pharynx by which they are in many parts thinly covered. The tertiary ulcerations in the mouth and nose also may be followed by necrosis of the hard palate, of the turbinate and ethmoid bones ; but it is a remarkable fact that the hard palate is not nearly so frequently affected as the nasal and spongy bones. In consequence of this destruction of bony tissue, the nose may fall in, or a communication may be established between the nose and mouth through the hard palate. Syphilitic necrosis may affect also the alveolar processes of the jaws. It is_ very un- common in the long bones. Syphilitic Caries, or ulceration of bone, is most commonly the result of the softening of a periosteal gumma, but it may be due to the extension of a superficial ulcer to the bone in thinly covered parts. The caries is rarely uncomplicated; usually, the surrounding compact bone is sclerosed, or in the neighbourhood of the ulcer there may be a considerable formation of new bone from the periosteum. In other cases the process is a combination of necrosis and ulceration ; the sequestra being surrounded by a zone of ulceration extending a considerable distance from the dead bone and not closely limited to its edge, as in the process of separation of a simple piece of dead bone. Syphilitic caries is most common in the skull, but it is met with also in other parts. The upper part of the sternum is not an uncommon situation. It is also met with in the extremities. I have twice seen a peculiar form of caries of the cancellous tissue of the head of the tibia in old syphilitic cases. In both cases, which were very similar, the patients had been affected for a length of time with nodes of the tibia, as a consequence of long antecedent syphilitic taint. A chronic abscess eventually developed over the head of the bone, leading to a carious cavity. I exposed this and gouged the diseased bone away ; it was peculiarly dry, light, and almost flocculent, if such a term can be applied to bone. Both patients recovered well from the operation ; but one of them, a female, died two years afterwards of epilepsy, consequent on syphilitic gummata of the dura mater. Both in acquired and hereditary syphilis the bones of the fingers and toes are sometimes attacked, giving rise to the condition known as syphilitic dactylitis. It most commonly assumes the form of gummatous periostitis, often followed by softening of the new tissue and necrosis of the phalanx. The affected bones are much enlarged. From the foregoing description it will be seen that the diseases of bones due to syphilis are all modifications of the same process which characterizes the disease elsewhere in its tertiary stage, namely, an overgrowth of the con- nective tissue, the new tissue accumulating in some places in such masses as