980 TUMOURS. 1. Soft Fibromata.—These may be diffused or circumscribed ; in some cases they are distinctly encapsulcd. The diffused variety or areolar tumours are little more than a simple hyperplasia of the subcutaneous or submucous areolar tissue. They are represented by pendulous fleshy growths, forming large tumours, commonly called Wens, which may occur on any part of the surface. They are smooth, pedunculated, firm but somewhat doughy, non- elastic, pendulous, and movable, slowly increasing without pain often to a very great size. They are thinly covered with skin, bearing abundant papillae, and sometimes enlarged sweat-glands and hair-follicles. Large vessels may ramify on the surface, and occasionally the skin is pigmented. They are sometimes congenital. In the disease known as molluscum fibrosum these tumours form pedunculated masses or rolls, hanging from the skin of the buttocks, thighs, and other parts of the body, and may attain such a size as seriously to inconvenience the patient by their weight. These masses are composed merely of connective tissue, sometimes dry and tough, sometimes cedematous. They contain large blood-vessels, frequently of such size as to render removal of the growth a most hazardous operation. A somewhat similar condition is seen in the disease known as Elephantiasis Arabum, in which the skin and areolar tissue of the affected part undergoes an enormous hypertrophy; hut the new growth in this case is not pedunculated, and is moreover distinctly connected with repeated attacks of inflammation of the lymphatic vessels of the part. It is in warm climates and in the Hindoo and negro races that this disease attains its greatest development. It attacks chiefly the genitals, the hypertrophy affecting the skin and areolar tissue of the scrotum and penis in the male, or depending from the labia in the female, and forming an enormous mass fifty, seventy, or even a hundred pounds in weight. The remarkable enlargement of the leg occurring in the Mauritius and some parts of the West Indies, and hence termed Barbadoes leg, is an affection of this kind. The skin in these cases becomes dark-coloured, rough, and scaly. like that of an elephant, whence the name of the disease. It should perhaps be classed rather with diseases of the lymphatic system than with tumours properly so called. In the Treatment of these affections, pressure and iodine applications may be tried in the earlier stages, with the view, if possible, of checking their growth ; at a later period they must, if large, he removed by operation, though this procedure is at times an extremely severe one, on iug to t leir great size. rp Tumours of the circumscribed variety, described by Paget as fibro-eel 11 ar. are not of common occurrence ; and when met with they are most fieqiiciity found in the scrotum, the labium, the deep muscular interspaces of the t ngi or axilla, and on the scalp, in which situation they may form large masses, attaining sometimes to a weight of many pounds. M hen seated in t ic su cutaneous tissue these tumours may become pedunculated, as in the accompany in" fi<>-ure (3G8), which represents a tumour of this kind which I rcm0' from the side of a woman. I have removed one weighing nearly fom P"’1" from the axilla of a woman, where it lay between the serratus magnus am ribs, forming a tumour of great size. When they occur about the sc and labium, these tumours must not be confounded with e ephautias _ parts, from which they may be distinguished by being limited ai ^ scribed masses, and not mere outgrowths. Paget observcs that,