549 TREATMENT OF FALSE JOINT. ■ .a ir. -g-o. ,r hiLrf-.nO , exposed for this purpose. The awl, or cbill, may be worked with the Archi- medean screw, and will then be found to penetrate much more easily (Fig. 185), but in the absence of this instrument, a common bradawl will do just as well. The soft parts are then to be laid down, and after a few weeks the pegs, which have loosened in consequence of the absorption of the surrounding- bone, and also partly of the pegs themselves, should be taken out. It is not necessary or even desirable to attempt to pin together the ends of the broken bone, but merely to introduce the pegs into the extremities of both fragments near to the seat of fracture. It is especially in ununited fractures of the humerus that this can be successfully done, the irritation of the pegs appearing Fig. 1S5.—-Archimedean Drill for perforating Bone. to occasion the development of a large quantity of callus sufficient for the consolidation of the fracture. I have practised the operation with great success in several instances of ununited fracture of this bone. In one case under my care, there was a false joint at the junction of the upper and middle thirds of the bone, complicated with an elbow ankylosed in the straight position; here, after flexion of the stiff elbow, perfect consolidation of the humerus was effected by the use of five pins. In ununited fractures of the bones of the leg and forearm, it is also likely to be serviceable, but in the femur not so much so. Indeed, in the cases of ununited fracture of this bone, I have known more failures than successes after this operation. 2. The operation of Removing the False Joint is the last expedient when simpler means have failed. This operation was formerly extremely dangerous, and cannot now be regarded as anything but serious, especially where the femur is the bone to be operated on. By the proper use of antiseptics, however, and good drainage and rest after the operation, it may be robbed of most of its dangers. Norris collected thirty-nine cases, in which the ends of the bones were either resected or scraped; twenty-four were cured, seven derived no benefit, and six died. Erysipelas, phlebitis, and diffuse suppuration were the chief complications, all of which we can hope to prevent at the present time by the means above mentioned. The operation is thus performed : the false joint is freely exposed by an incision, so placed as to do the least possible mjuiy to the surrounding soft parts. The periosteum is then carefully raised by means of a periosteal elevator from the part it is intended to remove. To am i a e tie perfect exposure of the ends of the fragments, the fibrous tissue, o -ming the false joint, may be cut through if necessary. The end of one of lei ragmen ts being thoroughly cleaned, it must be sawn off obliquely, or, if mlp cmeut, a chisel and mallet may be used to cut it through. As a , a smoo i and more regular surface is obtained by using the saw. The