j: ciuuj. ao ■— u . 1 , time the patient may dispense with artificial support. Io is, however, always about three months before full use of the limb is regained. In children under ten, union is usually firm at the end of the fifth week. Fractures in the Knee-joint.—It occasionally happens that a small frag- ment of one of the condyles of the femur may be chipped off by a violent blow, and become loose in the cavity of the joint. After the inflammation and effusion into the joint, consequent on the accident, have subsided, the fragment may be recognized as a loose body in the joint. (See Diseases of Joints : Loose Bodies.) In violent blows on the upper part of the tibia, or in forcible and extreme flexion of the knee, it sometimes happens that the bony attachment of one of the crucial ligaments is torn up. In the case from which Figs. 240 and 241 were taken, the patient fell from a great height on the bent knees, lu one knee, the anterior crucial ligament had tom up a piece of the tibia, to which it was attached. In the other, the posterior crucial ligament had torn out a piece of the femur, and the bone was fissured a long way up between the condyles. In the case from which Fig. 242 was taken, the anterior crucial ligament was torn from its attachment, bringing with it a scale of bone from the tibia. These cases cannot be diagnosed during life. The treatment would be that of a sprain of the knee, with effusion of blood into the joint. Fracture op the Patella may be the result of direct violence, when the bone is often comminuted, or even broken longitudinally, being split, and the joint injured. But most frequently it occurs as the consequence of the sudden and violent action of the extensor muscles of the thigh, in the attempt a person makes to save himself from falling when he suddenly slips backwards. The knee being semi-flexed, the patella rests on it only in its transverse axis, and is readily snapped across, much in the same way as one breaks a stick across some resisting object. All fractures of the patella from Figs. 240, 241.—Fracture of Condyles from faU on tlie Bent Knees.