INJURIES OF THE STINE. 782 to the health of the patient. So far as life is concerned, it is only in cases of ( severe and direct blows upon the spine, causing intraspinul haemorrhage to a 1 considerable extent or rupture of the cord or its membranes that a speedily \ fatal termination may be feared. In some cases of concussion of the spine, followed by chronic inflammation of the membranes and of the cord itself, death may supervene after several, . perhaps three or four, years of increasingly progressive breaking-down of the general health, and slow extension of the paralytic symptoms. I have heard of several instances in which concussion of the spine has thus proved fatal some years after the occurrence of the accident. 1 have never known a patient recover who has been attacked by convulsions, progressive paralysis developing • itself, and the case ultimately proving fatal. Gore, of Bath, informs me that t he is acquainted with two cases which proved fatal at long periods of time . after the accident, in both of which this symptom was present. Concussion of the spine may prove fatal: first, at an early period from the severity of the t direct injury ; secondly, at a more remote date from inflammation of the cord and its membranes ; and, thirdly, after a lapse of several years, from slow and progressive development of structural changes in the cord and its membranes. If death do not occur, is recovery certain ? Is there no intermediate state between a fatal result, proximate or remote, and absolute and complete recovery ? In considering the question of recovery after concussion of the spine, we have to look to two points : first, recovery from the primary and direct effects of the injury; and, secondly, recovery from the secondary and remote consequences. There can be no doubt that recovery, entire and com- plete, may occur in a case of concussion of the spine, when the symptoms have not gone beyond the primary stage, when no inflammation of the cord or its membranes has been developed, and more particularly when the patient is young and healthy. This last condition indeed is most important. A healthy young man is not only less likely to suffer from a severe shock to the system from a fall or railway-injury than one more advanced in life : but, if he do suffer, his chance of ultimate recovery will be greater, provided always that no secondary structural lesions have developed. I believe that such recovery is more likely to ensue if the primary and direct symptoms have been severe, and have at or almost immediately after the occurrence of the accident attained to their full intensity. In these cases, under proper treatment, the severity of the symptoms gradually subsides, and, week by week, the patient feels himself stronger and better, until, usually in from three to six months at the utmost, all traces of the injury have disappeared. Incomplete or partial recovery is not unfrequent in cases of severe and direct injury to the spine. The patient slowly recovers up to a. certain point and then remains stationary, with some impairment of innervation in the shape ol partial paralysis of sensation or of motion, or both ; and usually in the lower limbs. The intellectual faculties or the organs of sense arc more or less disturbed, weakened, or irritated, the constitution is shattered, and the patient presents a prema- turely worn and aged look. In such cases structural lesion ol some kind, in the membranes, if not in the cord, has taken place, which necessarily must prevent complete recovery. _ . . When, therefore, we find a patient who, after the receipt ol a severe mpuy of the spine by which the cord has been concussed, presents the primary an immediate symptoms of that condition, wc may entertain a favourable opinion