i°53 THE NATURE OF TUBERCLE. occasionally in the synovial membranes. The skin, muscles, and peripheral nerves are seldom if ever infected. The general infection may be acute or The appearance of tubercle is spoken of as tuberculosis; thus we have local tuberculosis and general tuberculosis, the latter being either acute or chronic. General infection not unfrequcntly follows suddenly after the process has remained local for a considerable time. Thus tubercular testicle may remain a local affection for many months, and terminate suddenly by acute general infection. The Nature of Tubercle.—The growth of tubercle is now generally regarded as a peculiar modification of inflammation. From what has already been said, it will be at once seen that it belongs to the class of infective in- flammations. The nature of the virus upon which it depends, is still a matter of discussion. Koch believes that he is justified in assuming that the bacillus tuberculosis is the actual virus of tubercle, just as the bacillus anthracis is of splenic fever or malignant pustule. The bacillus anthracis gives rise, as we have already seen (p. 8G1), to a specific inflammation of a peculiar character, which remains local for a certain time, but ultimately infects the whole system. So tubercle may commence as a local affection, and finally infect the whole system. Splenic fever is, however, an acute process, the progress of which is measured by days ; tuberculosis is a mere chronic process lasting months or years, and sometimes never passing beyond the local stage. In support of the theory that the bacillus is the actual virus of tubercle, Koch has made numerous experimental investigations which have been fully confirmed by subsequent observers. It had long been known as the result of the observations of Yillemin, Wilson Fox, Burdon-Sanderson, Cohnheim, and many others, that the inoculation of tuberculous matter from the human subject or other animals into rabbits or guinea-pigs gives rise to general tuberculosis in the animal experimented on. Koch, in order to show that the bacillus is the actual virus, cultivated it in blood-serum, and found that the true tuberculosis could be induced by the inoculation of the bacillus many generations removed from the original stock. He therefore believes that the bacillus itself, and not any product of caseating tubercle, is the true virus. He would make the presence of the bacillus the test of the tubercular nature of any caseating mass of inflammatory products. His theory of tuberculosis would, therefore, be—that the specific virus in the form of the bacillus or its spores enters the system by the lungs or alimentary canal. If the patient is predisposed to the reception of the poison, either from hereditary tendency or an acquired condition result- ing from bad hygienic surroundings, want of proper food, debilitating disease, &c., it may infect the part at which it enters, the lungs or alimentary canal, or, these escaping, it may enter the blood, and lodge at some part weakened by injury or by previous disease, as in a joint or bone, or the epididymis, or in a chronically inflamed lymphatic gland, and then develop, setting* up the peculiar form of chronic inflammation which results in the caseating "tubercle- nodule. In a perfectly healthy subject it may be eliminated or destroyed without developing. Thus, granting the theory of the mycotic origin of tubercle, it is still necessary that the soil and the conditions necessary for the development of the fungus should be present. Much further evidence is still required before the whole of these theories can be accepted, especially with regard to those diseases of bones, joints, and lymphatic glands, which come