NECK OF FEMUR—IMPACTED EXTRACAPSULAR. 595 across at its root, and the upper fragment is driven into the cancellous struc- ture of the lower oue, often splitting up and detaching the trochanter (Figs. 227, 228). It is not an uncommon accident about middle life, and even in old age. Its most common cause is a sudden severe fall, as upon the ice in skating. The Signs of this form of fracture are often somewhat negative, rendering its diagnosis extremely difficult. There is pain about the hip, with eversion of the foot. The degree of eversion varies considerably ; sometimes it is so great that the outer side of the foot can scarcely be raised from the bed without giving the patient intense pain, and in other cases it can be recognized only by the limitation of inversion when contrasted with the opposite limb. There is slight shortening, usually about half an inch, and never exceeding one inch, and occasionally as little as a quarter of an inch. As a rule, there is no crepitus. but occasionally, owing to the looseness of the impaction, some may be obtained Figs. 227, 22S.—Sections of Impacted Extracapsular Fractures of Neck of Femur ; showing the degree of Impaction and of Splintering in different cases. with difficulty. When the impaction is firm, the patient can raise the foot a few inches off the couch on which it is laid, and even walk a short distance upon it with a hobbling motion, though with much pain. Some flattening over the trochanter is usually perceptible ; sometimes an increase in breadth from before backwards. In consequence of the impaction the limb cannot be restoied by traction to its proper length, and hence incurable lameness always results from this injury. Pathology. The deformity accompanying this injury has been shown by Bigelow to be due in great measure to the anatomical structure of the femur. If a series of horizontal sections be made of the neck of the bone, “ it will be found that at the upper part the anterior and posterior walls are of nearly equal thickness, but that as we approach the lower surface, the anterior wall becomes of great thickness and strength, while the posterior wall remains thin, especially at its insertion beneath the posterior intertrochanteric ridge, where 1 is of the thinness of paper.” The result of this is, that when severe direct lolence is applied to the trochanter the posterior wall yields, crushes up, and lecomes impacted, while the anterior “ serves as a sort of hinge upon which enc shaft rotates to allow the posterior impaction.” This causes the rotation fm yai 8‘ 1C shortening Bigelow explains by obliquity of the neck of the rp,ni'r’fV''. 10 « ^1C k° he shortened in proportion to the rotation. 8 18 fche true explanation of the deformity in all the slighter cases of Q Q 2