NECK OF FEMUR—INTRACAPSULAR. 591 ij noticed. I have seen two instances : Smith, Stanley, and other Surgeons, have ,, also recorded cases. This deviation from the usual symptoms of this injury i has been attributed by some to the cervical ligament not having been torn ,1; through at its inner side, but that, as Stanley observes, while it may prevent eversion, cannot occasion inversion ; by others to the fact of the lowei lag- , ment in these cases being found always in front of the upper one. This cir- flj cumstance, which is much insisted on by R. W. Smith, appears to me to be i rather the result than the cause of the inversion ; for any traction inwards of , the lower fragment by the adductor muscles of the thigh would have a tendency to draw the upper end of this fragment to the anterior, or in other words, the inner side of the upper one. I am rather disposed to think that this inversion I jg owing, in some cases at least, to the external rotatois being paralysed by the , violence they receive from the injury that occasions the fracture, and that thus i the adductors, acting without antagonists, draw the thigh and with it the leg i inwards. In both instances that fell under my observation, and in some of i! those that have been published, the fracture resulted from severe direct injury to the hip, and was not occasioned by the patient jarring Ids foot, or by any 1 indirect violence operating at the end of the limb. The Shortening in cases of fracture within the capsule seldom exceeds, in : the first instance, from half an inch to an inch, depending on the extent of the ; separation between the fragments ; it cannot, indeed, in the early periods of j the fracture, very well exceed the width of the neck of the bone, as the capsule i is usually not torn through. After the fracture has existed some time, the I capsule of the joint may yield, allowing greater separation between the frag- : ments, and then it may amount to two, or even two and a half inches. It not uncommonly happens that the shortening, which is at first but very slight, about half an inch, suddenly increases to an inch or more ; this is accounted for on the supposition of the cervical ligament, which had not been at first completely ruptured, at last giving way entirely ; or it may be owing to the fragments which were originally interlocked becoming separated. It is in those cases in which there is but slight separation of the fragments, and consequently little shortening, that the other signs of fracture are not very strongly i marked, and that the patient preserves some power over the movements of the limb. The Constitutional Disturbance in intracapsular fracture of the neck of the femur in old people, though trifling at first, often eventually becomes con- siderable ; and the injury frequently terminates fatally, from the supervention of hypostatic pneumonia, an asthenic state of system, or sloughing of the nates from confinement to bed during treatment. Hence this injury must always be considered as very dangerous, and not unfrequently fatal. Mode of Union.—The treatment of these fractures turns in a great measure upon the view that is taken of their mode of union, and on the constitutional condition of the patient. In some cases no union occurs, but the head of the bone remains in the acetabulum, being hollowed into a smooth, hard, cup- shaped cavity, in which the neck, which has become rounded off and polished, is received, and plays as in a socket. In the great majority of cases, however, union takes place by fibrous tissue. This is owing to two causes ; in the first place, to the circumstance (which I look upon as the most important) that the fractured surfaces arc not in apposition with one another ; and secondly, that the vascular supply sent to the head of the bone, consisting only of the blood