INJURIES OF BLOOD-VESSELS. 39° may be some slight fever. The rallying power is greater in young adults than in old people, and greater in women than in men. Children bear the loss of blood badly—a very small haemorrhage may induce fatal syncope in infants. In advanced life blood is slowly reproduced ; and a great loss of so complex a fluid, whether by accident or in an operation, is seldom completely recovered from, and predisposes to the development of secondary diseases of various kinds. As has already been stated at p. 10, it is in this way that excessive loss of blood at an operation, as for stone in an aged man, often proves indirectly fatal. Arterial hemorrhage is, as a rule, more dangerous than venous, as the loss of blood is more rapid and sudden, and the effect produced is proportionally greater. The body of a person who has died from the effects of haemorrhage presents a peculiarly blanched, semi-transparent, waxen look ; the lips, ahe of the nose, and finger-nails, have a somewhat livid appearance, contia^ting strongly with the clear, yellowish-white hue of the general surface. Treatment.—The General Treatment of hemorrhage is sufiiciently simple. After the flow of blood has been arrested by proper local means, such as will hereafter be described, the effects of its loss are usually speedily recovered from by rest and good nourishment. In some cases, however, the health becomes permanently impaired, and a state of chronic anaemia is induced ; which, not- withstanding the administration of preparations of iron, may continue thioug 1 life. . , . When the loss of blood is considerable, it may be necessary to have recourse to immediate measures in order to prevent the syncope from being fatal. With this view the patient should be laid recumbent, with the head low ; and pressure may be exercised upon the abdominal aorta or the mam arteries of the limbs, or Esmarch’s elastic bandage and tourniquet may be applied, so as to confine the blood as much as possible to the head and trunk, and thus maintain a good supply to the brain and lungs. If death appear imminent from the effects of the haemorrhage, as happens m some cases of flooding, recourse may be had to transfusion of blood; the influence of which, m restoring the failing powers of the heart and nervous system is immediate and most striking, and the value of which has been unquestionably determine by the observations of Blundell and other obstetricians. Operation of Transfusion.-Although there is reason to believe that Transfusion of Blood was not unknown to the ancients, and the me lux by which it could be practised was distinctly described by Libavius m lbU, little was done on the subject until Sir Christopher Wren m l65i’P^sedf and practised the operation of injecting medicated liquids I'lt tl s animals. Transfusion was first performed on man m France, by 1 ems . Emmerets, on June 15, 1GG7. In November of the same year it was done this country by Drs. Lower and King. In the early experiments, the blood of sheep and calves was used. The most extravagant ideas were formed nsjo tie utility of transfusion. It was supposed to be capable of curing diseases substituting the blood of a healthy animal for that of a diseased pci. , removing insanity by the injection of the blood of animals of a .gentle and docile character into the veins of a maniac, and of prolonging h e m e . ^ These pretensions led to a scientific controversy of the most violent him , • Jo" is having occurred from the practice, partly in mde and imperfect instruments used, transfusion was prohibited in Hance