INJURIES OF THE HEAD. 732 him almost immediately to consciousness, will hardly bear investigation. The man had been pressed into the navy, and was consequently likely to feign disease to escape from it, and there are many cases of malingering on record 1 i quite as extraordinary as his. During the whole period of his insensibility he was able to make signs with his “lips and tongue” when he wanted food. ;| This fact alone would be sufficient to throw the gravest doubts upon the genuineness of the case. Wounds of the Dura Mater.—The great danger in cases of depressed and comminuted fracture arises not only from the compression of the brain, ] but from the rapidity with which inflammation so frequently follows the injury. This is due partly to the sharp fragments wounding and irritating the membranes of the brain, but chiefly to the septic matter which almost inevitably forms within the skull after these injuries, unless some means are taken to prevent it. In a compound depressed fracture the conditions present are as follows : Sharp fragments of the inner table are lying pressed against the dura mater, or possibly penetrating it, and opening the arachnoid cavity and subarachnoid space and wounding the brain; the fragments aie sur- rounded by more or less extravasated blood, and in a few houis a considerable amount of inflammatory exudation will necessarily be added. All this decomposable material is in communication with the air through the fissures ■ in the bone, and at the same time these fissures allow of but imperfect drainage from within the cavity of the skull. Consequently, the decomposing : discharges are pent up and burrow within the cranial cavity.. If the dura i mater were not wounded at the time of the accident, it will inevitably be soon perforated by ulceration at the point at which the sharp fragments of the I inner table, bathed hr putrid pus, are pressing against it. In either case, the arachnoid cavity is opened and the septic matter diffuses itself wide y within it, giving rise to the usual symptoms with the fatal termination characteristic of meningo-enceplialitis. If the fragments are removed early and the external wound left open so as to provide perfect drainage from within 1 the skull, the dangers of secondary perforation of the dura mater are very t slio-ht; and even should that membrane have been wounded at the time of the accident, the patient has a fair chance of escaping diffuse meningitis; for healthy inflammation with adhesion of the arachnoid may occur within a few hours, and thus present a barrier to the diffusion of any septic matter that may torn afterwards. If, with the removal of sharp fragments and the provision o good drainage, we combine some perfect method of antiseptic treatment ot the wound, the patient’s dangers, though still great, will be reduce a minimum. Indeed, a wound of the dura mater however slight, s most dangerous complication. This is more especially the case in those injuries in which the inner table is extensively splintered, as in the different forms of punctured fracture. In these cases there ma} eil°7' , of compression ; but inflammation speedily .sets in, and proves certain y « « if the sharp spicula are not removed and good drainage provider or ■- charges as may form within the cranium. In cases wine i ait 1 relieved the dura mater after death is found to be sloughy, and covered i 1 ffik layer of puriform inflammatory exudation ; whilst the usual evidcn^ of meningo-encephalitis are found in the other membranes and the brain. Wounds of the dura mater, though in the highest degree dangerous; are no “ily fatal. In military practice it has often happened that, as the icsult