5ot SIGNS OF FRACTURE. rotundity. Neither pain nor alteration of bulk can be regarded as pathogno- monic of fracture. The more special and peculiar signs of fracture are three : 1. A Change m the Shape of the Limb ; 2. Mobility in its Continuity ; and 3. The Existence of Grating between the Broken Ends of the Bone. ]. The Change in the Shape of the Limb, due to the displacement of portions of the broken bone, is a most important sign of fracture ; it manifests itself by a want of correspondence between the osseous points on opposite sides of the body, by an increase or diminution of the natural curves of the limb, by angularity, shortening, or swelling. In investigating the existence and extent of displacement in a case of frac- ture, the Surgeon should compare the corresponding points of bone on the opposite sides of the body, and their situation relative to some fixed and easily distinguishable neighbouring prominence on the trunk or uninjured part of the limb. From this the measurements may be taken, by grasping the injured part and the corresponding portion of the healthy limb in each hand, and running the fingers lightly over the depressions and elevations, marking any difference that exists ; or, if greater accuracy be required, measuring by means of a tape. In some cases the measurement must not be made between the trank and the limb injured, or even from one extremity of the limb to the other, as shortening of the whole member might depend on causes other than fracture, such as wasting, disease of joints, or dislocation ; when this is the case, the measurement must be taken between different points of the bone injured, and compared with a similar measurement of the sound limb; and in children the length of the uninjured bones of the limb must also be compared in order to ascertain whether the shortening is due to a general want of growth in the limb. The displacement of a broken bone may be the direct result of the violence which occasions the fracture, the fragments being driven out of their position, as when a portion of the skull is beaten in ; or it may result from the weight of the limb dragging downwards the lower fragment, as in a case of fractured acromion. In some cases it is either occasioned or greatly increased by the direction of the fracture. Thus, in several cases of broken tibia which have been under my care, the line of fracture being oblique from above downwards, and from before backwards, I have found the upper end of the lower fragment project considerably forwards, sliding, as it were, along an inclined plane in the upper fragment; and in one of these cases, which I had an opportunity of dissecting after amputation, the direction of the fracture had evidently deter- mined the direction of the displacement. In transverse fractures there is often but slight displacement. Muscular contraction is, however, without doubt the great cause of displace- ment hence it has been found that, in paralysed limbs which are fractured, t eie is but little deformity. The contraction of the muscles of the part approximating their points of attachment, draws the most movable fragment out of its normal position, owing to the support or resistance offered by the none being removed. The other causes that have just been mentioned, tend greatly to favour this kind of displacement; but in some cases, as in fractured patella the displacement is entirely muscular, and in all fractures of the long ones it is due chiefly to muscular contraction.