48S INJURIES OF BONES AND JOINTS. 4. In Strumous, Gouty, and Rheumatic subjects the inflammation following a sprain may assume the form characteristic of these constitutional conditions and must be treated accordingly. (See Diseases of Joints.) 5. In severe sprains of joints, more especially of the knee, ankle, and shoulder, it often happens that there is a slight displacement of the articular surfaces. This may happen at the time of the sprain, being primarily and directly occasioned by the violence that twists and sprains the joint, or it may be secondary, coming on at a later period, owing to the constrained position m which the injured articulation has been kept for some length of time. Any way, if allowed to remain, it interferes seriously with the free mobility of the joint. In order that this be maintained, the most accurate co-aptation of the articular surfaces is necessary. If there be the very slightest deviation fiom the accuracy of this “ fit,” they become locked in movement, and all motion becomes painful. This is especially the case in the hinge-joints, as the knee and elbow. In the ball and socket joints, more especially in the shoulder, the head of the humerus is apt to be thrown very slightly forwards on to the edge of the glenoid cavity, where it becomes fixed, all movements of the joint being exquisitely painful. In all these cases of slight displacement connected with sprains that do not amount to dislocation, properly so called, but where there is only a very slight want of true co-aptation between the articular surfaces, the patient should be put under anaesthesia, and the joint “ wrenched,” so as to replace the bones and restore freedom and ease of movement. So, also, at a later period, when after a severe sprain, a stiff, painful, and possibly slightly distorted joint is left, no time should be lost in “ wrenching ” it. By this means, adhesions at this stage are broken down, and the proper “ fit ” of the bones restored. By neglecting this very simple treatment and leaving the joint but partially and only painfully mobile the Surgeon is much discredited, and the patient drifting iuto the hands of the “ bone-setter,” has his limb “ wrenched ” into utility and ease by a most simple manoeuvre. Wounds of Joints.—A joint is known to be wounded, when synovia escapes from the aperture or when the interior of the articulation is exposed. If there be any doubt as to the wound haviug penetrated the synovial mem- brane, no attempt should be made to ascertain this by probing, as in this way the very occurrence that is to be dreaded may be induced by the Surgeon. If the wound be of sufficient size a careful and gentle examination may safely be made with the finger. In all doubtful cases the wound must be treated as one of the joint, and the question whether it penetrated or not will often be cleared up by the symptoms that supervene. Pathology.—In no class of injuries are the effects of the admission of air and of the consequent decomposition of the discharges more marked than in wonnds of joints. The most extensive subcutaneous injuries of joints are recovered from, as a rule, without a serious symptom. Thus a simple disloca- tion of a large joint, although accompanied by laceration of the capsule, tearing of neighbouring muscles, and abundant extravasation of blood, is almost invariably recovered from with but little pain or inflammation, and with perfect restoration of the mobility of the joint. On the other hand a small incised wound, such as might be made by a stab from a pocket knife, may be followed by the severest constitutional symptoms and the most acute destructive inflammation of the joint, or as it is called Traumatic Arthritis