SYPHILIS—SECONDARY AND TERTIARY STAGES. 1089 and possibly this may be true ; but the most severe symptoms ha\ e ulso followed small superficial sores, so that it is not safe to draw any conclusion . from the appearance of the initial manifestation. Course of the Indurated. Sore.—If unmodified by treatment the initial manifestation tends slowly to disappear, the surrounding induration melting . away and the sore healing, a scar being left behind, which is more or less i marked, according to the extent and depth of the ulceration that has accom- 3 panied the process. The simple desquamating papule may leave no recog- 1 nizable scar. The length of time which may elapse before spontaneous i disappearance of the induration takes place is uncertain, but it is rarely, if . ever, under two months. Indolent Enlargement of the Lymphatic Glands.—The so-called indolent bvbo is the next change to follow induration at the scat of inoculation. The time at which this follows the appearance of the initial manifestation is variously stated at from seven to eleven days. Most commonly the glands arc found already enlarged when the patient .first presents himself, and form an important element in the diagnosis. One gland enlarges first and several follow ; the glands are painless, or only very slightly tender, and the hardness is such that they are often described as feeling like bullets. The skin over them is unaltered in appearance, and the individual glands can be clearly distinguished, even when they form together a considerable mass, there being no doughy swelling about them as in the acute suppurating bubo. In rare ;; cases, if the sore be irritated so that it is suppurating freely, or if the patient has unwisely taken violent exercise, as dancing, riding, and the like, suppura- »' tion may take place, and an abscess form around the glands. The pus, however, from such an abscess is never auto-inoculable like that from the virulent bubo following a soft chancre. If the point of contagion be situated near the middle line, at the fraenum for instance, the glands in both groins are often enlarged. 1 SECONDARY AND TERTIARY CONSTITUTIONAL MANIFESTATIONS OF SYPHILIS. In describing the constitutional manifestations of syphilis it will be most ' convenient to give first an outline of the general pathology and the ordinary I course of the disease and its treatment, and subsequently to consider more in detail the special syphilitic affections of the various textures and organs. General Pathology and Progress op Syphilis.—After the appearance of the initial manifestation there is usually an interval of from five to seven weeks before any further characteristic symptoms are developed. This has been termed “ the period of second incubation.” During this time there is in most cases some disturbance of health ; the patient becomes pale, and suffers II from malaise or a general sense of indisposition, often with some loss of fiesh. Neuralgic pains in the head and other parts of the body are common 1 during this stage. Sometimes there is distinct but slight febrile disturbance i just before the cutaneous eruptions make their appearance, but this is seldom 1 sufficiently marked to attract attention. At the end of this period, often before the primary sore is healed, the ^ secondary manifestations of the disease make their appearance. These consist of various superficial affections of the skin and mucous membranes, usually ‘i aPPearing more or less symmetrically. In the skin the early syphilitic v°l. i. 4 i