253 TREATMENT OF SINUSES. communicating channel between two cavities, as between the rectum and vagina, or between the surface and a cavity or duct, as in a tracheal or salivary fistula, the granulations may become completely covered by epithelium continuous with that on each side, and no cure is possible till this has been cut away or destroyed. The Treatment of a sinus or fistula has reference to its cause in the first instance ; for, until the foreign body or the insufficient drainage that keeps it open and maintains the discharge has been removed, it will be useless to attempt its closure. After the removal of the obstacle to healing, we may endeavour to procure obliteration of the sinus by one of three methods. 1. Pressure, by means of a roller and graduated compress, so as to cause adhesion of its opposite sides, is useful in those cases in which the sinus is recent, without much surrounding induration, and so situated, as upon the trunk, that pressure can easily be applied. -■ A more healthy condition may often be produced in the sinus by inject- ing it from time to time with “ red-wash,” or with tincture of iodine, by the introduction of iodoform in crystals by means of a catheter or by soluble bougies such as are used in the treatment of gonorrhoea ; by passing a probe coated with nitrate of silver to the bottom ; by passing the threads of a seton or a drainage-tube through it. •>. St i aping away the callous and imperfectly granulating sides of the sinus by means of a small sharp spoon (Fig. 95), or destroying them by means of a red- hot wire or the thermo-cautery, is a very efficacious means of setting up a new and healthier action m the part, and so bringing about a closure of the canal. T le galvanic cautery will often be found most convenient, as the wire can be introduced cold and heated in situ, and the danger of wandering from the track of the sinus is thus avoided. 4. The last method consists in laying open the sinus from end to end and then dressing the wound so that it may heal from the bottom ; in this’ way neighbommg muscles, that have kept it open by their contractions, may also set at lest. The division of the sinus should be made with a probe-pointed IrtiS7’ f °?UCed tIlr0Ugh the eternal opening either by the aid of a director beino-fofiow t aT anCe: The 0peration should be done effectually, the sinus Some fistulte aT the fisM P-’Udent’ aud laid open as completely as possible. s.nrvJ, as the fistula m ano, require similar treatment, and may be \^til moi trdy. Tued up by the siow acti°u °f tpe tigatwe. A tlnn cord of vulcanised india-rubber being drawn through- and r few dr,throi,8h the 8»ft hended^or the p^ienb breads thTknife. ^ vesL^t'iml “re- Hied l,y a coml^ete epithelial covering, as many i„g this Ser by ™tH ’ rcct°-™oaI’ °»» be ornrt only by destroy* «h fetid, require plastic^ZTr $£%£ *