INJURIES OF THE HEINE. 79© enable it to maintain the weight of the head, will probably never regain its normal strength. One great prospective danger in strains of the spine is the possibility of inflammation developed in the fibrous structures of the column extending to the meninges of the cord. This I have several times seen. It is particularly apt to happen when the strain or twist occurs between the occiput and the atlas or axis. In these cases a rigid tenderness is gradually developed, which is most distressing and persistent, and evidently inflammatory ; or there may be paralysis confined to the nerves that are connected with that part of the spine that is the seat of the wrench, one or other of their roots having suffered lesion, or the nervous cord itself having been injured in its passage through the inter- vertebral foramen. Lastly, a twist of the spine may slowly and insidiously be followed by symptoms of complete paraplegia, and eventually by death from extravasation of blood into the vertebral canal. The Treatment of these injuries is the same as that of concussion of the spinal cord (see p. 783). Fracture of the Spine may occur either by the application of direct violence, or by a violent twist or bend of the body forwards. Direct violence, as a blow, fall, or gunshot-injury, may of course fracture the spine at any part and almost to any extent, in some cases detaching merely a spinous process, in others splintering and comminuting several vertebrae and lacerating or dividing the spinal cord. Fracture of the spine from a violent but forcible bend of the body forwards occurs chiefly in the cervical region. It is produced usually by a person falling from a height on the head, the body being bent forcibly forward so as to drive the chin against the sternum. This accident often happens in falls from horseback, or in taking a “header ” into shallow water. In some cases it has occurred from a person sitting on the top of a vehicle having the head forcibly bent down whilst passing under anarchway. In these accidents there are usually extensive rupture of the spinal ligaments and dis- placement of the bones, as well as fracture. In some cases of even very extensive fracture there may be no appreciable- displacement : but usually some change of position ensues, in many cases to such an extent as to compress or lacerate the spinal cord. The mode of occurrence of the fracture will influence the amount of displacement. If the fracture be through the arch, or consist in a simple detachment of the spinous, process by a fall or a blow on the back, there may be little or no displacement. If it occur from gunshot-injury, or from a fall upon the head, or by forcible flexure of the neck and body forwards, as when the body is compressed between the top of a van and an archway, there will probably be great displacement, and perhaps separation of the articulating surfaces of contiguous veitcbra;. u these cases the upper part of the spine is almost invariably displaced Ionian >. The Signs of this injury vary very greatly, and depend in a great degree upon the extent of the displacement. If this be inconsiderable, it may be extremely difficult, and even impossible in some instances, to pronounce vit 1 certainty whether the spine has been broken or not; the more so it the fracture do not implicate the body of the vertebra. If, on the other hand, t ie displacement affect the axis of the column or compress the cord, the symptoms are so marked as to admit of easy diagnosis. They are of two kinds; those presented by the injury of the bone, and those dependent on injury by com- pression or laceration, or both, of the spinal coid.