1052 SCROFULA AND TUBERCLE. become yellow. Fat granules appear first in the cells, and subsequently in the stroma, till all trace of the cellular structure is lost, and the whole mass loses its grey semi-transparent appearance, becoming opaque and yellowish- white in colour, and soft and friable in texture. It is then known as Yellow Tubercle. The lymphoid corpuscles in the early stages of degeneration become shrunken and of irregular form. These withered cells were described by Lebcrt as tubercle-corpuscles, and were at one time considered to be characteristic. After caseation is complete, oue of three changes may take place : first, the nodule may soften, inflammation and suppuration may take place in the tissues around it, and it may be expelled as a foreign body ; secondly, it may become drier, and lime-salts may be deposited in it, or in other words, it may become calcified ; and thirdly, it may become sur- rounded by a dense capsule of fibrous tissue, such as forms round a shot or bullet impacted in the soft parts, and in this way may remain harmlessly imbedded. Nekton describes a bony capsule surrounding old grey granu- lations in the cancellous tissue of bone in cases of recovery from tubercular disease. Caseation and the subsequent changes form infinitely the most common form of degeneration in tubercle, but occasionally it undergoes a fibroid change. The cells wither, while the stroma gradually thickens, and thus a small dense fibrous nodule may remain in the site of the grey granula- tion. Whether tubercle is ever absorbed, is a disputed point that it is needless to enter upon here ; that it can become harmless and inactive is well known. This may occur either from fibroid degeneration, calcification, or encapsulation. Extension and Growth of Tubercle.—The extension of tubercle may take place by the development of new nodules in contact with that first formed, which in their turn undergo fatty degeneration, till caseous masses may be formed of considerable size. The large masses of yellow tubercle thus formed were at oue time regarded as the most characteristic form. The edge of the mass may be surrounded by a zone of reddish-grey translucent tissue. This is often very well seen in tubercular disease ot the testicle. Here a yellow caseous mass is sometimes met with, an inch or more in diameter, involving the epididymis, and extending into the body. At the advancing edge there may be a, zone one-sixteenth of an inch in width, semi-transparent, reddish-grey in colour, and firm in texture. Microscopic examination shows this to be composed of ordinary granulation-tissue with giant cells, and the surrounding groups of epithelioid cells scattered through it, the lymphoid corpuscles being indistinguishable from the surrounding inflammatory new growth. (See Diseases of Testicle, vol. ii., Figure illustrating tubercular testis.) • • i In other cases fresh grey granulations appear dotted around the original nodule amongst tissues apparently healthy. These two modes of spreading might be described as continuous and discontinuous local infection. The next mode of extension is from the original scat of development to the neighbouring lymphatic glands. The gland becomes enlarged, caseous patches appear in it, and the microscope shows numerous tubercle-nodules scattered through it. . Lastly, general infection may take place, grey granulations appearing throughout the body, in the viscera, serous and mucous membranes, bones, and