SPECIAL FRACTURES. 56° to form an S-shape, which admirably enables it to withstand indirect violence (Fig. 196). The clavicle is occasionally fractured by muscular action—more particularly from the swing of the arm, as in a back-handed blow. When the accident occurs from this cause, it is usually about the middle of the bone, and on the ^Compound fracture of the clavicle can occur only from bullet-wounds, or some similar severe and direct injury inflicted upon the bone. Fractures from direct violence are usually transverse, and often comminuted; from indirect violence they are oblique. The latter are attended by much more deformity than the former. Fractures of this bone in infants and young children are usually transverse; sometimes the bone is merely bent, or is fractured on one side only. The injury is usually occasioned by falling out of bed. Such accidents are frequently overlooked by careless nurses ; but the child’s crying whenever the arm is moved directs attention to the part, and the Surgeon then finds some deformity, with a node-like swelling about the middle of the bone. Both clavicles are occasionally, though rarely, fractured. In one such case, which was under my care at University College Hospital, the patient, a young man of 20, had sustained this injury, and had twelve ribs broken as well, m a railway accident. Notwithstanding this serious complication, be made an ex- ^Complications.—In simple oblique fracture of the clavicle, there is rarely any complication of importance. But when the fracture is the result of dnect violence, the same force that breaks the bone may seriously injure subjacent parts of importance. The subclavian vein may be compressed or wounded, or the brachial plexus of nerves may be compressed or torn; the first rib may be broken by the crushing violence, and the pleura wounde . . The clavicle may be fractured at any point between its acromial and sternal ends 1 Most frequently the Great Convexity is broken ; the bone bending here when pressed upon from its extremity, the curve becoming increased, and at last oiving way. This fracture may arise from direct violence, but usually is the result of falls on the hand or shoulder. 2. It ^y Wactmed neare the acromion, between the two Coraco-clavicular Ligaments. 3 Its Outer End may be broken off externally to the outermost point of inseiHou of the trapezoid ligament, between it and the acromion. These latter two fractures can scarcely occur from indirect, but are rlireet violence 4 The clavicle may be broken internally, that is, to uie Sterlal S de of the Rhomboid Ligament, usually about three-quarters of tom its sternal articulation. This injury is of very rare occurrence. E W Smith, although admitting its possrbility, states that there is no ac ^The ujwn'the8seS oTftactuie. When the bone is broken SteZ “nrS^thealongttie bouefare usually present. When the ** r „f";t 5=1«— i Ci and inwards, with a slight angles to the rest of the bone, apparently by the dia0gm0