SCAPULA. 56s pass from the sound shoulder, obliquely round the chest beneath the elbow of the injured side, and to overlap for some six or eight inches. A slit must be cut in it for the olecranon. Before applying this the elbow must be drawn well forwards, when, the first strip of plaster acting as a fulcrum, the shoulder will be thrown backwards and outwards. At the same time the elbow must be forced upwards. These positions must be maintained by the application of the plaster over the forearm and hand, as in Fig. 200. Ellis’s Splint, which is sufficiently explained by the accompanying figures (Figs. 201,202), though an unnecessarily cumbersome contrivance for ordinary cases of fractured clavicle, is useful in those instances in which great steadiness of limb is required to keep the fragments in good position. In children, in whom these fractures often occur, there is frequently a difficulty in keeping the bandages properly applied ; in these circumstances the starched apparatus will be found veiy useful, care being taken to re-apply it as often as it becomes loose, lest deformity result. Fractured clavicles occurring in females, to whom any irregularity of imion in this situation would be veiy annoying, are best treated by keeping the patient lying flat on her back in bed, with the arm fixed to the side, for the first two or three weeks. By this plan, which is as old as the days of Hippocrates, I have seen better results produced than by any other. When loth clavicles are broken, the patient should be kept in bed, and the shoulder fixed and drawn backwards by means of a figure-of-8-bandage. In the case already alluded to (p. 562), this could not be borne, owing to the simultaneous fracture of the ribs ; but the patient nevertheless made a good recovery with little deformity. In Comminuted Fracture of the Clavicle, it must always be remembered that the subclavian vein may be compressed or contused. It is, therefore, of importance to avoid all means that may interfere with the return of venous blood from the arm. Hence the bandaging of the fingers, hand, and fore-arm should be omitted, and the axillary pad laid aside. The limb should be drawn back, supported in a sling, and the patient kept recumbent until union has been attained. In comminuted simple fracture of the clavicle with vertical depression of the central portion, Annandale has removed the displaced piece of bone. Period of Union.—In adults a fractured clavicle is solidly united in four weeks. In children three weeks is sufficient, and in infants, a fortnight. Fractures op the Scapula.—1. Fracture of the Body of the Scapula is not very commonly met with ; and when it occurs, being always the result of considerable direct violence, it is usually associated with serious W subjacent ribs and trunk. The thick layer of muscles overlyin°* this bone not only protects it, but limits displacement, and renders the detem tion of its fracture difficult. The fracture usually takes place across the bone, vc Starred ^ °W SPm° ; but occasiona% ifc may be split longitudinally hJv? T?atment consisfcs in Placin8' the arm in a sling, the application of a scorf S •’,and suPP°rfc of the part with a pad. But all Surgeons who have withnni r. aCC-\ Cn^ ,are aSree_tt as to the extreme difficulty of obtaining union in most/h 181 v*1 > e dcJb,'mity » which, however, is of less moment here than in most other situations. tuies in the Vicinity of the Shoulder-Joint arc of common