INJURIES OF SOFT FARTS. 3H treatment. Let him, by all means, use them when he can get them—but let him remember that wounds were healed safely, speedily and well before they were invented, and that he is the best Surgeon who can obtain the best results by the simplest means. If he is not in the land of spray-producers, “ protectives,” and “ guards,” of iodoform- and salicylic-acid-wools, let him not despair—cold water and clean linen rags will do much to supply their place. Inflammation of Incised Wounds.—As before pointed out, a certain degree of inflammation is a necessary part of the healing of a wound by first intention. This should, however, be strictly limited to the tissues actually injured by the instrument which produced the wound, and should be very temporary in character. This simple traumatic inflammation, although patho- logically of such great importance, is clinically so slightly marked by symptoms that it is frequently ignored ; and when we say that a wound is “ inflamed,” we mean that some cause of inflammation other than the original injury has been introduced, which is causing the process to extend beyond the area actually injured by the cutting instrument. 1 he causes of such inflammation have already been so fully discussed that we need do no more here than recapitulate them. They are predisposing and direct. The predisposing causes are the same as those of inflammation in general (see page 159). The most important of these for wounds are: chronic alcoholism, insufficient and improper food, Bright s disease and diabetes, scurvy, &c., and local malnutrition from disease of the arteries. The direct causes are mechanical, as friction from want of rest, tension fiom tight stitches or from insufficient drainage, or pressure from tight bandaging ; chemical, as the persistent contact with the raw surface of an irritating anti- septic or the products of putrefaction ; and lastly, the true infective poisons, as those of erysipelas, pyaemia, hospital gangrene, &c. In the vast majority of cases in which a wound “ inflames,” the immediate cause is the presence o putrid discharges with insufficient drainage. When a wound becomes “inflamed,” the natural slight swelhng and redness of the lips becomes exaggerated and extends further from the edges than 1 should, and instead of tending to subside after the first twenty-four boms, it continues to extend to the third day or even later. The serous discharge, instead of ceasing on the second day, continues to flow and may increase con- siderably in quantity, and gradually by the third or fourth day assumes a distinctly purifonn character. Instead of the perfect painlessness of a healthy wound, there is throbbing tensive pain with acute tenderness I he tempeia- ture rises to 101°—104° Fahr. according to the size of the wound an the cause of the inflammation. In all cases the thermometer gives timely warning of the approach of this traumatic fever. The use o t is ms rnnit in surgical practice is attended with great advantage, as it is often the first to indicate the onset of some of the more serious sequel® of wounds. The othc symptoms of fever, hot skin, quick pulse, thirst, &c., are also present. In these circumstances all chance of union by the first intention is of co^e at an end some or all of the sutures should be immediately removed to facilitate drama e and relieve tension, and strips of plaster may be used for support only andjot for the purpose of maintaining contact of the surfaces m the hope of obtamm union If the wound is aseptic, the relief of tension alone may suffice to relieve the symptoms; if the discharges are decomposing, some warm mo st a d antiseptic application should be used. The best of these is boracic-acid-luit,