GENERAL REMARKS ON OPERATIONS. 14 ■waging a constant warfare against septic hospital influences. If it were not for erysipelas, pyaemia, septicemia, and “blood-poisoning” in its protean forms, the duties of a hospital Surgeon would be comparatively light. Attention to hospital hygiene is by no means of so modern a date as many appear to suppose. The Surgeons of the last century paid great attention to it, and their success was proportionately great. Thus Alanson’s success in amputations has never been surpassed, and rarely, if ever, equalled even by the aid of antiseptics and of every modern chemical and mechanical appliance. Writing in 1782 (“ Alanson on Amputation and the After-treatment, London, 1782), he says (Preface, p. 15), that he amputated in thirty-live cases, such as promiscuously occurred in the Liverpool Infirmary, without the loss of a single patient. The symptomatic fever was slight, and there was not an instance of secondary hemorrhage in the whole series. Alanson was a sanitary reformer in his day ; and had his instructions been followed, thousands of lives would have been saved which have since his time been wantonly sacrificed by the neglect of hygienic measures. His advice is so practical that it deserves the attentive study of the modern Surgeon. He says : “ The air in which the case is to be conducted is a point worthy of your greatest attention : if possible, the room should be spacious, and in an open wholesome situation. It is well known that in hospitals which are situated m populous towns and are much crowded, the salutary influence of the ah- is so altered, that compound fractures and other important surgical cases prove peculiarly fatal, and that such frac- tures may almost certainly be cured in the countiy. • • • « The operation of amputation done in the country, as above described, wi be followed almost certainly with a speedy cure ; there the consequent symp- toms are trifling, nearly the whole internal surface of the wound mutes by first intention, the suppuration consequently is small. • • • “ Many hospitals are so tainted by unwholesome effluvia that they are ratliei a pest than a relief to the objects they contain.” (Op. at., p. 89 9 ) Then follow sixteen distinct paragraphs or heads of the most usef ulsamta y advice, which “ are humbly recommended to those who have the care of hospitals in want of such attention. . This code of regulations deserves careful study. In it Alanson ac \ . That no ward should be inhabited for more than four months at a time . that it be cleansed, whitewashed, and purified. That the “ bed-stocks be o iron -\he beddin" frequently changed, and made of inexpensive materials so tin it my be r enewed ; and that when the weather admits it be exposed £ the o^n ai/for several hours a day That dirty their clothino- before admission; that they have a warm bath and then >c never h T^Tlrt'krwiridows ’lie opened for a certain number of houre «lastly', that every hospital should have a “ house in the eormtry,