615 THE BONES OF THE LEG. Fractures op the Bones of the Leg—The bones of the leg are fre- quently broken, the fracture of the fibula being, as a rule, at a higher level than that of the tibia. When both bones are broken, the fracture is generally situated near the junction of the middle and lower thirds, and the lower fragments are, in the majority of cases, drawn upwards, behind the upper, by "the action of the gastrocnemius muscle ; so that the edge of the upper fragment of the tibia projects under the skin and may perforate it. In some instances, however, the direction of the fracture is such that the lower frag- ments ride over the front of the upper. The tibia, though a stronger bone than the fibula, is more frequently fractured, owing to its being less pro- tected from blows by muscles, and receiving more directly all shocks communi- cated to the heel. The fractures of the upper part of this bone are usually transverse, and result from direct violence ; those of the lower part are oblique, and proceed from indirect violence. When both bones are broken, the usual signs of fracture, such as> shortening, increased mobility at the seat of injury, and crepitus, render the diagnosis easy ; but when one bone alone is broken, it is not always a very simple matter to determine the existence of the fracture ; the sound bone, acting as a splint, prevents displacement, and keeps the limb of a proper length and steady. If it be the tibia alone that has been broken, the fracture may be detected by running the finger along the subcutaneous edge, until it comes to a point that is somewhat irregular, puffy, or tender, where by accurate examination some mobility and slight crepitus may be detected. When the fibula alone is broken, the thick layer of the peroneal muscles, overlying its upper two-thirds, renders the detection of the fracture difficult. It can usually be detected by pressing the fibula firmly towards the tibia, when the patient will complain of pain at the seat of frac- ture, and at the same time a click of crepitus may be felt now and then ; by shifting the point of pressure, it will be ascertained that the pain is always at the same spot. In the lower third, the fracture is easily recognized by atten- tion to the same signs that occur in fractured tibia. In the Treatment of Simple Uncomplicated Fractures of tlie Leg, every possible kind of apparatus has been used. In the majority of cases where there is but little displacement and swelling, ordinary leg-splints (Cline’s, well padded, are extremely convenient), are readily applied and keep the bones in good apposition. These may be kept on for the first few days till all swelling has abated, and then replaced by the starched or plaster band- ages. In fracture of the leg, indeed, the starched bandage or the Bavarian or Croft’s splint is especially applicable. The starched bandage should be applied as follows. The limb having been well covered with wadding, a strong soaked pasteboard splint, four inches broad, and long enough to extend from above the knee to six or eight inches beyond the heel, should be applied to the back of the leg. The projecting terminal piece is now to be turned up along the sole of the foot, and two lateral strips adapted, one to each side of the limb. Over this the starched bandage, single or double according to the size of the limb, must be tightly applied. After it is dry, about the end of the second day, it must be cut up as represented in Fig. 177, and re-adjusted, and the patient may then walk on crutches with perfect safety. MTntyre’s splint (Fig. 253) will be found of great service in the earlier periods, if there be much ecchymosis or extravasation, as it keeps the limb in an easy position, and allows the ready application of evaporating lotions. In applying this