INJURIES OF SOFT PARTS. 3°2. 3. The next and most important indication to fulfil, is the Coaptation of the Opposed Surfaces as accurately as possible. As a general rule, the sides should not be brought together until all limmorrhage has ceased ; if, however, there bo but slight oozing, this may j he arrested by their approximation, and the pressure thus exercised on the bleeding vessels. The surfaces should be gently brought together, from behind forwards, so as to thoroughly exclude all air and superfluous moisture from the deeper portions of the wound, the skin-margin being the last to be adjusted ; due attention should at the same time be paid to relaxing the parts by position, so that there may be no gaping of the lips nor tension on the sides of the wound. For the purpose of keeping all in position, sutures, plasters, and bandages are employed. Sutures should never be used unless they arc really needed, as they are painful in their introduction, and may be irritating in their presence and troublesome as well as painful in their removal. A hen they aie used, if drainage be not carefully attended to they may favour bagging, by causing superficial union, whilst the deeper parts still gape. A suture is in itself almost unirritating, but can become irritating in two ways either by being applied too tightly, or by becoming tight in consequence of swelling, and thus causing tension ; or by absorbing the products of putrefaction, and thus acting as a chemical irritant. The first condition is common to all forms of suture of whatever material they may be made ; the second can be avoided by the use of metallic or other non-absorbent substances. When, therefore, sutures are applied in a case, in which it is expected that decomposition of the dis- charo-es will take place, a non-absorbent material must be used. The chief non- absorbent substances used for this purpose are threads of well annealed sih ei or iron-wire of various degrees of stoutness, silkworm-gut, and horsehair. The two last are especially useful in delicate plastic operations on the face. In cases in which some form of antiseptic treatment is adopted, sdk forms the best material for sutures ; it should be that known as dentists or twisted silk, and should not be waxed. It should be well soaked for twenty-four hours before heiim used in a solution of carbolic acid in water (1 m 20). In some cases fine catgut forms a convenient form of suture, but this cannot be relied upon for more than three days. It has the great advantage of not requiring- to be taken out, as the deep part of the stitch becomes absorbed if it is pro- tected from decomposition. The thickness of a suture should vary with the nature and situation of the injury. Thus in wounds of the limbs where much traction may be expected, the suture should be thick ; whilst m those cases in which it is of importance that as little deformity as possible should be left. c,y. in plastic operations and in wounds about the face, it should consist of t ic finest material compatible with the required strength The threads are introduced by means of needles, either straight or variously curved : in some instances it is convenient to have them set in a handle with the eye near the point (mevus-needle), instead of in the ordinary position. For metallic threads a slight modification of the ordinary needle is required, to prevent the wire when doubled back after passing through the eye from offering any obstruction to its passage through the tissues; “ tubular needles are a * sutures are various, but the one most eommou*