893 TREATMENT OF CARBUNCLE. meu than in -women, and in the old than in the young, being very rare under twenty. They occur more frequently in some years than in others. Diagnosis.—Carbuncle resembles boil in many points, yet differs in its greater size, in the dusky-red of the inflamed integument, in its broad flat character, and in the large quantity of contained slough in proportion to the small amount of purulent discharge in the numerous openings on the surface, : as well as in the conditions in which it generally occurs. It differs from boil also in its tendency to spread. A boil “ comes to a head,” bursts, and dis- charges pus and slough ; a carbuncle will be discharging and sloughing at one part, whilst it spreads, hard and brawny, at another. A carbuncle is almost invariably single, boils most commonly appear in crops. The Prognosis in carbuncle will depend on its size and situation, and on the state of the patient’s constitution, more particularly on that of his kid- neys. The most dangerous carbuncles are those that are large, and situated or encroaching on the scalp ; in fact, the more this structure is involved the greater the danger. If the constitution be good, even these may be re- covered from ; but if the kidneys be unsound, or if there he saccharine diabetes, the progress of the disease cannot readily be checked, and the patient will usually sink. Treatment.—The Constitutional Treatment of carbuncle must be conducted on ordinary medical principles, guided by the constitutional state that underlies the local disease, or that accompanies it. If the carbuncle occur in diabetic or otherwise debilitated persons, the tincture of the per- chloride of iron in small and frequent doses, with a moderate allowance of alcoholic stimulants and a good diet, will be necessary. If the carbuncle occur in a person of advanced years addicted to high living, and possibly not temperate in habits, the ordinary treatment of inflammation of a low and sloughing character must be adopted. The bowels having been freely cleared out, ammonia and bark, or quinine, must be given. Alcoholic stimulants may be more freely administered. But in these they must be administered medicinally in measured quantities, and at intervals of longer or shorter duration according to the need of the patient as determined by the pulse and temperature. Port-wine used to be the favourite remedy. It is considered less necessary at the present day than it was a generation or two back, and brandy or whiskey with milk or eggs are commonly substituted for it. But whatever stimulant be given, too much care cannot be taken in regulating its doses and times of administration, which must not he left to the discretion of the non-medical attendant. In addition to stimulants, good and abundant nourishment should be given ; meat, if the patient can digest it; if not, soups, such as strong beef-tea, essence of meat, or turtle-soup. Local Treatment.—In the very early stage the progress of a carbuncle may be arrested by destroying it with a pointed stick of potassa cum calce. If the carbuncle have attained a somewhat larger size, though still small, it may be covered with a piece of soap-plaster spread on leather, having a hole cub m the centre, through which the pus and sloughy matters may be discharged. When the carbuncle is of larger size the question will arise whether it should be incised or not; and, if incised, in what way the operation should be practised. ■Some Surgeons uniformly adopt incisions : others, with equal constancy, reject t mm. I think that the exclusive adoption of either method is erroneous, and that the most successful treatment consists in allowing the question of early