1007 CARCINOMA-GENERAL TYRE. generally * The term has been very vaguely applied, the older pathologists, placing'under this class all growths which presented a malignant aspect, in- tense rapidity of growth or recurrence after removal; thus all malignant sarcomata were formerly considered to be cancers. All statistics and genera statements with regard to “cancer” which date back beyond 1870 must therefore be taken to refer to malignant tumours in general and not to what we now recognize as true cancers. Although the various forms of cancer differ greatly from each other in structure, they all possess certain features in common. The essential element of every cancer is an exuberant growth of epithelium. Every exuberant growth of epithelium is not, however, a cancer. The distinguishing feature of carcinoma is that the epithelium no longer merely covers a surface or lines the acinus of a gland as in its normal state, but forces its way into deeper structures or surrounding parts. The advancing cells form bud-like pro- cesses or columns which communicate with each other by lateral branches. At the growing edge of any cancer these processes of cells can be seen advancing into the spaces of the tissue into which the growth is spreading. The pressure of the new growth seems to irritate the surrounding tissues to such a degree that they become infiltrated with small round cells. These are generally believed to be migrating white corpuscles, but it is not improbable that they may in part arise from multiplication of the cells of the connective tissue. In some forms of cancer in which the epithelial cells are small and rounded, it is not always easy to distinguish the young epithelium from the surrounding small round cells, and thus there has been much diversity of opinion as to the histological origin of cancer ; but in other varieties, as the squamous epithelioma, the different forms of cells are easily recognized, and in these almost all are agreed that the cancer-cells arise from the pre-existing epithelium. If we examine a portion of a cancerous tumour, in which the structure is fully developed, we find that the original tissues of the part which has been invaded by the growth have disappeared during the process of small round cell infiltration, and that a new connective tissue has been formed which surrounds the branching columns of epithelium cells. We have thus developed an alveolar stroma, the spaces of which are filled with cells of an epithelial type, and this forms the characteristic structure of a true cancer. As in normal glands or epithelium-covered structures, the line of demarcation between the epithelium and the stroma is sharply defined; the cells lie closely in contact with each other without vessels or stroma pene- trating between them. They are but loosely connected with the stroma and with one another, and in many cases are separated from each other by a very small quantity of fluid. If a thin section of a cancer be gently brushed under water with a camel’s hair pencil, or shaken in a test-tube half full of water, the cells may be washed away and the stroma left. Its alveolar nature will then be distinctly apparent, and the fibrous stroma will be seen to bound spaces which by their communication form a cavernous system. I he stroma is composed of coarse fibres, sometimes almost hyaline in •.1 w is.Ilot my.intention to enter largely into the general history of iimlignnnt itisoascs, as space will not •Idnut of my doing so ; I would therefore refer my renders, who wish for further information on this inte- ‘•’rn.'lh mfb'|ect’ t'ltlieworks of Abernathy; the papers by Lawrence; the admirable and magnificent n, Elementary Forms ot Disease," by Sir li. Carswell; to the excellent and copious ” graph by Yt iilshe , Jinil to 1uiget s philosophic Lectures on this subject. Amongst the foreign works llud Billroth’s “Lectures on Surgical Pathology and