TREATMENT OF SIMPLE FRACTURE. 5°y internally it may be merely a thin tube not obliterating the medullaiy canal. It is greater in those bones and those parts of a bone which are thickly covered by soft parts, being formed as before stated not on y iom le peims teum and bone, but also from the surrounding tissues. Ihe influence of the neighbouring soft parts in determining the formation of new bone is well marked in the tibia. In a fracture of this bone we find that, at the anterior and inner part, which is thinly covered, union takes place by the direct for- mation of intermediate callus ; but at the posterior and outer side, where there is a thick envelopment of tissue, a large mass of provisional callus will often be found filling up even the interosseous space. Occasionally we find that the inflammation set up around a fracture has extended to a neighbouring- bone, and caused a formation of new bone upon it. There are specimens of bones of the fore-arm and leg in the University College Museum illustrating this point. The formation of callus is also greatly influenced by the nature of the frac- ture. If the fracture be comminuted and the fragments displaced, there may be an abundant formation round the splintered fragments welding them together. If there be great displacement, one fragment riding far over the other, the callus will be found chiefly between the two fragments, connecting them together by a bridge of bone. So also, in cases of great angular de- formity, when the final process of partial absorption and moulding of the new bone has taken place, a larger amount is left in the angle, partly filling it up. and forming a sort of buttress to strengthen the bent bone. Lastly, the amount of callus is influenced very greatly by treatment ; the more perfectly rest is maintained, the smaller will be the amount of callus formed. Union of a separated Epiphysis takes place in the same way as union of a transverse fracture. It almost invariably causes complete ossification of the epiphysial cartilage and consequent arrest of growth from that end of the bone. TREATMENT OF FRACTURE. The treatment of a simple fracture uncomplicated in any way is a very simple business. All that the Surgeon has to do is to place the fragments in proper position and in good apposition, and to retain them there, and to attend to the general health of the patient on ordinary principles. Nature does the rest. In no way can the Surgeon accelerate the processes or improve upon them. By meddlesome treatment he may do much to' retard and to disturb them. Constitutional Treatment in simple fractures requires but a very few words of explanation. As a rule, the general habits of life should be interfered with as little as possible. In uncomplicated fractures of the upper extremities, more especially in the young, rest for a few days in bed is all that is needed. The patient may then be allowed to move about moderately with the limb supported on proper apparatus. In fractures of the lower extremities more lengthened rest is needed. In these cases the diet may be some- what reduced, and aperients given with advantage for the first week or ten days. After this the usual habits of life in these respects should be resumed. In persons the enforced confinement to bed and the sudden interruption o t ic ordinary habits of life, as well as the shock to the system, are apt to