247 ANTISEPTIC TREATMENT OF ABSCESSES. placed. 3rd. A piece of drainage-tube suited to the case and fitted with threads. It must have been soaked in the 1 in 20 solution for twenty-four hours. 4th. The ordinary instruments for opening an abscess, and a pair of sinus-forceps for inserting the drainage-tube. The opening of an abscess according to the Listerian method is done as follows. The skin all round for at least 9 inches when possible, must first be well washed with the carbolic lotion (1 in 40). It is often a good plan to wrap the part in a towel soaked in the carbolic lotion for an hour or two before the abscess is opened, especially when the patient’s skin is very dirty. The steam spray is then turned on. Care must be taken to see that it is really blowing carbolic acid lotion and not water alone, as it would then merely sweep the dust of the ah into the wound and encourage putrefaction. The Surgeon having thoroughly bathed his hands in the lotion (1 in 40) then opens the abscess with the knife taken freshly out of the same solution. As soon as the pus ceases to flow, the drainage-tube is inserted as before described. If it is desirable not to use the spray more than is absolutely necessary in order to avoid wetting the bed, the incision may be covered by the guard—that is to say, the piece of rag before mentioned—dipped in the carbolic lotion; and the pus may be allowed to flow out from under this, the spray being stopped for the. time. As soon as the pus ceases to flow, the spray may be turned on again and the guard removed. The dressing is applied thus ; a small piece of the " protective ” dipped in the carbolic lotion is first applied to the wound, with a hole cut through it corresponding to the mouth of the drainage-tube! The object of this is to protect the tissues from the direct contact of the carbolic acid, which, as a powerful irritant, would arrest or at least delay healing, and cause more or less profuse suppuration. If the tube exactly fills the openmg made, the protective is not necessary. Over this is placed a double layer of gauze, dipped in the carbolic lotion and squeezed as dry as possible This has been found to give an additional safety, as the carbolic gauze often picks up pieces of dirt which are not disinfected by it in its dry state. Over the wet gauze are applied several dry layers, either smooth or crumpled up according to the form of the part. The quantity of this must be proportional to the amount of discharge that is expected to flow from the T f J be afangcd 80 as t0 fiU UP ai)y natural hollows or irregulari- les of the part so that the bandages may lie smoothly and evenly over it I he superficial dressing is then applied. This is composed of eight layers of 7rnn Z7’ Pfe<fHthe tvomPst superficial of which is placed a piece , ■ . „ , : :lljr<,S l C M^1- or as lfc is called in the trade “ hat-lining ” The anftoliA't , T “T66 6™Ij throi«llo”t A* ^liole .tossing, abscess It no n ^ o”'0"8 A°nCe 0pp0sit6 the »1*™>8 »’“> . •) ... J hat-lining is available, of course any other water-uroof “ncheas In eS, Tf1, if -hid. n.usAxtend alSl or the discharo-p is Kef° ,le 'ip0!1111T aud furthest in that direction in which made of the I11?' t0 dram’ 1S securcd in its position by a bandage Lastly elastip 'pp ic gauze, great care being taken to secure the edges. stS must hi? ^ \ mch to 2 inches in width according to circum- eonstantlv in C PP le 111 su°h a way as to keep the edges of the dressing C2; f f ”’in Spite « “V .novement on the part of pin at the mnw . i ° °* a dlessln8 on a limb, a single turn secured by a PI anc lower end of the gauze is all that is required. In other