875 IMMEDIATE CAUSES OF GANGRENE. lafcion necessarily accompanies all acute t^t“ important element in the production ot gangicne, a ( .. til-Brtue6 directly not a primary cause, being secondary to the damage t on by the cause of the mischief. „ . , •, (C) Obstruction to the Return of Venous Blood from a pent.—'This se do form's a sole cause of gangrene, even when important veins are occiuded by thrombosis or pressure. As an accessory cause, it frequently aids m the pio auction of gangrene, when the main artery is obstructed at the same time. (d.) Diminished Visa Ter go from extreme weakness of the heart s action. This is a powerful accessory cause when there is any obstruction either to the arterial flow or to the venous return. It may result from extreme debili y from fever or from starvation. The gangrene that accompanies ergot-poison- iurr is supposed to be due partly to relaxation of the veins by which a large quantity of blood is withdrawn from the circulation, and partly to weakness of the heart’s action. Great loss of blood may in the same way aid m pro- • during gangrene. 2. Causes acting directly on the Tissues : (a.) Traumatic Causes.—The production of gangrene by mechanical violence, heat and cold, and caustic fluids has already been fully discussed and needs no further notice here. (b.) Causes giving rise to acute inflammation,—Any acute inflammation, as already pointed out in the chapter on inflammation, may terminate in gangrene, if the irritant which causes it is of sufficient intensity or the tissues upon which it acts are of abnormally low vitality. In certain forms of specific infective inflammation gangrene forms the principal characteristic of the process, as in hospital gangrene, cancrum oris, carbuncle, malignant pustule, and spreading traumatic gangrene. Amongst the causes, some are Constitutional, others Local, in their action. Those forms of gangrene are said to be constitutional which arise from obstruc- tion of the circulation in consequence of disease of the heart and vessels. The constitutional state also forms frequently an important predisposing cause of gangrene in cases in which the immediate cause is local. Bright s disease and diabetes are amongst the most frequent conditions which act in this way. Those varieties of gangrene are local which arise from injuries of all kinds, whether applied to the part itself, or to the main artery leading to it, by its ligature or wound. The forms of gangrene which arise from traumatic causes, have been already described in previous chapters (sec pp. 318, 311)) ; while those that arise from obstructed circulation to or through a part, or that take the form of specific disease, are left for consideration here. Gangrene from Arrest of the Supply of Arterial Blood.—Whenever a part of the body is deprived of its proper supply of blood, mortification may [ensue. Most commonly, when the principal trunk of an artery is obstructed, the collateral circulation is sufficient to maintain the vitality of the part ; but, should this be interfered with, gangrene occurs from the simple deprivation of blood. Indeed, the sudden loss of a large quantity of blood from the system generally may occasion the death of some of the extreme parts of the body, in which the circulation is naturally most languid. Thus Sir B. Brodie relates the case of a drunken man, who, being bled to an inordinate extent, was seized with gangrene of both feet.