i o 11 CLINICAL HISTORY OF CANCER. balance of evidence may be said to be greatly in favour of some form of the transplantation theory, and therefore we may hope that, if the tumour could he removed sufficiently early, dissemination of the disease might he pre- vented. The theories here put forward with regard to cancer apply equally to the malignant sarcomata. General Clinical History of Cancer.—All forms of cancer present numerous points of resemblance in their progress. When once formed, the tumour continues progressively to increase in size, with a degree of rapidity, and to an extent, that vary according to its kind. Its growth is usually accompanied by pain, varying with the situation of the tumour and its variety. When the tumour has reached a certain size, the process of decay commences in the central parts, while growth continues at the circumference. The mass softens at some point, the skin covering which becomes duskily inflamed and ulcerated, and an irregular sloughy aperture forms, through which the debris of the mass are eliminated in an ichorous or sanious fluid, having often a peculiar fetid smell. The ulcer then rather rapidly increases, with everted edges, a hard and knobby, or soft and fungating surface, and the discharge of a dark fluid, often attended by haemorrhage, and occasionally with sloughing of portions of the mass at an early period. Sometimes coin- cidently with the implication and ulceration of the skin, secondary growth takes place in the lymphatic glands, and most commonly with the superven- tion of the constitutional cachexy. The pain in the primary tumour is usually more severe during ulceration, but secondary tumours in internal organs are often painless. The cachexy may possibly be due to some modification in the condition of the blood, induced by the action of the morbid growth on the economy. The exhaustion resulting from the ulceration, sloughing, and consecutive hemorrhage, and the secondary deposits in internal organs, also commonly increases this cachectic state ; in many instances it is not marked until after the skin has become affected, and in others it does not super- vene until ulceration is actually set up. In this cachexy the countenance is peculiarly pale, drawn, and sallow, so that the patient has a very anxious and care-worn look. The general surface of the body commonly acquires an earthy or yellowish tint, and not unfrequently large spots of pityriasis or chloasma make their appearance on various parts of it ; the appetite is impaired, the voice enfeebled, the muscular strength greatly diminished, and the pulse weak. The patient complains of pains in the limbs, of lassitude, and of inability for exertion ; he emaciates rapidly, and frequently suffers from the occurrence of cancerous deposits in internal organs; and at last dies from exhaustion induced by the conjoined effects of weakening discharges, general debility’ and pain. J ’ Causes. I he causes of cancer, as of all other diseases, may be divided into two great classes, viz. : the constitutional or predisposing, and the local or exciting. & So far as the constitutional_ or predisposing causes of this disease arc con- cerned, it may be said that it is difficult to connect any distinct or recognizable constitutional condition with a tendency to this disease. Cancer commonly shows itseff in persons apparently in perfect health, of florid complexion robust habit of body, with every aspect of health and sign of strength. Jiut it we fail to recognize by outward signs a constitutional tendency to 3 T 2