GENERAL REMARKS ON OPERATIONS. 3 we are but as yet on the threshold. And whether we regard the science of Surgery in its relation to the essential nature, the character, the recognition, and the pathology of surgical diseases and injuries, or whether we consider it in reference to all those circumstances which, independently of the mechanical skill of the operator, influence for good or for ill the results of his procedures, we have a field before us the extent of which it is difficult yet to estimate. And here I do not speak of the mere local results ; so far as they are con- cerned, there has long been but little to be desired. The results of most plastic, conservative, and ophthalmic operations have been as satisfactory as the most sanguine could hope for or the most critical expect. So also with respect to that multitude of minor operations that are practised for the relief of various distressing maladies, and which are followed by the happiest conse- quences. But when we come to consider the issues of those greater and graver operations, by which the life of a patient is directly imperilled, we are con- strained to admit that success in results long lagged far behind and bore no relation to the perfection in the execution of the operation, and that in this respect the highly polished Art of Surgery formerly far outshone its Science. Since this was written, now ten years ago, much of its force has been lost. Bor the treatment of wounds, whether accidental or inflicted by the Surgeon’s knife, has been greatly improved by the application of scientific methods to their management, and operations have been correspondingly rendered more successful in their results. We have, in fact, arrived at one of those epochs in the history of Surgery which stand out prominently as starting-points from which a new departure is taken in its Art—either in relation to its practice' generally or in the development of some special department. Amongst the most important of these epochs, so far as the improvement of the general practice of Surgery is concerned, are those marked by the revival of the use of the Ligature in the sixteenth century, and by the introduction of the Hunterian opeiation for Aneurism in the eighteenth. The nineteenth century will ever stand out brightly in the annals of Surgery as that in which the inestimable boon of Anaesthetics was conferred upon mankind, by which not only has pain in Suigeiy been abolished, but the extent ol its operative department immensely enlarged, for they enable the Surgeon to perform, and the patient to undergo procedures, the agony of which would otherwise have been beyond the power of human endurance.. A scarcely less noticeable feature in the Surgery of this epoch is the application of the rules of a scientific hygiene to the treatment of the injured, and the methodical employment of Antiseptics in the manage- ment of wounds. Founded, as the “ Antiseptic Method” is, on the experimental researches of Pasteur, it is undoubtedly to Lister that Surgery owes the application to Surgical Practice of the doctrines established by that great Jiiologist. However much the details of the Antiseptic Method may be varied m the course of time and by the introduction of new chemical agents, the 1 fn.c. PJmciP e which sub-lies it, and on which the whole superstructure of its foil'1'S. 18 nu'fc’ 1UU 011 a,|d unchangeable. This principle is as W°"s :~ihat thc decomposition of fluids in wounds, their putrefactive m.ufV'V 101.k’ arc directly dependent on their impregnation with organic them f ,°a U1^.m ^lc a’r, and thence deposited or in other ways conveyed to fluids nf if311 atlV0_0r putrefactive changes being thus at once set up in thc sentio ^ f u'.AVound i that such local actions are capable of producing general «pt,c infection of thc fluids of the body, and further, that the*organic