848 INJURIES OF THE ABDOMEN AND PELVIS. intestine raptured in different cases: the mesentery likewise may be torn, and the spermatic cord snapped across. The sufferer usually dies in the course of a few hours, after the receipt of these severe injuries, from haemorrhage into the abdominal cavity, conjoined with shock. It is seldom that life is prolonged sufficiently for peritonitis to be set up, though this is the chief danger to be apprehended in those eases that survive the more immediate effects of the accident. The shock of itself may prove fatal, though there be but little apparent internal mischief; thus, I have seen a man die collapsed eight hours after a buffer-accident, in whom no injury was found except a small rupture of the mesentery, attended with but very slight extravasation of blood. The severity of the shock, amounting often to prolonged and complete collapse, is one of the most remarkable phe- nomena attending these injuries. It is difficult to account for it, except on the supposition that it is due to wound or concussion of the great sympathetic nerve and its large abdominal ganglia. To whatever cause it may be referred, it is certain that it is greater than that which follows a corresponding injury, unattended by loss of blood, of any other part of the body except the central portions of the cerebro-spinal nervous system. The continuance of the shock may be maintained, and its intensity increased, by the syncopal effect of in- ternal haemorrhage, which, when the solid organs are ruptured, is the most common cause of death. So far as my experience goes, I would say that the shock is most severe in injuries of and about the stomach, probably from damage to the great solar plexus. Haemorrhage is the most usual cause of death when the liver and spleen are ruptured ; and the patient usually dies of acute peritonitis when the intestine has been torn across. The Symptoms of an internal abdominal injury are often extremely equivocal, and will necessarily vary according to the organ injured. If the Liver have been ruptured, pain over the region of that organ, dulness on percussion from extravasated blood, and great collapse, followed, if the patient live, by diffuse peritonitis, bilious vomiting, white stools, and jaundice, will, with sufficient precision, indicate the true nature of the injury. Bernard has'further shown that contusions of the liver are followed by saccharine diabetes. .. Rupture of the liver is by no means always speedily or even necessarily fatal. It may be, and usually is so, from great extravasation of blood or ot bile ; but if neither of these be largely poured out, the patient may live tor some considerable time, though he may eventually succumb to peritonitis. A man was once admitted under my care into the Unh ersit} 0 ege Hospital, who had been crushed between the buffers of two railway carriages. He was collapsed and apparently moribund, but rallied in a e\\ lours. Two days after the accident, great pain and tenderness in the ng hypochondrium were complained of, and dulness on percussion was oun extend as low as the umbilicus. He became jaundiced, and there we symptoms of low peritonitis ; these were followed by great swelling 0 abdomen, which became tympanitic; the peritonitis continued, and sy p of intestinal obstruction came on, the dulness increasing, with Hie flanks He died on the sixteenth day after the accident, and on .« • tioii no less than 240 ounces of bilious fluid, mixed with flakes of lyrap 1, we found ^nthe abdominal cavity ; the obstruction of the bowels on the pressure of this effusion, and 011 the matting together of t 1