69 DOUBLE AMPUTATIONS. supports tire weight to pass through, is then put into the projecting loop of plaster. The spreader saves the end of the stump from being squeezed. The weight is then applied over a pulley in the same way as is described and figured under the treatment of fracture of the femur. The results of this treatment are most satisfactory, especially in the lower third of the thigh. In most cases the stump is benefited by the application of a bandage to support and mould it during the final stage of cicatrisation ; and as a general rule, it will be found that a narrow roller will adapt itself better "than a broad one. After cicatrisation is completed, the patient should be allowed to go about on crutches, but must not wear an artificial limb for some months, until the parts have become firmly consolidated ; during the whole of this time the stump should be kept carefully bandaged, and not exposed to injury. ! In performing an amputation, the preparations directed on page 37 must be accurately carried out. The Surgeon must himself see that the Ampu- tating Instruments are in proper order, and of good construction. For the smaller amputations the Surgeon will require straight bistouries, narrow or broad in the blade, according to the size of the part to be removed. Scalpels, also, not too broad in the blade, are useful in cases in which the bistoury, from its length, might be inconvenient. Cutting-pliers, with long and strong handles and short.blades, either straight or curved as may be most convenient, are especially required in amputations about the hands and feet. 1 The knives for the larger amputations should have smooth ebony handles, and be well balanced. The back of the blade should run straight to the point, and be well rounded. The edge should taper off towards the point, with a good convexity. The breadth of the blade should be from three-fifths to two-thirds of an inch, and its length should be proportioned to the size of the limb to be removed In operating by transfixion in order to make a good sweeping cut so as to form a well rounded and smooth flap, the blade should as a general ink, be about equal 111 length to double the diameter of the limb. For raising the flaps by dissection many Surgeons prefer shorter knives. The saw should be strong- in the blade and back, so as not to bend in cutting. The blade must be of good breadth, and its teeth must be well set so that it shall or i, v8] nil 1 T a ltSn Way.thr0USh the bone- Artery-forceps of the oidinary bull-dog kind, and torsion-forceps will be required • and some half feSS"”,™* fTPS Sh“ajs he rL/ teTheSpoX secured h™Thage from the smallc1' branches while the larger are being rem^rZvnlT RAPIW^ ?0NSBCUTIVB Amputation of Two Limbs, Sifr °r *Ver? ov f°r gangrene, has occasionally been at the same wf by fcw°Sm'geons performing the two amputations tL vessels of lm G IV ? T"-' Surgeon doinS first one and then the other, limb is boime 1 &st llmdbeing secured by an assistant whilst the second may be conmwT^0 1° circulation through both lower extremities , tourniquet pi™7 arrc„st^d by compressing the aorta with Pancoast’s thio-hs in Vl/cL CanS.° tb!s Enable instrument, I have amputated both that which we\ f,K^c°‘sslon 'vlthout waiting for the ligature of the arteries in is to lessen thV' ls amoved. The object in two simultaneous amputations «•* “ ***.* th" * “ In doing this, however, the Surgeon