THE LIGATURE. 409 AIOUUUU LULL U \J X XXX xx* x± ^ xxys *-mx . " iw ~ - 7 reason that it took two centuries to promulgate the use of the simplest and most efficacious means we possess in surgery for the arrest of haemorrhage—a simple tying up of a spouting artery—a means that no Surgeon could now for a day dispense with ? The reason simply was, that Surgeons were totally ignorant of the means employed by Nature for the occlusion of arteries; that they consequently did not know how to apply a ligature to these vessels, or what kind of ligature should be used; and that, in their anxiety to avoid the occurrence of secondary haemorrhage, and to make all safe, they fell into the very errors they would have endeavoured to avoid, had they been acquainted with the physiology of the processes by which Nature accomplishes the closure of the artery and the separation of the thread. Between twenty and thirty years after the time at which Sharpe wrote, Hunter introduced that great improvement in the surgical treatment of aneurism—the deligation of the artery at a distance from the sac, and in a healthy part of its course; but this great accession to the treatment of a most formidable disease was but coldly received, and ran some risk of being lost to the world in consequence of the ill-success that attended the earlier operations. In Hunter’s first operation, four ligatures were used, each of which was applied so slackly as merely to compress the artery, in order to avoid too great a degree of pressure at any one point; and the artery was denuded, so that a spatula could be passed under it. Although in his subsequent operations Hunter contented himself with employing but one ligature, yet sometimes the vein was included in this ; and he did not draw the noose tight for fear of injuring the coats of the vessel, in accordance with the doctrine of the day Suigeons generally at this time being haunted by the dread of injuring, and thereby weakening, the coats of the artery; and, in order to avoid doing so, they adopted modes of treatment that almost infallibly led to ulceration of the vessels and consecutive hemorrhage. The application of several ligatures of leserve, applied slack—the use of broad tapes—the interposition of plugs of cork, wood, agaric, or lead, or of rolls of lint or plaster, between the thread and the vessel, were some amongst the plans that were in common use. And how can we be surprised that the patients perished of hemorrhage, and that ligature of the vessel was nearly as inefficient and fatal a means "of arresting bleeding as the use of a cautery, or of a button of white vitriol ? Jones, by an appeal to experiment, and by means of a series of admirably conducted investigations on living animals, showed that the very point which burgeons were anxious to avoid—the division of the coats of the vessel by the tightening of the noose—was that on which the patient’s safety depended • he also pointed out the form and size of ligature that was most safe, the degree toiee with which it should be applied, and the processes adopted by Nature LTrl tblCCiUS1!n °flthe V0SSel Thus a moro ratioual Practice was introduced, ligature ' 10 1 ^ time, Surgeons had full confidence in the use of the vario^npp^v011. °f tlie -kigatiire. The mode of application of the ligature WOund civ '."I? ^ie cl1*' C1K^ the artery has to be tied in an open 1. When H 2’ ,the.vessel has to be secured in its continuity. " c ividecl vessel in an open wound lias to be tied, as after an