carpus. 663 when the soft parts are not too extensively lacerated, without any operative interference. In other cases the Surgeon may often have to decide between resection of the articular ends and amputation of the arm. Should the soft structures be extensively contused and torn, the brachial artery or the median nerve injured, and the bones fractured as well as dislocated, amputation will be the safer course. In determining on the line of practice, however, the Surgeon will be guided by the considerations stated at p. 575, in reference to compound fracture of this joint. In some instances recovery has taken place with a very useful limb, even after severe compound dislocation of the elbow- joint, complicated with rupture of the brachial artery. Old-standing Dislocations of the Elbow are reduced with much difficulty in all cases in which the ulna is completely displaced ; this is owing rather to the interlocking of the irregular articular surfaces and to the formation of adhesions in the torn capsule and around the displaced bones, than to muscular contraction. The tendon of the triceps, and even that of the biceps, has been divided in some of these cases of old-standing dislocation of the elbow, in order to facilitate reduction. In those instances in which I have done this operation or seen it adopted, but little, if any, good has resulted ; and I have known troublesome sloughing to ensue. As a general rule, I believe that it will be found extremely difficult, even under anaesthesia and with the aid of the pulleys, to reduce an ulna that has been completely dislocated for more than a month. When the ulna is only partially dislocated, even though the radius be completely displaced, reduction may be effected without much diffi- culty at a very much later period—it is said, as late as two years after the accident ; but here the difficulty is not to effect but to maintain the reduction and keep the bone in position, as it has a constant tendency to slip forwards and outwards. Provided a dislocated elbow can be so far reduced as to allow the forearm to be bent at a right angle, a useful arm will be left. Dislocations of the Wrist are of rare occurrence ; so much so, that their existence has been denied by Dupuytren and other modern Surgeons of great experience. Although there can be no doubt that fractures of the lower end of the radius, more especially of an impacted character, have often been mistaken for these displacements, yet there can be now no question that they do occa- sionally, though rarely, occur. Any doubt that may formerly have existed upon this point, in consequence of the want of post mortem examinations, has been in recent years cleared up by the dissections of cases that have been made by Marjolin and Yoillermier. The observations of these Surgeons, together with those previously made by Sir A. Cooper, tend to show that dislocation of the Hand and Carpus from the radius may take place either lachcards or forwards. These accidents are occasioned either by frills on the palm, or by the hand being forcibly bent forwards. In falls on the palm the hand may be thrown forwards under the bones of the forearm, lying on their palmar aspect. In forcible bending of the hand forwards there may be displacement of it and the carpus backwards on the dorsal aspect of the radius and ulna. In the Dislocation of the Hand and Carpus Backwards—the Dorsal displacement—there will be shortening of the length of the limb below the c ov, with a large dorsal prominence occasioned by the carpus overlapping ie ower end of the radius, which bone will be felt and seen as a projection on tie palmar side. In the other variety of radio-carpal dislocation, the