PREVENTION OF SCAR-CONTRACTION. 379 is the so-called Carron-oil, composed of equal parts of linseed-oil and lime-water, to which a small quantity of spirits of turpentine is sometimes added. It is applied on lint. Whatever local application be adopted, I hold it to be of the utmost importance in the early stages of the burn to change the dressings as seldom as possible ; if dry dressings arc used, not until they have been loosened by the discharges. Every fresh dressing causes the patient very severe pain, produces depression, and certainly retards materially the progress of the case. When the sloughs have separated, the granulating surface must be managed on ordinary principles. It is important, however, to select some form of dressing that will not stick to the sore, otherwise the granulations may bleed every time it is changed to such an extent as seriously to weaken the patient. To prevent this, the green “ protective ” oiled silk may be applied directly to the sore and covered with dry boracic lint or salicylic wool; under this plan of treatment the dressing is perfectly painless. If the granulations become prominent they must be touched with nitrate of silver. Epithelium- grafting is often very useful in hastening the healing. Prevention and Removal of Contraction.—As cicatrization advances, Fig. 123.—Contraction of Elbow from Cicatrix of Burn of Fourth Degree. big. 124.—Contraction of Thumb from Burn of Fourth Degree. the part must be fixed in a proper position by means of bandages, splints, and mechanical contrivances, specially adapted to counteract the tendency to contraction of the cicatrix, and the consequent deformity. This is especially necessary in burns about the neck w leie the chin is liable to be drawn down on the sternum ; and in burns on the inside of limbs or at the flexures of joints, more especially the e jov, v leie contraction greatly impairs the utility of the arm. (Fig. 123.) In bad burns the hands, the fingers may be drawn into Si d fchc Palm of the hand, may and Txecl^m d to??her) or n'W be dislocated are good ilW™?^ ’ ^ afa,nsfc tbe dorsum. The accompanying woodcuts the me Wfcr ,°f therbfd effects of burns upon the lulls*. In Fig. 125, b as icon dislocated backwards, and fixed upon the dorsum. Fig. 125.—Dislocation backwards of Little Finger from Contraction of the Cicatrix of a Burn of the Fourth Degree.