GUN-SHOT WOUNDS. 33° these discrepancies, when he states, that the amount of the difference in the two apertures will depend partly on the momentum of the ball, and partly on the resistance with which it meets. If the ball strike shortly after its dis- charge, at the maximum of its velocity, it will make but a small round hole, , not shattering the parts so much as separating them. If it traverse a part composed of soft tissue, meeting with but little resistance in its passage, it loses but little of its momentum ; and passing out of the body with nearly the same force as that with which it entered, it makes an aperture of exit that differs but slightly, if at all, from that of entry. If the ball strike a bone in its passage through the limb or body, and thus, by meeting with much resist- ance, have its momentum materially lessened, the aperture of exit will be torn, large, and ragged, differing materially from that of entry. But in addition to the conditions given by Guthrie, there ai’e two other circumstances that tend to occasion a difference between the apertures of entry and of exit. The first is, that the bullet as it traverses carries with it a mass of foreign material, pieces of clothing, shreds of tendons, splinters of bone, which, driven along by the velocity communicated to them by the ball, distend and widely separate the distant parts of the wound, and thus cause the aperture of exit, near and in which they will be found to be lodged, to be larger than that of entry, which has admitted only the bullet. The aperture of entry is made solely by the ball; the aperture of exit is made by it, plus the debris that it carries along with it. xl further reason for the difference in size between the two apertures is this, that the wide tearing-asunder of the tissues at the aperture of exit is greatly due to their want of support. The part first struck has as a support the whole thickness of the limb or the body. That which is last perforated has no such support behind it, and is thus largely tom or splintered outwards. This is exactly what happens if we drive a nail through a board. If supported by another piece of wood, the apertures on the two sides are even and of the same size. If unsupported, the aperture on the distant side—that of exit, in fact—will be splintered, irregular in shape, and larger than that of entry. . ,, In wounds made by spherical bullets the entrance-aperture is often actually less in diameter than the bullet itself, provided it be made whilst the ball is moving with its full velocity; but if the bah have lost much of its momentum before it strikes, then the entrance-wound will always be large and ragged. In this there is nothing peculiar to the tissues of the living body ; the same happens when any elastic material, as a piece of green timber, is stiuc . Much, however, will depend also on the period at which the wound is examined. In the early stages, for the reasons mentioned, the wound of entry may be smaller than that of exit; but, as the slough which forms m the v o of entry is larger than that at the exit-aperture, the former may, m a later stao-e, appear larger than the latter. This difference in the size o t ie wounds I saw well exemplified in the case of a young man, shot throng* he neck with a pistol-ball in a dud. The aperture of entry, winch was at tot the smaller, appeared on the second day the larger m consequence of the: ex nisio, of a black slough; though it continued more regular in shape than that of Shrapnel bullets, case-shot, and grape-shot differ from the old spherical bullets only in their greater site, and the effects they produce are similar but Ire extensile. The Mitrailleuse, Gatling, and Nordenfelt guns fire a corneal