GANG RUM OltlS. «95 place through the large venous anastomoses of the side of the lace, which are peculiarly patent, owing to the dense areolar and fibro-cellular structures in 1 which they ramify. The exact relation of this affection to true carbuncle is doubtful. T. Smith believes it to differ only in the greater acuteness and intensity of the process, while Paget considers the “disease so unlike carbuncle that it ought not to be known under the same name.'’ I do not think it can be considered a carbuncular inflammation. Its whole course and the appear- ance of the inflamed part rather indicate its alliance to phlegmonous erysipe- las. Death ensues usually in from forty-eight hours to five or six days after invasion. It is a very grave, but not a hopeless affection. Diagnosis.—The disease somewhat resembles malignant pustule, with which it has often been confounded. The black slough surrounded by vesicles which is so characteristic of the latter disease, is, however, wanting in facial carbuncle. Moreover, in malignant pustule the slough is dry, while in facial carbuncle it is soaked in pus. Treatment.—Abundance of liquid nourishment and stimulant are required, ; and Sir James Paget recommends the administration of quinine in large doses. Locally, incisions seem to have been of but little use ; the application of hot fomentations, followed by antiseptic dressings when sloughing has taken place, is all that can be done in most cases. CANCEUM ORIS, OR NOMA. Cancrmn oris is a rapidly spreading gangrenous inflammation attacking the inside of the cheek, most frequently between the second and sixth years of life. It is met with usually in ill-fed, sickly children who have been living under bad hygienic conditions. It commonly occurs during convalescence from some acute specific fever, most frequently measles; or after the incautious administration of mercury during a weak state of the system. Symptoms.—One of the cheeks becomes swollen, brawny, tense, and shining, being excessively hard, and presenting a dusky red patch in its centre. It is often difficult to open the mouth ; but if the Surgeon can gain a view of its inside, he will see a deep and excavated foul ulcer opposite to the centre of ■the external swelling, covered with a brown pulpy slough. The gums are turgid, dark, and ulcerated ; the saliva is mixed with putrescent matters ; and, as the ulceration in the mouth extends, the swelling sloughs, and a large gangrenous cavity is formed, opening externally through the cheek and internally laying bare the alveolar borders of the jaw. The child suffers little, but, as the disease advances, it commonly becomes drowsy, and at last dies comatose. This affec- tion is most fatal. Rilliet and Barthez state that not more than one in twenty cases recovers. Should recovery take place, a large portion of the check may be lost, opening the mouth half way back to the ear, or a dense cicatricial band may form between the jaws, making it impossible to open the mouth. Treatment.—-The child must be put under chloroform, and the sloughing mass deeply cauterized with nitric acid, but not with the actual cautery, lest the cheek be destroyed ; the mouth should be syringed out with diluted Condy’s fluid, and the ulcerating surface dusted with iodoform. The strength must be suppoi ted with beef-tea, wine, and ammonia. If recovery take place, some p astic operation may be necessary at a later period, in order either to close the gap in the cheek or to enable the child to open its mouth.