INJURIES OF BLOOD-VESSELS. 392 recipient’s sicle is then compressed, and that on the donor s opened; the hull) slowly fills with blood, which is then injected by compressing the donor’s and opening the recipient’s end ot the tube, and so alternately until a sufficient quantity is thrown in. Each compression of the bull) throws in three drachms of blood. _ In the absence of Aveling’s apparatus immediate transfusion can be carried out without difficulty by means of two cannulas of glass or metal connected by means of an India-rubber tube. The difference in pressure in the veins of the donor and the recipient is quite sufficient to cause the blood to flow through the tube. A very ingenious but somewhat complicated apparatus was exhibited m this country in 1877 by Dr. Roussel of Geneva. In the hands of its inventor it works admirably, but it is too complicated and too likely to get out of order to be of much practical use. In case no special apparatus is at hand with which to perform the operation the Surgeon may readily perform the operation of mediate transfusion with an ordinary hydrocele or aspirator syringe, and it is then safer to defibnnate the blood to avoid the accidental introduction of clots into the circulation. Panum, of Copenhagen, has clearly shown by numerous experiments that the fibrin is not in any way necessary;to the success of the operation. He recommends that the blood be drawn into a cup kept warm m a basin ot hot water. It is then to be well whipped, filtered through a fine cloth and injected. The most essential part of the blood is the red corpuscles, whic are wanted to serve as carriers of oxygen. The removal of the fibrme m this way materially facilitates the operation. Whatever form of apparatus is used, care must be taken to prevent the accidental injection of air into the vein. The introduction of a mere bubole of ah’ will not cause any serious consequences, although even this should it possible be avoided. All tubes, therefore, and the cannulse must be filled with water before the apparatus is set to work. If transfusion be determined on, it should not be delayed until the last moment, when the agony of death has already commenced ; for then the .actions of the nervous and circulatory systems may be so impaired that the patient is no longer recoverable, or, if temporarily so, will speedily relapse and die. . Transfusion has seldom, if ever, been of any material service after serious surgical operations, such as removal of very large and vascular tumours, amputation at the hip, and the like. In these cases the patient is more o ten perishing from shock than from actual loss of blood ; and consequently, tii - fusion fails to produce much effect. Transfusion is best adapted to very great and sudden losses of blood from small wounds impheatmg a large vessel or from secondary haemorrhage. - Other fluids have been used instead of blood, as milk, and saline solutions ot various kinds. Thomas and Howe in America, and Mcldon in Dublin, tune shown that a quantity of freshly-drawn milk, not exceeding U ounces, ma) be injected without injurious effects. It seems to possess cw’ 1 \ • ’ advantages, however, over the injection of a properly prepared sahne jlu - Some cases have lately been published by Jennings and Coates (Lancet, 1< ■ -h fn wh" treatment J been very successfully adopted n, pas— haemorrhage. The solution used was that recommended by Little i treatment "of cholera by saline injections into the veins, and was comp