DIAGNOSIS, PROGNOSIS, AND TREATMENT. 883 powers being in a favourable state, will cicatrize by tbe same process as ,■ ordinary ulcers. Diagnosis.—The diagnosis is easily effected when gangrene is fully deve- loped ; but in the early stages, before it is positively declared, it is not always easy to determine its existence. The ecchymosis and discolouration of a bruise, the collapse and lividity that result from cold, or the dark purple hue occasioned by long-continued congestion, may readily be confounded with im- pending gangrene. In these cases of doubt, the Surgeon should not be in too great a hurry to pronounce an unfavourable opinion, and still less to act upon it; for not uncommonly parts of the body which have to all appearance lost their vitality, may, under proper treatment, regain it. Prognosis.—So far as the part itself is concerned, the prognosis is always bad; though occasionally, when gangrene has not been fully established, partial recovery may unexpectedly take place. So far as the life of the patient is at stake, much will depend on the cause of the affection, and on the age and strength of the individual; at advanced periods of life, and in a feeble state of system, the result is always unfavourable. Also whilst the gangrene is spread- ing, the prognosis is bad, as it is impossible to say where the morbid process may stop ; but when a “line of demarcation” has formed, indicating the pos- session of a certain vigour of constitution, the principal danger is over, and . the result will depend on the strength of the patient, and the support that can be given during the processes of separation and of repair. Treatment.—As gangrene proceeds from a great variety of causes, it is evident that no one plan of treatment can be universally applied ; and it becomes necessary to modify our therapeutical and operative means, not only • according to the cause of the disease, but also with special reference to the constitution of the patient, and with regard to the stage in which we meet with the gangrene ; and, indeed, it often requires great tact and experience to accommodate the treatment in this way to the varying phases of the Ihe Constitutional Treatment of gangrene is of the highest importance more especially in the spontaneous forms of the affection. It has three prin- cipal aims : 1. To remove the cause if possible, and thus to arrest the gangrene. 2. To support the powers of the system during the process of the separation of the sloughs and dead tissues ; and 3. To lessen the irritability of the nervous system. 1. In attempting to remove the constitutional cause we must bear in mind that constitutional conditions most commonly act only as predisposing causes 0 gangrene, the death of the part being determined by some local affection lhe constitutional conditions which predispose to gangrene, such as want of food, diabetes, Bright s disease, fevers, feebleness of the heart’s action or general arterial degeneration, are all associated witli debility Dcnressiim affection ^ thel’ef°re be avoided eyeu iu toe inflammatory forms of the -his ww n,T VC1’ TeVei' hlgh may bc in thc early stages, rapidly on v W7’ "I gangl’ene haS Scfc ln’ t0 symptoms of an asthenic type. It is lowerb 1? i °CC™Ce and durin& fchc ^ gangrene, that the use of ceased tob° SU8'gesfced ; for> when once gangrene has iS'rS h0Wever llgh the fevcr may have been that accompanied P &iess, all the powers of thc constitution will bc required to maintain the