820 INJURIES OF TIIE THROAT. of a probe. If it be of the form most easily to be seized by forceps, Gross’s tracheal forceps, or Durham’s flexible forceps may be used. It is difficult, however, in using forceps to avoid passing the blades down two separate- bronchial tubes and thus seizing the septum between them. A loop of stiff wire, bent at its extremity to an angle so that it can be directed into either bronchus, will be found very useful in dislodging a round body impacted in a bronchus. In this way a plum-stone was easily dislodged and removed in a case which occurred in University College Hospital some years ago, and the child rapidly recovered. Should the attempt fail, the wound should be kept open by means of blunt hooks for a week or ten days longei, when perhaps, it may be ejected. After the escape of the foreign body, the opening in the trachea must be closed. Scalds of the Mouth, the Pharynx, and the Glottis, occasionally occur from attempts to swallow boiling water ; or these parts are scorched by the inhalation of hot air or flame. The scalding happens chiefly to the chil- dren of the poor, who, being in the habit of drinking cold water from the spout of a kettle, inadvertently attempt to take a draught from the same source when the water is boiling. The hot liquid is not swallowed, but, though imme- diately ejected, it scalds the inside of the mouth and pharynx, giving rise to much inflammation, which, extending to the glottis, will produce oedema of it, and thus speedily destroy life by suffocation. In three cases which I ex- amined after death, there was no sign of inflammation below the glottis, though the lips of this aperture were greatly swollen ; and this I believe to be invari- ably the case, the inflammation not extending into the interior of the larynx, as was pointed out by Marshall Hall. The accident always reveals itself by very evident signs ; the interior of the mouth looks white and scalded the child complains of great pain, and difficulty of breathing soon sets m -. which unless efficiently relieved, may terminate m speedy suffocation. In tb- a> - in which these parts have been similarly injured by the flame produced by the explosion of gas or of fire-damp being sucked into the mouth, the same con ' r"Tn ^Trettmentof this injury, the main point to attend to is to subdue the inflammation before it involves the glottis to a dangerous ^ten this view, leeches should be freely applied to the neck, and mony administered. If symptoms of urgent dyspnoea have set in, tiacheotcn must be performed without delay; and a tube must be mtio luced mo th- aperture so made, and kept there until the swelling about t u subsided. In the majority of the cases, however that ha c fallei ^ • observation, in which this operation has been pei toimei, - ‘ jt fatal one, from the speedy supervention of bion^o-puemnoma^but affords the only chance of life when the dyspnoea is ui ^ M 1)V mliep though its performance in very young childien is ofte . : difficulty, from the shortness of the neck and the small size o 1 ASPHYXIA OR APNOEA Asphyxia or, as it is ...ore correctly termed, Apncca, »'!« •- rari0,,s causes. The following classification no, V • • ^ tr^ure on the - -