SUPPURATION AND ABSCESS. 228 longer possible. In the next place, it is necessary that the irritation of the tissues should act persistently for some length of time, otherwise the exudation would not he of sufficient amount to form a collection of pus such as we can recognise clinically. For example, a clean cut inflicts a degree of injury on the parts actually touched hy the knife sufficient to cause dilatation of the vessels, retarded flow, and migration ; hut if every other source of irritation be ex- cluded, the whole process subsides before sufficient exudation has taken place to form an accumulation of migrating cells recognizable to the naked eye. If, however, a more persistent source of irritation be introduced into the wound, as pent-up serum causing tension, or decomposing matter, or even a mechanical irritant, as a foreign body, exudation of blood-plasma and migration of e corpuscles will continue, till the tissues on each side become infiltrated and finally replaced on the surface by the migrating corpuscles, and the space between becomes filled with the cells floating off from the surface in he liquid exudation, thus forming pus. Remove the source of irritation, and the forma- tion of pus rapidly ceases. The direct effect of irritation m causing the forma- tion of pus, may also be studied with great advantage in a healthy granulatm soin-sly, of the leg. If the patient be put to bed with the leg elevated to avoid in tr a-vascular tension, and the raw surface rendered perfectly aseptic and then covered by a non-irritating substance, and protected from mechanical violence and cold by an application which at the same tune absorbs the d charge and prevents its putrefaction, every source of irritation being thus removed, we may succeed in absolutely preventing any formation of pus. The discharge, such as it is, will be composed solely of serous fluid, which neces- sarily leaks from the surface of the granulations, as they are uncovered jv any impermeable epithelium. Having got the sore into this state if some mfld irritant be now applied, as for example, lint soaked m a concentrated solution of boracic acid, the discharge will become turbid, the ^ and beino- cast off under the influence of the irritant, while at the same tun migration takes place from the vessels beneath ; if a stronger mutant be annlied as for example, carbolic acid water (1 m 20), the discharge will become Sk pC 1 Satiom will swell and become soft from exaggerated exudation’of blood-plasma and migration of leucocytes into theirratatace. Suppose now that a still stronger irritant be applied as a so In on of caibolm mid in spirit (1 in 5), or chloride of zinc (40 grains to the ounce), the flow ot irritation of the lifmg tissues of a certain degree of intensity, and peiststm* f01Jt tatetee^en pointed out that the effect produced by an imtent ie proportional—firstly, to the strength of the lower of resistance of the tissues, or, m other words, to then-state SThat for any tissue to be healthy both the nutrition must be healthy also {mde p. lo.■)■ “ca,li]v induced when necessary to cause suppuration .null toe*c« . ;ire interfered with, any of the general or local conditions of tMrt patients to Paget examined the fluid that accumulate In those who were whom blisters had been applied for various attentions. In those