CLASSIFICATION OF TUMOURS. 959 CHAPTER XXXIY. TUMOURS.* The frequency with which Tumours fall under the observation of the Surgeon, the great variety in their characters, and their important relations, local as well as constitutional, render their consideration one of great moment. According to Hunter, a tumour is “ a circumscribed substance produced by disease, aud different in its nature and consistence from the surrounding parts.” This definition, though not perhaps accurately correct in some forms of tumour, I which do not differ in their nature from neighbouring parts, is yet clinically convenient. By a tumour may also be meant a more or less circumscribed mass, growing in some tissue or organ of the body, and dependent on a morbid excess of, or deviation from, the nutrition of the part. Comil and Ranvier define a tumour as a “ mass composed of a tissue of new formation (a neoplasm) having a tendency to persist or to increase.” Liicke defines it as an “ increase : in size from the growth of new tissue, by which no physiological end is 4 gained.” These growths may therefore be considered under the two heads of i local hypertrophies, or outgrowths of the normal structure of the part; and ! of new formations, presenting structural characters which differ more or less widely from those of the parts around. The tumour thus formed increases in size by an inherent force of its own, irrespectively of the growth of the rest of the system, but still obeys the same laws of growth which govern the body generally. In order to constitute a tumour, it is necessary that the normal form of the part be widely departed from ; a mere increase in its size, so long as it preserves its usual shape, being scarcely considered in this light. Thus if the tibia be uniformly enlarged to double its natural size, the enlargement is a hypertrophy ; but if a comparatively small rounded mass of bone project directly forwards from its tuberosity, it is said to be a tumour and not a mere hypertrophy. _ Classification of Tumours.—A classification of tumours maybe founded either upon their anatomical structure, or upon their vital and clinical I characters ; and although these two systems will in most cases, lead to a similar grouping of individual growths, yet our knowledge is at present too • imperfect to enable ns to point out in every case the connection between chnical history and histological structure. Surgeons have long divided tumours into two. great classes—the Non-malignant and the Malignant. Ihis division, however, though practically convenient, is not scientifically met. Although some tumours, as the cancers, are always and essentially A The most.exhaustive treatise on this subject is Virchow’s great work “ Die the PflH.obgy of Tumours), whilst in his “ Cellular Pathology ” wi l he fnuml a ' Kranklmften Geschwulstc " 1 an exposition of his views of mmmmmmssrnm. f"r his kindness in having undertaken tlYcIlhistminn of n,ud7 nlfUcl1 oWi^fttion to my friend, Mr. Godlee, winch arc alike admirable for their fidelity and their artistic merit?** " U* “ "’S °f llr;nvm=s from »<‘ture,