VENEREAL DISEASES. I 122 plicated. The roots of the nerves are compressed as they pass through the thickened membranes. The disease may be widely diffused, but is more com- monly limited in extent, the region of the lumbar enlargement being specially prone to be affected. Syphilis may be the cause also of disseminated chronic myelitis, leading to sclerosis, and Gowers has brought forward a large amount of evidence to show that locomotor ataxy (sclerosis of the posterior columns) may have its origin in this way ; about one-half of the cases of this disease occur in patients who have suffered from constitutional syphilis. The Symptoms of syphilitic disease of the cord supervene gradually. They are pain either in the back opposite the seat of disease, or referred to the parts supplied by the nerves arising from the affected portion of the cord. Various affections of sensation are commonly met with ; there may be numbness, tingling, or pins and needles, or local spots of liypersesthesia or anaesthesia. Paralysis of one limb or a part of a limb, or complete paraplegia, may form a prominent symptom. Wasting occurs only in those muscles which are paralysed in consequence of damage to the part of the cord from which their nervous supply is derived, or of pressure on the roots of the nerves. Thus, although there may be complete paraplegia, the wasting may affect only certain groups of muscles. The reflex function of the cord is abolished in the diseased part, but lower down it may be increased ; thus in disease in the dorsal region there may be exaggerated reflex movements in the lower limbs. Rigidity of muscles is common, spasm comparatively rare. When the paralysis is unilateral, the modifications of sensation will be on the same side as those of motion when the roots of the nerves are affected, but on the opposite side when the condition is due to the growth of a localized tumour, either in the substance of the cord or in its membranes. The symptoms may be rendered very irregular and complex by the co-existence of various lesions, such as irregular patches of chronic meningitis, or a gumma combined with meningitis, or more than one gumma in different parts of the cord, and this irregularity of the symptoms may be still further increased by simultaneous disease of the brain and its membranes. The age of the patient, the history of syphilis, and the irregularity of the symptoms often render the diagnosis comparatively easy. The Nerves are comparatively rarely affected, though gummata have been met with growing from the connective tissue forming their sheaths. rl hese have been observed almost exclusively in the cranial nerves. In the Treatment of syphilitic disease of the central nervous system, if not too far advanced, there is fortunately much to be done for the patient’s relief, if not complete cure. Mercury in some form, more especially the perchloridc with decoction of cinchona, if not previously fully used, should have a fair trial. Iodide of potassium in gradually increasing doses, up to fifteen or twenty grains, three times a day, if the patient can stand it, should be given at once in those cases in which the patient has already had a full course of mercury, or in which the constitutional state does not justify the administra- tion of mercury at the time the nervous symptoms set in. Counter-irritation by means of blisters or setons will occasionally be found useful. The epileptic convulsions may be relieved by bromide of potassium or of ammonium, but these must not be given to the exclusion of the iodides. Under this treatment cases at first apparently hopeless may rapidly recover, but when the disease is