867 LACERATION OF THE URETHRA. ! the first week, the patient can in many cases be taught to pass a soft instrument for himself whenever he desires to pass water. Laceration of the Urethra is immediately attended by most serious symptoms, and remotely followed by most disastrous consequences. It very frequently occurs in men employed in building, from slipping in walking across an unfinished floor, in such a way as to fall heavily astride upon one of the joists. I have seen it in a farrier, kicked in the perinaeum whilst shoeing a horse; and it is not uncommonly met with as a consequence of injury by a fragment of bone in fracture of the rami of the pubis and ischium. In all loims of the accident it is almost invariably the membranous part of the urethra that suffers. In a violent blow in the perinaeum the urethra is forcibly driven upwards, and crushed against the pubic arch. When the laceration occurs from a fragment of bone in a fracture, it is usually in those cases in which the pelvis is forcibly compressed, and gives way both behind and in front (Fig. 223). The outer fragment is driven across the middle line in the perinaeum, and thus tears the urethra. In both these accidents the anterior layer of the triangular ligament is torn • it is impossible that the membianous pait of the urethra could be lacerated by a blow in the perinmum while it remained intact; and in the fracture it is torn at its attachment to the pubic arch ; consequently if urine escapes from the urethra it readily finds hs way into the loose areolar tissue beneath the deep layer of the superficial fascia. 1 In these injuries the integuments are usually untorn, but deeply ecchymosed. The extravasation of blood is often considerable, extending into the scrotum which rapidly swells up and becomes black. It may, indeed, be very serious’ arising m some cases from the lacerated structures and the torn superficial or transverse arteries of the perinaeum ; in other instances from the corpus spongiosum, the bulb, or the artery of the bulb. In all cases of lacerated urethra, blood will drip from the orifice; and, if the bulb and its arteries have been torn, the haemorrhage from these may be very great, a pint or more of blood being thus rapidly lost, in addition to great accumulations 111 the perinmum and scrotum, distending these parts with coagula. In consequence of the interruption in the continuity of the canal and Mr“°n 01 plUgf'S T ,the t0m P"* «f extravasated blood, the urine cannot be voided and the bladder gradually fills If the patent attempt to empty it, only a few drops will issue from the urethral oi'hce; but he will be seized with severe burning, smarting pain in the penmeum and tile ultimate evils of the injury will be greatly aggravated for herever the urine penetrates, sloughing of areolar tissue will invariably and ££l,LT% , r,T “ f'rS gr i>SamC° bctra“ extravasatioiVof inhic \ f,mJUre? °T11 * iu fa wx-Hl instance, no urine part of L “g f m "KtWmlcSS 'V a v°luntary expulsive effort on the retention of mb' , ra W6""88 ot the are speedily increased by and the iicccsshv'fn TtT" occasioned by distension of the bladder; spasmodic h -“'“ ‘f mS bf0mcs “Sent, lest by an involuntary ^fa^fcp^K^ iUt° ^ ^ br0to‘dTO1‘ ae cLC°is*t,ro/r siw7stv„i. n“ “ fi%de6°rikcd iu 3 K 2