561 SIGNS OF FRACTURED CLAVICLE. Fig. 196.—Sound Clavicle. Fig. 197.—Fracture of Clavicle, outside of Trapezoid Liga- ment. the shoulder, the point of which is rounded forwards (Fig. 197). When the fracture occurs about the middle of the bone, or at any part on the sternal side of the scapular ligaments, there is a well-marked deformity, owing to a triple displacement of the inner end of the outer fragment inwards, downwards, and slightly backwards, while the outer end is rotated forwards. This displacement is due to two causes, one of which is mechanical and the other muscular. The displacement downwards is due chiefly to the weight of the arm, but the contraction of the deltoid also would aid in depressing the inner end of the outer fragment. The displacement inwards is due to the action of the muscles passing from the chest to the arm and scapula, the pecto- ralis major and minor, and the latissimus dorsi ; the rotation forwards and the pointing of the sternal end of the outer fragment backwards is due to the more powerful action of the pectoral muscles. The outer extremity of the inner fragment appears to be elevated, the skin being drawn tensely over it ; but this is owing rather to the depression of the outer portion of the bone ; it is usually kept fixed by the antagonism between the sterno-cleido-mastoid and great pectoral muscles. It may, however, in some cases be raised. This is when the clavicular portion of the sterno- cleido-mastoid muscle is unusually strong, and when the fracture has taken place just outside its insertion into the clavicle ; or it may be raised and pushed forwards, by the inner end of the outer fragment getting below or behind it. On looking at a patient with fracture of the clavicle in this situation, the nature of the injury is at once evident. The approximation of the point of the shoulder towards the sternum; the prominence formed by the outer end of the inner fragment, over which the skin is stretched; the sudden depression under this, and the crepitus, which can be easily induced by elevating and rotating the shoulder at the same time that the elbow is pressed to the side, indicate in the most unequivocal manner the nature of the injury. The attitude of the patient is remarkable ; he sits, leaning his head down to the affected side, so as to relax the muscles, and supports his elbow and fore-arm in the sound hand, in order to take off the weight of the limb ; he is unable to raise his arm from the side, and any attempt to do so causes severe pain. ^hen the fracture occurs near to the sternal end of the bone, it is usually, d not always, transverse. If it occur internally to the rhomboid ligament, the outer fragment is displaced forward, but remains on the same horizontal level as the sternal fragment. If the triple displacement of the outer frag- ment, characteristic of fractured clavicle, viz., in a direction downwards, towards, and inwards, have occurred, then R. W. Smith believes that, how- ever near the joint the fracture may appear to be, it must in reality have oc- r *T?(. ei nally to the costo-clavicular ligament, which is too strong to admit In 1K !lccment, or to be ruptured, and so to allow it to be occasioned, the bo>I mai'^ s'mP^e fracture of the clavicle the blood vessels passing under the ni'10 aie -VCI^ nue^ ever injured or even compressed. This is owing to n],#L ?llnc,! m which the outer fragment is displaced, its sternal end being pushed in front of them and to their inner side. vOL. I. O O