146 LOCAL DISTURBANCES AND INFLAMMATION. blood into the surrounding tissue. Hence the spaces of areolar tissue are distended by the effused fluid, giving rise to the condition known as cedema If the turgidity of the vessels be great and their walls at the same time unhealthy, rupture will occur, and hemorrhage from the surface or into the substance of the part will ensue. Observations made on the frogs loot aitei ligature of the main yein show, however, that in moderately intense conges- tion, the red corpuscles pass through the walls of the capillaries into the sur- rounding tissues, without any apparent rupture, by a process ot diapedesis. This may occur with the passage of very few white corpuscles provided ie vessels are healthy. The red corpuscles that thus escape from the vessels break up and are absorbed, but some of the altered blood-pigment remains behind and causes the grey pigmentation of mucous membrane or the brown colouring of the skin, which is so characteristic of repeated or long continued “induration from the growth of fibroid tissue, chiefly around the distended ressels, is an almost constant consequence of repeated or long continued passive congestion. But although the affected part may be increased in bulk the normal tissue is atrophied from the pressure of the new growth. Perhaps the best illustration of this process is afforded by the nu mg-l,vcr that is frequently found associated with obstructive disease of the heart. . It may be said briefly that the two most marked post-mortem signs of prolonge reneated congestion are pigmentation and induration. , , The most important effect, however, of passive hypereemia is, ^ lowering of the vitality of the affected part, rendering it prone to inflame or ulcerate from slight causes. In congestion, although the part contains a great excess of blood at any given time, it is not changed with sufficient frequency, and consequently the amount of blood that circulates is really less than natural. Symptoms —Passive congestion of an external part may be readily lecog- nis^d by the changes it induces hi the colour, the size, the feel, the tempera Jure, ^d thJtoctions of the part. The colour ranges from dark red to bluish purple but if it has been exposed frequently to previous attacks ,.of conges, tion it may be darkly pigmented and brown in colour; it is increased 111 size : if° the^^gesfcion is rehnt and acute it is soft from oedema, and pits under the pressure of the finger , if it is old and chronic UrnTissues; are mdunit fl-nrl brawnv The patient is conscious of a hea\ y, dull, achm0 sen ft scmS amomtog to pain, hut yet attended with uneasiness, The tem- perature is never above, but often below, the natural standard, and c fm^el"rfdoX““yk an internal organ may be attained by finding its size increased and its functions modified, with a sensation oi ueig iii if- The symptoms are often, however, very obscure. , Treatment.—No treatment of passive congestion can be succcssfu uu^ “ ssrth^s^^^ congeSonTe’ duf^ thcW sthnulints and digitalis may he of service in relieving it. _ . , craantity of blood in the The next indication consists in lessening I • 1. q.jg. congested part. The mere removal of the obstructs cause may effect