FEMUR— VA RIETIES. 671 being due chiefly to accidental circumstances. He, therefore, divides disloca- tion into Regular, in which one or both branches of the ilio-femoral ligament remain untorn, and Irregular, in which the whole ligament is ruptured. For convenience of description, and with a view to practical utility, the v regular dislocations may be divided into three chief groups, to which must be added certain exceptional forms which are so rare as to require only mention. 1. Dorsal Dislocations, or Dislocations Backwards and Upwards.— Of these there are two varieties: a, when the head of the bone passes above the obturator internus (dislocation on to the dorsum ilii); b, when the head passes below that muscle (dislocation into the sciatic notch of Sir Astley ■ Cooper) (Figs. 287, 288). 2. Thyroid Dislocations, or Dislocations Downwards.—These disloca- tions present four varieties, of which one only is common—obliquely inwards and downwards on the thyroid foramen (Fig. 289). In addition to this, there are three exceptional forms : a, inwards and downwards as far as the periineum ; b, vertically downwards below the acetabulum ; c, outwards and downwards as far as the tuberosity of the ischium. 3. Dislocations Upwards, or Pubic Dislocations.—Of this form there are two varieties: a, when the head of the femur is displaced on to the pubic bone (Fig. 290); b, when it lies beneath the anterior inferior spine of the pubes, or the subspinous dislocation. The exceptional forms of dislocation are the following:— 4. The Anterior Oblique, in which the head of the bone lies behind the anterior inferior iliac spine. 5. The Supra-spinous, in which the head of the bone lies above the anterior inferior iliac spine, between it and the superior spine. 6. The Everted Dorsal Dislocation, in which the head of the bone lies on the anterior part of the dorsum, behind the anterior inferior iliac spine. In the two last forms the outer branch of the ilio-femoral ligament is ruptured. With regard to the Relative Frequency of the various forms of disloca- tion, Sir Astley Cooper says, that of 20 cases of dislocation of the hip, 12 will, on the average, be on the dorsum ilii (above the tendon of the obturator intemus of Bigelow), 5 on the sciatic notch (below the tendon of the obturator internus), 2 on the thyroid foramen, and 1 on the pubic bone. Hamilton states that, excluding anomalous cases, of 104 dislocations which he has col- lected, 55 were on the dorsum ilii, 28 into the sciatic notch (below the tendon of the obturator internus), 13 into the thyroid foramen, and 8 upon the Dubic bone. 1 In the Reduction of dislocations of the hip-joint, two methods may be employed, extension or manipulation. In extension, forcible traction is made by pulleys or otherwise in the direction of the axis of the limb, overcoming by mam force any obstacle arising from muscular contraction or the mechanical resistance of ligaments. In manipulation force is avoided, the Surgeon’s object being to relax the ligaments which offer a mechanical obstruction to reduction, and to disentangle the head of the bone from its abnormal position, and by !refT.011 !fcvarious rotatory movements, each adapted to the particular case, to bring it back into the acetabulum lWcmirmW;™ 1-;—a 775. He describes two cases, one of dislocation on the foramen