973 CYSTIC TUMOURS. (■ encloses a cavity containing a small quantity of serous fluid. There are ex- cellent specimens of this condition in University College Museum. (4.) In many cases which have been lately recorded, it has been found that \ tumours which were, described clinically as blood-cysts were in reality soft L sarcomata, the structure of which had been broken down by haemorrhage. (See Sarcomatous Blood-cysts.) j (c.) Cystic Tumours.—-These are tumours in which the development of cysts is an essential of their growth, and not merely an accidental complica- tion. To this class belong the compound or multilocular cysts met with in the ovary, the mamma, and the testicle. In many cystic tumours solid growths project from the walls into the cavities, and from this they have received the name of proliferous cysts; the growths are spoken of as intracystic groiutlis. Multilocular cysts, as met with in the ovary, form the best example of this form of tumour. These cysts are composed of a fibrous wall and an inner lining of columnar epithelium. Immediately beneath the epithelium is a layer of embryonic tissue, from which spring the intracystic growths. These assume the form of branched papillae projecting into the cavity of the cyst; they are covered by columnar epithelium. Wilson Fox has shown that secondary cysts may be formed by the adhesion of adjoining masses of this papillary growth, thus forming small closed spaces or daughter-cysts, which become gradually distended by secretion. In some cases the reverse process takes place, and instead of the number of cysts increasing by the formation of daughter cysts, they become diminished by coalescence. Unilocular ovarian cysts are sup- posed to be often formed in this way. The contents of these cysts vary from a liquid, as thin as ordinary blood-serum, to a viscid fluid. It is sometimes : coloured from the admixture of altered blood. Chemically it is found to con- tain met-albumin and par-albumin, and sometimes mucin, from which it is assumed that the fluid is a true secretion, in the formation of which the epithelial lining is concerned. In the proliferous cysts of the mamma the intracystic growths assume a lobulated or cauliflower-like form, and in structure are found rudely to 1 resemble the normal structure of the mamma. These growths may, according* to Paget, cause by their increase in size the gradual absorption of the more fluid contents, until, at last, their development is arrested by the cyst-wall. The tumour would then merely resemble an ordinary adenoma of the mamma surrounded by a distinct capsule. The cystic tumours of the ovary, mamma, and testes, will be more fully described with the diseases of those organs. {cl.) Cysts in Tumours form, not as an essential part of the growth, but as an accidental complication. They may arise from softening of portions of the growth, or from haemorrhage into its structure. As a rule they are not surrounded by a distinct wall, but in some simple tumours they seem to increase by transudation of serum into the cavity, and thus the surrounding structure may be compressed so as to resemble a limiting membrane. Carti- laginous tumours occasionally become cystic from mucous softening of the matrix. Cysts in tumours will be more fully described with the growths in which they occur. III. Congenital Cysts may be divided into four classes, (a.) Those re- sulting from inclusion of a portion of the epiblast within the mcsoblast durum O