420 ARREST OF ARTERIAL HAEMORRHAGE. nerves; in others, after some weeks, causing localized circumscribed abscesses The employment of Ligatures made of Materials that admit of Absorption in the wound was long ago a favourite idea with many burgeons, and is one on which much experimental ingenuity has at various times been expended : for the idea is a captivating one, and if it can be safely, certainly, and successfully carried out in practice, it will undoubtedly remove one o the obstacles to the union of wounds by the first intention. AY nil tins ue\\, it was proposed to substitute ligatures made of animal substances foi e ordinary threads made of hemp. Silk thread cut short and left in the wound was used by Sir AY. Lawrence in 1815, and at first with success, union of the wound taking place in four to six days, without suppuration But other Surgeons failed in this, and Lawrence himself was soon compelled to> gi up from want of good results in his subsequent cases AY ardrop substituted the gut of the silk-worm made into a fine cord, but with equally unsatisfact j 'L Catgut was used by Sir Astley Cooper as a material that was more likely to dissdvforTo\e absorbed, than silk in any shape. The first cases in winch it was employed as a ligature were full of promise. In one, a patient aged eig , the wound7healed in four days, and in another in twenty, and in neithei the "he ligature rehear. But other Surgeons failed to imitate this success • the catgut was found to be too weak, and the distinguished author c the practice could not himself maintain his first success with it, and eventua y £ about the same time ; probably in 1814, before Lienee s or Cooper s experiments. They were found to answer better than ” beino- stronger, more elastic, and more readily soluble. These, liowevei, fpP Into disuse for what reason does not clearly appeal. ThfiCS employing ligatures made of animal substances, that would admii^ of absorption, and allow the wound to be immediately closed over the n^wSch wonlci not, in tact, act as foreign bodies in the wound or as by faster, some weeks in an emulsion of water, carbolic acid and oil, m winch, after grow V S id opaque during the first few days, it gradually experience* an opp«« "and at length becomes again df = tmns,^,t, «d >e then »