VARICOSE ULCER—HEMORRHAGIC ULCER. 267 varying much in character, being sometimes inflamed, at others irritable or doughy, and then becoming indolent. One of the most serious effects of this nicer is that, by penetrating into one of the dilated veins, it occasionally gives rise to very abundant haemorrhage ; the patient in the course of a few seconds losing a pint or two of blood. The haemorrhage comes chiefly from the proximal side, in consequence of the incompetence of the valves in the varicose veins. It may be readily arrested by laying the patient on his back, elevat- ing the limb, and compressing the bleeding point with a pledget of lint and a roller. The Treatment of a varicose ulcer must have special reference to the con- dition of the veins that occasions it; no local applications having much effect unless the pressure of the column of blood in the dilated vessels be taken off the part. This may be done by means of a well-applied bandage, made of clastic material, or a laced or elastic stocking applied to the leg, so as to keep up uniform pressure upon the distended vessels. Martin’s india-rubber bandage, already described in the treatment of the chronic ulcer, will be found especially useful in the treatment of this form of ulcer. It has the great advantage over the elastic stocking of being suited for application over the ulcer, as it does not become foul by use, and, moreover, if it be properly put on, the pressure is more uniform. In many cases, the cicatrization of the ulcer cannot be brought about by these modes of treatment; or, if the ulcer heal, it constantly breaks open again : or haemorrhage may occur from a rup- tured vein upon its surface. Other means, which will be described in a future chayttei, must then be taken for the permanent occlusion of the varicose vessels. As this procedure, however, is attended by some danger from the occasional induction of phlebitis or erysipelas, it should not be had recourse to unless the existence of one or other of the conditions just mentioned ur°'entlv calls for it. 0 J Haemorrhagic Ulcer. Ihis is a dark purplish-looking sore, which occurs in women suffering from amenorrhoea, and has a special tendency to ooze blood about the menstrual periods, whence its name. It usually partakes of the character of the irritable ulcer. Treatment—The haemorrhagic ulcer requires to be treated by constitu- tional means, having for their object the improvement of the patient’s general health ; with this view, the preparations of iron and of aloes are especially Ulcers on Mucous Membranes.-Various forms of ulcers occur upon mucous membrane, especially those of the throat, rectum, and genital organs As these, however are commonly specific, they will be described hereafter. \\ hen ulcers ol the mucous membrane are not of a specific character MameTm fcheS'eueralaPpear“cee characteristic of the cutaneous healthy,’ bem ?ak Vane, f’ aiK require thc t0Pical applications which have dZ,u T " 1 ‘° thT C0"ditious' thoueh generally they will nitrate of silyer. ™p°-VmeUt ol <* astringents, especially of tiro