VARIETIES OF TRAUMATIC ANEURISM. 445 CHAPTER XV. TRAUMATIC ANEURISM AND ARTERIO-VENOUS WOUNDS. TRAUMATIC ANEURISM. We have hitherto discussed the treatment of an injured artery having an open wound communicating with it. It often happens, however, that the case is not so simple as that which has been described, but that, in addition to the wound in the vessel, there is subcutaneous extravasation of blood, with more or less pulsation, thrill, and bruit, from the projection into it of blood from the wounded vessel. This extravasation constitutes a Traumatic Aneurism, and may arise in three ways. 1. There maybe an oblique or indirect puncture into the artery, the blood furnished by which partly escapes from the wound, partly extravasates itself into the tissues around the vessel. 2. The puncture in the integuments may have been closed by plaster or bandage ; and then no blood escaping externally, although the wound in the artery continues patent, the blood is forced out into the substance of the limb or part. 3. There may have been no external wound, but the artery may have been punctured or torn across subcutaneously, by the fragments of a fractured bone, by a violent strain or twist of the limb, by the injury inflicted in a dislocation, or by the Surgeon in his efforts to reduce it. These traumatic aneurisms, in whatever way arising, are of two kinds, the Diffused and the Circumscribed. Diffused Traumatic Aneurism.—This consists of an effusion of blood poured out by a wounded or ruptured artery with which it communicates ; limited in extent by the resistance of surrounding parts, and partially co- agulating in the meshes of the areolar tissue. It has no sac ; and its ill- defined boundary, composed partly of coaguliun, partly of inflammatory exudation from the tissues into which the blood is poured out, has a constant tendency to extend under the pressure of the fluid blood, which continues to be projected into the centre of the tumour. This form of traumatic aneurism is indicated by a subcutaneous, soft, and semi-fluctuating tumour, often of very considerable size. If the communica- tion lie large the tumour increases rapidly in size, and this gives rise to the most intense pain. At first the skin covering it is of its natural colour, but it gradually becomes bluish, and is thinned by the pressure to which it is subjected. If the wound in the vessel be rather large, there will be a distinct pulsation in the tumour synchronous with the systole of the heart, accompanied by a thrilling, pulling, or jarring sensation, and often a distinct ana loud bruit. In other cases, if the injured artery be small, or if the wound jU ! 0 ’ iflue> and of limited size, there may be no distinct pulsation or .rm 10 kmnour being either indolent and semi-fluctuating, or having an mpu sc communicated to it by the subjacent artery. In those cases also in w lie e artery is torn completely across, or in which the effused blood co-