INFANTILE SYPHILIS. II23 far advanced, with, the formation of gummata of large size, the piognosis becomes very bad. INFANTILE, CONGENITAL, OR INHERITED SYPHILIS. Chancres on the labia of the mother may possibly infect the child at biith, just as they may inoculate the hand of the accoucheur ; but syphilis thus contracted by the infant is not the form of the disease that is described as Infantile Syphilis. This is a truly hereditary infection, transmitted to the infant at the time of its conception, or communicated to it through the medium of the mother during intra-uterine life, and existing as a constitu- tional affection at the time of its birth. Though we may believe that syphilis is not easily eradicated from a system into which it has once been received, and that under certain conditions it may readily be transmitted to the offspring ; yet I think that we are still ignorant of the amount and nature of the consti- tutional affection of the parents that are necessary for the development of syphilis in their children, and that we are certainly not warranted in conclud- ing that a parent who has been, or even who is actually affected by constitu- tional syphilis, must necessarily have a syphilitic, or even a feeble and strumous family ; although the probability undoubtedly is that the offspring will be syphilitic. I have had under my observation a gentleman whom I had attended for secondary syphilis, and who, contrary to my advice, married some years ago ; and, though he has since then suffered from psoriasis of the hands, mucous tubercles, fissures on the lips and tongue, and syphilitic disease of the testicle, yet his wife has borne a perfectly healthy family, not only without any syphilitic taint, but without any apparent constitutional cachexy. When the parents are syphilitic, the foetus frequently fails to arrive at maturity. This may be due to disease of the placenta, or of the umbilical cord, or to the direct action of the syphilitic virus on the foetus itself. In the placenta extravasations of blood, fatty degeneration, and the formation of caseous, and occasionally of calcareous masses, are the most common abnormal' conditions observed. In the cord the vessels are occasionally found to have undergone changes identical in character with those already described as taking place in the arteries of the adult (p. 1092). The foetus itself also shows evidence of disease in the great majority of cases in which it perishes before arriving at maturity, or is born dead at the full time. Mewis states that an examination of ninety-two syphilitic foetuses showed the spleen to be diseased in seventy-two, the bones in sixty-four, the liver in fifty-six, the pancreas in fourteen, the supra-renal bodies in eleven, the lungs in three, and the skin in one only. In consequence of these diseases of the placenta and the foetus, it often happens that early abortion, or miscarriage takes place. Many consecutive miscarriages may take place in consequence of the parents being affected with constitutional syphilis. It is a common history in these cases that the period at which miscarriage takes place becomes later in each succeeding pregnancy, until at last, perhaps after a dead foetus has been delivered at full term, a living child may be born bearing evidence of inherited syphilis. Such a history is very characteristic of syphilis, even if the parents have ceased to show any visible signs of the disease. When the parents are known to be syphilitic, if they be treated by a mercurial course, miscarriage can frequently be prevented, though the child may show some signs of the disease. 4 c 2