PREDISPOSING GA USES—A TMOSPHERIC. 9i3 eluding those admittted for the disease and those affected by it while under- going treatment for other affections. Of these, 84 occurred during the cold months of December, January, and February ; 48 during March, April, and May ; 22 during the hot months of June, July, and August; and 52 during September, October, and November. It is an interesting fact, that during these four years only one case arose during the month of July. It lias frequently been asserted that erysipelas often breaks out on the setting in of cold easterly winds or on sudden atmospheric changes. Observations were made during one year (1872) at University College Hospital with the view of testing the truth of this assertion ; but, as they were not continued after that year, the time over which they extend is not sufficient to exclude chance from the results. As far as they went they tended to show that mild damp weather, with westerly winds, is a more powerful predisposing cause of erysipelas and other hospital diseases than cold dry weather with easterly . winds, which is exactly the reverse of the popularly received opinion. The subject is one of great interest, and is well worthy of further investigation. Erysipelas often becomes epidemic as the result of peculiar, but at present in- explicable, conditions of the atmosphere. Thus at University College Hospital the number of cases occurring during the four years before mentioned was as follows : in 1871, 29 ; in 1872, 20 ; in 1873, 26 ; in 1874, 67. And not only was it at University College Hospital that this excess of erysipelas was noticed, but every similar institution in London suffered in the same way. It will usually be found that, when erysipelas is very abundant among the in- patients of a hospital, similar cases present themselves for treatment in the out- patient department; and at the same time it is generally noticed that phlebitis of varicose veins, epidemic catarrh, acute tonsillitis, and other allied affections prevail. Epidemic erysipelas may vary in its type. Thus the epidemic of 1874 was chiefly of the cutaneous variety, and was accompanied by compara- tively slight tendency to gangrene or sloughing ; while that of 1872, in Edinburgh, was of a violent phlegmonous type, usually attacking the sub- cutaneous tissue and leading to extensive diffuse sloughing and suppuration. The great predisposing cause of erysipelas is, however, to be sought for and will be found in a want of attention to hygienic conditions. It is one of the penalties inflicted by nature on those who neglect those prime requisites of hea th—temperance and cleanliness—or who are incapable of obtaining good food and pure air. Were the laws of hygiene attended to as they should be erysipelas and the allied diffuse inflammations would rarely be met with in surgical practice. Overcrowding of hospitals, and want of proper ventilation in wards or rooms, are fertile sources of erysipelas, and of the allied processes. Erysipelas however, cannot be as certainly generated in this way as some othei unhealthy processes in wounds, such as hospital gangrene, or pyaania. Ins has frequently been observed m military practice. Thus, after the battle ot bedan, although the wounded were in some hospitals almost decimated by E i’ I178'13®1"8 Wa®.V61y Varclj mct with* 111 the American War it is in baffiv ?-4 J*? CCnt‘ 0f wounded. It generally occurred It wn/i ^t.a 0< I0S.1)I ;I S’ an< spread. rapidly from one patient to another. atmenrinop8 'iC|UMlfc m CafCS treated in tents, but occasionally it made its ST* the most favourable, hygienic conditions. These facts tend not univer nil ' "i". fclafc ffeimme erysipelas is due to a specific virus which is vol. 1 y present. In old hospital buildings in which the disease has