36° POISONED WOUNDS. as to arrest the circulation. Suction is commonly recommended, and would be almost instinctively practised; but it is not altogether devoid of danger, as there is reason to believe that inoculation may take place through the mucous membrane of the mouth, and would certainly occur if there were any crack or abrasiou. The only preventive means that can be trusted by a Surgeon, are excision and caustic. Excision of the part bitten should be carefully and freely performed, no half measures being had recourse to. Hence it is better to remove too much of a comparatively unimportant tissue or part, than to allow the sufferer to run any risk of falling a victim to the fatal disease. In order to excise every part that has been touched by the tooth, the Surgeon, after washing the wound and con- tiguous surface with strong carbolic-acid-lotion, should make a circle with ink, or tincture of iodine, completely round the injured part. He must then pass a probe to the bottom of the wound, and excise the whole by scooping out a conical piece of the tissues, taking care to go beyond the furthest limit to which the probe is passed. If there be any doubt of the removal of the whole of the injured parts, potassa fusa should be applied. If the lip be bitten through, a portion should be cut out, and the wound brought together, as in hare-lip operations ; if a finger be injured, it should be amputated. A\ hen the wound is so situated that excision cannot readily be performed, potassa fusa, or strong nitric acid, or nitrate of silver, as recommended by Youatt, should be freelj applied to every corner of it. Of these various caustics nitric acid is the best, as it penetrates most easily into all the crannies of the wound. If the v, ound have already cicatrized, the bitten part should be excised at any time after the injury, provided the dog is known to have been mad, or to have become so afterwards ; for it is not impossible that, in the cases in w hich the disease lias occurred at a remote period, it has been dependent upon, or connected w itli, some peculiar action set up in the wound, which might possibly be a veiled b) the removal of the cicatrix. I forbear to speak of any other means of constitutional pre\ enti\ e treatment, as I consider them utterly undeserving of confidence. After the disease has once set in, nothing can be done but to palliate symptoms and to prolong life. Every possible remedy that the ingenuity of man could devise, from warm water to viper- and ticuna-poison, has been tried, and been found utterly useless. But, although no treatment hitherto tried has been successful in cm mg, much may be done to mitigate the sufferings induced by this horrible disease. With this view, all source of external irritation, whether physical 01 mentu , should be removed. The patient should be placed in a darkened and noise- less room, and not subjected to the intrusive curiosity ol strangeis ; ant t it bed should be surrounded by gauze curtains or screens, so as to pievent tic disturbing influence even of a draught of cold air blowing on the sui ace. Chloroform may be administered by inhalation, or chloral injected su >eu- taneously in 10 to 15 grains doses every second or third hour, in order toca in the violence of the spasms and to procure sleep, but care must lie taken not to push it too far lest coma result. The hot air or vapour bath often affords great temporary relief, am diminishes in a marked manner the violence of the spasms. , The subcutaneous injection of curare has been strongly recommendci ) some, and doubtful cases of cure by its means reported. 1 he dose is from c