26S TIIE PROCESS OF REPAIR CHAPTER VII. THE PROCESS OF REPAIR. Having, in the preceding chapters, described certain pathological con- ditions in which interference with normal nutrition and destruction of tissue form the most prominent features, we have now to give a summary of the pro- cesses by which repair takes place. It will be most convenient to consider repair, firstly, as it is seen in the process of union of a simple wound, the surfaces of which can be brought accurately in contact with each other ; and, secondly, as it takes place in wounds in which the loss of substance renders this impossible, or in which the injury is such that an adherent portion of dead tissue must be cast oft before any repair cun take place. Five different modes of repair have been described as occurring in the union of incised wounds. 1. Immediate union or direct growing together of the opposed surfaces. 2. Union by primary adhesion, through the medium of a coagulable exudation from the opposed surfaces. 8. Scabbing, in which one of the above processes occurs beneath a scab formed of the dried dis- charges. 4. By granulation, in which granulation-tissue springs up from the bottom and sides of the wound, and eventually becomes covered by an epithelial layer ; and 5. By secondary adhesion, in which two granulating surfaces, being placed in contact, grow together. The two first of these methods of repair are included under the term “ union by the first intention,” and are confined to incised and punctured wounds. The third is in reality merely an accidental condition attending union by the first intention. The last two may occur in incised wounds if union by first intention fail, and a^e the only means by which contused and lacerated wounds, with some rare exceptions, have been known to heal. 1. Immediate Union.—The direct growing together of opposite surfaces, “ without any intervening substance, such as blood or lymph,” was first described by James Macartney, of Dublin, in the year 1838. He was led to the opinion that such a process occurred by the observation of cases in vine i all the coarser signs of inflammation, redness, swelling, heat, and pain, with exudation, were wanting. John Hunter had believed that the bond of union in such cases was the extravasated blood. He thus described the process as he believed it to occur. “The mouths of the vessels are soon shut, either by inosculation, or their own power of contraction,” “ and if there should ic any superfluous extravasated blood, we know that it will be afterwards absoi >ci. The blood being alive, this uniting medium becomes immediately a part of om- selves, and the parts not being offended by it, no irritation is produced. 1 he red particles are absorbed, and nothing but the coagulating lymph is retained, which being the true living bond of union, afterwards becomes vascular. The means of observation in the time of John Hunter were inferior to those of Macartney, yet there seems little doubt that his description, erroneous as it