INJURIES OF THE HEAD. 726 from the scrum of the hlood ; tor it contains a meie trace of albumen aud double the quantity of chloride of sodium. By others it has been supposed that the fluid is furnished by the internal ear, being a continuous discharge of the liquor Cotunnii ; but its large quantity, and, above all, the tact of its occasionally escaping through the nose, demonstrate the fallacy of this explanation. Again it has been supposed, but without sufficient evidence, that the cavity of the arachnoid furnishes this secretion. But the arachnoid does not secrete sufficiently to furnish the quantity of fluid discharged ; and if this membrane were irritated and the secretion increased, it would become opaque from lymph or pus admixed with it. I think, with Bobert, that there can be no doubt that this discharge, in most cases at least, is cerebro-spinal fluid; for not only is it, in appearance and chemical composition, identical with this liquid but there is no other source within the skull than the pia mater which can yield with equal rapidity so large a quantity of fluid ; experiments on animals having shown that the cerebro-spinal fluid is rapidly reproduced after its evacuation. An additional proof of the identity of this discharge with the cerebro-spinal fluid is to be found in the fact pointed out by C Bernard, that they both contain a trace of sugar. In order that the fluid be dis- charged, the membranes of the brain must have been torn opposite the outlet by which it is poured forth, in such a way as to open up the sub-arachnoid snace This has actually been ascertained to be the case, by carefully con- ducted dissections. When it is discharged through the ear, the laceration, as Berard has remarked, must have extended through the cul-de-sac of the arachnoid, which is prolonged around the auditory nerve in the internal audi- tory canal When it is poured out through the nose, the fracture has pi obably extended through the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone and laid open the prolongation of arachnoid that surrounds the filaments of the olfactory nerve. The diagnostic value of watery discharge from the ear varies, according Sir Prescott Hewett, with its relation to the haemorrhage which may occur. He divides cases of watery discharge from the ear after injuries of the head m thefii^class, the discharge is watery from the first and abimdant being preceded by little or no blood, and beginning immediately after the accident. This is undoubtedly cerebro-spinal fluid, which escapes through a fracture ot the netrous bone implicating the internal auditory cana • iZteZoni class, these is copious and prolonged bleedrng from the ear, followed by the watery discharge. Here, too, there is fracture of th pe bone! but its exact situation is uncertain. In these cases, the diagnosis will rest upon the prolonged haemorrhage, rather than on the watery disc^ai- . In the third class, there is but little bleeding after the injury, and thewa J discharge, which is variable in quantity, varies also in the time ofit*' In these cases the diagnosis must remain doubtful. He menti11 which occurred at St. George’s Hospital in which a copious watery due . = flowed from the ear. In neither of these after death was any fcwtoeo Sous Portion of the temporal bone found. In one the membrana was ruptured, aud the cavity of the jaw fbp other “the discharge was connected with a fracture 01 cne J below the condyle: the lower fragment had perforated the wall of the nerve may he so injured by a fracture of the petrous portion of