MODES OF UNION OF FRACTURED FAT ELLA. 609 apposition. In the majority of cases of transverse fracture, the fragments remain separated by an interval varying from one-fourth of an inch to an inch ; hut in some instances the gap is much greater, amounting even to four 01 live inches. When the separation does not exceed an inch and a half, the gap is usually filled up by ligamentous tissue, uniting the fragments firmly. In some of the cases, however, in which the separation between the fragments does not exceed this distance, and in most of those in which it extends beyond it, W. Adams has found that the fracture is not united by any newly-formed fibrous tissue, but that the fragments are bound together simply by the thickened fascia which passes over the patella, with which is incorporated the bursa patellae. Adams finds that the aponeurotic structure thus uniting the fragments may be arranged in different ways. Thus it may be ad- herent to the anterior pe- riosteal surface of both frag- ments ; or the connecting aponeurosis may be reflected over, and be adherent to, both the fractured surfaces ; or, lastly, (and this is the most frequent arrangement,) the connecting aponeurosis may pass from the periosteal surface of the upper fragment to the fractured surface of the lower one, to which it becomes closely and firmly united. In the majority of cases, when united by aponeurotic tissue, the fragments gape somewhat towards the skin, coming into better contact posteriorly. Thus it would appear that a patella fractured transversely may unite in two ways ; most frequently by the intervention of thickened aponeurotic structure, and next, by a ligamentous or fibrous band. Of 31 specimens in the London museums, examined by Adams, it was found that in 15 aponeurotic union had taken place, in 12 ligamentous union, and in the remaining 4 the kind of union could not be determined. The aponeurotic union always leaves a weakened limb and an unprotected joint; for, in consequence of the separation of the fragments, and the folding- in of the fascia, the fingers can be thrust in between the articular surfaces of the knee. 1 1 Fig. 244.— Fractured Pa- tella : Side view of Limb, straight. Fig. 245.—Fracture of Patella : Separation between Fragments increased by bending the Knee. Treatment.—In many cases of fractured patella, there is rather severe inflammation of the knee, with great synovial effusion. This requires to be reduced by rest and the application of evaporating lotions, before any other treatment can be adopted. If the effusion be very abundant, the treatment ' raay l3e hastened by removing it with an aspirator. If the instrument be thoroughly washed with carbolic acid lotion (1 in 20) before being- used, there 18 I*0 danger in the operation. When the fluid has been removed or ab- sorbed, means must be taken for the union of the fragments ; with this view, t e principal point to be attended to is, to keep them in sufficiently close ' apposition for firm ligamentous union to take place. The upper fragment, " lc 118 movahle, and has been retracted by the extensor muscles of the thigh,