INJURIES OF THE SPINE. 772 of flushing of the face, apparently clue to lesion of the sympathetic and dis- turbance of its vaso-motor action. In all cases of concussion of the spinal cord, followed by secondary con- sequences, it will be found that the brain participates, after a time, in the general disturbance of tbc nervous system. The thoughts are confused. The patient cannot concentrate his ideas so as to carry out a connected line of reasoning ; he attempts to read, but is obliged to lay aside the book or paper after a few minutes’ attempt at perusal. All business-aptitude is lost; partly from impairment of memory, partly from confusion of thought and inability to concentrate ideas for a sufficient length of time. The temper often becomes changed for the worse, the patient being fretful, irritable, and in some way—difficult perhaps to define, but easily appreciated by those around him—altered in character. The sleep) is disturbed, restless, and broken. The patient wakes up in sudden alarm ; dreams much ; the dreams are distressing and horrible. The head is usually of its natural temperature, but sometimes hot. The patient complains of various uneasy sensations in it ; of pain, tension, weight, or throbbing ; of giddiness ; of a confused or strained feeling in it; and fre- quently of loud and incessant noises, described as roaring, rushing, ringing, singing, sawing, rumbling, or thundering. These noises vary in intensity at different periods of the day ; but, if once they occur, they are never entiiely absent, and are a source of great distress. The organs of special sense usually become more or less seriously affected, being sometimes over-sensitive and irritable, whilst at others then functions are impaired or perverted. In many cases we find a combination of all these conditions in the same organ. Vision may be affected in various ways and in very different degrees. These affections of the eye are so characteristic and important that they will be described separately further on. The hearing may be variously affected. Not only does the patient common \ complain of the noises in the head and ears that have already been described, but the ears, like the eyes, may be over-sensitive or too cliff 1. One ear is frequently over-sensitive, whilst the other is less acute than it was bcfoic t ic accident. Loud and sudden noises are peculiarly distressing to these patients. Taste and smell are sometimes, but more rarely, perverted. The sense of touch is impaired. The patient cannot pick up a pm, cannot button his dress, cannot feel the difference between different textures, as c ° 1 and velvet. He loses the sense of weight, and cannot tell, for instance, udiether a sovereign or a shilling is balanced on his finger. Speech is rarely aflec The attitude is stiff and unbending. The patient holds himself yeiy erec , usually walks straight forwards, as if afraid or unable to turn to eit ici si e. The movements of the head or trunk, or both, do not possess thcii natura r°. dom. There may be pain or difficulty in moving the head in t ic an c posterior direction, or in rotating it; or all movements may be attcuc cc 'so much pain and difficulty that the patient is afraid to attempt them, am keeps the head in an attitude of immobility. The movements of m •ire often equally restrained, especially in the lumbar region. - ZIZciLJs, or sideways, is painful, difficult and maybe■»*-*£ flexion backwards is usually most complained of. If the P»tient to stoop and pick anything off the ground, he will not be able to do*, ^ tile usual way, but bends down on the knee and so leaches t -