418 ARREST OF ARTERIAL IIyEMORRUAGE. the new tissue closing the vessel. There are two sources of (lunger m , connection with the coming away of the ligature; either the sloughing may he too extensive, or the ulceration through the artery may take place before the reparative material within is sufficiently firm. Too extensive sloughing may arise when the artery is tied in its continuity, from the vessel having been separated from its sheath to too great an. extent during the dissection required to expose it, and its nutrient vessels being consequently divided in great numbers, so as to deprive that portion of the coats of the vessel of i s vascular supply ; hence the danger of passing a spatula, director 01 the handle of a scalpel under the artery, and also of applying several ligatures or a single wide ligature. When the artery has been divided, sloughing is most commonly the result of unhealthy septic processes going on “ fche wound, especially if the artery have been cut long, so that lts fr"e e^18 bathed in the decomposing discharges. Premature ulceration of the vessel may occur from the use of too thick a ligature whicib ^ befwe stol^by causino- greater irritation, hastens the process of separation; fiom excessive degeneration or inflammatory softening of the or from unhealthy processes occurring in the wound, especially the presence through that portion of the artery which is included in its noose, it becomes loosened andjhSS t”e, ol ’mnsoidar substance. In order to hasten the cases, moderate traction and occasional twisting of the hsa 3 rLJetohS first, those igl * a gradual process of ulceration, and the wound during £e ;;Cc°ess''It Sng"her to ZSn permanently encapsuled or to be absorbed* nivenr'hnWp Ho’nturGS were rc-iutio* 1. Until about fifteen years ago when of wounds, the dneed into practice in connection with the m rmoveifl.m m vast majority of Surgeons made use of J of ulceration- The wound after having cut Ihrmghm art^U by 1 /dentist’s silk” or material commonly employed with this object^ ^ ^ ^ ; compressed whip-cord well waxe . o t01.,s are slippery with first, to make it more easy to tie when 1 gU incr after it has been blood ; secondly, to prevent the danger of ^le ^So?bent, and thus to tied; and thirdly, to rendci 1 as . « . needlessly irritating. In X^e—. “ “ “ *** iS b“