WORKS ON MEDICINE, SURGERY &c. 4 A DICTIONARY OF MEDICINE ; Including General Pathology, General Therapeutics, Hygiene, and the Diseases peculiar to Women and Children. By Various Writers. Edited by Richard Quain, M.D., F.R.S., Fellow of the Royal College of Physicians, Consulting Physician to the Hospital for Consumption, Brompton. Eighth Thousand ; pp. 1,836, with 138 Illustrations engraved on wood. 1 Vol., Medium 8vo, price 311. 6d. cloth, or 401. half-russia. To be had also in Two Volumes, price 341. cloth. special treatises would, for most of the purposes of daily practice, be less useful because less com- pact and less easy of reference."—Practitioner. j “No dictionary of medicine so compendious, j and at the same time so authoritative, has yet appeared in any language.. One hundred and sixty writers contribute an immense number of articles, varying in length from a column or less to thirty pages.”—Quarterly Reviejv. 1 ‘ To those who know something of the enor- mous bulk of even current medicaMiterature, the comprehensive survey of the “mystery’ afforded by this volume will appear a marvel of informed and patient industry’. The compres- sion of matter has of necessity been great, but so judiciously has it been effected, that concise- ness does not seem anywhere to have been purchased at the expense of clearness and intelligibility.”—Spectator. THE SENSES AND THE INTELLECT. By Alexander Bain, LL.D., Professor of Logic in the University of Aberdeen. Third Edition, with numerous Emendations, and a Review o Darwin on Expression as a Postscript. 8vo, price 15L npHE EMOTIONS AND THE WILL. ** By the same Author. Third Edition, thoroughly revised, and in great part re-written. 8vo, price 15*. “ Dr. Quatn’s Dictionary stands alone in the great world of literature, and will for many years mark an epoch in the medical literature of the nineteenth century. We do not believe that anything comparable to it has previously existed."—Pharmaceutical Journal. “ Should it be thought that in our notices of Quain’s Dictionary of Medicine we have be- stowed indiscriminate praise upon it, we can confidently refer to the work itself for our justification. It is distinctly what German writers call an epoch-making work, and we are pleased to hear that already it has proved its position.”—Medical Times & Gazette. “ For years to come Quain’s Dictionary will be a classical work of reference; and we only do our plain duty in commending it to the notice of all practitioners. There is no other single volume that can take its place ; and a shelf full of MENTAL AND MORAL SCIENCE: W-t A Compendium of Psychology and Ethics. By the same Author, bourt Edition. Crown 8vo, price ios. 6d. T OGIC, DEDUCTIVE AND INDUCTIVE. By the same Author. In Two Parts, crown Svo, price ior. 6a. Lac Part may be had separately :— Part I., Deduction, price 41-. ; Part II., Induction, price 6s. 6d. QUTLINES OF PSYCHOLOGY, ^ With special reference to the Theory of Education. By James ^u''LY’ M.A., Examiner for the Moral Sciences Tripos in the University 01 Lam bridge ; Examiner in Philosophy in the Victoria University ; late Exammei in Mental and Moral Science in the University of London; Author o “ Sensation and Intuition,” &c. Svo, price 12s. 6d. r-pHE GOLD-HEADED CANE. Edited by William Munk, M.D., F.S.A., Fellow and late Senior Censor of the Royal College of Physicians. Crown Svo, price 7s. 6d. This volume contains memoirs of the most famous London I hysicians of the 18th and 19th centuries, their peculiarities, fees, journeys, income, &c. See.