SPEC IA L DISLOCA TION; S'. 6S6 the fracture be high up, near or at the neck, the patient should be put under chloroform, and an attempt then made by pressure on the dislocated head and by manipulation to replace it. It is possible that this might be effected, as in ' similar injuries of the humerus, with comparatively little trouble. Should reduction in this way not be practicable, we may adopt the plan successfully employed by Badley, who, in a lad of eighteen, with dislocation on the dorsum ilii, and fracture of the displaced bone, allowed union of the fracture to take place, and then, at the end of live weeks, effected reduction. Simultaneous Dislocation of both Hips, perhaps in different directions, or of one hip with fracture of the opposite thigh-bone, has been met with in some rare instances. Congenital Dislocation of the hip is by no means rare ; it occurs most frequently in girls, and may affect either one hip or both. The dislocation is almost invariably on the dorsum ilii, though other varieties have been met with. When it is double, the deformity being symmetrical, is seldom recognized till the child begins to walk. The signs of the affection are in most cases clearly marked. The situation of the heads of the bones behind their natural position causes the pelvis when the patient is erect to be tilted forwards, carrying with it the last lumbar vertebra ; to compensate for this there is a curve backwards in the upper lumbar and lower dorsal vertebras. Thus the lumbar spine forms a very extreme curve, with its convexity for- wards (lordosis) ; the trochanter is approached to the anterior superior spine of the ilium, and the head of the bone may be seen on the dorsum ilii; the thigh seems shortened and is more or less adducted, and the toes may be straight or directed inwards ; the patient walks fairly well, but with a peculiar rolling motion. Little can be done in the way of treatment, though much has been recommended. If the patient walks well, nothing is needed ; bat in some cases a properly constructed support gives relief and increased steadiness. The best apparatus is a firm, web-padded, metal belt, to encircle the pelvis between the trochanter and the crest of the spine. On each side of this is fixed a carefully moulded cap of thick leather to fit the displaced head and trochanter ; from the belt opposite the cap a steel rod may reach up to the arm-pit on each side, ending in a crutch to take a part of the weight of the body, and a properly fitted pair of stays attached to the rod will also tend to support the trunk. The object of the apparatus is to throw a certain part of the weight of the upper portion of the body directly on the displaced heads of the bones. The belt should be fitted to the child while it is lying down and some forcible extension is being made to the limbs so as to increase the space between the trochanter and the crest of the ilium as much as possible, and if accurately made will tend to maintain this in the erect position. Dislocations of the Patella are not frequently met with. They may, however, occur in four directions, viz., outwards, inwards, edgewise or vertically, and upwards. 1. The dislocation Outwards is the most common variety of the accident; the bone being thrown upon the outer side of the external condyle of the femur, with its axis directed somewhat backwards aud downwards, so that the inner margin is directed forwards. The knee is flattened in front, and is broader than usual; the patella can be felt in its new situation, and the muscles that form the quadriceps extensor are rendered tense, more especially the vastus interims ; the leg is sometimes extended, but more frequently the