701 C E RE BRA L IR RITA TION—LA GERA TION. state of general flexion. The body is bent forwards, the knees are drawn up on the abdomen, the legs bent, the arms flexed, and the hands diawn in. He does not lie motionless, but is restless, and often, when irritated, tosses himself about. But, however restless he may be, he never stretches himself out nor assumes the supine position, but invariably maintains an attitude of flexion. The eyelids are firmly closed, and he resists violently every effort made to open them; if this be effected, the pupils will be found to be contracted. The surface is pale and cool, or even cold. There is no heat of head. The pulse is small, feeble, and slow, seldom above 70. The sphincters are not usually affected, and the patient will pass urine, when the bladder requires to be emptied ; there may, however, though rarely, be retention. The Mental state is equally peculiar. Irritability of mind is the prevail- ing characteristic. The patient is unconscious, takes no heed of what passes, unless called to in a loud tone of voice, when he shows signs of irritability of temper or frowns, turns away hastily, mutters indistinctly, and grinds his teeth. (It appeal's as if the temper, as much as or more than the intellect, were affected in this condition. He sleeps without stertor. The course taken by these symptoms is as follows. After a period varying from one week to three, the pulse improves in tone, the temperature of the body increases, the tendency to flexion subsides, and the patient lies stretched out. The mental state also changes. Irritability gives way to fatuity; there is less manifestation of temper, but more weakness of mind. Recovery is slow, but, though delayed, may at length be perfect; although in these, as in all other cases of cerebral disturbance, ulterior consequences may be manifested. This form of cerebral disturbance may, from the peculiar irritability that characterizes it, be with propriety termed cerebral irritation. The symptoms that have just been described usually follow blows upon the temple or forehead, and probably in many cases may arise from, or are associated Avith, lacerations of the cerebral substance, more especially of the grey matter. Contusion or Laceration of the Brain.—The substance of the brain is very frequently contused or lacerated by blows upon the head. The degree of injury varies from a mere superficial bruising indicated merely by a few dotted points of extravasated blood in the grey matter, to extensive disintegra- tion of the brain-substance over an area of the size of half-a-crown or larger, in winch the broken down brain-tissue is indistinguishably mixed up ivitk blood- clots. Laceration of the brain is fully described under Wounds and Injuries of the Brain Substance, p. 739. It is sufficient here to say that the symptoms to which it gives rise are very various according to the part iujured and the extent of the injury. More or less contusion or laceration of ’the brain sub- stance is probably an invariable accompaniment of all those cases which we speak of clinically as severe concussion of the brain, and more especially of those which are followed by some definite impairment of one or more of the centra functions. The haemorrhage from the torn brain substance is one of the most frequent causes of compression, and cerebral irritation may be always e. as indicative of actual injury of the cortical tissue. Laceration of ie Ham, \a 1L1 arachnoid haemorrhage consequent upon it, or with secondary in- ainma ory c langes round the injured spot, is one of the most frequent causes