PRIMARY AMPUTATION IN BURNS. 3S3 to restore the mobility of the jaw and the power of separating the teeth in these cases, Rizzoli and Esmarch have proposed making a false joint in the lower jaw on the side burnt, immediately in front of the cicatrix. Rizzoli does this by simple division of the bone by means of a narrow saw : Esmarch recommends, as a more effectual procedure, the removal of a wedge-shaped piece of bone about three-quarters of an inch in width above and one inch in width below. After this has been done, the patient 'will be able to move the jaw at the normal articulation on the healthy side and at the false joint where the jaw has been cut across. Warty Cicatrices.—The cicatrices of burns, especially on the neck and chest, occasionally become after a time projecting, red, and glazed, as if composed of a mass of fun gating granulations, smoothed down and lightly skinned over. This condition, which may be looked on as a substantive disease, and resembles keloid in appearance, has been met with chiefly in children ; but I have several times seen it in adults, especially in women who had been badly burnt by their dresses taking fire. In these cases I observed what I have noted in other similar instances in children ; that the warty cicatrices were the seat of the most intolerable itching, which no external application seemed to relieve. I have, however, seen the pruritus mitigated by the administration of large doses of liquor potassae. If small and narrow, these cicatrices may be dissected out : if large, they cannot be removed without risk of much haemorrhage, for, although fibroid, they are very vascular. The cause of this peculiar outgrowth of dense cicatricial tissue is altogether unknown. It may in some cases, perhaps, be owing to want of care in checking the luxuriance of the granulations ; but in other cases it occurs though every attention is paid to the healing of the wound. The scars of burns or scalds form the most common seat of this “ false ” keloid. The cicatrix of a burn may become the seat of a malignant growth many years afterwards. I have removed a large epithelioma from the cicatrix of a burn, on the fore-arm of a woman, seventy years after the injury had been inflicted, which happened when she was three or four years of age.' Primary Amputation may be required if the burn have destroyed the whole thickness of a limb ; the part charred should then be removed at once, at the most convenient point above the seat of injury. This operation may* be re- quired also at a later period, if, on the separation of the eschars, it be found that a large joint has been opened, and is suppurating ; or if the disorganization of the limb be so great as to exhaust the powers of the patient in the efforts at repair. Great caution, however, should be employed in determining on the propriety of primary amputation when the burn has extended, though in a minor degree, to other parts of the body, lest the powers of the patient be insufficient for the double call that will thus be made upon them. FROST-BITE. When the body has been exposed to severe or long-continued cold, we find, as in the case of burns, that local and constitutional effects arc produced, o,In*luence of Cold. This is manifested chiefly on the extremities e ocy, as the nose, ears, chin, hands, and feet, where the circulation is cssac; no turn at the more central parts. It occurs to an injurious degree 110 ^ 111 very )oung or aged persons, or in those whose constitutions have