6o AMPUTATIONS. fatty degeneration, the retraction caused hy their tonic contraction is absent, j so that the minimum covering of a diameter and a half is amply sufficient. : In the lower third of the thigh the covering should always he increased to two | diameters to allow for the very excessive retraction of the long flexor muscles of the leg. In amputation of the leg by the long calf-flap, it is also necessary to provide very abundant covering to allow for the subsequent shrinking of the muscular tissue which forms the posterior flap. 2. That the scar shall not bn over the end op the bone.—It is evident in the first place that protrusion of the bone is more likely to occur if the two flaps in a flap amputation meet exactly over its end ; but the chief object in placing the scar so that it shall be free from the bone is to avoid a painful stump. If the scar in the skin is adherent to the bone it becomes extremely liable to ulceration from slight injuries. If the scar be placed well away from the bone, it is often possible in amputations of the lower limb for the patient to bear a certain proportion of his weight on the end of the stump, which gives greatly increased steadiness in walking on an artificial limb. 3. That a dependent opening- is to be provided for the exit of discharge.—May be stated in other words thus: that the covering of the stump shall be taken chiefly from the dorsal surface of the fore-arm, and from the anterior part of the limb elsewhere. Perfect drainage is absolutely essential for union of any wound by first intention, and consequently it is needless to point out the importance of so arranging the covering that the force of gravity shah aid, and not oppose, the escape of discharges. In exceptional cases, such as in some of the amputations in the foot, the advantages of the flap taken from the heel or sole in providing a covering upon which the patient can bear his whole weight are sufficient to counter-balance the difficulty of drainage that sometimes is met with in these operations. If the covering be taken chiefly from the front of the limb, it is evident that not only will gravity aid in draining the wound, but also that it will tend to keep the longer flap in its position. If the covering be taken chiefly from behind, as in the transfixion-amputation in the leg, the tendency of the heavy muscular flap to fall backwards can be counteracted only by fixing it to the anterior by sutures or strapping ; tension of the short flap is produced and it may slough over the hone ; any insufficiency in external support allows the posterior flap to fall away, fluids bag in the gap, and speedy union is impossible. 4. That these advantages are to be gained with the smallest possible SACRIFICE OF the length of the limb.—Experience has shown conclusively that the danger of an amputation increases as the point at which the bone is sawn approaches the trunk. ISTo fact in surgery is more con- clusively proved than this. It is evident that the bone can be sawn at the lowest possible point if the covering is taken equally from the two sides. To take as an example a limb the antero-posterior diameter of which is six inches, and which consequently requires nine inches at least of covering to form a good stump, and supposing the nature of the case made it impossible to obtain covering from a point lower than the end of the bone to be sawn through, if it is to be taken equally from the two sides, the bone would be sawn four-and-a-half inches above its lower end ; if from one side only, nine inches. If, however, the anterior flap was five-and-a-half inches long and the posterior three-and-a-half, the advantages of a dependent opening and a scar removed from pressure could l>c obtained with the sacrifice of only one inch