SCALP-WOUNDS—SUBAPONEUROTIG SUPPURATION. 715 after shaving the head and ligaturing any bleeding vessels, to wash and clean it thoroughly, and replace it in its proper position. Here it must lie retained by the support of a few strips of plaster, or by the application of a suture or , two at the points of greatest traction : for this purpose, thick silver-wire is ; better than silk or thread. The use of sutures has been deprecated by many - Surgeons in injuries of the scalp, as tending to favour erysipelas; un- i doubtedly, much mischief will arise if an attempt be made to stitch up the i wound closely, and in small wounds sutures are generally unnecessary. But in j extensive lacerations, more particularly of the anterior part of the scalp, where the soft parts are stripped off, and hang over the occiput as the patient lies down, they cannot be dispensed with ; and here I have never seen any but the , best consequences follow their use at those points where the torn surfaces ; can be readily approximated. In cases of this kind, the under surface of the scalp granulates, and union by the second intention takes place between it and the pericranium. In the majority of cases, dry dressings will be :• found most efficient. Pads of iodoform-wool, salicylic wool or silk, or some other dry absorbent antiseptic preparation, may be applied, and secured with a bandage, so as to exert a gentle elastic pressure and to retain the separated parts in apposition and at perfect rest, while at the same time the accumula- tion of discharges is prevented. Such a dressing may frequently be left un- touched for a week or ten days, at the end of which time union will be perfect. The indications for removing it earlier are an offensive smell of putrefaction, a rise of temperature, pain, or a puffy swelling of the scalp beyond the : dressing. The patient should be freely purged, and kept perfectly at rest on a rather low diet; any cerebral symptoms that occur being treated in accordance with the principles laid down in discussing traumatic affections of the brain. In this way, union will very probably take place through the greater portion of the injured surface ; should it not do so, however, or should any part slough, granulations spring up, and repair goes on with surprising rapidity. If pus form beneath the aponeurosis of the occipito-frontalis muscle, bagging- must be prevented by early counter-openings, and by the employment of com- pression in proper directions. It is important to make the diagnosis between erysipelas of and diffuse I ■ suppuration under the scalp. This may, as a rule, be done by observing that in erysipelas the red tumefaction of the scalp extends from the margins of the wound, and early stretches beyond the true limits of the pericranium, invading : the eyelids, attacking the ears, and extending to the face and neck; whilst in i suppuration beneath the pericranial aponeurosis the mischief is limited by the ‘ attachment of that membrane. The pericranial aponeurosis or tendon of i the occipito-frontalis muscle is firmly attached to the fat and fascia super- i ficial to it, whilst it is connected in the loosest manner possible with the I parts underneath. This arrangement is often of great service in protecting j skull from fracture, especially when the head is caught between two solid I odies, as, for example, the wheel of a cart and the ground; the scalp is | then torn off and the head slips away, thus escaping further injury. In ; suppuration occurring under the tendon of the occipito-frontalis, the pus ; giavitates to the most dependent parts until arrested by the attachments of the aponeurosis. These attachments are as follow Posteriorly, the fleshy I Je les and tendon are attached to the superior curved line of the occipital | °ne, and to mastoid process along line of insertion of stcrno-mastoid.