UNION BY THE FIRST INTENTION. 269 is, contained far more truth than that of the later observer. During the hist fifteen or twenty years the means of studying such processes have been greatly improved ; and there can now be no doubt that such a mode of union as that described by Macartney never takes place. It is impossible to make a wound in any vascular part without sufficiently damaging the tissues to cause a coagulable exudation to take place, which, mixed with wandering cells, forms the first bond of union between the opposed surfaces. The quantity of this exudation may, however, be so small that it can be recognized only in micro- scopic preparations, cut, stained, and mounted, according to the modem methods; and it is not surprising, therefore, that it escaped the notice of former pathologists. -• Union Primary adhesion (Paget), primary union, union by adhesive inflammation (Hunter), or, as it is more commonly called Union by the First Intention, is that form of union which occurs without the formation of pus, and in which the accompanying inflammation is purely traumatic, being strictly limited to the tissues directly injured in the pro duct ion of the wound. It is the form of union which the Surgeon aims at obtaining m all wounds unaccompanied by extensive loss of substance, or by such a degree of injury of the surface as to cause sloughing In order that primary union should take place, the following conditions are necessary : 1 That the wound be not contused or lacerated to such a decree as to cause visible sloughing of the surfaces. 2. That the patient’s constitu- ent 111 a “hyS?atG- 8> ^bafc the interposition of all foreign bodies be foi the effusion of healthy plastic exudation, or to make it snread 1 ' area actually injured by the knife 1 beyond the to damage the exposed to give rise to the process of inflammation. Here and cells or microscopic layers of Hrwp if- n. „ , , , , theie 111 individual sufficient to cause actual death In the whole o/tho^ 6 the daran®e is wound the vitality is lowered to a rloo-m « lmmedlafce surface of the diately beyond thiswe find retarded flow^vith elmS ff™ StasiS; imme' migration of the white corpuscles and lK.vnlm ?, °f !lcluor sanguinis and vascular dilatation—the degree of damn • m again is an area of simple from the parts directly touched by dl™hing as we recede the layer of tissue thus in wf \Z“f^'^rmncnt. The thickness of instrument with which the wound V ai 1 ■' Vflly v 1 th the sharpness of the the amount the °n*inal vifca% of the tissues, cold air, and the nature^0fl ,1T WTld’ the time of exposure to but in most cases of cleanlv ieinica ant(septic that may be applied to it ; -Tic. This lfc 18 in aU ?r0babilifcy micro- °f tissue before alluded to merely / ' 3 1S’ cxccl)fcthe microscopic shreds to, merely temporary, and, if no further cause of