CONTUSION OF THE ' LUNG. 829 CHAPTER XXVIIL INJURIES OF THE CHEST. Wounds of the Chest-Walls are not of such frequent occurrence now as formerly in the days of duelling. The soft tissues may, however, be con- tused, torn, or cut. The thoracic muscles, especially the pectorals, are some- times ruptured by force applied to the arms when abducted or raised above the head. The great pectoral muscle has been torn in a boy who attempted to drop from hand to hand three rungs of a ladder at a time. Extravasation of blood, and even inflammation and suppuration, may result from such injury. Subpectoral abscess may occur from injury of the pectoral muscles, or of the areolar tissue beneath them, or it may form without any apparent cause. The pus most be evacuated early. This may be done by making an incision through the skin and then tearing through the fibres of the muscles, after the manner recommended by Mr. Hilton for the emptying of sub-mus- cular or deep-seated abscesses. Wounds of the chest derive their principal interest and importance from the accompanying injury of the lungs, heart, or larger blood-vessels. When the soft parietes alone are wounded, the injury differs in nothing from similar- lesions in other parts of the body ; except that it is usually slower in healing, in consequence of the want of rest caused by the movements of respiration. This is especially the case when the muscular parietes are furrowed by bullets. If the Surgeon be in doubt whether the cavity of the chest have been pene- trated or not, he may endeavour to ascertain this point by careful examination with the finger, but he should never introduce a probe ; it is better for him to wait and to he guided in his opinion by the symptoms that manifest them- selves, rather than, by probing the wound, to run the risk of converting it into what he dreads—a penetrating wound of the chest. INJURIES OF THE LUNG. Contusion of the Lung without injury to the pleura covering it may happen from severe blows on the chest, as from falls from horseback or kicks on the side. It may be complicated with fracture of one or more ribs ; but this is not necessarily a concomitant of the injury. The symptoms are as follows. After the receipt of the blow, the patient is seized with difficulty in breathing, which is apt to become paroxysmal, so as to resemble asthma. There is expectoration, at first of mucus untinged with blood. On listening to the chest, coarse crepitation, with some dulness on percussion, will be found over the injured part of the lung. After some days, the patient coughs up a small quantity of dark, coagulated, viscid blood ; and the sputa may be tinged for some time afterwards. The dyspnoea and cough become much relieved, and recovery gradually takes place. It is probable that in these cases the lung is ecchvmoscd at the time of the m.jmy, and that the blood extravasated in its tissue gradually breaks down.