473 EFFECTS OF DIVISION OF NERVES. the most severe injuries, such ns compound dislocations and severe compound fractures. When paralysis and loss of sensation follow a severe subcutaneous injury, it is due to contusion, and possibly to rupture of some of the fibres, but the continuity of the nerve is never completely interrupted. Puncture.—If a nerve be punctured, unpleasant consequences sometimes result, more especially in delicate women. Not only does it happen, in such subjects, that the part below the puncture becomes the seat of various tingling, shooting, and burning pains, but the neuralgic condition appears to travel upwards along the proximal part of the nervous trunk. Thus, I have more than once seen a puncture of one of the digital branches of the ulnar nerve produce a kind of painful paralysis of its trunk, rendering the arm nearly useless. I have seen the same effects occur in the median nerve, from so slight a cause as the puncture of the finger by a needle. It occasionally happens in venesection at the bend of the arm, that a branch of the internal cutaneous nerve is pricked with the lancet, and that very persistent neuralgia occurs in consequence. Division.—Primary Effects.—When a nerve is completely cut across, or its conducting power in any way abolished, whether by contusion, compression, or laceration, prolonged paralysis of sensation or motion, or both, according as the nerve is sensory, motor, or compound, occurs in all the parts supplied by it. Consequently, if the integrity of the nerve be essential to life, as is that of the pneumogastric, death must ensue. When the nerve is partially divided, or bruised as well as severed, as in cases of gun-shot-injury, neuralgia in the parts supplied by it beyond, and sometimes also in those above, the injury, is associated with the paralytic symptoms. The patient complains of numbness or deadness in the parts supplied by it, and all tactile sensibility is lost; but vaiious anomalous painful sensations of a burning, tickling, tingling, or creeping kind are complained of. These sensations often give the idea of increased heat of the part to the patient, and are compared by him to the effect that would be produced by molten lead or boiling water running through it. But the sensation of heat is deceptive, for the part will be found on examination to be actually colder than natural. 1 lie Secondary Effects of division of a nerve differ according to the nature of the nerve divided. The section of a purely motor nerve, such as the facial, causes complete paralysis, with subsequent wasting and degeneration of the musdes supplied by it, but the nutrition of the superficial structures is not affected. The division of a purely sensory nerve, such as the fifth, com- pletely abolishes sensation in the area it supplies, but does not necessarily cause any serious disturbance of nutrition, although, from the loss of sensibility, the part is more exposed to suffer from injuries than a healthy one. Arloing haVG Sh°Wn by exPenment thafc iu the case of the division of a rate wiiT 4.v,en?°ly .neive> neighbouring cutaneous nerves which communi- so that e-i .^uma Punches. °f that divided, rapidly assume its functions, nerve ^ rG^um 1,1 a tew days without repair of the divided simnlinrl ti n • . ®10n of a compound nerve, the nutrition of the part than natural ^ThSfr*iJ7 ?f°dlfied' lfc becomes congested, bluish, and colder in a worn" i 8 <l ob temPei’ature is often very marked. Thus, I found the ulnar L,." Wna‘! uncb3r nW care tor a wound of the fore-arm, by which temnerifnr w m )een divided, that, twenty-one days after the injury, the temperatuie between the ring and the little finger of the injured side was