j6 general remarks on operations. severity. These various effects of shock have, however, been much lessened since anaesthetics have been generally administered in operative surgen. Anaesthesia, however, does not remove the physical impression produced on the system by a severe mutilation ; hence the influence ot a serious am nrolono-ed operation is still manifested in the production of shock, of collapse, La of°slow recovery, even though the patient have suffered no actual pain. Certain operations appear to exercise a peculiar, depressing effect on the nervous system, even though no pain be experienced. Thus, in castration, at the moment of the division of the spermatic cord, the pulse will smk markedl}, even though the patient have been fully anaesthetised. So much is this the case, that it is well at that moment to suspend the administration of the without any tangible local or constitutional disease is an occa- sional cause of death after severe operations; more particularly 111 d(j1c females in feeble or debilitated subjects, in those who have lost much blood, or who have become weakened by protracted suppuration A arge number of the deaths formerly recorded as due to exhaustion were doubtless the effect ot "uing Jm the absorption of putrid matter from unclean and may destroy the patient by inducing syncope that mav be immediately fatal; or by increasing the influence of the shock so J it he Lnnot rally ; or, by weakening him and lowering his vitality it may rendei Mm more lilble to be affected by unhealthy inflammations and septic ■nvnr'pssps which frequently terminate fatally. , p Dnriim the performance of an operation, htemorrhage should, as much as D Up he in-evented • the operation itself is a cause of depression, and any possible, be p ’iously aggravates this. It is in these secondary and great Mss J ^ of excessive haemorrhage lies. Blood is indirect effec *“^ losfc& it is not easily replaced, more especially m a very complex A , ^ of life> ifcs excessive loss may permanently advanced yea .. ‘ J 1 PoHpnts who have lost much blood make impair the nd “ “Lascs , and not uufre- 8l0W at the end of two or threl weeks, from some visceral complication, quently die at the end tban frora it8 immcdiately dangerous con- In fact, it s m y, . of Mood a(. m operation proves sequences, that the loss o o i'morrhage occurs a few hours, or a day injurious to the patient Whenhmmormg ^ impcrfcct ligature of the or two, after an operation, ‘ plr the settino-in of reaction, which had vessels, or from arteries blending rftei s“Xe“Xence of the shock of not furnished blood whilst the pa ten ‘ -t uofc ^frequently happens operation. On recovery from a'u^ little’or no blood whilst the patient that arteries begin to spout whrch yudde« «™ hxmonlu,ge is of far was in a state of anmsthesra In t* “‘when it occurs at a later period, in less moment, and less frequently ■ > ■ wound, and frequently in consequence of - £ gteXnfAive p— association with Mca i , fcj aftcr operations, except in the Gangrm is not a common cause of dea^mte ^P ^ .fc occurs in phagedenic form m P ^ mQsfc caseS)0f faulty hut prevent- civil hospital practiccit f ’ . in any institution is the direct mtSraXfS 'a conclusive proof of, neglected or defective sanitary