395 NATURAL ARREST OF HAEMORRHAGE. !Ifc was not until 180.~>, that Dr. Jones, by a series of admirably conducted investigations, finally determined the mode in which the arrest of haemorrhage takes place. Since his time but little has been added to our knowledge of the subject, so complete and exhaustive was his examination of it. The Natural Arrest of Arterial Haemorrhage is effected by means that in the first instance are temporary, but afterwards ■permanent. Temporary Means.—The means which ai’rest temporarily the flow of blood from an artery are threefold. If the vessel be small, as the facial or radial, these means are sufficient in many cases to stay the haemorrhage without the interference of the Surgeon ; and, whatever be the size of the vessel, his opera- tions are materially assisted by the efforts which nature makes, though they may be sometimes unsuccessful, to prevent a fatal escape of blood. They consist in : 1. The Coagulation of and an Alteration in the Constitution of the Blood ; 2. A Diminution of the Force of the Heart’s Action, and consequently of the pressure on the inner coat of the vessel ; 3. Certain Changes effected in and around the Artery. 1. The Coagulation of the Blood in and around the wounded artery is the most important means adopted by nature for the ai'rest of haemorrhage. Were it not for the property of coagulation possessed by the blood, that fluid would continue to drain away from any cut artery, however small, until life became extinct. But the coagulation of the blood is sufficient of itself in all aiteries below a certain size, to close the opening in the vessel, and so to arrest the further escape. The Alteration that takes place in the Blood, as was first ' flows °Ut ^ HeWS0U’ cousisfcs in an increase of its coagulability as it 2. The Diminution in the Force of the Heart’s Action, owing to the patient becoming faint, exercises a very material influence in arresting the . 0W of dlo°d from au ai'tery. The forcible manner in which the jet of blood is propelffd at each systole of the ventricle, is the principal obstacle to the matron of an adherent blood-clot around and within the cut vessel • for so S aLhe Jet 1S1m°re P°werful than the cohesion of the clot, it will certainly wash the coagulum away. As the blood flows, and the heart’s impulse gradually lessens m force, the jet falls lower and lower; until at last when omtTonT^r’l111SfT‘ entireIy a,Tested> and time is afforded for the ation and the deposit of a coagulum in the vicinity of the. wound The Jg" COnsectuent 011 excessive and sudden loss of blood may therefore be ooked upon as one of the provisions of nature for the safety of the mtient other w^ * n°fc bG t0° Speedily counteracted by stimulants or in any ftinJo rfb° Ckailfes tliat take Place in and around the Vessel itself are in the1Pi«S of' tl'ial ar °fithG bIee?ing is d°Pcudcnt- They consist cut ends and in the F V ”’,1 lts sdeath, in the Contraction of the interior.’ Formation of a Coagulum around its exterior, and in its diately to redact within d‘? lonS_ifclidinal elasticity causes it imme- narrowed by the rm>i- r %s fiea h> and at fche same time its orifice is consequence of the wn °f Fe muscular fibre-cells of the middle coat in retracts the in teiffi violence. As the artery n°l 0f the sheath « kft rough and uneven. Through this