LOCAL SIGNS OF INFLAMMATION. 177 If inflammation become chronic, the swelling may terminate in permanent hypertrophy, or thickening, as will hereafter be described. Swelling diminishes in most cases after death, by the emptying of the vessels, but never completely disappears, and is consequently an important post-mortem sign of inflammation. 3. Modification of Sensibility.—There is in inflammation always more or less pam, which is due partly to increased sensibility of the nerves but chiefly to the pressure and stretching exercised on their terminal branches by the dilated blood-vessels, and by the inflammatory exudation. . Thafc the Pressm'e of fche dilated blood-vessels really is a cause of the pain in inflammation is shown by the relief derived from the elevation of an inflamed part In inflammation of the testicle this is especially marked as the veins leadmgfrom that gland arc valveless, and in the erect position the weight of a column of blood, two feet or more in length, acts upon the vessels and tends 0 increase the intra-vascular pressure. We frequently find there- foie that the patient is absolutely free from pain while lying flat on his back • ad 1 rlSK “1° Ule ereCt P°Siti0a the sickening,’ acmng, and thiobbmg sensations return. In inflammation of organs of special sense, instead of actual pain there mav some alteration 111 the special nervous sensibility of the diseased organ When the eye is inflamed, subjective flashes of light may be seen Sienthe ear is diseased, there may be noises of various kinds. n inflammation of the bladder, there is a constant desire to exnel urine • ' pl'tZTSZ?\^tKctum’ aT are frequent attempts at pam is experienced in the . fi,„ , • n . eyblpeias ot the scalp, most than that of a conjunctiva simihrlv an3nflamed sclerotic is far greater pain can scarcelybesaM toIn some forms of inflammation destructive form • thus in certain ’inffrnS ?! dl®ea®e may assume the most of the peritoneum, there is little or none. ™ °1J atectl0ns of the throat aild mucous membranes SrTis often of'^frt'^ SGafc f iuflammafci°n- When conjunctivitis ; when the’serous mZ f ltcl?n? or burning character, as in is about to form ; sickening when h’ !n os^eitis; throbbing when pus is always increased by messm-e • 1 !° -,eS-1S 3S afl'ecfced. Inflammatory pain the part is said to be tender. This to'11 ■18 13roduccd principally by pressure, tic point of view • it mav lir. «r •*. 1 eilless 1S °f great service in a diagnos- squeezing an inflamed testis <- Zi & Z dlrecfc Pressurc upon the part, as by inflamed joint. In inflammd/" PPressing two surfaces together, as in an and Sbmm timm’ V0L- u ' ° k°tU 111 m’nd tdat inflammatory pain is often not confined