TREATMENT OF ASTHENIC CASES. 205 flannels and bags should be well covered with oiled silk or rubber cloth, so as to retain the heat, and to prevent evaporation. Spongio-piline may be used as a substitute for ordinary fomentations, in cases in which the surface is unbroken. Dry cotton-wool heated before a fire, applied warm, and covered with a large sheet of oiled silk, may sometimes be conveniently substituted for a fomentation. The watery vapour given off from the skin being enclosed by the oiled silk forms a sort of warm vapour bath for the affected part. Dry heat in the form of flannels, or bags of bran toasted before the fire or heated in an oven, are often convenient applications, especially for the head or abdomen. Belladonna, applied externally, exercises a very distinct and rapid con- trolling influence over superficial inflammations of an acute and spreading- character. It is supposed to act partly by causing contraction of the muscular coats of the small arteries by its direct action on the vaso-motor nerves, and partly by its sedative effect on the cutaneous sensory nerves, stimulation of which, as we have before seen, causes by reflex action a dilatation of the vessels in the area irritated. It is best applied as a paint composed of equal parts of the extract and of glycerine, which may be smeared on the inflamed part and covered by cotton-wool, or hot fomentations may be put on over it with the greatest advantage. There need be no fear of producing symptoms of bella- donna poisoning, even when large surfaces are painted with the extract and glycerine. I have frequently painted the whole arm in this way without any unpleasant effect; and the most I have ever noticed has been a little dryness of the throat after some days’ use of the drug. The belladonna and glycerine must be carefully kept out of the way of children, as its taste is not un- pleasant, and they are very likely to eat it by mistake for treacle. Two such cases have been lately admitted into University College Hospital both of which fortunately recovered. Position and Rest.—The inflamed part should when possible be placed in such a position as to facilitate the return of blood from it. Unless this be c one, the pain is greatly increased, and the congestion augmented. Hence ie part requires to be elevated to a level with, or above, the rest of the bodv. r ,m0tl°n1and !!se of the Part must likewise be interdicted, and, if necessary, lestiamed by splints or other appliances. cn^IleSeTareihe meET by Which acute’ acfcive inflammation is arrested and ' 11 t leu’ employment, we must endeavour to proportion the activitv seat md’Sb wgo® of tie patient, and to the the infhmmof ** °f fch° °.Ca dlsease 5 ancl must continue the treatment until , fl.ammatoiy process is not only arrested, but lias entirely subsided the part being restored to its ordinary healthy state. ’ ov“NT °F Acute ^ammation- with Constitutional Symptoms ties fioni thTeHcrG T.Y™r™S form of inflammation derives its peculiari- type^ulitL t^! he Eon8tlfcutional disturbance, rather than from the constitution i thc *.ocal f action. Hence it is in the management of treatment of 11'a C01nc itl0n tbak principal difference exists between the In consirim hlS f,Ud thafc of fche ofcher varieties of acute inflammation, the term “ anUmhi ^ 0Ur, sublect>ifc is of especial importance to banish motion! onfS f<Vhc "me !“fc that ™uId -rest inflam- m ol the disease, would certainly favour its progress in