POISONED WO UNDS. 352 to bo so virulent, that it will kill a full-grown man in less than a quarter of an hour. The rattle-snake, and the cobra di capello, will kill a small animal in the course of a few seconds ; and a man, bitten some years ago by a rattle- snake in Paris, died in nine hours ; the cobra-bite just related was fatal in little more than one hour; the Australian tiger-snake will kill in less than twenty-four hours. When the snake is less venomous and death is not speedy, the poison excites diffuse inflammation and suppuration of the areolar tissue of the limb bitten. This is a very common consequence of the bite of the viper in this country. It may occur also after bites by the larger ophidia. Thus, in the case which occurred in St. George’s Hospital, the patient died on the eighteenth day after the bite of the rattle-snake, with large abscesses in the arm and in the axilla, and with sloughing of the areolar tissue of the limb. The Symptoms occurring after a poisonous snake-bite consist in great depression and prostration of the system, a feeble and intermittent pulse, dilated pupils, usually slight delirium, indistinctness of speech, at times complete aphasia, speedy stupor, insensibility and death. The pain is burning and lancinating, whilst the part bitten swells and becomes livid in a few hours; and if the patient survive sufficiently long, diffuse inflammation and gangrene occur in its neighbourhood; involuntary evacuations take place ; the depression increases and may eventually terminate fatally, or end slowly, and after a lapse of time, in the recovery of the patient, whose health may long suffer seriously from the effects of the accident. Treatment.—This is local and general. The Local Treatment can be fulfilled with success only when the patient is seen immediately after the accident, as the absorption of the poison is very rapid. It presents two great indications ; 1, to prevent the absorption of the* poison into the system : and 2, to treat the diffuse inflammation and sloughing that may subsequently occur. The first indication may be fulfilled by tj ing a ligature so tightly round the limb at a little distance above the injvu’ed part, as to arrest all circulation through it. In this way the absorption of the poison may be prevented ; the wound should then be freely cauterized with a red-hot iron or cinder, or better still, excised, and a cupping-glass applied over the cut surface, so as to withdraw the blood hi the neighbourhood which may have become contaminated by the poison. If a cupping-glass be not at hand, or if the part bitten be so situated as not to admit of its application, there can be no objection to the employment of suction by the moutli after free excision ; the poison not being absorbed by an unbroken mucous membrane. In using suction, the mouth should be rinsed with brandy. A plan sometimes adopted when the bite is inflicted while shooting in India is to pinch the part up and cut it out at once and then to make a paste in the wound with blood and gun- powder and light it, by which the raw surface is effectually cauterized. With the view of lessening the swelling, tension, and pain of the limb, frictions v ith olive oil are said to be advantageous. After diffuse inflammation has set in, this must be treated on general principles—by fomentations and free incision. The Constitutional Treatment consists in the early and Iree administia- tion of the most powerful stimulants, with the view of combating the depression that exists. For this purpose brandy, wine, ammonia, or ether must be freely ..•ivcn The cent de luce—which enjoys a high reputation in some tropical countries—owes its efficacy to the ammonia which it contains. Should diowsi-