23 ADMINISTRATION OF CHLOROFORM. ■wall. Whilst under the influence of chloroform the patient should never be raised up, as has just been stated ; for, as this agent exercises a powerful sedative action on the heart, sudden and perhaps fatal syncope may ensue from putting the patient into the erect position. Hence, also, it is dangerous to administer it in those operations that require to be performed whilst the patient is erect. It should never be administered, except in cases of great emergency, to a patient who has eaten anything within three or four horns, lest it induce vomiting of the partially digested meal. On the other hand, the patient should not be exhausted for want of food, as may happen if the operation be performed early in the morning. Thus, if 9‘30 be the hour fixed, he should have a cup of strong beef-tea, or a raw egg beaten up in tea, or some such light and easily digested nourishment at 6’30 o’clock. With clue caution, it may be given with perfect safety to individuals of all ages. I have operated on infants less than a week old, as well as on octogenarians, under its influence. In administering it to young children, Snow recommended its dilution with rectified spirit, but this is unnecessary. The effects of the administration vary considerably until different patients. Occasionally the patient becomes unconscious as quietly as in the natural process of going to sleep. More commonly the first sensation produced is a feeling of warmth at the pit of the stomach. This is followed by some choking- sensation and violent beating of the heart, with noises in the head. At this period the patient begins to lose self control. He talks excitedly, but not absolutely incoherently, and the struggling which frequently takes place assumes the form of efforts to remove the chloroform from his face, or to escape from the hands of the Surgeon and his assistants. At this time the pulse is quicker and more forcible than natural, the respiration is hurried and deep, the pupil acts readily to light, the face becomes flushed, and if the struggling is violent, it may become purple and turgid. The patient fre- quently remembers the struggle with the administrator during this stage, and the Surgeon and his assistant should avoid any unguarded expression which might leave on the patient’s mind an idea that he was roughly used. This period of excitement is quickly followed by loss of consciousness. The strug- gling may still continue, but the movements are purposeless, and such words as he utters are disconnected and incoherent. At this stage, a violent tonic contraction of every muscle in the body may take place; respiration is arrested, and the face becomes dusky. It is wiser not to force the chloroform when this condition is present. If the lint be removed from the face for a few seconds the spasm ceases, and a few good deep respirations remove the lividity of the face, when the administration may be recommenced without danger. i-Lore commonly the stage of excitement is followed directly by that of com- plete insensibility, a few deep, hurried respirations separating the two. The ace now becomes pale but not livid, the respiration is regular, slow, and a ov, ic; pu so falls in frequency and force, all the voluntary muscles be- xmu accic , and reflex movements can no longer be induced by pinching the ' "''Y'1, 0110 lng the conjunctiva. The pupil is at first contracted, but after- niim? - \Vldely dilafced ;llld insensible to light; and this is a sign that the 1 mm Y Yn 1<l8 dccn pushed to the furthest limits consistent with safety, dinfolv'T -r e ®YsPerL<^ed till the pupil agaiu responds to light. Imme- deci) aivesHui- hl8 stage !s reached the patient may snore loudly; but in 1,1 JSIa> ^10 respiration, being slow, shallow, and chiefly diaphrag-