331 SYMPTOMS OF GUN-SHOT WOUNDS. ball of considerable size; but happily little experience has as yet been gained of their effects on the human body. Fragments of Shell, if of large size, inflict the most terrible wounds met with in military practice, tearing off whole limbs, or great masses of flesh, and splintering the bones in all directions. At the battle of Sedan, after the Prussians°had shelled a crowded mass of French troops, the ground was described as covered with “heaps of flesh and rags.” A small fragment may either become lodged, or make its way out, the aperture of entry being some- what incised, though very irregular, and the aperture of exit large and ragged. The old round Cannon-ball, in fact, solid shot of all kinds, are now quite abandoned in war, being replaced by shells fired from rifled cannon. The old cannon-balls inflicted two kinds of injury. Sometimes they contused a part deeply, crushing muscles and bones, without destroying the integrity of the skin, the ball either having lost its velocity—being “ spent ”—or striking obliquely, and rolling over the surface of the body. The elasticity of the skin preserved this from injury, though all the subjacent textures—bones, muscles, and vessels—might be crushed into a pulp, if a limb were struck; if the trunk itself were injured, the vertebral column and lumbar muscles might be disorganized, and the liver, kidneys, spleen, stomach, and intestines ruptured without any breach of surface. These injuries, formerly erroneously attributed to the action of the current of air set in motion by the ball, are known by the name of wind-contusions. Subcutaneous contusions of similar character, though less severe in degree, may be produced also by spent bullets. In some of these contusions, gangrene of the limb set in; apparently, as Guthrie pointed out, from the rupture of the principal vessels. Cannon-shot more commonly carried away the whole thickness of a part, tearing and shattering a limb, carrying off the thick and fleshy parts of thigh, calf, or shoulder; or they inflicted the most fearful injuries by smashing the trunk and head. Symptoms.—The chief peculiarities of gun-shot injuries consist in the amount and character of the Pain, the severity of the Shock, the com- paratively little liability to Haemorrhage, and the severity’of the Consecutive i Inflammation. The Pain in gun-shot injuries varies greatly. It is most severe when a bone is fractured, or a large cavity penetrated ; when soft structures alone are injured, a dull and heavy sensation is experienced, which has often been com- paied to that occasioned by a blow with a stick. In many cases, however, the sufferer is not aware that he is shot till he is told of it. I have known a person, shot in the leg by a pistol-ball, unaware that he was wounded till told that his leg was bleeding. This is especially apt to happen when the unnd Is actively engaged, as in the height of battle. Hennen has known a unb earned off or smashed to pieces by a cannon-shot, without the sufferer )emg conscious of it; and Macleod relates the case of an officer who, in the -nmea, had both legs carried away, and who was not aware of the injury till he tried to rise. In gun-shot injuries, Shock is always very marked when parts of irnport- ance, as t ie head, chest, and abdomen, or large joints, as the knee, are opened; i ,,1, 8 seveuty i,s indicative of the amount of mischief inflicted. Thus, if a undo jWea* fco have traversed the chest, but in reality has been deflected . , c s un> khe comparative absence of shock will serve, to a certain n , o pi me that visceral mischief has not been inflicted. As before