TREATMENT OF PENETRATING WOUNDS. §57 : the unhealthy inflammatory products, in septic cases aggravated by the presence of the products of putrefaction ; in fact many of these cases form the most marked instances of this form of blood-poisoning. The rapidity of the I fatal termination is due to the great extent of the absorbing surface, and the ' large dose of the poison that is thus taken up in a very short time. Prognosis of Penetrating Wounds of the Abdomen.—Penetrating wounds of the abdomen are amongst the most fatal of all injuries. In the reports of the American Civil War, thirteen cases of punctured or incised wounds without injury to viscera are recorded, with nine recoveries, and nineteen similar injuries from gunshot, with twelve recoveries. Of fourteen recorded cases of punctured or incised wounds with visceral lesion only two recovered. The recorded cases of gunshot-wound with visceral injuries amounted to 3,771, and of these only 421 recovered, and in 242 the result was unknown. I In the great majority of these cases the exact visceral injury was not recorded. 1 In seventy-nine the stomach was wounded, and of these nineteen recovered. In 653 the intestines were wounded, and of these 118 recovered ; but the exact part of the gut is not specified in a large proportion of these cases. Otis, however, states that he has been unable to find a single incontestable case of bullet-wound of the small intestine in which recovery took place. On the other hand, there are good records of at least fifty-nine cases of wound of the great intestine, which terminated favourably, usually with a temporary establishment of a fecal fistula. The liver was wounded in 173 cases, of which sixty-two recovered. Injuries of the spleen were more fatal, only two ■ recovering out of twenty-nine cases. In seventy-eight cases the kidney was 1 wounded, and of these twenty-six recovered. Of the 2,599 cases in which the lesion was not specified, only 186 are reported as having recovered. It is 5 evident, therefore, that the records of the cases in which the exact injury is specified, give much too high a proportion of recoveries, the mere fact of the I patient’s surviving having led to a more detailed account of the injury being ' preserved. Treatment.—In the treatment of penetrating wounds of the abdomen, we must consider first the management of the injured parts, and afterwards that of the consecutive peritonitis. If the wound have not implicated any of the abdominal viscera, it ' must be carefully cleaned with a sponge moistened with an antiseptic solution, I care being taken not to allow any considerable quantity of the solution to enter the abdominal cavity. It must then be closed by deep and superficial sutures, the former should be of thick carbolized silk, including the whole thickness of the abdominal wall. The patient must be placed in such a position as to relax the muscles of the abdomen. Some form of antiseptic dressing should then be applied, and the whole may be supported by a broad strip of plaster or a bandage. If the wound be of great size the abdominal cavity must be cleaned, all clots of blood being carefully removed with carbolized sponges, squeezed very dry. When antiseptics are not at hand, it is better to apply silver stitches lest the silk should absorb septic matter and become irritating, ihe wound may then be covered with oiled lint, or some dry absorbent ,, e881j!q' ,^lc Patient should have a full dose of opium ; about two grains of e so ic opium or a hypodermic in jection of the third of a grain of morphia, after p 111 1 1 10 (j3cct must be kept up by doses of half that amount, repeated every tour or six hours. The patient must be kept perfectly quiet in bed. and no