AMPUTATION OF THE THUMB. 93 The flaps so formed are most conveniently held out of the way by an assistant with a pair of blunt hooks during the division of the bone. This must be sawn obliquely, as in the case of the index finger. As in the index linger, the head may be left in the hand of a working man. The after-treatment of these cases is extremely simple. The hand should be put upon a splint, the wound covered with some simple dressing, and the ends of the fingers, with small pieces of lint interposed, tied together by means of a tape, care being taken, however, that they do not overlap. The shaft of the metacarpal bone that is left will gradually atrophy, and thus a very taper and shapely hand will eventually be left (Figs. 35, 36, 37). In disease or injury of the Thumb as little as possible should be removed by amputation ; for, if even but a very short stump of the metacarpal bone be left, it will serve as an useful opponent for the other fingers. Amputation of the Thumb loith its Metacarpal Bone is an operation which can very rarely be required. In cases of injury the surgeon must use all his ingenuity to save even the smallest part of the bone, or if any doubt exists as to how much can be saved, the hand should be dressed antiseptically and left to nature, a stump being fashioned later on, after the dead parts have ZShi. r By hlS m,eT m°re °aU be saved in mait cases than at first seemed shrmlrl l YaSei ° ST °f thG metacai-Pal bone, excision of the bone should be preferred to complete amputation. Should the operation, however methodTs ’ ^ “7 bG by the flap °r the oval ^tbod. The flap hand illTbe Surgeon stands with the back of the patient’s tio ' 1 [ l 1, hlTt, ’ 7 h?b,be,Dg midway between Prouation and supina- Y/ n hl ° S C thumb by the uu8'oRl phalanx. In operating on the 2 ,r ! <?^men?cs fhe mcision immediately above, and a little to the mctYYf! °f fcbe tub®rCle t0 be felt afc the cuter side of the base of the diatplv i ll T ’ IOm tblS P°blt be carries a curved incision passing imme- middlc nf °iW metacaipo-phalangeal articulation on the dorsal aspect to the incision hY Y YiYj tbe fcbumb and index finger. While making this nienoo if l ° ]°pCla ,01 f Jan(is are necessarily crossed, but this causes no inconve- ie cans s ghtlv over the patient’s hand. Still holding the thumb, the