LOCAL DISTURBANCES AND INFLAMMATION. 202 take blood directly from the distended and engorged vessels. It does not always act, however, quite so simply as this. In no disease is the benefit of local blood-letting more marked than in acute inflammation of the middle ear, and yet in this case we draw the blood from the cutaneous vessels over the mastoid process. In acute orchitis relief is often given by puncturing the distended veins of the scrotum, which have no direct connection with the swollen gland. In these cases the relief is, perhaps, due to a reflex contraction of the arteries leading to the inflamed part. . Local blood-letting maybe used in addition to, though it is most commonly employed in preference to, general blood-letting, especially if the inflammation be not severe, or if it occur at either of the extremes of life, in women, and m persons of generally feeble power. . . . . Blood may be taken locally by punctures, scarifications, or incisions, or by leeching or cupping. , . . Punctures, scarifications, and incisions can be practised only in in- flammation of the cutaneous and exposed mucous surfaces, due attention being paid to subjacent parts of importance. They constitute a very efficient means of relieving the part, as not only is blood removed, but an exit is afforded foi effused matters ; tension is consequently materially lessened, and the tendency to sloughing and other evil after-effects perhaps prevented. The rernova of the tension of inflamed parts is not only of the greatest advantage locally, but is of considerable service to the system at large by lessening the pain and general irritation that are always occasioned by it. Punctures shoulc le made with a fine lancet, in parallel rows over the inflamed surface, and should not exceed a quarter of an inch in depth. Scarifications are m reality small and short incisions. They may be made across swollen and congested vessel.., which will bleed freely, as in the relief of a chemosis of the lowei eyelid, modification of puncture is sometimes practised by opening thevemsin the neighbourhood of the inflamed part at several points at once, lhus, in inflammation of the testis, the scrotal veins may be punctured with When incisions are required they must always be made m he axis of the limb, and should be so arranged as to afford the greatest possible relief to he • tension. Their length and their depth must vary according to the seat of the inflammation. Thus in the inflamed conjunctiva they must of course be veiy limited, whilst in phlegmonous inflammation of a limb they may be of much greater extent and depth. Care must be taken as far as possible not wound superficial arteries or veins of sufficient sisc to Meed dangerously Bleeding from punctures and incisions may be encouraged by wai '"'leeches"arc usefully applied to the neighbourhood of Mamed■ 1*^“ should not be put upon the inflamed surface itself, as their lutes < • There are certahr situations in which leeches should not be l>l»«^ »ve “ We subcutaneous vein, or in regions where there is much loose areolar turn, .(.mturn or eyelids, lest troublesome htemorrhago or ecchvmosis occur l rCS, be applied near a specific ulcer lest the bites become taied by the discharge. The bleeding from a leech-bite ma, be e co - raved by warm poulticing or fomentations lor some time aftei 110 .mwi. ,n. Tn this wav from half an ounce to an ounce of blood may takeTby each leech. There is usually no difficulty in arresting the Minor