642 SPECIAL DISLOCATIONS. fracture of the jaw ; and for several days the patient must not be allowed to talk or to eat any solid food, lest the displacement return, which it always has a great tendency to do. Very old dislocations of this bone may be lias a great tendency w uu. v *7 , , * reduced by the process just now described. Thus, Stromeyer replaced one at the end of thirty-five, Donovan one at the end of ninety-eight days, and Pollock one at the end of four months. In the cases of subluxation, attention should be paid to the state ol the o-encral health. Tonics, more particularly iron, should be administered ; good diet, the cold bath, and open-air exercise enjoined. If, as frequently happens, there be some tenderness about the temporo-maxillary articulation, a series of small blisters may be applied over it. It is of great importance to prevent the habit of recurrence of the dislocation. This may usually most conveniently be done by letting the patient wear a small silk cap fitted to the chin and attached by four elastic bands on the top of and behind the head, as m the case of a fractured jaw. „ _ „„ Congenital Dislocation of one Condyle of the Dower Jaw .sale- markable and rare condition, for an acquaintance with which ne arc clnejj indebted to E. W. Smith. In this condition there is a singulai distoition of countenance. The osseous and muscular structures on the dislocatedjde are atrophied, and the teeth of the upper jaw project beyond those >f^the lower, contrary to what occurs in the accidental dislocation : the mouth_caal bemlosj! speech is perfect, and there is no dribbling of saliva. Congenital dislocation of both condyles has not yet been observed. DISLOCATIONS OP THE UPPER LIMB. Dislocations of the Clavicle.—When we look at the flat character of : the sterno-elavicular articulation and the very small and shallow surface on the ncmmiou noon which the outer end of the clavicle is received, and reflect on the violence to which the shoulder is frequently subjected, we might at first infagin^that dislocations of £«£?“^gthTl^ received in a line that corresponds to its axis, thus causing : | bZn rather than luxated. The mobility of tlC • tendency to tie hone would thrown off the small flat articular surface of tto acrormom ^ 8ho“u^ **“ line, at the same time that the scapula is fixed dislocated, and Either the sternal or the acromial end of the chi' iclc may oc u the simultaneous displacement of both endsin a direction laclaranls, or boards, being thrown before, behind, abo “c dislocation Toward,, the end of the bone can be fe.t in its no"