VENEREAL DISEASES. i 11 s to form a distinct tumour, the gumma, which being imperfectly supplied with blood tends to degenerate. The node and the uncomplicated sclerosis of bone •] form the simplest stage of the process, the formation of gummata is the next • advance, necrosis is an accident due to exaggeration of the sclerosis, or to I exposure of the bone from softening of the gummata, and caries results also from the latter condition. It is not surprising, therefore, that we meet with these various effects combined in every possible way ; the gumma is always -i surrounded by periostitis with or without the formation of new bone, caries and necrosis occur mixed together, and new growth and destruction may g0 on side by side. The Constitutional Treatment of syphilitic diseases of the bones is that already recommended for the tertiary stage of the disease. Mercury is ad- missible only if the patient is otherwise in good health. Usually the iodides of potassium or sodium give the desired relief when administered in sufficiently large doses. Locally the treatment varies with the form assumed by the disease. The simple node usually requires no local treatment. If" it is very chronic and painful, blisters will almost always give relief. If these fail and the case proves very intractable, and especially if there is considerable formation of new bone, I have found the greatest advantage result from cutting down upon the enlarged, thickened, and tender bone, aud by means of a Key’s saw making a deep cut into it about one and a half or two inches in length parallel to its axis, and down to the medullary canal. By this opera- tion the tension is at once relieved, and the pain effectually aud permanently removed. In syphilitic necrosis the necrosed bone should be separated as it becomes loose, the local irritation depending on its presence then subsiding. When the bone has fallen into a carious state, the unhealthy surface should be thoroughly scraped with a sharp spoon, and the cavity dressed with iodoform or iodide of starch ointment. Syphilitic diseases of Joints are not of frequent occurrence. Pains in the joints are not uncommon during the very earliest stages, before the appearance of the eruptions ; and during the secondary stage some slight synovitis has occasionally been observed, apparently due to the disease, but these conditions are of no great importance. In the later stages the joints may become affected by the formation of gummata in the capsule or in surrounding structures, but this is not common. The articular ends of the bones are less liable than other parts to syphilitic disease in the adult. ■7. Syphilitic disease of the Muscles and Tendons has been described by Bouisson and others. These structures are not unfrequently affected, but less often than the bones. In the muscles diffuse sclerosis has been described, but it is exceedingly rare. Gummata are much more common ; they form ill- defined tumours in the substance of the muscle, growing slowly, with some aching pain and tenderness. They are less prone to soften than similar growths in more superficial structures. Elongated tumours resembling nodes have been described as affecting the tendons, and gummata are occasionally observed in their substance. They resemble similar growths elsewhere, and arc best treated by iodide of potassium. 8. Syphilitic disease of the Testicle.—This assumes two forms —the diffuse overgrowth of the inter-tubular connective tissue, and the formation of gummata. These diseases affect the body of the gland, and are always met with as tertiary phenomena. The symptoms, pathological