CLINICAL HISTORY OF SCIRE HUS. 1023 scopical examination, and were most probably columnar epitheliomata. Scirrhus is met with also in the stomach and pancreas, and a sott form between the hard and soft cancer, and consequently sometimes called scirrlio- encephaloid—is the ordinary primary cancer of the liver. Secondary scirrhus may occur in almost any part of the body, but the most common situations are the lymphatic glands, liver, lungs, kidneys, and bones. Scirrhus occurs in two forms ; either as a circumscribed mass, or infiltrated in the tissue of an organ. In either case it forms a hard, craggy, incom- pressible, and nodulated tumour, at first movable and unconnected with the skin, but soon acquiring deep-seated attachments, and implicating the integu- ment. It grows slowly, seldom attaining a larger size than an orange. At times it is painless, at others painful, generally aching, sometimes with much radiating and shooting pain through it. These sensations vary according to the part affected, and to the sensibility of the individual; the pains arc especially severe after the tumour has been handled, and at night are of a lancinating, neuralgic character. The tumour may thus continue in a chronic state for a considerable length of time, slowly increasing, gradually extending its deeper prolongations, and implicating the more superficial parts. In some cases, more particularly in elderly people, scirrhus gives rise to atrophy of the organ in which it is seated, causing wrinkling and puckering of the sur- rounding skin, which becomes adherent to the tumour ; and the cancer may thus continue in a very chronic state. The ulceration takes place usually by the skin becoming adherent at one point to the tumour, either by dimpling in, being as it were drawn down towards it, or else by being pushed forwards, stretched, and implicated in one of its more prominent masses ; it then becomes dusky and livid red, somewhat glazed, and covered by a fine vascular net-work. Softening occurs at one point, where a crack or fissure forms ; a clear drop of gummy fluid exudes from this, and dries in a small scab upon the surface ; this is followed by a somewhat bloody discharge of a thick and glutinous character ; and the small patch of skin from which it issues, becoming undermined, speedily sloughs away, leaving a circular ulcer. This gradually enlarges, becoming- ragged and sloughy, with craggy everted edges, having irregular masses arising from its suiface, and discharging a fetid sanious pus. The pain increases greatly ; and, the lymphatic glands becoming involved, cachexy is fully developed, and the patient is destroyed by it or by the secondary visceral deposits. In old people, ulceration of scirrhous cancers often assumes an extremely chronic character, the growth in them not being endued with the same vitality as in the young. The ulcer in these cases is flat, sloughy, of a greyish-green colour, hard and rugged, with puckered edges, and much wrinkling of the surrounding skin, and exhaling the usual fetid odour In younger persons, and especially in stout women with florid complexions, the disease usually makes rapid progress. So also, if inflammation be accidentally set up in the neighbouring tissues, cancerous infiltration rapidly takes place in lcm. ccasionally, but very rarely, scirrhous masses slough out, leaving a aige lagged cavity, which may even cicatrize ; and thus a spontaneous cure has been said to occur. The cancerous infiltration extends to a considerable distance around the tumour into integument which to the naked eye appears quite healthy. In such tissue, however, the microscope may reveal unequivocal evidence of the existence of cancer-cells diffused through it. Wherever the