CONTUSION AND RUPTURE OF ARTERIES. 3S7 and the canal of the vessel restored. At the time when venesection was commonly practised, a patient was often bled many times from the same vein during the course of his life without its becoming occluded. 2. Septic and spreading inflammation of Veins will be described when we come to speak of the various forms of venous thrombosis and phlebitis; and 3, the En trance of Air into Veins will be discussed in a subsecpient chapter. INJURIES OF ARTERIES. Arteries may be bruised, torn, punctured, or cut. C ontlsion. A slight bruise of an artery is not attended by any bad con- sequences; but, it the contusion be sufficiently severe to damage the coats, the artery may become plugged with an adherent clot, and finally occluded! This clot may be deposited gradually, so that the obstruction of the vessel may not be complete till some days after the accident. Thus, a patient was admitted into University College Hospital under Mr. Quain, with a contused wound in the axilla, received in falling upon some iron railings; no change took place in the circulation of the arm for two days, when pulsation in the radial artery ceased, the injured vessel having evidently become plugged bv Rupture and Laceration.—An artery may be torn either partially or completely across. When Partial Rupture occurs, the internal and middle coats only give way, the toughness of the external coat preventing its laceration. Ibis accident is especially apt to occur in consequence of blows or strains upon diseased or weakened vessels, and may possibly lay the foundation for dissecting and other aneurisms. In other cases, the ruptured portion of the coats becomes turned down into the inside of the vessel, and mm-pgr>aS a TV!; Preventsnithe Mier progress of the blood through it; aS.evZm^J • ^ Piarfcm 7 ™ptured vesseI ^conies blocked by a clot adherent to the injured spot. Occlusion of an artery in this way may give tain thfufalfiv f H ^ a I™!? the1C?Uateral circulation is sufficient to main- tain the vitality of the parts beyond the obstruction. instruments' Thus °U °f Pai’fcial tUre may 0CCU1' iu rounds from blunt mstuunents. Ihus, a case occurred at the London Hospital in wbinP o ™ famdThat thef *""t ,U°®d ““ ™>tid After death, i't the pr«™ of itCf “1 ,"*,«* of the TCSSeI M fen divided by “ «■* ^ or ALT arte7 ^ *» «-d an artery is torn across in an open wound, as in the avulsion of a limb by machinery, or by a can- non-shot, there is usually but ittk haemorrhage, even from arteries of the magnitude of the axillary or the femoral, and though ofMeeding 0°1? to its vei7 end- Thc absence breaking off short n °i ° t lC 1?fceinal and middle coats, which are fragile, ° 8h0111 aud contracting somewhat; while the external coat and c c 2 Flg' 1otlLC°Z1„ete R,upt'.u,'® of an Artery.-Vessel laid eoat di'awn out " ° C°ats bl'okcn s,lort- outo'