NATURAL ARREST OF HAEMORRHAGE. 397 This clot having been moulded to the artery in. its contracted state prevents the dilatation that would otherwise occur. After the haemorrhage from the cut artery has been arrested temporarily by the means that have been indicated, Nature proceeds to secure the vessel by permanently occluding it. Permanent Closure of a cut artery is effected by processes analogous to those which have been already described as occurring in the union of wounds in the Chapter on the Process of Eepair (page 268). During the first few hours after the arrest of the bleeding, the internal coagulum contracts slightly and becomes more adherent to the inner coat of the artery. For the first twenty-four horns or more the ordinary process of exudation with migration of the white corpuscles takes place, both from the vessels in the injured coats of the artery and from the vasa-vasorum in the sheath. By the second day there- fore we find that the base of the internal coagulum and the external coagulum in the sheath have become paler in colour from infiltration with migrated leucocytes ; and exactly opposite the divided end of the artery there may be a small nodule of colourless plastic exudation, composed entirely of migrated cells held together by coagulated fibrin. This change therefore corre- sponds to that which has already been described as occurring in the early stages of union of wounds by first intention, the only difference being in the presence of the great excess of blood-clot. By the end of the first twenty-four or thirty-six hours, if all goes well, the process of the traumatic inflammation resulting from the wound and the accompanying exudation should have ceased, and we then have a firm mass of plastic exudation plugging the mouth of the artery and surrounding its cut extremity externally, and the processes of genuine repair now set in. Outside the vessel these consist merely of the vascularization of the “ plastic exudation,” the absorption of the blood-clot, and the gradual development of cicatricial fibrous tissue, as already described (page 273). It is evident that if these processes go on healthily and un- disturbed by further inflammation and exudation, the orifice of the wounded vessel is from the first surrounded externally by a firm substance—first, blood- clot ; secondly, plastic exudation or “ coagifiable lymph ; ” thirdly, firm vascu- lar granulation-tissue ; and, lastly, fibrous scar-tissue. The artery is therefore sealed externally as well as internally, and these external changes are of equal importance with those about to be described as occurring inside the vessel. If inflammation and suppuration take place in the wound from any cause, more especially if decomposition of the discharges sets in with breaking down of the external coawnlnm. thus r>nn«ino- t-Ln Tv-ranm-i™ ^ ■