TUMO UBS. 988 fibrous tissue, sometimes containing yellow elastic fibres. The stellate cells may be smaller in some cases than in others. The peculiar feature of the growth is the mucous intercellular substance, and without this being present no tumour should be called a myxoma. Frequently,Tissue agreeing in all respects with that of a pure myxoma is found mixed with that of sarcoma, enchondroma, or adenoma. These tumours are spoken of as myxo-sarcomata, TV. 376.—Myxoma, from a large tumour in the ° skin of ‘tiie bark (1SS cliam.). It will be noticed that even the round cells are con- nected with those which are more branched. Fig. 377.—Mucous Polypus of Nose (1SS diam.). The round cells van- in size and are distinct from the branched ones. The branched cells are very ir- regular, and the matrix somewhat lihrous. myxo-chondromata, &c. Myxo-chonclroma, frequently containing portions of adenoma, forms the ordinary parotid tumour. Occasionally a development of true fat-cells may take place in the central parts of a myxoma, thus indicating, as Yirchow thinks, the relation of these tumours to embryonic fat. A few years ago I saw in consultation a case of an enormous abdominal tumour, which proved on examination after death to be a pure myxoma, weighing at least thirty pounds, the central parts of which contained an abundance of true adipose tissue. Such tumours as these have been spoken of as myxolipomata. 1 have since seen a similar abdominal tumour in a young man. After death it was found to he composed almost entirely of pure myxoma-tissue. - ev small nodules of spiudle-cellecl tissue were found in it, but no fat. - yxoma a may occur in any part of the body. When superficial they often assume a polypoid form, as in the ordinary mucous polypus of the nose. 3iyx - mata are not unfrequent in the subcutaneous cellular tissue, in ,lon they form one variety of false neuroma, and they are occasionally met vwtn in glands. Myxomata are usually noil-malignant, but occasionally they, recur locally after removal. If left untreated, they may cause death y u ce tion of the skin taking place over them, leading to sloughing of the t urn _ with profuse haemorrhage and foul discharge. Occasionally they m.q\ P fatal from pressure on important organs, as in the case of the a 1 ‘ tumour above mentioned. The Treatment consists in the removal or o-rowth whenever an operation is possible. G III TUMOURS WHICH RESEMBLE IN STRUCTURE MORE OR LESS PERFECTLY. ONE OP THE MORE COMPLEX TISSUES OF THE BUUX. A. Myoma. Muscular Tumour.—These tumours are of two classc^: those containing striated and those containing non-stnated musculai fib .