HEMORRHAGE AFTER LIGATURE IN CONTINUITY. 441 ineffectual, the bleeding recurring from underneath. When this is the case, what should the Surgeon do ? He may re-apply the compress once more with great care, after clearing away coagula, and drying the parts thoroughly ; hut should it again fail in arresting the bleeding, it is useless to trust to it further, as the haemorrhage will certainly recur, and valuable time and much blood will be lost in these fruitless attempts at checking it. In such a case as this, the Surgeon must clearly and decidedly determine on the course to be pursued, as there is but “little time for reflection or consultation, and none for referring to authorities.” If the artery be situated on the trunk, as the subclavian, carotid, or one of the iliacs, there is nothing to be done but to trust to the plugging of the wound ; and in the great majority of these cases the patient will die exhausted by repeated haemorrhage. When the artery is situated in one of the limbs, more efficient procedures may be employed. If it be one of the arteries of the upper extremity, the wound should be opened up, and an attempt made again to tie both ends of the vessel in this ; should this fail, or not be practicable, the artery must be deligated at a higher point than that at which it had been previously tied; should the haemorrhage continue, or recur, amputation is the only resource left. In the lower extremity, the treatment of secondary haemorrhage occurring after ligature is replete with difficulty. Here I believe it to be useless to tie the artery at a higher point than that to which the ligature has been already applied, as gangrene is very apt to follow this double ligature of the arteries of the lower extremity : at least, in the two or three cases that I have seen in which lecoiuse has been had to this practice, mortification of the limb has ensued ; and in all the reported cases with which I am acquainted, a similar lesult has occurred. The treatment should vary according as we have the femoial artery or one of the tibials to deal with. If the htemorrhage proceed from the femoral, I should be disposed to cut down on the bleeding part of the vessel, treating it as a wounded artery, and applying a ligature above and below the part already deligated ; this operation would, however, necessarily be fraught with difficulty. Should it be impracticable, or not succeed in checking the haemorrhage, we should best consult the safety of the patient by amputating at once on a level with or above the ligature. Although this is an extreme measure, it is infinitely preferable to allowing him to run the risk of the supervention of gangrene, which wifi require removal of the limb under less favourable conditions. If the secondary hemorrhage proceed from one of the tffiials, it would be next to useless to adopt either of the preceding be n™VeS' nIf Wt llfat1ured the suPerficial floral, the bleeding would not bJ—7 c“?trolled> .or’lf lfc were> gangrene of the limb would in all pro- Str ,?11® ar? but vejy few cases on record in which this practice however HVrnT^ rVi*011 n^01'tldca^on occurring. In a few rare instances, it has alsobf!re ^i^r ?,0Phteal has’ ln such circumstances, succeeded: but its success is ^UC1\ ^ aded’ rendering secondary amputation necessary; so situated is so m- ™atter of chance. The depth at which the tibials are and attemnt i? ^'i V ‘1- Wou d be ^0Pc^eS8 to search for 011c of these vessels ilmSTouna ttZ at.th° *“"» ? a ** **&• ***** and tate the W ni™ A SU°P cllcmnstances, therefore, I think we should ampu- the leg above the seat of wound. This is truly a severe measure ; but