i95 A NTISFPTICS—IODOFORM. of two drachms of the tincture to a pint of warm water ; and in this strength, it is an efficient antiseptic and very free from irritating properties. Eucalyptus Oil is a powerful antiseptic, having a very fragrant campho- raceous smell; and, so far as is at present known, it is quite free from poisonous properties. It is practically insoluble in water, but readily soluble in oil, paraffin, and spirit. It is used chiefly as eucalyptus gauze. The material with which the gauze is impregnated is composed of 3 parts Dammar resin, 8 parts paraffin was, and 1 part eucalyptus oil. Lister has used this preparation exten- sively, and finds it in every way an efficient substitute for the carbolic gauze in cases in which the patient shows signs of carbolic acid poisoning, or when the skin is easily irritated by that substance. For application to granulating- sores an ointment composed of 2 parts paraffin, 2 vaseline, and 1 of euca- lyptus oil will be found very useful. If the sore be foul some iodoform may be added in the proportion of one drachm to the ounce. Iodoform is an antiseptic of undoubted power which has lately been used very largely in surgical practice. It is sold in two forms—the precipitated, which is an extremely fine yellow powder ; and the crystalline, composed of fine golden yellow crystals. The latter should always be used hi wounds or on raw surfaces, as the finely divided particles of the precipitated form are too readily absorbed. Iodoform is insoluble in water but is readily soluble in chloroform and ether, sparingly so in alcohol, and very freely in oil. The preparations used in Surgery are the pure chug in crystals ; iodoform ivool, prepared by im- pregnating cotton wool, deprived of its grease so as to render it absorbent, with 10 per cent, of the drug ; and iodoform ointment, made by mixing varying proportions of the crystals, from one drachm upwards, with one ounce of vaseliim. ihe pure iodoform is specially applicable to wounds opening into cavities, such as those left by removal of the tongue or upper jaw. It may be sprinkled on the raw surface twice a clay, and will absolutely prevent any unpleasant smell. e Germans have used it freely as an application directly to the raw surfaces of fiesh wounds before closing them, and it has been found not to prevent union by first intention; but its use in this way is not to be recommended, as it is a needless introduction of a foreign body. P°Tf " veiT marked toxic properties, but the effect produced patient ^ .e*fcenfc Upon au idiosyncrasy on the part of the somewhat il nh;i7Pt0mSi 11odoform P01S0ning are very various, and differ Son oS611 T adU tS;. Am0ng'Sfc the mosfc marked has been tionffi drPer1U1\ieaChUlg 1040 ^thoufc othe1' serious constitu- Loss of annetite withand l'.lt l0Ut any _ unhealtliy appearances in the wound, ino- that' ewi-vH • Progressive emaciation is common, the patient complain- | thafc ferythmg tastes and smells of iodoform. Yomitino- however is not The effecfc 011 the puIse is offc- very and th!.freqfncy 18 increased, reaching 140 or even 180, the brain ar^nf^6 ^ f0r°® 18 corresPondingly diminished. Its effects on an attack of seuous; in some adults it seems to have caused been noted wilt™ faiuaca delirium, in others persistent drowsiness has common nnrl .1 ^T°a mental depression. In children drowsiness is more cular meninffiH0CaSITna 16 symPtoms may closely resemble those of tuber- iodoform forcin' .1 U othei‘ oases rapid collapse has followed the use of have occurred in (hVm drug.could bc found- Many fatal cases any ; but the quantities applied have been in some cases