SECONDARY AMPUTATION IN COMPOUND FRACTURES. 541 ■ the earlier stages of the injury is often a most critical point. As a rule it may be stated that, if the limb be not removed during the first twenty-four hours, jii eight or ten days must be allowed to elapse before the operation is done ; as : during that time the patient is suffering acutely from the early septic fever, 1 and operations during this stage are notoriously fatal. But when granulations j begin to spring up in the wound and oppose a barrier to the further absorption of'septic matter, the fever subsides, and the limb may be removed with the best prospect of success. The thermometer is the great guide ; as soon as it has decidedly fallen from the high septic fever point of about 104° F. to 105° F. to about 100° F. or lower, the operation may be safely undertaken. Should it appear, however, that the patient is becoming rapidly exhausted, and will hardly* survive to the desired time, amputation may be performed as a last chance during the period of septic fever. In these circumstances, however, the operation is seldom successful; the stump becomes sloughy, diffuse in- flammation comes on, septicaemia or pyaemia may set in, and the patient speedily dies. In other cases, after the first fall of the temperature, it may frequently rise again from the formation of abscesses in the neighbourhood of the necrosed bone, or from burrowing of pus amongst the muscles; or the i patient may gradually be worn out by the profuse discharge. I11 these cases > the patient’s power must not be allowed to sink to the last ebb before amputa- tion is performed ; as then the shock may destroy life, or, if he survive, the immediate effect of the operation in his weakened state predisposes him to be attacked by the various infective processes to which wounds are liable. Much as “conservative” surgery is to be be admired and cultivated, and hasty or unnecessary operation to be deprecated, I cannot but think that the life of the patient is occasionally jeopardized, and even lost, by disinclination on the part of the Surgeon to operate sufficiently early in cases of compound fracture, and by too prolonged attempts at saving the injured limb. The success of the operation will in a great measure depend upon the after- treatment. Large quantities of stimulants and support are often required in London practice to prevent the patient from sinking. I have frequently given with the best results, eight or ten ounces of brandy, twelve or sixteen of port wine, or two or three pints of porter, in the twenty-four hours after these operations, with beef-tea, arrow-root, or meat, if the patient would take it, and have found it absolutely necessary to do so to obviate death from exhaustion. At a later period, when, some weeks or months having elapsed, the fracture has not united, the bones are necrosing, and the patient is being worn out by hectic, amputation must be performed at any convenient moment, and is often done with great success if it be not deferred till too late ; for here the cause of the mischief is entirely local, and the constitution, suffering only by the debility resulting from it, quickly rallies when it is removed. Bending, Rebreaking, and Resetting Bones.—It may happen, that at the end of two or three weeks a fractured bone is found in a faulty position. At this period the bond of union is soft and yielding, and the displacement, if angular, may usually be remedied by frequent re-adjustment of the apparatus, •me moie particularly by bandaging the fractured fragments in opposite directions, or by the use of pads pressing on the extremities of the broken bones. is period, be allowed to pass by, and the fracture be allowed to become conso 1 ated, it may be found to be so badly set that it is necessary to forcibly >eu 01 u'eak the callus, in order to improve the condition of the limb. When