PRESSURE-EFFECTS OF ABSCESSES. 235 semi -transparent or oily-looking matter. Such abscesses are often spoken of as Lymphatic or Congestive. Many of the above forms of chronic abscess may arise from a deposit of tubercle, followed by softening of the growth and inflammation round it, but it is not always easy or even possible to determine certainly whether this has been the case or not. The line between chronic and acute abscesses is not a sharp one. In some cases of joint-disease the process of suppu- ration may be acute at the commencement and gradually become chronic, the perfo- ration of the capsule apparently relieving tension and reducing the irritation. On the other hand, it is by no means uncommon to see a chronic abscess assume an acute form, and rapidly increase and point after having- been stationary for years. Tympanitic or Emphysematous Ab- scess, which contains gas as well as pus, is occasionally met with in the neighbourhood of the alimentary canal, chiefly at the an- terior and lateral parts of the abdominal walls, and about the sacrum. Sometimes there is a free communication with the in- testine, in other cases it is not so evident. These collections are often resonant on per- cussion, and sometimes gurgling is very dis- tinct in them. Situation, Size, &c.—Abscesses are met with in all regions of the body, but more es- pecially where the areolar tissue is abundant, and the lymphatic glands are numerous. I hey may occur at any period of life, from the earliest infancy to old age. I have opened a very large abscess in the axilla of a child about a fortnight old. Their size vaiies from that of a pin’s point to a tumour containing a pint or more of pus. Some cases of chronic abscesses, when very large, Fig' 927owTtuc TmgWna leg.teuding are multi-locular, the different cavities being “I?/TT ChrUelS, 0f communication: in this way I have seen a theb tbiob h e3i^ending from the lumbar vertebra: through the iliac fossa down the fpiifi ’ A-iT’ a,nC ie leg, until at last it was opened by the side of municatino- 'S’ iavin£ lorined five or six collections of fluid, coin- unucatmg with one another by contracted channels (Fig. 92). sure nnCHS; . ° ^iSSU7e~effects of an abscess are often important. By pres- a dist/nipo ° U PaiMt’ ^ may rise to very severe pain and spasm at of chronif ,i°m !'S SCa^ f ^le I)a'ns occasioned by the pressure of some forms rheumatiwi SCGSS uho11 neighbouring nerves, have been mistaken for those of abscess nei:ira ^ia' ^ 'lcn blood-vessels come into relation with an ) y usua y become coated by a thick layer of granulation-tissue,