939 CAUSES OF SEPTICAEMIA AND PYAEMIA. Although the conditions in a ■wound in the human subject are somewhat different from those obtained in experimenting on animals, yet the analogy is close enough to justify us in applying the results obtained to surgical practice. A recent wound with decomposing discharges, or a deep cavity with pent-up putrid pus in it, are conditions essentially similar to those obtained by inject- ing a syringeful of a putrid fluid beneath the skin of an animal. Causes of Septicaemia a yd Pyaemia.*—Simple septic poisoning may occur whenever a sufficient quantity of decomposing blood, serum, or pus is collected in a wound or cavity of the body. Putrefaction, as before pointed out, will occur in such collections of fluid under all ordinary conditions to which a patient is exposed either in hospital or private practice. Septic poisoning affects a patient debilitated by want of proper food and bad hygienic con- ditions more severely than one placed under better circumstances, but beyond this the surroundings of the patient exercise but little influence on its occur- rence. The causes of the process are to be looked for in the wound itself, and septic poisoning may always be prevented by efficient drainage and antiseptic treatment. The genuine infective processes, septic infection, and pyaemia, will, on the other hand, rarely develop in spite of the presence of decomposing matter in the wound except when the patient is placed under unfavourable hygienic conditions. The experiments already described, in which septic infection and pyaemia have been artificially induced by the injection of putrid fluids beneath the skin of an animal show that the presence of decomposing matter is an im- portant element in the causation of these diseases. Clinical experience has fully confirmed this fact. Pyaemia has been practically banished from many hospitals, chiefly Continental, in which it was formerly a frequent cause of death, merely by the adoption of antiseptic methods of treating wounds— ventilation, cubic space, and other conditions surrounding the patient being unchanged. On the other hand, a strict attention to the laws of hygiene has been equally successful in preventing these diseases even when the Surgeons have not adopted any special mode of antiseptic treatment. These diseases are predisposed to by all conditions of life, either before or after operations or injuries, that tend to impair the health, to lower the strength, and to induce an unhealthy state of the system, such as constant want of fresh air, overcrowding in working or in sleeping apartments, abuse of alcohol and insufficient or improper food. Of all these causes, overcrowd- ing is undoubtedly the most frequent and the most fatal; more particularly is overcrowding of patients injurious, if many are suffering from suppurating ounds That pyaemia is the result of the faulty hygienic conditions just alluded to, viz., want of pine air, overcrowding, and insufficient and unwhole- ome diet, is evident from the fact of its being most destructive where these non !i° i CaSG M fmongst thc P°orer classes of all large and densely peofled towns; while m the purer air of country districts, or in private X I amongst the wealthier classes, it is rarely met with. It is one of osc causes of death after operations that might and ought to be prevented ; is, o t-eVei’ nqUCUt’ WC muy be 8lirc 110t 0% that proper attention re I,SiPX ° th? pJ,'eVen?0n 0f decomposition and to cleanliness in the treatment of the wounds, but that either the constitutions of the patients arc 1S74SCC alS° ChaptCr6 L n,ld «■>* “ Hospitalism and the Causes of Death after Operation.” Longmans,