974 TUMOURS. development: (b.) Those arising from imperfectly obliterated temporary foetal structures : (c.) Cysts formed by the inclusion of a blighted ovum within the developing body of the foetus : (d.) Cysts of doubtful origin. (a.) Cysts arising from inclusion of a portion of the Epiblast. Dermoid cysts.-—It will be remembered that in the very earliest stages of development the germinal membrane or blastoderm divides into three layers; from the most superficial of these, or epiblast, is developed the cuticular cover- ing of the body, with the hairs and glands of the skin and the central nervous • system; from the deepest layer, or hypoblast, arise the epithelial lining of the air- passages and of the alimentary canal and the epithelium of the glands connected with it, while the rest of the body is developed from the middle layer or meso- ■ Ti". 305.—Head and neck of an adult, with diagrammatic lines, representing the situation ° and direction of the branchial clefts. 1, 2, 3, 4, first, second, third, and fourth clefts ; 5, inter-maxillary cleft; 0, Fronto-orbital fissure ; 7, naso-maxillaiy fissure. blast. The blastoderm is at first flat, but in the process of development it becomes folded on itself, and thus encloses the abdominal cavity; the mouth and neck are developed from lateral processes, the branchial arches, which curve downwards till they meet in the middle line, and between these branchial arches arc fissures, the branchial clefts. The lateral parts of the face arc developed in the same way, while the nose and middle parts above the mouth arise from a descending process proceeding from the frontal region. By the coalescence of all these the face and throat are formed. It is easily to be understood how in this process a portion, of the epiblast may become included and remain imbedded in the tissues belonging to the deeper layer. Should this happen, a closed cyst will be found lined internally with the structures proper to the skin, and yet entirely unconnected with it. These have received the name of dermoid cysts. They are met with most commonly in the subcutaneous tissue in situations in which their position can be explained by the process of inclusion above de- scribed. The accompanying diagram, from a paper by Cussct, well illustrates