763 MORTALITY AFTER TREPHINING. As the older Surgeons never published statistics, we have no authentic figures to show us the mortality that followed trephining in former times, when it was undertaken very recklessly, as we should now think ; but it seems improbable that an operation so lightly undertaken could have been very fatal. The good results would seem to have been due to two causes—first, a large number of the cases in which it was done were uncomplicated by serious brain- injury or -disease; and secondly, the drainage after the operation mnst have been very perfect, as the piece of scalp corresponding to the bone removed was also taken away, the wound being left to heal by granulation. The introduction of antiseptic surgery has greatly reduced the mortality, especially in cases in which the dura mater is wounded. Kramer gives the following results obtained from published cases and the reports of hospitals in which the antiseptic system has been adopted. Of 25 cases in which primary trephining was performed for compound fracture, 21 healed by first intention, 2 after suppuration, and 2 died, 1 of circumscribed meningitis, and 1 of meningo-encephalitis. In 6 cases of secondary trephining, 3 healed by first intention, 2 by second intention, and 1 died with hernia cerebri. In 22 cases in which the skull was opened, through a previously sound scalp, for tumours, epilepsy, old depressed fractures, &c., 21 healed without fever, 13 by first intention, and none died. In considering the mortality after trephining, it must be remembered that the unfavourable result, which so frequently follows, is not always to be attri- buted to the operation itself. In a large proportion of fatal cases death results rather from the injury sustained by the brain, from pressure of extra- vasated blood, or from inflammatory mischief round a laceration of the oerebial substance, than from the operation ; and as the cases to which modern Surgeons now restrict the use of the trephine would necessarily prove fatal if left to themselves, it is but right to give the patient the chance of escaping with life, however slender that chance may be.