512 FRACTURES. accomplished, moans must be taken to prevent the return of the displacement. We have already seen that the three great causes of displacement in a fracture ’ are, external violence, the weight of the limb, and the contraction of the muscles. In the upper limb the weight is supported during the treatment of the fracture when necessary by slings or properly applied bandages. In the lower limb the chief displacement due to the weight of the limb is rotation outwards, this is prevented by lateral splints. The displacements due to muscular action are far the most troublesome, for, if the parts be left to them- selves, the involuntary movement of the patient will be certain to bring about a return of the faulty position. In many cases it is exceedingly difficult, for the first few days, to keep the ends of the bone in place, in consequence of spasmodic movements of the muscles of the limb, or of restlessness on the part of the patient. About this, however, the Surgeon need not be anxious, as no union takes place for the first week or ten days ; at the expiration of that time the muscles will have probably lost their irritability, and the patient have become accustomed to his position, so that with a little patience, or by ■ varying the apparatus and the position of the limb, good apposition may be maintained. The displacements due to muscular action are overcome in two ways, which may be used together or separately—relaxation and extension. The prin- ciple of relaxation was first laid down by Percival Pott. It consists merely in placing the limb in such a position as to relax the chief disturbing muscles to the greatest possible extent. There is no doubt it is of the greatest value in the treat- ment of the majority of broken bones. Extension consists in applying an ap- paratus by which the lower fragment is forcibly pulled in the direction opposite to that in which the muscles are displacing it. In order to apply it efficiently, counter-extension must be made upon some part of the body above the fracture. Extension is usually made by the Surgeon pulling forcibly on the lower fragment, the apparatus being used merely to retain the limb in the position in which he has placed it ; in some cases, however, elastic extension is applied by means of india-rubber. Considering the great power of the muscles, it is evident that in many parts it would be almost impossible to apply sufficient force to overcome the displacement they give rise to. It seems, however, that long-continued and steady extension gradually tires out the muscles in such a way that they yield before it. Extension to be efficient should therefore be constant. Extension is of course most useful against longitudinal displace- ment, but it also aids in the reduction of angular deformity. As types of these two modes of treatment, the treatment of fracture of the thigh by the double inclined plane, and by the long splint, may be referred to. A third method of overcoming muscular action has been suggested: the division of the tendons of some of the stronger muscles inserted into the lower fragment. This, however, can very rarely be necessary, and in those cases in which I have done it, or seen it done, no material benefit has resulted. The displacement due to the external violence which caused the fracture is overcome at the time of reduction ; any further displacement from a similar cause is prevented by the application of the various splints about to lie described. The return of displacement is prevented, and the proper shape and length of the limb are maintained, by means of bandages, splints, and special apparatus of various kinds. In applying these care should be taken not to exert any