165 PUTREFACTION. I excite inflammation in the tissues with which they come in contact, and when absorbed into the system give rise to constitutional disturbance, varying in intensity directly with the dose. Assuming, therefore, that the presence of bacteria is an essential feature of the process of putrefactive fermentation, two views have been held with regard to their action and mode of origin. Firstly, that they are the direct cause of the process, and that they arise solely from pre-existing organisms of the same kind, or their germs, which have found admission to the putrescible matter from without. This view, which is known as the “ germ theory of decomposition,” is now almost universally accepted. Secondly, it has been maintained that, although the microscopic organisms are constantly present, they are merely an accompaniment of the process; and that putrefaction occurs either spontaneously or under the influence of a chemical ferment, and that during its occurrence the bacteria may be developed from the dead matter which is decomposing. The discussion of this question involves the whole subject of abiogenesis or spontaneous generation—a subject that has occupied the attention and exercised the ingenuity of scientific men of all ages and countries, from the time of Aristotle onwards, and which is, perhaps, as far from its ultimate solution now as it was when he wrote on the Generation of Animals. The full discussion of this subject would be out of place here, and I must refer the reader to the writings of Pasteur, Lister, Bastian and Tyndall. So far as our present purpose is concerned, it may be sufficient to state that it has been shown conclusively by Pasteur, Lister, Tyndall, and others, that putrescible fluids, such as urine, milk, or hydrocele serum, may be exposed without undergoing decomposition to air which has been deprived of all its solid particles by filtration, or has been submitted to a sufficiently high tem- perature, or to the action of some chemical substance capable of destroyino- the vitality of any living organism. Consequently the gases of the air are not the causes of putrefaction. If a fluid which has thus been kept from putrefac- tion for weeks or even months, be, at the end of that time, exposed to the unpurified an- for a few seconds no result may follow; if for a few minutes ungi are sure to make their appearance; but it is by no means certain that the bG the bacterium termo aud that the fermentation that follows will be ordinary putrefaction. More commonly moulds of various StSS Tth117 * tIie airi be m0re thfln If the exposure ^,dj 01 tbe au' vei7 damp, the probability of the appearance of T1» <S»™ from this is that6the E 111 are ah™ys floating in the air in considerable numbers, but m tundant’ bufc Stm are present. The Lame =ffi i“ hy, C?fcratmS the dust of a room on a gelatine cul- appear occasional^ °'i' a ff C< Pofcatoe. In a scries of cultivations bacteria or other cultiviH W "v ±Q IT!0U C S constantly develope. By exposing fluids that all foi-msnf rf-me-la t0 ^ ^01' dxed times, it can be clearly shown than in tint- nf ti 01Samsms cxlst much more abundantly in the air of houses If, instead'nf nv ie oPCI1 country, and more in great cities than smaller towns, from any som-r^T1'” the putrescible fluid to air, a drop of unpurified water certainty nnrl Zv G added> bacteria make their appearance with absolute chided that iflc?iZ lotion follows. From this fact it is to be con- 01 18 e BPe°ial habitat of the ordinary bacteria of putrefaction.