206 local disturbances and inflammation. another. Nothing appears to me to be more unscientific than to endeavour to treat all inflammations on one uniform plan. Surely the scoffers at medical science have some ground for doubting at least the wisdom of its 1 rofessors, when they see one set of practitioners treating every inflammatory disease with depletion, antimony, and calomel, whilst others teach that the panacea tor a inflammations consists in brandy, ammonia, and bark It 18 ^^hfen-or both methods can be right, as exclusive plans of treatment But the eiroi lies in making them exclusive. Each is serviceable m, and indeed applic- able only to, its own particular cases. And between these extremes lie a multitude of forms of disease, in which endless modifications and ccanbm tions of these two methods of treatment-the stimulating and the depletory must be adopted by the Surgeon in order to meet the varying conditions o his patient. The local symptoms that accompany the inflammatory process, whether occurring externally or internally, m the conjunctiva or m the lunQ, are associated with constitutional disturbance that varies according to the age and Se constitutional condition of the patient. It is the type assumed by t ns constitutional disturbance, its sthenic or its adynamic character, as indicate by the o-eneral condition, by the pulse, and by the tongue, and not the mere local r must guide the Surgeon in the adoption of his line of practice. We may advantageously treat with antimony and blood-letting acute mflam- It^ion offcHye, or that which is the consequence of a wound of the lung, m mischief. It is a fatal ei , ncl to reo-ard the recognition of the ance to the detection of the local ^^d^ance as of minor interest, character of the accompanying co treating the Name and not the The Surgeon, who acts thus, ™ns ^onia as mere affections of the skin or Disease. If we treat erysipelas 01 pne^oma as mere con. of the lung, on one uniform plan, without irfemnce ^ ]arge stitutional the constitution of the patient our tetall^pS natural condition of the patient and of^his dinm condition of We must he guided m the means ^at ^ geneml character of the the patient, the state of the tongue * >{ thc asthonic type, we cannot at symptoms. It these iiom the fi that has been recommended m any period have iccouis / f If the disease commence in an inflammations accompanied by sthe 1 • lower and iovrer character, active form, the fever progiessne y - ■ dually modify the nature of our merging into the asthenic ype so' n » delicate procedure, requiring s-rtSi'— -**—. -—