HISTORY OF AMPUTATION. 53 caustics for the arrest of haemorrhage ; it is probable, therefore, that the vessels were secured in au amputation at that time by the ligatuic, although no distinct mention is made of it in the description of the operation. In spite of this he tells us that the operation was attended by very great danger, for the patients often died from haemorrhage or faintings during its performance, and that it was justified only by the fact that the cases for amputation were such that it had not to be considered whether the remedy was very safe, because it was the only one there was. Amputation was performed in this way, however, in spite of its dangers, till the beginning of the second century, when Archigenes, another Roman surgeon, invented the fillet, which was bound tightly round the limb to diminish the loss of blood. The writings of this Surgeon have been in great part lost, so that it is doubtful what means he used for the arrest of haemorrhage; but, whatever they were, they do not seem to have been very successful; for, soon after his time, Galen, who practised in Rome during the later part of the second century, reverted to the practice of Hippocrates, recommending that in amputations the incisions should be limited to the gangrenous tissues, and that a cautery should be applied to what remained of the dead parts after removal of the limb. The practice of tying arteries also fell completely into abeyance, the cautery being almost the only means employed for the arrest of haemorrhage. So great indeed was the fear of haemorrhage that, in the fourteenth century, Guido di Cauliaco recom- mended even strangulating the limb by means of plasters, and allowing it to drop off, in preference to any cutting operation. It was not till 1520 that the mode of operating adopted by Celsus was revived by Hans von Gersdorf ; but as the cautery, or various more or less impotent styptics were still the only means employed to stop the bleeding, the operation was too dangerous to be undertaken as an ordinary mode of treatment. Towards the latter part of the sixteenth century, about 15G0, the use of the ligature was re-introduced by Ambroise Pare, the most celebrated Surgeon of his time. Amputation, as he performed it, was essentially the same operation as that described by Celsus, and although the arrest of bleeding was efficiently carried out by the ligature, the loss of blood during the operation was considerable ; for, though “ the fillet ” was bound tightly round the limb with the intention of diminishing the haemorrhage, it seems never to have been applied with sufficient force completely to arrest the circulation. The instruments used for seizing the vessel were somewhat clumsy, and consequently the patient often lost so much blood before the vessel was tied, that the majority of Surgeons continued to prefer the cautery or some styptic for another century. It was not until the beginning of the eighteenth century that the ligature really became the only recognised mode of arresting arterial bleeding. This result was brought about partly by the discovery of the circulation of the blood by Harvey in 1G28, but chiefly by the invention of a really efficient tourniquet by Morel in 1(574. Suigeons now were able to perform amputations without the fear of seeing their patient die of haemorrhage during the operation, and from that time the real improvement in amputations commenced. In lii7!), Lowndham, an English.Surgeon, first suggested the plan of cutting n ap v Inch could be made to cover the divided end of the bone, so as to obtain cui ) union without separation of the end of the bone. Thus there came to be "o istinct modes of amputating a limb, the circular and the flap method, cac i o which underwent gradual development and improvement.