ULCERATION. 254 CHAPTER VI. ULCERATION. By Ulceration is meant a progressive destruction of the tissues, in which the solid parts seem to melt away into a liquid discharge without the separa- tion of visible portions of dead tissue. The meaning of the term will be made more clear by a few examples. If a piece of skin be killed in any way, as by the application of some caustic, or by mechanical violence, there is at first no solution of continuity, the dead tissue is everywhere continuous with the living : but within a few hours the phenomena of inflammation manifest them- selves in the surrounding living tissues, thus imperfectly marking out the limits of the part that is killed. By about the second or third day the line between the dead and living becomes more clearly defined, the cuticle at the margin of the living part becomes loose, and is raised by fluid beneath it, and at last comes away, exposing a narrow raw surface discharging pus ; the living tissues which lie in immediate contact with the dead, then seem gradually to melt away into the purulent discharge till a complete solution of continuity is established, the dead part, or, as it is called, the slough, being completely loosened and cast off. This process, by which a slough is separated from, the parts beneath, takes place entirely at the expense of the living tissues ; it is spoken of as ulceration, and the sore left is called a simple nicer. The effects produced by the inoculation of the poison of a soft chancre form another excellent example of ulceration. Within twenty-four horns of the inoculation a small inflamed spot appears, with redness, swelling and itching . by the third day the cuticle is raised by a drop of pus; when the thin epidermic covering is removed a small red sore is seen, from which pus exudes: this slowly extends day by day, the discharge being purulent, and at no tune do any visible portions of dead tissue come away with it ; round the sore the tissues show the ordinary signs of inflammation. Such a sore would be called a specific ulcer, the irritant which causes the inflammation and destruction of the tissues being a specific poison. A third form of ulceration, differing essentially from the two preceding, is seen in the later stages of the growth of malignant tumours. Thus an epithelial cancer commences as a small hard growth, which infiltrates the surrounding tissues. By the pressure of the growth which forces its way into the interstices of the structures which it is invading, the original tissues become absorbed, and the cancer-tissue comes to occupy their place AMien the growth reaches a certain size its central parts degenerate, soften and ucak dowS and a loss of substance takes place. As the disease progresses more and more’of the surrounding tissue becomes invaded and destroyed bj the eamuous OTowth which in its turn breaks down and melts away superficial 1). Ihus A most extensive destruction may take place. This process is described as ulceration, although here there may be no true inflammation, and the resulting sore is called a cancerous or malignant ulcer.