SPEC I A L FRA C TURFS. 59S to examine and compare tire two sides carefully and simultaneously, with one hand on each hip. Between the unimpactcd intracapsular and the ordinary extracapsular fractures there can he no difficulty in diagnosis ; all the signs of the latter being much more strongly marked than those of the former injury, as may he seen hy the annexed table, the difference of age and the degree of violence required to break the bone being also important elements in the diagnosis. Diagnosis between unimpacted Infra- and Extra-capsular Fractures of the Neck of the Thigh-bone. Intracapsular. 1. Cause generally slight and indirect, such as catching the foot in the carpet or slipping off the curb-stone. 2. Force usually applied longitudinally or obliquely. 3. Age, rarely below fifty ; most commonly in feeble aged persons. 4. Pain and constitutional disturbance slight. 5. No apparent injury to soft parts about hip. 6. Crepitus often obscure. 7. Shortening, at first, usually not more than one inch. Extracapsular. 1. Cause usually severe and direct violence, such as falling from a height or a blow on the hip. 2. Force usually applied transversely. 3. Age, usually ‘ below fifty; chiefly in vigorous adults. 4. Pain and constitutional disturbance usually considerable. 5. Considerable extravasation, ecchymosis, and signs of direct injury to hip. 6. Crepitus, very readily felt. 7. Shortening at least two inches or more. The distinction between intracapsular fracture and the impactedfracture of the neck is also easy. In the former case the crepitus can be obtained by extending and rotating the limb, the eversion is more marked, and the injury occurs usually from indirect violence ; in the latter, traction cannot restore the limb to its proper length, crepitus is wanting, and the fracture is always the result of direct violence applied to the trochanter. In impacted fractures of the neck of the femur it is, as a rule, impossible to determine whether the injury is within or without the capsule. The separation of the head and the impaction of the neck into it occurs only in old people, and, judging from the few recorded cases, the shortening and eversion are slight. Fracture of the root of the neck with impaction into the trochanter occurs at all ages after middle life. Its symptoms vary from scarcely ap- preciable displacement to extreme, eversion with one inch of shortening. Should the trochanter have been fissured or splintered, this may be ascertained on careful examination, and the nature of the injury could then be recognized with certainty. Severe contusions of the hip are sometimes followed by eversion of the limb with inability to move it, so that at first sight it might be supposed that the bone was broken. In these cases, however, the absence of immediate shortening and crepitus will aways establish the diagnosis. But though no immediate and sudden shortening can occur without fracture, these contusions may be followed at a remote period by shortening of the limb from atrophic changes in the head and neck of the femur. When the injured hip-joint has been the seat of chronic rheumatic arthritis, and the limb is already somewhat shortened by the changes that occur in the head and neck of the femur in this disease, the difficulty of diagnosis becomes great; especially as there may also be, as the result of the disease, some thickening of the trochanter, with rough