5iS FRACTURES. means of a starched bandage some return of displacement may take place. The best time for its application in these cases is about the end of the second week. Care must be taken to enclose the foot in the splint, otherwise rotatory displacement outwards may take place. By this means I have obtained the most satisfactory results in cases of fractured thigh; patients having frequently been cured without any appreciable shortening, with the preservation of the natural curve of the bone, and without confinement to bed after the second week. In compound fractures also of the leg, and even of the thigh, I have obtained most satisfactory results from this means. In compound fractures of the leg, I have seen the patient walking about on crutches as early as the tenth or fourteenth day, the limb being securely put up in starch; and have more frequently succeeded in getting union of the vround, and con- sequently in converting the compound into a simple fracture, by putting up the limb in this apparatus than in any other. Plaster of Paris may be used in the treatment of fractures in any one of the four following ways :— 1. The simple plaster-bandage is thus applied. A coarse muslin-bandage is first prepared by rubbing thoroughly into its meshes some fresh plaster. The very best plaster must be used and it must be quite fresh ; if it has been exposed even for a few days in a damp place it will be practically useless. The bandage is then loosely rolled up, a little more plaster being sprinkled between its turns as this is done. The necessary number of bandages having been got ready, the limb must be prepared. This is done in various ways. Formerly at University College Hospital we used merely to grease the limb and apply the plaster directly to the skin. This had the disadvantage of being difficult to remove. The better plan is to apply a dry flannel-bandage smoothly to the limb. The bandage must be made of elastic Welsh flannel and not be drawn more tightly than is necessary to prevent creasing, otherwise it might cause con- striction of the limb. A prepared plaster-bandage is then placed, end upwards, in a basin of water deep enough to cover it completely. It is then taken out and squeezed to get rid of the excess of water and smoothly rolled over the flannel. The bandage must on no account be pulled. It is to be laid smoothly on the limb without making reverses. In order to avoid these, it may be cut whenever required. The muslin-bandage, it must be remembered, is used merely as a convenient means of applying the plaster and to give toughness to it when it is set ; a plaster-bandage must on no account be used to exert pressure, or when it sets it may cause serious constriction of the limb. As the bandage is applied it must be rubbed with the hands to squeeze out any air that may have got between the turns, and if necessary, some dry plaster may be sprinkled over it at intervals and rubbed in writh the hand wetted with water. If it be thought necessary to strengthen the apparatus at any point, it may be done by layingon slips of the plaster bandage, which must be secured by a final circular turn ; or strips of thin tin-plate or perforated zinc may be applied between the layers of bandage. Iu an ordinary case about three layers of bandage will be required. Some Sur- geons prefer to use cotton wool instead of the flannel; this however neces- sitates pulling the bandage which is never a safe proceeding with plaster. Moreover, cotton-wool after a few days becomes packed together inside the plaster-case which no longer fits accurately. If a mass of cotton-wool be