AMPUTATION OF THE FORE-ARM. 99 arm with its dorsal surface upwards, enters the knife at the palmar edge of the bone furthest from him. He then marks out a flap from the dorsaf surface equal m length to two-thirds of the antero-posterior diameter of the limb at the point where it is intended to saw the bones. The flap must be sufficiently broad, and rounded at its corners. After raising this, taking only the skin and fat, a flap similar in shape, but half the length, may be raised from the palmar surface in the same way. This flap must be marked out by drawing the knife under the limb while it is still in the pronated position, but the fore- arm must be supmated while it is being dissected up. The knife is now firmly swept roimd the bones at the level of the angle of the flaps (Fig 46) so as to divide the muscles circularly at this point. The soft parts are now to be retracted from the bones by a process of careful dissection, for a distance of from three-quarters of an inch to one inch, and the bones cleaned and sawn at this point. The result is, that the bones are buried in the muscles, and Fig. 46.—Amputation of the Fore-arm by Skin Flaps. be'ttSm*CODen°m»a?r ” tencIeIlcJ'to clisPl!“- bealed, the cicatrix will be well to the ^ ^ exit of discharges, and, when sequently free from pressure Pr i ^ °f.the b°*es, and con- the bones, that the anterior interns' ^ ° ounc , m retracting the muscles from Place. This ^ been cut in ™re than one fore be taken to avoid the accident bv^ Great care should there' turned towards the part to be removed Tf'tb ^ 6 °f tIlG knife consfcantly seen to be cut somewhat lono- tu i ' n ) 16 medlan and ulnar nerves are short, so as to avffid7°Ut witb forcecut of the bone. ’ P0BBlble’ tbeU lmPhcafcl°* in the cicatrix near the end by transfixion from beforfb^kward^ p?rformed by lateral flaps made of sweeps of the knife and" snwn ’ K!U° 1S t lGn WCH cleared by a couple taken fairly to divide the mu^l ^t In clearinS the bone, care must be ™«UheUoftotaTSSWfr™ blafil™ "f"' tllck"ife part of the arm where this nm-bwi i tlle amputation be performed in that also frequently performed bv onto • U 8 10.und fcbe humerus. The operation is flap is made to include the bin °'P08^10r flaps. In this method the anterior contains the triceps The braohkl “f brachialis anfcicus> *™d the posterior P • he brachial artery and the median nerve may be left