COMPLICATED FRACTURES OF LEG-BONES. 6x7 3 cases in which I have practised it: for although the tendon was exceedingly 1 tense, only temporary benefit resulted, the displacement returning under the ; influence of the other muscles inserted into the foot. In these cases the bones i may usually be brought into excellent position by flexing the thigh well upon j the abdomen, and the leg upon the thigh, so that the heel nearly touches the nates, and then laying the limb on its outer side on a wooden leg-splint, | provided with a proper foot-piece, and keeping it fixed in this position. In J some cases the swing-cradle (Fig. 254) will be found a useful and very easy I apparatus. In some fractures of the leg in the upper third, the lower end of | the upper fragment projects considerably, and cannot be brought into proper ] position so long as the knee is kept bent; but if it be extended, so as to relax the extensors of the thigh, the bone is readily brought into good J position. In fractures of the leg, as in all injuries of a similar kind, no j one plan of treatment should be adopted exclusively, but the means employed 1 should be varied and suited according to the peculiarities of each individual 1 case. In the management of all fractures of the leg, the foot should be carefully kept as nearly as possible at right angles to the leg. If it be allowed to drop so that the toes point downwards, the stiffness that always follows a fracture of the leg, will fix it in that position for some time after the fracture is united, and until the false position is corrected by forcible flexion, frictions, and rubbing, the patient cannot use his leg for walking, and thus convalescence is very much prolonged. Period of Union.—The time at which all artificial support may be dispensed with is, when both bones are broken, 8 weeks ; if the tibia alone is fractured, 7 weeks ; if the fibula alone, 6 weeks. Complications of Fracture of the Leg.—Should a traumatic aneurism, form in the leg, as a consequence of injury of the posterior tibial artery, com- pression of the superficial femoral in Scarpa’s triangle, with pressure by pad and bandage over the pulsating swelling, may succeed. If not, the artery may be ligatured in Scarpa’s triangle with good results. Two cases of this kind are recorded, one by Dupuytren, the other by Delpech. For the treatment of other Complications of simple Fracture of the leg, see p. 525, et seq. Compound Fractures of the Tibia are of more frequent occurrence than ! similar injuries of any other bone in the body. This is owing to the thin ( covering of soft parts over the anterior and inner aspect of the bone, and to I the fact of its fracture being usually oblique ; so that the sharply pointed end of the upper fragment is liable to be thrust through the integument, when the lower part of the limb falls backwards as the injured person attempts to rise or is being raised from the ground. The fracture may, of course, be rendered | compound also by the same direct violence that breaks the bone. The Treatment must be carried out according to the principles laid down l for the treatment of compound fractures in general (p. 52b). Haemorrhage is a common complication of compound fractures of the leg. 1 It must be treated according to the rules laid down on p. 533. If the fracture e situated in the lower third, and the artery torn low down in the limb, I where the vessels are superficial, and more especially if the injury be near the an e-joint, an attempt should always be made to apply a ligature to the vessel before proceeding to the extreme measure of amputation.