167 ORGANISMS IN INFECTIVE INFLAMMATIONS. importance compared to the vegetable organisms which are now supposed by the majority of pathologists to be the direct cause of mauy forms of inflam- mation, as erysipelas, malignant pustule, and other specific affections. Assuming this theory to be true, it is probable that the inflammation is the result of the formation of irritating chemical products by a process analogous to putrefaction and fermentation; still it is important to make a very clear distinction between the effects of simple putrefaction and the inflammation caused by these more potent organisms. In simple putrefaction the irritating material is formed as the result of changes occurring in the dead matter only, and may be regarded as being developed outside the body; and, when it gives rise to spreading inflammation, this is due merely to the chemical products of the process soaking into the surrounding tissues, just as any soluble irritating- salt, such as corrosive sublimate, might do; but the irritant does not increase in quantity amongst the living tissues, and its effects are directly proportioned to the quantity developed locally. There is, in other words, no infection of the surrounding tissues. With the organisms of which we are now speaking, however, the case is different; according to the germ-theory of infec- tion, it is supposed that they grow into the surrounding living tissues, and excite inflammation as they spread; they enter the circulation by the lymph stream, or by the blood vessels, and may multiply in the circulating- blood, giving rise to changes in its composition incompatible with life, or they may lodge in distant parts, and there grow and set up local inflammation similar to that at the original seat of disease. From their direct power of exciting unhealthy processes, these organisms are spoken of as “ pathogenic fungi. They cause a true infection tooth locally amongst the tissues adjoining the part first infected, and generally in the ■whole system. The poison multiplies m the body of the affected individual, and the effects it produces are not proportional of the quantity of the original dose inoculated. To inflammations arising from this cause the term “infective ” is applied. The organisms which are found associated with “ infective ” inflammations are classed with fungi, being destitute of chlorophyll and absorbing oxvgen and excreting carbonic acid. They belong chiefly, but not exclusively, to the orders Micrococcus and Bacillus. 3 Micrococci are round organisms, varying from . to - ' 1'“°8™'ble br the What powm of the icioscope. They occur singly or grouped in pairs, chains, or colonies b°"nd t0gethf a fcomogaieom substance,' or. iDt„ zz™z z srs Wfct'hT ;ShTC!Fdif’ tmm >•«*«**» in a* fact that their less” 'nil liW0 6 h7 bf“cltb’ and that they a™ most often motion- to justify inv fn ^ 1S,mcic ^ arbiti'ary, but our knowledge is not yet sufficient baciUuS is’ ^vever, of such size that its the organism whiehS'U without difficulty,. namely, the Bacillus anthracis, pustule in mm ru 1S t ie.cause ol sP^cn'c fever in cattle and of malignant growth it miili; r f C1 ~atl0n has shown that, under favourable conditions of small highly roll* '?• 3 *j8S1011 llkc fch° bacteria; but under other circumstances ‘C mg dots appear in its substance, which have been proved