GENERAL VERSUS LOCAL ORIGIN. 1015 Cancer is said to be unknown in the frigid zone. The Esquimaux in the Western, and the Samoieds and other migratory tribes in the Eastern hemi- sphere, are equally exempt from it. Amongst the inhabitants of the torrid zone it also rarely occurs ; though in the more populous parts and the seats of an older civilisation, as in India, it is not unknown. But on this and other points connected with the geographical distribution of this fell scourge, we require additional and precise information. Cancer is certainly more common in Europe than in any other part of the I civilized world. In some parts of the United States of America and in China also it appears to be of frequent occurrence, whilst in South America, in Africa (except Egypt), and in the greater part of Asia, it is not common. Haviland has obtained very important results from the investigations of the tables of mortality of this country, with regard to the distribution of cancer in Great Britain ; and his investigations appear to lead to this conclusion, that s-eoloeical formation, soil, and resulting endemic conditions exercise a marked influence on the development of cancer. Haviland finds, with regard to England, that cancer is most common in the western and north-western parts of the kingdom, including Wales ; and that generally throughout the more elevated midland and southern districts it is not common. It is less frequent on the older geological formations, towards the sources of rivers, and in dry well-drained districts. He points out, on the other hand, that the sites of the great cancer-fields of England are the tertiary formations and the alluvial districts ; that cancer surrounds the course of the great rivers after their full formation, when they are passing through valleys and low-lying lands liable to floods and to the consequent accumulation of alluvial deposits. These districts are also the most densely populated. Hence it may be inferred that density of population favours the production of cancer, and that wherever social organization is highly developed, there cancer becomes proportionately rife. But this view is not quite borne out by statistics. Thus we find that the development of cancer does not depend on mere popula- tion, as the mortality from cancer in Norwich and Great Yarmouth, com- paratively small towns, is to that in such great centres of population as Liver- pool and Manchester as 141 to 84, or nearly double ; that in Philadelphia it is to that in the much larger city of New York as 15 to 7, or more than double ; while in Marylebone it is very far higher than in the capital of Pennsylvania. In these conclusions we must not, however, omit to take into account the increased tendency to hereditary transmission amongst a comparatively settled population, such as that of the east of England. Is Cancer a Disease of Constitutional or of Local Origin? This question has led to much discussion among pathologists. There are at least three distinct theories with regard to the origin of cancer, a. It is a blood- disease. b. It is purely local in its origin, c. If local in its origin, it can only he developed in a constitution that is fitted in some way for its formation ; a fitting soil, in fact, is required for the cancer to germinate in. We will consider these views separately ; and in so doing, I may observe that it will be extremely difficult, if not impossible, to separate the two questions as to the origin and the development of cancer from one another ; for, however essentially they may be distinct and separate, they blend in such a discussion as this in an almost inextricable manner. a. Unit cancer is a blood-disease—a disease essentially dependent on a