SYPHILIS—nrCUBATIOX—PRIMARY SORE. 10S5 characteristic phenomena. An experiment of Calais illustrates this : lie inoculated the matter of a pustular syphilitic eruption on the arm of a medical student, which produced a pustule in a couple of days; this healed over in about a fortnight, and the experiment was supposed to have tailed until t ie thirty-fifth day; action then recommenced by the development ol a papule, which subsequently ulcerated, and general syphilis followed in due coinsc. . the syphilitic virus be carried in the pus of a local contagious chancre, the time of incubation is often occupied by the course of a chancre, which may or may not have healed over when the syphilitic poison begins its action. This series of events, first a suppurating contagious sore, and then induration forming in the base of the sore, or in its scar if the sore have already healed, is perhaps almost as common as the inoculation of syphilis unaccompanied by immediate local irritation ; but the two morbid processes have no connection with each other, and are only accidentally co-existent. The length of this time of inactivity varies in different persons ; it is 1 commonly twenty-five days. The shortest known period before the poison began to reveal its presence has been ten days, and the longest forty-six days. The most important question with regard to this stage of the disease is, how : long does the poison remain localized at the seat of inoculation before entering ! the circulation ? Iso certain answer can be given to this question, but it is probable that the period between inoculation and general infection is very short. Berkeley Hill records a case in which he freely destroyed the surface : of the wound left by a rupture of the frsenum about twelve hours after infection, i but in spite of this general syphilis followed. Ricord, who at one time believed that destruction of the seat of inoculation within five days would prevent the general disease, afterwards completely abandoned this view, and came to the ■ conclusion that destruction of the seat of infection is useless. Experiments on the inoculation of vaccine lymph on the human subject, and the virus of glanders on horses, have shown that the time that elapses between the local introduction of the virus and its entrance into the circulation is very short. In glanders, the excision of the seat of inoculation one minute after the poison was inserted, failed to arrest the development of the disease. Those cases, therefore, in which general syphilis is reported to have been cured by excision of the primary sore cannot be accepted without further evidence. Second Stage. Appearance of the Initial Manifestation or Primary Sore.—When the period of incubation is past, a peculiar chronic in- flammatory process accompanied by the growth of new tissue takes place, in the seat of inoculation beneath the epithelium, if that be intact, or in the tissues forming the base of the ulcer, if the inoculation has been immediately followed by the formation of a sore consequent upon the simultaneous in- troduction of the poison of the non-infecting chancre or other irritating- matter. Should such a sore have healed, the new growth commences in the scar. The new tissue is of almost cartilaginous hardness. Microscopic ex- amination shows it to be formed by an infiltration of the connective tissue with small round cells. With these larger cells containing a single nucleus are found, and not uncommonly multinuclear cells of considerable size are met with. These differ from the giant-cells of tubercle in being smaller and more regular in outline. It is the formation of this growth that forms one of the most distinctive features of the true syphilitic sore. The simple chancre is formed by a true process of ulceration. There is destruction of tissue from the