837 penetrating wounds of the lung. be open or subcutaneous, upon the nature of the instrument inflicting tie wound and upon its extent. If the lung be wounded by the sharp end of a broken rib, recovery usually ensues. Punctured wounds of the chest, pene- trating the lungs, are always very serious; but here the danger will depend partly on the depth of penetration, partly on the size of the instrument that occasions the wound. The nearer the wound penetrates to the root of the lungs, the greater is the danger from haemorrhage by the implication of the larger vascular trunks. Gunshot-wounds of the chest are far more dangerous than stabs, owing partly to the laceration attendant on a bullet-wound, but especially to the fact that the external wound can rarely heal without suppura- tion and consequently, unless it be prevented by antiseptic treatment, septic pleurisy and empyema, and perhaps also pneumonia, are ahnost certain to occur. Their danger is increased also, in many cases, by the lodgment of the bullet or other foreign bodies. In the American Report of the War of the Rebellion, a table is given of 1609 cases of penetrating wounds of the chest, collected from various sources, including the reports of Mouat in the New Zealand War, Chenu and Matthew on the Crimean War, Stromeyer on the Danish War, and others. Of these 1049 died, being an average mortality of 65'2 per cent. In the American Civil War 8715 cases were recorded, with 5260 deaths, or 62'6 per cent. The highest mortality recorded was in the Crimean War, in which 91-6 per cent of these cases terminated fatally amongst the French troops, and 79'2 amongst the English. Longmore remarks that the apparently great mortality in the Crimean returns was due largely to the proximity of the field-hospitals to the trenches, where the patients were wounded ; if they had been wounded in the ordinary circumstances of a battle, many of them would never have reached a hospital. The great danger and principal cause of death in these injuries is unquestionably the haemorrhage that ensues. This may prove immediately fatal if one of the larger pulmonary vessels be divided. As the bleeding is most abundant at and shortly after the receipt of the wound, Hennen states that, if the patient survive the third day, great hopes may be entertained of his recovery. After this period, the chief soiuce of danger is the occurrence of septic inflammation in the pleura and sometimes also in the injured lung, the probability of the occurrence of which is greatly increased in gunshot-injuries by the frequent lodgment of foreign bodies within the chest. The immediate cause of death at this stage is undoubtedly the accumulation of decomposing inflammatory effusion in the pleural cavity and the absorption of the products of putrefaction. This may prove fatal from the fourth to the eighth day. Emphysema is seldom a dangerous complication, though it may become so if very extensive and allowed to increase unchecked. If both lungs be wounded at the same time, the result is almost inevitably fatal, either by the abundant haemorrhage suffocating or exhausting the patient, or else by induction of asphyxia in consequence of air being drawn into both the pleural sacs, and thus arresting respiration. This, however, does not necessarily result; and there are a sufficient number of cases on record of recoveries after stabs or bullet-wounds traversing both sides of the chest, to show that collapse of the lungs and consequent asphyxia docs not necessarily result Irom this double injury, which indeed has also been determined experi- mentally on animals by Cruveilhier.