INJURIES OF THE SPINE. 784 entire rest, for the reason, that not unfrcqucntly patients feel for a time bene- fited by movement ; and hence changes of air and scene are thought to lx; permanently beneficial. But nothing can be more erroneous than this idea, for the patient will invariably be found to fall hack into a worse state than had previously existed. In more advanced stages of the disease, when chronic meningitis has set in, the patient suffers so severely from any, even the very slightest, movement of the body, that he instinctively preserves that rest which is needed. In order to secure rest efficiently, the patient should be made to lie on a prone couch. In the prone position, the spine is the highest part of the body; thus passive venous congestion and determination of blood, which are favoured when the patient lies on his back, are entirely prevented. Again, the absence of pressure upon the back is a great comfort when it is unduly sensitive and tender, and is a source of additional safety to the patient, if he be paraplegic, by lessening the liability to the formation of bed-sores. Lastly, the prone position presents this advantage over the supine, that it allows the ready appli- cation of local treatment to the spine. In some instances complete and absolute rest may be secured to the injured spine by the application of a gutta-percha case to the back, embracing the shoulders, nape, and back of the head ; or by letting the patient wear a stiff collar, so as to give support to the neck. Iu other cases Sayre’s plaster-of-Paris jacket will be found of the utmost service. It secures more perfect and continuous rest than any other apparatus. But, if rest is needed to the spine, it is equally so to the brain. Iu cases of concussion of the spine, the membranes of the brain become liable to the extension of inflammation to them. Irritability of the senses of sight and hearing, which is very marked in many of these cases, with perhaps heat of head or flushings of the face, gives the best evidence of this morbid action. I or the subdual of this state of increased cerebral excitement and irritability, it is absolutely necessary that the mind should be kept as much as possible at ie>t. The patient, feeling himself unequal to the fatigue of business, becomes conscious of the necessity of relinquishing it, though not perhaps without gieafc reluctance, and until after many ineffectual efforts to attend to it. There are two remedies which may be employed with much advantage in the eailiei stages of spinal concussion, with the view of soothing the irritation of the nervous system. One is chloral-hydrate, to procure sleep ; the other, bromide of potassium, to allay irritability. During the early period of concussion of the spine, much advantage will usually be derived from dry cupping along the back on each side of the verte- bral column. In some cases, I have seen good effects follow the application 0 ice-bags to the injured part of the spine. At this period, I believe, medicine is of little service, beyond such as is required for the regulation of the genera health 011 ordinary medical principles. When the Secondary Effects of Concussion of the Spinal Cord have appeared, much may often be done, not only for the mitigation of suffering, but for the cure of the patient, by carefully conducted local and constitutions treatment. . , . , Rest as in the early stages, must be persevered in ; but, in addition to n counter-irritation may now be advantageously employed. The various onus in which this means is familiar to the Surgeon—stimulating embroca 1 > n mustard-poultices, blisters, and setons or issues—may be successively use .