FRACTURES. 496 the same way that a tendon is ruptured—by the violent contraction of the muscles attached to them tearing them asunder. It is not often that the long 1 bones are so fractured ; but the humerus has been broken by a person striking at but not hitting another, or by suddenly throwing out the arm to seize some- thing that was falling ; and the clavicle has been fractured by a rider giving his horse a back-handed blow. In these cases, however, muscular action may not have been the sole cause, the weight of the limb also tending to fracture the bone. Those bones that do not alford attachment to any powerful muscles, as the cranial, for instance, cannot be fractured in this way. Muscular action also aids in the fracture of bones by indirect violence, thus we see that a sober man who makes a violent effort to save himself more often breaks a bone in a fall than a drunken man who falls like a log. Predisposing Causes.—These are numerous and varied. Some bones are especially liable to be broken in consequence of their serving as points of support. Thus, when a person falls upon the hand, the shock is transmitted from the wrist-joint through the radius, humerus, and clavicle, to the trunk ; the radius and clavicle, being the weaker bones, are then espe- cially liable to be fractured. So again, the situation of a bone, irrespectively of any other circumstance, may predispose it to fracture; the prominent posi- tion of the nasal bones, and the exposed situation of the acromion, render these parts peculiarly liable to injury. The shape of some bones disposes them to fracture ; thus, a long bone is necessarily more readily broken than a short and thick one ; hence fractures of the tibia and femur from falls on the feet are more common than of the os calcis. Certain pat ts of hone- are more commonly fractured than others. Those parts especially into which poweiful muscles are inserted, or that are in exposed situations, and hence liable to injury, or have to receive the weight of the fallen body, aie often biokeu. Hence’the clavicle, the olecranon, and the neck of the femur, are commonly fractured. Age exercises considerable influence, not only on the general occurrence of fracture, but on the peculiar liability of certain bones. Though fractures may occur at all ages, even in intra-uterine life (Chaussier has dissected a foetus that had 113 fractures)j yet bone, being elastic and cartilaginous in early age, is less readily broken than when it has become brittle and earthy, as in advanced life. In children, fractures frequently occur at the point of junction between the shaft and epiphysis, where ossification has not as yet become perfect This separation of the epiphysis in children, the detachment as it were of the terminal points of ossification, occurs chiefly at the lower ends of the humerus and femur, sometimes in the radius and other long bones. As age advances, the compact tissue of the shaft becomes denser and harder, but the cancellous structure of the extremities more dilated and looser : hence fracture of the neck of the femur is especially common in old people. In young persons also the bone is usually broken transversely, but fractures taking place at a more advanced period of life are generally oblique, and often comminute ; in adults they also more commonly extend into joints than when occurring in carlv ao-e. In children, more than one half the fractures occurring m e unner limb arc of the clavicle ; and in the lower limb, fracture of the sha o the femur by indirect violence is of extremely common occurrence. Sex indirectly influences the liability to fracture, men being more i quently exposed to the causes of this injury than women. In women, the bon