263 INDOLENT OR CALLOUS ULCER. It will be found a most useful application. The granulations may also be touched from time to time with nitrate of silver. Indolent or Callous Ulcer.—This is always very chronic. It is situated on the outer side of the lower extremity, between the ankle and calf; and most frequently occurs in men about the middle period of life. The surrounding slcin is congested, and usually presents the appearances indicative of long con- tinued passive hypffitemia, being frequently darkly pigmented and always indurated. The induration affects the subcutaneous areolar tissue which is solid and brawny, and firmly fixed to the subjacent fascia, or in some cases even to the bone. There is a total loss of elasticity, both in the skin and sub- cutaneous tissue. The epidermis is often scaly and desquamates in laro-e flakes. In many cases the cause of the mischief will be found to be varicose veins, which have given rise to chronic congestion of the skin. The edges of the sore are often irregular; they are hard, elevated considerably above the surface of the sore, and sink abruptly into it. The surface is either smooth and covered with a yellowish layer, or irregular and formed in parts of pale badly formed, feeble granulations. The laso is hard, and firmly fixed to the subjacent fascia or bone. The discharge is thin and sanious. There is no pam attending this ulcer, and its surface, which often attains a very laro-e size may usually be touched without the patient feeling it. ° ’ It is always slow tp heal for contraction forms an essential part of the healing of a sore ; in the callous ulcer the rigidity of the surroui dino- tis e renders contraction almost impossible. - ssue . r^rca^m>d. The principle of treatment here is to soften the r tissues and depress the edges of the sore bv nromotino- .1,. . ! smb°unding inflammatory products with which they are infiltrated ° When th* °* Chr°mC pBshsd contraction becomes possible. Ll hca“ prl^ss T1 LTiw effected by pressure. t, piogiess. lkls is best An old and very efficient plan of treatment is as follows The hw™ 1 should be commenced by rubbino- the surface nf ti,0 1 j l c treatment congested integument uuth nSe o ?d the bounding three or four layers of boracic acid lint dipped in Lt'sXtion'of 'T °* and covered with oiled silk and cotton 1 1 11 1 of boraclc acid every four hours. ^ ' f ^ be properly strapped on the plan recommended by The ft T f’ 101 this purpose is the enmiritfm/m ■ - , . , * I he best plaster resincc is added to make^it sufficient v ^’iTy0 Wucbsome of the emplastrum should be cut into strips 131^ tbl8’ *P™d upon calico, mch-and-a-half in width • the centre of tl Ceumcbes ln lengfch, and about an on the side of the limb’ ^ ^ ^ be Iaid smo°thly forward, are to be crossed obliquely over it ’ ° Strffirf/ ^ ^ bemg bron8'llfc m this way, until the limb is coveml fnv „ r , 1 Stnp mnst be applied and below the ulcer. If the sore he ' ! loanee of a couple of inches above included in the strappino- pnf,h of • ankle> tbis Joint should be equal degree of prciSre^whichmavlft ° !P aSfcer. should be aPP]ied with an at least one-third of the nrc v en bc c°nsiderable, and it should cover l-^^cd from tils^ Iimb mnst more evenly if it i)C WiU. 1 , , . be plaster will bc found to apply itself ordinary plan of using dry heat ' ,C1I)8' dlppcd m bot water instead of the tins plan of treatment, the edges will subside, the surface of the