LOCAL TREATMENT. 885 hiccup, which is often distressing, is best remedied by the administration oi spirits of chloroform and camphor. . Local Treatment.—Gangrene, when threatening as the result oi inflam- mation, may often be prevented by free incisions into the inflamed and tense tissues. Punctures are not sufficient, but free incisions two or three inches long, should be made, which by gaping widely allow the escape of blood and other fluids, and thus effectually relieve the vessels and the tissues. This is more especially the case where there is much loose areolar tissue, as in the penis or scrotum ; or indeed in any part in which much tension results from the inflammation. The relief of local tension is of the first importance in cases of inflammation threatening to terminate in gangrene. By a free incision through the structures so affected, as in phlegmonous erysipelas, not only may the vitality of the affected tissues be preserved, but the extension of gangrene, if it have already set in, may be arrested, and the constitutional disturbance at once lessened. By incision, also, irritating effusions and infiltrations are discharged, and thus one cause of sloughing is removed. I11 the non-inflammatory form of the disease, as soon as it is evident that a part is about to become gangrenous it should be carefully washed with warm carbolic acid lotion (1 in 40). This solution is not of sufficient strength to cause any irritation of the unbroken skin. Having thus rendered the surface as far as possible aseptic, the whole limb should be thickly wrapped in salicylic wool, or it may be sprinkled with iodoform and afterwards covered with iodoform-wool. By this treatment offensive decomposition may often be prevented. Carbolic-acid-dressings should not be applied, as they are too irritating and might cause extension of the mischief. The dressing should not be disturbed unless the smell indicates that decomposition is taking place beneath it. At a later stage the same treatment may be continued, or the parts that are already gangrenous may be enveloped in lint soaked in warm solutions of carbolic acid, boracic acid, chloride of zinc, or creasote, or dusted with charcoal powder and covered with a layer of wadding. Ho poultices should be applied if the sloughs be large, heat and moisture hastening their decomposition ; but if they be small, yeast or charcoal poultices may be advantageously applied. The separation of the sloughs should be left as much as possible to nature, which is always fully able to accomplish this, if the patient’s strength can be kept up. The vitality of the tissues in the proximity of and above the line of separation is very low, and may readily be destroyed by any operative interference, there being always a danger of exciting inflammation to such a degree as to cause it to run into the gangrene. Hence no attempt should be made to pull away sloughs not already separated, nor should stimulants be applied to the living tissues. It matters little as to what is done to parts already dead, which, when loosened, may be cut away ; but we must not meddle with those that are living. Haemorrhage seldom occurs before the separation of the sloughs, but there is always danger of its happening during that process. If it occur, pressure or the actual cautery will be found the best means to arrest it; and, if these fail, ligature ol the artery higher up the limb, or amputation when practicable, might be required. Barts that are quite dead, but that do not readily separate, such as tendons, ligaments, and bones, may be cut through with scissors, pliers, or saws, and thus many weeks or months saved in their separation. It may occasionally