960 TUMOURS. malignant, and others as uniformly benign, as lipomata and some cysts, yet many others that are usually innocent may, under certain conditions, take on a truly malignant action : this has led to the establishment of an intermediate group that may lie termed the Semi-Malignant. The Non-Malignant, Innocent, or Benign Tumours are strictly local in their development, and arc rarely connected with any constitutional or hereditary peculiarity. They resemble more or less completely the normal textures of the part in which they grow, and hence are very commonly, though not perhaps with strict propriety, termed homologous. They usually, though not invariably, grow slowly, are more or less distinctly circumscribed, being often enclosed in a cyst or loose capsule of connective tissue, and have no tendency to involve neighbouring structures in their own growth ; any [change that they induce in contiguous parts consists simply in displacement or atrophy by their size and pressure. They are usually single, but not unfre- quently multiple, developing either simultaneously or successively ; but if in the latter mode, without any connection with preceding growths. If re- moved by operation, they do not return ; but if left to the ordinary processes of nature, they slowly attain a great size, remain stationary, and, at last, atrophy, decay, or necrose. The essentially Malignant Tumours differ widely from those just de- scribed. They cannot be considered as simply local diseases ; if local in the first instance, they have a tendency rapidly to affect the constitution, and to reproduce themselves in distant parts of the body. They are usually charac- terized by extreme vegetative luxuriance, but by a somewhat low vitality, being prone to early decay ; the peripheral parts being usually iu a state of active growth, while the central are undergoing fatty degeneration, ulceration, or gangrene. They represent an extreme departure from the ordinary nutii- tion of the part; and, when once formed in an organ or tissue, they develop by an inherent force of their own, irrespectively of neighbouring parts, pro- ducing masses which differ in structure and appearance from anything ob- served in the normal condition of the tissues in which they grow ; and hence they are called heterologous. This term, however, cannot be considered strictly accurate ; inasmuch as the microscopic elements of which the masses are composed have their several analogues in the normal structures of the body. But though the individual constituents of the tumour may be normal, their aggregation and mode of arrangement arc totally abnoimal, and differ from everything met with in a healthy state of the tissues. The niass, which may either be infiltrated in the tissues, or localized, increases quickly in size. As it increases in size, it tends to implicate the neighbouring struc- tures in its own growth, and to affect distant parts through the medium 0 the lymphatics or the blood. If removed by operation it has a great tendency to return in its original site or elsewhere, though it does not necessarily do so. If left to run its course, a malignant tumour will inevitably soften, necrose, and ulcerate, often with much pain, profuse haemorrhage, and the induction of a peculiar state of cachexy, which speedily terminates in death The following may be looked upon as the principal characteristics oj malignant growth. e .nr__i 1. The tumour, whether arising spontaneously or as the result of e. < violence, whether occurring iu an individual in whom there lias C*1S ‘ hereditary tendency to similar or to allied disease, or in one who 1