884 MORTIFICATION, OR GANGRENE. process of separation of the sloughs, if they he extensive and deep \cnesec- tion is never required in any form of gangrenous inflammation. An enfeebled state of the circulation of the part of the system generally may equally occa- sion or complicate gangrene. In the forms of gangrene consequent upon specific infective inflammations, however acute the symptoms may he, deple- tion is never necessary. It would only render the tissues less able to withstand the effects of the specific irritant which is causing the process. In all inflam- matory forms of gangrene the diet should at first be light but nutritious; and the patient should he put to bed, with the affected part elevated, and m many cases a brisk purgative at the commencement of the treatment enables him to take his food better. As the disease advances mild tonics may be gn en, and in the later periods, when the constitutional symptoms become asthenic, stimu- lants should be administered. The best stimulants are wine or porter accord- ing to the patient’s habits of life ; and these should be given m combination with nourishment, so as not merely to raise the pulse, but to produce a more permanent tonic influence on the system generally. If much dep es- sion occur, the medicinal stimulants, especially ether, ammonia, ana camp 1 > . are of material service. The only tonics that are of much value here, are the preparations of cinchona bark and some of the vegetable bitteis, as gentian and cascarilla ; and though the specific virtues hat ™ attributed to them can no longer be accorded, yet when they do not imtato the stomach, they are of unquestionable service in combating tbeas symptoms, and improving the digestive powers. In these cases I look upon cinchona bark, in combination with chlorate of potash and ammonia, “iTaSaTirtot the constitutional disturbance in most cases of gangrene is due to the Lorption of the products of putrefaction from the dead tiss**, much can be done to relieve the symptoms by the efficient local ' After the proper employment of means calculated to lemove the c(’ns^. tutional cause of the gangrene, the system must » fating influences that accompany the ptoccss of i<^ t|ierc necessary for the separation of the mortified parts. Du, ”8 5 lie is less fever but more debility, and stronger tom® and st.mdants can borne ; but we should be careful not to overstimulate the patimt. point it is extremely difficult to lay down“JrPpC'm„„fbeiuTlnired bv variety as to the quantity and quality of food and stimulant - ■. different individuals. The safest guides are lie stateofthe"“^nic if they improve, the means employed ague - , , ventilation, measures should be carefully attended to ; ceanlines^ and free with the abundant use of disinfectants, arc sys,m that 3 The third indication, that of lessen,ng the t tlahilihj oj i ,m4 always supervenes, and which is partly owing to the ' 1 C.irric<: partly to the shaken and depressed state oi the “«t as a out by the administration of opium ; and although ttod „ specific, as Pott supposed yet m many cases »“l esj J • atcs, & T ^become coiffincd. The