6oS SPECIAL FRACTURES. muscular action arc transverse (Fig. 243). The patient does not break Ins patella in these cases by falling upon it, hut he falls because the patella lias , been broken by the violent and almost spasmodic action of the extensors of the thigh in his efforts to save himself. In consequence of these fractures being occasioned by muscular action, they are more frequent in men, especially about the middle period of life, less common in women, and extremely rare in children. I have once, however, had under my care a child under ten years of age, who had a transverse fracture of the patella. It not unfrequently happens when one patella has been fractured, that the unsteadiness of gait causes the opposite one to be broken by muscular action in an effort to avoid a fall. The same patella may be broken more than once ; in the cases that I Fig. 242.—Tibia! Attachment nf Anterior Crucial Ligament torn up. Fig. 243.—Diagram of position of fragments in Fracture of Patella. Eversion of Upper Fragment. have seen, the second fracture has always occurred in the upper fragment, a little above the line of the original fracture. The Signs of this fracture are very evident. When it is transverse, and has been produced by muscular action, the fibrous expansion over the bone is torn; and the separation between the fragments (Figs. 243, 244), which is much in- creased by bending the knee (Fig. 245), and the inability to stand or to raise the injured limb, indicate what has happened. When it has been produced by direct violence, the muscles being at rest, there is little or no separation, even though the fracture be transverse. In such cases, and when it is longitudina or comminuted, the crepitus and mobility of the fragments point it out. Im- mediately on the occurrence of a transverse fracture of the patella, the knee- joint swells up owing to the effusion of blood into the synovial membrane. This swelling subsides after a few days’ rest. Mocle of Union.—When the bone is broken transversely, it very rarely indeed unites by osseous matter, in consequence of the wide separation of the fragments ; there are, however, two or three cases on record in which this kin of union has taken place in these fractures. In the longitudinal and com- minuted fractures, osseous union readily occurs, the fragments remaining m close