729 EXPERIMENTS ON PUNCTURED FRACTURE. bullet bad perforated the palate and passed out at the upper part of the cranium, near the vertex. On examining the state of the bones, it was found that the outer table of the skull was splintered to a considerably greater extent than the inner one, showing clearly the influence of the direction of the fractur- ing force (Figs. 318, 314). This case led me to make further experiments on the dead body ; and I found that the outer table is always more splintered when the blow is struck from the inside of the skull outwards. Teevan has made a considerable number of ingenious experiments on this subject, by firing bullets and driving pointed bodies of various kinds through the skull. He finds, as the result of these investigations, that the aperture of exit is the larger, whether the blow be delivered, or the bullet be driven from without inwards, or the reverse. The explanation at which he has arrived is, that the aperture of entry is caused by the penetrating body only, whilst the aperture of exit is caused by this jute the fragments of bone driven out of that table of the skull which was first perforated. Thus, when a bullet strikes the external table from without, it first perforates this, and then carries along with it and through the inner table the fragments of bone that it has cut out of the external table, and hence fractures the inner table more widely than the outer. When both sides of the head are traversed by a bullet, it will be found that the aperture of entry in the outer table on the side first struck, and the aperture of entry in the inner table of the opposite side of the head, will be the smallest, the largest holes made by the bullet being the apertures on the inner table of the foimer side and the outer table of the latter. In the case of a large and bioad body like a bullet, which carries a mass of fragments before it and does not merely perforate bone, Teevan’s explanation is doubtless correct. But in the ordinary “punctured” fracture, made, for instance, by the point of a nail being driven through the skull, it must be remembered that no fragments of the outer table or diploe are carried inwards, and that the very wide-spread splintering of the inner table, which is characteristic of this form of injury cannot be accounted for in this way, but appears to me to be referable to the cause I have given—viz., the direction of the fracturing force and the loss of momentum m the breaking body. In addition to these two causes—viz the loss of momentum and the action of the debris of that portion of the skull v ichwas first fractured—there is a third reason why that table which is W !f Ta J S T d be mosfc sPlmtered- Ifc is this, that the table which is aria tb^^l-supported and thus has a tendency to fracture over a larger aiea than that which was first penetrated. This explanation applies especially Irik t Z H5 Jr<? reS inflicted b? nails ^her pointed bodies stnkmb the head, and which neither lose momentum nor occasion debris in thmr passage through the skull. A familiar illustration of this is e n fcvinga uail through a board. If the board is unsupported on Its under as it mssll1h Probably carry before it large splinters from that surface blck oTwoofwfi-b T’- *\if ^ Same b0ard is s»PP°rted on a be as sLn 1S T. dn™ throu§'h’ fchen the aperture of exit will bullet-fractures nf h" ^ Vs. ltwould appear that in punctured or SSiWSS t I1 “ W,hlCh fchc force acts from without inwards, viz C of mow 71* 1 ^ ntered than the outer, from three causes carried with ?t Tl T “ m the wedSe'like action of the dibrd latter bSm a’T T ,msufficient suPPOvts furnished by the brain-the 0 a mam facfcor m case8 of ordinary punctured fracture. It