INVASION OF ERYSIPELAS. 9°9 CHAPTER XXXII. ERYSIPELAS. The term erysipelas, or erysipelatous inflammation, is applied to a group of infective inflammatory processes affecting the skin, the subcutaneous areolar tissue intermuscular or subfascial areolar tissue, mucous membranes and sub- mucous tissue, serous membranes and lymphatic vessels, and possessing one feature in common, the tendency to spread with great rapidity by continuity of tissue or in other words, to assume a “ diffuse "form. The true pathology of the erysipelatous inflammation is not sufficiently well known to enable us to separate the members of the group distinctly one from another. They are all due to the action of a virus, which infects the part attacked, increases in quantity in it by a process analogous to fermentation, and diffuses itself by means of the lymph-spaces and lymphatic vessels exciting a characteristic form of inflammation as it spreads. The virus most commonly enters the body by leans of a wound, causing a primary local inflammation followed by a general infection of the system, accompanied by a definite form of febrile disturbance; but in some forms of erysipelatous inflammation there is evidence tending to show that the constitutional affection is primary and the local inflammation secondary, and again in others there is no evidence of a specific constitutional affection at all. These differences will be more clearly pointed out when discussing the individual members of the erysipelatous group of inflammations. The virus is probably not the same in all forms of the affection. The process is always accompanied by the presence of micrococci in the affected tissues, and in some cases in the blood, and evidence is steadily accumulating in favour of the view that these organisms take some part in the causation of the unhealthy inflammation. Erysipelatous inflammation may attack a wound of any size or of any age ; but the statistics of University College Hospital show that it most commonly arises in suppurating wounds, about two-thirds of the cases arising after the tenth day, and very few before the fourth. The invasion of erysipelas is characterized by general malaise and depression, chilliness, and occasionally actual rigors, gastro-intestinal disturbance, accom- panied by nausea, and sometimes by violent vomiting and purging. Cases have been recorded in which the first symptoms have been convulsions of an epileptiform character. During the chilliness the temperature rises to 103° or 104° F. ; but the rise does not show the fluctuations common in pyamiia. The constitutional disturbance, although usually at first sthenic, very speedily runs into an asthenic type, presenting in severe cases the usual typhoid symptoms—a quick feeble pulse, brown tongue, pungent hot skin, and muttering delirium. The disease is essentially an affection of debility. This view of the nature of the constitutional disturbance in erysipelas is of great importance in reference to the treatment of the disease, as it demonstrates the necessity of not lowering the patient’s powers too much during the early period of the affection, when it often temporarily assumes a sthenic character.