793 TREATMENT OF FRACTURED SPINE. ’ i pyelonephritis. The specimen shows ossification of the dura mater below the seat of fracture. Even when the injury is in the cervical region, recovery may take place, although the case may appear most unpromising. I have known at least four cases in which recovery has taken place after fracture of the lower cervical vertebra, with paralysis more or less complete from the neck downwards. In one of these cases where the neck was broken by a fall in kangaroo-hunting, the patient, young and active, after being paralysed for eleven months, made a fair though not complete recovery—some paralysis, with wasting, of the extensors of the hands being left. When death takes place, it may occur in three different ways. It happens primarily as the immediate result of the injury, in all those cases in which the fracture is above the origin of the phrenic nerve. It occurs secondarily and indirectly, at a more or less remote period, as the result of changes in the body dependent on permanent separation of the parts below the injury from the nervous centres above. At the seat of injury, compression, or crushing, inflammation is necessarily developed ; thence it spreads along the membranes, giving rise to effusion into the canal, and into the cord itself, causing soften- ing. It is, doubtless, by the gradual extension upwards of this secondary inflammatory softening, that death is ultimately occasioned in many cases. Thus, an injury in the cervical region, which was not immediately fatal, may ultimately prove so by extension of the mischief to the origins of the phrenic nerves, and so arresting respiration. Many also perish from bedsores and a very large proportion prove fatal from pyelo-nephritis secondary to cystitis, with decomposition of the urine. The Treatment is simple enough in those cases in which the patient escapes without implication of the cord. It is evident that in such cases no attempt at reduction should be made, lest by dislodgment of the fragments the cord might be injured. The patient must be placed flat upon his back, and the strictest possible rest maintained. Konig of Gottingen has recommended, in cases of fracture in the dorsal or lumbar region without damage to the cord, that Sayre’s plaster-of-Paris jacket should be applied at as early a period in the case as possible. He has himself applied it as early as the fourth day, and Berkeley Hill at the end of thirty horns. In these cases the patient was suspended by the arm-pits, and at the same time supported by assistants, care being taken not to lift him sufficiently high to raise the feet from the ground. Extension under these circumstances, however, cannot be devoid of danger, and the better plan would be to apply the apparatus in the way recommended by Walker of Peterborough. He first applies a flannel vest without sleeves, or if there is any difficulty in putting this on, a piece of soft flannel wide enough to reach from the axillm to the hip may be passed under the back, and carefully sewn down the front, so as to leave no creases. A number of strips of muslin-bandage, cut of the proper length to encircle the body, and to overlap for a few inches, are then prepared. These are ipped in a mixture of plaster-of-Paris, lib., water, gviij, with §j of mucilage ? ^um acaciu added, to delay the setting. They are then quickly spread on a ec covered by a mackintosh-sheet, each overlapping that above for two- thirds of its width. They must be thus arranged till a sufficient width is reacied to extend from the patient’s axil he to midway between the crest of G 1111111 aufl the trochanter ; and sufficient number of strips should be used