5*7 THE STARCHED BANDAGE. fracture be compound, a trap may be cut in the apparatus opposite the seat of injury, through which the wound may be dressed (Fig. 17V)* The advantages of the starched bandage in the treatment of fractures, as well as in many other injuries and diseases, consist m its taking the shape of the limb accurately and readily, and maintaining it by its solidity ; m its beino- light, inexpensive, and easily applied, with materials that are always at hand. It secures complete immobility of the limb m the position m which it chics.' The joints in the neighbourhood of the fractured bone are securely fixed* and the perfect adaptation or moulding of the apparatus to the inequali- ties of the limb prevents all movement. Thus it maintains accurately not only the length but the normal curves of the limb. From its lightness, it possesses the very great and peculiar advantage in fractures of the lower extremity, of allowing the patient to remain up and to move about upon crutches during nearly the whole of the treatment ; thus, by rendering prolonged confinement to bed unnecessary, it prevents the tendency to those injurious consequences that often result from these injuries ; and, by enabling the patient to keep up his health and strength by open-air exercise, it facilitates the consolidation of the fracture. In addition to this, the patient will often be able to carry on his business during treatment. By employing the starched bandage in the way just described, I scarcely ever find it necessary to keep patients in bed with simple fractures of the leg for more than from four to seven days, thus saving much of the tediousness and danger of the treatment. Although fully recognizing the great advantages to be obtained by treating fractures on this plan, and employing the starched bandage in almost every case that came under my care, I did not at first think that it was safe practice to have recourse to it during the early stages of fracture ; until, indeed, the swelling of the limb had begun to subside. I therefore never applied it until the sixth, eighth, or tenth day, keeping the limb, until this time, properly reduced upon a splint; fearing that, if the bandage were applied at too early a period, the inflammatory turgescence of the limb might give rise to a slow strangulation of it under the apparatus. During many years, however, I employed Seutin’s plan in several hundreds of fractures of all kinds, putting the limb up in the starched apparatus immediately after the reduction of the fracture. I found the practice a safe one, even in fractures of the thigh ; so much so, that at the Hospital I for some time rarely used any other plan of treatment than the “ movable-immovable ” apparatus in some form, varying with the fashion of the day. The moderate pressure of the bandages, aided probably by the great evaporation from so extensive and thick a mass of wet starch, seemed to take down the swelling most effectually. Thus the patient was often able to leave his bed about the third day after the injury, when the fracture was in the leg or ankle, and about the sixth when it was the thigh that was broken. Further experience, however, showed that the fractures to be treated in this way require selection. A simple fracture of one bone of the leg or of both bones, without comminution or marked displacement, or great extravasation of blood, may safely be put up immediately in the starched bandage or any other rigid apparatus. In more severe cases it is better to wait till "the end of the first week or beginning of the second before applying the starched bandage. In fractured thighs also it is better to allow a certain degree of consolidation to take place, otherwise from the difficulty of completely fixing the hip-joint by