CONSTITUTIONAL EFFECTS OF HAEMORRHAGE. 389 and trickling' stream ; but in some situations a jet of blood of aitciial charac- ter may issue from the distal as well as from the proximal end of the cut vessel, as in wounds of the palmar and plantar arches, or of the arteries of the forearm. As the blood flows, the jet lessens in height, in consequence of the weakening of the heart’s action. The height and force of the jet in all cases depend greatly on the size of the vessel; thus the jet from the femoral artery is stronger than that from a muscular branch of the thigh. When a small arterial branch is wounded near its origin from the main trunk, the jet will always be forcible and free ; so also the proximity to the centre of the circula- tion will influence materially the force with which the blood is propelled from the wound in the vessel. Extravasation.—-When the blood is not poured out on the surface, but escapes from a wounded vessel into the areolar tissue of a part, the substance of organs, or internal cavities, it is termed an Extravasation. In these cases there are not the ordinary local signs of an external haemorrhage ; but other local phenomena, such as swelling, dulness on percussion, displacement of organs or parts, discolouration of the skin and subjacent areolar tissue, indicate that blood is being poured out subcutaneously ; and we judge of the quantity of the blood that has escaped, not only by the extent of these local phenomena, but by the general effect produced upon the system by its loss. Constitutional Effects of Haemorrhage.—These depend upon the quantity of blood lost, on the rapidity with which it is poured out,' and on the state of the patient’s constitution. When a large quantity of blood is suddenly lost, as when a main artery is cut across or an aneurism bursts, the patient may die forthwith ; he falls down in a state of syncope, with a pale cold surface and lividity about the lips and eyes, gasps a few times, sighs, is very restless, and suffers convulsive move- ments of the limbs before he expires. If the quantity lost be not so great as to produce death, though still very considerable, the patient becomes faint and sick, with coldness and pallor of the surface, profuse perspiration, great restlessness and agitation, thirst, noises in the ears, and failure or complete (loss of sight. Although the surface of the body is colder than natural, the patient often complains of feeling hot, and throws off the bed-clothes. The lespiiation is deep and sighing, and one of the most distressing symptoms is a sensation of want of breath. If the quantity lost, though considerable, be not so great as this, or be spread over a greater interval of time, so that the patient is enabled to rally between the recurrences of the haemorrhage, a state of anaemia will be induced, characterized by pallor of the skin and of the mucous membranes, palpitation of the heart, rushing noises in the head, a tendency to syncope when in the erect position, oedema of the extremities, and general debility of the system. After excessive loss of blood the patient may gradually rally, and, as the 1 f U1 1S ^produced bi his system, he may recover without any bad effects ; m*10 t a s^!l^G an93mia, which may perhaps never be completely loab aucl ,ma,y be associated with various forms of local debility and _s * auci 0 functions. After very abundant loss of blood, the pulse often fromun! a ° aiac*'er ykich has been termed the “ haemorrhagic pulse.” Its is lniirtT 18 ^lea^y increased, and the wave of the pulse, as felt at the wrist, of inno ai,?e.1i t'ian nafural, the coats of the artery being relaxed from want ’ an 10 vcssc'i imperfectly filled with blood. At the same time there