442 ARREST OF ARTERIAL HEMORRHAGE. the only other alternative that has, to my knowledge, ever succeeded, is lio-ature of the popliteal; and as that, as already stated, has frequently failed, I'think that, as a rule, we should best consult the safety of the patient by the removal of the limb at once. If the haemorrhage occur from a wounded artery to which ligatures have already been applied above and below the seat of wound, the same treatment must be adopted as in those cases in which the bleeding takes place from a vessel tied in its continuity. Gangrene following Ligature.—After the ligature of the main artery of a limb, the collateral circulation is, under all ordinary circumstances, sufficient to maintain the vitality of the part supplied by the delegated vessel. In some cases, however, it happens that the condition of the circulation in the parts below the ligature is not compatible with their life. The Period of Supervention of gangrene of the limb extends over the first three or four weeks after the ligature of the vessel. It seldom sets in before the third day, but most frequently happens before the tenth. Causes.—The causes influencing the occurrence of gangrene in this way are the Age of the Patient, the Seat of the Operation, and various Conditions m which the limb may afterwards be placed. The influence of age is not, however, so marked as might a priori be sup- posed ; for, although there can be no doubt that there is a less accommo- dating power in the arterial system at an advanced period of life to varying quantities of blood, and that there would be greater difficulty m main- taining the vitality of a limb after ligature of its artery m a man of sixty than ill one of twenty-five ; yet I find that, of thirty cases in which gangrene of the lower extremity followed the ligature either of the external iliac or femoral arteries, the average age of the patient was thirty-five years, as near y as possible the mean age at which these operations, accoidmg o i oniss Tables, are generally performed. Of these cases of gangrene two occurred m persons under twenty years of age, eleven between twenty and thnty, eig between thirty and forty, and nine above forty. The seat of the operation influences greatly the liability to gangiene, which , much more frequent after the ligature of the arteries m the lower than m t ^Besides these predisposing causes, gangrene after ligature may be duectly occasioned by a deficient supply of arterial blood. In some cases* this may ar e from the collateral vessels being unable, m consequence of the ryidtfy^ofAherr coats, to accommodate themselves to the increased quantity of blood whic theyare required to transmit; or they may be compiled in sudiawayby extravasation as to be materially lessened in their capacity In other instance, again, the existence of cardiac disease may interfere with the proper supply of '^Grcat foss \f blood, either in consequence of secondary hemorrhage or m any othei way, before or after the application of the ligature is often folded by o-wueiw and is almost certain to be attended by this result if a second ly have S applied to a higher point in the lower extremity. That a dimmut n ta thc quantity of blood circulating in the system may under the most ftaour able circumstances, become a cause of gangrene after the ligature o a 111.1 . . j L nustrated by the statement of Hodgson that, soon after the mtroduetiou ot tlf "to operation into Paris, it was the custom to employ repeated