SEPTIC/EMIA AND PYAEMIA. 958 solely on antiseptics to prevent contamination of the air. It has already been pointed out in the early chapters of this work, that although putrid dis- charges are the most dangerous and most powerful source of contamination of the atmosphere of a surgical ward, the products of respiration, and the accumulation of excreta, will alone so vitiate the air as to impair the health and lower the vitality of those that breathe it; and thus delay the healing of wounds and favour the development of infective diseases. A Curative Treatment of pyfemia can scarcely he said to exist. It doubt- less happens that patients occasionally recover from this disease, even after the formation of diffuse abscesses ; but such a result must be looked upon as a happy exception to its commonly fatal termination, rather than as the result of any special mode of treatment. The only treatment that holds out any hope of success, appears to me to be the stimulating and tonic one, consisting of alcoholic stimulants, tonics, and liquid nourishment; in fact, that treatment which is usually adopted in low fevers and unhealthy inflammations. I have certainly seen service done in some cases, and indeed recovery follow the administration of large doses of quinine ; five grains being given every third or fourth hour, with the best effect. Among many others, I may mention a very serious case of pyaemia following amputation of the arm, and accom- panied not only by all the symptoms of that disease in a very marked degree but by pleuritic effusion, swelling and tenderness over one hip, and secondary haemorrhage from the stump, which recovered under the tonic and stimulating plan of treatment. The quinine appears to check the rigors and to reduce the temperature. In some cases I have administered the chlorate of potash largely (5 ij. to 5 iv. in the day), in addition to the quinine and wine, with apparent benefit. If the depression be very great, carbonate of ammonia in five or even ten grain doses may be given; such fluid nourishment as the patient will take, a liberal allowance of alcohol, wine, or porter, being also administered. In addition to this medicinal treatment, hygienic measures must be put in force. The patient should throughout be placed in an airy and well-ventilated apartment, and all hygienic rules carefully attended to. As abscesses form, they must be freely opened. This should be done with antiseptic precautions, as the pus in the secondary abscesses is not in a shite of putrefaction, and the patient’s condition will be greatly aggravated if it he allowed to decompose. In cases arising as the consequence of septic osteo- myelitis following amputations or compound fractures, removal of the limb at the next joint above the affected bone has been recommended and successfully practised by Sir J. Fayrcr, even after one or more well marked rigors. If convalescence take place, the patient will slowly recover. The rigors and sweats will gradually become less frequent ; the appetite will improve : the countenance will lose its anxious expression, and the skin its unhealthy hue. But strength returns slowly. The disease may assume a relapsing character. •Great caution, therefore, is necessary before a patient can be pronounced safe. Even after recovery he will continue pale and wasted; energy is lost; nutrition is impaired ; and at a more remote period some low form of disease, as phthisis or albuminuria, may prove fatal. These evils arc best prevented by a course of sulphureous mineral water, followed by a long sea-voyage.