SIGNS. OF FRACTURED PELVIS. 585 When broken, the pelvis usually gives way; at the rami oi the pubes and ischium in front, and across the ilium, at or near the sacro-iliac synchondioses, beliind, usually on the side opposite to that of the fracture in fiont. I ie pubis may be, but rarely is, broken across its body, and the symphysis is seldom torn through. When one side of the pelvis is thus broken away from the lest of the bone, it and the attached lower extremity are necessarily connected with the rest of the body only by the soft parts that connect the pelvis to the spinal column and trunk. These are consequently liable to severe stretching, laceration, and other injury. In some cases, portions of the crest of the ilium only are detached. In others, the rami in front may be broken without corresponding posterior fracture. Such injuries can, however, arise only from gun-shot-wounds or similar forms of direct violence. When the fracture results from a crush, double fracture, back and front, must necessarily occur. The main and immediate danger in fracture of the pelvis, indeed, is due to the concomitant or consequent injury to the very important soft parts con- tained within its cavity. Muscles, nerves, and blood-vessels may be stretched or torn. The bladder may be wounded by a spiculum of bone from the pubes Fig. 223—-Fracture of the Pelvis through Rami in front, and Sacro-iliac synchondrosis behind. or ischium ; or the urethra may be torn, perhaps completely across, from the same cause. When the urethra is torn, a slight oozing of blood will usually be observed at its orifice, with possibly much and deep ecchymosis of the periiueum. _ The nature of the injury is usually apparent from the great degree of direct violence that has been inflicted upon the part; from the pain that the patient experiences in moving or in coughing; from the inability to stand, in consequence of a feeling as if the body were falling to pieces when he attempts to do so ; and from the ready mobility of the part and crepitus on seizing the brim of the pelvis on each side and moving it to and fro, or on rotating the thigh of the affected side. In examining a patient with suspected fracture of the pelvis, care should, however, be taken not to push the investigation too closely, lest injury be inflicted by the movement of the fragments. In those cases, in eed, in which the fracture does not extend completely across the pe ms, 01 in which it is seated in the deeper parts of the ischium, an exact diagnosis may bo vciy difficult, and should not be attempted. reatment. As the great danger in fracture of the pelvis consists in the