COMPLICATED WOUNDS OF THE ABDOMEN. 853 haemorrhage in these cases, though this may, of course, occur if any of the larger vessels be injured. Protrusion of uninjured intestine, mesentery, or omentum may take place through the wound in the abdominal wall. This protruded mass is always very large in comparison with the aperture from which it escapes, the sides of which, being overlaid by it, constrict it rather tightly, so as to form a distinct neck to the protrusion. If left unreduced, the mass speedily loses its polish and bright colour, becoming dull and livid from congestion ; it then inflames and swells, and soon becomes gangrenous from the pressure exercised upon it by the sides of the aperture through which it has passed. In many cases the protruded intestine is wounded. The existence of this further injury will readily be ascertained by the escape of flatus, or of the fluid contents of the gut. The characters of the wound vary, as Travers has pointed out, according to its size. If it be a mere puncture, or even an incision two or three lines in length, eversion or prolapsus of the mucous membrane will take place, so as to close it sufficiently to prevent the escape of the contents. If the aperture be above four lines in length, this plugging of it by everted mucous membrane cannot occur, and then the contents of the bowel escape ; but, even in these circumstances, there will be a tendency to the protrusion of the membrane, which forms a kind of lip over the ed°'e of the cut. ° A wounded intestine which does not protrude, but remains within the abdominal cavity, exhibits the same phenomena. In these cases, however, there is the additional danger of the extravasation of the intestinal contents into the peritoneum. This extravasation is unquestionably one of the gieatest dangers that can occur in wounds of the abdomen, inasmuch as by its inflating qualities the feculent matter gives rise to and keeps up the most intense peritonitis. It is not, however, an invariable sequence of pene- trating wounds of the intestine, especially if the wound be made by a sharp instiument; and even in bullet-wounds of the gut no faecal extravasation may take place. This was well illustrated in a case in University College Hospital of a man who was shot through the abdomen. The intestines, which con- tained much feculent matter, were traversed by the bullet in four places. He lived twenty-four hours, and yet no feculent extravasation took place In another case to which I was called, that of a young gentleman who had been accidentally shot through the abdomen with the ramrod of a horse-pistol the descending colon was cut completely across, and the small intestines perforated m two places ; and yet no extravasation took place, though he survived the accident two days. Otis, however, points out in the Report of the American V\ ar, that these cases are entirely exceptional, and that in the vast majority o gunshot-wounds of the intestine, fmcal extravasation docs take place, and gives rise to fatal peritonitis. That certain cases escape this danger may be due to several causes In the first place, as we have already seen, if the wound in the gut be below a certain size, there is a natural tendency to its occlusion by eversion of the mucous membrane. In other cases again, as in he duodenum or colon, the gut may be wounded at a part that is not covered ) peritoneum. Resides this, it must be borne in mind that, though in ordi- JLrr8e W,e, sfieak°t the “cavity” of the abdomen, there is in reality wLlP f her? benig 110 emP^ sPace within the peritoneal sac, but the ic visceial contents of the abdomen being so .closely and equably