1087 VARIETIES OF HARD CHANCRE. It is certainly in sonic rare cases so slight that it is detected with difficult), but it is doubtful if it is ever wholly wanting. As soon as the primary sore makes its appearance, the patient acqunes an immunity from re-inoculation of the poison, the dischaige horn <111 indurated sore not being inoculable on the patient himself under ordinary circumstances. If, however, the surface be irritated mechanically, by the application of irritating dressings, or from want of cleanliness to such an extent that the discharge becomes purulent, it will then as a rule become auto-inoculable, the resulting sore resembling a soft chancre in appearance, and not presenting the characteristic feature of the hard chancre. The non-inoculahility of the discharge from au inflamed hard sore has been used as a means of diagnosis between the hard and soft chancre, but in cases in which doubt existed the sore would probably be suppurating from irritation, and consequently an error might easily arise. Number.—The primary syphilitic sore is almost invariably single. This foot is readily explained by its non-inoculability on the patient himself. Arthur Cooper states that of 103 cases of early syphilis admitted into the Male Lock Hospital, in 91 there was only one initial lesion, 7 had two sores, and five had more than turn. The indurated primary ulcers of syphilis are most frequent on the genitals, but not so exclusively limited to those parts as are local venereal sores, because syphilis is communicated in various ways besides that of sexual intercourse. They may appear on any part of the body. Fournier found that, of 472 cases of inoculation in men, 314 were on the prepuce and glans penis, 109 on other parts of the male organ, 12 only on the mouth, 6 on the hands and fingers, and a few on the eyelids, tonsil, and navel. The Urethral Chancre is usually situated just within the orifice of the canal, and may be seen on pressing open its lips, in the form of a small sore, which occasionally creeps out upon the glans. Sometimes it is more deeply seated, so as to be out of sight; when this is the case, a discharge, occasionally tinged with blood, appears in small quantities from the urethra ; at a little distance up the canal there will usually be felt, on grasping the organ between the fingers, a circumscribed indurated spot, which is somewhat painful on pressure and after micturition. It is the presence of chancres in this canal that formerly led to the supposition of the identity of syphilis and gonorrhoea, .an error which was disproved by the test of inoculation ; the discharge from urethral chancre producing the typical sore, that from gonorrhoea giving no result when introduced into the skin. The existence of chancre within the urethra may be suspected if the urethral discharge be small in quantity, serous in character, and tinged with blood. The chancre may be detected by •everting the edges of the urethra, or, if situated too high up the canal to lie . seen, by being felt hard and nodulated through its coats. In some cases of disgusting depravity chancres are met with at the margin of the anus. In this situation they present nothing peculiar. In women chancres are very rare on the vaginal wall, about four per cent, are said to occur on the cervix uteri, and the remainder on the external organs of generation. Labial and Facial Chancres arc by no means uncommon, being most frequently the result of the inoculation of some small crack on the lip or ex- coriation of the skin of the face with the discharge from mucous tubercles in the mouth ol an infected person. Chancres on the lip may possibly result