1017 ARGUMENTS FOR LOCAL ORIGIN. adopted by Surgeons. Velpeau, Billroth, De Morgan, all support or incline towards it. The arguments on which it is based may briefly be summed up as follows. They arc certainly sufficient to account for all the phenomena of cancer ; and many of these phenomena do not admit of explanation on any other theory. 1. Cancerous tumours spring up in individuals who have always enjoyed perfect health, and who are to all appearances perfectly well at the time of the occurrence of the disease. As in these cases there is no evidence whatever of constitutional affection of any kind, it would be a begging of the whole ques- tion to assert that the existence of the local tumour must of itself be taken as an indication of a constitutional cancerous tendency. 2. Such primary tumours are always single—no primary outbreak of multiple cancers ever occurs. Tumours may form in certain cases in rapid succession, but never simultaneously. But primary cancer does not occur at the same time at different of these seats of election—as the mamma, pylorus, and rectum, as would be the case were it constitutional. 3. Cancers are not unfrequently the result of some local injury or irritation. This is a matter of daily observation in the lip, the tongue, the female breast, and the scrotum. 4. The general health does not, in the majority of cases, suffer until some months have elapsed; when, after the lymphatics or glands have become implicated, or the neighbouring tissues invaded, but not until then, signs of cachexy set in. In many cases of cancer, especially of the mamma, the health continues excellent for many months—a year or two even after the disease has declared itself, and so long as it continues to be confined to its primary seat. It is not until after secondary deposits have occurred that the characteristic cachexy sets in. 5. If the primary tumour be removed before neighbouring parts have become contaminated, the health, if it have suffered, often improves materially. G. All pathological evidence tends to show that the secondary growths arise directly as a consequence of the primary tumour, first, by extension by continuity of tissue ; secondly, by extension along the line of the lym- phatics ; and thirdly, through the blood-stream, leading to growths scattered throughout the body in the same directions as the secondary abscesses in pyaemia 1 which result from septic emboli. 7. Secondary cancers affect the form of the primary one. Thus, primary . glandular cancer leads to deposit of masses of the same structure in the lungs ; columnar epithelioma of the rectum to secondary growths in the liver, with identical structural peculiarities. 8. Growth is favoured by local circumstances, as warmth and moisture of cavities. 9. In some rare instances no recurrence whatever takes place after opera- tion, the disease being eradicated from the system, which could not be the case if it were constitutional. 10-. Whcn recurrence does take place soon after an operation, it is almost invariably either in the cicatrix or its immediate neighbourhood, or in the nearest lymphatic glands, owing to cancer-cells which had been widely dis- seminated, escaping removal, and subsequently developing into new tumours. Were the disease constitutional, recurrence would be as likely to take place in other parts, especially in symmetrical parts.