5i9 THE rLASTER-OF-PARIS-SPLINT. made to smTomd fte limb it it better to apply either the > star^ and paste-board splints or the silicate ot soda bandage, both ot whrc be cut up and removed and repacked without destroying p - Good plaster hardens in the course of about eight minutes and as it dr forms a solid, hard, and light casing to the limb affordmg exceUcnt suppo ^ to the fracture. The setting of the plaster may be reteM by the ^drMon to it of solution of borax. Thus a solution of 1 par to 12 of the u ater used will retard the setting fifteen minutes , and 1 to 8 will retard it fifty minutes and so on The plaster-bandage possesses the advantage over the starched, apparatus of being lighter and less cumbersome, and especially of drying and hardening very quickly, so that not only can the limb be easily held m position by the Surgeon till the plaster is set, but the patient can be immediately moved to any distance after the setting of the fracture. The plaster-of-Paris-bandage may be applied to any fracture alter the swelling has subsided, and it may be put on immediately in all cases m which, from the nature of the injury, but little swelling is to be expected, such as fracture of the metatarsal or metacarpal bones, or fracture ot one bone of the leg. If there is already much swelling, it is better not to apply the plaster till this has subsided, otherwise the splint soon becomes loose as the swelling subsides. After its application the exposed parts of the fingers or toes must be carefully watched, and if they should become blue or cold the apparatus must be at once removed. 2. Neudorfer is a strong advocate for the employment of the plaster-of- Paris-bandage. He recommends that it should be applied immediately (on this he lays great stress), in the following way. Compresses of linen, or of lint, are dipped in plaster of Paris of the consistence of a common poultice. These are then placed longitudinally on the limb, first on the upper, then on the under part. A few turns of a bandage keep them in situ till the plaster is set. To prevent the contiguous edges from adhering, they are slightly greased, or a slip of greased lint is put between them. He sometimes uses pieces ot thin wood, like veneer, lined with cotton-wool, next the skin ; over these the bandage, saturated with the plaster, is applied by circular turns in the usual way. 3. The method of applying the plaster-apparatus, as practised in the Bavarian army during the Franco-German War, is as follows. Two pieces of flannel, twenty inches broad, are stitched together down the middle for the length of the leg ; and beyond this both are cut through in the same line for the length of the foot. The flannel is placed under the limb, so that the seam reaches from the ham to the heel. The sides of the inner piece are brought together over the leg, and fixed in front, and along the sole, by hare-lip pins (bent at a right angle, so that they may be easily extracted afterwards), and thus a closely fitting stocking is formed. The sides of the outer piece are then brought for- wards and cut, so that each may overlap the middle line of the leg and sole by three-quarters of an inch. The limb is then laid on one side : and while the outer piece of flannel is held back, a layer of plaster of Paris of the consistence of thick cream is spread evenly, to the thickness of half an inch, over the inner piece, and made to pass quite to the seam behind, and the line of junction of the sides of the inner piece in front. The outer piece is pressed over this before it sets, and should just reach the middle line in front and along the sole. TV hen this has set, the limb is turned over, and the process is repeated on the