THE PROCESS OF REPAIR. 282 acid caustics and burns contract more than those following the action of alkaline caustics or superficial wounds. A circular scar round a tubular oigan or excretory duct, as in the intestine, oesophagus, or urethra leads to narrowing or stricture of the canal, and many of the worst oesophageal strictures result ■ from the accidental swallowing of caustic alkaline fluids. These strictures in most cases gradually become narrower as time goes on, the process of con- traction continuing long after the sore has healed. Further changes are wrought by time in the texture of a cicatrix. In the first place, its tissue assimilates more and more to the normal structure of the part; and secondly, its deep attachments become more movable. When a scar is first formed, it is thin, reddish, or bluish and shining, being composed of imperfectly developed fibrous tissue, covered by a thin epidermic layer. As it becomes older, it assumes a dead-white colour, and becomes depressed, and gradually, but slowly, many years being perhaps required for the change,^ it “ wears out ; ” that is to say, its structure more closely resembles that of the texture of the part in which it is seated. It never, however, becomes developed into true skin, as neither sebaceous nor sudoriferous glands nor hair form in it. Coincidently with these changes, the scar loosens its deep attachments, so that it can be moved more freely upon subjacent parts. It is a long time before the scar attains the vitality of the older structures, if ever it do so com- pletely ; and the larger it is, the less its power will usually be. Under the influence of scurvy or syphilis, an old scar is apt to open up again ; so also, if a fresh ulcer be formed on the old cicatrix, it will take a longer time to heal than the original one. 5. Union by Secondary Adhesion.—It not unfrequently happens that, although granulations spring up over the sides of a wound, union between the opposed surfaces does not take place. We endeavour to accomplish tins by bringing the granulating sides together, and retaining them m that position, when they will cohere ; this constitutes union by “ Secondary Adhesion. In some amputations, and in many plastic operations, cases of hare-lip, cleft- palate, &c., union is occasionally brought about in this manner. The conditions necessary for this mode of union are, 1st, that the granulat- ing surfaces shah be perfectly healthy ; 2nd, that they shall be smooth so that they can be brought evenly into apposition without leaving cavities between them in which pus may accumulate; and 3rd, that after they are luougi together they shall be kept at perfect rest. . On considering the five methods of union in wounds just described, it is at once evident that the Surgeon’s best endeavours should be directed towards procuring healing by the first intention, wherever practicable, lhe patient s not only spared the drain of a more or less prolonged suppuration with s attendant waste of new tissue-elements, elaborated at the expense of his vi. powers, but he is saved also from the dangers to life that must always be associated with an open wound. ■ mnm] Circumstances Affecting the Healing Process-In concluding tl s enci.^ description of the process of union of wounds, it will, perhaps, o recall briefly some of the conditions essential to rapid and certain hea mg. the first place, two conditions are absolutely essential, perfect rest an pei cc toin»t No wound con possibly heal by the first intention ,1 its surfaces are frequently rubbed against each other, either by the moi emeu s