26 GENERAL REMARKS ON OPERATIONS. air admitted at the time when the vapour is inhaled ; and 2, on the state of the patient as to age, habit, temperament, and digestion. Old people, habitual spirit-drinkers, and those of a bilious and sanguine temperament, are apt to suffer most. The condition of the digestion is of great importance. If chloro- form be given too soon after a meal, injurious results arc sure to follow ; hence, it is best administered on an empty stomach. Head-Complications follow the administration of chloroform chiefly in the aged. In them headaches and stupor not unfrequently supervene, and occa- sionally paralytic- or apoplectic symptoms will develope themselves some days after the anaesthesia. In young and nervous women hysterical symptoms often appear, and continue for some hours or even days ; but they need not excite uneasiness. The Lwicjs probably always become slightly congested during the adminis- tration of chloroform. But, as recovery takes place, and the respiratory process is naturally re-established, the pulmonary vessels unload themselves, and no inconvenience results. The process is greatly facilitated, and the effects of chloroform are readily got rid of, by desiring the patient to breathe several times fully and deeply after consciousness returns. In some cases the lungs do not unload themselves of the accumulated blood ; and a process of slow asphyxia may set in, and may prove fatal in a period varying from twenty-four hours to four or six days. This is a frequent occurrence in old patients suffering from chronic bronchitis and emphysema, and is not an uncommon cause of death after operations for strangulated hernia, as the strangulation is frequently caused by violent straining in coughing. It is also especially apt to happen in those cases in which it becomes necessan to bandage the chest, or in which deep respiration is attended by pain, as after amputation of the breast. Great care must, therefore, be taken not to con- strict the chest-walls too tightly after such operations. Irritability of the Stomach, attended by continual nausea and vomiting, is sometimes a very distressing after-effect of chloroform, and may be pro- ductive of most serious and even of fatal results. It is less likely to occm if the patient can be left undisturbed and allowed to sleep off the effects of the chloroform. In many instances it is developed by the patient taking the chloroform too soon after a meal, and is then purely gastric, and usually occurs early in the administration. In other instances it appears to be sympathetic with cerebral disturbance of some kind; in other instances, again, it is connected with kidney-disease. But in any case, and from what- ever cause arising, it is a very serious symptom, and, if it continue, o ten turns the scale against the patient by the exhaustion to which it gives nse. It is best treated by ice or weak iced brandy and sodawatei. Stiong, ice , black coffee with bromide of potassium is occasionally useful, and m extreme cases a mustard plaster, or even a blister, to the epigastrium maj be ti let. In certain diseased conditions of the system the administration of chloroform requires much care ; but, as a general rule, it may be stated that, vhcne\er t le constitutional disease has not advanced to such a degree as to contra-indicate an operation, chloroform may be given. In the early stages of phthisis it ma} usually be safely inhaled ; but in some cases of bronchial irritation, the vapour is apt to produce troublesome cough. When the heart is diseased, great caution l necessary, move particularly when it., muscular antotance h» tmde^ne fatty degeneration ; the sedative influence of the chloroform being apt, t -