INJURIES OF T1IE HEAD. 702 of convulsions in head injuries. The special features which mark lacerations of certain parts will be described more fully later on. Effects of Cerebral Injury on the Mental Powers.—The mental con- dition of patients who are recovering or who are supposed to have recovered from head-injury, is one that deserves attentive consideration. It will fre- quently be found that the mental powers arc weakened, either generally or in one special direction. The memory will often be found to be weakened in a very remarkable manner on the recovery of the patient from that unconsciousness which results from severe concussion. Not only is there a complete blank as to all that occurred during the period of the unconsciousness, but the memory may be lost for those events which immediately preceded it. Thus a driver will recollect his horses taking fright; but he will never be aide to recall to his recollection the various events that occurred before he was thrown from his box, and received that blow on the head which produced concussion ot the brain and rendered him unconscious—events which had certainly produced impressions upon the brain before it was injured impiessions which vere permanently obliterated by the concussion of the cerebral substance. The chain of memoi'y is broken abruptly at some occurrence often ot a ■veiy trivial character—antecedent to the accident, and the gap then left can never be filled by any subsequent effort on the part of the patient. The memory may be impaired in other ways, as for words, peisons, or dates. The mind cannot grasp a subject or carry out a continuous train of thought, and is incapable of fixed attention or reasoning. Delusions of various kinds may occur, especially in connexion with the mode of occurrence of the accident. I have known a patient to give the most consistent and detailed accounts of the mode in which his head was injured, varying them from day to day—every one being false, but believed in by the patient at the time. The patient could be led, by a process of questioning and suggestions combined, to give almost any version that the interrogator desired ; and this with great circumstantiality of detail. This is a matter of much interest and importance in a medico-legal aspect, as it is evident that an individual w ho has sustained a severe injury of the head might, in perfect good faith, give an entirely false account of the mode of infliction of the injury, by which an innocent person might be seriously compromised. _ The Secondary Consequences of injury of the brain are the results o inflammation either diffused or circumscribed. As in all other injuries the character of the inflammation is materially influenced by the admission or exclusion of air. In compound fractures of the skull septic meningitis is a common and most fatal complication; in simple fractures diffuse meningitis is of very rare occurrence. So also in open wounds of the nam, sprea in0 inflammation of the cerebral substance is of common occurrence, giving rise to suppuration with extensive destruction of the tissue of the hemisphere; while in lacerations without open wound, although there is frequently so inflammation and softening round the injured spot, it seldom spreac b ten and rarely terminates in suppuration. - > ... l Traumatic Encephalitis.—Inflammation of the brain and it. tones from injury is an affection of great frequency and of corr^nd.% importance. It is apt to supervene on all injunes of the liability to it necessarily increases with the severity of the accu l . This