ENTRANCE OF AIR INTO VEINS. 470 out of consideration the difficulty of finding the wounded vein ; the still , greater difficulty of introducing a suitable tube a sufficient distance into it; the danger of allowing the ingress of a fresh quantity of air, whilst opening the sides of the incision in the vein so as to introduce the tube ; putting aside all these circumstances, which appear to me to be most serious objections, it becomes a question, according to Amussat, who was one of the strongest ad- vocates of this mode of practice, whether, by suction with a syringe, or even by the mouth, any material quantity of air can be removed. He says that, even when the tube is introduced into the right auricle, much more blood than air is constantly withdrawn. These considerations, then, should, 1 think, make the Surgeon hesitate before having recourse to such a hazardous mode ol 1 The next plan, that of circular compression of the chest, however valuable it may be in preventing the ingress of air, can, when it has once been introduced into the veins, have no effect in removing it from the circulatory system e cannot, by any compression that we may employ, squeeze the air out ol the heart But compression may not only be productive of no positive good, but may even occasion much mischief, by embarrassing still further the already weakened respiratory movements, and thus interfering with the due aeration o the small quantity of blood that may yet be traversing the kings. Bleeding from the temporal artery can by no possibility be productive of any but an injurious effect, by diminishing the already too small quantity of blood in the arterial system. Opening the right jugular vein may, perhaps, to a certain extent, be serviceable, by unloading the right cavities of the heait, as John Reid has shown it to be capable of doing; and it has been leco mended by Cormack on this account. Lastly, tracheotomy cannot be of the least service, as the arrest of the respiratory function is secondary, and no P1\ What, then, are the measures that a Surgeon should adopt in order to prevent the occurrence of a fatal termination in those cases m winch air ha, been accidentally introduced into the veins during an operation . Beyond a doubt, the first thing to be done is to prevent the further ingress of air, by compressing the wounded vein with the finger, and, if practicable, securing f/byTfigature. At all events, compression with the finger- should nev r he omitted ; as it has been shown by Nysten, Amussat, Magendre, mdolH that it is only when the air that is introduced exceeds a certain quantity, that death ensues7 All further entry of air having been thus P«™te^ mat object should be to keep up a good supply of blood to the taaa nervous centres, and thus maintain the integrity of ft*ir atfinous. T most efficient means of accomplishing tins would probably be the planuceon mended bv Merrier • who believing that death ensues in these cases, as prolonged syncope, from a deficient supply of blood to the brain, reeommen^ us to employ compression of the aorta and axillary arteries, so . {o whole of the blood that may pass through the lungs into the arteriaKy. he encephalon. This appears to me to be a very valuable piece o «dW to be the1most effectual way of carrying out the indication. The pteut sh* at the same time that the compression is being ]ast> on and aorta, or, if it he preferred, as more conven^t and e^iei B an he , ^