683 FEMUR, ON TO PUBES. the obturator interims is tense and holds the limb backwards, being the chief | agent in preventing flexion ; the gemelli are stretched or torn, and the quad- ratus femoris has also been found to be ruptured. In one case related by Six A. Cooper, Poupart’s ligament was torn up, and in another the pectineus and adductors were torn ; but whether this was done by the dislocation ox by the direct injury that occasioned it, is uncertain. Symptoms.—The dislocation upwards on the Pubic Bone presents very unequivocal signs. The hip is flattened; the head of the bone can be dis- tinctly felt lying in its new situation above Poupart’s ligament, to the outer side of the femoral vessels, where it may be made to roll by rotating the limb. The thigh and knee are slightly flexed, rotated outwards, and abducted ; the limb, which is separated from its fellow, is shortened to the extent of an inch (Figs. 305, 306). The Reduction by Manipulation can be effected by traction and rotation, or by rotation alone. The former is effected by drawing the limb downwards. Kg. 305.—Pubic Dislocation.. (Bigelow.) Fig. 306.—Pubic Dislocation. Head of Bone in Groin suspended by Y-ligament. (Bigelow.) and at the same time raising it up so as to flex it gradually on the abdomen as the head of the femur becomes disentangled from its position. It may then be rotated inwards, and the head of the bone thus directed towards the acetabulum. By rotation.—Bigelow recommends it to be thus accomplished: semi-flex the thigh so as to relax the ilio-femoral ligament, and to bring the head down from the pubes ; then abduct and rotate inwards to disengage it completely ; lastly while rotating inwards and drawing on the thigh, carry the knee inwards and downwards to its place by the side of its fellow. 1 cSai'd to the Reduction by Extension, Sir Astley Cooper advises a ic patient should lie upon his back with his legs widely separated ; and a. ’ countci-extension being then made by a girth carried between the perm mum and the injured thigh, and fixed to a staple in front of and above ie joc y, ic pulleys should be fixed upon the lower part of the thigh, and the