DIFFICULTIES IN DIAGNOSIS. 5°3 to a grating which it is very < ,Vj difficult to distinguish from that of a broken bone. As a rule it is finer and more regular than the crepitus of a frac^^; . m In some cases in which the mobility cannot be clearly felt, the P^ent<w complain of pain at the scat of fracture when an attempt is made to) find it o when a distant part of the bone is pressed on This is often a very useful means of diagnosis in fractures of the fibula and ri s # It wifi thus be seen that none of these three signs alone is absolutely to be relied upon and it usually requires a combination of at least two ot them to determine whether fracture exists. In ascertaining the existence of a fracture, the Sm-o-eon should make the necessary manipulations with the utmost gentleness, but yet&effectually, so that no uncertainty may be allowed to remain as to the seat and nature of the injury, more especially when it occurs in the vicinity of a joint. The increased mobility may be ascertained by fixing the upper frag- ment and rotating the lower portion of the limb ; the crepitus by drawing down the lower fragment, so as to bring the rough surfaces into apposition, and then grasping the limb at the seat of fracture with one hand, and lotating it gently with the other. The displacement must be ascertained by measuiing the limb carefully in the way that has been directed, and by comparing the injured with the sound side. Diagnosis.—The diagnosis of an ordinary fracture is seldom attended by any material difficulty. The co-existence of displacement, of abnormal mobility, and of crepitus, will usually enable the Surgeon at once and readily to pronounce with certainty its existence, when it is simple. When it is com- pound, there is frequently the additional evidence afforded by the protrusion of the end of one of the fragments ; and if it be comminuted as well, the loose splinters will be readily felt. There are, however, two conditions that render the detection of a simple fracture occasionally difficult. The first is, when only one of two or several contiguous bones is broken ; the other, when the fragments are impacted. When only one bone is broken in a situation where there are two or more, as in the leg, fore-arm, metacarpus or metatarsus, very close and careful mani- pulation of the injured bone may be required. The Surgeon must run his finger carefully over the most projecting ridge, feel for slight inequality or oedema at one part, or perhaps he may elicit the faintest occasional crepitus on fully and deeply moving the bone at the seat of suspected fracture ; or, failing this, severe pain may be elicited in the line of the bone by forcing its two extremities towards each other, or by applying force in such a way as to bend it. In the case of impaction the diagnosis is even more difficult. Here no crepitus, and no preternatural mobility, can be found; but the Surgeon must he led to his diagnosis by the recognition of the peculiar displacement and distortion which may be characteristic of the particular fracture, as, for instance, the deformity of the wrist in impacted fracture of the lower end of the radius. The difficulties of diagnosis in fracture of a single bone, or in an impacted fracture, are necessarily most seriously increased if there be much extravasation of blood into the limb ; or, when the fracture is through an articular end, if there should be much effusion into the neighbouring joint. In these cases of doubt it is wiser to put up the limb as if there were a fracture, and to wait for the subsidence of the swelling before the diagnosis is finally determined. It is