182 LOCAL DISTURBANCES AND INFLAMMATION. centre has been supposed to exist in the lower part of the medulla which controls heat-production, and is in intimate relation with the vaso-motor centre. It seems difficult in any other way to account for the extraordinarily high temperatures sometimes met with in injuries of the upper part of the spine, and for the fever that is always met with during reaction from concus- sion of the brain or shock. Two theories are, therefore, held with regard to those levers which are due to the admixture of pyrogenic substances with the blood: the first is that the pyrogenic substance acts directly on all the tissues of the body, giving rise to increased tissue-change with development of heat; and the second is that the impure blood circulating through the medulla dis- turbs the heat-controlling centre, and thus indirectly acts on the tissues. We are yet very far from fully understanding the exact nature of fever; but what we do know is of immense practical value. We know that in the vast majority of cases in w hich fever forms a serious feature in surgical practice, it is due to the entrance into the circulation of noxious materials generated locally, and that in its prevention and treatment our first object must be to arrest the formation of the pyrogenic material by local means. For example, in an acute abscess a fluid containing the products of destructive tissue-changes is pent up in a cavity at some degree of pressure, and a certain proportion of the pyrogenic material it contains is constantly finding its way into the circulation. Open the abscess and cut off the supply and the fever at once subsides; but if for want of drainage, the cavity fills again and its contents be allowed to decompose, the fever will return, and this time more severely than before, as putrid matter is more powerfully pyrogenic than the products of simple inflam- mation ; open up the cavity and drain it, and again the fever will subside; but possibly, supposing the patient to be exposed to infection in an unhealthy and overcrowded hospital, a virus, capable of multiplying in the surrounding tissues, and perhaps of increasing, like a ferment, in the blood itself, may find its way from without into the abscess cavity and thence infect the whole system. Under such circumstances, the mere local treatment will no longer be able to arrest the febrile disturbance; and, unless the patient have sufficient vitality to resist its effects, a fatal result must follow. Symptoms of Fever in General.—Although inflammatory fever or pyrexia presents clinically many varieties, certain symptoms are common to all. The first and most important of these is the elevation of temperature, as shown by the thermometer. All temperatures above 99'5° F. must be considered as indicating fever. The fever would be considered slight unless the ther- mometer rose above 100'5° F. ; up to about 102'5° F. it would be considered moderate ; from 102'5° F. to 105'5° F., it would be spoken of as high fever, and above that point the term hyperpyrexia would be applied to it. Few patients recover from any febrile condition in which the thermometer rises above 107° F. The temperature is usually taken in the axilla, but occasionally the mouth or rectum may be used instead. In taking the temperature in the mouth, the bulb of the thermometer must be put under the tongue and the lips kept firmly closed for three minutes. In the mouth and rectum the temperatures registered are about half a degree higher than those in the axilla. The tem- perature in all inflammatory fevers shows the morning fall and evening rise, common to nearly all febrile conditions. ■ Many febrile conditions arising in surgical practice, especially those con-