691 OF THE FOOT. Dislocations of the Ankle occur in consequence of displacement of the astragalus from the bones of the leg, whilst it continues to presei\e its normal connection with the rest of the foot. These dislocations are almost invariably connected with fracture of the lower end of the fibula, or of the inner mal- leolus. I11 fact, on looking at the arched cavity into which the astragalus is 1 received, it is evident that this bone can scarcely be displaced laterally without fracture of one side of this arch. In considering these dislocations we must, in accordance with the general nomenclature of similar accidents, in which the ! distal part is always said to be displaced from the proximal, look upon the foot as being dislocated from the leg, and not consider the tibia as being displaced upon the foot. The direction of the dislocation must consequently be deter- mined by the position into which the articular surface of the astragalus hap- pens to be thrown. It is necessary to explain this, inasmuch as a good deal of ambiguity occurs in surgical writings from the same accident being described 1 differently, according to the view taken of the part displaced. Thus, Sir A. Cooper speaks of the tibia as being dislocated at the ankle ; whilst Boyer aud others, regarding the foot as the part displaced, have described the same injury in directly opposite terms. Dislocations of the foot from the bones of the leg may take place in four directions, viz., to either side, backwards, or forwards. In all cases, the injury I appears to be occasioned either by the foot being twisted under the patient in jumping or running; or else by its being suddenly arrested by coming into ; contact with the ground whilst the body is carried forwards. But these twists or sprains do not necessarily occasion dislocation, and must not be confounded with that accident. The dislocation Outwards is of most frequent occurrence. The inner malleolus projects forcibly against the skin. The deltoid ligament is either ruptured, or the lower end of the inner malleolus broken off; there is a depression above the outer ankle corresponding to a fracture of the fibula ; and the sole of the foot is turned upwards and outwards, the inner side tonch- ; ing the ground, whilst the outer edge is turned up. It is, in fact, merely a severe case of Potts’ fracture (Fig. 255). In the dislocation Inwards, which is a rare accident, and, according to Sir A. Cooper, much more dangerous than that just described, the fibula is not fractured, but the lower end of the tibia is splintered off, in an oblique manner from within outwards. The outer edge of the sole rests against the ground, and the inner side is turned up. The Reduction of these lateral displacements is readily effected by simple traction on the foot, while the leg is flexed at the knee in order to relax the muscles inserted into the tendo Achillis ; leg-splints with lateral foot-pieces must then be put on, or Dupuytren’s splint may be applied on the same side as the dislocation, opposite to that ou which the eversion of the foot takes place In the dislocation of the foot Backwards, the deltoid ligament is ruptured, the hbula probably broken in the usual situation, and the tibia thrown forwards on tne scaphoid and cuneiform bones ; the foot is consequently shortened, the Thv 1 m°le projecting’ and the toes Pointing downwards, thmtn °Catl?n Forwards> in wMch foot is lengthened, and the tibia astro ml Uh°n kle uPPer a'id posterior surface of the os calcis, behind the J describ 'T* ^ ^ acc'deilt 80 rare as seldom to have been witnessed, although Y Y 2