DRAIN A G E-TUBES. 245 with a probe, or with a pair of small “ sinus-forceps ” (Fig. 97), which serve to introduce the tube. The depth having been ascertained, a piece of tube of the necessary length is cut oil. It is then seized in the sinus-forceps, and pushed in till the open mouth with the threads attached is exactly level with the skin. If the tube passes in obliquely beneath the skin, its mouth must be bevelled so as to correspond accurately to the surface. If a long piece of tube be allowed to hang out, its end is folded over under the dressing, and thus the lumen is completely obstructed. Another very convenient way of introducing these tubes is, by fixing them on the end of a forked probe (Figs. 98 and 99), by which the tube is earned into the abscess and left there on the withdrawal of the probe. In some large abscesses it will be found con- venient to pass in two tubes at different points. This is much better than passing a single tube through the cavity, as it allows the middle part to heal, and diminishes the chance of a trouble- some suppurating track being left. A drainage- tube had better not be removed for three days, otherwise there may be some trouble in putting it in again; but by the third day, it has usually made a track for itself, into which it can readily be passed when it has been taken out for cleaning. If the case. does well, as the abscess gradually closes from the bottom, the tube becomes pushed Fig- sp- oilt ; when this commences to take place, it must and. Forked be gradually shortened to accommodate it to the Probo' diminished size of the cavity. A tube of smaller diameter may also be used with advantage as the discharge diminishes. In some cases the drainage- tubes have appeared to me to act in another way than by merely removing the purulent secretion; viz., by irritating the wall of the abscess just as a seton would, and thus setting up increased activity, and materially augmenting the discharge. On their withdrawal, however, this stimulation has been found to be beneficial, causing a speedier closure of the cavity. The antiseptic treatment may be very successfully applied to the treat- ment of abscesses. By its means all the advantages of a free opening, giving leacly exit to the discharges, can be obtained without the serious consequences which often follow the modes of treatment which have just been described, especially in the case of large chronic abscesses. The practice is founded upon the following principles 1. The formation of pus, whether on the surface of a granulating sore or in the cavity of, an abscess, is due to some abnormal mutation of the tissues.—2. In the vast majority of acute abscesses, the primary cause is of a temporary character, its exact nature often being uncer- tain , in other cases a distinct cause may be readily found, as an injury in an unhealthy subject, or the presence of an irritating foreign body.—3. The pumaiy cause of the formation of an abscess being removed or having dis- appeared, the irritation set up by the tension of the parts in consequence of e accumulation of fluid is sufficient to cause the continuance of the process o suppuration, and the pointing of the abscess.—4. If this source of irritation e removed and no fresh irritant takes its place, and if no other irritant of a peisis cut character, such as the presence of a foreign body, have co-existed Fig. 9S. Forked Probe for introduc- ing Drainage- tube.