AMPUTATION IN COMPOUND FRACTURES. 533 pelvic bones and their contained viscera, as to preclude the performance of any operation. In children recovery may be effected in cases that would be hope- less in the adult; and under antiseptics many limbs, m which the joints are opened by fracture of contiguous bones, are saved that were formerly doomed to the knife. When the elbow- or the shoulder-joint is the seat of compound comminuted fracture, with extensive injury of the soft parts, and possibly lace- ration of contiguous nerves or large blood-vessels, the case is one for immediate amputation. But, if the injury be limited to the bones, the soft parts being m a favourable state, resection of the articulation may advantageously be practised. This operation is usually a somewhat irregular proceeding, being conducted according to the extent of the wound, and consisting rather in picking out the shattered fragments of bones, and sawing off projecting and sharp-pointed fragments, than in methodical excision. A peculiar accident is occasionally met with in young people, consisting in a fracture of one of the long bones at the junction of the shaft and epiphysis, and the protrusion of the end of the shaft through the muscles and integuments. In these cases, although the fracture is in close vicinity to the joint, the articulation is not affected, and careful examination will always prove its sound condition. Reduction in such cases is difficult, and it is usually impossible to maintain it without sawing off the projecting end of the shaft. This is easily done, and union takes place readily between the epiphysis and the remainder of the shaft. In two instances in which I have had to do this in lads, one near the shoulder, the other near the ankle, an excellent result without impairment of freedom of action in the joint followed the • operation. 3. Wien one of the larger Arteries of tlie Limb has been wounded by the violence that occasions the fracture, or has been lacerated by the broken bone itself, there may be copious arterial haemorrhage externally, as well as extravasation into the general areolar tissue of the limb. These cases most commonly require immediate amputation. Whilst the patient is being examined, and preparation made for the operation, dangerous effusion of blood must be prevented by the application of a tourniquet. For waut of this simple precaution, I have seen very large and even fatal quantities of blood gradually lost, by being allowed slowly to trickle from the wound. In these cases it has been proposed, by some Surgeons of great eminence, to enlarge the wound in the limb, or to make an incision down to the fracture, and attempt to tie the artery where it has been injured. It is easy to give, but difficult to carry out, such precepts. In most cases they are scarcely practicable, as the Surgeon would have to grope in the midst of bleeding and infiltrated tissues, and would experience the greatest possible difficulty iu finding the wounded vessel, after a search which would materially tend to increase the disorganization of the limb. Even after the amputation of a limb in this condition, it is often by no means easy on dissection to find the artery that has poured out blood ; and how much more difficult must it be to search for it successfully during life ! ffhe ligature of the artery at a higher point of the limb does not holdout much prospect of success, for the same reasons that render its performance inadmissible in ordinary wounds of arteries (p. 431). This operation has succeeded in restraining haemorrhage or in curing diffused traumatic aneurism in simple fractures. But I know of no case in which it has been successful in