944 SEPTICAEMIA AND PYAEMIA. PYJEMIA. Pyaemia is merely a clinical expression for a general disease originating in a local source of infection, and accompanied by the formation of disseminated centres of inflammation and suppuration throughout the body. It most commonly, in fact almost invariably, arises as the secondary result of a primary inflammation which has reached the stage of suppuration, and the name was derived from the theory that the disease was due to the entrance of the pus into the blood stream, or “ purulent absorption.” It has however been clearly proved that healthy fresh pus may be injected freely into the blood stream without giving rise to the affection known as pyaemia. The disease is now believed to be due to the entrance into the blood-stream of a specific poison developed in unhealthy or decomposing pus. Although in the o-reat majority of cases in which pyaemia comes under the observation of the Surgeon it occurs as a complication of wounds or injuries in which the discharges are in a state of putrefaction, this is not invariably the case. Thus in the disease known as acute necrosis of bone, pyaemia often sets in before the sub-periosteal abscess has been opened, and when the pus is per- fectly free from any signs of decomposition. The primary disease in this case is however itself an infective process, and not a simple inflammation. Simple healthy abscesses never give rise to pyaemia till air has been admitted from without at the time they are opened or burst. Pyaemia is frequently met with as a consequence of other specific suppurative inflammations ; thus, mc &cc boils, carbuncles, diffuse cellulitis, and phlegmonous erysipelas often precede and lead to its occurrence. . Pyaemia was formerly a very common cause of death after surgical opera- tions and injuries, especially those implicating, the veins, bones, or joints. The improved hy°'ienic condition of most hospitals, and the inti oduction of antiseptics and drainage in the treatment of wounds have almost banished it from surgical practice. In properly constructed and well regulated hospitals and in private practice it is rarely met with except as a complication of cases in which efficient antiseptic treatment is impossible, as in operations on the urinary organs, or as a sequence of some specific inflammation, as carbuncle, acute necrosis, or scarlatinal inflammation of the fauces. In some rare cases the symptoms and post-mortem appearances of pyaemia are met with without any primary inflammation being found. Ihese cases have been described as idiopathic or spontaneous pyaemia. ... The nature of the poison and its mode of entrance into the system mi discussed with the pathology of the disease. _ Pyaemia is characterized especially by two series of phenomena . peculiar train of Constitutional Symptoms attended by a state of great depres- Sion of the powers of the system; 2. The formation of AteMSS«,andfte occurrence of diffuse inflammations in various parts of the bod}. • Zbe Mute, subacute, or chronic. Most usually it is subacute, and often chronic. Whatever form it may assume, the symptoms are essentially the of the disease is as follows = During the period f mmrentlv ordinary febrile disturbance, the patient is seized mt > a 1 h ’ voi^evire ami prolonged. The rigor presents no difference from to met with in the invosion of many other specific febrile affections (p. •