626 DISLOCATIONS. CHAPTER XXII. DISLOCATIONS. By a Dislocation is meant the more or less sudden and complete displacement of one of the bony structures of a joint from the other. In the ball-and-socket joints, as the hip and shoulder, the osseous structures may be completely separated from one another, the dislocation then being Complete. In the hinge- joints, as the elbow and knee, the osseous surfaces commonly remain partially m contact, though displaced from their normal relations to one another : here the dislocation is Incomplete. In most dislocations the integuments covering the displaced hones are put greatly on the stretch, but in some they are raptured, and then the dislocation is Compound. Besides these varieties, Sm geons - - nize Spontaneous dislocation, in which the displacement does not occur horn external violence. In other cases again, the dislocation arises from Congenital malformation of the joint, in consequence of which the bones cannot lemarn in proper apposition ; and finally, dislocation may take place slowly and g a. dually as a result of disease in the articulation and surrounding tissues. This iS £""“£nbe dislocations of the distal bone or the more movable bone; formerly, dislocation of the proximal bone was often SP°CAUSES.—Dislocation is Predisposed to by various conditions, amongst which the nature of the joint appears to exercise most influence; bafl-and-socke joints beiim more liable to dislocation than any of the other articulations . Whilst in some of the synchondroses it never occurs. Krordem states that ol percent of all dislocations occur at the shoulder joint, 2/ per cent, at.the elbow and 2 per cent, at the hip. These statistics have been obtained from the combined1 records of the in- and out-patient practice of the hospitals in Berlin, whereas those published by Malgaigne and some others have been derived from in-patient practice only, and are consequently very erro • ^Dislocations are seldom met with in children, m whom separation of the epi®iy“torn the shaft more readily takes place. When they dooccur t* ■ of three and three and a half years old , and Travers has seen the P d» Sd in a boy five years of age. In old ^oplethe ta- g^"^i"y^ ^ -iddlc-a^sS mLdofdTS-