SPECIAL FRACTURES. 624 There was no material displacement, but the line of fracture could be readily- felt, and crepitus was very distinctly elicited on flexing and extending the foot. < No better treatment can be adopted in such a case than the starched or plaster- bandage. In the other case the fracture was the result of indirect violence, the patient, a man about 30 years of age, falling from a height of about eight yards, and alighting on his feet. Here the fracture was evidently occasioned by the mal- leolar arch being forcibly driven downwards on the foot, so that the astragalus was broken across transversely just in front of the surface that articulates with the tibia—the line of fracture running obliquely downwards and backwards, so that the whole of the upper and posterior part of the bone was detached. This large fragment was widely displaced, being driven outwards and backwards, so as to lie between the fibula and the tendo Achiflis, lacerating the skin to the extent of about one inch longitudinally, and projecting through the opening thus made. The foot presented a singular degree of deformity, which is represented in the annexed figure (Fig. 2G2). The outer malleolus projected greatly; and immediately behind this the displaced fragment could be felt and seen partially protruding through the rent in the skin. The inner malleolus was de- pressed ; there was a deep hollow below this. The os calcis was apparently turned somewhat towards the inner side of the foot. The sole was arched, the skin much wrinkled, and the great toe forcibly flexed. There was a deep transverse furrow in front of the ankle-joint. On discovering the nature of the accident, and seeing the Fig. 262.—Comminuted Fracture of Astragalus, hopelessness of reduction, Or rather the Displacement backwards. impossibility of maintaining the displaced fragment in position, I cut down upon it by enlarging the opening through which it showed itself, and then, seizing it with strong bone-forceps, twisted it out, dividing the ligamentous connexions. The case was then treated as one of compound dislocation of the ankle-joint. About a month after the accident, the patient died of pyaemia ; and, on exa- mining the foot, it was found that the anterior portion of the astragalus had been splintered into seven fragments, which were retained in place by the pressure of the surrounding parts. No other bone of the tarsus was injured, nor was the malleolar arch fractured. Of this splintering of the anterior 1 rag- ment, there was no evidence during life ; nor was there any reason to suspect it, as there was neither crepitus nor displacement. The extent of the fracture showed the immense force with which the malleolar arch had been dri\en downwards on the astragalus by the weight of the patient’s body. The only similar case with which I am acquainted is one recorded by Morris. In this the displaced fragment did not occasion a wound of the integument. It was excised owing to the impossibility of reducing it; but the anterior part of the astragalus which was left fell into a state of caries, which spread to the other tarsal bones, rendering amputation of the foot necessary. The other tarsal bones are but very rarely fractured, except in crushes or o-un-shot injuries of the foot. The Scaphoid I have once seen fractured by a