353 HYDROPHOBIA. ness come on, the patient must be made to walkabout; and artificial respiration with galvanism may be resorted to as a last means of maintaining life until the effects of the stimulants may overcome those of the poison. Enforced exercise —the patient being made to run for some distance behind a carriage driven at a steady pace—is another means of keeping up the respiration, while the sweat- ing aids in the elimination of the poison. Large doses of arsenic have been recommended as a kind of specific, and the “ Tanjore pill,” a celebrated Indian remedy, owes its activity to this mineral; but care must, of course, be taken in administering this, lest the remedy prove as fatal as the injury for which it is administered. Halford, of Melbourne, has used, in cases of bite by the “brown snake,” a very venomous kind, whose bite is nearly always fatal, an injection of strong solution of ammonia, diluted with twice its bulk of water, into a superficial vein, such as the radial. Fifteen or thirty minims are thrown in, and repeated according to circumstances. The effect is described as im- mediate rousing of the patient from his stupor. Sir Joseph Fayrer, however, finds that this remedy has no power in cases of cobra-bite, or as an antidote to the poison of Indian serpents, whatever its efficacy may be in counteracting the deadly effects of those of the Australian species. As liquor potassse decom- poses the virus into a sediment and supernatant fluid, both of which are in- nocuous, it might be supposed that it would act as a true antidote; but it has not been found to do so when injected into the blood of bitten animals. Difficulty with respect to antidotes for snake-poisoning appears to exist as much in their application as in their discovery. The venom of a snake is at once injected into the blood of the animal bitten, is carried with the circula- tion to the nervous centres, decomposing the fluid that conveys it, so that it has the start of any antidote that can possibly be applied to prevent its direct toxic effects on the system. It is difficult to understand how an antidote could act unless it were injected into the veins simultaneously with the intro- duction of the snake-poison into the blood. Unless a surgeon be at hand prepared to do this at the moment, as in the case of an animal bitten for experiment, the time lost would probably render the counteraction of the poison impossible. It is evident that drugs or substances swallowed with the acfclDg as antidotes could not be absorbed from the stomach in time to be efficacious. There is indeed nothing to be done but to endeavour to keep the patient alive, by the administration of stimulants, until the toxic effects of the poison wear ott. 1 BITES OF RABID ANIMALS: HYDROPHOBIA. a-flf*0f IU'd r* gh’e 1,ise t0 the » much and so justly dreaded, butforfcunateiy seldom seen m man in this country, Hydrophobia. ‘ ami InrtT86 Cann°fc ?riginate de novo in man> but occurs in him invariably, of thf ™ e- 01Vei' ,a™“ 8 most “mnionly, as the result of inoculation. Animals wolf tS U J fchnc species arc most subject to it; especially the dog, the affected wif-p’n i° 'lac va j and oafc- The horse, ass, cow, or pig may be believe bom ' m°jU atl0.11 ^rom bite of a rabid animal. It has not, I Does rnhirxt r. 0 lscjTe^ m b’ons or tigers, or in the larger feline animals, most vetprin 01l8inate denovo in animals ? Sir Thomas Watson says not; result of inocffiatione°nifaif of.°S[lion fchafc ifc docs nofc, but is invariably the vot • If it e\ei does arise spontaneously, its causes are very