INJURIES OF TIIE HEAD. 754 buff-coloured layer, which may occasionally become organized. This occurs only in arachnoid hemorrhage. Such layers are sometimes double, and then, formino- a flattened cyst, the cavity of which is merely moistened by a little , fluid, are occasionally found unexpectedly in the arachnoid cavity many years after the injury which gave rise to the extravasation ; A. The exteiior oi the clot may become consolidated, whilst the interior contains fluid and disinte- grated blood. This occurs in the cerebral substance, and the cysts thus formed O ''' symptoms’—The only definite symptom of extravasation of blood is gradually increasing insensibility, ending in coma within twenty-four hours of the injury. It is, however, a matter of the greatest practical importance to determine, if possible, whether the hemorrhage is taking place between the dura mater and the bone, or whether it arises from a laceration of the brain- substance. ^ wiet there are, in typical cases, three distinct stages ; viz., concussion, a return and some continuance of consciousness and then coma Gradually supervening. The patient is concussed or stunned as usual after the head; from this he quickly rallies, and then symptoms of compression set in, and gradually mcrease m mtenshy. He becomes drowsy and dull, with a slow and labouring pulse, dilated and sluggish S and a tendency to slow respiration. As the compression increases, com- plete stupor at length comes on, with stertor m breathing, and there is either General paralysis, or hemiplegia of the side opposite to the seat of injury More commonly there is first, hemiplegia of the side opposite to the seat o injury0 speedily followed by complete general paralysis. Convulsions may occurduring the time the limmorrhage is taking place, but are not common. When the symptoms run this regular course, it is probable that the extiava- sntion results from injury of one of the meningeal arteries or large venom sinuses • and that there is no laceration of the substance of this organ, or 1 may safely be assumed that if the patient recovers consciousness after Ae accident he cannot have such a degree of tearing and bruising of the cerebra substance as to lead to sufficient escape of blood to cause compiessio brain This form may be termed the Meningeal Extravasation, u commonly arises fron/rupture of the anterior branch of the middle mening^ artery, which, from its situation in a deep groove m he parietal lxne, with protrusion of one eyeball and wide dilatti<m of tlieix\ occurs on the same side as the extravasation, and thus‘ gjde £ thc of the opposite side, while the more dilated pup h e of the blood injury In cases complicated with a fissured fracture, some ot ^ forces its way through the fissure, and thus may cause marked fnl - temporal iZ. on the affected aide, £££»£ shaved. A few years ago a man was admitted into t '« ; md took tal who had fallen from the driving scat of'" an- “ j^aown in the the reins, but feeling sick and giddy i , one l10ur afterwards he ¥. while hi. eompanmnuntoteekte d^ ^ admissioIlj and on van, while his compa was foiuid comatose.