648 SPECIAL DISLOCA TIONS. and examining after death, the great tuberosity was torn away from the head of the bone, with much laceration of the capsule and extensive extravasation, but the external rotator muscles were not ruptured in two instances ; whilst in the third the supraspinatus, the infraspinatus, and the teres minor, were all torn across near the insertions into the humerus. In fact, in these cases it appears to be a question of strength between muscle and bone ; either the muscles are torn across, or the great tuberosity, into which they are inserted, is torn away from the shaft of the bone, leaving its attached muscles unruptured. In this dislocation, the head of the humerus can be felt and seen under the pectoral muscles beneath the clavicle ; the arm is shortened, the axis of the limb being directed towards its head, and the elbow is a good deal separated from the side and thrown back. 3. In the dislocation Backwards, or the Subspinous (Figs. 272, 273), the head of the humerus lies behind the glenoid cavity, and below the spine Fife. 272. — Dislocation of tlie right Humerus backwards. (Front View.) Fig. 273. — Dislocation of the right Humerus backwards. (Back View.) of the scapula, beneath the infraspinatus and teres minor muscles. Key found the tendon of the subscapularis torn across, together with the internal portion of the capsular ligament ; the supraspinatus and the long head of the biceps being stretched, but not ruptured. When the head of the bone is dislocated below the spine of the scapula, it can be felt and seen there, more especially when the arm is rotated. The axis of the limb is altered, being directed backwards nearly horizontally ; the elbow is raised from the side, to which it cannot be approximated, and is carried forwards and somewhat downwards. The accompanying figures, tor which I am indebted to Rushton Parker, of Liverpool, show admirably the deformity in this dislocation. _ _ | 4. In the dislocation Downwards, or the Subglenoid (Fig. 270), the head of the bone lies in the axilla, resting against the inferior costa of the scapula below the glenoid cavity, and lodged between the subscapular muscle and the long portion of the triceps. In it the tendon of the subscapular muscle is commonly torn near its insertion into the lesser tuberosity of the humerus, and