FRACTURES. 510 exercise an injurious and sometimes a fatal effect. In these cases there are two dangers to apprehend, viz., hypostatic congestion of the lungs and the for- , mation of bed-sores. Both are avoided by propping the patient up in bed, the use of water or air cushions, and change of posture as far as practicable. It is necessary to see that the bed is very smooth and firm—without creases ; that all crumbs be swept away daily; and that scrupulous attention be paid to cleanliness after the use of the bed-pan. Good diet and a fair allowance of stimulants are needed in these cases. The early use of the starched or plaster- of-Paris-bandage is of great service in enabling the patient to get up sooner than could otherwise be done. In all cases of simple fracture of the lower extremities, the sooner the patient is got up and about 011 crutches the better. Some patients speedily learn to use these instruments, others never get accustomed to their use. In the latter case, a wheel-chair should be substituted for them. Surgical Treatment of Simple Fracture.—In conducting the treatment of a fracture, the object of the Surgeon should be not only to obtain a sound and strong limb, but one that presents as little deformity and trace of former injury as possible. In order to accomplish this, the broken ends of the bone must be brought into as perfect apposition as possible, the recurrence of dis- placement must be prevented, and the local and constitutional condition of the patient properly attended to. It frequently happens that a Surgeon is called to a case of fracture, either immediately after the accident before the patient has been moved and without being informed of the nature of the case. It is then his duty to superintend the moving of the patient, and to see that it is done as far as possible pain- lessly and without increasing the injury to the soft parts by needless move- ment of the limb. For this purpose temporary splints may be applied outside the patient’s clothes, and secured, in the absence of bandages, by pocket- handkerchiefs tied round the limb. A couple of walking-sticks or umbrellas, or the handle of a broom, may thus be applied to the thigh or leg ; or a splint cut from the cover of a book to the arm. Newspapers folded several times till they form a mass of sufficient stiffness make excellent temporary splints. . If the patient have been already moved and is upon a bed, the limb must be placed in such a position as to give the greatest general relaxation of the muscles. Thus the lower limb must be flexed and placed on its outer side with a thin pillow under the knee. In fractures of the upper limb the arm should lie by the side with the forearm flexed. The patient thus being made as comfortable as possible, the necessary arrangements can be made for the definite treatment of the fracture. If the case be one of severe fracture of the upper extremity, or of any kind in the lower limbs, the Surgeon must see that the bed, on which the patient may have to remain for some weeks, is properly prepared, by being made hard, flat, and firm, and, if possible, covered w ith a horse-hair-mattress. The Surgeon must then superintend the removal of the patient’s clothes, having them ripped along the seams, so that they may taken off with as little disturbance as possible to the injured part. He nex proceeds to the examination of the broken limb, using every possible gent eness consistent with acquiring a proper knowledge of the fracture. After le ias satisfied himself upon this point, the lnnb should be again placed in a fortable position, until any necessary apparatus has been prepared.