722 INJURIES OF THE HEAD. prove fatal occurred in a case under my care in University College Hospital in 1872. The patient was a woman, aged twenty-seven, who fell from a first- floor window into the street below. She received a violent blow on the face, fracturing the upper and lower jaws, the zygomatic arches, and the nasal bones. She soon recovered consciousness, and showed no signs of serious cerebral injury. However, on the second day symptoms of meningitis set in, and on the third day she died comatose. The post-mortem examination showed the usual signs of septic meningitis, and the source of the mischief was found to be a small puncture of the dura mater made by a triangular fragment of the thin bony roof of the sphenoidal sinus which had become displaced vertically, openino- up the sinus below by tearing the mucous membrane. The fragment was isolated by the branches of a fissured fracture which extended backwards from the frontal bone, but at no.other part was the dura mater injured, lhe brain showed superficial bruises in the frontal lobes. . Fractures of the Base, though usually fatal, are not invariably so. ^otonly does it occasionally happen that patients with all those signs of fracture o e Fig. 312.—Fractui-e of Base of Skull implicating tlie Tympanum. base of the skull, which will immediately be described, are seenJ.make a complete recovery, but in the different Museums specimens ihusHative o recovery after this accident may be met with. Thus, m the Colle e Surgeons’ Museum, there is the skull of a person who lived two years lrs^.-S^of the base of the stuff is very commonly rajgeotodj^ symptoms indicative of serious injury to the brain Bpeedi\^l^ im- Uow upon the head. Those parts of the nei-vous oentic portant to life are more liable to injury m this than m other fiactmes, skull; the same violence that occasions the fracture liijunn 0 portions of brain, or lacerating some of the large the skull, and thus giving rise to abundant intracianiale . * the The patient whose skull is represented m lug. 312 died from nj 3 medl1 oblongata and tomontage into its hardlv be wondered at, when the splintered condition ot tlie mar foramen magnum is taken into consideration. There^was^ became to the brain. After a short period of J t0 ^pital, noisy and talkative, and was somewhat troublesome on to hnf almost immediately after admission, Ins respiration an 1 -