TUMOURS. iooS appearance. Between the fibres are flattened or elongated cells, like ordinary connective tissue corpuscles. In some cases it is less perfectly developed, and may contain numerous small round cells, or even be composed almost entirely of spindle cells. The vessels traverse the stroma in all directions. They vary much in number and size. In some forms of cancer they are so abundant that the whole growth may pulsate ; in others they are comparatively scanty. In all cancers as the growth advances the vascular supply becomes insufficient to maintain tbe vitality of the central parts of the tumour, and fatty degene- ration, first of the cells and subsequently of the stroma, takes place. If the tumour is superficial the tissues break down, and ulceration results. The process above described is now almost universally acknowledged to be that by which cancer arises and spreads. It was first clearly described by Thiersch and Waldeyer. It explains the fact, now well recognized by patholo- gists, that primary cancer never arises except in connection with pre-existing epithelium. The theories of Virchow and Classen, which attributed the origin of cancer to the connective tissue corpuscles and to migrated white corpuscles respectively, are now practically abandoned, as also is that of Kdster, who believed cancer cells to be derived from the endothelium of lymph-spaces. It is believed, however, that Ivoster was correct in stating that the branching columns of cells do really lie in the lymph-spaces. The proliferating epithe- lium having burst through the wall of the acinus when the disease commences in a gland or forced its way into the deeper parts when it starts from a surface, enters the lymph-spaces and grows into them. This view is confirmed by the general arrangement of the epithelial columns, and Waldeyer believes that lie has demonstrated lymphatic endothelium lying on the surface of the adi aiming process of epithelium. It also explains the great readiness with which cancer infects the lymphatic glands. The cells of a cancer always more or less accurately resemble those of the normal epithelium of the part from which the primary tumour springs. Thus the cells of glandular cancers belong to the type of spheroidal or glandular epithelium ; those of the skin are squamous, and those of the intestine, columnar. The cells may be larger and show a more exuberant growth than the normal epithelium, but their general characters remain the same. 1 lie old idea that there existed a peculiar specific “ cancer-cell ’ is now completely abandoned, and it is universally recognized that no certain opinion can be pronounced as to the cancerous nature of a tumour without a careful exami- nation, not of the cells only, but of the stroma, and of the relation of the cells to the stroma. The cells of all cancers arc prone to early fatty dcgencra- tion In some forms they undergo a colloid change. Varieties of Cancer.—Cancers are classified primarily according to the variety of epithelium that enters into their composition, and certain sub- divisions are made according to the modifications in the stroma or in t ie mot c of oTowth of the tumour. The following classification is that usually adopted : ?. Cancers, the cells of which arc derived from glandular or spheroidal epithelium. Glandular cancer. with abundant dense stroma. Scirrhus, or scirrhous cancer. With a small proportion of stroma forming large alveolar spaces. 1 hdullarv. Encenhaloid, or Soft Cancer. „ , One of the above forms (a or b), with colloid degeneration of the ce s. Colloid Cancer. a. b. c.