DISLOCATIONS AND RUPTURES OF TENDONS. 481 part whilst you make the patient contract the muscle, or if he cannot do this, put the part suddenly in such a position as to stretch the muscle. These manipulations must be done without an antes the tic, as we need guidance from the sensations of the patient and action of the affected muscle. Replacement is seldom possible after two or three weeks. If the condition is left unrelieved I the parts seem to accommodate themselves to their new positions, and the pain subsides, but some permanent weakness may remain. The accident is always likely to recur, even if the displacement has been successfully reduced. The following are the chief situations in which this accident has been met with. The Long Tendon of the Biceps. Callender described a case of this accident. There was great pain and inability to move the biceps or even the shoulder-joint. The shoulder seemed to droop forwards. The tendon could be felt lying at the inner side of its groove. It could be replaced, but no treatment would keep it there. Various Tendons at the Wrist have been displaced. They are usually replaced without difficulty by the means above described. The parts must be kept fixed for about two weeks, by means of splints and properly arranged pads. .The Small Muscles of the Bade, or of the back of the neck, are occasionally displaced. Replacement can best be effected by firm pressure over the painful spot, while the patient carries out the movement that gives him pain. The Tendon of the Peronms Longus may slip out of its sheath behind the outer ankle, the sheath being torn in some violent twist of the foot inwards. The accident is liable to recur, and is often a source of much discomfort and temporary lameness. The treatment consists in the first instance of absolute xffy of the foot for some weeks in plaster bandages or splints, to give time or the sheath to consolidate. To prevent recurrence, a spring clip should be worn, so as to press the tendon against the fibula. Rupture and Division.—Subcutaneous rupture of muscles and tendons f^omirequcntly occurs, not so much from any external violence, as from the non, ?*1011 °f rh,6 mUS° e rupturmg its own substance. The rupture may occur at one of four points : m the muscular substance itself • at the line of junction between the muscle and tendon ; through the tendon • and lastly at the point of insertion of the muscle or tendon into bone. Sedillot found that mscleT'StirneV’UPtTe ^ °f °rigin °f fche tendon from the muscle 13 times ; and m the remaining 8, the muscle itself was torn. unese ruptures occur most commonly in middle-no-pd or olrWi-n- 1 “the rfy °f joi,ih' ^ ^ to « fcmSih f-? lcm a ““P- Ho becomes unable finrh a 1 n mi, and at the part where the rupture has occurred he \l?ZZfPltr rlT\hythe retracfci011 of the ^ 0 he ton m, ’ tlie bclD of which contracts into a hard lump AchSSrfSor^ tr0ublfTe’ are seldom serious. The tendo biceps, the deltoid t] ^ ^ ° -tle thigh, the triceps of the arm, the most codmoSI ,h® VQCtZ abdom,rs> are the tendons and muscles that they are placed ^ ^ W1 1 16 le atlve frequency of the order in wliich Tot. r. tendons may be cut across accidentally or purposely in almost 11