EFFECTS OF HEAT AND COLD. 3S4 been depressed by want of the necessaries of life. In such persons frost-bite 1 and the resulting gangrene are as much due to the habitual low vitality of the extremities as to the low temperature to which they are exposed. The extreme parts of the body, as the feet, more especially the toes, necessarily suffer most frequently, in many cases from long exposure to wet at low temperatures rather than to dry cold. The fingers, the. tip of the nose and chin, and the prominences of the cheeks, are especially apt to suffer from dry cold, more particularly when its effects are much increased by high wind ; for it is a well-known fact that extremely low temperatures are borne with impunity so long as the air is calm, as, happily, it com- monly is in these circumstances. But if a high wind springs up, the heat of the body is so rapidly carried off, that sudden congelation of exposed parts may ensue. It is remarkable how some parts escape. Thus the eyeball is never, to my knowledge, frozen so long as life remains, and yet it might be supposed that the aqueous humour at least would easily congeal. The eyelids also, thin as they are, commonly escape frost-bite. The first effect of cold is to cause a contraction of all the involuntary muscular fibre of the part acted on. The small arteries of the skin become so far narrowed that the circulation through the part is completely arrested. It becomes somewhat shrunken and of a dead white colour. In this condition, being deprived of its natural source of heat, it readily becomes frozen if exposed to a Sufficiently low temperature. The experience of the production of local anesthesia by "cold teaches us, however, that the tissues may be completely frozen and kept in that state for a minute or more without suffering any iniurv If however, this condition be maintained for a longer time, it is evident that the vitality of the part will be gradually lowered till it is finally com- pletely extinguished. So long as the part is kept bloodless inflammation cannot manifest itself; but as soon as the vessels dilate on the restoration of the natural heat of the part, inflammatory phenomena occur varying with the decree of impairment of vitality that the part has suffered during its exposure to cold. If it have been completely killed, the blood fails to enter the vessels of the dead part, which consequently remains white and cold ti decomposition sets in. If the damage has been short of tins, the blood enters the vessels, and all the phenomena of inflammation are developed. If. fiom- the too sudden thawing of the frozen part, a large quantity of blood.is admitted at a hich degree of pressure, abundant exudation takes place from the darna vessels* great swelling and tension ensue, and the circulation may again be arrested partly by the pressure caused by the exudation, which may extinguis such remains of vitality as are left in the tissues, and partly by the abstraction to the circulation within the vessels from adhesion ot thei corpuscles. J part which had escaped death from the direct action ot the cold limy rapidly become gangrenous after a short period of apparent restoration. » ><■ * gangrene the inflammation gradually subsides, often being accompanied l.y vesication. If the damage done is still less, the restoration of warmth is f< 1 lowed merely by some redness and possibly a little swelling with muc i "" ""'h „, n The effects of cold, in fact, form one of the best illustrations of the facts'that inflammation is the direct result of damage of a part to a degree Iho, t of causing death, and that the degree of inflammation ,s proportional to Hvr. vWroo to which the vitality is lowered. . . . ^ . When rrangvcnc results it is most commonly of the moist variety ; the p