947 SECONDARY OR METASTATIC ABSCESSES. of the invasion of the disease. It is cither foul, or sloughy, or inflamed, and discharging decomposing pus, which perhaps does not find a ready exit. Even when the wound appears healthy superficially, it is probable that some pus is deeply pent up within it, or that possibly, if the bone is injured, inflammation and suppuration are taking place in the medulla. Pytemia never arises from a healthy superficial granulating sore. When pyaemia has set in, the wound usually becomes dry and ceases to discharge pus. Even if the superficial parts remain tolerably healthy, the granulations become pale and healing ceases. In very chronic cases, however, healing may go on while the patient is still suffering from secondary abscesses in different parts of the body. The skin is con- tinuously hot, and has often a burning pungent feel. The breath has that peculiar sweetish, saccharine, or fermentative smell that is commonly noticed in all febrile diseases of a low type ; this odour of the breath, and indeed of the body generally, often occurs early in the disease, and must then be taken almost as a diagnostic and certainly as a most unfavourable sign. The secre- tions are arrested ; the pulse is quick and soft; the face is usually pale, vith a very anxious drawn look, but sometimes flushed, and the eyes bright ; there are hebetude and dulness of mind, with slight nocturnal delirium, but perfect consciousness on being spoken to. Rapid wasting of the body sets in about this period ; patches of erratic erythema frequently make their appearance on the surface ; and the skin assumes a dull sallow and earthy, or a bright yellow icteric tint, which may extend to the conjunctive. The symptoms now indicate an extreme depression of the vital powers ; the pulse becoming small and fluttering, the tongue, which has been dry, becoming brown, sordes being deposited about the teeth, and low delirium supervening^ Usually from the sixth to the tenth day, but sometimes earlier, suppuration commences in different tissues, joints, and organs. The Formation of numerous centres of inflammation and suppura- tion, csecondary or metatastic abscesses” as they are termed, is the most marked feature of pymmia. The pus iu these abscesses is often thin and oily-lookmg ; sometimes, however, it is thick and laudable. In the oily- looking pus the cells are extremely granular, and sometimes so far degenerated that no nucleus can be recognized even after the addition of acetic acid ; the liquor puns contains large quantities of granular debris. In some cases the pus has been observed to form a firm coagulum, and occasionally it is foetid. hese purulent collections vary greatly in size and in situation. They are found in the viscera, in the intermuscular and subcutaneous areolar tissue in ™ CaYltieS’ni thG i°ints’and occasionally in the muscles, or at the ^eat o subcutaneous injuries received at the same time as the wound from which the infection has taken place. '’VHffer frT ?r?nai7 Pm'nleilt collections, not only in the S” , T I1'7 °0,lt“in' bllfc “ore particularly in the - , 01 Uicyfoi™, a few days commonly sufficing for them to dion, til1'’ ?!6; Tth «"* widely spread character, and the consSeZTf , r ej °CC"r’ 0ften "'ith fc"' iF “>• local signs, oustitute the distinguishing features of these collections ca^™1 abs°esscs yarJ in size from a pin’s head to a walnut; in many With the‘n- TI’CS0 coUc'Hoos arc molt lently met with m the lungs, being seated at the posterior part and 3 V 2 on