ULCERATION. 25s pletoly cover the surface, and the discharge may he merely serous fluid, scarcely turbid with cells. The whole process thus merges into gangrene. No sharp line can be drawn between spreading gangrenous inflammation and ulceration, and we call the intermediate conditions by such names as sloughing, gangrenous or phagedtenic ulceration. 2. In parts which have long suffered from chronic inflammation, slight mechanical and chemical causes give rise to ulceration. 8. Ulceration sometimes commences in the crypts, or follicles, which open on mucous surfaces, as a consequence of catarrhal inflammation, with accumu- lation of secretion within their cavities. It leads to the formation of circular depressed ulcers. 4. In some general diseases, accompanied by the formation of vesicles or pustules on the cutaneous surface, ulcers may be left when they burst and dis- charge their contents, as in small-pox, pemphigus, syphilitic rupia, and occa- sionally in chicken-pox. 5. Any injurious influence, whether chemical or mechanical, which causes the death of a part, necessitates the occurrence of ulceration for the separation of the dead tissue, and the sore so left is an ulcer. Long-continued pressure is a common cause. G. In some specific cases, as before stated, ulceration is preceded by the formation of a morbid growth, as a syphilitic gumma, tubercle, or a malignant tumour. Situation.—Ulcers may be situated upon any part of the cutaneous surface as the result of loss of substance from wound or other injury. Syphilitic or strumous ulcers may appear on almost any part of either the skin oi the mucous membranes, but they most frequently occur in particular situations a> on the penis, lips, tongue, or rectum. Of all forms, however, perhaps the most common with which we have to deal, is the simple ulcer of the leg, so common in hospital out-patients’ rooms, and amongst the poorer classes generally. The lower half of the leg is the usual seat of these simple ulcers, the skin of that part being much exposed to mechanical violence, and very prone to congestion, from position, from varicose veins, and from its great distance from the centre of circulation. In advanced life, moreover, degenerative changes in the arteries of the leg obstructing the flow of blood are very common. I leers that once form here are slow in healing, and very liable to recur, because the conditions that led to their formation may still exist; also there is often but a very thin layer of subcutaueous fat between the skin and the tibia, and, consequently, there is a great tendency for the under surface of the scar to adhere to the bone. General Treatment of Ulceration.—In the Local Treatment of ulceration, the Burgeon must be guided by the special conditions presented by the ulcer, which will be described presently ; but there are some points uhicli demand attention in all cases. 1. Every source of irritation which could cause inflammation, or maintain it if present, must be carefully removed ; for while inflammation is present no proper reparative action can go on. thus, if the ulceration be due to the presence of a specific poison, as m the case of a soft chancre, this must be destroyed by antiseptic or caustic applications. In simple sores the surface must be preserved from friction, the part must be kept at rest and the decomposition of the discharges must be prevented by proper applications. 2. The circulation must be maintained in a normal state, both