342 GUN-SHOT WOUNDS. imperative may look but trifling, and to the patient himself, or to the civilian, may appear to justify treatment by less severe procedure ; but experience has so far incontestably shown that, under ordinary circumstances, amputation is almost the only chance of safety in gun-shot wounds of the lower third of the thigh aud of the leg, fracturing the bones, or injuring the knee-joint. Dupuytren states that, in rejecting amputation in compound fractures of the extremities from gun-shot, we lose more lives than we save limbs ; and Henncn is of opinion that in all “ ambiguous cases ” amputation should be performed. We have still to learn how far the use of antiseptics will enable us to modify these rules ; but it is scarcely possible that the military Surgeon of the future will always have the necessary materials at his command for strict antiseptic treatment, and consequently he must frequently be guided in his practice by the experience of former times, and resort to amputation in cases in which under more favourable conditions there might be a lair prospect of saving the limb. _ The following is a specification of the chief conditions in which amputation is required. 1. When the whole limb is carried off, a ragged stump merely being left; so, likewise, if the limb be completely crushed and disorganized though still left adherent; or again, if the principal vessels be injured and the soft parts carried away, though the bone be intact, the limb cannot be preserved. 2. Amputation is especially necessary in some of the more serious injuries of the lower extremity ; thus, if a bullet divide the femoral vessels or the sciatic nerve, and splinter the thigh-bone ; or if the sciatic nerve and soft parts at the back of the thigh be carried away, although the vessels and bone lie left uninjured, the case is one for amputation. It may be stated generally (though, doubtless, there are exceptions to this, as to all general mles in suigeiy) t at in the case of a compound fracture of the loioer third of the femur occasioned <} gun-shot, amputation is the safer practice, unless the patient is likely to be placed in exceptionally favourable circumstances after the wound, and the Surgeon has at his command all the means necessary for efficient antiseptic treatment. , . . ... The mortality, however, after amputation for gun-snot injury of the uppei two-thirds of the thigh is so very great, that many Surgeons have abandoned the operation in these cases, and professional opinion is unsettled as to the course that should be pursued. In the Schleswig-Holstein war of 1849, it became a question with many of the German and Danish Surgeons whether this operation should be continued, or whether the patient would no., m e a better chance if the injury was treated on ordinary principles as a compoun fracture. At the siege of Sebastopol, the mortality after amputation in the upper third of the thigh was so great in the Russian army, that the burgeons abandoned the operation. On the other hand, it is stated m the Report of the Black Sea Fleet, that to attempt to save the limb in any case of gun-b 10 fracture of the thigh was to endanger the patient’s life. In the brnnea, Macleod states, that a bad compound fracture of the thigh from grni-s m was synonymous with death. This was partly owing to the bad health of the troops5 and partly to the terrible effects of conical balls. In India, where round'bullets and matchlock-balls were more used, the result was not.so Macleod states that, although he made every inquiry, lie could hea cases only in which recovery had, in the Crimea, followed a compound fracture