246 SUPPURATION AND ABSCESS. with it, all suppuration will cease as soon as tension is relieved by letting out the pus, the only subsequent discharge being of a serous nature, coming from the surface of the granulations lining the cavity of the abscess. If this dis- charge be pent-up in the cavity, tension will be again produced, and, acting as an irritant, will cause fresh suppuration ; but if the discharge be allowed to drain away it will rapidly diminish, and the sac of the abscess will be oblite- rated by the ordinary processes of contraction and cicatrization. If dead bone exist at the bottom of the cavity, the reparative process, involving absorption or expulsion of the dead bone, will be very slow, the serous discharge often continuing for months without change, unless allowed to decompose, when it will rapidly become purulent and considerably increased in quantity.—5. I11 the ordinary method of opening an abscess, although the irritation due to tension is removed, a fresh irritant is admitted in the shape of the decomposition of the discharges, which in the mildest cases will seriously delay the closing of the cavity of the abscess, while in many, such as large psoas or lumbar abscesses, it may lead to such an amount of constitutiona disturbance as to be rapidly fatal.—6. The cause of decomposition* is not the admission of the gases of the air, but the presence of organic germs which are constantly floating in the atmosphere, and whose activity is readily destroyed by the direct action upon them of any powerful chemical antiseptic, many of which are volatile ; but experiments have shown that but little reliance can be placed upon their vapours mixed with air in such proportions as are practically attainable. Lister, therefore, in his method of treatment aims at the following objects :-lst. By freely opening the abscess, completely to evacuate its contents, and to provide a ready exit for the subsequent dis- charge, thus completely removing tension and preventing its return; ~nd, the entire exclusion from the opening into the abscess of air unmixed with a strong spray of carbolic acid or some other antiseptic ; the spray must be so fine that it shall be practically impossible for any solid particle floating m the air to escape contact with a drop of the antiseptic solution ; and 3rd, the absolution by some porous material, impregnated with a powerful antiseptic, of al c charges as soon as they escape from the wound-m short, the prevention of decomposition in the sac of the abscess, or in the discharges lying about the °PThe8most convenient antiseptic for these purposes is carbolic acid. The apparatus and materials required for opening and dressing an septically are-lst. A quart or more of a solution of carbolic acid n water (1 in 20j 2nd. Some thin cotton or linen rag free from holes; called the guard." 3rd. Some thick green oiled-silk, coated with copal TamlA, and covered with a thin layer of a mixture of dextrine and starch; so. that v. hen dipped in the carbolic lotion, it may become uniformly wetted. T s is c. tlm “ protective." 4th. The cartolic gauze. 5th. Some thin mackintosh clot or “ ZtZmj." 6th. Some bandages made of the carbohe gauze, and some elastic webbing from 1 to 2 inches in width. ™e “»^ a^ 1st the Spray-producer. If nothing else be available, a Richaidsons etLier spray-apparatus filled with a solution of carbolic acid m watei (1 m 40,