644 SPEC I A L DISLOCA TIONS. rib, and separating the first from its cartilage, which was attached to the clavicle by the unruptured costo-clavicular ligament; the traction of the dislocated clavicle on the cartilage by means of the ligament, had probably determined the separation of the cartilage from its rib. It lias occurred also as a secondary consequence of curvature of the spine. The Signs are those that usually attend a dislocation of the sternal end of the clavicle—shortening of the shoulder, and deformity about the upper part of the sternum ; but, besides these, a special train of symptoms is occasioned, by the pressure of the displaced bone upon the trachea, oesophagus, and vessels of the neck. Difficulty in breathing and swallowing, with congestion of the head giving rise even to a semicomatose state, may be produced to such an extent as to require removal of the end of the bone, as happened in a case of gradual dislocation from deformity of the spine related by Sir A. Cooper, in which the Surgeon was obliged to saw off the dislocated end. In some cases, the end of the bone is thrown upwards as well as backwards; in others, it takes rather a downward direction. In one case only that described in the preceding paragraph—have I had an opportunity of examining, after death, the condition of the limb in dislocation backwards of the sternal end of the clavicle. In this case, all the ligamentous structures around the end of the bone were torn through, with the exception of the costo-cla- vicular ligament, which had preserved its attachments unbroken, and had carried away the cartilage of the first rib hi the direction of the displaced In the Treatment of this dislocation, it is easy to effect the reduction of the bone by making a fulcrum of the fist in the axilla, and then bringing the elbow well to the side, at the same time that an assistant puts his knee between the patient’s shoulders and pulls them back ; but it is difficult to retain the bone in proper position. To fulfil this object, the figure-of-8 bandage ticrhtly applied to the points of the shoulders, and crossed over a large pad placed in the middle of the back, will give the most efficient support to the part, the elbow being at the same time well fixed to the side an drawn back. , 2. The dislocations of the Outer End of the Clavicle, or more correctly, the dislocations of the Acromion from the clavicle, are more commonly met with than those just described. The most frequent accident of this description is that in which the bone is thrown upon the Upper Surface of t e Acromion, or upon the Anterior Part of the Spine of the Scapu a. is usually caused by violent falls upon the shoulder, and is not an uncommon accident at football. In several cases of this accident which have presented themselves at University College Hospital, there has been no difficti t\ v ia ever in the diagnosis. The prominence formed by the displaced bone upo the upper surface of the acromion, the narrowing of the distance mm \ mesial line to the point of the shoulder, to the extent of from an inch to an inch and a half, the facility of the reduction of the dislocation, and the prom nence of the clavicular portion of the trapezius muscle, indicate the na urc tbo accident (Fig. 266). The Treatment of this injury is by no means satis- factory Reduction may easily be effected by raising the shoulder, < lanmg b^kvm'ds, and carrying it outwards by placing a or tile hwid in and bringing the elbow well to the side. But, notwithstanding the . reduction, there is in many cases a great and, indeed, an unconquera c