LOCAL ACTIVE HYP ERIE MIA. r43 upon the head. Local amentia of one part may result also from hyperaemia of another, as the amount of blood in the body is not nearly sufficient to distend all the vessels fully. The most familiar example of this is the faintness from anaemia of the brain which results from immersing the body in a hot bath, by which the whole of the cutaneous vessels become widely dilated, thus more or less draining the internal parts. In whatever way temporary local anaemia is produced, as soon as the cause is removed it ceases, and is replaced by hyperaemia, varying in intensity with the duration and degree of the previous anaemia. Familiar examples of this are : the red glow that succeeds when the fingers recover after having been “dead” with cold, and the blush and oozimr of blood that follows the removal of the tourniquet in bloodless methods of operating. ACTIVE LOCAL HYPERIEMIA, ACTIVE CONG-ESTION, DETERMINATION OP BLOOD, OR FLUXION. This condition consists essentially of an increased flow of blood to a part, owing to a dilatation of the arteries from relaxation of the muscular fibre-cells of the middle coat. The term “ increased vascular action ” has been often applied to this condition, although it is evident that the only action an artery is capable of, viz. narrowing of its calibre by contraction of its muscular coat, diminishes the afflux of blood. Determination of blood is a vital process, often very transitory, and frequently occurring as a normal action in those conditions of the system in which, for temporary purposes, an increased afflux of blood is called for by particular organs. The turgor of the erectile tissues, and the afflux of blood to the salivary glands during secretion, afford familiar examples. An increased local supply of blood lies at the bottom of most surgical pro- cesses. No process by which the separation of dead parts is effected, or by winch the repair of wounds or ulcers is carried out, can occur without it Every vascular tissue is susceptible of it; and in active processes in non- vascular tissues it occurs in the nearest vessels. The Surgeon often excites it intentionally as one of the most efficient of his therapeutic means. Under these circumstances, therefore, it can scarcely be considered a disease It is however, frequently associated with disease, forming as it does an essentia] part of all inflammatory processes. Causes. The regulation of the circulation is under the control of the sympathetic vaso-inotor nerves. We have before seen that stimulation of the sympathetic causes contraction of the arteries and local amemia; inhibition or paralysis of the sympathetic causes dilatation. Thus when the sympathetic nerve mthe neck of a dog or rabbit is divided, or when in man it ^pressed on by a tumour or an aneurism, the arteries in the corresponding sideOf the and mucZ6 f ’ a f °f blood takes place, reddening of the skin deternffli iHfr fa°w m tcmPerature is mcreased-in other words, f i rCSi The faction of the vessels that occurs on hmereti r pathetic is always followed rapidly by relaxation with lE! f fhe VaS0‘m0t0r nervcs may be affected also by reflex stimuli. ™ iauen!?r{ nerve Causes immediate dilatation of the vessels in the is the or!" ■ at nerve. Another marked example of reflex hyperaemia urethn nurl^vT' ^idne^ t*lafc often follows operations upon the uretlna, and which may terminate fatally. An irritant applied directly to a part