LOCAL VARIETIES. 925 those of acute inflammatory fever ; in others the affection is accompanied by sio-ns of the gravest blood-poisoning. In these latter there is probab y a o-eneral infection of the system. After the sloughs become exposed to the air decomposition rapidly sets in, and 'the symptoms then assume the type o acute septic poisoning from the absorption of the chemical products o! putrefaction. . M Pathological Anatomy.—The state of the areolar tissue is the same as m phlegmonous erysipelas. Micrococci are found in the inflammatory exuda- tions. Should the patient die, the viscera present the ordinary appearances of acute blood-poisoning (see Septicaemia). Prognosis—If the subcutaneous tissue of a limb only is affected many cases can be saved by proper treatment. Amongst twenty-four cases registered as cellulitis in the reports of University College Hospital there were six deaths. When the deeper planes of areolar tissue are affected, and when the process is very acute, death commonly supervenes early, often in two or three days in other instances life may lie prolonged for some weeks, the patient ultimately dying from exhaustion or from some secondary complication, as pyaemia. ' Diagnosis.—Superficial cellulitis closely resembles cellulo-cutaneous erysipe- las, and in the later stages it may be indistinguishable when the skin becomes affected. In any case the diagnosis is of little importance as the treatment is the same. Deep-seated cellulitis is often very difficult to recognize ; the swelling, with some oedema and slight redness, the fulness of the superficial veins, and the deep-seated pain and tenderness, with the history of a cause likely to induce the disease, as a post-mortem wound, combined with the characteristic constitutional condition, will, however, usually enable the Surgeon to recognize the condition. Treatment.—In the treatment of diffuse cellulitis it is usually necessary to administer stimulants early ; ammonia, wane, or brandy may be required from the very first. The Surgeon must judge of this by the constitutional condition of the patient, and more particularly by the state of his pulse and tongue. The Local Treatment is precisely of the same kind as that adopted in phlegmonous erysipelas, except that the incisions require to be made earlier and perhaps more freely ; in all other respects, there is no difference between the general management of the two forms of the disease. Special Forms of External Erysipelatous Inflammation.—Erysi- pelas of Newly-born Infants, Erysipelas Neonatorum, is occasionally met with, more particularly in lying-in hospitals, or in situations where the mother and child are exposed to depressing causes of disease. It usually appears a few days after the birth, at first about the abdomen and genitals, and soon spreads widely over the body, being characterized by a dusky redness, which rapidly runs into gangrene of the affected tissues. It starts in many cases from the raw surface left by the separation of the umbilical cord. It is extremely fatal, owing to the feeble vitality of the child, and presents but few points for treatment; change of air and of nursing, with the administration of a few drops of spirits of ammonia or brandy from time to time, being all that can be done. Cellulitis of the Orbit may occur primarily, or as the result of extension of the disease from the neighbouring structures. It is dangerous, and often fatal from meningitis. It commences with a violent deep-seated pain in the orbit; the conjunctiva becomes injected and ecchymoscd, the eyelids arc