851 RUPTURE OF THE INTESTINE. resonance in front of the liver. The belly is acutely tender, and the patient lies on his back with his knees drawn up. These injuries are extremely fatal, in fact if the aperture in the gut be of sufficient size to allow of the escape of the contents of the gut into the peritoneal cavity, death almost inevitably results. Rupture of the third part of the duodenum behind the peritoneum is accompanied by much less clearly marked symptoms; there are pain and tenderness, and possibly vomiting of blood. If the patient survive sufficiently long he may pass a motion blackened by altered blood. Death takes place in these cases usually from diffuse suppuration spreading in the loose sub- peritoneal tissue downwards in front of the kidneys or even to the iliac fossre, in consequence of which peritonitis with effusion is often set up. An occasional symptom of rupture of the intestine is Emphysema of the Abdominal Wall, and subsequently of the trunk generally, from the escape of flatus from wounded intestine into the subperitoneal areolar tissue, and thence into the more superficial planes. When this takes place, the same doughy, puffy, inelastic, crepitating swelling of the subcutaneous areolar tissue, that is met with in thoracic emphysema, is observed. It usually commences in one or the other flank, and may then creep up towards the axilla, or hi front of the abdominal wall. As a diagnostic sign, this form of emphysema is valuable in those cases in which the intestines have been injured, either without any wound of the abdominal parietes, or, if there be wound, without protrusion of the injured portion of gut. In two of the cases in which I have observed it, this con- dition tv as the only positive sign of intestinal injury. In one case, the transverse duodenum had been ruptured where uncovered by peritoneum, by a buffer- accideut, and, in the other the rectum and meso-rectum had been traversed by a pistol-ball. In both these cases the emphysema was extensive, the flatus having passed directly into the subperitoneal areolar tissue. In other cases it may in the first instance pass into the cavity of the abdomen, and render that tympanitic, and then, as in thoracic emphysema after pneumothorax, escape into the areolar tissue at the edges of the wound. In a case under my observa- tion, it occurred after tapping the bladder through the rectum. The flatus escaped, after the removal of the cannula on the sixth day, through the small aperture in the walls of the gut into the subperitoneal areolar tissue of the pelvis, thence, through the sciatic notches, down the posterior and outer parts of the thighs and the flanks. L The diagnosis of abdominal emphysema from thoracic emphysema, and from putrefactive infiltration of air into the areolar tissue, requires to be made In the first case, the diagnosis may readily be effected by observing an absence of the signs of thoracic injury, and by the situation of the emphysema in the posterior or lateral abdominal wall, or around the lips of a wound. From trat1011 7!th.r’ nthe abdominal emphysema is easily distin- gmshed by the cause, and by the absence of diffuse inflammation of the areolar delrii T1reatment of,fchc Ifious iniuries of thc abdomen that have just been viscern im ^ TPi°‘ \ ° Sy?pfcoms indicate laceration of one of the accident 1 G ° -C °n°, durmg’ fcIl° sfcate °f collapse supervening on the been roenb y0mi k?T'f h<3 .patl(mt quiefc> and employing the means that have this neHorr a r. rSSenmg fcbe effccts of shock- If fclie patient survive ’ 111 L ncd re uince must be placed on the maintenance of perfect rest