THE PROCESS OF REPAIR. 27S others. In poisoned wounds the specific virus with which they are infected maintains the inflammatory process. In cases of contused and lacerated wounds, or in burns and scalds, the dead tissue serves as the source of pro- longed irritation until it is separated by ulceration and thrown off. The process of union by the second intention is followed most easily in the case of a simple wound with loss of substance so extensive as to render the approxi- mation of the surfaces impossible. The haemorrhage in such a wound is arrested in the same way as has already been described in treating of union by the first intention, and the same process of exudation takes place. The liquor sanguinis coagulates on the raw surface, the serum drains away, and the fibrin remains behind entangling the migrating white blood-corpuscles in its meshes. In union by first intention, as we have seen, the exudation ceases in a few hours, as the tissues, not having been injured to such an extent as to destroy their vitality and being protected from every source of irritation, speedily return to their normal state. In such a wound as we are considering, however, the raw surface must necessarily be in contact with some foreign material, and is thus exposed to a persistent source of irritation in consequence of which the exudation continues; the migrating cells accumulate on the surface, forming a layer of considerable thickness, and infiltrate the tissues beneath, destroying and taking the place of the superficial parts which have suffered most severely from the injury and the subsequent soru’ces of irritation. The superficial cells of the layer thus formed being exposed necessarily to in- jurious influences, such as the contact of foreign bodies, the irritation of anti- septic dressings, or of decomposing discharges, &c., perish, become granular, lose their adhesion to each other and float away as pus-cells in the serous discharge. In the pus that is thus formed on the surface of the sore, some freshly migrated white corpuscles still manifesting the characteristic amoeboid movements will always be found. While this process of pus-formation is talcing place on the surface, development of new vessels, by the process already described under union by first intention, is taking place in the layers beneath, and at the same time there is an active cell-growth which more than com- pensates for any loss that may be taking place from the surface in the forma- tion of pus, and the loss of substance which resulted from the original injury is gradually repaired. We have thus developed an actively growing layer of granulation-tissue, that is to say, of a tissue composed of small round cells adhering to each other by a homogeneous intercellular substance, and traversed by an abundant system of thin-walled capillary vessels. In a super- ficial granulating sore the vessels form loops the convex sides of which are directed towards the surface. The same differences of opinion exist as to the origin of the new cells which appear in the process of healing by second intention, as have been already pointed out as existing with regard to the same process in union by the first intention. In whatever way, however, the cells are formed, this much is certain, that “ granulation-tissue1 is a true tissue, resembling embryonic tissue in its power of growth, by which it fills up the gap left by the loss of substance or formed by the gaping of the surfaces of a wound in which union by first intention has failed to take place. Like any other tissue, “ granulation-tissue ” is capable of suffering from inflammation if exposed to injurious influences. If removed from every source of irritation, the circula- tion is as active through the new vessels as it is in those of the ongina tissues, transudation is not in excess of the requirements of nutrition, and lew,