PENETRATING WOUNDS OF THE El EE ALL. 805 the plan successfully adopted by McHardyof employing an extremely powei-ful electro-magnet, will be found very efficacious. It is well to bear m mind that a splinter of iron often leaves a small brown stain, which, howevei, usua y disappears in the course of a few days. ,, Penetrating Wounds of the Eyeball present great variety ; they may be incised, as those inflicted by bits of glass, or knives, or they may be punc- tured, as by bits of sharp stick, or steel pens, or they may be made, as not unfrequently happens during the shooting season, by the lodgment of stray shot. In iron works, small splinters of metal not unfrequently penetrate the cornea. In all cases these accidents are highly dangerous to vision, but this is especially the case if the foreign body lodge in a part of the eye from which it cannot be extracted; sight is then usually lost. The danger of incised wounds usually arises either from the eye being opened to such an extent that the humours escape, or else that, the his becoming engaged in a wound of the cornea, a hernial prolapse of it occurs. The more remote effects arise from the occurrence of inflammation and suppuration extending to the whole globe, leading to complete disorganization of the eyeball; or supposing this be avoided, there may be an opaque cicatrix in the cornea, or opacity of the lens or its capsule ; or else adhesions may form, stretching across the pupil and adhering to the capsule of the lens, or between the iris and the cornea. The Treatment of penetrating wounds must be conducted on the same prin- ciples as rupture of the coats. If the iris have protruded through a wound in the cornea, it should be carefully pushed back, and a drop or two of the solu- tion of atropine put upon the eye. If it cannot be returned, it may be removed with a pair of fine curved scissors (Fig. 340) ; and, at a later period, any staphylomatous tumour that may form should be touched repeatedly with a pointed piece of nitrate of silver. In clean wounds extending into the sclerotic, it may be necessary to introduce a fine silk suture. If the lens or its capsule have become opaque, thus forming traumatic cataract, extraction may be required at a later period of the case. If the eye be so extensively opened or deeply injured that vision is irre- parably lost, and extensive suppurative inflammation in it and in the structures of the orbit is threatened, the sooner the globe is extirpated the better ; the patient being thus saved much local and constitutional disturbance, and the dauger of sympathetic affection of the other eye being diminished. Indirect Injury of the Eye often follows injuries of the nervous system. Thus impairment of vision may be produced by concussion of the eye-ball through blows on the head ; by injuries of the face implicating the fifth pair of nerves ; by injury of the spine ; or by injury of the sympathetic. Concussion of the Eye may be produced by a direct blow on the organ ; or it may be the result of a blow on some other part of the head or face. In the latter case, the injury is dependent on the transmission of the force through the bones of the head or face to the structures within the orbit. The resulting impairment of vision is at its worst at the moment of the injury, and either slowly disappears, or becomes permanent in consequence of the development of structural changes in the eye. That indirect violence may produce serious lesion of the eye, is evident from the fact that the lens has been in this way dislocated without any direct injury having been inflicted on the eye itself. Deyber relates a case in which cataract was induced by a wound of the eyebrow from a stone, the eye itself being otherwise uninjured : and I have