XX CONTENTS. PAOK Tumours composed op Cells op an Epithelial Type, arranged in Spaces in a Stroma consisting op more or less perfectly developed 1- ibroub Tissue—Cancer—Classification—Clinical History—Causes— Geographical Dis- tribution-Constitutional or Local Origin—Varieties of Cancer—Glandular— Scirrhus—Encephaloid—Colloid, Gelatinous, Gclatiniform or Alveolar—Diag- nosis of Glandular Cancer—SQUAMOUS Epithelioma—Causes and Situation- Progress — Structure — Diagnosis — Prognosis — Recurrence after Removal — Columnar Epithelioma—Appearance and Progress—Diagnosis—Prognosis— other Forms of Cancer—Treatment of Cancer—Constitutional Means Useless- Local Means — Palliative — Curative —Caustics—Acids—Alkalies—Chlorides— Arsenic—Sulphate of Zinc—Compression—Excision—Question of Operating- Cases not Admitting Operation—Doubtful Cases—Cases Proper for Operation 1006—1045 Excision op Tumours—Removal by the Knife—By the Ecraseur—By the Cautery By Ligature 1045—1049 Chapter XXXV.—Scrofula and Tubercle. Tubercle — Structure — Microscopical Anatomy—Bacillus Tuberculosis—Yellow Tubercle—Extension and Growth—Nature—Inflammation consequent upon -r, , , , 1050—1054 Development . . . • • • • ; SCROFULA or Struma—Definition—Strumous Inflammation Of bkm -lucous Membranes—Bones and Joints—Glandular Organs—Relation of Scrofula to Tubercle—Scrofulous Diathesis—Scrofulous Temperament—Causes of Scro- fula and Tubercle—Hereditary Nature—Inoculability of Tubercle Senile Scrofula Treatment—Preventive—Curative—Local Treatment—Operations in Scrofulous and Tuberculous Cases IOoO—10Go Chapter XXXVI.—'Venereal Diseases. Definition and Classification • • * ' . . 10t>G Local Contagious Ulcer or Chancre—Characters—Specific Nature—Ougiu and Progress—Varieties—Simple or Soft—Sloughing Chancre—Phagedsemc Situation of Chancre—Diagnosis—Local Treatment of Chancre—Of 1 hagednnnc Chancre—Of Sloughing Chancre—Constitutional Treatment of Simple Chancre -Of Gangrenous or Sloughing Chancre-Of Phagedenic Chancre-CONSECU- tive Symptoms of the Local Contagious ULCER-Contractcd Cmatnccs- Bubo-Primary Bubo-Creeping Bubo-Treatment—Venereal \\ arts . 10G6-1O- J Syphilis—Characters—Period of Incubation-Primary. Secondary, and Tertiary- Origin—Contagion of Syphilis—Transmissibility—Duration of Transmissne Power—Progress—Period of Incubation-Appearance of Primary Sore-Indu- rated or Hunterian Chancre—Scat and Number—Labial and 1-acial Chancres- On Tongue-On Fingers-Variations in Sore-Proguosis-Coursc-Indolent En-^ largemcnt of Lymphatic Glands ' ’ Secondary and Tertiary Constitutional Manifestations of .ii hilis General l’athologv and Progress—Microscopy of G ummata— Prognosis ma am of Syphilis-Treatment of Primary Stage: Local and Constitutional-Atomis-^^ tration of Mercury—Other Drugs