753 INJURIES OF THE HEAD. these various reasons, Surgeons now very wisely content themselves, in the great majority of cases of extravasation, with the employment of antiphlogistic treatment, on the principles already stated. The head should be shaved, the ice-bladder applied, the patient bled, purged, and kept at perfect rest. If it can, however, be ascertained without doubt that the extravasation is not only meningeal, but that it is so situated that the blood may be remo\ed through the trephine-aperture, and if there be no other serious injury to the brain or skull, trephining should at once be performed. And doubtless cases occasionally occur in which, from the situation of the blow, and perhaps the presence of a capillary fissure over the course of the middle meningeal artery, the gradual supervention of signs of compression after an interval of conscious- ness, and the occurrence of hemiplegia on the side opposite to that which has been struck, the Surgeon is warranted in making an aperture in the skull at the seat of injury, in order to remove the blood that has been poured out, and to arrest its further effusion. But the instances in which this assemblage of symptoms exists, with sufficient precision to justify an operation, are exces- sively rare. Out of many hundred cases of serious and fatal injury of the head that were admitted into University College Hospital during the time I had charge of wards in that institution, in four cases only, I believe, was it found advisable to have recourse to trephining for the removal of extravasated blood. In three of these cases death speedily ensued, the coma being unrelieved by the operation. In the fourth case, recovery took place. The successful case to which I refer was that of a man admitted comatose, three days after receiving an injury of the head .by a fall from a cab. There were no seiious symptoms for some hours after the accident ; but then stupor gradually came on, amounting at last to complete coma. On examination, a bruise of the scalp was found on the left temple: through this I made an incision, and, finding a starred fracture over the sinus of the middle meningeal artery, trephined the bone, when a large coagulum was found lying upon the dura mater, and, on removing this, fluid arterial blood freely welled up. The coma was relieved, and the patient made a good recovery. . During the last eleven years, over which period the reports of l niversity College Hospital extend, four cases have been trephined for meningeal hamior- rhage ; three by M. Beck, all of which terminated fatally, and one by Godlee which was successful. In this case the bleeding artery was seen and seemed by a ligature. . . , In fact, in all cases in which there has been a fall or blow on the head, followed by the symptoms above described ending in coma, even thoug t lere may be no external marks of violence, the Surgeon should cut down on the skull, and examine it for fracture—to trephine if necessary. If there be no injury to the bone, no evil can result in such a case from the simple incision in the scalp. If there be fracture, the incision is the only means of diagnosis, and the first step towards saving life. But it must be borne in min t u , however clear the signs, extravasation may not be met with where the burgeon expects to find it. In these circumstances, it is better not to prosecu e search by making fresh trephine-apertures. In nO case would a prn Surgeon trephine over the course of the middle meningeal aitcry absence of local symptoms, on the chance of finding the blood * ^ been recommended by some of the older Surgeons. The ™dd« :m®“ g is artery may be wounded at any part of its course within the sku ,