43i TREATMENT OF WOUNDED ARTERIES. noticed vessels running directly between the extremities of the obliterated trunk, forming species of arterial shoots, springing from the stump of the artery (Fig. 102). Changes that take place in the Trunk.—As a rule it is completely obliterated above and below the point to which the ligature has been applied as far as the next important collateral branch (Figs. 161, 162, 163). Beyond this, on the distal side, it is pervious and receives the blood poured into it through the different anastomosing channels. Porta and Stilling have shown that, after a time, down the centre of the fibrous cord, representing the oblite- rated portion of the artery, a small tortuous central canal may be developed, uniting the two parts of the vessel which are still patent. In cases in which an absorbable ligature has been nsed, and in which con- sequently the external coat has not been divided, complete restoration of the lumen of the vessel seems to be an occasional occurrence (vide p. 422). The collateral circulation is occasionally not sufficiently free to preserve the vitality of the parts supplied by it. As a consequence of this, gangrene not uncommonly results ; or the limb may become weak or atrophied. This condition may be met with in old people, from calcification and rigidity of the arterial system ; or it may happen as the result of an extensive transverse wound of the limb dividing many of the anastomosing vessels. Copious hemor- rhage by weakening the action of the heart may render it unable to overcome the increased resistance offered by the collateral circulation through which the blood has to pass, and thus the circulation may be arrested and gangrene follow. It more rarely happens that we find too great freedom of the anas- tomoses, so as to lead to a failure of the purposes for which the ligature has been applied, by the rapid admission of blood into the distal side of the vessel, thus perhaps occasioning secondary haemorrhage. Principles op Treatment op Wounded Arteries.—The principles of treatment of woimded arteries are the same whether the Surgeon adopt ligature, torsion, or acupressure. Having invariably used the ligature myself, I have here spoken of tying only, but the reader must remember that the same principles apply to all other means of arresting arterial haemorrhage. The whole of the doctrine of the general treatment of wounded arteries by ligature may be included in two great principles : 1 .To cut directly down on the wounded part, cmcl to tie the vessel there; and 2. To apply a ligature to both ends, if it be completely divided, or to the distal as well as the proximal side oj the ivound, if it be merely punctured. These principles of treatment were distinctly laid down by John Bell ;* but, although this great Surgeon inculcated forcibly these rules of practice’ Surgeons appear to have been led away by the erroneous idea of applying the Huntenan principles in the treatment of aneurism to that of wounded arteries, until riuthne, by his practice and precepts, and by adducing an overwhelming mass of proof to bear on this important question, recalled the attention of the loiession to the proper and rational treatment of wounded arteries. i «PrmClpaI reasonin favom' of cutiin9 down directly upon the wounded ‘ibnvri fi mJmed vessel is, that a ligature of the main trunk at a distance not inf-mT!^0UT'-m 0D]y ^mect supply of blood to the limb, but does eie with the indirect or anastomosing circulation, by which means * " Principles of Surgery,” vol. i., pp. 350, 390. 8vo ed.