756 INJURIES OF THE HEAD. the meningeal form ; in it the patient never recovers his consciousness after havin'1' been stunned, the symptoms of concussion speedily passing into those of compression. In these cases the paralysis is commonly incomplete, often * hemiplegic, and is associated with twitching of the limbs or convulsive move- ments of the body generally, and much restlessness with incoherent mutteiing: the pupils arc sometimes contracted, sometimes dilated, and occasionally squint- ino- is observed. It is especially when there are convulsions that the pupils are observed to be in different conditions; and I have most frequently noticed the pupil dilated on the side that is most convulsed. Diagnosis.—The diagnosis of these two forms of extravasation from one another is important, as it is in the meningeal only that any operative pro- cedure can be successfully undertaken ; and it may usually be effected readily by attention to the symptoms just detailed. When the two forms occur together the diagnosis is, frequently, almost if not quite impossible. The diagnosis between the compression from extravasation and that from depressed bone or inflammatory effusions within the skull is easily made. In the case of depressed fracture, the symptoms of compression continue uninter- ruptedly from the very first, and proper examination of the skull will always lead to the detection of the injured bone. When inflammatory effusions, whether of pus, lymph, or serum, exercise undue pressure upon the brain ie signs of compression come on at a later period and are preceded by symptoms of cerebral inflammation, accompanied by a good deal of pyrexia, by quick nulse and hot skin. The character of the scalp-wound likewise, and the separation of the pericranium when pus is formed, enable us to distmgmsh this condition from that in which the pressure is the result of extiavasated blFrom apoplexy, the diagnosis is not always easily made more particularly when there is no evidence that the head has been injured. I could give nume- rous instances of this. The following will suffice. A man was brought to University College Hospital in a state of profound coma in which condition he had been found lying in the street. There was no evidence of injury about the head beyond /bruise, which had probably been received when he fell. The case’ which was supposed to be one of apoplexy, and treated accou mg y moved fatll ffi a few hours. On examination after death the skull was found fractured, but not depressed. On the opposite side to the bruise and fracture a coaomlum weighing nearly four ounces and compressing the brain, J between the dura mater and bone. In such a case, it is can alone afford a clue to its true nature. Even when the head has been injured, it is not always easy. A man was admitted under A fortnight previously he had been struck on the left sic t stunned, bled freely from the leff ear tolerablv and went about his avocations as usual until the day ^torc i admission& when he became suddenly comatose. There werestertor.quick lulse and’ some heat of head ; the right pi>l>'l "Tas natural, therieft con • t • fracture and the scat of injury there m ■» large racnra- — *—*