VISCERAL SYPHILIS. 1119 appearances, and treatment, are fully described with diseases of the testicle. Vol. II. 1). Syphilitic Ovaritis is a disease that I believe I have 011 several occa- sions met with. The history of the cases has been uniformly as follows : an attack of syphilis long ago; various constitutional symptoms running through secondary and tertiary stages ; inflammatory congestion of one ovary, as determined by vaginal and rectal exploration ; eventual cure by means of leeching and the perchloride of mercury and bark or iodide of potassium ;— in fact, a condition of things closely resembling what occurs in syphilitic disease of the testicle. 10. Visceral Syphilis.—Our knowledge of the syphilitic diseases of internal organs is of modern origin, and still somewhat imperfect. “ Visceral Syphilis ” was not only unknown to, but unsuspected by, so acute an observer as John Hunter, and the syphilograpliers of the early part of this century make no mention of it. To Dittrich, Lancereaux, Wilks, Bristowe, and Moxon we are indebted for the establishment of the fact that, after external manifesta- tions of syphilis have in a great measure, if not entirely, disappeared, and the disease has entered its tertiary stage, gummata may form in most, if not in all, the internal organs, producing serious functional disturbance, and leading to organic changes of the most extensive, deep-seated, and fatal character. It may now be taken as a fact, incontestably established by numerous patho- logical observations, that there are few, if any, organs that escape the ravages of syphilis ; and although there may be a doubt whether some of the forms of disease met with in certain organs, as the liver, lungs, and spleen, and described as syphilitic, may not in reality be due to non-specific disease, to which, as well as to syphilis, they are common, there can be no doubt of the fact, as Moxon has pointed out, that when gummata are met with in internal organs, the fact of the syphilitic nature of the disease is established. The general pathological characters of the changes in the viscera and in the arteries have already been described (p. 1092). The complete description of the visceral affections belongs rather to Medicine than Surgery, and it will be sufficient here briefly to indicate their nature. In the heart, syphilitic deposits have been found on the endocardium, less frequently in the valves ; and two forms of myo-carditis of syphilitic origin— one circumscribed, the other diffuse—have been described by Lancereaux. The lungs, liver, and spleen are all liable to syphilitic deposits. As a general rule, they may affect two forms—occurring either as gummata or as a diffuse interstitial growth, which in the liver may simulate cirrhosis, and in the lungs some of the forms of “ fibroid phthisis.” These syphilitic visceral diseases n< t unfrequently run a fatal course: rarely, however, destroying the patient before the age of 35 (Wilks). The diagnosis of the specific nature of the affection must always be open to doubt, except in those cases in which the history of the infection has been continuous, and some of the more superficial and easily recognizable syphilitic affections are associated with the visceral forms of the disease. So far as treatment is concerned, our chief reliance must be placed on iodide of potassium, or if that fail, on the careful administration of mercury. 11. Syphilitic disease of the Mamina is of extreme rarity, and little definitely known about it. Gummata have been described by Hennig having been observed after death in one case. 12. 1 here is no more distressing form of syphilitic disease than that which is as