35 TREATMENT OF DANGEROUS SYMPTOMS. raents on animals, that in fatal cases respiration and the heart’s action cease at the same time. In hospital practice, where time is of considerable import- ance, it has been found to be a convenient plan to induce anaesthesia in the first instance by means of bichloride of methylene, and to maintain it after- wards as long as may be necessary by chloroform. Various other substances possessing anaesthetic properties, such as ethyl- bromide, chlorethylicline, &c., have been tried at various times, but have not shown any advantages over those in common use. The Treatment of the Effects arising from an Overdose of Anaesthetics is conducted on two principles :—1, the establishment of respiration, either natural or artificial, so as to empty the lungs of the vapour contained in the air-cells, and to aid the oxygenation of the blood ; and 2, the stimulation of the heart’s action, and the maintenance of the circulation. The first principle of treatment—that of re-establishing respiration—is most serviceable in the asphyxial form ; the other—that of stimulating the heart— when syncopal symptoms are present. But in all cases they may most advan- tageously be employed in combination. The treatment to be adopted on the occurrence of dangerous symptoms, or of apparent death from chloroform, is as follows :— 1. The administration of the vapour must be at once discontinued. 2. The tongue should be seized with the fingers, or with a hook or forceps, and drawn out of the mouth ; and the larynx pushed up so that the glottis may be opened. The tongue must be pulled forcibly forwards—not merely pulled out of the mouth—for the reasons before stated. o. Fiesh air should be admitted to the patient by opening doors and windows, and by preventing bystanders or spectators from crowding round. b 4. All constrictions should be removed from the patient’s throat and chest and these parts should be freely exposed. 5. Artificial respiration must at once and without delay be set up, whilst these other measures are being carried out. This should be done by the I Sylvester method, which is fully described in the chapter on asphyxia. 0. Electricity, in the form of faradisation of the phrenic nerve, has been of great use m some cases as an adjunct to artificial respiration. It must be applied methodically as described under the treatment of asphyxia. /. As accessory means, friction of the extremities may be employed: a little brandy rubbed inside the mouth ; and cold water dashed on the he nitrite of amyl would appear, from the experiments of Dabney on ; nnnals, and from recent observations on man, to be an antidote to chloroform- wnnZ"r f !1 ’LlfcS TCOpal and asphyxial forms; the inspiration of the the heart’s action 6011 dl°PS np5r^e tinloading the vessels and restoring dno' 3r?eotomy°r laryngotomy can be necessary only when the asphyxia is larvm- 1 ° iml?ac K)I! ,np sorne foreign body, as false teeth or a gag, in the trachea * g insensibility, or to accumulation of blood in the pharynx or tw^<wavsAnrS|fchefua maV1C mduced 1)y freezing a part. This is done in • > >y the application of a freezing mixture; 2, by the rapid