1027 COLLOID CANCER. s 3 type. The cells may in some cases be larger, but are often smaller than those usually seen in scirrhus (Fig. 400). They assume the same irregular forms, and have each one or more highly refracting nuclei and nucleoli. The pi0- portion of the bulk of the tumour composed of cells is, however, infinitely greater in encephaloid than in scirrhus, and the vascularity of the tumour is proportionately increased. The tumour does not show the same tendency to cicatricial contraction, although fatty degeneration always occurs in the central parts. Colloid, Gelatinous, Gelatiniform or Alveolar Cancer is a variety formed by the colloid degeneration of the cells of a glandular cancer, either of Fig. 401.—Colloid of Omentum (1SS diam.). Shows the concentric rings and the granular masses which have taken the place of the cells ; and at one part a few cells still retain their shape. Fig. 402.—A. Colloid of Breast. Shows re- lation of cells to stroma, and the colloid material in some cases filling the cell, in others pushing the nucleus to one side or completely surrounding it. b. Isolated cells from the same tumour, c. Isolated ceUs from colloid of omentum. (454 diam.) the scirrhous or encephaloid form, but most commonly the former. It may occur in distinct masses, often of a very large size, weighing many pounds, or may be infiltrated into the tissue of organs. As it is most commonly met with in the viscera of the abdomen, it does not so often fall under the observation of the Surgeon as the other varieties of cancer. Yet it is not uncommon in the breast, where I have met with it, forming a very large tumour : and there is a preparation in the University College Museum of a scirrhous breast containing colloid. Colloid cancer consists of alveolar spaces of great size, filled with a clear semi-transparent yellowish gelatinous or honey-like material, resembling indeed somewhat the structure of a honey-comb. The septa forming these spaces are distinctly fibrous and regular in their arrangement (Fig. 401). Some of the spaces are completely filled with colloid matter, others may show a few cells containing fat granules in the centre, surrounded by zones of granules, result- ing from the degeneration of other cells. Cells again may be seen in the pro- cess of undergoing colloid degeneration (Fig. 402). A globule of colloid matter first appears pushing the nucleus to one side ; afterwards the nucleus under- goes a similar degeneration ; and finally the cell bursts and disappears, leaving behind it only a few granules. True colloid cancer is merely a degenera- tion of scirrhus or encephaloid. Many other tumours have been described in former times as colloid, amongst which may be mentioned many myxomata, 3 u 2