DISSECTION-WOUNDS. 367 nccted with the disease either as the actual virus itself or as an essential factor in its production. Duration.—The disease proves fatal usually in a .week or fortnight, but may extend to a month. It occasionally assumes, a chronic form in the human subject and lasts for several mouths. Prognosis.—If the disease assumes the acute form death is almost certain to follow. When it becomes more chronic, according to Durham, about half recover. Treatment.—Beyond the general treatment of supporting the patient, opening the abscesses, and freely using antiseptics both for the nose and the local sores elsewhere little can be done. Those who have care of the case must protect their bauds by india-rubber gloves, if possible, while dressing the sores; and all dressings or rags which have become soiled with the dis- charges must be immediately burned. WOUNDS WITH INOCULATION OP DECOMPOSING- ANIMAL MATTER,* AND THE PRODUCT OP UNHEALTHY INFLAMMATIONS. The majority of wounds of this character are not dangerous. Every student of anatomy frequently punctures and cuts himself in dissecting, but we rarely see any ill effects from these injuries. In some cases, however, the most serious results, terminating in permanently impaired health, or even in death, ensue. The result depends quite as much on the state of health of the person injured, as on the condition of the body from which the poison is received. If the health be broken by any cause, whether excess of study or dissipation, or over-fatigue in professional work, very serious effects may follow, which would not occur if the patient had the resisting power of a sound and strong consti- tution. Many persons are peculiarly liable to be injuriously affected bv exposure to septic influences. They suffer in various ways, as from depression of the nervous system, sore throat, or diarrhoea—from working in dissecting or post-mortem rooms. The same happens from exposure to the contaminated atmosphere of a crowded hospital-ward, and more especially to the exhalations aiismg from patients affected with phlegmonous erysipelas, pyaemia, gangrene or other septic diseases. The susceptibility is greatest in those least frequently exposed to such infections. After a time a student becomes acclimatized, and those who habitually work in such atmospheres seem to feel the evil influence 6as ‘ . ’ , a ^me’ ^e habit is broken, they suffer on resuming their work as much as those exposed for the first time to these septic contaminations. A peison so suffering in health is rendered peculiarly liable to local or general in- fection on the receipt of a dissection-wound. & Causes.—The deleterious influence exercised by the dead body human or oVfri; Vr11’66 CaUSes: ]’the ordinary Irritation SpecificKvi TfA°n f Put?d Matfccr; 01>’ 3, Introduction of a S,mTU 1 ? 10 ?BtT- 1 tbink * I«W*. that each of these woiu?a, f ? d'8tm°t influence ; but the worst effects of dissection- 1 That A'? 0" 10 moou,at1011 of “ Ptaaliav a.ul specific virus. i ®mCtmy Ksult from the simple Irritation of the splinters of w„ J ,n f *“* that Matches or punctures with , 01 0 101 substances free from an actual poison, give rise to * See also Chapter XXXI -Septiotemia.