LOCAL DISTURBANCES AND INFLAMMATION. 220 the cells of the epithelium multiply more quickly than natural, and many are loosened and come away with the discharge. In all mucous membianes there is an exaggerated formation of mucus during catarrh, and this increased secretion forms the most marked clinical feature of the milder form of the affection. In more intense catarrhal inflammations, or purulent catarrh, the vessels 01 the corium of the mucous membrane are widely dilated, and the flow through them is retarded ; liquid exudation is more copious, and the white corpuscles migrate abundantly. The leucocytes, which thus leave the vessels, wander amongst and through the epithelium-cells, the natural cohesion oi which is somewhat loosened, and escape on the surface, forming w'ith the liquid exuda- tion a purulent discharge. The discharge in such a case, if examined micro- scopically, will be found to contain—numerous amoeboid cells, presenting the usual appearance of white blood-corpuscles; ordinary: pus-cells round, and granular with the tripartite nucleus ; and epithelium-cells, some fully dev eloped and corresponding in form to that natural to the affected membrane, some of rounded form "young and imperfectly developed, and others containing a large transparent globule of mucus. A microscopic examination of a section of the membrane shows, that in spite of the abundant discharge of pus there is no raw surface ; everywhere it is covered by epithelium I he wandering cells can be seen in the corium round the vessels and immediately beneath tie epithelium. Some of the epithelium-cells will be found to contain within them several bodies identical with pus-corpuscles. These were supposed by Rindfleisch to show that the pus in purulent catarrh was formed by endogenous cell formation from the epithelium-cells. Later observations, howevei, laie tended to prove that these apparent mother-cells are in reality dead or dym0 epithelium-cells, which have been penetrated by wandering^ dering leucocytes are also found penetrating between the individual epithet J Although in purulent catarrhal inflammation there need be no ulceration the above description shows how readily one process may he converted into the other. The adhesion of the epithelium-cells to each other, and to th corium, is always loosened in the more severe forms of catanh;■ Alould_ the loosely adherent epithelial layer be accidentally removed bj Jiolenc^ from without, or separated by exaggerated cell-migration beneath, a small ulcer wi Varieties of Catarrh-Catarrh, like other forms of inflammation, may be acute or chronic. The chronic form is very f[e(Tnjj passive hypermmia of the part affected. It may a so e simp , & muCo- or infective, as in purulent ophthalmia or gonorrhoea. Tfre thmk rnuco purulent secretion that forms on the surface of a mucous membiane during catarrh frequently serves as a nidus for the growth of microscopic orga * and the fermentative changes these set up give rise to products which J prolong the irritation, and cause it to spread almost iiulcfiniteU - Svmptoms—Redness of the affected surface, with slight swelling and mi abundant secretion varying from a pure seroust0 * fkw ’The heat form the most marked clinical features of a catarrhal inflammation i n rialv moderate, and pain is not a marked symptom except in themon ai td in puxulL ophthalmia The c—onal with the acuteness of the process and the part affected. As