670 SPECIAL DISLOCATIONS. duced by the same violence that would have displaced the head of the hone at an earlier age. In children dislocation is rare, as the shaft generally gives ! way. Yet it docs happen even at a very early age. Two cases have occurred ' in my practice at the Hospital. In one the hone was dislocated on the i pubic hone, in a child a year and a half old ; in the other on the dorsum ilii in a boy of six. The different forms of dislocation of the femur were described with great clearness and precision by Sir A. Cooper, according to whom the head is most commonly thrown upwards and somewhat backwards, so as to lodge on the slightly concave surface between the acetabulum and the crista ilii, resting . on the gluteus minimus, and having the trochanter turned forwards (Fig. 287); or the head may he thrown downwards into the foramen ovale, lying upon the obturator externus muscle (Fig. 289) ; or forwards and upwards upon the horizontal branch of the pubic hone under the psoas and iliacus muscles, to the outer side of the femoral vessels (Fig. 290); lastly he described a variety in which the head of the bone was supposed to be thrown backwards into the great sciatic notch and to rest upon the pyriformis (Fig. 288). It has, however, since been shown that the peculiar features of this form are due, not to the head of the hone sinking into the notch, hut to the relation of the neck of the femur to the obturator internus muscle. The classification originally given by Sir Astley Cooper has been of late years slightly modified in accordance with the more accurate knowledge we now possess of the various forms of dislocation of the femur. It has teen shown by experiments on the dead body that the most important structure in the mechanism of dislocation of the hip-joint is the ilio-femoral ligament. Gunn of Chicago, Busch, Yon Pitha, and, more recently and fully, Bigelow, have insisted on an exact knowledge of this important ligament as constituting the basis of a correct understanding of the mechanism, not only of the various forms of dislocation of the hip, hut also of the proper methods to be adopted for the reduction. Bigelow, to whom we are especially indebted for a most lucid exposition of the subject, has shown that the four commonly described dis- locations of the hip could be demonstrated in the dead body after the whole of the muscular and ligamentous structures round the joint had been divided except the ilio-femoral ligament and the obturator internus muscle, which suffice to direct the limb to its appropriate position and to fix it there, the muscle being concerned only in the production of the dislocation described by Sir A. Cooper as “ into the sciatic notch.” The ilio-femoral ligament is 0 great strength. Bigelow has found its breaking strain in the dead body to range from 250 to 750 pounds. It is single above where it is attached to the anterior inferior spine of the ilium and divides below into two strong bands, one inserted into the upper and the other into the lower end of the anterior inter- trochanteric line, from which fact Bigelow gives it the name of the - g* ment. The obturator internus muscle is also, as pointed out by 0 ■ a structure of great strength, owing to the intermixture of ten V®® with its muscular substance. In consequence of this arrangement it practically an accessory ligament to the joint The observations of Bigelow have shown that whcrcvei one 01 botl branches of the ilio-femoral ligament remain untom the head of the wuc a into certain definite positions giving rise to characteristic signs ; " eu ligament is completcl/ruptured the position assumed bv the bone ts uncertain,