987 OSTEOMA—MYXOMA. the lower jaw, or the compact tissue of a long bone. Both forms arc invariably non-malignant. Spongy Exostoses, sometimes called pedunculated or cauliflower exostoses, from their shape, are most common at the upper end of the humerus and the lower end of the femur (Fig. 375a), and on the ungual phalanx of the great toe. If observed during the stage of growth, they are found to be covered by a perfectly developed hyaline cartilage, which apparently grows from the perichondrium covering it, and quickly undergoes ossification at its deep surface. If the tumour be observed when all growth has ceased, it will be found to be com- pletely bony, being composed of a pedunculated mass of cancellous tissue, covered thinly by a layer of compact bone. The cancellous tissue of the tumour is continuous with that of the bone upon which it grows, ^the compact tissue of the shaft being absorbed beneath the base of the tumour. Sometimes these tumours are hereditary and mul- tiple. They scarcely ever reach a great size, and probably cease to grow if they become completely ossified. Ivory Exostoses. — These tumours form flat rounded elevations, usually seated about the bones of the skull or face. They are covered with a fibrous membrane and are of intense hardness. Occasionally they are multiple and grow to a considerable size, and when seated on the facial bones distort the features horribly, and at last after years of suffering possibly cause death by pressure on the brain. (e.) Myxoma. Mucous Tumour.-—These tumours are classed by some writers under sarcomata, as the tissue of which they are composed closely resembles the rudimentary fat of the foetus. In the adult, the vitreous body of the eye is the only part in which mucous tissue is normally found. Many tumours formerly described as colloid cancer belong properly to this class. Myxomata usually form round, oval, or lobulated masses, distinctly surrounded by a loose capsule of connective tissue. They arc tense, elastic, and gelatinous, frequently giving rise to a sense of fluctuation so distinct as to lead to their being mistaken for cysts. They are usually of slow growth. On section they are found to be of a delicate pink colour, sometimes stained by hemorrhages, or they may present an uniform yellowish tint. The most marked peculiarity they present on section is in the fluid which flows from the cut surface. This is abundant, glairy, and tenacious, having the appearance of thick gum-water. On chemical examination it is found to contain mucus ; microscopic examina- tion shows (Fig. 876) in the purest forms of myxoma a beautiful network composed of large stellate or branched cells, the processes of which freely com- municate with one another. These cells are embedded in an almost homo- geneous intercellular substance, in which vessels can be clearly seen to ramify. It is seldom, however, that this structure is found so pure as this. In addition to the stellate cells, numerous small round cells (Fig. 877) are usually present, und the intercellular substance is in most cases traversed by delicate bundles of -c Fig. 375.—Pedunculated exos- toses (natural size). A. From femur of a boy. B. From scapula of a child three years old. a. Hyaline cartilage. b. Layer of imperfect ossifica- tion. c. Well-formed spongy bone. d. Periosteum. Tlie drawing illustrates the dif- ferent proportions which the va- rious constituents of the tumour may bear to one another.