1032 TUMOURS. Fig. 405.—Epithelioma of Anus (1S8 diam.). Illustrates the structure of an epithelial globe, and shows the spinous cells which occur normally in the Malpighian layer of the skin. suggests the former than the latter process, as the central parts are most frequently dry and hard, and present no signs of active growth. Similar globes are not unfrequently formed in simple warty growths, and must there- fore not be considered diagnostic of epithelioma. The fully formed cells often present beautifully serrated edges, the serrations of one interdigitating with those of its neighbours. This is well shown in the accompanying drawing (Fig. 405), taken from a small epithelioma of the anus which 1 removed in University College Hospital. The individual cells of an epithelioma, as obtained by scraping, differ but little from the healthy scaly epithelium that may be got from the mucous membrane of the cheek or lip. They are often larger, and sometimes contain more than one nucleus. In the older parts of the growth, they are usually filled with fat- granules. When an epithelioma has undergone ulceration, the surface is fre- quently covered with prominent masses like large granulations, and the diagnosis of the nature of the growth can often be made by removing one of them and submitting it to microscopic examination. If in a simple ulcer the skin be completely destroyed, epithelium is never found except at the margins ; in an epithelio- niatous ulcer, on the contrary, it is found at every part of the ulcerating surface. The vessels of epithelioma are abundant, but not so plentiful as those of scirrhus or encephaloid. As to the relation of the growths to the lymphatics, there is some difference of opinion. Thiersch and Waldeyer believe that they have demonstrated a lymphatic endothelium covering the cylinders of cells, and consequently aie of opinion that the epithelium is actually within lymph-spaces. The anastomosis between the cancer-cylinders is said exactly to resemble that normally seen between the lymph-spaces. The secondary tumours present the same genera characteristics as the primary growth, but they are usually softci, and t ie epithelial nests are always less abundant and sometimes wanting. The mode of growth of a squamous epithelioma can oiten be obseive without difficulty. If, for instance, a small warty growth from the lip lie removed in an early stage and examined microscopically, it will be found to be composed of hypertrophied papillae covered with an exuberant grow th o scaly epithelium. The papillae increase in size as the centre of the growth is ap- proached. The cutis vera beneath the large papillae and the papillae themseh es are infiltrated with small round cells. In the circumferential parts of the grow t the epithelium will be found to be entirely superficial, but in the central parts, between two or more papillae, a process of epithelium cells will be seen forcing itself into the cutis vera, which is very abundantly infiltrated at that spot wit i small round cells. So long as the epithelium is all superficial the grow cannot be said to be malignant, and would be classed as a simple wart; when- ever the epithelium cells can be seen bursting through between the papi and extending into the tissues beneath the growth is undoubtedly cancelou .