801 FOREIGN BODIES IN NOSE—EARS. the mucous membrane into the mouth ; the two ends are then knotted together inside the mouth and the external wound closed. By this means the continuity of the duct is maintained while the wound heals, and at the end of a week the silver wire maybe withdrawn by dividing the loop in the mouth. Should a fistula form it must be treated by the operation that will be described in Chapter LY. Besides fistula of the Stenonian duct, other fistulous apertures may occur in the cheek, as the result of injury or disease, allowing the 'escape of a small quantity of saliva. These openings are always closed with difficulty : the edges becoming callous, and not readily taking on reparative action. Closure may be effected in some cases by cauteriza- tion with nitrate of silver, or with a red-hot wire, due atten- tion being paid to the general health. In other cases, the electric cautery may prove successful. If, however, the opening be free, with much indurated structure about it, it may be necessary to excise a portion of the edges before bringing them together. Nose.—Foreign Bodies, such as pebbles, beads, dried peas, &c., are occasionally met with in the nostrils of chil- dren, having been stuffed up in play and become so firmly fixed as to require extraction by the Surgeon. In most cases a bent probe or an ear-scoop will remove the impacted body most easily. If it be large and soft it may often be easily removed with a pair of forceps, but a hard smooth body is almost sure to be pushed further up with these instruments. It is always best to administer an anaesthetic, otherwise the involuntary movements of the child will greatly add to the difficulties of the Surgeon. If the body be not removed it may give rise to chronic purulent catarrh or even to disease of the bones. The Ears are not unfrequently ivoundecl in injuries of the head and scalp ; a portion of the external ear being some- times torn down and hanging over the side of the face. In these cases, as in scalp-injuries, the part should never be removed, but, however lacerated and contused, should be cleaned and replaced by means of a few points of suture. When the cartilaginous portion of the ear is divided, nice management is usually required in effecting perfect union. Foreign Bodies are often pushed into the ears of children. When pointed or angular, such as pieces of stick, they may readily be extracted with forceps provided they can be clearly seen ; but when round and small, such as pebbles or beads, they are not so easily removed. The foreign body may occasionally be removed by passing the bent ear- scoop round it. In some cases I have found an instrument (Fig. 384) made y 90Xe^r on the model of Civiale’s urethral scoop, useful in extracting a oicign body from the ear. It can be introduced straight and passed beyond m ody, when, by the action of a screw in the handle, the scoop is curved tor wards, and so enables extraction to be readily effected. But, as a rule, it is ac practice to attempt to remove foreign bodies from the ear by means of mstruments ; in the majority of cases the offending body is best removed by 3 F Fig. 33+.—Ear- Scoop. VOL. I.