ACUPRESSURE AND THE LIGATURE COMPARED. 427 The fourth method consists in dipping the needle into the tissues close to the artery, then making a turn with the point, and pushing this into the soit part beyond, so as to fix it there, and thus to compress the artery (Fig. 10:0). The Condition of the Artery after having been subjected to acupressure has been determined Loth by experiments on animals and by observations on the human subject. It has been thus ascertained that the pressure of the needle is never sufficient to divide the internal and middle coats. Consequently, occlusion of the artery is dependent chiefly on the formation of an adherent clot within the vessel, between the point com- pressed and the nearest collateral branch. Some inflammatory exudation at the part that has been compressed doubtless follows the removal of the needle. This point is one of importance ; for there can be little doubt that one of the safeguards after the ligature is this division of the inner coats of the artery, the consequence of which is the effusion of a plastic plug within the vessel, by which it is more effectually sealed than it can he by mere cohesion of its sides and the formation of a blood-coagulum. The time during which the needle should be left in will vary with the size ! of the artery, from thirty to sixty hours. The needle must not be left in too long, lest irritation be set up, and ulceration induced along its track. Acupressure ancl Ligature compared.—That arterial haemorrhage may 1 *)e effectually controlled by acupressure in many cases is undoubted. This | fact has long been familiar to Surgeons in the operation for hare-lip, in which the bleeding from the coronary artery is restrained by the pin that is passed I across to unite the opposite sides of the cleft; and it has of late years been I abundantly proved in the case of the largest arteries divided in amputations. But, though by means of acupressure arterial haemorrhage may undoubtedly be controlled, the real question which has still to be answered is, whether we are justified in substituting this means for the ligature in surgical practice. When we reflect on the ease and certainty with which the most furious haemorrhage from the largest artery can be at once and permanently, arrested, ' ^ie m°Wh of the bleeding vessel—the inestimable advantage which the ligature has been and is to Surgeons, in enabling them to carry the kmle with safety into regions where its presence would otherwise be fatal—we I f:an'K’t; ]lShfcIy fchrow aside a means of such tried utility for one that is of doubtful value. 1 ne arguments adduced by Sir James Simpson in favour of acupressure may e briefly summed up as follows. The great object of every Surgeon is to heal f/rJu !0n."W0U'\dS by the firsfc infcention 5 tiie ligature is a fatal obstacle to this, tbo .JT?' SCtS lli] abn? °* suPPuration in its track, and secondly because as a fnr°' e aiteiy projecting beyond its noose forms a slough, which acts TW fii0'0'1 .,0( y *u the wound, and must be thrown off by suppuration, secured J! are enhirely obviated, and union by the first intention is tolernhL Ywi !° nsc mcta,lic compressors, the needle and wire being the wav tw /C 1SSUeS amonSSt which they lie, and not acting as setons in lcmpcn or silken ligatures do ; and 2, by the early withdrawal