631 REDUCTION BY EXTENSION. whereas sudden and forcible extension might excite them to reaction. The traction should be commenced in the newly acquired axis of the limb, and by this means the dislocation is often readily reduced; but if it does not yield at once, the direction should be changed, while the traction is kept up, to that which relaxes to the fullest extent the untorn ligaments or bands of the capsule. This will in most cases correspond to the position of the limb at the time of the accident. The head of the bone is thus made to pass along the same track which it has torn for itself in being dislocated, and thus is replaced without the inflic- tion of any additional violence on the surrounding tissues. The question whether the extending force should be applied to the bone that is actually displaced, or to the further end of the limb, has been much dis- t cussed, and appears to have received more attention than it deserves. It is true that, by applying the i extending force to the displaced bone itself, the Surgeon has greater command over its movements, with less chance of injury to the intervening bones ; whilst, by applying the extending force to the lower part of the extremity, he has the advantage of a longer lever for the reduction of the head of the bone. This lever, however, if must be remembered, is in many cases a broken one ; and it cannot be made to act if the bone have to be replaced in the direction of flexion of the joints that exist in its course. For this reason, we find that some dislocations are best reduced by applying traction to the bone itself that is displaced, as in luxations of the femur and of the bones of the fore-arm ; whilst, in other cases, as in the dislocations of the humerus, most advantage is gained by applying the extending force to the end of the limb. But I look upon these points as of comparatively little consequence ; believing that, when the patient is not anaesthetized, the muscles of the limb themselves effect the reduction, without the necessity of the Surgeon employing any very powerful lever-like action of the bone ; and that, when the patient is paralysed by chloroform, the bone is in most cases readily replaced by the simple movements impressed directly upon it, or even upon its articular end by the hands of the Surgeon. The force required in effecting the reduction of recent dislocations is often very considerable. So great is the resistance offered, that in some cases the dislocated bone has given way under the traction. I am acquainted with cases in which the humerus and the neck of the femur have been broken in effecting the reduction of recent dislocations. This accident does not always appear to have been the result of any improper or unskilful employment of force, but in some cases to have occurred from natural weakness of bone. We know that sh>CtnT” fracfcures take f),ace from muscular action, often of a very linhlo f \ and we can casilf understand that, if a bone that would be nfiposoit-0 SUC 1 leacly fracture happened to be dislocated, it would almost of • y Slve way under the influence of the extending or lever-like force required to replace it.