97 AMPUTATION AT THE WRIST. It must consist of skin and fat only, the extensor tendons being left on the hand. A short palmar flap, also composed of skin and fat only, and equal in length to one-quarter of the dorsal flap, is now raised. The extensor tendons may now be divided at the level of the wrist, and the joint opened and dis- articulated. Lastly, both flaps being- held well back, the flexor tendons are smoothly divided with a single sweep of the knife. The flaps must be brought accurately together in the way described on p. 63, Fig. 25. By this method the dorsal flap is somewhat long and thin, and is consequently liable to slough unless it be very carefully raised, care being taken not to turn the edge of the knife to the flap, but to keep it constantly directed towards the parts to be removed. In amputation by the long palmar flap, the operation has been per- formed, either by cutting the flap from within outwards after opening the wrist-joint, or by shaping the flap from the palm first and dis- articulating afterwards. The former method is objectionable, as the pro- minence of the pisiform bone and the hook of the unciform on the inner side render its performance extremely difficult. In the latter method (Fig. 44) a large flap, almost square in shape, but having its angles rounded off, is marked out in the pahn by an incision, commencing at one styloid process and terminating at the ° ,,7.^ should extend as far as to within one finger’s breadth of the trans- veme told in the palm opposite the heads of the metacarpal bones. The flan laving been thus marked out, is carefully raised from the palm, and is made ™ir m H6™7, t0 tIle flexor tendolls- This is done "ithcrat diffl- ratytiU thendgeof thiitrapMumaud the hook of the unciform are met , . ,At thlB P°mt Freafc care must be taken to keep the edge of the knife bo r ramS the1!XmeS- While firm traotion is exerted on the flap. If this nervenhaveWbopUSUa 7ibe f?lm<* fchafc fcJ?e anterior annular ligament and median c^ed tZl ^ 111 thG flap> When the has been raised, a wards conn?? 18 T aC1'0SS the back 0f the wrisfc> with its convexity down- out a flonT 5 extremities of the previous incision and marking joffitSiownfo.T ^h- Th.e.wrist being forcibly flexed, the only bv H , o 1Gt ’ auP ^1C hgaments divided. The hand is attached now knjfe j.1 ,X01 c^hons, which may be divided by a single sweep of the will be fnm i<l main aP )C1'nS' cai’efully held out of the way. The palmar flap «Jli ® i 4 US!la y t0 contain the median and ulnar Fig. 44.- - Amputation at the Wrist liy Long Palmar Flap. ficial mlmo7o7ri,J-mU lue mecllan and ulnar nerves and the supc vol . aic W)t l portions of the muscles of the thumb and little fing< super- •er. ir