TREATMENT OF UNUNITED FRACTURE. 547 nutrition may prevent union, even after callus has been formed, and that improvement of the nutritive activity of the body may of itself lead to con- solidation of the fragments. If there be no very evident cause for the want of union, it will occasionally suffice to put up the fracture firmly in leather or gutta-percha splints, with a starched bandage, or plaster of Paris, and then to allow the patient to move about upon crutches, so that his general health may not suffer, at the same time that a tonic plan of treatment is followed. I have seen several cases in which the want of union appeared to have resulted from too long confinement of the patient to his bed, and the consequent impairment of his health, consolidation taking place when a more favourable hygienic system was enforced. This simple plan can, however, be useful only if but a short time, at most some months, have elapsed from the occurrence of the injury. In some cases, the empirical administration of mercury is attended with success. In a case of ununited fracture of the humerus that was admitted into the University College Hospital under Liston, fifteen weeks after the occurrence of the injury, union was induced within a month by putting up the limb in splints, and salivating the patient. When the want of union arises from malignant disease, nothing can be done. At the same time, with appropriate constitutional treatment, suitable local means must be employed to secure steady coaptation of the fragments. In the upper extremity, this may usually be done by means of splints of an ordinary character. In the leg, the starched or plaster-of-Paris-bandage will be found to be especially serviceable. Before putting the limb up in the plaster- or starched bandage, it is a good plan to rub the ends of the bones forcibly together, the patient, if necessary, being under the influence of an anesthetic. In this way a certain degree of inflammation may be set up, which may be followed by a fresh formation of callus. In the case of ununited fracture of the thigh, special apparatus will be required to secure complete fixity and steadiness of the limb. For this purpose, the limb should be put in an apparatus, consisting of an outer and an inner iron rod having hinge-joints opposite the hip and ankle, and attached above to a strong pelvic band, and below to the sole of the boot. The thigh part should be provided with well-padded splints, which may be screwed down in opposite directions against the two fragments, so as to hold them firmly in contact. This instrument should be worn for several months; and by it Smith, of Philadelphia, has succeeded in curing ten out of fourteen ununited fractures in the lower extremity. One great recommendation is, that this plan of treatment is entirely devoid of danger, and enables the patient to take exercise whilst under treatment. In cases where there are much shortening of the limb and riding of the fragments, which are especially apt to occur in the thigh, it will be necessary to employ extension of the limb as well as com- pression of the fragments against one another. This extension may be made by the lateral iron rods of the above-described apparatus being constructed so as to slide, by means of a rack-and-pinion- or screw-mechanism, by which the limb nmy be gradually lengthened to any required extent (Fig. 184). When the failure of union has become very chronic, and a False Joint lias en, °T. ’ '-i necessaiy employ operative procedure before union n e a ained. All operations that are undertaken in these cases are con- ' cr. .on or}c principles ; either, 1, to excite such inflammation in the se join an the neighbouring tissues, as will lead to inflammatory exudation, N n 2