POST-MORTEM APPEARANCES IN' PYAEMIA. 949 Plugs of micrococci have been observed in the retinal vessels after death. These conditions are met with only in very grave cases, and usually indicate the approach of death. The ophthalmoscope may therefore sometimes furnish valuable evidence both of the nature of the disease and its probable termination. The progress of the disease is usually from bad to worse, sometimes rapidly, but at other times not uninterruptedly so, there being remissions and apparent, though not real, improvement. The patient rapidly wastes, the body becoming- shrunken, the muscles soft, and the skin gray or sallow, loose and pendulous ; great debility also sets in. The abdomen becomes tympanitic, diarrhoea or profuse sweats come on ; pneumonia or pleuritic effusions declare themselves ; delirium, from which the patient is easily roused, alternates with sopor ; and at last he sinks from exhaustion. Death takes place usually about the tenth or twelfth day ; though it may occur as early as the fourth, or the patient linger on for six or seven weeks. Post-Mortem Appearances.—The body is usually emaciated and rigor mortis is feebly marked. The skin is generally yellowish in tint, sometimes intensely jaundiced. Purpuric spots are occasionally noticed on the surface, especially in the lower extremities. Decomposition as a rule sets in early. Appearances at the Seat of Infection.—Any external wound is usually gray, sloughy, or dry, and the parts round it may be oedematous. If the wound be one implicating the bones, as an amputation, or an excision of a joint, it very frequently presents the appearances of septic or gangrenous osteo- myelitis. The exposed end of the bone is bare, and the periosteum is loosened. If the shaft of a long bone has been implicated the medullary canal contains gangrenous fat mixed with offensive pus; if the cancellous tissue has been opened up the spaces are filled with a similar material. (See Osteo-myelitise, Vol. II.) In the bones of the skull the diploe may be found infiltrated with pus. The Veins leading from the wound are in some cases perfectly healthy ; far more commonly, however, they are found to present marked evidences of disease. While exposing the vein by dissection it will usually be noticed that the areolar tissue in its neighbourhood is infiltrated with inflammatory products for a considerable distance from the wound, and occasionally the vessel may be surrounded here and there by pus. When the vein is exposed, it is seen to be distended, in parts dark purple, and in parts yellowish, as if filled with pus. On opening the vein its coats arc found to be swollen and thickened, and its lumen filled with a thrombus in various stages of softening and disintegration. This thrombus may extend for a great distance, as from the leg to the groin, its extremity sometimes projecting into the main trunk, into which the affected vein enters. The fragments of the softened thrombus may thus be earned on into the circulation as emboli, lodging in the lungs and giving nse to secondary abscesses. In some cases the source of the secondary mischief may be recognized by the state of the veins. Thus in cases of ostco- mjc itis, the thrombosis of the main trunk may commence at the point at w 101 khe veins from the bone enter it. In a case in which a patient died of pyaemia after an amputation of the thigh in University College Hospital, the veins leading from the stump were perfectly healthy, while those leading from u loul bed-sore were full of disintegrated clot. General Post-Mortem Appearances.—The blood may be dark in