260 ULCERATION. exactly the size of the sore is moistened with water, and put on the surface ; over this must he placed a piece of oiled silk or thin gutta-percha tissue, over- lapping the lint in all directions for about one-eighth of an. inch. If the smallest corner of the lint projects beyond the oiled silk and comes in contact with the bandage, the dressing will speedily become dry and stick to the sore. In order that putrefaction of the discharges may be prevented, a point of very great importance where many wounded are crowded together, some anti- septic should be mixed with the water in which the lint is soaked. Perhaps the best of all antiseptics for this purpose is boracic acid, which should be used as a concentrated solution (p. 194). Carbolic acid solution (2 per cent.) has the great disadvantages of being irritating when first applied, and as the acid becomes volatilised by the heat of the body it soon becomes inefficient. Boracic acid lint, wetted with the lotion, may be applied to foul sores in the same way as ordinary wet dressing ; when the sore becomes perfectly healthy and free from decomposition, its surface may be protected from the direct action of the antiseptic by covering it with the protective green oiled silk dipped in the lotion before being applied ; over this the boracic acid lint may be placed either wet or dry to absorb the discharge. Another excellent application to a healthy ulcer is the boracic acid ointment spread on thin muslin, the whole being dipped in the lotion to make it apply itself smoothly before being put on the sore ; over this may be placed a pad of salicylic silk or wool to catch the discharge, and the whole secured by a bandage. Boracic acid is a sorne- what feeble antiseptic, and must be changed at least once a day. If, from any reason, it may be considered desirable to dress the sore less frequently, a more lasting dressing may thus be applied ; wash the sore and the surrounding skin well with a solution of carbolic acid (1 in 40) ; put on a piece of the pro- tective green oiled silk, completely covering the raw surface, and then apply the carbolic gauze dressing, as described in the treatment of abscess (p. 24<). If economy be of consequence, one layer of gauze may be applied to keep the leg clean, over this may be placed a thick pad of carded oakum, and the whole covered by a common bandage. If the carbolic acid gauze irritate the skin, its place may be taken by eucalyptus gauze, or when cheapness is of less con- sequence, the part may be enveloped in a sheet of iodoform wool By any of these modes of antiseptic treatment it is possible to get the ideer in so cleau a state, and so far to diminish its discharge that it shall not be necessary to change the dressing more than once a week. It will be observed that the object of these modes of dressing is to protect the sore from every possible source of irritation, including not only the acrid products of putrefaction, but also the antiseptic agent which is employed to prevent decomposition. Some- times, however, as has already been stated, the healing process is retarded or arrested in consequence of the extent of the ulcer. In such cases, the trans- plantation of cuticle will, by affording centres of cicatrization, expedite the cure. Whatever mode of treatment be adopted, if the ulcer be on the leg, rest m bed with elevation of the limb has more influence than any other condition in hastening the cure. . . , Transplantation of Cuticle.-It has long been known to Physiologists and to Surgeons, that portions of the tegumentary structures, when completely detached and transplanted to other parts of the surface of the body, occa- sionally retain their vitality, and grow where they have been inserted. The experiments of John Hunter on the transplantation of teeth, and of the