RELATION OF SCROFULA TO TUBERCLE. 1057 inflammatory exudation. The central parts caseatc and afteiwaids soften. Suppuration takes place, first within the gland and subsequently external to it beyond its capsule; and the abscess thus formed slowly reaches the surface, often extensively undermining the skin before discharging, unless this be prevented by early opening. Microscopic examination of a gland when under- going' caseation shows the presence of numerous giant-cells, sunounded by the zones of epithelioid and lymphoid corpuscles such as have already been described as forming the anatomical characteristic of tubercle. Strumous glands may be met with at any part of the body, but they are by far more common in the neck than elsewhere. Treves states that in 155 cases examined by him in the Margate Infirmary, the neck alone was affected in 131, the neck and axilla in twelve, groin alone in 6, axilla alone in 4, neck and groin in 1, and groin and axilla in 1. All the affections just described, which are by common consent termed I scrofulous or strumous, possess therefore in common the characters already pointed out; they arise from causes which would be harmless in a healthy subject; they run an extremely chronic course ; they tend to assume the form of purulent catarrh of surfaces, and of chronic inflammation, with caseation of the inflammatory products, in deeper structures. Relation of Scrofula to Tubercle.—We are now in a position to consider the relation of the constitutional condition known as scrofula to the patho- logical product known as tubercle. If we are to take the tubercle-nodule or follicle as the characteristic of tubercle, it will be seen from what has just been stated that many of these so-called scrofulous affections also must be classed as tubercular. In the caseating mass which precedes the subcutaneous scrofulous abscess ; in the fungatiug granulation-tissue of scrofulous caries or white swelling; in the cheesy inflammatory products in strumous dactylitis ; in the so-called strumons testicle, and in scrofulous lymphatic glands, non- vascular nodules indistinguishable from those met with in a grey granulation are constantly or almost constantly present. Many of these affections after remaining local for a long time are followed by general tuberculosis. The reports of University College Hospital show that in 67 fatal cases of strumous diseases of different kinds occurring in the surgical wards, tubercle was found in the lungs or disseminated throughout the body in 17, or almost exactly 25 per cent. These 67 cases include, 0 of necrosis of various bones, 21 of caries of the spine, 14 of disease of the hip, !) of disease of the knee, 3 of the elbow, 2 of the wrist, 2 of the sacro-iliac joint, 1 of the shoulder, 1 of caries of the temporal bone, 1 of caries of the os calcis, 1 case of otitis media, 1 of scrofulous testicle and 2 of scrofulous kidney. Of course the fatal cases form but a small proportion of the whole number admitted. The results, however, form a marked contrast to those of the post-mortem examinations of cases dying from • other surgical diseases. If we exclude four cases of pulmonary phthisis, in which the lung disease was primary and surgical affection merely an accidental complication shortly before death, we find that in 561 cases active tubercular disease was met with only in 10. If we exclude the cases of injury and acute disease, we find that in 158 deaths from various chronic surgical affections, active tubercular disease of the lungs was met with in 7, or 4'4 per cent. If we accept the views of Koch, that the only absolute characteristic of tubercle is the presence of bacillus tuberculosis, we have further evidence that many diseases classed as scrofulous arc accompanied by the development of