536 FRACTURES. doubled in underneath, that enlargement of the wound becomes necessary before it can be replaced. In other cases, again, reduction cannot be effected or maintained, unless the sharp and projecting point of bone be sawn off. This is best done with an ordinary amputating saw, the neighbouring soft parts being protected with a split card ; or else by passing the blade of a Butcher’s saw under the bone and cutting upwards. The limb, as I have found in several cases in which it has been necessary to have recourse to this procedure, is not ultimately -weakened nor, necessarily, shortened by it. 2. In the Management of Splinters the Surgeon will be guided by the circumstances. If the splinter be completely loose and small it is always better removed. If it be very large, two inches or more in length, forming in fact rather a fragment of the bone than a splinter, it may be left, even when completely loose. If a splinter is still attached by periosteum it may usually be safely left, even when small. 3. Treatment of Oozing of Elood.—In cases in which there is evidently no important vessel wounded, blood often continues to ooze slowly from the wound, and it becomes a question whether anything should be done to arrest it. The only means at our command are elevation of the limb, cold, and pressure. The two former of these may be resorted to whenever the oozing may seem sufficient to render it necessary, but pressure should be avoided if possible. The blood is coming in all probability from the deep parts, very often from the bone itself; pressure, therefore, cannot be applied to the bleeding surface. If applied externally it merely causes the intermuscular spaces and the cavity of the wound to be distended with blood, and should decomposition follow the consequences are most serious. The oozing will always stop by itself after a few hoims, and if the patient should lose a few ounces of blood in that way it is better than having the same quantity extravasated into the limb. 4. The Treatment of the Wound.—After the reduction, the great object is, if possible, to convert the compound into a simple fracture by the closure of the external wound. If this can be accomplished, the danger and delays of suppuration are avoided. The chance of successfully closing the wound in the soft parts will depend upon the size of the wound and whether it has been made by transfixion of the skin by the sharp angular fragment, or by the direct violence which has occasioned the fracture. If the wound be small, clean cut, and occasioned by the protrusion of the fragment rather than by the direct violence which occasioned the fracture, we may hope to succeed in our object by following Sir A. Cooper’s recommendation of applying to it a piece of lint soaked in blood, or, what is better, saturated with collodion or with tincture of benzoin, and thus obtaining union under a scab. The dressing should be left undisturbed until it loosens of itself, at the end of a week or two, when the wound will probably be found to be closed. If, however, the patient after a few days begin to complain of pain, if the temperature rise and the leg become red, hot and swollen, the crust must Ire at once removed; and if pus flow from beneath it, it is safer at once to enlarge the wound freely. , . . Supposing the case to be one in which from the size of the uound, or th amount of swelling, it is evidently impossible to hope to close the wound ry scabbing, the Surgeon must then be guided by the same principles as m the treatment of any other open wound. The objects in view are, 1.