INJURIES OR TllE THROAT. 824 bronchi. A much more efficient method, however, is that recommended by Silvester, and adopted by tire Royal Humane Society. It is carried out in the following way. The patient is laid on a flat surface on his back, with the head and shoulders slightly raised on a pillow. The tongue should be drawn and held forwards. The arms are then to be grasped just above the elbows, and to be drawn gently and steadily upwards above the head and pulled upon slightly, so as to drag on the great pectoral muscles (Fig. 34-1). In this position they are kept for two seconds ; they are then to be brought downwards, and to be pressed for two seconds firmly against the sides of the chest (Fig. 342); at the same tune an assistant may compress the lower ribs and push up the liver and diaphragm. These movements are to be repeated deliberately about fifteen times in the minute, until natural efforts at respiration arc induced, when they are to be discontinued, and the ordinary means to promote circula- tion and warmth employed. The quantity of air introduced need not be large ; for, by the law of the diffusion of gases, if oxygen be introduced only into the larger divisions of the bronchi, it will rapidly find its way into the ultimate ramifications of these tubes. This last means of inflation has the additional advantage of resembling closely the natural process of respiration, which is one of expansion from without inwards, and not, as when the mouth or bellows are used, of pressure from within outwards. In one case the lungs are, as it were, drawn outwards, the air merely rushing in to fill up the vacuum that would otherwise be produced within the thorax by the expansion of its parietes; in the other they are forcibly pressed up from within, and hence there is a danger of rupture of the air-cells. Care must be taken not to use too much violence in compressing the chest. I have known a case in which the sternum and several ribs were broken in an old man during the employment of this method. In case a battery be at hand, Faradization of the phrenic nerve forms a valuable adjunct to the method of artificial respiration. It is thus carried out. It must first be ascertained that the current is of sufficient strength to cause vigorous contraction of the muscles of the ball of the Surgeon’s thumb. The person in charge of the battery should stand on the right side of the