AMPUTATION IN GUN-SHOT INJURIES. 343 of the upper third of the thigh-bone without amputation. But, exceptional as were such recoveries, he states that they were not so rare as alter amputation for similar injuries; as indeed was proved by the fact that not one patient recovered after amputation at the hip-joint. Hutin, the Surgeon to the Iuvalides in Paris, was able to discover twenty-four cases of recovery after compound fracture above the middle of the thigh, but no case of recovery after amputation for injury of the same part. In the British army in the Crimea, the amputations in the upper third of the thigh, which must have been for compound fractures low down in the bone, were fatal, in the ratio of 8G per cent.; of those in the middle, probably for injuries of the lower articular end and knee, (!0 per cent, died ; whilst of those in the lower third, which must have been for injuries of the knee and leg, the mortality was reduced to 5 G per- cent. The conclusions at which Macleod arrives, after a careful inquiry into this question, are so important, that I give them in his own words. He says : “ Under circumstances of war similar to those which occurred in the East, we ought to try to save compound comminuted fractures of the thigh when situated in the upper third ; but immediate amputation should be had recourse to in the case of a like accident occurring in the middle and lower thirds.” In the great civil war in America, the opinions of Surgeons appear to have been divided ; and the conclusion arrived at seems to have been that, provided the large vessels and nerves were not injured, and the circumstances in which the patient was placed as to conveyance not too unfavourable, the chance of recovery would be equal whether amputation were performed or an attempt made to save the limb. But even in these circumstances Hamilton states that, although his experience in that great war has led him to the conclusion that in the upper third the life is least hazarded by an attempt to save the limb, in the middle third conservatism and amputation afford an equal chance, whilst in the lower third of the thigh the chances -are in favour of amputa- tion.^ This is a conclusion very similar to that arrived at by British Surgeons. hen an attempt is made to save the limb, the skin should be cleaned on the field of battle, if possible, Avith some strong antiseptic, and the limb enveloped in a large mass of salicylic wool, over which a plaster-of-Paris bandage should be applied. This dressing may be left untouched, unless some special circumstances require its removal, for some days, until the patient reaches the hospital in which the further treatment is to be carried out. In some rare cases healing will take place under a dry scab. If at the end of four days the patient is suffering no pain and is free from fever this fortunate result may be looked for ; in other cases the primary dressing should be removed about that time, and during the further progress the case must be treated by extension and counter-extension, the free use of antiseptics, and ie nn > maj be securely fixed in a plaster-of-Paris apparatus with a window opposite the wound. if m S1'11 'sb°tfiactures of the hones of the leg, amputation becomes necessary if (-1°, '• "a ai^Gll'.es inijlred, oi' if the knee or ankle-joint be badly wounded, nrmriu 'U mifldleof the leg, at a distance from these joints, and Trm 1 G( 1010 Je not longitudinal Assuring of the bone leading into them, remov'd^ v<*°ne 8ave ^ie ^7 the extraction of splinters, and the thenlnlm S,.ia’P .aiKf anSu^ar fragments of bone, the limb being put up in shnw-on i\° ; a,ns aPParatus. In such cases, the patient may recover with a shortened but otherwise useful limb.