896 SEPTIC AND INFECTIVE PROCESSES IN WOUNDS. CHAPTER XXXI. DISEASES ARISING FROM SEPTIC! AND PROCESSES IN WOUNDS. INFECTIVE This group of diseases, including septicaemia, pyaemia, erysipelas, hospital gangrene and some others of less importance, have been investigated during the last twenty years by numberless observers with an energy and ability probably never exceeded in any branch of science. As the means of observa- tion have been improved and new methods of investigation have been invented, so the conviction in the minds of the majority of pathologists has become more and more confirmed that all these unhealthy processes are directly caused by the action of microscopic fungi. We are still very far from knowing all the conditions which, as predisposing or accessory causes, take part in the development of these diseases, or the exact mode in which the fun id give rise to the various morbid processes with which they are associated ; but that their relation to them is, in some forms of disease at least, actually one of cause and effect, may be said to be no longer a mere hypothesis. The relations of microscopic organisms to unhealthy inflammations, and the nature of a true infective process have already been discussed in the chapter on Inflammation (p. 1G4 et seq.). . It will be remembered that it was there pointed out that a clear distinction must be drawn between simple putrefaction and infective processes. Simple putrefaction is a fermentative change taking place in dead matter only, and the products of the fermentation may excite inflammation and suppuration locally, and if absorbed give rise to a definite constitutional disturbance ; but the organized ferment which determines the process cannot act on living tissues” consequently there is no true infection, either locally or of the system in general. It is to processes of this kind that the term “ septic • should be limited, the word then being synonymous with “ putrid.” _ _ . . I11 a true infective process the virus infects the living tissues, increasing 11 quantity amongst them, and gives rise to unhealthy processes in them, lhese maybe local, the accompanying constitutional disturbance being meiey result of the absorption of the unhealthy inflammatory products, or general, when the virus enters the blood stream and multiplies m it. The former called a local, and the latter a general infective process. In simple septic processes the fungi which are supposed to cause them are said to be noil-pathogenic or 11011-parasitic; in infective processes t cj < spoken of as pathogenic or parasitic. The term “ mycosis is often used to SS&. each otl-r. 4 S W ■ infccti re processes unless the discharges arc m a septic condition. T >,s fcet a. _I by supposing that non-pathogeme organisms may develop pat a