METHOD OF TYING IN CONTINUITY. 4i3 to the surrounding parts than to the external coat, and that the loosest tissue, through which the needle will pass most readily, is that between the sheath and the outer coat. In fact, if the artery be properly cleaned, it is very unlikely that any accident will happen in passing the needle. It must not be forgotten that some of the larger arteries are enclosed in a sheath derived from the fascia of the part, and it is important not to confound this with the true sheath. Thus, the carotid artery is enclosed in the sheath of cervical fascia common to it, the jugular vein, and the pneumogastric nerve, and in this case the operator will have to open the true sheath of the artery after having exposed it by opening the common sheath. The sheath of an artery may usually be recognized by the small vessels that can be seen ramify- ing in it, while the external coat is almost white, like the conjunctiva and the sclerotic of the eye respectively. Syrne’s rule in cleaning an artery, “ to dissect down till the ‘ white coat of the vessel ’ comes into view,” is founded upon this fact. The sheath is opened by pinching it up with the forceps and apply- ing the knife horizontally (Fig. 145). The point should never be used, Fig. 145.—Opening the Sheath. Fig. 140.— Cleaning the Artery. nor the blade turned downwards against the artery, as an incautious move- ment or the mere pulsation of the vessel might cause it to be wounded. If the white coat of the artery does not come into view at ouce, it will be because the sheath is not completely divided, and the operator must then pinch it up again in exactly the same place, and again cut the areolar tissue seized in the torceps I he appearance of the white external coat, and the exceedingly loose aieohir tissue which comes into view, show him when he has completely opened mul -7 catckcs ^le edge of the opening he has made tin/ V 'i'^ i'i * 1U proceeds to clean the artery, gently separating it m SreaJ 7 t?azing fchroug'h the loose areolar connections with the point 1 e’ Mle back turmng t0 fche arfceiT (Fig-146), and being careful not to mvi ir 'i"01,0 1,111 18 necessary, but at the same time to clean thoroughly the ie let. , omc Surgeons, after opening the sheath, prefer to clean the