DISLOCATIONS. 63S reduction cases, I splint or a starched bandage should be worn for a in which the round ligament was four inches in length. In such extreme of the cartilages. These arc classed by Volkmann as Dislocations from Da formity. In another form, which was specially studied and described by ' j Stanley, the affection is due to a paralytic condition of the muscles surround- ing the capsule. In these paralytic dislocations, which are most common in the hip and shoulder, the head of the bone slips out without any very marked sign of disease about the joint, and certainly without any previous destruction of it. In another class, to which Volkmann has given the name of Disloca- tions from Distension, the capsule is stretched and weakened by effusion of fluid within it. These are occasionally the result of acute suppuration within the joint, the capsule becoming softened and giving way at its weakest point, and the head of the hone escaping through the aperture. In these circum- stances there would be high fever and intense pain, relieved when the capsule gives way. In other cases the fluid that distends the joint is serous iu cha- racter ; these may be acute, but are more commonly chronic. The ligaments then become gradually stretched till they are no longer capable of maintaining the articular "surfaces in position. Thus Stanley records a case in which the capsule of the hip was found to be five inches in length, and Hutton another cases as these, the dislocation may take place within the capsule. The symp- toms usually noted have been obscure rheumatic or neuralgic pains, lasting for some time, in the joint previous to dislocation. It may, however, occur sud- denly, without any pain, the deformity of the limb first attracting attention. The affection is almost confined to the hip, but other joints may be affected, and sometimes more than one. Thus, some time ago there was a case m Uni- versity College Hospital, in which both shoulders and hips were dislocated simultaneously. . . . . Lastly, there is a variety known as recurrent dislocations, m which the joint, having been dislocated and reduced, the muscular and ligamentous structures have become so weakened that ever afterwards it slips out of place on the application of slight force, or at will on the patient tin-owing the muscles of the limb into action. These are most common in the shoulder. They may be due to incomplete repair of the capsule, or to fracture with displacement ot the edge of the glenoid cavity in the shoulder, or acetabulum in the lnp. Joessel has described a case in which after death the cause was found to be rupture of the supraspinatus and infraspinatus muscles, which had become retracted under the acromion without forming new adhesions to the head. The Treatment of these cases is not very satisfactory. Reduction 111 many cannot be accomplished ; while in others it may be effected readily enough, but the bone cannot be fixed in the joint. In a case of spontaneous dislocation ot the hip, without any apparent disease of the joint, occurring 111 a youn woman, I readily effected reduction by the pulleys, three weeks after the occurrence of the displacement. The limb was then fixed with the h - splint, and maintained at a proper length for two or three weeks; when m consequence of a severe bronchitic attack, it became necessary to unu aTawSus, and the displacement speedily returned. Whilst convalescen from this attack, the patient fell and fractured the displaced femur m iis upper third thus rendering it impossible to replace the bone. In aim < of spontaneous dislocation of the knee, occurring in the same painless^manner, thn inint could not he replaced, and permanent deformity w as left. Alter