TREATMENT OF DIFFUSED TRAUMATIC ANEURISM. 447 practice. The bleeding- is often profuse ; the cavity that is laid open is large, ragged, and partially filled with coagula ; it is often with much difficulty that the artery is found under cover of these, and in the midst of infiltrated and disorganized tissues ; and when it is found, it is not always easy to get a ligature to hold. It will bo convenient to divide the operation into two stages:—1. Exposing the artery ; 2. Passing the ligature. First Stage.—The limb should he rendered bloodless and an india-rubber tourniquet applied, whenever this is possible. If the artery can be so com- manded, the diffused aneurism may be at once laid open freely ; but if not, the Surgeon must proceed more cautiously. He must make a small aperture in the most prominent part of the tumour, and introduce two of the fingers of the left hand so as to plug the wound in the integuments, and prevent the escape of blood, at the same time feeling for the opening in the artery, and pressing his finger well upon this. Having ascertained that he controls the vessel thoroughly by the pressure of his left index- and middle fingers, he may proceed to slit open freely the wound in the integuments, and clear the clots and blood thoroughly out of the aneurismal tumour. Second Stage.—The Surgeon will now have exposed the deep part of the aneurismal cavity. The artery must next be cleaned for the application of the ligature. If the artery be commanded above by an elastic tourniquet the Surgeon carefully searches for the opening in the vessel. If he cannot find it the elastic tourniquet must be removed and the artery controlled either by a screw tourniquet or by the fingers of an assistant. The opening can then be readily found by allowing a jet of blood to escape. Having found the opening he can proceed to clean the artery. This may best be done by passing a steel probe, or, what is better, a full-sized bougie or sound, into the open wound in the artery so as to distend the vessel, dissecting down on each side of this through the posterior wall of the sac, and then passing the ligature in the usual way. But if the vessel be so near the centre of the circulation that it cannot be efficiently commanded, then the difficulties become far oTeater Under these circumstances the Surgeon must, if possible, replace the finder with which he is closing the wound in the artery by that of an assistant,"so that he may have both hands free to clean the artery. The change must be made instantaneously to avoid loss of blood. If, however, he cannot do this he must while keeping the fore-finger of his left hand firmly pressed on the open wound, endeavour, by scratching through the tissues above it, to expose the aiteiy sufficiently to make a dip with the needle around it, and thus to secure it. Ihis part of the operation is by far the most difficult in such cases on account of the infiltration of the parts and the thickening of the structures pieventmg the artery from being readily distinguished and easily cleared. The application of a ligature to the distal end of the vessel if it be com cSonh edvis rtilly “ SMd ifc pSiis JiTw,CaU! 7’ r rsure H mm o! a sP°"89-‘ent or graduated its pathZ?anrtraKt4“fTIC differe from the diffused it, two varieties of thfctaTrf“ “ “P“"“ *disti“Ct s“c- T,rere “ ruptured subcuPn/111 a 1)llfctluc. *s mac^e in an artery, or the vessel is blood is Per mpsm the Auction of an old dislocation ; extia.asated into the adjoining tissues * and, if there be an external