TREATMENT OF SCROFULA. 1063 uni)' be given twice or thrice a clay in some light bitter infusion, as of cascarilla or calumba. In many cases of strumous disease, more especially those affecting the joints and bones, the liver will be found to be enlarged and sluggish in its action, the patient every now and then becoming bilious, sallow, and jaundiced ; in these circumstances, small doses of bine pill, carried oil' with the compound decoction of aloes or a rhubarb draught, will be found necessary from time to time. When all gastric irritation has been removed in this way, or if it have not existed in the usual marked degree from the first, the patient being pale and flabby, with a weakened condition of the pulse, of the skin, and of the mucous surface, then tonics may be administered, and the more specific treat- ment adopted. The great remedies which are employed with the view of removing scrofula and curing the secondary affections which it induces, are iron, iodine, the pre- parations of potash, and cod-liver oil. These are all extremely useful, either singly or conjoined, as they serve to carry out distinct indications in the management of this affection. Iron is most useful in improving the nutrition of pale, flabby, anaemic sub- j jects, increasing markedly the quantity and quality of blood in the system. The best preparations for children are, I think, the vinum ferri and the syrup of the iodide of iron. In older persons the tincture of the perchloride, and ■ some of the forms of the citrate or the phosphate of iron, appear to be most serviceable ; in other cases, again, the natural chalybeate waters will be found 0 to agree best. Iodine is especially valuable in promoting the absorption of effused plastic i! matters, and in lessening the morbid hypertrophies which so commonly take ) place in scrofula. The preparation usually employed is the iodide of potassium. In order that this may produce its full effects, it should he given as freely as the patient will bear it, continued for a considerable length of time, and espe- cially administered in combinations with other preparations of potash. With the view of preventing it from irritating the stomach, it should be given in a 1 considerable quantity of some bland fluid. Its combination with the other w salts often renders it more efficacious. For this purpose I have found the ' following form extremely useful for adults, the dose being proportionately 1 diminished in the case of children :—R Potassii iodidi, Potassai chloratis, aa, 5j; Potassse bicarbonatis, 5iij. Divide into twelve powders, of which one is to he taken night and morning in half a pint of warm milk. In other cases, the ■ liquor potassai, Brandish’s alkaline solution, or lime-water given freely in milk, R :ire serviceable ; but I prefer the above prescription. Cod-liver oil, which may be looked upon rather as an article of diet than as a medicine, is of essential utility in improving the nutrition of the body in Ji cachectic and emaciated states of the system, more particularly in growing r chHdren, or in individuals who are suffering from the wasting effects of t. strumous suppuration ; it not only fattens but strengthens the system, increas- |« ing decidedly the muscular power and the quantity of red corpuscles in the ^ lnaT °^cn very advantageously be administered in combination with the iodides of potassium or iron, and given after meals. j Of the other tonic remedies which may be employed in this affection, such • as t ie prepaiations of baric and of sarsaparilla, I need say nothing beyond that ! icy may often, be usefully administered in fulfilling ordinary therapeutic indications. Ringer recommends the sulphide of calcium as extremely valuable