WO UNDS OF SPECIAL BLOOD-VESSELS. 462 Should an ineffectual attempt have been made to arrest the primary haemor- rhage, or should the case not be seen until several days have elapsed, when secondary haemorrhage has occurred, and the palm has become infiltrated and swollen, pressure can no longer be borne upon the seat of injury, and it is useless to endeavour to search for the injured vessel in the midst of sloughy and infiltrated tissues, through a narrow wound which cannot be enlarged without danger of seriously injuring the hand. In these circumstances, it is necessary to deviate from the ordinary rule of practice in wounded arteries, and the Hunterian operation must be performed. The Surgeon may either tie both arteries above the wrist, or at once deligate the brachial. Both methods of treatment have their advocates. I prefer the simultaneous ligature of the two arteries of the fore-arm, just above the wrist, where they are superficial and very easily reached. In several cases under my care, the radial and ulnar, immediately above the hand, have been tied at the same time with complete success, and I have never seen a case in which this operation has failed ; but should haemorrhage occur after it, as might happen in the case of an enlarged median or interosseous artery, the Surgeon must have recourse to compression or ligature of the brachial. . Circumscribed Traumatic Aneurism in the Palm is by no means of frequent occurrence. It may, however, follow wounds of the palmar arches. In such a case as this, it would be clearly out of the question to lay open the sac and to search for the injured vessel in the midst of the aponeurotic and tendinous structures of the hand. It would consequently be necessary, either to tie the radial and ulnar arteries immediately above the wrist, or to ligature the brachial in the middle of the arm. The latter plan should be preferred; as, were the first mode of treatment put into practice, the sac might continue to le fed by the interosseous artery, as happened in a case of Roux’s, in which the patient died of hemorrhage from the palmar aneurism after ligature of both arteries of the fore-arm. In the case represented (Fig. 164) Liston suc- cessfully ligatured the brachial in the mid-arm, after compression upon it had failed to effect a cure. VESSELS OF THE LOWER LIMB. Gluteal Artery.—Traumatic Aneurisms of the Gluteal Artery are of less frequent occurrence than might cl priori have been imagined, from the situation of the vessel exposing it to injury. These aneurisms may acquire an enormous size. In John Bell’s celebrated case, the tumour is said to have been of “ prodigious size,” and to have contained eight pounds of blood In byme s case the tumour was as large at the base as a man’s head, occupied the whole hip, and rose into a blunt cone. The Treatment that should be adopted in these cases is to compress the aor bY means of the aortic tourniquet; then to lay open the tumour freely, turn out its contents, and pass a ligature by means ot an aneurism-neec e iouii the short trunk of the gluteal as it emerges from the pelvis. Femoral Artery.—The haemorrhage from the Femoral Artery, om- mon, Superficial or Deep, when wounded is always very profuse. In a cases, ligature of the wounded vessel at the scat of injury should, if possi > ^ CIf -i Diffused Traumatic Aneurism have already formed, the artery should be commSa by a tourm9uet, „ it Pa«s over the brim of the pelm the