UPPER END OF HUMERUS—EXTRAGAPSULAR. 569 spinatus; whilst the shaft is drawn inwards by the pectoral is major, latissimus dorsi, and teres major, and upwards and forwards into the axilla, and towards the coracoid process, by the biceps, coraco-brachialis, triceps, and deltoid. The signs of this fracture are sufficiently obvious. The glenoid cavity is filled by the head of the bone, which can be felt in it. Below this there is a depression; crepitus is easily produced if extension be made to bring the rough surfaces in contact, aud there are great mobility of the lower fragment, and shortening of the limb to the extent of from three-quarters to one inch ; but the most remarkable sign is the prominence formed by the upper end of the shaft of the humerus, which projects under the integuments, and can readily be felt under the coracoid process, when the elbow is pushed upwards and rotated. The axis of the bone also is directed obliquely upwards and inwards towards this point. In consequence of the irritation of the nerves of the axillary plexus by this fragment, which is often very sharp and angular, a good deal of pain is complained of in the arm and fingers. This sign, however, is not met with in children, when the epiphysis is separated from the shaft, owing to the greater smoothness of the fractured surfaces. There is often very great extravasation of blood in this fracture, owing to laceration of branches of the circumflex arteries. Impacted Extracapsular Fracture of the Heck of the Humerus has been especially treated of by R. W. Smith in his excellent work on Fractures. In this injury, the superior fragment being penetrated by the inferior one, the continuity of the bone and its firmness are in a great measure preserved ; hence, the usual signs of fracture, such as mobility, displace- ment, and crepitus, are not readily obtainable, and indeed the signs of this injury are chiefly negative. Thus, there are impairment of motion, slight de- formity about the joint and upper part of the arm, and occasionally crepitus is obtainable with difficulty, and by firmly grasping the head of the bone whilst the elbow is being rotated. There is, as a rule, slight shortening, amounting to less than half an inch. In children, separation of the epiphysis from the shaft is common, and especial care must be taken not to confound this accident with a disloca- tion. The diagnosis is always easy. In children of the head of the humerus scarcely ever occurs. can be felt in the glenoid cavity; but above all the broad end of the shaft, tor the fracture in them is always transverse, may be felt drawn up under the coracoid process, and cannot be mistaken. The Treatment in these cases should be carried out in accordance with the ^ °"U1=> l)lmciples and details: 1. lo bandage the hand and arm so as to L COnf?ion and fEdcina of limb ; 2. To place a pad in the axilla as ‘l. a cium ; ?>. Io bandage the elbow closely to the side so as to come the displacement inwards of the upper end of the shaft, which will it i« h°JVn ?n ";uda hy the axillary pad; 4. To carry the elbow (whilst ng ant aged to the side) forwards across the chest, in advance of Fig. 203.—Apparatus for Fracture of the Neck of the Humerus. under puberty dislocation In the fracture, the head