DISLOCATIONS OF THE SEINE. 195 • high as the vertex, having padded transverse arms to support the head and1 ( shoulders, and the whole attached to a stout leather-case moulded to the hack , and shoulders. Sayre’s plaster-of-Paris jacket may be advantageously employed at a later stage when the patient is able to bear suspension. Trephining the Spine.—As the fatal result of fracture of the spine, with 3 compression of the cord by the broken vertebra, or by extravasated blood, is almost inevitable,theideahas naturally suggested itself to Surgeons that life might be prolonged, and health perhaps restored, if the same operation were extended to the spine which is successfully employed in parallel cases of injury of the head ; viz., the elevation and removal, if necessary, of the depressed portion of bone.5 This operation, originally proposed by Heister, was first performed by Louis and Cline. It may be done as follows. The patient lying on his face,, a free incision, several inches in length, from three to five, according to the' extent of the injury, is made along the line of the spinous processes, and the muscular masses on each side of the spine are dissected away, so as to expose- the osseous surfaces. The spinous processes, at the seat of injury, should then, be successively seized with strong forceps, and gently but firmly moved, in order to see whether there be fracture at their base or supporting arches. If a portion of bone be completely broken olf, it may, after all ligamentous connections have been severed, be raised by the forceps or an elevator. Should one arch only be broken through, the uninjured one may be divided by cutting pliers or a Key’s saw ; or, should both be unbroken, the Surgeon may,, if he think it prudent to proceed further, divide both in this way, and so ;■ remove them and the spinous processes, and expose the theca of the cord.. After the operation, the patient is to be kept in the prone position. The results of this operation are not very encouraging. It has been per- formed by various Surgeons in different countries, but chiefly in America,, about thirty times ; and, although some temporary advantage seems to have occurred in a few of the cases, permanent recovery has resulted only in one instance—by Gordon of Whitworth Hospital, Dublin ; but even in this case the paralysis remained. But, though so far the result has been but little satisfactory, ought Surgeons to discard the operation ? I think not; because,, as fracture of the spine with serious lesion of the cord cannot be recovered, from, and has an almost invariably fatal termination, and as- the evil consccjuences of the fracture arc dependent not only upon the primary lesion of the cord, but on the secondary inflammatory processes set. up in it by the continued irritation of the fractured fragments, we are justified in attempting the removal of this source of certain misery and impending death by the only means in our power—operative procedure and we are the more justified in this course, as the operation is not neces- sarily dangerous, does not appear often to have hastened death, and has- certainly, in some cases, afforded relief, the paralytic symptoms disappearing: to a great extent, and the patient being able to move limbs that were previ- ously motionless. One serious objection that has been urged against the operation must notr however, be overlooked. It is, that in the great majority of cases the fracture 0 a vertebra is through the body and not through the arches. This undoubtedly is so, and it is this circumstance that has rendered the operation as yet little more than a means of giving relief when the cord is partially divided and acerated by being stretched over a rough and jagged edge of the broken