INFLUENCE OF HYGIENIC CONDITIONS. 9 of disease, there exists in hospitals one special source of danger which leads to the excessive mortality that up to a recent period has prevailed in most of these institutions, and which unfortunately is still allowed to be prevalent in some. This danger results from the accumulation of large numbers of sick and injured people in one building. The air of large towns or cities in which the great majority of hospitals must necessarily be situated is, to begin with, more or less loaded with im- purities. The normal '4 parts per 1,000 of carbonic acid gas is always ex- ceeded, the amount sometimes reaching as high as *5 or •f)5. The amount of solid impurity is also very considerable. It has long been known that the atmosphere is loaded with minute particles of organic matter in a state of suspension. More than twenty years ago Pouchet demonstrated the presence of starch granules in the dust deposited in a room. In 1861 Pasteur proved that the spores of fungi were always to be found in the air of Paris. Tyndall has also shown how large a proportion of the dust of the air is composed of organic matter. Nothing is more simple than to demonstrate this impurity of the air by the method recommended by Koch of Berlin in which the de- velopment of the various fungi can be watched on a boiled potatoe, the cut surface of which has been for a short time exposed to the air, and then covered with a bell jar. By a similar method of observation the presence of the spores of fungi, and occasionally of bacteria, may be shown in the dust deposited on the tops of doors, picture-frames, &c. Microscopic examination shows in the ah' of all inhabited rooms, scaly epithelium, bits of human hah, and fibres of cotton, linen, and wool from the clothing. All these impurities are easily to be recognised by simple microscopic examination of the dust filtered horn the air. The experiments of Pasteur, Tyndall, Lister, and a host of other observers have conclusively proved that the air contains also minute solid particles, often incapable of ocular demonstration, which act as ferments upon dead organic matter giving rise to such processes as the ordinary putre- faction of albuminoid substances, the lactic acid fermentation of milk and the like. Pasteur and his disciples maintain that in all cases these particles are hvmg organisms or their spores. Pouchet, Bastian, and others, however, while not denying that such minute particles do exist in the air, and that they clo act as ferments when they come in contact with fermentable matter, believe that they are not organised bodies, but are particles of organic matter under- going certain “physico-chemical changes.” They also assert that under favourable circumstances putrefaction and analogous processes can occur spontaneously without the intervention of any such bodies. Be that as it may, the weight of evidence at the present time is certainly in favour of the view a nil ei oi inary circumstances, that is to say, under such conditions as we ee vi i m .),) out of 100 surgical cases, no putrefactive or fermentative onange will take place in the secretions or exudations in the living body if 1° * u? kbe aii be excluded ; or, if that is impossible, if the particles of 1C,11 }8.llldC e up be exposed to the action of some one of those chemical agents which we class as antiseptics. aU\of a smKical ward or sick room is vitiated by the patient, firstly by P10c u°ts °f respiration and excretion from the lungs and skin; 6vri i ,C0IK !n, many cascs by the emanations from wounds or sores. The Surgeon'™'0K a > e’ secon<^ 1S to a £reat extent under the control of the