SCROFULA AND TUBERCLE. 1058 true tubercle. The bacillus has been found in the pulpy granulation-tissue of white swelling', in scrofulous glands, and in the scrofulous testicle and kidney. It is impossible, therefore, to deny that true tubercle makes its appearance in the inflammatory products during the course of many scrofulous inflammations, but it by no means necessarily follows that all scrolulous affections aie tubci- cular, or that when tubercle is met with it is the primary cause of the mischief. The purulent catarrhal affections and the skin eruptions which are such frequent manifestations of scrofula, are certainly not tubercular. In a con- siderable number of cases of caseating inflammations of glands and bones in which a careful search has been made for the bacillus it has not been found, dheie is no doubt also that only a small minority of patients who suffer from scrofulous diseases of glands, bones or joints, die of pulmonary phthisis, and the comerse j is equally true, that the vast majority of phthisical patients show no signs of any of the surgical affections ordinarily classed as scrofulous. It is equally certain, however, that phthisical parents may have scrofulous children, and the offspring of scrofulous parents frequently die of consumption. There can be no doubt, therefore, that the relation between scrofula and tubercle is a very intimate one. The following hypothesis has therefore been suggested as capable of har- monizing the apparently conflicting facts above stated: that scrofula is a con- stitutional vice characterized by a peculiar proneness of the tissues to be d affected by chronic inflammation from slight causes, or as Virchow expresses it, by a vulnerability of the tissues ; that simple scrofulous inflammations are not in themselves infective, but that they tend to persist indefinitely, being kept up by very slight sources of irritation, as tension from inflammatory exudation, slight decrees of friction or movement and the like ; consequently the inflam- matory products accumulate, and from the feebleness of the whole process are imperfectly vascularized, and have but little power of higher development or resorption ; lastly, that these inflammatory products form a suitable nidus foi the development of the specific virus of tubercle, and that by the entrance 0 this virus the process becomes infective ; it may then remain a locallnfectne process, and even cease without becoming general, or it may infect the who c| .system, giving rise to acute or chronic general tuberculosis. _ I ' Signs of Scrofula, or the Scrofulous Diathesis.—The only ceita ■ signs of scrofula are the various forms of inflammation already desen oed, bu I the individuals in whom the affections arise usually present certain constitu- tional peculiarities which arc said to be indications 0 t ie scro ous thesis. The constitutional condition is often erroneously confounded general debility. It may, and often does, co-exist with this, but is by no means synonymous with weakness of constitution. Debility often exis s wi 'ol* scrofulous tendency or taint, more particularly in mdividua s 0 nc m. • temperament; many delicate people, though weak, being perfectly healthy, ■and showing no disposition to strumous affections; on the con rary, a scrofulous constitution is often conjoined with much muscuar power an ’neC'^tenci of the scrofulous diathesis is often marked by the presence of “ S’sUSuriemperament assumes two distinct forms the fair and tbo fbirk and each of these presents two varieties, the fine and t iccoai The most common is that which occurs in persons with fair, soft, and trans-