VENEREAL DISEASES. 1078 The Preventive Treatment of bubo is of considerable moment. It consists essentially in perfect rest of the part, and the application of leeches and of cold lead lotions. In reference to the application of leeches, there is a practical point of considerable importance that requires attention—viz., that the leech-bites may become infected by the chancrohs pus, and thus converted into a number of new chancres. This accident is best guarded against by covering the bites with collodion and plaster. If there be much pain, and if the skin be already reddened, hot fomenta- tions, and the application of an ointment composed of equal parts of Extract of Belladonna and Glycerine, will offer the best chance of arresting the progress of the inflammation. If the bubo be indolent, with but little tendency to suppuration, the appli- cation of blisters or tincture of Iodine may be of service. B. Hill states that steady pressure by means of a pad of cotton-wool and an elastic bandage may sometimes produce absorption. The application of lint soaked in a lead lotion containing about two drachms of the solution of the subacetate and one ounce of spirit to half a pint of water has been said to favour resolution. If notwithstanding our endeavours to prevent suppuration, matter form within or around the gland, as evinced by the swelling becoming soft, boggy, and inflamed, a fine opening should be made. This should, as a rule, be parallel to Poupart’s ligament, but if a vertical incision would lay the cavity open more perfectly, there is no objection to adopting it. The incision should be made early, before the surrounding skin has been undermined and thinned. If this should have happened it may be necessary to destroy the thinned skin with potassa fusa, or to cut it away with scissors, before healing will take place. After the bubo has been opened it should be dressed from the bottom, either with salicylic or iodoform-wool or lint soaked in carbolic oil (1 in 10), or terebene and oil or some such simple application. If the cavity presents a chancrous appearance, being irregular and sloughy, with elevated and angry red edges, it should be treated by the free application of iodoform in the same way as for the original sore. If on opening the bubo a gland can be seen projecting into the cavity, attached only by one side to the wall of the abscess, this is best scooped out either with the thumb- nail or the handle of the scalpel, otherwise it is apt to keep up the suppuration and delay healing. Sometimes, even after the bubo has been opened, the pus may burrow in various directions. Such cases are best treated by laying open the sinuse* freely to the very end with a probe-pointed bistoury. Zeissl recommends opening the bubo by means of a number of small punctures made with a tenotomy knife, after which lint soaked in lead lotion (Liquor Plumb. Subaeetatis, 5 ss., Rectified Spirit, 5 j, water, to 0 j), may be kept constantly applied. By this means, he says, that scarring can often be avoided. _ . Should sloughing or phagedamic ulceration commence in an open ou.in, extensive destruction of tissue may ensue, and even fatal hmmorrhage from the femoral artery has been known to occur. The sore must be treated m the same way as the sloughing or phagedamic chancre. The application of nitric acid is occasionally necessary. If there be any signs of syphilis the cautious administration of mercury may be required.