FORMATION OF AN ACUTE ABSCESS. 223 the circumference, stasis, oscillation, dilated vessels with retarded flow, ad- hesion of the corpuscles, and migration, .and -lastly, simple hyperaemia,—di- lated vessels with increased rapidity of flow. Such a collection of pus as is above described, is a microscopic abscess ; an acute abscess holding half a pint of pus, differs from it in no respect except in size. ( The extension of the abscess takes place by progressive destruction of the tissues by the same process as that above described ; and the pus is formed by successive zones of the new Rg. 87.—A Microscopic Abscess in the Skin, c.' Epithelium; h. a Hair; v. v. Small Veins sur- rounded in some places by migrating leucocytes; p. the coUection of pus; s. Sweat-gland - li a small Ai tery; /. Fat. The Tissues round the collection of pus are dotted with leucocytes, becoming more closely packed as the centre of suppuration is approached. ^ ° cells degenerating, becoming separated from each other by fluid, and falling into the cavity of the abscess. The whole process is identical with ulceration, but instead of the discharge being given off superficially as in an ordinary ulcer, it accumulates in the abscess-cavity ; an abscess is in fact a cavity enclosed by an ulcer. The zone of tissue in which the process of spreading is taking place, was in former times spoken of as the “ pyogenic membrane ; ” but it is evident that there is nothing to which the term “ membrane ” could properly be applied ; the “ pyogenic zone ” would be a more correct term if any such is necessary. In this pyogenic zone the vessels arc dilated, and the issues softened, so that m opening an abscess blood may flow freely from the ^esses round the cavity ; but it must not be concluded from this ia ic a iscess-cavity is surrounded by a zone of tissue in which nev, vessels 'v T ormet^ 1 luring the spreading stage of an abscess, it is destruction 1 fe ?’ 110k ne" formation, that is taking place ; the uew formation occurs only during repair, after the pus has been let out. • 1 10 ’.fV001which pus is formed on mucous surfaces in purulent catarrh is described with that process.