807 EXCISION OF TIIE EYEBALL. the globe, or suppose that the surface by losing its sensibility becomes more liable to the action of external irritants, matters little to the practma Surgeon. Wardrop says that “ the distribution of the first branch of the fifth pair or ophthalmic branch explains how wounds of the frontal, infra-orbital, and o ler branches of neiwes which form anastomoses with the ophthalmic ganglion, are sometimes followed by amaurosis.” No doubt it is to the intimate cormexions that exist between the frontal nerve, the ophthalmic division of the litth, ancl the sympathetic and ciliary nerves, that we must refer these various morbid phenomena resulting from its irritation. In what way this nutation of the frontal nerve exercises an injurious influence is doubtful, but the fact, as the result of clinical observation, remains certain, that in some cases it is the primary and determining cause of loss of vision. Excision of the Eyeball.—This operation is thus performed. The 3?ig. 336.-Wire-Speculum. Fig. 337.—Toothed Forceps with Fine Points. Fig. 338.—Straight Scissors. Fig. 339.- Strabismus-Hook. Fig. 340.— Scissors for Dividing Optic Nerve in Extirpation of the Eye. patient being under the influence of an anesthetic, an eye-speculum (Fig. 336) is introduced; the conjunctiva is then seized with a pair of toothed forceps (Fig. 337) as close to the margin of the cornea as possible, and a small opening made through it by means of a rather blunt-pointed pair of scissors (Fig. 338). The membrane is then divided circularly, always keep- ing close to the corneal margin. The squint-hook (Fig. 339) is then passed beneath the tendon of one of the rectus muscles, which is raised and divided, by the scissors passed between the hook and the sclerotic. The three other rectus muscles are then divided in order in the same way. The oblique muscles need not be separately searched for, and will be divided with the recti. The eyeball is then drawn forwards, and the ciliary vessels and nerves passing into it may be divided with curved scissors (Fig. 340), until the globe is attached solely by the optic nerve ; lastly this is cut through from the inner side with the curved scissors. The speculum being still retained between the lids, a stream of cold carbolic acid lotion (1 in 40) is allowed to drop slowly from a sponge into the cavity of the orbit, by which all bleeding