TUMOURS. 99° up by spaces, communicating' freely with each other, ihe walls of the spaces are composed of fibrous tissue, and arc lined with an endothelium resembling that of a vein. These tumours are sometimes distinctly ciicumsci ibed, and en- closed in a loose capsule of connective tissue ; in other cases they are diffuse. Fin- 3TS.—Naivus (1SS diam.) iuttltra- ° tins; fat. Tlie shaded hands repre- sent vessels out of focus, the ends of some of them being shown in transverse section. Fjcr. 379. (454 diam.) Shows the endothelium appa- ° rently almost obstructing the lumen of the vessels as the result of their contraction. They are sometimes congenital, but often arise in young adult life. They are most common in the subcutaneous tissue, but have also been met with in muscles, and in the liver, spleen, and other internal organs. The mode of origin of these tumours is doubtful. They appear sometimes to develop as a result of an injury. The symptoms and treatment of vascular tumour will he fully described m a subsequent chapter. . D. Lymphangioma. Tumour composed of Lymphatic Vessels. These excessively rare tumours are composed of dilated lymphatic lessels communicating with each other, like the spaces of the cavernous angioma, the cavities containing lymph instead of blood. Virchow has described them as occurring congenitally in the tongue, forming one variety of hypertrophy ot that organ (macroglossia). They are said to have been seen forming a so pale, compressible, congenital tumours of the skin. E. lymphaclenoma. Tumour composed of Lymphatic Tissue. Lymphoma.—Lymphadenomata are composed of tissue exactly resein > nig that of the follicles of the lymphatic glands, lymphoid or lymphatic tissue, the so-called “ adenoid tissue” of His ; but to avoid confusion, the term “adenoid should never he used in connection with this structure, but resened for tissues resembling those of the secreting glands. Lymphoid tissue (Figs. 380, ob ) i characterized by a delicate reticulate stroma, m the meshes ot which aic P< numberless cells, in every way resembling the white 5°rP^ ^, /jJJcrcd The stroma is composed of fibrous tissue containing a few o\al nuclei s through it, especially where the bands cross each other. I He stroma m: , some cases be increased in amount and thicker than that normally found m lymphatic glands. The vessels are abundant and m close connection w' Si £ tumours are white or grey iu colour, somctuucs sta.ned by