INFECTIVE DISEASES OF WOUNDS. 9°4 form of gangrenous inflammation, and the development of the same definite form of micrococcus. Treatment.—The preventive treatment of hospital-gangrene may l>e deduced from a consideration of the causes that give rise to it. The experience of many German surgeons, and especially Nussbaum, of Munich, has shown, that by the introduction of the antiseptic treatment the disease has been banished from hospitals in which, owing to faulty hygiene, it formerly existed to a fearful extent. On the other hand, it had been practically banished from English hospitals by attention to ordinary cleanliness, and general hygienic rules as to cubic space per patient, ventilation, drainage, &c., long before the introduction of antiseptic surgery. Still, up to twenty years ago it did occasionally break out, from temporary overcrowding, or from the accidental presence of an unusual number of large suppurating wounds in a ward. Now it is unknown in any properly managed civil hospital. In military practice antiseptic treatment is often impossible, and overcrowding unavoidable. The disease may then be prevented almost to a certainty by treating the wounded under canvas, in “hut-hospitals,” or in the open. Should it break out, the building in which it has developed itself should at once be abandoned or destroyed. The spread of this fell disease may be prevented by at once isolating the affected patient,, treating him in the open, putting him as it were in quarantine, allowing no contact between his attendants and other patients. Should it have broken out in a civil hospital, the first point to attend to is to prevent the extension of the disease to patients who are not as yet affected. This may be done by separating those who have been seized with it from the healthy, by preventing overcrowding of the hospital, ventilating the wards, washing the floors with a solution of chloride of zinc, whitening the walls, and fumigating the apart- ment with chlorine gas. Local Treatment.—The first step in the local treatment is, to clean away the slough till the living tissues are exposed, the patient being under the in- fluence of an anaesthetic. This must be done by means of scissors aud forceps, by scraping with a sharp spoon or spatula, and by forcibly rubbing the surface with a sponge or a piece of tow. The metal instruments used for this purpose must afterwards be disinfected by being held in the flame of a spirit lamp, or put in a bath of carbolic lotion (1 in 20) ; the sponge or tow must be imme- diately burnt. The raw surface must then be freely cauterized by the application of fuming nitric acid, chloride of zinc, or the actual cautery. I prefer nitric acid, if strong and freely applied, the surface and edges being well sponged with it, The actual cautery is, however, very useful in those cases in which the surface to he destroyed is very extensive, or if there be a tendency to haemorrhage. (Should it not reach the deeper portions of the sore, nitric acid may be freely sponged into them. It is important to bear in mind that these escharotic applications will be fruitlessly expended in charring the tenacious grey pulpy slough, unless this have been previously cleared away. After the application of the caustic, the parts may he dressed with carbolic oil, tercbenc and oil, or some moist antiseptic dressing. The German Surgeons, who until recently had unusual opportunities of studying this affection, mostly preferred chloride of zinc. Kclnig recommends the following treatment. The sloughs having been cleared away, the surrounding skin must be washed with carbolic acid lotion (1 in 20), or chloride of zinc (20 gr. to 3j). Some dry chloride of zinc is then moistened witli water till it dissolves into an oily liquid ; cotton-