1046 TUMOURS. should bo made, if they can be avoided, and this may usuallybe done by atten- tion to the proper position and extension of the linear incisions. I11 removing a simple tumour, no skin should, as a rule, be taken away, a simple cut being made ; but if the intcgumcntal tissues be cither very abundant and loose, or else adherent, an elliptical portion of them may be excised together with the tumour. In other instances, again, a semilunar flap of integument may with advantage be turned up from the tumour, the surface of which is then fairly exposed ; this, however, can be done only in some simple tumours, such as fatty growths. In excising malignant tumours the skin must in most cases be freely cut away. It is better to leave a healthy surface to heal by granu- lation, than leave any part of the skin behind which may be infected by the growth. The flaps covering the growth should be freely but cautiously dissected back, so as to expose its sides and base ; as these are approached, and the Surgeon reaches the neighbourhood of its more important and deeper connections, increased care will be necessary, as it not unfrequently happens that the tumour is in closer relations with deep-seated blood-vessels and nerves of a large size than would at first appear. When practicable, the deep dissection will best be commenced and carried out from that part of the base of the tumour into which the principal blood- vessels appear to enter ; they are thus early cut, and being once ligatured, or seized in catch forceps, give no further trouble, which they would do were they divided from the direction of their branches towards the trunk, when at each successive stroke of the knife a fresh portion of the vessel would be touched. In carrying on this deep dissection, the operator should proceed methodically from one side of the tumour to the other, the assistants holding aside the skin so as to give as much room as possible, whilst the Surgeon himself, seizing the mass with his left hand, or with a large double hook or vulsellum, and dragging it well forwards, uses the knife by successive strokes, but in a leisurely and careful manner, avoiding all undue haste, until he completely detaches it from its connections. The safety of contiguous important structures will be best secured by keeping the edge of the knife constantly directed towards the tumour, if this be non-malignant; by attention to this rule, tumours may be removed with remarkable safety and case from the neighbom- hood of most important parts. If, however, the growth be malignant, the incisions must be made wide of the disease into the healthy structures around : unless this be done, portions of the tumour may be left from which fresh growths will rapidly sprout, or tissues apparently healthy may be left nhich are in reality impregnated with cancer-cells. After the tumour has been removed, it must be carefully examined, with the view of ascertaining whether it be entire ; and, ii any portions ha\e been left, these must be properly dissected out. In some situations, as the axi a, the side of the neck, or the groin, where the relations are of great important c, the less the edge of the knife is used the better, and the growth should be enucleated by the Surgeon’s fingers or by the handle of the scalpel. In removing tumours from the neck or axilla the danger of the entrance 0 air into a half-divided vein, held open by the traction on the tumour, must never be forgotten. (See p. 4C7.) The Surgeon should rarely undertake the removal of tumours that cannot wholly and entirely extirpated, as the part left will always grow with great y increased rapidity, often assuming a fungus character; this is especial!} t