TREATMENT OF FROST-BITE—CHILBLAINS. 385 » is swollen and black, finally it becomes dry and shrivelled, and separates by the formation of a line of ulceration around it. The Constitutional Effects of a low temperature need not detain ns. It is well known that, after exposure to severe or long-continued cold, a feeling of heaviness and stupor comes on, and gradually creeps on to an overpowering tendency to sleep, which, if yielded to, terminates in coma, and a speedy, though probably painless, death. Treatment of Frost-Bite.—This consists in endeavouring to restore the vitality of the frozen parts. The great danger is that the circulation may become again arrested, as above described, by the sudden admission of a large quantity of blood at a high degree of pressure. In order to prevent this accident, the temperature must be elevated very gradually and with extreme care. The patient should be placed in a cold room, without a fire, any approach to which would certainly lead to the destruction of the frost- bitten members. These must then be gently rubbed with snow, or with cloths dipped in cold water, and held between the hands of the person manipulating; as reaction comes on, they may be enveloped in flannel or woollens, and a small quantity of some warm liquid or spirit and water may be administered. In this way sensibility and motion will be gradually restored, often with much burning and stinging pain, redness, and vesication of the part. If gangrene have come on, or if the reaction run into sloughing, the sphacelated part, if of small size, should be allowed to detach itself by the natural process of separa- Ition, which should be interfered with as little as possible, the vitality of the parts continuing at a low ebb, and extension of gangrene being readily induced. If the gangrenous parts be of greater magnitude, amputation may be required. This should be done at the most convenient situation, as soon as the line of separation has fully formed. If the person who has been exposed to cold be apparently dead, he must be put in a cold room, the temperature of which must be very slowly raised. Friction, as just described, should be practised, and artificial respiration set up. These means must be continued for a long time, even if no signs of life appear: there being on record instances of recovery after several hours of suspended animation. Chilblain is a mild foim of frost-bite occurring in children and in delicate adults. It occurs on the toes and fingers, and occasionally on other exposed parts, as the nose or ear. It is especially liable to occur in paralyzed or diseased limbs. Most commonly the inflammation does not extend beyond redness and swelling, with burning pain or intense itching. In more severe cases the inflammation of the skin extends to vesication, and occasionallv when the blister bursts, a small slough of the superficial part of the cutis, or in some cases even of its whole thickness, is found beneath. This forms the so- called broken chilblain. bad cllilbkins in children, or chilblains of any kind in diet !? • lcafcions °f some degree of debility. Healthy exercise, good the sirnr i 0 11 ng, wash-leather socks, and tonics are useful. Locally, in reeommnn 1°'? lcma,t°us ftage, the application of tincture of iodine is often BellndnrmlW ’ 1°' SOab !inimenfc t° which a little chloroform has been added. a slou<di V an< S°,ab linimc!lfc lu C(Iual parts allays the intolerable itching. If Uncrnmn,,011"8’ K'raci'c'aci',bb'nt or -ointment forms a useful application, u ipuentum rcsinae hastens the healing. VOL. 1. 0