666 SPECIAL DISLOCATIONS. think there can be little doubt as to the nature of the injury sustained by the patient. The Treatment of such cases will be the same as that for ordinary disloca- ' tions of the carpal bones ; splints of sufficient length to take in the hand being applied, after reduction, in order to maintain the parts in position. Dislocations of the Metacarpo-Phalangeal Articulations are by no means of common occurrence. They are usually produced by falls on the hand, and are met with at all ages ; most commonly in the young adult, but some- times at an earlier age. I have seen this accident in a child four years old. Most frequently the Proximal Phalanx of the Thumb is the bone that is dislocated, being thrown backwards on the metacarpal bone (Fig. 284) in such a way that the articular surface of the phalanx rests upon the back of the metacarpal bone immediately below its head. The signs of the accident are sufficiently evident. In the normal state of the hand, the metacarpo- phalangeal articulation of the thumb is convex backwards : in this dislocation it becomes convex towards the palmar aspect and angularly concur e nil The head of the metacarpal bone can be felt and seen projecting on the palmar aspect of the thumb. The proximal phalanx stands up as it were upon the back of this bone, but the articular surface of the phalanx cannot be felt, owing to its being in contact with the posterior part of the metacarpal bone juft a o\e its neck. The phalangeal articulation is always semiflexed. This dislocation of the proximal phalanx of the thumb has, owing to the difficulty oi its re duction, attracted more attention from Surgeons than it would at hist appear to deserve. So great has this difficulty been in some cases, as to render the dislocation irreducible, notwithstanding the employment of as nuich one as 1 was safe to use, and that most skilfully directed, or to compel the Smgeon have recourse to operative interference in order to replace the head of the >onc. The obstacle to the ready reduction of this small bone has been ottrnu e different causes. Thus, Hey supposed that it was owing to the con^''^ the neck of the bone between the lateral ligaments of the joint, 1 M