assist himself m any way during the treatment. TREATMENT OF GO LEES' FRACTURE. 533 extension should be practised, with the view of disentangling the fragments, and removing the dorsal prominence. The splint should be carelully padded, the padding being made thicker opposite the lower fragment, and then, with the straight portion held vertically, the head of the splint should be fixed to the back of the hand. Gentle extension should then be made, and the hand bent to the ulnar side by raising the straight portion of the splint to the horizontal position, so as to make it lie against the back of the fore-arm, and held there, while another straight splint, extending from the elbow to the lower end of the upper fragment, is placed on the inner side of the fore-arm. Both splints should then be fixed by means of a roller, care being taken to have the inner splint well padded along the radial border, so as to counteract the tendency to pronation of this part of the bone. The arm must then be . placed in a sling. The pistol-splint should be worn for a fortnight or three weeks. At the end of this time a gauntlet of gutta-percha, or other plastic material, may be mordded to the wrist and worn instead of the splint. All apparatus should be discontinued at the end of five weeks in the adult, a week or two earlier in children. When the fracture is impacted, little if any alteration in the defoimity can be produced; when it is mobile, position. The fracture unites in the course of a month or five weeks. After the first week it is well, especially in elderly people, to leave it may usually be brought into good the fingers free, and to encourage movement of them, lest that painful stiffness result which is so common a sequela of the accident. Passive motion of the wrist-joint may, however, often be commenced, with great advantage to the patient, before the union of the fracture, more particularly when it is impacted. If the hand and fingers be kept fixed on the splint until the fracture is fully united, very troublesome and painful stiffness will result. . 3 fl’equently fully three months before this stiffness of the hand and vust is so far diminished, even by the use of friction and douches, as to enaie tie patient to use the fingers, the stiffness of the wrist being often due o e extension of a fissure into the joint. It sometimes happens that in anus t ie radius is broken at the same time in this situation, constituting lat serious condition, inasmuch as the patient is not able to feed or