582 SPECIAL FRACTURES. supinator long’us was attached to the lower, and the pronator quadratus to the upper fragment; the latter muscle being slightly lacerated at its lower part. The upper fragment was strongly pronated. The chief cause of displacement, and the main obstacle to reduction, was found to exist in the two radial extensors of the wrist, the tendons of which were excessively tense ; next to these, the special extensors of the thumb presented most tension, and then the supinator longus, which was far less tense than either of the other sets of muscles, but especially than the radial extensors, the tendons of which were strongly defined. On dividing these tendons, and on pressing the lower end of the upper fragment outwards, reduction was easily effected. Here the dis- placement was evidently due to two causes. The upper fragment was foicibly pronated by the action of its special pronators ; and the hand, with the lower fragment attached, was drawn upwards and backwards by and in the direct line of the radial extensors of the wrist. There was no impaction noi inter- locking of fragments, hut perfect mobility, and hence muscular action was enabled to come into play. , ,, In another case which I have since dissected, the muscles chiefly at fault 218.—Old Pistol-Splint for Treatment of Fracture of tlie Lower Eml of the Kadius. were the radial extensors ; next to these the extensors of the thumb ; the supi- nator longus being but slightly if at all contracted. , Besides this injury, E. W. Smith has described a fracture of the lowei end of the radius in consequence of falls upon the back of the hand, 111 which e inferior fragment is displaced forwards. In these cases the chaiacter of the deformity indicates the nature of the injury. It can readily be reduced, with a feeling of crepitation, by traction. . , tradius In another variety of fracture in this situation, the louei end of the rad and that of the ulna are broken off, resembling very closely dislocation of the un-ist backwards But the existence of grating, the ready reduction of the swelling and the attachment of the styloid processes of the radius and of 11 IK carpus, with which they move, will be sufficient to establish the ^treatment of the ordinary fracture of the radius near the wrist may he Ihe lieatme:n.u T, ■ ngists 0f a pistol-shaped conducted by the apparatus (1 igs. - , - • )• reaching from the * —'