EFFECTS OF HEAT AND COLD. 37§ I have certainly seen patients saved in these circumstances hy the employment of blood-letting and the application of leeches. But, in the vast majority of instances, the visceral complications are of a low and congestive type. In such cases our great reliance must he on stimulants. Ammonia and bark, brandy and wine, require to be freely given, with a sufficiency of nourishment; and the irritability of the nervous system must be soothed by the frequent adminis- tration of full doses of opium. At a later period, when the strength has become impaired by the profuseness of the discharges, this tonic and stimu- lating plan must be actively continued. I,ocal Treatment.—In all cases of extensive burn the charred clothes must be removed, and the patient laid upon a blanket and protected as fai as possible from exposure to cold. The objects aimed at in the further treatment are the protection of the raw surface, which in all degrees ol burn below t le f fourth is acutely sensitive, the prevention of decomposition, and the exclusion of cold. In burns of the first degree no treatment is necessary ; w hen it is limited to the second degree the blister may be punctured and the seium allowed to drain away, but- the cuticle should not be removed. The whole part may then be wrapped in cotton wool and left untouched foi a few ays, by which time it will have quite recovered. In the third and succeeding degrees of burn, sloughs have to separate and suppuration will take place, and prevention of decomposition consequently becomes of the first importance. The extent of the raw surface, however, and the readiness with which absorp- tion takes place from it, render it unsafe to apply any antiseptic possessing powerful toxic properties, and for this reason the use of carbolic acid is better avoided. Boracic acid, salicylic acid, and eucalyptus oil are the most powerful of the non-toxic antiseptics. Boracic acid may be applied either by means ot boracic lint soaked in a concentrated solution of the acid and covered v 1 oiled silk, or as ointment (p. 194) spread on strips of linen. If much slough- ing is expected, the former is the'better plan; if little, the attei . ► cj ic aci may be used as a lotion to cleanse the parts, and the whole burnt area may afterwards be covered by a thick layer of salicylic wool, not to be removed till either high fever or smell suggests that putrefaction is taking p ace icnea 1 • Eucalyptus oil may be used either as gauze or as a solution in olive oil. Iodoform may be sprinkled on the surface if the discharge becomes foul, but caution must be used in its application, especially m children, as symptoms o poisoning (p. 195) may arise. In the absence of the necessary catena the above modes of treatment the following plan will be found comfoitA the patient, and satisfactory in its results. The whole burnt surface ^ateva may be the degree of burn, may be well covered with the finest wheaten fl by means of an ordinary dredger. The flour should be laid on hiokly but uniformly and gradually ; it forms a soft and soothing apphcation tc> t he surface. ’ If the'cuticle have been abraded, the flour will form a -k cn,t,by admixture with the serum discharged from the broken sui ace. charred, the discharge which will be speedily set up around the eschas wffi makefile flour adhere to the part, forming, as it the aii- The crusts thus formed should not be distuibed until f«aby the discharges, when they should treatment the decomposition of the discharges is retarded and J remain iron-works and other places where horns are com,no,.