TREATMENT OF CUTANEOUS ERYSIPELAS. 9x9 some Surgeons. I saw them rather extensively employed in former years but not with any very marked success. At University College Hospital the treatment recommended by Yalette of Lyons has been lately tiied in se\ era cases with very good results. A 30 per cent, solution ol perchloride of iion is prepared (roughly 5]' of solid perchloride to siv of water) ; forty minims of this solution may be given internally with a little syrup or glycerine and water every two or three hoars, and externally the pure solution is applied to the inflamed area. Yalette insists that this must be done thoroughly, the solution must not merely be painted on, it must be rubbed in with a piece of lint or cotton wool. If necessary the grease must be removed from the surface of the skin by washing with soap and warm water before the lotion is applied. The application is repeated twice a day as long as it is necessary. A boundary line of nitrate of silver is occasionally drawn around the inflamed part, with a view of checking the extension of the disease. I have often done this, and seen it done by others, but never apparently with any benefit; and have now discontinued the practice as an useless source of irritation. The local abstraction of blood and of serum from the inflamed part, by the plan introduced by Sir R. Dobson, of rapidly making with the point of a lancet a large number of small punctures, from a quarter to half an inch deep, is of much value when the tension and swelling are extreme ; a hot fomentation cloth should be laid over the punctures so as to encourage bleeding, and the escape of serum. If the disease have attacked one of the limbs, the application of a bandage is occasionally necessary after the disappearance of the erysipelas, in order to remove the oedema that remains, and to support the softened and weakened tissues. 2. Cellulo-Cutajxeous on Phlegmonous Erysipelas differs from simple cutaneous in so many respects, that by many authors it is regarded as an entirely distinct affection, dependent on a different virus and different pre- disposing causes. It was described by Dupuytren under the name of “ diffuse phlegmon.” The nature of the virus is not known, and there is no evidence that it is inoculable, though analogy would lead us to believe that it is so. It does not spread from patient to patient if a case be admitted into a general ward, nevertheless the patient should be isolated, as our knowledge of the nature of the disease is not sufficient to justify 11s in abandoning such precau- tions. It has been said to occur occasionally in an epidemic form. It rarely occurs in its worst form, except in persons who have been addicted to excessive drinking, or who are suffering from chronic disease of the kidneys. Locally, it differs from cutaneous erysipelas in the intensity of the inflammation, which is such that it invariably terminates, if left to itself, in diffuse suppuration and sloughing. In depth it always extends to the subcutaneous areolar tissue, and, though generally bounded by the underlying fasci®, it not unfrequently implicates them if they have been opened up, and extends to the intermuscular areolar planes, the sheaths of the tendons, and other deep structures. There •s no defined margin to the superficial redness, and the lymphatic glands are frequently unaffected. Symptoms. I he inflammation may start from a wound or abrasion at an eaily period after its infliction, but frequently no such cause can be recognized, t is ushered in by the ordinary symptoms of inflammatory fever, accompanied or followed by the signs of severe inflammation in the part affected. The red- ness is uniform, of a deep scarlet hue, and pretty distinctly bounded ; the pain