1064 SCROFULA AND TUBERCLE. in scrofulous and tuberculous glands, and in chronic strumous sores and abscesses. He uses it in a solution which has much the strength of Harrogate , Waters. Thus, he directs a grain of the sulphide of calcium to be dissolved in a half pint of water, and of this a teaspoonful is taken every hour. As this mode of administration is seldom practicable, the drug may lie given in small doses from three to six times a day. 1 lie best foim is in pilules containing from one quarter to half a grain. If these cannot be obtained, the finely powdered sulphide may be kept in a closely stoppered bottle, and enough just to cover the point of a pen-knife taken in a wine glass of water. It cannot be made up in any mixture, as it rapidly decomposes, in contact with water giving oil' sulphuretted hydrogen. Under its influence, the glands, it is said, either return to the normal state or hasten on to suppu- ration, and chronic abscesses either dry up or are speedily brought forward and 1 their contents discharged, a healthy healing sore being left. The Local Treatment of scrofula consists in a great measure m the ordi- nary local management of chronic inflammation, modified according to the seat and peculiar nature of the affection. Much of the local treatment, however, especially in the more advanced stages, consists in removing the effects of the i disease in the shape of caseous deposits, false hypertrophies, and general enlargement and thickening of parts. _ , The treatment of scrofulous abscesses must be carried out according to the rides laid down in the Chapter on Abscesses. Whenever caseous matter is • present in the wall of the abscess, it should be scraped away by means of a sharp spoon (Fig. 95). By this means the patient is frequently saved the long suppuration which would otherwise attend its gradual expulsion, in these operations antiseptic treatment in some form is of the gi eatest va ue. • In many cases the healing is apparently hastened by the introduction 0 a small quantity of iodoform into the cavity. Iodoform-wool also will be ioun one of the most convenient dressings. In some cases the injection 0 tincture of iodine into the sac of the abscess will be found very useful, lhe !ocal treatment of scrofulous diseases of bones and joints will be fully discussed with the diseases of those parts. . , J Chronic thickenings left after scrofulous inflammations may be removed dv means of lotions containing the iodide of potassium, or the carbonate of potash applied by means of lint covered with oiled silk ; a drachm of each of the salts, M with an ounce of spirits of wine to eleven ounces of water, makes an exce cu application, which appears often to be very efficacious. 11 u^alU c ’ frictions with the iodide of lead ointment, or pressure by means of strapping - and bandages, will be found the most serviceable means that the burgeon can :i<1 Operations in Scrofulous and Tuberculous Cases.—In cases of scrofii- • Ions diseases of the soft parts, the bones, or the joints, the qucs ion of propriety of operating, whether this be for the excision of a gland the rcsectio It ajoint or bone, or the amputation of n limb has often ten teu^d., h these eases, operations should not he undertaken too as t t ’ ■ . jp disease or in very young subjects. The affection being constitutional, it w often be tod, aHhe general health of the patient is treatment, that local mischief, which at first appealed veiy t ^ ^ gradually assumes a more circumscribed and health} fom1,, an , £ ^ great extent undergoes spontaneous cure. Tins we especially find to