INJURIES OF SOFT PARTS. -94 CHAPTER IX. INJURIES OE SOFT PARTS. These consist of Contusions and Wounds. CONTUSIONS. In a Contusion the skin is unbroken, but there is always some laceration of the subcutaneous structures. Indeed, great disorganization of these occasionally takes place, though the skin continues entire, owing to its greater elasticity and toughness. Hence a contusion may be looked upon as being a subcutaneous lacerated wound. . , In contusions there is always extravasation of blood into the tissues to a greater or less degree. When slight, this extravasation is termed an ecchymosis. The blood is not shed outwardly, but accumulates under the skin in the areolar tissue, or in internal organs, presenting in the former situation the ordinary purplish-black discoloration of a bruise. The amount of blood extravasated will of course depend upon the vascularity of the part contused. The anes of the extravasation is due in great measure to the efiused blood, pent up amongst the tissues, coagulating over and compressing the torn vessels which have poured it forth ; thus restraining the further escape of blood from them, and allowing the ordinary process of repair of wounded vessels to take place. , . • Causes -Contusions may result from direct pressure, as when a part is forcibly squeezed ; from a direct blow, usually by a hard blunt body ; or from an indirect blow, as when the hip-joint is contused by a person falling on his feet from a height. Compression of the parts injured is always necessary to constitute a con- tusion. This compression may occur between the force on one side, and a bone as the resisting medium on the other ; or the part injured may be compressed and contused between two forces in action-as when the hand is cauoht between two revolving wheels ; or between a force m action and a passive medium—as by a wheel passing over the limb and crushing it agains thD^GREES.—1The amount of extravasation of blood consequent 011 a contusion will necessarily depend mainly upon the force employed in its production, but also o some considerable extent upon the state of hea th of the individual bruised In persons out of health, with soft tissues, bruising very readdy occurs Contusions are of various degrees: they may be annngec . u on. . Hf the Skin only; 2, with Extravasation into the Areolar Tissue; 8, with Laceration of the Soft Parte; and 4, w.th 8.V f-n-t-miponq Disorganization of the Soft and Hard Parts. T t| grsi ilmnr the blood is effused merely into the skin, producing ei A or tele’; the colour of which varies at different periods from