SPECIAL DISLOCATIONS. 652 be felt which would indicate an impacted fracture. In fracture of the surgical neck the end of the upper fragment can be recognized both from the axilla and below the tip of the coracoid process. Fracture of the great tuberosity is always - complicated with partial or complete dislocation, and would be recognized only by the presence of the signs of dislocation with crepitus and difficulty of keep- | ing the joint in position after reduction. Having thus carefully examined by . manipulation we must proceed to measurement. This is done by flexing the j elbow to a right angle and measuring from the point of hone above mentioned on the root of the acromion to the olecranon. There is only one injury in which there is distinct lengthening—the subglenoid dislocation ; in the subcoracoid dislocation there is usually a very little shortening, but slight lengthening is also said to occur when the head of the bone lies rather lower than usual. In fracture of the surgical neck there is great shortening—an inch or more ; in impacted fracture the shortening is very slight, seldom over half an inch. I11 in juries of the clavicle there is no shortening. Measurements should next be taken from the tip of the acromion to the middle line in front ; there will be shortening in all fractures of the clavicle (except that between the ligaments) and in all dislocations of the acromion and clavicle. In other injuries the length is unaltered. Finally the arm must be examined by passive movement. In all dislocations of the humerus it will be found impossible to place the hand on the opposite shoulder with the elbow touching the chest in front. In unimpacted fractures the movement is accompanied by great pain and crepitus. In fracture of the clavicle between the ligaments the crepitus may be a mere click felt 011 raising the arm over the head. If after thorough examination nothing can be detected, and yet the patient is suffering pain with inability to move the joint, the deltoid may be examined, and a tender spot may be found. If at the same time all passive movement is free and unaccompanied by pain, unless the muscle is stretched, while voluntary contraction of the muscle is painful, the case is probably one of bruise of the deltoid with possibly a lacera- tion of some of its fibres. If there is slight fulness about the shoulder, with pain on passive or active movement, the case is probably one of inflammation of the joint following a bruise. At a more remote period from the injury, intense pain while at rest, aggra- vated by movement, may be due to neuritis of the brachial plexus follov ing a strain, which may be recognized by the symptoms described in the chapter on injuries of nerves. Paralysis of the deltoid from a How or from injury of the circumflex nerve may simulate a dislocation, the shoulder being flattened and the acromion projecting : but here the mobility of the joint, and the presence of the head of the bone in the glenoid cavity, establish the absence of dislocation. The Reduction of a dislocated humerus may be conducted on four different plans :—by the heel in the axilla; by the knee; or by drawing the arm upu in < s, and by manipulation. Whichever plan is adopted, the patient should, ii strong, he put under the influence of chloroform ; when his muscles arc parah so ) this agent, but little force is required to effect the reduction, the Surgeon s unaided strength usually sufficing for this purpose. It more power, hovcier, should be required than he can exercise, extension may be made In assistan drawing upon a towel properly fixed round the lower end of the humerus, or else by the pulleys attached to the same part of the limb. _ 1. The reduction of the dislocation by the heel in the axilla is a 1110s e