THE PROCESS OF REPAIR. 280 with the finger, when it will be found to stand quite a severe blow without rupture of its vessels. On the other hand, when it is swollen by inflammatory exudation a very slight degree of violence suffices to disintegrate its structure. In fact, it may be laid down as a rule, that granulation-tissue is soft in direct proportion to the amount of irritation to which it is exposed; and as the repair of every injury accompanied by solution of continuity, whether sub-cutaneous or superficial, is accomplished through the medium of granula- tion-tissue, the importance of bearing this in mind is very great. The subsequent development of granulation-tissue into the fibrous tissue of the scar differs in no respect from that already described under union by the first intention. In union by the second intention, however, the effects of the contraction that accompanies the process are proportionately more marked as the quantity and extent of granulation-tissue is greater. The amount of the contraction varies with the size of the sore and the looseness of the structures in which it is seated. Thus the scar left by a sore the size of a half-crown on the scrotum might be little more than a quarter of an inch in diameter, while on the face it would probably be about the size of a sixpence, and on the thigh, where there is little skin to spare, it would be about the diameter of a shilling. The fearful deformity produced by the contraction of extensive granulating surfaces in the process of healing is best seen after burns and scalds. This process of contraction is an essential part of healing—no mode of treatment can prevent it ; and if from any cause, such as want of skin or adhesion to bone, contraction is not possible, the sore ceases to heal. The skinning over of the surface of the sore with new epithelium is accom- plished by means of multiplication of the cells at the margin of the sore. New epithelium forms from pre-existing epithelium only, and there is no reason whatever to believe that the granulation-cells can develope iuto epithelial scales. A scar when fully formed is composed of dense white fibrous tissue, con- taining few blood-vessels and no lymphatics. It is very imperfectly supplied with nerves, and they may be entirely wanting. The surface is smooth, and devoid of papillae, sweat-glands, or hair-follicles. In cases in which a slough has to be separated before repair can commence, this is accomplished by the process described under ulceration (see p. 255). The clinical phenomena that attend the process above described are as follows. Supposing the case to be one of simple loss of substance produced by a sharp cutting instrument, the raw surface, after bleeding has ceased, continues to discharge a quantity of serum, at first tinged w ith blood, but gradually becoming colourless; at the same time a glaze is seen to foim, due to the plastic exudation adhering to the surface of the wound. The healthy skin around the wound becomes redder than natural, the blush gradually lading away as we recede from the wound. But little further change is observed in the surface of the wound till the end of the second or third day ; by this time it is distinctly redder ; by the third or fourth day, florid red spots begin to form here and there, and the discharge becomes distinctly purulent. Gradually the red spots coalesce, and the surface becomes covered by the fifth or sixth day with a uniform, highly vascular layer of florid-red granulation-tissue. The surface now is no longer smooth, the new cells being formed around the vascular loops in little heaps, which give it the granular appearance, which has obtained for the new tissue the name of “ granulation-tissue.