INJURIES OF THE HEAD. 73° occasionally happens as the result of sabre- or hatchet-cuts on the head that a longitudinal incised fracture occurs, in which the outer table is merely notched, whilst the inner one is splintered along the whole line of blow. This is in point of fact an elongated punctured fracture, and the wide area of splintering of the inner table is due to the same cause as when a nail is driven in. In other cases, again, a portion of the skull is completely sliced off, hanging down in a flap of the scalp, and exposing the brain or its membranes. A special and very important kind of punctured and depressed fracture is that in which, by the thrust of a stick, umbrella, or other blunt-ended body into the orbit, the orbital plate of the frontal bone, or the cribriform lamella of the ethmoid, is perforated, and the dura mater or brain wounded. In such cases there is sometimes no external wound, the stick having passed up under the upper eyelid; and it is conceivable that the same result might be produced even by a thrust up the nostril. Death results either from wound of the cavernous sinus and intracranial extravasation of blood, or more remotely from septic meningo-encaphalitis following the wound of the dura mater and bl IHs very important to observe that the inner table may be very extensively fissured, and depressed, without any fracture of the older table. Oi tins remarkable injury twenty cases are recorded as having happened in t American civil war. One recovered, the diagnosis being made by finding the splintered inner table in a sequestrum which uas remove . 10 ^ died of intracranial mischief, and the diagnosis was not made during litt. Most commonly when the inner table is thus fractured or depressed the outer table is fissured. The accompanying cuts (Figs. 315, 316), taken from p o graphs, of a preparation in the Army Medical Museum, Washington represent a S e of extensive gun-shot fracture with depression of the inner table of the left parietafbone without fracture of the external table. The l»as *£ obliquely on the side of the head by a musket-ball, which mdieted • sedp wound. ^ There was no sign of cerebral disturbano the injury, when symptoms of compression set in. 1 he skull w< J examined through the wound for fracture; none could be found.