73 MORTALITY AFTER AMPUTATION. principles that will be fully discussed when we come to speak of neuralgia. No excision of the nerves of the stump, or even amputation higher up, is of any avail; the disease, being constitutional, will certainly return in each suc- cessive stump, until at last the shoulder or the hip may be reached without any permanent benefit to the patient. Occasionally after amputation a condition of chronic or subacute neuritis, with sclerosis of the nerve, is set up, which has a tendency slowly but steadily to extend upwards, involving new nerves as it goes, and finally, perhaps, lead- ing to changes in the spinal cord itself. The symptoms and treatment are those of chronic neuritis, which will be fully described under Injuries of Nerves. Recurrence of tlie Disease for which, the Amputation was per- formed is not of uncommon occurrence in cases of strumous diseases of bones and in malignant tumours. In the former case, amputation higher up may be advantageously performed ; but in the latter, it is justifiable only when there is no evidence of secondary growths in internal organs or in the lymphatic glands. Fatty Degeneration of the muscles of a limb, arising from their disuse, gh es rise to a peculiar appearance in the stump. During the- amputation, the muscles look like pieces of yellow wax, and are firm: no atrophy, so far as size is concerned, has taken place ; the fat being deposited between the muscular fibies, pioducing atrojDhy of them by its pressure and occupying their place, so that the general size of the limb and fulness of the stump are preserved. Union takes place in these circumstances, though somewhat slowly ; at least, this has occurred in several cases in which I have observed this condition. In one of these 1 amputated the leg for disease of the foot of nine years’ standing, and in another the thigh for disease of the knee of fourteen years’ standing. J MORTALITY AFTER AMPUTATION. The general causes of death after operations have already been considered ; nut we must now examine some special points connected with the relative that^exist amputatl0ns of dlfFerent ™s> and the cause of the differences ' Wver’ ifc would be tetter in order, as far as possible, am]mtationmblSU 7’ nieUfcl°U ^ define the chief causes of death after stimulation b?rti011 °! ithJ neiT°US Ceutres’ thc rcsulfc of Solent over- 7 P0AYerful affei'ent mipidse which from the injury done Uiich r ,T1’7! TVeS’ either 1,7 the knife ia amputation or by the injury S “t- Death tow cli Collapse is identical with very severe shock. limited to <1Si a iCa\1Se dcatb aFtcr amputations, is usually hours lifter th^operation!1 ***** °WS twenty-four is an 1 ™tlU'0Ugh il,JUred or discascd fcissues are ci^ectol^hwtW1 i”’8 term’s berp used to include all those affections which the amputation \ 01 ‘lhl! rjc-v>1 hfi decomposition of the discharges from amputation Hound, and the contamination of the air from the accumulation