760 INJURIES OF THE HEAD, In very exceptional cases it may be justifiable to remove more bone to get at the bleeding point, but this can be only when the situation of the wound can either be seen or can be recognized by the finger. The operation should, wherever possible, be performed with most careful antiseptic precautions. EPILEPSY FOLLOWING HEAD INJURIES. Head injuries are occasionally followed by traumatic Epilepsy. The oc- casioning cause may be of various kinds. Tins may arise, 1st, from a depressed and neuralgic cicatrix on the scalp—the starting point of reflex convulsions; 2nd, from chronic osteitis of the part of the skull struck, giving rise to thickening and induration of the bone; 3rd, from depression of bone or the formation of osseous stalactites pressing upon the dura mater or brain ; 4th, from chronic thickening of the dura mater; and, 5th, from obscure structural lesions of the brain-substance. In the Treatment of traumatic epilepsy arising from these various causes, operative interference may as a last resource, and after failure of all the ordinary constitutional means, be had recourse to. The practice of trephining in these cases is a very ancient one. The older Surgeons often employed it. Cline cured a patient by it whose epilepsy was found to be occasioned by a stalactiform osseous projection from the inner table, and whose last fit was on the operating table before the elevation of the disc of affected bone. But the practice fell into disuse until recently revived by Lucas-Championiere, West, and others. It is evident that, when there is distinct evidence of injury to the bone, an operation may offer a fair prospect of relief or of cure by the removal of the depressed, thickened, or out-growing osseous structure ; and in such cases, and in such only, it is right to do it. The trephine should lie applied at the seat of injury. When a painful cicatrix in the scalp alone seems to be the starting point of that reflex irritation which developes the epileptic attack, a\ e may follow Bryant’s advice, and dissect it up without trephining the subjacent bone. OPERATION OF TREPHINING. Before concluding the subject of injuries of the head, it is necessary to say a few words on the operation of Trephining', which, though far less commonly employed in the present day than heretofore, is one of suflicient frequency, as well as of great importance from the serious nature of the cases that require it. The operation of trephining may be required for one of the six following conditions, viz. :— 1. Simple depressed fracture of the cranium with symptoms of compression. 2. Compound depressed fracture of the cranium, with or without symptoms of compression. 3. Punctured or incised fracture of the cranium. 4. Extravasation of blood between the cranium and dura mater from rupture of the middle meningeal artery. 5. Intracranial abscess. (!. For the removal of a bullet lodged within the cranium. 7. For the cure of traumatic epilepsy. f The trephine may thus be applied to the skull for the fulfilment . two principles—either with the view of preventing inflammation and 1 &