SPECIAL FRACTURES. 566 occurrence, and may happen either in the bony points of the scapula that overhang this articulation, or else in the upper end of the humerus hot infrequently there is double fracture in the neighbourhood of this articulation; thus the acromion may be broken, as well as the neck of the humerus, these complications, as well as, in many cases, the amount of contusion, and the rapid swelling that takes place, necessarily render the diagnosis somewhat 2. The Acromion, forming as it does the very tip of the shoulder, is more frequently broken than any other part of the scapula. But, in spite o its exposed situation, fracture of this process through its base is not very common; at least I have seen but few cases of it, and there is good reason to believe that many of the cases of supposed fracture in this situation are 111 reality cases of delayed ossification of the line of junction between the base and the epiphysis. Notwithstanding this source of fallacy, there can be no doubt, as is proved by numerous preparations, that this fracture does occur. . . , , The Signs of this fracture are obvious. When the acromion is broken off near its root the arm hangs as a dead weight by the side, and the patient, feelino- aS if his arm were dropping off, supports it with the other hand. There is flattening of the shoulder, which is most marked when the patient is looked at from behind ; and the head of the humerus can be felt somewhat lower in the axilla than natural. On running the finger along the spine of the scapula, a sudden inequality in the line of the bone can be detected ; and, on jalsin» the elbow and rotating the arm, crepitus can be felt, the rounded outline the shoulder being restored. nnhirP of the iniurv When the tin only of the acromion is broken off, the natuie ot tue in] y 1 ] if fup natient be unable to raise his arm to a level with his Ty, t re touch tto crPo™ owtogTo some of the fibres of the deltoid having tauS pS Sate— , and it may be determined b, the existence m a mi tor decree of some of the preceding signs, which prevent the accident lif “rsvCn stated this may be a congenital defect, to which perhaps attention has been directed only when the shoulder has been bruised or otherwise injured. The Treatment consists principally in raising the elbow, so as totakeoff t^ gfilSi* articulation,6the teeatment must be the same “mena^rfftis ptcess is broken across, there iy-h^io, zz&ss& '"t*TtfcoSw^oeess is but seldom broken, there not being morethan ten or twelve unequivocal cases ofthus S.y cfc except by very direct violence. Ihcie tl implicating