SCROFULOUS LESION'S. 1055 or shilling, or even larger. The skin covering it is of a clusky purple in colour. Finally the mass softens, the skin gives way at one spot, and a thin curdy pus is discharged. The cavity left is covered supcificially by a thin layer of undermined skin, of a dark bluish colour, which is too feeble to undertake any process of repair, but yet obtains just enough blood-supply to prevent its death. Consequently no healing will take place till it is destroyed. After this has been done the floor of the ulcer will be seen to be yellow and unhealthy, and the sore may slowly spread instead of healing. The original mass is composed of a mass of small round cells, amongst which may be giant and epithelioid cells. It is imperfectly vas- cularized, and very early undergoes fatty degeneration, followed by softening. The scrofulous sores of this kind are most common on the face, but they may occur in other parts of the body (Fig. 410). Some forms of lupus are also supposed to be due to scrofula. The Mucous Membranes are commonly extensively affected, and often present the earliest forms of scrofulous disease in child- hood ; this is more especially the case with those of the eye, nose, and ears. The con- junctiva becomes chronically inflamed, and the discharge becomes muco-purulent. As a sequela of this the condition known as “ granular lids ” not uncommonly is set up. The papillae become excessively vascular and hypertrophied, till the whole surface of the membrane appears to be covered with genuine granulation-tissue. The affection specially known as strumous or phlyctenular ophthalmia, consists of the formation of a small, intractable ulcer on the cornea, with intense injection of the surrounding- conjunctiva. The mucous membrane lining the nostrils becomes chronically congested, red and swollen, giving rise to habitual sniffing and to a sensation as of a constant cold. The discharge, at first merely mucous, frequently becomes purulent, and lodging in the irregularities of the nasal fossre, decomposes, giving rise to the most offensive smell. This condition, known as strumous ozeena, may •sooner or later cause ulceration of the membrane and subsequent necrosis of the bones. Occasionally the lining membrane of the antrum becomes irritated, and this may be followed by enlargement of the cavity and discharge of un- healthy pus into the nostrils. Chronic purulent discharge from the car, scrofulous otorrhocci, is another very common affection. The disease most frequently commences in the middle ear, the discharge finding its way out by perforating the membrana tympani. It frequently leads to destruction of the ossicles and permanent deafness. The mucous membrane of the gcnito-urinarg organs also is readily affected with purulent catarrh, often arising from very slight causes and very per- manent. Such discharges are of common occurrence in female children, and have frequently given rise to unfounded charges of criminal assault. Perhaps the most important local diseases arising under the influence of scrofula are those of the Bones and Joints. The bones arc liable to a slow pro-