927 LOCAL VARIETIES. mouth. If unrelieved by treatment it is extremely fatal; death may occur from blood-poisoning or from suffocation, the disease spreading to the root of the epiglottis, and producing oedema glottidis. _ The Treatment consists in making a free incision in the mesial line, from the chin to the os hyoides, through the infiltrated parts, from which, if it be made sufficiently early, a thin dark serum, but no pus, will be seen to exude. The incision must be carried to a depth of two inches or more towards the base of the tongue, keeping carefully to the middle line, until the whole of the brawny infiltration has been divided. Erysipelas of the Scrotum, the “ inflammatory oedema ” so well described by Liston, is of frequent occurrence, as the result of wounds, ulcers, and other sources of irritation in this neighbourhood. The scrotum swells to a large size, being uniformly red, but with a semi-transparent glossy appearance, pitting readily on pressure, and feeling somewhat soft and doughy between the fingers : the integuments of the penis are also greatly swollen and ccdematous, and sometimes the inflammation extends to the areolar tissue of the cord. The chief characteristic of this form of erysipelas is its tendency to run into slough without any previous brawny or tense condition of the parts ; the dartos becoming so distended with the inflammatory exudation that the circulation through it is arrested. When an incision is made into it in this state it scarcely bleeds, and the sides of the wound present a yellowish-white gelati- nous appearance. The Treatment consists in making a free incision about four inches in length on each side of the septum, taking care not to go so deeply as to wound the testes ; the part must then be supported on a pillow, and well fomented. If this incision be not made at once, a great part or even the whole of the scrotum may slough away, leaving the testes and cords bare ; in these unpleasant circumstances, however, the parts will often with great rapidity become covered Avith neAV integument. The oedema of the penis usually subsides of itself, or after making a few punctures in it ; should its integuments, how- ever, threaten to slough, a free incision must be made into it, or the prepuce be slit up. Erysipelas of the Pudenda is occasionally met with in ill-fed unhealthy children in whom cleanliness is neglected. The parts become of a dusky or livid red, swell considerably, and quickly run into gangrene, Avhich spreads up the abdomen or down the nates. It may prove fatal by inducing peritonitis or exhaustion. In the Treatment, ammonia, bark, and chlorate of potash, with good nourishment, and a little wine, arc the principal means, at the same time that the parts are bathed in a warm antiseptic solution and well fomented. Diffuse Cellulitis of the Ischio-Rectal Fossa is not uncommon in old and feeble subjects, as the result of exposure to cold. The symptoms are those of cellulitis in general, a brawny hard swelling by the side of the rectum, Avith redness of the skin, and great pain and tenderness. The fat of the ischio- rectal fossa rapidly sloughs, and a foul, fetid abscess, the pus of Avhich is mixed Avith shreds of gangrenous tissue, rapidly forms. The Treatment consists of free and early incisions. At a later stage it may be necessary to divide the sphincter before the cavity will heal. Whitlow, or Paronychia, is an Erysipelatous Inflammation of the Fingers. It is a frequent affection in old and young people, either occurring spontaneously in cachectic constitutions, or arising from the irritation pro-