THE LOCALIZATION OF CEREBRAL INJURY. 745 8 Paralysis of the Upper Limb or brachial monoplegia indicates an affection of the middle portion of the ascending frontal convolution and the contiguous part of the ascending parietal on the other side of the hulcus 0 Rolando (about the spot marked R'). This centre being immediately above those for the face, it is common to meet with a combination of facial palsy and paralysis of the arm. 4. Paralysis of the Lower Limb indicates a lesion of the upper extremity of the ascending parietal convolution, and of the posterior parietal lobule lying behind it, and reaching to the margin of the longitudinal fissure (P2). The foregoing localizations are agreed upon by almost all observers ; but about some0 others, there is a difference of opinion. Ferrier states, that in front of the centres for the upper limb, in the superior frontal and part of the middle convolutions, reaching to near the longitudinal fissure of the brain is a Fig. 322.—The Relation of the Convolutions to the Bones and Surface of the Skull. R. Fissure of Rolando ; P«. Ascending Parietal; Fa. Ascending Frontal Convolution ; F 3. Broca’s Convolution. (From H IiUcas-Chainpionifere.) i centre which controls lateral movements of the head and eyes and dilatation of the pupil, the oculo-motor centre. He states also that there is a centre for vision along the lower part of the parietal lobe, and one for hearing in the first or superior temporo-sphenoidal. The above facts may be made more clear by a few typical cases. In 1881, a young man, age 20, was admitted into University College Hospital on the second day after he had received a rather violent blow on the left temple in a fall from some steps. On manipulating his head, a sensation was felt as if a small round piece of the thin part of the bone in that region had been broken loose; it was not depressed, and as further manipulation seemed dangerous, pressure was not repeated on it. He was not stunned by the accident, or at most for a few seconds only, but immediately lost the power of speech ; he could understand what was said to him, but could say yes, and “no,” and nothing more. On the third day there was distinct paralysis of the lower facial muscles on the right side ; on the fifth day, a clonic spasm commenced in the lower facial muscles, and gradually extended to the upper, and he lost consciousness. This lasted nearly half an hour, when he recovered, and was leeched over the injured spot, after which he fell