473 INJURIES OF NERVES, MUSCLES, AND TENDONS. Symptoms.—The symptoms of traumatic neuritis arc intense pain and i tenderness in the line ol the affected nerve. Sensation is variously modi lied in the parts supplied hy the nerve; there may be numbness, or tingling, or anaesthesia; in other cases there may be intense neuralgic pain. Occasionally there are spasms, but more commonly there is weakness or paralysis of some of the muscles supplied. Poore has shown that in a considerable proportion of the cases which have come under his care for loss of writing-power, tender- ness has been found in the course of some one or more of the nerves of the arm, and on tracing the history, the origin of the affection was frequently found to be a strain or other injury. In another case recorded by him, the whole brachial plexus in the axilla became intensely tender after a violent strain of the shoulder. The patient’s sufferings were very great, and nothing o-ave him much relief. At last, after prolonged rest, the symptoms subsided, and it was then found that the serratus magnus was paralysed. Finally, this also recovered. In hysterical patients the symptoms are often greatly exaggerated. , , , . ., Treatment.—In the early and painful stage of the disease, electricity does no good, in fact it may aggravate the mischief. The tender nerves should be freely blistered, and the affected limb put at perfect rest. If any constitutional condition as gout, rheumatism, or syphilis can be found, it must be treated oy appropriate means. These cases are always chronic, often lasting many months before the symptoms disappear. In others, all milder means having failed surgical operations of various kinds have been undertaken for the lehef of the patient. These operations are of three kinds:—1. Excision of tie bulbous ends of the nerves in cases of neuritis following amputation; _. Division or excision of a portion of the affected nerve; and 3. Aeive- Stlf* Excision of the Bulbous Ends of the Nerves.—This has been undertaken usually under the impression that the bulbous end was the seat of the mischief. In some cases no doubt a painful stump is due to lmplieat of the end of the nerve in the cicatrix, and then relief is given by the operation. If the symptoms are however due to true ^-omc neuritis, this operation, although occasionally giving relief foi a short time, is of portions of the Nerve.-The smaller nerve, of the limbs have been repeatedly divided or partially persistent traumatic neuralgia. The larger nervous till > ■ median, musculo-spiral, and ulnar, have been treated m Hie"jV 1 “ upper ; and the external popliteal, and even the sciatic nerve m t limb has been partially excised as a last resource m extreme cases These operations have in some cases effected a permanent cure, in others 1 > been followed hy temporary relief only. , , I was reserved for Sands, of New York, to remove a section of the who bnchW plexus close to the exit of the nerve, from the spmel column.Jto* 1 } n Pul ao'ed eighteen whose right arm had been seriously injured was clone in a lact ngcci eignteui, t» . • . R11flpGre(j the most in firing a salute. The arm was amputated, but the patient s rSSS 55a b: un mms - w