49s FRACTURES. ously. Necrosis, caries and abscess of bom have all been known to give rise to spontaneous fracture, but such a complication is extremely rare. Some rare . cases have been described in which there is a hereditary tendency to fracture of the bones, without any other recognizable constitutional defect, transmitted from father to son. Thus Greenish records a case in which the grandfather had had several bones broken ; he had three sons and two daughters : the youngest son and the two daughters escaped without fractures; the eldest son, who had one bone broken, had two children, the eldest of whom had thirteen and the younger two fractures; the second son, who had two fractures, had five children, who suffered respectively four, four, eight, four, and three broken bones. Lastly, certain cases are met with in which no clear causes can be found: thus fracture of the femur has more than once been met with in young men apparently quite healthy, from the sudden and violent con- traction of the thigh muscles, as for instance in pulling off or drawing on a boot, and I have known a gentleman a little above fifty, apparently in perfect health, break his thigh with a loud snap whilst turning in bed. In cases of spontaneous fracture union rarely takes place, or not without much difficulty. Varieties.—Fractures present important varieties as to their Nature and their Direction. The varieties as to nature depend upon the cause of the fracture, its seat, and the age of the patient. Nature.—Fractures are divided into two great classes, according as they are unaccompanied or attended by an open wound leading down to the line of breakage in the bone—the first being called Simple, the second Compound. In the first class are included the Single Fracture, where the bone is merely broken across, split, or fissured; the Impacted, where one fragment is wedged into another, the compact tissue being driven into the cancellous structure ; the Comminuted (Fig. 172), where the bone is broken into several fragments at one place ; and the Multiple, where there are more fractures than one, either in different bones or in different parts of the same bone. When the soft parts are torn through, so that the fracture communicates by a wound with the surface of the body, it is said to be Compound. A fracture may be rendered compound in two ways : either through Fis. m. - comminuted laceration of the soft parts by the same injurv that shot. breaks the bone, as when a bullet in traversing a limb, fractures the bone ; or else by the protrusion of one of the extremities of the broken fragments through the integuments. This necessarily most frequently happens when the fragments are sharp and pointed, and the coverings thin, as in fracture of the tibia, and may be occasioned by muscular contraction, or by some incautious movement on the part of the patient, or roughness on the part of those lifting or carrying him, driving the fragment through the skin. It is important to distinguish between fractures that are primarily compound, that is, that are compound from the first or become so within a few days, and those iu which a wound leading to the broken bone forms some time after the accident, as the result of inflammation, suppuration, and sloughing, or from other causes. When the fracture becomes compound secondarily, the danger