229 CAUSES OF SUP EUR AT ION. suffering from purely local diseases, the constitution being- otherwise healthy, the fluid was clear, sometimes coagulable, and comparatively free from cor- puscles ; in cachectic or phthisical patients, it was turbid and crowded with wandering leucocytes ; and every intermediate variety was met with, according I to the condition of the system. I11 scrofulous constitutions, the inflammation that is excited by a trivial in jury, as the sprain of a joint for instance, is very apt to run on to suppuration. So, again, in certain cachectic states of the system, slight wounds suppurate or fester as it is termed. The irritants which give rise to suppuration are innumerable ; but it is needless to repeat them here, as they have already been described under the Causes of Inflammation (vide, p. 159). From a purely surgical point of view, the most important are decomposition of the discharges, tension, and friction of diseased surfaces upon each other. That the “ admission of ah- ” acts as a cause of suppuration, is an observation of great antiquity. It was impossible for Surgeons not to be struck by the fact that a subcutaneous injury, such as a simple fracture or dislocation, heals rapidly without suppuration, while exactly the same injury complicated by a wound in the skin, is almost equally certain, unless special means are taken to prevent it, to be followed by profuse and prolonged suppuration. That the constituent of the air which does the mis- chief is its dust, and that the active part of the dust is in all probability the living organisms, which form a large part of it, has already been pointed out (p. 165). Tension is in most cases the irritant which maintains the process of suppura- tion in an abscess, aud causes it steadily to increase in size till it bursts super- ficially. In some abscesses, the specific nature of the pus gives it chemical irritating properties, which apart from tension may cause it to increase in size ; but these cases are much less frequent. The persistence of suppuration which results from the irritation caused by the friction of diseased surfaces upon each other, will be seen hereafter, in treating of diseases of the joints to be a condition of great importance. These facts as to the causation of suppuration are not merely pathological details of no importance to the practical Surgeon. In every case in which we have to deal with persistent formation of pus, we should carefully consider every cause that can possibly be present, both constitutional and local to account for the condition, as it is only by the removal of the cause that we can hope to relieve the effect. The Duration of suppuration varies greatly. In wounds in which, in con- wSl lT fl'0m pcnU!P exudafcion> ^composition of the discharges, not obtainor ’ tb r & f0j'eigl bod^ Umou ™thout suppuration is three ^chaVge dlstincfc1^ P^nt in the course of about te days, although occasionally it may be delayed for a longer time When ^i^11 Set UPSifc Wil1 COutiuue as lon§- as the cause persists, soum rf becomes weakened by the prolonged discharge, slightei- Imkal u ai’t SUfi?Cient t0 maintaiu the process. From mucous discharges ma *eCla,7 " '^n t le^ suP'cr ^rom mechanical hyperaemia, purulent cuscnaiges may continue for years. The T,op i «a '' t;HATrox- I hese are local and constitutional. or in the inim-i °mS d'®3r as tbe 8uPPul’ation occurs on a mucous surface, v\n .lor of a tlssue or organ. 1 inflamed mucous surface is about to suppurate, the membrane prc-