579 RADIUS— CO LIES' FRACTURE. one on the dorsal aspect. The hand is abducted and rotated outwards, so that its axis is oblique to that of the fore-arm ; the ulnar border being somewhat convex, and the styloid process of the ulna projecting sharply under the skin (Fig. 212). The radial side of the wrist is, on the contrary, somewhat con- cave, appearing to be shortened. The pain at the scat of injury is very severe, and is greatly increased by Pig. 213.—Fracture of Lower End of Radius •. Side View. moving the hand, especially by making any attempt at supination. The hand is perfectly useless, the patient being unable to support it. All power of rotating the radius is lost, the patient moving the whole of the arm from the shoulder at once, and thus ap- parently, but not really, pronating and supinating it. Crepitus can readily be felt when the fracture is simple or comminuted ; but when it is impacted, the most careful examination fails to elicit it. ^i’ndof'RadiusT Back vtew! The Cause of the particular Deformity that is observed, and indeed the general pathology of the injury, has been the subject of much discussion; in a great measure owing, I believe, to the rarity of the opportunities of dissecting recent fractures of this kind. Surgeons are, however, now agreed that the dorsal prominence is due to the lower fragment, carrying the carpus with it, being displaced backwards and upwards; whilst the palmar tumefaction is due to the projection forwards of the lower end of the upper fragment, which is thrown into a state of pronation. There is thus a double cause of displacement in operation. The displacement of the upper fragment is evidently due to the pronatores quadratus and radii teres ; but to what is the displacement of the lower fragment due ? Is it to the peculiar manner in which the two frag- ments are locked into one another ? or is it due to muscular action ? Some years ago I had an opportunity of dissecting and carefully examining the state of the limb in a woman who died from other causes in University College Hospital twelve days after meeting with this accident. On examining the left arm, which presented all the signs of this injury in a marked degree, and from which Fig. 212 was taken, a transverse fracture of the radius was found about an inch above its articular surface. The lower fragment was split into three portions, between which the upper fragment was so firmly impacted to the ept i of more than half an inch, as to require some force in its removal. The ree portions into which the lower fragment was split were of very unequal size , the two posterior ones being small, consisting merely of scales of bone : e t ird fragment, the largest, comprising the whole of the articular surface 0 ie radius, which was tilted somewhat upwards and backwards, carrying the