COMPLICATED FRACTURES. 529 dislocation in the first instance, he must wait until the fracture has become firmly united, and then, putting the limb in splints or in staich, he may tiy to effect reduction, which, however, will then be very difficult. The fracture in a limb which is the seat ol an old Unreduced Dislocation is necessarily of very rare occurrence, but occasions no serious difficulty in diagnosis or treatment. I once saw and treated successfully with Dr. Bryant a case of this kind in the person of an old gentleman who, falling on the ice, fractured the left humerus, which had been the seat of an unreduced disloca- tion forwards for more than fifty years. The existence of an Ankylosed Joint in a fractured limb gives but little trouble, beyond the necessity of modifying the splints in such a way as to fit the shape of the limb. I have treated fractures of the thigh, leg, and arm in such circumstances with perfect success, by adapting the splints to the angle formed by the stiffened joint. Fracture of a bone into the Site of an Excised Joint presents no pecu- liarity of importance. I have met with it in the humerus at the elbow, and have treated the case as one of ordinary fracture of the epiphysis. Fracture of the bone in the Stump of an Amputated Limb is a rare accident. I have twice had such cases under my care ; once in a man, and another time in a woman, each of whom fractured the femiu’ low down in a limb which had been amputated below the knee. There was no displacement of the fractured bone in either case, showing the influence of the weight of the limb in addition to muscular contraction in occasioning displacement of the lower fragment. In each case the accident was the consequence of a fall, and union readily took place under the starched bandage. In cases of simple fracture occurring in the neighbourhood of, or implicating large joints, passive motion is very commonly recommended at the end of from four to six weeks ; I think, however, with Vincent, that this is often apt to do more harm than good, and is seldom required, the natural action of the muscles of the part being fully sufficient to restore the movements of the articulation, with the assistance of friction and douches. Amputation is but very seldom required in simple fractures, and I have never had occasion to practise it. Yet, in cases of very extensive and severe comminuted simple fracture of the lower end of the femur, or of the upper part of the bones of the leg, with implication of the knee-joint and injury to the popliteal or tibial arteries, as indicated by the cessation of pulsation in the vessels of the foot, removal of the limb might be proper, in order to save the patient from gangrene or diffused traumatic aneurism. But it is only when the main artery has been injured by spicula of fractured bone, that such fractures will require amputation. I have had under my care a man, in whom the condyles of both femora and the left patella were crushed into numerous pieces by a fall from a great height on the knees, the limbs at the seat °t the injury feeling like bags of loose fragments of bone ; yet, as neither the skin was broken nor the main vessels injured, though both kncc- ensi daPPeared t0 be diS0rganked’ fche limbs were Preserved, and good union whiVh n UNI- ^RACTuni':- A compound fracture is that form of injury in fracture aU °Pen wound leading down to the broken bone at the scat of frarttn ‘ ^ns the term includes injuries varying in severity from a simple vol C£ded by il small punctured wound of the skin made by one of M M