AMPUTATIONS. 53 split the vessels, but to out them us long as possible. As a general rule, the ' less loose muscle that is left on the stump, the better: hence, where there is an equal thickness of soft parts round the bone, as in the arm and thigh, the flaps should be cut short, well retracted, and the bone cleared by circular sweeps of the knife as high as necessary. The bone thus lies at the bottom of a deep hollow beyond the angle of junction of the flaps, and there is less chance of a conical stump being left. In cutting a flap from without inwards, it is of the greatest importance to remember that the edge of the knife must never be turned towards the under surface of the flap, but always towards the parts to be removed. After marking out the flap with the point of the knife, the Surgeon takes the edge of the skin lightly between the finger and thumb of his left hand, and raises it from the parts beneath. The portion of the flap which is thus raised is therefore at right angles to the surface of the limb, and the knife must also be kept in a similar direction, or its edge will be turned towards the base of the flap, and by scoring its under surface will greatly increase the dangers of sloughing. The flap must be raised evenly across the limb, and one side must not be allowed to get in advance of the other. When bands of areolar tissue are seen passing from the flap to the parts beneath, the operator must divide these at the end that is attached to the parts to he removed. There should be no hurry about raising a flap by dissection, as under the influence of anaesthetics the lengthening of the operation by two or three minutes is a matter of but little importance. It is better to spend one or two minutes more over the operation, than to have to re-amputate on account of sloughing of the flaps. The simple circular aud the double-flap operations being thus brought to perfection marks the limits of the improvements in amputation which resulted from the invention of the tourniquet; and before the invention of anaesthetics Surgeons were divided in opinion as to which of the two methods was to be preferred when the nature of the case allowed of a choice. The advocates of the flap operation claimed for it the following advantages : that it was easy of performance, and could be carried out with great rapidity, thus saving pain to the patient ; that the thick muscular cushion left over the ends of the bones made a better covering and rendered protrusion of the bone less likely to occur ; and that the accuracy of fit obtained by this method favoured union of the flaps by first intention. The advocates of the circular method maintained: that the light covering formed by the skin and fat was less likely to be dis- placed by the involuntary movements of the muscles, and was quite as capable of uniting by first intention as fleshy flaps; and that protrusion of the bone was not dependent on the method adopted, hut upon insufficiency of covering. As long ago as 1788 it had been pointed out by Mynors that the muscular cushion was more an ideal advantage than a real one; for in course of time the muscular tissue in the flap becomes atrophied and absorbed, until after a few months the difference in covering between a stump formed by the flap method and one by the circular is inappreciable. The advocates of the circular method also maintained that the vessels being cut transversely retract more perfectly, and are less likely to bleed afterwards, and that the wound result- ing from the operation is smaller than that produced by the flap method. The great objection to the circular operation was undoubtedly its tediousness and pain- fulness, and consequently the flap operation became undoubtedly the favourite with most Surgeons. The invention of anaesthetics, however, left the Surgeon