TREATMENT OF CHRONIC INFLAMMATION. 2I5 one grain of the sulphide of calcium dissolved in half a pint of water, and of this one teaspoonful may be taken hourly. In adults, in whom this mode of administering medicine is seldom possible, a pill containing one quarter to one third of a grain of the sulphide may be taken three times a day. Mineral waters, both taken internally or used as baths, enjoy a great reputation in the treatment of many chronic inflammatory affections. The choice of the water or the bath will, of course, depend upon the constitutional condition which forms the predisposing cause of the chronic inflammation. Sea-air is beneficial in many forms of chronic inflammation, especially in those dependent on scrofula. Local, Treatment of Chronic Inflammation.—In chronic inflammation, our local means of treatment are much more varied than in the acute form of the disease. Local Blood-letting is often required with a view of directly unloading the vessels of the part; and this is accomplished by scarification, leeching, or cupping. Scarification is employed principally in chronic inflammation of the mucous membranes. Leeches may be very usefully employed in some forms of chronic inflammation, two or three being applied every second or third day. Warmth and Moisture are not so serviceable in chronic as in acute in- flammation, and care should be taken that they be not continued for so long a time as to make the parts sodden. An astringent or stimulant, such as liquor phunbi or spirits of wine, may often advantageously be added to the warm application. Cold is seldom required in any but the advanced stages of chronic inflam- mation, in which there are debility and passive congestion of the vessels of the part. In order to remove this state of things, its application should not be continuous, but should be made twice or thrice a day, so as to occasion a sudden shock, and produce a constringent effect upon the enfeebled vessels. This is best done by pumping or pouring cold water from a height, or by douching, and should be followed by active friction. Friction is often of great service in some of the forms of congestive inflam- mation, by the removal of the thickening, stiffening, and induration that result. Friction may be practised either with the naked hand, or with some embroca- tion of a stimulating or absorbent character. Counter-Irritants are local applications which give rise to irritation of the skin of varying intensity according to their nature, the mildest forms causing merely a passing dilatation of the cutaneous vessels, as the application of a camphor liniment, and the most severe producing destruction of the skin and even of part of the subcutaneous tissue, as the moxa or an issue. The value of counter-irritation is recognised by all practical Surgeons, and counter- mitants are undoubtedly amongst the most effective local means that we possess for combating chronic inflammation; yet their mode of action is diffi- cult to explain. The old theory that by exciting a local inflammation in the s nn it was possible to draw the disease away from the deeper and more im- portant parts is no longer tenable ; the theory that by stimulation of the sensoiy neives ol the skin a dilatation of the superficial vessels is produced, accompanied by a corresponding contraction in the deeper parts, cannot be supported by scientific evidence ; in fact, as Billroth has pointed out, it is pro ia e that in many cases, especially in extremely sluggish chronic iuflam-