676 SPECIAL DISLOCATIONS. The slight flexion, the rotation inwards, and the adduction are all due to the position in which the neck of the hone is held hy the unyielding ilio- , femoral ligament ; flexion and adduction are easy because by approximating the intertrochanteric line to the anterio-inferior pubic spine they relax the ligament. When the head of the bone has escaped below the tendon of the obturator we have the dislocation formerly described as into the sciatic notch, and to which the name of “sciatic” is still usually applied. If seen immediately after the accident there may be extreme flexion and adduction, the dislocated limb crossing the sound thigh near the groin, but usually before the Suigeon sees the case the limb has been brought down so that the head has gone up behind the obturator. The symptoms then resemble those of the dislocation on to the dorsum ilii, differing chiefly in degree. The inversion of the knee and foot is more marked, and consequently the trochanter is less prominent than in the dislocation on the ilium ; the shortening is very much less, as it is limited by the obturator internus in its abnormal position ; it seldom exceeds an inch and is usually not so much. The position of the limb will depend upon the degree to which the thigh has been extended since the accident. In the erect position the weight1 of the limb brings it down so that the axis of the thigh may be directed across the sound knee, and the toes of the injured side may rest on those of the opposite foot. Thus it may closely resemble a dislocation on the dorsum ilii, the most important difference being the small amount of shortening when the head has escaped below the tendon. By violent manipulation or extension the ob- turator internus may be torn, and the lower dislocation may thus be converted into one on the dorsum ilii. The Diagnosis of this form of dislocation is easy in pro- portion as the head of the bone lies high on the dorsum ilii. The lower it is placed the more difficult does the detection of the displacement become, and the greater the Fig. 294. — Dislocation rjpp 0f pg qeing overlooked altogether, or mistaken for a ■below tlic lenclon. — ' ^ 11 - Much nversion. gelow. a. (Bi- gprain. In ordinary cases of fracture of the neck of the thi°k-bone, the eversion of the limb at once points out that the head of the&bone is not dislocated on the ilium The only severe iiiiury of the hip with which the dislocation upwards and backwards can be confounded, is the rare case of fracture of the neck of the thigh-bone, ivith inversion of the limb. In this accident, the increased mobility, and SferiS of crepitus, will enable the Surgeon to effect the diagnosis. Should however the case be one of impacted extracapsular fracture, mlh uner ““fficulty of diagnosis is undoubtedly great A correct conchy nay however, be arrived at by observing that m the frac me the flat cued trochanter is approximated to, and is in nearly a perpendicular line with & nnterS superior spine of the ilium ; whilst in the dislocation lie trocliante ifdtagonahy behind that process of bone, and the head of the thigh-bone can be felt in its new situation by deep manipulation^ the ■Rednotion of Dorsal Dislocations by Manipulation. 11 I* h ho Wd UBOJi liis bade on a mattress on the Hoor and fully an«sthct®A must be laicl upon mn mi,ovo Qr„ ohief wavs in the Surgeon standing on the injured side. There ate t«o clnet waj