86 AMPUTATIONS. Parisian hospitals was 3 in 5, and more recently Le Fort gives the mortality at 58 per cent. In Germany matters were not much better Billroths pub- lished amputation-mortality lias been from 43 to 46 per cent. _ ^^eUnitec States the death-rate is much smaller, however ; the mortality inithe■ 1 ennsy vania Hospital being only about 24 per cent., and that of the Massachusetts Gr of the experience deduced freer the erorfalit, following amputations during the great modern wars is at least equally u^ favourable. But here there are so many modifying and distuibing eleme •, that it may be well to exclude these cases from consideration. In fact, then, on taking the average mortality after amputation of aULfo limbs in the largest hospitals in the great centres of civilisation we comei to his result, that it comnmnly varied from GO to 35 per cent, and did not fall below 24 per cent. : and that in certain of the larger amputations, ^ n the upper third of the thigh and at the hip-joint, it ran up to from /0 to 90 pei cent Widely extended statistical returns have shown but too plainly hat these figures are trustworthy and constant, when founded on sufficient nui teAnfcanfed o™ a suflAent length of time to eliminate the mfluenea of accidental circumstances operating for or against the patusn . g So constantlY did these figures come out in hospital returns, that had “ome to regard them as representing the «. » £ speak, the natural rate of mortality after amputation^ Bid in tta, so trssz ~ " preventable, and that may methods of treatment, but all having in view attention to the hygienic tions of the wound and of the patient. , , k on amplUa- The statistics, quoted in a former page from Me treatment 1 The ,s absolutely prevented. Ths »«»M discovered, Whenever best means of carrying it out has prooamyj mean8 it may be antiseptic treatment is efficiently can ice > infection and of contamination accomplished, the wound ceases to be a source of may then to the surrounding atmosphere, and the results of hospital practice > equal the best that can be obtained in pm ate. . knowledge of the UP to 1869 Surgeons had no by results of amputations on a large scale, excel Simpson collected the statistical reports of hospitals ; but and from small country hospitals, and from 1 nAomm0n occurrence, statistics mining districts, in which ampu a ions <i pLqore the modern improved which proved satisfactorily that in the , tl aggregation in one methods of treating wounds were fully undetore inflnenoe building of patients suffering from open wounds exerted a po on the proportion of deaths.