i oo6 TUMOURS. of this kind came under my care in University College Hospital in 1871. A healthy man, aged 40, had noticed, for about nine months, a soft swelling on the upper and outer part of the leg, which he attributed to a strain. It fluctuated distinctly ; and when I first saw it, a dark red fluid was oozing from two dis- coloured points. It Avas altogether about three inches in diameter, and of a dark purple colour. It had previously to admission been treated, first by the passage of a seton, and secondly, by being laid open and dressed from the bottom; Avhich latter treatment had been repeated twice. On both occasions it was reported that nothing but blood escaped. I laid the tumour freely open, and turned out a large quantity of Avhat Avas apparently ordinary blood-clot and then dissected away the cyst-wall. The supposed blood-clot Avas found, on microscopic examination, to be composed of a mixture of the cells of a round and spindle-celled sarcoma, with coagulated blood (Fig. 39 G). The Avail of the cyst was found to be composed of pure sarcomatous tissue. The growth recurred before the wound was completely closed, and amputa- tion at the knee-joint Avas performed, the patient making a good recovery. Mixed Sarcomata.—Tumours are fre- quently seen Avhich combine in themselves structures properly belonging to two or more distinct forms of growth. Several of these have been already mentioned. Thus the growths standing on the doubtful line between small spindle-celled sarcoma and fibroma, are spoken of as fibrosarcomata. In very rare cases some of the cells of a sarcoma may develope into true fat-cells ; Are have then the liposarcoma. Spindle-celled or small round-celled tissue is not unfrequently associated Avith cartilaginous tumours, forming the chondrosarcoma. Occasionally large tracts of a tumour, the chief part of which is purely sarcomatous, may undergo mucous softening, and the cells may be more or less stellate or branched, as in a myxoma, and we have then the myxosarcoma. As before stated, the tissue between the acini of an adenoma may present exactly the structure of a spiudle-celled or even round-celled sarcoma ; these tumours are then sometimes called adenosarco- mcita. Lastly, the stroma of a cancer may be composed of cells like those of a large spindle-celled sarcoma. In tumours which are purely sarcomatous it is, moreover, very common to find a mixture of the various kinds of cells Avhich haAre been described as characterizing the different A'arieties mentioned in the preceding pages. Kg. 396.—Mixed Bound and Spindle- celled Sarcoma, into which Haemor- rhage has taken place (1SS diam.). a. Recent Hannorrhage. b. Blood-corpuscles becoming gran- ular. V TUMOURS COMPOSED OP CELLS OF AN EPITHELIAL TYPE ARRANGED IN SPACES IN A STROMA CONSISTING OF MORE OR LESS PERFECTLY DEVELOPED FIBROUS TISSUE. The members of this group constitute the cancers or carcinomata, and arc uniformly malignant in their progress. i . Cancer, Carcinoma.—Before proceeding to the individual growths forming this class, it will be desirable to say a feiv words upon the subject of cancer