HAEMORRHAGE INTO ABSCESSES. 25r patient’s powers to enable him to bear op against it. Hence they should be husbanded from the first. While the abscess is discharging, nourishing, tonic, and even stimulating treatment will be required in proportion to the amount of debility that is induced. Amongst the most useful medicinal agents are mineral and vegetable tonics, the mineral acids, and cod-liver oil in the more chronic stages. Attention to hygienic conditions, with change of ah’, and residence at the sea-side, are also valuable. When hectic comes on, the same general tonic plan must be adopted, while we have recourse to means adapted to meet the local symptoms. Thus, acids are required to check the sweating, astringents to arrest the diarrhoea, and as much mild nourishment as the patient will bear to support the strength. Hemorrhage into the cavity of an Abscess is not of unfrequent occurrence. It may arise from three sources: 1. Oozing of blood from the vascular wall of the abscess; 2. Ulceration into a vein; 3.’Ulceration or sloughing of the coats of a neighbouring artery. The bleeding which occurs from the abscess-wall is the most frequent, and the least important. It sometimes takes place before the abscess is opened, the pus that escapes being then found to be sanious and mixed with small coagula, More commonly it occurs after the opening of the abscess, in con- sequence probably of the wall having lost the support of the contained pus, when the vessels in the soft wads give way and the cavity speedily fills with blood. In these cases the haemorrhage may be arrested by laying the cavity Oi the abscess freely open and turning out the coagula, when the bleeding usually ceases as soon as the interior is exposed to the cold air. Should this fail, it may be necessary to stuff the cavity with lint, or, if possible, with =e antiseptic masalas iodoW or salicylic-wool, and to apply pressure f ‘ )anca§e- en fc*ie cavity is closing, the vascular granulations which brou olw^fn h 8 Wa ma^ bleed very freely if any pressure be accidentally f i ^ fVemS leadmg from the ParL 111 this case the bleeding- ceases nmnediately the pressure is removed. Haemorrhage from Ulceration extending into a neighbouring Vein is cessanly far more serious. It has usually happened from sloughy abscesses formed on the side of the neck or under the angle of the jaw, as a «« ^‘r veTn T™*'*’ »Pe“”S *P the internal n°ca Life natienta “dependentF “y specific inflammation, be adopted is t i t,, T d'St?s,1,S cas“> tlle only treatment that cal 'r p.:r speciflc p°oi“„ J ^ ,nfl“e,1CeS °f a larSO sIotI«by wound Li 1 necessarily bccLncLone' L evtL Ulcei'a'tl<m °f a large Artery, the case occur in the neck and in H W .r"ency, I have known this condition to abscess implication the carotid iL tV ’ll ,“eek ftom slol,Sby scarlatinal tion from abscesses mi- ’ ,1G t,n8'b? from the extension of ulcera- complication of abscess Smu®es.fco l|llG deeP femoral. When this untoward ccurs m the neck, the haemorrhage is usually so