LOCAL DISTURBANCES AND INFLAMMATION. 210 unchangeable and harmless. Chronic inflammation, with caseation of the inflammatory products and the after-changes of softening, are of frequent occurrence in lymphatic glands, bones, and the subcutaneous tissue ; calcifica- tion is occasionally met with in bone, and is very common in the lymphatic glands. Chronic inflammation gives rise to yet another change, differing essentially from those already described, viz., to an overgrowth of the connective tissue of the affected part. This forms the most marked feature of many forms of chronic inflammation, as in chronic interstitial inflammation of glandular organs, chronic osteitis and periostitis, chronic arteritis, and chronic inflam- matory affections of the skin. Many of these affections are so far removed from inflammation in their clinical features, that some pathologists have hesitated to apply that term to them. But they resemble inflammation in being the result of irritation, and in being characterised by a diminished vitality of the affected part, as indicated by the readiness with which a slight injury converts the chronic process into an acute inflammation of the ordinary type. Microscopic examination of tissues or organs from different cases affected in this way, shows every possible variation between the infiltration of the con- nective tissue with innumerable new cells indistinguishable from the wander- ing leucocytes of acute inflammation, and probably identical with them, and the development of a tissue composed of dense rigid-looking fibres between which are found a few elongated cells. In fact, no sharp line can be drawn between acute interstitial inflammation and the chronic form with fibroid induration. In bone, chronic inflammation of this type is shown by thicken- ing of the periosteum and formation of new bone beneath it, by increased density of the compact tissue, with narrowing or obliteration of the Haversian canals, or by condensation of the cancellous tissue. In arteries, the growth takes place chiefly from the outer layer of the inner coat, and the new tissue closely resembles the old in structure. The exact origin of the new tissue has never been conclusively proved ; whether migrating leucocytes take the chief or any part in its production may still be considered an open question ; that in some cases, at least, the new tissue is formed from the old seems almost beyond a doubt. Another common effect of chronic inflammation is ulceration. Except in the slowness of its progress it differs in no respect from that occurring in acute inflammation. The tissues first become infiltrated with leucocytes, which accumulate and press on the original structures, finally destroying them and taking their place. Then in their turn the destroying cells perish, break down, and come away mixed with serous exudation as pus ; and thus a gradual pro- gressive destruction of tissue takes place. Suppuration of the ordinary type often assumes a chronic form, as in the case of large abscesses proceeding from the thorax or abdomen, or from deeply-seated diseased joints or bones. The natural tendency of all abscesses as soon as they are opened, is to fill up with granulation-tissue and to close ; but when there is some source of irritation present, as decomposing matter, tension from imperfect drainage, or friction of one surface against another, the granulations break down into pus as quickly as they grow, and the process may thus be prolonged indefinitely, the only limit being the powers of endurance of the patient. In chronic inflammations, although the connective tissue may, as before described, undergo an increased development, the higher tissues always suffer