814 INJURIES OF THE THROAT. have been found in the air-passage : such as nut-shells, beans, cherry-stones I teeth, meat, money, buttons, pins, fish-bones, bullets, pills, pebbles, and pieces of stick. These foreign bodies are not introduced into the air-passage by any ' effort of deglutition, for no substance can be sioalloived through the glottis'- but they are inhaled; thus, if a person, whilst holding anything in his mouth make a sudden inspiration, the current of air may draw it between the dilated lips of the glottis into the larynx. The symptoms vary, according to the situation in which the foreign body is J lodged, its natuie, and the period that has elapsed since the occurrence of the accident. The foreign body may lodge in one of the ventricles of the larynx; J if light, it may remain in the trachea, and be carried up and down by the move- ment of the air in expiration and inspiration ; if too heavy for this, it will fall into one or other of the primary divisions of the trachea, and, as Aston Key i has observed, will most commonly be found in the right bronchus. The ex- planation of this has been pointed out by Gray, who states that on making a transverse section of the trachea, and taking a bird’s-eye view of the bifurca- tion, the septum will be seen to be considerably to the left of the middle line • so that any foreign body falling down the trachea would naturally have a greater chance of entering the right than the left bronchus, although the left bronchus is in a more direct line with the trachea than the right. The greater size of the right bronchus would also favour the entrance of a foreign body into it. If the substance be small, it may pass into one of the secondary divisions of the bronchi; and, if it continue lodged here for a sufficient length of time, may make a kind of cavity for itself in the substance of the lung, where it may either excite suppuration round it or become encysted. The Symptoms may be divided into three stages : 1. Obstruction, imme- diately following the introduction of the substance ; 2. Irritation, produced by its presence ; and 3. Inflammation, coming on at a later period. 1. Symptoms of Obstruction.—The immediate symptoms vary somewhat according to the size and nature of the body, and the part of the air-tube that it reaches. In all cases there is a feeling of intense suffocation, with great difficulty of breathing, and violent fits of spasmodic coughing, often attended by vomiting ; during which the foreign body may be expelled. Indeed, its partial entry and immediate extrusion by coughing are not uncommon. In some cases, immediate death may ensue at this period. If the body have entered the air-passage fully, there is violent coughing, with feeling of suffoca- tion for an hour or two, accompanied by lividity of the face, great anxiety, and sense of impending death. There is also usually pain about the episternal notch. The symptoms then gradually subside, but any movement on the part of the patient brings them on again with renewed violence. All these symp- toms are most severe if the foreign body remain in the larynx ; the voice being then croupy, irregular in tone, or altogether lost. If it be lodged elsewhere, so often as it is coughed up, and strikes against the interior of the larynx, an intense feeling of suffocation is produced ; and if it happen to become impacted there, sudden death may result, even though it be not of sufficient size to block up the air-passage, apparently by the spasm that is induced. Many years ago I saw a boy die before tracheotomy could be performed, in consequence of a flat piece of walnut-shell that had entered the trachea being suddenly coughed up, and becoming impacted in one of the ventricles of the larynx. The symptoms.