858 INJURIES OF THE ABDOMEN AND PELVIS. 'I nourishment given but iced milk, or milk and soda-water, and some cold < beef-tea or essence of meat, during the first three days. The bowels should not be opened by aperient medicine, lest abdominal irritation be set up. but I oleaginous enemata may be administered at the end of a week or ten days. It tlie intestine be wormded but not protruding, the treatment will i depend somewhat upon the nature and situation of the wound. If, as in punc- tured wounds and most bullet-wounds, we merely infer from the direction of the wound that the gut is injured it would hardly be justifiable to open up the wound in order to ascertain the extent of the injury. In such cases we must endeavour to limit the peritonitis that will ensue, and also to prevent feculent extravasation. The patient should be laid on the injured side with the wound dependent, so as to allow the feces to escape through it, if disposed to do so. If the injury be about the umbilicus, he must lie upon his back with the knees drawn up and bent over a pillow. The skin round the wound may then be cleansed, and an absorbent antiseptic dressing applied. Opium must then be administered in the full doses already indicated, so that the system may be kept well under its influence. In these cases it is of the greatest utility in preventing extravasation of feces, by arresting the peristaltic movement of the intestine, and thus keeping it from change of position. This arrest of the intestinal movements tends greatly also to the closure of the wound. Travel's has shown experimentally, and his investigations have been confirmed by subsequent observations on the human subject, that wounds of the intestines are closed by lymph that is thrown out, not only from the contiguous peritoneal surfaces of the part actually injured, but from that of neighbouring coils; so that the aperture in the gut becomes permanently glued and attached to the structures in its vicinity. In order that this process should take place, it is necessarily of importance that the movements of the bowels be paralysed; and it is a beautiful provision of nature that the very inflammation which closes the wound, arrests that peristaltic action, the continuance of which would interfere with its agglutination to, and closure by, the neighbouring parts. Until, therefore, the necessary degree of inflammation to effect this is set up, the intestinal movements must be arrested by opium. If the symptoms of extravasation of feculent matter into the abdomen pre- sent themselves, an attempt must be made to facilitate its escape externally. The dressing must be removed, and, should the lips of the wound have already become adherent to one another, they may be carefully separated with a probe. Should an immediate escape of feculent matter take place, a drainage-tube should be inserted to ensure a ready exit for the discharges. In cases in which no doubt exists as to the intestine being wounded, cither from the extent and nature of the wound, or from the appearance of the con- tents of the gut externally, it becomes a question whether, considering the hopeless nature of the case if left to itself, the wound should not be enlarged, the injured gut drawn out of the abdomen, and the hole in it closed by sutures. The opinions of Surgeons on this point arc somewhat divided, and there is but little actual experience to guide us. The opinion expressed by Gross would probably meet with general acceptance, that in the case of incised wounds with evident wound of the intestine, “ the duty of the Surgeon is to enlarge the abdominal orifice, to seek for the wounded tube and to sew up the cut. “ In gunshot wounds no benefit would be likely to accrue from such a course 0 treatment, as the bowel is generally pierced in a number of places, and t ie