ERYSIPELAS. 924 in a feeble and shattered state for a considerable time after recovery, requiring j j change of air, great attention to habits of life'and a nourishing diet. 3. Cellulae Erysipelas, or as it is more often termed Diffuse Inflam- i niation of the Cellular Tissue or Cellulitis, has been particularly described by Duncan, Arnott, Lawrence, and Nunneley. It is an acute local infective - process originating in the inoculation of a virus either in a wound or by a small puncture or scratch. Diffuse cellulitis may arise as a consequence of ordinary injuries, but it is especially apt to follow those in which there lias j been any inoculation of animal poisons, as from dissection wounds, the stings • j of insects, and the bites of venomous reptiles. Of the nature of the virus we 1 know but little definitely, not enough either to assert or to deny that it may i be in some cases identical with that which causes cutaneous erysipelas. The t diversity of its origin, however, and the different course assumed by different ;• cases would lead us to suppose that it is not always the same. The disease resembles erysipelas in the diffuse character of the inflammation, and it arises • under circumstances similar to those in which erysipelas is observed to originate. In some cases the constitutional symptoms present nothing peculiar, being merely those of acute inflammatory fever ; in others, especially those arising from the inoculation of the poison of a dead body the symptoms may be those of acute septicaemia. The term cellular erysipelas or diffuse cellulitis must, therefore, be regarded as a clinical expression for an acute infective inflammation, spreading by the lymphatics and lymph-spaces of the areolar tissue, dependent upon a virus, the nature of which is uncertain, and possibly varies in different cases ; and not as implying a definite specific disease, such as simple cutaneous erysipelas undoubtedly is. Local Signs.—The local signs will vary with the part affected. If it is the subcutaneous tissue of a limb, there are great swelling, tension and pain, and the part feels brawny in some parts, cedematous in others. The skin is slightly reddened in patches, has a mottled appearance, and may in extreme cases follow the same course as hi phlegmonous erysipelas, running into blackish sloughs. This form in fact differs from phlegmonous erysipelas only in the affection of the skin being entirely secondary to that of the subcutane- ous tissue. The extent to which the disease may spread varies greatly; when once it has set in, it frequently runs rapidly up the whole limb, extending also to the sides of the trunk. In other cases, especially in the form that follows dissection-wounds, the inflammation at the seat of inoculation may be slight, the mischief being chiefly seated at a distance ; thus in a punctured wound of the finger, the diffuse inflammation may take place principally in the planes of areolar tissue in the axilla and sides of the chest. Diffuse cellulitis affects also the internal planes of areolar tissue. This may happen, for instance, in the fascia; of the pelvis after lithotomy, or in the anterior mediastinum after operations at the root of the neck. In these cases there is deep-seated pain and tenderness, and the skin may be slightly reddened and cedematous. The superficial veins arc often full and clearly indicated on the surface. Sloughing frequently occurs with remarkable rapidity, the areolar tissue being broken down into u- conditioned pus and shreddy sloughs in the course of thirty-six or forty-cign hours, more especially when the disease has resulted from the inoculation o an animal poison. The constitutional symptoms vary in different cases. In some they .