7°5 SEATS OF INTRACRANIAL SUPPURATION. of the skull, causes a separation of the dura mater from the bone, leaving a cavity in which inflammatory effusions and eventually pus collect.. /3. A blow on the head causing necrosis of the bone, either by simple severe contusion, or by detaching it from the dura mater and stripping oft the pcii- cranium—thus disturbing its vascular connections, and so giving rise to sup- puration under the injured portion of bone. y. The irritation of splinters of the inner table in cases of ordinary depressed or of punctured fractures of the skull, causing chronic inflammation of the dura mater and eventual suppuration. In these cases it is often found associated with one or both of the next varieties. 1). The Intrameningeal form consists in the accumulation of pus, or of greenish puriform lymph, in the cavity of the arachnoid, or in its deposit in The pia mater. It is usually widely diffused, most generally beneath the part struck ; but sometimes on the opposite side of the head, usually more towards the vertex than in any other part. It most commonly occurs as a result of open wounds implicating the brain and its membranes, or of compound frac- tures of the base of the skull. It may occur also in patients who are suffering from pyaemia arising from some other injury complicating that to the brain itself. c. The Cerebral form is usually met with as a distinct circumscribed abscess in the white substance of the hemispheres, often associated with the last variety, and occurring in individuals of unhealthy habit of body. It may occur :—1. At the seat of injury ; 2. By contra coup; or, 3. It may be the consequence of the lodgment of foreign bodies in the brain. The formation of pus within the skull is a sequela of much interest in injuries of the head ; and an endeavour has been made, especially by Pott, to lay down rules by which its occurrence may be accurately determined. Thus it has been said that if, during the continuance of encephalitis, fits of shivering come on, followed by the gradual supervention of coma, which slowly becomes more and more complete, whilst the constitutional symptoms of inflammation do not subside ; and if, at the same time, a puffy swelling form upon the uninjured scalp, or the wound, if there be one, become pale and cease to discharge, the pericranium separating from the bone, which is seen to be yellowish brown and dry, an abscess will have formed under the skull ; and further, that in all probability its seat will correspond to these changes in the scalp and pericranium, which are due to the bone having lost its vitality by being separated from the dura mater by the subjacent abscess. In many cases, doubtless, this progression of constitutional symptoms, accompanied by the two local signs just mentioned, has afforded proof of the existence of intracranial suppuration. It but seldom happens, however, that the signs attending the formation of pus within the skull occur in the distinct order and with the degree of precision above stated. In the great majority of cases, the Surgeon can only suspect the presence of pus from the symptoms of inflammation terminating in paralysis or coma. Still he cannot say with certainty that pus has formed, for the coma may arise from the pressure of other effusions : but if the puffy swelling of the scalp or the separation of the pericranium occur, with exposure of dry and yellow bone, with hemiplegia on the opposite side, then he may feel himself justified in giving a more positive opinion as to its existence in some situation within the cranial cavity, probably beneath or in the immediate neighbourhood of the part thus affected. VOL. I. z z