RESULTS OF IMPERFECT DRAINAGE AND PUTREFACTION. 333 large accumulation of putrid matter, deeply situated, with a totally insufficient exit for the discharges. If a bone be broken, or a joint or one of the natural cavities of the body be opened, the condition is so much the worse. The bullet damages only the parts it touches ; the extension of the inflammation beyond these parts is entirely due to pent-up and putrid discharges. The extent of tissue actually killed by the contact of the ball is comparatively limited ; the wide-spread sloughing that may follow a gun-shot wound is due to the irritation of tension and of the chemical products of putrefaction. The ordinary course of a gun-shot wound is as follows :—As soon as the patient has rallied from the shock the temperature begins to rise above normal. By the second day the inflammation, consequent upon the irritation of putrid matter and the tension caused by the abundant exudation from the injured tissues, begins to manifest itself. The pain, which at the moment of infliction may have been but slight, becomes extremely acute, owing principally to the great tension. By the third' day suppuration sets in, often most profuse and extensive, not only in the track of the ball, but widely diffused through the neighbouring parts. The discharges are offensive from putrefaction and find a very imperfect exit by the comparatively narrow openings of the wound. Consequently the patient suffers severely from the absorption of septic matter, the fever being very high and the constitutional disturbance very great ; in fact, many die about this time from septic poisoning. Should a more ready exit be established for the discharges, the fever subsides by about the tenth day, as granulations spring up and limit the absorption of the products of putre- faction. A period of great danger in gun-shot-wounds is that during which the sloughs separate, usually from the sixth to the twentieth day": and before this time it is often impossible to ascertain the precise extent of the disorganization. At this period, also, Consecutive Haemorrhage is very apt to come on, even after very slight exertion, without any warning. Baudens states that this occurrence is most likely to happen on the sixth day. This may be suddenly fatal, and is always more dangerous than the primary hemor- rhage, not only on account of the difficulty of arresting it, but because the patient has been already weakened by severe inflammation and suppuration. Secondary hemorrhage may occur from causes other than the separation of the sloughs and the consequent opening up of a contused or inflamed artery. It may take place from an artery wounded by a spiculum of fractured bone • and, from the same cause, it may arise at auy period until all detached bone is separated and the wound firmly cicatrized. Chisholm, of the American Con- federate army, mentions a case of death from secondary hemorrhage on the 328th day after a gun-shot-fracture of the upper third of the thigh owiim to a wound of the femoral artery by a detached sequestrum. Independently of this danger from secondary hemorrhage, the patient, if his limb be saved may have to undergo long and tedious processes of exfoliation of dead bone and to run the risk of intercurrent attacks of erysipelas, hospital pyemia. gangrene, and nW^°U§ Va ^-W°Und in the vasfc mai01% of cases follows the course deSnmid’ mflammatlon and Profuse suppuration is not an inevitable ' - ,Mlddlc;tou Michel of Charlestown, U.S.A., relates many cases in which ovpii wii, W?iUn,S’lndlcted by fcbe Minie rifle-bullet, healed without suppuration 1 f !C" joues "rere injured. Such cases are sufficient evidence that the uestiuction of tissue caused directly by the action of the bullet is not so exten-