CONDITIONS ESSENTIAL TO BAUD UNION. 2S3 injured part or by the clumsiness of the Surgeon in changing the dressings ; nor can early union possibly occur if the surfaces are separated from each other by pent-up serous discharge. The third great source of irritation to which wounds are exposed, is the presence of decomposing matter between their surfaces. In order that this should occur, it is hardly necessary to say that there must be some dead matter there to decompose ; living tissues do not putrefy, and amongst living tissues must be reckoned the plastic exudation that glazes a wound, and forms the preliminary bond of union. On the other hand the serous discharge which is poured out in the first twenty-four hours is highly decomposable. A perfectly-drained wound with no foreign body in it contains practically nothing capable of decomposing, and if we could always guarantee that a wound should be in this state, no antiseptic treatment would ever be necessary. Unfortunately this is not the case ; and, therefore, some form of antiseptic treatment undoubtedly gives an additional certainty in the treatment of wounds, more especially those with cavities such as compound fractures. Lastly, union may be prevented by the introduction of the specific poison of some infective, spreading inflammation as in some forms of septicaemia, in erysipelas or hospital gangrene. That these poisons are generated in filth, and are destroyed by many antiseptics, may be considered as beyond a doubt • and tins forms an additional reason for the habitual employment of these agents . Ihe use of antiseptics cannot make any wound do better than heal _Z first intention, a result obtained with great frequency in all well-drained wounds kept at perfect rest m healthy subjects ; but it can, and does prevent a„ ttat may result from some accidental failure in drain- m trmm A A gl'eatl7 ™Pr°™ the average results of the treatment of 'rounds. There are other circumstances, apart from the local ou°th Tods VT ^ ■I“Ye hilhert° deaIt’ that are not without influence 2“ if;m wounds : the age, temperament, previous state of fho td of tllc patient, his occupation and usual mode of life the situation m which he is placed after the receipt of the injury and many oth r matters, must all more or less affect the result The Sofn o™^