ENTRANCE OF AIR INTO VEINS. 468 operation, tlicsc vessels were in one or other of the above-mentioned conditions. Thus, in Beauchesne’s case, air was introduced in consequence of incomplete division of the external jugular, immediately above the right subclavian, whilst in a state of tension, during the removal of a portion of the clavicle. In a case that occurred to Dupuytren, a large vein connected with a tumour, and com- municating with the jugular, was cut at the last stroke of the scalpel, whilst the tumour was being forcibly drawn up. The vein was found to be adherent to the sides of a sulcus, so that it remained gaping when cut. In a case related by Delpech, there was thickening of the coats of the axillary vein, causing it to gape like an artery. In Castara’s case there was incomplete section ot a vein, which opened into the subscapular, whilst the tumour was being raised up In Roux’s case a vein in the neck was opened, whilst a tumour, which was being removed from that region, was being forcibly raised m order to dissect under it. Ulrich saw the accident occur m consequence of the incomplete division of the internal jugular vein, which was implicated in a tumour in the neck. A similar case happened to Mirault of Ang_ers, the internal jugular being divided to half its extent. _ A case occurred to Warren in which the air entered by the subscapular vein, the coats of which veie healthy, but in a state of tension in consequence of the position ol the arm; and another, in which the same accident happened from the division of a small transverse branch of communication between the external and internal juo-ular whilst in a state of tension. Mott, whilst removing a tumour of tie parotid gland, opened the facial vein, which was m a state of tension m con- sequence of the position of the patient’s head, when air was introduced. A case is related by Malgaigne in which this accident happened m consequence of the incomplete section of the external jugular vein winch was envelope in a tumour that was being removed. Begin also relates a case m which entered in consequence of the puncture of the internal jugular vein whilst he was removing a tumour from the neck. . . , • , These cases, in which the condition of the wounded vein was particularized show clearly what is the state of the vessel and of the surrounding P^ts th. is most likely to favour the occurrence of the accident, and consequen ly wh ■ h Sm“on should particularly guard against in the removal of tumourt about the neck and shoulders ; vis., incomplete division of the vein , and he employment of forcible traction on the diseased mass at the moment of is thePscalnel In removing tumours from the neck and shoulder, it is m many cases impossible to avoid drawing them forcibly upwards or forwards, inmrta toTet Ttheir deeper attachments ; but if this be necessary the chest should t reasons that will immediately be pointed out, be tightly that no deep inspirations may be made at the momen < , used or before a divided or wounded vein can be effectually secured. Preventive Treatment.-In the pre-anesthetic days, the acciden a ei U of air into a vein during an operation was of more common occunence tha “ Wh” patient was’ under the knife, the respirations were pn^hj “Juow and restrained, the breath being held, whilst every now and then there ta, a deep gasping inspiration ; at which moment, if a vein were opened ®