204 LOCAL DISTURBANCES AND INFLAMMATION. necessity for constitutional treatment, it appears to be a remedy preferable in many cases to local blood-letting. In Cold and Heat we possess two most important local means ol controlling inflammation. They cannot, however, be employed indiscriminately. Colcp rj'iie use of cold in the prevention of inflammation has been already described (p. 190). When inflammation is fully established with its cardinal symptoms of redness, swelling, heat, and pain, cold can scarcely be applied without doing harm; as, although it may lead to a diminished flow of blood to the part by causing contraction of the arteries, it tends still further to Iowa the vitality of the affected tissues, and thus to increase the adhesion of e corpuscles and the retardation of the flow, till stasis, followed by death of the part, may result. Cold should never be had recourse to when suppuration is coming on or has set in; still less should it be employed when thereis a tendency to mortification. The modes of applying cold have ahead) been de When1 acute9 inflammation has passed off and the vessels of the part remain j relaxed and turgid, the application of cold is often a powerful agent m re- storing the tone of the parts. Tor this purpose cold salt-water douching 01 sponging is the most efficacious. . f aaL Warmth and moisture, conjoined, are of the utmost service ^ the treat- ment of inflammation during the height of that process during _ 1 when cold applications are not admissible By these means tension is re , effusion is favoured, and the over-distended vessels are relieved. W aim ap plications are especially serviceable in all cases of inflammation attended y much pain more particularly if this occur from tension; and they are parti- cularly useful when suppuration is threatening, or has come on, and in many cases in which there is a tendency to sloughing. "abscess threatens, and the skin is not broken,.*%*£££ much relief as a well-made linseed-meal poultice. To make this smootn and soft, the meal must be gradually added to the proper- amount of bo h water beino- vigorously stirred at the same time. If the watei be acme Te mea the mass is apt to become lumpy. It must be spread, not too H ti U on a niece of linen-rag, and applied as hot as the patient can hear it Sette to «rfrom ^hich the oil has not been expressed, or to add in a warm solution of carbohc acid” JX* * hot solution of boracrc acid, may beWU“ 4* may be extending half an inch to an inch beyond it on all suits j and which retains its heat equally long. o( and camomile of fl7iel“ Tin^he decocttan ‘iquewrf ol' aS containing the boiled plants, well soaked m SST&SLhom. The applied hot, are Aeiy useful in extensive superficial inflammations.