2lS local disturbances and inflammation. is the object of the Surgeon to destroy the cuticle and the tips ol the papillae, but to leave the deeper structures ol the skin uninjured, so that there shall be no contraction of the scar when the sore is healed. For this purpose the cauterising iron should be of a dull red heat, and must be quickly drawn in lines crossing one another over the part. Paquelin s Thermo-Cautery is on the whole the most manageable and the cleanest form that can be used. The barbarous application known as a moxa, which con- sisted of cotton or pith soaked in saltpetre and allowed to burn upon the skin, is now no longer used in this country. ... Two counter-irritants in addition to their local action produce constitutional effects when absorbed from the surface to which they are applied a iz., Iodine and Mercury. . . Iodine is most commonly applied in the form of tincture ; it should je painted on over the inflamed part twice a day till the skin becomes a little sore. This may be continued for weeks or months according to circumstances. It is no doubt a useful means of promoting the absorption of chronic inflam- matory products, but the powers popularly ascribed to it are certainly far greater than it really possesses. The liniment is less frequently used, being a much stronger preparation, one application of which will often cause vesication. The ointment may be applied in some cases m which a somewhat stronger action than that of the tincture is desired, but it is not a cleanly application, and is not usually to be recommended. Mercury is applied locally in many forms to promote the absorption of the products of chronic inflammation and in the treatment of the process. One o the most common modes of applying it to chronically inflamed joints is by the method knowm as Scott’s dressing. This consists in spreading a thin layer of the compound mercurial ointment on a piece of but of sufficient size to surroun the joint. Over this strapping is evenly applied so as to exert a uniform pressure. In other cases the mercurial liniment or simple mercurial ointmen may be of use. About ten years ago Marshall introduced a valuable prepara- tion composed of the precipitated mercuric oxide dissolved in oleic acid. There is thus formed a definite oleate of mercury which is soluble m an excess of oleic acid. A solution made in this way containing five per cent, of the oxide is a clear liquid ; when the oxide is increased to twenty per cent it forms a solid unctuous substance, melting readily at the temperature of the body As the oleate of mercury is slightly irritating to the skm, one giaiu of mm-phia may lie added to each drachm. Marshall states that his experience of the use of this preparation in all forms of chronic inflammation has bee most favourable. It is cleaner, more diffusible, more ^orbed and more efficacious than any other mercuria1 application. The veiy foct, how ever that it is so readily absorbed should make us careful in using it m scrofulous subjects, who abvays stand mercury badly. on to t nr y t lop the oleate, melted if necessary by a very gentle heat, and applied with a c< hair nencil, is quite sufficient for one application. ' Astringents directly applied to the inflamed parts are of extreme sen cc those forms of congestive or passive inflammation m which the circulation s