PROCESS OF UNION. S°5 fragments. In certain fractnres in which the fragments cannot be brought into accurate apposition, as in those of the patella and olecranon, union is effected by fibrous tissue, and, under various abnormal or constitutional con- ditions that will be hereafter considered, the same form of union may occur in any part of the body. The new bone that constitutes the bond of union is termed Callus. In most cases a larger quantity of this is developed than is permanently left. This temporary formation of bone goes by the name of the provisional callus. It is formed partly external to the fracture, incasing the broken ends, and partly in the medullary canal, so as to include the fragments between layers of new bone, and thus maintain them in contact. That which is permanently left, and which intervenes between the broken ends, is called the definitive callus. The process of union varies somewhat in simple and in compound fractures. Union of Simple Fractures.—Our knowledge of the production of callus and the mode of union of a broken bone is derived from experiments on animals, but there is no doubt that the process is essentially the same in man, slightly modified in some cases by the more perfect immobility which is obtained by treatment in the human subject. The subject has been investigated by numerous observers for the last 150 years, amongst whom the following are perhaps the most important : Duhamel, Haller, Bordenave, John Hunter, Dupuytren, Breschet, Villerme, Stanley, Paget, Billroth, Grurlt, and Bajardi. All observers may be said to be more or less closely agreed as to the coarser changes observed in the union of a bone, but there is still considerable difference of opinion with regard to the essential nature of the process and the histological appearances accompanying it. The process of union of a broken bone, as it is observed experimentally in an animal, may be divided into distinct stages. First, the period of inflamma- tion and exudation lasting from the time of fracture to about the end of the third day. Secondly, the period of growth of the soft provisional callus ex- ternally from the periosteum and surrounding structures, and internally in the medulla, and this lasts till about the tenth to fourteenth day. Thirdly, the period of ossification of the provisional callus, lasting to about the end of the fourth or fifth week. Fourthly, the period of the formation and ossifica- tion of the definitive callus between the actual broken ends of the bone. This commences after the provisional callus has become firm, and is not completed till a late period. Lastly, the excess of callus is absorbed, and any irregularities rounded off. This is not completed till many months after the bone has been fiimly united, dhese processes must now be considered more in detail. If the part be examined within a few hours of the fracture, it will be found to be surrounded by an abundant extravasation of blood ; this not only sur- rounc s the actual fracture, but extends some distance in the intermuscular spaces of the limb, and frequently also in the areolar tissue beneath the deep ascia. ie muscles which lie in close contact with the bone, or arise from it, a ie point of fracture, are more or less extensively lacerated ; the periosteum i. as aiue completely torn through, and separated from the broken ends for a ■ mi cis ance on one or both sides, leaving a ragged edge. In some cases the pcrios cum on one side may be intact, and it is said to liavc been found untorn en in comp ete fractures. As a rule it remains uninjured over a simple