BUFFER-A CCI DENTS. 847 CHAPTER XXIX. INJURIES OF THE ABDOMEN AND PELVIS. INJURIES OP THE ABDOMEN AND ABDOMINAL VISCERA. Injuries of the abdomen may be divided into Contusion of the Abdomen, with or without Rupture of Internal Organs ; Non-penetrating Wounds ; and Penetrating Wounds, either uncomplicated, or conjoined with Injury or Pro- trusion of some of the Organs contained in this cavity. Contusions of the Abdominal Walls from blows or kicks usually ter- minate without serious inconvenience, but in some cases are followed by very acute peritonitis, which may prove fatal. In other cases, the abdominal muscles may be ruptured, although the skin may remain unbroken. A man was admitted under my care into the Hospital having received a blow from the buffer of a railway-carriage upon his abdomen. He complained of great pain at one spot; and, on examination after death, we found the rectus muscle torn across without injury either to the integu- ments or the peritoneum. If the patient live, an injury of this kind is apt to be followed by atrophy of the muscular substance, and perhaps by the occurrence of a ventral hernia at a later period. Occasionally the contusion is followed by abscess in the abdominal wall, which has a tendency to extend widely between the muscular planes. The abscesses should be opened early, lest they burst into the peritoneal cavity and occasion fatal inflammation. Buffer-Accidents.—A contusion of the abdomen is often associated with Rupture of some of the Viscera. In military practice these internal in- juries are met with in the so-called “wind-contusions,-” in civil practice they commonly result from blows, kicks, the passage of a cart-wheel over the abdomen, or a squeeze of the body between the buffers of two railway carnages. These “ Buffer-accidents ” are of common occurrence in hospital practice, resulting usually from the carelessness of railway-guards and porters, who, in trying to pass between carriages in motion, are caught and squeezed between the buffers. In these cases the most fearful internal injuries occur often without any external wound. A man was admitted under my care into University College Hospital, in whom the liver, stomach, spleen, and kidneys were crushed and torn ; the heart was ecchymosed on its surface, and 011c of the lungs was lacerated, without any rupture of the skin or fracture of the nbs. 1 he particular organ injured depends on the situation of the blow The organ that is most frequently crushed in this way is the liver, owing to its hpgmLZe 'n the "nyieldm8' nafcure and midy Ecerability of its structure ; m J AT organs, such as the spleen and kidneys, do not suffer so fre- ie J PTreaS 1 hT neVer 8eeu injured- Among the hollow organs “ruclTl* IT ?rrU,8UfffS’ and il is especially likely to do so if lacerated I f '''i * Al)y Porfci°n of the intestinal canal may be iave seen the duodenum, the ileum, the jejunum, and the large