SYMPTOMS OF INFANTILE SYPHILIS. II27 Besides the notching, the sides of the teeth arc curved inwards towards one another, and thus the cutting edge becomes narrower than the crown. The teeth arc also shorter than the others. The convergence of the sides causes the teeth to be somewhat separated, and to stand apart. The Bones are very frequently affected in congenital syphilis, though until recently the changes that take place had been partly overlooked and partly confounded with rickets. The observations of Wegner, Parrot, Barlow, and others, have, however, clearly established the fact that the implication of the bones is second in frequency only to that of the skin. Parrot states that the affections of the bones in hereditary syphilis assume two principal forms, one consisting in atrophy of the pre-existing structures, and the other in the development of new tissue. The Atrophic form he divides into two varieties. The first, to which he applies the term Gelatiniform, affects equally the cranium and the bones of the extremities. The bone is altered in colour, varying from a pale red or rose tint to different shades of yellow. The medulla becomes transparent, and is at last reduced to a network composed of vessels and delicate fibrillse, the meshes of which are filled with a watery fluid. When the compact tissue is invaded it becomes rapidly decalcified ; the lame life seem to melt away, and large spaces appear between them, filled with a gelatinous substance like the altered medullary tissue. The second variety he terms chondro-calcareous atrophy. The most marked feature of this form is that the layer of calcified cartilage which naturally exists in the growing line between the shaft and the epiphysis assumes an abnormal thickness and loses all regularity in its outline. The calcified cartilage can be recognized by its density, brittleness, and chalky appearance. The formation of this brittle tissue renders the bone liable to fracture, and when the two forms of atrophy occur simultaneously this result is almost certain to take place. The fracture occurs always in close proximity to the epiphysis, and the accident is not nnfrequently followed by suppuration, and from the close proximity to the joint suppurative arthritis may be set up. These fractures give rise to symptoms closely resembling paralysis of the affected limb, and Parrot has applied to the condition the name of syphilitic pseudo-paralysis. The limb hangs powerless, and, as a rule, there is singularly little pain, but the muscles respond readily to the Faradic current. The looseness of the epiphysis can sometimes be easily recognized, and some fine grating crepitus may be present. The second form of disease of the bones in hereditary syphilis, to which Parrot applies the term osteopliytic, is much more common. This also he divides into two varieties, according to the density of the new tissue. When this is hard and bony he terms it osteoid; when soft, film-spongioid or rachitic. The osteoid form of growth may be met with at any period of childhood, and possibly may commence before birth ; the rachitic is never met with before the fifth or sixth month. The osteoid growth is composed of trabeculae, arranged more or less perpendicularly to the surface of the bone, separated from each other by medullary tissue ; the new tissue contains large quantities of lime salts. It differs from normal bone in its brittleness and in its yellow or pink colour. In the rachitic form the new tissue is almost white, pearly, or yellowish in colour. It is fibroid in structure and very vascular. Various modifications between these two forms of tissue may be met with. Thus the osteoid tissue may be arranged in several layers, or spongy tissue may be found