INJURIES OF THE HEAD. 708 sistiug of leeching, cupping, blistering, the introduction of a seton in the nape of the neck, purging, and more especially a mild mercurial couise, with stiict avoidance of all mental and bodily stimulation. Ihc patient must be caieiully watched, and kept under proper supervision lor some length of time, as sciious symptoms are apt suddenly to declare themselves. * When Acute Inflammation of the Brain or its Membranes has come on, at whatever period after the injury, active treatment should be at once adopted. The head must be shaved, and cold applied. In the use of cold, great care must be taken that the application is constant. Intermittent cold is worse than useless. One of the best modes of application is the India-iubbei ice-cap, which can be secured to the head by a strap passing under the chin; or Leiter’s soft metal tubing, which can be moulded to any form, and through which a stream of cold water is kept constantly flowing, is even more efficient. Should these not be available, a bladder filled with ice may be used, but care must be taken that it is firmly secured in its position by bandages, and not, as is too often done, allowed merely to lie against the head, and to be displaced by the slightest movement of the patient. A mackintosh cloth must be placed beneath it to protect the bed-clothes from being wetted. Bleeding from the arm, repeated as often as the pulse rises, as well as by cupping, or leeches may be had recourse to ; the bowels should be freely opened, and rigid abstinence must be enjoined, the patient at the same time being confined to a quiet and darkened room, and removed from all causes of excitement of the special senses. As the disease assumes a chronic form, the same general plan of treatment, modified according to the intensity of the inflammatory affection, must be persevered in, the patient being kept for a length of tune after the subsidence of all the symptoms in a state of complete quietude. _ The Subacute Encephalitis which occasionally follows injuries of the head, even at a remote period from their infliction, is most dangerous and un- manageable, being very apt to terminate in loss or impairment of the senses, in diminution of intellectual power, or in local paralysis. Much of the difficulty in its treatment appears to arise from the fact that the inflammation is often o an asthenic type, and, consequently, does not admit of active depletory measures. , . . ,. In this disorder the best results are obtained by the proper administration of mercury and the employment of counter-irritants. The best mode o a - ministering the mercury is to give half a gram or a grain of ca ome every four or six hours until the gums are affected, and to keep up the eftec with diminished doses of the drug. The repeated application of blister over the shaven scalp is perhaps the most useful form of counter-irrifrition; to which, in more chronic cases, a seton in the neck may be at c ec. c any symptoms of inflammation continue, this plan of treatment mm In the more chronic forms of cerebral irritation following injury, more especially if there be any tendency to convulsive movements, bromffie potassium in moderate doses will be found of essential service. It soothes and secures sleep more effectually than any other remedy. . , . rfYv ri* The treatment of Cerebral Irritation will require to be varied mM- stages of this condition. In the early stage, the treatment that . most successful is of a negative character, and oons^ m *e of dl active measures. No good, hut much harm, may icsnlt horn bleed 1