586 SPECIAL FRACTURES. possibility of the bladder having been wounded, or the urethra torn, the first thing to be done is to pass a gum-catheter. If the urine comes clear, it may be concluded that the urinary apparatus has not been injured, and the catheter may be withdrawn. If it is bloody, the catheter must be tied iu, and an india-rubber tube applied by which the urine may drain away. The next thing is to keep the part perfectly quiet, so as to bring about union. M ith this view, a padded belt, or a broad flannel-roller, should be tightly applied round the pelvis, the patient lying on a hard mattress. The knees may then be tied together, and a leather- or gutta-percha-splint moulded to the hip of the side affected, so as to keep the joint quiet, and to prevent all displacement of the fragment. If the urethra have been lacerated, it must be borne in mind that, however completely the patient may recover from the fracture, he will most certainly eventually become the subject of the most troublesome and intractable form of urethral stricture—the traumatic. Period of Union—Bony union usually takes place in the pelvis about the end of the sixth week. The patient must, therefore, be kept on his back with absolute immobility and fixity of the limb on the injured side, for at least seven to eight weeks. He may then, wearing a padded belt, move on crutches, but must not be allowed to bear any weight on the foot of the affected side for some weeks more, lest the detached fragment be pushed upwards. However good the union may be, lameness is apt to result from the injury inflicted on the psoas and iliacus muscles, and those that closely bind the thigh to the pelvis, such as the pectineus, the obturators, &c. Fracture of the Acetabulum is an accident that can occur only as the result of very great violence directly applied to the hip. It may take place in two situations ; either through the floor of the cavity, or only through the rim, a portion of which is detached. It is probably occasioned in most instances by the head of the thigh-bone being driven forcibly against the surface of the acetabulum. Hence, when the rim is broken, it is usually the posterior part that is detached, and the head of the femur slips out upon the dorsum ilii. .. , , Fracture through the floor of the acetabulum is usually complicated with such extensive comminution of the pelvic bones and serious internal injury, as to be followed by death. In the University College Museum is a preparation of a fracture of the acetabulum, with comminution of its floor and of the ilium. Sanson and Sir A. Cooper have seen the bone resolved into its three primitive parts ; and in some cases the comminution has been so great that the head of the femur has been thrust into the pelvic cavity. In such extensive and grave injuries as these, the Surgeon can do 1 more than support the pelvis with a padded belt, and place the lnnb on a l011\V hen 'a portion of the rim of the acetabulum is detached, as the result of direct violence, the head of the femur will slip out upon the dorsum iln, and the si "•ns of one of the forms of dorsal dislocation manifest themselves, in a case of this kind, which was under my care at the Hospital m a muscu ar in aged about thirty, the shortening and inversion of the luub and usp a«me^^ of the head of the bone towards the sciatic notch, vcie all no Traction readily effected reduction, with distinct crepitus; but, as soon as Jxtonta was Continued, the head of the bone slipped back into .to poSn The diagnosis in this case was made, and in similar instances may