TREATMENT OF PENETRATING WOUNDS. 9 of the foreign body, lest he excite more irritation than it would if left alone. No attempt'should be made to close the aperture, so that the escape 0 any extraneous substance that may have beeu left in, or of extia\asa e 00c, 01 inflammatory effusions, may not be interfered with. Tie noun smut, 1 possible, be cleaned with an antiseptic solution, and dressed antiseptically. it the means of doiug this are not at hand, it may be covered with oiled lint, or some dry absorbent dressing. . The Constitutional Treatment of wounds of the lung presents nothing peculiar. During the first few hours the chief danger is loss of blood, and as the feeble state of the circulation during the state of shock that immediately follows the injury is favourable to the arrest of haemorrhage, the patient should not be prematurely roused by the administration of stimulants. He must be kept lying on the injured side, and have ice to suck, or a little iced milk and soda-water, or barley-water, to drink, when these are obtainable. He must be forbidden to talk, and kept at perfect rest. If no complications ensue, he must be kept on moderate diet for a few days, after which he may take such food as he is inclined for. Treatment of the Complications of Penetrating Wounds of the Lung.—Profuse liamorrhage is a common complication in all wounds of the chest. It may occasionally come from a wounded intercostal or internal mammary artery, and must then be treated by the method described on p. 455. If the haemor- rhage come from the pulmonary tissue, the first indication consists in diminish- ing the quantity and force of the blood circulating through the lungs, and thus, by lessening the impulse of the heart and increasing the tendency for the blood to coagulate in the smaller vessels, to endeavour to arrest the haemor- rhage from these organs. If the haemorrhage have been very abundant, the collapse and fainting consequent upon this may tend to induce a natural cessation of the bleeding, which thus often spontaneously ceases on the super- vention of syncope. Should the haemoptysis, however, continue or return from time to time, what should be done ? Here a very considerable discrepancy of opinion exists amongst Surgeons ; the question at issue being whether vene- section should be adopted with the view of restraining the haemorrhage, or the patient be treated by rest, low diet, ice, digitalis, and similar remedies. Up to the close of the Crimean war, the most experienced Surgeons were unani- mous in their opinion, that the patient’s safety lay in free and repeated vene- section. John Bell, Hennen, and Guthrie, all concurred in urging the necessity }f free venesection so as to keep down the action of the heart. Whenever this rises and the cough or haemoptysis returns, recourse should be had to the lancet. In the Crimean campaign, Macleod states, that “ those cases did best in which early, active, and repeated bleedings were had recourse to.” In the official Report of the Medical and Surgical History of the War in the Crimea, venesection is advocated with equal decisioi as a means of arresting haemoptysis. The writer states : “ Wien hiemoptysis to any considerable or dangerous extent is present, venesection for the rapid induction of syncope seems not only allowable, but seems to afford the only chance of safety, and may even require to be repeated.” However paradoxical or even irrational it might at first sight appear to endeavour to restrain one haemorrhage by establishing another, yet the practice seemed established as the result of experience; and its good effects could be explained by the sudden induction of syncope giving time for the sealing up of the pulmonary vessels by coagulation of blood