TREATMENT OF FRACTURED CLAVICLE. 563 3 upwards in the axilla, and then bringing the elbow closely to the side, the humerus is made to act as a lever and draw the shoulder and the scapular fragment outwards, thus correcting the displacement inwards. 2. By pressing the shoulder well backwards, behind the lateral median line of the body, the tendency to rotation forwards is removed. 3. By elevating the shoulder, and taking off the weight of the arm by means of a short sling that passes well under the elbow, the displacement downwards is remedied. By these simple means the triple displacement of the outer fragment is cor- rected. But the great difficulty consists in keeping the fracture in a good position ; and when it is oblique, this becomes almost impossible, so that a cure without nodular or angular deformity is very seldom obtained. I used formerly to recommend that the fingers should be bandaged sepa- rately, the palm padded, and the bandage carried up as high as the axillary pad. More extended experience leads me to doubt the expediency of all these directions, and I now content myself with simply bandaging the hand and fore- arm lightly and leaving the tips of the fingers free, so that the conditions of the circulation through the limb can be watched. Care must be taken not to use the lever-like movement of the arm against the fulcrum of the axillary pad too forcibly, lest the axillary vessels or plexus of nerves be compressed. Before applying the roller, the elbow must always be flexed : otherwise undue and dangerous constriction of the arm may occur. The pad should be firm, made of bed-tick stuffed with bran, six inches long, five broad, and three thick at its upper part ; the sling must support the elbow, and the hand should be well raised across the chest. After the limb has been put up, the pulse at the wrist should be’felt, and the finger-nails ex- amined in order to see that the circulation is neither arrested nor impeded by the pressure of the pad. In the accompanying figure, the sling does not extend under the elbow as it ought to ; it is represented not to conceal the other parts of the apparatus (Fig. 198). The elbow must be kept to the side by a few turns of a roller, or by means of a padded belt. Treatment by the figure-of-8-Banclage.—If in a case of fractured clavicle the patient be seated in a chair, and the Surgeon, standing behind him, places his knee between the scapulae, and holding by the points of the shoulders pulls forcibly backwards, the outer fragment will be seen to be drawn outwards at the same time that the rotation forwards is corrected. The treatment by the figure-of-8-bandage is intended to maintain this position while the weight of the arm is taken off by a sling supporting the elbow. The simplest form of this apparatus, and one that will frequently be found very u u as an immediate application, is that recommended by Syme, known as ie treatment hy the three handkerchiefs. A large handkerchief folded diagonally it cl Qu rut °ne 'nc^ anc^ a wide is placed round each shoulder so that twn m l 1G,ln il0nt 'n hollow internal to the coracoid process. The j.0 .7 8 are secured by a single turn behind the shoulder, and then twisted Inaoiho'. !orm a single cord. These cords are then knotted firmly o 1 in ie middle line, while the shoulders arc forcibly pulled back- 002 Fig. 198.—Apparatus for Frac- tured Clavicle. in this way, in order