1004 TUMOURS. appearances are supposed to bo due to a hyaline or mucoid degeneration of the I walls of the vessels and the neighbouring cells of the tumour. The remaining cells are squeezed together, and thus assume the form of columns of polygonal cells. Much doubt exists, however, as to the exact mode of origin of these growths. At first sight a section of a plexiform sarcoma closely resembles that of an epithelioma, but a careful examination with a high power shows its true nature. The tumours seldom reach any great size. They are soft and gelatinous, and of a dirty white colour. They are most commonly met with in the brain, the orbit, and sometimes in the salivary glands. Butlin has recorded a case in which the tumour formed in the popliteal space. It recurred after removal, and its true sarcomatous nature was shown by the fact that the recurrent growths assumed the form of the ordinary round-celled sarcoma. Melanotic sarcoma is usually of the spindle-celled variety, but fre- quently contains large numbers of round or oval, intermixed with the fusi- form cells (Fig. 394). The spindle-cells are of large size, . and there is no fibrous stroma between them. The rpigment is seen as brownish granular ■ matter in the interior of a cer- tain number of the cells, the rest remaining colourless. The proportion of coloured cells varies in different specimens. In the secondary tumours, it has been shown by R. J. God- lee that the new cells follow the lines of the vessels. These tumours are usually sharply circumscribed, both to the naked eye and the microscope. They are soft, sometimes almost pulpy, round or oval in shape, and varying in colour from dark brown to the most in- tense black. They arise es- pecially from structures in which pigment naturally exists, namely, the skin (Fig. 393) and choroid coat of the eye (Fig. 395). They may, however, occasionally arise primarily m the Fig. 393.—Melanotic Sarcoma commencing in the Papilla* of the Skin (Malignant Mole). (-10 diam.) a. Superficial epidermis. . h. Deeper layers of Epidermis, which is deficient to the right of the drawing. . , c. Prolongation of the Epidermis into the centre of tlie growth. d. Sarcoma tissue,chiefly non-pigmented but with scattered melanotic patches. e. Connective tissue round the tumour small round cells. /. Surrounding connective tissue with vessels. infiltrated with lymphatic glands. They are life. Melanotic sarcoma is one tumour. The secondary deposits occur in every organ of rapid growth, and occur usually in middle of the most malignant of all forms of and tissue in tbc body, and they may apparently be propagated entirely by the vascular system, the lymphatic glands escaping any contamination, or they may be distnbut both the vascular and the lymphatic systems. It may be broadh sta ec by of a filbert secondary deposits have that if a melanotic sarcoma reach the size . . in all probability occurred, and no local treatment can cure the pa ien , although, by relieving him of one source of infection, it may retard < e. • Although showing this terrible general malignancy, the local lmdignaney melanotic sarcoma is not great. It may reach a large size without nice .