modes of measuring in injuries OF HIP. 597 in every degree of flexion or extension of the limb. If the trochanter be dis- placed in any direction, a corresponding change in its relation to this line will ensue. This mode of measurement is, however, open to the fallacy tnat Fig. 231.—Nelaton’s Line—dark. Bryant’s Ilio-femoral Triangle—clotted. abduction raises the trochanter above the line, and adduction brings it below it. Bryant’s Ilio-femoral triangle (Fig. 231, dotted line) is formed by placing the patient in the recumbent position ; then, drawing a line from the anterior superior spine of the ilium directly backwards, another line also from the anterior superior spine obliquely to the summit of the trochanter, and a third, or the base-line, directly upwards from this to the first line, a triangle will thus be formed. The oblique line corresponds to the first part of Nelaton’s line (Fig. 231), and may be taken, just as N61aton’s, as the diagnostic line for dislocations for the head of the femur backwards ; whilst Bryant’s base-line is the test-line for all cases in which the neck of the femur is shortened, or the head of the bone thrown upwards. In this method of measuring there is the same fallacy—that abduction and adduction of a healthy limb would alter the length of the base line. Another method of measurement has been recommended by Giraud-Teulon which, although somewhat complicated, appears to be free from all source of error. It is founded upon the fact that the middle of Nelaton’s line corresponds to the centre of the acetabulum. Any shortening of the femur by fracture, or any dislocation, will necessarily alter the distance between the lower end of the femur and this point. The measurement is thus carried out. Find the distance from the anterior superior spinous process to the tuberosity of the ischium, and from the same point to the inner condyle, and from the tuberosity to the inner condyle. Then draw a triangle on a sheet of paper, the three sides of which are equal to these three measurements ; find the middle point of the line corresponding to the measurement between the tuberosity and the spine, and from that draw a line to the apex of the triangle. This line corresponds to the distance of the inner condyle from the centre of the acetabulum, and must be contrasted with a similar line obtained by measurement of the sound side. This mode of measurement is most useful in cases of dislocation and disease in which abduction or adduction with flexion are often met with. Whatever mode of measurement is adopted; the Surgeon must never neglect