ARREST OF ARTERIAL IIJSMORRHAGE. 4 32 the blood readily passes into that portion of the vessel which is beyond the , ligature, and continues to escape from the distal, or perhaps even the proximal, end of the divided vessel. Thus, though bright arterial blood may no longer jet from the upper part of the wound, a continuous stream of the same colour, or of a darker tint if it has become partially deoxygenated in its passage through the anastomosing channels, will continue to well out, entailing the necessity of further operative interference to restrain its flow : and, unless this be done, the patient will die of haemorrhage as surely, though perhaps not quite so speedily, as if no ligature had been applied. Thus, if a Surgeon endeavour to arrest the flow of blood from a wound of the ulnar artery near the palm by ligaturing the brachial in the middle of the arm, and, when the blood bursts forth as furiously as ever, apply successive ligatures to the arteries of the forearm with as little success, he null at last, on account of the continued recurrence of haemorrhage, be forced to adopt the simple expedient that ought to have been had recourse to in the first instance, namely, that of ligaturing the vessel at the point wounded. Another reason for the practice now advocated is, that in some cases the Surgeon cannot possibly know what artery is injured unless he seek loi it in the wound itself. A large artery may, from the direction of the stab and the impetuous flow of blood that has followed it, appear to be wounded, when in reality it is only a minor branch that has been injured. Thus, for instance, in haemorrhage from a stab in the axilla, which proved fatal, notwithstanding the ligature of the subclavian artery for supposed wound of the axillary, the long thoracic was found to be the vessel divided ; so, also, the external iliac artery has been ligatured for supposed wound of the common femoral, when m reality it was the external pudic that was injured. J The rule of cutting down on the injured part of the artery applies to all cases in which the wound is still open, whatever be its condition. However deep inflamed, and sloughy the wound—however ill-conditioned and infiltrated with'pus or blood the neighbouring parts may be—it may be stated as a general rule to which, however, there are some exceptions, especially m wounds of the palmar arch, or of the secondary branches of the carotid, that there is no safety, to the patient unless the artery be cut down upon and tied at the part injured. This must always be done at any period after the receipt of the injury, so long as there is an external wound communicating with the artery. An operation of this kind is often attended with the greatest possible difficulty, not only| owing to the haemorrhage that usually accompanies it and obscures the parts, but also in consequence of the inflamed, infiltrated, and sloughy condition of the tissues in the wound. In order to moderate the haemorrhage, the pressure of an assistant’s finger on the artery high up m the limb must not be trusted to • but a tourniquet should be applied so as completely to arrest the circulation through the limb, and thus to facilitate the discovery and exposure of the injured vessel, the wound being dry. The application of an elastic xui age, such as that recommended by Esmarch, may be used with advantage o exsanguinate a limb, in which an artery has been wounded. By means of this excellent device the divided vessel may be safely cut down upon and disseete out as readily as in the dead body. A large probe should be passed to the bottom of the wound ; and, taking this as the centre, a free incision should be made in such a direction as may best lay open the cavity with the least injury to the muscles and other soft parts. After turning out any coagula contained