261 TRANSPLANTATION OF CUTICLE. cock’s spur, the experiments of Aberncthy on the same subject, the adherence and continued growth of a freshly separated portion of the nose or chin, the transplantation, by Buenger, of a piece of the skin of the thigh on to the face for the formation of a new nose, and the observation of Walt her that the button of bone removed by a trephine, if re-inserted, will contract adhesions again—all prove the fact that freshly separated parts, if immediately re-applied to a raw surface, may contract adhesions to it. But it was reserved for Re verdin to show that cuticle, if transplanted, might be employed as an agent in the cicatrization of granulating surfaces. This observation was as interesting in its scientific aspect, as it was full of promise in its application to plastic surgery; and it has been found of great value in facilitating the hcalim- of large ulcerated surfaces. 0 The growth of new epithelium over the surface of a sore takes place from S at 'tS11Uargm ; and Eeverdin showed that by planting small ets ot fleshly separated cuticle on the granulating surface, each can be made 01,m a °enfclje tor the development of new epithelium, which, spreading in all directions, coalesces with that growing from the surrounding skin, and thus covers the sore rapidly with a new cuticle. The covering of the surface with tion 0 1 tl o’ hTT’ I0"17 " Part °f the Process of cicatrization, the eolith on of the gianulation-tissue and its development into fibrous tissue formino- t\tTtlTt FreSS-. ,The h°Pes fchat ™ entertaineerrone "me8 exlste *fo “m'tTiAlClltl of the which causes such but im;e“Seie The°pi prevented, have been amounts to little more than dressing the sore with Aicl/ifWl CnSeS Z Sr^VSCentTi t““m ^ h trx “ “ ? “ 5 process of healinv Mm-eW n 6 Prockced by the natural !1Se m Promoting the healing °f large sores; and probably, in some cases Ss am^m 1 UOt P1'eVent SUbS6^fc oonSoibes some sound part of the^y—^oXidif 'the8 • A piece of skiu 011 size of an oat or a split pea is m„,i1Pri t t ’ for instance—about the off with curved scissors The wbnl n !'J a Pair °f forceps, and snipped rated, but merely the c ticl^ tw f tttTi °f sk,'U ”ecd *>* ^ ^pa- tme skiu, so as fust to taw blood Sp n ^ papi11^ ^ of the is almost painless. The little f ^ °Pfafclorb when properly performed, 'I-vnwards o, fcCtcc7^,'"“' h "ith «» “'f:- ' - ■ • ’ G SlUtace 01 fche nicer, covered and retained in dws' t'Tl!l StVif °^isin8lilss plaster, nays, at the end of which time T 1 vyv.1. 11,1 IV L - — v„u m u-nifh a -,,,s EE undisturbed for about four speedily becomes the centre of n I ' , ,e found fco ke adherent ,• and it widening circle, until it a ,7• Process> which spreads in a gradually from the circumference of the so!-SC . mt0 tde epithelial growth proceeding the surface is rapidly covered "'m °fcber transplanted islets; and thus