TUMOURS. 992 affecting a single gland or group of glands unaccompanied by any constitu- tional disturbance. In these cases the disease seems to he a mcic hj pci trophy of the affected glands ; and perhaps, strictly speaking, should hardly be classed with tumours. ' The diagnosis of lymphadenoma in the early stages is practi- cally impossible. At a iater period, the great enlargement ol the glands, and the constitutional symptoms, indicate the nature of the case. The absence of a local cause of irritation, and the want of any tendency to caseation or suppuration, serves as a rule to distinguish it from chronic inflammation of the o-lands. The question of removing the enlarged glands often comes before the Surgeon. If the affection is local, and the general health fairly good, the operation may safely be undertaken. If there is very marked anaemia, or if there be a high temperature, and especially if the tumours arc very numeious, the spleen enlarged, and the white corpuscles distinctly increased in number, any operative interference should be avoided unless it seems possible to reheve the patient from imminent death from pressure on the trachea. F Papilloma. Tumour resembling the Papillse of Skm or Mucous Membrane.—A papilla is a more or less pointed projection composed of areolar or homogeneous connective tissue, surrounding a capillary loop and covered by epithelium, which may consist of many layers, as m the skm, or of only one, as in the intestine. Lymphatic spaces or capillaries are presen in the areolar tissue. The tumours which pass under the name of papillomata are usually mere hypertrophies of the normal papillae of the part on which they grow, and are covered by the variety of epithelium normal to the pau The papillae of which they are composed differ from those normal to the part msiS’Lpe.and vascuilrity. Thus, instead such as are normal to the skin, we may have growths sometimesi ieachm0 size and presenting the appearance of the head of a good-sized cauliflower. Instead of simple papillae, we may have branched growths subdmdmg agm and ao-ain and connected with the parent tissue only by a narrow stalk The vessels of’ these growths arc always abundant, and frequently dilated to I considerable size. The connective tissue forming the basis»otpapj 1* => more or less crowded with small round cells, according to the rapidity of the Towth Sometimes the deeper layers of the epithelium are darkly pigmeiifrL Malignant tumours of various kinds when seated on a free surface may assume fpSary but these must not be confounded with papillomata. On the other'hand a papilloma may by invisible degrees merge into an cpit homa either squamous or columnar, as the case may be, the distinction between them15 sometimes being impossible, even with the help of the microscope, may]however, be broadly stated that so long as the tumour nrmutam papillary form, the epithelium being purely superficial, and showing no tendency to burrow between the papillae into deeper parts, and soAon*,« mo of the tumour is not composed of masses of small round cells inhltiatn g th^suirArdi'ng1 structures, we may at least hope that the tumour * u n- Si Zr iu other eases, such as the ~" we know certainly that the growth ,s sin, do. (J and "rapAomata'of tt'bAtlAAgAhiuly covered with columnar epithelium, are always soft.