REMARKS MEDICAL REFORM THE SUBSTANCE OF A LECTURE INTRODUCTORY TO A COURSE OF ANATOMY. DELIVERED TO THE STUDENTS OF ANDERSON'S UNIVERSITY. TO WHICH ARF ADDED FOUR STATISTICAL TABLES, SHOWING THE ADVANTAGES OF GLASGOW AS A MEDICAL SCHOOL. BY M. S. BUCHANAN, M.D. PROFE8SOR OF ANATOMY, MEMBER OF THE FACULTY OF PHYSICIANS AND SURGEONS OF GLASGOW, LATE SENIOR SURGEON TO THE ROYAL INFIRMARY, ETC. GLASGOW: PRINTED BY BELL AND BAIN, ST. ENOCH SQUARE. 1846.TO THE STUDENTS OF ANATOMY ATTENDING ANDERSON'S UNIVERSITY, GLASGOW. Gentlemen, The agitation and contrariety of opinion which have for so many years prevailed on the subject of Medical Reform, induced me, at the commencement of our present course, to offer a few remarks which I am glad to understand have quieted the minds of many as to the position they now and hereafter must occupy in our profession. Glasgow, the second city in the empire in population and mercantile importance, and which, from its vast capabilities for conveying hospital and anatomical in- struction to the medical and surgical pupils who now frequent its amphitheatres, ought not to be overlooked in the Legislation of the present time. If the observations contained in this Lecture, or if the facts stated in the accompanying tables, shall in the least tend to further this object, the labour which I have bestowed in collecting the materials shall not have been unrewarded. In the meantime believe me, Gentlemen, Your sincere friend, M. S. BUCHANAN. AINTRODUCTORY LECTURE ON ANATOMY, November 4, 1845. Gentlemen, There is no period in the history of your lives which, in my opinion, is so important as that when you are called on to determine the profession you are to follow; and no question so interesting as that which is to fix the character of your subsequent pursuits. Why, I would ask, have you made choice of the profession of Medicine ? What considerations have actuated you in thus presenting yourselves as pu- pils in this amphitheatre ? Have you been attracted by the suggestions of vanity; by the ambition of friends ; or the still more objectionable allurements of avarice ? Then it is my duty to tell you candidly, that you will be doomed to disappointment. This self-exami- nation I deem of essential moment at the present time, when so many both here and elsewhere are rushing headlong to a profession, the most arduous and difficult of attainment, and requiring in its pro- secution the most devoted and sustained self-denial. I feel no astonishment, therefore, that such numbers lament the rash and unreflecting manner in which they have embarked in pursuits which they afterwards find6 so uncongenial to their wishes, so unsuited to their abilities, tastes, and inclinations, and who seem to imagine that nature has destined them to be surgeons by intuition. "Multiad scientiam pervenissent si se illuc pervenisse non putassent." On the other hand, I must inform you, that it has been my delight to witness the increasing number of those who, actuated by a noble ambition to excel, have exhibited the most unwearied application ; whose every taste and feeling, leading them forward in the true path to knowledge, has enabled them rapidly to emerge from poverty and obscurity, and to attain the most exalted position in their profession. Depend upon it, no success can be attained, no true distinction will ever be reached, by any of you who has not to natural genius superadded indomitable perseverance ; and his attainments must be of the most superficial kind, who does not experience the surest and most delight- ful recompense for the toils of research in the pleasure which he derives from the acquisition of knowledge. But whatever may be the object which you have in view in the choice of our profession, it is my duty to inform you in the outset, that even in the very pre- liminary part of it, and that which I shall have the hon- our to unfold, you must prepare to encounter many difficulties and hardships. " Tantos mortalibus esse labores." Anatomy is not to be learned except by the exer- cise of all those qualities on your part to which I have above adverted, to which there must be added manual dexterity in the use of your dissecting instruments, method and careful arrangement in unfolding the7 various tissues ; in fine, a careful and sustained putting forth of all your physical as well as intellectual powers. I am sorry to remark, that there are many even in the present so much vaunted and highly enlightened age, who act as if it was their opinion that a knowledge of this important science, upon which not only Surgery and Medicine, but Physiology and Pathology, must be founded, is to be obtained by an examination of plates, books, models, and diagrams, and seem to hold in utter detestation all those means which must, by every can- did inquirer, be acknowledged as essential. It asto- nishes me not a little to hear some superficial talkers express themselves as if gratification was derived from the pursuit of dissection for its own sake, and apart from a conviction of its utility as the basis of all pro- fessional knowledge, Who, even the most enthusiastic among us, I ask, w7ould prefer the pestilential air of the dissecting room, to the healthful atmosphere of the country or the snug fireside of his study, were it not for the solid advantage he thus obtains of a know- ledge of structures which must every day be the sub- ject of operation, or the basis of all his physiological and pathological reasoning. Besides its strictly professional bearing, what an important vantage-ground does the study of this science afford to its cultivators, in the illustration of the prin- ciples of natural theology on the one hand, or in un- folding the manner in which the wonderful powers of mental manifestation and corporeal organization are entwined on the other ! As an example of the first, I would not follow Dr. Paley, and take so intricate an organization as the eye or ear, as an exhibition8 of design ; but lifting the most simple of all the parts in the body, the cranium, I would demonstrate to the youngest and most uninstructed among you, the beautiful adaptation of means in its formation to the end in view, the protection of the contained organ. As an illustration of the second, the brain and cere- bellum are the parts most generally made choice of; but even the medulla and nerves of animal and organic life, are equally interesting as exhibitions of the manner in which matter and mind are inscrutably linked the one to the other. But to revert to the subject in a more practical point of view. What, I would ask, has induced our Universities, Colleges, and Faculties to enact that two courses of Anatomy and as many of practical Anatomy must be attended before the candidate for a degree or diploma can be taken on trial ? And the regulations of the Army, Navy, and East India boards on this subject are still more striking, enforcing as they do, three and four courses of Anatomy before the candidates can enter their respective services. What, but a thorough knowledge of this ground- work can give confidence to the operator in the hos- pital amphitheatre, and what, but a conviction of its possession on the part of the private surgeon induces the agonised patient to submit his life into his hands. I think, however, I hear some of you say, Oh, we do not intend to be operating surgeons, we intend to devote ourselves to prescribing, to be knights of the quill, rather than of the scalpel! We shall confine our- selves to midwifery and general practice ! Now, how do you know at present what situations in life you may9 be called on to occupy? you have interest, afterwards, to get into the army or navy; you require to go to some remote part of your own or some foreign clime, and perhaps your very first case may be one demanding prompt surgical interference and requiring all your anatomical knowledge ; you operate with success, and your character is perhaps at once established, or you allow a valuable life to be lost through supineness, the consequence of ignorance of Anatomy, and your repu- tation is for ever blasted. Having thus shortly adverted to the importance of the science of Anatomy, I shall now allude to the facilities which are afforded all of you for its cultiva- tion, and more particularly to the position which Glasgow occupies in this respect. If it be granted, which few will deny, that Anatomy is the true basis on which all the other branches of the healing art depend, then it must be allowed that there is no individual to whom the profession is so deeply indebted in this country as to Mr. Warburton. The labour which, as chairman of the Medical Committee of the House of Commons, in the year 1833-4, he bestowed in investigating the obstacles which presented themselves to the prosecution of dis- section, the exposure which he made of the absurd laws which were so long retained in the statute book on this subject, and the simple, clear, and able manner in which the few clauses of his statesmanlike bill were drawn up, entail a deep debt of gratitude on the pro- fession generally, and on the professors and lecturers on Anatomy and Surgery throughout the United Kingdom in particular, which no language of mine10 • can adequately express. Indeed, I have long been of opinion, that some substantial token should be presented him, which might mark unequivocally our gratitude and esteem. Take a retrospective glance at the position which, as teachers of this fundamental branch of the profession we occupied prior to the year 1833, and contrast it for a moment with that which we now enjoy, and the difference must be striking to you all. The trial of Burke and Hare, in Edinburgh, for a series of the most cold-blooded and diabolical murders which were ever perpetrated in a civilized country, exhibits, I believe, a most correct picture of the deplor- able state to which matters were reduced in order to procure a supply of material by some of the teachers of Anatomy at the above period. If in criminal jurisprudence the resetter is held not only art and part in the guilt of the accused, but the great originator of crime, then (notwithstanding the jesuitical argument that in some rare cases we must do evil that good may arise,) I know of no crime more heinous than that of those who, with one-eyed obliquity, remarking the hardihood and blood-thirsti- ness of the above wretched culprits, and urging them on to further deeds of violence by bribery the most unblushing, could all the while conceal themselves behind a vail of the most impenetrable obscurity. Even here, though no such scenes as those above alluded to were ever imagined to have existed, still, the insurmountable difficulties which presented them- selves to the prosecution of dissection, compelled a vast majority of the medical students at the above11 period either to betake themselves to Paris, and there to make up for their lamented home deficiency ; or engage in the practice of resurrecting, at the imminent hazard of life and reputation. How stands the case, as to supply of subjects, since the introduction of Mr. Warburton's admirable bill in 1834 ? If I may hazard an opinion on this delicate affair, and draw my conclusion from what has been my own experience, as well as from that of the other anatomical lecturers in Glasgow, I may with confidence affirm, that the provision of subjects for anatomical purposes in the United Kingdom must have amounted, since the passing of the above bill, to upwards of 2000 annually—of which more than one half have been interred untouched. The prices also have been, (at least in this locality) such as the most indigent student can afford. I have heard much of the deficient supply in London and elsewhere,—of the exorbitant prices exacted, and the disgraceful quarrelling as to preference given to one school o Ter another, which has in some metropolitan establishments made some legis- lative measure necessary. In Glasgow, however, we know of no such childish squabblings ; our regulations under Mr. Warburton's bill are of the most simple kind, our supply always so abundant that, as I have formerly stated, we might if free trade principles had the ascendancy, export to our dissatisfied neighbours all our superabundance. These arrangements have been brought about with- out a single grave having been violated, or the feelings of the most sensitive injured. It therefore astonishes B12 me not a little, notwithstanding what is generally known as to the sources of our supply, that so much money is still thrown away on guards for our church- yards, mortsafes, iron tombs, and all the et ceteras of interested jobbers. From what I have above advanced, you must remark that here you will enjoy advantages as to dissection which were denied to many of your predecessors and cotemporaries. I would say, therefore, to all of you, avail yourselves largely of your opportunities, and you may be assured that no exertions will be wanting on my part in conveying to you that information which will enable you to appear to advantage wherever Pro- vidence may call you to labour. Besides the great advantage of the abundant supply of material for dissection to which I have adverted, I should wish for a moment to explain the facilities for acquiring a knowledge of Anatomy, afforded you in con- nection with the dissecting room of the school, and which I believe are not afforded any where else. To the anato- mical museum, I have added a library and reading room, where, when not engaged in dissecting, you will find much to occupy your spare time. The separated bones of every part of the body are always at your command ; the models in plaster, papier mache, and wax, are before you, and the medical periodicals of the day and other amusing reading, leave you no time for trifling; besides, the library of bones, &c. &c. is open twice a-week—you take the parts home—and thus by careful study of them, supplement the forenoon's labours ; in short, by this method of procedure, so necessary, yet so neglected,13 you must be ingenious in contriving to be ignorant of this important ground-work, the basis of all your after medical studies. One word as to the manner in which the weekly examination of the class is conducted. The catalogue being regularly called, and the absentees marked, I put a number of written questions into the ballot box ; one is drawn ; the names of four pupils of the 1st, 2d, or 3d year of anatomy, are called on to answer the question in all its bearings, which by this means is thoroughly investigated, and so on till all the class pass the search- ing ordeal. At the close of the session I award one prize for every ten pupils, which are all decided by the votes of those who have been regularly present throughout the session ; and thus a correct know- ledge is afforded of those who have distinguished them- selves. Many of the senior pupils who feel averse to expose themselves, and request leave to be present at those examinations, have afterwards confessed that they have derived more benefit at those weekly concours, than during the regular lecture or demonstration. I have been told, that by the system of the open ballot of the students at the termination of the course, much canvassing takes place, and some pupils of inferior capa- city do get prizes, but this I never experienced ; on the contrary, I have frequently made trial before the voting takes place, and marked those who I thought should get prizes, when, with very few exceptions, they have proved to be the identical pupils who have obtained the greatest number of votes of their fellow students. Another department of my labour consists in the performance of the operations of Surgery in the dissect-14 ing room. This is a part of Practical Anatomy which has been far too much neglected ; and it has been my object for many years to supply this desideratum. My store of instruments is always at command, and there is not a single blood-vessel in the body that you may not frequently delegate, without in the slightest degree injuring or interfering with the careful dissecting of the parts after your operation.* But it is not so much to the advantages, great as I have proved them to be, which you enjoy as students of Anatomy, that you have been induced to make choice of Glasgow before every other locality, for the study of your profession. No—I regard our splendid Hospital, and the incalculable advantages you must derive from the study of disease in all its variety there, with the accom- panying courses of clinical lectures by all the attending physicians and surgeons, as the principal cause of your preference of this locality. Averse as I do feel to draw comparisons, which must be always invidious, I cannot refrain from the expression of my candid opinion, after a most careful examination of every hospital of note, either at home or on the Continent of Europe, that the Glasgow Royal Infirmary presents to the eye of the medical and surgical pupil the best microcosm of disease which is any where to be met with. It has been said that the Surgical Wards of our Hospital are too much crowded with accidents and operation cases, * I rejoice that so much is this department of Anatomy and Surgery prized by the talented and experienced individual at the head of the medical department of the British Navy, that, by a recent regulation, no one can be promoted from Assistant to Senior Surgeon before going through a complete course of all the operations of Surgery on the dead body.15 and are deficient in many others of subordinate interest of a chronic character, which are more illustrative of pathology than those of a severe or acute kind ; but such remarks must have been made by those who have not investigated the subject, else they would dis- cover by our annual reports, that in the above department a vast variety of cases are admitted daily. This is demonstrated by an inspection of the table of diseases treated and operations performed in the Infirmary, subjoined to this Lecture, and which ought to be carefully examined by every one interested in hospital statistics. I know of no monopoly so baneful as that of teach- ing, more particularly as regards hospital instruction ; and, therefore, I feel pride in holding up the example of Glasgow to our neighbours in the eastern metro- polis as worthy of their imitation in this respect. All the medical and surgical officers in our establish- ment, in their turn, must be clinical lecturers ; they are elected to their office by a board of directors, in great part chosen by the subscribers, and, therefore, monopoly is out of the question—from this constitution, and from this variety of clinical teaching, the best results arise to the pupils. All the cases in hospital are, or may be clinical ; every operation is brought under review, and every inspection properly explained. Having acted for twelve years as surgeon to this hospital—having seen the advantages of this method, and contrasted it with the muzzling of the hospi- tal functionaries elsewhere, I can with confidence affirm, that if the above baneful system of monopoly in clinical teaching is much longer perpetuated by16 the above parties, they may soon bid adieu to their much vaunted medical school, and find, when too late, that they have been supplanted by their more youth- ful, energetic, and mercantile rival of the west. I should now proceed to give you an outline of the course which I intend to pursue ; to explain the books on Anatomy which you ought to read ; and to enforce our reciprocral duties; but I must delay these topics to our next lecture, and proceed to state to you my views on the subject of that all- engrossing theme, Medical Reform. I have, with this view, thrown together a few suggestions which I hope may tend to allay that excitement and anxiety which so universally prevail. Besides, having as it were been invited to express, as surgeons and lecturers, the opinions which we conscientiously entertain of those legislative enactments introduced into the House of Commons last session by Sir James Graham, on this subject, I do think that even now, though late, it is well befitting all of us calmly but firmly to give expression to our sentiments. Before proceeding, however, to discuss those bills, or the subject generally, of medical reform, I beg to state to you all, that no enactments which may be made by Sir James Graham, or any other medical bill legislator, can in justice be retrospective. All of you have now entered on the study of your profession, with your eyes fixed on those qualifications which will enable you to appear before your examinators after the prescribed terra of study has been accomplished and the requisite curriculum gone through,—to alter in regard to all such—to make an ex-post facto law which17 would apply to a single individual so placed, would, in my opinion, be an act of the grossest injustice, and if attempted, I, for one, will raise my voice most strenu- ously against it. But indeed on this point I have no fears, for it is my conviction that this, for you, most essential point, will on all hands be cheerfully conceded. In this respect the Legislature will only be following the invariable and equitable practice of all the medical and surgical institutions of the kingdom, which, when adding to their period of study or increasing their curricula, have invariably made those new regulations to apply only to all such pupils as have entered on their professional career posterior to the date of these enactments. The next point which concerns you all, suppos- ing you to have obtained your diploma or degree, is, where may you practise ? at once, I would reply— "ubique orbis terrarum." You have obtained legally and honorably, the " summas honores medicinse vel chirurgise," and my maxim for all such would be, equality of qualification ought to confer equality of privilege throughout her Majesty's dominions. But I would go one step further, and affirm, that either of those badges of professional merit having been conferred, ought, besides, to entitle the holder to the rank of member in any of the royal colleges about to be referred to; and also, eventually (if elected), to that both of Fellow and Counsellor. Having thus shortly stated my opinion of the position which you now and in future should occupy, as medical and surgical pupils and practitioners, I shall, in a few18 words, explain my views of the last bill of Sir James Graham, dated July 28, 1845. A Council of Health and Medical Police is on all hands allowed to be essential in the working" out of Medical Reform. The number of the members, 12, is, in my opinion, quite sufficient; but instead of having them the nominees of the Crown, they ought to be elected by the Counsellors of the Royal Colleges of Physicians and Surgeons of the United Kingdom. Two from the Royal College of Surgeons of England; two from that of Physicians of England ; and in a similar manner, four from the Royal Colleges of Physi- cians and Surgeons of Scotland and Ireland respectively. The arguments in favour of this opinion it would be out of place for me here to state. If given at any length, they would occupy far too much of our valuable time, and therefore I have thought it more judicious to leave them out altogether. The next point of interest is the subdivision of the profession into three distinct grades by the bill. To every one who has examined the state of matters either at home or abroad, this must appear a measure fraught with inconvenience and mischief. In Scotland and Ireland, practically speaking, there is only one class of medical men, under the well known cognomen of general practitioners. A pure, either in Medicine or Surgery, is a nondescript now never to be met with,— family practice in all its extent being the aim of M.D., as well as those who have obtained a Surgical diploma. Even in England, how stands the case?—Sir B. Brodie, Mr. Liston, or Mr. Guthrie, is called to a person19 labouring under fever, inflammation, or apoplexy, do they refuse to attend and prescribe because these are medical diseases? And again, would any Member of the College of Physicians refuse to attend a case of ulcer, syphilis, or cutaneous disease, because of its Surgical character ? No doubt in society we find every where men of superior intellectual attainments and great experience consulted on Medical or Surgical cases ; but in general this has been quite irrespective of their having either a Medical or Surgical diploma; and though it might still be useful to maintain two professional grades, as at present, the utmost latitude ought, in my opinion, to be allowed, as to the nature of the practice pursued. By this means alone we shall prevent the profession from sinking, and at the same time secure such a supply of able, intelligent general practitioners, as will serve for all the purposes of both town and country. Even at present, few of those who pass at the Apothecaries' Hall in London remain contented with this inferior title, or submit to be designated Apothecaries. In their progress they qualify for both the Hall and the College of Surgeons, and I believe a great majority, pass both. Now, if that barbarous enactment, which is so much reprobated,— the apprenticeship,—were abolished, and a standard curriculum of education for the diploma of Surgeon enforced throughout the United Kingdom, which would confer all the privileges enjoyed by that of the Hall and College in England, then all that is desirable would be gained. Of course, all those who now hold c20 certificates of qualification from any of the licensing bodies, would be entitled, by the above arrangement, to the rank of Members in the Royal Colleges of their respective divisions of the United Kingdom. In the professions of Divinity and Law, the age of entrants has been fixed at 21 ; and both in Scotland and Ireland the same standard has, from time imme- morial, prevailed in regard to Surgery and Medicine. To change the period, as proposed in the bill, to 22 and 26 years, is, in my opinion, quite uncalled for. Let the difference of qualification between the educa- tion for the diploma and the degree consist rather in some increase in the curriculum of literary attainments; such as, for example, making it imperative that the candidate for M.D. shall have previously obtained either M A. or M.B. The period of study, however, ought not to be less than four complete years, reckoning from the date of the first sessional ticket; and this should apply both to diplomas and degrees. As to the Fellowship about which so much has been written, a very simple arrangement, by supplemental charters, might enable annually a certain number of the members, as above designated, of a determinate age, &c. to be elected to the rank of Fellow by the members themselves; and also the Counsellors might, in a similar manner, be elected by the Fellows from their own rank, one-third of the Council annually retiring. The same arrangement might be extended both to the Royal Colleges of Surgeons of Scotland and Ireland. The Fellows in Scotland at the outset might include the present Members of the Royal21 College of Surgeons of Edinburgh, and the Members of the Faculty of Physicians and Surgeons of Glasgow;* thereafter, as in England, a certain number of the licentiates, who, of course, would then be members, might be elected annually to the rank of Fellows by the method above stated; and again, the Counsellors or Examinators might be elected by the Fellows. By these simple arrangements uniformity of election in all the Royal Colleges of Surgeons would be effected, and such a measure of Medical Reform introduced as would satisfy the most fastidious. The Fellows of the Royal Colleges of Physicians of England, Scotland, and Ireland ought, in my opinion, to be formed in a similar way, by election from among those only who have obtained the degree of M.D., as ordinary Members of their respective Colleges; the Counsellors likewise ought to be elected by the Fellows of their respective Colleges ; thus, three grades in each of the two great divisions of the profession would be formed—Members, Fellows, and Assessors or Counsellors; an equal number of the * Notwithstanding all that a well known Professor has written against the Faculty of Physicians and Surgeons of Glasgow, in his disingenuous article on Medical Reform in the Edinburgh Review, I must refer him to acts, not calumnious assertions, in proof of the liberality of our venerable body, and contrast these with those of the Royal College of Surgeons of Edinburgh. Dr. Knox, who is not a member of our body, made applica- tion to the Faculty to have his tickets recognised, on his coming to lecture in Glasgow on Anatomy. The Faculty immediately informed him that his request would be complied with. I made a similar applica- cation to the Royal College of Surgeons of Edinburgh, and the answer which I received from their president, after taking the sense of the meeting on this point, was, that unless I became a member of their body, and paid them £150 sterling, my tickets would not be taken if I came to lecture in Edinburgh. What a contrast!22 Counsellors of the Colleges of Physicians being associated with the Universities in the examinations for M.D.* I have been told that Glasgow will suffer by any change which may take place, in consequence of the interested jobbing which Edinburgh has already exercised with Government. But, notwithstanding all the malevolence of Edinburgh Reviewers, of College monopolists, with the et ceteras of calumny heaped on the heads of the profession in Glasgow, I rejoice in this species of argumentum, ad absurdum ; my opinion * The University of Edinburgh has lately followed the very consistent conduct of that of Glasgow, and enacted that the tickets of private lecturers in London and Dublin shall be received by them in obtaining the degree of M.D.; and the reason assigned for the rejection of the tickets of private lecturers in Edinburgh and Glasgow, has been, one which the University of Glasgow never dared to give, viz., that the above metropolitan private lecturers were elected, whereas, those of Edinburgh and Glasgow were self-elected. I should like to be informed by whom these first have been elected, and the manner of their election. It is now my duty, at the same time, to inform the Senate of the University of Edinburgh, that the Professors of Anderson's University, Glasgow, are subjected to an ordeal more severe, and to an election far more democratic than any in the three kingdoms. The electors being eighty-one in number, composed of nine classes, of nine electors in each class,—the clergy, lawyers, and medical men being twenty-seven in number—the classes of merchants, manufacturers, engineers, &c. &c. in and around tho city, make up the rest. If this species of appointment is exceeded by any hero or elsewhere, I am much mistaken, and tho existence of it establishes a strong claim in favour of the Professors of this University being recognised both by Edinburgh and Glasgow Universities in graduation, as they have long been by tho other Universities in the kingdom. But tho fact must be told in spite of all Mr. Syme's tmpcurte assertions ; tho Senates of both the above Universities wish to obtain as many graduates as they can, and, at tho same time, they try to prevent competition in lecturing when it comes near their own door—they fear such rivalry; knowing well that if their baneful monopoly were abolished, many among them might lecture to empty benches.23 has all along been, that Government will not, and dare not, do the second city in the Empire any injustice.* Our Hospital is without exception the best nursery in the Kingdom for Medical and Surgical recruits for her Majesty's army and navy, as may be seen by a glance at the accompanying tables. The command of material for dissection which we have, is not inferior to that of Paris. The Museums of Anatomy and Natural History, with the Libraries and Botanic Garden of this city, are nowhere surpassed; and the Halls of our Professors demonstrate by the increasing numbers who annually frequent them, that these and many other advantages, which it is needless for me to enumerate, are now generally appreciated, I have thus briefly and very imperfectly given you my opinion on some of the most important points of Medical Reform. That the profession can no longer remain in its present unsettled state, is now self-evident; daily experience sufficiently attests the necessity for some able tactitian so to arrange the materials into a well regulated medical code, as thus to put an end to the interminable strife of interested parties, and the confusion and uncertainty which so universally prevail. In the three bills introduced into the House of Commons by Sir James Graham, so many diversified * As for the right to grant diplomas, possessed at present both by the Royal College of Surgeons in Edinburgh, and also by the Faculty of Physicians and Surgeons of Glasgow, three plans present themselves, any one of which might be adopted by the College of Surgeons of Scotland, as above constituted:—1st. Examination in neither of the above localities, but at Falkirk, the mid-station between the two cities, by a committee of the counsellors of the College. 2d. In both cities at the same time, by committees belonging to each. 3d. In each city every alternate year, beginning, of course, with the western metropolis.24 interests have been necessarily attacked, and so much conciliation attempted in vain, that I am not astonished this right honourable gentleman, disgusted with the selfishness, the illiberality,and the mutual recriminations of the contending parties, should leave the Doctors to settle their own differences, and give up the task of Medical legislation in despair.* In conclusion, however, I would respectfully suggest to him, that if he feels disinclined to adopt so extensive a measure of reform as that which I have above feebly sketched, let him, 1st, abolish the system of apprenticeship in England ; 2d, by means of a General Council, fix a standard curriculum for the diploma of Medicine and Surgery, which will confer equality of privilege throughout her Majesty's dominions, and lastly, establish a register of all such, entitling those alone to recover their debts ; and that even by these simple enactments he will confer a boon on the profession of inestimable value. * The fierce war waged in Dublin between Trinity College and the Royal College of Surgeons—one rejecting the tickets of the other,—and the intestine strife now going on in Edinburgh between the University and the Royal College of Surgeons on the same subject, afford proofs of tho absolute necessity of some strong controlling power being brought to bear on such practices.25 CD CD {S gfe cS b S> « ft 5 *3«a 'osiapo^oeiyraoj^ •QSinoo 9U0 uopuoi o% 0§Ini3I9U98 ?nq '0813? <n OOT-T raoi^r o o o CO O CO •90ud Jims $v A\ddns jo %wba\. iC^ngnlbajj CM CM CM CM CM CM CM CM «4 CO^IN d »H c« *U0TSS9g 19^111^ 9q; Suunp 'Ip[99Ai '90IAJ4 JO 9DII0 i]UO •ijuo ^nois^ooo co w to ta co to to CO : oo < *3 (fl ifj W » K5 » ffl * to w >n (O if) to © «5 co co co co cocococococo co co co eo co co eo eo co co cm eo <M CM CO CM 1 b* 2 « !ft§ ooatoootocotob. oocotoootocotoi> CO CO rt< CO CO cm cm cm cm co co CO CO CO CO CM CM CM CM CO CO CM CO CM CM CO GM Is2 § ^ CM oococoootoooto^ m m tc o cocococococo cmcocm OO CO CD 00 CO CO to t» O O CO ifl COCOCOCOCOCO CMCOCM 1 ° s oooooooo COGNCMCOCMCOGMCN : : o CO CO CO t- CO c§5d* CD 5 ■» CP Q,^S CD <» £^ CJ pE| CD<j C OOOOOOOO tfscMeorfir^incoeM t^ir>wcooi>W'* <2Sd* OJ^S CD <u o +j t> ft fe^ d H 54 oooooooo OCMCOCMi^OcOCO inrfrJi^COOCOCO O o o o o o © o o i> © (M t-» CM t» o> o-j a o Spa oooooooo ooooo oooooo ffitOO^COOlMN W r)t (N O CO © m t~ O GNJ © COCNCN-*CM^rHl-H HHH(M(M r-H CM (M H H O o o O O m rn CO ^ O Og S «. >—■ • >—j 5 Ol^^^^J^k: O 1-5 S 02 CC GG £ {> O co _ . O ® .9 -3 «r £^ a -s^ © § •craviasii 'anvnoog26 ^cocotON(fi(M05CX!Ocn'-iiC>onc(MO OHOMiCNp-tMNQOQOnMTfKOinfMOON eo^eo^co « ^ a o^t^co MOiocon^i'N-tnffi ~f of p-T of eo~ kfT co" i-T of TjT -T t^T of <j£ of co WbHrtncoob^wnobHrti^HCONo ifi Ol hh Ol cm m Ol O i—I i-1 N 00 rfin i-i CO <£> i-h r-i 00 H O C3 ^ Tj* r-4 r-l CN HHb. tOML'JtOmTjiNiiOHHHOOlCONHOOOM co^JiHONioowaoeonHtfoowsoioo COHH i-H l-H eo (OiflHIMaoOM^ffHOMINiOeOOsOeO^O -^«3<MrtTjiTfO^COOO^Tl<<X5 O O (M N K -t (NOMmHCO'tiHlMIMCOOOHJimOOONIMOO " CO CO O " - - IM (O 00 Jl O N O NOO (D (N lO Hi H (M ICS HOlOOMOOflOOlCHCOCllM'-'l'm i-i HSJHH r-t Ol CN i-H C£>^ 00^ of r-T iff 0iO-*^iM<SNC0«001NO(NtJ<O(NCNN!NC0 " COCO'^cOr-iHb.^NOOO'tQNeOCOOONO OlMMOnOi'I-NHOOfflOOOO^OfflOffl r~ eo t~ to m eo <*t^cNt^t^p-*c^o?cO'-ia5^ :o m n M H N CO MNLOOC0i«C?>O(N«OtDHffiCJ)»nCMN00!NH ooowN-HixiHfflcoHiMoiomHHiopino) co I—I CM CO CO OJ CO CO rH H tO r-H 0 i-H irT of of OOOINCriOCOtOHOtONCOOOimfflNOOM o i.oto(M^Nooi.ocoo)cmcficflHHcut-o<cin i-H Ol Ol tfS EQ -tf CN-"*>-h CO CN OriW Tf ~T of HOHOo)inco'Moa>xcooMcO'i|a>HOO't rH CO N M CO CO IN rH CN rH CN Ol «D CO CO~ ^ r>» CD COO^OOOi-hoiQ'^t1 » 03 *w ^—' w w« -r: -^aiWi'O^cotooooooio cMt^cucrst-'OO — r\i r/*i rrt rvi ~ —< rr* OiQ^iOOI)Q<OOOS)<fi f P QQ 1 rM ■- /^-\ *T\ CN CO CO CN ih fh CO cocos)(flHOil-*o>-H«i>ntoocOHCNocO'H HNH^cOHtoitO^oCKNtCCOHCiOOCOCnOO I-H.-H r-l Ht rH rt CO -H CO »"H CMOCSOCN^NOOtOCO'toOOCOOClHOO "Hin(Offl(MH(»OHO(N(0 OU H c>| O) cn O !M T o-H,—no m o cm i-H r-l ■«* CM I—I " O CN CO N H/ O CI CO ifi O O 00 i.O r, (M Xi N«H-(OflHOOHaHlrtH(OWIM(OM(» IH CO H rH HCI I-hCOCO •2 S jj I " •iliMli'iiloijfi^ >r£ O g ,g |^ % V A IJl'S "ivoiaaj\[27 TfCO^MOt^CTW -<tf t» H 05 rt< W o>-<* in (N h eo n h coco W H ; Tf^COrH; f}l ■« H O CO §e3 2 02 00 00 o»h • ia cq h © o t» ifi ■<# SO . N (N H sq (M CO : t>. co th liii m O .8P S «» - =3 d o -.2 « ,2 P o o28 : oo oo r- oo I <N *>• t» »T5 CC> 00 lT5 <N -h w p 8 5 c: o ^ Y <y g B r=3 fl B P .ti o a E "£3 ^ J" — ^ rH 09 33 2 fee § Q cj rf »i TO 05 J O Cj P o lilii-Ei P» CO a> o off i o