544 Characters of roots. Some sets of fibrils join ; posterior root larger, pi'oportion- ally largest in iiecli. Roots are largest for ner\'es of limbs. Oblique in their course mo.st so inferiorly, where they form Cauda equina. Length in- creases from above downwards. Union of the roots in inter- vertebral foramen. except in first two cervical, the sacral. and coc- cygeal nerves. Situation of ganglia. Exceptions in cervical, THE SPINAL CORD AND ITS MEMBRANES. Characters of t}ie roots. Besides variations in the relative size of the two roots, the following cliaracters are t.) be noted Unmu of the fibrils. Tlie librils of contiguous anterior roots may be intermingled, and the fibrils of the neighbouring posterior roots may be connected in a like manner ; but the anterior is never mixed with the posterior root. Size of the roots to each other. The posterior root is larger than the anterior, except in the suboccipital nerve ; and the number of the filaments is also greater. Farther, the posterior is propor- tionally larger m the cervical than in any other group ; in the dorsal nerves there is but a very slight difi'erence in favour of the hinder root. Size of both roots along the cord. Both roots are larger where the nerves for the limljs arise than at any other part of the cord ; and they are largest in the nerves to the lower limbs. They are smallest at the lower extremity of the cord. Direction and length of the roots. As the apertures of transmission from the spinal canal are not generally opposite the place of origin of the nerves, the roots are for the most part directed obliquely. This obliquity increases from above downwards ; for in the U2)per cervical nerves the roots are horizontal; but in the lumbar and sacral nerves they have a vertical direction around the filum terminale (fig. 197) ; and the bundle of long nerve-roots descending from the end of the spinal cord, from its resemblance to a horse's tail, is named the Cauda Equina. The length of the roots increases in proportion to their obliqmty. Thus, the distance between the origin and the place of exit of the roots of the lowest cervical nerve equals the depth of one vertebra ; in the lowest dorsal nerve it amounts to the depth of two vertebrte ; and in the lum'uar and sacral nerves each succeeding root becomes nearly a vertebra longer, for the cord does not reach beyond the first lumbar vertebra. Place of union of tlie roots. Commonly the roots unite as before stated in the iiiterveitebral foramina ; and the trunk of the nerve bifurcates at the same spot into anterior and posterior primary branches (fig. 196, d and e). But deviations from this arrangement are found at the upper and lower ends of the spinal column in the following nerves. The roots of the first two cervical nerves join on the neural arches of the corresponding vertebras; and the anterior and posterior primary branches diverge from the trunks in that situation. In the sacral nerves the union of tlie roots tjikes place within the spinal canal ; and the primary branches of the nerves issue by the apertures on the front and back of the sacrum. The roots of the coccygeal nerve are also united in the spinal canal ; and the ainerior and posterior branches of its trunk escape by the lower aperture of that canal. Situation of the ganglia. The ganglia are placed commonly in the intervertebral foraniimi, but where the iro.sition of these apertures is irregular, as at the upper and lower extremities of the spinal