56 DISSECTION OF FRONT OF FOREAEM. Subcuta- neous veins filexus on lio hand ; radial: ulnar, antorlor and poste- rior ; median. Superficial nerves of forearm and back of hand are— internal cutaneous, external cutaneous; nerve ; and lying along the outer border of the hand is the radial nerve : these should be traced to the fingers. Cutaneous Veins. The superficial veins are named median, ■ radial, and ulnar, from their jjosition in the limb. DoiiSAL PLEXUS OF THE HAND. This network receives the super- ficial veins from both surfaces of the fingers ; and from it, on the outer and inner sides, the radial and posterior iilnar veins proceed. The RADIAL VEIN begins in the outer part of the plexus above mentioned, and in some small radicles at the back of the thumb. It is continued along the forearm, at first behind and then on the outer border as far as the elbow, where it gives rise to the cephalic vein by its union with the outer branch of the median vein (fig. 16, p. 40). In many bodies a considerable branch passes from the lower part of the radial vein to join the median vein on the front of the forearm. Tlie ULNAR VEINS (fig. 16) are anterior and posterior, and occupy the front and back of the limb. The anterior begins near the wrist' by the j unction of small roots from the hand, and runs on the inner part of the forearm to the elbow, where it opens either into the median-basilic or posterior ulnar vein. The posterior ulnar vein arises from the inner part of the dorsal plexus of the hand, and is continued along the back of the forearm nearly to the elbow ; here it bends forward to join the inner branch of the median and form the basilic vein. The MEDIAN VEIN takes origin near the wrist by small branches wbich are derived from the palmar surface of the hand. It is directed along the centre of the forearm nearly to the elbow, and there divides into median-basilic and median-cephalic, which unite, as before seen, with the radial and ulnar veins. At its point of bifurcation the median receives a large communicating branch from the deep veins beneath the fascia. Cutaneous Nerves (fig. 15, p. 39, and fig. 23, p. 57). Some of the superficial nerves of the forearm are continued from the arm, those on the inner side from the large internal cutaneous nerve and those on the outer from the lower external cutaneous branch of the musculo-spiral and the musculo-cutaneous. On the fore part of the limb there is occasionally a small offset of the ulnar nerve near the wrist. On the back of the hand is the termination of tlie radial nerve, together with the dorsal branch of the idnar nerve. The internal cutaneous nerve (p. 49) is divided into two. The anterior branch extends on the front of the forearm as far as the wrist, and supplies the integuments on the inner half of the anterior surface. Near the wrist it communicates sometimes with a cutaneous offset from the whrnr nerve (fig. 15). The postci-ior branch continues along the liack of the forearm (ulnar side) to the lower part (fig. 23). The MUSCULO-CUTANEOUS NERVE (cutaueous part, p. 50) is pro- longed on the radial border of the limb to the ball of the thumb, over which it terminates in cutaneous offsets. Near the wrist the nerve is placed over the radial artery, and some twigs pierce the