DISSECTION OP THE ABDOMEN. 27i Fold of Douglas. LinesB transvevsie are three or more; situation. Linea semi- lunaris is at edge of rectus. Pyramidalis muscle: attach- ments ; Nerves in wall of abdomen. Intercostal nerves are between oblique and transver- salis; oS'seta. Last dorsal nerve. umbilicus aiul pubis, tbe aponeurosis of the internal oblique ceases to split, and then passes altogether in front of the rectus, with the other aponeuroses. When the rectus is raised, the termination of the hinder layer of the sheath is seen to be marked by a more or less distinct white line, concave towards the pubis, which is termed the semilunar fold of Douglas {fig. 105, p. 286) : below this the rectus is in contact with the transversalis fascia. The lincce transversce (fig. 102) on the front of the sheath are caused by the tendinous intersections of the rectus. The most constant are three in number, and have the following position ; one is opposite the umbilicus, another at the lower end of the ensiform process, and the third is midway between the two. If there is a fourth it will be placed below the umbilicus. These markings seldom extend the whole depth or breadth of the muscular fibres, more particularly tlie highest and lowest. Linea semilunaris (fig. 97, p. 263). This line corresponds with the outer edge of the rectus, and reaches from the cartilage of the ninth rib to the pubic spine of the hip-bone : it marks the line of division of the aponeurosis of the internal oblique muscle. The PYRAMIDALIS MUSCLE (fig. 102) is triangular in form, and is placed in front of the lower end of the rectus. It arises by its base from the front of the pubis, and is inserted into the linea alba below the mid-point between the umbilicus and the pelvis. This small muscle is often absent. Action. The muscle renders tense the linea alba; and when large it may slightly assist the rectus in compressing the viscera. Nervks of the Abdominal Wall (fig. 101, p. 271, and fig. 97, p. 263). Between the internal oblique and transversalis muscles are situate the intercostal nerves ; and near the pelvis are two branches of the lumbar plexus, viz., the ilio-hypogastric and ilio- inguinal nerves. Some arteries accompany the nerves, but they will be referred to with the vessels of the abdominal wall (p. 283). The LOWER FIVE intercostal nerves enter the wall of the abdomen from the intercostal spiaces. Placed between the two deepest lateral muscles, the nerves are directed forwards to the edge of the rectus, and through this muscle to the surface of tlie abdomen near the middle line. About midway between the spine and the Hnea alba, the nerves furnish cutaneous briinches to the side of the abdomen (lateral cutaneous, p. 262) ; and while between the abdominal muscles they supply branches to them and offsets of communication with one another. A greater part of the lower than of the upper nerves is visible, owing to the shortness of the inferior spaces. The last dorsal nerve (fig. 101') is placed below the twelfth rib, and therefore is not in an intercostal space, but it has a similar course and distribution to the foregoing. As it extends forwards to the rectus it communicates sometimes with the ilio-hypogastric nerve ; and its lateral cutaneous branch perforates the two oblique muscles (p. 263).