THE STRUCTURE OF THE KIDNEY. 355 outer area which looks backwards and overlies the twelfth rib and the diaphragm for about its upper third, and below this the quadratus lumboruni. Crossing outwards and downwards behind this part of the kidney the anterior divisions of the last dorsal and first lumbar nerves will be seen upon the quadratus luniborum (fig. 138, p. 363). When the kidney has been hardened in situ, particularly in thin subjects, an indentation produced by the first two lumbar transverse processes may be present near the hilum. Dissection. The left kiduev should now be cut through from Opon the . . . kidney, and the inuer to the outer border, and to remove the loose tissue Irom clean the the vessels and the divisions of the excretory duct. The sinus containing the blood-vessels now comes completely into view. The interior of the kidney (fig. Renal 136) is. seen on section to con-[li^.-j^ji sist of an external granular or cortical and ° . pyramidal. cortical portion, and oi an inter- nal part made of darker coloured pyramidal masses" converging towards the centre. The 'pyramidal masses (pyra- pyramids: mids of Malpighi ; d) are from eight to eighteen in number, but number; generally more than twelve. The apex of each mass which is free .apex from cortical covering, is directed to the sinus, and ends in a ends in T T 1 papilla ; smooth, rounded part, named mamilla or papilla. In it are the o})enings of the urine tubes, which are about twenty in num- Structure ; ber in each papilla, some being situate in a central depression, and others on the surface ; and it is surrounded by one of the divisions (calyx, c.) of the excre- tory tube. Occasionally two of the masses are united in one papillary termination. The base is embedded in the cortical substance, and base, from it slender processes are continued into the cortical covering. The cut surface of the pyramid has a striated appearance, owing to the arrangement of the uriniferous tubules composing it, and the blood-vessels. If the mass is compressed in a fresh kidney, urine will exude from the tubes through the apertures in the apex. The cortical fart (fig. 136, e) forms about three-fourths of the Extent of kidney ; it covers, the pyramidal masses with a layer nearly a quarter substanco: of an inch in thickness, and sends prolongations between llRin nearly to their apices. Its colour is of a light red, unless the kidney is colour; blanched; and its consistence is so slight that the mass gives way consistence. A A 2 136.—Section THnouGH a Pikob OF THE KrUNKY, SHOWING THE Meddllaky and Coutical Poit- TIONS AND THE BEGINNING OF THE Ureter. Ureter. 6. Jelvis. c. Calyx. d. Pyramids. e. Cortical portion of the kidney. a.