416 DISSECTION OF THE THOKAX. Thymus The THYMUS GLAND is an organ which is most developed in the totL':" infant, and the use of which is not understood. It is placed mainly in the upper part of the thorax ; and it may be best exanuned in "a fulLgrown fojtus. At birth it is about two inches in length, and of a greyish colour. It consists of two lobes of a conical form, which touch each and extent, other. Its upper end is pointed, and extends on the trachea as high as the thyroid body ; and the lower, wider, part reaches as far as the fourth rib. In the thorax it rests on the aortic arch and its large branches, on the left innominate vein and on the pericardium. In the young adult all that remains of the thymus is a brownish rather firm material in the interpleural space behind the upper end of the sternum ; and after middle Life it has generally disappeared altogether. Remains in adult. RELATIONS OF THE LUNGS. Number and use. Form and parts. Base touches diaphragm: sliape and level. Apex is in the neck. Anterior edge is thin po.sition on right, and left side. The lungs are two in number, and are contained in the cavity of the thorax, one on each side of the spinal column. In these organs the blood is changed in respiration. Each lung is of a somewhat conical form, and takes its shape from the space in which it is lodged. It is unattached, except at the inner side where the vessels enter forming the root; and it is covered by the bag of the pleura. It has a base and apex, two borders and two surfaces. Two fissures on the right and one on the left divide it into lobes. The base of the lung is hollowed in the centre and thin at the circumference, fitting the convexity of the diaphragm. Following the shape of that muscle, it is sloped obliquely from before back- wards, and reaches in consequence much lower behind than in front. Surface marking (fig. 162). The position of the lower border with respect to the wall of the thorax may be roughly indicated by a line drawn from the sixth chondro-sternal articulation with a slight convexity downwards to the tenth dorsal spine ; but it will be slightly lower in front on the left, than on the right side. The apex is rounded, and projects from one to two inches above the anterior end of the first rib, where it lies beneath the clavicle, the anterior scalenus muscle, and the subclavian artery. The anterior border is thin, and overlies in part the pericardium. 0?i the right side it lies along the middle of the sternum as low as the sixth costal cartilage. On the left side, however, it reaches, like the pleura, along the middle line only as low as the fourth costal cartilage. Below that spot it presents a V-shaped notch the apex of which is opposite the outer part of the cartilage of the fifth rib. Below the notch the lung extends inwnrds behind the outer part of the sixth costal cartilage, and the lower border passes round the chest, on the left as well as on the right sides, crossing the seventh rib in the lateral line and the ninth rib when it is half way round the body, and it is rouglily at that part a rib and an intercostal space above the line of isleur.al reflection.