diss'ection of the upper limb. 100 extension. Lower imils of mdiii.s .mil ulna joined by capsule, tiianglilar tibro-carti- lage: attach- ments, anil rela- tions. Synovial membrane. Bones are Joined into two rows. Dissection of cju pal and meta- can)al joints. How llrst row is united projects behind, stretching the posterior ligament. In extension the hand is carried backwards, and the row of carpal bones inove.s in the op]iosite direction, viz., from behind forwai'ds, .so as to cau,se the anterior ligament to be tightened. The backward movement is not so fi-ee as the forward. Lower radio-dlnae articulation. In this articulation the head of the ulna is received into the sigmoid cavity of the radius; —^an arrangement just the o]jpo,site to that between the upper ends of the l)ones. The chief bond of union between the bones is a .strong fibro- cartilage ; but a capsule, consisting of scattered fibres, surrounds loosely the end of the ulna. The triangular fibro-cartilage (fig. 42, c) is placed transversely below the end of the ulna, and is thickest at its margins and apex. By its base the cartilage is fixed to the ridge which separates the carpal from the ulnar articulating surface of the radius ; and by its apex to the styloid process of the ulna, and the depression at the root of that projection. Its margins are united with the contiguous anterior and posterior ligaments of the wrist- joint ; and its surfaces enter into the radio-carpal and the lower radio-ulnar articulations. It serves to unite the radius and ulna, and to form part of the socket for the carpal bones. OccasionciIly_Jt^Js^ aperture. The synovial membrane is very loose, and ascends between the radius and the idna : it is separated from _that of the wrist - joint by__tlui triangidar fibro-cartilage. * The motion in this articidation is referred to with the movements of the radius (p. 98). Union of the Carpal Bones. The several bones of the carpus (except the pisiform) are united into two rows by small dorsal, palmar, and intercsseous bands ; and the two rows are connected together by ■wide separate ligaments. Dissection. The articulations of the carpal bones with each other will be prepared by taking away all the tendons from the hand, and cleaning carefidly the connecting ligamentous bands. Two distinct ligaments from the pisiform bone to the unciform (pisi-nnciform) and to the fifth metacarpal {pisi-mHacarpal) are to be defined in the palm (p. 62). At the same time the ligamentous bands uniting the meta- carpal with the carpal bones, and with one another should be dissected. BoNEH OF THE FIRST ROW (fig. 43). The semilunar bone is united to the scaphoid and pyramidal by dorsal (d) and i^'n^r Fig, 42.—Lower Ends of ihe Forearm Bones with the Uniting Fibro-Cartilage. fi. Radius. h. Ulna. c. Triangular fibro-cartilage.