809 ()SS1C'I,KS OK ■rilK TYMI'ANUiVr. liiiini' of tlio tviai);uuuii; ;m iiitcnial, coiiliiiuous with tliut lining ofUuen o 'I , . layers. the cochlea ; and a central layer ot hbrous tis.sne. OssiCLKS OF THK Tymi'anum (fi"?. 298 and 299, p. 811). Three ossicles uC _ , . ,. 1 J • -4- till! tyinim- in nunibei-, they are placed m a line across the tynipaiiic cavity. ,„„„,ii-,, The outer one is named malleus from its resemlilance to a mallet ; the iie.xt, incus, being comiiared to an anvil ; and the last, sta]ies, from its likeness to a stirruji. For their examination the student should be provided with some separate ossicles. The lIALLKUS (tig. 298) is the longe.st bone, and is twisted and MiUl.-us 1ms bent. It is large at the upper part (head ; a) and small and pointed below (handle ; c) ; and it has two jn'ocesses, with a narrowed jiart or neck. The head or capituluin (a) is free in the iK'.id, cavity, is club-shaped, and at the back has a depression tor articula- tion with the ne.vt bone. The neck (h) i.s the constricted part lietween the head and the processes. The handle or manubrium (c) imiKlic, Fig. 2t)8.—The Tuuee Ty.mi'anic Ossicles of the Right Side : the Central Bone is the M.illeus, the Left-hanh one the Incus, and the Right- hand ONE THE Stapes. Incus: Malleus: a. Articular suifacc f. Head. for malleus. h. Body. e. Short process. d. Long jiroeess. e. Orbicular process. Neck. Handle. Long, and Short ijroccss. Stupes : Head. Neck. Anterior crus. Base. decreases in size towards the tip, and is compressed from before backwards ; but at the e.vtremity it is llattened from within out- wards : to its outer niiirgin the special fibrous stratum of the inembrana tympani is connected. The short process (e) sjn-ings from tlie root of the handle on the sliori outer side, and is attaclied to the upper border of the tympanic membrane where it bridges acro.ss the notch of Hivinus. The long ami long process (processus gracilis ; d) (commonly lirokeii olf in removal) is I'™'-' during infancy a slender llattened piece of bone, which projects from the neck of the malleus at the anterior aspect, and extends into the Glaserian fissure ; in the adult this process is most frerpiently converted into a fibrous band ; and in cases where the osseous ])ro- cess jiersists, it is joined with the surrounding bmic, and cannot be separated. The INCUS is a flattened bone (fig. 298), and consists of a body incu*: and two processes. The budi/ (h) is hollowed at the fore i)art («) to I'O'l.v ;