INTEENAL PUDIC ARTERY. 251 ven. condtes and the dorsal nevve of the penis. Its oHsets in this B™,.,es:_ part of its course are:- the artery is about to enter Muscular. ft 7>eei) m«6-ci(Zar branches (d). As tlie aiieiy ib a Le ween the layers of the triangular ligan,ent :t furnishes one or n!;;; branches t'o the levator ani and sphincter, and fine tw,gs through the li"ament to the constrictor and the urethra. Se artery of the lull is a branch of considerable s.ze, wh.ch ^-u., of arises near the base of the triangular hganicnt. It passes almost , ; iy inwards between the fibres of the constrictor nn.scle ..«-e,a. ab ut half an inch fron. the base of the triangu^r I'S-ent ami reaches the upper surface of the bulb to enter the spongj strac- Ze! Near thl urethra it furnishes a s.nall branch to Cowpers ^^tL distance of this branch from the base of the lif ™ent will iu^tuation be influenced by its origin being nearer the front or back oi he perineal space. If it arises earlier than usual U may be altogether behind the ligament and cross the front ot the ischio-rectal fossa, so as to be liable to be cut in the operation ot lithotomy. ... The arteru of corpus cavernosmn (c) is one of the ermnial Artery o. branches of the internal pudic. At tirst this vessel lies between the cms penis and the bone, but it soon enters the crus, and ramihes in the cavernous structure of the penis. . . ^, . ,• „ . , d. The dorsal artery of the penis {h) is in direction he contniuat on Artery of. of the internal pudic ; it runs upwards between the crus anc tUe bone, and reaches the dorsum of the penis by passing through its suspensory ligament. Its distribution with the accompanying nerve will be noticed directly. Accessory pudic artery. In some cases the pudic artery is not large A.ces.oy enrnXo supply the branches above clescribed to the pen>s and the urethra^ P" Oue or moi" offsets will then be contributed by an accessory vessel, which • leaves ll" pelvis in front by piercing the triangular ligament. The source o£ source, this accessory artery is the internal iliac (p. 399). The imdic veins, two in number, have frequent communications Pudic together, so as to form a plexus round the artery ; they receive similar branches, e.xcept that the dorsal vein of the perns does not The DORSAL J.-ERVE OF THE PKMS has been seen in the ischio- ^^^^ rectal fossa (p. 243). In the anterior half of the perineum it takes a similar course to the pudic artery, but at a deeper level and in a distinct sheath within the triangular ligament, and then pierces t le superficial layer of that structure close to the inferior ramus of the pubis, to be continued with the dorsal artery to the penis. On its way the nerve supplies filaments to the constrictor urethrse muscle. Dissection. The ejaculator urina3 muscle will now be carefully cleared away from the subjacent bulbous and .spongy part of the urethra, and the erector penis muscles will be similarly removed to fully expose the crura. . . The CRURA OF THE PENIS are attached on each side to the conjoined crara of rami of the pubis and ischium for about an inch, and it will be seen '