THE PARIETAL AND OCCIPITAL CONVOLUTIONS. 751 ascending front;il, and like that is simple, and extends from the np|)ev margin of the henusphere to the posterior branch of the Sylviaii fissure. In front of it is the furrow of Rolando, round tlie ends of which it joins the ascending frontal convolution. Behind, it is limited by the superior postcentral sulcus above, and the a.scending pai't of the intraparietcil, or the inferior postcentral sulcus below. Parietal lobules. The larger portion of the jsarietal lobe behind superior the ascending parietal convolution is divided into two parietiil lobulo) lobules by the horizontal part of the intraparietal sulcus. The superior parietal lobule (spl) is connected in front to the upper end of the ascending parietal convolution between the postcentral sulcus and the upper margin of tlie hemisphere, and behind to the npj^er occipital convolution by a small winding gyrus which is called the first or siqierior pnrieto-occipital annectant conrolutioii (below "po). This lobule is divided into several secondary gyri. The inferior jJarietal lobule is again subdivided into two, or some- ami inferior times three, convolutions, but the separation between them is often ii'ibliV" very indistinct. The siipramaryinal convolution (hji) is the anterior Jjf"y^r'"''' and larger of these ; it springs in front from the lower end of the nmryinai, ascending parietal convolution, encircles the extremity of the posterior branch of the Sylvian fissure, and ends by joining the first temporal convolution. The angular convolution (Any) arises from the hinder part of the aiigulnr, foregoing, arches over the upper end of the fir.st temporal sulcus (st) and descends liehind that furrow to be continued into the .second temporal convolution. A third part of the inferior parietal lobule may al.so be dis- and post- tinguished, but it is not indicated in fig. 270. It is called the ionvohl 2)0st-parietal convolution, and is continuous with the angular convolu- '•'""s. tion in front. It arches over the up-turned end of the second temporal sulcus, in front of which it is continuous with the second and behind with the third temporal convolution. Posteriorly also it is continued into the occipital lobe and forms the inferior parieto occipital annectant convolution. The posterior part of the second tenijioral sulcus, which it embraces, is often separate from the anterior jjart of that sulcu.s, and can only be distinguished from the latter hy the fact that it continues the direction of the furrow backwards and upwards. SdLCI and convolutions of the OCCIl'ITAL LOBE. The occipital OccipiUl lobe is divided into three convolutions, which run forwards from convolu-' the posterior extremity of the hemisphere, by two small farrows— tionsarn the superior and middle occipital sulci. The superior occipital convolu- m'itkiie.'';,n,i tion (so) is united anteriorly to the superior parietal lobule by the i»r<"-'or- superior annectant gyrus ; the middle (iio) to the post-parietal con- Annoetant volution by the inferior, and the inferioi- (lo) to the third temporal IZ'm^''' convolution hy the occipito-temporal annectant gyrus. An inconstant inferior occipital sulcus, at the lower margin of the hemisphere, separates the third occipital convolution from the temporal lobe on the under surface. Tlie occipital convolutions are very varial)le, and the sulci are frequently ill marked.