DISSECTION OF THE BACK. 532 Extern 111 branches: first thrco become cutaneous. Internal branches, Vessels. Part of the occipital artery, which gives a cervical branch. Part of the vertebral artery. Deep cervi- cal artery. Dorsal arteries are split into inner and outer branches. and give a spinal branch. difficult to find, Leing contained in spmse grooves on Tlie external branches pa.ss to the erector spiniB, and .supply it and the intertransverse muscles. The fir.st three pierce the erector spiiiae, and become cutaneous after perforating the posterior layer of the fascia luniljorum. The liianch of the last nerve is connected with the corresponding part of the first sacral nerve by an offset near the Ijone. The internal branches are furnished to tlie multifidus muscle. They are the upper articular proce.sses. Vessels in the back. The vessels, now dissected are the occipital and the dee}} cervical arteries, a smull part of the vertebral and the jjosterior branches of the intercostal and lumbar arteries of the aorta. Veins accompany the arteries. The OCCIPITAL ARTERY (fig. 192, a) courses along the occipital l)one. Appearing from beneath the digastric muscle, the vessel is directed backwards under the sterno-mastoid, the splenitis, and, usually, the trachelo-mastoid, but over the obliquus superior and complexus mu-oles. Behind the insertion of the sterno-mastoid it becomes superficial, and ascends to the occiput, where it is dis- tributed (p. 503). It supplies the surrounding muscles, and gives the following Ijranch to the neck :— The princeps cervicis (fig. 192, b) artery from the occipital distributes twigs to the splenitis and trapezius, and passing beneath the coinj)lexus, anastomoses with the vertebral and deep cervical arteries. The VERTEBRAL ARTERY (fig. 192, c) lies ou the neural arch of the atlas, behind the articulating process, and appears in the interval between the straight and oblique muscles. Beneath it is the suboccipital nerve. Small branches are given to the surround- ing muscles, and to anastomose witli the contiguous arteries. The DEEP CERVICAL ARTERY (fig. 192, e) arises in common with the superior intercostal artery from the subclavian. Passing backwards between the transverse process of the last cervical vertebra and the neck of the first rib, it ascends between the complexus and senii- spinalis muscles, as high as the upper border of the lattei-, and anastomoses with the cervical branch of the occipital artery. The contiguous muscles receive branches from it, and anastomoses are formed between its offsets and those of the vertebral. The POSTERIOR BRANCHES OF THE INTERCOSTAL ARTERIES paSS back between the vertebrte and the superior costo-transverse ligament, and divide like the nerves into inner and outer pieces. The internal branches end in the fleshy mass of the multifidus spinas and semispinalis, and furnish small cutaneous offsets with the nerves. The external branches cross beneath the longissinius dor.si, and supply it and the ilio-costalis. Like the nerves, the lowest branclies of this set are the largest, and extend to the surface. As the dorsal branch of the intercostal artery passes by the inter- vertebral foramen, it furnishes a small intraspinal artery to the spinal canal.