536 DISSECTION OF THE BACK. attnch- meiils. Interspinal muscles: in neck; in dorsal region : in loins: their use. Inter- transverse muscles: in neck: in dorsal region ; in loins : their use. Dissection of sacral nerves. Five sacral nerves. are separated Ly fine areolar tissue. Each arises from the upper and back part oF a tran.sverse process, and is inserted into the lower border of the neural aicb of tlie vertebra next above. The first S[)rings from the transverse process of the second vertel)ra. The INTERSPINALES are arranged in pairs in the intervals betM'een the spinous processes. They are most developed in the neck and loins. In the cervical region they are small rounded bundles attached to the Ijifurcated e.xtremities of the spines fj-om the axis downwards. In the dorsal region interspinal muscles are only present in one or two of the hif^hest and lowest spaces. In the lumbar region they are thin flat muscles, reaching the whole length of the spine, one on each side of the interspinous ligament. Action. The muscles helj) to extend the spine. The INTERTRANSVERSALES lie between the transver.«e processes of the vertebrte ; Init only those in the loins and the back are now dissected. In the neck they are double, and resemble the interspinal muscles of the cervical vertebroe. In the dorsal region they are single rounded bundles of small size, and are found only between the lour or five lower vertebra. They are represented in the middle sjjaces by thin fibrous bands, which constitute the so-called intertransverse ligaments. In the lumbar region there are two muscles in each space. The outer set are thin flat muscles between the transverse processes. The inner muscles are rounded bundles in a line with those of the dorsal region ; they are attached to the accessory processes above, and the mamillary processes below ; and the highest is between the last dorsal and the first lumbar vertebrae. Action. The intertransverse muscles assist in bending the spine laterally. Dissection (fig. 193, p. 537). To see the posterior divisions of the sacral curves, it Avill be necessary to remove the part of the multifidus sjainse covering the sacrum. The upper three nerve.? are each split into two ; their external branches will be found readily on the great sacro-sciatic ligament, from which they may be traced inwards ; the inner branches are very slender and dilticult to find. The lower two nerves are very small, and do not divide like the others. They are to be sought on the back of the sacrum, below the attachment of the multifidus spinas. The fourth comes through a sacral aperture, and the fifth between the sacrum and coccyx. The coccygeal nerve is still lower, by the side of the coccyx. Sacral nerves (fig. 193). The posterior primary branches of the sacral nerves are five in number. Four issue from the spinal canal by the a]ieitures in the back of the sivcrum, and the fifth between the sacrum and the coccyx. The first thi-ee have the