647 THE OPHTHALMIC ARTERY. pierce tbe sclerotic farther out tlian the others, and lie along the middle of the eyeball. The anterior ciliary arteries arise from muscular branches of the oplithalmic, and perforate the sclerotic coat near the cornea : in the eyeball they anastomose with the long ciliary. For the ending of these vessels, see the dissection of the eyeball, pp. 797 and 798. The lachrymal artery accompanies the nerve of the same name to Jj-'^^J^j'^j^""'^ the upper eyelid, where it ends by supplying that part, and joining iu the arches in the eyelids. It supplies branches, like the nerve, to the lachrymal gland and the conjunctiva ; and it communi- g^^^'j^"'' """^ Nasal. Laclirymal gland. Lachrymal. Branch to outer side of orbit. Communication with middle meningeal. External rectus. Anterior meningeal. Frontal. Anterior ethmoidal. Po.sterior ethmoidal. Supraorbital. Tosterior ciliary, outer trunk. Posterior ciliary, inner trunk, riiteriial rectus. Superior oblique. Central artery of retina. Superior rectus turned back. Fia. 229.—Diagram of thr Ophthalmic Artery and its Branches. cates with the large middle meningeal artery by an offset through the sphenoidal fissure. The lachrymal artery also sends twigs to the external rectus ofTsets muscle, and a small branch with each of the divisions of the niaiar°bone. temporo-malar nerve ; these join the temporal and transverse facial arteries. The supraorbital branch is small, and arises as the artery is Supraorbi- crossing the optic nerve. It takes the course of the nerve of the same name through the notch in the margin of the orbit, and ends in branches on the forehead. The muscular branches are a superior to the upper and outer Muscular, muscles, and an inferior to the lower and inner muscles, as well as .small irregular offsets. The ethmoidal branches are two, anterior and posterior, and are Ethmoidal directed through the canals in tlie inner wall of the orbit :— branches, The posterior is the smaller of the two, and often arises in common posterior