163 ADDUCTOR BREVIS MUSCLE. tendon of insertion is closely united to the cadductor mugiiu.s and vastus internus. Action. With the femur movahle, it will Hex the hip-joint, and usd on with the aid of the other adductors will carry inwards tlie limb, so as to cross the thigh-bones. In walking it helj^s the other adductors to project the limb. AVith the femur fixed, the muscle holds and tilts forwards the pelvis, on pnivis. Dissection. The adductor brevis muscle, with the obturator Dis.secliou nerve and the profunda \-essels, will be arrived at by refiecting the two last muscles (fig. 62, p. 165). On cutting through thepectineus accessory near the jjubis and throwing it down, the dissector may find occa- sionally the small accessory ner\'e of the obturator, which turns beneath the outer border ; if this is present, its branches to the hip- joint and the obturator nerve are to be traced out. The adductor cut adduc- longus is then to l)e divided near its origin, and raised with care, so l"''g"« as not to destroy the branches of the obturator nerve beneath : its tendon of insertion also is to be detached from that of the adductor magnus beneath it, to see the In-anches of the profunda artery. Now the adductor brevis will be laid Ijare. A part of the to .show obturator nerve crosses over this muscle to the femoral artery, and «fi<iuctor sends an offset to the plexu.s at the inner side of the thigh ; and ^"^"""^' a deeper part of the same nerve lies beneath the muscle. The muscle should be separated from the subjacent adductor magnus whereon the deep branch of the nerve lies. In this last step of the tiace dissection, the student should follow the slender articular branch obturator of the obturator nerve through the fibres of the adductor magnus and bkmci, (p. 130). toknee- The ficcessoTij ohluTdtov nei'VB (Schmidt) is derived from the trunk & of the obturator, near its origin, and jiasses from the abdomen over obturatOT the brim of the pelvis. In the thigh it turns beneath the pectineus, and joins the superficial branch of the obturator nerve ; it supplies an offset to the hip-joint with the articular artery, and occasionally one to the under-surface of the pectineus. The ADDUCTOR BREVIS (fig. 62, d) has a Heshy and tendinous Adductor ongi7i, about one inch and a half in depth, from the front of the pubis below the adductor longus, and close outside the gracilis origlnT"' (fig. 47). It is inserted, behind the pectineus, into all the line and wide at leading from the linea aspera to the small trochanter (fig. 61). insertion. In front of the muscle are the pectineus and the adductor p„ts in longu!3, with the superficial part of the obturator nerve, and the front, profunda artery ; but it is gradually uncovered by the adductor longus below, and the contiguous parts of the muscles are blended at their insertion into the femur. Behind the muscle is the adductor bei.ind magnus, with the deep piece of the obturator nerve and a branch of the internal cii-cumflex artery. In contact wth the upper border and at upper lies the obturator extemus (f), and the internal circumflex artei'y passes between the two. Actio)i. This muscle add nets the limb with slight flexion of the Use, hip-joint, like the pectineus. And if it acts from the femur it wll balance and move forwards the pelvis. ' M 2