282 DISSECTION OP THE ABDOMEN. course to urethra; length and size. Vasaberrans frequently present: situation, and size. Three coats form the duct: a fibrous, a niuscular, and a mucous. Organ of Girald^s : remains of "Wolffian body. Spermatic artery. Spermatic vein. Lymphatics and nerves. Vessels of the duct. In its course to the in'ethva it ascends over the hinder part of the testicle, on the inner side of the epididymis, and then along the blood-vessels of the spermatic cord, with which it enter.s the internal abdominal ring; here it bends downwards round the epigastric artery, as has already been seen, and is then continued behind the liladder (p. 389), and through the prostate to open into the urethra. The length of tliis part of the excretory duct is aljout two feet, and the width of its canal about ' th of an inch. Opening into the vas deferens, at the angle of union with the epididymis, there is frequently a small, narrow, caecal appendage, the vas aherrans of Haller (fig. 104, I). It is convoluted, and projects upwards for one or two inches amongst the vessels of the cord. Like the epididymis, it is longer when it is uncoiled. Its capacity is greatest at tlie free end. Structure. The vas deferens has a thick muscular coat, which is covered externally by fibrous tissue, and lined internally by mucous membrane. To the feel the duct is firm and wiry, like whip-cord. On a section its wall is dense and of a rather yellow colour. The muscular coat is composed of longitudinal and circular fibres arranged in strata. Botli externally and internally is a longitudinal layer, the latter being very thin ; and between them is the layer of circular fibres. T]ie mucous membrane is marked by longitudinal folds in the straight part of the canal, and by irregular ridges in the sacculated portion. Organ of Oiraldes. In the spermatic cord of the fcEtus and child, and some- times in the adult, a small whitish, granular-looking body may be recognised, which is named the orrjan of Oiraldes, or the paradidiimis. It consists of several small masses of convoluted tubules, which appear to be remnants of the lower jiart of the Wolffian body. Blood-vessels and nerves op the testicle. The branches of the spermatic artery supjjly offsets to the epididymis, and enter the posterior part of the mediastinum. The vessels are finely divided in the vascular structure lining the interior of the tunica albuginea, before being distributed to the lobes of the testis. Tlie spermatic vein results from the union of branches issuing from the back of the testicle and the epididymis. As it ascends along the cord its braiiches form the spermatic or pampiniform plexiis. On the right side it joins tlie vena cava, and on the left the renal vein. The lymphatics of the testicle ascend on the blood-vessels, and join the lumbar glands. The nerves are derived from the sympathetic, and accompany the artery to the testis. Vessels of the vns deferens. A special artcrij is furnished to the vas from the upper or lower vesical, and reaches as far as the testis, where it anastomoses with the spermatic artery. Veins from the epididymis enter the spermatic vein. The nerves are derived from the hypogastric plexus.