DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 306 position of the body ; so that when the trunk is erect the anterior border may be felt below the edge of the ribs, but when the body is reclined, it is withdrawn within the margin of the tliorax. Spleen: The SPLEEN (figs. 112 and 113 ; also 122, p. 329) is deeply placed position; behind the stomach, at the back of the left hypochondriuiu and the adjoining part of the epigastric region. It lies very obliquely, the upjjer end being near the spine, while the lower end reache.s about half-way round the side of the body, relations of Its Outer or phrenic surface is convex and free and rests against the diaphragm opposite the ninth, tenth, and eleventh ribs. The anterior or gastric surface is concave and applied to the stomach, to whicli it is attached by the gastro-splenic omentum (fig. 115, gs om, p. 310) ; the tail of the pancreas also touches the lower end of this surface. A third narrow surface, the internal or renal, lies against the outer border of the left kidney in its upper half ; and a fold of peritoneum. surfaces, phrenic, gastric, and renal. Fig. 113.—The Spleen, seen prom the Uiobt. Examine renal surface. Kidneys: situation; surface marking. called the lieno-renal ligament (fig. 115, Ir), which contains the splenic vessels, passes between the two. The way to find this surface iu the present stage of dissection is to pass the hand backwards within the concavity of the diaphragm on the left side, the back of the hand outwards, past the phrenic surface of the spleen, so that the fingers will hook round its posterior Ijorder and enter the recess between the spleen and the kidney. Tlie upper end of the spleen is close to the suprarenal capsule; the lower end rests on the splenic flexure of the colon and the phrenico-colic ligament. The KIDNEYS (fig. 112) cannot be seen much at present. The lower part of the left kidney will be exposed by drawing the small intestines inwards from the descending colon, and the lower part of the right kidney can be felt below the liver behind the hepatic flexure of the colon. They may be marked on the surface of the front of the body in the following manner, remembering that they are each about four inches in length and two and a half inches in width (fig. 112). The lateral planes traverse them longitudinally