732 DISSECTION OK TfTR RltATK. position of wliioli is occupied in tlic npper half of the bulb by an oval emiuence called the olivarij bodij. Continuing the posterior column is the funiculus cuncatus (fig. 262, /c), which is Separated from the lateral tract by a smaller eminence to which the name of funiculus of Rolando (E) has been given : in the upper part of the medulla these are succeeded by, or become lost on, the restiform hudij (fig. 261, 3 ; fig. 262, rh) projecting outwards towards the cerebellum. And lastly, between the funiculus cuueatus and the posterior median fissure is the funiculus gracilis (fig. 262, f(j) continued from the posterior median column of the cord. Pyramid. The anterior mimmid is placed between the anterior median fissure on the inner side and the lateral tract with the olivary body on the outer side. It increases in size from below upwards, whence its name ; but at the upper end it is somewhat constricted and rounded just before it disappears beneath the superficial transverse fibres of the pons. This Ijody is only in small part pro- longed from the anterior column of the cord, its inner and larger por- tion being formed by the decussating fibres seen in the anterior median fissure. The lateral tract in the lower half of the medulla oblongata is of the same width as the lateral column of the cord ; but above, it is reduced to a narrow strij) along the bottom of the groove between the olivary and restiform bodies. The olimrii body is oval in shape and about half an inch long. Its upper end, which is more prominent than the lower, does not quite reach the pons. Internally it is .separated a nari'ow groove along which the hypoglossal nerve arises ; and externally from the restiform body by a broader one, where the glosso-]iharyngeal and vagus nerves issue. Fiiniciiiu.s The funiculus of Rolando begins in a pointed e.\tremity at the orRo"iImioI'' lower end of the medulla oblongata, and enlarging upwards forms, on a level with the lower end of the olivary body, a slight prominence known as the tubercle of Rolando. Towards the front this funiculus is .separated from the lateral tract by the continuation upwards of the lateral groove of the cord ; but posteriorly the line of separation from the cuneate funiculus is often indistinct. The funiculus and tubercle of Rolando are better marked in tlie child, and the tubercle Latei-al tract. Olive. Fio. 261.—Medulla Oblongata AND Pons from before. 1. Pyramid. 2. Lateral tract. 3. Restiform Ijody. 5. Olivary body. 6. Decussation of ijyramids. from the anterior pyramid by