407 STRUCTURE OF THE PROSTATE. through the glandular suLstaiice. 0\-er the greater part of the nnrt super- surface is an external stratum, forming a kind of capsule, which ^^^^ j ^J^^. ^ adheres to the fibrous sheath. Along the front and towards tlie apex, the superficial part of the organ is composed of striated mus- cular fibres, also disposed transversely, which are continued into the constrictor urethrse muscle between the layers of the triangular ligament. Glandular substance. This is composed of a number of small oiands in branched glands, which are embedded in the muscular stroma. nmsse.s: There are three chief collections,—a small one in the central lobe, and a larger one in each lateral lobe. The ducts of the glands Jucts open vary in number from twelve to twent}', and open into the prostatic urethra! part of the urethra (jJ. 413). Blood-vessels. The arteries are small, and are furnished hy the Arteries, iiiferior vesical and middle haemorrhoidal. The veins form a plexus ^'pjjr^fj^'™ roimd the gland, which receives in front the dorsal vein of the penis, and is continued behind into the plexus at the base of the bladder. The plexus is situated between the fascial investment and the proper capsule of the gland, and the vessels of the plexus are specially large at the back of the pubis at the entry of tlie dor.sal vein of the penis. In old men these vessels may give rise to considerable haemorrhage in the operation of lithotomy. The nerves are supplied from the i^elvic plexus. The b/mjjhatics Xervos. of this body and of the vesiculte seminales are received into the Lympliatics, glands by the side of the internal iliac artery. VesicdL/E Seminales (fig. 151, e). These vesicles are two niem- seminal branous sacs, which serve as receptacles for, and probably secrete a ^'f'-''''^'''-^ '• special Huid to mix with, the semen. They are placed at the base definition; of the bladder above the prostate, and diverge from one another so situation; as to limit laterally a triangular space in that situation : their form and relations have been already described (p. 389). Though fo™! Sixcculated and bulged above, the vesicula becomes straight and narrowed lielow (duct); and at the base of tlie prostate it blends with the vas deferens to form the common seminal or ejaculatory duct (g). The vesicula seminalis consists of a tube bent into a convoluted con.siatofa form, so as to produce lateral sacs or pouches, the bends of which are bound together by fibrous tissue ; this cellular structure will be shown by means of a cut into it. When the bends of the vesicle are undone, as may be done by carefully dissecting away the investing tis.sue, its formative tube, which is about the size of a qiull, measures from four to six inches in length, and ends above in a closed extremity : connected with the tube at intervals, are lateral length ami blind ctecal apjiendages (fig. 151). s™- Structure. The wall of the seminal vesicle like the vas deferens Vesicic! has has an outer and inner layer of longitudinal muscle fibres with an : intermediate circular layer, but the tubal nniscular C(jat is thinner. Within the casing of the recto-vesical fascia, tlie vesicula) and a coveriuK vas deferentia are covered by a layer of transverse and longitudinal nbl-es plain muscular fibres. The transverse are the more superficial