DISSECTION OP THE ABDOMEN. 372 On tlici right side the psoas is to be left untouched, in order that the place of emergence from it of the diflereut offset.s of the plexus may be noticed. Lumbar Spinal Nerves. The anterior primary branches of the lumbar nerves, five in number, increase in size from above down, and are joined by filaments of the sympathetic near the interverte- bral foramina. With the e.Yception of the last, tliey enter the lumbar plexus, having previously given oft" branches for the supply of the quadratu.s lumborum and psoas muscles. The fifth nerve receives a communicating branch from the fourth, and is to be followed into the pelvis to its junction with the sacral plexus. After the two are united, the name Inmho-mcral cord is applied to the common trunk. The LUMBAR PLEXUS (fig. 140) is fonned by the intercommunica- tion of the first four lumbar nerves. Contained in the .substance of the psoas, near the posterior surface it consists of loops between the several nerves, and increases in size from above downward.?, like the ^o^l^tions individual nerves. Superiorly it is sometimes united by a small " branch with the last dorsal nerve ; and inferiorly it joins the sacral plexus through the large luinbo-sacral cord. The branches of the plexus are six in number, and supply the lower part of the abdominal wall and the muscular covering of the sper- matic cord, the fore and inner parts of the thigh, and the inner side of the leg. The first two branches (ilio-hypogastric and ilio-inguinal) end as cutaneous nerves of the hip, the lower part of the abdomen, the scrotum, and the thigh. 1. The ilio-hyjjogastric branch (fig. 140,/) is derived from the first nerve, and appears at the outer border of the psoas muscle, near the upper end. It is directed over the quadratus lumborum to the iliac crest, and enters the wall of the abdomen by piercing the transversalis muscle. Its termination in the integuments of the buttock and abdomen, by means of an iliac and a hypogastric branch has been already mentioned (pp. 110, 2G3 and 275). 2. The ilio-iiigidnal branch (g) arises with the preceding from the first nerve, and issues from the psoas nearly at the same spot. Of smaller size than the ilio-hypogastric, this branch courses outwards over the quadratus and iliacus muscles towards the front of the iliac crest, where it pierces the transversalis. The farther course of the nerve in the abdominal wall, and its distribution to the scrotum and the thigh, are before noticed (pp. 264 and 275). 3. The genito-crural nerve (/() is distributed to the cremaster muscle and the limb. It arises from the second lumbar nerve, and from tlie connecting loop ))etween the first two ; issuing from tlie front of the psoas, it descends on the surface of the muscle, and divides into genital and crurnl branches. Sometimes the nerve is divided in the psoas, and tlie brandies perforate the muscle separately. The genital branch descends on the external iliac artery, ancl furnishes olfsets around it ; it passes frpm the abdomen with the Four limiljiir iiev\'0« cntei- jilexus and supply muscles: fifth to tlie .sacral plexus. Plexus how formed ; situation; Six branches, riz. :— Two cutaneous branches. Ilio-hypo- gastric : course m abdomen. Ilio-inguinal arises with preceding, and accom- panies it. Genito- cniral pierces psoas, and divides into genital and