THE ULNAR ARTERY. 71 deep ligament connecting togetlier the liead.s of the metacarpal bones, and to llie edge of the metacarpal bone for a short distiince. The sxiperfiaial transverse ligament of the fingers is a thin fibrous Transverse band, whicli stretches across the roots of the four finffers, and is I'S"™""' °^ . . .,,(.,. ^ . . o ) the lingers, contiiined in tlie lold of skin, forming the rudiment of a web between them. Beneath it the digital nerves and vessels are con- tinued onwards to their terminations. Sheath of tlie flexor tendons. Along each finger the flexor tendons sheath of are retained in place against the phalanges by a fibrous sheath. tendons Opposite the middle of the first and second phalanges tlie sheath is varies in strengthened liy a strong fibrous band {vaginal ligament), whicli is ''"i^kness ; almost tendinous in consistence, Init opposite the joints it consists of a thin membrane with scattered and oblique fibres. The has a syno- sheath will be opened later on in the examination of the flexor tendons. Dissection. The palmar fascia should next lie taken away. On Dissection, the remo\-al of the fascia the palmar arch of the ulnar artery and the median and ulnar nerves become apparent. Palmar part of the ulnar artery (fig. 28). In the palm of superficial the hand the ulnar artery divides into two branches, superficial palmar and deep. The larger—superficial—branch is directed towards the muscles of the thumb, where it communicates with two offsets of the radial trunk, viz., the superficial volar branch (c) and the branch to the radial side of the forefinger (/). The curved part of the artery, which lies across the hand, is named the superficial palmar arch (d). It,s convexity is turned towards the fingers, and position in its position in the pahn would be nearly marked Ijy a line across f'o '>»'"'; the hand from the cleft of the thumlx The arch is comparatively superficial, lieing covered for the most relations, part only liy the integuments and the palmar fascia ; liut at the inner border of the hand the palmaris brevis muscle (h) lies over it. Beneath it are the flexor tendons and the liranches of the ulnar and median nerves. Venae comites lie on its sides. Tlie deep or communicating branch of the ulnar artery (fig. 31^, Deep p. 77) pa.sses backwards with the deep part of the ulnar nerve, '"■'"«=h; lietween tlie abductor and short flexor muscles of the little fingei', to inosculate \\ ith the deep pabnar arch of the radial artery (p. 80). Branches. From the convexity of the superficial arch proceed the digital arteries, and from the concavity some small offsets to the iialm of the hand. _ The digital branches (g) are four in number, and supply lioth four digital sides of the three inner fingers and one side of the index finger, i^'anches: The branch to the inner side of the hand and little finger is un- divided ; but the others, lying over the three inner interosseous .spaces, bifurcate below to supply the contiguous sides of the corre- sponding digits. In the palm tlie.se branches are accompanied by the digitiil nerves, which thev somptiniea pip.yce. Near the roots of the fingers they receive communicating branches tlieso join from ofi'sets of the deep arch; but the digital artery uF the inner ""'^"'■^ ofthe deep arch :