4S8 DlSSKCTiON OF THE THDRAX. through the crus of the diaphragm, and enters the part of the solar plexus Ly the side of the cocliac artery, smallest The smallest splanchnic nerve spiiiigs froiii the last ganglion, and to'remi'"'' accompanies tlie other nerves through the diaphragm ; in the ipiexus. libdomen it ends in the renal plexus. This ner\'e may be absent, and its place is then taken by an ofl'set of the preceding. PABIETES OP THE THORAX. Soft parts bounding the tliora.x. Subcosta s: position; attach- ments J Irregulari- ties : ttnd use. Intercostal muscles. Inner layer reaches angle of the rib: relations. Outer layer extends back to tuberosity of the rib. Trace nerves. Eleven intercostal nerves. Upper and lower ones dilfer. Last dorsal nerve. Between the ribs are lodged the two layers of intercostal muscles, with the intervening nerves and arteries ; and inside the ribs is a thin fleshy layer at the back,—the subcostal muscles. The hase of the thorax is formed by the diaphragm. The SUBCOSTAL MUSCLES are small slips of ileshy fibres, which are situate on the inner surface of the ribs, where the internal inter- costals cease. Apparently part of the inner intercostal s, they arise from the inner surface of one rib, and are attached to the like surface of the rib next succeeding. They are uncertain in number, but there may be ten : they are smaller above than below, and the upper and lower may pass over more than one space. Action. The subcostals draw together, and depress the ribs, thus acting as exjjiratory muscles. Intercostal muscles. The anterior part of these muscles has been described (p. 438) ; and the posterior part may now be examined from the inner side. The inner muscle begins at the sternum, and reaches back to the angles of the ribs, or somewhat farther in the ujjper spaces. Where the fibres cease, a thin fascia (posterior intercostal aponeurosis) is continued inwards over the ou.ter muscle. The inner surface is lined by the pleura, and the opposite surface is in contact with the intercostal nerve and vessels. External muscle. When the fascia and the subcostal muscles have been removed, the external intercostal will be seen lietween the posterior border of the internal muscle and the spine. Its fibres cross those of the inner intercostal layer. While this muscle extends backwards to the tuberosity of the rib, it is geiierally absent, as already described, in front, between the rib-cartilages. Dissection. In a few spaces the internal intercosttil muscle may be cut through, and the intercostal nerve and artery traced outwards. The intercostal nerves, eleven in nmnber, are anterior primary branches of dor.sal nerves; and they pass from the intervertebral foramina into the intercostiil spaces without forming a plexus. Near the head of the rib each nerve is joined to the sympathetic by the two communicating lilaiiu'uts just mentioned. The njiper six are confined to tlie wall of the thorax ; but the lower five are prolonged into the abdominal wall, where the ribs cease in front. The anterior branch of the twelfth dorsal nerve lies below the last rib, and is seen in the dissection of the abdomen.