262 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. Superficial fascia is divided into two layers. The subcu- taneous layer con- tains fat, except In the penis and scro- tum. Deeper layer is thin and mem- branous ; special cha- racters and disposition ; and ends on fa.scia lata. Attach- ments deter mine course of efl'used urine. Fascia in the female. Cutaneous nerves are derived from two sources. Lateral cutaneous of intercostal, same nianuer as the other layer, and detach it carefully with the vesiBels from the underlying aponeurosi.s of the external oblique muscle. This stratum, like the preceding, is to be traced around the cord to the scrotum ; and as the student follows it downwards he will find it connected with Poupart's ligament, and blended with the fascia lata close below that structure. The SDPERPiciAL FASCIA is a single layer over the greater part of the abdomen ; but in the groin it is divided into a subcutaneous and a deeper stratum by the vessels and the glands. The subcutaneous layer contains the fat, and varies therefore in appearance and thickness in different bodies ; for it is sometimes divisible into strata, while in other cases it is very thin, and some- what membranous near the thigh. It is continuous with the fatty covering of the thigh and abdomen, and, when traced to the limb, is separated from Poupart's ligament beneath by the superficial vessels and glands. Internally it is continued to the penis and scrotum, where it changes its adipose tissue for involuntary mus- cular fibre ; and after investing the testicle it is prolonged to the perineum. The deeijer layer (fascia of Scarpa) is thinner and more mem- branous than the other, and is closely united to the tendon of the external oblique by fibrous bands along the linea alba. Like the subcutaneous part, this layer is continued upwards on the abdomen, and inwards to the penis and the scrotum, through which it is pro- longed to the perineum, where it has attachments to the subjacent parts, as before specified (p. 244). Towards the limb, it ends a little below Poupart's ligament by joining the fascia lata across the front of the thigh. Urine effused in the perineum from rupture of the urethra will be directed through the scrotum and along the spermatic cord to the abdomen. From the attachment of the deeper layer to the fascia across the thigh, it is evident that the fluid cannot pass down the limb, though its progress over the front of the abdomen is uninterrupted. In the female the superficial fascia of the groin is separable into two layers, nnd the disposition of each is nearly the same as in the male; but the ]iart that is continued to the scrotum in the one sex enters the labium in the other. In the female the round ligament of the uterus is lost in it. Cutaneous Nerves. The skin of the abdomen is supplied mainly by the lower intercostal nerves ; thus, the cutaneous branches along the side of the belly are offsets from five or six of those nerves ; and the cutaneous branches along the front are the terminal parts of the same trunks. Two other cutaneous offsets from the lumbar plexus, viz., ilio-hypogastric and ilio-inguinal, appear at the lower part of the abdomen. The LATERAL CUTANEOUS NERVES (fig. 97) of the abdomen emerge between the digitations of the external oblique muscle, in a line with the .same set of nerves on the thorax ; and the lowest are the most