DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 310 Chief folds of the lieritoneuni. t'oicuiieii of Wiu-^low. Here becoming great sac again, it can he followed over the right kidney to the liver, and round the latter to the falciform ligament. On the right side of the falciform ligament the peritoneum simply jmsses over the liver and diaphragm. Special Parts of the Peritoneu5[. A fter tracing the continuity of the serous sac over the wall and the viscera, the dissector is to study the chief processes or folds of the membrane in connection with the alimentary tube and its appendages. The pieces of peri- FiG. 115.—Diagram or a Hokizontal Section of the Abdomes through THE Twelfth Doksal Vertebra, to show the Akrakgement of the Peritoneum at the Foramkn of Winslow and round the Spleen. I. Liver. St. Stomach. spl. Spleen. h; k. Kidneys. ao. Aorta ; farther forwards the eoronarj' artery is seen, cut twice. V c. Inferior vena cava. W. Foramen of Winslow. s mn. Small omentum, at the riyiit end of which are, from left to right, Note. —The portions of the kidneys are leprcsented too large in this diagram. the hepatic artery, portal vein, and bile-duct. gs om. Gastro-spleuic omentum. Ir. Lieno-ienal ligament. /. Falciform ligament. In front of the left kidney is the splenic artery, sending its branches to the stomach between the layers of the gastro-splenic omentum. Gastric folds: omenta. Gastro- hepatic omentum : iittnch- ments; toneum in connection with the viscera of the pelvis will be seen in the dissection of that cavity. Folds connected with the stomach. The processes uniting the stomach to other viscera are named omenta, and are three in number, viz., the small or gastro-hepatic omentum, the large or gastro-colic omentum, and the gastro-splenic omentum. The small omentum (ligs. 114 and 115, s om) stretches between the liver and stomach, and ends towards the right in a free border, behind which the foramen of AVin.'slow leads into the cavity of the small sac. It is attached above (o the liver along the transverse