743 STRUCTURE OK 'J'JIK CRUS CEREBRI. peduncle of the cerebellum), iu cuniiectioii with which ;i roundish mass of grey substance named the nucleus uf the tegmentum or red lifd nucleus (fig. 283, j). 775) may be seen on transverse .section of the fore part. Aliove, the tegmentum joins the under surface of tlie o])tic thalamus. Eetweeii the tegmentum and the substantia nigra will be seen, on Stmtnm section, an intermediate greyish layer known as the stratum mlHuum. intermedium, and above tliis, and along the outer margin of the tegmentum in tlie region of the inferior (j[uadrigeminal body, will be seen a whitish band, the fillet (tig. 269). The POSTERIOR PERFORATED SPACE (fig. 268, <j) is situate in the Poslwior de])ression between the crura cerebri. The bottom of thi.'^ hollow is ipot"' formed by a layer of grey matter, which is perforated hy the central branches of the posterior cerebral arteries. This structure forms the hinder part of the floor of the third ventricle. The CORPORA ALBICANTIA (corp. niamillaria ; e) are two round Corpora white bodies, about the size of smidl ixaxa, which are constructed in iny; quad, body nqucjuft of Stjluiua ijrcij mutter of / aquoducl:—"/ 7 •pillct—-LI , \ \ tctjnicnlam \ sup.ficd. of ^^^1^ //^S^jubsfantic I cms _ ' niym i CLTcbri crusia cerebellum Fia. 269.—TllANSVERSE SKOTIUN up tub CliUUI CeHEDUI THlUlUOn THE SuPEUIua Colil'US QUAlJlUUHMINU.M. greater part by the crura of tlie fornix. If one, say the right, is. cut across, it wyll be seen to contain grey matter. The TUBER ciNEREU.M (/i) Is a portion of the thin grey layer forming Tuber the floor (jf the third ventricle, which is continuous behind with the cnieroum grey matter uf the posterior perforated space, and in front, above the ojjtic commissure, with the lamina cinerea. It is convex on the surface, and is prolonged at its fore part into the following body. The INFONDIBULUM is a I'unnel-shaped tube which reaches from nnrt in- the tuber cinereum to the posterior lolje of the pituitary body. It fi"'"'''"''"'"' consists of a layer of grey matter; and its cavity is a part of the third ventricle. In the foetus this tube is open between the third ventricle and the pituitary body, but in tlie adult it is closed below. The prruiTARY body will be very imperfectly seen when it has Pituitary been dislodged from its resting place: it should therefore be''"''^" examined when opportunity otters in the l}ase of the .skull by removing the surrounding bone. It is situate in the hollow of the .sella Turcica on the sphenoid situatiun ; bone, and consists of two lobes, anterior and posterior. The anterior two lolws. is the larger, and is hollowed out behind, where it receives the round posterior lobe. In tlie adult tliis body is solid and firm in texture ;