SPINAL AND SYMPATHETIC NERVES. 371 that it takes in the formation of the crural sheath, have been before explained (p. 293). Dissection. The student is now to remove the right kidney and Trace the to clean the lymphatic glands lying along the vertebrte, and to trace '^■"1''"''''"'"' ujiwards some lymphatic vessels to the thoracic dud. To show the origin of the duct, the diaphragm is to be divided over the aorta, and its pillars are to be thrown to the sides : a piece may be cut out of the aorta opposite the first lumbar vertebra. The beginning of the duct (receptaculum chyli), and the lower end of and the the large azygos vein may be well seen : and the two are to be cinumfand followed upwards into the thorax. On tlie left side the student may trace the splanchnic nerves and splanchnic the small azygos vein through the pillar of the diaj)hragm, and may show the knotted cord of the sympathetic nerve entering the abdomen beneath the arch over the psoas muscle. Lymphatic Glands. A chain of glands is placed along the side LimiiMi- of the external iliac artery, and along the front and sides of the gu'mis'f lumbar vertebra? ; they are connected by short tubes, which increase in size and diminish in number, and opposite the first lumbar ducts eml in vertebra form one principal trunk which enters the thoracic duct. Into the glands the lymphatics of the lower limbs, and those of some of the viscera and of the wall of the abdomen are received. Another cluster of large glands surrounds the cojliac axis, and Cceliac covers the upper end of the abdominal aorta. They arc distinguished ^''""'is: as the cmliac glands, and receive the lymphatics of the stomach, spleen, pancreas, and great part of the liver. Tlieir ducts unite ducts join with those of the mesenteric glands, and give rise to one or more ",'Sin°'" large trunks, which pass to the common thoracic duct. Receptaculum chyli. The thoracic duct begins in the abdomen Beginning of by the union of three or four large lymphatic trunks. Its commence- diet."'"""'"' nient is marked by a dilatation, which is placed on the right side of the aorta, opposite the first or second lumbar vertebra. The iluct enters the thorax by passing through the diaphragm with the aorta. THE SPINAL AND SYMPATHETIC NERVES. The spinal nerves of the loins enter into a plexus, and supply the limb and the contiguous portions of the trunk. Dissection (fig. 140, p. 373). The lumbar nerves and their plexus Dissection are to be learnt on the left side, although the woodcut shows them bL'p'iexil^" on the right side ; and to liring them into view, the dissector should °" leftside, cut through the external iliac vessel, and al'terwards scrajie away the psoas. For the most part the fleshy fibres may be removed freely ; but a small branch (accessary of the obturator) should be first looked for at the inner border of the muscle. On, or in the substance of, the quadratus lumborum a communication may be sometimes found between the last dors.il and the first lumbar nerve. The cord of the sympathetic nerve lies along the edge of the wi"' sym- psoas, and offsets of it join the spinal nerves ; these are to be followed P""'""''- back along the lumbar arteries. B B 2