DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 324 composi- tion. Arteries of the intes- tine ; absorbents and ner\ es. These patches are simply ooUections of lymphoid nodules of the same nature as the " solitary glands." Vessels of the intestine. The arteries are derived from the intestinal branches of the superior mesenteric trunk, and enter the wall of the intestine at the attached border. They run at first beneath the serous coat, round the side of the bowel, and give off numerous ramifications, which anastomose freely together, and perforate the muscular coat, .supplying branches to its substance. Finally, they break up into very minute twigs in the submucous layer, before entering the mucous coat. The veins have their usual resemblance to the companion artei-ies. The absorbents (lacteals) leave the intestine with the vessels and pass to the mesenteric glands. Nerves of the small intestine come from the upper mesenteric j)lexus, and entering the coats by the side of the arteries, fomi plexuses with interspei'sed ganglia. LARGE INTESTINE. Extent of the gut; lengtli; Compared with small gut, larger, more fixed, not coiled, sacculated with bands. Append- ages. Definition of ciEcum ; length and width; receive.s ileum and appendix. Vermifonn appendix: attach- ment ; dimensions; it is hollow. The large intestine is the part of the alimentary canal between the termination of the ileum and the anus. In length it measures about five or six feet,—one-fifth of the length of the intestinal tube. The diameter of the colon is largest at the commencement of the ctecum, and gradually decreases as far as the upper part of the rectum : in the lower part of the rectum there is a dilatation above the anal canal. When compared with the small intestine, the colon is distinguished by the following characters :—It is generally of greater capacity, being in some places as large again, and is more fixed in its position. Instead of being a smooth cylindrical tube, the colon is sacculated, and is marked by three longitudinal muscular bands, which alternate with as many rows of dilatations. Its wall is thicker and attached to the surface, especially along the transverse and pelvic colon, are .small processes of peritoneum containing fat—the appendices epiploicse. The inflated portion of the large intestine, containing the ileo-colic junction, will now be examined. The c^CUM, or the head of the colon (fig. 120, a), is the rounded end of the large intestine, which projects, in the form of a pouch, below the entrance of the ileum. It measures about two inches and a half in length, and rather more in width, though gradually narrowing below : it is the widest part of the colon. At its inner .side it is joined by the small intestine (6); and still lower there is a small worm-like projection (c)—the vermiform appendix. Aiijicndix vermiformis (fig- 120, c). This little convoluted tubals attached to the lower and hinder part of the ca3cum, of which it was a continuation at one period in the embryo. From three to six inches in length, the appendix is rather larger than a goose-quill, and is connected to the inner side of the cajcum and to the lower face of the mesentery of the ileum by the meso-appendix. Its interior