DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. 466 Arch of aorta forms two curves j relations. sometimes another dilatation along the right side, wliich ia named the great sinus of the aorta. Branches. From the lower end of the ascending aorta arise the two coronary arteries of the heart (fig. 170, o), which have already been noticed (p. 465). Tlie ARCH OF THE AORTA extends from the second right costal cartilage to the lower border of the body of the fourth dorsal vertebra, on the left side. The convexity of the arch is upwards, and from it the three large arteries for the supply of the upi)er l^art of the body aiise. The vessel recedes from the sternum, being at first inclined to the left across the front of the trachea, and then directed backwards to the left side of the fourth dorsal vertebra, where it turns down- wards to join the de- scending aorta. It thus forms a second curve with the convexity to the left side. The arch rests upon the trachea, the reso- phagus, the thoracic duct, and the fourth dorsal vertebra. In front of it are the remains of the thymus gland, and some fat. On the left side are the left pleura and lung, and the left phrenic, superficial cardiac, and vagus nerves, the last sending inwards its recurrent branch beneath the vessel. Along the upper liorder, in front of the great branches, is the left innominate vein (fig. 171), to which the left upper intercostal vein is directed over the hinder part of the arch ; and to the lower border, near its termination, the remnant of the arterial duct is attached. Objects con- Below the concavity of the arch of the aorta are the root of the ^^ei'f"""'" left lung, the branching of the pulmonary artery with its arterial duct, and the left recurrent laryngeal nerve. Three The three large branches of the arch supply the neck, the head, branches of upper limbs. First on the right is the trunk of the the arc i. jm^Q^i^ate artery ; close to it is the left common carotid ; and last of all comes the left subclavian. FlQ. 170.—Arch of the Aorta and Great Branches. IIS a. h. c. d. e. /• g- Aortic arch. Innominate artery. Left common caro- tid. Left subclavian. Ligament of arterial duct. Vena cava superior. Left innominate innominate vein. h. Right vein. i. Left upper inter- costal vein. k. Large azygos vein. I. Leftsubclavian vein. II. Theraoic duct. 0. Coronary artery.