THE rOSTEUIOK CKUKllKAJ. AK'I'KKY. 7 ami enter the posterior perforated space between the crura cerebri, to KUi)iily the optic tlialaiui in tlie interior of the brain. They are iliviiled into two sets, those near the niicklle line and those further out, and !U'e named respectively the poduro-mesial and poskro-lalend central arteries. 2. Tlie posterior choroiti artery (fig. 208) leaves the parent vessel as it winds round the cms aiul pursues a parcallel course until it turns forwards beneath tlie posterim' end of tlie corpus callosuni to enter the velum interpositum and the clujroid plexuses of the ventricles of the cerebrum. 3. Two or more superficial, or cortical, temporal branches pass outwards from the artery in its course backwards and supplv the under surface of the temporal lobe, except at the most anterioi' and niost posterior parts. 4. The calcarine and p)arielo-occlpital, like the foregoing, are c(]rtical arteries. The calcarine runs into the p<jsterior \\m\) of the calcarine posli'iiui' |-]llil'()jcl aitfi-y. Corticiir lininches : Ti'iiipurnl. Ciilcariiii', AsciMiilin^' pariiiUil. Asl'cliililiL; froiiUll. ^^re.hra,l l\Ar-t^ Tenipoml. External orbitiil MiDDI.K (MlKEBHAr AllTKllV. _ . Paritilo-lumpural. Fio. 259.—The Outer Sdrfacb op the Cerehrai, Hemispuere, suowiNa THE Distribution of the Middle Cereukal Artery. Hssure and sui^plies the back part of tlie fifth temporal convolution and the adjoining cuneus. The parieto-occipital branch runs mainly P„,ieio. in the internal parieto-occipital fissure and supplies tlie front pai-t of o^iP't"' the cuneus and tlie back part of the pre-cuneate convolution. The posterior cerebral artery thus supjilies the cortex of the cerebral hemisphere over the wliole of the mesial aspect of the temporal (except the most anterior part) and occipital lol,es, with a small part of the parietal (pre-cuneus); as weU as a small part of the corresponding parts on their outer or convex surface (fig. 259). From the foregoing examination of the offsets of Uie vertebral arteries and the l«silar trunk, it appears that about half the brain— ,. VIZ., the medulla oblongata, the pons, the cerel^ellum, and the veriH.ml P.lrl of Itraili .-.iip- pHcd hy