148 DISSECTION OF THK THIGH. extent;, base and sides : roof and floor. the trunks of the blood-vessels of the thigh, and the anterior crural nerve, witli lymphatics and fat. It extends commonly over the upper third of the thigh ; but the length varies with the breadth ot the sartorius, and the height at which this muscle crosses inwards. The Imse of the space is at Poupart's ligament; externally it is bounded by the inner border of the .sartorius ; and intemaUy by the iim^yjordpy of the ndductor longus. Towards the surface it is covered by the fascia lata, and by the integuments with inguinal glands and superficial vessels. The floor slopes backwards on each side towards the middle of the space; it is constructed externally, where it is of small extent, by the conjoined psoas and iHacus (b) ; and internaU^Jjy^ the pectjneus andadductor longus muscles (e and ¥\ between and b^hTiiI^EE7 near the large vessels^aj;mfll1_pi-oPQ of the afj(-]]^tor brevis. The femoral artery runs through the deepest part of the hollow, lyiDg_slightly outside the cgntre_of the space, and supplies small cutaneous offsets, as well as a large deep branch, the profunda ; and a small offset (external pudic) is directed from it to the scrotum across the inner boundary. On the inner side of the artery and close to it is placed the femoral vein, which is here joined by the saphenous and profunda branches. About a third of an inch external to the vessel is situate the large anterior crural nerve which lies deeply at first between the iliacus and psoas, but after- wards becomes more superficial and divides into branches. Deep lymphatics accompany the femoral vessels, and are continued into the iliac glands in the abdomen; they are joined by the superficial lymphatics. Femoeal A.RTERY (fig. 57 and fig. 59, p. 153) This vessel is a continuation of the external iliac, and extends from the lower border of Poupart's ligament to the opening in the adductor magnus muscle ; at that spot it passes into the ham, and takes the name of course; popliteal. Occupying three-fourths of the length of the thigh, the course of the vessel will be indicated, durhig rotation outwards of ^it^ knee-joint half bent, by a line_ drawn from a point midway between the symphysis pubis and the anterior _su£ei;ior iliac spine, to the prominent tuberosity of tbp innpr r.nndyip of the femur.. In the upper part of its course the artery lies rather internal to the head of the femur, and is comparatively supei-ficial, being un- covered by muscle ; but lower down it is placed along the iimer side of the shaft of that bone, and is beneatli the sartorius muscle. This difference in its relations allows of a division of the arterial trunk into two portions, an upper, superficial, and a lower, deep. The upper part of tlic artery (fig. 57, or), which is now laid bare, is contained in Scarpa's triangular space, and is from three to four inches long. Its position in that hollow may be ascertained by the line before mentioned, relations to Encased at first in the crural sheath for about two inches, it is around; covered by the skin and the superficial fascia, and by the fascia Position of femoral artery ; of vein: of anterior crural nen'e. Lymphatics. Femoral artery: extent; position to femur and parts around ; division into two. Superficial ]iortion: