227 LIGAMENTS OF TARSAL BONES. trimigular facet internally for the internal calcaneo-uavicular liga- ment. The surface of the navicular bone is hollowed, and is wide.st externally. Movement. The navicular moves down and in ovei' the head of the astragalus iu inversion, or up and out in eversion. As the bone is forced downwards, the upper and e.xternal liga- ments of the joint are made tight; and when the navicular is moved in the opposite way, the strong internal ligament is put on the stretch. The OS calcis with the cuboid BONE. The ligaments in this articu- lation are plantar, dorsal, and internal. The dorsal, or superior, calcaneo- cuboid ligament (fig. 87, (j) is a rather tliin fasciculus of fibres, which is attached near to the contiguous ends of the OS calcis and the cuboid bone ; it is sometimes divided into two pieces, or it may be situate at the outer border of the foot. At the inner side of the cuboid lione is a variable internal hand (Hg. 87, /) from the os calcis ; this is fixed Ireland to the upper part of the OS cidcis, outside the band to the navicular lione, and in front to the contiguous inner side of the cuboid. The infe)ior calcaneo-cuboid liga- ment is much the strongest, and is divided into superficial and deep parts :— The superficial portion ur tony plantar ligament (fig. 88,1) is attached to the under-surface of the os calcis between the posterior and the anterior tubercles ; its fibres pass foi'wards to be connected with tlie ridge on the under-surface of the cuboid bone ; but the most internal are continued over the tendon of the peroneus longus muscle, as.sisting to form its sheath, and are inserted into the bases of the third and ftnirth metatarsal bones. The deep piece or short plantar ligament (fig. 89, h), seen on division of the superficial (a), extends from the tubercle and the hollow on tlie fore part of the under-surface of the os calcis to the cuboid bone internal or posterior to the ridge. The synovial cavity of the articulation is simple. « 2 Movoiiieiit : state of ligaments. Os ealeis witli cuboid bone, by dorsal. internal, FlO. 89. VlKWOl,' THE In1.'KRK)K Ligaments ok the Tahsal Jjones. u. Long plantar cut. b. Short or deep inferior cal- caneo-cuboid ligament. c. Liternal calcaneo-navicnlar. d. Plantar transverse navi- culo-ouboid ligament. c. Dorsal inner naviculo- cnneiform extending into tlie sole of the foot. Plantar transverse ligament between the inner and middle cuneiform bones. (/■ Plantar transverse band between the cuboid and outer cuneiform. iiuil inferior ligaments. The last is strongest, and divided Into two parts : superlicial and Icep band. Synovial sac.