THE CAKTILAGKS OK THE NOSE EXTERNAL PARTS OF THE NOSE. nose: its Nasal cartilages. Directions. The external parts of the nose, the cappendage.s of the eye, and the pinna will now be cleaiied and examined. The Nose has the form of a three-sided pyramid, wliicli is External attached to the face by one of its surfaces, while the base i.s free The lateral surfaces meet anteriorly in a rounded edge termed the dorsum, the upper part of which is known also as tlie brithje. The lower and posterior part of each lateral surface is convex and marked off by a curved groove, constituting the ala. The base pre- sents the oval a])ertures -of the nostrils or anterior nares, separated by a short thick partition, the septum narium or columna nasi. The shape of the nose is maintained by a framework con.sisting and frame of the nasal bones and the nasal processes of the superior maxillary bones above, and of the cartilages of the nose below, in the part corresponding to the anterior nasal aperture of the skull. Cartilages op the Nose (fig. 206). These are five in number, one in the centre, the cartikuje of the septum, and two on each side, the lateral cartilacje and the cartilage of the aperture. They are all hyaline cartilage, but do not show any tendency to become ossified. Only the lateral cartilages are learnt in this stage of the dissection. Dissection. The lateral cartilages will be seen when the muscular and fibrous struc- tures of the left side of the nose have been taken away. By turning aside the lateral cartilages the septal one will appear in the middle line. The lateral cartihuje (upper lat. cart, fig. 206,-) is flattened, and triangular in form. Posteriorly it is attached to the nasal and upper maxillary bones ; and anteriorly it joins the cartiliige of the .sejjtum above, but is separated from it by a narrow cleft below. Inferiorly, the lateral wirtiiage is contiguous to the cartilage of tlie aperture, and is connected to it by fibrous tissue. The c«?-ii7a(/e of the aperture (lower lat. cart.; fig. 200) forms a ring xiie lower around the opening of the nose except behind. It has not any ^p^Xrls attachment directly to lione ; but it is united above to the lateral ciirtilage by fibrous tissue, and Ijelow with the dense teguments ,""tV'bone'.'''' forming the ala of the nose and the margin of the nostril. The part of the cartilage (') wliich bounds the opening externally ou« part is narrow and pointed behind, wliere it forms two or tliree vertical outsnic; folds, and sometimes becomes divided into as many small pieces— carlilagines quadratce ; but it swells out in front where it touches its aceessory fellow, and forms the apex of the nose. cartilages; Tlie inner part(') is sliorterand narrower. It- jirojeLts backwards another in- side nostril. Take away tissne from Fio. 206.-CARTn.AQES OP THK Nose. 1. Septal cartilage. 2. Lateral cartilage. 3. Oaitilages of the „„ . .. . llu; upper aperature, its outer (.;i,t,ii:i<'e part, and 4, its inner joins the part. septal. 5. Nas:il bone.