DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 348 end it is united at a right angle with tlie longitudi. mil parts), and one for vena cava. the liver. At tlie left longitudinal fissure. The longitudinal fissure extends from tlie front to the back of the liver, between the riglit and left lobes ; that is, between the left lobe and the quadrate in front and the Spigelian behind. In it, anterior to the transverse fissure, lies the remnant of the umbilical vein {I t), which is called the round ligament, and is oftentimes arched over by a piece of the hepatic substance (pons hepatis); and behind that intofwo"^"^ ^'^^o"^ remains of the vessel named the ductus venosus in the foetus, which will be found running deeply in the fissure between the Spigelian and the leit lobe. In reference to these structures the fore part of the longitudinal tissiu-e is often spoken of as the fissure for the round ligament, and the back part as the fissure for the ductus venosus. The groove, ot fissure fm- the vena cava is placed on the right side of the Spigelian lobe, and is frequently bridged over by an extension of the Spigelian to the right. If the cava {v c) be opened, two or three large and some smaller hepatic veins will be observed entering it. The groove which lodges the gall bladder is often inappropriately called the fissure for the gall bladder. Vessels in the Transverse Fissure. The vessels in the transverse fissure, viz., portal vein, hepatic artery and duct have the following position: the duct in anterior, the portal vein posterior, and the artery between the other two. The hepatic duct is formed by two branches,—one from the right, and one from the left lobe, which soon blend in a common tube. After a distance of one inch and a half it i.-3 joined by the duct of the gall-bladder ; and the union of the two gives rise to the common bile-duct (6 d). The hepatic artery {h a) is divided into two for the chief lobes, and its branches are surrounded by nerves. The portal vein {p v) divides, like the artery, into two trunks for the right and left lobes, and gives an offset to the Spigelian lobe; its left branch is the longer. Faiial condition of the umbilical vein. Before birth the umbilical vein occupies the longitudinal fissure, and opens posteriorly into the vena cava; the portion of the vessel behind the transverse fissure receives the name ductus venosus. Branches are supplied fi'om it to both lobes of the liver ; and a large one, directed to tlie right lobe, is joined by the portal vein. Placental or purilied blood courses through the vessel at that period. Adxdt state. After birth the part of the umbilical vein in front of the transverse fissure is closed, and becomes eventually the round ligament or ligamentum teres. The ductus venosus is also obliterated, only a thin cord remaining in its jylace. But the lateral branches remain open, and subsequently form some of the divisions of the portal vein. Occasionally the ductus venosus is found pervious for some distance. Vessels in the trans- verse ttssure. Hepatic duct. Hepatic artery. Vena portfe. Umbilical vein in the foetus; condition after birth.