DISSECTION OF THE UPPER LIMB. 104 lateial band Very little inotiou. Dissection. Articular siufaces. and contact, Synovial sacs, two or three. Interosseous ligaments, metacarpal, and carpal. Metacarpo- phalangeal articula- tions ; Dissection of linger- joints. of the ring finger touches And the little finger lioue lateral ligaments; On tlie ulnar side of the metacarpal bone of the middle digit is a longitudinal lateral band, Avhich is attached above to the os niag- mun and unciform, and below to a rough part on the inner side of the base of the above mentioned bone. Sonietime.s thi.s Ijand isolates the articulation of the last two metacarpals with the unciform bone from the remaining carpo-nietacarpal joint; but more frequently it is divided into two parts, and does not form a complete partition. This band may be seen by opening from behind the articulation between the unciform and the last two metacarpal bones ; and by cutting through the transverse ligaments joining the third and fourth metacarpals so as to allow their separation. Movement. Scarcely any appreciable antero-posterior movement exists in the articulations of the bases of tlie metacarpal bones of the fore and middle fingers ; l:>ut in the I'ing and little fingers the motion is greater, with a slight degree of opposition. Dissection. The articular surfaces of the bones in the carpo- metacarpal articulation may be seen liy cutting through the rest of the ligaments on the posterior aspect of the hand. Articular surfaces. The metacarpal bone of the forefinger ha-s a broad, notched articular surface, which receives the prominence of the trapezoid bone, and articulates laterally with the trapezium and OS magnum. The middle finger metacarpal articulates with the OS magnum. The metacarpal bone the unciform Ijoue and the os magnum, is opposed to the unciform. Synovial sacs. Usually two synovial sacs are interposed between the carjjal and metacai'pal bones, viz., a se]iarat';' 0"^ f"'' ^^^'^ how of the thumbj_ and offsets of the common carpal synovial sac (p. 102) "TofTEe otheTs. Sometimes there is a distinct .synovial sac for the articulation of the two inner metacarpals with the unciform bone. Interosseous ligaments. The interosseous ligaments between the bases of the metacarpal bones may be demonstrated by detaching one bone from another ; and those uniting the adjacent carpal bones may be shown in the same way. Union of Metacarpal Bone and Fikst Phalanx (fig. 45). In this joint the convex head of the metacarpal bone is received into the glenoid fos.sa of the phalanx, and the two are united by the lateral, anterior and posterior ligaments. Dissection. For the examination of this joint it will lie requisite to clear away the tendons and the tendinous expansion around it. A lateral ligament on each side, and an anterior thick band are to be defined. One of the joints may be opened to see the articular surfaces. The .same di.s.section may be made for the articulations between the phalanges of the fingers. The latei-al ligaments (a) are triangular in form ; atUiched above to the lower part of the tubercle on the side of the head of the metacarjjal bone, and below the phahmx and to the anterior ligament.