DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. 476 niein bra- nous part pf seiitum. Fibres can be separated into layers by dissec- tion. Direction of fibres : external, middle, and internal. Course of fibres is obscure. Chief sets: external oblique and internal longitudinal are one; annular; looped of left. upper end, in a small area close below the aortic orifice, where there is a very thin part from which muscular fibres are absent {pars memhranacea septi. Arvnngcmcnt of fibres. It has been shown by the foregoing dissection that tlie direction of tlie muscular fasciculi composing the ventricular wall varies at difi'erent depths from the surface, and that at a given spot a number of layers may be separated, which are characterised by the diflference in direction of their fil)res. Such a division into distinct layers is, however, in great measure artificial, for the change in direction is gradual, and many fibres pass across from one layer to another, and have to be cut to effect the separation. Over both ventricles the most superficial fibres are directed very obliquely from base to apex, and from right to left on the anterior surface, from left to right on the posterior sur- face. Proceeding inwards, the obliquity gradually diminishes ; and in the centre of the wall the fibres are transverse. Within the last, as the cavity of the ventricle is approached, the fibres become oblique again, but in the opposite direction to the extenial ones ; and the innermcst fibres of all are nearly longitudinal. The attempt to trace the whole course of the bundles is, except in the case of the superficial fibres, attended with great diffi- culty, owing to the interlacement, branching, and joining of the fasciculi. The principal groups of fibres that have been dis- tinguished may be arranged as follows ; but it must be under- stood that the}' are to a great extent intermixed, and that bundles frequently pass from one set into another. a. The external oblique fibres (fig. 173) begin at the base of the ventricles, where most of them spring from the auriculo-ventri- cular and arterial fibrous rings, and descend with the spiral course above described to the apex of the heart. On the pos- terior surface tliey pass witbout interruption from the left to the right ventricle ; but in front the fibres crossing the right ventricle in part dip in at the interventricular groove to the septum, while those continued to the left ventricle are joined by others which issue from the septum along the furrow. At the apex of the heart they form a sharp twist, known as the vortex or xohorl, and sink in it to become deep and ascend towards the base as the innermost layer of the left ventricle. Some of thorn are continued to the liasc ami join the auriculo- ventricular and aortic rings ; but others enter the papillary mu.scles, which are thus formed. b. The transver.se or annular fibres (fig. 173) are partly special to the left ventricle, and partly common to the two ventricles. Some of them appear to form simple rings round the cavities, but a great many pass from this into the oblique system of fibres. c. The looped fibres of the left ventricle spring from the fibrous rings Fia. 173.—A Diagram op the Arranue- MENT OP THE FlEllES IN LAYERS IN THE Lept Ventricle. The Dissection is carried throagh about two-thirds of the thickness or the wall. 1, 2, 3. Outer layers, the fibres of which gradually become less oblique. 4. Middle layer of transverse fibres. 5. Inner set of oblique fibres. The deepest fibres, con-esponding to 1 and 2 of the exterior, are not shown.