DEEP DISSECTION OF THE liAf'K. .-•,19 Fiillopii to join the fiicial nevve. Exli'nial to this is sometimes seen the small siiperjicial petrosal nerve (lig. 240, ■'), but this is I'requently coucealed in the subslance of the temporal lione. The souiTi' ami destination of these small nerves will be afterwards learnt. It will sutKce now for the student to notice their position, and t(i see tliat they are ke])t moist and fit for examination at a future time. Directions. When tlie study of the base of the skull has been Dlrcciiuns com])leted a preservative fluid sliould be applied, and the flaps j°g'partsr of skin should be stitched together over all. Section III. DEE I' DISSECTION OF THE BACK. Directions. During the first two days that the liody is placed on Directions, its face the di.s.sector of the head and neck should be careful not to let his work interfere with that of the worker on the upper limb, whose duty it is in this time to dis.sect the superficial structures Iielow the level of the seventh cervical spine, and to study and refiect the first two layers of the muscles of the back, and to examine the related structures as described in pages I to 10. The dissector of the abdomen also should have the opportunity of examining the arrangement of the fascia hunborum wlien it is disi)layed on the third day. Position. Tlie body lies with the face downwards; and the Position of trunk is to l)e raised by blocks beneath the chest and the pelvis, .so that the limbs may hang over the end and sides of the di.s.secting table. To make tense the ni^ck, the head is to l)e depressed and fastened with hooks. In this region there are six successive layers of muscles, amongst sti-at«in which ves.sels and nerves are inters]>ersed. The student should go over again the surface anatomy of the liack, as described on l)age 2. Dissection. Make an incision along the middle line of the To raise tho neck from the external occipital protuberance to the spine of the seventh cervical vertebra, and reflect the skin outwards as far as the mastoid process above and as far as the outer border of the acromion below. On tlieyir.s-t day the cutaneous branches of the posterior divisions Clean of the cervical nerves should be di.splayed, the trapezius muscle ,*;™J'",'j!rves cleaned in the neck, and the small occipital nerve traced down from the scalp in its tube of fascia along the posterior liorder of tlie stenio-mastoid muscle. To find tlie nerves in the cervical region, look near the middle line, from tlie 3rd t(^ the Gth vertebra, trace an offset from the third nerve upwards to the head, and follow the great occiiiital nerve down from the scalp tu its emergence from the miuscles.