IXTEKNAL LTGAMENT8 OK THE KNEE. 217 Tlie crucial ligaments (fig. 83) aie two .strong fibioii.s cords between the ends of the tibia and fenuir, wliith maintain the bone.s in contact. They cros.s one ancjtlier like tlie legs of the k'tter X, and liave received their name from that circum.st.ince. One i.s much anterior to tlie other at tlie tibial attachment. Tlie anterior ligament (/) is \-erv obliqne in its direction, and is longer than the i)osterior. Inferiorly it is atfaiched in front of the .spine of the tibia, clo.se to the inner articular surface, reaching back to the inner point of the si)ine ; sujieriorly it is in.serted into an impression on the liinder part of the inner surface of the external condyle of the femur. The j^osterior ligament (c), the thicker of the two, is almost vertical between the bones at the back of the joint. By the loM'er end it is fixed to the hiiidniost impression of the hollow liehind the .spine of the tiljia, near the margin of the bone; and above, it is inserted into an imjiression at the lower pait of the outer sm-face of the internal condyle, and extending forwards to the centre of the intercondvlar fo.s.sa. The Kse of these ligament-s in the movements of the joint may now be studied after the external ligaments have been cut through. As long as both ligaments are whole, the bones cannot be .sepa- rated from each other. Eolation inwards of the tibia is limited by the anterior crucial. Rotation out is not checked by either ligament; for the bands mi- cross in the execution of the move- Two cnipial ligatnent.s. Anterior is obli(jiie ; its atlacii- mcuts. Postprior is vertical ; FiQ. 8-3.—Intkkarticulau Lkia- MKNTS OV THK KnEE-.IOINT. a. Internal, and b, external seraihinarfibro-cartilage ; the latter rather ili.splaoed by the bending of the joint. e. Posterior cnieial ligament, with rf, the ascending ligamentous band of the e.\ternal fibro-cartilage. /. Anterior crncial ligament. £/. Patellar surface of the femur. Tlicir use. Hotli unite tlie bones. Rotation inwards cliecked by anterior. nieut, and will permit the tibia to be turned hind part foremost. Supposing the tibia to move as in straightening the limb, the anterior prevents that bone being carried too far foi'wards by the extensor muscle, or by external force; and the ligament is brought into action at the end of extension, because the tibia is being put 111 front of the fenuir. Its use is shown by cutting it acro.ss^ and lea\ iiig the posterior entire, as then the tibial articulating surfaces can be placed in front of the femoral in the half-bent state of the joint. The po.sterior crucial prevents displacement backwards of the til)ia by the flexors or by force; and it is stretched in extreme Special use of anterior. antl posle- rior crucial.