278 To see tlie serous sac. Tunica vaginalis partly covers tlie testicle, and lines scrotum : visceral part, and parietal Testicle oval; margins. Epididymis. Hydatid of Morgagni. Suspended obliquely. Dimensions, and weight. A dense tunic en- closes .small secreting tubes. DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. each is provided with an excretory duct named the vas deferens. A serous sac partly surrounds each organ. Dissection. For the purpose of examining the serous covering of the testicle (tunica vaginalis) make a smal 1 aperture into tlie upper part of the sac when the skin of the scrotum and the superficial coverings have been reflected and inflate it. The sac and the spermatic cord are then to be cleaned; and the vessels of the latter are to be followed to their entrance into the testicle. Finally the tunica vaginalis is to be opened from the front to e.vpose the testis. _ The tunica vaginalis (fig. 103, d) is a serous bag, which is con- tinuous in the fcBtus with the peritoneal lining of the abdomen, but becomes subsequently a distinct sac through the obliteration of the intermediate part. It invests the testicle after the manner of other serous mem- branes ; lor the testicle is placed behind it, .so as to be partly enveloped by it. The sac, however, is larger than is necessary for covering the testicle, and projects some distance above it. Like other serous membranes, it has an external rough, and an internal smooth surface ; and like them, it has a visceral and a parietal part. The visceral layer (tunica vaginalis testis) covers the testicle, except posteriorly where the vessels lie. On the outer side it extends farther back than on the inner, and invests the greater part of the epididymis, forming a pouch (digital fossa) between that body and the testicle. The parietal part of the sac (tunica vaginalis scroti) is more extensive than the piece covering the testicle, and lines the con- tiguous layer of the scrotum. Form and position of the testis (fig 103). The testicle is oval in shape, with a smooth surface, and is somewhat compressed from side to side. The anterior margin is convex and free ; the posterior, is flattened, and is pierced by the spermatic vessels and nerves. Stretching like an arch along the outer side is the epididymis [b). Attached to the upper end of the testis is a small body(c), the hydatid of Morgagni, which is the remains of the upper end of the fcetal duct of Miiller ; and occasionally other smaller projections of the tunica vaginalis are connected with the top of the epididymis. The testis is suspended obliquely, so that the npper part is directed forwards and somewhat outwards, and the lower end backwards and rather inwards. Size and weight. The length of the testis is an inch and a half or two inches ; from before backwards it measures rather more than an inch, and from side to side ratlier less than an inch. Its weight is nearly an ounce, and the left is frequently larger than the other. Structure. The substance o( the testicle is composed of minute secreting tubes, around which the blood-vessels are disposed in plexuses. Surrounding and supporting the delicate seminiferous tubes is a dense covering—the tunica albuginea. The excretory, or efferent, duct is tlie vas deferens.