DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. 390 relations. Spongy. Fixed curve of iiretlir.i: extent; wliere greatest. Voluntary and invo- luntary muscles surround it. Size. Contents of the female pelvis, and their situation. The peri- toneum on the uterus; tlie next portion of the urethral tube is directed backwards below it, its under surface measures only half an inch. This portion of the urethra is the weakest; but it is supported by the triangular ligament (n). Surrounding it are the muscular fibres of the constrictor urethrte ; and close behind it are Cowper's glands and the rectum. The sjiongypart (d) is so named from its_ being surrounded by a cellulo-vascular structure. It is applied to and assists to form the body of the penis, and the canal terminates anteriorly in the orifice named the meatus urinarius at the end of the glans. It is the longest part of the urethi'a, and measures about six inches. At its com- mencement this division of the excretory canal is covered by the ejaculator urinse muscle. The fixed mrve of the urethra is the bend at the hinder part of the canal as it lies behind the pubis. It extends from the bladder to an inch and a half in front of the aperture in the triangular ligament, and comprises the prostatic and membranous portions, with a fourth of the spongy part. Its convexity, which is turned downwards and backwards, is greatest immediately below the triangular ligament in the erect posture of the body ; and from this point it ascends to the bladder, but is directed nearly horizontally forwards to the penis. It is surrounded by voluntary and involuntary muscular fibres ; thus, above the ligament, by the involuntary muscular tissue of the prostate ; within the ligament by the voluntary constrictor urethrse, with a thin involuntary layer inside that muscle; and lielow the ligament by the voluntary ejaculator urinse. The size of the canal is least where the tube lies between the layers of the ligament, except at the external urinary meatus ; and it is largest in the middle of the prostate. RELATIONS OP THE VISCERA IN THE FEMALE. In the 23elvis of the female are contained the rectum and the bladder, with the ureters and urethra, as in the male ; but there are in addition tlie uterus with its accessories, and the vagina. Position. The rectum is posterior to the rest as in the male pelvis, and forms a like curve. In the concavity of the bent intestine lie the uterus with its appendages, and the tube of the vagina. And in front of all are the liladder and the urethra. There are tlnis three tubes connected with the viscera in this sex, viz., the urethra, the vagina, and the rectum ; and all are directed downwards to the surface. The Peritoneum. The student should first master the descrip- fion of the peritoneum of the pelvic cavitj' contained on pages 376 to 378. In addition to wliat has already been de.scribed it will be noticed that whilst the peritoneum covers the whole of the back of the uterus it only passes some two-thirds of the way down its anterior surface and is then reflected on to the upper surface of the bladder without .again touching the vagina.