THE SUBMAXILLAEY GLAND. attachment of the internal lateral ligament of the jaw, this small nerve joins the lingual at an acute angle, about three-quarters of im inch below the skull. At the point of meeting a communi- cation takes place with the lingual, but the greater part of the ends m cliorda tympani is merely comlucted along that nerve to the tongue. The origin of this nerve, and its course across the tympanum, will 1)6 described in Chapter XII. The nei-ve to the internal pterygoid can now be seen as it passes beneath the hinder l)order to the inner surface of its muscle, but pterygoid, it will be more fully shown in the dissection of the otic ganglion. Section VIII. SUBMAXILLARY REGION. The submaxillary region is situate between the lower jaw and parts in it. the hyoid bone. In it are contained some of the muscles of the hyoid bone and tongue, the vessels and nerves of the tongue, and the sublingual and submaxillary glands. Position. In this dissection tiie posiUpn of the neck is the same rosition or as for the examination of the anterior triangle. Dissection. If any fatty tissue has been left on the submaxillary Dissection, gland, or on the mylo-hyoid muscle, when the anterior triangular space was dissected, let it he taken away. The SUBMAXILLARY GLAND (fig. 213,", p. 589) UeS beloW the jaw in SnbmaxH- the anterior part of the space limited by that bone and the digastric ^'^^^^^^^ ' muscle. Somewhat oval in shape, it rests on the mylo-hyoid, and sends a deep process round the posterior or free border of that an'i^.^^^. muscle. In front of it is the anterior belly of the digastrio; and behind is the stylo-maxillary ligament separating it from the parotid. The gland is covered only by the integuments, platysma, and deep fascia ; and the facial artery winds forwards on its deep surface. In structure the submaxillary resembles the parotid gland and its strnctiu-e duct—duct of Wharton-issuing from the deep process, extends"'"""'- beneath the mylo-hyoid muscle to the mouth. Dissection. To see the mylo-hyoid muscle, detach the anterior Dissection, belly of the digastric from the jaw, and dislodge without injury the subniaxiUary gland from beneath the bono. The MYLO-HYOID MUSCLE is triangular in shape, with the base at Mylo-hyoid the jaw and the truncated apex at the hyoid bone, and unites ahmg the middle line with its fellow of the opposite side. It arises from arises from the rnylo-hydid ridge on the inner surface of the lower jaw as far back as the last molar tooth ; and its posterior fibres, including about inserted a third of the muscle, are ivserlecl into the front of the body of the bo°e'and'^ hyoid bone, whilst the remainder blend with those of the muscle of raph^;