THE WEIST-JOINT. 99 Tlie internal Idterul ligament is longer and tliicker lliau the inicnml extei'nal. It is attached hv one end to tlie styloid ]iroeess of the . iibia, and hy the other to the rough iqiper part of tlie pyramidal — ^ (iTivjEA^rOv. lione. Some of the anterior Kl)res are continued to the pisiform i)one. The anterior ligament (tig. 41,') springs from the radius, and is aniuiior imd inserted into the first row of carpal bones, except the pisiform jjn the anterior surface. The vonterior liaamenl (tig. 44, i). 103) is membranous, like the posterior . ■ ] V CI 1- *. } 1 1 1 ■ It ligaments, anterior, and its nljres are directed downwards and inwards irom the raditis to the .same three carpal l)one.s on the posterior a.sjiect. Dissection. To see tlie form of the articular sur- face.s, the joint may be opened Ijy a transverse in- cision through the posterior ligament, near the bones of the carpus. Artiadar surfaces. The end of the radius, and the fibro-cartilage (fig. 42, c) uniting it with the ulna form a sliallow socket for the reception of the carpal Ijones; and the surface of the radius is divided by a prominent line into an ex- ternal triangular, and an internal square impression. The three carpal bones of the first row constittite a convex euiineiice, which is received into the hollow before mentioned in this \\ ay : the scaphoid bone is opposite the external triangular mark of the radius ; the semilunar oi)|)o.seil bone touches the .scpiare impression and the greater part of the triangular fibro-cartilage ; while the small articular surface of the pyraniidal bone is in contact with the ftpe)r~7if-T>TTr lilirn-('^uiila^e' and the adjoining v&t\, nf the cap.sule.. The synovial membrane has the arrangement common to simple .Synuvial joints. This joint communicates occa.sionally with the lower radio- ulnar articulation by means of an aperture in the fibro-cartilage I between the two. ' \ Movements. The principal movements taking place in the radio- Kinds of carpal articulation are flexion and extension. Lateral motion occurs = only to a limited extent. Flexion and extension. In Hexiou the hand is moved forward.s, flexion; while the carpus glides on the riidius from before Ijackward.s, and H 2 I lisswlion. ynrlace ut radius; Fio. 41.—Fkunt View op the Akticu- LATIONS OF THE WkIST, AND CaKPAL AND Metacarpal Bonks (Bourgery). 1. Anterior ligament of the wrist-joint. 2. Capsule of the joint of tlio metacarpal of llist row bone of the tliumb witli the trapezium. of eiirpal 3. Pisiform bone, with its ligamentous 'j""""* • bands. 4. Transverse bands uniting tlie bases of the metacarpal bones.