DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. 418 and circular tibres. Jlucous poat is thick and vascular; folds in it. Permanent folds in wall of rectum. " Rectal valves." bands are shorter than the other strata of the wall, and thus give rise to the sacculations. The circular fibres describe arches around the intestine, and become thicker and stronger towards the anus, where they are collected along the anal canal into the band of the internal sphincter muscle (p. 240). The mucous coat is more moveable than in the colon, and resembles in this respect the lining of the cesophagus ; it is also thicker and more vascular than in the rest of the large intestine. When the bowel is contracted the .mucous lining is thrown into numerous accidental folds, for the most part transverse or oblique ; but in the anal canal they are longitudinal, enclosing submucous muscular fibres, and form the columns of Morgagni. There are also permanent transverse folds of the intestinal wall (Rectal valves) corresponding to the depressions between the sacculi externally. The largest and most regular of these are in the lower portion of the gut, one being on the right side and front about three inches from the anus, and corresponding approximately to the spot where the recto- vesical pouch of peritoneum ends, another on the left side about one inch higher, and a third, which is less constant, on the left side posteriorly, below the first. These folds will be seen by laying open the gut along the front, provided it is tolerably fresh. The mucous membrane has the same general structure as in the colon, but towards the anus the secretory apparatus disappears. Blood-vessels. The arteries are sujjplied from three different sources, viz., superior hsemorrhoidal of the inferior mesenteric, middle hemorrhoidal of the internal iliac, and inferior hEemorrhoidal of the internal pudic. All three sets anastomose on the lower end of the gut; but only the upper hsemorrhoidal, which is the largest, arrangement requires notice here. The final branches of this artery, about six in number, pierce the muscular layer three inches from the anus, and descend between the mucous and muscular coats as far as the internal sphincter, where they unite in loops just within the anus. The veins have no valves, and communicate freely in a largo plexus (hcernorrhoidal) between the muscular and mucous coats, round the lower end of the gut. Above they join the inferior mesenteric vein, and through it reach the vena portae ; and below they pour some blood into the internal iliac vein by the middle and inferior hsemorrhoidal branches. Nerves and lymphatics. The nerves of the intestine are ol.itained from the synqjathetic ; but those of the external sphincter come Lymphatics, from the si^inal nerves. The lymphatics terminate in the chain of glands on the sacrum. structure of membrane. Arteries: of superior hsemor- rhoidal. Veins are without valves. Nerves. Section III. ANATOMY OF THE FEMALE PELVIC VISCEEA. To remove Dissection. In the ca.se of the female pelvis, the bladder, urethra, the viscera, ^-^^ genital organs and the rectum are to be removed together for