406 DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. Prosliito gland: situation; form; dimensions: THE PROSTATE GLAND AND SEMINAL VESICLES. Prostate Gland (fig. 151, p. 408). This is a firm muscular body containing glands, which surrounds the neck of the bladder and the beginning of the urethra. Its relations have already been enumerated at p. 388. The prostate is conical in form, like a chestnut, with the base directed upwards. Its dimensions are the following : Trans- versely at the base it measures about an inch and a half; from apex to base an inch and a quarter ; and from before backwards about three-quarters of an inch or an inch : so that an incision directed obliquely outwards and backwards will be the longest that can be and weight, practised in the half of this body. Its weight is about an ounce, but in this respect it varies greatly. Surfaces; The anterior surface of the prostate is narrow and rounded. The posterior surface, larger and flatter, is marked by a median hollow which indicates the division into lateral lobes. The base is thick, and at its posterior part has a median notch, which receives the common seminal ducts. The apex is pierced by the urethra. Three loljes are described in the prostate, viz., a middle and two lateral, though there is no fissure in the firm mass. The lateral lobes (fig. 151, 6, c) are similar on the two sides, and are separated only by the hollow on the under surface ; they form tlie chief part of the prostate, and are prolonged back, on each side, beyond the notch in the base. The middle lobe (rf) will be brought into view by separating the vesiculse seminales and the vasa deferentia from the bladder : it is the piece of the gland between the neck of the bladder and the seminal ducts, which extends across between the lateral lobes. Oftentimes the middle lobe is enlarged in old people, and projects upwards into the bladder, so as to interfere with the flow of the urine from that viscus, or the passage of a catheter into it. The urethra and the two common seminal ducts are contained in the substance of the prostate as w ill be seen immediately. The former is transmitted through the gland from base to apex ; and the latter perforate it obliquely to terminate in the urethral canal. Structure. On section the prostate apj^ears reddish grey in colour, is very firm to the feel, and is scarcely lacerable. It is made up of a mass of muscular and fibrous tissues, with interspersed glandu- lar substance ; and the whole is enveloped by strong proper capsule and is surrounded by a fibrous sheath derived from the recto-vesical fascia, which is sometimes styled t.he fabe capsule. Muncular tissue. The firm mass of this body consists mainly of involuntary muscular fil)res, intermixed with elastic and fibrous tissues. One set of muscular fibres is arranged circularly round the urethral canal,—these are continuous above with the annular fibres of the bladder, and bi-loA\' with a thin layer of circular filires surrounding the memljranous portioii of the urethra ; others run radiating, transversely liehind the urethra, and radiate in each lateral lobe base; and .ipex. Tliree lobes, two lateral, and a cen- tral. often enlarged. Gland con- tains three tubes. Structure. Muscular llbros arc plain— circular.