THE EXTRINSIC MUSCLES OP THE TONGUE. fibres inwards and forwards, it will be necessary to remove from the dorsum, between them and the tip, a thin layer consisting of the mucous membrane with the submucous fibrous tissue, and the fleshy fibres of the upper liugualis. Beneath the tip a junction between the stylo-glossus muscles of oj)posite sides is to be traced. The piece of the constrictor muscle (o) which is attaclied to the tongue, and the ending of the genio-glossus will come into view on the division of the hyo-glossus. To lay bare the chondro-glossus (f), which is a small muscular slip attached to the lesser cornu of the hyoid bone, turn upwards the dorsum of the tongue, and feel for the small comu of the hyoid through the mucous membrane. Then remove the mucous membrane in front of this, and the fibres of the muscle radiating forwards will be visible. The PALATO-GLOssus reaches the side of the tongue at the junction of the posterior and middle thirds. Its fibres are directed inwards, in part on the surface, and in part deeply with the transverse muscle of the sepl um. The STYLO-GLOSSUS joins the body of the tongue below the foregoing, and is continued forwards as a gradually tapering ljundle beneath the lateral margin to the tijj of the organ, where it becomes united with the inferior lingualis, and meets the muscle of the opposite side. From its upper Ijorder fibres are directed inwards over the dorsum of the tongue to the middle line; and other bundles pass inwards from its lower edge between the i'iisci- culi of the hyo-glossus. The HYO-GLOSSUS enters the under surface of the tongue in its middle third, between the stylo-glossus and the inferior lingualis. Its filjres are collected into bundles -which turn round the margin and form, with those of the preceding muscles, a layer on the dorsum of the tongue, the hinder fibres passing almost transversely inwards, the anterior inclining forwards to the tip. The CHONDRO-GLOSSUS is a small lan-shaped muscle, which arises from the lesser cornu and the adjacent part of the body of the hyoid bone. Its fibres are directed forwards, spreading out beneath the mucous membrane of the posterior third of the tongue, and are inserted into the submucous layer. of jilia- ryiigeo. glossiis, of elionilro. glossii.s. FiQ. 242.—Muscles on the Dorsum ep the Tongue. (After Zaglas.) Superficial lingualis. Slylo-glossu.s. Hyo-glossus. Palato-glossus. Clioiulro-glossiis. Pliaryngeo-glossus. H. Septum linguae. ralato- glossus in toiiguo. Stylo- glcs.siis jji-o- loiiged to tip of tongue ; sends niiiny llbrcs in- wards. Hyo- glos.sus united with palato- and stylo- glossus. Chondro. gloss U.S.