BRANCHES OF THE FNTBRNAL MAXILLARY ARTERY. 677 lit the liack of tliu niof of the no.se (upper pnderiar tuisiil liriiKclicK). At its exit from the canal, the nerve receives a soft reddish olfset [lanju deep petrosal nerve) from the sympathetic on the outer side of the carotid artery. The continuation of the nerve enters tlie cranium through the foramen lacerum, and is directed backwards in a groove on tlie surface of the jietrous part of the temporal bone, wliere it takes tlie name of lanje siqierjicial iietrosal nerve {[V^. 2-10,-, p. (MS). Lastly it is continued through the hiatus Fallojjii, to join tlie geniculate ganglion of the facial nerve (p. 679). The Vidian nerve is supposed to consist of motor and .'sympathetic viiUaim fibres in the same sheath, as in the connecting branches between the ''""'i'"""'' sympathetic and spinal nerves. Directions. The students may now give their attention to the remaining nerves in the nasal cavity. Dissection. The nasal uerve is to be sought liehind the nasal ■■ioi'i; otlicr bone (tig. £39) by gently detaching the lining membrane, after""™"""' . having cut ofi' the projecting bone. A branch is given from the nerve to the septum, but probably this, and the trunk of the nerve, will be seen but imperfectly in the present condition of the part. The terminal branches of the internal ma.xillary artery in the vr.ssuis of spheno-nia.villary iassa have been laid bare in tiie dissection of Meckel's ganglion, but they may be now completely traced out. The NAS.4L NERVE (of the ojihthalmic) (tig. 239, has been already .\a.sal nerv« seen in the skull and orbit. Entering the nasal fo.s.sa by an aperture J,',';j,i,'"',jou"l at tile front of the ethmoid bone, the uerve gives a branch to the fives membrane of the septum, and tlien descends in a groove on the back of the nasal bone. At the lower margin of the latter it escapes between the bone and the upper lateral cartilage to the surface of the nose. Branches. The hraneh to tlie aeidum (fig. 238) divides into bnuich to filaments that ramify on tlie anterior part of that partition, and reach nearly to the lower border. One or two Ji laments are likewise furnished by the uerve to the aiidto mucous membrane on the outer wall of the nasal fossa: these extend as low as the inferior spongy bone. Terminal uranche.s of the internal maxillary artery. ii,-,uiciH« of Tlie branches of the artery in the spheno-ma.xillary fossa, which \ll^,'^M'^,y have not been examined, are the superior palatine, nasal, pterygo-"rtery mu palatine, and Vidian. The s7i,perior or descandinij ■palatine is the largest branch, and pnl'itino accompanies the large palatine nerve through the posterior palatine ' canal, and along the roof of the mouth ; it anastomoses behind the incKsor teeth with its fellow, and with the naso-palatine branch through the incisor foramen. This artery supplies olfsets to the sott palate and tonsil through the other palatine canals, and some twigs are furnished to the lining membrane of the nose. In the roof of the mouth the mucous membrane, glands and gums receive their vessels from it.