JOINTS OF PHALANGES. 105 The anterior liqameiiUb) is ;i strong and dense hand, which is (interior Hxed tirmly to tlie i)halanx, but loosely to tlie metacarpal bone. It grooved for the flexor tendon ; and to its .sides the lateral 1 iganients are nnited. On the dorsal a.spect of the joint, the capsule is completed by postHrior. a thin layer of connective tissue which suppoi'ts the synovial membrane, and is closely covered by the extensor tendon. Tlie sijnovial membrane of the joint is a simple .sac. Synovial In the articulation of the thumb two sesamoid Ijones are con-' ', , . , , ■ 1 • • .Joint of nected with the anterior ligament, and receive most ot the fibres of timnib. the lateral ligaments. Movements. Motion in four opijaosite directions, circumduction, take place in these condyloid joints. Fleximi and eoienxion. In flexion, the phalanx glides forwards ln'ndin over the head of the metacarpal bone, and Iea\-es this exposed to form the knuckle when the finger is shut. The lateral ligaments and the exten.sor tendon are put on the stretch as the joint is bent. In exteii.sion the anterior ligament and together with Kinds of motion: pxtfndin" lator-al motion; the Hexor tendons are stretched, and limit the movement. Abdttction and adduction are the lateral movements of the finger from or towards the middle line of the hand. The lateral ligament of the .side of the joint which is rendered convex is tightened, and the other is relaxed. The circmnduciorij motion is less Fia. 45. impeded in the fore and little fingers than in the others. In the joint of the thumb the movements, espec;ially to the side, are much le.ss extensive than in the fingers. Union of the Phalange.s. The ligaments of these joints are .joints of the similar to those in the metacarpo-phalangeal articulations, viz., two j,'!,"'^''"^'''' lateral, an anterior and a membranous posterior. The lateral ligaments are triangular in form. Each is connected 'iitoral and by its ajiex to the proximal phalanx at the side of the head ; and by its base to the di.stal phalanx and the anterior ligament. The anterim- ligament has the same mode of attachment between anterior the extremities of the bones as in the metacarpo-phalangeal joint, but it is not so strong. There is a simple synovial membrane present in the joint. The joint of the .second witli the la.st phalanx is like the pre- ceding in the numlier and dispo.sition of its ligaments ; Imt all the articular bands are much less strongly marked. Articular surfaces. The head of each i>halanx is marked by a Snrfaces of inilley-like surface. The base presents a hollow on each side of a median ridge, which fits into the central depre.ssion of the opposed articular surface. c'ircunulnc- tory. Synovial sac. Last joint.