SDPBRFICIAI. TEMl'ORAL ARTERY. cartilaginous bands in tbosc parts o( the wall ; but at the posterior r.,,,,,. aspect the cartilages are absent, and the «-all is Hat and nien.- branous. , , , , „ . , Tiie cervical part of the tracliea is very moveable, and has the Ce.-v,™i follow-in" relative position to the surrounding parts. Covering it „n,o„„st in front w-e the depressor muscles of the hyoid bone, with the deep ""'-sd.s cervical fascia: beneath those muscles is the inferior thyroid plexus of veins ; and near the larynx is the isthmus of the thyroid body. Behind the tube is the a'sophagus, with the recurrent laryngeal and m-ss.Is nerves. On each side are the coiuiuon carotid artery and the thvroid body. The (ESOPHAGUS, or gullet, reaches from the phar>ux to the UJsoi.Iu.hus stomach. It commences, like the trachea, opposite the lower part .;e™,>ies of the sixth cervical vertebra, and ends opposite the tenth dorsal t,,^,.,,^. vertebra. The tube reaches through part of the neck, and through the whole of the thorax. Its length is about nine inches. i-".^"' In the neck its position is behind the trachea till near the thorax P where it projects to the left side of the air tube, and touches the thvroid bodv and the thoracic duct. Behind the asophagus are mid lehi- Ih'e longi coili muscles. On each side is the common carotid artery, the proximity of the left being greater, in consequence of the projection of the cesophagus towards that side. The structure of the cesophagus will be examined in the dissection of the thorax. Directiom. The lower part of the neck will now be left for some days, so that the dissector should stitch together the flaps of skin if they remain, and carefully wrap up the part and ajjply preservative. 'osiliun in Section VII THE PTBRYGO-MAXILLARY REGION. In this region are included the muscles superficial to and beneath ContcMts of the ramus of the lower jaw, together with the temporo-maxillary articulation. In contact with the muscles (pterygoid) beneath the jaw, are the internal maxillary blood-vessels, and the inferior maxillary trunk of the fifth nerve. Dissection. The masseter muscle, which is superficial to the Diss,.ctiou. bone, has been partly laid bare in the dissection of the face. To see it more fully, the"branches of the facial nerve and the transverse facial artery should lie cut through and turned backwards, and the fascia cleaned olf the surface of the mascle. Shoidd there be any tow or cotton-wool left in the mouth let it be removed. The MASSETER (fig. 203, p. 553) rises by a Hattened tendon froni J^^l»«''^eiet the lower border of the zygomatic arch, including a small xjortion of "rigiii,''' the malar process of the superior maxilla, and by fine Ueshy fibres from the deep surfaces of the zygomatic process and the malar bone. It is inserted into the whole of the outer surface of the coronoid