275 THE TRANSVERSALIS FASCIA. The iLio-HYPOGASTRic NERVE perforates the back of the njo-hyi-o- transversalis muscle near the iliac crest, and divides into iliac and . hypogastric branches. The tliac branch pierces both oblique muscles close to the crest of iliac part the ilium, to reach the gluteal region (p. 263). The hypogastric branch is directed forwards above the hip-bone, f^djiypo-^^^ "iviug twigs to the transverse and internal oblique nmsclea, and comniunicating with the ilio-inguinal nerve. It perforates the fleshy part of the internal oblique near the front of the iliac crest, and the aponeurosis of the external oblique near the linea alba and finally becomes cutaneous in the hypogastric region (p. 264). The ILIO-INGUINAL NERVE perforates the transversalis muscle near iiio-iuguinai the front of the iliac crest. It afterwards pierces the internal oblique, and reaches the surface through the external abdominal ring (p. 264) : on its way it furnishes offsets to the internal oblique, the transversalis, and tlie pyramidalis. Dissection. To see the transversalis fascia on the right side, it Dissection will be necessary to raise the lower part ot the transversalis nuuscle salia fascia, by two incisions :—one of these is to be carried through the fibres attached to Poupart's ligament; the other, across the muscle from the front of the iliac crest to the margin of the rectus. With a little care the muscle may be separated easily I'roni the thin fascia beneath. The TRANSVERSALIS FASCIA is a thin fibrous layer between the Tiaiisver- transversrtlis muscle and the peritoneum. In the inguinal region, fascia where it is unsupported by muscles, the fascia is considerably stronger than elsewhere, and is joined by some tendinous fibres of is best the transversalis muscle; but farther from the pelvis it gradually ^"groin"; decreases in strength, until at the thorax it becomes very thin. In the part of the fascia now laid bare is the internal abdominal pierced by ring, which gives passage to the spermatic cord, or the round liga- abdominal ment of the uterus, according to the sex ; it resembles the hole into "''i5- the finger of a glove in being visible from within, but not externally, owing to the fascia being prolonged from its margin on to the cord. On the inner side of the ring the fascia is thinner than on the outer, and is fixed to the body of the ])ubis and to the ilio-pectineal line behind the conjoined tendon, •with which it is united. Along the outer half of Poupart's ligament the fascia ends by Ending of joining the posterior margin of that band, and it will be afterwards '""^oia below, seen to unite with the iliac fascia for the same extent, but beneath the inner half of the ligament it is continued downwards to the thigh, in front of the blood-vessels, to form the anterior part of the crural sheath around them. Internal abdominal ring (fig. 105, p. 286, and fig. 106, p. 287). Situation This opening is situate midway between the symphysis pubis and a"ij^^o[„'jnai the anterior superior iliac spine, and half an inch above Poupart's ''"'H- ligament. From its margin a thin tubular prolongation of the transversalis fascia (infundibuliform fascia) is continued around the cord as before said. Dissection, The tubular prolongation on the cord may be traced J^'f^^f*'°" T 2 process on cord.