322 DISSECTION OF THE BACK and the contents of the .spinal canal as set forth in Section IV. Levator aiiguli scai'ulic. Posterior belly of the omo-hyoid. Supra- scapular artery: course to shouldei'. Supra- scapular nerve. Transverse cervical artery divides into superficial cervical and posterior scapular. Accompany- ing veins. Nerve of rhomboid muscles. will be only incompletely displayed at present, liut the following points are to lie made out (fig. 210, p. 576). 1. The levator anguli scapulm arises hy four separate .slips from the pcsterior tubercles of the tran.sverse processes of the upper four cervical vertebrae, and in the case of the upper three .slip.s, they will be found to be attached immediately in front of tho.se of the splenius colli muscle. 2. The 'posterior belly of the omo-hyoid pa.sses from the upper border of the scapula behind the notch, and from the ligament converting the notch into a foramen, and forms a thin, riband like muscle, which is directed forwards from benetith the trapezius across the lower part of the neck, over the brachial plexus and the suprascapular nerve, to the under surface of the sterno-mastoid, where it ends in the intermediate tendon. The SUPRASCAPULAR ARTERY, a branch of the subclavian, is directed outwards through the lower part of the neck to the upper border of the scapula. It nms behind the clavicle, and crosses the suprascapular ligament in front of the omo-hyoid muscle, to enter the supraspinous fossa. The SUPRASCAPULAR NERVE is an offset of the fifth and sixth cervical nerves in the brachial plexus and inclines downwards beneath the omo-hyoid muscle to the notch in the upper border of the scapula, through which it passes into the supraspinous fossa. The TRANSVERSE CERVICAL ARTERY, also a branch of the sub- clavian, has the same direction as the suprascapular, towards the upper angle of the scapula, but it is higher than the clavicle. Crossing the upper part of the space in which the sub-clavian artery lies, it passes beneath the trapezius, and di\ades into superficial cervical and posterior scapular branches. a. The superficial cervical branch is distributed chiefly to the under surface of the trapezius, though it furnishes oflfsets to the levator anguli scapulae and the cervical glands. h. The posterior scap^ilar branch crosses under the levator anguli scapuloe, and descends along the base of the scapula beneath the rhomboid muscles (p. 9). This bi-anch arises very frequently from the third part of the subclavian trunk. The suprascapular and transverse cervical veins have the same course and branches as the arteries above described ; they open into the external jugular, near its junction with the subclavian vein. Nerve to the rhomboid muscles. This slender oftset of the fifth cervical nerve in the brachial plexus courses beneath the elevator of the angle of the scapula, and is distributed to the rhom- boidei on their deep surface. Before its termination it supplies one or two twigs to the elevator of the scapula. Dissection. On the third day the rhomboid muscles will have been relhicled and the part will be free to the dis.sector of the head and neck for two days, during which time he will examine the rest of the parts described in this Section, as well as the spinal cord