159 EXTERNAL CIRCUMFLEX ARTERY. From the lower part of the vasti muscles a superficial aponeurotic ejcpansion expansion is derived: this prolongation, which is strongest on the inner side, is united with the fascia lata and the other tendinous offsets to form a capsule in front of the joint, and is fixed below to the heads of the tibia and fibula. Subcncrem muscle. Beneath the crureus, near the knee-joint, is a Small sub- thin layer of pale fibres, which is but a part of the large muscle, "ulcla separated from the rest by areolar tissue. Attached to the femur in enJa on the the lower fourth, and often by an outer and inner slip, it ends in synovial aponeurotic fibres on the synovial sac of the knee-joint. Action. All parts of the quadriceps extend the Icnee-joint when Use with the tibia is moveable; and the rectus can flex the hip-joint over which it passes. The fleshy bellies are.strong enough to break the patella transversely over the end of the femur, or to rupture some- times the common tendon. With the tibia as the fixed point the vasti will bring forwards the with tibia femur, and straighten the knee, as in rising from the stooping posture and in jumping. The rectus also will stay the pelvis on the femur, or assist in moving it forwards in stooping. The subcrureus draws upwards the pouch of synovial membrane how snb- above the patella in extension of the knee. acts''"^ Iktermoscolar septa. The processes of the fascia lata, which Jntenims- limit the extensor muscle laterally, are named external and internal, cuiar septa and are fixed to the linea aspera and the lines leading to the condyles '"'^ 'wo: of the femur. The external septim is the stronger, and reaches from the insertion the outer of the gluteus maximus to the outer condyle of the femur. It is stronger- situate between the vastus externus and crureus on the one side, and the short head of the biceps on the other, to all of which it gives origin : it is perforated near the outer condyle by the upper external articular vessels and nerve. The inner partition is very thm along the side of the vastus the inner is internus; and its place is supplied by the strong tendon of the adductor magnus between the inner condyle and the linea aspera. The EXTERNAL CIRCUMFLEX ARTERY (fig. 59,\ p. 153) is the chief External vessel for the supply of the muscles of the front of the thigh. It artery usually arises from the outer side of the deep femoral artery, but often from the common trunk. It is directed outwards through the divisions of the anterior crural nerve, and beneath the divides into sartorius and rectus muscles, and supplies offsets to those muscles. Its terminal branches are ascending, transverse, and descending :— The ascending branch is directed beneath the tensor, fascijs ascending, femoris to the outer side of the hip, where it anastomoses with the gluteal artery, and supplies the contiguous muscles. The transverse branch, the smallest, divides into two or throe transverse, which enter the vastus exteriuis, and anastomose with the per- forating arteries. The descending branch is the largest, and ends in pieces which are de- distributed to the crureus and vastus externus muscles. One con- branci.cs siderable branch descends to the knee along the anterior border of