DISSECTION OF THE ARDOMEN. Place of origin of tlie bmiichos: n.'sM.Ls""'' I'^^'crre^ (P- 320), but some deep vessels in connection witli It now come into view. As the aorta rests on the spine it lies on the left lumbar veins, which end in tlie inferior cava. And between it and the right crus of tlie diaphnigni are tlie large azygos vein and the thoracic duct. Along the sides of the vessel are the lumbar lymphatic glands, from which large vessels run beneath it to end in the beginning of the thoiacic duct. The BRANCHES of the aorta are numerous, and arise in the following order :—First, are the diaphragmatic arteries, two in number, which leave the front of the vessel immediately it appears in the abdomen. Close to the tendinous ring of the diaphragm, the single trunk of the ccEliac a.xis arises fronrthe front; and about a quarter of an inch lower down, also on the front, the trunk of the superior mesen- teric artery begins. Half an inch lower, the renal arteries, right and left, take origin from the sides of the aorta. On the lateral part of the vessel, close above each renal, is the small suprarenal branch ; and below the renal is the slender spermatic artery. From the front of the trunk, one or two inches above the bifurcation, springs the inferior mesenteric artery. And from the back of the vessel arise five lumbar arteries on each side, and the middle sacral close above the bifurcation. The branches may be classified in two sets,—one to the viscera of the abdomen (visceral), and another to the abdominal wall (parietal). The visceral branches are coeliac axis, superior and inferior mesenteric, renal, capsular, and spermatic. Of these, the first three have already been examined. The renal arteries (fig. 138, c) leave the aorta nearly at a right angle, and are directed outwards, one on each side. Near the kidney each divides into four or five branches, which enter the hilum of the organ between the vein and the ureter. Each artery lies beneath its companion vein, being surrounded by a plexus of nerves, and supplies small twigs to the suprarenal body {inferior capsular), to the ureter, and to the fatty layer about the kidnej'. The arteries of ojiposite sides have some differences. The left is the shorter, owing to the position of the aorta : the right crosses the spine, and passes beneath the vena cava. The middle capsular or suprarcneal artery is a small branch which runs almost transversely outwards to the suprareneal body from the renal and diaphragmatic arteries. It is of large size in the foetus. Spermatic The spermatic artery of the testicle (fig. 138, d) is remarkable for remarkable; if^s small size in jjroportion to its length, and for its leaving the cavity of the abdomen. The part in the abdomen is straight, but that in the cord is tortuous, course to From its origin below the renal, the vessel passes downwards ' along the posterior wall of the alxlomen to the internal abdominal ring, where it enters the spermatic cord. In its course beneath the peritoneum the vessel runs along the front of the psoas, crossing over the ureter ; and on the right side it passes over the vena cava. It is their classi' flcation. Some visceral branches. Benal artery is beneath its vein; gives off- sets ; difference between left and right. Capsular aitery.