572 DISSECTION OF THE NECK. Section VI. Boundaries of the side of tlie neclc. Division into two triangles by sterno- mastoid. Hollows. Objects in middle line of neck: hyoid bone. thyroid cartilage, thyro-hyoid interval, cricoid cartilage, crico- thyroid interval, and supra- sternal depression. Dissection of the platysnia. DISSECTION OF THE NECK. Positio7i. For the dissection of this part, the neck is supported on a block ot a moderate lieight, the chin drawn up so as to put the parts on the stretch and the shoukler depressed as much as the work that is being done on the axilla will allow, and the face should be turned to the opposite side. Siirface Marldng. The side of the neck has a somewhat irregularly quadrilateral outline, and is limited in the following way :—Below is the prominence of the clavicle ; and above is the base of the lower jaw with the skull. In front, the boundary is the middle line of the neck between the chin and sternum ; and behind, a line from the occiput to the acromial end of the clavicle. The part thus included is divided into two triangular spaces (atiterior and foslerior) by the diagonal prominence of the stenio-mastoid muscle (fig. 209). And in consequence of the position of that muscle the base of the anterior triangle is at the jaw, and the apex at the sternum; while the base of the posterior one is at the clavicle, and the apex at the head. The surface in front of the sterno-mastoid is depressed at the upper part of the neck, near the position of the carotid vessels; and behind the muscle, just above the clavicle, is another hollow,' the supraclavicular fossa, which indicates the position of the subclavian artery. Along the front of the neck the following parts can be recognised through the skin :—About two inches and a half from the chin, in the retiring angle formed by the outline of the front of the neck, the body of the hyoid bone may be felt, with its large cornu extending backwards on each side. Below this is the prominence of the thyroid cartilage, called pomum Adami, which is more marked in the male sex ; and between the cartilage and the hyoid bone is a slight interval, corresponding with the thyro-hyoid membrane. Below the thyroid is the narrow prominent ring of the cricoid cartilage ; and between the two the finger may distinguish another interval, which is opposite the crico-thyroid membrane. Immediately above the sternum, and bounded on each side by the prominent sterno-mastoid muscle, is a narrow depression—supra- sternal fossa, the depth of which is much increased in emaciated persons, and in it the tube of the trachea can be recognised. In some bodies, especially in women, the swelling of the thyroid gland may be felt by the side of the air-tube. Direction. As it is necessary for the liberation of the u]iper limb to have an early dissection of the posterior part of the neck, the student should lay l)are now only the part behind the sterno-mastoid muscle. Dissection. To raise the skin from the posterior triangle of the neck, make an incision along the sterno-mastoid muscle from tlie tip of the mastoid process to the clavicle one inch external to its