78-t lloor of fourth ventricle. Ill lower hiiirof Hoor, four nuclei, viz., of twelfth. tenth, ninth, and eighth nerves. Beneath upper half are five nuclei, viz., of sixth, seventh, two of fifth, In midbrain three nuclei; viz., of third, fourth, and fifth nerves. DlSSEcrnON OF 'I'HE CEREBKLLUM. Some of tlie.se appear in the floor of the fourth ventricle, while others are placed a little below the surface. Beneath the calamus scriptorius, and in the portion of the floor of the cavity formed by the medulla oblongata, are the nuclei of the twelfth, tentli, ninth and eighth nerves. The hypoglossal nucleus (XII) extends through nearly the whole length of the medulla oblongata; its lower part is hidden, lying in front of the central canal below the level of the fourth ventricle, but its upper half approaches the surface in the lower portion of the fasciculus teres. The main nucleus of the vagus (X) corresponds to the ala cinerea, and is continued above into the chief cjlosso-plmryngeal nucleus (IX) which lies beneath the inferior fovea. The position of the inner or principal nucleus of the vestibular division of the auditory nerve (Villi) is indicated by the area acustica ; and the dorsal nucleus of the cochlear division (VIIIo) by an enlargement just above the acoustic strife. In the hinder part of the pons, and beneath the upper half of the floor of the ventricle, are nuclei of the fifth (two), sixth, seventh and eighth nerves, but only that of the sixth is indicated by a superficial prominence. The nucleus of the sixth (VI) lies beneath the elevation of the fasciculus teres above the auditory striaj. The facial nucleus (VII) is placed external to and deeper than the last; and the motor nucleus of the fifth nerve (Vm) is above that of the facial. The sensory nucleus of the fifth (Vs) lies external to the foregoing, and just beyond the lateral margin of the ventricle. Above the fourth ventricle, in the grey matter surrounding the aqueduct of Sylvius, are the nuclei of the fourth {lY) and third (III) nerves in the floor, and the nucleus of the descending root of the fifth (Vd) on the side of the canal. Further details of these nuclei are given on pages 728 to 730.