DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 366 Variations in lengtli. External iliac leads to lower limb; extent and direction: surface marking. relations with parts around, with other vessels, mth nerve, and veins. Two named branches: unnamed offsets. Origin of branches occasional branches. Veins of the abdomen, except vena portce. Anatomy of external iliac vein: vessels ; and its companion vein is situate to its inner side. It lies close to the psoas muscle throughout. The length of the common iliac artery ranges from less tban half an inch to four inches an,l a half ; but in the majority of instances it varies between one inch and a half and three inches (R. Quain). The EXTERNAL ILIAC ARTERY (fig. 138, h) is the first part of the vessel leading to the lower limb, and is contained in the cavity of the abdomen. Its extent is from the bifurcation of the common iliac to the lower border of Poupart's ligament, where it becomes tlie common femoral. And its direction would be indicated, on the surface of the abdomen, by a line from the left of the umbilicus to a point midway between the symphysis pubi.s and the anterior superior iliac spine. The vessel lies above the brim of the pelvis in its course to Poupart's ligament, and is covered closely by the peritoneum and the subperitoneal fat. The right artery is crossed by the lower end of the ileum, and the left by the pelvic colon. To its outer side is the psoas, e.xcept at its termination under Poupart's ligament, ■where it lies over the muscle. A chain of lymphatic glands is placed along the front and the inner side of the artery. Close to its origin the artery is often crossed by the ureter ; and near Poupart's ligament the vas deferens bends down along its inner side ; while the spermatic vessels, and the genital branch of the genito-crural nerve lie on it for a short distance. The external iliac vein (r) is behind the artery above, but gradually comes forwards and gains its inner side over the pubis. The circumflex iliac vein crosses it nearly an inch above Poupart's ligament. Branches. Two considerable branches, deep epigastric and deep circumflex iliac, arise about a quarter of an inch from the end of the ai'tery, and are distributed to the wall of the abdomen (p. 284). Some small unnamed twigs are given to the j)Soas muscle and the lymphatic glands. Peculiarities in brandies. The ei5igastric and circumfle.f iliac branches may wander over the lower inch and a half or two inches of the artery. The obturator artery is often derived from the external iliac, in which case it generally arises in common with the deep epigastric artery (p. 294.) In rare cases the internal circumflex artery of the thigh is given off from the eijigastric or the lower part of the external iliac trunk. Iliac Veins and Vena Cava (fig. 138). The larger veins of the abdomen correspond so closely with the arteries, both in number, extent, and relations, as to render unnecessary much detail in their description. As the veins increase in size from tlie circumference towards the centre oi the Ijody, those most disf.ant from the heart will be first referred to. The external iliac vein (»•) is a continuation of the common femoral vein Ijeneath Poupart's ligament. It has an extent like the artery of the same name, and ends by uniting witli the vein from the pelvis (internal iliac), to form the common iliac vein. On the pubis