DISSECTION OP THE ABDOMEN. 270 attach- ments ; external Uesliy, internal tendinous ; forms loops over the cord, giving rise to cremas- teric fascia : In left groin replace the parts. On right side reflect cremaster outer sides, like the lowest fibres of the internal oblique, of which it is essentially a part. E.xternally it is fleshy, and arises from Poupart's ligament, below and in part beneath the internal oblique, with which some of its fibres are connected. Internally it is narrow, and is inserted by tendon into the front of the pubis, joining the tendon of the internal oblique. Between the two points of attachment the fibres descend on the front and sides of the cord, forming loops with the convexity down- wards as far as, and over, the testis. The bundles of fibres are united by areolar tissue so as to give rise to a covering on the front of the cord, which is named the cremasteric fascia. Occasionally the fibres may be behind as well as on the sides and front of the cord. Action. It elevates the testicle towards the ab- domen, and in some cases is under the influence of the will; but it may be excited to contract involun- tarily by cold, lear, &c. It will be remembered that the fascia (tunica dartos) of the scrotum is reinforced by a number of imstriped muscle fibres, and, moreover, that it is con- nected with the overlying skin. Under the influence of various stimuli (heat, cold, &c.) the unstriped muscle fibres contract, and the scrotal tissues, as well as the coverings of the spermatic cord by the con- traction of the cremaster, are puckered up to form a protecting pad in front of the testis, as it lies at the back of the scrotum. Dissection. On the left side of the body the student is not now to make any further dissection of the abdominal wall; and the layers that have been reflected in the groin sliould be replaced until the examination oftiiat region is resumed in connection with hernia. On the right side the dissection is to be carried deeper by the removal of the internal oblique and the cremaster. The last Fia. 100.—The Cremaster. The Lower Part of the Internal Oblique, with THE Cremaster Mdsole and thr Testicle. A. External oblique, reflected. B. Internal oblique, c. Rectus abdominis. D. Crema-ster, with its loops over the spermatic cord and the testicle.