K K 2 CHAPTER IX. DISSECTION OF THE HEAD AND NECK. Section T. extkiinal i'arts of 'i'he head. iJircdiom. In tlii; dissucLioii of tlie hesid jind neck, the student PaitHtol«! should learn the ])arts described in tliis and the followinu Section, whilst whilst the l)0(ly is m the litliotoniy jiosition during tiie first three in the days of dissection. jj^''^ The seal]) is j)ro])erIy limited inferiorly, from behind forwards, by Li,„iiK„f tlie external occii)it;il ])rotuberance, the sujierior curved line of the il'««call'- occipitjil bone and its jiroloiigation along the temporal bone down • to the tip of the mastoid process, by the temporal riilge.s on the parietal and fronUil bones and by the supra-orbital margin ; but the dissection in this section extends downwards to the upper border of the zygoma. C'liaracleristics of the part. The skin of the scalp is firmly con-Tongli sub- nected to the subjacent muscular and ajjoiieurotic structures, and ti"mi"!*'""' instead of the intermediate tissues consisting, as they do in most parts of the body, of a relatively loose, subcutaneoas fascia, they are composed of dense tissue uniting the parts together. In this dense tissue the su])erficial nerves and vessels run ; the roots of the hairs project into it, and contained in its interstices is a certain amount of yellowish fat. It is an easy thing to reflect the skin, the super- Hcial vessels and nerves and the aponeurotic tissues in a single layer, especially towards the upper part of the head. In order to Caution, avoid this the student should be veiy careful to keep the knife well directed to the skin, cutting through the hair roots, and a.s much as po.ssible he should dissect from below upward.s, for the blood ves.sels and nerves are larger below and smaller above. Position. The body having been placed on its back inthe lithotomy position, the head should be raised to a suitable height by blocks nnder the neck, and the fiice turned towards the op])Osite side— Position, this latter l)eiiig done by mutual arrangements between the dissectors of the two sides. Dissection. An incision .should be made upwards behind the auricle along the line of its attachment, from the tip of the mastoid process below to the upper border of the auricle above, and it should then pa.ss down the anterior atUichment as far as the upper border of the zygoma. From this it should be prolonged forwards