539 MEMBKANES OF THE CORD. Dissection. At'tLT uU the imisck's Imvf hm'u taken from the i)iss..ctioii arches and .spines of the vertebrre, tlie .spnial canal is to bo openeri ^^^^ by sawing tliruugh the huninre on each side, close to the articular processes ; and the cuts of the saw should extend to the lower end of the Scicruni, but not hi,i,'her in the neck tlian the fonrth cervical vertebra. As it is dillicult to use the saw in the hollow of the lumbar region, a chisel and a mallet will be fcnind nseful to complete the division of the neural arches. The tube of the dura mater is covered by some veins and fat, and tim . . „ . , .■ • 11 membranes, and by a loose areolar tissue containing fluid .somotime.s, especially at the lower part. The fat may be scraped away with the handle of the scalpel ; and the lateral ])rolo]igatioiis of the niemVu-ane through the invertebral foramina are to be defined. Membr,\nes of the Cord (figs. 190 and 195, p. .540). Three ^^^^^^^ membrane.'!, like those on the brain, surround the cord, viz., an throe external tube of dura mater, an internal covering of pia mater, and an intermediate sheath of arachnoid. The DURA MATER (tt) is the strongest tube, and is contiiinons Dma mater with the membrane lining the interior of the skull. It forms a surrounds loose sheath (theca) along tlie spinal canal as far as the last lumliar """"^ ^oose\y; vertebra ; and then tapering gradually it ends opposite the second lower or third piece of the sacrum in a slender impervious cord which is continued to the back of the coccyx (fig. 194 h). The capacity of the sheath greatly exceeds the dimensions of the cord ; and it is size of larger in the neck and loins than in the dorsal region. ' ' ' On the outer aspect the ,si)inal dura mater is .smooth, in com- connec- parison with that in the skull, for it does not act as a periosteum to the bones. Between it and the wall of the canal are some vessels and fat ; and it is connected to the posterior common ligament of the vertebrte by a few fibrous bands. On each side the dui'Q^mat^-j^eiids offsets along the spinal nerves oivseis on in the intervertebral foramina ; and these oflsets become gradually longer below (fig. 194), where they form tubes which enclo.^e the sacral nerves, and lie for some distance with the spinal canal. In !jjp''^|i>j], the centre between the lowest offsets on the nerves, is the slender juocess. fibrous cord (h), which blends with the periosteum covering the back of tlie coccyx. Dissection. To remove the spinal cord witli the .sheath of the Dissection dura mater from the body, the lateral processes in the intervertebral cor^d,'""^ foramina, with the contained nerves, are to be cut ; and one or two of them in the dorsal region should be followed outwards beyond the apertures by cutting away the surrounding bone. The central prolongation may be now detached from the coccyx ; and the membranes are to be divided opposite the fourth cervical vertebra, and to be removed with the contained cord, which has already been severed in the removal of tlie lirain, by cutting the bands that attach the dura mater to the posterior common ligament. When the cord is taken out, place the anterior surface uppermost, anil see next with the lateral offsets widely .separated. To show the arachnoid '^"^'^'''"B- coveriii'', the dura mater is to be slit alont; the middle as fur as the