DISSECTION OF THE THOBAX. 484 Sujierior intercostal ending of right, and of left. Vein from lirst space. (Esophagns in the thorax, passes through diaphragm. Parts covering it, beneath it, and on sides Tliree coats are in it. A mnscular coat of external longitndinn the spaces between the superior intercostal ahove, and the left lower azygos below. It usually receives branches from the fourth to seventh spaces inclusive, and the trunk either joins the lower azygos of its own side, or crosses the spine to open into the right vein. The superior intercostal vein is a short trunk which is formed liy the union of the veins from the second, third, and, occasionally, from the fourth spaces. On the right side it descends to join the beginning of the arch of the large azygos vein ; but on the left side (tig. 170, i, p. 466) it is directed forwards across the arch of tlie aorta, and then turns upwards to enter the left innominate vein. The highest intercostal vein ascends from the iirst intercostal space, in company with the superior intercostal artery, and joins the lower end of the vertebral vein. The (ESOPHAGUS or gullet (figs. 174 and 175) is a hollow muscular tube, which extends from the pharynx to the stomach, and the thoracic part is now to be examined. Appearing in the thorax to tbe left of the middle line, it is directed beneath the arch of the aorta, and reaches the middle of the spine about the fifth dorsal vertebra. From that spot it is continued through the interpleural space on the right of the aorta, till near the diapliragm, where it takes a position over the aorta, to gain the uesopliageal opening. As far as the aortic arch the oesophagus lies beneath the trachea, though it projects to the left of the airtube ; beyond the arch it is crossed by the left bronchus, and is thence in contact with the pericardiiun as far as the diaphragm. At the upper part of the thorax it rests on the longi colli muscles and the vertebroe; but below the arch of the aorta it is separated from the spine by the large azygos vein, the thoracic duct, and the right intercostal arteries, as well as by tbe aorta near the diaphragm. Laterally it touches . the left pleura above the arch, and both pleurae below, but the right much more extensively than the left. Below the bronchus the pneumo-gastric nerves surround the oesophagus with their branches ; and above the same spot the thoracic duct is in contact with it on the left. Structure. If a piece of the oesophagus be removed and distended with tow, it will be easy to show a muscular, an areolar, and a mucous coat from without inwards. The mnscular coat is thick and strong, and consists of two layers of filires, of which the external is longitudinal, and the internal circular in direction, like the muscular tunic of the other parts of the alimentary tube. In the upper third of the a-sophagus the muscular coat is red, and composed of striped fibres ; but below this it becomes gradually paler, and the striped fibres give way to involuntarv muscular tissue. The external layer is formed of parallel longitudinal fibres, which form a continuous covering, and end below on the stomach. The fibres begin in the neck opposite to the cricoid cartilage ; and at intervals varying from half an inch to an inch and a half, they are