LIOAMKXTS OF VEKTEBi;,!'; 493 till' vcrteljiw is l;>i(l liare ; but if \\n- L'iuial sliniild not 1h' upon, for ;my reason, the neural arches of the vertebrie are lo be reniox'ed by sawing thriuigh the pedicles. The remaining ligaments between the neural arches, spines, and articular processes of the bones may be dissected un the piece taken away in opening the spinal canal. Ligaments of the bodies. The bodies of the verlebrre are united by an anterior and a postei-ior common ligament with an intervening piece of fibro-cartilage. The anterior ronunnjL ligament (lig. 178, a) reaches from the axis to the sacrum. It is narrow above and wide below ; and it also increa.ses iu thickness from above downwards. Its tilires are longitudinal ; and by detaching parts of the ligament, the super- ficial ones will be seeu to extend over three or four vertebras, while TliR boditw nvK imituil liy :— COIIUIlOll li^'juiH'iit : form niiil thickiiL'.ss ; extent of fibres; Fkj. 179 A Fio. 179 II. Two Views ok the Posterior Common Lioament, r, to show the DIFFERENCE IN SHAPE, A, IN THE NeCE, AND J), IN THE LolNS. the deepest pa.ss from one bone to the next. More of the fibres are .m.l mode ot attached to the interverteljral discs than to the bones ; and few or none are lixed to the centre of the liodies. The ligament bridges over the tran.sver.se hollows on the vertebral bodies, and renders tlie front of the column smooth and even. On each side, over the part uncovered by the anterior common .sikmI iiUi'i-.-ii ligament, the bodies of the vertebra; are united by a thin laver of ■short tiljres (fig. 178, 6). The posterior common licjament (fig. 179) is contained in the Po.sierioi' spinal canal, lying on the back of the vertebral bodies from \"^IZZ[: the axis to the sacrum. It is much thinner than the anterior, and, unlike that, is broad above and narrow below. It is ronn; wider ojiposite tliu intervertebral disc than on the bodies, so that the margins are dentate. In tlie neck (a) it covers nearly the whole breadth of the bodies ; Init iu l,he dorsal and lumbar regions (n) it is a narrow band, which sends oil" a pointed ]iroce.ss on each side to be attached to the intervertebral disc and the up[ier margin of the