DISSECTION OF THE UPPER LIMB, 22 and ihslrib: between the two rough impressions for the costo- and coraco- claviciilar ligaments, leiiitioiis; The muscle crosses the large vessels and nerves of the limh, and is enclosed, as before said, in a sheath of fascia, "se. Action. It depresses the clavicle, and indirectly the scapula. AXILLARY The AXILLARY ARTERY (figs. 6 and 7) continues the subclavian ARTER\ : trunk to the upper limb. The part of the vessel to which this name extent; is ajjplied is contained in the axilla, and extends from the outer border of the first rib to the lower edge of the teres major muscle (h). In the axillary space its position will be marked by a line from the centre of the clavicle to the inner edge of the coraco-brachialis. Its direction will vary with the position of the lindj to the tnmk ; for when the arm lies by the side of the body the vessel is arched, its convexity being upwards ; l)ut when the limb is raised to the ileijUi. level of the shoulder, it is somewhat curved in the opposite direc- tion. In the upper part of the axilla the vessel is deeplj^ placed, but it becomes superficial as it ai^proaches the arm. Its relations with the suiTounding oljjects are numerous ; and the description of these will be methodised by dividing the artery into three parts, the first above, the second J»Ht5rctB7^nd the third below the small pectoral muscle, above small Above the small pectoral muscle, the artery is contained in the pectoral; axillary sheath of membrane (e), and is concealed by the c]a\icular with portion of the great pectoral muscle. Behind it are the intercostal muscles, muscles of the first space and the first digitation of the serratus magnus. vessels, Tq the thoracic side is placed the axillary vein (y). The cephalic vein (e) and offsets of the acromio-thoracic vessels cross over it. and nerves. On the acromial side lie the cords of the brachial plexus ; super- ficial to it is the external anterior thoracic nerve ; and benetith it is the posterior or long thoracic, descending on the serratus magnus. Beneath In its second part, the pectoralis minor and major (b and a) are pectoral superficial to the artery. But there is not any muscle immediately in contact behind, for the vessel is placed across the top of the axilla, particularly when the limb is in the position required by the dissection. of 15 vein, The companion vein ((/) lies to the inner side^buLseparated from the arterial trunk by the inner cord of the brachiaf plexus, which has crossed behind the artery to its inner side, and nerves. In this position the cords of the brachial plexus lie around it, one being outside, another inside, and the third behind the artery. And beyond Beyond the pectoralis minor, the artery is at first concealed by f«cto"al" the lower border of the great pectoral muscle (a) ; but thence to its muscles termination it is covered oidy by the integuments and the fascia. Beneath it are subscapularis muscle (r) and the tendons of the latissimus and teres (g and h). To the outer .side is the coraco- brachialis muscle with vfin, rp]^^. axilhiry vein remains on the thoracic .side of the arWvy. and nerves. i„ tiijg^ i(s third part, the artery lies in the midst of the large.