182 DISSECTION OF THE LKG. coui'sii and extent ; direction ; relations to parts aronnd : position of veins and nerve; brandies: - Muscular. Cutaneous. Recurrent. Superior fibular. Malleolar: internal and external. Dorsal artery: extent and course; relations; The course of tlie artery is forwards through the aperture in the upi^er part of the interosseous lueuibrane, along the front of that membrane, and over the tibia to the foot. A line drawn along the front of the leg from a point midway between the projection of the outer tuberosity of the tibia and the head of the fibula to the centre of the ankle wUl mark the position of the vessel. For a short distance (about two inches) the artery lies between the tibialis anticus and the extensor longus digitorum ; afterwards it is placed between the tibial muscle and the extensor proprius hallucis as far as the lower third of the leg, where the last muscle becomes superficial and crosses over the vessel to its inner side. The vessel rests on the interosseous membrane in two-thirds of its extent, being overlapped by the fleshy bellies of the contiguoTis muscles, so that it is at some depth from the surface ; but it is placed in front of the tibia and the ankle-joint in the lower third, and is there comparatively superficial between the tendons of the muscles. Vena2 comites entwine around the artery, covering it very closely with cross branches in the upper part. The anterior tibial nerve approaches the tibial vessels from the outer side in the upper third of the leg, and continues with them, lying along their anterior as^ject to their lower end, where it is again on the outer side. Branches. In its course along the front of the leg the anterior tibial artery furnishes Jiumerous muscular and cutaneous brandies; and near the knee and ankle the following named branches take origin :ѥ a. The anterior tibial recurrent artery is given off as soon as the vessel appears through the interosseous membrane, and ascend- ing through the tibialis anticus, ramifies over the outer tuberosity of the tibia, where it anastomoses with the other articular arteries. 6. The superior fibular branch runs u^jwards through the highest part of the extensor longus digitorum to the superior tibio-fiVuilar articulation, to which, with the neighbouring parts, it is dis- tributed. c. Malleolar branches (internal and external) arise near the ankle- joint, and are distributed over the ends of the tibia and fibula. The internal is the smaller, and less constant in origin ; it anastomoses with twigs of the posterior tibial artery. The external communi- cates with the anterior peroneal artery (fig. 70), which comes through from the back between the tibia and fibula just above the lower tibio-fibular articulation and will be found to be one of the terminal branches of the peroneal artery (p. 196). The DORSAL ARTERY OF THE FOOT (fig. 70) IS the Continuation of the anterior til)ia], and extends from the front of the ankle-joint to the upper part of the first interosseous space : at this interval it passes downwards between the heads of the first dorsal interosseous muscle, to end in tlie sole, where it will be subsequently exajnined (p. 208). The artery resta on the inner part of the tarsus, viz., the astra- galus, the navicular, and middle cuneiform bones ; and it is covered by the integuments and tlie deep fascia, and by the inner piece of