•142 DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. Open right side, Sac of the pleura: form ; outer surface ; inner surface; disposition. Difference in sac of right, and of left side. The con- tinuity is here traced from wall of chest to lung below, Ro as to freely adniit the hand into the pleural ca\'ity. When the general cavity has been examined, the anterior mediastiimm, or the space between the two pleural sacs behind the sternum and in front of the pericardium, will be cleared. AVith one hand in the pleural sac as a guide to its anterior limit, it will be found easy to mark the limits of the mediastinum, and the pleuras can be readily separated in the middle line, and from the pericardium, which they overlap. The portion of sternum with the ribs and cartilages of the right side have been left on for the preservation of the anterior mediastinum, but after it has been examined the ribs should be removed on the right side as on the left, and the pleural sac opened and its limits defined. Finally the right half of the sternum with the attached costal cartilages will be removed and kept aside with the left portion for future examination. It, unfortunately, often happens in subjects for dissection, that the pleura is thickened and adherent to the lung. Should the dissector find it is so on the left side, he should at once open the right in case the membrane may be healthy on that side. Thk PLEURiE are two serous membranes, or closed sacs, which are reflected around the lungs in the cavity of the thorax. One occu- pies the right, and the other the left half of the ca\aty ; they apiproach each other along the middle of the chest, forming a thoracic ^sartition or mediastinum. Each pleura is conical in shape ; its apex projects into the neck above the first rib (fig. 162, p. 447) ; and its base is in contact with the diaphragm. The outer surface is rough, and is connected to the lung and the wall of the thorax liy areolar tissue ; luit the inner surface is smooth and free. Surrounding the lung, and lining the interior of one half of the chest, the serous membrane consists of a parietal part, which is variously called— 1. Costal pleura, where it lines the chest-wall; 2. Phrenic pleura, where it covers the diaphragm ; 3. Pericardial pleura, where it covers the pericardium ; and 4. Cervical pleura, where it passes into the neck. The visceral ptleura is the pulmonary pileura. There are some differences in the shape and extent of the two pleural bags. On the right side the bag is wider and shorter than on the left; and on the latter it is narrowed by the projection of the heart to that side. The continuity of the liag of the pleura may be traced horizontally from any given point, over the lung and chest wall, back to the same spot in the following manner :—Supposing the memlirane to be followed outwards from the sternum, it lines the wall of the chest as far as the spinal column ; here it is directed forwards to the root of the lung, and is then reflected over the viscus, as the visceral or pulmonary pleura, covering its surface, and extending into the fi.ssurea between the lobes. From the front of the root of the lung the pleura may be followed over the side of the pericardium back again to the sternum.