THE SUPERIOR MAXILLARY NERVE. C53 it furnishes one or more oflsets to the gum and the mucous mem- briiiie of the cheek. After the nerve becomes the infraorbital it .t;ives oil"— d. and e. The middle and anterior dental branches which aiise to foio together or separately from the trunk in the floor of tlie orbit, and ' descend in special canals in the wall of the antrum to end in branches to the teeth, after forming loops of communication with one another, and with the posterior dental nerve. From the middle branch filaments are given to the bicuspid teeth ; and from the anterior to the canine and incisors, as well as a twig or two to the inferior meatus of the nose. The terminal branches on the face, palpebral, lateral nasal and to lower labial, have already been studied (p. 5G4). eyelid ; The INFRAORBITAL ARTERY is a branch of the internal maxillary infiaoibital in the sisheno-maxillary fossa (p. 615). Taking the cour.se of the "'^''^ Fio. 231.—Diagram op the Supp.kior Maxillary Nervk. 2. Trunk of the ncvve leaving the 5. Posterior dental nerves. Gaasermn ganglion. 6. Middle and anterior dental. 6. bpheuo-palatme branches. 7. Facial branches. 4. lemporo-malar branch. nerve through the infraorbital canal, the vessel appears on the face beneath the elevator muscle of the upper lip ; and it ends in branches ■which are distributed, like those of the nerve, between the eye and g„,,, ,„ mouth. On the foce its branches anastomose with od'sets of the facial face^'" and buccal arteries. In the canal in the maxilla the artery l urnishes hranciios to small twigs to the orbit, and a larger antei-ior dental branch which "'If^'n^ runs with the nerve of the same name to the incisor and canine anterior " teeth ; the dental branch also gives off-sets to the antrum, and near the teeth it anastomoses with the posterior dental artery. The vein accompanying the artery communicates in Iront with the Infraorbital facial vein, and terminates behind in the alveolar plexus. Direction. The examination of an eyeball may be omitted with advantage till after the dissection of the head and neck has been completed.