DISSECTION OF THE BRAIN. 718 of Inrgii brain, and of small brain. Ai'teries of the brain. Vertebral ends in basilar, winds round medulla oblongata: branches to dura nialer; to spinal cord, posterior and antprior; and to under part of cerebellum, on the medulla oblongata, and those of the carotid near the median fissure of the large brain, the student should lay bare on one side the brandies to the large brain. Define first the two arteries {anterior cere- bral) lying in the median fissure (-) and joined by a short liraneh (s) {anterior communicating) ; next, an artery that passes outwards (■■) in the fissure of Sylvius {middle cerebral), and pursue it to the outer sur- face of the hemisphere. Look then for a much smaller vessel {anterior choroid) which sinks into the brain on the outer side of the crus cerebri (°). Then by gently raising the cerebellum on the same side, the last artery of the cerebrum {posterior cerebral, '•) may be traced back round the crus cerebri to tlie inner part of tlie hemisphere. Two principal arteries pass to the cerebellum. One on the upper surface {su;perior cerebellar) may be brought into view just behind the bifurcation of the basilar artery (*) and separated from the posterior cerebral by the third nerve. The fourth nerve runs beside it, and the cerebellum should be raised in tracing the ves.sel. Two other arteries {anterior and posterior inferior cerebellar) turn backwards and outwards from the vertebral, and may be easily followed. The branches of the anterior, middle and posterior cerebral arteries will be followed out as they are described by removing the adhering membranes, by gently opening the fissures and sulci in which they partially lie, and by drawing them and their branches away from the brain substance as the work proceeds, and if care is taken no material injury will be done. Arteries op the Brain (fig. 257). The brain is supplied with blood by the vertebral and internal carotid arteries. The VERTEBRAL ARTERY ('2) is a branch of the subclavian trunk and enters the skull through the foramen magnum ; directed upwards and forwards round the medulla oblongata, it blends with its fellow in a common trunk (basilar) at the lower border of the pons. As the vessel winds round the mediilla oblongata, it lies between the roots of the first cervical and hypoglossal nerves ; but it is afterwards internal to the latter. Branches. Between its entrance into the spinal canal and its termination in the basilar, each artery furnishes offsets to the dura mater, to the spinal cord, and to the cerebellum. a. The posterior meningeal branch leaves the trunk opposite the foramen magnum, and ramifies in the dura mater lining the cere- bellar fossa of the occipital bone. The posterior spinal branch is of inconsiderable size, and arises opposite the back of the medulla oblongata: it descends along the side of the cord, behind the nerves, and anastomoses with its fellow and with branches that enter by the intervertebral foramina. c. The anterior spinal branch (") is small like the preceding, and springs from the trunk opposite the front of the medulla. It joins the corresponding twig of the opposite side, and the resulting vessel is continued along the middle of the cord on the anterior aspect. d The posterior inferior cerebellar artery {'") arises from the end of the vertebral (sometimes from the basilar), and winds backwards