•109 STRUCTURE OF THE URINARY BLADDER. (p. 412), to open into the urethral tube. Their length is rather lenatii; less than an inch, and their course is convergent to their termination tunnimitic close to each other in the floor of the urethra. Structure. The wall of the common duct is thinner than that of atnictm-c the vesicula seniinalis ; but it possesses similar coats. It is sur- rounded by longitudinal involuntary muscular fibres, which blend in the lu-ethra with the submucous stratum. THE BLADDER. While the bladder is in the body, it is ovoidal in .shape, and rather Fonn; flattened from aliove down (pp. 387 and 388) ; but out of the body it is rounder than when in its natural position, and it loses the arched form by which it adapts itself in distension to the curve of the pelvis. If this viscus is moderately dilated, it measures about fi\'e inches dimensions, in length, and three inches across. Its capacity is greatly influenced by the age and haljits of the individual. Ordinarily the bladder holds about a pint without inconvenience during life, though it can contain much more when distended. Structukb. a muscular and a mucous coat, with an intervening Coats of the fibrous layer, e.\ist in the wall of the bladder: at certain jmrts "^''"'aer. the peritoneum may be also enumerated as a constituent of the wall. The vessels and nerves are large. The imperfect covering of ^^mtojiewm has been described (p. 378). Peritoneal. The muscular coat is formed of three thin layers of unstriated Mnscular muscular filn-es, ^'iz., an e.xternal or longitudinal, a middle or strata™' circular, and an internal or submucous. The longitudinal fibres (fig. 152, 1) form a continuous covering. External or with the usual plexiform disposition of the muscular bundles, and extends from apex to base. Above, some are connected with the ""ta'cl. urachus and the subperitoneal fibrous tissue. Below, the posterior "'"'ts'; and lateral fibres enter the prostate ; while the anterior are attached to the fascia covering the prostate, but a fasciculus on each side is united to the back of the pubis through the anterior true ligament of the bladder. On the front and back of the bladder the muscular layer is stronger, and its fibres more vertical than on the sides, forms Sometimes this outer layer of filires is called detrusor urinm from its '''■!''"'<°'' action in the expulsion of the urine. The circular fibres (fig. 152, 2) are thin and scattered on the body Mi.uiio of the bladder ; but around the cervix they are collected into a ™ntinnous thick bundle, tlie sphincter vesica), and are continuous Ijelow with the slate."™' filn-es of the prostate. When these fibres are hypertrophied they project into the interior of the organ, forming the fasciculated bladder; and in some bodies the mucous coat may Ije forced out- wards here and there between them, in the form of sacs, producing the sacculated Ijladder. ° The submucoiisslralmn (fig. 152, 3) forms a continuous layer over Snbmucous the lower half of the bladder, but its fibres are scattered above In = the lower third of the viscus the fibres are longitudinal and are continued around the urethra ; but they become oblique above that =