720 DISSECTION OK TPTE BRAIN. trnnsver.sM to tlio poll.' auditory ; anterior cerebellar, .Snjierior eereliellar. n. Tlie tHnisvene arteries nf tlie ]}ons are four or five small twigs, wliich are named from their direction, and are distributed to tlie suljstance of the pons. One of tliem (") gives an olfiiet {midilory) to the internal ear along the auditory nerve. /). Like the branches of this set is the anterior inferior cerebellar artery: it arises from the Ijasilar trunk, and is distril)uted to the fore part of the under surface of the cerebellar hemisphere. c. The mperior cerebellar artery is a con.siderable vessel derived from the basilar so near the termination as to be often described as one of the final branches of that vessel. Its destination is the upper surface of the cerebellum, to which it is directed backward.?, winding round tlie cms cerebri below the tliiixl, but parallel to the fourth Pntcuneal. Artery of corpus callosum. ,^hra.l l-ArCer-y Parieto-occipital. Internal frontal. Central. AXTERIOR CERKBRAL. Internal orbital. Posterior communicating. Anterior choroid. Posterior cerebral Posterior choroid. Temporal. Temporal. Calcarine. Fig. 258.—The Mesial and Under Surfaces of the Cerebral Hemi- sphere, SHOWINQ THE DISTRIBUTION OF THE ANTERIOR AND POSTERIOR Cerebral Arteries. nerve. The ramifications of the artery spread over the upper surface of the cerebellum, and anastomose with the vessel of the opposite side, and with the inferior cerebellar arteries. Some twigs of this ve.ssel enter the fold of tlie pia mater (velum interpositum) which projects into the cerebrum. d. The POSTERIOR cerkbral artery (fig. 257,and fig. 25S) takes a backward course, similar to thai of the preceding artery, but .separated from it by the third nerve. It winds round the crus cerebri and is branches of directed upwards and backwards to l)eneath the posterior end of the corUcal™ corpus callosum ; it enters the calcarine fissure and divides into its two terminal branches, ]iarieto-oc'cipitaI and calcarine. Near its origin it is joined by the jjosterior conimunicaling artery, passing backwards on each side from the terminal part of the internal carotid. The artery gives ofi" numerous branches— central, 1. 'I'he deep or central arteries leave the trimk close to its origin, givin;; offsets to velum. Posterior cerebral artery ;