323 STRUCTURE OP SMALL INTESTINE. They begin, as will be seen, in the duodenum, about one or two inches beyond the pylorus, and are continued in regular succession to the middle of the jejunum ; but beyond that point they become smaller and more distant from one another, and finally disappear about the middle of the ileum, having previously become irregular and rudimentary. The folds are largest and most uniform beyond, and not far from the opening of the bile-duct. By inspection of the dried portion of the jejunum the disposition of these folds is readily seen. Glands. In the glandular apparatus of the small intestine are included the crypts of Lieberkiihn, solitary glands, and Payer's and Brunner's glands, the last-named occurring only in the duodenum. The crypts of JAeberk/ilm are minute simple tubes, which exist throughout the small intestine. They open on the sur- fiice of the mucous membrane by small orifices between the villi, and around the larger glands ; but they are not to be recognised with the naked eye. The so-called solitary glands (fig. 118, b) are roundish white eminences, about the size of mustard-seed if distended, which are scattered along the small intestine, but in greatest number in the ileum. Placed on all parts of the intestine, and even on or between the valvulse conni- ventes, they are covered by the villi of the mucous membrane, and are sur- rounded at their circumference by aper- tures of the crypts of Lieberkiihn. These small bodies are nodules of lymphoid tissue. The ayminated glands or glands of Peyer (fig. 119) exist chiefly in the ileum, and, beginning at the lower end, they should be looked for by holding the bowel up against the light. They form oval patches, measuring from half an inch to two inches or more in length, and about half an incli in width. They are situate on the part of the intestine opposite to the attachment of the mesentery, and their direction is longitiulinal in the gut: usually they are from twenty to thirty in number. In the lower part of the ileum they are largest and most numerous ; but they decrease in number and size upwards from that spot, till at the lower end of the jejunum they become irregular in form, and may consist only of small roundish masses. The patches are most distinct in young persons, and generally disappear in old age. The mucous membrane over the glands is hollowed into pits (fig. 119, 6), and is generally destitute of villi (fig. 118, a) between the pits it has the same characters as in other parts. Y 2 extent on the inteS". tine. Simiili! tubes. Fio. 119.—Pkyer's Patch, foor times enlarosn (Kolliker). a. Surface of imicous mem- brane covered with villi. b. Pits over the follicles where villi are absent. composi- tion. Patches of Peyer: size ; situation; number; peculiari- ties ; but