314 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. iieo-cwciii fold (ileo-ccecal), mostly containing fat, passes from the lower border poucli"'^ of the last three inches or so of the ileum on to the csBCum and appendix, often producing a deep pouch looking downwards and to the left. iieo-colic A small ileo-coUc fold, produced by a branch of the ileo-colic artery, pouch."' is sometimes seen immediately above the ileo-colic junction, producing a pouch looking upwards. MESENTERIC VESSELS AND SYMPATHETIC NERVES. Examine first ves.sels to intestine. Mesenteric vessels. Dissection of superior mesenteric ve.S8els, and nerves. Superior mesenteric artery coursi!s in the me- sentery ; relations, and branches Directions. The mesenteric vessels and nerves, which supply the greater part of the alimentary tube, may be first dissected. After these have been examined and the relations of the aorta and vena cava have been learnt, most of the intestine will be taken out for examination and to give room for tlie display of the ^'iscera and vessels in the upper part of the abdomen. Mesenteric Vessels. The superior and inferior mesenteric arteries are two large branches of the aorta, which supply the intestine, except a part of the duodenum and some of the rectum. Each is accompanied by a vein, and by a plexus of the sympathetic nerve. Dissection (fig. 116). For the dissection of the superior mesenteric vessels' and nerves, the transverse colon and the great omentum are to be lifted up and placed over the margin of the ribs. The small intestines should be drawn over to the left, and spread out fanwise, so that the anterior or right layer of the mesentery can be removed. Wliile tracing the branches of the artery to the snuiU intestine, corresponding veins and slender ofl"sets of the sympathetic nerve on the arteries will be met with. Mesenteric glands and lacteal vessels also come into \'iew at the same time. The branches from the right side of the vessel to the large intes- tine are to be next followed under the peritoneum ; and after all the branches have been cleaned, the trunlc of the artery should be traced back beneath the pancreas. The surrounding plexus of nerves should also be defined. The SOPEBIOR MESHNTERic ARTERY (fig. 116, rt) supplies all the small intestine beyond tlie duodenum and half the large intestine, viz., as far as the end of the transverse colon. Arising from the aorta near the diaphragm, it is directed down- wards between the layers of the mesentery, forming an arch with the convexity to the left side, and terminates in offsets to the end of the small intestine. At first the artery lies beneath the pancreas and the ,'<plenic vein ; and as it descends to the mesentery it is placed in front of the left renal vein and the duodenum. It is surrounded by a plexus of nerves, and accompanied by the vein of the same name. Branches. The artery furnishes a small ofl'set to the pancreas and duodenum, intestinal branches to the jejunum and ileum, and colic liranches to the large intestine.