STEUCTURE OF THE TRACHEA. 703 Ligaments of the epiglottis. An elastic band, thyro-eingloitideam:y.o\i'i!i- ligament, connects the lower extremity of the epiglottis to the "1"^?^ thyroid cartilage, close to the notch in the upjjer border of the ^^'^ ° latter (fig. 247); and a membranous layer of fibrous and elastic tissue, hyo-epiglottidean ligament, passes between the front of the epiglottis and the hyoid bone. Structure of thk Trachea. Tlie windpipe consists of a series Constitu- of pieces of cartilage, which are deficient behind, and connected l"^c\°e[ together by fibrous tissue. The interval between the cartilages at the back of the tube is closed by fibrous membrane and muscular fibres ; and the interior is lined by mucous membrane with subjacent elastic tissue. Cartilages. The pieces of cartilages vary in number from sixteen Cartilages: to twenty. Each forms about three-fourths of a ring, extending form; round the front and sides of the airtube. Their arrangement is not in-egu- riuite regular throughout, for some of them are often bifurcated at one end, or sometimes two adjacent pieces are partly fu.sed together. The highest is commonly broader than the others, and may be joined to the cricoid cartilage. The lowest piece is triradiate, or V-shaped, a median process being sent downwards and backwards in the angle between the two bronchi. ^ The fibrous membrane enslieaths the cartilages, and, being con- Fibrous tinned across the intervening spaces, binds them together. It also '"^'er- extends across the posterior part of the trachea. Dissection. On removing the fibrous membrane and the mucous Dissection, glands from the interval between the cartilages at the back of the trachea, the muscular fibres will appear. After the muscular fibres have been examined the membranous ])art of the tube may be divided, to see the elastic tissue and the mucous membrane. Muscular fibres. Between the ends of the cartilages is a continuous Muscular layer of transverse bundles of unstriated muscle, which is attached 'S" to the truncated ends and the adjacent part of the inner surface of the cartilaginous hoops. By the one surface the fleshy fibres are in contact with the fibrous membrane and glands, and by the other with the elastic tissue. Some longitudinal fibres are superficial to the transverse ; they are arranged in scattered bundles, and are attaciied to the fibrous tissue. The elastic tissue forms a complete lining to the trachea beneath Submucous the mucous membrane; and at the posterior part, where tlie carti- ^^^^^ lages are wanting, it is gathered into strong longitudinal bundles. This layer is closely connected with the mucous membrane covering it. The mucous membrane of the trachea lines the tube, and is Mucous furnished with a columnar ciliated epithelium membrane, Connected with this membrane are numerous branched mucous SgS glands of variable size. The largest are found at the back of the trachea, in the membranous part of the wall, where some are placed outside the fibrous layer, and others between that membrane and