DISSECTION OF THE ARM. 48 aiul the anastomotic brancli. The superior ai)d inferior pro- funda and the anastomotic branches of the brachial form a free anastomosis about the elbow-joint with various arteries of the forearm, and the accompanying scheme (fig. 19) represents the general arrangement. The superior profunda branch (°) is larger than the others, and leaves the artery near the lower border of the teres major ; it winds backwards with the musculo-spiral nerve to the triceps muscle, and will be dissected with the back of the arm (p. 53). The inferior profunda branch (") arises opposite the coraco- brachialis muscle, and accompanies the ulnar nerve to the interval between the olecranon and the inner condyle of the humerus. There it anastomoses with the posterior ulnar recurrent and anasto- motic branches, and supplies the triceps. It often arises in common with the superior profunda artery. The medullary artery of the humerus arises near the inferior profimda, generally associated with various muscular In-anches, and enters the aperture about the middle of the humerus, being directed downwards. The anastomotic branch (') arises one or two inches above the elbow, and its main branch courses inwards through the inter- muscular septmn to the hollow between the olecranon and the inner condyle of the hmnerus. Here the artery anastomoses with the inferior profunda and posterior idnar recurrent branches, and gives twigs to the triceps muscle ; one of the offsets forms an arch across the back of the humerus with a branch of the superior profunda. Before passing through the intermuscular system the artery sends an oflset to the pronator teres muscle in front of the internal condyle, which joins the anterior ulnar recurrent vessel. Veins end in The BRACHIAL VEINS (fig. 20, d) accouipany the artery, one on the axillary, gg^^j^ ^^^^^^ g^^^^ j^^ve branches of communication across that vessel; they receive tributary veins corresponding to the branches of the artery. Above, they usually join into one, which enters the axillary vein near the subscapular muscle. Neneson Nerves OF THE ARM (fig. 20). The nerves on the front of front of arm. .^^.^^^ derived from the terminal cords of the Itrachial l^lexus. They furnish but few ofl'sets above the elbow, being for the most part continued to the forearm and the hand. The cutaneous branches of some of them have been already referred to (p. 42). Jleriian The MEDIAN NERVE (') ariscs from the brachial plexus by two theTrtl-r''' heads, one from the outer, and the other from the inner cord """^ (fig. 7, p. 23), and accompanies the brachial artery to the forearm. Beginning on the outer side of tlie artery, the nerve crosses o\vr (.sometimes iiiKh;r) it near the middle of the arm, and is placed on has not any the inner side a little above the elbow. It does not give any brancli iiianch. j,^ ^j^j, . ij^j^ ^|^(3,,g ,„jjy i,e ii fiusciculus connecting it with the imLSCiilo-cutaneous nerve. It,s rektions to muscles are the .same as those of the artery. •■superior profunda, inferior profunda, artery to bone, and anas- tomotic.