WALL OF THE ABDOMEl^. 261 the male the prominence of the spermatic cord descending through t t t' ttide. The internal abdcninal ring Is iarther ou than and .ne. the external, and cannot be recognised on the surface with the fin J ; its position may be ascertained by taking a point midway between the symphysis pubis and the anterior superior ihac spine, ■ind a fin.'er's breadth above Poupart's ligament. D ssection. The requisite incisions lor raising the skui from the ^^^^ sides and front of the beUy are the following :-One cut is to extend u,e f,.„„t. outwards over the side of the chest from the ensiform process to about midway between the sternum and the spine (hg. 1, li. , p 3) A second incision begins at the symphysis pubis, and is carried outwards along Poupart's ligament and the iliac crest till it ends opposite the first cut (8). Lastly, the anterior extremities of the two incisions are to be connected along the middle hue ot the bellv (3). The piece of skin thus marked out is to be raised out- wai-ds, but is not to be taken away ; and the cutaneous vessels and nerves are to be sought in the fat at the side and front ot the abdomen. , , , . „ •4- #■ Along the side of the abdomen look for the lateral cutaneous Pos.t,o^^^^ nerves (fig. 97, p. 263), five or six in number, wliich issue in a Hue „erves: with the" corresponding nerves of the thorax. At first they lie beneath the fat, and diwle into two ; one offset is to be traced forwards and tlie other backwards, with smaU cutaneous arteries. On the iliac crest, near the front, is a large branch from the last on the side dorsal nerve ; and usually farther back on the crest, and deeper, is a smaller branch of the ilio-hypogastric nerve. Near the middle line and in front, the small anterior cutaneous nerves will be recognised with com- panion arteries : they are uncertain in number and size, and are to be followed outwards in the fat. In the inguinal region the cutaneous vessels and nerves are to be Seek vessels dissected ou the right side, and the superficial fascia on the left. For this purpose, all the fascia superficial to the vessels is to be removed from the right groin. The vessels which will then appeal- are the superficial external pudic internally, the suiierficial epigastric in the centre, and an offset of the superficial circumflex iUac arteiy externally. Some inguinal glands lie along the line of Poupart's ligament. Two cutaneous nerves ai-e to be sought :—one, the ilio- ami nerves inguinal, comes through the external abdominal ring, and descends j,„i„. to the thigh and scrotum (fig. 97, i—i); the other, ilio-hypogastric, appears in the superficial fascia above, and rather outside the abdominal ring (i-h). In the examination of the superficial fascia on the left side two Separate strata are to be made out, one over and one beneath the vessels, leriirroiu straia are w ue luaue uuir, unc uvcx an.^^ w**-- ^^v.-».^««.. — — The layer that is superficial to the ves.sels is to be reflected by means of a transverse cut directed inwards from the iront of the iliac crest, and by a vertical one near the middle line to the pubic bone. The subjacent vessels mark the depth of this layer; and when these are reached, a triangular flap of the fascia is to be thrown towards ^^^^ ^^^^^ the tliigh. To define the thinner deep stratum, cut it across in the ,.,y„js.