24 DISSECTION OF THE UPPER LIMH. of the artery, whicli appears at tLe upper border of the pecto- ralis uiiiior, and opposite the interval between the large pectoral and deltoid muscles. Its principal offsets are directed inwards and outwards :— oiiscis are a. The iniw or thoracic set supply the pectoral muscles, and give uitemai, ^ j-^^^ offsets to tlic side of the chest, which anastomose with the intercostal and other thoracic arteries, external, h. The Older or acromial set enter the deltoid, and some twigs perforate that muscle to anastomose over the acromion with a branch of the suprascapular artery, asceiidin;,', «• A small clavicular branch ascends to the subclavius muscle, anri rie- The humeral branch runs downwards with the cephalic vein seeiuiing. between the pectoral and deltoid muscles, to ^\'hich it is distributed. Alar tiio- The cdar thoracic is very inconstant as a separate branch, its place raeic. being frequently taken by ofl'sets of the subscapular and long thoracic arteries; it is distributed to the glands and fat of the axilla. Long tlio- The long thoracic branch is directed along the border of the laoiu. pectoralis minor to about the fifth intercostal space ; it supplies the i}ectoral and serratus muscles, and anastomoses, like the other liranches, with the intercostal and thoracic arteries. In the female it gives branches to the mammary gland. External An external mammary arterxj is frequently met with, especially in mammary, j^j^^ female; its position is near the middle of the axilla with a comj^anion vein. It supplies the glands, and ends in the wall of the thorax below the long thoracic. Sub.scapuiar The subscapular branch courses with a nerve of the same name along the subscapularis muscle, just within the fold of the latissimus dorsi, as far as the lower angle of the scapula, where it ends in branches for the serratus niagnus, latissimus dorsi, and teres major muscles. It also gives many off-sets to the glands of the space, dorsal Near its origin the artery sends backwards a considerable dorsal brancli, branch round the lower border of the subscapular muscle, which wiiioii give gives an infrascapular offset to the ventral aspect of the scapula, and scapular. ^^^^^^ iwxwi to the dorsum of that bone, where it will be afterwards dissected (p. 38). The subscapular artery is frequently combined at its origin with other branches of the axillary, or with branches of the brachial artery. Anterior The circumflcx branches wind round the humerus below the sub- pnsterior sfapular muscle. The anterior is small, and passes outwards beneath cirenmflex. the coraco-brachialis and l)iceps, and should be looked for by draw- ing the axillary artery a little away from the coraco-brachialis muscle. The jiosterior is much larger, and disappears with the companion nerve between the subscapularis and teres major mu.scles. They will lie followed in the dis.sect.ion of the shoulder. Muscular. Small muscular offsets enter the coraco-brachialis muscle. Axillary The AXILLARY VEIN (jf) continues upwards the basilic vein of the arm, and has the sinie extent a.s the axillary artery. It lies to