121 BRANCHES OP THE SACRAL PLEXUS. to one or two filaments to the hip-joint. Frequently the nerve is divided into two hirge trunks atTtjs origin, and one of tlieni (the external popliteal) pierces tlie fibres of the pyriformig_»uisule. The PUDIC NERVE (fig. 48) winds over the small saero-sciatie I'lulic luirve. ligament on the inner side of its companion artery, and is dis- ^' tributed with this vessel to the perineum and the genital organs. Xo branch is supplied to the buttock. Small MUSCULAR branches of the sacral plexus are furnished to Muscular the external rotiitors except the obturator externus. bumciies : ^ The branch to the pyriformis, from the second sacral nerve, is to seen in the dissection of the sacral plexus in the pelvis. pynformi.s; The nerve to the obturator interims (fig. 50,°) arises from the to obturator =2, upper imrt of the plexus, and is directed to its muscle through siperiOT""'' the small sacro-sciatic foramen external to the pudic vessels: it gemellus ; f^Vn~r gives off a small twig to the superior gemellus (J). , The nerve to the quadratus femoris (Kg. 50,'') is a slender branch, to(iu,Ki- ••■^ which j)asses with a companion artery beneath the gemelli and the h,'f,''rio Jti«^ ^obturator to the anterior surface of its muscle. This branch will gemellus. 1 S. ;be seen more fully in a subsequent dissection, when offsets from it to the inferior gemellus and the hip-joint may be traced. Dissection. To see the remaining external rotator muscles, hook Clean rota- aside the great sciatic nerve, and take away the branches of the ""'^'^'e''- sciatic artei-y if it is necessary. In cleaning these muscles the limb should be rotated inwards. The gemelli are to be sejmrated from the tendon of the obtiu-ator internus. The SUPERIOR GEMELLUS (fig. 48, c) is the higher of the two Superior muscular slips along the sides of the tendon of the obturator g'^^ieiius. muscle. Internally it arises from the outer and lower part of the 7 ischial spine (fig. 47, p. 113), and externally it \rinseried with the obturator into the great trochanter. Occasionally the muscle is absent. The INFERIOR GEMELLUS (fig. 48, e) is larger than its fellow. luferior Its oriijin is connected with the upper part of the ischial tuberosity, eemellus: along the lower edge of the groove for the ol)turator internus muscle (tig. 47) ; and its insertion is in common with the oliturator tendon. This muscle is placed between the obturator internus and quad- both ll lU- ratus, but near the femur the tendon of the obturator extenius obt''''atl!r''-' comes into contiict with its _ii]iper border, '^we-^- ^ ^r^Z-f-T ^ — Action. These small Heshy slips are but accessory pieces of usetol.eip ^-et. origin to the internal obturator, with which they coml )ine in use obturator. The OBTURATOR INTERNUS (fig. 48, d) arises from the hip-bone obturator inside the pelvis, and jmsses to the exterior through the small i"'*"nis sacro-sciatic foramen. The tendon of the muscle is directed outside outwards over the hip-joint, and is inserted with the gemelli, in front of the pyriformis, into the inner side of the great trochanter, = at the upper and fore part (fig. 60, p. 167). Outside the pelvis the oljturator is mostly tendinous, and is relations; embraced by the gemelli muscles, which near the pelvis meet beneath the tendon; but near the trochanter they cover it. Crossing the muscle are the large and small sciatic nerves and the