778 DISSECTION OP THE BRAIN. iiieut ill worm. Upper lobes are from beliiiid forwards, lobus caeii- miuis, lubusclivus, lobus culminis, lobus cen- tralis, liiiL'ula. Lower lobe.- are inferior semilunar, gmcile, biveiili'iil, amygdaloid; mill the flocculus. lainiiitu, especially the siimller ones, are frequently iiiteiTupted liv the junction of neighhouring sulci. On tlie upper aspect many of the lainintB pass continuously from one hemisphere to the other, with only a slight Lending forwards in the superior vermiform process ; hut those of the under surface of the two hemispheres are connected by means of tlie special commissural bodies composing the inferior vermiform process. The deepest sulci of the hemisphere divide the laniinoa into groups which are known as the lobes of the cerebellum. Lobes of the upper surface (iig. 284). On the upper surface the hemisphere is divided into four lobes by deep sulci which arch outwards and forwards from the superior vermiform proces'S. Only thi-ee of these lobes, however, are wholly seen on the surface. Tracing them from behind forwards they are :— 1. The lohas cacuminis is semilunar in shape, and has its two lateral parts connected across the middle line by a single lamina {folium cacuminis), which is deeply placed at the bottom of the median notch. 2. The lobus cUnis, crescentic in shape, and with its two lateral parts connected across the middle Hue by the slope {dcclirc) of the superior worm. 3. The lobus culminis, similar in shape to and somewhat more massive than the preceding ; its median portion forming the highest part (culmen) of the upper vermiform process ; and 4. The lobus centralis, composed of about eight lamina), which overlap the superior peduncle. Its lateral parts (ate) are concealed by the most anterior portions of the lobus culminis. On a mesial section of the cerebellum a small amount of grey matter (lingitla) may be seen on the upper surface of the superior medullary velum (valve of Vieussens), in front of the central lobe (fig. 274, p. 757), and this may be considered as the most anterior representative of the grey matter of the upper surface of the cerebellum. The LOBES OE THE UNDER SURFACE of the hemisphere (fig. 285) are five iu number. Beginning l.iehiud, and tracing them forwards, they are :— 1. The inferior semilunar lobe, which is separated from the lobus cacuminis of the xipper surface by the horizontal fissure. 2. The gracile lobe, composed of four or five pai-allel laminaj, and often divisible into anterior and posterior parts. 3. The bivcntral lobe, triangular in shape, and subdivided into two main parts. It reaches as far forwards as the flocculus, and is external to the following. 4. The amygdaloid lobe, or, the tonsil, which lies to the inner side of the biventral, and projects into the vallecula, toucliing the medulla oblongata, and concealing a part of the inferior vermiform process (the uvula), which is its representative iu the middle line. 5. The flocculus, or sub-peduncular lobe, is placed in front of the biventral lobe, and curves upwards round the lower border of the crus cerebelli, being attaclied lo the general ma.s.s of the small brain only by a narrow white stalk.