(MO cliisel, and l)nne PBi-iosteum of orbit. Open periosteum. Position of parts exposed. Trncn super- ficial nerves. Orbit has .seven muscles ; DISSECTIO.V OF THE ORBIT. the fbllovvinsr nmnner. Two cuts are to be made witli the saw tln'oiu-h the frontal bone, the inner one vertically over the internal'n,arKin".f ho anterior opening of tiie orbit, and the outer one, com.nencin-r .ehmd the teniporal crest, obliquely downvvard.s and inwards, to tiie external angular proces,9 : then with a chisel these are to be continued backwards along the roof of the orbit, so as to meet near the optic foramen. Tiie piece of bone included between the incisions IS now to be tilted forward.*, but is not to be taken away. This can be done by knocking forwards the piece of frontal bone between the saw-cuts with a mallet, and the orbital plate of the bone will be earned upwards iVoni the perio.steum beneath. Afterwards the rest of the roof of the orbit, wJiich is formed by the small wing of the sphenoid bone, is to be cut away with the bone lorceps, except a narrow ring around the ojitic foramen ; and any overhanging bone, which may interfere witli the dis.section should be likewise removed. During the examination of the cavity the eye is to be pulled gently forwards. The periosteum of the orbit is now seen where it has been detached from the bone in the dissection. This membrane forms a sac around the conteiit.s of the orbit which is continuous po.steriorly with the dura mater through the sphenoidal fissure and the optic foramen, and IS closed in li-oiit by the palpebral fascia passing from it to the lids. It adheres but loosely to the bones, and is perforated behind by apertures for the passage of the vessels and nerves entering the orbit. On the .sides, prolongations of the membrane accompany the vessels and nerves leaving the cavity. Dissection. The periosteum is next to be divided along the middle of the orbit, and to be taken away. After the removal of a little fat, the following nerves, vessels, and muscles come into view (fig. 227, p. 642) ; but it is not needful to remove much of the fat at this stage of the dissection. The frontal nerve and the supraorbital artery are placed in the centre ; the lachrymal verve and vessels close to the outer wall ; and the small/oi()7/i, nerve at the back of the orbit : all these nerves are above the muscles in the cavity. The superior oblique muscle lies on the inner side, and is recognised by the fourth nerve entering its ujiper aspect ; the levator jmlpeh m and superior rectus are beneath the frontal nerve; and the external rectus is partly seen below the lachrymal nerve. At the outer jjart of the orbit, near the front, is the lachrymal gland. The frontal and lachrymal nerves should be followed forwards to their exit from the cu-bit, and backwards, with the fourth nerve, through the sphenoidal fissure, to^he wall of the cavernous sinus. In tracing them back, it will be expedient to remove the projecting anterior clinoid process, shouhl this still remain ; and some care will be required to follow the lachrymal nerve to its commencement. Contents of the orbit. The eyeball, the lachrymal gland, and a quantity of granular fat, are lodged in the orbit. Connected with