290 DISSECTION OP THE ABDOMEN. the knife opening tlie tunica vaginalis before the sac of the hernia. hem'a"' INTERNAL or DiRECT Inqdinal Hernia escapes on the inner side of the deep epigastric artery, and has a straight course tlirough the abdominal parietes. Its situation and coverings, and the seat of stricture, will be understood after the examination of the part of the abdominal wall through which it passes. Hessefbach- "^^^^o^^'^ INTERNAL HERNIA. In the abdominal Wall near the boundaries;' pubis is a triangular space to which the name of Eesselbarh's triangle has been given. This is bounded by the deep epigastric artery ex- ternally, the outer edge of the rectus muscle internally, and the inner size; part of Poupart's ligament below ; it measures about two inches from above down, and one inch and a half across at the base. coii^sHtuents The constituents of the abdominal wall in this area are—the integuments, the muscular strata, and the layers lining the interior of the abdomen, viz., transversalis fascia, subperitoneal tissue, and peritoneum. The muscles have the following arrangement:—The anddisposi- aponeurosis of the external oblique i.s pierced by the external musdes abdominal ring, towards the lower and inner angle of the space. The internal oblique and transversalis, which come next, are united together in the conjoined tendon ; and as this descends to its inser- tion into the pectineal line it covers the inner two-thu-ds (about an inch) of the space, and leaves uncovered about half an inch between its outer edge and the epigastric vessels, where the transversalis fascia appears. Hernia in Any intestine protruding in this spot must make a new path for ^^^'^^^jg"*^ itself, and elongate the different structures, since there is not any passage by which it can descend, like an external hernia. Further, the coverings of the hernia, and its extent and direction in the abdominal wall, must vary according as the gut projects through the portion of the space covered by the conjoined tendon, or through the part external to that tendon. Coverings Course and coverings of the hernia. The commoner kind of in- of the more temal hernia passes throush the part of the triangular space which common \ . . , , o j. kind are is covered by the conjoined tendon. peritoneum The intestine in protruding carries before it the peritoneum, the cent'tis'iue Subperitoneal fatty membrane, and the trausversalis fascia; next it transver- ' elongates the conjoined tendon, or, in the case of a sudden ruptiu-e, co'nfo^ned"' Separates the fibres and escapes between them. It then advances tendon, jnto the lower part of the inguinal canal, opposite the external spermatic abdominal ring, and passes through that opening on the inner side fascia,^^^^^ of the cord, receiving at the same time the covering of the spermatic fascia, ami fascia. Lastly, it is invested by the superficial fascia and the skin. In number the coverings of an internal hernia are the same as those of an external ; and in kind the only dillerences are that the covering of transversalis fascia is not furnished by the infundibuli- form jjrocess, and the conjoined tendon is substituted for the cremas- teric fascia. The position of the openings in tlie abdominal wall, and the