271 TR^mSVERSALIS MUSCLE. muscle maybe reflected from the cord by means of a longitudinal ''T^nsetkeM^.al oUi,ue, it will be necessary f jf.^^^^ Sf""' firstly near the ribs, .econdly along the crest ot the lium and Poupart's ligament, and lastly at the hinder part, so as to connec the first two incisions. Its depth will be indicated by a fatty layer bLeen it and the transversalis, and by a branch of artery between the two muscles near the anterior superior iliac spine (fig. 106, b, p. 287). In raising the muscle towards the edge of the rectus, let the student separate with great care the lower fibres from those of the transversalis with which tliey are often con- joined, and dissect out, between the two, the inter- costal nerves and arteries, and the two branches of the lumbar plexus (ilio- hypogastric and ilio-ingui- nal) near the fore part of the ilium. The offsets en- tering the muscle must be cut. Parts covered by the in- ternal oblique (fig. 101). The internal oblique con- ceals the transversalis muscle and the vessels and nerves between the two. Near Poupart's ligament it lies on the spermatic cord and the transversalis fascia. The rectus muscle is covered below by the aponeurosis. The TRANSVERSALIS Parts covered by internal oblique. Fig. 101. A. Tlio Transversalis muscle, with b, its anterior, and 0, its posterior tendon (fascia lunibornm). D. Poupart's ligament. 1. Last dorsal norvo with its accom- panying artery. „ 2. Ilio-hypogastric nerve with its artory. Transversa- j-f Intercostal nerves and arteries. lismiisclo; MUSCLE (fig. 101, a) forms the third stratum in the wall of the abdomen, and differs from the two oblifiue muscles in havinc a posterior as well as an anterior aponeurosis. Like the internal oblique, it is attached on all sides, except where the sper- matic cord lies. At the pelvis it arises from the outer third of ongm from^ Poupart's ligament and from the anterior two-thirds of the iliac crest and i.oivia; alon" the inner border (fig. 139, p. 369); at the chest it takes origin by fleshy slips from the inner surface of the lower six costal carti- lages ; and between the chest and the pelvis it is connected with nj-s o.,<i^in the lumbar vertebrte by means of its posterior aponeurosis, or tlie