CHAPTER X. DISSECTION OF THE BRAIN. ♦ Section I. MEMBRA^IBS AND VESSELS. Directions. The workers on tlie head and neck e.xaniine the brain together, and it is most desirable that, at the time of its removal from the head, they should obUiin a second specimen, so that a seuond the minor cuttmg operations should be perloinied on one and the desirable, other left in its entirety till the study of the cerebral hemispheres is commenced. Notwithstanding this, however, the directions for dissection are given as far as possible so that one specimen should suffice. Both brains will be preserved according to the subjoined instructions. Preservation and dissection. After the removal of the brain with its divesting membranes as directed on pp. 509 et seq, it should be thoroughly washed free of blood and then placed, with its under surface upwards, in a good-sized earthenware jar provided with a well-htting co\'er. The brain should rest on a large, loose, pad. of tow or cotton wool spread over the bottom of the jar, and the vessel Pieseiye in should contain a 5 jier cent, solution of formalin in water in sufficient s°'iutioii. t[uantities to cover the Ijiain with a clear inch of liquid. The membranes and vessels, as described in this Section, should be examined as soon as possible after the specimen has been in the preservative for two days ; for the reason that they are more easily traced whilst the prej)aration is still moderately soft, and that they can then be more readily removed without injury to the brain substance ; moreover, it is necessary to remove them at an early stage in order to give the hardening fluid free access. When tlie preparation is removed from the jar for the examination of the membranes and vessels, it should lie well washed in running water to remove the adhering formalin solution, which is apt to be inconvenient to the dissector by tbe lachrymation it causes. In describing the distribution of the lilood vessels it is unavoidable to refer to various pacts of the brain that have not yet been e.xamined in detail, and it i.s therefore desirable that the student should have at hand a museum jireparation in which the convolutions and sulci are clearly defined and marked (see fig. 270, p. 746, and fig. 273, p. 753).