TIIK KOKNIX. 7rtl is united to the corpus callosuni. E;icli border is free in the eorrespoiidiii^' lateral ventricli', where it rests on the optic thalamus, the vohiiii interpositiini licin;,' l)(!tu-<'cn the two ; and alon<,' it lies the choroid plexus. Posteriorly it joins the corpus callosuni in the Posterior middle, while on each side it sends off a small riband-like band— the posterior ])illar or tcenia hippncariipi. (fig. 270, c, p. 703), along the concave margin of the hippocamims niajoi-. At the anterior end anterior it is arched over the foramen of Monro, ojiposite the front of the ojitic thalamus, and ends likewise in two anterior pillars, which will be afterwards followed downwards to the corpora albicanlia and thence into the ojitic tlialami. If the foriux be-cut across near its front, the foramen of Munro Umler will be opened, and the descending anterior pillars wdll l)e seen (lig. 270). When the posterior jiart is raised (and it must be done with great care), it will be found to be supported on a ])roce.ss of the pia mater, named velum interposituni. Posteriorly, on the under aspect, is a triangular surface, marked by transverse is marked lines, which are produced by the fibres of the cori)ns callosum ''^ a]>]iearing in the interval between the two diverging posterior pillars of the forni.x : the part which is so defined has been called the lyra (fig. 276, a). The forni.v may be described as consisting of two band.s, right Fornix and left, which are united for a certain disfemce in the central ])art ["™'/ia'n?la or body. According to this view, each band, commencing in the optic thalamus and passing through the corpus albicans, arclies over the foramen of Monro, and after forming the body of the forni.x, is continued as the tionia hippocampi to the hook of the uncinate convolution. The FORAMEN OF MoNRO (fig. 274, ]i. 707) is a short slit Foramen of between the fore part of the fornix and tlie optic thalamus. Througli it the lateral ventricle communicates with the third ventricle, ami indirectly with the one of the op))osite side. It is lined by a prolongation of the ependyma, which is thus continued from one ventricle to the other. The student may leave untouched for the present the velum interposituni, and proceed to examine the liodies which have been enumerated in the floor of the posterior and descending coi-nua. The HIP1>0CAM1'U.S MINOR or CAI-CAR AVIS (fig. 275, i) is a spindle- Hipi.ocain- shaped prominence on the inner side of the posterior cornu of the lateral ventricle. If it is cut across, it will be seen to be formed formed by by the calcarine fissure pushing outwards the wall of the cavity, !i!j|j',J're'''^ and beneath the white layer is the cortical grey subst^mce passing from the uncinate convolutioii to the cuneate lobule at the bottom of the fissure. The HIPPOCAMPUS MAJOR (figs. 27r>, /, and 276, /;) is the large Hippoeam- convex eminence in the floor of the d(!scending cornu of the lateral ""'■i'"'- ventricle, and, like that, is curved, with the concavity directed inwards. Its anterior extremity, which is named the pes hippocampi, pus iiippo- is somewhat enlarged and presents two or three indentations, resembling the foot of a feline animal.