197 INTERNAL ANNULAR LIGAMENT. artery ; but its position to the vessel changes, for it lies uu tlie inner side al>ove the origin of the peroneal oflset, but thence to the termination, on the outer side. Its branches are muscular iuid bnuiclie.i cutaneous. Alu^cidar brandies are furnished to the two long Hexors, the to muscles, tibialis posticus, and the soleus. Tliere is an oli'set for each of the muscles ; and they may arise either separately along the trunk, or together from the upper end of the nerve. The branch to the tibialis is the largest; and that to the flexor hallucis lies on the peroneal artery. A cutaneous nerve of the sole of the foot (calcaneo-plantar, fig. 74, ■•) '""1 t,')«kin liL-gins above the ankle, and jnercing the internal annular ligament sole, as two or more part«, ends in the integuments of the inner and under-parts of the heel: this nerve will be followed to its termina- tion in the di.s.section of the foot. Tlie INTERNAL ANNULAR LIGAMENT .Stretches between the heel and internul the inner ankle, and serves to confine the tendons of the deeri layer """"ii'' ' I J ligament: oi muscles of the foot and toes. AtUiched by a narrow part to the internal malleolus, the fibres diverge, and are inserted into the os calcis. The upper border is continuous with the fascia of the attiicii- leg; and the lower gives attachment to the aliductor hallucis mu-scle of the foot. Beneath it are .sheaths for the tendons. The innermost sheath Slieaths: enclo.ses the tibialis posticus, lodged in a groove on the back of the their malleolus. Immediately outside this is aiiother space for the flexor digitorum. And al wut three-quarters of an inch nearer the os calcis is the flexor hallucis, resting in a gi'oove in the astragalus. Each sheath is lined by a synovial membrane. Between the tendons of the two flexors of the digits are placed the posterior tibial vessels and nerve. Section VI. SOLE OF THE FOOT. Position. The foot is to l)e placed over a block of moderate thick- Position of ucss with the sole towards the dissector; and the part is to be made tense by fixing the heel with hooks, and l iy separating and fastening apart the toes. Dissection. The skin is to be raised in two flaps, inner and outer, K'^ise the by means of one incision along the centre of the sole from the heel to the front and Ijy an incision across the foot at the root of the toes. Afterwards the skin is to be removed from each toe, and the digital vessels and nerves on the sides are to be dissected out at the same time. In the fat near the lieel the student .should follow out the calcaneo- and dissect plantar nerve (shown at the upper part of fig. 75, p. 200); and he '=»^'.';«o"« may trace out, at a little distance from each border of the foot, some small branches of the plantar ner\ es and arteries.