G32 DISSECTION OF DEEP VESSELS AND NERVES OF NECK. Its upper and lower ganglion. lu the neck coui'ses to the tongue. Branches to join with others, viz., sympathetic and I'agus, facial and sympa- thetic. Distributed to pharynx, stylo- pharyngeus, tonsil, and tongue. Vagus nerve in .jugular foramen. and in the neck, The jugular ganglion (fig. 226, •") is very small, and is siLuate at the upper end ol' the osseous groove containing the nerve. It includes only the outer fibres of the nerve, and is not always to be recognised. The petrosal ganglion (°) is much larger, and encloses all the fibrils of the nerve. Ovali.sli in form, it is placed in a hollow in the j)osterior border of the temporal bone ; and from it spring the blanches that unite the glosso-pharyngeal with other nerves. After the nerve has quitted the foramen, it conies forwards between the jugular vein and the carotid artery (fig. 225,'), and descends over the artery until it reaches the hinder boi'der of the stylo-jiharyngeus muscle. Then curving forward.?, it becomes almost transvei'se in direction, crosses the stylo-pharyngeus, and finally passes beneath the hyo-glossus muscle, where it ends in branches to the tongue. The branches of the glosso-pharyngeal may be classed into those connecting it with other nerves at the base of the skull, and those distributed in the neck. The connecting branches arise from the petrosal ganglion; and in this set is the tympanic nerve. * A filament ascends from the sympathetic nerve in the neck to join the petrosal ganglion. Sometimes there is an offset from the ganglion to the auricular branch of the vagus, another to the upper ganglion of this nerve and a twig to join the branch of the facial to the posterior belly of the digastric. * The tympanic branch (nerve of Jacobson ; fig. 226, °) enters the aperture in the ridge of bone between the jugular and the carotid foramina, and ascends by a special canal to the inner wall of the tympanum : its distribution is given with the anatomy of the middle ear (page 812). Branches for distribution. In the neck the branches are furnished chiefly to the pharynx and the tongue. a. Pharyngeal'branches. Two or three branches, arising from the glosso-pharyngeal nerve as it lies over the carotid artery, descend to join the pharyngeal branch of the vagus and take part in the formation of the pharyngeal ple.xus ; and one or two smaller twigs penetrate the superior constrictor muscle. b. A muscular h-anch enters the stylo-pharyngeus while the nerve is in contact with the muscle. c. The tonsillitic branches supply the tonsil and the arches of the soft palate. On the former they end in a kind of plexus—circulus tonsillaris. d. Lingual branches. The terminal branches of the nerve supjily the binder part of the tongue, in connection with which they are described (page 688). The PNECMO-QASTRic or VAGUS NERVE (figs. 225,^ and 226,=) is the largest of the cranial nerves in the neck, and escapes through the jugu- lar foramen in the same shealh of dura mater as the spinal accessory. In the foramen it has a distinct ganglion (gang, of the root), to which the smaller part of the spinal accessory nerve is connected. When the nerve has left the foramen, it receives the small part of