(iH8 to external Ciirotkl, forming jilexnses and ganglia to pharyn- geal plexus; to cardiac plexuses; superlicial cardiac nerve. Middle ganglion joined to spinal nerves: loop to lower ganglion; branches of distribution, thyroid branches, middle cardiac nerve Inferior ganglion DrSSKCTION OF DEEP VESSHI.S AND NERVES OF NECK. uuiml comnuuiicntioiis are formed witli the tympanic branch of the ylosso-pharyngeal nerve, and with the splieno-palatine ganglion; with tlie former near the lower end, and with the latter near the upper opening of the canal. The communications and plexuses which these nerves form in their course to the brain are described at p. 518. Brunches for blood-vessels (nervi moUes). These nerves surround tlie external carotid trunk, and ramify on its branches so as to form plexuses on tlie arteries with the same names as the veissels : some small ganglia are occasionally found on these slender nerves. By means of the plexus on the facial artery the submaxillarij gcinglion communicates with the sympathetic ; and through the plexus on the internal maxillary artery the otic ganglion obtains a similar communication. The pharyngeal nerves pass inwards to the side of the pharynx, where they join with the branches of the glosso-pharyngeal and pneumo-gastric nerves in the pharyngeal plexus. Cardiac nerves enter the thorax to join in the plexuses of the heart. There are three cardiac nerves on each side, viz., superior, middle, and inferior, each talting its name from the ganglion of which it is an offset. The superior or superficial cardiac nerve of the right side courses behind the sheath of tlie carotid vessels, and enters the thorax along the innominate artery. In the neck the nerve is connected with the cardiac branch of the vagus, with the external laryngeal, and with the recurrent nerve. In some bodies it ends by joining one of the other cardiac nerves. The MIDDLE CERVICAL or THYROID GANGLION is of Small size, and is situate beneath the great vessels, usually opposite the sixth cervical vertebra, on or near the inferior thyroid artery. Its branches are the following : — Connecting branches with the spinal nerves sink between the borders of the longus colli and anterior scalenus to join the fifth and sixth cervical nerves. A considerable branch passes betw een the middle and inferior cervical ganglia, forming a loop (ansa Vieussenii) over the front of the subclavian artery, and supplying it with filaments. Branches for distribution. These consist of nerves to the thyroid body, together with the miildle cardiac nerve. The thyroid branches ramii'y around the inferior thyroid artery, and end in the thyroid body ; they join the external and recurrent laryngeal nerves. The middle or great cardiac nei-ve descends to the thorax across the subclavian artery ; its termination in the cardiac plexus has been learnt in tlie chest (p. 473). In the neck it communicates with the upper cardiac and recurrent laryngeal nerves. The INFERIOR CERVICAL GANGLION is of large size, but irregular in shape, and lies over the interval between the first rib and the transverse process of the last cervical vertebra, its jwsition being