CILIARY MUSf'Ll^ AS\) TRTS. By their free extremities tlie jiruccsses Ijouiul ijerfpherally the luiaiions space (posterior chamber; fig. 291, 7, p. V96) behind the iris; in around!^ front, thej' correspond to the ciliary muscle, and at their inner ends to the back of the iris ; while behind, they are closely applied to the membrane on the front of the vitreous l)ody (suspensory ligament of the lens ; fig. 291, t), and fit into hollows between eminences on the anterior surface of that structure. Structure. The choroid coat and its ciliary processes are composed Structiiri! of of blood vessels supported by pigmented areolar tissue. INIost' ' ' ' externally is a delicate stratum of connective ti.ssue known as the liimina suprachoroidea, similar to the membrana fusca of the sclerotic, s>ipra- 1(1 which it is connected; next to this is a layer containing tlie larger ramifications of the aiteries and veins ; and in the deepest part the vessels form a very fine and close capillary network (tunica Ruyschiana). In the ciliary proce?.ses the meshes of the capillary net- work are larger, and the inter- stitial pigment disfippears to- wards the free ends of the larger jirocesses. Ciliary muscle (fig. 289, d, e). In the eye from which the sclerotic coat has been re- moved, the white ring of the ciliary muscle may be seen covering the front of tlie choroid coat. The muscle forms a circular band, of a greyi.sh white colour, and about one-tenth of an inch wide, on the surface of the choroid coat close to the outer margin of the iris. It consists of imstriated fibres, which are in two sets, radiating and circular :— The radiating fibres (fig. 291, e) arise in front from the sclerotic consists of coat close to the junction with the cornea (beneath r), and are ""' " directed backwards, spreading out, to be inserted into the choroid coat opposite to, and a little behind, the ciliary processes. Some of the deeper fibres Ijecome transverse, and pass gradually into the following set. The circular fibres are beneath the radiating, and form a narrow and rirculnr liundle (fig. 291, m) surrounding the edge of the iris, opposite the inner part of the ciliary processes. Action. The ciliary muscle draws forwards the fore part of the use. choroid coat and the ciliary processes, and relaxes the suspensory ligament of the lens, thereby allowing the lens to l)econK' more layer, Fig. 290.—Posterior View op the Fore Part op the Choroid Coat WITH ITS Ciliary Processes, and THE Back of the Iris. a. Anterior piece of the clioroid coat. ])osition; b. Ciliary processes. c. Iris. d. Sphincter of the pupil. c. Bundles of fibres of the dilator of the pupil, represented diagram- matical ly.