DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. 4i)2 Costo- xlplioiil ligatneut. First carti- lage. Cartilages with one another. Motion of cartilages. Two sets of ligaments unite the vertebra.'. How to HCIS the several ligaments. ligament like that to the head of the rih which joins the cartilage between the pieces of the steinuiu ; and the synovial sac is double. Similar bands are sometimes present in one or two of the succeeding joints. A special band of fibres passes from the cartilage of the seventh rib to the eusiform process, and is named costo-xiphoid ligament. The cartilage of the first rib adheres directly to the .sternum, without forming any joint. liJTERCHONDR.vL ARTICULATIONS. The cartilages of the ribs I'rom the sixth to the ninth articulate together by means of broad processes on their adjacent edges, which are connected by synovial joints. Each joint is surrounded by a short capsule, and is sup- ported in front by strong fibres of the anterior intercostal aponeurosis. The ends of the eighth, ninth; and tenth cartilages are united each to the cartilage above by bands of fibrous tissue. Movements. There is only a limited degree of movement in the chondro - sternal and inter- chondral articulations, the carti- lages being elevated with the ribs in inspiration, and sinking in expiration. Articulation of the ster- num. The manubrium and body of the sternum are united by a piece of cartilage, with anterior and posterior longitudinal fibres. In some cases there is a cavity resulting i'rom the absorption of the central portion of the carti- lage. There is no appreciable movement between the pieces of the sternum, but the articulation aids in giving elasticity to the front of the chest. Articulations of the vertebr/E. The vertebra3 are united together by two sets of ligaments,—one lor the bodies, and the other for the arches and processes. Along the spinal column the ligaments have a general resem- blance, and one description will sutiice, except for those between the first two vertebrte and the head and those of the pelvis, which are described in the head and neck and abdomen resspectively. Dissection. After the articulations of the ribs have been examined, the same piece of the .spinal colmnn will serve for the preparation of the ligaments of the bodies of the vertebraj. The anterior ligament of the bodies will be delined with very little trouble, by removing the areolar tissue. The spinal canal is assumed to have been opened in the examina- tion of the .S2)inal cord, and the posterior ligauicnt of the bodies of a. Anterior comiuon ligament of the bodies of the vertebrte. b. Lateral short fibres.