DISSECTION OF THE SUBMAXILLARY REGION. 622 comes to side of toiiKUe : usi' of botli, ol one. Genio- hyoid : relations; Geiiio- glossus: origin : insertion ; UOIlttgUOUii parts; tlie styloid process near tlie apex, and from the stylo-inaxillary ligament, and is directed downwards and forwards to the hinder jmrt of the lateral margin of the tongue. Here it gives some fibres to the dorsum, but the greater part of the muscle turns to the under surface, and is continued forwards to the tip of the tongue. Beneath the jaw this muscle is cro.ssed by the lingual nerve. Action. Bolh muscles will raise the back of the tongue against the roof of the mouth ; and if the tongue be jn-otruded they will restore it to the cavity. One muscle can direct the point of the tongue towards its own side of the mouth. The GKNio-HYOiD MUSCLE (fig. 223,') arises from the lower of the mental spines on the inner aspect of the .symphysis of the jaw, and is inserted into the front of the body of the hyoid bone. The lower surface of this muscle is covered by the mylo-hyoid, and the upper is in contact with the geuio- glossus (^). The inner border touches the muscle of the opposite side, and the two are often united. Action. The genio-hj-oid either depresses the lower jaw or raises the hyoid bone, ac- cording to which end is fixed by other muscles. The 6ENI0-GL0SSUS (genio- hyo - glossus, fig. 223, ^, and fig. 224, a) is a thick, fan- shaped ranscle, having its apex at the jaw, and its base at the tongue. It takes origin from the upper of the mental spines behind the symphysis of the jaw. From this spot the fibres radiate, the posterior jsassing backwards to their insertion into the body of the hyoid bone, the anterior forwards to the tip of the tongue, and the intermediate ones to the tongue from the base to the tip. Lying close to the median plane, the inner surface of the muscle is in contact with its fellow. Its lower border corresponds to the genio-hyoid, and the upper to the fniiuum lingua^. On its outer side are the ranine vessels, and the hyo-glossus muscle ; and the hypoglossal nerve jierlbrates the hinder fibres. Action. By the simullaneous action of the whole muscle the tongue is depressed, and hollowed along the middle. The hinder Fig. 223.—Muscles oj? thk Tongue. 1. Hyo-glossus. Stylo-glos.sus. Genio-glossus. Genio-liyoid. Stylo-pliaryugeus.