STRUCTURE OF STOMACH. 339 short distance before tlie pylorus, and tlie constricted part is styled the ■pyloric canal (Jonnesco). The cardiac opening, which communicates with the oesophagus, is ^^^''^^'j^j. placed two or three inches from the most prominent part of the openings, fundus, and is funnel shaped towards the cavity of the organ. The pyloric orifice opens into the duodenum, and is guarded internally by a muscular band (jsylorus), at this spot the stomach is slightly constricted externally, and a firm circular thickening can be felt. The anterior, or upper, and the posterior, or lower, surfaces are Surfaces, somewliat flattened when the viscus is empty, but round when it is distended, and the parts in contact with them have been referred to (p. 300). The upper border or lesser curvature is concave, except for a short Small , „, , , , , , . curvature distance at the pyloric end. The lower border or greater- curvature is Fig. 126.—Diagram of tue Mdsoular Fibres op the Stomach. The external and middle layers are partly removed. a. External or longitudinal fibres. b. Middle or circular. c. Sphincter of the pylorus. d. Oblique fibres on the right of the cardiac opening. e. Oblique fibres, more numerous, on the left of the cardiac orifice, and covering the great end of the stomach. much longer, convex, and when tlie organ is distended forms at the fi"d iavge. pyloric end a slight projection to the right, wliich has been named the antrum pylori or small cul-de-sac. Structdre. In the wall of the stomach are four coats, viz. serous. Four strata muscular, fibrous, and mucous ; and belonging to these there are '° vessels, nerves, and lymphatics. Serous coat. The peritoneum gives a covering to the stomach, and Tiio serous is adherent to the surface except at each margin, where an interval ™,''u'(1il'e-'" exists corresponding with the attachment of the small and large omentum: in these .spaces are contained the vessels, nerves, and lymphatics. During distension of the stomach the spaces above mentioned are much diminished. Z 2