133 BBANCHES OP PROFUNDA ARTERY. Action. This hamstring is united with tlie preceding in its action, use on kuco for it bends tlie knee and rotates in tlie tiljia; and with the knee straight it will limit flexion of the hip, or extend this joint after mni hip- tlie lemur has lieen carried forwards. The extension across tlie ■i"'"'''*' hack of the |oint serves to keep the posterior ligament clear of the articiilation in flexion of the leg. When the foot rests on the ground, the seminiemljranosus acts on peh is. on the pelvis like the other hamstring muscles. The GRE.\T SCIATIC NERVE (fig. 53,2) lies on the adductor magnus Gre.ntsciatic muscle below the buttock, and divides into the two popliteal nerves "h^thi"]) aljout the middle of the thigh, thougli its point of bifurcation may be carried upwards as far as the pelvis. In this extent the nerve lies along the outer border of the semimembranosus, and is crossed ]>y the long head of the biceps. Branches. Near the buttock it supplies large branches to the supplies Hexor niiuscles, and a small one to the adductor magnus. nmscies. Small sciatic nerve-(tig. 53, i). Between the gluteus'maximus smaii and the ham this small nerve is close beneath the fascia : but it 1 i. 11,11 1 • , 1 tliigh: ^heconies cutaneous below the knee, and accompanies the external saphenous vein for a short disfcuice. Small cutaneous filaments pierce the fascia ; and the largest of cutaneous these arises near the popliteal space. oftsets. Dissection. To see the posterior surface of the adductor magnus. Detach tlie and the liranches of the perforating and anastomotic arteries at the back of the thigh, the hamstring muscles must be detached from the hip-bone and thrown down ; and the branches of arteries and nerves they receive are to be dissected out with care. All the parts are to Ije cleaned. Adductor magnds muscle (fig. 53, c). At its posterior aspect Posterior the large adductor is altogether Heshy, even at the opening in the nci'ivictor lower third of the thigh, where the superficial femoral passes through "•"S""''- it to become the popliteal; and the upper fibres which come from the pubic arch appear to form a part almost distinct from those connected with the tuberosity of the ischiiun. In contact with this surface are the hamstring muscles and the great sciatic nerve. (The muscle will be described later in ths dissection of the thigh from the front, p. 167.) End op the perforating arteries (fig. 53, c, d, e). These Perforatins liranches of the profunda femoris appear through the adductor ■• magnus close to the femur, and are directed outwards through the course .short head of the biceps and the outer intermu.scular septum to the vastus ex tenuis and crureus mu.scles ; but as the first branch is placed higher than the attachment of the biceps, it pierces the gluteus maximus in its cour.se. In_tlie _extensor muscles they ana.stomose and euaing; together, and with the transverse and de.sceiidinfr bnui^bpa of the gxteriial circum flex artery. " Muscular branches are furnished by the perforating arteries to offsets to the heads of the biceps ; and a cutaneous offset is given liy each to tKii;'"* the integuments of the outer side of the thigh, along the line of the outer intermuscular septum.