162 DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. is inserted into tibia; position to otlier muscles ; use on knee joint and femur; on pelvis. Pectineus: origin from pubis; inserted into femur; relations of surfaces, and borders; use on femur, free and fixed. Adductor longus ex- tends from pelvis to femur ; relations to muscles and vessels; imiscle arises by a thin aponeurosis, two or three inches in depth, from the pubic border of the hip-bone close to the iiiurgin, viz.' opposite the lower half of the symphysis, and the upper part of the pubic arch (fig. 47, p. 113). Inferiorly it is inserted by a iiat tendon, about one-third of an inch wide, into the inner surface of the til)ia, beneath and close to the sartorius (fig. 68, p. 179). The muscle is superficial throughout. For two-thirds of the thigh it is flattened against the adductors brevis and inagnus, so as to have its borders directed forwards and backwards ; and in the lower third it intervenes between the sartorius and seniiraem- branosus muscles, and helps to form the inner boundary of the popliteal space. At its insertion the tendon is nearer the knee than that of the semitendinosus, though at the same depth from the surface, and both lie over the internal lateral ligament; from the tendon an ex23ansion is continued to tlie fascia of the leg, like the sartorius. A bursa separates the tendon from the internal lateral ligament, and projects above it under the sartorius. Action. It bends the knee-joint if the tibia is not fixed, rotating inwards that bone, and then brings the movable femur towards the middle line with the other adductors. Supposing the foot resting on the ground, the gracilis will aid in staying the pelvis on the limb. The PECTINEUS (fig. 58, p, p. 151) is the highest of the muscles directed from the pelvis to the inner side of the femur. It has a fleshy origin from the pubic portion of the ilio-pectineal line, and slightly from the surface in front of that line (fig. 47) ; and it is inserted by a thin tendon, about two inches in width, into the femur behind the small trochanter, and into the ujjper part of the line which extends from that process to the linea aspera (fig. 61, p. 158). One surface of the muscle is in contact with the fascia lata ; and the femoral vessels lie over its lower part: the opposite surface touches the obturator externus and adductor brevis muscles, and the superficial portion of the obturator nerve. The pectineus lies between the psoas and the adductor longus; and the internal circumflex ^'essels pass between its outer border and the psoa-s. Action. It adducts the limb and bends the hip-joint, "mien the femur is fixed it can support the pelvis in standing ; or it can draw forwards the pehds in stooping. The ADDUCTOR LONGUS Hes below the pectineus (fig. 58, g), and is triangular in form, with the apex at the pelvis and the base at the femur. It arises by a narrow tendon from the front of the pubis in the angle lietween the crest and the sympliysis (fig. 47) ; and it is inserted into the inner edge of the linea aspera, blending with the insertion of the subjacent adductors (fig. 61). This muscle is situate between the gracilis and the pectineus, and forms ])art of the floor of Scarpa's triangle. Its anterior surface is covered near tlie femur by the femoral A'essels and tlie .sartorius ; the posterior rests on the other two adductors, on the superficial part of the obturator nerve, and on the deep femoral artery. The