THE SUliOLAVlAN ARTKKV. .'.Ki and "ives olV tl.e deep cervical branch : a small simml artery fre- Muentlv conies from this part of the trunk. On the left side the origin'of this vessel is usually from the first part of the artery, a little internal to the scalenus anticus. If there is a hrancli present on the third part ol the artery, iu,.uiur,l it is commonly the posterior scapular: if more than one, the internal mammary, the suprascapular, or the thyroid axis may be added. i r i i , -i The LEFT suBUL.wiAN ARTERY arises from the arch ot the aorta, instead of from an innominate trunk, and ascends thence over the „,t,,y first rib in its cour.se to the upper lind:.. AVith this difierence on ;>:;i';;-'i:-'' the two sides in the origin of the subclavian—the one vessel s..bdavKi,> beginning opposite the sterno-clavicular articulation, the other m the thorax—it is evident that the length and relations of the part of the artery on the inner .side of the .scalenus anticus must also (lifter on the two sides. First fart. The ].art of the artery internal to the anterior scalenus i.i thy n.Ht is much longer on the left than on the right side. It ascends nearly verticallv from its origin to the level of the first ril), and then bends s.nnex\-h!it abrupth' outwards over the top of the lung. On leaving the chest it is deeply placed in the neck, near the spuie and the .e.sopliagus, and does not rise usually .so high above the first rib as the right subclavian. Between the artery and the surface are structures like those on ^^^^ the right side, viz., the integuments with the platysina and deep parts; fascia,''and the sterno-mastoid, hyoid, and thyroid muscles. To the inner side are the tcsophagus and the thoracic duct, the latter arching forwards above this part of the artery ; and tlie pleura is in contact with the outer and posterior surfaces. Its relations lower in the chest are described in the dissection of the thorax (p. 468). Veins. The internal jugular and vertebral veins, as well as the vuins; beginning of the innominate, are in front of this ])art of the artery. iYerm? The pneunio-gastric nerve lies parallel to the ve.ssel i™|;'',i^^"' or instead of across it as on the right side; and the phrenic nerve crosses over it close to the scalenus. Accompanying the artery are the cardiac branches of the .sympathetic, which course along its inner side to the che.st. The second and third fcvrts of the artery and its brandies are u.^t of essentially the same as on the right side. Branches of the Subclavian. 1. The ccrtchnd artery^ is "enerally the first and largest branch of the subclavian, and arises „eck; from the ujiper and jiasterior jiart of the tnink. Ascending between the contiguous borders of the scalenus anticus and longus colli muscles, this branch enters the foramen in the transverse process of the sixth cervical vertebra, and is continued upwards to the .skull Ihrougli tlie foramina in the other cervical vertebroe. Before the artery enters itsaiierturc it lies behind the internal jugular vein, and iscro.ssed by the inferior thyroid artery (fig. 213). It is accompanied by branches of the sympathetic nerve, and supplies small muscular offsets. Its farther course and distribution will be given afterwards.