DISSKCTION OF THE BRATN. 772 inner or deep part. Optic tract arises from aiiterinr qundrige- iiiinal and external genicnlate bodies, and tlialamns. decussate in the lamina quadrigemina, above the aqueduct of Sylvius, with those of the opposite side. The inner filn-es of the fillet main- tain their deep position, and are continued upwards with the tegmentum to the cerebral hemisphere. The ORIGIN OF THE OPTIC TRACT Can now be seen (fig. 281). At the outer side of the crus cerebri the optic tract forms a bend (genu), and theii divides into two parts. Tlie inner and smaller of these springs from beneath the internal geniculate body ; while the outer is continned into the external geniculate body and the optic thalamus, receiving also the brachium of the anterior quadrigeminal body. The proper ^-isual fibres pass to the grey matter (1) of thepulvinar of the optic tlialamus (2) of the external geniculate body, and (3) of the anterior corpus quadrigeminnm. The fibres passing to the imI .Mf II. ii. Slip. hrncU Posterior I'oniniissure Pineal gland; nj^. hmch . sup. cpiati. b. inf. quac^. h. lanicL scmir. opt. Intel wiAr.perjz 3p. post.^cr^. sp. corp. alb. Irib.cin. op(;. U(rvc Fio 281.—Origin of the Optic Tract. The Mesencephalon is divided CLOSE ABOVE THE PoNS. internal geniculate body, the most posterior fibres of the tract (see p 728) are, apparently, not associated with vision. The POSTERIOR COMMISSURE (fig. 277, e) is the thin foremost part of the lamina quadrigemina, which is folded back so as to present a rounded margin in front towards the third ventricle, above he open- ing of the aqueduct of Sylvius (fig. 274, p. 757). On each side iofns the optic thalamus, and to its upper part the stalk of the pnicil body is attached. It consists mainly of decussating fibres con- tinnous with those of the fillet; but some are .said to be commis- sural, uniting the tegmentix of the two sides. The PINEAL BOD? (coiiarium ; fig. 274) is ovoidal m shape, like the cone of a pine, and about a quarter of an inch m length It lies with its base turned forwards in the groove between the anterior quadrigeminal bodies. It is surrounded by pia mater; a d blse is attached by a hollow white sUilk below to the ^ottllv commissure, and above t« the optic thalamus on each