DISSECTION OF THE LARYNX. 088 niul gliincls at Uio base: glands at tho side, and beneatli tip. Nerves from three sources: lingual of flfth. tNvelfth, and ninth. Arteries, veins, and lympliatics. The Ungual glands are raceino.se, similar to those of the lips and cheek, and are placed beneath the mucous membrane on the dorsum of the tongue behind the ciicumvallate papillaj. A few are found in front of the circumvallate papilliu, where they project into the muscular substance. Some of their ducts open on' the surface and others in the hollow.s around the circumvallate papilhe, or into the foramen csacum and the depressions of the crypts. Opposite the circumvallate papilltc, at the margin of the tongue, is a small cluster of mucous glands. Under the tip of the tongue, on each side of the frsBUum, is another elongated collection of the same kind of glands embedded in the muscular fibres, from which several ducts issue. Nerves. There are three nerves on the under surface of each half of the tongue, viz., the lingual of the fifth, the hypoglossal, and the glosso-pharyngeal (fig. 224, p. 624). The lingual nerve sends upwards filaments through the muscular substance to the mucous membrane of the anterior two-thirds of the tongue, and supplies the conical and fungiform papiUas. Accompanying this nerve are the lingual fibres of the chorda tympani. The hypoglossal nerve is spent in long slender offsets to the mus- cular substance of the tongue. The glossa-pharyngeal nerve di^'ides under the hyo-glossus into two branches. One turns to the dorsum, and ramifies in the mucous membrane behind the foramen caecum, - supplying also the circum- vallate papilbK. The other passes to the side of the tongue, and ends in branches for the mucous membrane, extending forwards to about the middle of the border. Vessels. The arteries are derived from the lingual of each side: the veins pass to the internal jugular trunk. The lymiiluiiics of the tongue for the most part pass backwards to the upper deep cervical glands, and have connected with them two or three small lingual glands on the outer surface of the hyo-glossus muscle ; but some descend to the submaxillary lymphatic glands. Section XV. General construc- tion of larynx. Dissection. DISSECTION OF THE LARYNX. The Larynx is the upper dilated part of the airtube, in which the voice is produced. It is constructed of several cartihiges united together by ligamentous bands ; of muscles for the movement of the cartilages ; and of vessels and nerves. The whole is lined by mucous membrane. Dissection. The tongue may be removed from the larynx by cutting through its root, but this is to be done without ijijuring the epiglottis.