DISSECTION OP THE BRAIN. 701 Vessels of the veUiiii ; arteries ; with veins (if Galeii. Dissection. Choroid plexuses of third ventricle. Third ventricle is near base of brain. Roof. Floor. Parts on the sides, in front and behind. at the anterior extremity of the velum interpositum, where they are similarly excluded iVoui the foramina of Monro by the epithelial lining.* Vessels of the velum. Small arteries have been already traced to the velum and the choroid plexus i'roni the cerebral and cerebellar arteries (pp. 720, 721 and 724). There are two main ones on each side, anterior and joosterior choroid, and they supplj' the sur- rounding cerebral sulistance. The veins of the choroid plexus receive branches from the ventricle, and end in the following:— Veins of Galen. Along the centre of the velum are placed two large veins Avith this name ; they begin at the foramen of Monro, by the union of branches from the corpus striatum and the choroid plexus. Lying side by side in the membrane, thej- are usually united into one at the posterior part of the velum ; and through this they pass out beneath the splenium of the corpus callosum and enter the straight sinus. Dissection. When the velum interpositiuu has been raised and thrown backwards, the third ventricle will be opened (fig. 277). In reflecting the velum the student must be careful not to detach the pineal body behind, which is surrounded Ijy the membrane and rests on the fore part of the anterior quadrigeminal bodies (fig. 277, g). On the under surface of the velum are seen the choroid plexuses of the third ventricle. The CHOROID PLEXUSES OF THE THIRD VENTRICLE are two short and narrow fringed bodies below the velum, which resemble the like structures in the lateral ventricle. The THIRD VENTRICLE Is the narrow interval between the optic thalami (fig. 277). Its situation is in the median plane of the cerebrum, l.)elow the level of the lateral ventricles, with which it comnnuiicates; and it reaches to the base of the brain. Its boundaries and communications are the following :— The roof is formed by the velum interpositum with the choroid plexuses, above which is the fornix. Tlie floor (fig. 274) is very oblique from beliind forwards, so that the depth of the wivity is about three-quarters of an inch in front and half as much behind : its hinder part is formed by the uuited tegmenta of the crura cerebri; and in front of these it corresponds with the parts at the base of the brain, Mdiich lie between the crura cerebri, viz., the posterior perforated space, the corpora albicantia, the tuber cinereum with the infundibulum, and the optic commi.ssure. On the sides of the cavity are situate the optic thalami and the anterior pillars of the fornix (fig. 274). In front of the space are the anterior com- missure and the lamina cinerea. Behind are the post<>rior com- mi.ssure and the pineal body. Cros,siug the centre of the ventricle, from one optic thalamus to the other, is a band of grey matter— the middle or soft commi.ssure ; and aire .should be t^aken that this is not torn through in exposing the ventricle. ♦ Particles of br-ain-.-^and, likotli.at in llie pineal body, are sometimes present in tlie choroid plexus.