THE IxNFKHIOK CERVICAI- GANGLION. r.39 internal to the superior iut.rcoBt.l artery. Oitent.mes it extends on^n^.k^^ in front of the neck of the rib, and joins the first ganglion ol he cord in the thorax. Its branches are similar to those ot the other '"'SSi branches ^om the last two cervical nerves. CHher B,.,>ci,es to nerves accompany the vertebral artery, forming the tertebml ple-cm nenes^aml around it, and communicating with tlie cervical nerves. ,,rt«y;' Onlv one branch for distribution, the uiferior cardiac nerve, issues ^^^'^"'^ from the lower ganglion. It lies beneath the subclavian artery, joining in that position the recurrent laryngeal nerve, and enters the thorax to terminate in the deep cardiac ple.xus behind the aich of the aorta. DiRKCTiONS. The student will now observe, so far as they are lelt, Directions, the structures in tlie upper opening of the thorax, and will then pro- ceed to the dissection of the orbit whilst the skull is whole, in the meantime carefully wra])ping up and treating with preservative the parts left in the neck. Parts in the upper aperture of the thorax (Hg. 171, p. 467). The relative position of the several parts entering or k-aving the thorax, thorax by the upper opening may be now observed. In the middle line lie the remains of the thymus gland, and the i.>;;ji''i'll<- trachea and tesophagus. In front of the trachea are the hiwer ends of the sterno-hyoid and sterno-thyroid muscles with layers of tlie cervical fascia, and the inferior thyroid veins ; and behind the gullet and windpipe are the longi colli muscles. Between the two tubes is the recurrent nerve on the left side. On each side the dome of tlie pleura and the apex of the lung on each project into the neck ; and in the interval between the pleura and ' the trachea and oesophagus, are jilaced the vessels and nerves passing between the thorax and the neck. Most anteriorly on both sides P^^t^y J;!'" lie the innominate vein, the plireiiic nerve, and the internal mam-^loth .wlcs, mary artery ; but the vessels and nerves next met with are different '^V^^^Pf^^^'y on the two .sides :—On the right side are the innominate artery, " "'" ' with the vagus, the cardiac nerves and tlie right lymphatic duct. On the left side are the left vagus, the left common carotid artery, the thoracic duct and the left subclavian artery with the cardiac nerves. Lastly, altogether behind on each side are part of the first dorsal nerve, the cord of the sympathetic, and the superior intercostal artery. Section X. a DISSKCTION OF THE OllBIT. Position. In the examination of this cavity the head is to be Positioii nf placed in the same position as for the dissection of the sinuses of the base of the skull. Dissection. The cotton-wool beneath the eyelids should be taken How to open 111 !■ • 1 1. C -1 -1 • 1 1 • ("""it away, and tlie hone loriuing the root ol tlie orbit mav oe removetl in witii .saw,