G91 DISSECTION OF THE LARTNX. and Ijroadtl). Form rlnring life; in easy respiration in forced inspiration in produc- tion of the voice. Muscles producing changes in glottis. Ventricle: situation. Pouch of larynx: form and position; sunounding parts. Dissection <jf vocal cord.s, interval measures nearly an iiidi from before bacltwarcls ; in th<: female, nearly a quarter of an inch less. Its breadtli at the base is about one-tliird of the length. The lenf{th of the glottis is increased by the stretching, and shortened by the relaxation of the vocal cords. In quiet, breathing the glottis has the triangular form seen after death, the space being slightly widened in inspii'ation, and narrowed in expiration. In forcible inspiration it becomes widely dilated, tlie vocal processes of the arytenoid cartilages being directed out- wards, and the aperture acquiring the form of a lozenge with the posterior angle truncated. The widest part is then opposite the junction of the vocal cords with the arytenoid cartilages, and its transverse measurement is about one half of the length. During vocalisation the cords and the vocal processes of the arytenoid cartilages are brought together, and the vocal glottis is reduced to a narrow chink, wliile the hinder part of the .space is closed by the meeting of the anterior borders of the arytenoid cartilages. The glottis is rendered longer, and the vocal cords are tightened by the crico-thyroid muscles ; the opposite effect is produced by the elasticity of the cords and the contraction of the thyro-arytenoid muscles' Widening of the glottis is effected by the posterior crico- arytenoid muscles ; and the cords and arytenoid cartilages are approximated by the thyro-arytenoid, lateral crico-arytenoid, and arytenoid muscles. The ventricle of the larynx (fig. 247, a) is best seen on the left side. It is the boat-shaped hollow between the vocal cords, the upper margin being concave, and the lower nearly straight. It is lined by the mucous membrane, and on the outer surface are the fibres of the thyro-arytenoid muscle. In its roof, towards the front, is the aperture of the laryngeal pouch. The laryngeal foucli or saccxdus laryngis (fig. 247, d), has been laid bare partly on the right side by the removal of the ala of the thyroid cartilage, but it will be opened in the subsequent dissection for the vocal cords. It is a small membranous sac, about half an inch long and rather conical in form, which projects upwards between the false vocal cord and the ala of the thyroid cartilage, reaching as high as the upper border of the latter. Its cavity communictites with the fore part of the ventricle by a somewhat narrow aperture. On the deep surface of the mucous lining are numerous smaU glands, tbe ducts of which open on the inside. Its outer side is covered by the thyro-epiglottidean muscle. The size and extent of the pouch vary greatly in different subjects. Dissection. The genend shape and position of the vocal cords are evident on the left half of the larynx, but to show more fully the nature of the lower cord, put the cut surfaces in contact, and detach on the right side the lateral crico-arytenoid muscle from its cartilages. Take away in like manner the thyro-arytenoid. raising it from beiore back. By the removal of the last muscle an elastic membrane, cnco-