737 STIIDCTURE OF MEDULLA OliLONnATA. The deep arciform fibres (h) are nioro mnucroiis, and arc seen over tlio uiul Uiiep. whole area of transverse sections except in the pyramid. Some of tlieni cinie to tlie surface on the inner side of, and through the olivary body, and join tlie superficial set. Others are deep in their whole extent, and pass out\yards into the restiforni body, and to the nuclei of the cuneate and slender finiiculi. Internally, the aroifonn fibres enter the raphe, through which they are continued to the opposite half of the bulb. The raj'hc (between h and /) occupies the median plane of the medulla Rnphi. oblongata above the decussation of the pyramids, and consi.sts of liljres running obliquely, longitudinally, and from before backwards, which are in part con- tinuous with the superficial and deep arciform libres, and in part aiuing from the nuclei in the lloor of the fourth ventricle. Furtimlio reticularis. In the dorsal portion of the medulla oblongata, Rclicular behind the pyramid and olivary body (/, and k), the longitudinal libres lormation. derived from "the anterior aiul lateral columns of the cord, decussating with the deep arciform libres, give rise to a structure that is known as the recticular formiition of the bulk In the part of the reticular formation behind the olivary body (t) interspersed grey matter containing nerve-cells is also present. OUvarii hodij (fig. 265, /). On removing a Ihiii slice from the 0'_|j™;'>' olivary body, it will be seen to consist of three parts, viz., an " ^" e.xtenial investment of white substance, a thin grey layer, the olivary nucleus, and a central white core. The outer white layer consists mainly of transverse libre.s, which ljulong to the superficial arciform group. The olivarii nucleus or corpus dcntatum is a thin plaited capsule its nucleus, or bag, having a zigzag outline in section. Towai'ds the surface and behind it is closed, but on the inner side it is open, forming a narrow neck, which is turned towards the raph^, and gives passage to the olivary peduncle. The central white matter fills the grey capsule, and is formed by the .spreading out of a tract of white fibres called the olivary and peduncle, which jiasses inwards through the opening in the nucleus P'^''""'^''^- to the rapli6. The fibres of the peduncle partly terminate in the cells of tlie corpus deiitatuni, and are partly continued through the grey layer to join the arciform fibres. Orel/ mailer of Ike mrduUa ahloiujata. The larger part of the grey matter Grey matter in the bulb is a continuation of that of the cord, but there are in addition some smaller independent masses. ProloiKjation iif ;/rei/ mailer of Ihc spinal cord. At the lower end of the prolonged medulla oblongata the central grey matter rcseinliles that in the spinal cord, but as it extends upwards it undergoes the following changes :— The anterior cornu is broken up by the iias.sage through it of the fibres of Clianges in tlio cro.ssed pyramidal tract, and the detached extremity of the horn is continued upwards in the lateral tract for some distance as the lateral nucleus. ' The posterior cornu is pushed outwards by the increasing development of in posterior the gracile and cuneate funiculi, and its extremity (caput), consisting of the born, substantia gelatiuosa of Kolando, becomes greatly enlarged and approaches the surface, giving rise to the funiculus and tubercle of Rolando (lig. 265, c). From the base of the horn, processes of the grey matter extend backwards into the slender and cuneate funiculi, and are known as the nuclei of those bodies. Tbey are largest in the neighbourhood of the lower end of the fourth ventricle, where they cause the swellings which have been described above as the clava and cuneate tubercle (p. 733). By the opening out of the posterior median fis.sure and central canal of the and in cord to form the fourth ventricle, the anterior portion of the grey commissure conmu.ssure. IJ.A. 3 15