DISSECTION OF THK LEG. 19G Dissection. The peroneal artery will now be completely exposed by cutting away the flexor longus hallucis as far as may be necessary. The PERONEAL ARTERY (fig. 74, (j) is often as large as the pos- terior tibial, and arises from that vessel aljoiit one inch from the beginning. It takes the fibula as its guide, and lying close to tliat bone in a fibrous canal between the origins of the fie.xor longus hallucis and tibialis posticus, reaches the lower part of the inter- osseous membrane. At this spot it sends forward.s a branch to the front of the leg (anterior ixroneal) ; and, as the •posterior jxroneal, i.* directed onwards behind the articulation between the tibia and fibula to the outer side of the heel Qi), where it terminates in l)ranches, which anastomose with ofi'sets of tlie tarsal and external plantar arteries. Two companion veins surround the artery ; and the nerve to the flexor hallucis lies on it generally. Branches. Besides the anterior jieroneal, it furnishes muscular, medullary, and communicating offsets. a. Muscular branches are distributed to the soleus, tibialis posticus, and flexor hallucis ; and some turn round the fibula to the long and short peroneal muscles, lying in grooves in the bone. 6. The medullary artery is smaller than that to the tibia, and is transmitted through the tibialis posticus to an aperture about the middle of the fibula. c. The anterior peroneal branch jjasses forward through an open- ing below the interosseous membrane, and is continued to the dorsiun and outer part of the foot (fig. 70, p. 183) ; on the front of the leg and foot it anastomoses with the external malleolar and tai-sal branches of the anterior tibial artery, and has already been exposed (p. 182). d. A communicating offset near the ankle joins in an arch with a similar branch of the posterior tibial. Peculiarities. The anterior branch of the peroneal may take the place of the anterior tibial artery on the dorsum of the foot. A compensating principle may be observed amongst the ai-teries of the foot, as in those of the hand, by which the deficiency in one is supplied by an enlarged offset of another. The POSTERIOR TIBIAL A^EINS begin at the inner side of the foot tibial veins: ]-,y ^he union of the plantar venae coniites : they ascend one on each side of the artery, and unite with tlie anterior tibial at the lower border of the popliteus to form the large jDopliteal vein. They receive the peroneal veins, and branches corresi^onding with the oli'sets of the artery : lu-anches connect them with the saphenous A-^eins. Posterior The POSTERIOR TIBIAL NERVE (fig. 74, a continuation of the tibial nerve: jjjternal popliteal (p. 129), reaches like the artery from the lower border of the popliteus muscle to the interval between the os calcis extent and the inner malleolus. While beneath the annular ligament, or somewhat higher than it, the nerve divides into the internal and external plantar branches of the foot, and reia- Its relations to .surrounding muscles are the same as those of the tjons; Peroneal artery: courses along fibula, beneath flexor hallucis ; termination; veins and nerve: branclie.s:— Muscular. Medullary to Hbula. Anterior peroneal to front of foot. Communi- cating. Substitu- tions. Posterior