426 DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. Uo&ne the muscles and the levator ani. Pyriformis origin in the pelvis ; insertion : relations with parts around; use as an external rotator of hip-joint. Obturator internus is bent over ischium; origin in the pelvis ; arching of its tendons over the hip-bone; insertion; relations of part in pelvic cavity; Coccygeus muscle. Dissection. Take away any fascia or areolar tissue which may remain on the muscles ; ami define their exit from the pelvis,—the l^yriformis passing through the great, and the obturator through the small sacro-sciatic foramen. On the right side the dissector may look to the attachment of the levator ani muscle to the pubic part of the hip-bone. The PYRIFORMIS MUSCLE is directed outwards through the great sacro-sciatic foramen to the great trochanter of the femur. The muscle has received its name from its form. In the pelvis the pyriformis arises by three slips from the second, third, and fourth pieces of the sacrum, between and e.xternul to tbe anterior sacral foramina ; as it passes from the pelvis, it takes origin also from the surface of the hip-bone forming the upper boundary of the large sciatic notch, and from the great sacro-sciatic ligament. From this origin the fibres converge to the tendon of insertion into the great trochanter of the femur. The anterior surface is in contact with the sacral plexus, with the sciatic and pudic branches of the internal iliac vessels, and with the rectum on the left side. The opposite surface rests on the sacrum, and is covered by the great gluteal muscle outside the pelvis. The upper border is near the hip-bone, the gluteal vessels and the superior gluteal nerve being between ; and the lower border is contiguous to the coccygeus muscle, the sciatic and pudic vessels and nerves intervening. Action. The pyriformis belongs to the group of external rotators of the hip-joint; and its use has been given with the description of the rest of the muscle in the dissection of the buttock (p. 117). The OBTURATOR INTERNUS MUSCLE has its origin in the pehds, and insertion at the great trochanter of the femur, lilce the preceding; but the part outside forms an acute angle with that inside the pelvis. The muscle arises by a broad fleshy attachment from the obturator membrane, except from a small part below, from the pehac fascia covering its surface, slightly from the bone anterior to the thjToid hole and from all the smooth inclined surface of the pelvis (fig. 139, p. 369) behind and above that aperture except oi^posite the small sacro-sciatic foramen where a thin layer of fat separates the fleshy fibres from the bone. The fibres are directed backwards and down- wards, and end in four or five tendinous pieces, which turn over the edge of the hip-bone corresponding with the small sciatic notch. Outside the pelvis the tendons blend into one, which receives the fibres of the gemelli and is inserted into the upper boi-der of the great trochanter of the femur. The muscle is in contact by one surface with the wall of the pelvis and the obturator membrane ; by the other surface ^vith the obturator part of the pelvic fascia, and towards its lower l>order with the pudic vessels and nerve. Action. The mnscle is chiefly an external rotator of the fenmr (p. 123). Coccygeus muscle. The position and the relations of this muscle may now be studied from within: it is described on p. 381.