DISSECTION OK THE ABDOMEN. 316 Ai"terie.s of large gut. Ileo-colic branch runs to Ciccum. Right colic braiicli sup- plies ascend- ing colon. Middle colic branch passes to transverse colon; number and aiTange- ment in arches. Superior mesenteric vein. Mesenteric gland.s ; lymphatics entering them. Me.so-colic glands. Di.ssection of inferior mesenteric artery, and vein : The brandies to tha large intestine are three in number, ileo-colic, right colic, and middle colic arteries. c. The ileo-colic artery (e) ari.ses from the right side of the trunk, and divides opposite the coscum into ascending and descending Lranches. The ascending branch supplies the csecuiu and the beginning of the ascending colon, and ana.?tomoses with the right colic artery ; while the descending branch joins in a loop with the termination of the mesenteric trunk, and distributes offsets to the lower end of the ileum. The ascending branch sends an artery {appendicular) behind the termination of the ileum, which enters the meso-appendix, and is distributed to the appendix. d. The right colic artery (d) is frequently conjoined at its origin with the preceding. Near the ascending colon it divides into ascending and descending branches, which anastomose with the ileo-colic artery on the one side, and with the middle colic on the other. e. The middle colic branch (c) springs from the upper part of the artery, and entering between the layers of the transverse maso- colon, divides into two branches ; the right one anastomoses with the artery to the ascending colon, and the left with the left colic branch of the inferior mesenteric artery (fig. 117, c). The intestinal twigs are united in arches before entering tlie gut, like those to the small intestine. The superior mesenteric vein (fig. 125, b, p. 334) is formed l)y the union of branches from the intestine corresponding to the offsets of the artery. The trunk passes beneath the pancreas on the right side of the artery, and there joins the splenic vein to form the vena poi-tJE. At the lower border of the pancreas it i-eceives the right gastro- epiploic branch from the stomach. The MESENTERIC LYMPHATIC GLANDS are Humerotis between the layers of the mesentery. An upper group lies by the side of the artery, and contains the largest glands ; and a lower group, near the intestine, is lodged in the intervascular spaces. The chyliferous vessels of the small intestine, and the absorbents of the part of the large intestine supplied by the superior mesenteric arterj', pass througli the mesenteric glands in their course to the thoracic duct. Along the side of the ascending and the transverse colon are a few other small lymphatic glands, meso-colic, which receive some absorb- ents of the large intestine. Dissection (fig. 1I7). By drawing the small intestine over to the right side, llie dissector will observe the inferior mesenteric artery on tlie front of the aorta, a little above the bifurcation. The peri- toneum should be removed from its surface, and the branches should be traced outwards to the remaining half of the large intes- tine ; a part of the artery enters the pelvis, but this will be dis- sected afterwards. On the arlerj and its branches the inferior mesenteric plexus of nerves ramifies, and should be preserved, especially near the origin of the vessel. The inferior mesenteric vein also is to be followed upwards