EXTERNAL LIGAMENTS OF KNEE. 213 and semimembranosus, are to lie followed to their insertion, a part of each being left. Articul.\tion of the Knee. The knee is the largest joint in Bones in tim the body, and is formed by tlie contiguous ends of the tibia and femur, and of the patella. The articular surfaces of tlie bones are covered with cartilage, and are maintained in a]iposition liy strong and numerous ligaments. The aqmile (fig. 80) is an ajioneurotic covering on the front of Cai)suie: the joint, which closes the wide intervals between the anterior and the lateral ligaments ; and it is derivetl from the fascia lafci united imw fonnwi, with filiroas offsets of the e.xten.sor and He.xor muscles. It covers FlO. 80.—E.XTEKNAL AsPECT OF THE Knee-.Joint (Bouiioeky). 1. Anterior ligament. 2. External lateral ligament. 3. Interossicous membrane. 4. Lower extremity of the ilio- tibial band of the fascia lata, forming part of the capsule. Fio. 81.—Internal Aspect op tee Knke-.Ioint (Bouroery). 1. Tendon of the extensor muscle, ending below in the ligament of the patella, 2. 3. Internal lateral ligament. 4. Inner part of the capsule. the anterior and the external lateral ligaments, being inserted below into the heads of the tibia and fibula ; and it blends on the inner arrange- side with the internal lateral ligament. It is separated from the synovial membrane by the anterior ligament and by fat. Dissection. Four additional ligaments, anterior and jiosterior, Theoxtemal internal and external lateral, are situate at opposite jiarts of the articulation. The jiosterior and the internal lateral ligaments will Todeiino appear on the removal of the areolar tis.sue from their surfaces ; but n,e„tf' the anterior and the external lateral are covered bv the ajioneurosis I'o^'v to on the front of the joint, and will not be laid bare'till this has been cut through. If there i.s a second external lateral band present, it IS not concealed by the aponeurosis. The external lateral ligament (fig. 80,is round and cord-like. External It IS attached to the tuberosity of the outer condyle of the femur, l^onTis"^"" small :