POSITION OF THE HEART. 455 from the fleshy ventricuhir part ; and on each surface there is a nnd intci-- loiigitudinal sulcus, usually occupied hy whitish fat along the line ^ of tlie coronary blood vessels, over the partition between the ventricles. The interventricular groove is nearer the left border of the heart in front, and nearer the right border behind. The auricles are two, right and left, and their wall is much Auricles: thinner than that of the ventricles. They are placed deeply at the position, base of the heart ; and each is jjrolonged forwards into a small tiipering part known as the auricular appendix or auricle proper, and append- so called from its resemblance to a dog's eai-. The ventricles reach unequal distances on the two aspects of the Vontricles: heart:—thus the right one forms the lower part of the thin right right, border, most of the anterior and a part of the inferior surfaces ; but and left the left enters alone into the apex, and constructs the left border, and the greater part of the inferior surface of the heart. Dissection. Before opening the heart, the coronary arteries Dissect {riyht and left) are to be dissected on the surface, with the veins vessels^and and small nerves that accompany them. The two arteries will be nerves, found surrounded by fat on the sides of the pulmonary artery, and run in the grooves on the surface of the heart, the right one being directed between the pulmonary artery and the right auricular append i.\ into the right auriculo-ventricular groove, and the left one between the pulmonary artery and the left auricular appendix into the left auriculo-ventricular groove. With each artery is a plexus of nerves, and that of the right side is to be followed upwards to the superficial cardiac ple.xus. In the groove between the left auricle and ventricle the student and eoro- will find the large coronary vein, which passes to the back of the heart to empty into the dilated coronary sinus ; and the last should be defined and followed to its ending in the right auricle (fig. 167). The CORONARY ARTERIES are the first branches of the aorta, and Two arteries supply the heart, one being distributed mainly on the right side, ",[^""'' and the other on the left. The riijht artery appears on the right side of the pulmonary right coro- trunk, and is directed backwards in the groove between the right auricle and ventricle, giving branches upwards and downwards to the walls of those chandjers. Two of these are larger than the rest; one {riyht marginal) runs on the anterior surface of the right ventricle near the free margin ; and the other (posterim- inter- ventricular) descends in the posterior interventricular furrow to the apex of the heart. A small branch is continued to the left side of the heart, lying in the hinder part of the left auriculo-ventricular groove. The left artery passes outwards behind the pulmonary trunk to and left the left side of that vessel, where it divides into two branches. Of = these, the anterior is the larger (the anterior interventricular), and de.scends on the front of the heart in the groove between the two ventricles to the apex ; while the posterior turns backwards between the left auricle and ventricle, giving left marginal and posterior ventricular branches. The branches of the two coronary arteries '"'asto-