232 Separate the bones to see interosseous ligiiments. Union of metutaraus and plia- langes, by two lateral ligaments, and inferior: syno\-ial sac. Form of bones. Kind of motion. Bending and extend state of ligaments: lateral motion; circular motion limited. Union of the I)lialang(!s. Synovial .sac. DISSECTION OF THE LEG. Dissection. All the superficial ligaments having been biken away, the interosseous ligaments of the tarsus and metatarsu-s mav be seen by separating forcibly the cuneiform bones from one another and from the cuboid, the latter Ijone from the navicular, and the bases ot the metatarsals from one another. Tlie di.ssector will find that, m using force, the bones will sometimes tear sooner than the ligaments. METATARSU.S WITH PHALANGES. These are condyloid joints, in which the head of the metatarsal bone is recei^•ed into the cavity 01 the phalanx. Each articulation has an inferior and two lateral liga-ments, ns in the hand ; and the joint is further strengthened above by an ex- pansion derived from the tendons of the extensors of the toes. A distinct synovial sac exists in eacli joint. Ill the articulation of the great toe there are two sesamoid bones which are connected with the inferior ligament. ' All these structures are better seen in the hand, where they are more distinct; and their anatomy has been more fully described with the di,ssection of that part. (See pp. 104 and 105.) Surfaces of hone. The metatarsal bone has a rounded head, wliich is longest from above down, and reaches farthest on the jjlautar surface. On the end of the phalanx is a cup-shaped cavity. Movement. In this condyloid joint, as in the hand,\here is angular motion in four different directions, with circumduction. Flexion and extension. When the joint is bent, the phalanx ■ passes imder the head of the metatarsal bone ; and when it is ex- tended, the phalanx moves liack bej ond a straight line with the metatarsal bone. A limit to flexion is set by the meeting of the bones, by the stretching of the upper part of the lateral ligaments, and bv the extensor tendon ; and to extension, liy the tightness of the inferior, and the lower part of each lateral ligament, and by the flexor tendons. Lateral movement. The phalanx passes from side to side across the end of the metatarsal bone. Its motion is checked by tlie lateral ligament of the side from which it moved, and by the contact with the other digits. Circumduction, or the re\'olving of the phalanx over the rounded head of the motatar.s;il bone, is least impeded in the great toe joint; but these movements in the foot are not so free as in the hand. Articulations of the phalanges. Tliere are two intei'pha- langeal joints to each toe, except the first Ligaments similar to those in the nietatir,so-pha]angeal joints, viz., two lateral and an inferior, are to be recognised in these articulations. The joint between the last two phalanges is least distinct; and oftentimes the small bones are immovably united by osseous sub- stance. These ligaments receive a more particular notice with the dis-section of the hand (p. 105). A simple synovial membrane exists in each phalangeal articulation.