489 INTERCOSTAL NERVES. Up])er six nerves. At first the nerves lie between the pleura and Cour.s(,. cic the external intercostal nuisule with an artery and vein ; but they "I'l'm "'". soon enter ]>etween the intercostal muscles, and extend forwards to the side of the sternum (p. 439). In their course they supjily branches to the nniacles of the thoracic wall, as well as to the levatores costarum and serrati muscles of the back, and cutiineous '^™"'''''^-'- offsets to the surface, which are described in the dissection of the upper limb (p. 13). There are some deviations in the first and second nerves from the Exceptions arrangement above specified. The first nerve ascends in front of the neck of the first rib. First nerve and enters the brachial plexus. Before it leaves the chest it S",',''bmchkl*' supplies to the first intercostal space a branch, which furnishes P'exiis. muscular offsets, and becomes cutaneous by the side of the sternum. There is not any lateral cutaneous ofi'set from thi,s branch, except when the second nerve is not as large as usual. The second nerve may extend a considerable way on the wall of Second the chest before entering between the intercostal muscles ; and it Irequently sends upwards a branch to join the first nerve. It is remarkable in having a very large lateral cutaneous branch, which we have seen described in tlie uj^per limb as the intercosto-humeral nerve. In front it ends like the others. The lower Jive nerves reseudjle the foregoing in their course and Lower Ave branches in the intercostal .spaces: their termination in the abdominal wall is described on p. 274. Upper surface of the diaphragm. The centre of the mtiscle Uppersur- is tendinous, and the circumference is fleshy. In contact with the diaphragm, upper surface are the lung with the pleura on each side, and the heart and pericardium in the middle : the phrenic vessels and Parts touch- nerves pierce this surface, external to the pericardium. In the diaphragm are the following apertures ;—one for the oesophagus Apertures and the pneumo-gastric nerves, a second for the vena cava, a third for the aorta with the thoracic duct and the large azygos vein, and a cleft on each side for the splanchnic nerves. Beneath it the sympathetic passes into the abdomen. Section III. LIGAMENTS OF THE TRUNK. The ligaments of the vertebrae, ribs, and sterniun are now to be Ariicuia- examined. lion.softhe ARTICULATION.S OF THE RIBS. Each rib is united to the spinal column at the one end, and to the costal cartilage at the other. Between it and the spine there are two synovial joints, and two sets of ligaments, viz., one between the head of the rib and the bodies of the vertebrte, and a second passing from the neck and tuberosity to the transverse processes of the vertebra;.