CHAPTER Y. DISSECTION OF THE PERINEUM. Section I. Before tlie dissection Ijnss catlie- ter. Place the body in position. and fasten npwaids tlie let's. Pass a staff. .Stitch np tlm scrotum The surface limits. PEHINEUM OF THE MALE. Directions. The perineum is allotted to the dissector of the cabdomen, and its examination is made during the first three days that tlie body is in the dissecting-room. Before the body is placed in the position suited for the dissection, the student should practise passing the catheter along the urethra. Position of the body. For the dissection of the perineum the body is fixed in the following manner :—While it lies on the back it is drawn down to the end of the dissecting table till the buttocks project slightly over the edge, and a block is placed beneath the pelvis to raise the perineum to a convenient height. The knees having been bent, the thighs are to be raised upon the trunk, and the limbs fastened with a cord in theii- bent position. For this purpose make one or two turns with the cord round one bent knee (say the right), carry the cord beneath the table, and, encircling the opposite limb in the .same manner, fasten it finally round the right knee. Further directions. When the position has been arranged, the student, standing on the left side of the body, should pass a well-oiled staff into the bladder. This should be done by holding the penis with the left hand and guiding the staff with the right. ^Y^len the point of the instrument passes below tlie pubic arch a resistance will be felt which is caused by the triangular ligament. The staff, with the head kept square and in the middle line, should then be depressed and passed on, but without force. If necessary, the student may guide the point through the urethra under the pubic arch by the left forefinger jjafssed into the rectum. The staff .should now be fixed in position, with the point in the bladder, by tieing the handle firmly over the front of the lower part of the abdomen to the cords on either side of the body. The scrotum should be drawn well up away from the perineum and fastened to the staff above the jjenis by a stitch pa-ssed through its extremity and tied round the stflff. A small quantity of tow should then be pa.ssed into the rectum, but not so as to distend it, and the anus neatly stitched up. Superficial limits and marking. The perineal space in the male is