279 SEMINAL TUBES OF TESTICLE. Fibrous coat: characters; Dissection. With the view of examining .^^'^^^^f JV^X "-t^-" coat let the testis be placed on its outer side, viz., that on which the „^ eSic -mis lies, and let it be fi.xed firmly in that pos.t.on with pm. te.t.s. The fibrous coat is to be cut through aloug the anterior part, and thrown backwards as far as the entrance of the blood-vessels. While raising this membrane a number of fine bands will be seen traversing the substance of the testicle, and a short septal piece (medias- tinum) may be perceived at the back of the viscus, where the vessels enter ; but it will be expedient to remove part of the mass of tubes from the interior (fig. 104), to bring more fully into view the mediastinum, and to trace back some of the finer septa to it. The tunica albiiginea, or the fibrous coat of the testicle, is of a bluish-white colour, and resembles in appearance the sclerotic coat of the eyeball. This mem- brane protects the secreting part of the testicle, and maintains the shape of the organ by its dense and unyielding struc- ture : it also sends inwards processes to support and separate the seminal tubes. These oflsets of the membrane appear in the dissection ; and one of them at the back of the testicle, which is larger than the rest, is the mediastinum. The mediastinum testis (corpus High- morianum, fig. 104, r,) projects into the gland for a third of an inch with the blooil-vessels. It is situate at the back of the testis, extending from the upper nearly to the lower end, and is rather larger and deeper above than below. It is formed of two pieces, which are united in front at an acute angle. To its I'ront and sides the finer septal processes are connected ; and in its interior are con- tained the blood-vessels behind, and a net- work of seminal ducts (rete testis) in front. Of the finer vrocesses of the tunica albuginea (fig. 104, h) -which and , 1.T ^ 1 T iTi« finer septa enter the testis, there are two kinds. One set, round and corct-ni%.e, bnt of different lengths, is attached posteriorly to the mediastinum, and serves to maintain the shape of the testis. The other set forms delicate membranous septa, which divide the mass of si iniual tubes into lobes, and join the mediastinum, like the rest. Within the tunica albuginea is a thin vascular layer, the tunica a vascular ° layer lines sends inwards processes, as the me- diastinum Fio. 103.— The Testis, with THE Tunica Vaginalis LAID OPEN. a. Testicle. h. Globus major of the epididymis. c. Corpus Morgagni. (I. Parietal part of the tunica vaginalis. e. Vessels of the spermatic cord. /. Vas deferens.