]25 ANATOMY OF THE POPLITEAL SPACE. the fascia ; and some offsets of the internal cutaneous nerve towards the inner side. After the subcutaneous fat is removed, the special fascia of the limb will be Ijrought into view. Fascia lata. Wliere this fascia covers the popliteal space it is Fasci.Kif strengthened by transvei'se fibres, particularly on the outer side ; o\'.gr tile and it is connected laterally with the teudons_ bounding that iiam. interval, l^e short saphenous vein perforates it opposite the knee, or a little lower down. Dissection (fig. 51, p. 126 ; also fig. 53, p. 131). The ftiscia Remove over the ham is now to be removed without injuring the small .sciatic nerve and accompanying arterj'^ and the short saphenous vein, which afe^close beneath it. A large quantity of fat may be next taken out of the space, but without injury to the several small i,'am. vessels and nerves in it. In cleaning the space the student will come upon the large inter- Seek the nal popliteal nerve in the middle, and the external popliteal on the th"spiice. outer side. Both nerves give branches ; and the numerous offsets i CI)nV,cfrr^ of the inner -will be recognised more certainly liy tracing them from '"f ' I E^ '<^ above downwards along tlie trimk of the nerve, -than by proceeding 1 in the opposite direction : in fat bodies the two small nerves horn the tt^ri ?C^CK»«>--vj • inner popliteal trunk to the knee-joint are difficult to find. Under L- cover of the outer boundary, and deep in the space, is an articular J'' nerve from the external popliteal. In the bottom of the space are the popliteal vessels, the vein clean the being more superficial than the artery. The student is to seek an • articular branch (superior) on each side, close above the condyle of the femur, and to clean numerous other branches of the vessels to the muscles around, especially to those of the calf. On the upper find obtu- part of the artery, the branch ofjierve from the obturataE_to_yie knee-joTiil is to 1 le fiSund ; and on~the sides of the artery are three and glands, or four lymphatic glands in the fat. The POPLITEAL SPACE, Or ham (fig. 51) is the hollow behind The ham: the knee : it allows of the free flexion of the joint, and contains the large ve.ssels of the limb. When dissected, this interval has the .situation form of a lozenge, and extends ujiwards along one-third of the ■ femixr, and downwards along one-sixth of the tibia ; but in the natural condition the muscles on the sides are approximated by the fascia of the limb, and the space is limited to the region immediately above the joint. This hollow is situate between the muscles on the back of the boundarie.'i. liml); and the lateral boundaries are therefore formed by the muscles of the thigh (hamstrings), and leg. Thus, on the outer side, is the outer biceps muscle (") as far as the joint, and the plantaris and the external head of the gastrocnemius (^) beyond that spot. On the and inner: inner side, as low as the articulation, are the semimemliranosus (■*) and semitendinosus(^) muscles with the gracilis and sartorius between them and the femur ; and below the joint is the inner head of the gastrocnemius Q). The upper point of the ham is formed by the limit above apposition of the inner and outer hamstrings ; and at the lower "'"^ '^^'"^^' point the heads of the gastrocnemius touch each other.