DISSECTION Ol<^ THE NECK. 712 covered surfaces, which correspond to as many synovial sacs. One surliice is on the I'ruiit of the process, and articiihiteH with the anterior arch of the atlas; the other is the floor of the groove behind the neck of the process, and is in contact with the transverse ligament. The posterior synovial sac is larger than the anterior. OcoiPiTO-ATLANTAL AHTicuLATioNS. A synovial joint is formed between the condyle of the occipital bone and the upper articular pro- cess of the atlas on each side. Surrounding the articulation is a capsular ligament of scattered fibres, which is strongest externally and in front. When the joint is opened, the elliptical articular sui'face of the condyle will be seen to be convex in all directions, and to look outwards as well as downwards. The articular cavity of the atlas has a corresponding direction, upwards and inwards, and is marked by a slight transverse groove, from which the cartilage is often wanting. Atlanto-axial articulations. Three synovial joints exist between the atlas and axis. The central articulation is between the anterior arch of the atlas and the odontoid process, and has already been exposed. The lateral articulations are formed on each side by the inferior articular j)rocess of the atlas and the upper articular surface of the axis. These are united by a loose capsule (fig. 251, p. 708), which is thickened so as to give rise to an accessory ligament at the inner and posterior aspect of the joint. The articular surface of the axis is somewhat convex, and is sloped downwards and outwards ; while that of the atlas presents a slight transverse ridge in the middle, so that the opposed surfaces are more extensively in contact when the atlas is turned to one side, than when it is placed symmetrically over the axis. Movements op the head. The head can be bent forwards— flexion, or backwards—extension ; it can be inclined towards the shoulder—lateral flexion; and it can be turned to either side— rotation. Flexion and extension take place in the joints between the atla.s and occipital bone ; and the range of movement is greater in the forward than in the backward direction. Flexion is limited mainly by the long occipito-axial and the check ligaments ; extension by the anterior occipito-atlautal ligament, and by the approximation of the occipital bone to the neural arch of the atlas. "When the head is moved more freely, flexion and extension of the cervical portion of the spine come into play. Lateral flexion is eflected mainly by movement between the placehf''"''' cervical vertebrce ; but a very slight degree may be due to move- ment having its seat in the occipito-atlautal articulations. Rotation takes place in the atlanto-axial articulations, the atlas and head moving together round the pivot formed by the odontoid process. The movement is stopped by the check ligamente. Less than half of the whole possible rot^ition of the head is obtained between the atlas and axis, the rest being made up in the neck. Stehno-claviculau AUTicuLATioN (fig. 256). The articular surfaces of the two bones ai'e not preci-sely adapted to each other, process, unci two synovial hacs. Occipito- ntlimtal articula- tions are conilyloid joints : articular surfaces. Between atlas and axis are a pivot-joint and two gliding joints: articular surfaces of latter. Movements of head, kinds of. Nodding movement: seat, extent; and checks. Inclination neck. Turning movement between atlas and axis; and in neck. Stonio- clavicular articulation