416 wliich is innierfect how formed; and nume- rous bands and cords to form a net- work. Vessels. Source of the arteries termination in venous spaces. Veins in two sets. Spongy material of the penis : its atructuro like caver- nous. Tlie Qbrous case. DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. cavity into two ; but as it readies forwards it becomes less strong and IS pierced by elongated apertures, which give it the appearance ot a comb from winch its name, septuvi pediniforme, is derived Ihrongh the lnter^'als in the septum the vessels in the corpora cavernosa communicate. It is formed by the circular fibres of the tibrous case. The cavernoics or trabecular structure is a network of fine threads winch fills the interior of the corpora cavernosa. Its proce.s.ses are thinner towards the centre than at the circumference; and the areolar space,s are larger in the middle and at the fore part of the contained cavity, than at the cir- cumference or in the crura of the penis. The spongy structure may be demonstrated by sections of the penis, after it has been distended with air and dried. Blood-vessels. The blood-vessels of the penis are of large size, and serve to nourish as well as to minister to the functions of the organ. Having entered the cavernous mass, they ramify in the trabecular structure. The arteries of the corpora cavernosa are ofisets of the pudic ; the chief branch (artery of the corpus cavernosum; p. 251) enters at the crus, and runs forwards through the middle of the cavernous structure, distri- buting ofisets ; and the rest, coming from the dorsal artery (p. 251), pierce the fibrous case along the dorsum of the penis. In the interior they divide into branches, which ramify in the trabeculse, becoming finer, until they terminate in very minute branches, which open into the intertrabe- cular venous spaces. By the distension of these spaces the erection of the corpora cavernosa is produced. The veins spring from the intertrabecular spaces, and some issue along the upper and under aspects of the penis to join the dorsal vein; but the principal trunks escape at the crus penis and pass to the pudic veins. CoRPDS SPONGIOSUM URETHR/E. This constituent part of the penis surrounds the urethra, but not equally on all sides ; for at the bulb only a thin stratum is above tlie canal, while at the glans penis (fig. 154, 1) the chief mass is placed above the urethral tube. Structure. The tissue of the corpus spongiosum is similar to that of the corpus wivernosum ; tlius it consists of a fibrous tunic enclosing a trabecular structure with blood-spaces. The fibrotis covering is less dense and strong than in the corpora cavernosa, and consists only of circular fibres. A septal jiitce Fio. 155.—Peotiniforji Septum of the Penis. a. Apertures in the partition. h. Separate fibrous processes like the teeth of a comb, which are formed by the circular fibres.