123 INTERNAL CIRCUMFLEX ARTERY. be found divided into four or five pieces as it turns over the ischium (lig. 50, h) ; at this spot the bone is covered wth cartilage, whicli forms ridges corresponding to the intervals between the tendinous slips, and the surfaces are lubricated by a synovial sac. There is sometimes another bursa lietween tlie tendon and the hip-joint. Action. The action of this muscle is in all respects the .same as use like that of the pyriformis (p. 118), although, as it acts at a greater i'^^'' mechanical advant<age, it is a much more powerful external rotator. The QUADUATUS FUMORis (fig. 48, g) is .situate between the Qimdratus inferior gemellus and the adductor magnus. Internally it arises '' from the outer Ijorder of the iscliial tuberosity for two inches, by the • side of the semimembranosus and adductor magnus (tig. 47, p. 113); externally it is inserted into an eminence on the posterior inter-inscrliou; trochanteric ridge of the femur (tubercle of the cpuulratns), and along a line on the upper end of that bone for about one inch and a half, aliovethe atUichment of the great adductor (tig. 61, p. 158). By one surface it is in contact with the sciatic vessels and nerves, parts over and the gluteus maximus. By the other it rests on the oliturator mid bonuutli it externus, the internal circumflex vessels, and its small nerve and ' vessels. Between its lower border and the adductor magnus the and at lower transverse branch of the internal circumtlex arteiy issues. Between • 1 it and the small trochanter is a bursa, which is also common to the / ujijier part of the adductor magnus. ( Action. The c|uaclijitusj|i^ from the foregoing muscles of the "se. same group m~being aTile tojotate the femur outwards when the hip-joint is bent, as well as in the extended position ; and it will Tissist'slightly m adducting the limb. Dissection (fig. 50). The quadratus and the gemelli mu.scles oivido mav now lie cut acro.ss, in order that their small nerve and artery, quadratus 1 ' T f 1 • 1 . 11 1 ^11" gemelli. the ending of the internal circumnex artery, and the oliturator externus may lie di.ssected out. The INTERNAL CIRCUMFLE.\ ARTERY (fig. 50) from the profunda internal femoris artery (p. 166) divides finally into two pieces. One arte"y" '''' {ascending) runs beneath the quadratus (in this position of the body) to the pit of the trochanter, where it anastomoses with the gluteid and sciatic arteries, and supplies the bone. The other ends in two {transverse) passes between the quadratus and adductor magnus ''™"<=''"''- to the hamstring muscles, and communicates with the perforating arteries. The OBTURATOR KXTERNU.s (fig. 50, l) will lie dissected at its Obturator origin in the front of the thigh. The part of the muscle now laid bare winds below the hiivioint, and ascends to be inserted into the i« inserted ., , , ,, , , ' into pit of pit at the root ol the trochanter. trochanter; On the back of the peh-is the obturator externus is covered by the relations; quadratus, except near the femur where it is exposed between that muscle and the inferior gemellus. Its deep surface is in contact with the capsule of the hip-joint and the neck of the femur. Action. Like the quadratus femoris, it rot<ites the femur out- use. wards in all positions of the limb : it is also to a slight extent an adductor and flexor of the hip-joint.