DISSECTION OF THE BACK. of the way along the iliac crest (fig. 1, a—g). The two flaps of dissecting table. The head is to be depressed and fastened with hooks so as to make tense the neck. Surface Anatomy. Before commencing the dissection of any part the student should examine the surface of the body so as to define the bony and other landmarks by which the surgeon or physician is guided in his practice. At the upper part of the neck, posteriorly, in the middle line wiU be felt the external protuberance of the occipital bone, and running outwards from this will be found the superior curved line of the same bone. Passing downiwards and outwards from this to the upper part of the shoulder is a ridge produced by the outer border of the trapezius muscle. At the lower part of the neck in the middle line the prominent .spine of the seventh cervical vertebra is readily found, and the spines of the one or two succeeding dorsal vertebrae. Below this the spines of the vertebrae can be felt as the fingers are passed down the furrow in the middle of the back, but the spines are much obscured by the strong ligaments which pass over and between them. The furrow is produced by the strong erector spinm muscles which run lougitudinally on either side. At the lower end of the back the series of spines can be traced on to the sacrum, at the lower part of which they disappear, and the coccyx is then felt bending forwards at the bottom of the furrow between the two sides of the buttock. At the side of the back the crest of the ilium runs outwards on either side, its highest part being on the same level as the spine of the fourth liunbar vertebra and its posterior superior spine lying at the bottom of a little depression opposite the second sacral sijine. The lower four or five ribs can be felt below the scapula, and it is to be remembered that the twelfth rib is often short, and its tip can, in those cases, only be made out by deep pressure at the outer border of the erector spinre muscle, two inches or so above the iliac crest. The upper angle, the vertebral border, the lower angle, the spine, and acromion process of the scapula, and the outer part of the clavicle should next lie made out, and the matter will be made easier if the limb be moved aliout during the examination. When the limb is placed down lieside the body the upper angle of the scapula is ojiposite the second intercostal space, the root of the spine is on a level with the spine of the third dorsal vertebra, and the lower angle is usually over the seventh intercostal space. Finally, running upwards to the upper liniTi from the side of the liody is the fold produced liy the latissimus dorsi muscle, which forms the posterior boundary of the armpit, or axilla. Dissection. The first step is to raise the skin in two flaps by means of the following incisions : (1) from the spine of the seventh cervicjil vertebra along the middle line to the lower end of the sacrum (fig. 1, a, b and c); (2) transversely outwards from the spine of the seventh cervical vertebra to the outer border of the acromion (fig. 1, A—e) ; (3) upwards and outwards from the hi-st dorsal spine along the posterior fold of the axilla to the upper limb (fig. 1, a—f) ; (4) outwards from the lower end of the median incision two-thirds