459 THE RIGHT AURICLE. coronary sinus. Other small aperture.s, named foramina of Thebesius, are scattered o^'er this surface ; some lead only into depressions ; but others are the mouths of veins of the substance of the lieart (smallest cai'diac veinis). """""est ^ . '. . veins. The chief apertures in the auricle are those of the two cavoe, situation of coronary sinus, and ventricle. The opening of the superior cava ''''™' is at the upper end of the auricle, and looks slightly forwards. The inferior cava enters the lowest part of the cavity at the back, close to the septum, and is directed inwards to the fossa ovalis. The auriculo-ventricular opening is the largest of all, and is situate of auricuio- at the lower and fore part of the cavity. Between this and the opef,™,"''" se^jtum is placed the opening of the coronary sinus. of coronary All the large vessels, except the superior cava, have some kind of sinus. valve. In front of the inferior cava is a thin fold of the lining "f clit6i fljjcr* membrane of the cavity, the Eustachian valve, which is only a tures: remnant of a much larger structure in the foetus. This fold is inferior semilunar in form, with its convex margin attached to the anterior Ei™tachian wall of the vein, and the other free in the cavity of the auricle. ™ive; The valve is wider than the vein opening ; and its surfaces are directed forwards and backwards : it is often cribriform. The aperture of the coronary sinus is covered by a thin fold of the one to coro- lining membrane, which is prolonged internally on to the Eustachian """^^ fold, and is known as the valve of Thebesius. The auriculo-ventri- cular opening will be seen, in examining the right ventricle, to be and one to pro\ ided with a tri-cu.spid valve, which prevents the blood flowing ventrtai'iar back into the auricle. opening. In the adult there is but one current of blood in the right auricle Course of towards the ventricle. But in the fuetu* there are two streams in aSi,.'"„ < the cavity ; one of pure, and the other of impure blood, which adult, cro.s.s one another in early life. The placental or pure blood, anti'» t''« entering by the inferior cava, is directed by the Eustachian valve into the left auricle, through the foramen ovale in the septum ; while tlie current of systemic or impure blood, coming in by the superior cava, flows downwards in front of the other to the right ventricle. Dissection. To see the cavity of ths right ventricle, tlie student To open should raise outwards a V-shaped Hap of the anterior wall of the virll'trid,. ventricle, as in fig. 169, the blunted apex of the V being below the ' ' root of the pulmonary artery, its upper border being parallel with, but about half an inch below, the auriculo-\'entriciilar groove and the lower border being well to tlie right of the inter-ventricular furrow, so as to avoid injuiy of the inter-ventricular septum. In the examination of the cavity of tlie right ventricle, both the flap and the apex of the heart should be raised with hoolcs or string, so that the space may be looked into from below. The CAVITY OF THE RIGHT VENTRICLE (fig. 169) is triangular in Cavity of form, with the base turned towards the auricle of the same side. ^'^tjJt'icie On a cross section it would appear semilunar in .shape, the .septum between the ventricles being convex towards the cavity. The apex of the cavity reaches the right border of the heart at Apex.