DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 370 partR cover ing it on two sides, beneath it; femur ; and a few liave a separate attachment to the femur below the small trochanter (fig. 61, p. 158). Above Poupart's ligament the muscle is covered by the iliac fascia ; and over the right iliacus are placed the cajcum and ascending colon, over the left, tlie sigmoid flexure : beneath it is the hip-bone. The inner niai-gin is overlapped by the psoas ; and the anterior crural nerve lies between the two. The relations of the united psoas and iliacus below Poupart's ligament are given with the dissection of the thigh (p. 167). Action. The iliacus raises tlie femur witli the psoas when the limb is moveable, and bends forwards the pelvis when the Umb is fixed. The psoas and iliacus may be regarded as two heads of one muscle —the iLio-PSOAS. The QDADRATDS LUMBORUM (fig. 138, g) is a short, flattened muscle between tlie pelvis and the last rib. About two inches wide below, it arises from the ilio-lumbar ligament, and from the iliac crest behind, and for an inch outside that baud (fig. 139); it generally receives in addition two or three slips from the transverse processes of the lower lumbar vertebrae. The fibres ascend to be inserted by distinct fleshy and tendinous slips into the apices of the transverse processes of the upper four lumbar vertebrae, and into the lower border of the last rib for a variable distance. This muscle is encased in a sheath derived from the fascia lumborum. Crossing the surface are branches of the lumbar plexus, together with the last dorsal nerve and its vessels. Behind the quadratus is the erector spinse muscle. Action. Both muscles keep straight the s2Jine (one muscle autagonising the other) ; and by fixing the last rib they aid in the more complete contraction of the diaphragm. One muscle will incline laterally the lumbar region of the spine to the same side, and depress the last rib. Fascia of the quadratus. Covering the surface of the quadratus is a thin membrane, derived from the hinder aponeurosis of the trans- versalis abdominis (anterior layer of the fascia lumborum), which passes in iront of the quadratus to be fixed to the tips and borders of the lumbar transverse processes, to the ilio-lumbar ligament below, and to the last rib above. A thickened band of this fascia i'orms the external arched ligament, to which the diaphragm is connected. Iliac fascia Iliac FASCIA. This fascia covers the double flexor of the hip- ilio-p^soas; joint, and is fixed to the bone on eacii side of the muscle. The attachments membrane is strongest ojjposite the pelvis, where it is attached below, (.Q j^ijg iijj^g gj,^gf. Q,j outer side, and to the brim of the cavity on the inner side : it receives a strong accession from the tendon of the and above, psoas parvus when that muscle is present. Over the U]i)3er part of the psoas it becomes thin, and is fixed on the one side to the lumbar vertebraj; while on the other it is blended with the fascia over the quadratus ; and above, it joins the internal arched ligament of the diaphragm. Its disposition at Poupart's ligament, and the part use to bend hip-joint. Quadratus lumborum; origin ; insertion: is contained in a sheath : use of both muscles, of one. Fascia of the quadratus.