DISSECTION OF THIS ABDOMEN. 312 lulestino • ^^'f relations (pp. 301 et seq.). The following processes pass between the large intestine and the abdominal wall :— meso-?oTon • V^^ transverse meso-colon ((ig. 114, m c) extends from the anterior ' or lower border of the pancreas to the transverse colon, to the left of the spot where the latter crosses the duodenum, and contains the middle colic, vessels. In the adult it is formed by a continuation of the layers of the great omentum, but in the fojtus it was a separate mesentery for the bowel. The upper end of the left colon has a distinct Md—phrenko-colic or costo-colic, fixing it to the wall of the abdomen. Attached by a wide end to the diaphragm opposite the tenth and eleventh ribs, it passes transversely inwards to the colon, and forms the lower boundary of a hollow in which the spleen rests. The pelvic meso-colon is a long process of the serous membrane, which attaches the loop of the intestine to the wall of the pelvis : it contains the sigmoid and superior hsemorrhoidal vessels In some bodies the ascending and descending colon are surrounded by peritoneum, which meets behind the gut and forms a fold the ascendiny or descending meso-colon, between the bowel and the abdominal wall. The csecum may also be provided with a similar fold {meso-ccecum) attaching it to the right iliac fossa. The meso-appendix will be seen by lifting up the cascum, and is a fold attached on the one hand to the vermiform appendix, and on the other to the adjacent part of the ctecum and the lower surface of the mesentery near the termination of the ileum. Small processes of the peritoneum are attached along the tube of the great intestine, chiefly to the transverse and pelvic colon ; they are the appendices epiplo'icce, and contain fat. Folds to the small intestine. The small intestine is not enveloped by the jperitoneum after the same manner throughout. For while the jejunum and ileum are attached to the abdominal wall bj' one process (mesentery), the duodenum has special relations -with the serous membrane. Serous covering of the duodemim. The first part of the duodenum has peritoneal relations like those of the stomach, but its posterior or left surface is only covered for a short distance hy the serous membrane. The second part is concealed in front by the converging layers of the transverse meso-colon. The third part, which crosse-s the aorta, is separated from the peritoneum in the middle line by the superior mesenteric vessels, but is covered in front bj^ the serous membrane on each side of them. The root of the mesentery comes off from the front of the fourth pai't, which is closely invested by peritoneum on the left side and partly in front. Fold of the jejunum and ileum. The mcseuteri/ supports the rest of the small intestine, and is stronger than any other piece of the serous membrane. Its hinder end is narrow, and is att^iched along the front of the spine and great vessels from the left side of the second lumbar vertebra to the right .sacro-iliac articulation (fig. Ill, p. 303; the attachment being shown by a line interrupted with short pliieiiico colic fold lielvic tueso-colou sometimes au ascend* ing or descending meso-colon or meso- ciecum. Meso- appendix. Appendices epiploieae Feritoneal covering of small intes- tine. Peritoneum on duode- num. Mesentery; form altncli- ments.