DISSECTION OK THE NECK. 588 of the subcliiviiin iirteiy ami its branches; Directions. Tlie Teniaining parts included in tliis section are llic !~caleui nuiscles and the subclavian blood-vessels, with tlie cervical nerves and the carotid blood-vessels. 'Tlie student may examine tliL'ui in the order here given. iJissocti.m Dissection (fig. 213). The sterno-mastoid is to be cut and the fat and fascia taken away from the lower part of tlie neck so as to prepare the scaleni muscles with the subclavian vessels and their branches. By means of a little dissection the anterior scalenus muscle ^iU be seen ascending from the first rib to the lower cervical vertebra;, having the phrenic nerve and subclavian vein in front of it, the latter crossing it near the rib. The part of the subclavian artery on the inner side of the scalenus is then to be cleaned, care being taken not only of its branches, but also of the branches of the sympathetic nerve which course over and along it from the neck to the chest. This dissec- tion will be facilitated by the removal of the inner part of the clavicle. All the branches of the artery are in general easily found, exce])t the siiperioi' intercostal, which is to be sought in the thorax in front of the neck of the first rib. On, or near, the branch (inferior thyroid) ascending behind the carotid sheath to the thyroid gland, is the middle cervical ganglion of the sympathetic; and the dissector should follow downwards from it a small cardiac nel-ve to tlie thorax. Only the origin and first part of the arterial branches can be now seen ; their termination is met with in other stages of -^he dissection. On the left.-side the student should seek the thoracic duct as it arches over the part of the subclavian artery internal to the scalenus ' muscle. If it is uninjected it looks like a vein, rather flattened, and smaller than a crow-quill; and it will be found about half an inch above the clavicle, crossing behind the internal jugular vein, and then bending downwards to end in the angle between the latter and the subclavian vein. The small right Ij'uiphatic duct at its entry into the veins in a '.corresponding position on the right side should also be found. The outer part of the subclavian artery having been already prejjared, let the dissector remove more conifiletely the filn-ous tissue from the nerves of the brachial plexus. From the plexus trace down the small branch to the subclavius muscle in front of the subclavian vessels, and the branches to the rhoudjoid and serratus muscles, which jjierce the middle scalenus. If it is thought necessary, the anterior scalenus may be cut through after the artery has been studied, of ei iviuai Clean the cervical ple.xus, beginning with the nerves at their lilfxus. emergence in the neck in front of the origins of the scalenus niedius and tracing them from this. Seek the muscular branches, the small twigs to join the de.scendeus cervicis from the hypo- glossal, and the roots of the phrenic nerve. Lastly, let the middle scalenus muscle be defined, as it lies beneath the cervical nerves. of tlioracic duct. Right lym- pliatic duct of bnicliial plexus ;