DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 29G Section III. Definition, and con- tents. Dissection to open abdomen. Is largest cavity in tlie body. Bonndaries above and below. In front and on .sides, and behind. Depth is altered by action of diaphragm and levatore.s ani, width by muscles in wall of abdomen. How excreta expelled. Division of space. Abdomen proi)er. Pelvis. Abdomen proper here described. CAVITY OP THE ABDOMEN. The abdominal cavity comprises the abdomen 'proper and the pelvis, and is the space included between the spinal column behind and the muscles stretching from the tliorax to the pelvis in front. It is lined by a serous membrane (peritoneum), and contains the digestive, urinary, and generative organs, with vessels and nerve.-5. Dissection. To prepare the cavitj' for examination, the remainder of the abdominal wall above the umbilicus is to be divided, along the left side of tlie linea alba, as far as the ensiform process. The resulting flaps may be thrown to the sides. Size and form. This cavity is the largest in the body. It is ovoidal in form, with the ends upwards and downwards, so that it measures more in the vertical than the transverse direction ; and it is much wider above than below. Boundaries. Above it is limited by the diaphragm, below by the recto-vesical fascia, the levatores ani muscles and by the other structures closing the outlet of the pelvis. Both these boundaries are concave towards the cavity, and are in part fleshy, so that the space will be diminished by their contraction and flattening. In front and on the sides the parietes are partly osseous and partly muscular ;—thus, towards the upper and lower limits is the bony framework of the skeleton, viz., the ribs in one direction and the pelvis in the other ; hnt between these the wall is formed by the broad muscles wliich have been examined already. Behind is placed the spinal column with the muscles contiguous to it, viz., the psoas and tlie quadratus lumborum. Alterations in size. The dimensions of the cavity are influenced by the varying conditions of the boundaries. Its depth is diminished by the contraction and descent of the diaphragm, and the contrac- tion and ascent of the levatores ani; and the cavitj"^ is restored to its former dimensions by the relaxation of those muscle.*. The widtli is lessened liy the contraction of the abdominal muscles ; but it is increased, during their relaxation, by the action of the diaphragm forcing outwards the viscera. The greatest diminution of the space is effected b_\' the simultaneous contraction of all the muscular boundaries, as in the expulsion of the excreta. Division of the space. As ah-eady intimated a division of the space has been made into the abdomen proper and the pelvis. The Abdomen Proper reaches from the diaphragm to tlie brim of the pelvis, and lodges nearly the whole of the alimentary tube and its ajipendages, togetlier with the kidneys. The Pelvis is situate l)elow the brim of the pelvis, and contains chiefly the generative and urinary organs. The following description concerns the part of the cavity between the diaphragm and the brim of the pelvis. After it has been