754 DISSECTION OF THE BRAIN. convolution running across its lioor from the cuneate lobe (C'«7i) to tlie back jiart of the fifth teiuporal or uncmate convolution (u). The back part of the uncinate convolution is commonly styled the , ^ linaual, and the small yyrus crossing the calcarine fissure is therefore Annoctant ' ,. '^'^ ... couvoUitioii. the cuneo-hngual annectant convolution. Tlie hiiypocampal or dentate fissure (h) is placed in front of the foregoing, at the inner margin of the lower portion of the hemi- sphere, and separates the uncinate, or hippocampal convolution (o) from the trenia hippocampi (th), which will be revealed by gently opening up the fissure. The fissure produces the hippocampu.s major in the descending cornu of the lateral ventricle, and its relations will be better seen when that body is examined. The collateral fissure {coll) represents the fourth temporal sulcus and gives rise to the collateral eminence in the lateral ventricle. It extends from near the posterior extremity of the hemisphere to the fore part of the temporal lobe, and is fretiuently broken up into two or three parts by cross gyri. The third temporal sulcus (it) is usually broken into two or three parts which run more or less parallel with the outer margin of the temporal lobe. The posterior extremity of the sulcus is sometimes prolonged on to tlie outer surface for a short distance. The callosal sulcus is the hollow between the upper surface of the corpus callosum and the lower surface of the callosal convolution {Gall). Convolutions. The marginal convolution (ii) occupies the space between the calloso-margiual sulcus and the border of the hemi- sphere. It is much subdivided, and at its posterior extremity a small portion is marked oft' by a short vertical furrow, and is Oval lobule, distinguished as the oval or paracentral lohulc {Ov.) The marginal convolution is continuous over the border of the hemisphere with the internal orbital and superior frontal convolutions, while the oval lobule is formed by the upper end of the ascending frontal and parietal convolutions. The callosal convolution (gyrus fornicatus ; Call) is narrower and simpler than the marginal. Beginning below the rostrum of the corpus callosum, this convolution follows the curve of that body, and turns downwards behind its posterior extremity to end m a tbni part which joins the uncinate convolution (u). It is bounded m the greater part of its extent by the calloso-marginal sulcus, but behind the spot where this furrow turns upwards it is continuous Ih tlie priucuneus, or quadrate lobule (q). Near its ending, it iniited below by the calcarine fissure. B.ttween it and the corpus callosum is the callosal sulcus. The prcecuneus or quadrate lobule (q) is placed between the end of the calloso-marginal sulcus and the parieto-occipital fissure. Much subdivided by secondary furrows, it reaches the margin ot the hemisphere above, where it is continuous with the superior ])arietal lobule ; it joins the callosal convolution below. The cuneate lobule (occipital lobule ; Cu7,) is triangular in shape, the base being formed by the margin of the hemisphere. In Iront Hippocam- pal flSSlU'U. The n.ssure produecs. Collateral li.ssiu-e. Third temporal sulcus. Callosal sulcus. Marginal convolu- tion. Convolu- tion of the corpus callosum. Wll is rnecunnus or Quadrate lobule. Cunoiile lobule.