THK fULMONAItV ARTEllY AND THK AOltTA. IL'S Behiiul it i.s tlie right bronchus. At the king the artery (livi(K into three lu-imary brandies, one for each lobe. Tlie left branch is directed in front of tlie de.scendiiig aortji and Left branch, the left bronchus to the fissure of the lung, where it end-s in two branches for the two lobes. As the right and left branches of the pulmonary artery pass .Spnci at tho outwards, they cross the two Ijronchi diverging from the end of the 'J''''"'™"'"'- trachea, and eiiclo.se with them a lozenge-shaped sjiace which contains some bronchial glands (fig. 1G3). Dudu, arteriosus (fig. 164). Near the bifurcation of the Ligament of pulmonary artery a fibrous cord, about the size of a crow-quill, "■''^'•i"' passes from the left brunch of the vessel to the arch of the aorta. ' ' This is the remnant of the ductus arteriosus of the ftetus, and is named the ligament of the arterial duct. In the foetus the right and left branches of the pubuonary artery AiiCTial are small, and the trunk is continued by the ductus arteriosus,'.''"^''" which opens into the aorta beyond the origin of the last great' branch (left subclavian) of the arch. The impure blood from the cour.so of superior vena; cavfe passes into tTie^Hght ventricle and thence '^'°''''- proceeds by the pulmonary artery, whereby most of it reaches the aorta through the arterial duct, below the attachment of the vessels of the head and neck, in order that it may be transmitted to the placenta to be purified. After birth, when the function of the lungs IS established, the great current of blood is directed along the branches of the pulmonary artery to the lungs, instead of through the arterial duct; and this tube, becoming gradually smaller °is occluded by the eighth or tenth day, and forms finally the ligament of the arterial duct. The AORTA (fig. 170, p. 466 ; and fig. 171, p. 467) is the great The aorta systemic vessel which conveys the arterial l)lood from the heart to the different parts of the body. It first ascends for a short distance and then arches backwards to reach the spinal column, along which ti.ron.o, It IS continued downwards through the chest and abdomen In the ^■'"'^^"■"1 thorax the ve.ssel is divided into three jmrts^the ascending aorta, tlie arch of the aorta,, and the descending thoracic aorla. The ASCENDING AORTA .springs from the left ventricle of the Aseendin-^ heart behind the left half of the sternum, on a level with the • ° lower border of the third costal cartilage. About two inches, or h.n„i„ a iftle more, in Iragth, it is directe.l upwards, with a sli-ht ^ ' inclmation to the right and forwards, and reaches to the inner end extent of the cartilage of the second rib on the right side. It is contained an,l ' nearly altogether in the pericardium, being surrounded by the same sheath of the serous membrane as the pulmonary trunk winch is at first superficial to it, but afterwards lies on its left side. Between the ascending aorta and the sternum are the anterior edge of the right lung, with the pleura, and some fatty tissue Behind it are the left auricle of the heart and the right branch of the pulmonary artery. On the right side is the descending cava Near the heart the vessel bulges opposite the llaps of the valve (sinuses of Valsalva; fig. 170). There is D.A. U H