738 DISSECTION OF THE BRAIN. and the bases of the anterior horns are exposed, constituting the grey layer in the floor of that oavitv. Speciiil s;it'y Special dc^iosita of gre;/ matter. Tliese are the olivary nucleus, which masses. ^^^g j„g(, |jgg,^ examined, some groujjs of nerve-cell.s at the back of the medulla oblongata forming nuclei of origin for several cranial nerves, which will be noticed in connection with the anatomy of the fourth ventricle, and a few small masses of grey substance of the front of the medulla beneath the superficial nrciform fibres. Pons Varolii. Poms: The TONS VAROLII is situate above the the medulla oblongata, and position, between the hemispbere.s of the cerebellum. In its natural position in the skull it lies below the opening in the tentorium cerebelli, sup. mei 'A.velu dorsal grey reticular J^ormatioii duncle rebcllam peduncle mid .peduncle deep traniuerse fibres pifraTnida.1 Jrtres' suprrjirial trausucrseJ*il)res. Fig. 260.—Diagram ok a Transvehsb Section thuotjgh the Lower Part OF THE Pons, showing its Chief Constituents. fOlTll, surfaces borders, aufl sides. It consists of ventral aud dorsal portions. Dissection to expose tlie Hbres. resting against the hinder part of the body of the sphenoid bone. It is nearly of a square shape, though it is rather wider from side to side, in which direction it measures about an inch and a half. The anterior surface is convex and prominent on each side, but marked along the middle line by a groove in which the basilar artery lies. By the opposite surface the pons forms the part of the floor of the fourth ventricle. The upper border is the longer, and arches over the crura cerebri. The lower border is nearly straight, and projects above the medulla oblongata. On each side the pons is continued into the middle peduncle of the cerebellum, and the fifth nerve issues through it on each side. Structure. The ventral or anterior half of the pons consists of transverse fibres which are in part of their extent divided into two layers by the prolongation upwards througli them of the fibres of the pyramids of the medulla oblongata. The dor.sal or posterior half is a continuation of the reticular formation, with the grey layer of the floor of the fourtii ventricle, from the medulla oblongata. Dissection. The superficial transverse fibres of the pons have