MUSCLES OF THE NOSE. 651 because it is most desirable to bave it as fresh as possible._ This will usually take Uvo days, and he will then proceed with the triaixdes of the lu-cd.-, and it is important that he shall have examined the brachial plexus, and worked up to page 599 at least, in order that the dissector of the upi.er limb may be free to remove his part at the end of the sixth day after turning the body. Position. The head is to be placed so that the side of the lace bein<T dissected is upwards, as far as the times of the students on the two sides will allow, and it is to be fixed in this position with hooks. . r IT Dissection. It is not easy to make a good dissection of the Dissection, muscles nerves and vessels of the face on one side, and the students are advised to arrange together to make out the muscles and nerves on the one side and the muscles and vessels on the other. ,1,1^. ' At the same time a good dissector can di.splay them all on the same side. As a preparatory step, the muscular fibres ot the other, apertures mav be made slightly tense by inserting a small quantity of tow or cotton wool between the eyelids and the eyeball, and between the lips and the teeth, and within the cheek. First lav bare the orbicularis palpebrarum muscle by making a How to^ skin-deep incision round the margin of the orbit, and raising the skin fiom skin of the lids towards the aperture of the eye (fig. 203, p. 553). eyeuas Much ciire must be taken in detaching the skin from the thin and jiale fibres of the orbicular muscle in the lids, as there is but little areolar tissue between the two. Next the integument is to be removed from the side of the face f™;;;"'^ by one incision in front of the ear from above the zygomatic arch ' prolonging down the incision already made in the scalp to the angle of the jaw, and another along the lower border of the jaw to the diin : a cut should also be made along the free margin of each lip from the centre to the angle of the mouth, and another round the edge of the nostril. The flap of skin is to be raised from behind forwards, and left adherent along the middle line. On the side of the nose the skin is closely unitc.l to the subjacent parts, and must be detached with caution. Around the mouth are ' the orbicular muscular fibres of the lips, and from this many lleshy slips extend both upwards and downwards, but they are all marked to cie^ji distinctly enough to escape injury, with the exception of the small around risorius muscle which goes from the corner of the mouth towards the ramus of the lower jaw. While removing the fat from the muscles, each fleshy slip may be tightened with hooks. The facial vessels and their branches will come into view as the Kacwl^ muscles are cleaned (fig. 204, p. 558); the branches of the facial ^^^''^ nerve will be seen passing forwards from the parotid gland (fig. 205, p. 562). Over the lower part of the parotid gland, near the angle of the jaw, the facial branches of the great auricular nerve will lie found. In front of the ear is the parotid gland, and its duct (which is on and parotid a level with the meatus auditorius, and pierces the middle of the ""^ • cheek) will be traced forwards.