THE GLOTTIS AND THE LAUTNGEAL I'OtTCIT. im Adiuii. This imisclt; draws downwards llie epiglottis and arytcnu- use. epiglottidean fold, and assists in closing llic u]iiicr apiTluri: of tliu larynx. Cavity op the larynx and farts inside. On looking into the interior of cavity of the larynx from above, the tube will be .seen to become Ti'ecavityis narrower from aljove downwards, owing to the projection inwards of two prominent folds on each side termed the vocal cords. The lower or true vocal cords are jilaced on a level with the bases of the ary- tenoid cartilages, and the slit-like interval between them is called the glottis. Below this the cavity enlarges again to the loivcr aperture of the larynx, where it is continued into the trachea. Ujjjjer aperture of the larynx (Hg. 233, N, p. 659). This is the orifice upper open- by which the larynx communicates with the pharynx. It is tri- angular in shape, with the base, which is formed by the epiglottis, form aiui turned forwards and upwards. The sides, which are sloped from before downwards and backwards, are formed by the aryteno-e])i- glottidean folds of the mucous membrane; and at the apex is the arytenoid muscle, with the upper ends of the arytenoid cartilages, covered by the mucous membrane. This aperture is closed by the tubercle of the epiglottis during deglutition. The lower aperture of the /ar//«a:, bounded by the lower edge of Lower open- the cricoid cartilage, is nearly circular in form, and of the same size as the interior of the cartilage. Bissection. To see tiie parts within tiie larynx, the tube is to be Dissection, divided by a median incision along the back; but in cutting through the arytenoid muscle, let the knife be carried a little to the right of the middle line, so as to avoid the nerves entering it. On the side wall of the larynx (fig. 247, p. GOo) there will now he Purls inside seen the projecting bands of the vocal cords separated by a depression '"''y"^- called the ventricle of the larynx (a). If a probe be passed into this hollow, it will enter a small pouch—sacculus laryngis (d), by an aperture at the upper and fore part, under cover of the .superior vocal cord. The (jlotti.1 or rima (jlottidis is the narrowest part of the laryngeal Glottis: cavity, and is placed on a level with the bases of the arytenoid position, cartilages. If the cut surfaces of the back of the larynx be placed forms and together, it will be seen to have the form of an elongated triangle, boundaries ; with the base turned backwards. It is bounded on the sides by the true vocal cords (u) in the anterior two-thirds of its extent, and by the aiytenoid cartilages (e) in the posterior third. In front, the right and left vocal cords meet at their attachment to the thyroid cartilage ; and behind, the base is formed by the arytenoid muscle. The portion of the slit between the vocal cords, being sui)division. alone concerned in the loroduction of the voice, is distinguished as the vocal glottis, while the part between the arytenoid cartilages is termed the respiratory glottis. The size of the glottis differs in the two sexes ; and its form Size and undergoes frequent changes during life, caused by the movements of the arytenoid cartilages and the vocal cords. In the male, the len^tli,