243 SUPKRFICTAL FASCIA OK ANTRRIOU HALK. Ibrwards in a sheatli of the obturator fascia, lying ))elo\v the pudic vessels. At the fore part of the ischio-rectal fossa it divides into cutaneous, muscular, and genital ottsets. Its two cutaneous branches (superficial perineal) may be seen on the riglit side, where they lie for a short distance in the fat of tlie hollow. The dorsal iwve of the penis accompanies the pudic artery along ^j!^,'] ^f'^jj^ the outer side of tlie iscliio-rectal lossa to the fore part of the peri- ,,eiiis. neuni. It is also enclosed in the obturator fascia, but is deeper than tlie blood-vessels. The PERINEAL BRANCH OF THE FOURTH SACRAL NERVE reaches f*^|^.jf|"J|j.j.„| the iscbio-rectal fo.ssa between the levator ani and coccygeus, or by nerve, piercing one of these muscles, near the coccyx, and ends by supplying the external sphincter. Tlie PERFORATING CUTANEOUS NERVE is an offset from the lowest Perfonitiii},' part of the sacral plexus, and is named from its piercing the great nerv"™""' sacro-sciatic ligament in its course to the perineum. Turning up- wards round the lower edge of the gluteus maxiraus, its branches are distributed to the .■<kin of the inner and lower part of the gluteal region. ANTERIOR HALF OF THE PERINEAL SPACE. In tlie anterior part of the perineal space are lodged the crura of Uretliral the penis, and the tube of the urethra as it courses from the interior ' ' ^ of the pelvis to the surface of the body. Placed midway between the mui senerai bones, the urethra is supported by the triangular ligament of the p°rts.°" perineum, and by its union with the penis. Muscles are collected around the urethra and the crura of the penis : most of these are superficial to, but one is within the triangular ligament. The vessels and nerves lie along the outer side, as in the posterior half, and send offsets inwards. Dissection (figs. 92 and 93). To raise the skin from the anterior J^'j^^^^y"!," half of the perineum, a transverse cut is to be made at the back of the skin, scrotum, and is to be continued for a short distance (tw-o inches) on each tiiigh. A second incision along the middle line from the one already made will allow the flap of skin to be reflected outwards. After tlie removal of the skin, the superficial fascia which covers Blow up the front of the perineal space should be blown up by means of a fasd!/,'a'n.l pipe attached to an ordinary cycle infiating pump or a pair of bellows, '''""•t it- introduced beneatli it posteriorly. Each side should be gently inflated separately to demonstrate the fact that there is a partition along the middle line. It will be seen that the air does not pass from the perineal space into tlic thigh, sliowing that tlie fascia is attached to the bony inai-gins of the space. ^ The student is next to cut through the superficial fascia on the left side of the scrotum to the ischio-rectal fossa; and after reflecting it, and removing loose fatty tissue, its line of attachment to the bone externally, and to tiie triangular ligament po.steriorly, will be brriught into view. The septum along the middle line should be also defined. R 2