THE NERVES AND VESSELS OF THE l,AIiVNX. Nkhves. 'J'lic iiur\X'.s (if llic liu-yiix iiru llic suiierior and iiifei iur Ncivi's miv hiryiigeal brandies lA' llio pneuiiio-.i^asti'ic; : tliu Inrmcris ilistributccl f'"'" ^'"K'"*- to thc! imicous memln'aiic;, and llie latter mostly to tin; niusclus. The inferior lunjmjcal nerve (recurrent), when about to enter the ReciiiTeiit larynx, t'lunislies backwards an ofl'set to the mucous membrane of'""'™ the pharynx ; this joins lilanients of the upper laryngeal. The nerve passes finally beneath the ala of the thyroid cartilage, and suppiicB ends in branclie.s for all the special muscles of the hirynx, except JJ|,'',"cu.!f the crico-thyroid. Its small muscular branches are mostly super-exceiii one. ficial, but that to the arytenoid muscle lies beneath the ]iosterior crico-arytenoid. Beneath the thyroid cartilage the inferior is joined by a loni; oH'set of the upper laryngeal nerve. The superior laryngeal nerre (internal division) pierces the thyro- Suijuiior hyoid membrane, and gives offsets to the mucous membrane of the ]".n'('f'"'' pharynx ; it furnishes also a long branch beneath the ala of the thyroid cartilage to communicate with the recurrent nerve. The joins recur, trunk terminates in many branches for the supply of the mucous membrane :—Some of these ascend in the aryteno-epiglottidean fold to the epiglottis, and the root of the tongue. The others, which are and emls in the largest, descend on the inner side of the sacculus, and supply ""mbnuif. the lining membrane of the larynx a.s low a.s the true vocal cords. One branch of this set pierces the arytenoid muscle, and ends in the mucous membrane. The external branch of the superior laryngeal nerve has previously External been traced to the crico-thyroid muscle (p. (334). laryngeal Vessels. The arteries of the larynx are furnished from the Arteries: superior and inferior thyroid branches. The laryngeal branch of the superior thyroid artery enters thc superior larynx with the superior laryngeal nerve, and divides into ascending JvoJjl'"™' and descending branches ; some of these enter the muscles, but the sujjeriiir rest supply the epiglottis, and the mucous membrane from the root ' of the tongue to the vocal cord. Like the nerves, the two laryngeal arteries coniniunicate beneath the ala of the thyroid cartilage, and in the nuicous membrane of the pharynx. The laryngeal branch of the inferior thyroid artery ascends on the iuftuior back of the cricoid cartilage, and ends in the mucous membrane of Inim'iTfcrior the pharynx and the posterior muscles of the larynx. tliyroiil; Some other twigs i'rom the crico-thyroid branch of the superior from crico- thyroid artery perforate the crico-thyroid membrane, and ramify in arlev'-'^ the mucous lining of the interior of the larynx at the lower part. '^'^ Laryngeal veins. The vein accompanying the l)ranch of the Veins, superior thyroid artery joins the internal jugular or the superior thyroid vein, and the vein with the artery from the inferior thyroid opens into the plexu.s of the inferior thyroid veins. The lymphatics of the larynx pass to the dee)) cervical glands. Lymi.iia. lies.