THE QUADHICBPS KXTBKSOR CRURIS. 155 Tlie SUPERFICIAL FEMORAL VEIN Corresponds closely with the Supeinciai femonil artery in it.s relations and its branches. win"™' Dissection. The superficial femoral artery and vein are to be To expose cut across just below the origin of the profunda, and are to be of th'o thrown downwards preparatory to the deeper dissection. After- femur. ^\•ards all the fat, and all the veins, are to be carefully removed from amongst the branches of the profunda artery and anterior crural uerve. Unless this dissection is fully carried out, the npj)er l^art of the vastus internus and crureus •will not be prepared for examination. The TENSOR FASCIiE FEMORIS S. FASCI.E LAT^ (fig. 62, L, p. 165) Tensor occupies the upper third of the thigh. It takes oriyin from the femoris front of the crest of the ilium at the outer aspect, from the anterior arises from superior spine and from the edge of the notch between thi.s and the i''^'^ '": inferior spine as far as the attachment of the sartorius (fig. 4 7, p. 113). Its fibres form a fleshy belly about two inches wide, and are inserted into the ilio-tibial band of the fascia lata about three inches below, umU in and rather in front of the line of, the great trochanter of the femur. '^'^^"'^■ At its origin the muscle is situate between the sartorius and parts the gluteus medius. Beneath it are the ascending ofl'sets of the ex- ' tcrnal circumflex artery; and a branch of the superior gluteal nen'e enters its under surface. A strong sheath of fascia surrounds the muscle. Action. Supposing the limb moveable the muscle abducts the use on thigh, and may help in rotating inwards the femur. When the limb is fixed it will support the pelvis, and assist in on pelvis; balancing the latter on the femur in walking. The chief function of the tensor vaginae femoris is, however, to on knee, act with the gluteus maximus in tightening the ilio-tibial band so as to support the extended knee. Dissection. After the tensor has been learnt, the slip of fascia Cut through extending from it to the knee may be cut through ; and when it is fascK^I'"' detached from the muscles around, the rectus may be followed upwards to its origin from the pelvis. The QUADRICEPS EXTENSOR CRURIS COnsists of four parts or Gre.it exteu- heads, one long or superficial {rectus), which springs from the pelvis, and three short or deep {vastus internus, crureus, and vastus extenius) which arise from the femur : all are united below in a common tendon. The RECTUS FEMORIS (fig. 59, '3) gives rise to a fleshy promi- Rectus im.s nence on the front of the thigh. It arises from the pelvis by two ori'Mi'i^at tendhious heads ; one, the anterior, is attached to the anterior pelvis; inferior iliac spine ; and the other, posterior, is fixed to a rough mark on the outer surface of the ilium close above the acetabulum 47, p. 11.3) : near their origin they join to form a single tendon, insertion The fleshy fil.res terminate below in another tendon, which joins the !'"° ^""V aponeuroses of tlie other muscles m the common tendon. The rectus is larger in the middle than at the ends ; and its fibres '^''pennf'* are directed from the centre to the sides, giving rise to the condition 'o"''"> aid caUed penniform. Its upper end is covered by the tensor fascire except""' above.