5-1 DISSECTION OF THE FOREARM. Brandies. Iiiteiiial cutaneous branch. Two exter- nal cuta- neous. Branches to the triceps, OllHTFR-i ulnar collateral illlU aii- coueus, bracliialis anticus and muscles of forearm. Directions. posterior interosseous nerves (fig. 37,^ and ^). The bracliialis anticus and suijinator longiis muscles are sometimes partly blended, and it may be necessary in such ca,ses to cut through some muscular fibres to fully expose the last part of the nerve. The nerve gives muscular branches and cutaneous offsets to the inner .and outer sides of the limb. a. The internal cidaneotis branch of the arm (fig. 20/' also fig. 15, p. 39) is of .small size, and arises in the axillary .space in common with the branch to the inner head of the triceps; it i.s directed acro.ss the posterior boundary of the axilla to the inner side of the arm, where it becomes cutaneous in the upjaer third, and is distributed as before said (p. 43). 6. The external cutaneous brandies, springing at the outer side of the limb, are two in number; they are distributed in the integiunents of the arm and forearm (pp. 42 and 57). c. The m uscular branches to the triceps are numerous, and supply all three heads. One slender offset (often called the ulnar collateral branch), for the inner head arises in common with the internal cutaneous branch, and descends close to the ulnar nerve to enter the. muscular fibres at the lower third of the arm. Another long and slender branch behiiid the humerus, appearing as if it ended in the triceps, can be followed downwards to the anconeus muscle. d. On the outer side of the limb the musculo-spiral nerve supplies the brachialis anticus in part, and two muscles of the forearm, viz., supinator longus and extensor carpi radialis longior. Directions. As the dissection of the arm has been completed as far as the elbow, it will be advisable to keep moist the shoulder- joint until it is examined with the other ligaments. Section IV. THE FRONT OF THE FOREARM. Position of Position. The limb is to be placed with the palm of the hand the limb. uppermost; and the marking of the surface and the projections of bone are first to be noted. Surface of Surface-marking. On the anterior aspect of the forearm are two the forearm, jj^^gral depressions, corresponding with the position of the niain vessels. The external is placed over the radial artery, and inclines towards the middle of the limb as it approaches the elbow. The internal groove is evident only below the nuddle of the forearm, and points out the place of the ulnar artery. Bony pro- The bones (radius and ulna) are sutiiciently near the surface to joctions. ^^.^^^^y ^ijyjj, ^yjjQie |e„gtij . each ends below in a point on either side of the wrist—the styloid process ; and that of the radius is the lower. A transverse line separates the forearm from the Line of the hand, and the articulation of the wrist is about three-quartei-s of an wrist-joint. j^j^,, ^i^yyg 1