DISSECTION OF FRONT OF FOREARM. 66 posterior reciment, interos- seous, carpal, and meta- carpal. quently arises in common with the next, and ascends on the brachialis anticus muscle, to join the branch of the anastomotic artery beneath the pronator teres. It gives offsets to tlie contiguous muscles. 6. The posterior ulnar recurrent branch (d), of larger size than the anterior, is directed beneath the flexor sublimis muscle to the interval between the inner condyle and the olecranon. There it passes with the ulnar nerve between the attachments of the flexor carpi ulnaris, and joins the ramifications of the inferior profunda and anastomotic arteries on the inner .side of the elbow-joint. Some of its offsets enter the muscles, and others supply the articulation and the nlnar nerve. c. The interosseous artery is a short thick trunk, which is directed backwards towards the interosseous membrane, and divides into anterior and jDosterior branches, which will be afterwards followed. d. The carpal branches (anterior and posterior) ramify on the front and back of the carpus, on which they anastomose with corresponding offsets of the radial artery, and form arches across the wrist. e. The metacarpal branch arises from the artery near the lower end of the ulna, and runs along the metacarpal bone of the little finger, of which it is the inner dorsal branch. The origin and course may vary. Peculiarities of the ulnar artery. The origin of the artery may be trans- ferred to any point of the main vessel in the arm or axilla. In one instance R. Quain found the ulnar artery arising between two and three inches below the elbow. When it begins higher than usual, it is generally superficial to the flexor muscles at the bend of the elbow, but beneath the aponeurosis of the forearm, thougli sometimes it is subcutaneous with the supei ficial veins. Ulnar nerve in the fore- arm. Its branches are to elbow- joint ; to two muscles of forearm ; cutaneous branch ofi palm of hand : The ULNAR NERVE (fig. 26, '■) enters the forearm between the attachments of the flexor carpi ulnaris to the olecranon and inner condyle of the humerus. Under cover of that muscle the nerve reaches the ulnar artery somewhat above the middle (in length) of the forearm, and is continued on the inner side of the vessel to the hand. On the annular ligament the nerve is rather deeper than the artery. It gives ofl" the following branches :— a. Articular nerves. In the interval between the olecranon and the inner condyle, slender filaments are furnished to the joint. &. Muscular branches arise from the nerve near the ell>ow, and supply the flexor carpi ulnaris and the inner half of the flexor profundus digitorum. c. Cutaneous nerve of the foreaim and haiid (fig. 15, ]\ 39). A small palmar branch (•') arises about the middle of the forearm, and descends on the ulnar artery, sending twigs around (hat vessel, to end in the integuments of the palm of the hand ; sometimes a cutaneous offset perforates the aponeurosis near the wrist, and joins the internal cutaneous nerve.