8U DISSECTION OF THE EAR. to otic gnnylion. Nerves for the muscles. Clionia tyinpiiiii crosses cavity. Brancli of vagus to tlie outer ear. bone, to end in the otic gcanglion, and eventually, in great part, to enter the auriculo-temijoral nerve and be distributed to the parotid gland. Nerves to Mdscles. The tensor tympani muscle is supplied by a branch from the otic ganglion (fig. 300, ; and the stapedius receives an ofl'shoot from the facial trunk. The CHORDA TYMPANI (fig. 300, is a branch of the facial nerve. Entering the cavity behind, it crosses the membrana tympani, lying on the inner side of the handle of the malleus, and issues from the space by an aperture internal to the Glaserian fissure ; it joins the lingual nerve, and its farther course to the tongue is described at p. 688. The AURICULAR BRANCH OP THE VAGUS, though not a nerve of the tympanum, may now be traced in the softened bone. Arising in the jugular fossa (p. 633), the nerve enters the special canal, and crosses through the substance of the temporal bone to the back of the ear. Labyrinth formed of osseous and mem- branous parts. Constitu- ents of the osseous part. Vestibule; dissection to see it; form and dimensions apertures before and behind ; in outer wall; INTERNAL EAR OR LABYRINTH. The inner portion of the organ of hearing consists of a complex chamber surrounded by dense bone, within which are included sacs containing fluid, for the terminal expansion of the auditory nerve. The Osseous Labyrinth comprises the vestibule, the semi- circular canals, and the cochlea: in the macerated bone these communicate externally with the tympanum, and internally through the meatus auditorius internus with the cranial cavity. The vestibule (tig. 301), or the central cavity of the osseous labyrinth, is placed behind the cochlea, but in front of the semi- circular canals. Dissection. This space may be seen on the dry bone which has been used for the preijaration of the tympanum. The bone is to be sawn through vertically close to the inner wall of the tympanum, so as to lay bare the fenestra ovalis leading into the vestibule. B}' enlarging the fenestra ovalis a verj' little in a direction upwards and forwards, the vestibvilar space will appear ; and the end of the superior semicircular canal will be o^jened. Other views of the cavity may be obtained by sections of the temporal bone in dift'erent directions, according to the opportunities and skill of the dissector. The vestibular space (fig. 301) is ovoidal in form, and the ex- tremities are directed forwards and backwards. The larger end is turned back, and the under-part or floor is more narrowed than the upper part or roof. It measures about one-fifth of an inch in length; but it is narrower from witliout inwards. The following objects are to be noted on the boundaries of the space. In front, close to the outer wall, is a large aperture (g) leading into the cochlea; and behind are five round openings of the three semicircular canals {d, e,f). The outer wall corresponds with the tympanum, and in it is the aperture of the fenestra ovalis. On the inner wall, nearer the front