THE ROOT OF THE LUNG. at the inner surface, about midway between the base and apex, and about a third of the way from the posterior to the anterior border of the lung. In front of the root on both sides are the phrenic and the relations, anterior puhnonary ple.xiis of nerves, the phremc nerve being some little distance from it upon the side of the pericardium. Anterior to the root of the right lung also is the superior vena cava. Behind on both sides is the posterior jjulmonary plexus ; and on the left side there is, in addition, the descending aorta. Above, on the right side, is the great azygos vein ; and on the left side, the arch of the aorta. Below each root is the fold of pleura called the ligamentum latum pulmonis. In the root of the lung are collected a branch of the pulmonary consti- artery, two iiulmonary veins, and a division of the air tube tJJg'J.o^ot'^. (bronchus), as well as small nutritive bronchial arteries and veins, and some nerves and lymphatics. The large vessels and the air tube have the following positions to one another :— On both sides the bronchus is on a posterior jjlane, and the their rela- pulmonary veins are lowest down on the most anterior plane, and tSong^P^'" the pulmonary artery is intermediate. On the right side the uppermost branch of the bronchus occupies the highest place, and the remainder of the bronchus is directed downwards and outwards behind the blood vessels, the pulmonary artery is next highest and the veins are lowest down. On the left side the differences pulmonary artery occupies the highest place with the veins below ^^J'^^ it, within its concavity, and being anterior to the artery at their emergence from the lung ; the bronchus is directed downwai'ds and outwards behind the vessels, and is intermediate in level. This difference in the two sides is accounted for by the fact that the bronchus of the right side gives off its branch to the upper lobe of the lung before it is crossed by the artery ; while on the left side there is no corresponding branch of the airtube, and the artery crosses the undivided bronchial stem. THE PERICARDIUM. The bag containing the heart is named the pericardium. It is Pericar. situate in the middle of the thorax, in the interval between the two pleura;. Dissection, The surface of the pericardium should now be clean ve.s- cleaned, and the student should dissect out the large vessels above ''"^'^ ofl'^art- the heart, and trace the nerves (fig. 161, p. 444). In cleaning the fibrous pericardium it will be noticed that bands connect it with the back of the upper and lower portions of the sternum still remaining—the superior and inferior sterno-pericardial ligaments. The large artery curving to the left above the pericardium is the First aorta, aorta, which furnishes three trunks to the head and the upper limbs, viz., from right to left, the innominate, the left common