G DISSECTION OF THE RACK. reliitions; action; in rotation of boiip. Division of the trapezius: inner jiart rellected ; outer part reHected. Spinal accessory nerve in trapezius. Clean parts beneath: beneath thi' clavicle; of the spine ol' tlie scapula as far as an inch from the root of tliat process, as well as into a rough prominence on the lower margin of the spine near the inner end (tig. 12, p. 32). The muscle is subcutaneous. The lowest fleshy fibres end in a small triangular tendon, whicli glides over the smooth surface at the root of the spine of the scapula. The upper edge forms the hinder boundary of the posterior triangular space of the neck. By its insertion the trapezius corresponds with the origin of the deltoid muscle, which covers the shoulder. Action. If all the fibres of the muscle act, the scapula gliding on the ribs is moved upwards and towards the spinal column ; but the upper fibres can assist other muscles in elevating, and the lower fibres will help in depressing that bone. When the scapula is prevented from gliding on the ribs, the trapezius imparts a rotatory movement to it by raising the acromion, and thereby assists in raising the arm above the horizontal when it has been brought up to that position away from the body bj' other muscles. Dissection, The dissectors of the head and neck and upper limb will now in their different parts divide the trapezius miLscle vertically about two inches from its vertebral attachment, and the parts will be reflected inwards and outwards respectively. The inner portion is thin, and after it has been turned up the liganientum nuchas from which it arises in the middle line of the neck will be brouglit into view. The LIGAMENTDM NUCH^ is a fibrous band, which extends from the spinous process of the seventh cervical vertebra to the external occipital protuberance. From its deep surface a thin lamina of filires is sent forwards to be attached to the external occipital crest and to the spines of the cervical vertebrae above the seventh, and thereby a median partition between the muscles of the two sides of the neck is formed. Dissection. The stout outer part of the trapezius should l>e carefully reHected, and in the somewhat tough subjacent tissue a large nerve—the spinal accessory—will be found running down- wards and outwards from the neck on to the deep surface of the muscle. More or less parallel with the spinal accessory, but below it, two smaller nerves, from the thii-d and fourth cervical, will then be made out. Branches of the superficial cci-xkal artei-y will also be seen entering the muscle in the same neighljourhood. The SPINAL ACCESSORY NERVK (the eleventh cranial), having crossed the posterior triangle of the neck, pisses beneath the trapezius, and forms a plexiform union with the branches of the third and fourth nerves of the cervical plexus. The nerve can be followed nearly to the lower border of the muscle. Dissection. The parts covered by the trapezius will next l.>e cleiined. The dissector of the neck is resjionsible for displaying the struc- tures whicli lie deeply in the neck benenth the clavicle, but the worker on the upper limb will take note of them later on. The parts in question are the posterior beUy of the omohyoid muscle