THE CONSTRICTOR MUSCLES. 057 The INFERIOR CONSTRICTOR (fig. 232, a), the most superficial, Lower arises from the sitle of the cricoid cartilage, and from the inferior ariTos from coriui, oblique line, and upper border of the thyroid cartilage. The origin is small when compared with the insertion, for the fibres m'Idai'o' radiate as they pass backwards, to be inserted along the middle line, where the muscles of opposite sides join. The outer surface of the muscle is in contact with the sheatli of part.s in the carotid vessels, and with the muscles covering the spinal column, wiuun The lower border is nearly horizontal, and beneath it the inferior laryngeal nerve and vessels (°) pass ; while the upper border ascends very obliquely and overlaps the middle constrictor. A few of the lowest iibres of the muscle turn downwards, and are continued into the longitudinal fibres of the oesophagus. The MIDDLE CON.STRICTOR (fig. 232, b) lias a similar shape to the pre- Middle ceding, that is to say, it is narrowed in front and expanded behind. <=o"s'''"i<=t''"' Its fibres arise from the great and small cornua of the hyoid bone on "''^^^ "^""J^. a deeper plane than the hyo-glossus and from the stylo-hyoid liga- ' ment. From this origin the fibres radiate, and are blended along the middle line with those of the opposite muscle. The posterior surface of this muscle is to a great extent concealed relations, by the inferior constrictor. Laterally, it touches the carotid sheath ; and its origin is beneath the hyo-glossus muscle, the lingual artery passing between the two. Its upper border is separated from the superior constrictor by the stylo-pharyngeus ; and in the interval between the origins of the middle and inferior constrictors are the superior laryngeal nerve and vessels. The SUPERIOR CONSTRICTOR is thinner than the others, and of a Upper • quadrilateral form. It has a broad origin from the following parts ^i^^from in succession, commencing above,—the lower end of the internal pti'rygoid pterygoid plate and the hamnlar process, the pterygo-maxillary jaTand ligament, the hinder part of the mylo-hyoid ridge of the lower jaw, '^°'^S»<': the mucous membrane of the mouth, and the side of the tongue! The fibres pass backwards, and are inserted by joining those of "the inserted fellow muscle along the middle line, where a tendinous raph6 is !">rtiy into formed between the two for the upper half of their depth. Some of " ' the highest fibres reach the tubercle on the under surfoce of the basi-occipital and others end on the aponeurosis of the pharynx. The parts in contact with this muscle externally are the deep relations: vessels and nerves of the neck at the side, the middle constrictor and prevertebral muscles behind : internally are the aponeurosis of the pharynx and the palato-j^haryngeus muscle. The upper border interval forms an arch with the concavity upwards extending iroui the ptery- muS and gold plate to the basilar process ; and the space between it and the "k'ln.""" base of the skull is occupied by the aponeurosis of the pharynx, which projects outwards above the muscle, and by the levator paiati, Eusta- chian tube and inferior palatine artery. The attachment to the pterygo-maxillary ligament corresponds with the origin of the bucci- nator muscle (I) between the two maxillaiy bones. Action of constrictors. The muscles of both sides contracting at the u.se of jj ^ constricturs