DISSECTION OF THE HEAD. 680 to Mt!c;U(il's giinj;li()ii, tyiiipanic ol' jllosso-jilui- rynt;iMl, and synipa- tiiclic ; nervo to -staiiwliiis ; chord II tyinpani to lingual. Auditory nerve. Otic traii'dioM, Disspction to lind it, r-4 proceed. One is the large superficial petrosal nerve (^), passing to the Vidian ; another is a filament* of comnumicalion with tlie small superficial petrosal nerve of tlie tymjjanic plexus (") ; and the third is the external superficial petrosal nerve* (■•), which unites the ganglion with the sympathetic on the middle meningeal artery. * The branch of the stapedius muscle arises at tlie back of the tymjianum, and is directed forwards to its muscle. Ghorda tympani. This long but slender branch of the facial nerve crosses the tympanum, and ends in the tongue. Arising about a quarter of an inch from the stylo-mastoid foramen, it enters the tympanum below the pjTamid. In the cavity (fig. 240,^) the nerve is directed for- wards across the han- dle of the malleus and the membrana tympani to an aperture on the inner side of the Gla- serian fissure, through which it leaves the tympanum. Outside the .skull the chorda tympani joins the lingual nerve, and continues along it to tlie submaxillary ganglion and the tongue (p. 625). The AUDITORY NERVE will be learnt with the ear. Entering the internal auditory meatus with the facial nerve, it divides into an upper smaller, and a lower larger part, which are distributed to the membranous labyrinth. Otic ganglion. At this stage of the dissection there is little to be seen of the ganglion, but the student should keep in mind that it is one of the things to be examined in a fresh part. Its situation is on the inner aspect of the inferior maxillary nerve, immediately below the foramen ovale, and it adheres closely to the trunk of the nerve. Dissection (fig. 241). Putting the part in the same position as for the examination of Meckel's ganglion, the dissector should define the Eustachian tube and tlie muscles of tlie palate, and then take away the levator palati and the cartilaginous jiortion of the tube, Fio. 241.—The Otic Ganglion erom the Inner Side. 0. Tensor tympani muscle. b. Internal pterygoid muscle. c. External carotid artery with the sympathetic on it. 1. Otic ganglion. 2. Small superficial petrosal nerve. 3. Nerve to tensor tympani. 4. Chorda tympani joining lingual. 5. Nerve to internal pterygoid. 6. Nerve to tensor palati. 7. Atu-iculo-temporal nerve.