TltK 1NK1;.\-[IV(M I) Ml'SCIJOS. .185 aiiric/ular and suiieilicial cervical iicrvcs. IT the luiisclc lie cut tlirousb below and raised, it will lie seen lo lie ou the luUowiiig Ytann :—The clavicular origin is superlicial to the anterior scalenus and onio-hyoid muscles, the transverse cervical and siiprascaiiular arteries, and the phrenic nerve. The sternal head conceals the depressors of the hyoid bone, and tlie conininn carotid artery witli its vein and nerves. After the union of the heads, the niu.scle is |)laced over the cervical plexu.s, the middle scalenus, and the elevator of the angle of the scapula ; and near the skidl on the digastric and splenius muscles, the occipital artery, and part of the jiarotid gland. The spinal accessory ner\ e jierforates the muscular fibres about the junction of the ujiper and noddle thirds. Action. Both muscles acting bend the cervical part of the spine, usu. carrying the head forwards ; Viut one muscle will turn the face to the opposite side. In conjunction with other muscles attached to the mastoid process, one slerno-mastoid will incline the head towards the shoulder of the same side. In laborious respiration the two niu.scles will assist in elevating the sternum. The OMO-HVOll) muscIjK crosses beneath the sterno-mastoid, and ULnu-liyoi'l consists of two Hesliy bellies unitAnl by a small intermediate tendon. The ori(iin of the muscle from the scapula, and the relations of i'"-' srapula, the ])osterior belly have been studied in the dissection of tlie back (p. 522), From the intervening tendon the anterior lleshy mihI cthIs ui, beUy (lig. 211,-)is directed upwards along the outer border of''J'""''""""^ ■ the sterno-hyoid muscle, and is inserted into the lower border of the liody of the hyoid bone, close to the great cornu. The anterior belly is in cont;ict with the fascia, after escaping rdaiioiis; from lieneuth the sterno-nuistoid, and rests on the steruo-tliyroid and thyro-hyoid muscles. This part of the nutscle crosses the carotid vessels on a level with the cricoid cartilage. Action. The omo-hyoid mu.scle depresses and tends to draw use. Ijackwards the hyoid bone. The STEENO-HYoiD JICSCLE (fig. 211, ') is a Hat thin band nearer au-nw- the nuddle line than the preceding. It ame.s from the inner end [ij'I^sdf: of the clavicle at its posterior aspect, from the Iiack of the manubrium and of the cartilage of the first rib. From this origin it ascends to be inserted into the lower border of the body of the hyoid bone, internal to the jireceding muscle. Its fibres are often interrupted near the clavicle by a tendinous intersection. One surface is covered by the sterno-niastoid and the fascia, iviiitiuns; When the muscle is divided and turneil aside, the deep surface will be found to rest on the sterno-thyroid, the thyrodiyoid, and the thyroid cartilage. The right and left niu.scles are separated by an interval which is wider below than above. Action. It draws the liyoid bone downwar<ls after swallowing ; use and in labm-ious respiration it will aid in raising the sternum. The .STEUNU-Tlivuoli) MUSCLE is broader and shorter tlian the .SI.tuu- steruo-hyoid, beneath which it- lies. It arises from the po.sterior ]m,^[.]^; surfaces of the sternum and the carlihige of the lirst rib below the