DISSECTION OF THE LEG. 174 state of the ligaments. Di.slocation in lateral movements. Circum- duction. Rotation: inward.?, and outwai-ds. Examine attachment of muscles. the socket of the joint, and is securely lodged, finally, in the deepest part of the cavity. In abduction, the pubo-femoral ligament and lower jiart of the capsule are tightened over the projecting head of the femur, the upper part being relaxed. And in adduction, the outer band of the ilio-femoral ligament is rendered tense and arrests the movement. Dislocation may take place in both these lateral movements, the edge of the cotyloid cavity serving as the fulcrum, on which the femur can be lifted out of the hollow, and particularly in abduc- tion with some flexion, for there the head of the femur is against the thin under-part of the capsule. In circumduction, the four kinds of angular motion above noticed take i)lace in succession, viz., flexion, abduction, extension, and adduction ; and the limb describes a cone, the base of which is at the foot, and the apex at the centre of the head of the femur. This movement is less free than in the shoulder-joint. There are two kinds of rotation, internal and external ; in the former, the great toe is turned in ; and in the latter it is moved outwards. In rotation inwards, the head of the femur glides backwaixls horizontally across the acetabulum, the great trochanter coming forwards ; and the shaft of the bone revolves around a line internal to it, which passes from the centre of the head to the inner condyle. During this movement the posterior half of the capsule is put on the stretch, and the anterior is relaxed. In rotation outwards, the head of the bone turns forwards in the cotyloid cavity, and the great trochanter is brought backwards. The outer band of the ilio-femoral ligament is tightened and checks the movement. Dissection. After the limb is removed, the attachments of all the muscles in the thigh are again to be examined carefidly before the dissection of the leg is undertaken. The muscles should not be removed from the femur, but about two inches of each left attached to the bone. Section IV. THE FRONT OF THE LEG. Siu-faee Directions. Before the dissection of the leg is begun, the student marking. ghould make himself acquainted, as in the thigh, with the promi- nences of bone and muscle on the surface, and with tlie markings which indicate the position of the larger vessels. In the leg Prominences of hone. The bones of the leg can be traced l)eneath .siiperi^dar ^^"^ hom the knee to the ankle-joint. At tlie inner and fore part is the tibia, wliicli is subcutaneous in all its extent, and is limited in front and behind by a sharp edge. Above, it jiresents in front a prominent tuliercle into which the ligament of the