808 DISSECTION OF THE EAR. A thin part of the mombraue in notoli. Eustachian tnbe : osseous part, situation and termi- nation : cartilagi- nous part. Mastoid cells:' position and extent: open into mastoid antrum; may approacli surface ; develop- ment. Membrane in fenestra rotunda : construc- tion Occupying tlie notch above-mentioned in the upper part of the osseous margin (notch of liivinus), there is a small piece of the nrenibrane which is softer and looser than the rest (membrana flaccida), being formed only by lax connective tissue between the skin and the mucous membrane. The Eustachian tube (fig. 295, e) is the channel through which the tympanic cavity communicates witli the external air. It is about an inch and a half in length, and is directed forwards and inwards, as well as somewhat downwards, to the pharynx. Like the meatus auditorius, it is partly osseous and partly cartilaginous in texture. The osseous part is rather more than half an inch in length, and is narrowest at its anterior end. Its course in the temporal bone is along the angle of union of the squamous and petrous portions, outside the passage for the carotid artery. Anteriorly it ends in a somewhat oval opening, with an irregular margin, which gives attach- ment to the cartilage. The cartilaginous part of the tube is nearly an inch in length, and extends from the tempioral bone to the interior of the phaiynx. Through this tube the mucous mem- brane of the drum of the ear is con- tinuous with that of the pharynx ; and through it the mucus escapes. The MASTOID CELLS are air-spaces occu- pying the interior of the temporal bone behind the t3^mj)anum and the external auditory meatus. They reach downwards into the mastoid process, and upwards for a short distance into the adjoining region of the squamous portion of the bone. In front they communicate, with the tym- panum through a chamber named the antrum mastoideum, (fig. 296, am). Above the tympanic membrane is a small recess communicating with the mastoid antrum, which is called the mastoid attic. The size and extent of the cells vary greatly in different individuals ; and in some cases thej' are sepa- rated only by a very thin layer of bone from the exterior of the skidl on the one side, and from the lateral sinus on the other. In tlie infant the mastoid antrum is present, but the cells are not formed ; the latter are developed at, or a little before, the period of puberty. The SECONDARY MEMBRANE OF THE TYMPANUM is placed iu the fenestra rotunda, and is rather concave towards the tympanum, but convex towards the cochlear passage which it closes. It is formed of three strata, like the membrane on the opposite side of the cavity, viz., an external or mucous, derived from the Fig. 297.—Inner View op THE Mbmbhana Tym- PANI IN THE FcETtJS, WITH THE Malleus Attached. a. Membrane of the tympanum. b. Malleus. c. Band of circular fibres at the circumference of the memljrane. d. Anterior, and e, pos- terior tympanic artery. /. Tympanic bone.