325 THE ILEO-COLIC JUNCTION. has an aperture of communication with the intestine (d). In struc- ture it resembles the rest of the colon, except that the longitudinal muscular bands coalesce upon it. Its mucous membrane contains a great amount of adenoid tissue. Dissection. To e.xamine the interior of the dried specimen of the cEBcum, and the vulve between it and the small intestine, the foUowino; cuts should be made in it:—One oval piece is to be taken from the upper aspect of the ileum near its termination ; and another from the side of the caecum, opposite the entrance of the small intestine. lleo-colic valve (fig. 120). This valve is situate at the entrance of the ileum into the large bowel. It is composed of two pieces, which project into the interior of the colon and bound a niirrow, nearly transverse, aperture of communication between the two parts of the intestinal canal. The upper piece of the valve, ileo- colic (e), projects horizontally into the large intestine, opposite the junction of the ileum with the colon. And the lower piece, ileo-ccecal {f), which is the larger of the two, has a nearly vertical direction between the ileum and the ctecum. At each extremity of the opening the pieces of the valve are blended together ; and the re- sulting prominence ((y) extends trans- versely on the front and back of the intestine, forming the fraina or reti- nacula of the valve. The size of the opening is altered by the distension of the intestine ; for when the retinacula of the valve are stretched the folds bounding the aperture are approximated, and may be made to touch. Each piece of the valve is formed by cii'cular muscular fibres of the intestinid tube, covered by mucous membrane and submucous tissue ; and the ileum projects into the interior of the coecum as if it were thrust obliquely through the wall of the csecum, after being deprived of its peritoneal coat and the layer of longitudinal fibres. This construction is easily seen on a fresh specimen by dividing the peritoneum and the longitudinal fibres, and gently drawing out the ileum from the caecum. these are joined at tlie ends. FiQ. 120.—Tntehior op C.EOnir, BRIEl) AND OPEN. TUK LAID .md form flUMlIl. a. CiECUui. b. Small iutestine. c. Vermiform appendix, and Oijenin;; in d, its aperture. valve. e. lleo-colic piece of tlio valve at the junction of the small intestine. /. Ilco-ciBcal piece of the valve. g. Retinaculum of the valve on each side. ti,;, valve a prolonga- tion of the wall of the gut.