THE EXTERNAL CAROTID. n05 BRANCHES 01 The Facial Artery Oj) arises al.ove the liiif^.uil ; and is direete.l upwards over the lower jaw to the face. In the neek the artery passes vnider the diga-stric and stylo-hyoid muscles, and then heneatli the subniaxiUarv gland, under cover of which it makes a .sigmoid turn. Its anatomv in t.he face has been given alre^idy (pp. 557 et .s«y.). smM;i;- From the cervicai part branches are given to the pharynx, and to j,, „«-k structures below the jaw, viz. :— a The inferior or ascmdingpalatine branch ascends to the pliarynx to Ui,-, l.eneath the jaw, passing between the stylo-glossu.s and stylo-pharyn- i'''' ■ aeus muscles, and is distributed to the soft palate, which it reaches by turning over the upper border of the sui)erior constrictor muscle. Its place in the palate is frequently sujiplied by an oflset of the ascending pharyngeal artery. &. The tonsillar branch is smaller than the preceding, and passes toi.s.l, between the internal pterygoid and stylo-glossus muscles. Opposite the tonsil it perforates the sxiperior constrictor mn.scle, and ends in otfsets to that body. c. aiandular branches are supplied to the submaxiHary gland from the part of the artery in contact with it. d. The submental branch arises near the inferior maxilla, and myl'^./^y-;;;; courses forwards on the mylo-hyoid muscle to the anterior belly of the digastric, where it ends in oftsets : some of these turn over the jaw to the chin and lower lip ; and the rest supply the muscles between the jaw and the hyoid bone, one or two perforating the mylo-hyoid and anastomosing with the sublingual artery. The facial vein (p. 559) joins the internal jugular. In the cervical Facial vein, part of its course it receives branches corresponding to the offsets of the artery ; and it frequently sends a considerable branch dowiwards to join the anterior jugular vein. The Occipital Aktery .springs from the carotid opposite the Om'|1''''"' facial branch, near the lower border of the digastric muscle, and iuscends to the inner side of the mastoid process. Here it turns backwards in the occipital groove of the temporal bone, passing aljove the transverse process of the atlas, and then runs between the nmls on muscles attached to the occipital bone, to become cutaneous and o'^^'l'"*-• ramify over the back of the head (p. 503). In the part of its course now exposed the artery lies beneath the digastric muscle, and crosses over the internal carotid artery, the internal jugular vein, and the spinal accessory and hypoglossal nerves. The occipital artery gives small branches to the surrounding n^«^''^.''|>- muscles, and one larger branch to the sterno-mastoid, which liends ; downwards over the hypoglossal and enters the muscle in company with the spinal accessory nerve : this branch frequently arises soim;times directly from the external carotid. In some bodies there i.s also a small meninyeal branch entering the skull by the jugular foramen. The ofifsets at the back of the neck are seen in the dissection of that region (p. 532). The occipital veins are two or three in number, and pass down- oci-ipiiiil wards between the mu.scles of tlie liack of the neck to enter tlie dee])