THE PLEURAL CAVITY. 441 the chest the artery lies on the pleura and the triangularis sterni, and is crossed by the intercostal nerves. It is accompanied by two veins, and by the chain of sternal lymphatic glands. Its Branches: thoracic branches are numerous but small:— a. A long, slender branch (coines nervi phrenici) arises as the .superior artery enters the chest, and descends to the diaphragm with the ^' ' phrenic nerve: this branch is seen in the dissection of the thorax. b. Small sternal branches supply the triangularis sterni, and smrai^p^s- raraify over the back of the sternum. From these, mediastinal g^ts, twigs pass backwards to be distributed to the remains of the thymus gland and the pericardium. c. Two anterior intercostal branches run outwards in each space, intercostal, lying along the borders of the costal cartilages, and terminate by anastomosing with the aortic and superior intercostal branches. d. Perforating branches, one or two opposite each space, pierce perforating, the internal intercostal and large pectoral muscles, and are dis- tribttted on the surface of the thorax with the anterior cutaneous nerves : the lower branches supply the mamma in the female. e. The musculo-phrcnic branch courses outwards beneath the musculo- cartilages of the seventh and eighth ribs, and enters the diaphragm : it supplies anterior branches to the lower intercostal spaces. Its termination has been seen in the dissection of the abdomen. Two veins accompany the artery ; these join into one trunk. Veins, which opens into the innominate vein. Section IT. THE CAVITY OF THE THORAX. The cavity of the thorax is the space included hy the spinal Deflnition. column, the sternum, and ribs, and by certain muscles in the intervals of the bony framework. In it the organs of respiration. Contents of and the heart with its great vessels are lodged ; and through it the '^''^''y- gullet, and some vessels and nerves are transmitted. Dissection. The soft parts should now be cleared away from Dissection between the ribs and cartilages on both sides, and the parietal thorax" layer of the pleura will then be seen adherent to their inner surfaces. Care should be taken, however, below the ninth rib not to remove portions of the diaphragm, as it lies here close to the chest wall, and the cavity of the thorax is there very narrow. The Remove second, third, fourth, fifth and sixth ribs on the left side shouhl si'de°°'°'^ then be divided as far lack as possible, and taken away without opening the pleura beneath. A longitudinal incision will then be made down the whole length of the exposed pleura, about midway between the vertebrte Open and the sternum, and small cross cuts will be made above and