318 DLSSBCTION OF THE ABDOMEN. Sigiiiokl branch to sigmoid llexiire. Brnucli to rectum. Inferior mesenteric vein : origin, course, and termination. No valves in veins. Lympliatic L'lands, Plexuses of the sympa- tlietic to tlie viscera. Dissection of aortic plexus, and hypogastric plexus. Superior mesenteric ]ilexus is on artery of .same name: secondary jilexnse.s. supply of the descending colon : by tlie ascending offset it anasto- moses with the middle colic branch of the superior mesenteric. b. The sigmoid artery (or commonly arteries) {d) is distributed to the iliac and pelvic colon (sigmoid flexure), and divides into offsets which anastomose above with the preceding colic, and below with the hajuiorrhoidal branch. Here, as in the rest of the intestinal tube, arches are fornied by the arteries before they reach the intestine. c. The superior luemorrhoidal artery (e) crosses over the left common iliac vessels, and enters between the layers of the pelvic meso-colon, to be distributed to the lower end of the large intestine, its branches reaching in the mucous membrane of the rectum as far as the anus : it wiU be described in the dissection of the pelvis. The inferior mesenteric vein (fig. 125, d, p. 334) begins in the part of the large intestine to which its companion artery is distributed, and ascends over the psoas muscle higher than the origin of the artery. Passing beneath the pancreas, the vein inclines to the right, and opens into the superior mesenteric trunk at its junction with the splenic, or sometimes into the splenic vein. Both mesenteric veins are without valves, and may be injected from the trunk to the branches, like an artery. Lymphatic glands are ranged along the descending colon and the sigmoid flexure. The absorbents of the intestine, after passing through these glands, enter the left lumbar lymphatic glands. Sympathetic Nerve. The following plexuses of the sympathetic on the vessels, viz., superior mesenteric, aortic, spermatic, and in- ferior mesenteric, are derived from the solar plexus beneath the stomach,and can now be exposed. The remaining portion of the sympathetic uerve in the abdomen will be subsequently referred to (pp. 336 et seq.). Dissection. On the two mesenteric arteries the dissector will have already made out- the plexuses of nerves distributed to the intes- tinal tube beyond the duodenum. He has now to trace on the aorta the connecting nerves between the mesenteric plexuses, by taking away the peritoneum from the front of the aorta below the pancreas. From the upper jjart of the aortic plexus au oflset is to be followed along the siiermatic artery ; this may be done on the left side, where that vessel is jiartlj^ laid bare. By detaching the peritoneum below the bifurcation of the aorta, and following downwards over the iliac arteries the nerves from the aortic plexus and the lumbar ganglia, the dissector will arrive at the hypogastric ]ilexus, above the promontory of the sacrum. The superior mesenteric flexiis is a large bundle of nerves, and is distributed to the same extent of the intestinal tube as the mesenteric artery. The nerves surround closely the trunk and larger branches of the artery ; but near thj intestine some of them leave the vessels, and divide and communicate before entering the gut. Tlie offsets of the main plexus are named after the arteries which they accom- pany, viz., intestinal nerves to the small intestine, and ileo-colic, right colic, and middle colic plexuses to the large intestine.