DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. 396 reliitions ; position of vein ; branches. Artery in the foetus, on the bladder, and beyond branches. Transforma- tion into tliat of tlie adult. Trunk often varies in length, rarely in size. the seveival offsets are furnished. From the extremity a partly obliterated vessel (hypogastric) extends forwards on the l;ladder The artery is covered by the peritoneum, and the ureter cro'sses Its upper end obliquely on the inner side. It lies on the sacrum and the lumbo-sacral cord. It is accompanied by the internal iliac vein, which is posterior to it, and somewhat to its inner side. The branches of the artery are numerous, and arise usually in the following manner : From the posterior division . 1. Ilio-lumbar. 2. Upper lateral sacral. 3. Lower lateral sacral. 4. Gluteal. From the anterior division: 1. Sujjerior vesical. 2. Inferior vesical (vaginal in the female). 3. Obturator. 4. Middle hsemorrhoidal. 5. Uterine (in the female). 6. Sciatic. 7. Internal pudic. Artery in the fmtus. In the ftetus the hypogastric artery takes the place of the internal iliac, and leaves the abdomen by the umbilicus. At that time it is larger than the external iliac artery ; and, entering but slightly into the cavity of the pelvis, it is directed forwards to the bladder, and along the side of that viscus to its aj^ex. ; Beyond the bladder the artery ascends along the posterior aspect of the abdominal wall with the urachus, converging to its fellow. Finally, at the umbilicus, the vessels of opposite sides come in con- tact with the umbilical vein, and, passing from the abdomen through the aperture at that spot, enter into the placental cord, where they receive the name umbilical. In the foetus, brandies similar to those in the adult are furnished by the artery, though their relative size at the two periods is very different. Change to adult state. Wlien uterine life has ceased, the hypo- gastric artery shrinks in consequence of the arrest of the current of blood through it, and finally liecomes obliterated, more or less completely, to within an inch or so of its commencement. The part of the trunk whicli is unobliterated becomes the internal iliac ; and commonly a portion of the vessel remains pervious as far as the bladder, forming the early part of the siqierior vesical artery. Peculiarities. The Icnfjth of the internal iliac artery varies from half an inrli to tliree inches, its extreme measurements ; but in two-tliirds of "a large number of bodies it ranged from an inch to an inch and a half (R. Qnain). Size. In the rare cases where the femoral trunk is derived from the internal iliac, antl is placed at the back of the thigh, this vessel is larger than the external iliac. Branches of ^- The BRANCHES arising from die posterior division of the pi'rt'"''''''""'^ internal iliac may be fii-st examined. iiio-iumimr ^he iUo-lumbar artery (lig. 148, h) passes ouhvards beneath the Ita.s an