545 EXTERNAI- CHARACTERS OF CORD. column, tlieyliave tlie following situation :—In tlie first two nerves the}' lie on the netiml arches of the atlas and axis. In the sacral snenii, aiid nerves tliey are containeil in the si)inal canal ; and in the coccygeal coccygeal, nerve the ganglion is usually within the sac of the dura mater. Vessels of the spinal cord. The arteries on the surface of Arteries of the cord are anterior and posterior spinal. The anterior spinal artery occupies the middle line of the cord Anterior beneath the lihrous Viand before alhuled to in tliat position. It a''s'ingie begins l)y the union of two small branches of the verteliral artery artery; within the skull, and it is continued to the lower end of the cord by a series of anastomotic branches, which are derived from the vertebral and ascending cervical arteries in the neck, and from the intercostal arteries in tlie dor.sal region. Inferiorly it supplies the roots of the nerves forming the cauda equina, and ends on the central fibrous prolongation of the cord. The lu'anches of this ofi'scta. artery ramify in the pia nuiter, some entering the median fissure. The posterior spinal arteries, one on each side, are continued from Posterior tlie u]iper to the lower part of the cord, behind the roots of the two';""* ""^^ nerves. These ve.ssels are furnished from the vertebral artery ■within the skull, and their continuity is maintained by a series of anastomotic offsets, which enter the canal along the spinal nerves. Dividing into small branches, the vessels of opposite sides form a Ho on sides " . ^ ^ . or cord. free anastomosis around the posterior roots, and some twigs enter the posterior septa of the cord. The veins of the spinal cord are very tortuous and form a plexus Vein.s: on the surface. At intervals larger trunks arise, which accompany temiina- the spinal nerves to the intervertehral foramina, and end in the ■ veins outside the spinal canal. Near the to]i of the cord the veins at top of are united into two or more small branches, which, communicating ' with the intraspinal veins, join in the skull the inferior cerebellar veins, or the inferior petrosal sinuses. The SPINAL CORD (medulla spinalis) is the elongated cylindrical Situation of part of the cerebro-si)inal centre, which is enclosed within the .spinal oanal. Invested by the membranes before examined, the cord occujdes about two-thirds of the length of the canal, and is much smaller than the bony case surrounding it. The extent of the siiinal cord is from the lower margin of the Extent foramen magnum of the occipital bone to the lower border of the beiJw first lumbar vertebra, Lut its termination inferiorly may Ite a little higher or lower than that spot. In the embryo before the third and in the month the cord reaches the whole length of the spinal canal ; Init it gradually recedes as the surrounding bones enlarge faster than it, until it takes the position it has in the adult. Its length Length, is usually from sixteen to eighteen inches. Above, the cord joins the medulla oblongata ; and below it ends inferior in a small tapering part (conns meduUaris), from which the filuni i'^ti'ie adui't. terniinale (fig. 197, d) is continued downwards. The lower end of the conus medullaris is sometimes marked by one or two irregular swellings. The size of the .spinal cord is much increased wliere the nerves Two swell- ings on it. D.A. N N