I'r.KL'UAI- UKKr.KCTION. Biilow the root of tlu; liiii;,' it foriii.s a tliiii fold, the Ivjavierdum lalum pulmmiix, wliich iinit«-.s the iiiUL-i- .siii'face of the Uwif U) the Hide of tlie i)(>riiar<liiiiii, ami may be seen \>y eiilartiilig the liol.- ill the ])].-tiia and drawiiifr the lower jiart of the lilii},' rnil. The ligament then aitpitars ;i.s a fold jiassing from the innt-r i»art of the luuf,'to the perif^ardium and pre.senting a free ju™/' loW(!r border. At tin? upper pari of the ehest the ])leura forms a dome over the a])ex of the lung, which may he revealed hy drawing lhati;artof the lung downwards. At this ])art the memlirane is slrengtheni!d by the strong fascia of tlx; neck (Silmu'H fascia), which is attaclK^d to the inner border of the first rib and closely invests the ve.swls at the up])er opening of the thorax. f.lNK OK I'l.KiJIlAL HHKLUCTION. Hurfuce. markiinj. The jileural J^J'Jjf^ce cavity extends ujiwards on each side in tlie neck, two inches above tli<i anterior jtart of the first ril), or an indi above the middle of the clavicle, where the shoulder is depressed. From this point tlie anterior limit of the sac extends downwards and outwar<ls, re^iching the niid<lh- line at tlie lower jiart of the manubrium sterni, and continues down in that line, or a little to the left thereof. On the kft ojiposiU; the fourth costal cartilage, it passes''^f "'J--', outwards until clear ol' the sternum, and then passes downwards along its left side to the ba(;k of the sixth costal cartilage, thas ]uesenting a notch, in wliich the pericardium conies into contjict with the lower jiart of the sternum ; but the n itch is much less pni-cordial than that formed by th<! corresponding part of the lung (lig. 1C2). The ])leura is connecUid by fa.scial bunds to the upper surface of the diaidiragm, and the line of it.s reflection ])ii.sses in succession behind the six 111 and seventh costal cartihige.s, reaching the junction of the eighth rib, with its cartilage in the lateral line. From this ))oiiit it ext,eiids round the body, crossing the lower Iwrder of the tenth rib in a line midway behind the vertebrae behind and the middle line in front. This is usually the lowest jiart of thejdeural cavit.y, and from here it extends backwanls to the inner surface, of the twelfth ril), and, fjuite commonly, it jirojects below the twelfth imjjwtioii rib under the external arched ligament of the diaidiiagm. It is twelftli rib most important to bear this fact in mind in operations on the jioslcrior abdominal wall, so as to avoid opening the jdeural sac. On the; ri(jhl siili; the line of the jileural reflection is the same as "'JjJ'k''^ on lh(! left, except that it does not jjie.sent a notcdi behind the, ' sternum, where it overla])8 t,he jiericardiuni, but continues directly flownwards (Jii the middle line until it reaches the seventh cosUil cartilagcr, behind which its line of reflection passes outwards and downwards as on the left side. TiiK MioiHAHTiNU.vi. The median thoracic partition, or 'incdias- Alonx , . . /.I .111 micldlit till! huum, is tormed i)y the inner ])ortion ol the iiarietai pleura on suck r<ivi» « c;ach side, and the structures interjwsed between the two mem- "ej'i''""- branes. It extends the whole de])th of the thorax, and reac lies mesially from the sjiine U) the sternuiii, thus separating tln^ right and left pleural cavities. In the centre the two lay(;rs of .serous membrane are widely s(tparated liy the heart; Itiit in front and