THK COCHLEAR PASSAGES. 819 fibrous structure (a), which ends in wedge-shaped teeth near the margin of the bony plate. Between the teeth and the underlying bone is a channel (/;) spiral which is called sulcus sjnraiis: its edges are named vestibular (a) and tympanic (c). The iiu-mhntnous jiarl of the scptnin {membrana InwsUaris; Unm- fig. 304, ?)t/>) reaches from the lower (tympanic) edge (<•) of the {j^^""" lamina .spiralis to the outer wall of the cochlear tube, where it is iucUuie.s li.xed by a fibrous band—litjanwiittmi spirale (■*). Its width varies, nfu,',['^,','.m,e for near the base of the cochlea it forms half of the partition across imii spiral the tube ; but at the ape.x, where the lamina spiralis is wanting, it 'iS'i"'**'"" constructs the septum altogether. ScaXjE of the cochlea (tig. 303). The tube of the cochlea is .scaiie oi divided by the septum into two primary passages, of which one is tlj^uT'^''''''" the scala tympani (s <), and the other scakt, vestibuli (s v) ; but the latter is rendered smaller by a third canal being cut off from it by membrane. The passages are placed one above another, the scala vestibuli position ; (s v) being nearest the apex of the cochlea. Above, they com- extent; municate through the aperture named helicotrema (/). Below, tliey end differently, a.s the names express:—the scala vestibuli above; opens into the front of the vestibule (fig. 301, g) ; but the scala separate tympani is shut out from the vestil)ular cavity by the lamina spiralis below of the septum cochleae, and is closed below by the membrane of the fenestra rotunda, though in the dry bone it opens into the tympanum. Each has certain peculiarities. The vestilnilar scala extends into theydmer the apex of the cochlea ; while the tympanic scala is hirgest near g^"^'™' the base. Connected with the last is the small aqueduct of the cochlea, ^vhich begins at an opening close to the lower end of the ope„jng j,, .scala, and ends at the lower Viorder of the petrous portion of the lower; temporal bone : it transmits a small vein from the cochlea. The scalsB are clothed with a thin fibrous membrane, continuous unin" with that in the vestibtile : in the scala tympani it helps to close memWne, the fenestra rotunda, forming the inner layer of the secondary membrane of the tympanum, and joins the librous process in the and con- aqueduct of the cochlea. The perilymph fills both scala). Canal op the cochlea. In the upper division of the cochlear Cochlear tube a fine membrane (fig. 304,1) extends obliquely across from the upper surface of the lamina spiralis, at the inner border of the between limbus, to the outer wall of the cavity a little above the spiral membrane ligament. This is called the membrane of Reissner, and separates a n,^,,,. small cavity named the canal or duct of the cochlea (c c) from the scala brnne or vestibuli (s v). The canal thus formed extends from apex to base of = the cochlea, and contfiins a Huid—endolymph. Above, it reaches into the cupola and is closed. Below, it is connected by a very small tube -culct'rrom (canalis reuniens; fig. 305, c) with the saccule in the vestibule. Within the canal of the cochlea, resting on the basilar membrane, is " the complicated structure known as the orcjan of Oorti (fig. 304), in ™''^'of which the cochlear branches of the auditory nerve end. Corti'." 3 Li 2