EXTERNAL OBLIQUE MUSCLE. is in front Ol a line extended upwards from the anterior end of the iliac crest, and as the dissector approaches that part he must be careful not to injure the tendon, more particularly above, where it Ues on the margin of the ribs, and is very indistinct. , ^ . On the left side the external abdominal ring (c) may be defined, to show the spermatic cord passing through it ; but on the right side a thin fascia (intercolumnar), which is connected with the margin of that opening, is to he preserved. Lastly, the free border ol the external ohlique should be made evident between the last rib and tiie iliac crest. Muscles of the Abdominal Wall. On the side of the abdomen are three large fiat muscles, which are named from their position to one another, and from the direc- tion of their fibres : the exltrnal oblique; the internal oblique; and the deepest, the transversalis. Near the middle line are placed other muscles which have a vertical direction ; namely, the rectus and the pyramidalis ; and behind is the quadratus luniboruni : these all are encased by sheaths derived from the aponem-oses of the lateral muscles, and will be subsequently seen. The EXTERNAL OBLIQUE MUSOLE (fig. 98, A, and fig. 97) is fleshy on the side, and aponeurotic on the fore part of the abdomen. It arises by fleshy processes from the eight lower ribs, the five highest pieces alternating with similar parts of the serratus magnus, and the lowest three with slips of the latissimus dorsi muscle. From the attachment to the ribs the tiV)res are directed over the side of the abdomen to end in the following manner :—the lower ones descend almost vertically to be inserted into the anterior half or more of the outer margin of the iliac crest (fig. 47, p. 113) ; and the upper and middle fibres are continued forwards obli(juely to the tendon or aponeurosis on the front of the belly. The aponeurosis occupies the front of the abdomen, internal to a line drawn from the prominence of the ninth rib-cartilage to a point about an inch and a half in front of the anterior su])erior iliac spine ; and it is broader below than above. Along the middle line it ends in the linea alba—the. common place of union in the 265 TodeBne abdominal On the side are tln'ee Hat muscles, the aponeu- roses of which en- case three vertical. External oblique muscle: origin from ribs; Fig. 98. The external oblique muscle. Poupart's ligament. External abdominal ring. . Gimbernat's ligament. insertion into pelvis and linea alba. Aponeurosis covers front of the belly ;