DISSECTION OF THE LARYNX. ami liga- ment. Mucous membrane of larynx. Epithelium differs in kind. Glands. Dissection of nerves; inferior, superior laiyngcal; of vessels. luembrant of llie ti-iiu Vdciil curd is very thin, and intimately united to the inferior thiiro-anjhiwid ligament. The latter structure is the upper edge of the lateral portion ol' the crico-thyroid membrane, and consists of fine elastic tissue, which shows a slight thickening close to its attachment to the thyroid cartilage. On the outer surface of the ligament is the deep part of the thyro-arytenoid muscle, some of the fibres of which are inserted into the band ; and a thin submucous layer of elastic tissue is continued outwards from it to line the ventricle of the larynx. The MUCOUS membrane of the larynx is continued from that lining the pharynx, and is prolonged downwards into the trachea. At the superior aperture of the larynx it forms the aryteno-epiglotti- dean fold on each side, between the margin of the epiglottis and the tip of the arytenoid cartilage : here it is very loose, and the sub- mucous tissue abundant. In the larynx the membrane lines the wall of the cavity closely, .sinks into the ventricle, and sends a pro- longation upwards into the laryngeal pouch. On the lower thyro- arytenoid ligaments it is very thin and closely adherent, allowing these to be visible through it. In the small part of the larynx above the superior vocal cords, the epithelium is of the stratified squamous kind, and free from ciUa. But a columnar ciliated epithelium covers the edges of the superior cords and the surface below these, though it becomes flattened without ciUa on the lower cords ; on the epiglottis the epithelium is ciliated in the lower half. Numerous racemose glands are connected with the mucous mem- brane of the larynx; and the orifices will be seen on the surface, especially at the posterior aspect of the epiglottis. In the edge of the aryteno-epiglottidean fold there is a little swelling occasioned by a mass of subjacent glands (arytenoid) ; and along the upper vocal cord lies another set. None exist over the true vocal cords, but close to those bauds is the collection of the sacculus laryngis, which moistens the ventricle and the lower vocal cord. Dissection of nerves and vessels. The termination of the laryngeal nerves may be dissected on the left side of the larynx. For this purpose the half of the thyroid is to be disarticulated from the cricoid cartilage, care being taken of the recurrent nerve, which lies close behind the joint between the two. The trachea and larynx should be fastened down with pins ; and after the thyroid has been drawn away from the cricoid cartilage, the recurrent larjnigeal nerve can be traced over the side of the latter cartilage to the muscles of the larynx and the mucous membrane of the ]3harynx. Afterwards the superior laryngeal nerve is found as it pierces the thyro-hyoid membrane, and branches of it are to be followed to the mucous membrane of the larynx and pharynx. Two communic.itions are to Ije looked for between the laryngeal nerves ; one is beneath the thyroid cartilage, the other in the mucous membrane of the pharjTix. An artery accompanies each nerve, and its offsets are to be dis- sected at the same time as the nerve.