ANATOMY OF FEMORAL HERNIA. inwards. This edge is named from its shape the falciform margin of the saphenous opening (falciform process of Burns); it is superficial to the femoral vessels, and is connected by fibrous bands to the crural sheath, and to the cribriform fascia. Traced upwards, the whicli .juins outer edge blends with the base of Gimbernat's ligament (part of ij,Va',nc"t Poupart's ligament) : and the upper end of this border, where it is n„fi forms internal to the subjacent femoral vein, has been named the femoral femoral T , ligament; iujament. The rigidity of the margin of the opening is much influenced by tenseness oi the position of the limb : for with the finger beneath the upper part varies'"*'''" of the falciform border, while the thigh is moved in different directions, this band will be perceived to be most unyielding when the limb is extended and rotated outwards, and most relaxed when the thigh is bent and turned in the opposite direction. Through the lower cornu of the opening the saphenous vein is Parts transmitted ; and through the upper part, close to the falciform tiir'ou'ih'the edge, a femoral hernia projects. Lymphatics and one or two super- opening, ficial arteries also jiass through it. PARTS CONCERNED IN FEMORAL HERNIA. To understand the anatomy of a hernial protrusion in the thigh, Anatumy the dissector has to study the undermentioned parts, viz., the crural he™,"'"'"' arch and Gimbernat's ligament, the crural sheath with its crural canal and ring, together with a partition (septum crurale) between the tbigb and the abdomen. Dissection (fig. 56). To examine Poupart's ligament and the Disseciion membranous sheath round the femoral vessels, the piece of the "f.eatT"'' fascia lata outside the saphenous opening is to be reflected inwards " by the following incisions :—One cut is to be begun near the upper end of the falciform border, and to be carried outwards for one inch and a half, parallel with and close to Poupart's ligament. Another is to be directed obliquely downwards and inwards from the termina- tion of the first, to a little below the inferior cornu of the opening. AVhen the triangular piece of fascia marked out by those incisions lias been raised and turned inwards, and the fat removed, the tube on the vessels (crural sheath) will be brought into view a.s it descends beneath Poupart's ligament. With the handle of the scalpel the crural sheath is to be separated carefully from Poupart's ligament in front, and from Gimbernat'.s ligament on the inner side. Poiqxirt's ligament ov the crural arch_{{\g. 66, c) is the firm band CiwaUrch:/^^oa^ of the aponeuiusis of the external oblique muscle of the abdomen, attach- f' f'. . which .stretches from the front of the iliac crest to the pubis, """"'y,/- , . When viewed on the surface the arch is curved downwards towards '''"™' '^"^-^'^^r the limb, so long as the fascia lata remains on the thigh. The , ■ /^rtfcr- outer half is oblique. But the inner half is almost hori/.ontfil, ^. and widens as it approaches the pubis, where it is inserted into (Sftic-bed., . the pubic spine and pectineal line of the hip-bone, forming Gim- (S oCTa'^t^/6rx^^,, bernat's ligament (fig. 97, p. 263).