DISSECTION OF THE LEG. 188 Teniiiimtioii of iiiloiriiil cutaneous. Take away the fat. Deei) fascia : continuity and attach- ments. Take away the fascia. Muscles in superficial group. Offset of the internal cutaneous (fig. 71, ^). The po.slerior branch of the internal cutaneou.s of the thigh (p. 141) extends to the middle of the leg, and communi- cates with the internal saphenou.s nerve. Dissection. Tlie deep fascia will l)e exposed by removal of the fat, and the superficial ^'essels and nerves may- be either cut or turned aside. The DEEP FASCIA on the posterior aspect of the leg covers the muscle.s, and sends a thick process between the deep and .superficial groups. Al)ove, it is continuous with the investing membrane of the thigh, and receives offsets from the tendons about the kneeand below, it joins the annular ligaments. Internally, it is fixed to the edge of the tibia : externally, it is continued uninterruptedly from the one aspect of the Umb to the other; but from its deep surface an inter- muscular septum is sent inwards between the muscles of the back and those of the outer side of the leg to be attached to the outer border of the fibula. Veins are transmitted through it from the deep to the superficial vessels. Bissection. The fascia is to be divided along the centre of the leg as far as the lieel, and is to be taken from the surface of the gastrocnemius muscle. By fixing with a stitch the cut inner head of tlie gastrocnemius, the fibres of the muscle will be more easily cleaned. SuPERFiciAii Group of Muscles. In the calf of the leg there are three Fig. 71.—Fibst View oh the Back of the Leo (Ihostbations OF Dissections). Muscles : A. Gastrocnemius. B. Soleus. c. Semimembranosus. B. Biceps. Vessels : a. Popliteal artery. b. Internal saplienous vein. c. Externul saphenous vein. Nerres : 1. External popliteal. 2. Internal jioplitcal. 3. Tibial communicating. 4. Peroneal communicating. 5. External, or short, saphenous. 6. Small sciatic. 7. Internal saphenous. 8. lutcrnal cutaneous.