DISSECTION OF THE PERINEUM. 252 Bulb of urethra. Tegumeu- tary cover- ing of penis is tliin, and without fat. fonns lirepuce, aud ftwniun. Sebaceous glands. Teguineuts in scrotum. Muscular nature, of fascia. Dissection of vessels and nerves. Suspensory tliiit they are tlie pointed posterior extremities of two dense cylindrical tubes of fibrous tissue (the corpora cavernosa) containing erectile ti.'sue, wliicli bler.d about an inch and a half from their posterior extremities to form the body of the penis. A slight enlargement will be noticed on each crus, which has been called the bulb of the corpus cavern osum (Kobelt). The structure of the corpora cavernosa will be seen at a later stage. The BDLB OP THE URETHRA is an enlargement of the vascular aud erectile tissue (the corpus s]}onrjiosum) which surrounds the urethra from the triangular ligament onwards. The bulb is firmly united to the under surface of the triangular ligament and usually presents a slight central depression, with a bulging on each side forming two lateral lobes. Cutaneous coverings op the penis and scrotum. The penis is attached to the front of the pelvis by a suspensory ligament, and is provided with a tegumentary covering continuous with that of the abdomen, but devoid of fat. Around the end of the penis it forms the loose sheath of the prepuce in the following way :—When the skin has reached the extremity, it is reflected backwards as far as the base of the glans, constituting thus a sheath with two layers—the prepuce ; it is after- wards continued over the glans, and joins the mucous membrane of the uretlira at the orifice on the surface. At the under part of the glans and behind the apertuie of the urethra, the integument fonns a small triangular iolA, fromiim prceputii. AVhere the skin covers the glans, it is inseparably united with tliat part, is very thin and sensitive, being provided with papilla, and assumes in some cases the characters of a mucous membrane. Behind the glans are some sebaceous follicles—glunduhv odorifera'. In the scrotum the two layers of the superficial fascia of the groin become united in a tliin membrane of a reddish colour. The pro- longation around the testicle on one side is separate from that on the other side ; and the two pouche-s, coming in contact in the middle line, form the septum scroti. The subcutaneous layer in the scrotum, penis, and front of the perineum contains involuntary muscular fibres, to which the corru- gation of the skin is owing. Tiiis contractile structure is luimed the durtoid tissue. Dissection. The scrotum should now be accurately divided into two halves by an incision in the middle line and each half containing its testis is to be held aside. The incision should be continued along the under surface of the penis to the frajnum and the skin of the organ dissected off as a sheath. The staff is to be removed from the urethra and the fatty tissue from the root of the penis and the front of the sympliysis pubis should be removed so as to define the suspensory ligament. The dorsal arteries and nerves, with the dorsal vein of the penis, which will be laid bare, are to be followed forwards to the glans. The suspensory ligament of the penis is a band of fibrous tissue