321 REMOVAL OF THK INTESTINES. •2. Cut off the next twelve inches of the jejnmini ; wash it through with running water from the tap, inflate it with air, and hang it up lo dry. 3. Cut through the ascending colon ahout six inches above the ileo-colic junction. Wash through the detached portion, consisting of the lower part of the ileum, the cseeum, and a piece of the ascending colon, inflate it, and hang it np to dry. 4. Remove the pieces of mesentery left on the remaining long piece of the small intestine. Wash the intestine through from end to end by putting one end on the tap and allowing the water to run through freely ; and, finally, treat the remainder of the large intestine in the same way. SMALL INTESTINE. The JEJUNUM and the ileum together measure about twenty feet Je.iumim ... mi ■ t f""! ileum, in length, and are connected with the mesentery, ihere is not any perceptible difl"erence between the termination of the one and the beginning of the other, but two-fifths of the length are assigned to the jejunum, and three-fifths to the ileum. Between the upper and lower extremities, however, a marked difference may be perceived. The upper part of the jejunuui_is thicker and more vascular than Characters, the lower end of the ileum ; it is spongy to the feel, owing to its voluminous mucous membrane, and markedly diff'ers from the thin- walled ileum ; the vnAth. of the upper part of the jejunum is also greater. Structure. In the small intestine the wall is formed by the Ktructmo same number of layers as in the stomach, viz., serous, muscular, fibrous, and mucous. Dissection. Open the small pieces of jejunum and ileum by cutting along the mesenteric attachment; pin them out on cork with the mucous membrane uppermost. Wash them gently with water, and remove all contained matter and adhering mucus, and examine the villi with a hand lens. Villi. The mucous membrane will be seen to be thickly studded Tlie villi, with small projections, like those on velvet. These bodies exist Their shape, along the whole of the small intestine, and are irregular in form (fig. 118), some being triangular, others conical or cylindrical with a large end. Their length is from j^th to ^th. of an inch ; and they are best marked where the valvuke conniventes are largest. In the duodenum their number is estimated at 50 to 90 in a square line, and number, but in the lower end of the ileum at only 40 to 70 on the same surface (Krause). Dissection. Now turn the pieces of intestine and pin them out on the cork with the serous coat outermost. The serous covering is to be torn off for a short distance, to show the muscular coat, but in doing this the external longitudinal fibres will be taken away unless great care is observed. The serous coat is closely connected with the subjacent muscular Serous coat layer. To the jejunum and ileum it furnishes a covering, e.xcept