682 DISSECTION OF THE TONGUE. Expose tiio The Carotid Canal. Dissection. The student slioiild now coni- urtery'' plete the exposure of the internal carotid artery in the temporal bone by chipping away the outer wall of the canal, taking the artery as a guide. In cleaning the artery large, and rather red, branches of the superior cervical ganglion of the sympathetic will be seen if the part has been well kept; and, in a fresh part, a small filament from the tympanic branch of the glosso-pharyngeal may be seen to join the sympathetic at the posterior part of the canal, and another from the Vidian at the fore part. The INTERNAL CAROTID ARTERY IN THE TEMPORAL BONE. The artery has a winding com'se in the bone ; at first it ascends in front of the cochlea and tympanum; ne.\t it is directed forwards and inwards almost horizontally; and, lastly, it turns upwards into the cranium through the foramen lacerum. Branches of the sympathetic nerve and a venous plexus surround the vessel in the bone. Section XIV. DirectiolLs. Dissection. Tongue: form iuid sitiiatiou ; relations of apex, and base. •Upper surface: body ; root. DISSECTION OF THE TONGUE. Directions. The tongue and larynx are to remain connected with each other while the students learn the general form and structure of the tongue. Bissection. The ends of the extrinsic lingual muscles that have been detached may be shortened, but enough of each should he left to trace it afterwards into the substance of the tongue. The TONGUE is an ovoid, somewhat flattened body, with the larger end turned backwards, which occupies the floor of the mouth, and forms a part of the anterior wall of the pharynx. It is free over the greater part of its surface ; but at the back, and at the posterior two-thirds of the under surface, it is attached by muscles and mucous membrane to the parts around. The tip of the tongue touches the incisor teeth. The base is attached to the hyoid bone, and is connected likewise with the epiglottis by three folds of mucous membrane-a central and two lateral. . . The upper surface or dorsum is convex, and m the anterior two- thirds of its extent is marked by a medium longitudinal groove or raphe, which terminates behind in a depression of variable depth named the foramen cwcum. From the depression a slight lat^ra ..roove is directed outwards and forwards on each side for a sliort distance. The part of the tongue in front of the lateral grooves ,s distinguished as the body, and is received into the ho low of the roof o the mouth ; its surface is covered with papilhe. Ihe posterior thinl or root of the organ looks into the pharynx ; and its surface is smoother, although rendered somewhat irregu ar by prq,ect i g mucous glands and grou]3s of lymphoid folhdcs, and by .mall