19!) FIRST LAYEK OF MUSCLES. The intiei- septum separates the short flexor from the abductor liallucis ; and the outer, from the abductor minimi digit!. The superficial transverse ligament cro.sse.s the roots of the toes, Trmisvorsc and is contained in the skin forming tlie rudimentary web of the foot. It is attached at the ends to the sheath of the flexor tendons of the great and little toes, and is coimected with the sheaths of the others as it lies over them. Beneatli it, the digital nerves and vessels issue. The sheathn of the flexor tendons (fig. 77, Q, p. 203) on the toes Sheatlis of are similar to those of the fingers, though not so distinct, and seiTe to confine the tendons against the grooved bones. The sheath is weak opposite the articulations between the phalanges, but is strong opposite the centre of both the nietatarsiil aiid the next phalanx. Each is lubricated l>y a synovial membrane, and contains the tendons of the long and short flexor muscles. Dissection (fig. 75). In the sole of the foot the muscles are Dissect nrst numerous, and have been arranged in four layers. To prepare the n^^jscies first layer, all the fascia must be taken away; but this dissection must be made -with some care, lest the digital nerves and vessels, which become superficial to the central muscle towards the toes, should be injured. The tendons of the short flexor muscle are to be followed to the toes, and one or more of the .sheaths in which they are contained should be ojiened. First Layer of Muscles. In this layer are three mu.scles, viz., Muscles in the flexor brevis digitorum, the aljductor liallucis, and abductor "yj."'*' minimi digiti. The short flexor of the toes lies in the centre of the foot; and each of the others is in a line with the toe on which it acts. The ABDUCTOR HALLUcis (fig. 75, a), the most internal muscle of Abductor the superficial layer, bikes origiii from the inner side of the larger '"'""cis: tidjercle on the under-surface of the os calcis (fig. 76), from tlie°"S'"; planfcir fascia, from the lower border of the internal annular liga- ment, and from the internal intermuscular septum. In front, the muscle ends in a tendon, which is joined by fibres of the short flexor, and is inserted into the inner side of the base of the first insci tiou; phalanx of the great toe. The cutaneous surffxce of the niuscle is in contact with the roiations; plantar fascia ; and the other touches the tendons of the tibial muscles, the plantar vessels and nerves, and the tendons of the long flexors of the toes, with the aceessorius nmscle. Action. This abductor acts chiefly as a flexor of the mefaitai •so- "SO, as phalangeal joint of the great toe, but it will slightly abduct that "Cductor' toe from the others. The FLEXOR BREVLS DIGITORUM (flexor perforatus, fig. 75, b) Floxor arises posteriorly by a pointed process from the fore jjart of the ["OTmn larger tubercle of the os calcis (fig. 76), from the overlying plantar fascia for two inches and the septa. About the centre of the foot the muscle divides into four slips, which become tendinous and are directed forwards superficial to the tendons of the long flexor to