382 iiiul boidiii-s use. Le\-fitor situation ; DISSECTION OF THE I'ELVIS. rectum : the opposite surface is in great part covered by the small sacro-scatichgnment, to which it is closely united. The t p e border IS contiguous to the pyriformis nutsde, vessels and ne ve intervening ; and the lower meets the levator aid Action This muscle helps the levator ani in supporting, and ™g^tlie i^oor of the pelvis : it n.ay also dra. the c<!^yx "iglSy The LEVATOR ANI (fig. 143, D, also fig. 92, p 241) is a thin «at mttscle, which is attached above to the side of tit p 1-^ anj descends ,nto the outlet of the cavity, where it joins its Uw a^d supports the viscera. origin from inibis, triangiiliir ligamont, ischial .spi [ic, and pelvic fa.scia ; inaartion into central point of perineum, Pia. 143.—Side View of the Mosoles in the Ootlet op the Pelvis (Illustrations oe Dissectioxs). Muscles: A. Gluteus maximus, cut. B. Ilio-psoas, cut. c. Coccygeus. u. Levator ani. E. External sphincter. i\ Ejaculator nrinaj. o. Ischial spine, cut off. H. Triangular ligament. Arteries: a. External iliac artery, cut. b. External iliac vein, cut. c. Obliterated hypogastric. d. Upper, and e, lower vesical. /. Internal pudic. ]\^eri-cs: 1. Great sciatic. 2. Inferior liiEniorrhoidal and peri- neal of pudic. 3. Dorsal nerve of penis. It arises anteriorly liy tuiidiiious fasciculi from the back of the pubis along an oblique line in front of the obturator internus(fig. 139); and below this some lleshy fibres often spring from the upper surface of the triangular ligament. Posteriorly it is attached to the lower and inner part of the ischial s]iine (fig. 139) ; and between tlie,se csseous attachments the muscle takes origin in the angle between the obtura- tor and recto-vesical portions of the pelvic fascia (along the curved line**-in fig. 142). From this wide origin the fibres converge, the anterior being directed backward.?, and the posterior downwards and inward.s, to be inserted in the following manner:—The most