BBANCHp;S OF THE RADIAL AKTEHY. 91 joined by the interosseous arteries, especially Ijy the i)osteri()r teniiiual Ijranch of the anterior interosseous. From the dorsal carpal arch branches (g) descend to the third dorsal inter- and fourth interosseous spaces, and constitute two of the three osseous; dorsal interosseous arteries: at the cleft of the fingers each divides into two, which are continued along the dorsum of the digits. Below, ihey communicate with the digital arteries; and above, they are joined hy the perforating branches of the deep palmar arch. 2. The metacarpal or fird dorsal intei-osseous branch of the radial mntacarpal; (fig. 35, h) gains the space between the second and third metacarpal bones, and receives, like the corresponding arteries of the other spaces, a perforating branch from the deep palmar arch. Finally, it is continued to the cleft of the fingers, where it joins the digital artery of the superficial palmar arch, and gives small dorsal brandies to the index and middle fingers. 3. Two small dorsal arteries of the thumb arise opposite the dorsal metacarpal bone, along which they extend, one on each border, to be distributed on its posterior aspect. 4. The dorsal branch of the index finger is distributed on the radial and fore- edge of that digit. The difierent di\isions of the annular ligament may now be seen Sheatlis of more completely by cutting the sheaths of the ligament over the "Jig^JJlent several tendons passing beneath.' There are six separate compart- ^ ^.^^ nients, and each is lubricated by a synovial membrane. The most out inwards, external one lodges the first two extensors of the thumb. The next is a large hollow for the two radial extensors of the wrist; and a small space for the long extensor of the thumb follows on the idnar side. Farther to the inner side is the common sheath for the extensor of the fingers, and that of the forefinger ; and then comes a .slender compartment for the extensor of the little finger. Internal Bones to all is the space for the extensor carpi nlnaris. The last muscle thB°tendons. grooves the ulna ; but the others lie in hollows in the radius in the order mentioned above, with the exception of the extensor minimi digiti which is situate between the bones. Dissection. If the supinator brevis be divided by a vertical To sec incision, and reflected from the radius, its attachment to that bone s",pTnato'r°'^ will be better understood. ' , The nosterinv intprnsspnns norve^ niul tlii» offsofs frnm its g.i-nfrlj- interosseous<^C/5. form enlargement, may be traced more completely after the tendons of the extensor of the fingers and indicjitor mnscle have been cut '^vrtK. J at the wrist. The posterior surface of the dorsal interosseous muscles of the and intcr- hand may next be cleaned, so that their double origin, and their mn^\L insertion into the side, and on the dorsum of the phalanges, may be fully observed. Between the heads of origin of these muscles the posterior perforating arteries appear. Lastly, the outer head of the first dorsal interosseous nmscle is to Passage be divided, and carefully separated from the first metacarpal bone, .?Hery"nto so as to display the passage of the radial artery into the palm. paim.