DISSECTION OF THE ARM. 50 Musr.ulo'. cutaneous nerve in the arm : its muscular branches. Uissection. Define bracliialis. Braehialis anticus : origin ; insertion ; relations of surfaces, of borders ; use, fore- arm free, and fixed. The MUSCULO-cuTANEOus NKRVE, iianiL'd from siipplying muscles and integuments, ends on tlie surface of the forearm. It leaves the outer cord of the brachial jilexus opposite the lower border of the pectoralis minor, and immediately perforates the coraco-brachialis ; it is then directed obliquely to the outer side of the limb beneath the biceps and lying upon the braehialis anticus. At the front of the elbow it becomes a cutaneous iier\'e of the forearm. Branches. The nerve furnishes a branch to the coraco-bracliialis before entering the muscle, and others to the biceps and braehialis anticus where it is placed between them. Dissection. The braehialis anticus muscle will now Ije brought into view by cutting through the tendon of the biceps near the elbow, and turning upwards this muscle. The fascia and areolar tissue should be taken from the fleshy fibres ; and the lateral extent of the muscle should be defined on each side, so as to show that it reaches the intermuscular septum largely on the inner side, but only for a short distance above on the outer side. Some care is required in detaching the braehialis on the outer side from the muscles of the forearm, to which it is closely applied. As the muscles are separated, the musculo-spiral nerve, accompanied by a small branch of the superior profunda artery, comes into sight. The BEACHiALis ANTICUS (fig. 20, h) covers the elbow-joint and the lower half of the front of the humerus. It arises from the anterior surface of the humerus below the insertion of the deltoid muscle, and from the intermuscular septa on the sides, \iz., from all the inner, but from only the upper part of the outer (fig. 17, p. 44). The fleshy fibres converge to a tendon, which is inserted into the impression on the front of the coronoid process of the ulna (fig. 25, p. 61). This muscle is for the most part concealed by the biceps. On it lie the lirachial vessels, with the median, musculo-cutaneous, and musculo-spiral nerves. It covers the humerus and the articulation of the elbow. Its origin embraces by two slips the tendon of the deltoid ; and its insertion is placed between two fleshy points of the flexor profundus digitorum. The inner border reaches the inter- muscular septum in all its length ; but the outer is separated below from the external intermuscular septum by two muscles of the forearm, supinator longus and extensor carpi radialis longior. Action. The braehialis brings forward the ulna towards the humerus, and Ijends the elbow-joint. If the ulna is fixed, as in climbing with the hands above the head, the muscle bends the joint by raising the humerus. Position of the part. BACK OF THE ARM. Position. During the examination of the back of the arm, the limb is to be raised in a semiflexed position by means of a block beneath the elbow. The scapula is to be brought nearly m a hue with the humerus, so as to tighten the muscular fibres ; and it is to be fastened with hooks in that jiosition.