302 DISSECTION OF THK ABDOMEN. and extent. Divisions. Ciecuni: position; relations; peritoneum around it. Junction of ileum. Vermiform process. Surface marking. Ascending colon: parts around. Transverse colon: extent iind course; splenic (lexnre ; arch of colon ; relations of arch ; the left hypocliondriac region ; and it lies in this transverse part of its course in the upper part of the umbilical regions. Finally, it descends, on the left side, through the regions corresponding with those it occupied on the right, and forms a remarkable Ijend in the pelvis on the left side ; then becoming .straight (rectum), it passes through the pelvis to end on the surface of the body. It is divided into seven parts, viz., ccecum, ascending colon, trans- verse colon, descending colon, iliac colon, pelvic colon, and rectum. The ccecum is placed in the right iliac fossa, above the outer half of Poupart's ligament, descending below the level of the anterior superior iliac spine in the right lateral line. Wlien empty it may be entirely covered by the convolutions of the small intestine ; but frequently, more or less distended, it rests against the anterior abdominal wall. The cfficum is as a rule entirely surrounded by peritoneum, which sometimes forms a small fold behind it; but occasionally it is closely bound down by the peritoneum being reflected off each side, so as to leave the hinder surface uncovered, and connected to the iliac fascia by areolar tissue. This part of the laj-ge intestine is joined at its inner and posterior aspect by the termination of the ileum, which marks the division between the CEecum and ascending colon. Attached to the inner part of the posterior surface of the cajcum is a slender worm-like process—the vermiform cqjpendix. This process is usually directed downwards and to the left under cover of the csecum, to which it is connected by a fold of peritoneum. The root of the appendix (where it joins the caecum) is marked on the surface of the body by a point an inch below the centre of a line drawn from the anterior superior iliac spine to the umbilicus. The ascending colon reaches from the caecum to the under-surface of the liver, where tbe intestine makes a bend known as the hepatic flexure. It lies against the iliacus and quadratus lumliorum muscles, and in its upper part along the outer border of the kidney. In front and to its inner side are the convolutions of the small intestine. The peritoneum fixes the ascending colon to the wall of the abdomen, and surrounds commonly about two-thirds of its circumference ; but it may encircle the tube and form a fold behind it (ascending meso-colon). The trannverse colon begins at the hepatic flexure, forming a loop downwards in the right lateral plane as far as the level of the umbilicus, and then passes across to the left and upwards, along the great curvature of the stomach, as far as the spleen. Here a bend, directed mainly backwards, is formed in the lower part of the left hypochondriac*region at the junction with the descending colon, sharper tlian that on the right side, and named the q)lemc /lexure. In this course the transverse colon is deeper at each end than in the middle, and thus forms the arch of the colon, which has its coTnexity directeil forwards. Above tlic arch are idaied the liver and "all-bladder, the stomach, and the spleen ; and btdow, the