CONTEKTS OF THF ANTERIOR TRIANGULAR Sl'AC'K. :,S3 For a .short distance after its exit from beneath the depressor b.m.xut.on. muscles of the hyoid bone, the common carotid artery vema.ns a single tnmk ; but opposite, or a little above, the upper border of the thw-oid cartilaye it divides into two large vesse s, external and internal carotid. From the place of division these ar enes are continued onwards beneath the digastric and stylo-bj'oul muscles to the interval between the jaw and the mastoid proce.^s. At first the trunks lie side by side, the ves.sel destim-a toi uic two trunks internal parts of the head (internal carotid) being the posterior ol to o„o the two ; but above the digastric muscle it becomes deeper than the other. The more superficial artery (external carotid) furnishes many branches to the neck and the outer part of the head, viz B.,u>chc». some forwards to the larynx, tongue, and face ; others backwards to the occiput and the ear ; and others upwards to the head. But the common carotid does not always divide as here said. t-'-'^R-J^f For the point of branching of the ve.ssel may be moved from™ opposite the upper border of the thyroid cartilage, either upwards or downwards, to that the trunk may remain undivided till it 18 beyond the hyoid bone, or it may end opposite the cricoid cartilage. The division beyond the usual place is more frequent than the branching short of that spot. It may ascend as an undivided trunk (though very rarely) furnishing oflsets to the neck and head. i„,rni „- 111 close coiit^ict with the outer side of both the common ami the internal carotid arterv, and encased in a sheath of fa.scia with them, is the large internal jugular vein, which receives branches m the neck corresponding to some (jf the branches of the superHcial artery. In some bodies the vein covers the artery ; and the branches i;-t,on joining it above may form a kind of plexus over the upper end of the common Ciirotid. n,.,v,.< with Nerves in the space. In connection with the large vessels are tiie the artorius following nerves with a longitudinal direction ;—On the surface of , , , the common carotid artery, and most frefiuenlly within the sheath, lies /.^-J the descending branch of the hypoglossal nerve (descendens cervicis) : posteriorly between the artery and jugular vein is the piieumo-i> gastric nerve ; and behind the .sheath is the sympathetic nerve. Along the outer side of the vessels the spinal accessory nerve extends for a°short distance, until it pierces the sterno-mastoid muscle. Several nerves are placed across the vesselsthus, directed '^'j;;',,;;™^'^'"^ iransverselv over the two carotids, so as to form an arch below the ^ -, digastric nuuscle, is the hypoglossal nerve giving ofl' its descending / W branch. Appearing on the inner side of the carotid arteries, clase 1- to the base of tlie space, is the glo.sso-pharyngeal nerve, which courses forwards between them. To the inner side of the internal carotid artery, opposite the hyoid bone, the superior laryngeal nerve comes into sight ; while a little lower down, with the descending branches of the thyroid artery, is the i-xternal laryngeal branch of that nerve. Glands in the space. Two large glandular bodies, the submaxil- "iji^J'ts^:^ lary (tig. 213,", p. 589) and thyroid ('-), have their seats in this J",.^"'''^'"