STRUCTURE OF THE PENIS. Its surfacL' is sl udik'ti thi'Oiigliout witli the apertures ol' iiiinute Khimis. glands, which are Iodised in the sulinuicous tissue, and tlie duels of which are inclined oMii[uely i'oi-wanls. Submucous tissue. Beneath the nuicous lininj,' of the urethra is suiimncous a stratum of longitudinal unstriated nuiscular fibres, mixed with elastic and fibrous tissues. It is continuous beliind with the sub- mucous fibres of the liladder, and is joined in the prostate by the nature; muscular fibres accompanying the common seminal duct-s. The stratum differs at spots :—it is most developed in the prostate ; in uniuiKcmiMit the membranous portion the muscular structure is less aliundant; "' "^'■''■■■'>' and in the spongy part fibrous tissue forms most of the submucous lawyer. Around the membranous and pn'ostatic divisions of the urethra Eicctih! there is, in addition, immediately Ijeneath the mucous membrane, a tllTou'-hout thin layer of vascular or erectile tissue, which is continued back- wards from the corpus spiongiosum to the neck of the bladder. Structure of the pexis. The form and the relations of the Penis penis having been described (pp. 251 et seq.) the bodies of which it is tworastniiar composed remain to be noticed. If a section is made along one erectile side of the jjenis, it will show this organ to be composed of two masses of spongy and vascular tissue (corpora cavernosa) encased in a fibrous covering, with an imperfect septum between them, and having the corpus spongiosum attached along their under surface. Corpora cavernosa (fig. 154, /■). These bodies form the bulk Corpora of the penis, and are two dense cylindrical tubes of fibrous tissue, arched* containing erectile structure. Each is fi.xed behind by a pointed Miiud . , • • 1 • r- .1 ■ 1 ■ 1 , . separately, proces.s, cms penis, to the conjoined rami of the ischium and pubis bicml for about an inch, and blends with its fellow in the body of the J"*]".'',',". penis, about an inch and a half from its posterior e.xtremity. There is a slight swelling on the cms, called the bulb of the corpus caver- hn\b. nosuni (Kobelt). Each corpus cavemosmii is composed of a fibrous case containing .structure: a cavernous or trabecular structure, with blood-spaces between the tralieculw of the spongy mass. An incomplete median septiuu exists along the body of the penis. The fibroids case is a white, strong, elastic covering which, along a case the middle of the penis, sends inwards a septal process between the that sends two corpora cavernosa as well as numerous other finer threads, '"P'ocesses; which are connected with the trabeculoe of the spongy structure, of which the corpiLs ciivernosum is composed. It is formed of white shinuig fibres which are disposed in two libresrorm layers, outer and inner. The outer stratum is formed of longi- ■ tudinal fil)res with close meshes. The inner stratum consists of circular fibres, with a like plexiform disposition ; and the circular fibres of each cavernous body meeting in the middle line give rise to the septum penis. Both strata are inseparably united by communicating bundles. , The septal 'process (fig. 155) is placed vertically along the body a septal of the penis, and is thicker and more perfect behind than in front. Near the junction of the crura this partition divides the enclosed