SACRAL NERVES. 537 common branching into inner and outer pieces, like the other spinal nerves ; bnt the last two are nndivifled. Tlie fint three nerves (1 s, 2 s and 3 s) are covered by tiie mnltifidiis spinse, and divide regidarly. The inner pieces (') are distri- buted to the niultihdu.s ; the last of this set is very fine. Tne outer pieces (■^) are larger, and have communicating olfsets from one to another on the back of the sacrum ; the l)raiich of the first is also connected with tliecor- responditig part of the last lum- bar nerve ; and the branch of the third joins in a similar way the sacral nerve next below. After this looping they pass outwards to the surface of the great sacro-sciatic ligament, where they join a .second lime, and become cutaneous. Last two nerves (4 3 and 5 8). These nerves, which are below the muUifidu.s, are much smaller than the preceding, and want the regular branching of the others: they are connected with each other and the coccygeal nerve by loops on the back of the .sacrum. A few filaments are di.stributed over the back of the coccyx. Coccygeal nerve (1 c). Its posterior 7)rimary branch i.ssues through the lower aperture of the spinal canal, and appe;xr3 by the side of the coccyx. It is joined in a loop with the last sacral nerve, and ends on the j)osterior surface of the coccyx. Sacral arteries. Small branches of the lateral .sacral arteries leave the spinal canal with the sacral nerves ; they supply the nmltifidus spina, and anastomose on the back of the sacnim with offsets from the and sciatic arteries First three have inix^r and outer branches: latter give cutaneous offsets. Pro. 193.—Dis.sBCTro5 of thb Pos- terior DiVI.SIONS OF THE SaCRAL Nrrvrs. Mtiseles : A. Miiltifidu.'? spin*, and b. Erector .spinae : both cut. c. Gluteus m^ximas detached from it.s oriKin, and thrown down. i>. Great sacro-sciatic ligament. Nerves: :>l. Last him bar. 1 s to 5 3. The five .sacral nerves issuing from the sacrum. 1 c. The coccygeal nerve esciiping by the opening of the sacral canal. 1. Internal offsets of the last lumbar and first three sacral (these are represented too large). 2. External offsets of nerves. 3. Anterior, and 4, primary branch of the nerve. ."). The nerve derived from the an- terior divisions of the last two .sacral and the coccygeal nerve.s, piercing the great .sacro-sciatic ligament and the gluteus raaximus mu.scle. uteal I.ast two are undivided. Coccygeal nerve. the same posterior coccygeal Small sacral arteries.