710 DISSECTION OF THE NECK. and beUveeu ntlas and axis. Internal ligaments between same bones. Dissection of the liga- ments. The posterior atlcmto-axial ligament (^) is also thin, and adherent to the dura mater. It closes the interval between the neural arches of the atlas and axis, and is pierced on each side by the second cervical nerve. The licjaments inside the spinal canal are much stronger, and assist in retaining the skull in place during the rotatory and nodding movements of the head. Between the occipital hone and the second vertebra are four ligaments—a long occipito-axial with a central and two lateral odontoid ; and the odontoid process of the axis is fixed against the body of the atlas by a ti'ansverse baud. Dissection (fig- 253). Supposing the neural arches of the cervical vertebra} to be removed except in the first two, the arches of these vertebrffi are to be sawn through close to tlie articuhir processe.s. Next, the ring of the occipital bone bounding posteriorly the Long oeciiiito- axial ligament Fig. 254.—Internal Ligaments between the Uocu'ital Bone, Atlas, AND Axis. Second view. (Bourgery.) 1. Check ligament. 2. Transverse ligament, sending offsets upwards and downwards. 3. Cut end of long occiiiito-axial ligament. foramen magnum is to be taken away. Lastly, the student should detach the tube of dura mater from the interior of the spinal canal; and, by following upwards the posterior common ligament of the bodies of the vertebra, its continuation, the long occipito-axial ligament will be exposed. Tlie long ov posterior ocdinio-axial ligament (fig. 253) is a strong flat band which continues upwards the posterior common ligament of the vertebrte. It is broad above, where it is attached to the upper surface of the basilar process of the occipital bone, reacliing outwards on each side as far as the insertion of the clieck ligaments. Descend- ing thence througli the foramen magnum, and over the odontoid process, it becomes somewhat narrower, and is inserted mainly into the back of the body of the axis, but many of the superficial fibres are prolonged into tlie posterior common ligament. Occasionally a bursa is found between it and the transverse ligament.