DISSECTION OF THE PTERYGOID REGION. 612 Dissection. c'iu'lilaae ; shiiiii', and attaclr menta; iiiaxilliuy vessels, with the auriculo-teiiiporal and inferior dental nerves, pnss between the band and the laiiius of the jaw. Dissection. After the external hiteral ligament and tlie cap.sule have been examined, the interarticular tibro-earlilage will be exposed by taking away the capsule on the outer side (fig. 221). The interarticular fibro-cartilage (fig. 221,*) is an oval plate, elongated transversely, and thinner in the centre, where it is sometimes perforated, than at the margins. The up])er surface fits the, articular hollow and eminence of the temporal bone, being conve.x behind and concave in front ; and the lower is moulded to the convexity of the condyle of the jaw. By the circumference it is connected with the caj)sule ; and in front the extei-nal pterygoid muscle is attached to it. This interarticular disc allows a double movement to take place in the articulation, the condyle of the jaw revolving in the socket Fig. 220.—Ligaments of' the Jaw — Inner View (Bodk- QERY AND JaOOb). 1. Internal lateral ligament. 2. Stylo maxillary. Fig. 221.—A View op the Interior OF THE TEMPORO-MAXILLARr JolST (Bodrgery and Jacob). 3. Stylo-maxillary ligament. 4. Interarticular fibro-cartilage : the dark intervals above and below the disc are tbe synovial cavities. formed by the fibro-cartilage, while the latter glides forwards and backwards over the temporal articular surface. Two syno. Two synovial sacs are present in the articulation—a larger one vial sacs. above, and a smaller one below the fibro cartilage, gt ,0. Another structure—the stylo^naxillary ligament (fig. 221, •^)—is maxniary described as a uniting band to the articulation. This is a process ligament. ^j, ^j^^ ^^^^^ cervical fascia, which extends from the styloid process to the hinder border of the ramus of the jaw ; it gives attachment to the stylo-glossus muscle, and separates the parotid and sub- maxillary glands. Smfacosof Articular surfaces of the bones. The condyle of the jaw has a j'"' form resembling that of a part of a cylinder, with its axis directed obliquely from without inwards and somewhat backwards, and tern. Tlie upper articular surface is placed on the squamous part of porat bone.