DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 300 Piwitioii iiud rulii- tions of tlx stoiiiacli: cardiac orillce, siirraee marking, fundus ; small curvature; pyloric end. Surface marking. upjier and lower surfaces ; great curva- ture is least fixed part. Changes in form and position ; empty and full stomacli. RELATIONS OF THE VISCERA. The STOMACH (figs. 110 and 111, p. 303) intervenes between the , gullet ami the small intestine, and is partly retained in position Ijy folds of the serous membrane. It is somewhat pyriform in shape, with the larger end on the left side ; and it is placed in the left hypochondriac and epigastric regions, and reaches to the upper part of the umbilical. At its large end the stomach is joined by the ocsoijhagus, which fixes it to the diaphragm. The opening of the oesophagus into the stomach, because of its nearness to the heart (from which it is only separated by the diaphragm and pericardium), is named the curduw orifice, and lies behind the seventh costal cartilage of the left side, about an inch from its junction with, the sternum, being on a level with the tenth dorsal vertebra. To the left of the orifice, the stomach bulges upwards to its summit in the left vault of the diaphragm, and lies behind the fifth rib in the left lateral line (fig. 111). The con- cave border of the stomach to the right of the oesophagus is the lesser curvature, and is attached to the liver by a fold of peritoneum —the small omentum. The right extremity leads into the small intestine (duodenum) by the pyloric orifice, the situation of which is indicated externally by a slight constriction of the tube, and a thickened band in the wall that may be felt with the finger. The pyloric end of the stomach is placed beneath the liver, a little to the right of the middle line in the transpyloric plane, at the level usually of the disc between the first and second lumbar vertebrte. The \qoper surface (which looks also somewhat forwards) of the stomach is in contact above and to the right with the liver, on the left with the diaphragm, and between these with the abdominal wall. The lower surface (compare fig. Ill and fig. 112, p. 305) lies over the spleen, to which it is connected by a fold of peritoneum (gastro-splenic omentum), the left kidney and suprarenal capsule, the pancreas, and the trans\'erse meso-colon. This siu-face looks al.so backwards. The convex border or greater curvature is directed to the left forwards and downwards, and has the great omentum attached to it; along it lies the transverse colon. The form and position of the stomach vary with its degree of distension. When the organ is empty, it is flattened, and the jjyloric end reaches but little to the right of the middle line. But when full, the stomach becomes rounded, and its upper surface is directed somewhat upwards and forwards, filling particularly the left hypochondriac and epigastric regions; the fundus pushes upwards the diaphragm, pressing on the heart and left lung ; the great curva- ture moves soniewhat to the left and downwards, as w ell as forwanls; and the jiyloric extremity is carried an inch or so to the right. As will, however, be pointed out later on, the full stomach is accommo- dated to a great extent in a deep hollow to the left of the vertebral