LATISSIMUS DORSI MUSCLE. 7 with the suprascapular nerve and vessels, the transverse cervical vessels from which the superficial cervical already referred to will be seen to spring, and the f5mall nerves to the levator anguli scapulte and rhomboid muscles. The dissector of the upper limb will find three muscles pro- muscles ceeding from the vertebral coliunn to the vertebral border of the t^the""' scapula, viz., the levator anguli scapulae, the rhomboideus nunor scapula, and major, from above do\ATiwards, and these sliould be cleaned in the direction of their fil)res. The rhomboideus minor and major muscles are often blended together. Beneath the lowest part of the reflected trapezius a thin fibrous lamina (aj)oneurosis), from which the upper part of the latissimus dorsi muscle takes origin from the lower dorsal spines, Avill be revealed, and care should be taken that it is not cut away. The LATISSIMUS DOBSI (fig. 3, B) is the widest muscle of the Latissimus back, and is thin and aponeurotic at its attachment to the spine origin from and pelvis. It arises along the middle line from the spinous spinf, processes of the six lower dorsal, all the lumbar, and the upper .sacral vertebrae, as well as from the supraspinous ligaments. On the outer side it arises from the posterior third of the outer edge of pelvis, the iliac crest by its aponeurosis, and from the lowest three or four ribs by as many fleshy processes, which interdigitate with slips of ribs; the external oblique muscle of the abdomen. And in many bodies it receives another fleshy slip from the inferior angle of the scapula. The fibres ai'e directed outwards and ujiwards, con- verging rapidly ; and the muscle, much reduced in breadth, turns round the lower border of the teres major, to be inseiied by tendon into the bottom of the bicipital groo\'e of the humerus (fig. 17, insertion p. 44), where it will be subsequently seen. immcms- The muscle is superficial, except at tlie upper and inner part, where it is covered to a small extent by the trapezius. Farther out there is a space between the two, in which the rhomboid and relations; infraspinatus muscles appear. The outer border overlaps the edge of the external oblique muscle of the abdomen in the interval between the last rib and the iliac crest. The aponeurosis of the latissimus is in its lower part incorporated in the posterior layer of the fascia lumbormn, of which it forms the chief con.stituent. Action. If the arm is hanging loose, the muscle can move it use behind the back, rotiiting it inwards at the siime time. If the limb IS'i'Xis^free, is raised, the latissimus, combining with the large pectoral and teres miiscles, win depress the himierus. Supposing the arm fixed, the lati.ssimus assists the pectoralis and 0.\ed. major in drawing the movable trunk towards the humerus, as in the act of climbing. Dissection. The latissimus is to be divided about midway Dissection between the spines of the vertebrae and the angle of the scapula, to reflect J i-T- ■ . > i . •. ° , , ^ ' latissimus. and the pieces are to be reflected inwards and outwards. In raising the inner half of the muscle, care must be taken not to destroy either the thin lower serratus muscle, with which it is united, or the aponeurosis continued downwards from the serratus.