oiur.rN OF rrtK orantai, nerves. 7211 Deep ori<iiii. The larifr ronf divides within the pons into two parts. One Drcp on^-in of tliese is connected with a mass of grey matter (sen.sory nucleus of the liftli) |™| near tlie floor of the fourtli ventricle : tlie other (ascending root of tlie fiftli ; JUJui'iiV"" fig. 267 Va, p. 739") arises from the cells of the posterior horn of the grey matter di.iongntn ; in the lower part of the medulla oblongata and up|)er part of the spinal cord, and is directed ui)wards on the outer surface of the gelatinous substance of Rolando to join tlie up])er part. Tlie sm/i/l Viiol. also lias a double origin, one part springing from a special of small in nucleus (motor nucleus of tlie fiftli) in the floor of the fourtli ventricle internal jj™/]'*)"."'',, to the sensory nucleus, and the other (descending root of the fifth ; fig. 2S.3, p. US) from a collection of nerve-cells on the side of the aqueduct of Sylvius. Tlie SIXTH NERVE (''), abiluceiit nerve of tbe eyeball comes tlirough si.vtli nerve the outer part of the anterior pyramid close behind the pons, and [,'y"^nij(i, often by a second band from the lower border of the pons. Deep orirjiit. The fibres of the nerve pass forwards, through the lower and iinolons part of the pons, from a nucleus in the floor of the fourth ventricle, beneath hcneiith the outer part of the fasciculus teres (fig. 267). ventricle The SEVENTH or facial kerve (") appears at the lower border of Si^venth the pons, to which it is closely adherent, in the dejiression between tract the upper ends of the olivary and restiform bodies. A small accessory 9f.''"j''^jy bundle (jiortio intermedia of Wrisberg) leaves the medulla oblongata intermediate between the facial and the auditory nerves, and joins the former within the internal auditory meatus. Deep orhjin. The fibres of the facial nerve pass backwards to the floor of Deep origin the fourth ventricle, and there wind round the nucleus of the si.Kth nerve, to from a arise from a group of nerve-cells lying in front and to the outer side of the JloJ^s-il'p.'Irt latter (fig. 267). Whether some of the fibres are connected with the cells of of pons, the nucleus of the si.\th is uncertain. The eiohth or auditory nerve has a surface attachment outside Eighth the foregoing to the restiform body internal to the flocculus ; one ol' "es"Korin''' its roots passing round the restiform body to its dorsal surface. I'orty. Deep origin. At its attachment to the medulla oblongata, the auditory Deep origin, nerve consists of two roots, upper and lower. The fibres of the upper or dorsal part con.stitute the cochlear diiuaioii of the nerve, some of its fibres Cochlear terminate in cells forming the ventral cochlear nucleus on the under part of division, the restiform body, and others pass to the dorsal cochlear nucleus (outer auditory nucleus) in the later.al angle of the floor of the fourth ventricle dorsal to the restiform body. The filires of the stria; acusticie arise from the latter nucleus, and they, with many more from the ventral nucleus, eventually pass, through the intervention of the superior olivary nucleus and other groups of cells, into the lateral fillet and are connected _witli the posterior corpus quadrigeminum. Th« lower, or ventral part of the auditory nerve con.stitutes the vestibular Vestibular division. Many of its filires ]iass through the pons, internal to the restiform division, body to the inner anditory nucleus, or the dorsal vestibular nucleus, beneath the auditory tubercle in the floor of the fourth ventricle ; other fibres pa.ss to groups of large cells internal to and beneath the restiform body forming the nucleus of Deiters, and some to a group of cells styled the nucleus of the descending root. Many fibres from the dorsal nucleus of the vestibular division of the auditory nerve pass through the restiform body into the cei'ebelhini. The NINTH or hlosso-pharyngeal nerve (") leaves the medulla Ninth nerve below facial