698 DISSECTION OF THE LARYNX. Section XVI. Dissection. Hj'oid bone form ; body; cornua, larye and small. In larynx there are fonr largo and some small carti luges. Thyroid cartilage THE HYOID BONE, THE CARTILAGES AND LIGAMENTS OF THE LARYNX, AND THE STRUCTURE OF THE TRACHEA. Dissection. A IVesli larynx sliould be obtained for tliis Section if possible. Failing that good use may be made of the jjarts remaining in the specimen already examined. All the muscles and the mncous membrane are to be taken away so as to denude the hyoid bone, the cartilages of the larynx, and the epiglottis ; but the membrane joining the hyoid bone to the thyroid cartilage, and the ligaments uniting one cartilage to another on the left side, should not be destroyed. In the aryteno-epiglottidean fold of mucous membrane, a small cartilaginous body (cuneiform) may be recognised; an oblique whitish projection indicates its position. : The hyoid bone (fig. 248) is situate between the larynx and the root of the tongue. Kesenibling the letter U placed horizontally, and with the legs turned backwards, it offers for examination a central part or body, and two lateral pieces or cornua on each side. The hody (o) is elongated transversely, in which direction it measures about an inch, and flattened from before backwards. The anterior surface is convex, and marked in the centre by a tubercle, on each side of which is an impression for muscular attachment. The posterior surface is concave and smooth. To the upper border the hyo-glossal membrane, fixing the tongue, is attached. The cornua are two in number on each side—large and small. The large cornu (h) continues the bone backwards, and is joined to the body by an intervening piece of cartilage, or in old persons by contiHUous bony union. The surfaces of this cornu look rather upwards and downwards ; and the size decreases from before back- wards. It ends posteriorly in a tubercle. The small cormi (J) is directed upwards from the point of union of the great cornu with the body, and is joined by the stylo-hyoid ligament; it is seldom wholly ossified. It is united to the body of the bone by a synovial joint, with a surrounding capsule. Cartilages of the Larynx (fig. 248). There are four large cartilages in the larynx, by which the vocal cords are supported, viz., the thyroid, the cricoid, and the two arytenoid. In addition there are aonie yellow fibro-cartilaginous structures, viz., the epi- • (Glottis, a capiLulum to each arytenoid cartilage, and a small ovahsh piece (cuneiform) in each aryteno-e.piglottidean fold of mucous membrane. . , The thyroid cartilaoe (b) is the largest of all : it forms the front of the larynx, and protects the vocal apparatus as with a shield The upper part of the cartilage is considerably wider than