DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. 438 but un- equally. Thorax lessened, how. Intercostal muscles. Outer layer is deficient in front. Dissection of deeper muscle. Inner layer deficient behind. Use of outer muscles; in respiration ; for the muscle descends when air is taken into the lungs, thus increasing the cavity ; and it ascends when the air is expelled from those organs, so as to restore the previous size of the space, or to diminish it in violent efforts. But the movement of the diaphragm is not eipal throughout, and some parts of the cavity will be increased more than others. For instance, the central ten- dinous piece, which is joined to the heart-case, moves but slightly ; but the lateral, liulging ]mrts descend freely, and increase greatly the capacity of each half of the che.st below by their separation from the thoracic parietes. The thoracic cavity may be diminished by the diaphragm Ijeing pushed upwards by enlargement, either temporary or permanent, of the viscera in the abdomen ; or by the existence of fluid in the latter cavity. Dissection. The external intercostal muscle should now be carefully cleaned, care being taken to pre.serve the nerves and a thin aponeurosis {anterior intercostal membrane) which passes forwards from the muscle to the sternum at the front of the chest. The INTERCOSTAL MUSCLES fomi two layers in each .si^ace, but neither occupies the whole length of the interval. The direction of the fibres is different in the two, those of the external muscle running very obliquely downwards and forwards, while those of the internal pass, although less obliquely, downwards and Ijackwards. ^ The external muscle consists of fleshy and tendinous fibres, and is attached to the margins of the ribs bounding the intercostal space. It extends from the tubercle of the upper rib behind to the end of the bone in front, except in the last two spaces, where the muscle is continued forwards between the cartilages. The thin anterix)r intercostal membrane takes the place of the muscle between the rib-cartilages. Dissection. The internal intercostal muscle will be seen by cutting through and removing the external intercostal and the mem- brane in one of the widest spaces, say the third. The i7iternal intercostal muscle passes from the inner surface of the rib above to the upper border of the one below internal to the attachment of the external intercostal muscle. It begins near the ancles of the ribs behind, the upper muscles approaching more closely" to the spine than the lower ones, and reaches to the extremity of the intercostal space at the sternum in front. The fibres of the lowest two muscles arc continuous anteriorly with those of the internal oblique of the abdomen. One surface is in contact with the external muscle, and the intercostal vessels and nerves ; and the other is lined by the pleura. The hinder part of the muscles will be seen again in the dissection of the V)ack and thorax. Action. By the action of the intercostal muscles the ribs are moved in res]iiration. Tln^ertcrnal T»(crco.s-««/s elevate the ribs and evert the lower edges, so as to enlarge the thorax in the antero-posterior and transverse directions : they come into play during inspiration.