73 THE MEDIAN NERVE IN THE HAND. phalangeal articulations from small arterial arches on the bones, au arch being close above each joint. On the dorsum of the last phalanx is a plexus from which the nail pulp is supplied. Palmar part op the ulnar nerve (fig. 27, i). The ulnar Ulnar nerve nerve, like the artery, divide.s, on or near the annular ligament, into "' a superjicial and a rfec^; part. The deep part accompanies the deep branch of the artery to the divides into muscles, and will be dissected with that vessel (fig. 31). deep and The superficial part furnishes an oflset to the palniaris brevis superiiciai muscle, and some filaments to the integument of the inner part of the hand, and ends in two digital nerves for the supply of both sides of the little linger and half the next. Digital nerves Q). The more internal nerve is undivided, like Digital the corresponding artery. two The other is directed to the cleft between the ring and little fingers, and bifurcates for the supply of their opposed sides ; in the palm of the hand this branch is connected with an oliset (") of the median nerve. Along the sides of the lingers the digital branches have the same arrangement as those of the median nerve. Palmar part of the median nerve (fig. 27,''). As soon as the Median median nerve issues from Ijeneath the annular ligament it becomes pHermus-'—- enlarged and somewhat flattened, and divides into two nearly equal ''lo? "nd' Jh." parts for the supply of digital nerves to the thumb and the remain- i.'^ »• ing two fingers and a half; the outer part also furnishes a small ,.^tc muscular Inanch to the ball of the thumb. The branches of the nerve are covered by the fascia and the superficial palmar arch ; and beneath them are the tendons of the flexor muscles. a. The muscular branch (■*) supplies the flexor brevis, the Branch to abductor, and the opponens poUicis nmscles. muscles. 6. The digital nerves ("') are five in number. Three of them are Five digital undivided, and come from the external of the two pieces into which "'^"'^^ '• the trunk of the median splits. The other two spring from the inner piece of the nerve, and are l>ifurcated, each supplying the opposed sides of two fingers. The first two nerves Ijelong to the thumb, one on each side, and nrst two, the outer one communicates with a branch of the radial nerve. The third is directed to the radial side of the index finger, and third, gives a branch to the most external hunbrical muscle. The/oit?</t Uu-nislies a nerve to the .sp.mnd liniibritajjvi'iH/^, and fourth, divides to supply the contiguous sides of the fore and middle fingers. The fifth also divides into two branches, which are distributed to iifth. the opposed sides of the middle and ring fingers ; it communicates with a branch of the. ulnar nerve. On the fuujers. On the sides of the fingers the nerves are in front On the sides ot the iirlj'jies, and reach to the last phalanx, where they end in "''"'^ filaments for the ball, and the pulp beneath the nail. In their cour.se downwards the nerves sui.j.ly chielly tegumenbiry branches. One ot these (the dursul branch) is directed backwards by the side of on^^i"-