DISSECTION OF THE PTERYGOID REGION. and iirleries. liiteinul ninxilliiiy artery: ooursc and relations: varies ill its jiosition. Branches are in tliree sets. Those be- neatli ,ja\v. Inferior dental lifs a branch to mylo-hyoid mnsole. Great meningeal artery ends in skull; but gives branch to tympanum, to meatus, The large meningeal artery and its offsets are to be sought beneath the external jiterjgoid. Sometimes the trunk of the internal maxillary artery lies beneath that muscle, and in that case, it ami its branches are now to be cleaned. Tlie INTERNAL MAXILLARY ARTERY (fig. 218, i.s one of the terminal branches of the external carotid, and takes a winding course beneath the lower jaw and the temporal muscle to the spheno- maxillary fossa, where it ends in branches for the face, tlie interior of the nose, and the palate and pharynx. At first the artery is directed forwards between the ramus of the jaw and the internal lateral ligament of the joint, and crosses the inferior dental nerve ; it then ascends over the lower portion of the external pterygoid, being jilaced lietweeu it and the temporal muscle ; and finally, it turns inwards ojjposlle the interval between the heads of the external piterygoid to gain the spheno-maxillary fossa. The course of the artery is sometimes beneath, instead of over the exter- nal pterygoid ; and when that is the case, the artery reaches the spheno-maxillary I'ossa by passing between the heads of the muscle. The BRANCHES of this artery ai-e numerous, and are classed in three sets ; the first set arises beneath the jaw : the second between the muscles ; and the third in tlie spheno-maxillary fossa. Two chief branches, viz., the inferior dental and the great menin- geal, leave the internal maxillary artery in its first imrt while it is in contact with the ramus of the jaw. The INFERIOR DENTAL ARTERY descends between the internal lateral ligament and the jaw, and enters the foramen on the inner surface of the ramus, along with the companion nerve ; it supplies the molar and bicusjiid teeth, and ends in an incisor branch running forwards in the bone to the incisor and canine teeth, and in a small mental branch which issues from the bone through the foramen of that name to end on the face. As the artery is about to enter the foramen it furnishes a small mylo-hyoid branch to the muscle of that name ; this is conducted by a groove on the inner surface of the bone, in company with a branch from the dental nerve, to the superficial surface of its muscle, where it anastomoses with the submental artery. The GREAT MIDDLE MENINGEAL ARTERY is the largest branch of the internal maxillary, and arises opposite the preceding. It ascends beneath the external pterygoid muscle, and between the roots of the auriculo-temporal nerve to the foramen spinosum of the sphenoid lione, through which it passes into the skull. It« cour.se and distribution within the cranial cavity have been already seen (p. 514). Before the artery reaches the foramen, it usually furnishes the following small branches ; but one or more of them may arise directly from the internal maxillary trunk :— a. The tympanic branch passes into the tympanum through the (jlr..serian fissure, and is distributed to the tymjianic membrane and parts within the tympanic cavity. h. A DEEP AURICULAR BRANCH usuallv arises with the former, enters the meatus through the cartilage or between that and