PORTAL VEIN. 335 The pjloric vein (tig. 125,/) lies with the pyloric branch of the Pjjioric hepatic artery along the lower part of the small curvature of the stomach, and opens into the portal vein opposite the duodenum. The splenic vein (tig. 125) is of large size, and is formed by the splenic union of branches from the spleen. It runs below the artery, and under cover of the pancreas, to the front of the vena cava, where it joins the superior mesenteric vein (b) to form the vena porta. Between its origin and termination it receives branches corre- tributaries, spending with the following arteries,—vasa brevia {g), left gastro- epiploic (e), and pancreatic. The inferior mesenteric and coronary veins (d) sometimes open into it. The PORTAL VEIN (vena portaj, fig. 125, a, also fig. 123) is formed Portal vein: by the union of the splenic and superior mesenteric veins. Its origin origin; is placed behind the head of the pancreas, and in front of the inferior vena cava. The vessel is about three inches long, and ascends beneath the first part of the duodenum, and then between the layers eourso and of the small omentum, to the transverse fi.ssure of the liver, where it divides into a right and a left branch. While in the small omentum it lies behind the hepatic artery and bile-duct. The right branch is shorter and larger than the left, and ramifies brandies; in the right lobe of the liver. The left branch gives an offset to the Spigelian lobe, and enters the left half of the liver. In its course the portal trunk is joined by the coronary and pyloric ancl tribu- veins from the stomach ; and the cystic vein from the gall-bladder enters the right branch. This vein commences by tributaries from the viscera of the abdomen. Peculiarities like any other vein ; but it has no valves, and it ramifies through "eiu"'^'*^ the structure of the liver in the same manner as an artery. Its radicles communicate with the systemic veins on .some parts of the intestinal tube, but more particularly on the rectum. Dissection. The common bile-duct will now be traced upwards and downwards, the duodenum being raised up from the right and thence to the left as required. Bile-ducts. Two hepatic ducts issue at the transverse fissure of RiRhtand the liver (fig. 131, p. 346), one from the right and the other from the diJ^u^^*''*^ left lobe, and unite to form the following :— The common hepatic duct is an inch and a half long, and receives Common at its termination the duct of the ^all-bladder, the union of the two !iuct.''° gi\'ing origin to the common bile-duct. The common bile-duct (fig. 131, bd) is about three inches long. Cmnmon It descends almost vertically beneath tlie upper portion of the ■ duodenum; then passing between the pancreas and the second course-'"'' piece of the duodenum, it opens into this portion of the intestine tnrmina- at the inner side, and about the middle. While in the small ' omentum the duct lies to the right of the hepatic artery, and somewhat before the portal vein. As it pierces the wall of the intestine it is joined commonly by the .ioi'if' by pancreatic duct, but the two may enter the duodenum separately. poni-reatic.