DISSECTION OF THE HEAD. 518 Dissection of carotid ; of sym- pHtlietic plexuses, cavernous and carotid. Internal carotid artery winds through cavernous Branches. Sjnipathetic forms carotid plexus, cavernous plexus. union with cranial nerves. Distribu- tion. Two .super- ficial petro- sal nor\'es. the dura mater separately opposite tlie anterior condylar foramen ; tlie.se unite at tlie enter part of that aperture. Dissection. The di.ssector should now turn to the examina- tion of the trunk of the carotid artery a.s it winds through the cavernous sinus. An attempt .should be made to find two small plexuses of the sympathetic on the carotid artery, though in a well-injected body this dissection is scarcely possible. One of tiiese (cavernous) is near the root of the anterior clinoid process ; and to bring it into view it will be necessary to cut off that piece of bone, and to dissect out with cai'e the third, fourth, fifth, and sixth nerves, looking for filaments between them and the plexus. Another plexus (carotid), joining the fifth and sixth nerves, surrounds the artery as it enters the .sinus. The INTERNAL CAROTID ARTERY appears in the cranium at the apex of the petrous part of the temporal bone. In tliis part of its course the vessel lies between the layers of the dura mater boimd- ing the cavernous sinus along the side of the body of the sphenoid bone, and makes two bends so as to have the form of the letter S reclined. It first ascends in the inner part of the foramen lacerum, and then runs forward to the root of the anterior clinoid process ; finally it turns upwards in the groove on the inner side of this pro- cess, perforates the dura mater forming the roof of the sinus, and divides into cerebral arteries at the base of the brain. In this course the artery is enveloped by nerves derived from the sympa- thetic in the neck. The branches of the artery here are some small twigs (arteriae receptaculi) for the supply of the dura mater and tlie bone, the nerves and the pituitary body, and, opposite the anterior clinoid process, the ophthalmic artery. The terminal branches of the carotid will be seen in the dis- section of the base of the brain. Sympathetic Nerve. Accompanying the carotid artery is a prolongation of the sympathetic nerve of the neck, which forms the following plexuses :— The carotid plexus is situate on the outer side of the vessel, at its entrance into the cavernous sinus, and communicates with the sixth nerve and the Gasserian ganglion. The small cavernous plexus is placed below the bend of the artery which is close to the anterior clinoid process, and is mainly derived from that ofl"set of the upper cervical ganglion which courses along tlie inner side of the carotid artery. Filaments from the plexus unite with the third, fourtli, and ophtlialmic nerves. One filament is also furni.shed to the lenticular ganglion in the orbit, either separately from, or in conjunction with the nasid nerve. After forming lhe.se plexuses, the nerves surround the trunk of the carotid, and are continued on the cerebral and ophthalmic branches' of that vessel. Petrosal nerves. Beneath the Ga.sserian ganglion is the large superficial petrosal nerve (fig. 240, p. 678) entering the hiatus