ANTERIOR CRURAL NERVE. 161 Ite articular branch (fig. 62, ") is prolonged on or in llie vastus, and on the tendon of the adductor magnus, to the inner side of the knee-joint, where it is distributed over the synovial membrane of the articulation. This small nerve accompanies the deep branch of the anastomotic artery. The internal or long saphenous nerve (fig. 59, p. 153) is the largest 'o"K branch of the anterior crural. In the thigh the nerve takes the iierve,"°"^ course of the deep blood-vessels, and is continued along the artery, beneath the aponeurosis covering the same, as far as the opening in the adductor magnus muscle. At that spot the nerve passes from beneath the aponeurosis, and is prolonged under the sartorius muscle to the upper part of the leg, where it becomes cutaneous. It supplies two offsets while it is beneath the fascia in the thigh. A cominur:icating branch arises about the middle of the thigh, which has a and crosses inwards beneath the sartorius to join in the plexus of the internal cutaneous and obturator nerves, or with the internal cutaneous nearer the knee : this branch is often absent. The patellar branch springs fi "om the nerve near the knee-joint, and a ]ia- and jjerforating the sartorius muscle and the fascia lata, ends in the integument over the knee (p. 141). A branch of the superior gluteal nerve (p. 117) to the deep Nerve of surface of the tensor fascifB femoris may be followed at this stage te"sor nearly to tlie lower end of the muscle. femoris. Directions. After the examination of the muscles of the front Tai;c next of the thigh, with their vessels and nerves, the student is to learn tors"'^''"'^ the adductor muscles, and the vessels and nerves which belong to them. ' communi- cating Section II. THE INNER SIDE OF THE THIGH. The muscles in this position are the three adductors,—longus, ihe addue- brevis, and magnus, with the gracilis and pectineus. These have muscles the following position with respect to one another:—Internal to all, and their and the longest, is the gracilis. Superficial to the others are the P°^''''°"- pectineus and the adductor longus; and beneath the last two are the short adductor and the adductor magnus. In connection with these muscles, and supplying them, are the vessels and profunda femoris artery with the accompanying vein, and the °<="'^- obturator nerve. Dissection. For the preparation of the muscles, the investing Dissection fascia and tissue are to be taken away ; and the two superficial of adductor adductors are to be separated from one another. Let the student '""sclcs. be careful of the branches of the obturator nerve in connection with the muscles, viz., those entering the fleshy fibres, and one issuing beneath the adductor longus, to join the plexus at the inner side of the thigh. Lastly, should any fat and veins be left with the Re„iovo profunda artery and its branches, they must be removed. veins. The GRACILIS reaches from the pelvis to the tibia (fig. 62, c, p. 165), Gracilis and is fleshy and riband-like above, but tendinous below. The takes origin from the "■^ M pelvis;