DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. ■194 relations. To see the inter- vertebral substance. Inter- vertebral discs: form and connec- tions : structure; Fig. 180.—Intkrvbrtebral Sub- stance IN THE Lumbar Region WITH ITS LaMIN.* DiSPLAIED. a. Superficial, and b, deeper layer, the fibres in the two talking different directions. outer part of fibrous lamiiue; pedicle. The hinder surface of the ligament is in contuct with the dura mater ; and between the Ijand and the centre of the bodies are intervals where large veins issue from the bones. The fibres are arranged as in the anterior liga- ment ; and they are more closely united with the interverteln-al sub- stance than with the bone. Dissection. To see the inter- vertebral discs, the anterior and posterior common ligaments must be taken away ; and to show their structure, one disc should be cut through horizontally (fig. 182), while another is to be divided vertically by sawing through the bodies of two vertebrae (fig. 181). The intervertebral substances or discs (fig. 180) are placed between the bodies of the vertebrae, with the exception of the atlas and axis. Each disc is a flattened or slightlj- biconvex jilate (fig. 181), which is firmly united to the adjacent surfaces of two bodies ; and its form and size are determined by the bones between which it lies. It is connected in front and behind with the an- terior and posterior common ligaments; and on the sides, in the dorsal region, with the stellate and interarticu- lar ligaments of the ribs. In the sections that have been made the intervertebral substance is seen to consist of two dilTereut jjarts,— an external, firm and laminar, and an in- ternal, soft and pulpy (fig. 181). The outer laminar part (fig. 182, a) forms more than half of the disc. The laminae are di.sposed concentrically, but do not form complete rings ; and they are atUiched by their edges to the bodies of the vertebraj (fig. 181, a). They are composed for the most part of white fibro-cartilage ; but the superficial ones consist of fibrous tissue. The fibres are parallel Fig. 181.—Vertical Skction of the Intkr- vkrtkbkal substanck. n. Peripheral laminar part. b. Cential pulpy jiart.