294 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. Ci'ural ving size and boTindaries by the vessels, for n space (crural canal) exists on the inner side of the vein, through which the intestine descends in femoral hernia. The aperture leading into the crural canal is called the crural ring. The crural ring (fig. 107) is an interval at the base of the sheath, to the inner side of the femoral vein, and is about half an inch wide, being filled liy a lymj^hatic gland. Bounding it internally ai-e Gimbernat's ligament and the conjoined tendon ; and limiting it externally is the femoral vein (6). In front is Pouijart's ligament, with the deep crural arch ; and beliind is the pubis, covered by the pectineus muscle and the pubic portion of the fascia lata. Crossing the front of the space, but at some little distance from it, is the spermatic cord in the male, and the round Gimbernat's ligament. Crural rini; Fig. 107.—Innkr Sukpaoe op the ()s Innominatom, showiko a View op THE Parts concerned in Femoral Hernia (R. Quain). Muscles, dw. : covered by tlie iliac A. Iliacus fascia, B. Rectus. c. Tran.svei'salis, covered by the transversalis fascia. D. Crural ring. e. Grimbernat's ligament. Vessels : a. External iliac artery. b. Iliac vein. c. Deep epigastric ai-tery. rf. Deep circumflex iliac. c. Obturator artery, with its nerve. /. Anastomosis between the pubic branches of the obturator and epi- Kasti-ic arteries. Constricting bounrlaries, how rc- 1,1X0(1. Usual ves- sels iironnd ring. Unusual state of vessels. ligament in the female. The opening is larger in the female than in the male. Two of tlie boundaries, anterior and inner, are firm and sharp- edged, though their c(mdition varies with the position of the limb ; for if the thigh is raised and ajiproximated to its fellow, those bounding parts will be relaxed. Position of rmeh around tlie 7-1)13 (fig. 107). On the outer side is the femoral vein (b) ; and above this are the deep epigastric vessels (r). In front is a small branch (pubic) from the epigastric artery to the back of the pubis ; and the vessels of the spermatic cord may be said to be i)laced along the anterior aspect of the ring. But in some bodies the; obturator artery takes origin from the deep epigastric by an enlargement of its communication (/) with the