DISSECTION OF DEKP VESSELS AND NERVES OF NECK. Dissection of rectus lateralis. Rectus lateralis: parts around : Dissection of first nerve. Anterior division of suboccipital nerve lies on atlas forms a loop with second: branches. Sympathetic nerve in neck has three ganglia. Other ganglia on Hfth nerve. Dissection of ujjper ganglion ; tongue e.xcept the palato-glcssus, and to all the intiin.sic mu.scles of the toiij^up. Dissection. The small rectn.s capitis lateralis muscle, between the transverse process of the atlas and the hase of the skull, is now to be cleaned and learnt. At its inner border the anterior branch of the first cervical nerve, which forms a loop in front of the atlas, is to be found. The RECTUS CAPITIS LATERALIS is very short, and represents a posterior intertransverse muscle. It arijies horn the fore and upper part of the transverse process of the atlas, and is inserted into the jugular process of the occipital bone. On the anterior surface rests the jugular vein ; and in contact with the po.sterior are the obliquus superior muscle and the vertebral aj-tery. To the inner side lie the anterior primary bianch of the fir.-;t cervical nerve and the rectus anticus minor muscle. Action. It assists the muscles attached to the mastoid process in inclining the head laterally. Dissection. For the purpose of tracing backwards the anterior branch of the first cervical nerve, divide the rectus lateralis mu.scle, observing the offset to it; then cut off the end of the transverse pro- cess of the atlas, and remove the vertebral artery, so as to bring into view the nerve as it lies nn the first vertebra. The ANTERIOR PRIMARY BRANCH OF THE FIRST CERVICAL, or SUB- OCCIPITAL, NERVE is rather smaller than the posterior, and arises from the common trunk on the neural arch of the atlas. Fi'om that sjjot it is directed forwards above the fran,sverse jDrocess, and on the inner side of the vertebral artery, to the interval between the rectus lateralis and rectus anticus minor muscles. Emerging here, it bends down in front of the transverse j)rocess of the atlas and forms a loop with the second cervical nerve. As the nerve passes forwards it supplies the rectus lateralis and anticus minor mu.scles, and branches connect the loop with the vagus, hypoglossal and sympathetic nerves. Sympathetic Nerve. In the neck the sympathetic nerve consists, on each side, of a gangliated cord, which lies close to the vertebral column, and is continued into the thorax. On this portion of the nerve are three r/anglia—the mperior near the skull, the middle towards the lower part of the neck, and the inferior close to the first rib. From the ganglia proceed connecting branches to the spinal and most of the cranial nerves in the neck, and branches for distribution to viscera and blood-vessels. Besides the ganglia above mentioned, there are other ganglia in the head and neck, whei-e the .sympathetic enters into connection with the three divisions of the fifth nerve. Dissection. To display the branches of the sympathetic nerve greater care is necessary than in tracing the white-fibred nerves, for the sympathetic twigs are softer, more easily torn, and generally of smaller size. In the neck the ganglia and their branches have been partly prepared, and only the following additional dissection will be required