DISSECTION OF THE BUTTOCK. 110 ljulow the great troclmntev (h). Tlie flap of .skin thus marked out is to be thro^\'ll ForwarcLs. seek euUi- Many of the cuUineouH nerves of this region will he found in the on"the crest ^'^^ ''■^°^^S t'^^ line oi' the iliac crest (tig. 46). Thu.s, in front, Init rather below the crest, are branches of the external cutaneous. Crossing the crest towards the fore i)art is a large oti'set of the last dorsal nerve ; and usually farther back, but close to the boue, a smaller Inauch from the ilio-hypogastric nerve. At the outer border of the erector spinas are two or three l)ranche.s of the lumbar nerves. By the side of the sacrum and coccy.x two or three offsets of the sacral nerves are to Ije looked for beneath the fat. The remaining cutaneous ner\'es are derived from the .small sciatic, and must be sought beneath the fat along the line of the lower incision, where they come from underneath the gluteus maximus. Some turn upwards o\'er that muscle, and others are directed down the thigh. Cutaneous arteries accompany all the ner\'es, and ^vill serve as guides to their situation. Cutaneous Nerves (fig. 46, also fig. 2, p. 4). The jierves distributed in the integuments of the buttock are small but numerous, and are deri\-ed from the last dorsal uerve, from branches of the liunbar and sacral plexuses, and from the posterior primary di^'isions of the lumbar and .sacral nerves. The LAST DORSAL NERVE (fig. 46) (*) supplies the buttock by means of its lateral cutaneous branch. This offset perforates the muscles of the abdomen, and crosses the front of the iliac ci-est to be distrilnited over the fore part of the gluteal region, as low as the great trochanter. Nerves of the lumbar plexus. Parts of two nerves of tlie plexus of the lumbar nerves, viz., ilio-hypogastric from the fii'st, and the external cutaneous from the second and third, are spent in the integuments of this region, tlii-ougii The iliac branch of the ilio-hypogastric (') crosses the iliac crest in gastricfand fi'ont of the luiuljar uer\'es, lying in a groove in the bone, and e.xtends generally only a short distance below the crest. e.xternal Offsets of the posterior branch of the external cutaneous ticrvc of cutariBous, ^-^^ thigh bend backwards to the integuments above the greiit trochanter, ajid cross the ramiftcfitions of the last dorsal nerve (see fig. 2, p. 4). Posterior pri.marv branches. The offsets of the ^'osterior primary pieces of the lumbar nerves (") are two or three in number, and cross the cre.st of tiie ilium at the outer edge of tlie erector spin£B ; they ramify in the integuments of the middle of the buttock, and some branches may be traced nearly to the great trochanter. The Inanches of the sacral nerves (") perforate the gluUnis maxi- nui.s near the siicrum and coccy.x, and are then directed outwards for a short di.stance in the integuments over the muscle. These offsets are usually two in number : the largest is opposite the lower end of the sacrum, and the other by the side of the cocc\ x. aud by side of saciiiiii: utlier nerves of sinaU sciatic below: cutaueoiis arteries. Sources of tlie cutaue- oiis nerves : from last dorsal; from lumbar plexus, from pos- terior branches of lumbar and sacral nerves;