THE TEMPORO-MAXir.LARY JOINT. (ill Its deep surface is in relation with the superior pharyngeal constrictor below, and the tensor palati above. The origin ol this muscle embraces the lower part of that of the e.xternal pterygoid. Action. It acts with the masseter in raising the mandible. TeMPORO MAXILLARY ARTICULATION (figs. 220 and 221, p. 612> This articiilalir.n is a compound joint, being forniwl by the condyle of the lower jaw and the fore part of the glenoid cavity ot the temporal bone, with an interposed disc of fibro cartilage. The bones are united by the following ligaments :— The capsule is a tliin membranous tube which is attached above to the temporal bone around the articular surface, and below to the condyle of the lower jaw, reaching farther down behind than iu front. The cavity in the interior is divided into two parts, Joint of lower jinv. Capsule of the joint. Posterior deep temporal nerve. Jliddle deep temporal nerve. Anterior deep temporal nerve. Extemal pterjgoid: Communication with facial nerve. Auriculo-temporal nerve. Chorda tympani. Lingual nerve. Inferior dental nerve. Branch to ex- ternal pterygoi<l. Lony buccal nerve. Internal pterygoid. FlO. 219.—DlAGR.\M SHOWING THE RELATIONS OF THU BbANOHES OP THE Inferior M.^.xillaiiy Nerve to the Pturvooid Muscles. upper and lower, by the fibro-cartilage ; and tlie upper portion of the capsule is wider and looser than the lower. The external lateral ligament is a thickened liand of the capsule, ^^^j;™"' composed of fibres passing from the tubercle at the root of the zygoma and the adjoining part of the outer surface of that process to the outer and posterior part of the neck of the lower jaw. The internal lateral liijament (fig. 220, i) is a long, thin, ""^m- branous band, which is not in contact with this joint. Sujieriorly ligament, it is connected to a ridge on the inner .side of the glenoid fossa, formed by the spinous process of the sphenoid and the vaginal process of the temporal bone ; and iiiferiorly it is inserted into the inner margin of the dental foramen in the lower jaw. The ligament lies between the jaw and the internal pterygoid : and its origin is concealed by the external pterygoid muscle. The internal K R 2