332 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. Corouaiy, whicli gives offsets to tlie oeso- phagus and the stomach. Splenic artery supplies the spleen, the pancreas by large and small twigs, and the stomach by vasa brevia, and left gastro- epiploic. Hepatic artery courses to the liver. in which it ends, and supplies ofl'sets to and is surrounded by the solar plexus of the sympathetic. Its branches—coronary, hepatic, and splenic-radiate from tlie trunk (whence the name axis) to their distribution to the surrounding viscera (see also fig. 123). The CORONARY ARTERY (fig. 124 d) is the smallest of the three, and runs upwards between the peritoneum and diaphragm to the cardiac orifice of the stomach. Having furnished some oesophageal branches, it bends downwards, and passes between the layers of the small omentum, along the small curvature of the stomach, to anastomose with the pyloric branch (o) of the hepatic artery. Its offsets are thus distributed:— a. CEsophageal branches ascend on the guUet through the opening in the diaphragm, and anastomose with branches of the descending thoracic aorta. 6. Gastric branches a.ve given to both sides of the stomach, and those on the left end communicate with twigs (vasa brevia) of the splenic artery. The SPLENIC ARTERY (e) is the largest branch of the coeliac axis in the adult. It is a tortuous vessel, and runs almost horizontally to the spleen along the upper border of the j^ancreas (fig. 123). Near the spleen it divides, into terminal branches, about seven in number (from four to ten), which enter thatviscus by the surface towards the stomach. It is accompanied by the splenic vein, which is below it ; and it distributes branches to the pancreas and the stomach. a. Pancreatic branches. Numerous small branches are supplied to the pancreas ; and one of these {arteria 'pancreatica magna) sometimes arises near the left end and runs to the right in the gland with the duct ; but this artery is usually not larger than some others. 6. Gastric branches arise from the artery or its divisions near the spleen, and pass to the stomach between the layers of the gastro- splenic omentum. Most of these (vasa brevia) are small, and ramify over the left end of the organ ; but one larger branch, the left gastro- epiploic artery (/), turns to the right between the layers of the great omentum, along the great curvature of the stomach, and inosculates with the right gastro-tpiploic branch of the hepatic artery. This artery distributes twigs to both surfaces of the stomach, and between the pieces cf peritoneum forming the great omentum. The HEPATIC ARTERY ((/) is intermediate in size between the other two, and is encircled by the largest plexus of nerves. In its course to the liver, the vessel is directed at first to the right and forwards to the pyloric end of the stomach, where it supplies its gastric branches. It then ascends between the layers of the small omentum, on the left side of the bile-duct and portal vein, and divides near the transverse fissure of the liver into two—the right and left hepatic. Branches are distributed not only to the liver, but also to the stomach, the duodenum, and the pancreas, as below :— a. The gastro-duodenal artery (figs. 123 and 124) is a short vessel which descends beneath the duodenum near the pylorus, and divides into the two following branches : —