DKEl' BRANOHKS OF THE CERVICAL Pr,KXUS. 599 The deep '.et of branches remains to he exaniinod ; they are mnacnlar and communicating, and may be arranged in an internal and an external series. ,„ - Deep set op branches of the cervical plexus. 1. Internal Un-emc SERIES The phrenic or muscular nerve of the diaphragm l^ derived from the fourth, or third and fourth nerves of the plexus ; and it may be joined bv a fasciculus from the fifth cervical nerve. Descending obliqueh" on the surface of the anterior scalenus (fio- 913) from the outer to the inner edge, it enters the chest in°front of the internal mamn,ary artery, but behind the subclavian vein and traverses that cavity to reach the diaphragm. At the lower part of the neck the phrenic nerve is joined by a filament ot the .sympathetic, and sometimes by an off-set of the nerve to the subclavius muscle. On the left side the nerve cros.ses over the first part ot the subclavian artery. • . The branches to the ansa cervici^ are two in number: one arises Nervos to from the second, and the other from the third cervical nerve They ..ervicis. are spoken of as the commMmranles cerricis nerves and are directed inwards over or under the internal jugular vein to join in a loop with the descendens cervicis branch (p. 602) of the hypoglossal nerve m front of the common carotid artery. The loop of the communication of the ner\-es over the carotid artery is called the ansa cervicis. Muscular branches are furnished to the rectus amicus major and B™,.el.os^to longus colli muscles from the trunks of the nerves close to the intervertebral foramina. ^ i „f Some vinsrnlnr and rmneddncj branches from the looi> between the first two nerves will be afterwards seen. , „ , t 2. External series. Muscular branches are supplied from the ^^^^^^ second nerve to the sterno-mastoid ; from the third and fourth nerves to the levator anguli scapuloe and middle scalenus ; and from the loop between the same nerves to the trapezius. Connectinrj bram'hes with the sinnal accessory nerve exist in three fj<^^^lp places First, in the sterno-ma.stoid muscle ; next, in the posterior spinal" triangular space ; and lastly, bene^ith the tmpezius. The union a.^cpssm-y. with the branches distributed to the trapezius ha.s the appearance of a plexus. The COMMON CAROTID ARTERY is the chief Vessel for Ihe supply Common of blood to the neck and head (fig. 213, «). The origin of tlie nrtory: vessel differs on the two sides, being at the lower part of the neck on the right^ side, and in the thorax on the left side. The cause and relations of the left artery in the neck are the same as tho.se on the right side, and the description serves for both. (The part of the. left common carotid artery in the thorax has been described on jjage 468.) The right ves.sel commences opi)osite the sterno-clavicular articu- origin lation at the bifurcation of the innominate artery on the right side, and prolonged uj) from the thorax on the left, and ends at, or a little above, the u])per border of the thyroid cartilage, on a level >vith the fourth cervical \ertebra, hy dividing into external and