244 DISSECTION OK THE PERINEUM. Superficial fascia: subcutn- iieous jiart; and mem- branous layer. Define parti- To sliow more completely the attacliment of this layer to the hip. UvTOn^tbigh ^one between the perineal space and the thigh, it will be necessary to and perineal take away from the left limb the fat on the fascia lata, external to the space. ■ r y y margin ol the bune. On right I" the fat of the thigh on the right side the student should seek hiferfor'^ the inferior or long pudendal nerve (fig. 92), which pierces the fascia pudendal lata oue inch in front of the ischial tuberosity, and about the same nene. distance from the margin of the bone ; and he should trace its junc- tion in the fat with the inferior hfemorrhoidal nerve. Afterwards the nerve is to be followed forwards to where it passes beneath the superficial fascia nearer the middle line. The superficial fascia of the anterior half of the perineum is com- posed of two layers, which differ in their character.'? and relations. One is the subcutaneous fatty part, continuous with that of the adjoining regions : its thickness, and the quantity of fat in it vary with the condition of the body. Passing in front into the scrotum, it there loses its fat, and contains involuntary muscular fibres, forming the layer known as the tunica dartos. The other layer (fascia of Colles, and beneath which the air was injected) is a more membranous stratum of limited extent, and is con- nected with the firm subjacent structures. Externally it is fixed to the conjoined rami of the ischium and pubis, outside the line of the crus penis and its muscle, extending as far back as the ischial tuberosity. Posteriorly this layer bends u]3wards to join the triangular ligament of the urethra; but in front it is unattached, and is continued to the scrotum and penis. By means of the connections of the mem- brane on both sides, a space is enclosed over the anterior half of the perineum. From its deep surface a septum extends upwards in the middle line, and divides posteriorly the subjacent space into two: but anteriorly this partition is less perfect, or may disappear. Air blown beneath the i'ascia passes forwards to the scrotum; wbicli is the only possible direction owing to the deep connections of the membrane witli parts around. Should urine be effused beneath the superficial fascia, the fluid will be directed forwards, like the air, through tbe scrotum to tlie penis and the front of tlie abdomen. Dissection. The superficial vessels and nerves are to be dissected on the right side of tlie perineum, by cutting through the super- ficial fascia in the same manner as on the left side. The long slender artery then visible is the superficial perineal, which gives a transverse branch near its commencement. Two superficial peri- neal nerves accompany the artery; and the inferior pudendal nerve is to be traced forward to the scrotum. Communications are to be sought between these nerves anteriorly, and between one of the perineal and the inferior hfemorrhoidal posteriorly ; and all the nerves are to be followed backwards (figs. 92 and 9.3). Arteriks (figs. 92 and 93). The .superficial and transverse perineal arteries beneath tlie fascia are blanches of the piidic, and are two or three in number. The latter forms a pouch,open in front; and divided by a septum. Course of air and effused urine. Di-ssection of nerves and vessels on right side. Superficial vessels of pudic.