DISSECTION OF THE FOOT, 198 Sulicuta- iioous fat. Lay bare the pliintar fascia, and the digital ves- sels and nerves: define the ligament of the toes. Plantar fascia: division into parts. Central part divides into five pieces: termination of the pieces. Inner piece of the fascia. Outer piece. Expose the .septa. Two inter- mnscular sci)ta. The subcutaneous fat i.s very abimdaut, and forni.s a thick cushion over the parts that i)res.s mo.st on the ground in standing, viz., over the OS calcis, and the metatar.so-phalangeal articulation.s. Dissection. The fat shoitld now l)e removed, and the plantar fascia laid l«re. Beginning the dissection near the heel, follow forwards the fascia towards the toes, to each of which a process i.s to be traced. In the inter-\^als between these processes the digital nerves and arteries will be detected amongst much fatty and filli-ons tissues; but the vessels and nerves to the inner side of the great toe and outer side of the little toe pierce the fascia farther back than the rest. The student is next to define a fibrous band (superficial transverse ligament) across the roots of toes, over the digital vessels and nerves; and when this has been displayed, he may remove the superficial fascia from the toes to see the .sheaths of the tendons. Plantar fascia. The special fascia of the sole of the foot is of a pearly white colour and great strength, and sends septa lietween the muscles. Its thickness varies in diff'erent parts of the foot; and from this circumstance, and the existence of longitudinal depressions over the two chief intermuscular septa, the fascia is divided into a central and two lateral pieces. The central part, which is much the thickest, is pointed at its attachment to the os calcis, but widens and becomes thinner as it extends forwards. A slight depression, corresponding with an intermuscular septum, marks its limit on each side ; and opposite the heads of the metatar.sal bones it divides into five processe.';, which send fibres to the integuments near the web of the foot, and are continued onwards to the toes, one to each. Where the pieces separate from each other, the digital \ essels and nerves and the lumbricales muscles become superficial, and are arched over by transverse fibres. If one of the digital processes be divided longitudinally, and its parts reflected to the sides, it will be seen to join the sheath of the flexor tendons, and to be fixed laterally into the margins of the metatar.sal bone, and into the transverse metatarsal ligament. The lateral 'pieces of the fascia are thinner than the central one. On the inner margin of the foot the fascia has biit little strength, and is continued to the dorsum ; but on the outer side it presents a strong band, Avhich extends between the outer tubercle of the os calcis and the base of the fifth metatarsal bone. Dissection. To examine the septa, a longitudinal incision should be made along the middle of the foot through the central piece of the fascia, and a transverse one near the calcaneuni. On detaching the fascia from the subjacent' flexor brevis digitorum, by carrying the scalpel from before backwards, the septal procefises will appear on the sides of that muscle. The intermuscular septa pass deeply on each side of the flexor brevis digitorum, and a piece of fascia reaches across tlie foot from one septum to the other, beneath that flexor, so as to isolate it.