731 THE MRPUTJ-A OBLONGATA. Section III. MEDULLA OBLONGATA AND I'ONS VAROLII. The medulla oljlmigata ami Uie jidiis aiv interposed between the spinal cord aiul the brain proper. Dissection. On a sinc-k brain the student may learn nearly all nissretion. tlie anatomy of the medulla and pons ; but 11' lie has a second brain he should cut througli the crus cerebri above the cerebellum imme- diately behind the po.'^terior corpus quadrigeminuni and then carefully take away the cerebellum from the pons and medulla by cutting through the attachments close to the cerebellum, opening out thereby (fig. 262, p. 733), the fourth ventricle and exposing the uiD])er surfaces (jf the pons and medulla. Position. The brain is to remain in the same position as for the Position, examination of the vessels and nerves. The MEDULLA OBLONGATA or BULB is the expanded upper end of Medulia^^_ the spinal cord which is contained in the cranium. Its limits are "xteiir "' the lower border of the pons in one direction, and the lower margin of the foramen magnum in the other. It is somewhat conical in form, and 'measures nearly an inch in length, half an inch in form ami breadth below, and about an inch at its widest part above. Its base joins the pons, the transverse fibres of the latter marking Base, its limit ; and its apex is blended with the spinal cord. The Apex, anterior surface (fig. 261) is irregularly convex, and is in contact with siufuces. the hollowed basilar process of the occipital bone. The oppo.site surface (fig. 262) is convex below, and somewhat excavated above, where it forms the floor of the fourth ventricle ; it rests in the groove between the hemispheres of the cerebellum, and on this posterior or upper aspect there are not any cross fibres of the pons, as in front, to mai'k the limit of the bulb. The medulla oblongata is divided into halves by a median fissure Median in front and behind, in a line with those of the cord. The anterior anterior median fissure is interrupted at the lower end of the bnlb by some bundles of fibres which cro-ss obliij^uely from one side to the other, and constitute the ilecussation of the pyramids; above, it ends at the lower border of the pons in a dilatation (foramen ctecum). The posterior median fissure is continued upwards from the cord through and the lower half of the medulla oblongata, and then terminates by the i'"'''''''""• se])aration of its lateral boundaries to form the sides of the fourth ventricle. On each half of the medulla oblongata are elongated eminences, Surfara con- separated by slight grooves, and continuous with the columns of the j)niti.v con- spinal cord ; but they receive dift'erent names in this part of their ,VuJ.J"{,^rtly extent, and .some fresh bodies are added. Thus, the part continuing the anterior column of the cord, by the side of the anterior median li.ssure, is known as the anterior jnjramid (fig. 261, '). The pro- longation of the lateral column takes the name of lateral tract ('), the new.