POSITION OF THK SUBCLAVIAN VESSELS. issues from beneath tlie anterior scalenus muscle, and is direclol over the first rib to the axilla. In the ordinary condition of the vessel the companion subclavian vein is seldom seen, owing to its being placed lower down behind the clavicle. Above the artcrj' imd their are the large cords of the brachial jilexus (°), which accompany the position, ve.ssel, and become closely applied to it beneath the clavicle. Behind tlio artery and the nerves is the middle scalenus muscle ("). And below the vessel is the first rib. Along the lower boundarj'' of the space, and rather beneath the Blanches clavicle, lie the suprascapular vessels ; and crossing the upper angle, ^ at the meeting of the onio-hyoid and sterno-mastoid muscles, are the transverse cervical ve.ssels. Entering the space from above is the external jugular vein ('), which descends over (seldom under) the omo-hyoid, and opens into the subclavian vein ; in this region the vein receives the suprascapular and transverse cervical branches, and sometimes a small vein over the clavicle, from the cephalic vein of the arm-. The length of this .space depends mainly upon the extent of the Variations attachment of the trapezius and sterno-mastoid muscles to the ofthespace, clavicle : in some bodies these muscles occupy nearly the whole length of that lione, leaving but a small interval between them ; and occa.sioiially they meet, -so as to cover the suliclavian artery altogether. The .space also varies in height according to the ])o.sition of the omo-hyoid, for this muscle sometimes lies close to, or even arises from the clavicle, while'on-ilJe other hand, it maybe distant one inch and a half from that bone. In depth the space varies naturally ; and in a short thick neck aisointlie with a [irominent clavicle, the artery is farther from the surface natural''"* than in the opposite condition of the parts. But the depth may be altered much more by change in the position of the clavicle, as the shoulder is carried forwards or backwards. And lastly, the artery and may be concealed entirely in its usual position by forcing upwards "'t''"-''"'- the arm and .shouhler, as the collar-bone can be raised aliove the level of the omo-hyoid muscle. The position of the subclavian artery itself is also subject to Departnre variation, for the vessel may be one inch and a half above the oniTnary clavicle, or at any jjoint intermediate between this and the bone; state of the therefore the drawing down of the shoulder, so ;is to expose the "l^^^j^^ ve.ssel as much as jjossible, is an important iJreliminary in opera- branches, tions to reach the subclavian artery in this space. In the typical condition there is not any branch arising from the trunk in this part of its course ; but the po.sterior scapular artery (fig. 210) is frequently gi\'en off beyond the scalenus anticus, and sometimes there is more than one branch. The subclavian vein occasionally rises upwards as high as the Position of artery; or in some rare instance.s, it even lies with the artery beneath the anterior scalenus. The position of the external jugular vein with regard to the subclavian artery is very uncertain ; and the branches connected with its lower end often form a kind of plexus over the arterial trunk. D.A, p p