DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 362 Action in- voluntary. Take away greater part of the diaphragm. Clean aorta, vena cava, and branches ; also iliac vessels. Dissect muscles; psoas and nerves of lumbar plexus, quadratus lumborum, and iliacu.s. Extent of abdominal aorta. surface marking. Relations be rendered smaller, and that tube conipre.ssed ; but the other opening,s for the vena cava and aortn, having tendinous surrounding?, are not niuterially changed. The possible sphincter action of the fibres around the esophageal opening is mo.st likely to secure closure of that part against the gastric contents when the descending diaphragm, in its contraction, presses upon the stomach. The action of the diaphragm i.s commonly involuntary, but it is perfectly nnder the control of the will. Dissection. After the diaphragm has been learnt the ribs that support it on each side may be cut through if the thora.^c has been sutficiently dissected, and the loose pieces of bone with the fore part of the diapliragui may be taken away, to facilitate the dissection of the deeper vessels and muscles. But the posterior third of the diaphragm, with its pillars and arches, should be left ; and the vessels ramifying on it should be followed back to their origin. The large vessels of the abdomen, viz., the aorta and the vena cava, are to be cleaned by removing the fat, the remains of the sympathetic plexuses, and the lymphatic glands ; and their branches are to be followed to the diaphragm, to the right kidney and supra- renal body, and to the ovary, or to the inguinal canal for the testicle, as the case may be. In like manner the large iliac branches of the aorta and cava are to be laid bare as far as Poupart's ligament. The ureter and the .spermatic vessels are to be cleaned as they cross the iliac artery; and on the same vessel, near the thigh, branches of a small nerve (genito-crural) are to be sought. The muscles are to be laid bare on the left side, but on the right side the fascia covering them is to be shown. The paoris muscle, the most internal, lies on the side of the spine, with the small psoas (if present) superficial to it. On its surface, and in the fat external to it, the following branches of the lumbar plexus will be found :—The genito-crural nerve lies on the front. Four nerves issue at the outer border,—the ilio-hypogastric and ilio-inguinal near the top, the external cutaneous about the centre, and the large anterior crural at the lower -p&vt (fig. 138 and fig. 140, p. 373). Along the inner border of the psoas the gungliated cord of the sympathetic is to be sought, with a chain of lumbar lymphatic glands ; and lower down the obturator nerve may be recognised entering the cavity of the pelvis. External to the psoas is the quadratus luviborum, and crossing the latter near the last rib is the last dorsal nerve, with an artery. In the hollow of the hip-bone is the iliacus muscle, which unites below with the large psoas. Tiie ABDOMINAL AORTA (fig. 138, {!)) extends from the lower part of the last dorsal vertebra to about the middle of the body of the fourth lumbar vertebra, where it divides into the common iliac arteries. Its commencement is between the pillars of the diaphragm ; and its termination is placed opjiosite a spot below and slightly to tlie left of the umbilicus, and nearly on a level with the highest point of the iliac crest. The chief relations of the vessel to surrounding parts have been