DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 340 The muscu- lar coat is made up of longi- tudinal, ciroulai-, and oblique fibres. Tlie fibrous coat is thin but firm. Mucous coat: feel and colour; folds; thickness; disposition at pylorus. The muscular coat will be laid bare by the removal of the serous covering. Its fibres are unstriatecl or involuntary, and arranged in three sets, viz., longitudinal, circular, and oblique, in the order mentioned from without inwards. The longitudinal fibres (fig. 126, a) are derived from the cesoj^hagus; they spread over the surface, and are continued to the pylorus and the smaU intestine. The fibres are most marked along the borders, particularly at the smaller one ; and at the pylorus they are stronger than in the centre of the stomach. The circular fibres (fig. 126, b) form the middle stratum, and wiU be best seen by removing the longitudinal fibres near the pylorus. They reach from the left to the right end of the stomach, but do not encircle the fundus. At the pylorus they are most numerous and strongest, and form a ring or sphincter (c) round the opening. The oblique fibres (fig. 126, e) are continuous with the circular or deep layer of fibres of the oesophagus. On the left and right of the cardiac orifice they are so arranged as to form a Idnd of sphincter {d and e) (Henle) ; those on the left (e), the strongest, arch over the great end of the stomach, and S23read out on the anterior and pos- terior surfaces, gradually disappearing on them. Dissection. Eemove the muscular layers over a small space and the fibrous or submucous coat will appear as a white shining stratum of areolar tissue. This coat gives strength to the stomach, and serves as a bed in which the larger vessels and nerves ramify before their distribution to the mucous layer. If a small opening be made in this submucous coat, the mucous coat will project through it. Finally the stomach should be oijened along the lesser curvature to near the pylorus. The finger should be jjassed through the pylorus to feel its sphincter, and then the incision should be continued through the pylorus and along the convexity of the duodenum to its termination. The mucous coat will come into view, but the appearances now described can be recognised only in a recent specimen, or in one well preserved by formalin injection. This coat is a softish layer, of a pale rose colour soon after death, in the healthy condition. In the empty state of the stomach the membrane is less vascular than during digestion ; and in infancy the natural redness is greater than in childhood or old age. When the stomach is contracted the membrane- is thrown into numerous wavj' ridges or rugcB, which become longitudinal along the great curvature, towards the pylorus. The thickness of the mucous membrane is greatest near the pylorus ; and at that spot it forms a fold, opjjosite the muscular Fig. 127.—Alveolar Depres- sions OF THE Mucous MEM- BRANE oy THE Stomach, MAGNIFIED 32 DiAMKTERS, WITH THE Minute Tubes OPENING into them (SpEOTT Boyd).