722 [nteriml carotid ends in cerebral arteries: brandies. Posterior conininni- catin''. Anterior cerebral artery: its com- municating central, ai\d cortical offsets. Internal orbital. Internal frontal. DISSECTION OF THE BKAIN. posterior third of the uerebium, as described—receives its blood throu'di these brandies of the subclavian arteries. The INTERNAL CAROTID ARTERY (fig. 257, ') terminates in branches for the remaining part of the cerebrum. The vessel emerges from the cavernous sinus internal to tlie anterior clinoid process, and divides at the inner end of the fissure of Sylvius into cerebral and communicating arteries. Branches. In the skull the carotid gives off the ojMialmtc offset, before it ends in the following branches (fig. 257) :— a. Posterior communicating. 6. Anterior cerebral. c. Middle cerebral. d. Anterior choroid. a The posterior communicating arterij («) is generally a sraaU vessel, directed backwards on the inner side of the third nerve, to ioiu the posterior cerebral artery near the pons. h The ANTERIOR CEREBRAL ARTERY (fig. 257,=, and fig. 258) supphes the inner part of the cerebral hemisphere. It is dkected forwards to the median fissure between the halves of the large bram ; and as it is about to enter the fissure, it is united to its feUow by a short thick branch-the anterior comnunicating (fig. 257,»). Then passing mto the fissure, it bends round the fore part of the corpus caUosuna, and is continued backwards along the upper surface of that body, sending its . branches nearly to the posterior extremity of the ^TtrSiLs, like those of the posterior cerebral, consist of deep or cmtraUnd superficial or corficaUrteries. The central branches {antero-mesial) consist of two or three small offsets which arise near the beginning of the arteiy, and pene^aie the anterior perforated space at the inner end of the fissure of Sylvius to reach the fore part of the corpus striatum m the interior of the ^'^tcoHical branches supply the fore and upper « °Mh« internal .surface of the hemisphere, extending ^^^^war'ls a. 1^^^^ a. the parieto-occipital fissure ; and some turn round the margin to tt adjacent portions of the frontal lobe on both the upper and lower aspects. They are named as follows :—(fig- 258). 1. Internal orbital. 2. Internal frontal. 3. Prajcuneal. 4 The artery of the corpus callosum. t ?he interlal orbital is'di.tributed to the inner part of the undei. or orbital surface of the frontal lobe. 2 The internal frontal are two or three branches S'^.c" convex surface (fig. 259).