CHAPTER IIT. DISSECTION OF THE LOAVER LIMK. Section I. THE BUTTOCK, Oil THE GLUTEAL REGION. Dirt'dions. Both this Section and tlie fctllowing one are to Le Uiiuctions. completed hy the student in tlie four days appointed for the hody to lie in the prone position, and the student who is com- mencing his work in practical anatomy by the dissection of the lower limli should read the general directions for the beginner on p. 1 before proceeding with this section. Podtion. During the dissection of the 1 jack of the thigh the Position of body is placed \vith the face down and the pelvis is to be well raised by blocks. Surface inarkimj. At the upper part of the buttock, by ^Jj^j.'iJP';;, exercising deep pressure, the stxident will make out the crest of the iliac bone, and on tracing this inwards the ])osterior superior iliac spine will be felt opposite the second Scleral spine; and this part marks the middle of the sacro-iliac joint. Internally the lower part of the sivcrum and the coccyx will be found at the bottom of the natal furrow. Inferiorly, the thick fold of the nates is very e\'ident, and aljove this the mass of the gluteus niaximus muscle contriljutes largely to the prominence of the buttock. About three or four inches below the anterior part of the iliac crest on the outer side of the thigh is the great trochanter of the fenuu', and by pressing upwards beneath the inner part of the fold of the nates the tuberosity of the ischium am be felt. A line (Nelaton's) drawn from the anterior superior iliac sj)ine to the most ])rominent ])art of the ischial tuberosity pas.ses just over the highest part of the great trochanter and is used in surgery for ascertaining the degree of dis])lacement of that part of the lione in various conditions. Dissection. The integument is to be rai.sed from the buttock tlie by means of the following incisions (fig. 1, a, p. 3)—One is to be made along the whole length of the iliac crest, and continued in the middle line of the sacrum to the tip of the coccyx (g). Another is to be begun where the first terminates, and is to lie carried out- wards and downwards across the thigh, ending about six inches