410 DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. addition to it. Strata are joined. Fibrons coat. Open the bladder. Mucous coat ha.s folds except at one part. Interior of the bladder. Opening of urethra, point. At the back of tbe bladder tbe layer is increa.sed in strength by the longitudinal fibres of the ureters blending with it. The muscular strata communicate freely, so that one cannot be separated from another with- out division of the connecting bundles of filjres. In both sexes the disposition of the fibres is similar (Roy. Med. Chir. Trans. 1856). Fibrous or submucous coat. A fibrous layer is placed between the muscular and mucous strata, and is enume- rated as one of the coats of the bladder ; it is composed, as in other hollow viscera, of areolar and elastic tissues, in which the vessels and nerves ramify. Dissection. The bladder is now to be opened by an incision along the part of the uj)per and along the anterior sirrface ; and the cut is to be carefully continued down the front of the prostate gland in the middle line, so as to open the prostatic portion of the urethra. The mucous membrane of the bladder is of a pale rose colour in the healthy state soon after death. It is con- tinuous above with the lining of the ureters, and lielow with that of the urethra. It is very slightly united to the muscular layer; and it is thrown into numerous folds in the flaccid state of the viscus, except over a small triangular space behind the urethral opening. Objects inside the bladder. FiQ. 152.—MdsouLAR Fibres of the Bladder, Prostate, and Urethra. 1. External or longitudinal fibres of the bladder. 2. Circular fibres of the middle coat. 3. Submucous layer. 4. Muscular layer around the urethra. 6. Circular fibres of the prostate and urethra continuous with the circular of the bladder. 6, 7. Septum of the corjjus spon- giosum. 8. Corpus spongiosum. 9. Corpus cavernosum. 10. Ureter. Within the bladder are the following special parts, viz., the orifices of the ureters and urethra, with the triangular surface (fig. I.')4, p. 414). Orifices. At the lower part of the bladder is the orifice of the urethra, surrounded by the prostate gland. The mucous membrane presents here some longitudinal folds; and the aperture is partly