DISSECTION OP THE LEG. 180 origin from tibula insertion to groat toe ; it crosses the vessels ; use on great toe; on tibia. Extensor longus digitonmi : arises from tibia and fibula; inserted into four outer toes ; arrange- ment of the tendons on the toes ; relations of the muscle : use on toes and ankle ; on tibia. Peroneus tertius : origin; insertion ; surface of the fibula (fig. 68), and from the interosseous ineniLrane for the same distance. At the ankle it ends in a tendon, which comes to the surface through a sheath in the lower piece of the annular ligament, and continues over the tarsus to he imerted into the base of the last jjlialanx of tlie great toe. The anterior tibial vessels lie on the inner side of the muscle at its origin, but afterwards on the outer side of its tendon, so that they are crossed by it in. the lower third of the leg. Action. It straightens the great toe by extending the phalangeal joints, and afterwards bends the ankle. When the foot is fixed on the ground and the tibia slants back- wards, the muscle can draw forwards that bone. The EXTENSOR LONGUS DIGITORUM Is fleshy in the leg, and tendi- nous on the foot, like the other muscles. Its origin is from the head, and tipper three-fourths of the anterior surface of the fibula, from the external tuberosity of the tibia (fig. 68), from about an inch of the upper part of the interosseous membrane, and from the fascia of the leg and the iutermuscitlar septum on each side of it. The tendon enters its sheath in the annular ligament with the peroneus tertius, and di\n.des into four pieces. Below the ligament these slips are continued to the four outer toes, and are inserted into the middle and ungual phalanges in the following manner. On the first phalanx the tendons of the long and short extensor join with prolongations from the inter- ossei and lumbricales to form an aponeurosis; but there is no tendon from the short extensor to the expansion on the little toe. At the distal end of the first phalanx the aponeurosis is divided into three parts—a central and two lateral; the central piece is inserted into the base of the middle phalanx, and the lateral parts unite at the front of the middle, and are fixed into the last phalanx. In the leg the muscle is placed between the peronei on the one side, and the tibialis anticus and extensor proprius hallucis on the other. It lies on the fibula, the lower end of the tibia, and the ankle-joint. In the foot the tendons rest on the extensor brevis digitorum ; and the vessels and nerve are internal to them. Action. The muscle extends the four outer toes, acting mainly on the metatarso-phalangeal joints ; it can also bend the ankle-joint. If the tibia is inclined back, as when the foot reaches the ground in walking, it will be moved forwards by tliis and the other muscles on the front of the leg. The PERONEUS TERTIUS is situate below the extensor longus digi- torum, with which it is united. It arises from the lower fourth of the anterior surface of the filnila (fig. 68), from the lower end of the interosseous membrane, and from the intermtiscidar septum between it and the peroneus brevis muscle ; it is inserted into the base of the metatarsal bone of the little toe on the upper surface near its inner border. This muscle has the same relations in the leg as the lower part of the long extensor, and is contained in the same .space in the annular ligament.