228 DISSECTION OF THE LEG. Siirfiices of bones. Jrovement: state of liiranients. Transverse tiu'sal arti- culation includes two joints; movements: amijutation practised here. Dissection. Biirfaoes of OS calcis and astra- gal us. Union of tlic navicular boIH! to Uiecuiiui- fonn; synovial sac : Articular surfaces. Both bones are flattened towards the outer part of the articulation ; but at the inner side the os calcis is hollowed transversely, and the cuboid bone is convex to fit into it. Movement. In this joint the cuboid bone may move in two direc- tions, viz., oljliquely down and in witli inversion of the foot, and up and otit M'ith eversion. In tlie downward movement the internal lateral and the upper ligament are made tight; anil in the upward, tlie calcaneo-cuboid ligaments of the sole are stretched. Tran,sverse tarsal articulation. This name is given to the line of articulation crossing the foot between the astragalus and os calcis Ijehind and the navicular and cuboid bones in front : it will be noticed, however, that it is not a continuous joint, but is com- posed of two separate articulations, viz., the astragalo-navicvJar and the calcaneo-cuboid. The.se joints participate, as has been already seen, in the move- ments of in^'ersion and eversion, the anterior bones moving over the hinder ones, downwards and inwards in inversion, and upwards and outwards in eversion. It is at this line that the foot is divided in the operation known as Chopart's ampiitation. Dissection, Saw through the astragalus in front of the attach- ment of the interosseous ligament between it and the os calcis, and remove the head of the bone in order to see the disposition of the inner and outer calcaneo-navicular ligaments. Then the interosseous ligament uniting the astragalu.s and the os calcis is to be cut through, to demonstrate its attachments, the articular surfaces of the bones, and the synovial sacs (p. 225). Articular surfaces of the two hinder tarsal liones. There are two articular surfaces, anterior and posterior, to both the astragalus and the OS calcis. The hinder one of the os calcis is convex from before back, and the anterior is concave ; but sometimes the latter is subdivided into two. The surface of the astragalus has a form e.xactly the reverse of that of the os calcis, viz., the hinder one concave and the anterior convex ; the anterior is seated on the head of the astragalus. Dissection. Tlie calcaneo-cuboid joint may be opened to see the articular surfaces ; and the student is to keep in mind that all the other articulations of the foot are to l)e opened for the like purpose, even should directions not be given. Articulation of the navicular hose. The navicular bone is united in front to the three cuneiform Ijones, and laterally to the cuboid. In the articulation vith the cuneiform bones (fig. 87) there are three longitudinal dorsal liyaments {i, k, I), one to each bone ; but the innermost is the strongest and widest, and extends round the inside of the articulation into the sole of the foot (fig. 89, c)- The place of pUmtar Ijands is sujiplied by processes of the tendon of the tibialis posticus. The naviculo-cuneiforni articulations form one continuous joint,