DISSECTION OF THE BRAIN. Fillies ol' liilenil Unci. Direct cerobelliir tract. Fibres of funiculus c^uiieatus, gracilis, auil of Holaudo. Arciforin fibres: suiiei-flclol, Formation of restiform body. Fig. 265.—Transverse Section op the Medulla Oblongata at the Lower Part op the Fourth Ventricle (Clarke). The lateral tract is composed of the remainin}^ fil)re.s of the lateral columu of the cord, after the crossed ijyraiiiidal ti-act has been given off. Most of these pass deeply behind the olivary body, and throiij^h the reticular formation to the pons ; but one small band, the direct cerebellar tract, is continued superficially from the lateral column to the cerebellum. This band is often visible on the surface of the medulla, as a whiter streak lying along the outer edge of the lateral tract, and inclining backwards above the tubercle of Rolando to join the restiform body. Posterior funiculi. The white fibres of the cuneate and slender funiculi are the continuation of the postero- external and po.stero-median columns of the cord respec- tively, and are believed to end entirely in the grey nuclei of the funiculi. The funiculus of Rolando has only a very thin superficial white layer, which is also derived from the pos- terior column. The restiform body is formed by the arciform fibres of the medulla, by the direct cere- bellar tract, by fibres from the gracile and cuneate nuclei and from the vestibular portion of the auditory nerve. Dissection. The separated pons and medulla will now be divided longitudinally. One half we will put aside. On the other, by making transverse sections at different levels, the student will be able to dis- tinguish the grey matter of the olivary body and a few other larger nuclei as well as the chief bundles of white fibres, hut the parts described in small type require specially stained sections for their proper display. Arciform fibres. In the upper half of the medulla oblongata, covering its anterior surface and traversing its substance, is an extensive system of fibres, curving outwards and Ijackwards from the median plane to the restiform body, to which this name has been given. The superficial arciform fibres (fig. 265, s) have already been noticed in the description of the exterior of the medulla oblongata. a. b. c. d. e. /• Pyramid. Olivary body. Tubercle of Rolaudo. Restiform body. Lateral boundary of fourth ventricle. White core of the olivary body, with the roots of the hypoglossal nerve to its inner side. (•/. Olivary peduucle. li. Deep arciform tibres entering the raphe (a few more are added from a second drawing). li.l. Reticular formation. n. Floor of fourth ventricle. 0. Hypoglossal nucleus. •p. (jlosso-pharyngeal nucleus. r. Inner auditory nucleus. s. Superlicial arciform fibres. t. Remains of the gelatinous substance.