18 DISSECTION OF THE UPPER LIMB. insirl(>. Lyniplintic glanrt.s of the axilUi and vessels joining them. On the inner houndary, at the upper part, are a few small lininclies of the superior thoracic artery, which ramify on the serratus muscle ; Init the.se are commonly so imimportant, that this part of the a.villary space may be considered free from vessels with respect to any surgical operation. Running down the outer surface of the serratus maguus towards the hack of the axilla is the nerve to that muscle (long or posterior thoracic); and coming through the inner Avail of the space, under cover of the pectoral muscles, are the lateral cutaneous nerves of the thorax, the highest of which is directed across the axilla to the arm, and receives the name intercosto-humeral C). The lym2}hatic glands of the axilla are arranged in three .sets: one is placed along the inner side of the great blood-vessels; another occupies the hinder part of the .space, lying near the subr scapular vessels ; and the third accompanies the long thoracic artery, beneath the margin of the pectoralis major. Commonly there are in all ten or twelve ; but in number and size they vary nuich. Small twdgs from the branches of the axillary vessels are furnished to them. The glands by the side of the blood-v&ssels receive the lympliatics of the arm ; those along the hinder boundary are joined liy the Oralis FiQ. 5.—The Claviolk, showing the Upper and a Part OP THE Anterior Sitrfaoe. Pectoralis major; origins; insertion; relalionf. lymphatics of the side of the chest and of the back, and those beneath the pectoral muscle by the lymphatics of the front of the chest, and from the outer part of the manmia. The efferent vessels unite to form a trunk, which opens into the lymphatic duct of the neck of the same side; or some may enter separately the subclavian vein. The PECTORALIS MAJOR (a) is triangular in shape, with the Ivise at the sternum, and the apex at the arm. It arises from the inner half of the front of the clavicle (lig. 5), from the anterior surface of the sternum and the cartilages of the upper six rilvs, and ludow from the aponeurosis of the external obliciue muscle of the abdomen. From this wide origin the fibres take different directions—tho.se from the clavicle being inclined obliquely downwards, while the lower ones ascend behind the upper portion of the muscle; and all end in a tendon, which is inserted (fig. 17, p. 44) into the pectoral ridge on tlie outer side of the bicipiUd groove of the humerus, along which a thin prolongation is sent upw^ards to the head of the bone. This muscle bounds the axiUa in front, and its lower border