DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 350 branches'-''^'' ^'^^^ branches of the vein {interlohular) penetrate between the lobules, where they communicate together, and supply the hepatic substance. In the portal canals the offsets of the vena portas are joined by small vaginal and capsular veins, which convey blood from branches of the liepatic artery. The hepatic artery (tig. 132, c), while surrounded by the capsule, furnishes vaginal branches, which ramify in the sheath, giving it a red appearance in a well-injected liver, and supply twigs to the coats of the portal vein and biliary ducts, and to the areolar tissue : from the vaginal branches a few offsets {capsular) are given to the coat of the liver. Finally, the receives vaginal branches. Hepatic artery nourishes the vessels and capsule: ending in lobules. Hepatic veins with- out a sheath, begin in the lobules. and end in the vena cava. artery ends in fine interlobular branches, from which offsets enter the lobules. The hepatic veins (venae cavae hepaticas) begin by small intra- lobular veins from the centre of the lobules ; these are received into the sublobular branches, which anastomose together, and unite into larger vessels. Fin- ally, imiting with neighbouring branches to produce larger trunks, the hej^atic veins are directed from before backwards to the vena cava inferior, into which they open liy large ori- fices. Tlie hepatic veins may be said to be without a sheath, except in the larger trunks ; so that when they are cut across the ends remain patent, in con- sequence of their close connec- tion with the liver structure. Hepatic duct. The biliary ducts follow the portal vein in their mode of branching, and run with the other vessels in the portal canals (fig. 132, d). They issue from the liver at the trajisverse hepatic""""" fissure in right and left trunks, which by their union form the ducts. common hepatic duct.* Structure Structure. Tiie moderately-sized hepatic ducts consist of a fibrous siVt'ddudii. coat, lined by a mucous layer ; and penetrating the wall is a longi- tudinal row of openings, on each side, leading into sacs, and into branched tubes which sometimes communicate. • Aberrant ducts exist between llie pieces of the peritoneum in tlie left lateral ligament of the liver, and in tlie bands bridging over the round ligament and vena cava ; tbey anastomose together, and arc accompanied by branches of the vessels of the liver, viz., portal vein, hepatic artery, and hepatic vein. Biliai-y ducts fomi right, left, Fig. 132.—Vessels in a Portal Canal, and the Lobules of THE Liver (Kibrnan). I. Lobules of the liver. p. Branch of the portal vein, with a, a. small branches which supply interlobular offsets. c. Hepatic artery. d. Hepatic duct. i, i. Openings of interlobular branches of the portal vein.