DISSECTION OF THE HAND. 80 Opponons attach- inonts, relations, and use. Dissection of deep arcli and interosseous nuiscle.s and after fascia. Eadial artery in hand forms deep arcli, The OPPONENS MINIMI DIGITI (g) _resemble.i_the_oppnnfills pollicis in being attached to the metacarpal bone. _ Its oj-igin is from the hook of tlie unciform bone, and the lower part of the annular ligament; its insertion is into the ulnar side of the metacarpal bone of the little finger. The opponens is partly overlaid by the preceding muscles ; and beneath it the deep branches of the ulnar artery and nerve pass. Action. It raises the inner metacarpal bone, and moves it towards the others, so as to deepen the hollow of the palm. Dissection. The radial artery comes into the hand l)etween the first two metacarpal bones ; and to lay bare the vessel it will be requisite to detach the origin of the adductor obliquus pollicis. The deep palmar arch and the branch of the ulnar nerve accompanying it, together with their offsets, are to be dissected out. A fascia which covers the interosseous muscles is to be removed, the dissector has observed its connection with the transverse ligament luiiting the heads of the metacarpal bones. Radial artery in the hand (fig. 31). The radial artery enters the pabn at the first interosseous space, between the heads of the first dorsal interosseous muscle ; and after furnishing one branch to the thumb, and another to the index finger, it turns across the hand towards the ulnar side, forming the deep arch. The dee}! palmar arch (c) extends from the upper end of the first interosseous space to the base of the metacarpal bone of the little finger, where it joins the deep branch of the ulnar artery (6). Its convexity, which is but slight, is directed downwards ; and its situation is nearer the carpal bones than that of the superficial arch. The arch has a deep position in the hand, and lies on the metacai-pal and beneath bones and the interosseous muscles. It is covered by the long flexor tendons, and in part by the adductor obliquus pollicis and opponens minimi digiti niuscles. Two veins accompany it. The branclws of the arch are the following :— a. Recurrent branches pass from the concavitj' of the arch to the front of the carpus; these supply the bones and joints, and anastomose with the anterior carpal arteries. b. Three perforating arteries pierce the inner three dorsal interos- eous muscles, and communicate with the interosseous arteries on the ack of the hand. c. Usually there are three palmar interosseous arteries (/), which lie over the inner three intermetacarpal spaces, and terminate by joining the digital branches of the superficial palmar arch at the clefts of the fingers. An offset of the inner one, or a separate branch of the arch, joins the digital artery to the inner side of the little finger (p. 71). These branches sujiply the interosseous muscles, and the two or three inner lumbricales ; they vary much in their size and arrangement. Their size, as a rule, varies inversely with that of the corresponding digital branches of the superficial arch, which they join at the cleft between the lingers. d. Digital branches of the radial. The arteria princcps jiollids (c) runs along the first metacarpal bone to the interval between the which lies near carpal bones, muscles, with venaB comites. Branches: _ recurrent; perforating palmar in- terosseous. W DiRitnl branches: