DISSECTION OF THK UPPER LIMB. 102 Out! synovliil ciivity for tlie carpal boiii's, and some meta- carpals. Kinds of motion: flexion ; extension. Combined movements of radio- carpal and transverse carpal joints ; flexion and extension : I j abduction; addnction; Metacarpal bones joined at bases, with synovial joints, and at heads. making up a coiidylokl projection wliicli is received into tlie arch of the first row, and the Ir.apezium and trapezoid forming a slight hollow for the convexity of the scaphoid bone. One aynovial sac serves fni' the avticiilation of all the carpal hones, except the pisiFoi iii wilb Ike pyiaiuidal. The cavity'extends tran.s- versely between the two rows of the carpus, and is continued upwards and downwards between the individual bones. The offsets upwards are two, and they sometimes open into the cavity of the wrist-joint ; but the offsets in the opposite direction are three, and may be continued to all, or only to the two outer of the four inner carpo-metacarpal joints. Movements. O-w'mg to the irregular shape of the articular surfaces, only forward and backward movements are permitted in the transverse carpal joint. Flexion. As the hand is brought forwards, the os magnum and unciform move backwards in the socket formed by the first row, while the trapezium and trapezoid ad\-ance over the scaphoid, and the posterior ligament is tightened. Extension. The backward movement is freer than flexion. The trJlpeziiun and trapezoid glide liackwards over the scaphoid, and the OS magnum and unciform project on the palmar aspect, the move- nient being checked by the anterior ligament of the joint and the strong Hexor tendons. The axes upon which the movements of flexion and extension of the radio-carpal and trans\'erse carpal joints take place are not strictly transverse, but oblique in opposite directions, that of the proximal articulation ha\'ing its inner end directed forwards, while that of the distal articulation is inclined from without inwards and backwards. In order therefore to move the hand directly forwards or backwards, both joints are called into play simultaneously. By a combination of flexion in the one joint with extension in the other, lateral movements {ahdudion and adduction^ of the hand are produced. Thus, abduction results from flexion of the radio-carpal and extension of the transverse carpal articulation, and adduction, which is the freer movement, from extension of the radio-carpal and flexion of the transverse caqjal joint. In circumduction the hand passes successivelj' through the several states of angular move- ment, describing a cone with the apex at the wrist, and the excursion is greater in the direction of Hexion and adduction than in the opposite directions. Union of the Metacarpal Bones. The metacarpal bone-s of the four fingers are connected at their bases by the following liga- ments :—A dorsal (fig. 44) and jtalmar (fig. 41) fji-sciculus of fibres pa.sses transversely from each l)one to the next ; and the bands in the palm are the sti'ongest. Besides these, there is a short hittrosscous ligament between the contiguous rough surfaces of the bonas. Where the metaairpal bones touch they are covered by cartilage ; and between the articular surfaces there are prolongations of the synovial cavity .serving for their arliculation with the carpus. At their distal ends the same four metacjirpal bone.s are connected