DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. 4S0 and veins. Bronchial arteries, and veins. Lympha- tics, Pulmonary nerves. Tlie pulinonarij veins are not so regular in their arrangement a.s the arteries. They arise from the network of the air-cells ; and the branches from adjoining lobules communicate freely together. The larger branches for tlie most part lie in front of tlie airtubes which they accompany. The pulmonary veins have no valves. The bronchial arteries are derived directly or indirectly from the aorta, two for the left lung and one for the right (p. 481), and enter the lung on the airtube, which they also follow in its ramifi- cations. They distribute branches to the bronchial lymphatic glands, to the walls of the larger blood-vessels and bronchial tubes, and to the interlobular connective tissue. Other small offsets ramify on the surface of the lung beneath the pleura. On the .smallest bronchial tubes minute branches anastomose with offsets of the pulmonary arteries. The bronchial veins begin by twigs corresponding vfith the super- ficial anil deep branches of the artery, and leave the root of the lung to end in the azygos veins. Many of these veins, however, open into the pulmonary veins, both within the lung and in the root. The lyni2)hatics of the lung are superficial and deep ; the latter accompany both the bronchia and the branches of the pulmonary vessels. All pass to the bronchial glands at the root of the lung. The nerves of the lung are derived through the pulmonary jilexuses from the vagus and sympathetic, and follow the branches of the airtube. They have minute ganglia connected with their filaments. PARTS OF THE SPINE AND THE SYMPATHETIC CORD. Dissection of thoracic duct, of other objects, and of sym- pathetic. Dosconding thoracic aorta; In front of the spinal coltimn are the objects in the interpleural space of the posterior mediastinum, viz., the aorta, azygos veins, thoracic , duct, and cesophagus ; and beneath the pleura on each side of the spine is the symjjathetic nerve. Dissection (fig. 174). The thoracic duct should be found first near the diajihragm liy removing the pleura ; there it is about as large as a crow-quill, and rests against the right side of the aorta. The areolar tissue and the pleura are to be cleared away from the different structures before mentioned ; and the azygos veins, one on the right and two on the left of the aorta, shotild be di.^sected. Ne.xt follow the thoracic duct upiwards lieneatli the arch of the aorta, and along the cesojjhagus beneath the pletira, till it leaves the upper aperture of the thorax. After raising the jjleura from the inner surface of the vertebra; and ribs, the gangliated cord of tlie sipnpathctic nen-e will be seen lying over the heads of the ribs. Branches are to be followed out- wards from the ganglia to the intercostal nerves ; and others inward.s over the bodies of the vertebra),—the lowest and largest of these forming the three trunks of ^/w splanchnic nerves. The DESCENDING THORACIC AORTA is the part of the great systemic vessel between the termination of the arch and the diaphragm. Its