THE FACIAL NERVK. 0 0 2 Lastly, the first small branches of the facial to the back of the and ear and to the digastric and stylo-hyoid muscles are to be looked 'i^',!^';,™'^"', for close to the base of the skull just after the nerve emerges from the stylo-mastoid foramen. The Facial Nerve outside the Skdll (fig. 205). The Branches nerve issues from the stylo-mastoid loramen, alter traversing the sknll. aqueduct of Fallopius, and furnishes immediately the three following small branches :— The posterior auricular branch (fig. 205) turns upwards in Posterior front of the mastoid process, where it communicates with an ott'set of the great auricular, and is also joined by a branch to the ear from the pneuiiio-gastric nerve. It ends in an occipital branch to the occipitalis and an auricular branch to the retrahens muscle and to the small muscles on the back of the pinna. The branch to the dignstric muscle arises generally in common Branch to with the next. It is distriliuted by several ofl'sets to the posterior <iij-'!'s''i''f- belly of the muscle near the skull. The branch to the stylo-hyoid is a long slender nerve, which is Branch to directed inwards, and enters the muscle about its middle. This styio-''yo"'- branch communicates with the sympathetic nerve on the external carotid artery. As soon as the facial nerve has given off these branches, it is Division directed forwards through the gland, and divides near the ramus of the jaw into two large trunks—temporo-facial and cervico-facial. The TEMPORO-FACIAL TRUNK furnishes offsets to the side of the The upper head and face which extend downwards to the level of the mouth. 1','^'^'°"°'^ As this trunk crosses over tiie external carotid artery it receives one or two large branches from the auriculo-temporal portion of the inferior maxillary nerve, and then divides into three sets of terminal has three branches—temporal, malar, and infraorbital, which have fre(iuent communications with one another as they pass forwards in the face. The temporal branches ascend obliquely over the zygomatic arch Temporal to enter the orbicularis palpebrarum, the corrugator supercilii and l^kie'onle^ui the frontalis muscles ; they are united with ofl'sets of the supra- orbital nerve. The attrahens and attollens aurem muscles are supplied from this set; and a junction takes place above the zygoma with the temporal branch of the superior maxillary nerve. The malar branches are directed to the outer side of the orbit, Malar and are distriljuted to the orbicularis muscle. Communications io"'yei'i'ds. take place in the eyelids with the palpebral filaments of the fifth nerve and over the malar bone with the small subcutaneous malar branch of the superior maxillary nerve. Tiie infraorbital branches are larger than the rest, and are infraorbital furnished to the muscles between the eye and mouth. Close to between^eye the orbit, and beneath the elevator of the upper lip, a free com- mouth, munication—infraorbital plexus, is formed between these nerves and the infraorbital branches of the superior maxillary. After crossing the branches of the fifth nerve, some small offsets of these branches pass inwards to the side of the nose, and others