803 CHAPTER XIT. DISSECTION OF THE EAE. The organ of hearing is made up of complex bodies, which are Suiidivision lodged in, and attached to the surface of, the temporal bone. It is of''"'''to'T commonly divided into three parts, known as the external ear, the middle ear, and the internal ear. Of these, the last is the essential portion, containing the terminal expansion of the auditory nerve ; and the others are to be regarded as accessory, serving to convey to it the vibrations produced by the sonorous undulations of the air. External Eak. This includes the pinna or auricle and the Parts of auditory canal : the former has been noticed at p. 569 et seq., and the latter remains to be described. The EXTERNAL AUDITORY CANAL (meatus auditorius externUS ; Auditory fig. 295) is the passage which leads from the pinna towards the*^""'"'' tympanic cavity (a part of the middle ear), from which it is separated in the recent state by the tympanic membrane. Dissection. To obtain a view of this canal, a recent temporal imw to bone is to be taken, to which the cartilaginous pinna remains "few "nt • attached. After the removal of the soft parts, the squamous piece of the bone in front of the Glaserian fissure is to be sawn off; and the front of the meatus, except a ring at the inner end which gives support to the thin membrana tympani, is to be cut away with a pair of bone-forceps. The canal is about one inch and a quarter in length, and is length ; formed partly by bone and partly by cartilage. It is directed forwards somewhat obliquely, and describes a slight vertical curve direction; with the convexity upwards. In shape it is rather flattened from size and before backwards ; and it is narrowest in the osseous portion. The "''"''^ '< outer extremity is continuous with a hollow (concha) of the external ear, and the inner is closed by the membrana tympani. The carlilaginom imrt (a) is largest. It is about half an inch in cartiin^i- length, and is formed chieHy by the pinna of the outer ear, which is attached to the margin of the osseous meatus; but at the upper is deficient and posterior aspect the cartilage is deficient, and the tube is closed ■ by fibrous tissue. One or two fissures (fissures of Santorini) ci'oss the cartUage (p. 571). The osseous part (b) is about three-quarters of an inch long in the osseous adult, and is slightly constricted about the middle. Its outer P*'''^' extremity is dilated, and the posterior edge projects farther than outer end the anterior; the greater portion of the margin is rough, and gives 3 F 2