475 THE MUSCULAR FIRIIES OF HKAIIT. Jfuscnlar substiiiiei! of lit'iirt. Fibres of the auricles are trans- verse, niimilar, and loopeil. Until sucli a spucimen is obtained, the student may omit the following description. The muscular fibres of the heart, altliough involuntary, are striped ; but they (lifter in their oharaeter from those of tlie vohmtary muscles. The fibres of the auricles are distinct from those of tlie ventricles. In the wall of the auricles tlie lil)res are mostly transverse (fig. 172. a, h), and are best marked near the ventricles, tliongh they form there but a thin layer ; and some of the fibres dip into the septum between the auricular cavities, llesides this set, there are annular fibres surrounding tlie appen- dai;es of the auricles and the endings of the different veins ; and lastly, a few looped fibres (c, d) pass obliquely over the auricle from front to back. Dissection. The auricles having been learnt, sejjarate them from the ventricles by dividing the fibrous auriculo-vcntricniar rings. Next clean the fleshy fibres of the ventricles by removing all the fat from the base of the heart around the two arteries (aorta and pul- monary), and from the anterior and posterior surfaces. Before cutting into the heart, let the stuilent note that the anterior surface is to be recog- nised by the fibres turning in at the .septum, with the exception of a small band at the ba.so and another at the apex ; while on the posterior aspect the fibres are continued from the left to the right ventricle across the septum. To show the direction of the muscular bundles in the left ven- I''"- 1'2.- tricle, divide the superficial fibres in front longitudinally near the septum, and transversely about half an inch below the left auri- culo-vcntricniar ojiening ; and re- flect a thin layer of the fibres carefully towards the left side. In the same way a second layer is to be reflected ; then a third, and so on, each layer that is raised being about as thick as the thin end of the scalpel. It will not be difficult to demonstrate thus six or seven layers in the wall ; and as each is raised, the fleshy fibres will be seen to change their direction (fig. 173). On the right side a similar dissection may be made, and a like number of and of layers may be displayed, but greater care will be necessary owing to the '''fc'ht- thinness of the wall. Make a vertical cut along the anterior aspect from the root of the pulmonary artery to the apex of the ventricle ; and reflect the several layers inwards and outwards. As the superficial ones are raised, their fibres may be followed into the septum in front, and across the middle line into the wall of the left ventricle at the back. Thickness of the ventricular v:iill,s. The wall of the left ventricle is in •I'ldckncss general nearly three times as thick as that of the right. Its thickest part is about of left ven- one-fourth of its length from the base ; and at the apex it is very thin. The free wall of the right ventricle is of more uniform tliickne.ss than the left, of right, The septum is about as thick as the wall of the left ventricle, except at the and of septum: -MuSODLAn FiDRES Auricles. Dissection of left ven- tricle, a. Transverse fibres of the right, and of the left auricle. c. Looped fibres of the left, and d, of the right auricle. c. Superior cava. /. Inferior cava. r/. Right, and /(, left pulmonary veins. Annular fibres surround the veins.