167 ADDUCTOR MAGNUS MUSCLE. The ADDUCTOR MAGNUS (fig. 62, e) is triangular in form, witli Ackiuctor its base directed upwards, one side being attached to the femur, and '""y""* '• the other free at the inner sitle of the tliigh. The muscle arises from the conjoined rami of the pubis and oiife'in is ischium along their inner margin, and from the lower impression on tlie ischial tuberosity (fig. 47, p. 113). The anterior fibres diverge iJivcrRo to from their origin, being horizontal above but more oblique below, ^jj^^j'' ''"str- and are inserted into the back of the femur, from above downwards, ^Q„^'g hein" along the inner side of the gluteal ridge, into the linea a.spera, and iioiizontai, into the internal supracondylar line for about an inch (tig. 61, 2>. 158). The posterior fibres, from the ischial tuberosity, are vertical in direction, and end at the lower third of the thigh in a tendon, which is inserted into the inner condyle of the femur, surrounding the adductor tubercle, and is connected by a fibrous e.\pansion to the lower part of the internal supracondylar line. The muscle consists of two parts, which diflTer in their characters, and form The anterior (pubic), thin and fleshy, forms a septum between tlie other adductors and the muscles on the back of the thigh ; but the posterior {ischial) piece, partly fleshy and jiartly tendinous, con- stitutes the inner thick margin of the muscle. On the anterior surface are the other two adductors and the pectineus, with the Rektions of obturator nerve and the profunda vessels. The posterior surface touches the hamstring muscles and the great sciatic nerve. In and borders, contact with the upper border are the obturator e.xternus and the quadratus femoris, with the transverse branch of the internal cir- cumflex vessels ; and along the inner border Ke the gracilis and the sartorius. At its attachment to the femur the muscle is closely united with the other adductors, particularly the adductor longus, and in its lowest part with the vastus internus. Near the bone it is pierced by apertures for the p;issage of the femoral and perforating arteries. Action. This muscle is a powerful adductor ; and the part arising Use on from the tuberosity is also an e.xtensor of the hip. In standing, the ' '. latter part of the muscle, acting from the femur, has an important "'"°' intluence in steadying the hip-joint; and in walking, the great and '" ^™"^'"g- other adductors co-operate with the gluteal muscles externally, to support the pelvis on the fixed limb. The 02)ening in the adductor for the transmission of the superficial Opening for femoral vessels into the popliteal space is tendinous at the anterior, ""^ ™sseis; but Heshy at the posterior aspect. It is situate at the junction of the upjjer three-fourths with the lowest fourth of the thigh, and is larger than is necessary for the passage of the vessels. On the outside it is bounded Ijy the vastus internus ; and on the inside by boundaries, the tendon of the adductor magnus, with some fibres added from the tendon of the long adductor. , The PSOAS and iliacus (fig. 62) arise separately in the abdomen, Psoas and but are united in the thigh, the conjoined portion of the muscles ui'^thigh: lying beneath Poupart's ligament. The psoas (p) is inserted by insertion ' tendon into tlie small trochanter of the femur; and the fie.shy'"t-" f"'""'': iliacus (o) mainly joins the tendon of the psoas, but a few of its