ANATOMY OF THE UTERUS. 42i The body (a) of the uterus is more convex posteriorly than ante- biidy; riorl)', and decreases in size down to the neck. It is covered on both aspects by the peritoneum, except at the lower part in front (about half an inch), where it is connected to the bladder. To parts each side the parts contained in the bi'oad fold of the peritoneum ".'"^"^''^'l to are attached (j). 391), viz., the Fallopian tube at the top, the round ligament rather below and before the last, and the ovary and its ligament below and behind the others. Dissection. To examine the interior of the uterus, a cut is to open the be made along the front from the fundus to the external os uteri; and then some of the thick wall is to be removed on each side of the middle line to show the contained cavity (fig. 156). The thickness of the uterine wall is greatest opposite the middle its thick- of the body. It is greater at the centre than at the extremities of the fundus, the wall becoming thinner towards the att<achment of the Fallopian tubes. Merior of the uterus. Within the uterus is a small space, m ti.e which IS divided artificially into two—that of the body and that of the neck. The space occupying the body of the viscus (c) is triangular in is a trian- torm, and compressed from before backwards. Its base is at the fntXl fundus, where it is convex towards the cavity, and the angles are prolonged into the Fallopian tubes. The apex is directed down- which is wanls, and joins the cavity in the neck by a narrowed circular '^Z7"^ part, or isthmus (os uteri internum) which may be narrower than the opening of the uterus into the vagina. The space within the neck (d) terminates below at the external os and a uteri, and is continuous above with the cavity within the body It is t''"'!,'- larger at the middle than at either end, being spindle-shaped, and 'I'-eln is somewhat flattened like the cavity of the body. Along both the anterior and the posterior wall is a longitudinal ridge ; and other ridges (ruc/m) are directed obliquely from these on each side • this appearance has been named arbor vilce uterinus. In the intervals m the neck •Hjetween the rugae are mucous follicles, which .sometimes become ^'l °f distended with fluid, and give rise to rounded clear sacs "''^"^ Sthuctdre. The dense wall of the uterus is composed of layers uterus is a ot unstriated muscular fibre, intermixed with areolar and elastic tis.sues and large blood-vessels. On the exterior is the peritoneum ; and lining the interior is a thin mucous membrane. The muscular fibres can be demonstrated at the full period of There are gestation to form three strata in the wall of the uterus viz ''trata, external, internal, and middle:— ' The external layer contains fibres which are mostly transverse ; external but at the fundus and sides they are oblique, and are more marked than along the middle of the organ. At the sides the fibres con- verge towards the broad ligament; some are inserted into the subperitoneal fibrous tissue ; and others are continued into the i^allopian tube the round ligament, and the ligament of the ovary. itie internal fibres describe circles round the openings of the internal, Fallopian tubes, and spread from these apertures till they meet at