485 LVMI'irATIdS AXD THORACin DUCTS. iiitcvrupteil Ijy small tendons (^';y to of an inch lont;) like llic fibres of the rectus abdominis nuiscle. TliQ internal layer of circular fibres is continuous ub( with tlu! iiiu! iiitijnial fibres of the pharynx ; they are more oblii|Ui', at the midclie than nim'.s"' at either end of the oesophagus. The areolar or submucous layer is situate between the muscular Fibrous and mucous coats, and attaches the one to the other loosely. '"J'"''- The mucous coat will be seen on cutting open the tube : it is Mucous reddish in colour above but pale below, and is very loosely con- jiected with the muscular coat, so that it is thrown into longitudinal folds when the oesophagus is contracted. The surface is studded PiipiHie niui with minute papilla;, which are, however, concealed by the thick, "I'"''"''"""- laminated, scaly epithelium. Some compound cjlanils (cesoj)hageal) are scattered along the tube, Som'. and are most numerous at the lower end of the gullet. ginmis. Lymphatics of the thorax. In the thora.x are lymphatic Lympimtics vessels of the wall and the viscera, which enter collections of 1',' glaiuLs, and end in one or other of the lymphatic ducts. Besides these, the large thoracic duct tra\X'r.ses the thorax in its course from the abdomen to the neck. Lymphatic glands. Along the course of the internal mammary sternal artery lies a chain of sternal (jlands, which receive lymphatics from the upper part of the abdominal wall, the front of the chest, the mamma, and the fore part of the diaphragm. On each side of the spine, near the heads of the ribs, as well as inturcostal. between the intercostal muscles, is placed a group of mtercostal (jlands for the reception of the lymphatics of the posterior wall of the thorax. Till 'ee or four anterior mediastinal (jliinds lie in the fore part of Antorior the interpleural .space, and receive lymphatics from the upper sur- face of the liver and the diaphragm. Numerous bronchial glands are situate at the division of tlie Jirom-liiiil. trachea, and along the bronchi ; through them the lymphatics of the lung pa.ss. Along the side of the aorta and oesophagus is a chain of posterior PosUrior mediastinal (jlands, which are joined by the lymphatics of the ccso- phagus, and hinder parts of the pericardium and diaphragm. Along the front and lower border of the arch of the aorta are tlie Superior superioi mediastinal or cardiac (jlands, which receive the lymphatics ""•'''"'^i'""'- of the heart, the pericardium, and the thymu.s. The THORACIC DUCT (fig. 174 and fig. 175,') is the ninin channel by Thoracic which the lymph of the lower half of the body, and of the left side of the u])per half of the body, as well as the chyle from the intestines, is conveyed into the blood. The duct begins in the abdomen in an begins in enlargement (receptaculum chyli ; p. 371), and ends in the veins of the lelt side of the neck. It is from fifteen to eighteen inches in '■"'1^ in length, and is contained in the thorax, except at its origin and termination. It has the following course and relations : Entering the cavity through the same opening as the aorta, the iteinUons duct ascends on the right side of that vessel as high as the arch.