THE VOOAL CORDS. G05 thyroid (fig. 249,p. 702), comes into view ; and it will be seen to be continued upwards into, and give rise to tlie prominence of the inferior or true vocal cord. Lastly, dissect off the mucous membrane from the vocal cords on the right side, and in doing this the wall of the ventricle and saccule, which are formed mainly l)y this membrane, will dis- ajipear. Tlie VOCAL CORDS (fig. 247) are two bands on each side, which extend from the angle (if the thyroid to the aryte- noid cartilage, one forming tlie upper, the other the lower margin of the ventricle of the larynx. Each consists of a fold of the mucous membrane supported by a ligamentous structure — the superior and inferior thyro- arytenoid ligaments respec- tively. The superior or false mud cord (c) is arched with its concavity downwards, and is much softer and looser than the lower. Its free border is thick and rounded. The contained superior thyro-aryte- noid ligament consists mostly of white fibrous tissue, and is fixed in front to the angle of the thyroid cartilage near the attachment of the epi- glottis, behind to the middle portion of the anterior sur- face of tlie arytenoid carti- lage. It is continuous above with scattered fibrous bun- dles in the aryteno-epiglot- tiJean fold. The inferior or true vocal cord (b) is attached in front to the angle of the thyroid cartilage about lialf way down below the notch, and behind to the vocal process of the arytenoid cartilage. Between tliese points, its free margin, by the vibration of which the voice is produced, is straight, sharp and smooth. The cord projects upwards and inwards into the cavity of the larynx, and forms the boundary of the vocal ])ortion of the glottis. It is about ,'^ths of an inch long in the male, and j'^ths of an inch less in the female. The mucous and crico- thyroid nieinbrjKie. Vocal eorils; Superior cord, and tlijTO- arytenoid ligaineiit. Fig. 247.—Vocal Apparatus, on a Vertical Section op the Larynx. A. Ventricle of the larynx. B. True vocal coid. c. False vocal cord. D. SaccuUis laryngis. u. Arytenoid cartilage. V. Cricoid cartilage. 0. Thyroid cartilage. II. Epiglottis. K. Crico-thyroid nieinbrane. L. Thyro-hyoid membrane. Inl'erior cord,