CHAPTEE VI. DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. Section I. Position of the body. Appear- ances on the surrace of the abdo- men. Pit of the stomach. Navel. Eminence of pubes. Mons Veneris. Inguinal furrow. Poupart's ligament. Abdominal rings, outer WALL OF THE ABDOMEN. Position. The body wiU be sufficiently raised by blocks beneath the thorax and head for the dissection of the upj^er limbs and neck, but the dissector should see that the chest is higher than the pelvis. If tlie abdomen is flaccid, it may be inflated through an aperture in the umbilicus, but if it is firm, proceed with the dissection without blowing it up. Surface-marking. On its anterior aspect the abdomen is fairly uniformly convex, especially in fat bodies ; but at the side there is a sL'ght hollow below the ribs, and a groove marks the position of the niac crest. Along the middle line is a groove over the linea alba, which begins above in a depression over the ensiform process {epigastric or infrasternal fossa), and becoming gradually shallower below ends a little beyond the umbilicus. The latter is a round, depressed cicatrix, situate nearer to the pubic bones than to tiie lower end of the body of the sternum, and opposite, as a rule, the disc between the third and fourth lumbar vertebrae. On each side of the median groove is the elevation of the rectus muscle, which is intersected in adult well-formed Ijodies by two or tliree transverse furrows. Over the lower ends of the recti and tlie adjacent parts of the pubic bones the surlhce is somewhat elevated, owing to an accumulation of fat ; and the name piibes has been given to tliis part from its thick covering of hair. This projection is especially marked in front of the bones in the female, where it is distinguished as the mom Veneris. Beneath the eminence of the pubes the student will be able to recognise with his finger the symphysis pubis, and to trace outwards from it tlie osseous pubic crest, wliich leads to the prominent pubic spine. From this to the anterior superior iliac spine the curved inguinal furrow extends, separating the abdomen from the thigh. If the finger be carried along the furrow it will detect the firm band of Poupart's ligament, and sometimes one or two inguinal glands. Immediately above and to tlie outer side of the pubic spine the opening of the external abdominal ring may usually be felt; and in