E E 2 THE VAGINA. 4in separate examination. For this purpose the student should keep the scalpel close to the osseous boundary of tlie pelvic outlet, so as to avoid injuring the end of the rectum ; and he .sliould also detach the erus of the clitoris from the bone. After the parts are taken from the body, the rectnm is to be and p, separated from the uterus and the vagina, but the rest of the viscera may remain united until after the genital organs are examined. The bladder and rectum may be moderately distended ; and the fat and areolar tissue are to be removed from the viscera. GENITAL ORGANS. The genital organs, or external organs of generation, consist of External the following parts:—the mons Veneris and external labia the °f clitoris and internal labia, and the vestibule with the meatus urinarius; they have been seen in the dissection of the perineum (p. 255 et seq.). Within the internal labia is the aperture of the vagina, mth the hymen. The name vulva or pudendum is applied to these parts as a whole. GENERATIVE ORGANS. The generative organs, or internal organs of generation, are the Separate uterus and vagina, and the ovaries with the Fallopian tubes Dissection. The viscera are now to be separated, so that the bladder and the urethra may be together, and the vagina and the uterus remain united. The bladder is to be set aside for subsequent examination The surface of the vagina and the lower part of the Oean uterus should be cleaned ; but the peritoneal investment of the ^''S""'- latter is to be left untouched for ihe present. THE VAGINA. The general relations of the vagina have been described onvagina- page 394. The tube of the vagina (fig. 146, p. 391), is con-^"'"""^' nected with the uterus at one end, and with the vulva at the other. a„d curved It las a slightly curved course between the two points mentioned ■ '^""'""^ = and the anterior and posterior walls are not equal in length, for the Jormer measures about two inches, and the latter three. In the body the vagina is flattened from before backwards, so fonn that the opposite surfaces are in contact; and the upper part of the posterior wall is applied to the lower end of the uterus. Its size „nd size vanes at d.flerent spots ;-thus the external orifice, which is sur- rounded by the constrictor vaginsB muscle, is the narrowest part ; the middle portion is the largest; and the upper end is intermediate in dimensions between the other two. After the vagina has been laid open by an incision along the side, mtorior the position of the uterus in the anterior wall, instead of at th^ extremity of the passage, may be remarked ; and the tube may be seen to extend farther on the posterior than on the anterior lip of the