FEMORAL HERNIA. 295 pubic branch of that vessel, and lies along the ring as it passes to the pelvis. It may have two positions with respect to the crural ring: either it is placed close to the iliac vein, so as to leave the inner side of that space free from vessels ; or it arches over the aperture, descending on the inner side at the base of Gimbernat's ligament; in this last condition the ring will be encircled by vessels except behind. Course of femoral hernia. The intestine leaves the abdomen by Femoral the opening of the crural ring; and it descends internal to the vein in the crural sheath, as far as the saphenous opening in the thigh, where it j)rojects to the surface. Coverings. In its progress the intestine will push before it the CoveringR, peritoneum and subperitoneal fat (septum crurale) ; and it will number, displace the gland which fills the crural ring. Having reached the level of the sajihenous opening, the intestine carries before it the inner side of the crural shealh, and a layer called the cribriform fascia ; and, lastly, it is invested by the superficial fascia and skin of the thigh. The dissection of the thigh may be referred to for fuUer details (pp. 143—146). Seat of strictwe. The stricture of a femoral hernia is placed stricture opposite the base of Gimbernat's ligament, or lower down at the ^ei-^^mtit margin of the saphenous opening in tlie thigh. And the constric- saphenous tion may be caused either by a fibrous band outside the upper ''P'"""^' narrow end of the tumour, or by the thickening of the peritoneum inside the neck, as in inguinal hernia. Division of the stricture. To free the intestine from the constricting incision to fibrous band arching over it, an incision is to be made down to the tenili'"^' neck of the sac at the inner and upper part. And to relieve the deep stricture within the neck of the sac, mid internal the peritoneal bag is to be opened and a director introduced, and the knife is to be carried horizontally inwards, or xipwards and inwards, through the thickened sac and a few fibres of the edge of Gimbernat's ligament. Danger to vessels. When the incision is made upwards and inwards Risk of to loosen the constricting l>and in the neck of the tumour, there vess'e'fs m will not be any vessel injured unless the cut should be made so long regular as to reach the spermatic cord in the male, or the small pubic branch of the epigastric artery. And when the incision is made directly inwards with the same ""'1 i'Tpgu- view, there is not usually any vessel in the way of the knife. But oi'ihem'. ' in some few instances (once in about eighty operations, Lawrence) the obturator artery takes its unusual course in front, and on the inner .side of tlie neck of the hernia, and will be Jiefore the knife in the division of the stricture. As this condition of the ves.sel cannot be recognised beforehand, the snrgeon will best avoid the danger of wounding the artery by a cautious and sparing use of the knife.