DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. 170 Caijsule: attjichinents above and below; tliickness varies. Ilio-fenioral ligament: attach- ments ; division and use. Pubo- femoral band. Thin part of capsule. Circular band at back of capsule: Muscles around. The capsular ligament (Hg. 63) is a thick filn-ou.s ca.se, which eiiclose.s the head and tlie greater part of tlie neck of the femur. Its upper margin i,s atUiclied to tlie circumference of the acetabulum clo.se to the edge, a.s well a.s to a transverse ligamentous hand over the notch at the lower part of the cavity. Its lower margin is inserted in front into the anterior intertrochanteric line ; behind, by a very thin piece, into the neck of the femur about a finger's breadth from the small trochanter and the posterior intertro- chanteric line (fig. 64) ; and above, into the neck near the great trochanter. The capsule differs much in strength and in the arrangement of the fibres at the fore and hinder parts. On the front it is strengthened by a broad and thick layer of longitudinal fibres—the ilio-femoral ligament (fig. 63). This is- fi.xed above, where it is about an inch broad, to the lower part of the anterior inferior iliac spine and to a rough mark continued backwards therefrom on the outer surface of the ilium immediately above the acetabulum below the reflected head of rectus muscle. Becoming wider below, it is inserted into the whole length of the anterior intertrochanteric line ; and its fibres generally form two stronger bands (fig. 63), which are attached at the upper and lower ends respectively of the intertrochanteric line, with a thinner part in the middle. From this arrangement the name of the Y-shaped ligament has also been given to it. From its position, the ilio-femoral ligament will arrest extension of the joint; and when the femur is fixed in standing it will support the pelvis. At the inner and fore part of the joint is a much smaller band, which extends from the prominent portion of the pubis internal to the acetabulum to the lower end of the anterior intertrochanteric line, and is named the jmbo-femoral ligament (fig. 63). Between the ilio-femoral and pubo-femoral ligaments, near the hip-bone, the capsule is thin, and sometimes presents an open- ing, through which the bursa under the ilio-psoas communicates with the joint-cavity. At the back of the capsule is a band of transverse fibres (zonular band) (fig. 64, h), about half an inch wide, which arches like a collar over the neck of the femur. By its lower edge it is united to the bone by a thin layer (c) of fibrous tissue and synovial mem- brane ; at the upper edge it is joined by the longitudinal cajisular fibres (a). It gives insertion to the longitudinal fibres of the capsule, and prevents that restriction of the swinging movement which would result from their insertion into the hinder jjart of the neck. At the lower part of the cajisule is another thickening (the ischio- capsular band), which passes from the ischium below the acetiibuliim into the lower and liack part of the ciipsule. Posteriorly the joint is covered by the obturator internus and gemelli muscles, and anteriorly by the rectus femoris and ilio- l^soas. Aliove is the gluteus minimus, the tendon of A^■hicll is united to the capsule ; and below* is the obturator externus.