402 DISSECTION OP THE PELVIS. Fourth, which gives visceral, and muscu- lar dfl'sets. Fifth is be- low aper- tures in sacrum; ends on coccyx. Coccygeal nerve. Sacral plexus ; situation ; how formed ending; and branches: Great BClatic. Tlie coccygeal nerve and the peculiarities of the fourth and fifth sacral will be noticed before the plexus is described. The FOURTH NERVE (fig. 149, 4 sends one branch upwards to the sacral plexus, another downwards to join the fifth nerve, . and distributes the following offsets to the viscera and the muscles of the floor of the pelvis :—■ The visceral brandies C) supply the bladder and the vagina, and communicate with the sympathetic nerve to form the pelvic plexus. Offsets are added to them from the third sacral nerve (fig. 150, v). The muscular brandies are three in number. One rather long branch (fig. 149, ^) enters the levator ani on the ^^sceral aspect; another (*) supplies the coccygeus; and the third (perineal) or htjemorrhoidal branch (^) reaches the perineum by piercing the levator ani or coccygeus muscle, and supplies the external sphincter. The FIFTH NERVE (5 S) comes forwards between the sacrum and coccyx, and receives the communicating branch from the fourth nerve ; it is then directed downwards in front of the coccygeus, where it is joined by the coccygeal nerve, and perforates that muscle, the sacro-sciatic ligament, and the gluteus maxinius, to end on the posterior surface of the coccyx. The COCCYGEAL NERVE (1 c), after issuing bj' the lower aperture of the spinal canal, appears through the coccygeus muscle, and joins the fifth sacral nerve as above stated. Sacral plexus. This plexus is formed by the lumbo-sacral cord, the first three sacral nerves, and part of the fourth sacral. It is situate on the pyriformis muscle, beneath the sciatic and pudic branches of the internal iliac artery ; and the nerves entering it converge towards the large sacro-sciatic foramen. Here they are united for the most part in a broad flat band, which, becoming gradually narrower as it leaves the pelvis below the pyriformis, forms the great sciatic nerve. A part of the third nerve, however, and the branch of the fourth entering the jjlexus unite to form a lower smaller trunk—the pudic nerve ; and other branches are given ofi" by the several nerves before their union. Brandies. Most of the offsets of the plexus are distributed out- side the pelvis, and are met with in the dissection of the buttock (ijp. 109 et seq.) ; of these only the origin is to be seen now. The branches of the plexus are :— 1. The great sciatic nerve. 2. The small sciatic nerve. 3. The superior gluteal nerve. 4. Inferior gluteal nerve. 5. The pudic nerve. 6. Nerve to the obturator internus and superior gemellus. 7. Nerve to the quadratus feraoris and inferior gemellus. 8. Nerve to the pyriformis. 9. Perforating cutaneous nerve. a. The great sciatic nerve (fig. 150, gs) is the principal nerve of