DISSECTION OF THE UPPER LFMB. 28 origin ; insertion; tliree parts tliB iiuiscle; relations; of the chest to the base of the scapula, and clothes the inner wall of the axilla. It arises from the upper eight or nine ribs by a.s many slips or digitations, and passes backwards, diminishing in breadth, to be inserted into the whole length of the base of tlie scapula on the ventral aspect. Prom a difference in the arrangement of the slips, the muscle is divided into three parts :— The ujjper part is formed by the first digitation, which is thicker than the others, and springs from the first and second ribs, as well as from a tendinous arch between them : it is inserted into an impression in front of the upper angle of the scapula. The middle part is thin, and comprises two digitations, which spread out from the second and third ribs to the vertebral border of the scapula. The loiver part is the strongest, and consists of the remaining five or six slips, which converge from their ribs (fourth to eighth or ninth) to a special surface on the ventral aspect of the lower angle of the scapula. The serratus is in great part concealed by the pectoral muscles, the axillary vessels and nerves, and the scapula, with the subscapu- laris and latissimus dorsi muscles. Its deep siuface rests against the ribs and the intercostal muscles. The lower slips interdigitate with like processes of the external oblique muscle. Action. The whole muscle acting, the scapula is carried forwards. But the lower part can move forwards the lower angle alone, so as to rotate the bone, and turn the glenoid cavity upwards as in raising the arm above the level of the shoulder. The lowest slips may evert the ribs in forced inspiration. Removal of th.e limb. The limb is now to be drawn away from the side of the body and removed by cutting through the serratus magnus muscle about an inch from its insertion into the vertebral border of the scapula, by dividing the omohyoid muscle and the suprascapular vessels and nerves near the upper border of the bone and the latissimus dorsi near the lower angle. The ligatures embracing the axillary vessels and the nerves of the brachial plexus should be fixed to the outer fragment of the clavicle or to the subjacent soft parts, so as to retain them approximately in their position. Position. Dissection of muscles. Skction II. SCAPULAR MUSCLES, S^BSSELS, NERVES, AND LIGAMENTS. Position. After the limb has been separated from the trunk it is to be jilaced with the subscapularis uppermost. Dissection. The different muscles that have been traced to the scapula in the dissection of the front of the chest and of the back are now to be followed to their insertion into the bone. A small part of each, about an inch in length, should be left for the ]nir- pose of showing the attachment. Fig. 10 shows the attachments of the muscles to the ventral surface of the bone, and fig. 12 (p. 32) to the dorsal surface.