50G DISSECTION OF THE HEAD. Great luiri- ciiliir uen e. Great occipi- tal nerve: junctious. Small occi- pital nerve has an anricular branch. How to see temporal fascia. Temporal fascia: attach- ments, relations, and layers. To see tem- poral muscle. Temporal mascle: origin. The GREAT AuniCDLAR NERVE, fi'om the anterior divisions of the second and tliird cervical nerves in the cervical plexus (fig. 186), is seen to some extent at the lower part of the ear, but its anatomy will be afterwards given with the description of the cervical plexus. The GREAT OCCIPITAL (fig. 186) is the largest cutaneous nerve at the back of the head, and lies close to the occipital artery. It is the internal branch of the 'posterior primary Ijranch of the second cervical nerve ; it perforates the muscles of the back of the neck, and divides on the occiput into numerous large offsets; these spread over the posterior part of the head, and terminate in the integument. As soon as the nerve pierces the traj)ezius, it is joined by an offset from the third cervical nerve; and on th§ back of the head it communicates with the small occipital nerve. The SMALL OCCIPITAL NERVE, from the anterior divi.sions of the second and third cervical nerves in the cervical plexus (fig. 186), lies midway between the ear and the preceding nerve, and is con- tinued upwards in the integuments higher than the level of the ear. It communicates with the nerve on each side, .viz., the posterior auricular and the great occipital. Usually this nerve furnishes an auricular branch to the upper part of the pinna on its cranial aspect. Dissection. The upper auricular muscles and the temporal vessels, together with the epicranial aponeurosis and its lateral prolongation, will now be removed in order that the attachment of the temporal fascia on the side of the head may be seen. The temporal fascia is a white, shining membrane, which is stronger than the epicranial aponeurosis, and gives attachment to the subjacent temporal muscle. Superiorly it is inserted into the curved line that limits the temporal fossa on the side of the skull ; and inferioiiy, where it is narrower and thicker, it is fixed to the zygomatic arch. By its cutaneous surface the fascia is in contact with the muscles already examined, and with the superficial temporal vessels and nerves. An incision in the fascia, a little above the zygoma, will show it to consist there of two layers, which are fixed to the edges of the upper border of the zygomatic arch. Between the layers is some fatty tissue, with a small branch of the superficial temporal artery, and a slender twig of the orbital branch of the superior maxillary nerve with an accompanying artery. Dissection. The temporal fascia is now to be detached from the .skull, and to be thrown down to the zygomatic arch, in order that the origin of the underlying temporal muscle may be examined. The soft areolar tissue which lies beneath it neiir the zygoma is to be taken away. The difi'erence in thickness of the parts of the fascia will be evident. The TEMPORAL MUSCLE is laid bare only in part. Wide and thin above, it becomes narrower and thicker below. It arises fiom the temporal fascia, and from the surface of the impres- sion on the side of the skull, which is named the temporal fos.sa. From this origin the fibres descend and converge to a tendon.