THE CAVITY OP THE NOSE. (i67 three are mular teeth. For details as to tlie form and structure of the teeth reference must be made to a work on systematic or general anatomy. Section XII. DISSECTION OF THE NOSE. The skull will now be divided from before backwards into two Directions, halves for the examination of the nasal cavity and of various remain- ing parts of the anatomy of the skull. The tongue and larynx will be separated, as directed, and put aside for examination by the workers on the two sides together ; after which they will similarly examine the prevertebral region and the ligaments. In this Section also, and in the next, the students work together. While examining the boundaries of the nose, the student should be provided with a sinular section of a macerated .skull. It is also desirable, in order to fully comprehend the form of the cavity, that he should have the opportunity of inspecting a coronal section of the nose in the recent state. Dissection. Before sawing the bone, the loose part of the lower Dissection, jaw should be taken away, and the tongue, hyoid bone, and larynx, all united, are to be detached from the oi^posite half of the lower jaw, and laid aside till the dissectors are ready to use them. Un the riyht side of the middle line saw carefully through the frontal Cut througli and nasal bones, the cribriform plate of the ethmoid, and the body "'ithg'^v " of the sphenoid bone, without letting the saw descend more than can be helped into the nasal cavity. Next the roof of the mouth is to be turned upwards, and the soft Cut soft parts are to be divided on the right side opposite the cut in the roof ''"w b'oneln of the nose. Then by sawing through the hard palate and the ■■oof of alveolar process of the upper jaw along the same line, the piece of the skull will be separated into two parts, right and left ; the right half will serve for the examination of the meatusu.^, and the left will show the septum nasi, after the mucous membrane has been removed. The CAVITY OF THE NosB: is placed in the centre of the bones of situation of the face, being situate above the mouth, below the cranium, and between the orbits. The .space is divided into two nasal loesiE by Division a vertical partition, the septum. "I'o two. Each fossa is elongated from before backwards, and compressed from Form and side to side. Its length is greater below than above, and measures near the floor about lliiee inches. Its height in the middle of the cavity 18 about one inch and three-quarters, becoming less in front and behind. The upper part of the fossa is narrow (lig. 23.5, p. 608) not exceeding one-eighth of an inch in bicadtii, and has been named the olfactory cleft, which extends down as far as the lower border of