DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. Po.sition of apertures of arteri(!S, pulmonary, aortic ; sounds lieard best; auriculo- ventricular openings: left; right. Vessels .ioining the heart. The pulmo- nary artery divides into two for the lungs. night branch. While the blood is entering the cavity, the cusps of the valve are separated; and when the ventricle contracts, they meet to close the passage into the left auricle. In combination with the tricuspid it assists in ]iroducing the first sound of the heart. The examination of the aortic opening will be deferred until the large vessels at the base of the heart have been studied ; it is described on page 473. Surface marking op the valvular apertures. Two openings have been seen in each ventricle,—one of the auricle of its own side of the heart, and one of an artery. The apertures of the arteries (aorta and pulmonary) are nearest the interventricular septum ; and as the tM'o vessels were originally formed from one tube, they are close together; but of the two, the pulmonary artery is anterior and more to the left, as well as some- what higher. As regards the surface the pulmonary valve is behind the junction of the third left costal cartilage with the sternum near the upper liorder of the cartilage and the aortic is just under cover of tlie .sternum opposite the lower part of the .same cartilage. The sound produced at the pulmonary orifice is heard best in the second left intercostal space, and that produced at the aortic orifice in the second right intercostal space. The auriculo-ventricular openings are nearer the circumference of the heart, and each is posterior to the artery issuing from the fore part of its ventricle. The left auriculo-ventricular opening is nearest of all to the back of the heart, and is marked on the surface by a line extending inwards and a little downwards to the middle of the sternttm from the upper part of the fourth left costal cartilage at its junction with the sternum. The right auriculo-ventricular opening is situated behind the right half of the sternum ojDposite the fourth intercostal space in a line passing downwards and a little to the right. Bissection. The large vessels between the base of the heart and the upper opening of the thorax will now be made ready for examination and the parts upon Avhich they lie carefully cleaned. Great Vessels. The arteries which take origin from the heart are the aorta and the pulmonary trunk. The large veins entering the heart, besides the coronary sinus, are the superior and inferior cava?, and the pulmonary. The PULMONARY ARTERY (fig. 163, p. 448, and fig. 164, p. 452), is a short thick trunk, w^hich conveys the dark Ijlood from the right side of the heart to the lungs. From its commencement m the right ventricle the vessel is directed upwards and backwards on the left of the aorta ; and at a distance of an inch and a half or two inches, it divides into two branches for the lungs. The trunk of the pulmonary arterv is contained in the pericardium ; and beneath its lower end is tlie beginning of the aorta. On each side are the coronary artery and the auricular a])iiendix. The right branch is longer and somewhat larger than the lett. In it.s course to the lung it passes outwai-ds above the right auricle of the heart, and behind the aorta and superior vena cava.