470 DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. the upper and middle lobes of the lung; and the inferior vein is formed by branches from the lower lobe. Left veins. The left veins cross in front of the descending aorta ; and one springs from each lobe of the lung. NERVES OF THE THORAX. Nerves of The pneiuno-gastric and the sympathetic nerves supply the viscera the thorax. ^-^^^ thorax ; and the phrenic nerve courses through the ca-vdty to the diaphragm. To trace Dissection. The phrenic nerves have already been fully vagus. displayed ; but the pneumo-gastric nerves are now to be prepared. The vagus is to be followed, on each side, behind the root of the lung, and its large plexus in that position is to be dissected out, the lung being thrown well over to the opposite side : some fine branches from the gangliated cord of the sympathetic coming for- wards over the spinal column to the plexus, must also be looked for. The vagus also supplies a few filaments to the front of the root. Beyond the root, the nerve is to be pursued along the oesophagus by raising the lung and removing the pleura. Phrenic The PHRENIC NERVE is derived from the anterior division of the nerve from cer\dcal plexus ; from the fourth and fifth cervical nerves, mainly piexu?,"'"^ from the fourth. In its course through the thorax it lies along the passes to side of the pericardium, and at a little distance in front of the root diaphragm, ]^^^,-,g^ .^^j^jj ^ gmall companion artery. When near the dia- phragm it divides into branches, which perforate the muscle, and are distributed on the under service. The nerves of opposite sides differ in length, and in their relations above the root of the lung. Right nerve The right nerve is shorter and straighter than the left. _ On enter- above root ■ j^i^g gj^ggi- crosses behind the subclavian vein, but in front of ° the internal mammary artery ; and it lies afterwards along the right side of the innominate vein and superior cava till it reaches the pericardium. Left nerve The left nerve crosses the subclavian artery, and has the same above root, position as the right to the mammary vessels when entering the cavity In the thorax it is directed over the arch of the aorta to the root of the lung, and makes a curve lower down around the projecting heart. Before reaching the aorta the nerve is placed external to the left common carotid artery; and it. inclmes gradually from without inwards, so as to be in front of the lett vafius over the aortic arch. . , , SomeoiT- Branches. Some small filaments are said to be furnished from the nerve to the pleura and pericardium. Interna. INTERNAL MAMMARY ARTERY. A small part of thlS artery, mammary ^^.,,5^1, y^f^ beneath the first ril), and winds round the phrenic nerve and the innominate vein to reach the side of the sternum, is now to be seen. It gives the following offset:— Kivos The superior -phrenic branch (conies nervi phrenici) is a Aeiy l*'"",'" slender artery, which accompanies the phrenic nerve to tlie aia- Iliim, and is distributed to that muscle, anastomismg therein