307 REFLECTIONS OF PERITONEUM. ommon to both. somewhat nearer their inner than their outer borders, and the transpy]oric plane crosses them transversely, a third of the right kidney being above this plane and two-thirds below, whilst two-fifths of the left kidney lie above tiie plane and three-tifths below. They are situated at the Imck of the abdomen, opposite the last Position: dorsal and upper two or three lumbar vertebra;, and occupy parts of the epigastric, hypochondriac, umbilical, and lumbar regions. Their position is somewhat oblique, the upper end being nearer to the spine than the lower ; and the surface which is called anterior looks much outwards. They lie behind the peritoneum, and are surrounded with fat. relations They rest upon the diaphragm, the psoas and quadratus lumborum f' muscle-s. The upper end supports the .suprarenal body ; and at the inner border the vessels enter, and the duct (ureter) leaves the organ. The differences on the two sides will be pointed out later on (pp. 353 et seq). The relations of the pancreas must be omitted for the present, but Pancreas they wiU be found on pp. 329 and 330. THE PERITONEUM. This is the largest serous membrane in the body. In the male it Perito- is a closed sac, like other serous membranes ; but in the female there is an aperture of communication with the Fallopian tube, and the .^T™n^l mucous lining of the latter becomes continuous with the serous '• membrane. It lines the wall of the abdomen (parietal peritoneum), and is reHecled over the several viscera (visceral peritoneum), some of which it invests completely, except where the vessels enter. The ••*"'''''f^es; inner surface is free and smooth ; but the outer is rough, when it is detached from tlie parts to which it is naturally adherent. The membrane as it pa,sses from viscus to viscu.s, or from the abdominal wall to viscera, forms proce.sses or folds, to which different names are folds, given, and which for the most part consist of two layers enclosing vessels. The continuity of the sac may be traced both horizontally and vertically. Horizontal circuit round the lower -part of the. abdomen. From the ^•'''•<^'« of the umbilicus the peritoneum may be followed along the abdominal wall Zv^iu on the left side to the hinder part of the lumbar retrion, where it ••'■"Aliens, partly surrounds the descending colon, and thence over the kidney to the front of the spine. Here it is reflected forwards, covering the superior mesenteric vessels, passes round the small intestine "and returns to the spine along the same vessels, thus forming the mesen- tery. From the .spine it is continued in the same way°on the right side, over the kidney, round the colon, and along the wall of the abdomen to the umbilicus again. Vertical circuit (fig. 114). Starting at the under-surface of the Circle f.o„, iiver, tlie small omentum (.5 om) is found desceiidin.^ to the small curvature ol the stomach, where the two layers of which it consists mTs"' separate to enclose that organ, one passing in front and the other " X 2