740 DISSECTION OF THE BRAIN. Pyrainklal tract in pons. Grey matter in transverse fibres. Formatio reticnlaris. Raph6. Superior olive. Oilier, but tlint they break off near tlie middle line and nio.stly asisunie a lonf;itudinal direction. They are in great part connected with pontine cells which are associated with fibres descending in the crusta of the crus cerebri of the opposite side. The jnjramidal filires (fig. 266, 2(57, pyr. b) enter the pons below as a single mass, but in their passage upwards through the pons they are broken up by decussating bundles of transverse fibres. Much increased in number, they emerge at the upper border of tlie pons, and are continued into the lower portion (crusta) of the crus cerebri. Scattered amongst the transverse fibres are numerous small masses of grey matter (nuclei pontis), with which the cerebellar fibres are connected, as just explained. The reticular formatio7i oi the pons (fig. 266) is formed of longi- tudinal fibres continued from the medulla oblongata and passing upwards to the up)5er portion (teginentnm) of the crus cerebri and decussating with various transverse fibres. It contains much in- terspersed grey matter; and near the floor of the fourth ventricle there are several nerve-nuclei, which will be referred to when that cavity is described. In the dorsal portion of the pom?, as in the meduUa oblongata, there is a median rajjhe (fig. 267, ra), formed mainly by the trmis- verse fibres changing their direction as they cross the middle line. There is also in the lower part of the pons, close behind the deep transverse fibres of the ventral portion, and occupying a position immediately above the olivary body, a small collection of grey matter to which the name of siq^erior olivary nucleus is given (fig. 267, Son), and which is connected with some of the fibres coming from the cochlear portion of the auditory nerve. Section IV. Situation of the cerebnnn. DISSECTION OF THE CEllEBRUM. The CEREBRUM, or great brain, the largest of the subdivisions of the encephalon, fills the upper part of the cranial cavity, and occupies the anterior and middle fossa3 of the base of the skull. Its hinder part rests on the tentorium, which separates it from the cere- Lower limit bellum. Its lower limit would be indicated on the stirface of (M head by a line carried along the eyebrow to the external angular process of the frontal bone and then descending to the upper border of the zygoma and continued backwards to the external occipital protuberance. Taking the general form of the cranial cavity, the cerebrum is convex on the upper aspect, and uneven on the lower. It consists of two hemispheres, which are placed side by side, and separated by a mecUan longitudinal lissure above as far down as the great transverse Form. Two hemi spheres.