276 Subperi- toneal tissue in groin. Trace re- mains of peritoneum Peritoneum of tlie groin is prolonged on the cord : piece may be imper- ious. or saccu- lated, or open. In female may be partly open Spermatic cord is oblique in the abdomi- nal wall, and vertical beyond; relations; coverings. DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. by cutting the trausver.salis fascia liorizontally above the opening of the ring, and then longitudinally over the cord. With the handle of the scalpel the thin membrane may be reflected to each side, so as to lay bare the subperitoneal fat. The subperitoneal fat forms a layer betM-een tlie transversalis fascia and the peritoneum. Its thickness varies much in different bodies, but is greater at the lower than at the upper part of the abdomen. This structure vviU be more specially noticed in the examination of the wall of the abdomen from the inside. Dissection. After the subperitoneal fat has been seen, let it be reflected to look for the remains of a piece of peritoneum which extends along the cord in the form of a fibrous thread. The 2Jei-ii07ieum, or the serous sac of the abdominal cavity, projects forwards slightly opposite the internal abdominal ring. Connected • with it at that spot is a fibrous thread (the remains of a prolongation to the testis in the fcBtus) which extends a variable distance along the front of the cord. It is generally impervious, and can be followed only a very short way ; but it may sometimes be traced as a fine band to the tunica vaginalis of the testis. In some bodies the process may be partly open, being sacculated at intervals ; or it may form occasionally a single large bag in front of the cord. Lastly, as a rare state, it may remain unclosed as in the foetus, so that a coil of intestine could descend in it from the abdomen. In the female the fratal tube of peritoneum sometimes remains pervious for a short distance in front of the round ligament; the uuobliterated portion being called the canal of Nuch. The SPERMATIC COKD (fig. 105, p. 286, and fig. 106, F, p. 287) extends from the internal abdominal ring to the testis, and consists mainly of the vessels and efferent duct of the gland, united together by coverings from the stmctures by or through which they pa.<?3. In the wall of the abdomen the cord lies obliquely, since its aperture of entrance amongst the muscles is not opposite its aperture of exit from them ; but, escaped from the abdomen, it descends almost vertically to its destination. In the oblique part of its course it is contained in the passage named the inguinal canal; it is placed at first beneath the internal oblique, and rests agdnst the transversalis fascia; but beyond the lower border of the oblique muscle, it lies on the upper surftice of Poupart's ligament, with the aponeurosis of the external oblique between it and the surface of the body, and the con- joined tendon behind it. Its several coverings are derived from the strata in the wall of the abdomen. Thus, from within outwards are (1) the subperitoneal fat, (2) the infundibuliform process of the transversalis fascia, (3) the cremasler muscle continuous with the internal oblique, (4) the iutercolumuar or spermatic fascia from the external oblique muscle, and, lastly, the superficial fascia and the skin.