36 DISSECTION OF THE UPPEE LIMB. iicrve (') pass ; ami op]>osite llie posterior triangular space the doj'sa] branch (c) of the suliscapular artery bends backwards. Dissection Dissection (fig. 14). The ligaments of the scapula and cla-vdcle should be examined, of ligaments strong ligament (eoraco-clavicular) a.scends from the coracoid of the process to the under-part of the clavicle. On removing the areolar ' tissue it will be seen to consist of two parts, anterior and ijosterior, differing in size, and in the direction of the fibres. A capsular ligament, connecting the outer end of the clavicle with the acromion, will be shown by taking away the fibres of the trapezius and deltoid miTscles. and of Another strong band (coraco-acroniial) passing transversely scapula. between the acromion and the coracoid process, and a small Fiu, 14.—Ligaments of the Clavicle and ScAPaLA, and of the Shoulder-joint (altered from Bodrgery). 6. Tendon of long head of biceps, entering the joint. 7. Tendon of suhscapularis muscle. 8. Coraco-huineral ligament. Union of tlio clavicln and scapula. 1. Conoid ligament. 2. Trapezoid ligament. 3. Coraco-aoromial ligament. 4. Suprascapular ligament. 5. Capsule of shoulder-joint. fasciculus (suprascapular ligament), placed over the notch in the superior border, are then to be defined. Ligaments of the Clavicle and Scapula (fig. 14). The outer end of the clavicle forms a .synovial joint with the acromion, and is united to the coracoid process by a strong coraco-clavicular ligament. The coraco-clavicular ligament consists of two portions, each having a difi'ercnt direction and designation. The postei ior piece (1), willed conoid from its .'^hape, is fixed by its apex to the posterior and inner part of the coracoid process, and liy its base to the tul)ercle of the clavicle, at the junction of the outer with the middle third of the bone, and a s.inaro The anterior part (2) trapezoid ligament, is larger than the conoid ; P'='=<' it is attached below to the inner bordej- of the coracoid process along Coraco-<da- vicular has a conical