93 LIGAMENTS Ol'' THE SITOULDER-JOrNT. luul scapula, clislocati; the liead of the humerus through the hole thus iiiiule and saw it oH' close to the capsular attachment. When this has been done, the ijlcnuid ligament, the tendon of the biceps and the glenu-himcral bands on the articular aspect of the front part of the capsule will be manifest. Jihe tendon of the y'l'-'i'-Jj'- arches over the head of the humerus, J™'^?^'^JJ^ and serves the purpose of a ligament in supporting the bone. It is attached to the upper part of the head of the scapula (fig. 38, d), \and is united on eacl^ fjib' with tin- frliMiiiifl li^rjiuMH^ At first flat, it afterwards becomes round, and enters the groo\'e Ijetween the tuberosities of the hmnerus, where it is surrounded by the syno\-ial membrane. The transverse fibres bridging across the Trannverse bicipital groove are spoken of as the transverse humeral ligament. ligam'ent. Fig. 38.—View of the Interiou op the Shoulder-Joint. a. Attachment of the capsule to the neck of the humerus. h. Interval of the bicipital groove. c. Glenoid ligament around the glenoid fossa. d. Tendon of the long head ot the biceps fixed at the top of the fossa. The glenoid liijavient (fig. 38, c) is a narrow filiroiLS band, which Gionoid surrounds the fossa of the same name, increasing it for the recep- " tioii of the head of the humerus. It is connected in part with the sides of the tendon of the biceps ; but most of its fibres are fixed separately to the margin of the glenoid fossa. i3(e.*.o- /uly^■'^-<Jrttfi. The nknn-hfi.mr.ral li/jn.mimf.s -nrp three bands, or folds, seen on the ~ articular aspect of the^fore nart ui-the-cappuje. The superior is exposed by cutting away the liiceps tendon in the joint, and appears as a small fold along the inner l.iorder of the tendon. The middle one springs from the margin of the glenoid cavity below the fore- going and passes obliquely downwards below the tendon of the subscapularis to the lesser tuberosity of the humerus, and the inferim- is a strong band parallel with and below the middle, passing to the humerus between the attachments of the subscapularis and teres minor mu.scles. m]^ fo- il or