DISSECTION OF THE HEAD. 514 Basilar plexus. Arteries of dura mater are:— Anterior meningeal. Middle meningeal. Large from internal maxillary gives brniiches to dura mater and bone. Small meningeal. One from ascending pharyngeal. Posterior meningeal. Nerves of dura inator. Cranial nerve.9 in the base of the skull: The BASILAR BINDS Or PLEXUS i.9 a venous network in the sul)- stance of the dura mater over the hasilar process of tlie occipital bone, uniting the inferior petrosal sinu.ses. Meningeal Arteries. These arteries supplying the cranium and the dura mater come through the base of the skull ; they are named from their situation in the three fossae, anterior, middle, and posterior. The ANTERIOR MENINGEAL are small branches of the anterior ethmoidal artery, which enters the skull bj' the anterior internal orbital canal. Its meningeal branches are distributed to the dura mater over and near the ethmoid bone. The MIDDLE MENINGEAL ARTERIES are three in number : two of them, named large and small, are derived from the internal maxillary trunk ; and the third is an ofl'set of the ascending pharyngeal artery. a. The large meningeal artery (often simply called the middle meningeal artery) from the internal maxillary appears through the foramen sjjinosum of the sphenoid bone, and divides into two princijjal briinches. The larger of these passes to the deep groove on the anterior inferior angle of the parietal bone, and ends in ramifications wliich extend upwards to the top of the head and forwards over the frontal bone. The posterior branch is dis- tributed over the hinder part of the parietal and the upper part of the occipital bones. Two veins acconipanj' this artery. As soon as the artery comes into the cranial cavity, it furnishes branches to the dura mater and to the ganglion of the fifth nerve. One small oSs^i,'petrosal, enters the hiatus Fallopii, and supplies the surrounding bone. One or two branches pass through the sphenoidal fissure into the orbit, and anastomose with the oishthalmic artery. 6. The small meningeal branch is an oft'set of the large one outside the skull, and is transmitted through the foramen ovale to the membrane lining the middle cranial fossa. c. Another meniiigeal branch from the ascending pharyngeal artery comes througli the foramen laceruni (liasis ci-anii). This is seldom injected, and is not often visible. The POSTERIOR MENINGEAL ARTERIES are Small twigs of the ascending pharyngeal which enter the skull by the anterior condylar and jugular foramina, and supply the dura mater in that neighbour- hood ; also a branch of the vertebral artery is distributed over the lower part of the occipital bone. The branch coming through the jugular foramen is .sometimes derived from the occipital artery. Meningeal Nerves. Offsets to the dura mater are derived from the fifth, tenth and twelfth cranial nerves, and from the sympathetic. Cranial Nerves (fig. 189, p. 515). As the cranial nerves pa.ss through their apertures in the base of the .skull they are invested by proce.sses of the membranes of the brain, which are thus dispo.sed : —those of the dura mater and pia mater are continued into the sheath of the nerve ; while that of the arachnoid, except iu the fr 1^ <t TiT