THE THYROID AND CRTOOID OARTILAOES. 09!) the lower, and in conseqiience of this form the larynx is somewhat fiuniel-shaped. The fore part is prominent in the middle line in front, ibrming the suljcutaneoiis swelling named the pomum Adami, and concave behind, where it gives attachment to the epiglottis, and to the thyro-arytenoid muscles and ligaments. The npper border is notched in the centre. Tlie cartilage consists of two squarish halves or aim, which are united in front. Posteriorly each ala has a thick border) which is continued upwards and down- wards into a rounded process or comu (e and f). Both cornua are bent slightly inwards : of the two, the np])er (e) is the longer ; but the lower one (f) is the thicker, and articulates with cricoid cartilage. The inner surface of the ala is smooth ; the outer is marked by an oblique line for the attach- ment of muscles, which extends from a tubercle near the root of the upper cornu, to a projec- tion at the middle of the lower border. The CRICOID CARTILAGE (d) is stronger though smaller than the thyroid, and surrounds the lower part of the cavity of the larynx ; it is i)artlj' concealed by the thyroid cartilage, below which it is placed. It is something like a signet ring, being very unequal in depth before and behind,— the posterior ])art being nearly four times as deep as the anterior. Its contained space i^ about as large as the forefinger. At the back of the cartilage there is a flat and rather square portion, which is marked on its posterior surface by a median ridge between two oval dejires- sions which are occupied by the posterior crico-arytenoid muscles. On each side, immediately in front of the square part, is a slightly raised articular facet, which receives the lower cornu of the thyroid cartilage. The inner surface is smooth, and is covered by mucous membrane. The lower border is horizontal, somewhat undulating, and is united to the trachea by ^fibrous membrane. The upper border of IS convex 111 front, concin'o behind : formed of two aliu, Cricoid cartilage: A. B. CO. D. E. F. lage. 0. n. J. -Hyoii) Bone and Lahyn- OEAL CaRTILAOKS. B|jiglottis. Thyroid cartilage. Arytenoid cartilages. Cricoid cartilage. Upper cornu. Lower coi n 11 of thyroid carti-surfaces; Body of hyoid hone. Largo cornu. Small cornu. borders.