AXILLARY ARTERY. 23 trunks of nerves into which the hraohial plcxu.s haa lieen resolved. On the outer .side is the median nerve, with the inn.sculo-cutaneous for a short disttmce ; and on the inner side are the ulnar and the nerve of Wrisberg (lesser internal cutaneous), the latter heing directed behind, or sometimes through, the vein to its inner .side. Superficial to the ve.sse] is the internal cutaneous and the inner head of the median pa.s.sing outwards ; and behind are the musculo- ■spiral and circumflex nerves, the latter extending only as far as the border of the subscainilar muscle. The BRANCHE.S of the axillary artery are furnished to the wall of Bkancuks. the tliorax and the .shoulder. The thoracic branches are, as a rule, four in niunber ; two (HU]>erior and acromio-thoracic) arise from the External anterior tlioracic nerve. Cephalic vein iMii.sculo-ciitaneons nerve. Anterior circumHex artery. Posterior circumflex artery. Coraco bracliialis. Internal cnt)ineons nerve. SuUscapiihir artery. Intercosto- liunienil nerve. Median nerve. Ulnar nerve. — Teres major. Bracliial plexus. - Axillary artery. Axillary vein. Thoracic axis. Long sub.scapu. lar nerve. Lowest sub- scajnilar nerve. Internal ante- rior thoracic nerve. Long thoracic artery. .SeiTatus magnus. Fia. 7.—Parts beneath the Peotoralis Major (Diagrammatic). artery above the pectoralis minor, one (alar thoracic) Ijeneath that muscle, and one (long, or inferior, thoracic) at its lower border. Three branches are supplied to the shoulder, viz., subscapular and two circumflex ; they arise clo.se together, at the border of the sulwcapularis muscle. OcciLsionally a small external mammary artery is present. The superior thomcic branch is the highest and smallest oflset, and arises opposite the first intercostal space ; it ramifies on the side of the chest, ana.stoinosing with the intercostal arteries. Very com- monly this vessel arises with the acromio-thoracic, and the trunk of origin is then spoken of as the thoracic axis (fig. 7). The acromio-thoracic branch is a short trunk on the front. Upper tlioracic. Aci-omio- thoracic