UISSKCTION OK DKEP VKSSELS AND NERVES OK NECK. 634 syiiiim- thctic, and spiiiiil Bniiiclies of supply. To ]iliarynx tluougli pliaiyiifteal plexus. Uliper branch to larynx: its external oflset. Branches to the heai't, upper and lower. Lower branch to larynx givos nrnnclies to heart, between it ;iiul the hypoglossal nerve. Other branchen connect it to the ui)i)er giinc;lion of the .sympathetic and tlie loop of the lirst two cervical nerves. Branches for distribution. The cervical branches arise from the lower ganglion and the trunk of the nerve, and are directed inwards, to sujjply the pharyn.x, tlie larynx, and the heart. a. The pharyngeal branch (fig. 225, s) springs from the upper part of the ganglion of the trunk, and is directed inwards over the internal carotid artery to the side of the pharynx, being joined in its course by tlie descending pharyngeal branches of the glos.so- pharyngeal nerve. On the surface of the middle constrictor, the ramifications of the united nerves communicate freely together and, with the pharyngeal branches of the sympathetic, form the ■pharyngeal plexus. The offsets of the plexus enter the wall of the pharynx and supply the constrictor muscles, the palato-glossus, palato-pharyngeus, levator palati and azygos uvula; muscles, and the mucous membrane between the mouth and the larynx. b. The superior laryngeal nerve (fig. 225,") is much larger than the preceding branch, and conies from the middle of the gunglion of the trunk. It runs obliquely downwards and forwards, pa.ssing on the inner side of the internal and external carotids, to the interval between the hyoid bone and tlie thynjid cartilage. Here it perforates the thyro-hyoid membrane, and divides into branches for the supply of the mucous membrane of the larynx (page 697). While beneath the internal carotid artery it furnishes the following off"set :— The external laryngeal branch (fig. 225,') descends on the inferior constrictor muscle to the side of the larynx, and then beneath the sterno-thyroid to the crico-thyroid muscle in which it end.?. Near its origin it gives off a filament to join the upper cardiac branch of the sympathetic ; and lower down it supplies twigs to the inferior constrictor muscle. c. Cardiac branches. One or two small cardiac nerves spring from the pneumo-gastric at the upper part of the neck, and join cardiac branches of the sympathetic. At the lower part of the ueck, on each side, there is a large cardiac nerve which descends into the thorax :— the right one joins the deep nerves to the heart from the sympathetic ; and the left terminates in the superficial cardiac plexus. d. The inferior or recurrent laryngeal nerve leaves the pneumo- gastric trunk on tlie right side opposite the subclavian artery, and winding round that vessel, takes an upward course in the neck to the larynx, ascending beneath the common carotid artery, along the groove between the trachea and the oesophagus, and crossing either in front of or behind the inferior thyroid artery. At the larj'nx it enters beneath the ala of the thyroid cartilage, wlieie it will be afterwards traced (page U97). The following branches arise from it :— Some cardiac branches leave the nerve as it turns round the sub- clavian artery ; these enter the thorax, and join tbe cardiac nerves of the sympathetic.