DISSECTION OP THE THIGH. 130 patella ; ooudyles of tlio feimii'; tuberosities of tlie tibia. Tlie ham beliind. Dissection. Tiilce up .skill at tbe top of the thigli. SupeiTicial fascia: liow formed tliickness varies. To raise the superticial fascia. Relations of superficial fascia. Dis.section from tlie hollow on An incision about be made from the joint, when it is half-bent, the rounded prominent patella maybe perceived ; this l)one is firmly fixed while the limb is kept in the bent position, but is moved with great freedom when the joint i.s extended, so as to relax the muscles inserted into it. On each side of the patella is the projection of the condyle of the femur, that on the inner side being the larger. If the fingers are passed along the sides of the patella while the joint is half bent, they will be con- ducted to the tuberosities of the head of the tiljia, and to a slight hollow between it and the femur. Behind the joint is a slight de^jression over the situation of the ham or popliteal space ; and ou its sides are firm boundaries, which are formed by the tendons (hamstrings) of the flexor muscles of the knee. Dissection. The limb being placed as Ijefore directed, the student begins the dissection with the examination of the subcutaneous fatty tissue with its nerves and vessels. At first the integument is to be reflected only the front of the thigh below Poupart's ligament, five inches in length, and only skin deep, is to pubis along the inner border of the thigh (fig. 1, B, p. 3). At the lower end of the first incision, another cut is to be directed out- wards across the front of the limb to the outer aspect ('") ; and, at the upper end, the knife is to be carried along the line of Poupart's ligament as far as the crest of the ilium. The piece of skin included by these incisions is to be raised and turned outwards, without taking with it the subcutaneous fat. The subcutaneous fatty tissue, or the sujjerficial fascia, forms a general investment for the limb, and is constructed of a network of areolar tissue, M'ith fat or adipose substance amongst the meshes. As a part of the common covering of the body, it is continuous with that of the neighbouring- regions ; consequently it may be followed inwards to the scrotum or the labium according to the sex, and ujjwards on the abdomen. Its thickness varies in dift'erent bodies, according to the quantity of fat in it; and Avhen well de\'eloped it may be divided into separate layers. Its relations will be made more evident by the following dissection. Dissection. To re Meet the sujjerficial fascia, incisions similar to those made in the skin are to be employed ; and the separation from the subjacent structures is to be begun below, where the large saphenous vein, and a condensed or membranous appearance on the under surface, will mark the depth of tlie stratum. The layer of fat may be thrown outwards readily by a few touches of the knife, when the superficial vessels and inguinal lymphatic glands will come into view. The suhcidaneous layer deci-eases in thickness, and becomes more fibrous near Poupart's ligament ; and ou its under aspect it has a smooth and membranous surface. It conceals the superficial vessels and the inguinal glands, and is separated by these from Poupart'.'? ligament. Dissection (fig. 54). The inguinal glands and the superficial vessels are next to be cleaned by the removal of any surrounding