UPPER PART OF FEMORAL VESSELS. 149 lata and some inguinal glands. At its beginning the artery rests on the psoas muscle; and it is subsecjuently placed over the pectineus (e), though at some distance from the muscle in this position of the limb, and separated from it by fat, and the profunda and femoral veins. Its companion vein (h) is on the inner side and close to it at the position of pubis, but is placed behind the artery lower do\vn. The anterior crural nerve lies on the onter side, being distant nerves, about a third of an inch near Poupart's ligament; and the internjtl jiuiaugons branch of the nerve lies over the artery alongthe edge the sartorius. Crossing beneath the vessels is thenerve of ""t"E"e" pectineus (^). Unusual position. A few examples of transference of the main artery of Unusual the limb from the front to the back of the thigh have been recorded. In Po^i'tio"- tliese cases the ves.sel passed from the pelvis through the great sacro-sciatlc foramen, and accomimnied the great sciatic nerve to the popliteal space. The BKANCHES of the artery in Scarpa's triangle are the superficial Branches:— epigastric and circumHe.x iliac, two external pudic, and the deep femoral branch. The cutaneous ofl'sets have been seen (p. 138), with the exception of the following, which lies at first beneath the fascia lata. The deep external pudic artery (fig. 57, e) arises separately from, An external or in common with, the other pudic branch. It courses inwards o\-er the pectineus muscle, and perforates the fascia lata at the inner border of the thigh to end in the scrotum or labium pudendi, according to the sex : in the fat it anastomoses with branches of the superficial perineal artery. The portion of the artery above the origin of the deep femoral is called the coimoN femoral, and the part below is styled the SUPERFICIAL FEMORAL to distinguish it from the deep. The DEEP FEMORAL ARTERY or the profunda femoris {^ig. 59,'^) Profmula: ' ''^'■is'^s Ximmjlie outer sjda_ji£jJi£._aui]LnioxLiiimQral trun)c from one or two inches below Poupart's ligament. Its distribution is to the o'-iiii", muscles of the thigh, and will be afterwards followed. In the ?'"!, 1'°'*'","" present di.ssection it may be seen to lie ^r thejliacus muscle, tdangb^ where _it_gixes the external circumflex arterylo the outer paiT'of the thigh ; and "then to turn, with a large vein, beneath the trunks of the superficial femoral vessels to the inner side of the limb. Variation in origin. Tlio origin of the profunda may approach nearer to ""t;'" f l-oupart s ligament until it arrives opposite that band ; or may even go beyond, y'ade." and reach the external iliac artery (one example, R. Quain). And the branch may recede farther from the ligament, till it leaves the parent trunkal the distance of four inches from the commencement; but in this casgjhejnrcumflex branches usually arise s^ijarat^ly from the temoral. In applyuig aligature to the temoraTaftery'iu the upper p'ai^^ of the "thigh, the thread should be placed four inches below Poupart's ligament, in order olfset ^^^"^ <='iosen may be free from the disturbing iulliience of so large an Femoral vein (fig. 57, h). The principal vein of the limb, Femoral while in Scarpa's triangle, has almost the same relative anatomy S \n.idn the artery,