541 SPINAL PIA MATER. cord loosely, so as to kcave a considerable interval between the two the subarachnoid space. The loose sheatli is largest at its lower i,e„euih. part, where it envelops the mass of nerves forming the cauda equina. Around the roots of each nerve the arachnoid forms a short tube, which is lost as they perforate the dura nuiter. Dissection. The subarachnoid space may be made evident by placing the handle of the scalpel lientvath the membrane, or by 1^^^^ putting a piece of the cord in water and blowing uir between the arachnoid and pia mater. The subarachnoid space separates the arachnoid membrane from Suimrach- , , , . Ti • 1 1 1 i.1 iioid space the spinal cord invested I)y the pui mater. It is larger below than above, and is occupied by the cerebrospinal fluid. Superiorly it is cmitains^a continuous with ihe cranial subaraclmoid space ; and it com- municates with the cavity in the interior of the brain by means opens mto of an aperture in the lower part of the roof of the fourth of brain"-^ ventricle (the foramen of Majendie). Along the back of the cord the space is imperfectly divided by a median [lartition (septum posticum) an imperfect composed of bundles of tibroiis tissue, which is most developed in J^'eij'!™ the neck. Similar fine trabeculse pass between the posterior nerve- roots and the arachnoid. The subarachnoid space also contains the ligamentum denticulatum, and the roots of the spinal nerves, with some vessels. Dissection. In order to see the next covering of the cord, with Dissection the ligamentum denticulatum, the arachnoid membrane is to be covering, taken away ; and two or three of the anterior roots of the upper dorsal nerves may be cut through and reHected, as in fig. 195. The PIA MATER (fig 195,/i) is much less vascular on the spinal Pia mater cord than on the brain. Thicker and more fibrous in its nature, the membrane closely surrounds the cord with a sheath, and sends a supports thin fold into the anterior median fissure ; it furnishes coverings to the roots of the spinal nerves. gives offsets. The outer surface of the ]iia mater is rough. Along the front is Fibrous a median fibrnus band (linea splendens ; fig. 195, g) ; and on each side another fibrous band, the ligameiitunr denticulatum, is attached to it. In the cervical region the membrane has usually a rather dark colour, due to the presence of pigment cells in it. Where the spinal cord ceases, vi/.., about the lower edge of the it ends body of the first lumbar vertebra, the sheath of the pia mater con- ^maUfi'brous tracts, and gives rise to a slender thread-like prolongation, the cord, the fdum terminale ov central litjament of the cord (fig. 197 d p. 546). terminale. This contiiins a little nervous substance in its upi)er part; and be'ow, it blends with the central impervious process of the dura mater. A vein and artery accompany the filum terminale, and distinguish it from the surrounding nerves. The ligamentum denticulatum, (fig. 195, c) is a white, filirous band Tlie dentate on eacli side of the spinal cord, and has receivetl its name from its ''b'"'"""' serrated appearance. It serves to supiwu't the cord, which is fi.xed by it to the .sheath of the dura mater. Situate between the anterior and posterior roots of the nerves, the is iixed on band reaches upwards to the beginning of the medulla ol)longata, to^nni"