RBOTO-VESK^AL FASCIA. 383 anterior fibres, few in niunber, join with the muscle of the opposite side in the central point of the perineum ; the succeeding fibres, which arise from the pubis, are the longest, and i)ass backwards over the prostate to the side of the rectum, where they mix to a iwtiim, small extent with the fibres of the sphincter muscles, but most of them are continued to the tip of the coccyx (jnibo-coccijgeus) ; and the posterior fibres meet the opposite muscle in a narrow aponeurosis n metliaii beiiind the gut, and are attached in part to the side of the coccyx {kchio-coccyjeus). ' '^"•^'^^''^' The anterior fibres of the levator are in contact with the trian- relations of gular ligament; and there is an interval between the two muscles which allows the urethra, with the vagina in the female, to i)ass from the pelvis. The posterior border is adjacent to the coccygeus muscle. The upper surface is in contact with the recto-vesical and fascia; and the under surface looks to the ischio-rect<il fossa, and is ^'^^'^"■^"^ '• covered by the thin anal fascia. Actim. The levatores ani acting together support and raise the u.se, floor of the pelvis, and compress the pelvic viscera. They are used floor"'^''' in expelling the contents of the organs, and, in forcible expiratory on cavity of efibrts, they act in conjunction with the muscles of the abdominal "Momon, wall. At the end of deftBcation, they empty the lower part of the °" ■'ectum. rectum, compressing it from behind forwards ; and the lower fibres assist in closing the anal passage. The levatores ani and coccygei muscles form a lleshy layer or pelvic diaphragm across the outlet of Pelvic the pelvis, similar to that which sejjarates the abdomen from the ''''^i*'''''8'"- chest : this partition is convex below and concave above, and gives l^assage to the rectum. Dissection. The recto-vesical fascia will now be seen by Dissection detaching the fibres of the levator ani and the coccygeus at their ("Jsicnf"" origin, and throwing both downwards. The thin membrane descends above the levator ani to the side of the bladder and the rectum, and sends downwards .sheaths round the prostate and the gut. To demonstrate' those sheaths, one incision is to be made along the prostate, and another along the lower end of the rectum, below the attachment of the fiiscia ; and the sheaths are to be separated from the viscera. The RECTO-VESICAL FASCIA supports and partly invests the viscera necto-vosi- of the pelvis. Covering the pelvic surface of the levator ani, it is ^"^"'^ '■ fixed above, like that muscle, to the pubis in front, and to the obturator fascia at the side ; while behind, it is continued over the ' coccygeus muscle into the fascia of the pyriformis. Below, it meets the fascia of the opposite side in the centre of the pelvis, and forms forms the a partition across the cavity, like that of the levator ani, which is I',°°'"°f • perforated by the bladder and the rectum. The partition ^ strengthened on each side by a thicker band (the so-called white line of the pelvic fascia) stretching from the pubis to the ischial spine. It is concave above and convex below, and divides the cavity sni)ports of the pelvis from the perineal space. This septum is attached to = the viscera which jiierce it, forming ligaments for them : and from the under surface sheaths are prolonged on the rectum and the prostate, prolongn- tioiLS are,