SYMPATHETIC PLEXUSES. 337 plexus is connected on each side with the large and small splanchnic nerves ; and it is joined also by a great part of the right pneumo- sastric nerve. Large branches are furnished to the different viscera gives ofTaets too on oiootl- along the vessels. vessels. The semilunar (jancjlia, one in each half of the plexus, are the ^^J^'^,'™'^'' largest in the body, and are placed close to the suprarenal capsules, resting on the diaphragm, the ganglion of the right side being beneath the vena cava. At the upper end each is joined by the great splanchnic nerve. Each ganglion is irregular in sliape, and is often divided into smaller ganglia; from its outer side nerves are directed form, to the kidney and the suprarenal capsule. Offsets of the plexus. The nerves supplied to the viscera form plexuses round the vessels ; thus, there are cceliac, mesenteric, renal, the plexus, spermatic, diaphragmatic plexuses, &c. The diaphragmatic or jjhrenic plexus comes from the upper end of iJJ^'^j']^ *° the semilunar ganglion, but it soon leaves the phrenic artery to enter pi,ragm the substance of the diaphragm : a communication takes place between the phrenic nerve from the cervical plexus and these branches of the sympathetic. On the right side is a small ganglion ^^J^'^jj^^j^ where the plexus is joined by the spinal nerve ; and from it filaments right side, are supplied to the vena cava and the suprarenal body ; this ganglion is absent on the left aide (Swan). The suprarenal nerves are very large and numerous, in comparison Suprarenal with the size of the viscus supplied, and are directed outwards to the suprarenal body. The lesser splanchnic nerve directly communicates with this plexus. The reiial plexus is derived from the semilunar ganglion and outer Renal side of the solar plexus, and is joined by the smallest splanchnic i'''^''"''' nerve. The nerves surroimd the renal artery, having small ganglia on them, and enter the kidney with the vessels. An offset is given from the renal to the spermatic plexus (p. 319). The cmliac plexus is a direct continuation of the plexus around its Coeiiao artery : it is joined by the small splanchnic nerve on each side, and P''"'"^ by a branch from the right pneumo-gastric nerve. The plexus divides like the artery into three offsets—coronary, splenic, and jj^g'^^^j!^"' hepatic. a. The coronary plexus accompanies the vessel of the same name into coro- to the stomach : it communicates with the left vagus nerve. b. The splenic plexus furnishes nerves to the pancreas, and to the splenic, stomach along the left gastro-epiploic artery ; and it is joined by an offset from the right pneumo-gastric nerve. c. The/ippah'c ^jZexMS is continued on the vena portfc, the hepatic and hepatic; artery, and the bile-duct into the liver, and ramifies on those vessels : in the small omentum the plexus is joined by offsets from the left vagus. The following secondary plexuses are furnished around the the last has brandies of the hepatic artery, and have the same name and distribu- plexuses,^ tion as the vessels : viz., A pnjloric plexus courses along the small curvature of the pyloric, stomach. D.A. z