471 THE PNEUMO-GASTRIC NERVE. with the phrenic artery from tlie aorta, and with the musculo- phrenic branch of tlie internal mammary. The PNEUiio-GASTRic or VAGUS NERVE passes through the thorax Vagus to the abdomen. In the lower part of the thorax the right and left nerves have a similar position, for they pass behind the root of the lung, each on its own side, and along the oesophagus to the stomach. But above the root of the lung, the two nerves have different rela- tions. Each supplies branches to the viscera, viz., to the heart, the windpipe and lungs, and the gullet. The right vagm enters the thorax between the subclavian artery Right vngiia and the innominate vein, and is directed obliquely backwards, of°j,°™°'' by the side of the trachea, to the posterior aspect of the root of the lung, where it gives rise to the posterior pulmonary plexus. From ami on the plexus two large offsets are continued to the back of the Rullet, ^ . ■. o > cesophagus. and unite below into one trunk, which readies the posterior surface of the stomach. The left nerve appears in the thorax on the outer side of the left Left nerva common carotid artery, and courses over the arch of the aorta, and onung'""*^ Tieneath the root of the lung, forming there a larger plexus than on the right side. From the i)ulnionary plexus one or two branches and on pass to the front of the oesophagus, and join with offsets of the [™op^4us right nerve in a ple.xus ; but the pieces are collected ffnally into one trunk, which is continued on the front of the gullet to the anterior part of the stomach. The hranchcs of the pneumo-gastric nerve seen in the thorax are Branches the following :— are:— a. The recurrent or inferior laryngeal nerve, arising on the right Recurrent side below the subclavian artery, and on the left at the lower border of the arch of the aorta immediately external to the ductus artenosus, bends inwards to the trachea, along which it ascends to the larynx. On eacli side this branch is freely connected with the cervical cardiac branches of the sympathetic nerve, especially on the left side beneath the arch of the aorta. h. Cardiac branchen (thoracic). Besides the cardiac branches far- Cardinc ni.shed by the vagus in the neck, otlier offsets pa.ss in front of= the trachea to the cardiac plexus. On the right side they come from the trunk of the vagus and the recurrent branch, but they are supplied by the recurrent nerve alone on the left side. The termination of the loiver cervical cardiac branch of each lower cervi- vagus nerve may now l)e seen. The branch of the right nerve bniS.""" lies l)y the side of the innominate artery, and joins a cardiac offset of the sympathetic of the same side ; and the branch of the left vagus crosses over the arch of the aorta, to end in the superficial cardiac plexus (p. 457). c. Pulmonary branches. There are two sets of nerves for the Pulmonnry lung, one on the anterior and the other on the posterior aspect ^''""'^'"^ • of the root. The anterior branches, two or three in number, are small, and snmU communicate with filaments of the .sympathetic on the pulmonary artery : these nerves are best seen on the left side.