THK IIKAKT. upwards on tlu' front of tlie ri^^lil ventricle to o|i(')i se|iaratcly into the lower jiart of the right auricle. Smallest rai-(li(ic rn'ns. Other small \cmus lie in the substance of SMiallcst Uie heart, and are noticed in the description of the right- auricle. Cardiac nkrvics. The lu'rve.s for tlie suj)ply of t.he heart, are N'i'i vcs or derived from a large ple.xus (cardiac) heneath the arch of tlie aorta, from whicli oll'set.s ]iroceed to acconqiany the coronary arteries. The greater part of this ple.xus is deejily placed, and will be dis.sected at a later stage, hut a superficial ])rolongation may now be seen. The superficial curdiiic plcrus is ]ilacod below the arch of the aoi-ta, .Siiii.^iiiuiui to the right of the ductus arterio.sus (tig. 164). The nerves joining it are the left .superficial cardiac of the symjiathetic, the lower cervical cardiac of the left vagus, and a con.siderable bundle from the deep cardiac ple.xus. A small ganglion is sometimes .seen in the jde.vus. Interiorly it sends off nerves along the right coronary c-mls in artery to the heart. A lew filaments also run on the left division I'.fry.™™' of the pulmonary artery to the left lung. The right coronary nerres jiass from the sni.erticial ple.xus to the Cmmmy right coronary artery, and receive near the heart a communicating |.'',""^™' ollset from the deep cardiac jile.xus. The left coronari/ ncms are derived, as will be subsequently seen, .m.] Mi; I'rom tlie deep cardiac ])lexus, and follow the left coronary artery. At first the nerves surround the arteries, but they .soon leave the ciKiiii}; in vessels, and becoming smaller by subdivision, are lost in the muscular substance of the ventricles. On and in the substance of the heart the nerves are marked l)y small ganglia. The CAVITIE.S OF THE HEART may be examined in the order in Four cavi- which the current of the blood pa.s,ses through them, viz., right I,',!];',."''''''" auric'le and \ entricle, and left auricle and ventricle. ""' ' Dissection. In the examination of its cavities the heart is not to Dissucaion be removed Irom the body. To open the ricjht auricle, an incision f,",,?/^™ should be made in it near the right or free border, extending from the superior cava nearly to the inferior cava ; and from tlie"centre of this cut the knife is to be carried across the anterior wall to the appendix. By this means an opening w^ill be made of sutHcieiit size ; and on removing the coagulated blood, and raising the flaps with hooks or pieces of string, the cavity may be examined. The CAVITY OP THE RIGHT AURICLE ('fig. 168) is of ail irregular Form or form,- though when .seen from the right side, with the flaps held ,',;f,''', up, it has .somewhat the appearance of a cone, witli the base to the right and the apex to the left. _ The widened part or base of the cavity is turned towards the right its bnso side, and at its extremities are the openings of the snjierior and inferior cava). Between those vessels the wall projects a little, and in some bodies presents a slight elevation (tubercle of Lower). The • The term cavity of the auricle is sometimes confined to the part in the apiiemlix and the name atrium or nims vawsus is then given to the rest of the space liere named auricle.