DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. 1G4 Obturator nerve is rlivijed into two. The super- ficial part ends on femoral artery, and .joins plexus in the thigh; branches are to hip-joint, muscular to adductors. Deep part of the nerve ends in adductor magnus and gives branch to knee-joint. Dissect profunda. Profunda artery : origin, course, and ending parts around. The OBTURATOR NERVE (fig. 62,1) jg derived from portions of the second, third, and fourth lumbar nerves, and .supplies the adductor muscles of the thigh, as well as the hip and knee-joints. The ner\'e issues from the pelvis through the aperture in the upper part of the thyroid foramen ; and it divides in that opening into two parts, which are named superficial and deep, from their jjosition with respect to the adductor brevis niu.scle. A. The superficial jyart (2) of the nerve is directed over the adductor brevis, but beneath the pectineus and the adductor longus, to the femoral artery, on which it is distributed : at the lower border of the last muscle it furnishes an offset or two, joining in a plexns with the internal cutaneons and saphenous nen'es (p. 141), and often helping to supply the integuments.* In the aperture of exit, this piece of the nerve sends outwards an articular twig to the hip-joint. Muscular branches from this superficial part are furnished to the pectineus (sometimes), adductors longus and brevis, and the gracilis. B. The deep part {^) of the obturator nerve pierces the fibres of the external obturator muscle, and, continuing beneath the adductor brevis, is consumed chiefly in the adductor magnus. The following offsets are supplied by it:—• Miiscular branches enter the obturator exteruus as the nerve pierces it; others are furnished to the large, and sometimes to the short adductor. A slender articular hranch (fig. 62,°) enters the fibres of the adductor magnus, and passes through this near the linea aspera to reach the popliteal artery, by which it has been seen that it is conducted to the back of the knee-joint. Dissection. To prepare the profunda artery and its branches, as far as they are to be seen on the front of the thigh, it ■noil be requisite to follow back the internal circumflex artery above the upper border of the adductor brevis, and to trace the per- forating branches to the apertures in the adductors near the femur. The DEEP FEMORAL (fig. 62, c) is the chief muscular artery of the thigh, and arises from the common femoral about an inch and a half below Poupart's ligament. At its origin the vessel is placed on the outer side of the parent trunk ; but it is soon directed inwards beneath the superficial femoral vessels to the inner side of the femur, and ends at the lower third of the thigh in a small Ijranch that pierces the adductor magnus. In Scarpa's triangle the vessel lies at fii-st on the iliacus muscle. On the inner side of the femur it is parallel to the superficial femoral artery, though deeper in position ; and it is placed first over the pectineus and adductor brevis, and thence to its termination between the adductus longus and magnus. * In some bodies Hie superficial part of tlie nerve is of large size and has a distribution similar to that of the inner branch of the internal cutaneous nerve, the place of which it lakes : in such instances it joins freely in the plexus.