DISSECTION OF THE UI'PEE LIMB. 12 cUiviL-k', coiTe.si)OiKls with llie interval between the uliivicukr and the sternal oi igins of the {^reat pectoral muscle. Ann: its Along the front of the ann is the prominence of tlie biceps mXTooves. "'^i^'^l'^ ' '^1"^^ ^'"^"^^ ^^^^ eminence is a groove, which sub- sides inferiorly in a depression in front of the elbow-joint. The groove on the inner side of the biceps is the deeper, and indicates the position of the brachial vessels. Pioini- If the elbow-joint be slightly flexed, the prominences of the aroiimi the outer and inner condyles of the humerus will be rendered evident, elbow-joint, especially the inner. Below the outer condyle, and .seijarated from it by a slight interval, the head of the radius is placed, and may be recognised by rotating that bone, the fingers at the same time Ijeiug placed o\'er the head. At the back of the elbow is tlie prominence of the olecranon, and to the outer side of this, when the forearm is fully lient, a projection is formed by the capitellum. Dissection. Tlie first step in the dissection is to raise the skin from the side of the chest and the armpit, over the great pectoral muscle and the hollow of the axilla, by means of the following Incisions, incisions :—One is to be made along the middle of the sternum (fig. 1, B. 2). A second is carried along the whole length of cla\'icle and continued downwards o\-er the outer side of the shoidder for aljoiit three inches (fig. 1, B. 5). From the lower end of the sternum a third cut is to be directed outwards over the side of the chest, as far back as to a level -w-ith the posterior fold of the arm])it (fig. 1, B. 7), and a fourth is taken upwards and outwards from the lower end of the sternum along the anterior folds of tlie axilla on to the arm opposite the lower end of the shoidder cut (fig. 1, B. 6). The flaps of .skin thus marked out are to be reflected outwards lieyond the axilla ; but they should be left attached to the body, iu order that they may be used for the preservation of the part. The subcutaneous fatty layer of the thorax resembles the .same fasi'ia.'"""' structure in other parts of the body ; but in this region it does not usually contain much fat. * Deep fascia: Beneath the subcutaneous layer is the stronger deep fascia, which closely invests the muscles, and is continuous with the fascia of the arm. It is thin on the front of the chest, but becomes thick where tiiickest it is stretched across the axilla. An incision through it, over the over axilla, armpit, will render evident its increased strength in this situation, and the casing that it gives to the muscles bounding the axilla ; and if the forefinger be introduced through the opening, some idea Avill be gained of its capal)ility of confining an abscess in that hollow. Cntaneous Disscctioil. The cutixneous nerves of the side of the chest are nerves: f^^^^ j.^ l,g sought. At the spots where they are to be found they are placed beneath the fat, which must be cut through to expose lliem ; and those over the clavicle lie also beneath the super- ficial platysma muscle. Small vessels for the most part accompany the nerves, and indicate their jiosition. from cervi. Some of the nerves (from the cerviavl plexus) cross the clavicle tai piexns ^j^g n^iddle, and the inner end. Otliers {anterior cutaneous of the thorax) appear at the side of the sternum,—one through eachinter- Hellect skin. Superficial