BOUNDARIES OF THE PERINEUM. 237 limited, on tlie surface of the Lody, by the scrotum in front, and by the thi'dis and buttocks on the sides and behind. _ The "kin of this region is of a dark colour, and is covered with Tim,uu.s. hairs In the middle line is the aperture of the anus, which is behind a line extend in- from tiie anterior part of the one ischial tuberosity to the other. In front of the anus the surface is slightly convex over the urethra, and presents a longitudinal prominent Ime or ravM which divides the space into halves. Between the anus ii,,. raphe, and the tuberosity of the hip-bone the surface is somewhat depi-essed '-''o-^.s, over the hollow of the subjacent ischio-rectal fossa, especially m emaciated bodies. The margin of the anal aperture possesses nmnerous converging a„,i foWs folds but these are more or less obliterated by the position ot the body'and the distention of the anus; and projecting oftentimes through opening, and around the opening are some dilated veins (htemorrhoids). Deep boundaries. The deep boundaries of the perineal space will be ascertained, in the progress of the dissection, to correspond with „;tiiosoor the interior aperture or outlet of the pelvis. The limits are to outlet of be observed on a dry or prepared pelvis, on which the ligaments remain entire ; and the student should trace on the body the corresponding boundaries with his linger. In front is the symphysis pubis ; and at the back is the tip of the coccyx, with the great gluteal muscles. On each side in front is the portion of the hip-bone which bounds the subpubic arch, viz., from the pubic symphysis to the ischial tuberosity ; and further back is the. great sacro-sciatic ligament extending from the tuberosity to the coccyx. This region sinks into the outlet of the pelvis as far as the recto-vesical fascia, which forms its floor. , • -u Form and size. The interval included within the boundanea above ponn of the described is rather heart-shaped, owing to the projection of the coccyx j^i'S,™ behind • and it measures over the surface about four inches from ments. before backwards, and three and a half inches between the ischial tuberosities. Depth The depth of the perineum from the surface to the floor, d,,,,ui of which will be revealed in dissection, may be said to be generally t""'*!™"''- about three inches between the anus and the ischial tuberosity, but this measurement varies greatly in different bodies; and it amounts to about an inch at the fore part, between the pubic bones. Division. A Ime from the front of the tuberosity of one side to Aji"" the corresponding point on the other will divide the perineal space into two parts. The anterior half {urethral) contains the root of the '^^^^ penis and the urethra, with their muscles, and vessels and nerves. The posterior half {redal) is occupied by the lower end of the large intestine, with its muscles, &c. POSTERIOR HALF OF THE SPACE. This portion of the perineal space contains the lower end of the contents of rectum, surrounded by its elevator muscles and the muscles acting """i