DISSECTION OP THE FACE. 570 Lobule. Intrinsic Tniisules of iiui'icle. Inferiorly tlie auricle ends in a soft pendulous part, the lobule. The sjjecial muscles of the pinna, which extend from one part of the cartilage to another, are very thin and pale. Five small muscles are to be recognised ; and these receive their names for the most part from the several eminence.? of the e.xternal ear. Dissection. In seeking the small auricular mu.scle.s, let the e musclo.s. gj^j^ removed only over the spot where each muscle is said to be placed. A sharp knife and a good light are necessary for the display of the muscular fibres. Occasionally the dissector will not find one or more of the number described below. The muscle of the tragus (fig. 208, is always found on the external aspect of the process from which it takes its name. The How to Unci One muscle on tragus. Fig. 208. Muscles of the GniER Sukface OP THE EaR-CABTILAGE. 1. Muscle of the tragus. 2. Muscle of the antitragus. 3. Large muscle of the helix. 4. Small muscle of the helix. Muscles on the Inner Surface of the Ear- cartilage. 6. Transverse muscle. 7. Oblique muscle some- times seen. One on antitragus. One on root of lieli.ic. Another on helix. And one at back of concha. fibres are short, oblique, and e.xtend from the outer to the inner part of the tragus. The muscle of the antitragus (fig. 208, ^) is the best marked of all. It arises from the outer part of the antitragus, and the fibres are directed upwards to be inserted into the jiointed extremity of the antihelix. Tlie small muscle of the helix (fig. 208, ^) is often indistinct or absent. It is placed on the part of the rim of the ear that extends into the concha. The large viuscle of the heliv {fig. 208,''') arises above the small muscle of the same part, and is inserted into the front of the helix, where this is about to curve backwards. It is usually present. The transverse mmcle of the auricle (fig. 208, ") forms a wide layer which is situate at the back of the ear in the depmssiou between the helix and the convexity of the concha. It arises from the con- vexity of the cartilage forming the concha, and is inserted into the