445 THE MEDIASTINA. by a plane extending from the lower border of the body of the fourth dorsal vertebra to the junction of the nianubriuin with the body of the sternum. It is limited in front by the manubrium with the origins of the sterno-hyoid and sterno-thyroid muscles, and behind l)y the ujDper four dorsal vertebrte and the lower ends of the longi colli muscles. Between the pleuraj in this part there are found, proceeding from before backwards, the following objects : |;j;,<J^^jj^^ —the remains of the thymus gland, several IjTiiphatic glands, the innominate veins (fig. 162), and the upper half of the superior cava, the phrenic and pneumo-gastric nerves, the arch of the aorta ■with its three large branches, innominate, left carotid and left subclavian, the trachea, oesophagus and thoracic duct, and the left recurrent laryngeal nerve. The anterior mediastinum is the space in front of the pericardium between the pleurtB, and is very narrow in its upper half, since the num is the two pleurse meet behind the sternum from the level of the second • to the fourth costal cartilages. Below the latter spot the left pleura inclines away from the middle line, and is separated from its fellow by an interval in which the pericardium comes into contact with the sternum and the left triangularis sterni muscle. This contents, mediastinum contains only some areolar tissue, with a few small lymphatic glands. In some bodies the left pleura is continued behind the sternum nearly as far as the diaphragm. The middle mediastimim is the largest part of the central space, and includes the pericardium with the contained heart and great vessels, contents, viz., the ascending aorta, the trunk of the pulmonary artery, and the lower half of the superior vena cava ; also the phrenic nerves, the roots of the limgs with the bronchial lymphatic glands, and, on the right side, the arch of the azygos vein. The posterior mediastinum is the portion between the pericardium Posterior and the spnie ; and the interpleural space is here larger than in tinum: front of the heart. Its extent and contents will be shown later, but it may be here said that enclosed between the serous layers boundaries, of the posterior mediastinimi (fig. 174, p. 481) are the descending and con- thoracic aort<a, the azygos veins, the oesophagus with the pneumo- gastric nerves, and the thoracic duct, as well as a set of lymphatic glands. Dissection. The pleurae and the fat are now to be cleaned from clean pon- ,, . , 0 ., . J • cardium and the sides oi the pericardium. The root of the lung is to be dissected oat by taking away the the root of pleura and the areolar tissue from the front and back without' " injuring its component vessels. To clean the back of the root, the lung should be thrown forwards to the ojjposite side of the chest. In this dissection the phrenic nerve and artery will be found in Trace the front of the root, together with a few small anterior pulmonary nerves ; the last are best seen on the left side. Behind the root of the lung is the vagus nerve, dividing into branches ; and arching above the right one is the large azygos vein. and azygos For the present, the arch of the aorta and the small nerves on it may be left untouched.