202 DISSECTION OF THE FOOT. Dissect ilm DlSSection (fig. 77). To bring into view the second layer of nuusculiir nuuscle.s and the iilantiir ves.sel,s and nerve.s, tlie nuiscle.s already l«ycr, examined must be reflected. Cut through the flexor brevis digi- torum at the os calci.s, and as it is raised, notice a branch of nerve and artery to it. Divide the abductor minimi digiti near ■ its origin, and in turning it to the outer side of the foot, seek its nerve and vessel close to the calcaneum. The abductor hallucis can be drawn aside if it is necessary, but at present it may remain uncut. aiid iiiaiitar Ne.xt, the internal plantar \'essels and nerve are to be followed iiei'vestforwards to their termination, and backwards to their origin ; and the external plantar vessels and nerve, the tendons of the long flexors of the toes, the accessory muscle, and the small lunibricales, should be freed from fat. Two plantar The Plantar Arteries (fig. 77) are the terminal branches of arteries: j^j^g posterior tibial trunk, and supply digital oftsets to the toes, outer."'"' ^^'^ ii"iiiber, and are named external and internal from their relative position in the sole of the foot: the external is the larger, and forms the plantar arch. Internal The INTERNAL PLANTAR ARTERY (a) is inconsiderable in size, coin's'ai I "■'^^^ accompanies the internal plantar nerve, under cover of the ending."'" abductor hallucis, as far as the middle of the foot, where it ends in four superficial digital branches. Branches to Branches. The artery furnishes muscular branches, like the muscles; nerve, to the abductor hallucis, flexor brevis digitorum, and the and super- flexor brevis hallucis. Its digital branches accompany the digit;il flcialdigital; ngrves of the internal plantar (fig. 75), and are thus disposed :— first, The first is distributed to the inner side of the foot and great second, toe ; the second is directed to the first iiiterdigital space ; the third third, to the second space ; and the fourth to the third space. At tlie fourth. root of the toes the last three join the deeper digital arteries in those spaces. External The EXTERNAL PLANTAR ARTERY (6) takes an arched coui-se in a'curved"** '^^'i^^^ ^"^^^ conca\'ity of the arch turned inwards. The vessel course; first passes outwards across the sole towards the base of the fifth metatarsal bone, and then turns obliquely inwards towards the root of the great toe, so that it crosses the foot twice. In the first half of its extent, viz., as far as the base of the metatarsjil bone of the partly little toe, the artery is comparatively superficial ; in the other half, between the little and the great toe, it lies deeply in the foot, and forms the plantar arch. Superflcial Only the first part of the artery is now laid bare ; the reuiaiiiing part: portion, supplying the digital branches, will be noticed after the e.xamination of the third layer of muscles (p. 207). relations; As far as the metatarsiil bone of the little toe, the v&ssel is con- cealed by the abductor hallucis and the flexor brevis digitorum ; but for a .short distance near it.s termination it lies in the interval between the last muscle and the abductor minimi digiti. It re.sts on the OS calcis and flexor accessorius; and it is accompanied by venao coniites and the external plantar nerve. superlicial, partly deep.