810 DISSECTION OF THE EAR. processes, short and long. Stapes: base; lieiul neck ; crura. and articulate with the malleus. The short process (c) is somewhat conical, and projects backwards nearly horizontally ; its extremity rests against the lower and inner j^art of the margin bounding the opening into tlie mastoid antrum. The long process (d) is almost vertical, and descends parallel to the handle of the malleus, behind and internal to which it lies : it diminishes towards the extremity, where it is bent inwards, and ends in a small flattened knob—the orbicular process (e), for articulation Avith the stapes. The STAPES (tig. 298) has a base or wider portion, and a head with two sides or crura, like a stirrup. The base (d) is directed inwards, and is a thin osseous plate, convex at the upper margin and nearly straight at the lower, corresponding with the shape of the fenestra ovalis, into which it is received : the surfiice turned to the vestibule is convex, while the opposite is excavated. The head (a) is marked at the extremity by a superficial depression which articulates with the orbicular process of the incus ; and it is supported on a slightly constricted part, the neck (b). The crura extend horizontally from the neck to the base, and are grooved on the surface towards the enclosed aperture ; the anterior crus (c) is shorter and straighter than the posterior. Ligaments of the ossicles. The small bones of the tympanic cavity are united into one chain by joints, and are farther kept in position by ligaments fixing them to the surrounding '-vail. Joints nf the bones. Where the ossicles touch, they are connected together by articulations corresponding with the joints of larger bones ; for the osseous surfaces are covered with cartilage, are surrounded l)y a thin capsular liga- ment of fibrous tissue, and lubricated by a synovial sac. One articulation of this nature exists between the head of the malleus and the incus, and a second between the orbicular process of the incus and the head of the stapes. U7non of the bones to the wall. The bones are kept in place by the reflec- tion of the mucous membrane over them, and by the following ligaments, three being connected with the malleus, and one each with the incus and stapes :— Lif/aments of the malleus. The superior or sus2)cnsorij ligament is a slender band which descends from the roof of the tympanum to the head of tlie malleus. The anterior ligament is the strongest of all : it passes from the fore part of the neck of the nialleus to a projection at the anterior margin of the notch of Kivinns, and to the sides of the Glaserian fissure. A part of this ligament entering the fissure has been described as a mu.scle under the name of laxator tympani. The external ligament is short and fan-sliaped : its fibres radiate fiom the outer and posterior parts of the neck of the malleus to tlie edge of the notch. The Z/(7rtmc?i« 0///ic iKCMS attaches the extremity of the short process of that bone to the tympanic wall at the lower part of the orifice of the antrum raastoideum. The annular ligament of the stapes is composed of very short fibres, which unite the circumference of the base of the stirrup to the margin of the fenestra ovalis. SjKcial ligament of the stapes. Closing the interval between the crura ol tlie stapes there is a very thin membrane which is attached to the groove of the bone. It is covered above and below by the mucous membrane. Two MUSCLE.S OF THE OSSICLES (fig. 299). Two iiiuscles are connected mu.sclc.s to ^yjtji the chain of bones, one being attached to the malleus, the the ossicles. , , i ^ other to the stapes. The bones have two sets of liga- ments ; either to unite one to another by joints, or to fix them to the tympanic wall. Ligaments of malleus are superior, anterior, and external. One band to incus. and one to .stapes. Membrane ill apoftiirc of stiipes.