649 INTRASPINAL VESSELS. the surface. Three larger processes of tlie pia mater extend into the back of the cord ; these are the posterior median septum alreadj' referred to, and the posterior intermediate sqjtn.m on each side, seen Old}' in the cervical region, which passes forwards fiom the furrow of the same name, and separates the posterior median and postero- external coUinms. Modifications in the grey and vihite substance. The white substance much exceeds the grey in quantity in the cervical and dorsal stimce vary, regions ; but it is less abundant in proportion to the grey matter in the lumbar enlargement. The grey substance is least in amount c Fig. 200.—Intraspinal Arteries IN TuK Loins. a. Hranch of a lumbal' artery. b. Ascending, and c, descending offset. d. Offset to the body of the vertebra on each side. e. Central artery formed by offsets from the lateral loops. Flo. 201.—Intraspinal Veins IN THK Loins. a. Branch to join a lumbar vein. i. Anlcriorlongitudiual vein, one on each .side. c. Veins from the bodies of the vertebrse. in the dorsal region ; the anterior horn is specially large in the cervical region, and in the luniliar enlargement both horn.s are large and the grey matter forms a considerable ])roportion of the substance of the cord. The posterior horn is massive, though not quite so large as the anterior. The coinua of the grey crescents decrease in length from above crescents down, esjiecially the jiosterior, and towards the end of the cord they "J'^^'J''"''"" blend in one indented or cruciform mass. Intraspinal Vessels. Arteries supply the cord and its mem- vessels of branes, and the liodies of the vertebra). The veins form a remark- eanM.'""' alile plexus within the canal, but this will not be seen unless they have been specially injected. The intraspinal arteries (fig. 200, a) are derived from the vessels Source of along the sides and front of the .spinal column, viz., from the sp^„"f™' vertebral and ascending cervical in the neck, from the intercostal in .trieries.