187 SUPERFICIAL VEINS AND NERVES. flaps of skin may be raised, tlie ouler one as far as the (ibula, and the otlier as far as the inner jnargin of the tibia. In the fat the cutaneous nerves and vessels are to be followed. Seek On tlie inner side, close to the tibia, are the internal saphenous fien'es'in'' vein and nerve, togetlier with twigs of tlie internal cutaneous nerve t-l'o fnl- near the knee. In the centre nf the leg lies the external saphe^ious vein, with the small sciatic nerve as its companion above, and the external saphenous nerve below the middle of the leg. On the outer side cutiineous oft'sets of the external popliteal nerve will be met with. The superficial fascia, or the fatty layer of the back of the leg, is Supnriicial least thick over the tibia. Along the line of the superficial vessels it may be sejiarated into two layers. Sui»ERFiciAL Veins. Two veins appear in the dissection of the Two super- back of the leg, the inner and outer .saphenous. veins. The INTERNAL, OR LONG, SAPHENOUS VEIN (fig. 72, cl, p. 189) Internal has already been examined in the front of the leg (p. 176), and in ™P'i<inous- this part it will be seen to receive various superficial tributaries and deep roots from the tibial veins. The EXTERNAL, OR SHORT, SAPHENOUS VEIN (fig. 71, c) has External already been examined at its origin (p. 176), and in this part it sapi'enous. will be seen to course along the back of the leg to the ham, where it ends in the popliteiil vein. It receives large branches about the heel, and others on the back of the leg, communicating with the internal saphenous. Cutaneous arteries accompany the superficial veins and nerves of Cutaneous the leg. arteries. Cutaneous Nerves (fig. 71). The nerves in the fat of the cutaneous back of the leg are prolongations of branches already met with, nerves, viz., the internal and external saphenous, external popliteal, small sciatic, and internal cutaneous of the thigh. The INTERNAL SAPHENOUS NERVE (fig. 71, ')ha3 already been internal examined (pp. 161 and 177), and a few additional twigs will be cleaned in this dissection. The EXTERNAL OR SHORT SAPHENOUS NERVE (fig. 71,^) is External formed l)y tlie union of the tibial and peroneal communicating o^P'|^".°"" = branches of the internal and external popliteal nerves respectively (pp. 129 and 130) ; the union usually taking place about the middle of the leg. It runs with the external .saphenous vein below the ending; outer ankle, and ends on the outer side of the foot and little toe (p. 177). In this part it furnishes twigs to the skin of the lower branches. part of the back of the leg, and large branches over the heel. Cutaneous nerves op the.external popliteal. In addition Branches of to the peroneal communicating (fig. 71, ••), the external popliteal'^'''^'j""'' nerve gives oft' one or two lateral cutaneous offsets (p. 130) to the™ outer side and fore part of the leg. The SMALL sciatic nerve (fig. 71, G) perforates the fascia at the Termination lower end of the popliteal space, and reaches to about the middle of small of the leg with the external saphenous vein : it ramilies in the integuments, and joins the external saphenous nerve.