]76 DISSECTION OP THE LEG. clean the fascia. Cutaneous veins: internal saphenous; external saphenous. Source of the cutane- ous nerves. Musculo- cutaneous supplies most of the toes; divide.s into inner and lies the external saphenous nerve ; and about the middle of the instep the internal saphenou.s nerve ceases. In the interval between the great and second toes the cut.aneou8 part of the anterior tibial nerve appears. The digital nerves should be traced to the ends of the toes by removing the integuments ; and after the several vessels and nerves are dissected, the fat is to be taken away, in order that the fa.scia may be seen. The VENOUS ARCH on the dorsum of the foot has its convexity turned forwards, and receives digital branches from the toes; at its concavity it is joined by small veins from the instep. Internally and externally it passes into the saphenous veins. The INTERNAL SAPHENOUS VEIN begins at the inner side of the great toe, and in the arch. It ascends in front of the inner malleolus along the inner side of the tibia into the thigh. Branches enter it from the inner border and sole of the foot. The EXTERNAL SAPHENOUS VEIN begins on the outside of the little toe and foot, as well as in the venous arch ; and it is continued below the outer ankle to the back of the leg (p. 187). Cutaneous Nerves (fig. 66). The superficial nerves on the front of the leg and foot are derived mainly from the musculo - cutaneous and anterior tibial branches of the external popliteal trunk, and from the external saphenous nerve from the two popliteals. Some incon- siderable offsets ramify on the front of the leg from the internal saphenous and external popliteal. The musculo-cutaneous nerve (2) ends on the dorsum of the foot and toes. Perforating the fascia in the lower third of the leg with a cutaneous artery, it divides into two principal branches (inner and outer), which give dorsal digital nerves to the sides of all the toes, excejit the outer part of the little toe and the contiguous sides of the great toe and tlie next. The branches maj' be traced in the integument as far as the end of the last phalanx :— The i)tner branch (^) sends one offset to the inner side of tha foot and great toe, and another to the adjacent sides of tCte scQOud Fig. 66. — Cdtaneous Nerves of the Fkont OF THE Leg and Foot. 1. Anterior tibial. 2. Musculo - cutaneou.s, with 3, its inner, and 4, its outer branch. 5. Internal saphenous. 6. Offsets of external popliteal, lateral cuta- neous.