DISSECTION OF THE BRAIN, 748 convolutions are continuous wilh those of the occipital lobe behind, and oi' the temporal lolje Ijelow. Occipital The occipital lobe is small, and triangular in shape. It is separated Iroiu the parietal lol)e for a short distance above by the parieto-occi[)ital fissure (^jo) ; but its anterior boundary is for the most part artihcial, being constituted by the line just mentioned, continuing the direction of that fissure across the outer surface of the hemisphere. Its con^'olutions join those of the parietal and temporal lobes. Temporal The temporal lohe projects into the middle fossa of the base of the skull. Its fore part is separated from the frontal and parietal lobes by the fissure of Sylvius, but its hinder part is only limited by the lines above mentioned, across which its convolutions pass into those of the parietal and occipital lobes. Sulcus of Rolando. .Short gyri of the island. Central sulcus. Fio. 271.—Thk Island of IIeii,, showing whkre the Oi'ercdla Other convolutions of this lobe will Ije seen on the under surface of the hemisphere. The central lobe, insula, or island of Reil (fig. 271), i.s jilaced at the bottom of the fissure of Sylvius, and is concealed liy the over- lapping of the temporal, pariet,al and frontal lolies. If the mai^ins of the Sylvian fissure be drawn asunder, the island will be seen to have a triangular form, with the ape.v directed downwards towards surroundi'd t^ic anterior perforated space, and to be bounded by three furrows by thrcR (tiie sulci, of Reil), one in front, one above, and another behind ; the sulci0 Rci . jiij^^^gj^, yi^^ being continuous with the jiosterior branch of the fissure of Sylvius. The central lobe is placed ojiposile the lenticular muscles of the corpus striatum in the interior of the henii.sphere. Opercula The portions of the frontiil, parietal and temporal lobes which oftl.o overhang, and conceal, the island arc called opercula of tli^ imnla. in.iuia; opercula have been cut away to expose the island in fig. 271, Central lobe, or island of Beil,