704 DISSECTION OF THE NKCK. the muscular fibres. Smaller glands lie beneatli the mucous membrane. Other small glands are found at the front and sides of the trachea, being situate on and in the fibrous tissue connecting the cartilaginous rings. Vessels and The arteries of the trachea are derived Irom the inferior thyroid uerves. bronchial. The veins have a corresponding disposition. Nerves are supplied to the tube from the vagus, mainly tlirough the recur- rent laryngeal, and from the sympathetic. Section XVII. PREVEETEBRAL MDSOLES AND VERTEBRAL VESSELS. Muscles in front of spine. Dissection. Longus colli in three parts: vertical, superior oblique, and inferior oblique; parts in contact ■with it; Directions. On the piece of the spinal column which was laid aside after the separation of the pliarynx the student is to learn the deep muscles on the front of the vertebrse. Dissection. The prevertebral muscles will be prepared by re- moving the fascia aud areolar tissue. They are three in number on each side (fig. 250), and are easily distinguished. Nearest the middle line, and the longest, is the longus colli (a) ; the - muscle external to it, which reaches to the head, is the rectus capitis anticus major (b) ; and the small muscle close to the skull, which is external to the last and partly concealed by it, is the rectus capitis anticus minor (g). The smaller rectus muscle is often injured in cutting through the basilar process of the occipital bone in separation of the pharynx. The LONGUS COLLI MUSCLE (a) is situate on the bodies of the cervical and upper dorsal vertebrae, and is pointed above and below. It consists of three parts, one internal or vertical and two external or oblique, which differ in the direction of their fibres, but are closely, united together. The vertical part arises by fleshy and tendinous processes from the bodies of the upper two dorsal and lower two cer\dcal vertebras, and from the front of the transvei-se processes of the lower three cervical vertebrte. It is inserted by similar slips into the bodies of the second, third, and foui-lh cervical vertebrae. The up2)er oblique part is inclined inwards. It arises from the anterior tubercles of the transverse processes of the third, fourth, and fifth cervical vertebrtc, and is inserted int o the side of the tubercle on the anterior arch of the atlas. It is generally joined by a slip from the upper end of the vertical part of the muscle. The loicer oblique part, passing in the opposite direction to the last, arises in common with the vertical part from the upper dorsal vertebra), and is inserted into the transverse processes of the fifth and sixth cervical vertebra}. In contact with the anterior surface of the longus colli are the pharynx and the o;s(ipliagus. The inner border is at .wme distance from the muscle of the opposite side below, but above only the