206 relations; Insertion of tendon of flexor liallucis; relations: use on first and otlier toes. Dissect tliird layer of muscles. Muscles of third layer. Flexor brevis liallucis ; orifiin; insertion ; DISSECTION OF THE FOOT. foot, and contribute slips to the pieces of that tendon eoins to the second, third and fourth digits. Tlie muscle may be bifurcated behind, and tlie lieads of origin separated by the long plantar ligament. On it lie the external plantar vessels and nerve; and the muscles of the fir.st layer conceal it. Action. By means of its offsets to the tendons of certain dibits the muscle helps to bend the toes ; and from its position on the outer side of, and behind the long Hexor to which it is united, it will oppose the inward pull of that muscle, and enable it to bend the toes more directly backwards. The tendon of the flexor loxgu.s halldcis (fig. 77, c) is deeper in the sole of the foot than the flexor longus digitorum : taking a straight course to the root of the great toe, it enters the digital sheath, to be inserted into the base of the last phalanx. It is united to the long flexor tendon by a strong tendinous process, which, joined by bands of the accessorius, is continued into the pieces of that tendon belonging to tlie second and third toes. Beneath the internal annular ligament this tendon lies in a groove on the back of the astragalus : in the foot it first occupies a similar groove on the under-surliice of the sustentaculum tali, and then lies over the flexor brevis hallucis. Action. For the action of this muscle on the great toe, see p. 193. Through the slip that it gives to the tendons of the con'imon flexor going to the second and third toes, it will help to bend those digits with the great toe. Dissection (fig. 78, p. 208). For the dissection of the third layer of muscles, the accessorius and the tendons of the long flexors are to be cut through near the calcaneum, and turned towards the toes. While raising the tendons, the external plantar nerve and artery are not to be interfered with ; and small nerves and vessels to the outer three lumbricales are to be looked for. Afterwards the areolar tissue is to be taken from the muscles now brought into view. Third Layer op Muscles (fig. 78). Only the short muscles of the great and little toes enter into this layer. On the metatarsal bone of the great toe the flexor brevis hallucis lies, and external to this is the adductor obliquus hallucis ; on the metatarsal bone of the little toe is placed the flexor brevis minimi digiti. Crossing the heads of the metatarsal bones is the adductor transversus hallucis. The fleshy masses between the adductor obli(|Uus and the short flexor of the little toe consists of the interosseous muscles of the next layer. The FLEXOR BREVIS HALLUCIS (llexor brevis pofticis pedis, fig. 78, a) arises behind by two tendinous slips, one of which is fixed to the inner side of the cuboid bone (fig. 76, p. 201), while the other is prolonged from the tendon of the tibialis posticus. Near the i'ront of the first metatarsal bone the fleshy belly divides into two heads, which are inserted into the .sides of the base of the metatarsal phalanx.