DEEP MUSCLES OP THE BACK OF THE LEG. 193 evert and partly divide the flexor hallucis after that muscle lias been examined ; then define the branches from its lower part to the front of the leg, the outer side of the foot and the one that joins the posterior tilnal artery. Deep Group of Mdscles (fig. 74). The deep muscles at the Four back of the leg are four in number, viz., popliteus, flexor longus y,"'*^'''*''" hallucis, flexor longus digitorum, and tibialis posticus. The first of group: these is close to the knee-joint ; it crosses the bones, and is covered by a special aponeurosis. The flexors lie on the bones, the one of iio.sitiou ami the great toe resting on the fibula, and that of the other toes on the tibia. And the tibialis covers the interosseous membrane. With the exception of the popliteus, all enter the sole of the foot ; and destination. Ihey ha\'e a fleshy part parallel to the bones of the leg, and a tendinous part beneath the tarsus. The POPLITEUS (fig. 74, a) arises by tendon, within the Ccapsule Popliteus of the knee-joint, from the front of an oblong depression on the Zlmn outer surface of the external condyle of the femur (fig. 60, p. 15 7) i^iiee-joint; and within the capsule of the joint; some fleshy fibres also arise from the posterior ligament. The muscular fibres .spread out, and inserted are inserted into the tiliia above the oblique line on the posterior ' surface, as well as into the aponeurosis covering them (fig. 73). The muscle rests on the tibia, and is covered by a fascia derived in great part from the tendon of the semimembranosus muscle: on it lie the popliteal vessels and nerve, and the gastrocnemius and plantaris. Along the upper border are the lower internal articular vessels and parts nerve of the knee; and the lower border corresponds with the "'"""""^ attachment of the soleus on the tibia. The tendon of origin will be seen in the dissection of the ligaments of the knee-joint. Action. The leg being free, the muscle bends the knee-joint, and use with then rotates the tibia inwards. The popliteus is used especially in ^'''^'^: beginning the act of flexing the knee, as it produces the rotation special inwards of the tibia (or outwards of the femur) without which that movement cannot take place. The FLEXOR LONGUS HALLUCIS (flexor longus pollicis pedis, fig. Flexor 74, F) arises below the soleus from the lower two-thirds of the pos- halfu'V • terior surface of the fibula (fig. 73) ; from the intermuscular septum attached'to between it and the peronei muscles, and from the aponeurosis over the tibialis. Inferiorly the tendon of the miiscle enters a groove in the astragalus, and crosses the sole of the foot to its insertion into the great toe. Above, the muscle is covered by the soleus; but below it is relations; superficial, and is in contact with the fascia. It lies on the fibula and the lower end of the tibia, and conceals the peroneal vessels. Along the inner side are the posterior tibial nerve and vessels; and contiguous to the outer margin, but separated by fascia, are the peronei muscles. Action. The foot being rmsupported, the flexor bends the last use, the phalanx of the great toe, and then extends the ankle. ^'"B _ The foot resting on the ground, the muscle raises the heel ; and a'nd'ilxed. It draws the fibula backwards as the body rises from stooping. D.A.