MUSCLES OF THR ORBIT. 643 ophthalmic trunk will appear. The lachrymal nerve may remain uncut. The LISVATOR I'ALPEDR/E SUPERIORIS (Hg. 227, B) is the most super- Eluvatorof ficial muscle, and is attached posteriorly to the roof of the orbit in "y^Pij'i^ front of the optic foramen. The muscle widens in front, and bends downwards in the upper eyelid to be mainly inserted by a broad nUaciiud to tendon into the front of tlie tarsal plate. Expansions from the tendon • can be traced to the tissues over the eyebrow and at the root of the upper lid. By one surface the muscle is in contact with the frontal nerve relations; and the periosteum; and by the other with the superior rectus muscle. If it is cut across about the middle, a small branch of the tliird nerve will be seen entering the posterior half on the under surface. Action. The lid is made to glide upwards over the ball by this use. muscle, so that the upper edge is directed back and the lower forwards, the skin above the lid being folded inwards at the same time. The SUPERIOR RECTUS (fig. 227, d) is the upper of lour muscles Upper rec- that lie around the globe of the eye. It arises from the upper'"l*"""*'^'"' part of the optic foramen, and is connected with the other recti muscles around the optic nerve. In front the fleshy fibres end in insertion; a tendon, which is inserted, like the other recti, into the sclerotic coat of the eyeball about a quarter of an inch behind the transparent cornea. The under surface of the muscle is in contact with the globe of the position to eye, and with some vessels and nerves to be afterwards .seen ; the l^'"''*'' upper surface is ])artly covered by the preceding muscle. The action use. of the muscle will be given witli the other recti (p. 650). The SUPERIOR OBLIQUE MUSCLE (fig. 227, a) is thin and narrow, uppor and passes through a Hbro-cartilaginous loop at the inner an"le of "'^'■'^i"*' * ^' "I o muscle the orbit before reaching the eyeball. The muscle arises behind from tlie upper and inner part of the optic foramen, and ends anteriorly in a rounded tendon, which, after passing through the loop, or pulley, referred to, is reflected backwards and outwards between traveises a the superior rectus and the globe of the eye to be inserted into the ■"'""^' sclerotic coat behind the middle of the ball. insertion ; The fourth nerve is supplied to the orbital surface of tlie muscle relations: and the nasal nerve lies below it. The thin insertion of the muscle lies between the superior and the external recti, and near the tendon of the inferior oblique. The imlleij, or trochlea (fig. 228, p. 645), is a fibro-cartilaginous ring pulley of about one-sixth of an inch wide, which is attaciied by fibrous tissue to the depression of the frontal bone at the inner angle of the orbit. A fibrous layer is prolonged from the margin of the pulley on to the tendon ; and a synovial sheath lines the ring, to facilitate the movement of the tendon through it. To see the .synovial sheath and the free motion of the tendon, this prolongation may be cut away.