222 DISSECTION OF THE LEG. Interosse- ous luHni- bniiie be- tween tlie sliafts: attach- ments ; apei'tures. JFolion slight. in upper, and lower articula- tion. The INTEROSSEOUS MEMBRANE fills the interval between the bones of the leg, and serves as an aponeurotic partition between the muscles on the front and back of the limb. Its fibres are directed tor the most part downwards from the tibia to the fibula • but a te^v cross m the opposite direction. Internally it is fixed to the outer edge of the tibia ; and e.xtemallv to the prominent interosseous ridge on the inner side of the fibuk In Its upper part, close to the neck of the fibula, is an oA-al openiuR about an inch in length, which transmits the anterior tibial vessels • and at the lo^^-er end, between the memlirane and the inferior articulation, is another small opening for the an- terior peroneal vessels. Movement. Very little movement is allowed in the tibio-tibular articula- tions, as the chief use of the fibula is to give strength and elasticity to the ankle-joint, and attach- ment to muscles of the 1p(t In the upper joint there is a slight gliding chiefly from within out. In the lower articulation the lisra- o ments permit some yield- ing of the filnila to the Fig. 85.—Inner Side op the Ankle pressure of the astragalus, (altered from BonnQEiir). as when the weight of the \. Posterior, 2, middle, and 3, anterior 1^°^^^' thro\ra on the fibres of the inner lateial ligament. inner side of the foot; 4. Internal caloaneo-navieular ligament. but if the force is violent the fibula will be fractured about the junction of the third and lowest fourths sooner than the ligaments give way. Bones in the ankle- joint. Dissection of the ankle- joint. Articulation of the Ankle (fig.s. 85 and 86). The ankle is a hinge joint, in which the upper jiart of the astragalus is received into an arch formed by the lower ends of the tibia and fibula; and the four ligaments belonging to tliis kind of articulation connect together the bones. Dissection. To make the dissection required for the ligaments of the ankle-joint, the muscles and the fibrous ti.ssues and ve.ssels must be removed from the front iiiid back of the articulation. For the purpose of defining the lateral ligament,s, the linil) must be ])laced first on one side and then on the other. The internal ligament is wide' and .strong, and lies beneath the tendon of the tibialis po.sticus. The external is divided into three separate pieces ;