SYMPATHETIC NERVE. 487 to join spjiinl riervds : Each ganglion I'lirnislies external branches to communicate with liianuiic^ the spinal nerves, and internal for tlic supply of the viscera. E.dcrnal or conncdincj hvnches {fig. 170). Two offsets pa.ss out- wards from each ganglion to join a spinal nerve (intercostsil). In the * brunches of communica- tion both sjjinal and sym- pathetic nerve-fibres are combined ; but one {while ramus commimicans) (A) consists: almost entirely of spinal, and the other {grey rawMA- commimicans) {i) mainly of sympathetic fibres. The internal or visceral branches differ in size and distribution, according as they are derived from the ujiper or lower ganglia. The oflsets of the tipper five (janglia are very small, and are distributed to the aorta, and to the verteljrte with the ligaments. From the third and fourth ganglia also, oflsets are sent to the posterior pulmonary ple.\us. The branches of the lov;er seven ganglia are larger and much whiter than the others, and are united to form visceral or splanchnic nerves of the abdomen : these are three in number (large, small, and smallest) and pierce the diaphragm to end in the solar and renal plexuses. The great splanchnic nerve is a large white to supply viscera. Oflsets of ujjper Hve gangli.i are small: Fig. ]7C.—Scheme to Illustiiate the con- nection BETWEEN THE SPINAL AND SyM- I'ATHETIO NeHVES (ToDB AND BoWMAn). a. Posterior root of a spinal nerve, witli a gaiiglicjii, c. b. Anterior root. d. Posterior primary branch. c. Anterior primary biancli of the spinal nerve. /. Knotted cord of tlie syinpatlietic. g. Ganglia on tlie cord. h. Wliile offset from the spinal to the sympathetic nerve. i. Grey offset from the sympathetic to the spinal nerve. of lower seven, large, and form great splanclmic cord, which receives roots apparently from only four or five ganglia (sixth to the tenth), hut its fibres may be traced upwards on the knotted cord as high a.s the third ganglion. Descending on the bodies of the vertebra}, it pierces the filjres of the crus of the diaphragm, and ends in the semilunar ganglion of the abdomen. At the lower part of the thorax the nerve may present a ganglion. The small splanchnic nerve begins in the tenth and eleventh ganglia, or in the intervening cord. It is transmitted infeiiorly to semilunar ganglion ; small splanchnic to co-'liac plexus ;