214 DISSECTION OF THK LEG. occasional band. Teiulou of the,biceps is divjrletl. Tendon of the popli- teius, and of adductor magmis. Internal lateral ligament: attach- ments : is joined by semimem- branosus. Insertion of the semi- membrano- sus. Posterior ligament. below the tendon of the gastrocnemius, and descends vertically, pai tiall}' subdividing the tendon of the bicejis, to a depression on t he upper and outer part of the head of the filjula. Beneath the ligament are the tendon of the popliteus and the e.xternal lower articular vessels and nerve. A second fasciculus is sometimes present behind the other, but it is not attached to the femiir ; it is connected above with the outer head of the gastrocnemius, and lielow with the styloid process of the head of the fibula. The tendm of the biceps is inserted by two main pieces into the head of the filnila ; and from Ijoth of these fibres are prolonged to the head of the tibia. The external lateral ligament pa.sses between these pieces into which the tendon is partially .split. The tendon of the popliteus may be follo-iN-ed by di\-iding the posterior ligament. It arises from the fore part of the oblong depression on the outer surface of the external condyle of the femur. In its course to the outside of the joint, it eros.ses the external semilunar fibro-cartilage and the upper tibio-peroneal articvUation. Wlien the joint is bent, the tendon lies in the hollow on the condyle ; but it slips out of that groove when the limb is extended. The tendon of the adductor magnus is inserted into the adductor tubercle on the internal condyle of the femur, abo\-e the attachment of the internal lateral ligament. The internal lateral ligament (fig. 81,") is attached above to the condj'le of the femur, where it lileuds with the capsule; but becom- ing broadened out and thicker below, and sepai'ate from the rest of the capsvde, it is fixed for about an inch into the inner surface of the tibia, belo\v the level of the ligamentum patellae : some of the deeper fibres join the internal semilunar fibro-cartilage. The tendons of the .sartorius, gracilis, and semitendinosus miLscle-s lie o\'er this ligament; and the tendon of the semimembranosus, and the internal lo'wer articular vessels and nerve are beneath it. To the posterior edge some fibres from the tendon of the semimem- branosus are added. The te7idon of the semimembranosus musck is inserted ))en&ith the internal lateral ligament into the lower jiart of the groove at the back of the irmei' tuberosity of the tibia : between it and the ujiper edge of the groove is a synovial bursji. The tendon sends a few fibres into the internal lateral ligament, a prolongation t-o join the fascia on the ]io]iliteus muscle, and another to the po.sterior Hgament of the knee-joint (fig. 52, p. 128). The 2}osterior ligament is wide and membranous, and is formed in great ]iart by a strong process from the tendon of the seniimem- liranosns, which is directed across the joint to the outer .side. It is fixed below to the head of the tibia behind the articular .surface ; and above, it is attached in the centre to tlie femur at the upper border of the intercondylar notch, liut on each side it joins the tendinous head of the gastrocnenuus. Numerous apertures exist in it for the jjassage of vesaels and nerves to the interior of the