709 NERVOUS PORTION OF THE RETINA. with the optic nerve, and a pigiueiit;iry layer outside, \vhich adheres to the choroid coat. Dissection. The retina can be satisfactorily examined only on an eye which is obtiiined within forty-eight hours after death. To bring it into view on the eyeball in which the -middle coat was dissected, the choroid must be torn away carefully with two pairs of forceps, while the eye is immersed in lluid. In this dissection the pigmentary layer separates from the nervous portion of the retina, and is removed with the choroid coat. The pigmenlary portion of the retina is a very thin, dark layer, which lines closely the inner surface of the choroid coat, and is continued over the ciliary processes into the uvea on the ])osterior surface of the iris (ttg. 291). The nei"Oous portion of the retina is a soft membrane of a ]jinkish grey tint and semitransparent when fresh ; but it soon loses this trans- lucency, and is moreover rendered opaque by the action of water and other substances. In the living state, however, the retina is characterised by the existence of a jjurplish red colour, which is discharged under the influence of simlight. This part of the retina extends over about the posterior two- thirds of the eyeball, reaching from the entrance of the ojDtic nerve to the outer extremities of the ciliary pro- cesses, where it ends in an irregular wavy border—the ora .serrata. Its thickness diminishes from behind for- wards. The outer surface of the. dissected retina is slightly tlocculent, owing to the tearing away of the pigmentary layer. The inner surface is smooth : it is covered with folds in a prepara- tion of the eye cut in two, but these are accidental, in conse- quence of the menibrane having lost its proper support. At the spot where the optic nerve expands {porus opticus, optic dine ; fig. 293) the surface is slightly elevated {papilla optica) ; but in the centre of this is a slight excavation where the c-enlral \-essL'ls appear. In the interior of the human eye, in the axis of tlie l)all, is a slightly elliptical yellow area (fig. 293), one-twelfth of an inch in diameter, which is named the yellow spot (macula lutea). Almost in the centre of this .spot is a minute hollow, the fovea centralis, which appears black in consequence of the thinness of the wall allowing the dark pigment outside to be seen. From the ora serrata a very thin layer is continued on as far as the tips of the ciliary, processes ; it is called the ciliary part of the Dissection to see tlu! rtitinu. PigiiiiMitary membrane. Nervous retina; eNteut: Fig 293.—OliJEOTS ON THE Inner Surface of the Retina (Sikm.mbrring). hi the centre of the hall is the yellow sjjot, here rein-e- .senteil hy sli:iiHiiy : and in its iniiUlle the fovea centralis. To liie inner side is the optic tli.sc witli the branching of the artery. tliickness; outer snrfiice ; iinier .sur- face presents oi)tic disc, central vessels, yellow spot, anil central fovea. Ciliary part of retina.