DISSECTION OF THE LEG. 212 Tracu out llie deep tendons. Insertion of tendon of tibialis posticns into tarsus and nietii- tarsus. Insertion of tendon of peroneus longns: relations Dissection. Follow the tendon of the tibialis po-sticiui inii&cle from its position behind the inner malleolus to its insertion into the navicular bone, and trace the numerous processes tliat it sends for- wards and outwards (fig. 76). Open also the fibrous sheath of the tendon of the peroneus longus, which crosses from the outer to the inner side of the foot. The tendon of the tibialis tosticos is continued forwards over the internal lateral ligament of the ankle-joint and the internal calcaneo-navicular ligament, to be inserted into the tuberosity of the navicular Ijone. From its insertion processes are continued to many of the other bones of the foot :—One is directed backwards to the sustentaculum tali of the os calcis. Two offsets are directed for- wards ;—one to the internal cuneiform bone, the other, much the larger, is attached to the middle and outer cimeiform, to the cuboid bone, and to the bases of the second, third, and fourth metatarsal bones. In other words, extensions pass into all the tarsal bones except one (astragalus), and into all the metatarsal bones except two (first and fifth). Where the tendon is placed over the calcaneo-navicular ligament, it contains a filjro-cartilage, or occasionally a sesamoid bone. The tendon of the peroneus longus muscle winds round the cuboid bone, and is continued inwards in the groove on the under- surface to be inserted into the internal cimeiform bone and the base of the metatarsal bone of the great toe ; and sometimes by a slip into the base of the second metatarsal bone. In the sole of the foot (fig. 79), it is contained in a sheath which is completed, towards the outer part, by the fibres of the long plantar ligament prolonged to the tarsal ends of the third and fourth metatarsal bones ; but it is formed internally only liy areolar tissue. A synovial membrane lubricates the sheath. Where the tendon turns round the cuboid bone it is thickened, and contains a fibro-cartilage or a sesamoid bone. Section VII. LIGAMENTS OF THE KNEE, ANKLE, AND FOOT. JJircdions. In examining the remaining articulations of the limb, the student may take first the knee-joint, unless this has lieconie dry ; in that case the ligaments of the leg, ankle-joint, and foot may 1k' dissected while tlie knee is being moistened. Dissection. For the preparation of each ligament of the knee- to see knee, j^jj^j.^ sufficient to detach the muscles and tendons from around it, and to remove the areolar tissue or fibrous structure which may capsuiB, obscure or conceal the ligamentous band. A kind of aponeurotic and capsule is to be defined on the front of the joint; and .some tendons, namely, those of the biceps, poplileus, adductor magnus, Examine lirst thn kuee-joint. Dissection tendons.