35 TERES MUSCLES. dorsi. Tlie lower border is in contact with the teres minor, witli which it is often united. The muscle lies on the scapula and the scapulo-humeral articulation ; and there is sometimes a small bursa between it and the capsule of the joint. Action. AVith the humerus hanging it acts as a rotator outwards ; aiul use. and when the bone is raised it will move the arm backwards in concert with the hinder part of the deltoid. The TERES MINOR (fig. 13, c) is a narrow fleshy slip, which is Teres often united inseparably wth the preceding muscle. It arises on '"'"O'': the dorsum of the scapula from a special impression along the upper origin, two-thirds of the axillary border of the bone, and from an inter- muscular septum on each side ; and it is inserted by a tendon insertion, into the lowest of the three marks on the great tuberosity of the hmuerus; as well as by fleshy fibres into the bone below that spot, about an inch altogether. This muscle is partly covered by the deltoid ; it rests on the parts long head of the tricej^s and the shoulder-joint. Uuderneatli it '"'"""'^ the dorscil branch of the subscapular artery turns on to the back of the scapula. Action. The limb hanging, the muscle rotates it out and moves and use. it back ; the arm being raised, the teres depresses the himierus. The TERES MAJOR MUSCLE (fig. 13, D) JoaSSeS from the inferior Teres major: angle of the scapula to the humerus. Its onr/m is from an oval origin; surface behind the inferior angle of the scapula, from the lower half of the axillary border of the bone, and from the intermuscular septum between it and the teres minor. The fibres end in a tendon which is inserted into the inner edge of the bicipital groove of the insertion; humerus. The muscle assists in forming the posterior fold of the axilla, and is situate beneath the axillary vessels and nerves near the humerus relations; (fig. 4). The upper border is contiguous Jttr the subscapularis Wf/K muscle, and the lower is received into a hollow formed by the latissimus dorsi, which covers the teres behind at its origin, and m front at its insertion. At the humerus the tendon of the muscle is about two inches wide, and is placed behind that of the latksimus : the two are separated aliove by a bursa ; but they are united below, and an expansion is sent from them to the fascia of the arm. A second bursa is frequently present between the teres and the bone. Action. If the limb hangs, it is carried back behind the trunk, use on and IS rotated inwards by the muscle. The humerus being raised ««'"gi»g the muscle depresses and adducts it. ' With the limb fixed by the hand the teres will cause the lower an.l iKe.l angle ot the scapula to move forwards. limb. Below the scapula, where the teres muscles sej.arate from one Triangular another, is a triangular interval, which is bounded in front by the "i"'™- Shalt of the humerus, and above and below by the teres minor and major (fig. 13). The space is divided into two by the Ioiit head of the triceps. Through the anterior part, which is of a quadri-Q„a„ri,a. lateral shape, the posterior circumflex ^-essels (a) and the circumflex "''"C"- D 2