INTERCOSTAL NERVES AND A'ESSELS. 489 The internal intercoMals act in a different way at the side and fore of inner part of the chest. Between the osseous jiart of the ribs the^- depress and turn in intc^rosscons those bones, diniinishinif tlie size of the thorax ; and they are ' brought into use in expiration. Between tlie rib cartihages they raise the ribs, and are muscles intorcaiti- of inspiration, like the outer layer. paT™"'' Dissection. The intercostal ves.sels and nerves at the sides and front of the chest are now to be examined. The intercostal arteries which run from behind forwards are small and are not easily dissected out except in a well-injected subject. The best guide to Expose the intercostal nerve is the lateral cutaneous branch, and this should J," rv™nml be gently pulled on and traced back to the parent trunk. The third vessels, and fourth s[)aces may be devoted to the ])articular examination of the nerves, and the fourth ril) should be cut through at its junction with its cartilage in front and as far back at the side as possible, and the severed portion of rib shelled out from its internal peri- Remove a osteum, great care being taken not to injure the subjacent pleura. 0°rib°" The nerve and its accompanying vessel sliould first be sought for far back between the intercostal muscles close to the rib above. The INTERCOSTAL NERVES now Seen only in the anterior half of interccstni their extent, are the anterior primary branches of the dorsal nerves, "<""^'''^ = and supply the wall of tlie thorax. Placed at first between the course, layers of the intercostal muscles below the corresponding artery, each gives off the lateral cutaneous nerve of the thorax about nnd- way between the spine and the sternum. Then, much diminished termination, in size, the nerve is continued onwards, at first in the sulistance of the internal intercostal muscle, and afterwards between that muscle and the pleura as far as the side of the sternum, where it ends as the anterior cutaneous nerve of the thorax. Branches supply the branches, intercostal muscles, and the triangularis sterni. The INTERCOSTAL ARTERIES which run from behind forwards intercostal between the ribs are derived from the thoracic aorta in the case of bifurcate: the nine lower intercostal spaces (these being known as the aoiiic intercostal arteries), and from the superior intercostal branch of the sub- clavian in the case of the upper two spaces. They lie with the nerves between the strata of intercostal muscles, and close to the upper rib Ijounding the space. Near the angle of the rib the artery gives off a collateral l)ranch which is continued forwards along the edge of the rib Itelow ; and both it and the parent vessel anastomose in front with the anterior intercostal oft'sets of the internal mammary artery whicli run outwards. A small cutaneous offset is distributed with the lateral cutaneous oirsets. nerve of the thorax, and other branches are furnished to the thoracic wall. Dissection. Make three saw cuts through the sternum, two Division of transversely across, one opposite the middle of the first intercostal "'^s'"™"™- space, and tlie other between the junction of the sixth costal cartilages, and with a third cut divide the piece of sternum between the first two cuts longitudinally into two, taking care not to open