DISSECTION OP THE ABDOMEN. 368 difference on two skies. Suprarenal ends dift'e- rently on each aide. Hepatic veins; before noticed. Lumbar veins. Phrenic veins. The right vein is the shorter, and usually joins the cava a little lower than the other. The left vein crosses the aorta close to the origin of the superior mesenteric artery; it receives the left spermatic and suprarenal veins. The suprarenal vein is of considerable size when it is compared with the body from which it comes. The right opens into the cava, and the left into the renal vein. ' The heiJatic veins enter the vena cava where it is contact with the liver. They are described on pp. 348 and 350. The lumbar veins correspond in number and course with the arteries of the same name. They will be dissected later. The diaphragmatic veins (inl'erior), two with each artery, spring from the upper surface of the diaphragm. They join the caVa either as one trunk or two. DEEP MUSCLES OF THE ABDOMEN. Psoas magnns : situation; origin from lumbar vertebrse: insertion into femur; relations in front, behind, of outer border, of inner border; lumbar nerves in its subslanco; use to bend hip-joint The deep muscles in the interior of the abdomen are the psoas, iliacus, and quadratus lumbornm. The PSOAS MAGNUS (fig. 138, P.) reaches from the lumbar vertebraj to the J'emur, and is situated in the abdomen and in the thigh. The muscle arises from the front of the transverse processes of the lumbar vertebrae, from the bodies and intervertebral discs of the last dorsal and all the lumbar vertebrte by five fleshy pieces— each piece being connected with the intervertebral substance and the borders of two contiguous vertebrte, and from tendinous bands over the blood-vessels opposite the middle of the vertebrte. The fibres give rise to a roundish belly, which gradually diminishes towards Poupart's ligament, and ends below in a tendon on the outer aspect, which receives also most of the fibres of the iliacus, and passes beneath Poupart's ligament to be inserted into the small trochanter of the femur. The abdominal part of the muscle lias the following relations :— In front are the internal arched ligament of the diaphragm, the kidney with its vessels and duct, the spermatic vessels and the genito-crural nerve, and, near Poupart's ligament, the ending of the external iliac artery : beneath these, the muscle is covered by the inner part of tlie iliac fascia. Behind, tlie muscle is in contact with the transverse processes of the vertebrae, with the quadratus lum- borum, and with the hip-bone. The outer border touches the quadratus and iliacus ; and branches of the lumbar jjlexus issue from beneath it. The inner border is partly connected to tlie vertebra;, and is partly free along the margin of the pelvis ;—along the attached part of this border lies the sympathetic nerve, with the cava on the right, and the aorta on the left side ; along the free or pelvic part are the external iliac vessels. The nerves of the lumbar jjlexus lie between the slips of origiii from the transverse processes. Action. If the femur is free to move it is raise«l towards the