800 DISSECTION OK THE EYE. Artery of retina liiis four chief Ijrjmcln's; ■iiiotlier ill ftetiis. Vitreous lioily. To obtain .1 view of it, unci of it« front. Form uiul position of vitreous: it consists of .jelly, witli n central canal; .■villi of the hyiiloiil niembianu: I«jth are without vessels. Suspensory linanient: retina, !nit dou.s not eoii.si.st of iR-n'ou.s suUstaiice. It is not \'isible to the naked eye. .For a de.sciiption of the structuit of the retina, the student is referred to a work dealing with micrascoisic anatomy. Vesi^els of the retina. The ccnlral artery of the retina, acftoni- panied Lv its vein.s, enter.s tlie eyeball through the optic nerve. In tlte central depre.ssion of the optic pajiilla the artery divides into four primary liranches,-—two inner or nasal (upper and lower), and tw o outer or temporal (also upper and lower). Tlie outer branches are the larger, and follow an arched course aboA-e and below the yellow spot: all ramify in the innermost part of the nervous coat. No ve.ssels enter the pigmentary layer. The veins have a similar arrangement. In the foetus a branch of the artery passes through the centre of the vitreous mass to supply the lens-capsule. Vitreous Body. This is a soft transparent mass wliich fills the greater part of the space within the coats of the eyeball (fig. 288, h). Dissection. The vitreous body may be seen on the eve on which the retina was di.ssected, by taking away the retiiia, the iris, and the ciliary muscle and processes. To obtain a view of its anterior part, with the lens in situation, an eyeball should be fi.xed itjiright, and the sclerotic and choroid coats cut through about a quarter of an inch behind the cornea ; then on removing carefully the cornea, the dliar\- muscle and pro- cesses, and the iris, the vitreous body will be apparent. The vitreous body (tig. 288, h) is globular in form, and iiUs about four-fifths of the ball, supporting the retina. In front it is slightly hollowed, and receives the lens ((/), with its capsule to wluch it is closely united. It is composed of a thin watery jelly, contained in a transparent membrane named hyaloid. The jelly consists in great part of fluid, which drains away when the ^•itreous body is exposed 011 a ilat surface, or placed on a filter, and only a very small amount of solid matter remains. In the central part of the vitreous body, however, there is a canal filled with fluid {hyaloid canal), which extends from the optic papilla of the retina to the back of the len.s-capsule, and serxed in the foetus for the trans- mission of the capsular branch of the central artery of the retina : but this canal is not visible without special preparation. The hyaloid membrane (n) is the thin, glas.sy, structureless layer enclosing the vitreous body, except at the fore part where the lens is placed. At the bottom of the ball, around the ojitic jiapilla, the membrane is closely connected with tlie retina ; and it sends a prolongation forwards to line the canal of the vitreous. In front, the membrane becomes thicker as it approaches tlie ciliary proce.sses, and is continued into the suspensory ligament of the lens. The vitreous mass and the hyaloid membrane are extravascular, and receive their nutritive in.ilcrial from the vessels of the ciliary processes and retina. Suspensory ligamknt of the lens (Zonule of Zinn). This is a lran,s])arent membranous structure (lig. 291, t), placed around