280 it (tunica vasculosa) DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. Secreting tubules: appearance and length; communi- cations ; and size. Tubes change their name. They form the lobes: number; shape ; tubes in them, and arrange- ment. Tubes next become straight (tubuli recti), afterwards join toge- ther (reto testis). and leave the gland as vasa effereutia. vasmlosa, which lines the fibrous coat, and covers the different <;epta m the interior of the gland. It is formed of the ramifications of the blood-vessels, united by areolar tissue, like the pia mater of the brain : in it the arteries are subdivided before they are dis- tributed on the secreting tubes and the small veins are collected into larger trunks. The seminal tubes (tubuli seminiferi) are very convoluted and are but slightly held together by fine areolar tissue and surrounding blood-vessels, so that they may be readily drawn out of the testil for some distance : their length is about two feet and a quarter (Lauth). Within the lobes of the testis some tubes end in distinct closed extremities; but the rest communicate, forming loops or arches. Their diameter varies from ^^^th to j^th of an inch. I he wall of the tube is formed of a thin translucent membrane but it has considerable strength. ' Names of the different parts of the tubes. To different parts of the seminal tubes, the following names have been applied. Wliere the tubules are collected into masses, they form the lobes of the testis. As they enter the fibrous mediastinum they become straight, and are named tubuli recti. Communicating in the mediastinum'they produce the rete testis. And, lastly, as they leave the upper end of the gland they are convoluted, and are called vasa efferentia, or coni vasculosi. The lobes of the testis (fig. 104, a) are formed by bundles of the seminiferous tubes, and are situate in tlie intervals between the processes of the tunica albuginea. From 100 to 200 in number (Krause), they are conical in form, with the base of each at the circumference, and the apex at the mediastinum testis ; and those in the centre of the testicle are the largest. Each is made up of two or more tortuous seminal tubules ; and the minute tubes in one lobe are united with those in the neighbour- ing lobes. Towards the apex of each lobe the tubules become less bent, and are united together ; and the tubuli of the several lobes are farther joined at the same spot into the tubuli recti Tubuli recti (fig. 104, c). The seminal tubes uniting together become narrower and straighter in direction, and are named tubuli recti or vasa recta : they pierce the fibrous mediastinum and enter the rete testis. JRete testis (fig. 104, e). In the mediastinum the seminal tubes have no proper walls (beyond epithelium), and are situate in the anterior part, in front of the blood-vessels ; they communicate freely so as to form a network. Vasa efferentia (fig. 104, /). From twelve to twenty tubes leave the top of the rete, and issue from the upper end of the testicle as the vasa efl'erentia : these are larger than the tubes with which they are continuous, and end in the canal of the epididymis (part of the common excretorj^ duct). Though straiglit at first, tliey soon become convoluted, and form the coni vasculosi. In the natural state the coni are about half an inch in length, but when unravelled the