DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. 472 large pos- terior form a plexiia. CEsopliageal branches form II plexus. Sympathetic in thorax consists of a gangliated cord, and a cen- tral cardiac plexus. Dissection of the plexus: to expose the right part, and the left. Deep cardiac plexus. night part, how formed; The posterioi- hranches are larger and much more numerous. Forming a plexiforin arrangement (posterior pulmonary plexus) behind the root of the lung by the flattening and splitting of the trunk of the nerve, they are joined by filaments from the third and fourth ganglia of the knotted cord of the sympathetic, and are conveyed into the lung on the divisions of the airtube. d. CEsophageal hranches are furnished to the gullet, but in greatest abundance in the lower half. Below the root of the lung the l)ranches of the pneumo-gastric nerves surround the ajsophagus with a network [plexus gulce). Sympathetic Nerve. In the thorax the sympathetic nerve con- .sists of a knotted cord along each side of the spinal column, which communicates with the spinal nerves; and of a large prevertebral or cardiac plexus, which distributes branches to the heart and the lungs. The gangliated cord will be seen in a future stage of the dissec- tion, after the heart and the lungs have been removed. The CARDIAC PLEXUS lies over the lower end of the trachea, and above the Ijifurcation of the pulmonary artery. A part of this network, the superficial cardiac plexus, has been already described on page 457. The remaining part, or the deep cardiac plexus, is placed beneath the arch of the aorta. Directions. The cardiac plexus has been injured by the previous examination of the heart, so that it should be dissected in a body in which the heart and the large vessels are entire, but the student should make them out in his part as well as he can. Dissection. The ascending aorta is to be cut across near the heart, and is to be drawn over to the left side, after the manner of fig. 163, p. 448 : next, the upper cava is to be divided above the entrance of the azygos vein, and its lower part is to be thrown down. By the removal of some fibrous and fatty tissues and lymphatic glands, the right part of the plexus will be seen in front of the trachea, above the right branch of the pulmonary artery. The offsets to the heart should be followed downwards on the trunk of the pulmonary artery ; and those to the lung should be traced along the right branch of that vessel. To lay bare the part of the plexus into which the nerves of the left side enter, the aorta is to be cut through a second time, between the subclavian artery and the attachment of the ligament of the ductus arteriosus ; and the arch is to be turned upwards with the great vessels attached. The lymphatic glands and the areolar and fatty tissue being cleared away from tlie plexus as on the opposite side, the offsets to the left coronary plexus of the heart will be visible. The deep cardiac plexus is situate between the trachea and the arch of the aorta, and consists of right and left halves, which are joined by cross branches. In it are united the cardiac nerves of the sympathetic and vagus, with the exception of two branches of the left side ; and from it nerves are furnished to the heart and lungs. The right part of the plcms is placed above the right branch of the pulmonary artery, and receives the nerves of the right side.