625 THE HYPOGLOSSAL NERVE. Chorda tympani. Joining the lingual nerve close below its ^^'"/jlJ^'J^^. origin (p. 618), the chorda tympani accompanies that trunk, but can deatinatiou. be easily separated from it nearly as far as the tongue. Beyond that point its filires are mi.\ed with those of the lingual nerve. Near the subma.\iUary gland, an offset is sent to the submaxillary ganglion. The HYPOGLOSSAL or TWELFTH uerve in the submaxillary region ^weiWi^^^^ is directed forwards across tlie lower part of the hyo-glossus muscle, i^yoj," i^„„g_ and under cover of the niylo-liyoid. At the anterior border of the hyo-glossus it enters the fibres of the genio-glossus, spreading out and dividing into numerous branches as it disappears. Branches. While restin" on tlie hyo-glossus, the twelfth nerve its branches furnishes offsets to the stylo-glossus, hyo-glossus and genio-hyoid* muscles muscles, as well as one or two communicating filaments to the °f'""S""- lingual nerve. Its ternunal branches, within the genio-glossus, supply that muscle and the intrinsic muscles of the tongue. The lingual branches are long and slender, and some of them may be traced forwards to the tip of the tongue. The GLosso-PHARYNGEAL nerve (fig. 224, ■•), appearing between the two carotid arteries, courses forwards over the stylo-pharyngeus, and ends under the hyo-glossus in branches for the tongue. (See the DISSECTION OF THE TONGUE, p. 688). The duct of the sulmaxillanj gland (fig. 224,3), Wharton's duct, Wharton's issues from the deep part of the glandular mass turning round the border of the mylo-hyoid muscle. About two inches in length, it is directed upwanls and forwards on the hyo-glossus muscle, and over the lingual nerve, to open on the centre of an eminence by the side opens by of the fraenum linguEe : the opening in the mouth will be seen if a bristle be passed along the duct. The deep part of the submaxillary gland extends along-the side of the duct, reaching, in some instances, the sublingual gland. The SUBLINGUAL GLAND (fig. 224, n) is an almond-shaped body sublingual with its longest diameter, which measures about an inch and a half, g'i""' directed from before backwards. It lies beneath the fore part of tiie tongue, between the genio-glossus muscle and the lower jaw, and resting on the mylo-liyoid. Its upper border is covered by mucous forms a membrane, which is raised into a fold along the floor of the mouth prommence ' . . ° . below over the gland : 'and its inner end touches the one of the opposite tongue, side behind the symphysis of the jaw. The gland consists of from ten to twenty small masses, each of .md is a which has a separate duct. The ducts (duets of Rivinus) open for ^t"u{,'°uJ.e° the most part on the sublingual mucous fold, but some of them join the submaxillary duct, and one larger tube (duct of Bartholin), which is, however, frequently wanting, springs from the deeper part of the gland and runs forward to end either in common with, or close to, the duct of Wharton. * The branch to the genio-hyoid muscle is composed of fibres derived from the cervical nerves. Compare note on p. 602. D.A. S s