CiG DISSECTION OF THE ORBIT. and in tlie face. Lenticular ganalioii: situation ; ronncc- tions. Three roots long, sliort, and sym- imthetic. Ciliary branches to eyeball. Ophthalmic artery, in the orbit. Branches: general dis- tribution. Branch to retina. Ciliary arteries are poaterior— two niinicd long ciliary, Termination of the nasal nerve. Alter llie nerve becomes cutaneous on the side of tlie nose, it descends beneath the com- pressor naris muscle, and ends in the integuments of the tip of the nose. The OPHTHALMIC or lenticular ganglion (fig. 228,3) ie a small reddisli body, about the size of a pin's head, and in form nearly square. It is placed at the back of the orbit between tlie optic nerve and the external rectus, and commonly on the outer side of, and close to, the ophthalmic artery. By its posterior jjart the ganglion has branches of communication with other nerves (its roots); and i'roni the anterior part proceed ciliary branches to the eyeball. The ganglion receives roots from sensory, motor, and sympathetic nerves. The hranches of communication are three in number. One, the long root (°), is the branch of the nasal nerve before noticed, -which joins the superior angle. A second branch of considerable thicknes.?, the short root (•*), passes to the inferior angle from the branch of the third nerve that sujiplies the inferior oblique muscle. And the sympathetic root is derived from the cavernous plexus, either in union with the long root, or as a distinct branch to the posterior border of the ganglion. Branches. The short ciliary nerves (fig. 228), ten or twelve in number, are collected into two bundles, which leave the ujijjer and lower angles at the front of the ganglion. In the ujjper bundle are four or five, and in the lower, six or seven nerves. In their course to the eyeball they lie along the outer and under parts of the optic nerve, and communicate with the long ciliary branches of the nasal nerve. The ophthalmic artery (fig. 229), a branch of the internal carotid, enters the orbit through the optic foramen. At first the vessel is below and to the outer side of the optic nerve, but it then courses inwards over (or occasionally under) the nerve to the inner side of the orbit, and finally perforates the palpebral fascia above the internal tarsal ligament to end by dividing into frontal and nasal branches. The branches of the artery are numerous, though inconsiderable in size. They supply the structures within the orbit, and some leave that cavity to be distributed to the lining membrane of the cranium, to the interior and exterior of the nose, and to the adjoin- ing part of the forehead. The central artery of the retina is a very small branch which pierces the optic nerve about half an inch behind the eyeball. The ciliary branches are divided into anterior and posterior, which enter the eyeball at tlie I'ront and back :— The jMsterior ciliary usually rise by two trunks—inner and outer, close to the optic foriiincn : tliey divide into a number of liranches (from ten to twenty) which run to the eyeball around the optic nerve, and perforate the sclerotic coat at the posterior part Two of this set (one on each side of the optic nerve), are named long ciliary and