DISSECTION OF TRE BRAIN. 752 Temporal sulci: II rat or [larallel, Becond, and third. Convolu- tions. Convolu- tions, of island of Reil. Sulci and convolu- tions of inner and tentorial surfaces. How to see them. CdUoso- inarginal .•tnlcus. Sulci and convolutions of the outer surface of the TEMPORAL LOBE (I'lg. 270). There are five convolulioiLS of tbi.s lobe; the first, second and a part of the third, with their inter- vening sulci, are seen on the outer surface and the remainder on the under aspect of the cerebral hemisphere. The first teviporal or parallel sulcus (st) \s well marked, and runs below and parallel to the posterior liranch of the fissure of Sylvius, from near the anterior extremity of the lobe, backwards and upwards, into the inferior parietal lohule. The second temporal sulcus (mt) takes a similar course at a lower level, but it i.s not so constant as the superior ; and the third (fig. 273, it), which is also very variable, is placed on the under surface of the hemisphere near the margin, separating the third from the fourth convolution. The first temporal convolution (inframarginal ; fig. 270, st) forms the lower houndary of the posterior branch of the Sylvian fissure, and is continuous behind with the suprauiarginal cou\-olution. The seco7id and third temporal convolutions (mt and it) are com- monly united in some part of their extent. The posterior end of the second one is joined by the angular and post-parietal gyri. The third forms the lower margin of the lobe and joins the post- parietal and lowest occipital gyri. Convolutions of the central lobe (figs. 271 and 272, c). The surface of the insula is divided hy an ohlique furrow—the central sulcus of the insula, placed opposite the lower end of the furrow of Rolando, into an anterior triangular, and a posterior more elongated portion. The anterior part is again .subdivided externally into three small (jyri breves, and the posterior part into two gyri longi. Sulci and convolutions of the inner surface of the hemisphere (fig. 273). The convolutions of the inner a.spect of the hemisphere, with which are included those of the lower surface behind the fissure of Sylvius, are generally well defined ; but some being so long as to reach beyond the extent of a single lobe of the outer surface, they are not usually like those described as forming lobes. Dissection. The parts to be now described can only be seen satisfactorily on a separate hemisphere, and if the students are working with two brains, one of the hemispheres on that brain in which the cerebellum and other parts have been removed, should he used by separating it from its fellow by a mesial incision. If, however, the student possesses only the one brain, he may show much of the inner surface by cutting off the left hemisphere as low as the corpus callosum and examining the right side and the under surface of the left. , , , , Sulci. The calloso-marginal stilcxis (m) beguis below the rostrum of tlie corpus callosum, and arches u])wards, following the cunx ol the fore part of that body. It is then directed backwards as far as the posterior extremity of the corj.us callosum, where it bends upwards and ends by notching the superior margin of the heim- sphere (lig. 270, cw). Us fore part is frciuently interrupted by