207 ADDUCTOR OBLIQUUS HALLUCIS. Resting on the muscle at one part, and in the interval between relations; the heads at anothei-, is the tendon of the flexor longus hallucis. The inner head joins the abductor, and the outer is united with tlie adductor hallucis. A sesamoid bone is developed in the tendon connected with each head. Action. By its attachment to the first phalanx it flexes the metatarso-phalangeal joint of the big toe. The ADDUCTOR OBLIQUUS HALLUCIS (adductor pollicis pedis, fig. Adiluctor 78, b), wliich is larger than the preceding muscle, arises from the °,!,'iiacis^. sheath of the tendon of the peroneus longus, from the ridge on the origin; cuboid, and from the bases of the third and fourth metatarsal bones (fig. 76). Anteriorly the muscle is united with the outer "'si-rtif)"; head of the short Hexor, and is inserted with it into the base of the first phalanx of the great toe. To the inner side is the flexor brevis ; and beneath the outer relations; border the external plantar vessels and nerves are directed inwards. Action. Its first action will be to adduct the great toe to the use. others, and it will help afterwards in bending the metatarso- phalangeal joint of the toe. The ADDUCTOR TRANSVERSUS HALLUCIS (tranS^■el■SUS pedis, fig. Adductor 78, D) arises by fleshy bundles from the capsules of the meta- haTmci?'"' tarso-phalangeal articulations of the three outer toes (fig. 76) origin; (frequently not from the little toe), and from the transverse meta- tarsal ligament. Its insertion into the great toe is united with that insertion; of the adductor obliquus. The cutaneous surface is covered by the tendons and the nerves relations; of the toes ; and the opposite sm-face is in contact with the inter- osseous muscles and the digital vessels. Action. It will adduct the great toe to the others, and then "se on the approximate the remaining toes. The FLEXOR BREVIS IIINIMI DIGITI (fig. 78, C) is a narrow Flexor muscle resembling one of the interossei. Arising behind from the ^jgltj"^ base of the fifth metatarsal bone and the sheath of the peroneus origin • longus, it blends in front with the inferior ligament of the metatarso- phalangeal articulation, and is inserted into the base of the first insertion; phalanx of the toe. Actio7i. Firstly, it bends the metiitarso-phalangeal joint, and use. next it draws down and adducts tlic fifth metatarsal bone. Dissection (fig. 79). In order that the deep vessels and nerves Dissect the may be seen, the flexor brevis and adductor oliliquus hallucis are to an7nervesl be cut through behind, and thrown towards the toes ; but the nerve supplying the latter is to be preserved. Beneath the adductor lie the plant^ir arch and the external plantar nerve with their branches ; and through the first interosseous space the dorsal artery of the foot enters the sole. All these vessels and nerves, with their branches, require careful cleaning. The muscles projecting Ijetweeu the metatarsal bones are the interossei; the fascia covering them should be removed. The PLANTAR ARCH (fig. 79, d) is the portion of the external Arch of the plantar artery which reaches from the base of the metatarsal bone Lnery •