THE PKNIS. '^"^ of a triangular form, which is attached by its apex to the front ot ,.,;menior i lyi^hvsis pubis. Widening below, it is fixed to the upper >^^^^^,^ rface of tl.e body of the penis, and is prolonged for some distance ,„e„ts ; ;n the organ. Perforating the ligament at its junction w.th the ..o„ta,„.s_^^ penis are the dorsal vessels and nerves. nenes. ^ The DORSAL ARTERY, ou each side, pierces the suspensory I'S"^'Do-i u.ent, and extends forwards to the glans, where it ends in many branches for that structure : in its course the vessel supplies the integuments and branches to the body ot the penis. The DORSAL VEIN is a single trunk, and commences by numerous Do^^ai ve.n branches from the glans penis and the prepuce. It runs ^ackwards .o.j.tic between the two arteries, through the suspensory ligament, and then i'- through a special opening below the sub-pubic ligament, to joui he prostatic plexus of veins. The vein receives branches from the erectile structure and from the integuments of the penis. Each DORSAL NERVE takes the same course as the artery, and ends Dorsal newe like it in numerous branches to the glans penis. It furnishes twigs to the corpus cavernosum penis, and other offsets to the integuments of the dorsum, sides, and prepuce of the penis. , „ , . In the female these vessels and nerves are much smaller than in x^on the male, and occupy the upper surface of the clitoris-the organ that represents the penis. The BODY OF THE PENIS is rather prismatic in shape. The upper f°~;,t. surface is slightly grooved along the middle line; and the lower rounded border is formed by the corpus spongiosum, which is received into a groove between the corpora cavernosa. The corpus sfonyiosum urethra encloses the urethral canal beyond spongiosum, the triangular ligament, and forms the head of the penis. It is a vascular and erectile texture, like the corpora cavernosa, but much less stron". Commencing posteriorly in the bulb, it extends j.rethia, and forwards around the urethra to the extremity of the penis, where it sweUs^into swells into the conical glans penis. and to The glans penis is somewhat conical in form, and covers the trun- cated ends of the corpora cavernosa. Its base is directed liackwards, and is marked by a slightly prominent border—the corona ylandis; it is sloped obliquely along the under aspect, from the apex to the urinarius base. In the apex is the vertical slit (meatus) in which the urethral canal terminates, and beluw that aperture is an excava- tion which holds the fold of skin named the frceiium lircBpHtii. Dmclioii. The student should be careful not to damage the urethra, as it will be examined at a later stage. Parts cut in the lateral operation of lithotomy. This i:;^',';^^^ operation for stone in the bladder may be divided into three stages, viz cultin" down to the urethra, opening the canal, and slitting the'tube and the neck of the bladder. In the external incision the knife is entered near the middle line of the perineum, one inch in ,„i!Uiva, front of the iniu!-, and is drawn backwards on the left side as far as midway between the ischial tuberosity and the anus. The skin and fat, the transverse perineal muscle and artery, the inferior