606 DISSECTION OF THE NECK. I'osliii'ior auriciiliiv: a briiiiuli to tympuiiiini. Posterior iuiriculnr vein. Teniponil artery: termination branches to parotiJ, to articula- tion, and to ear; branch to face ; brancli to temporal muscle and fascia. Temporal vein. Dissection. Trachea lies in neclv and thorax: curvkal vein. They coiiimuniuate through the nui.stoic] t'oninieu with the hitei-iil siiiiis in the interior of the .skull. The Posterior Auricular Artkry is .smaller than the pre- ceding branch and take.s origin aljove the diga.stri.c muscle. Between the ear and the ma.stoid pvoce.ss, it divides into two branches for tbe ear and occiput (p. 503). A small branch (stylo-mastoid), enters the foi-ainen of the .s;ime name, and supplies the middle ear. The posterior auricular vein is of considerable size, and descends o\'er the ui)per end of the stemo-ma.stoid muscle to join the beginning of the external jugular. The Superficial Temporal Artery (i) is one of the terminal branches of the e.\ternal carotid, and in direction forms the con- tinuation of that trunk. Ascending in the parotid gland and over the posterior root of the zygoma, it divides on the temporal fascia into anterior and posterior branches, which are distributed over the front and side of the head (p. 503). Before dividing the artery gives off the following branches : — a. Parotid branches are f uiiiished to the gland of the same name ; articular twigs to the articulation of the lower jaw ; and viusculav bi'anches to the masseter. b. Some anterior auricular offsets are distributed to the pinna and meatus of the external ear. c. The transverse facial branch leaves the temporal artery close to its origin, and is directed forwards oxev the masseter muscle (p. 559). On the side of the face it supplies the muscles and integuments, aud auastouioses with the facial artery. d. The middle temporal hmich pierces the temporal aponem-osis just above the zygoma, and enters the substance of the temporal muscle : it anastomoses Avith the deep temporal branches of the internal maxillary artery. e. A small orbital branch runs forwards between the layers of the temporal fascia, aud is distributed to the superficial structures near the eye, anastomosing with an offset of the lachrymal artery. The temporal vein begins on the side of the head and lies with its artery in front of the ear. Near the zygoma it is joined by the middle temporal vein ; it then receives branches correspond- ing to the other offsets of the artery ; and it ends by tmiting with the internal maxillary vein to form the temporo-maxiUary trunk. Dissection. The trachea and oesophagus in the neck are now to be cleaned, but care should be taken not to injure the recurrent laryngeal nerves or the symjsathetic nerves behind and to the inner side of the carotid sheath. The trachea, or windpipe, is continued from the laiynx to the thorax, and ends by dividuig into two tubes (bronchi), one for each lung. It occupies the middle line of the body, and extends com- monly from the lower part of the sixth cervical to the lower boi-der of the fourth dorsal vertebra, measuring about four inches and a half in length, and nearly one in breadth. The front and sides of the trachea are rounded in consequence of tlie existence of firm