DISSECTION OF TIIK THORAX. 450 then iuiio- mimite veins uirI tributaries, and upper cava. Nerves. Dis.sect superficial plexus in arch of aorta. Pericar- dium : size and form ; position ; relations. Composi- tion. Fibrous part gives sheatlis to vessels. carotid, and left subclavian. On its left side of the aoi-ta, and witliiu the concavity of its arch, is the imlmonary artery. Above tlie arch of the aorta a large venous trunk, left ■iiinomiiiate, crosses over the three arteries mentioned above, and ends by uniting on the right side with the riglit innominate vein in the upper cava. Several small veins, which may be mistaken for nerves, ascend over the aorta, and enter the left innominate. Define the tributaries of this vein, and especially one crossing the aortic arch towards the left side, which is the left superior intercostal vein. The inferior thyroid vein,, which descends in front of the trachea to open into the left innominate vein or into the junction of the two innominate veins, should aLso be dissected out. The large vein by the side of the aorta is the superior vena cava; and the azygos major vein will be found opening into it behind, abo\'e the aorta of the right lung. The phrenic nerves sliould be cleared on both sides from their entry into tlie thorax behind the subclavian veins above, along the side of the pericardirtm to the diaphragm below, as well as the left vagus nerve, wliich lies deeply upon the aortic arch, and will be found coming downwards in front of that vessel from between the origin of the left common carotid and subclavian arteries. Between the left phrenic and vagus nerves and close to the aorta are the left superficial cardie nerve of the sympathetic, and the lower cervical cardiac branch of the left vagus ; of the two, the last is the smaller, and in front of the other. The cardiac nerves from the left vagus and sympathetic are to be followed to a small plexus (superficial cardiac) in the concavity of the aorta. An ofltset of the plexus is to be traced downwards between the pulmonary artery and the aorta towards the right coronary artery of the heart; and another prolongation is to be found coming forwards from the deep cardiac to the superficial plexus ; this dissection is difficult, and requires care. When the pericardium is afterwards opened the nerves will l)e followed on the heart. The PERICARDIUM is somewhat conical in form, the wider part being turned towards the diaphragm, and the narrower part extending upwards beyond the heart on the large vessels. It is placed behind the stei'num, and projects on each side of tliat Iwne, but much more towards the left than the right side. Laterally the pericardium is covered by the pleura, and the phrenic nerve and vessels lie between the two. It^ anterior surface is separated fi'om the chest-wall by the pleuiffi and lungs, except over the small area on the left side corresponding to the lower part of the anterior mediastinum ; and behind, in the interval between the pleuraa, it is in contact with the oesophagus and aortfl. The heart-case consists of a fibrous structure, which is lined internally by a serous ineml>rane. The.A6ro!M2;art surrounds the he.irt, and is pierced by the large vessels joining that organ ; and, with the exception of the inferior