DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. 474 Sinuses ot Vulsiilva. Use. Structure of the heart. Fibrous b.m(Is form rings around auri- culo-ventri- ciilar and arterial openings. a hollow oil the inner side, named sinus of Valsalva. The cusps of the valve are an anterior and a right and left posterior in relative position, and the right coronary artery arises in the anterior sinus of Valsalva, and the left in the left posterior sinus. Like the valves in the pulmonary artery, these meet in the middle to prevent the blood passing hack into the ventricle, and combine with them in causing the second sound of the heart. Structure. The heart is composed chiefly of muscular fibres, together with certain fibrous rings and a fibro-cartilage. Dissection. The auricles should now be snipped round at their junction with the ventricles, and the pulmonary artery and aorta similarly cut roimd close to the attachments of the cusps of the valves. The ventricular portion of the heart can then be cut away and a view of the four valvular orifices obtained, and sections should be made through them to demonstrate the fibrous rings around the orifices. The fibrous structure forms rings around the auriculo-ventricular and arterial orifices, and is prolonged into the valves connected with these openings. The auriculo-ventricular rings give attachment to the framework of fibrous tissue in the tricuspid and mitral valves ; and the band surrounding the left auriculo-ventricular opening is blended in front with the aortic ring. The arterial rings surround the aortic and pulmonary orifices ; and the margin of each towards the artery forms three notches with intervening projections. The notches are occupied by thinner parts of the arterial wall bounding the sinuses of Valsalva ; and to the concave edges the sigmoid flaps of the valve are attached. Behind the aortic opening, ventricular apertures, is a piece fibrous rings are united. Dissection. The inter-ventricular septum should now be through from below upwards. The interventricular sept^im appears as a stout pyramidal muscular mass, between the two ventricles, but it will be seen that the muscular tissue ceases close to the aortic orifice, and that, for a short distance at the upper part, the ventricles are only separated by a fibrous septum {pars numhramacea seini). Sometimes a communi- cation between the two ^'entric]es occurs at this place, occasioning one of the forms of congenital malformation of the heart. The STRUCTURE OF THE HEART beyond the stage already described needed"''""'' cannot be followed in the ordinary dissecting-room preparation ' the further details can only be followed in a heart that specially prepared. For this purpose a fresh heart (commonly of a sheep or an ox), which, havijig been washed out, is filled with a mixture of flour and water, and boiled for a quarter of an hour, so as to destroy the connective tissue, and to allow the stretched and hardened muscular fasciculi to be separated from one aimthcr. Fibro-carti- between it and the auriculo- of fibro-cartilage, with which the cut Tlie inter- ventricular septum. Special and has been is obtained