DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. 420 has columns and niga>. Tliickuess. Three coats mucous, muscular, and fibrous also erectile tissue. Mucous membrane. Arteries. Veins are plexiform. Nerves. Lymphatics. OS Uteri. On tlie inner surface, towards the lower part, is a lon^ri- tudinal ridge both in front and behind, named columm oftlie vagina Before tlie tissue of the vagina has been distended, otlier transverse ridges or rugse pass between the columns. The wall of the vagina IS thicker in front round the uretlira than at any other part of the canal. Structure. The vaginal wall has a muscular coat, composed of un- striped fibres both longitudinal and circular, which is thin above, and increases in thickness below. It is lined internally by mucous membrane, and covered externally by a layer of connective ti.ssue containing a dense network of veins. The prominence of the columns is mainly due to a coUection of vascular cavernous tissue between the mucous and muscular layers. The mucous membrane is continued through the lower aperture to join the integument on the labia majora, and through the os uteri, at the opposite end, to the interior of the uterus. Many mucous glands open on the surface, especially at the upper part. Blood-vessels and nerves. The arteries are derived from the vaginal and uterine branches of the internal iliac. The veim form a pfexus around the vagina, as well as in the genital organs, and open into the internal iliac vein. The nerves are derived from the pehdc plexuses, as described on page 404. ^ The hjmphatics accompany the blood-vessels to the glands by the side of the internal iliac artery. THE UTERUS. uterus: The uterus or womb is formed chiefly of unstriated muscular fibres. Its office is to receive the ovum, and to contain the developing foetus. form; This viscus in the virgin state is somewhat pear-shaped, the body being flattened (fig. 146 and fig. 156, p. 422), and the narrow end below. dimensions; Before impregnation the uterus measures about three inches in length, two in breadth at the upper part, and an inch in greatest thickness. Its weight varies from an ounce to an ounce and a half. But after gestation its size and volume always exceed the measure- ments here given. upper end; The upper end is convex, and is covered by peritoneum: the name fundm is given to the part of the organ aliove the attachment of the Fallopian tubes, the lower The lower end is small and rounded, and in it is a transverse end is aperture of communication between the uterus and the vacina, small, and i . ■ . . o i has an named os uteri externum: its margins or hps {labia) are smooth, opening; and anterior and posterior in situation, but the liinder one is the longer and thinner. Towards the lower part the uterus is con- neck ; stricted ; and the smaller portion is called the ntcl; {cervix uteri; h); it is nearly an inch in length, and gradually tapers towards the extremity, M'here it projects into the vagina, being enclosed by tliis tube to a greater extent behind than in front.