747 r,OBES OK THK ('K R KI'.liAI, 11EMISI'11 KKE. somuwlmt as it runs 1 uickwards; and at its tcniiinatidii it is Ix'iit upwards tnv a short distance and jirojccts into llie pariclal lolx". When the liraiii is in thr skull, the idace of division oT the ivisiiion in tissure of Sylvi\is is oiipositf thi' articulation of tlie great wing " of the spheiioid witli the parietal hone; or ojiposite a point one and a quarter inches behind the external angular process of tlie frontal bone and ([Uarter of an inch above the level of that jirocess (III the iDidisscrtcil head. The sulem af llolamlo (central sulcus; lig. 270, ;■) cr()sses the Siarnsj.r outer surface of the heinispliere near the middle. Beginning above close to the margin of the gu'at longitudinal fissure, the furrow runs downwards and somewhat forwards, with a ser]ientine course, to end about one inch behind the place of division of l-he Sylvian fissure, and very near to its posterior limb. This sulcus sejiarates the frontal from the parietal lobe. The niiper end of the furrow of liolando is placed from an is ii.'liin.l inch-and-a-half to two inches behind the coronal suture, and the s„i,i,„. lower end alxjut one inch. /// the wndisxeded head its upper end is half an inch behind a point midway lietween the glabella and the e.xternal occdpital protuberance, measured along the conve.xity of the skull, and the general direction of the sulcus is downwards and forwards towards the nud-point of the zygoma. The iiarieto-occqiUal Jismrc (fig. 270 and tig. -ll'.i, p. 753, po) is 1^^^^;^^ a deep hollow at the hinder part of t-he inner surface of the henu- ii.<siiic; sphere. Its u]iper end a[)pears on the superior surface of the cerebrum about nudway between the sulcu.s of Eolando and the posterior extremity of the hemisphere, and extends outwards for nearly an inch from the margin of the longitudinal fissui'e. It indicates the anterior linnt of the occ'i]iilal lobe. The part on the mesial surface (jf tlie hemis])here is often called the internal, and that on the outer surface the external jmrieto-occipital fiamrc. The fissure is placed ojiposite the summit of the lainbdoid suture, sitimtion. Lobes. The outer surface of the hemisphere is divided into five Lobes of lobes (excluding the olfactory) which have the following names and """"I"'"- limits :— mhc. friyntul lohe forms the anterior half of the hemis]ihere. It is I'lonlnl IoIjo limited lielow by the ])osterior branch of the fissure of Sylvius (fig. 270, .?"'), and behind by the sulcus of Rolando (r). Its under iiart, which rests on the roof of the orbit, is named the orbital oi-liitiil , , ; lolMile. tobiUe. The parietal lobe is litt.le more than half the size of the frontal. PaiiiiUil Its anterior limit is the sulcus of llidando (r), and its posterior a line drawn transversely over the hemisphere from the ])arieto- occiintal fi.ssure. Below, it is bounded in its fore part by the bouinlarifs jjosterior branch of tin- fi.ssure of Sylvius («'"), and in its hinder part Ijy a line extending l)ackwards from the sjiot where this uiUiieini. fissure turns upwards to the line drawn transversely outwards from the parieto-occi])ital fi.ssure. This limitation (jf the lofie is ipiite arbitrary and can be used only for descriiitive jiurposes, since its