DISSECTION OF THE FACE. 560 irregular in shape; relations accessory part. The duct reaches mouth : surface niarkinp its length and size. Surface of gland. Dissection to see deep parts. Deep part sinks behind jaw. Vessels and and is luimed from its pcsition. Its excretory duct enters the mouth through the middle of the cheek. Tlie shape of tlie gland i.s irregular, and is determined In- the surrounding parts. Thus below, where there i.s not any resisting structure, the parotid projects into the neck, and comes into close proximity with the submaxUlary gland, though separated from it by a process of the cervical fascia ; a horizontal line from the angle of the jaw to the sterno-mastoid muscle usually marks the extent of the gland in this direction. Superiorly, the parotid is limited by the zygomatic arch and the temporal bone. Along the posterior part the sterno-mastoid muscle extends ; but anteriorly, the gland projects somewhat into the face over the niasseter nuLScle, and has connected with it in this situation a small acce.ssory part, known as the socia parol idis. Issuing from the anterior border is the excretory dmt~duct of Stenson (fig. 204), which crosses the niasseter below the socia pnrotidis, and perforates the buccinator and the mucous mem- brane of the cheek obliquely opposite the second molar tooth of the upper jaw. The duct lies between the transverse facial artery and some branches of the facial nerve, the latter beinf^ below it. A line drawn from the meatus auditorius to a little below the nostril would mark the level of the duct on the face ; and the central point of the line would be opposite the opening into the mouth. The length of the duct is about two inches and a half; and its capacity is large enough to allow a small probe to pass, but the opening into the mouth is much less. The cutaneous surface of the parotid is smooth, and three or four lymphatic glands are seated on it: but from the deep part processe.s are sent into the inequalities of the space between the jaM' and the mastoid process. Bissection. By removing the parotid gland, cautiou.sly and piece- meal, from behind and below, the hollows that it fills will come into view : at the same time the dissector will see the vessels and nerves that pass through it. An examination of the processes of the gland, and of the number of important vessels and nerves in relation with it, will demonstrate the dangers attending any opera- tion on it. The duct may be opened, and a pin may be passed along it to the mouth, to show the position and the diminished size of the aperture. Two large processes of the gland extend deeply into the neck. One dips behind the styloid process, and projects beneath the mastoid process and sterno-mastoid muscle, where it reaches the deep vessels and nerves of the neck. The other piece is situate in front of the styloid process ; it passes into the glenoid hollow behind the articulation of the lower jaw, and sinks beneath the ramus of that bone along the internal maxillary artery. Coursing through the middle of the gland is the external carotid artery, wliich ascends behind the ramus of the jaw, and furuishas the posterior auricular, superficial temjioral, and internal maxillary branches. Superficially to the artery lies the trunk formed by the