248 DISSRCTION OK THK PERINEUM. ill litho- tomy. Periiieul nerve has cutaneous, mii.scular, and genital branches. Dissection of triangular ligament. Triangular ligament of urethra: attach- ments, aud rela- tions : consists of two strata: apertures in it for urethra, for arteries and nerves of penis; Iiarts between layers. posterior part of this space during the deeper incisions in tlie lateral operation of lithotomy will divide the transverse muscle and artery, and probably the superficial perineal vessels and nerve.s. The PERINEAL BRANCH OP THE PUDic NERVE (p. 242) breaks up in the fore part of the ischio-rectal fossa into superficial and deep branches. Its two superficial offsets have been followed to the scrotum (p. 246). The deep branches are imiscular to the fore parts of the external sphincter and levator ani, to the transversus perinei, erector penis, and ejaculator urinaj, and the nerve to the bidh, a long slender branch, which pierces the last muscle and, dividing into filaments, enters the hinder portion of the corjjus spongiosum. Dissection (fig. 94). For the display of the triangular ligament, the muscles and the crus penis, which are superficial to it, are to be detached on the left side in the following way ;—the ejaculator urinse is to be removed completely from the corpus spongiosum aud the surface of the ligament, and the erector muscle from the crus of the penis. Next, the eras penis is to be detached from the bone; but this must be done with care so as not to cut the triangular ligament nor to injure the terminal branches of the pudic artery and the dorsal nerve of the penis near the pubic ramus. The TRIANGULAR LIGAMENT OP THE URETHRA (deep perineal aponeurosis ; fig. 94, c) occupies the anterior part of the sub-pubic arch, and is about one inch and a half in depth in tlie middle line. On each side it is fixed to the pubic and ischial rami beneath tlie crus penis. Its base is turned towards the rectum, and in the middle line is rxnited with the central point of the perineum ; wliile laterally it is free and sloped towards the bone, so that the ligament is deeper at the sides than in the centre. Superficial to it are the bulb of the corpus spongiosum and the crura of the penis, with the muscles of the anterior half of the perineal space; aud the super- ficial fascia joins it along the hinder border. From its deep surface some fibres of the levator ani arise ; and the thin anal fascia is con- tinued backwards from the ligament over that muscle in the iscliio- rectal fossa. The ligament is composed of two layers of membrane (superior aud inferior) which are united along the base. The superior layer is derived from the fascia of the pelvis. The inferior layer (now seen) is a separate membrane, formed chiefly of transverse fibres ; but it is so thin as to allow the vessels and tlie muscular fibres to be seen through it. Perforating the inferior layer of the ligament, about one inch from the symphysis pubis, is the canal of the urethra ; but the margin of the opening giving passage to that tube is blended with the tissue of the corpus spongiosum. Nearer the symphysis, and close to the bone on each side, the terminal part of the pudic artery and the dorsal nerve of the penis (b and 3) perforate tlie ligament by separate apertures. Between the layers of the ligament are contained tlie membranous part of tire-urethra, the constrictor urethrce muscle, Cowper's glands,