TIBIO-FIBULAB AETICULATIONS. 221 surface of thi' piitelln, rest successively on the troclilwir surface of the femur. In complete extension, the jjatella is situate at the upper part of i" exleu- the knee-joint, where it is very iironiinent, with its apex and the ' ligament of the patella directed down and out to the tibia. For the must part the jiatellar articular surface is raised above the position lo trochlea of the femur, which it touches only at the upper edge by its lower trans\erse fai-et. TiBio-FiBui.AR Articulations. Tlie tibia and fibula are united by ligamentous bands at their Aiiicuiiition extremities where they touch, and by an interosseoiis membrane n^u'ia''' between the shafts of the bones. Dissection. The muscles are to be tiUceii away fr oni the front Dissection and back of the interosseous membrane ; and the loose tissue is to lie remo\-ed from small bands in frojit of and behind the upper and lower ends of the tibia and fibula. The UPPER ARTICULATION has very slight movement, and the Upper ar- structures between the ends of the bones are two small bands, anterior and posterior. The anterior lujament extends over the joint from the outer tulie- by anterior rosity of the tibia to the heiid of the fibula. i^ostcrior ligament, a."'i poste- thinner than the anterior, is attached to the bones behind the joint: "°' it is covered by the tendon of the ])0pliteU3 muscle and a prolon- gation of the synovial membrane of the knee-joint. The articular surfiices are covered with cartilage ; and the synovial synovial cavitij of the articulation is only separated by the thin posterior ligament from that of the knee-joint. The LOWER ARTICULATION posscsses anterior, posterior, and Lower inferior bands, together with an interosseous ligament (inferior) "rtjculation between the ends of the bones. The anterior ligament reaches obliquely from the lower end of the anterior, tibia to the fibula; and the posterior has attachments behind the posterior, articulation similar to those of the band in front. The inferior ligament closes the notch at the back between the inferior, contiguous ends of the tibia and fibula, and consists of transverse yellowish fibres distinct from the posterior ligament. It is fixed on one side to the end of the fibula aliove the pit ; and on the other it is inserted into the contiguous jiartof the tibia, and into the posterior edge of the articular surface, so as to assist in deei)ening the hollow into which the astragalus is received. This band cannot be seen until the astragalus has been disarticulated after the examination of the ankle-joint. The inferior interosseous ligament consists of strong Inindles of and interos- fibres passing obliquely downwards and outwards between the nientsl'""' adjacent rough surfaces of the lower ends of the two bones. This also may be seen after the di.ssection of the aiikle-joint, by sawing longitudinally the ends of the leg-bones.