497 MOVEMENTS OK TIIK SPINE. I'll irons buuilk's (fig. 184, '') pius-siiig ln'twcen the extrcuiilk's o( tlie transverse processes of tlie middle veitelira3, luul re^jreseiiting the iiitertninsver.se iiiu.scles of the low er sjiaees. In the neck they are ali.seiit. LuiAiiENTS OF Special Vertebr.e. The de.scription of the ligaments of the first two cervical, and of the sacral and coccygeal vertehnc, will lie found with the dissection of the neck and of the pelvi.s. Movements of Si'inal Column. The spinal culumn can lie bent forwards, backwards, and to each side ; and it can be rotated. In Jlccion, the \'er- tebra) between the a.\is and sacrum are inclined forwards. The greatest niove- nient takes place be- tween the lower lum- bar vertebrae and the sacrum ; there is an interniedirtte degree in the neck ; and the least is in the upper half of the dorsal region, where the ribs are united to the sternum. The bodies of the bones are brought nearer together in front, wliile they are sejuxrated behind. The inferior jjair of articular jirocesses of the second vertebra glide upwards on the np]ier ones of the third ; the inferior jirocesses of the third bone move in like manner on the ujiper ones of the foui on throughout the moveable column. The ligament in front of the bodies is rela.xed, but the jiosterior and those uniting the neural arches and processes are tightened. The fore part of each intervertebral disc is compressed, and the back is .stretched. In c.t<fi/mo)), the column is arched backwards. The motion is most in the neck, and lea.st in the dorsal vertebra), which are fi.xed by the true ribs and the sternum, and are impeded in their move- ment by the overlapping ,s]iinous proces,ses. The posterior parts of the vertebra} are apjiroximated, while the anterior are .separated ; and the inferior articular processes of Ligiinioiits of .spoeial \crtebni.'. Kinds of motion. Flexion: leLTPt!; moveniont of bones: Fig. 184.—Lioamk.nts of the Processks of the Veutebr^e, and of the Rius (lioUKGEUy). 1. Supr.ispinou.s ligament. 2. Ligamentiiin .subllaviini. 3. Posterior costo-ti-ansver.se ligament : on llie opposite side the band has been removed and tlie joint opened. 4. Intertransverse ligament. and so stiite of ligiiinents. Extension : wlioie most and least; iiKivcmont of bonos ;