onor ur ARTI('Lir,ATIONS OK TlIK Kir.S. uiul the tuljerosity iorins a synox'ial joint witli tlic traii.sveisu 2)roecss of tlie lowur vertebra. The superior costo-trannvcrne lujameni (tig. 177, ') i.s larger and suijor kniger than tlie others. It ascends from the iipjjer edge of the neck "^'-''•''"''"o of the rib to the tran.s\'er.se proce.ss of the vertebra above : it is wanting to tlie first rib. Between this ligament and the verteljra the posterior brandies of the intercostal vessels and nerves pass ; and externally it is continued into the posterior intercostal aponeurosis. The posterior costo-transverse ligament (fig. 184, p. 497) is a short posteiior, band of fibres between the rougli part of the tuberosity of the rib and the tip of the transverse process with which the latter articulates. The middle or interosseous costo-transverse ligament is placed mi'l miildie; between the neck of the rib and tlie transverse process which the tuberosity touches. It will be best seen by sawing horizontally through the I'ib and the transverse process. Its fil)res are collected into separate bundles, with fatty tissue between them. The sijtiorial cavity of tlie costo-transverse articulation will be synovial opened by dividing the posterior ligament. There is no joint between the last two lilis and their transverse Difforence-s processes ; and the posterior and middle costo-transverse liMiuents j" ^'['^''".'i'; are united in one band. ribs. Movements of the ribs. The ribs undergo a movement of rotation Tiic ribs around an a.xis which passes through the costo-central articulation ... * -. ° around uii 111 a direction corresponding very nearly to that of the neck of the axis, bone. By tliis rotation the fore part of the rib is carried upwards and outwards in inspiration, and downwards and inwards iu expiration. The degree of outward movement is necessarily pro- whieli i.s portioiiate to the oblitiuity of the axis, and is therefore greater in "jj"™,"!' the case of the lower ribs than the upper, since the backward inclination of the transverse process of the dorsal vertebnu, and of the necks of the rib.s, increases from above downwards. The lower tIic lowur ribs, while Ijeing elevated, also move somewhat backwards, tlieir tuberosities gliding over the sloped facets of the transverse processes ; wimls and' and in the eleventh and twelfth ribs the upward and downward movements are but slight, while the forward and backward move- ments are relatively free, owing to the absence of the costo-transverse articulation. Costal cartilage with the rib. The end of tlie rib is hollowed Rii, and to receive the costal cartilage, and the two are directly united. The periosteum of the rib is continued into the pericliondrium of the cartilage. Cho.n'Dro-sterxal articulatio.ns will now be examined iu the costui car- portion of sternum that had previously been put aside, and in what tiiaKcs with remains on the body. The cartilages of tlie true ribs, except the ""^ first, are articulated to the sternum by synovial joints. The extremity of each cartilage is received into a dejiression on the siile of the sternum, and is fixed by a surrounding capsule. In front and behind the capsule is thickened by radiating fibres, \\ liich are described as anterior and posterior ligaments. In the joint of the second cartilage there is an interarticidar i^mmH, 1 c.ir- tilage hii.s u ak'c I double joint.