SMALL INTESTINE. 301 column, which the late Professor Birmingham aptly called " the stomach bed." The SMALL INTESTINE reaches from the stomach to the right iliac Small region, where it ends in the larj^'e intestine. It is arbitrarily divided u^j,.,,!^^,,,, into three parts,—duodennm, jejunum, and ileum. division-s. The duodenum conij^rises the first nine or ten inches of the small Buodt^mini: intestine (fig. 112,' to ]). 305). By raising the liver it may be traced i)i^t;ii>"iiig, from the pyloric end of the stomach, at first backwards and then downwards, until it disappears beneath the transverse colon. If the great omentum, with the attached transveree colon,be turned up over and ending: the margin of the thora.x, and the mass of small intestine be drawn to the right, the lower end of the duodenum will be seen on the left of the spine. It here ascends for a short distance, and at the level of the second lumbar vertebra passes into the jejunum, forming a sharp bend forwards and downwards ;—the duodeno- jejimal flexure. The relations of the duodenum cannot, however, be satisfactorily to be fully seen at j^resent, and will be examined later (p. 327). The jejunum and ileum include the re- mainder of the small intestine, two-fifths be- longing to the jejunum and three-fifths to the ileum, but there is no natural division be- tween them. This part of the intestinal tube forms many convolu- tions in the umbilical, hypogastric, left lum- bar, and iliac regions of the abdomen ; and it descends commonly, but more extensively iu the female, into the cavity of the pelvis. In front of the convolu- tions is the great omentum; behind, they are fi.xed to the spine by a relations; large fold of peritoneum containing the vessels and nerves, and named the mesentery. The termination of the ileum is more fixed than the end of rest; it ascends slightly from the pelvis to the right iliac fossa, crossing the external iliac vessels and the psoas muscle, to open into surface the large intestine just below the intersection of the intertubercular and right lateral lines, as marked on the surface of the body. The LARGE INTESTINK or COLON (fig. Ill) is more fixed than Largo the jejunum and ileum, from which it is to be distinguished bv l"^"^^'."" ■ -1-1., " now ais- Its sacculated aiipearance, and by its being furnished with small tinKuished ; processes of peritoneum containing fat—the ivppcndices epiplo/cm. It begins in the right iliac region in a rounded part or head course (ciEcuni), and ascends to the liver through the right iliac and lumbar regions. Then crossing the abdomen below the stomach, it reaches seen Flo. 110.—The Stomach op a Child.