779 1'HK INFRKIOR VEltMIFOKM tROCESS. Parts oh- the inferior vermiform process (fig. 285). On Low.^v m>vm tliu inferior vurniiforni process there are seen, from Ijeliiud forwards ""' —first, 11 small eminence, comprising seven or eight narrow trans- \-erse huninao whi('h unite the posterior inferior and gracile lobes ol' the two sides and is named the tuhei- valvuhe : next, a larger, tongue- sha]ied ])r()jection, which serves as a commissure to the biventral ' lobes, and is called the pijramid; and then a narrow elongated l>y|'ijj^"''l part,—the nvulu,at tlie anterior extremity of which is the rounded noiini^, prominence of the nodule. The uvula Ls connected to the amj'gdaloid lobe on each side by a grey strip named the farrowed band, and the nodule to the flocculus by a thin while lamina—the inferior medullary velum, but inf,.,-;,,,. to see these jiarts the following dissection must be made. veUim'"'^ Dissection. The biventral and gracile lobes are to be sliced off pi^^^.Jiio„_ on the left side, so that the amygdaloid lobe may be everted from the valley. By this proceeding the strtlk of the flocculus is expo.sed, and is seen to be continued into the thin and .soft while layer of the inferior medullary velum, which joius the nodule internally. The furrowed band is also exposed on the side of the uvula. The inferior inedullarij reluia is a thin white layer which forms a infoiior comnii-ssure to the flocculi, and is connected to the upper surface of ""j;',',',!''"^' the nodule in the nnddle. Its exposed part on each side, between the liocculus and the nodule, is semilunar in shape, and the anterior edge is free ; but behind, it is continued into the medullary centre of the cerebellum (tig. 274). The furrowed band is a narrow ridge of grey matter, notched on i.'unowcil the surface, which pa.sses from the side of the uvula to the con- .stiicted base of the amygdaloid lobe. It lies along the attached posterior margin of the inferior medullary velum. Structure of the Cerebellum. The interior of the cerebellum Curuboiiuni consists of a large white mass—the niedullary centre, from which !;"v)','i't,e'' offsets i)roceed to the lamina) and to other parts of the encephalon. niecluliury centre The medullary centre is surrounded, except in front, where the processes to other parts of the brain (peduncles of the cerebellum) issue from it, by a supei'licial layer of grey substance—the cortex of am! gi-ey the cerebellum; and other small masses of grey matter are embedded in it. Structure of the lamince.. The laminie are seen, in the section that Laniiii;u has been made of the separate cerebellum or of the under part of "xUM-'mliv the left hemisphere, to consist of a grey external portion envelo])ing a white centre (fig. 27V, j). 765). The grey nuitter is subdivided int(j two hiyers, the siiperficial of which is lighter and clear, while the deeper stratum is darker and of a rust colour. The white part is deri\-ed from the medullary centre, which sends off numerous processes to the lobes and the bodies composing the worm, and these, dividing like the branches of a tree, end in small offsets which enter llie .several laminse. Dissection. For the purpo.se of .seeing the medullary centre, Hi-iJicution. with its contained corpus dentatuni, remove all the lamina) from