388 Basal surface. Anterior, superior and lateral. Neck, Condition of empty bladder. Ureter in pelvis, enters bladder. Prostate: position : fonn ; axis ; relations of anterior surface, posterior surface, and side; upex and base : DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. cords are prolonged to the umbilicus ; the central one of tliese is the nrachus ; and the two lateral are the obliterated hypoKastric arteries (fig. 109, p. 299). All the surface behind the obliterated vei3sels IS covered by peritoneum. Surfaces. The base or basal surface rests against the middle part ot the rectimi. Connected with it are the vesiculse seniinales and the vasa deferentia ; and l)etween these is a triangular simce trom which the peritoneum is mostly absent. ' The anterior or pubic surface of the body is in contact with the pubic bones and anterior true ligaments, as well as with the abdominal wall if the bladder is very full. It is alto<^ether free from peritoneum. ° The superior or abdominal surface is entirely covered bv the serous membrane, and has the small intestine and the pelvic '^colon resting on it ; the ureter enters its postero-lateral angle at either side, and the vas deferens courses over the hinder part of this surface beneath the peritoneum. Extending along the upper part of each lateral region is the obliterated hypogastric artery, which marks the extent of the peritoneal covering at the side. The surface below this is connected with the pelvic fascia by very loose areolar tissue. The neck (cervix) is the part of the bladder near the urethra, and is surrounded by the prostate gland. This is the lowest part of the organ. When the bladder is empty, the upper wall falls upon the lower; the apex lies at the upper end of the pubic symphysis ; and the base is of very small extent and looks downwards. In a median section the cavity then appears as a slit, which is continued backwards for a short distance beyond the beginning of the urethra. The DKETER (figs. 144 and 145, h) crosses the common or the external iliac arterj^, and inclines forwards below the level of the obliterated hypogastric artery, being covered by the peritoneum aliove the sacro-genital fold. It enters the bladder at the upper and outer part of the base, at the distance of one inch and a half or two inches from the prostate gland. The PROSTATE GLAND (figs. 144 and 145, b) surrounds the neck of the bladder. Its shape is conical with the base turned upwards, and its size about equals thai of a large chestnut. In the recumbent position, a line from the apex through the middle of the gland would be directed obliquely Ijackwards and slightly downwards towards the sacriuu ; but in the erect state of the body the axis is nearly vertical. The anterior surface is about three-quarters of an inch from the symphysis pubis, to which it is attached by the anterior true ligaments of the bladder. On this surface the dorsal vein of the penis divides to enter the prostatic plexus. The posterior surface has the greatest extent, and is close to the rectum ; this is the jwrt that is i'elt by the linger introduced into the bowel through the anus. On each side the prostate is covered by (he levator ani. The apex rests on the upper surface of the triangular ligament;