375 THE LUMBAR ARTERIES AND VEINS. the novtic intercostala in their course ami distribution. Commonly five in number on each side, they arise from the back of the aorta, and the vessels of opjjosite sides are sometimes joined in a common trunk. Tiiey pass backwards over the hollowed surface of the course; bodies of the last dorsal and upper four lumbar vertebral, and benealh the pillar of the diapliragm and the psoa?, to reach the and tonni- interval between the transverse processes, where each ends in an '°" "' abdominal and a dorsal branch. The arteries of the right side lie beneath the vena cava. The poaterioi-ov dorsal branches continue to the back between the a branch to transverse processes, and supply offsets to the muscles and to spinal canal. The anterior or abdominal branches are directed outwards, and enter and a the posterior part of the abdominal wall, where they are distributed t|','il"vli'ii'° (p. 283). The first lies with the last dorsal nerve across the front °[^^'"' of the quadratiis lumborum, but the others u.sually pass behind that' muscle. Oflsets are furnished to the psoas and cpiadratus muscles, and to the subperitoneal fat, and they anastomose with branches of the renal, cai)sular, spernuitio, I'ight and left colic, and some other vi.sceral arteries. The LUMBAR VEINS are the same in number, and have the .same The veins course as the arteries. Commencing by the union of a dorsal and an abdominal branch at the root of the transverse proces.s, each trunk is ^p^^ directed forwards to the vena cava. They open into the back of the J,'^';"''.''® cava, either singly, or conjointly with those of the opposite side. On ^^^^ io„ggr the left side the veins are longer than on the right, and pass beneath the aorta. Around the transverse j)rocesses, and beneath the psoas muscles, a plexus the lumbar veins communicate freely with one another, with the transverse' ilio-lumbar, and with the common iliac, so as to form a plexus of processes, veins. Issuing above from the plexus is a branch, the ascending lumbar vein, which joins the azygos vein of the corresponding side of the body. Beginnino of the azygos veins. The azygos vein begins on Origin of each side above the first lumbar vertebra by the above-mentioned ascending lumbar vein ; and it is often joined by a branch of com- munication with the inferior cava or the renal vein. The rigid vein entrance enters the thorax usually with the thoracic duct and the aorta, to the right of which it lies. The le/t vein passes through the pillar of the diapliragm, or sometimes through the aortic opening. The anatomy of these veins in the tliorax is given at p. 483.