DISSECTION OF THE PHARYNX. 658 in swallow- of upiier constrictor. Pterygo- maxillary. ligament. Dissection to show longitudinal muscles. Dissection. Interior of pharynx. Ob.jects to bo notej. same time will diminisli the size of the pharynx ; and as the anteiioi- attachments of the lower muscles are nearer together than tho.se of the upper, tlie tube will be contracted more behind the larynx than near the head. In swallowing, the object is first seized by the lower part of tlie upper constrictor, and then forced on to the oesophagus by the succe.s- sive action of the middle and inferior constrictors. Since the back of the pharynx is closely applied to tlie prevertebral muscles, from which it cannot be separated in the natural condition of the parts, the efl'ect of the contraction of these muscles is to draw the tongue, hyoid l)one and larynx backwards, as well as somewhat upwards owing to the oblique direction of the greater number of the fibres of the middle and lower constrictors ; and the cavity, when empty, is compressed from before backwards. The upper part of the superior constrictor narrows the space above the mouth, and assists in bringing together the posterior pillars of the soft palate. (See the action of the palato-pharyngeus, p. 6G4.) The ijteryyo-maxillary ligament is a thin fibrous band w-hicli passes from the tip of the hamular process to the hinder end of the mylo- hyoid ridge of the lower jaw, and gives origin in front to the middle fibres of the buccinator and behind to the superior constrictor. It is often partly concealed externally by the meeting of the fleshy fibres of the two muscles. Dissection (ftg. 233). By dividing the middle and inferior con- strictors midway between their origin and insertion, and reflecting the parts forwards and back-\vards, the longitudinal fibres of the pharyngeal wall will be exposed. The LONGITUDINAL OT ELEVATOR MUSCLES of the pharynx are the stylo-pharyngeus and palato-pharyngeus. The stylo-pharyiujcns has already been described (p. 626), but it may now be followed to its insertion. The ixdato-yharyngcus is only partially seen, and will be described with the muscles of the soft palate. Its fibres appear behind those of the stylo-pharyngeus, and descend to the lower part of the pharynx, reaching backwards to the middle line. Dissection (Hg. 233). Open the pharynx by an incision along the middle, and, after removing the tow from the interior, keep it open with hooks : a better view of the cavity will be obtained by partly dividing the occipital attachment on each side. The INTERIOR OF THE PHARYNX is wider from side to side than from before backwards, and its greatest width is opposite the hyoid bone ; from that spot it diminishes both upwards and downwards, but much more rapidly in the latter direction. In it the following objects are to be noticed. At the top are situate the posterior apertures (q) of the nasal fossa3, which are separated by the septum nasi. Below them hangs the soft palate, partly closing the opening into the mouth ; and Irom its free margin a primiineut fold of the mucous membrane, the posterior pillar of the fauces (l), is continued downwards and back- wards on each side of the pharynx. Immediately behind each nasal