THE SUBCLAVIAN ARTERY. m the lower cervical transverse proces.ses, it is inserted helo^v hy a a tine... thin tendon ab.Jttt half an inch wide, into the second nh in front of the .serratus posticus superior. Zon. It acts as an elevator of the second rib ; and :ts ibres having the same direction as those of the me.Uus, it will help to iiuOiiip tlip neck in the same way. , , . "' The B~vi.v. AHTEKV (figJ 213) is the first portion of the Su-.v.an lai-e trunk which supplies the upper liml, with blood, and is thus designated from its position beneath the clavicle. On the rrghUrde .^^^^^ this vessel is derived from the bifurcation of the innominate arterv behind the stenio-clavicular articulation, and the part of it named subclavian extend.s as far as the outer border of the first rib. On the left side the artery arises in the thorax from the arch of the aorta, and the fir.st part therefore has a longer course and the special points in connection with the vessel will be mentioned after a general description of the vessel in the neck has been "iven To reach the limb the artery crosses the lower part ol the neck, taking an arched course over the top of the lung and the first rib, and between the scaleni mu.scles. For the purpose of .s <Uv^^l describing its numerous connections the vessel is divuled vnto three ,„„.ts. parts ■ the first extending from the sterno-clavicular articulation to the inner border of the anterior scalenus ; the second, beneath the scalenus ; and the third, from the outer border of that muscle to outer edge of the first rib. r ^- . FiEST Part. Internal to the anterior scalenus the artery lies Wrt. deeply in the neck, and ascends somewhat from its origin. Between .,eaienus, the vessel and the surface will be found the common tegumentary ■« '^""V- coverings with the platysma and the deep fascia; the sterno- mastoid" sterno-hyoid, and sterno-thyroid muscles; and a strong i" font oi, deep process of fascia from the inner border of the scalenus muscle. Behind and below, it rests upon the pleura, which ascends into behiml. an.l the arch formed by the vessel; and the apex of the lung separates the artery from the vertebraj and the posterior ends of the fir.st and SGConcT nljs Veins. The innominate vein lies below and rather in front of this part of the artery. The internal jugular vein crosses the arterial trunk close to the scalenus ; and underneath this vein, with the same direction, lies the vertebral vein. Much more superficial, and separated from the artery by muscles, is the deep part of the anterior jugular vein. Nerves. In front of the artery lies the pneumo-gastric nerve, near Position of to the internal jugular vein ; and inside this, the lower ciirdiac branch of the same nerve trunk. Beneath the subclavian artery on the right side winds the recurrent branch of the pneumo-gastric ; and one or two branches of the sympathetic nerve form loops round tllG vessel. Second Paht. Beneath the scalenus the vessel is not so deep as in ^^^'^j'^l""'' the first part of its course, and at this spot it rises highest above the scalenus, clavicle. It is covered by the integuments, platysma, and deep x,, fro„t, fascia: then by the clavicular origin of the sterno-mastoid ; and