DISSECTION OF THE KECK. 708 nrii (icSlM'iltcll els('\vllrl-i'. Special liKami'iils between first two vertebne anrl occipi- tal bone. Directions. The common li^'iuuents will be best seen on the doisiil or lumbar prntion of the spine, wliere they are more stron<j;ly developed ; tliuir preparation and description will be found at the end of the thorax, wil li the description of the ligaments of the spine (pp. 492 to 498). Should the student examine them in the neck to .^ee their diCference in this region, lie shotild leave nnciit the neural arches of the upper two vertebne, to which special ligaments are attached. Special ligamicnts unite the fir.^t two cervical vertebras to each other and to the occipital bone : .some of lhe.«e are external to. and others within the spinal canal. The ligaments outside the simuil canal are fibrous membranes, which connect the axis to the atlas, and the latter to the occipital Fig. 251. -External Ligaments in front between the Occipital Bone, Atlas, and Axis. (Bourgery.) 1. Sawn basilar process. 2. Capsule of articulation between occipital bone and atlas, internal to whioli is the anterior occipito-atlantal ligament. 3. Anterior atlanto-axial. 4. Lateral articulation between the atlas and axis opened. Anterior ligament betweiMi atlas and axi.s, bone in front and behind. Capsular ligaments also surround the articulations formed by these bones on each side, but they will be examined more conveniently after tlie spinal citnal has been opened. The anterior atlanto-axial ligament (tig. 251, consists of a mem- branous layer attached to the anterior arch of the atlas and the body of the axis, and a superficial thickened band in the centre, prolonged from the upper end of the anterior common ligament, and connect- ing the ridge on the front of the axis to the tubercle on the anterior arcli of the altas. and between The anterior occipito-atlantal liiiamcnt (fig. 251,2) resembles the alias and foregoing, and passes from the basihir process of the occijutal bone, bone.'''"' imniediately in front of the foramen magnum, to the anterior arch of the atlas. Its central part i.s also thickened, and is fixed to the tubercle on the front of the atlas.