DISSECTION OK rriK LEG. 220 Flexion : niDveiiKMit of tibin ; cliange in direction state of ligampnta. Extension mox'enient or tibia; course changes; state of the liga- ments. Two kintls of rotation. Rotation in mo\'enient of tibia; state of ligaments. Rotiition out: sUite of ligaments. Movi;ment of patella: in flexion, where it touches; while straighten- ing; in inunber, bending {fie:don) and .straightening (extevgron) ■ hxxl tliere i.s, in addition, rotatmi of Ibe tibia wlien tbe le" is benl In fleximi, the tibia witli it., libro-cartilages niove.s backwards round tlie end of the femur ; and the motion i.s limited by the e.xtensor nni.scle, and by the meeting of the calf of the leg with the thigh. For the antei'ior third of tlie movement the tibia i.s directed back- wards and inwards along the oblique curve of the inner condyle givmg riseto an inward rotation of the leg; but for the pcsterior two-thirds of the movement the tibia passes straight back and up o\'er both condyles. All the outside ligaments are relaxed, except the anterior ; and the same is the case with the anterior crucial : the posterior crucial ligament is put forcibly on the stretch towards the end of flexion. : In extension, the tibia is carried forwards until it pas.ses .slightly beyond the line of the femur, when the uniting ligaments prevent its farther i)rogress. In the hinder two-thirds of the movement the tibia has a straight course over the condyles of the femur; but in the anterior third the leg-bone is directed forwards and outwards over the oblique curve of the inner condyle and is rotated out. The posterior and the lateral ligaments, together with the whole of the anterior crucial ligament, are rendered tense and set a limit to the movement. Rotation. A half-ljent state of the knee is nece.s.s;iiT for this movement, for the purpose of relaxing tbe anterior crucial and the lateral ligaments ; and the foot mu.st, be free. Then the tibia with its fibro-cartilages rotates .slightly around a longitudinal axi.s, tbe great toe being turned in and out. : During rotation inwards, tlie inner articular surface of the tibia moves but little beneath the inner condyle of tbe femur; but the outer articular surface, with its fibro-cartilage, glides forwards imder the external condyle. Both lateral ligaments are loose ; but the anterior crucial is gradually tightened, and finally stops the motion. In rotation outwards the opposite movement of the tibia fcike.s place,—the outer articular surface being directed backwards. The internal lateral ligament is gradually tightened, and controls the movement : the crucials have not any influence on it. Movement of the jxttella. When the knee ]iasse.s from flexion to extension, the patella travels upwards and slightly inw.nrds over the lower end of the femur, tcmching in succession dilfeivnt jiart.s of the femoral articular surfaces. In complete Hexion it lies on tlie outer part of the joint below the femur, where it is scarcely percejjtible, and is fixed in its .situa- tion. It touches the semilunar surface on the inner condyle by its peqiendicular facet, and tbe uiider-part of tbe outer condyle by the upjier and outer mark on its .S(|uare surface. When the joint is passing from flexion to exten.sion, the iipper, middle, and lower pairs of inipre.ssions on the square