DISSECTION OF THE NOSE. 668 Opuiiiii; Roof. the middlu turbinate bone ; below tliis tlio outer wall recedes, form- ing the rcspindory passcuje, which has a width near the floor of about Ihree-fifth.s of an inch. In front, each fossa oijens on to the face, and behind into the pharynx, by orilices called nures. Oilier apertures in the roof and outer wall lead into air-sinuscs in the surrounding bones, viz., frontal, ethmoid, sphenoid, and superior maxillary. Each fossa presents for examination a roof and flooi', an inner and outer wall, and an anterior and posterior opening. The ROOF is strongly arched from before backwards, and is formed by the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone in the centre ; by the frontal and nasal bones, and the lateral cartilages in front; and by the body of the sphenoid, and the sphenoidal spongy bone, and the Floor. bouiiilary sup.hirl. tone mid. elhm. cell Fig. 235.—The Nasal Fossje in Coronal Section. On the right side of the figure tlie section passes through the openings of the middle ethmoidal cells and the anlnim into the middle meatus: on the left side, a section of the hinder part of the fossa is represented, and the posterior ethmoidal cells are seen opening into the superior meatus. palate bone, at the posterior part. In the dried skull many apertures exist in it; most are in the ethmoid bone for the branches of the olfactory nerve with vessels, and one for the nasal nerve and vessels; on the front of the body of the sphenoid is the opening of its sinus. The FLOOR is slightly hollowed from side to side, an<l is formed by the palate ])rocesses of the superior maxillary and palate bones. Near the front in the dry skull is the incisor foramen leading to the anterior palatine fossa. The INNER WALL (septum nasi) is partly osseous and partly cartila- ginous. The osseous part is constructed by the vomer, by the perpendicular plate of the ethmoid bone, and by those parts of the frontal an<l nasal with which this last bone articulates. The