13 CUTANEOUS NERVES OF CHEST. costal space. And Lhe rest (lateral cutaneous of the thorax) should be looked for along the side of the chest, about an inch behind the anterior fold of the axilla, there being one from each intercostal and mUtr- space except the first. As these last-mentioned nerves pierce the 1"^^^^. wall of the thorax, they divide into anterior and posterior branches. The posterior branches of the highest two of them are larger than the rest, and are to be followed across the armpit, where a junction will be found with a branch (nerve of Wrisberg) of the brachial of plexus. Cutaneous nerves from the cervical plexus. These cross Cutaneous the clavicle and are distributed to the skin over Uiepectoral muscle. ""rviL^u'^ The most internal branch (sternal) lies near the inner end of the pi«xus. bone, and reaches but a short distance below it. Other branches (clavicular), two or more in number and larger, cross the middle of the clavicle, and extend to near the lower border of the pectoralis major ; they join one or more of the anterior cutaneous nerves. The Cutaneous Nerves of the Thorax are derived from the Cutaneous trunks of the interco.stal nerves between the ribs. Of these there intel-costals. are two sets :—One set, the lateral cutaneous 7ierves, arise aliout midway between the spinal colunm and the sternum. The other set, the anterior cutaneous nerves, are the terminations of the same trunks at the anterior ends of the intercostal spaces. The anterior cutaneous nerves are slender filaments which One near ]iierce the pectoral muscle, and are directed outwards to supply the skin and the mammary gland. The offset of the second nerve joins a cutaneous In-anch from the cervical ]ilexus. Small branches of the internal mammary vessels accompany these nerves. The lateral cutaneous nerves (ti'j. 4, p. 15) issue with com- The other panion vessels between the digitations of the serratus magnus the ehest; muscle, and divide into anterior and posterior branches. There is not usually any lateral cutaneous nerve from the first intercostal trunk. The anterior offsets (fig. 4 p. 15) bend over the pectoral muscle, tiiese have and end in the integuments and the mammary gland ; they increase in size downwards, and the lowest give twigs to the digitations of the external oblique muscle. The cutaneous nerve of the second intercostal trunk commonly wants the antei'ior offset. The 2Jostmo?- offsets {Rg. 4 p. 15) end in the integuments over uosterior the latissimus dorsi muscle and the back of the scapula, and decrease in size from above dowiwards. The lateral branch of the second intercostal nerve (fig. 4 J). 15) leaehes is larger than the rest, and is named tha intercosto-limneral. Per- forating the fascia of the axilla, it is distributed to the skin of the arm (p. 43). As it crosses the axilla it is divided into two or more pieces, and is connected to the nerve of Wri.sberg, or leaser internal cutaneous, by a filament of variable size. The branch of the third intercostal ners'e gives filaments likewise 'riiird nerve, to the armpit and the inner side of the arm. The Mamma is the gland for the .secretion of the milk, and is The breast: situate on the lateral i»rt of the front of the chest.