177 CUTANEOUS NERVES ON THE FllONT OF THE LEG. iiiul third toes : it coinimiuiccites with tlie interiuil saphenous and the canterior tihial nerves. The outer branch (*) also divides into two nerves ; these lie over outer the third and fourth interosseous spaces, and bifurcate at the web of the foot for the contiguous sides of the three toes corresponding with those siJaces : it communicates with the e.xternal saphenous nerve on the outer border of the foot. The ANTERIOR TIBIAL NERVE (i) becomes cutaneous in the first Anterior interosseous space, and is distributed to the opposed sides of the f™^,',' great toe and the next. The muscido-cutaneous nerve communi- cates with it, and sometimes assists in supplying the same toes. The EXTERNAL SAPHENOUS NERVE (fig. 71, p. 188) COmes from External the Ijack of the leg below the outer ankle, and is continued along the foot to the outside of the little toe ; all the outer margin of the foot receives nerves from it, and the offsets towards the sole are larger than those to the dorsum. Occasionally it supplies both sides of the little toe and part of the next, joining with the outer branch of the musculo-cutaneous. Internal saphenous nerve (fig. 66, '"). This nerve is con- internal tinued along the vein of the same name to tlie middle of the instep, sap'ienou.s. where it ceases mostly in the integuments, but some branches pass through the deep fascia to end in the tarsus. The DEEP fascia of the front of the leg is thickest near the Deep fascia knee-joint, where it gives origin to muscles. On the inner side it is "'^ ''^s; fi.\ed to the anterior border of the tibia ; but externally it is continued intemus- round to the back of the leg. A strong intermuscular septum is cuiarsepta; sent in from the deep surface to the anterior border of the fibula, separating the anterior and external muscles : and another weaker process passes backwards in the upper third of the leg between the tibialis anticus and extensor longus digitorum. Above, the fascia is connected to the heads of the leg-bones; and below, it is continued to the dorsum of the foot. Above and below the ankle-joint it is strengthened by some transverse transverse fibres, and gives rise to the two parts of the anterior '^^ ^'^^ anmdar ligament; and below the end of the fibula it forms another band, the external annular ligament. Dissection. The fascia is to be removed from the front of the Take away leg and the dorsum of the foot, but the thickened bands of the annular ligament (fig. 67) above and below the end of the tibia are to be left. In separating the fascia from the subjacent muscles, let the edge of the scalpel be directed upwards. In like manner the fascia may be taken from the peronei muscles leave liga- on the outer side of the fil)ula, but without destroyincr the band "'""'"'"^ (external annular ligament) below that bone. ° "" On the dorsum of the foot, the dorsal vessels (fig. 70, p. 183) clean With their nerve are to be displayed, and the tendons of the short "^S""*^ and long extensors of the toes are to be traced to the ends of the digits. In the leg, the muscles are to be cleaned and separated roni one another, and the anterior tibial nerve and vessels are to be followed from the dorsum into their intermuscular space, and K