REGIONS OF THK NOSK. 671 ethmoidal cells; and in some cases (liere is a second opening into the antrum close above tlie lower turbinate bone. Tlie inftrior meatus (fig. 235), is wider tlian tlie middle one, and Loww extends the whole length of the hard palate. Near its anterior extremity is the opening of tlie nasal duct (fig. 237). Above the superior meatus, in an angle formed by the roof, there spi,o„o- is a vertical depression called the sjiheiio-ethmoidal recess (fig. 237), on ''^'""o''!"' the posterior wall of whicli the sphenoidal sinus opens ; and occasion- ally a small fourth meatus, communicating with a posterior ethmoidal a fourUi cell, is present between the rc-cess and the sui)eri(ir meatus. mnatus In front of the attached border of the middle turbinate bone there is usually to be seen a faint ridge, the agger nasi (fig. 237), directed A.^-er nasi obliquely downwards and forwards, and forming the upper boundary of a slight hollow known as the atrium of the middle meatus (fig. a„d atriun, 237). The nares. In the recent condition of the nose each fossa has a Na,.es distinct anterior opening on the face, and another in the iiharynx ; but in the skeleton there is only one common opening in front for both sides. These apertures and their boundaries have been before described in the anatomy of the face. The IIDCOUS LINING OF THE NASAL FOSS.B is Called the ^n'?Ul/rrn/ Muccs or Schneulenan. memh-ane, and is blended with the subjacent perios'- ''»'»«<"■ "'e teum or perichondrium. It is continuous with the skin at the nostril, with the membrane lining the pharynx through the posterior nares, and with the conjunctiva through the nasal duct; and it sends prolongations to line the different sinuses, viz., frontal, ethmoidal sphenoidal, and maxillary. ' The apertures in the dry bone which transmit nerves and vessels, somofora- viz., the mcisor and spheno-palatine foramina, the holes in the cribriform plate, and the foramen for the nasal nerve and vessels are entirely closed by the membrane ; and the openings leading to others the sinuses are reduced in size by the prolongations passing through '/'"""isl-e-i them. At the termination of the nasal duct the mucous membrane ' orms a single or double fold, which is sometimes suflicient to close the opening and prevent air entering the canal from the nose Over the middle and lower turbinate bones (to a greater extent PoiCs o„ on the latter) the mucous membrane is thickened and projected ■'^''""By beyond the edges of the bones by the large submucous vessels, so that the meatuses are deeper and longer in the recent state than in tne dried skull. The appearance and structure of the lining membrane differ in the Ti„ve upper and lower parts of the nasal fossa, and near the anterior open- nig, whence a division of the cavity is made into three portions, which are termed respectively the olfactory region, the respirato,.; legion, and the vestibule. ' i J The vestibule (fig. 237) is the slightly dilated portion of the Vestibu.e c^rt il '^^^^ "°«tril. It is bounded by the mo.e fiexible than that of tlie part above. The lining membrane of