OLFACTORY NERVES. 073 Dissection. At this stage of the dissection, but little will be Dissection seen of the distribution of the olfactory nerves. If the bonv and , cartilagmous septum be removed, so as to leave entire the membrane covering it on the left side, the nervous filaments will appear on the surface, near the cribriform plate. In the membrane, near the front of the septum, an olfset of the nasal nerve is to be found. The naso-palatine nerve and artery (tig. 238, ■') are to be sought lower down, as they are directed from behind forwards, towards the anterior palatine fossa; the artery is readily seen, especially if it is injected, but the fine nerve is embedded in the membrane, and will be found by scraping with the point of the scalpel. By cutting through the fore and upper part of the membrane detached from the septum nasi, other branches of the olfactory nerve may be traced on the outer wall of the nasal fossa. The OLFACTORY NERVES spring from the under surface of the Olfactory olfactory bulb as it lies on the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone = (fig. 238,1), and descend to the olfactory region of the nose through the apertures in this part of the roof. They are about twenty in number, and are divided into two sets. Those of the inner set are inner «et- the larger, and run downwards in the grooves on the perpendicular plate of the ethmoid, to be distributed over the upper third of the septum. The oute^- set (fig. 239, p. 675) ramifies over the upper urbinate bone the flat surface of the ethmoid in front of this, and outer set. the fore part of the middle turbinate bone. As the nerves leave the skuU, they receive sheaths from the dura mater and pia mater, which are continued as far as their terminal ramifications, and then become lost m the surrounding tissue. The trunks break up into tufts of filaments which commmiicate freely together, forming a close net- work beneath the nyicous membrane. The olfactory nerves consist wholly of non-medullated fibres. The other nerves in the nose will be described in the followin<» section. " Blood-vessels. The different vessels of the nose will be described Biood-ves- n the next section, p. 677 et seq. The arteries form a network in the pituitaiy membrane, and a large submucous plexus on the ed"e of each of the two lower spongy bones, especially on the inferio°r I LIZ T r ^ ''^""^ disposition like the arteries, an.l this veins. IS laigest on the lower spongy bone and the septum nasi. Section XIII. SVHENO-PALATINE AND OTIC GANGLIA TH vm M THE FACIAL NERVE AND THE INTERNAL CAROTID ARTERY IN THE TEMPORAL BONE. C.AROTID The preparation of Meckel's ganglion and its branches ^fi^r 9•^Q^ „ and of the terminal branches ^f «ie internd ^^^^ a difficult task, m consequence of the nerves and vessels helnc. D.A. " X X