792 DISSECTION OF THE EYE. ending in front; onter and inner sur- faces ; thickness; of an inch), the optic nerve (l) is transmitted through an aperture in it; this opening decreases in size from without inwards, and is oriliriform when the nerve is drawn out,—the lattice-like condition being due to the Inindles of fibrous .tissue between the funiculi of nnd before; the nerve. Small apertures for the passage of vessels and ner^'es are situate around the optic nerve ; and there are others for vessels at the front and the centre of the ball. Anteriorly the sclerotic is continuous with the transparent cornea. On the outer surface this coat is smooth, except where the muscles are attached : on the inner aspect it is of a dark colour, with flocculi of fine areolar tissue (membrana fusca) uniting it to the next coat, and with the ends of ruptured vessels and nerves. The sclerotic covering is thickest at the back of the ej'el)all, but it becomes thinner and whiter about a quarter of an inch from the cornea, where it is visible as the " white of the eye." Towards the junction with the cornea it is again somewhat thickened. In its substance, near the union with the cornea, is a small flattened venous space, the canal of Schlemm (sinus circularis iridis ; fig. 288, r). Structure. The sclerotic consists of bundles of fibrous tissue, which interlace with one another, but run for the most part longi- tudinally and transversely. Its vessels are very scanty. ]\Iinute filaments of the ciliary ner\^es have l)een described, entering the deep surface of the menibrane. Cornea (fig. 288, d). This firm transparent membrane forms aljout one-sixth of the eye-ball, and measures about half an inch across. Its shape is circular, though when viewed from the front it appears larger in the transverse direction, in consequence of the opaque sclerotic structure encroaching farther on it above and below than on the sides. It is convex in front and concave behind ; and its thickness is nearly uniform (from -^th to -^^th of an inch), except near the circumference, where it is somewhat thicker at the junction with the sclerotic. The anterior surface of the cornea is slightly less extensive thau the posterior, owing to its being overlapped by tlie sclerotic. Supported by the aqueous humour, it is ten.se and nearly spherical during life; but its radius of curvature varies in different individuals, and in the same person at difl'erent ages, being shorter in the young. After death it becomes flaccid from the transudation of the aqueous humour ; or if the eye is immersed in water, it is rendered o])a(|Ue by infiltration of the tissues by that fluid. Sfriicture. The substance of the cornea is composed of a .'ijiecial kind of connective tissue, arranged in irregular layers. Over the front the conjunctiva (which is here reduced to its eiiitlielium) is continued ; and covering the l)ack of the cornea proper is a very thin elastic stratum known as the membrane of Dcscemct. The lallcr may l)e peeled off, after a cut has been made through it, in .shreds which curl uji with the attached .surface innermost. At the circumference of the cornea the membrane of Desceniet breaks u]> circular sinus; composed of librous tissue ; vessels and nerves. Cornea: extent and size; form; thickness; surfaces; curve; condition after death. It consists of laminar lil)rons tissue, with conjunctiva in front, and an elastic nifinibi*ane behind ;