DISSECTION OF THE TONGUE. M usi'ulat' coi tex of tons'iie. Geuio- glossus in the toni'ue its posterior fibres. Constrictor in tlie tonsue. Intrinsic muscles. First sliow inferior, tlien .supe- rior lin- gnalis, then trans- versalis. Trace tlio nerves. Trnnsver- salis is hori- zontal : attach- ments ; '( 'urtex uf Ihi: tuuijuc. Tliii muscles above described, together with the superficial lingualis, constitute a cortical layer of oblique and longitudinal fibres, which covers the tongue, except below where the genio-glossus and inforior lingualis muscles are placed, and resembles "a slipper turned upside down" (Zaglas). This stratum is pierced by the deeper fibres. The GENio-QLOSSDS (fig. 243, a) enters the tongue vertically by the side of the septum and perforates the cortical covering to end in the submucous tissue. In the tongue the fibre.s spread Ulie the rays of a fan from apex to base, and are collected into transverse kniinse as they pass through the transversalis. The hindmost fibres end on the hyo-glossal membrane and the hyoid bone ; and a slip is pro- longed from them, beneath the hyo-glossus, to the upper constrictor of the pharynx. A vertical section at a future stage will show the radiation of its fibres. The PHARTNGEO-GLOSSDS (fig. 242, g), or the fibres of the upper constrictor attached to the side of g the tongue, passes beneath the fibres of the hyo-glos.?us, and is continued with the transverse muscle to the septum. The intrinsic muscles are four in number in each haK of the tongue, viz., transversalis, a supe- rior and an inferior lingualis, and a set of perpendicular fibres. Dissection. To complete the preparation of the inferior lin- gualis on the right side, the fibres of the stylo-glossus covering it in front, and those of the hyo-glossus over it behind are to be cut through. The superior lingualis (fig. 242, a) may be shown on the left side, by taking the thin raucous membrane from the upper surface from tip to base. The transversalis may be laid bare on the right side, by cutting away on the upper surface the stratum of the extrinsic muscles already seen ; and by removing on the lower surface the inferior linguaUs and the genio-glossus, after the former muscle ha.s been examined. The nerves of the tongue are to be dissected on the left half as well as the part will admit ; but a fresli specimen will be required to follow them satisfactorily. The TRANSVERSE LINGUALIS MUSCLE (fig. 243, c) fomis a hori- zontal layer in the substance of the tongue from base to apex. The fibres are attached internally to the side of the septum, and are directed thence outwards, the posterior being somewhat cui^ved, to their insertion into the submucous tissue at the side of the tongue. D Fig. 243 -Transverse Section op THE Tongue. Genio-glossus. Septum linguae. Transversalis. Inferior liuguahs. (After Zag- las