112 DISSECTION OF THE BUTTOCK. and perfo- rating cutaneous branch. Clean gluteu.s inaximus : nioclc of proceeding. Fascia of tli buttock. Gluteu.s niaximus: origin ; insertion ; leek ^o^f"e-l /r^'^f ha (f O^tt I'-^^X''*'^ relations of the surfaces, and borders; put of the Imttock ; the reniaiiiiiig bianche.s (2) descend to the thigh, and Avill be afterwards noticed on it {i>. 130). The PERFORATING CUTANEOUS NERVE of the sacral plexus (^) turns round the edge of the gluteus maximns near the coccyx, and supplies the skin of the adjacent part of the buttock: thi.s nerve has been exposed in the dissection of the perineum. Dissection. The thin and unimportant deep fascia of this region may be disregarded, in order that the great gluteal nuLscle, which IS one of the most difficult in the body to clean, may be well dis- played. To lay bare the muscle, let the student turn a.side the cutaneous nerves, and adduct and rotate inwards the limb to make tense the muscular fibres. Having cut through the fat and fa.scia from the origin to the insertion, let him carry the scalpel along one bundle of fibres at a time in the direction of a line from the sacrum to the femur, until all the coarse fasciculi are cleaned. If the student has a right limb, it will lie more convenient to begin the dissection at the upper Ijorder ; Init if a left limb, at the lower margin of the muscle. '• The fascia of the huttock is a prolongation of that envelojjing the thigh, and is fixed to the crest of the ilium, and to the sacrum and coccyx. It is much thicker in front of, than on the gluteus maximus, and gives attachment superiorly to the gluteus medius, which it covers ; in this place, indeed, the student often has some difficulty in defining the edge of the greater gluteus, since at the edge of the muscle the fascia splits to encase it. The GLUTEUS MAXIMUS (fig. 46, a) is the most superficial muscle of the buttock, and reaches from the pelvis to the ujjper part of the femur. Its origin from the pelvis is fleshy, and is connected with bone and with aponeurosis :—Thus, the muscle is attached, from aljove down, to the posterior fourth of the iliac crest, and to a special impression on the hip-bone above the superior curved line (fig. 47) ; next, to the aponeurosis of the erector spinse muscle ; then to the back of the fourth and fifth pieces of the sacrum, and the back of the coccyx ; and lastly, to the back of the whole length of the great sacro-sciatic ligament. From this extensive origin the fibres are directed downwards and outwards to their imertion :—The whole of the upper half of the muscle, and a few superficial fibres of the lower half are inserted into the strong fascia lata (i]io-til)ial liand) of the outer side of the tbigh ; and the remainder are fixed into the rough line (gluteiil ridge) leading from the linea asj^era to the great trochanter of the femur (fig. 61, p. 158). The gluteus forms the prominence of the Inittock, and resembles the deltoid muscle of the arm in its situation and in the coarse- neas of its texture. Its cutnneous surface is cox^ered by the common integuments and the investing fascia of the limb, and by the superficial nerves and vessels. Tlie structures in cont«ct with the under surface will be seen when the muscle is cut through. Tlie upper border overlies the gluteus medius. The lower edge, which is longer and thicker than the upiier, in its inner part bound.i posteriorly