490 DISSEOriON OF THE TIFOIiAX. and costal cai'tilages. To see tlie costo-verlo- liial liga- munts, and choiidio- sternal. Ligaments of liead of rib are anterior or stellate and interar- ticular, with syno- vial sacs. Cos to- transverse ligaments : The cosliil cartilagos are connected to the steriiiini and to one anotlier by .synovial joints and ligaments. Dissection. For the purpose of examining tlie liganient.s between the ribs and tlie vertebrte, take the piece of the spinal column with the third, fourth, filth, and sixth ribs attached to it. After removing the intercostal and other muscles, and the loose ti.ssue from the surface of the bones, the student will be able to define, a.s below, the ligaments passing from the head and neck of the rib to the bodies and transverse processes of the vertebriB. The ligaments attaching the costal cartilages to the sternum are to be dissected on the part of the thorax which was removed in ojiening the cavit}'. Ligaments of the head of the RIB. Where the head of the rib is received into a hollow in the bodies of two contiguous vertebrse, there are two ligaments to the articula- tion — anterior costo-central, and interarticular, with two sjaiovial sacs. The anterior costo-ccntral or stellate ligament (fig. 177, is composed of radiating fibres, which pass from the head of the rib to the two vertebral bodies forming the arti- cular cavity, and to the disc between them. Where the rib is in contact onlj' with one A'ertebra, i.e., in the first, eleventh and twelfth, it few fibres ascend to the vertebra immediately above. The inter articular ligament will be seen when the stellate is diWded. It is a very short thin band, which is atUiched on one side to the ridge Fig. 177.—Ligaments of thkRibs AND VKKTEBK.E (tSoURGBKY). 1. Anterior ligament of the bodies of the vertebrte. 2. Short lateral fibres uniting the bodies. 3. Stellate ligament. 4. Superior costo - tran.sverse ligament. 5. Interspinous ligament. separating the two articular .surfaces on tlie head of the ril>, and oa the other to the intervertebral disc. In the joints of the first, eleventh, and twelfth ribs, where the head is not in contact with the intervertebral substance, it is absent. Synovial sacs. There are usually two synovial cavities in the cosfo-central articulation, one on each side of the interarticular liga- ment; but in the three joints before mentioned (l.st, 11th, 12th) there is but one. The special features of these joints shoidd be verified at this time. Ligaments of the neck and tuberosity. Three ligament-s ])ass from the neck and tuberosity of the rib to the transverse processes of the two verlebrte with which the head is connected ;