THE CRURAL SHEATH. 145 arch, and by the opposite it is fixed to the pectineal line. In the erect position of the body the ligament is almost horizontal. The crural ot: femoral slieath (fig. 5G, b) is a loose tube of mem- Cnu-ai brane around the femoral vessels. It has the form of a fuimel, sloped unequally on the sides. The wide part of the tube is up- ^'^"''^ wards ; and the narrow part ceases about two inches below Poupart's relations: ligament, by blending with the common areolar sheath of the blood- vessels. Its outer border is nearly_ptrai<Tbt,, and is pprFnrntpil hy the genjto-crural nerve ('). Its inner border is oblique, and is pierced by lymphatics, superficial vessels, and the saphenous vein (/); this part of the sheath appears in the saphenous opening, and is connected to the falciform margin and the cribriform fascia. In front of the crural sheath is the iliac part of the fascia lata. The sheath is continuous with the fasciae of the abdomen and jhow formed, thigh in this way. The anterior part is a prolongation under Poupart's ligament of the transversalis fascia lining the anterior \ abdominal wall; and the posterior part is formed externally by the iliac fascia covering the psoas muscle, and internally by the pubic part of the fascia lata covering the pectineus. Crossing the front of the sheath, beneath the arch of Poupart's Deep crural ligament, Ls a fibrous band, the deep criiral arch, which will be noticed later on in the description of the transversalis fascia. Dissection (fig. 56). The student is to now open the crural Open the sheath by an incision across the front, and to raise the anterior part sheath, with hooks. Inside the tube are contained the femoral vessels, each surrounded by its covering of areolar tissue, together with an inguinal gland ; and if a piece of the areolar casing be cut out over Vessels have both the artery and the vein, there will be an appearance of two sheath, thin partitions, the one being situate on the injier side of the vein, separating this vessel from the gland, and the other (J) between the vein and the artery. Interior of the crural sheath. The sheath is said to be divided Contents into three compartments by two partitions ; and the position of sheatT^ the so-called septa has been before referred to—one being internal to the femoral vein, and the other between the two large vessels. In the outer compartment is contained the femoral artery (a), lying Space close to the side of the sheath; in the middle one is placed the three'^f femoral vein (6) ; and in the inner space {crural canal) only a lymphatic gland (c) is situated. The crural canal (fig. 56) is the innermost space in the interior the inner is of the crural sheath :—Its length is about a third of an inch, and ca?,^™™^ it reaches from the base of Gimbernat's ligament to the upper comu of the saphenous opening. It decreases rapidly in size from above down, and is closed below. The aperture by which the space com- municates with the cavity of the abdomen is named the crural rimj. In front of the canal are Poupart's ligament and the upper end ports of the falciform margin of the saphenous opening ; while behind it is the pectineus muscle. On the outer side of the canal, but within the sheath, is the femoral vein. Tlirough this channel the intestine passes from the abdomen in femoral hernia. D.A.