DISSECTION OF THE LEG. 190 use with the foot free, and fixed; acting from below. Detach gaatrocne- mius. Soleus is attached to the bones of the leg, and joins the tendon below: parts over and under it; use, the foot free, aud fixed ; acting from below. Teudo Achillis: extent, and inser- tion. Flantaris: origin; insertion; position of the muscle: outer. In the outer head a piece of nl)ro-cartikge or a sesamoid bone may exist. Action. AVheii the foot is uii.supi)orted, tlie ga.slrociieinius e.xteudfs the ankle ; and when tlie toes rest on the ground, it raises the os calcis and the weight of the body, as in standing on the toes, and in progression. Taking its fixed point at the os calcis, the muscle draws down the femur so as to bend the knee-joint. Bissection. To see the soleus, the gastrocnemius is to be reflected by cutting across the remaining head (fig. 72), aud the vessels and nerves it receives. After the muscle has been thrown do wn, the soleus and plantaris must be cleaned. The SOLEU.S (fig. 72, b) is a large flat muscle, which is attached to both bones of the leg. It arises from the head, and the upper third of the posterior surface of the shaft of the fibula ; from the oblique line across the tibia, and from the inner edge of this bone as low as the middle (fig. 73) ; and between the bones from an aponeurotic arch over the large blood-vessels. Its fibres are directed downwards to the common tendon. The superficial surface of the soleus is in contact with the gastro- cnemius ; and where the two touch they are aponeurotic. Beneath the soleus lie the bones of the leg, the deep muscles, aud the vessels and nerves. Action. In its action on the foot the soleus, like the gastro- cnemius, extends the ankle and points the toes when the foot is free to move, and raises the heel if the toes rest on the ground. By the sudden and powerful contraction of the fibres of both muscles the common tendon is sometimes broken across. If it acts from the os calcis, it wdll draw back the bones of the leg into a vertical position over the foot, as the body is raised to the erect posture after stooping. Tendo Achillis (fig. 72, f). The common tendon of the gastro- cnemius and soleus is one of the strongest in the body. About three inches wide above, it commences at the middle of the leg, though it receives fleshy fibres on its deep surface nearly to the lower end : below, it is narrowed, and is inserted into the middle impression on the posterior aspect of the tuberosity of the os calcis. A bursa intervenes between it aud the upper part of the tuberosity. The tendon is close beneath the fascia ; and the external saphenous vein and nerve are superficial to it at first, but afterwards lie along its outer border. The PLANTARIS (fig. 72, c) is remarkable in having the longest tendon in the body, which takes the appearance of a riband when it is stretched laterally. About three-quarters of an inch wide, the muscle arises from the line above the outer condyle of the femur, and from the posterior ligament of the knee-joint ; and the tendon is inserted into the os calcis with, or by the side of, the tendo Achillis, or into the fascia of the leg. The belly of the muscle, about three inches in length, is concealed by the gastrocnemius, but the tendon appears on the inner side of