DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 374 of which varies much, is distributed around the upper part of that vessel. 6. The obturator nerve (n) is distributed chiefly to the abductor muscles of the thigh (p. 164). Arising in front of the anterior crural from the second, third, and fourth nerves in the plexus (sometimes not from the second), it makes its appearance at the inner border of the psoas near the sacro-iliac articulation. Escaped from beneath tlie muscle, the nerve crosses the side of the pelvis below the external- iliac, but above the obturator vessels, and enters the thigh through the aperture at the top of the thyroid foramen. Occasionally the the obturator gives origin to the following branch :— The accessory obturator nerve Q) arises from the trunk of the braS.^^°'^ obturator, or from the third and fourth nerves of the plexus. Its course is along the inner border of the psoas, beneath the investing fascia, and over the hip-bone to the thigh, where it ends by joining the obturator nerve, and supplying the hip-joint (p. 163). Gangliated cord of the sympathetic (fig. 140, o). The lumbar part of the. gangliated cord of the sympathetic is continuous with the thoracic part beneath the internal arched ligament of the diaphragm. It lies on the front of the spinal column, along the inner border of the psoas muscle, and is somewhat concealed on the right side by the vena cava, on the left by the aorta. The cord has four or five oval ganglia, which supply connecting and visceral branches. Connecting branches. From each ganglion two small branches are directed backwards along the centre of the body of the vertebra, with the lumbar artery ; these unite with one or two spinal nerves near the intervertebral foramen. The connecting branches are long in the lumbar region, in consequence of the gangliated cord being carried forward by the psoas muscle. Brconches of Distribution. Most of the internal branches throw themselves into the aortic and hypogastric plexuses, and so reach the viscera indirectly. Some filaments enter the vertebras and their connecting ligaments. Last dorsal nerve (fig. 138, p. 363, and fig. 140, e). The anterior primary branch of the last doi'sal resembles the intercostal nerves in its distribution, but ditt'ers from them in not being con- tained in an intercostal space. Lying below the last rib, the nerve is directed outwards across the upper part of the quadratus lumborum, hut beneath the external arched ligament and the fascia of the quadratus. At the outer border of that muscle it perforates the niiiklle layer of the fascia lumborum, and enters the wall of the abdomen, where it ends in an abdominal and a lateral cutaneous branch (pp. 110 and 274). The first lumbar artery accompanies it. Near the spine it furnishes a small branch to the quadratus mu-scle; and it may communicate by means of this with the fii-st lumbar nerve. The LUMBAR ARTERIES of the aorta are furnished to the back, the spinal canal, and the wall of the abdomen : they resemble Obturator in the abdomen: ends in the thigh; occasionally Sympathe- tic cord in tlie abdo- men .joins that iti thorax; has four or Ave ganglia branches to the spinal nerves, and to the viscera. Last dorsal nerve: course to wall of the abdomen : brancli to muscle. Lumlxar arteries live in number on each side: