DISSECTION OP THE BYE. 798 two of them iiiiiued long ciliary, iintentjr ciliiiry. Veins are posterior cilinrv. and anterior ciliary. Ciliary nerves end in iris and ciliary muscle. Space con- taining aqueous humour is partly divided into two by the anterior part; poBl(!rior, its bound- aries. Helina is in two l)art.s. choroid, divide into branches which enter its substance at different points. Two of this set {long ciliary) are directed forwards between the sclerotic and choroid, one on each side of the eyeball, and form a circle round the iris in the ciliary niascle, as before explained. In the ball the unter one lies rather above, and the inner, rather V)elow the middle. Tlie anterior ciliary arteries, five or six in numVjer, are smaller than the posterior, and arise at the front of the orbit from muscular branches ; they pierce the sclerotic coat about a line behind the cornea, supjily the ciliary processes ; and join the circle of the long ciliary vessels. In inflaiunuition of the iris these vessels are enlarged, and offsets of them form a ring roimd the cornea. The iMsterior ciliary veins have a ditt'erent arrangement from the arteries. The branches form arches (vasa vorticosa ; fig. 289, h) in the superficial part of the choroid coat, external to the arteries, and converge to four or five trunks, which perforate the sclerotic coat aljout midway between tlie cornea and the optic nerve to end in the ophthalmic veins. The anterior ciliary veins begin in a plexus within the ciliary muscle, receiving tributaries from the iris and the ciliary processe.s, and accompany the arteries through the sclerotic to end in the ophthalmic tnmks : they communicate with the venous space of the canal of Schlemm. The ciliary nerves (fig. 289, /) are derived from the lenticular ganglion, and the nasal nerve. Entering the back of the eyeball with the arteries, they are continued \\-ith the vessels between the sclerotic and choroid as far as the ciliary muscle : at this spot the nerves send offsets to the cornea, and piercing the fibre,s of the ciliary muscle, enter the iiis. Offsets from the nerves supply the ciliary muscle and the choroid, and fine twigs enter the sclerotic. Chamber op the Aqueous Humour (fig. 288, p. 791). The space between the cornea in front and the lens behind, in which the iris is suspended, contains a clear fluid named the aqueous humour. In the foetus before the seventh month this interval is separated into two by the iris and the pupillary membrane ; but in the adult it is only partly divided, for the two communicate through the pupil. The boundaries of the two chambers may be seen in the eye on which a vertical section has been made. The anterior chimber is the larger of the two ; it is limited in front by the cornea, and behind by the iiis. The 2'osterior chamber (i) is a narrow interval behind the iris at the circumference, which is bounded in front by the iris ; behind by the lens capsule, and by a piece of the membrane (suspeiusory ligament of the lens) on the front of the vitreous humour; and al the circumference hy the ciliary processes. The Retina (fig. 288, c). This layer is the innermost and most delicate of the coats of the eyeball, and is situate between the choroid coat and the transparent mass (vitreotis) in the interior. It consists of t wo parts, viz., a thin membrane internally, continuous