VISCERAL PLEXUSES OF SYMPATHETIC. 310 The aortic pUxiis is an open network of nerves covering the aorta Aortic below the superior mesenteric artery ; it is stronger on the sides than on the front of the aoi-ta, in consequence of its receiving acces- sory branches from the lumbar ganglia, especially the left. Above, the ple.Kus derives an offset, on each side of the aorta, from the solar and renal plexuses. It ends below, on each side, in branches which ofVscts. cross the common iliac artery, and enter the hypogastric plexus. From it offsets are furnished to the spermatic and inferior mesenteric arteries. . The spei-matic plexus, formed by roots from both the aortic and the Sj^rmatu- renal plexus, runs on the spermatic artery to the testicle ; in the cord it joins other filaments on the vas deferens. In the female, the nerves on the ovarian (spermatic) artery are in (emnW. furnished to the ovary and the uterus. The infm-ior mesenteric plexus supplies the part of the intestinal J^'^f^rior tube to which its artery is distributed. This plexus is furnished p,ex„s from the left side of the aortic plexus ; and the nerves composing it are wliiter and larger than in either of the preceding plexuses of the sympathetic. Near the colon the branching of the nerves and j'.»>;^-J,«Jo'" the union of contiguous twigs are well marked. Its offsets (plexuses) vessels; are left colic, sigmoid, and superior liremorrhoidal: they ramify on ^f,^™^^^^ those arteries, and have a like distribution. The hypogastric plexus, or the large prevertebral centre for the Hypogastric supply of sympathetic nerves to the viscera of the pelvis, is situate ^ in front of the last lumbar verteljra. It is formed by the union of situatinn; the prolongations of the aortic plexus ; and the nerves composing it formation ; are of large size, and interlace in a dense llattened mass, without any interspersed ganglia. Below, the plexus divides into two portions, an.i ending, richt and left, which are continued downwards on the inner side of internal iliac vessels to the pelvic plexuses. RELATIONS OF AORTA AND VENA CAVA. Before any of the viscera are removed from the body, the relations of the abdominal aorta and vena cava may be learnt. Dissection. To see the aorta above the origin of the superior J'^'^^^^J;'"" mesenteric artery, it will be necessary to detach the great omentum from the stomach, without injuring the gastro-epiploic arteries along the great curvature ; and afl^er raising the stomach, to remove the peritoneum fi'om the gastric surface of the pancreas. A sliort arterial trunk (coiliac axis) above the pancreas is not to be quite cleaned now, otherwise the nerves about it would be destroyed. The vena cava on the right side of the aorta may be followed up and vena cnvn as far as the liver, where it disappears, by separating the transverse colon from the duodenum and by carefully lifting up the outer ])art of tlie duodenum ; where the latter lies over the inner part of the right kidney, the confluence of the renal vein and the inferior vena cava will be exposed. Care must be taken however not to injure tlie duodenum and the adjacent head of the pancreas. The relations of