298 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. Intevtiibei- cular iihinc. Vertical planes. Names of regions. Other siib- flivisions. Viscera seen without rlisplace- nient. General division of alimentary tnbe; position of several parts : and of solirl organs. tlie lower border of the body of tlie sternum. This plane, from its traversing the pyloric end of the stomach, is called the transpyloric. The loiKi- horixontal flane is half-way between the transpyloric and the upper border of the symphysis pubis, and it fairly corre- sponds to the plane between the tubercles on the outer lips of the iliac crest (Cunningham), and is therefore called the intertubercular. The vertical planes are represented by (I) the middle line of the body, and (2 and 3) by the right and left lateral lines. These lateral lines are drawn vertically on each side through a point mid- way between the middle line and the anterior superior iliac spine. The regions of the aljdomen thus delimited are named re.spectively, from above downwards, on either side of the middle line, the right and left epicjastric, umbilical, and hypogastric regions, and at the sides? of the body the right and left hypochondriac, lumbar, and iliac regions. In addition, the middle and lower part of the hypogastric space is named pubic region, while the contiguous portions of the hypogastric and iliac constitute the inguinal region. The various bony and other surface points already referred to on tlie superficial examination of the abdomen (p. 260) are useful in vary- ing degrees as guides to the subjacent parts, but the arch formed by the costal cartilages (costal margin, fig. 108) is very variable in its position, and cannot be relied on as a surface guide except near the sternum. Moreover, the different costal cartilages often cannot be located in fat persons. Superficial view. On first opening the abdomen the following viscera appear (fig. 109, and fig. Ill, p. 303):—Above and' to the right is the liver, which is in great part concealed by the ribs. Lower down, and more to the left, a piece of the stomach is vi.sible ; but this viscus lies mostly beneath the ribs and the liver. Descend- ing from the stomach is a loose fold of peritoneum (the great omentum), which may reach to the pelvis, and conceal the small intestine, but in some bodies is raised into the left hyirochondriac region, and leaves the intestine uncovered. The ctecum is usually to be seen in the right iliac region ; and sometimes a part of the pelvic colon (sigmoid flexure) comes to the surface in the corresponding .situation on the left side. Close behind the pubic symphysis is the apex of the bladder {U), with the urachus {ur) continued upwards from it; and if the organ is distended, it rises above the symphysis. The alimentary tube presents differences in form, and is divided into stomach, small intestine, and large intestine ; and the two last are further subdivided, as will afterwards appear. The several viscera have the following general position :—The small intestine is much coiled, and occupies the greater part of tlie cavity ; while the great intestine arches round it. Both are held in position liy portions of the serous lining. Above the arch of the great intestine are situate the stomach, the liver, and the spleen ; behind is the pancreas ; and below it is the convoluted small gut. Behind the intestine, on each side, is the kidney with its excretory tube.