561 THE FACIAL NERVE. junction of the temporal and internal maxillary veins; and this common trunk, receiving some veins from tlie parotid, divides near the angle of the jaw into two branches, the anterior of which passes downwards to join the facial vein, while the posterior inclines back- wards over the border of the sterno-mastoid muscle and is continued into the external jugular vein (fig. 211, p. 582). Crossing the vessels in the gland from behind forwards is the trunk of the facial nerve, which divides here into its primary branches. The superficial temporal branch of the inferior ma.'cilhirv nerve lies above the npper part of the glandular mass ; and oH'sets of the great auricular nerve pierce the gland at the lower part, and join the facial. In dissecting out the gland it has been seen to consist of a number of lobules sej)arated by connective tissue septa. From the giand. lobules small ducts arise, and these join together so as to give rise to two large tubes, which are placed superficially to the branches of the facial nerve in the gland, and by their union opposite the hinder margin of the ramus of the jaw form the beginning of Stonson's duct. As it crosses the masseter the main duct receives one or more small branches from the socia parotidis. The parotid receives its arteries from the external carotid ; and Vessels and its nerves from the sympathetic, auiiculo-temporal of the fifth, and facial. Its lymphatics join those of the neck. Two or three small molar glands lie on the surface of the buccina- Molar tor, and open into the mouth near the last molar teeth by separate ^'""V^"" ducts. The FA.CIAL NEEVE (fig. 205, p. 562), or the seventh cranial Outline of nerve, is the motor nerve of the superficial muscles of the head and face. Numerous communications take place between it and the fifth nerve ; the chief of these are found above and below the orbit, and over the side of the lower jaw. Dissection. The trunk of the nerve is concealed by the parotid Dissection gland, but its ramifications are mostly in front of the glandular °^ "^"^^^ mass, and will be displayed in the removal of the gland. The different branches are to be traced forwards as they escape beyond from beneath the anterior border of the gland and followed to i'"™'"^' their termination. The highest branches to the temple have already been partly on temple, dissected above the zygomatic arch ; and their junction with the temporal branch of the superior maxillary, and with the supra- orbital nerve has been seen. Some still smaller branches are to be in eyelids, traced to the outer part of the orbit, where they enter the eyelids and coninumicate with the other palpebral nerves; as these cross the malar bone, a junction is to be found with the subcutaneous malar Vjranch of the fifth nerve. With the duct of the parotid are two or more large branches, in the face, which are to be followed below the orbit to their junction with the infraorbital, nasal, and infratrochlear nerves. The remaining branches to the lower part of the face are on lower smaller. One runs with the buccal nerve over the lower part of the buccinator muscle ; and one or two others are to be traced u.A. o o