154 DISSECTION OV THE THIGH. and vessels. The femoral vessels and their branches are to be carefully cleaned. Where the superficial femoral artery ]3asses to the back of the limb its small anastomotic Ijranch arises : this branch is to Ije pursued throng] 1 the fibres of the vastus internus, and in front of the adduc- tor maguus tendon, to the knee ; an offset of it is to be followed with the saj)henous nerve. The aponeurotic covering of the femoral vessels (fig. 59, 7) exists where they are covered by the sartorius. It is tliin above ; but below it is formed of strong fibres, which are directed transversely between the vastus internus on the outer side and the tendons of the adductor muscles beliind and to the inner side. Inferiorly, this membranous structure ceases at the opening in the adductor magnus by a defined border, beneath which the long sajDhenous nerve and the anastomotic vessels escape. The SUPERFICIAL FEMORAL ARTERY (fig. 59, i) beneath the sartorius muscle lies in a hollow between the muscles covered by the aponeu- rotic expansion just described, until it reaches the opening in the adductor magnus. The passage, thus formed, in which the artery lies, is called Hunter's canal. Beneath the artery are the pectmeus and the adductor bre\is in part, the adductor longus, and a small piece of the adductor magnus. On the outer side is the vastus internus. The vein lies close to the artery, on its posterior and outer aspect; and in the integuments oftentimes an offset of the saphenous passes across the line of the arterial trunk. Lying along the front of the artery is the long saphenous nerve, which is beneath the aponeurosis before noticed, but is not contained within the areolar sheath of the vessels. Tlie femoral Splitting of the artery. Occasionally the femoral artery is split into two ^rteij may below the origin of the profunda ; but in all the cases that have been met with, the branches have united again above the opening in the adductor muscle. Aponeurosis over the fenior.ll .irtery ends below by a free border. Femoral iU'teiy ill Hunter's canal; relations; position of veins and saphenous nerve. Anasto- motic : superficial, and deep part. Branches:— Branches. One named branch—anastomotic, and muscular offsets, spring from this part of the artery. The anastomotic branch (fig. 62, h, p.l65) arises close to the opening in the adductor muscle, and divides at once into two branches, superficial and deep :— The superficial branch (n) continues with the saphenous nerve to the lower border of the sartorius, and piercing the fascia lata, ramifies in the integuments. The deejJ branch (l) is concealed in the fibres of the vastus internns, and descends in front of the tendon of the adductor magnus to the inner side of the knee-joint, where it anastomoses with the articular branches of the popliteal artery. A branch IJasses outwards from it in the substance of the vastus muscle, and forms an arch at the uj^j^er border of the patella with an offset of the superior external articular artery. Muscular branches. Branches for the sujjply of the muscles come mostly from the outer side of the superficial femoral artery ; they enter the sartorius, the vastus internus, and tlie adductor longus. Muscular branches.