664 DISSECTION OF THK PHARYNX. relations; Palato- pharyngens forms two layers in velum: posterior layer is joined by salpingo- pharyngeus; anterior layer is larger : inserted into thyroid cartilage and wall of pharynx ; in swallow- ing; of salpingo- pharyngeus. Azygos muscle is in two slips; the tongue ; from tbis spot the lihiei; ascend in front of tlie tonsil to tlie anterior aspect of the soft jialate, wlicre they form a tliin muscular stratum, and join those of tlie fellow muscle along the middle line. At its origin the muscle is blended witli tlie glossal muscles, and at its insertion it is placed beneath the tensor palati. Action. The palato-glossus closes the isthmus of the fauces, bringing the soft palate into contact with the tongue, and approxi- mating the anterior pillars, thus shutting off the mouth from the pharynx. The FALATO-PHARYNGEU.S (fig. 233, Q ; 234, is much larger than the preceding muscle, and gives rise to the eminence of the pos- terior pillar of the soft palate. It begins in the soft palate in two layers, which enclose between them the levator palati and azygos uvulae muscles. The superficial part, very thin, and situate immediately beneath the raucous membrane, meels in the middle line the corre.sponding part of the opposite muscle ; it is also joined by a slender fasciculus, which descends from the anterior extremity of the cartilage of the Eustachian tube [salpincio-jiharyn- geus, Santorini; fig. 233, c). The deep or anterior layer is much stronger, and lies between the levator and tensor palati muscles ; its upper fibres spring from the hinder margin of the hard palate and the aponem-osis of the velum, while the lower ones join those of the ojjposite side. The two layers meet at the outer part of the soft palate, and the muscle descends behind the tonsil on the side wall of the pharynx. Spreading out below, the anterior fibres are inserted into the hinder border of the thyroid cartilage, but the greater number end in the submucous tissue of the pharynx beneath the inferior constrictor, the hinder ones meeting the fellow mu-scle in the middle line. Action. The palato-pharyngeus depresses and tightens the soft palate, raises the larynx and lower part of the pharynx, and at the same time brings together the posterior pillars of the fauces, thus acting as a sphincter by which the nasal portion is separated from the oral portion of the i^harynx. In swallowing, the hinder pillars of the soft palate, being approximated by the action of this muscle, form, together with the uvula, an inclined plane, beneath which the food is directed downwards. The contraction of the salpingo- pharyngeus at the same time assists in opening the Eustachian tube, by drawing inwards and backwards the cartilage bounding its orifice. The AZYGOS DVOL/E (fig. 233, D ; 234,i) is situated along the middle line of the velum near the posterior part. The muscle consists of two narrow slips of pale fibres, which arise from the spine at the posterior border of the hard palate, or from the contiguous aponeu- rosis, and end below in the base of the uvula. Behind this muscle, separating it from the mucous membrane, is the thin stratum of the palato-pharyngeus. Action. Its fibres shorten the mid-part of the soft palate, and elevate the uvula, directing that process backwards.