DISSECTION OF THE PHARYNX. 654 Section XL Diiection. Detach pliaryux from spine, detach head, Separate phai'ynx from verte- bral column chisel through basi-occipi- tal. direction of a saw-cut, complete division with chisel. Preserve piece of spine. Fasten pharynx, then ch^nn muscles, viz. THE PHARYNX AND THE CAVITY OF THE MOUTH. Direction. In this section the students of the two sides must work together. The i^harynx can be examined only when it has been separated from the back of the head and the spinal column ; and it will therefore be necessary to cut through the base of the skull in the manner indicated below, so as to have the anterior half, with the lAarynx connected to it, detached from the posterior half. Dissection. The head is to be separated from the trunk by sawing through the vertebral column at the third dorsal vertebra unless the dissector of the thorax has already done this in his examination of the ligaments. The block then being removed from beneath the neck, the head is to be placed downwards, so that it may stand on the cut edge of the .skull. Next the trachea and oesophagus, together with the vagus and sympathetic nerves, are to be cut near the first rib, and all are to be separated from the spine by drawing them forwards as high as the basilar process of the occipital bone, defining the base of the skull between the pharynx and the pre- vertebral muscles, but being careful not to injure eif;her. Then incise the j)eriosteum on the under surface of the exposed basilar part of the occij)ital and cut through this part of the bone with a sharp chisel, directing the chisel somewhat backwards as it is driven into the skull cavity—a block being j^laced inside the skull against the base to give the necessary support. Next turn the head on its side and make a saw-cut on each side j)assing close behind the mastoid process and extending, internally, to the posterior limit of the jugular foramen. The division of the skull will then be completed by chiselling, from within the cranial cavity, backwards through the base between the outer end of the chisel-cut through the basi-occipi tal and the inner end of the saw-cut behind the jugular foramen, taking care that the chisel passes in this operation on the inner side of the jugular foramen and the inferior petrosal sinus. The base of the skull is nowdiwled into two parts (one having the pharynx attached to it, the other articulating with the spine), which can be readily separated with a scalpel. The spinal column with the piece of the occipital bone connected with it should be set aside, and kept for after examination by the workers on the two sides together. Dissection of the phanjnx (fig. 2:32, p. 656). Let the student take the anterior part of the divided skull, and, after moderately filling the pharynx with tow, fasten it with hooks on a block, so that the tcsophagus may be pendent and towards him. He will then proceed to remove the fascia from the constrictor muscles, in the direction of their fibres, and comjilete the separation