DISSECTION OF THE PElilNEUM. 240 niirl nerves in the .sjjacc. Fii-st cut in litliotomy enters tin's space. Muscles of rectum. Coirugator cutis ani: attach- ments ; Superlicial sphincter; origin ; insertion ; relations: anrl use. De(^I) .sidiincler, a pole band. is part of fibres of intestine ; Insertion of levator nni lualf an incli of the margin of the ischial ramus. Crossing the centre of the hollow are the inferior lisemorrhoidal ve.ssels and nerve (6)— branches of the pudic. At the anterior part, for a shoi t distance, are two superficial perineal nerves (2) (of the pudic); and at the posterior part is a small branch of the fourth sacral nerve (s), with cutaneous offsets of tlie sacral plexus {') and inferior hemorrhoidal vessels (r), beiiding round the gluteus. The surgeon sinks his knife into this .si^ace in the first incision in the operation of lateral lithotomy : and as he carries it fi-oni before backwards, he will divide the superficial h£emorrhoidal vessel and nerve. Muscles. Connected with the lower end of tlie rectum are four muscles, viz., a fine cutaneous mnscle, and two sphincters (external and internal), with the levator ani. CoRRUGATOR CUTIS ANI (fig. 91, b). This thin subcutaneous layer of involuntary muscle surrounds the anus with radiating fibre.s. Externally it blends with the subdermic tissue outside the hitemal sphincter ; and internally it enters the anus and ends in the submucous tissue within the sphincter. Action. This muscle draws upwards and inverts the mucous membrane of the lower end of the gut, after it has been protruded and everted in the passage of the fasces. Tbe EXTERNAL SPHINCTER (sphincter ani externus ; fig. 91 a and fig. 92) is a fiat, orbicular muscle, which surrounds the anal open- ing. It arises posteriorly by a fibrous band from tlie back of the coccyx near the tip, and by fleshy fibres on each side from the sub- cutaneous fatty layer. Its fibres pass forwards to the anus, where they separate to encircle that aperture; and they are inserted in front into the central point of the perineum, and into the superficial fascia by a fleshy slip on each side. The sphincter is close beneath the skin, and partly conceals the levator ani. The outer border projects over the ischio-rectal fossa ; and the inner is contiguous to the internal sphincter. Actio7i. The muscle gatliers into a roll the skin around the anus, and occludes the anal aperture. Commonly the filires are in a stiite of involuntary sliglit contraction, but they may be firmly contracted under the influence of tlie will. The INTERNAL SPHINCTER (sphincter ani internus; fig. 91, c) is .situate round the extremity of the intestine, internal to tlie pre- ceding muscle, and its edge will be seen by removing the corrugator muscle and the mucous membrane. The fibres of the muscle are pale, fine in texture, quite separate from the Rurrounding external .sphincter, and encircle the anus in the form of a ring about half an inch in depth. The muscle is a thickened band of the involuntary circular fibres of the large intestine, and is not attached to the bone. Action. This sphincter assists the external in closing the anus ; and its contraction is altogether involuntary. The LEVATOR AMI (fig. 91, Daiid fig. 92) can be seen only in ]3art; and the external sphincler may be detached from the coccyx, in