291 INTERNAL OR DIRECT HERNIA. slraightness of its course, should be kept in mind during attempts to reduce this kind ol' liernia. ])ia(jnosis. Tliis rupture will be distinguished from external How knw.i hernia by its straight course through the abdominal wall, and by the ; neck being placed close to the pubi.~, but when an inguinal hernia impossible has attained a large size, it is impossible to tell by an external'''''''"''"'S'"- examination whether it began originally in the triangular space, or at the internal abdominal ring; for as an external hernia increases, its weight drags the internal ring inwards into a line with the external, and in this way the swelling acquires the appearance of a direct rapture. Seat of stricture. The stricture in this form of hernia occurs most Stricture: frequently outside the neck of the tumour, at the opening that has been formed in the conjoined tendon, though it may be inside from thickening of the peritoneum ; and it may occasionally be found at situation ; the external abdominal ring. In dividing the stricture of a large rupture which appears to be in large direct, the cut should be made directly upward.s in the middle of the front of the tumour, so as to avoid the deep epigastric vessels, the position of which cannot be ascertained. Varietii of internal hernia. Another kind of internal hernia Rarer kind , , , . !■ .1 1- ii i. • 1 of internal (superior) occurs through that part ol the area ot tlie triangular i,enii,a space which is external to the conjoined tendon. The intestine is oblique in protrudes through the wall of the abdomen close to the deep epigastric '^'l^h the' artery, and descends along nearly the whole of the inguinal canal conl. to reach the external abdominal ring ; so that the term " direct" would not apply strictly to this form of internal hernia. Goverinos. As the "ut traverses nearly the whole of the inguinal Coverings " . ill- same as canal, it has the same coverings as an external Hernia. in external Division of the stricture. From an inability to decide always in the living body whether a small hernia is internal or external, the °riiture.°'^ rule observed in dividing the stricture of the neck of the sac is, to cut down upon the mid-part of the tumour ; and if it is necessary to open the peritoneum, to cut directly upwards, as in the other kinds of inguinal hernia. Umuilic'al Hernia, or exomphalos, is a protrusion of the intestine Umbilical throuch or by the side of the umbilicus. It is very variable in size, o J , 1 • 1 n course; and its course is straight through the abdominal wall. Covering.^. The coverings of the intestine are—the skin ami super- coverings tieial fascia, a prolongation from the tendinous margin of the aperture in the linea alba, together with coverings of the transversalis fascia, the subperitoneal fat, and the peritoneum. Over the end of the become tumour the superficial fascia blends with the other contiguous struc- tuinour, tures, and its fat disappears. If the hernia is suddenly produced, it may want the investment changes in ; otherwise derived from the edge of the umbilicus. Seat nf stricture. The stricture on the intestine is generally at the stricturi>, margin of the tendinous opening in the abdominal wall ; and it may ro,,^,j'_ be either outside, or in the neck of the sac, as in the other kinds of U 2