INTERNAL SAPHENOUS VEIN. 139 Dissection. After having observed the disposition of the super- ^f'j^j'^J'jij™^ ficial fascia near Poupart's ligament, the student may proceed to of the tiiigii. examine the remainder of the subcutaneous covering of the thigh, together with the vessels and nerves in it. To raise the skin from the front of the thigh, a cut is to be Take away carried along the centre of the limb, over the knee-joint, to ratlier ""^ below the tubercle of the tibia. At the extremity of tliis a trans- verse incision is to be made across the front of the leg, but this is to reach farthest on the inner side. The .skin may be reflected in Haps inwards and outwards ; and as it is raised from thejront^of, the knee, a superficial bursa betweenit and tlie patella_willJjg,. opened. The saphenous vein is to be first traced out in the fat as far as ami follow the skin is refiected, but in removing the tissue from it the student vein, shoidd be careful of branches of the internal cutaneous nerve. The cutaneous nerves of the front of the thigh (fig. 55, p. 140) Seekcutane- are to be sought in the fat, with small cutaneous arteries, in the of^irmitnf following positions :—On the outer margin, below the upper third, ti'igii. , is placed the external cutaneous nerve. In the middle of the limb, '^xfZ .i'4iJc. below the upper third, lie the two branches of the middle C^l ^^eTwiw^Ave^ cutaneous nerve. At the inner margin are the ramifications of the mtei-nal cutaneous nerve—one small offset appearing near the upper part of the thigh, one or more about half-way down, and one of the terminal branches (anterior) about the lower third. On the inner side of the knee three other cutaneous nerves are to and on side be looked for :—One, a Ijranch of the great saphenous, is directed ^^•''^'j^^.', ^ outwards over the patella. Another, the trunk of the great saphe- 9'^' ^ « V". / nous nerve, lies by the side of the vein of the same name, close to an^V., the lower edge of the surface now dissected. And the third is a terminal branch (posterior) of the internal cutaneous nerve, which is close behind the preceding, and communicates with it. Vessels. All the cutaneous veins on the anterior and inner as- Superficial pects of the thigh are collected into one ; and this trunk is named saj)lienous from its manifest appearance on tlie surface. The INTERNAL SAPHENOUS VEIN (fig. 54, «) is the cutaneous internal trunk of the inner side of the lower limb, and extends from the 've]n"iTi°"*' foot to the top of the thigh. In the part of its course now dis- ""S'' sected, the vessel lies inferiorly somewhat behind the knee-joint; but as it ascends to its termination, it is directed along the inner side and the front of the thigh. Near Poupart's ligament it pierces pierws tlie fascia lata by a special opening named saphenous, and enters to^oi'n tho the deep vein (femoral) of the limb. femoral. Superficial branches join it both externally and internally ; and Veins join- near Poupart's ligament the three veins corresponding with the '"°' arteries in that situation, viz., superficial external pudic, superficial epigastric, and superficial circumflex iliac, terminate in it. "Towards may be the upper part of the limb the veins of the inner side and back of at'tim top of the thigh are frequently imited into one branch, which enters the '^'"^ '■'"is''- saphenous trunk near the aperture in the fascia lata ; and some- times those on the outer side of the thigh are collected together iu