648 DISSECTION OF THE OHBIT. and an- terior. Brandies to eyelids. Fi'ontal branch. Nasal branch. Ophthalmic veins: superior and inferior. Optic nerve ends in retina. Dissection. Lower division of third nerve supplies muscles, and joins ganglion, witli the supraorbital artery. It ends in ofl'sets to the mucous membrane of the upper part of the nose and the ethmoidal cells. The anterior branch (internal nasal) accompanies the nsisal nerve to the cavity of the nose, and gives anterior meningeal offsets to tlie fore part of the falx cerebri and the dura mater of the anterior fossa of the skull. The'palpebral branches, one for each eyelid, generally rise together opposite tlie pulley of the superior oblique muscle, and then separate from one another. The arches they form have been dissected with tlie eyelids (p. 569). The frontal branch turns round the margin of the orbit, and is distributed on the forehead (p. 503). The nasal branch (external) supplies tlie skin and muscles of the upper part of the nose, and anastomoses with tlie angular and lateral nasal branches of the facial artery. The OPHTHALMIC VEINS are two in number, superior and inferior, and leave the orbit by the sphenoidal fissure, between the heads of the external rectus, to end in the cavernous sinus. The superior vein is the larger and accompanies the artery : it begins in front by a wide communication with the angular vein, and on its way back- wards it receives tributaries corresponding to most of the offsets of the artery. The inferior vein lies below the optic nerve, and is formed by the lower ciliary and muscular veins ; it communicates through the spheno-maxillaiy fissiu'e with the pterygoid j)lexus. The supraorbital, frontal and palpebral veins do not join the oph- thalmic, but pass to the veins of the face. The OPTIC NERVE in the orbit extends from the optic foramen to the back of the eyeball. As the nerve leaves the foramen it is sur- rounded by the recti muscles; and beyond that spot the ciliary arteries and nerves entwine around it. It terminates in the retinal exj)ansion of the eye. Dissection (fig. 230). Take away the ophthalmic vessels, aud divide the optic nerve about its middle, together with the small ciliary vessels and nerves. Turn forwards the eyeball, and fasten it in that position with hooks. On renio\ing some fat the three recti muscles—inner, inferior, and outer, will appear; and lying ou the first two are the offsets of the lower division of the third nerve. The LOWER DIVISION OF THE THIRD NERVE (fig. 230) Supplies three muscles in the orbit. As it enters this space, between the heads of the external rectus, it lies below the nasal, and rather above the sixth nerve. Almost immediately the ner\-e divides into three branches. One (^) passes to the internal, another (*) to the inferior rectus, both entering the muscles on their ocular surface;?, and the third (3), the longest and most external, is continued forwards to the inferior oblique mu.scle, which it pierces at its hinder border. Soon after its origin the last branch coninmnicalcs with the lenticular ganglion, forming the short root (fig. 228, ■•) of that body ; and it furnishes two or more filaments to the inferior rectus muscle.