Rectum. Position of liver: DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. toneum!' 1^^^* <=olon is Smaller than either the ascending or the transverse portion, and is commonly less surrounded by the perito- neum ; its upper end is attached to the diapliragm by a special fold (phrenico-colic) of that memln-ane. Iliac colon. The iliac colon begins at the iliac crest, and descends in the left iliac fossa, over the ilio-psoas muscle and the external iliac vessels, being fixed in this position by the peritoneum, until it reaches the brini of the pelvis. Here the intestine forms a large loop, wliich IS provided with a long jn-ocess of peritoneum, and liecomes the Pelviccoion. freely movable pelvic colon. The 2Klvic colon commonly hangs down as a loop in the cavity of the pelvis ; but it often projects forwards and reaches the anterior wall of the abdomen. Below the brim of the pelvis, opposite the third sacral vertelira, it ends in the rectum. The rectum, or the termination of the large intestine, is contained in the pehds, and will be examined in the dissection of that cavity. The LIVER (figs. 109 and 111) is situate in the right hj'pochondriac and lumbar and the epigastric regions, and often reaches slightly into the left hypochondriac, the left extremity being usually behind the junction of the left sixth rib with its cartilage. It is covered in front by the ribs with their cartilages, except over a small area in the sub- costal angle. Folds of peritoneum, called ligaments, attach it to the abdominal parietes. The iijjpcr surface fits against the diaphragm, and is convex on each side, but slightly hollowed in the centre below the heart. It extends higher up on the right side than on the left, and reaches the level of the fifth rib in the right lateral plane. The anterior surface is most seen at present, and passes in- sensibly into the upper surface above, and terminates at the well-marked lower border below. This surfece is in contact with the diaph ragm under cover of the ribs and costal cartilages, and, between the costal arches, with the anterior abdominal wall. It is divided into two parts, corresponding to the right and left lobes of the organ, by the falciform ligament. The superior and anterior surfaces pass insensibly into the riylii surface where the liver lies against the diaphragm on the right side and sometimes projects l)elow the ribs at their lower part against the al)dominal wall. The inferior surface looks downwards, to the left, and somewhat l«ckwards ; it is in contact with the stomach, the first and second parts of the duodenum, the .small omentum, the gall-bladder, the right kidney, and the l)eginning of the transverse colon. To thi.« surface the small omentum, containing the hejiatic vessels, is attached. The lower border is thin and directed downwards. On the right side it is concealed by the ribs ; but in the epigastric region it is exposed, running obliquely from the ninth right to the eighth left costal cartilage ; it crosses the middle line of the body a little above the transpyloric plane. The fundus of the gall-bladder projects beyond this edge, close to the costid margin in the right lateral plane. surfaces upper, anterior. right, and inferior. lower border.