DISSECTION OF THE BACK. 638 Dissection of costiil muscles. Leva tores costarum: attach- ments. The lirst. Longer elevator muscles. Use. Outer intercostal muscle. Dissection. Dor.sal nerve has posterior and anterior branches. Intercostal artery. Dissection. The posterior part of the wall of the thorax may be exanimed before the body is again turned. By removing, opposite the nbs, the ilio-costalis and longissinius dorsi, the small levatores costarum will l,e uncovered. The hinder part of the external intercostal niuseles will be denuded at the same time. The LEVATORES cosTAHDM are twelve small fan-shaped nuLscles, which are connected with the hinder parts of the ribs. Each' except the first, arises fiom the tip of the transverse process of I dorsal vertebra, and is inserted, the fibres spreading out, into the upper border of the rib beneath, from the tuberosity to the angle. The muscles increase in size from above down, and their fibres have the same direction as the external intercostal layer. The first is fixed above to the transverse process of the last cervical vertebra, and Ijelow to the outer border of the first rib. Some of the fibres of the lower muscles are continued beyond one rib to that next .succeeding: these longer slijjs have been named Uvatores longiores costarum. _ Action. These muscles have but little influence in elevating the ribs ; and their principal use appears to be in extending and bending laterally the spiue. The EXTERNAL INTERCOSTAL MUSCLE is Continued backwards along the ribs as far as the tuberosity, where it joins the elevator muscle. Beneath the muscle are the intercostal nerve and artery. Dissection. To trace the anterior and posterior primary branches of the dorsal nerves to their common trunk, the elevator of the rib and the external intercostal muscle are to be cut through in one or more spaces. The intercostal artery with its posterior branch is laid bare by this proceeding. The DORSAL NERVES Split in the intervertebral foramina into anterior and posterior primary branches. The posterior branches are directed backwards, internal to the superior costo-trausverse ligament ; aud their distribution has been seen in the foregoing dissection. The anterior named intercostal, are continued between the ribs to the front of the chest : their anatomy has been learnt in the dissection of the thorax and upper limb. The INTERCOSTAL ARTERY has ail almost exact correspondence with the dorsal nerve in its branching and distribution. Section IV. THE SPINAL CORD AND ITS MEMBRANES. Cord is con-: The spinal cord (medulla spinalis) gives origin to the spinal spiimi'canal, "ei'ves, and is lodged in the canal bounded by the bodies and invested by nciiral arches of the vertebrae. It is invested by prolongations membranes. Qf membranes of the brain, which form sheaths around and sujjport it.