543 ROOTS OF THE NERVES. fonns two bundles that enter thoganglion. The posterior or ganglionic roots (fig. 196, a, b) are larger than tlie anterior, and are formed by thicker and more numerous fibrils. a'Ht^i.Horl"" They are attaclied to the side of the cord between tlie posterior and lateral columns in a straight line, which they preserve even to the last nerve. In their course to the trunk of the nerve the fibrils converge to an aperture in the dura mater, opposite the intervertebral foia- men ; as they approach that aper- ture they are collected into two bundles '(fig. 196, b, 6) which, lying side b}' side, receive a sheath from the dura mater, and enter the two points of the intervertebral ganglion. The intervertebral ganglion (fig. 196 A, c) is reddish in colour and oval in shape ; and its size is pro- portioned to that of the root. By means of the previous dissection, the ganglion may be seen to be bifid at the inner end (fig. 196 b), where it is joined by the bundles of filaments of the root (6) ; or the root might be said to possess two small ganglia, one for each bundle of filaments, which are blended at their outer ends. Sometimes the first or subocci- pital nerve is without a ganglion. The anterior or aganglionic roots (fig. 196 A, a) arise from the side of the spinal cord by filaments which are attached irregularly— not in a straight line, and approach near the middle fissure at the lower end of the cord. Taking the same direction as the posterior root to the inter- vertebral foramen, the fibrils enter a distinct opening in, and have a separate sheath of, the dura mater. In their fai'ther course to the trunk of the nerve they are gathered into two bundles (fig. 196 B, a), and pass over the ganglion without joining it. Finally, the anterior root blends with the posterior beyond the ganglion, to form the trunk of the nerve. Ganglia: form, and size; each is bitid. Fig. 196. A. Plan of the Okioin of a Spinal Nehve fkom the Spinal Cord. a. Anterior root. b. Posterior root. c. Ganglion on the posterior root. d. Anterior primary branch. e. Posterior primary branch of the nerve-trunk. Anterior root IS withnut B. A Drawing to show the ganglion, Aruanqeiiknt of the Nervk-roots, and the form of the Ganglion in a Lum- bar Nerve. h, b. Posterior root gathered into pig^ces two bundles of threads. dura mater c. The ganglion, bifid at the and joins inner end. posterior a, a. J,., , c ±\ 1 ■ root beyond Filaments of the anterior ,,n„g]ioii. root, also gathered into two bundles.