309 REFLECTIONS OF PERITONEUM. and readies into the pelvis, constitutes the lunje sac. The two sacs their con- are however continuous, and their cavities communicate throiigh '''""'''y' the aperture termed tlie . foramen of "Winslow, as will be apparent by tracing the horizontal circle at a higher level than before, viz., immediately above tlie pyloric end of the stomach. Horizontal circuit at the. level of the foramen of IViHslow (fig. 115, p. 310). IJuginning in front at tlie falciform ligament of the liver (/), the peritoneum may be followed on the left side along the ab- dominal wall and the diaphragm to the outer part of the left kidney, where it is reflected along the back of the splenic vessels to the spleen, form- ing one layer of the lieno- renal ligament(/»■). Hav- ing furnished tlie invest- ment of the spleen, the memlirane passes as the outer layer of the gastro- splenic omentum {gs om) to the stomach, and over the front of the latter into the anterior layer of the small omentum {s om). At the right edge of this it turns round the hejjatic vessels (which are felt as thick cord-like structures within the peritoneal fold) to the back of the .small omentum ; and at the spot where it passes be- hind the vessels it bounds the foramen of AVinslow (!(•), the entrance from the greater into tlie lesser sac. It then iornis ill succession the posterior covering of the stomach, tlie inner layer 1."k."" of the gastro-sijlenic omentum and lieno-renal ligament, and, turning to the right, is continued over the left kidney and the diaphragm to the inferior vena cava, where it forms the posterior boundary of the Fit;. 114 Dl.\GlUH SHOWING THE AllRANOE- oniei,),,,,,,. MBNT OF THE PhKITONEUM IN A MEDIAN ' Section of the Abdomen. I. Liver. si. Stomach. c. Transverse colon. p. Pancreas. d. Duodenum, tljiril l)ai-t. i, i, i. Coils of small intestine. r. Rectum. U. Bladder. s om. Small omentum. fj om. Great omentum. nic. Transverse meso- colon. 111. Mesentery. rv p. Recto - vesical pouch. fonunen of Winslow