223 ARTICULATION OF THE ANKLE. ami to show these, the peronei muscles, and the remains of tlie annular ligament below the outer nuilleoUis, should be taken away. The anterior ligament is a thin fibrous membrane, which is attached to the tibia close to the articular surface, and to the upper part of the astragalus near the articulation with the navicular bone. In the ligament are some rounded intervals and apertures for vessels. On the sides it joins the lateral ligaments. The posterior ligament is thinner than the anterior, and is attached to the tibia and astragalus, close to the articular surfaces of the bones. Towards the outer side it consists of transverse fibres, which are fixed into the hollow on the inner side of the external malleolus. The internal lateral or deltoid ligament (fig. 85) is attached by its upper, smaller end to the inner malleolus, and by its base to the bii-sal bones, by fibres which radiate to their inser- tion in this manner :—The posterior (') are directed to the hinder part of the inner smface of the astragalus; the middle (") pass verti- cally to the sustentaculum tali of the os calcis; and the anterior ("), which are thin and oblique, join the internal calcaneo-navicular ligament and the inner side of the navicular bone. The tendons of the tibialis pos- ticus and flexor longus digitorum are in contact with this ligament. The external lateral ligament (fig. 86) consists of three separate pieces, anterior, middle, and posterior, which are attached to the astragalus and the os calcis. The anterior piece (') is a short fiat band, which is directed from the fore part of the malleolus to the side of the astragalus in front of the lateral articular surface. The middle portion (•^) descends from the tip of the malleolus to the outer surface of the os calcis, about the middle. The ■posterior (-) is the strongest, and i.s almost horizontal in direction ; it is fixed externally to the pit on the inner surface of the malleolus, and is inserted into the external tubercle and adjoining posterior part of the external surface of the astragalus behind the lateral articular facet. The posterior and middle fasciculi are placed beneath the peronei muscles. The nnddle piece is but slightly in contact above with the synovial meudjrane of the ankk'-joint; and both it and the Anterior liyament tliin iind imiiert'ect. Posterior li''iuneut. Internal or ileltoiil : nlUicli- nicnts. Fig. 86.—E.kternal Latkual Ligament op THE Ankle (altered prom BonnoERy). 1. Anterior part, 2, posterior part, and 3, middle part of tlic onter ligament. 4. Interosseous of astragalus and os calcis. 5. Exteinal calcaneo-navicular ligament. External has tlireo l)ieces: anterior, nn'dille, and ima- terior : relution.s.