52i DISSECTION OF THE BACK. Vertebral aponeu- rosis : nttacli- ments; continua- tion below, and above. Muscles of fourth layer. Dissection. Splenius has two parts : one to the neck; the other to the head ; relations. Use of splenius capitis, splenius colli. Divide splenius, nnil souk nerves. backwards the lower rihs, and prevents their being carried upwards by the contraction of the diiij)hra}^ni. The VERTEBRAL APONEDRosis i.s a thin fascia which covers the fourth layer of muscles in the thoracic region. Internally it is attached to the spinous processes of the vertebrse. Externally it is fi.xed to the angles of the ribs ; and in tlie inter\'als between the bones it joins the layer of connective tissue covering the interco.stal muscles. It is continuous below with the tendon of the serratus posticus inferior, and through this with the superficial layer of the fascia luniborum ; but above, it passes beneath the upper serratUs, and blends with the deep intermuscular fascia of the neck. The strongest fibres of the membrane are directed transversely. Fourth Layer op Mdscles. This comprises the splenius muscle and the erector spiiiaj, with its divisions and accessory muscles to the neck. Dissection. The upper serratus is to be cut through, the vertebral aponeurosis taken away, and the part of the splenius muscle imder the serratus cleaned. In turning outwards the fleshy part of the serratus, slender twigs of the intercostal nerves, which j)erforate the external intercostal muscle accompanied by small arteries, may be found entering its sUps. The splenius muscle (fig. 190) is flat and elongated. Single at its origin, it is divided into two parts, one passing to the head—splenius capitis, and the other to the neck—splenius colli. It arises from the upper six dorsal and the seventh cervical spines, and from the ligamentum nucha3 as high as the third cervical vertebra. The fibres are directed upwards and outwards to their insertion. The splenius colli (c marked low down on the left side of the figure) is inserted by tendinous slips into the posterior tubercles of the trans- verse processes of the ujiper two or three cervical vertebrae with, but behind, the attachment of the elevator of the angle of the scapula. The siJlenius capitis (b), much the larger, is inserted into the apex and hinder border of the mastoid process, and into the outer thii-d of the superior curved line of the occipital bone. The muscle is situate beneath the trapezius, the rhomboidei, and the serratus superior ; and the insertion into the skull is beneath the sterno-mastoid. The complexus muscle appears above the upper border of the splenius capitis. The splenius represents the pro- longation to the upper cervical vertebrae and head of the outer j)ortion of the erector spinte. Action. The cranial parts of tlie muscles of the two sides will carry the head directly back ; and one will incline and rotate the head to the same side. The splenius colli of Ijoth sides will bend back the upper cervical vertebra ; but one mu.scle will turn the face to the same side, being able to rotate the head by its attachment to the transverse process of the atlas. Dissection (fig. 191, p. 527). The splenius is to be detached from the spinous processes, and thrown outwards. In doing this,