NUChKI OK THIO CKANIAI, NMCItVKS. and is named tin- ala rinrmi (fig. 287, ar) nucleus of the vagus uorvo. On tlie outei surface is elevated over the principal nucleu; forming the auditor]! tuberch (at), whieli is crossed liv tlie audiloiy strim. In tlie upper half of tlie Moor of the ventricle there may he s(^en, on the inner side of the sujierior fovea, a rounded elevation of the fasciculus teres, produced by the nucleus of the sixth nerve. And lastly, above llie superior fovea is a narrow, slightly depressed area of a bluish colour (locus cairuleus), caused by a dejiosit of verj' dark grey substance (subsl,ant,ia ferru- ginea) beneath the thin surface-layer. The fourth ventricle communicates above with the third ventricle through the aqueduct of Sylvius, and with the sul)arachnoid space below tljrough an aperture (/orameji of Majendie) in the pia mater lietween the cerebellum and medulla oblongata. Below, also, it opens into the central canal of the cord. It is lined by ependyma, the epithe- lium of which is continued over the pia mater in the roof, and prolonged upwards and downwards into the canals leading from the ventricle. Projecting into the lower half of the ventricle is a vascular fold on each side, the choroid plexus, similar to the body of the same name in the lateral and third ventri(des. It is attaclied to the inner surface <il' the pia mater which closes the ventricle between the nu>dulla and the cere- bellum, and extends from the ])oiMt of the calamus scriptorius to the ex- tremity of the lateral recess of the cavity. It receives branches From the inferior cerebellar artery. it corresponds to the mI.-i fiinTcn, side of the fovea the of the auditory nerve, iUKlitoiy liit)nrcl<', niicl(Mis of sixtli nerve, .■uicl locus cmruliius. Via. 287.—Diagram showing THE POSITION OF THE NeRVE- NUCIiEI NEAR THE FLOOR OF THE FOURTH VENTRICLE. The Roman numbers indicate THE Nuclei op the corre- sponding Nerves. Vrf. Nucleus of the descend- ing root. V»i. Motor nucleus, and V.S'. Sensory i\ncleus of the liflli nerve. VIIIo. Outer, and Villi. Inner audilory nucleus. XI. Upper part of tlie spinal acces.sory nucleus. On llie left side : cq. Position of the corpora f(uadrigeiiiinit. ril.. Auditory tubercle. at: Ala cinerea. Choroid Iilcxus of (■avit\". The floor of tlie fourth ventricle is covered by a layer of grey matter, wdiich is continuous below with the grey commissure of tlie cord, and above with the gn^y substiince of the aqueduct. Nuclei of cranial xervks (fig. 287). In the dorsal portion of the medulla oblongata and pons are situate the collections of ner.ve-cells from whicli many of the cranial nerves lake their origin. Grey Inver of floor. Nnrv(? nuclei ill ;ui(l ni'iir