14 DISSECTION OF THE UPPER LIMB. form ami position; witli its rlimensions and weiglit. Position and form of tlie nipple: mfiiiuua ranges tlie areola; colour is variable; skin lias elands. Breast of the male. Structure Investing and librous tissue. Lactiferous ducts; Eestiiig on the great pectoral muscle, it is nearly hemispliericHl in form, but most prominent at the inner and lower a.spects. Its dimensions and weight vary greatly. In a Ijreast not enlarged hy lactation, the width is commonly ahout four inches. Longitudiiuilly it extends from the third to the sixth or seventh ril), and trau.s- versely from the side of the sternum to the axilla. Its thickness is about one inch and a half. The weight of the from six to eight ounces. Nearly in the centre of the gland (rather to the inner side) rises the conical or cylindrical projection of the nipple or mamilla. This prominence is. about half an inch or rather more in length, is slightly turned outwards, and presents iii the centre a shallow depression, where it is i-ather redder. Aromid the nipple is a coloured ring—the areola, about an inch in width, the tint of which is influenced by the complexion of the body, and become.s darker during pregnancy and lactation. The skin of the nipple and areola is provided with numerous papiUfe and glands; and on the surface are some small tuliercles marking the position of the lattei'. In the male the mammary gland resembles that of the female in general form, though it is much less developed ; and it possesses a small nipple, which is surrounded by an areola pro%aded with hairs. The glandular or secretory structure is imperfect. Structure. The mamma is a comjjound racemose gland, and consists of small vesicles, which are united to form lobules and lobes, and connected with each lobe is an excretory or lactiferous duct A layer of areolar tissire, containing masses of fat, surroiuids the gland, and penetrates into the interior, subdividing it into lobes; but between the lobules of the gland, and in the nipple and areola, there is not any fatty substance. Some fibrous septii fix the gland to the skin, and support it, being spoken of as the ligamenta sus- IKiisoria of Astley Cooper. The ducts issuing from the several lobes (about twenty) are named from their office galactoj^horom; they con\-erge to the areola, where they swell into oblong dilatations or reservoirs (sinuses) of one-sixth to one-third of an inch in width. Onwards from that spot' the ducts become narrower ; and, surrounded by areolar tissue and vessels, they arc continued through the nipple, nearly parallel to one another, to open on the summit by a]iertui\'-s smaller than the canals, and varying from the size of a V>ristle to that of a common ])in. Nip-pie. The substance of the nipple is composed in great part of a network of interlacing bundles of plain nuiscular tissue, tlirough which the lactiferous ducts pass to the surface. Some of the bundles extend from base to apex of the nipple ; and surrounding the base is a set of circular fibres, witli which radiating bundles decu.ssate. Arteries of Blood-vcsnch.—Tlie rtf/o'i'csare supplied by tlieaxiMary, internal iiiamiiiary, the gland interooRlftl, and enter both sni-faccs of the gland. The fcni.s end open on eii<l of nipple. Muscular tissue in nipple.