DISSECTION OF THE THIGH, 172 Rouud ligament: shape and attach- ments ; how to see its action : loose in extension; tight in flexion with adduction or rotation outwards. Synovial membrane. Detach the limb. Articular .surface of femur. Acetabu- lum cartila- ginous extenially. Fat in the bottom. Kinds of motion. enter the acetabulum to supply the synovial memhrane and the fat in the bottom of that hollow. The interarticular ligament (ligamentuni tevea, fig. 65, 6) is a band about an inch long, but of very variable thickness, which connects the head of the femur with the hip-bone. The ligament has a triangular form, the ape.v of the triangle being ti.xed to the pit on the head of the femur, and the base joining the transverse ligament. The free sides of the triangle are formed by two fibrous bundles, an anterior or pubic (c), which is attached with the trans- verse ligament to the pubic edge of the cotyloid notch, and a posterior or ischial (d), which is stronger, and is inserted beneath the transverse ligament into the ischial border of the notch. To see the condition of the interarticular ligament in the different movements of the joint, it should be examined in a specimen in which the capsule is entire, and the floor of the acetabulum has been cut out with a chisel from inside the pehds. During extension of the joint the ligament is relaxed ; and it cannot be tightened so long as the fully extended position is maintained. In flexion of the joint the ligament is rendered somewhat tighter ; but it is only fully stretched when, with the joint bent, the femur is adducted or rotated outwards : the pubic fasciculus of the band is especially tightened by the adduction, and the ischial slip by the outward rotation. A synovial membrane lines the capsular ligament, and is continued along the neck of the femur to the margin of the articular surface. In the bottom of the cotyloid cavity it is reflected over the fat in that situation ; and it surroimds the ligamentmu teres. Dissection. To see the surface of the acetabulum, the lower limb is to be separated from the trunk by di^dding the interarticular ligament, and by cutting through any parts that connect it to the pelvis, and at this stage the pelvic attachments of the interarticular ligament can be better displayed. Surfaces of hone. The articular surfaces of the bones are not completely covered with cartilage. In the head of the femur is a pit into which the roimd ligament is inserted. The acetabulum is coated with cartilage at its circumference, except opposite the cotyloid notch, and touches the head of the femur by this part: this articular surface is deep above, but gradually decreases towards the edges of the notch. In the hollow of the cartilage, and close to the notch, is a ma&s of fat, covering about one-third of the area of the cotyloid cavity, which constitutes the " gland of Havers" : it conimuniaites with. the fat of the thigh beneiith the transverse ligament. Movements. In tliis ball and socket joint, there are the same kinds of movement as in the shoulder, viz., flexion and extension, abduction and adduction, circumduction and rotation, but aU of them, with the exception of flexion, are of a much more limited extent.