79 SHORT MDSCLES OF THE LITTLE FINGER. Tlie ADDUCTOR OBLIQUDS POLLicis (c') arises deeijly in tlie liand AfUiuetor from the sheath of the flexor carpi radialis, the anterior ligaments oiJl'qmis: of the carpus, the os magnnm, and the bases of the first, second, and onein ; tliird metacariml bones (fig. 32). Directed obliquely downwards and passes to outwards, the greater part of the muscle is Mjsej-to/into the ulnar .side sesamoid of the base of the first phalanx in union with the adductor trans- bono, versus, a sesamoid bone being formed in the tendon over the head of the metacarpal bone. A small slip of the muscle usually passes and sends a outwards beneath the tendon of the long flexor to join the insertion external ■ of the outer head of the flexor brevis. The tendon of the flexor longus pollicis lies between this muscle roiation.s; and the flexor brevis; and its origin is covered by the outer tendons of the flexor profundus and the lumbricales. It lies over the first dorsal interosseous muscle, and the ending of the radial artery. Action. It flexes the metacarpo-phalangeal joint, and draws the use. thumb over the palm. The ADDUCTOR TRANSVERsus POLLICIS (d) is triangular in shape, Adductor with the apex at the thumb, and the base in the centre of the palm, t-ransversus Its origin is from the ridge on the lower two-thirds of the palmar aspect of the third metacarpal bone (fig. 32); and its insertion is into joins the inner side of the first phalanx of the thumb, in common with the obn"i*'"'. last muscle. From the conjoined insertion of the two adductors a ° _slip is^seot^to the tendon of the exterisnr IflUfiiix.iiftlliiii" •Sec ■ «"-^. j^fW . The anterior surface is in contact with the tendons of the flexor relations profundus and the lumbrical muscles ; and the posterior surface lies over the interosseous muscles of the first and second spaces, with the intervening metacarpal bone. The deep palmar arch se]5arates this muscle from the adductor obliquus. Action. It draws the thumb towards the centre of the palm. and use Short Muscles 0¥ the Little Finger (fig. 31). In the Two or three hypothenar eminence there are the abductor and opponens muscles '""scles to of the little finger, and sometimes a short flexor. The ABDUCTOR minimi digiti (e) is superficial to the opponens Abductor muscle.^ It arises from the pisiform bone, and is imcried into the is beneatli ulnar side of the base of the fir.st phalanx of the little finger; jyjSkin ; oflsetjrom it reaches the extensor tendon on the back of the phaUnx. Tlie pajmaj^tfwis parUy_M the mu-sclel ~ ' Actimi. Firstly it draws the little finger away from the others ; use but continuing to act, it bends the metacarpo-phalangeal joint. The flexoh brevis minimi digiti (f) is placed at the radial Flexor border of the preceding muscle. It takes orujin from the tip oft'enVb of the process of the unciform bone, and slightly from the sent;"" annular ligament; and it is inserted with the abductor into the nrst phalanx. It lies on the opponens ; and near its origin it is separated relations from the abductor by the deep branches of the ulnar artery and nerve. Action. It flexes and abducts the first phalanx of the little and use linger.