•DISSECTION OF THE BACK. 534 Jr^t'ir Dissection. The multilidus spiiiM is now to be i)rei.ared. The iius .si.imu. upper purt of it will be exposed by cutting throiigli Uie insertion of the semispinalis, and turning aside that muscle. Over the sacrum the thick aponeurosis of the erector spinse must be removed. In the dorsal region the rnultifidus spinaj will appear on detaching and reflecting the semispinalis from the spines. The slips by which the )nuscle is atUiched to the proces.ses of the vertebriB should Ije defined and separated. Origin of The MULTiFiDDs sPiNiE reaches from the sacrum to the axis : spii'iiB"^'"'* it is larger below than above, aud is smallest in the upper doi'sal fiom pelvis, I'egion. It takes origin at the pelvis from the back of the sacrum between the spines and the external row of processes as low as the fourth aperture, from the posterior sacro-iliac ligament, from the inner- side of the postei ior superior spine of the ilium, aud from the fr om lumbar, overlying tendon of the erector spiuse ; in the loins it arises by large doisul, and fj-om the mamillary processes of the vertebra3 ; in tlw dorsal region by thinnec slips from the transverse processes ; aud cervical in the necJc from the articular processes of the lower four cervical vertebne; yertebi'se. From these attachments the fibres are directed obliquely upwards and inwards, passing over from one to three vertebrte, to insertion he inserted into the sfiiuous processes from the axis to the last lumbar into spines, yerteblfl. Relations of The transverso-spiuales are entirely concealed by the erector .si)inaies^° Spinas and complexus muscles ; and beneath them are the laniinaj of the vertebrae, with the dorsal .spinal plexus of veins. Internally they rest against the spinous proce.sses and the interspinal muscles, and use. Action. The transverso-spiuales of the two sides acting together will extend the spine : aud the muscles of one side can rotate the column in the cervical and dorsal regions, turning the face in the opi^osite direction. Muscles of Sixth Layer of Muscles. This layer includes a number of layer'.'''^'' short muscles which pass between adjacent vertebras, or I'rom the first two vertebrse to the head. They are :— 1. The rectus capitis posticus major. 2. The rectus capitis posticus minor. 3. The obliquus capitis superior. 4. The obliquus capitis inferior. 5. The rotatores dorsi. 6. The iuterspinales. 7. The intertransversalis. Dissection Dissection. Between the first two cervical vertebras and the tel'musdes>«cipital bone are the recti and oblique muscles, which are to be fully cleaned. and other The slips of the multilidus spina) are to be detached from the laariayef opines of the vertebras aud turned downwards in order to show the rotatores dorsi in the thoracic region, and the interspinal muscles in the neck and loins. The intertran.sver.se muscles of the lumbar region will be expo.sed by removing the erector siiina;. Rectus 'phe RECTUS CAPITIS POSTICUS MAJOR (lig. 192, a) ariscfi from m^ovT the side of the spinous process of the axis, and is inserted into the