400 pudic, dorsal \eii[ of penis, liienior- rhoidal, vesical, uterine, and vaginal veins. Other arteries in the pelvis. Ovarian artery : offsets. Superior hfemor- rhoidal end.s in loop.s. Middb sacral, which has lateral offsets. Dissection of the nerves of the pelvis DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. The imdic veins receive roots corresponding with the branches of the pudic artery in the perineun,, but not those corresponding with the oHsets ot tlie artery ou the dorsum of the penis. I he dorsal vem of the penis receives veins from tlie corpora cavernosa and corpus .spongiosum of the peni,s, and enterin- the pelvis below the symphysis pubis, divides into two, a right" and a lett branch, which join a large ple.xus round the prostate (prostatic The middle hreviorrhoidal vein communicates with a lar<^e ijlexus (hajmorrhoidal) around the lower end of the rectum Ijeiieath the mucous membrane. The vesical veins begin in a plexus about the fundus of the bladder, and anastomose with the prostatic and hsmorrhoidal veins. The uterine veins are numerous, and form a plexus in and by the side of the uterus : this plexus inosculates ahove with the ovarian plexu,s, and below with one on the vagina. The vayinal veins surround their tube with a large vascular plexus communicating with the veins of the bulb of the vestibule below and with the uterine plexus above. The arteries in the pelvis, which are not derived from the internal iliac, are the ovarian, superior hseniorrhoidal, and middle sacral. The OVARIAN ARTERY (p. 365), after passing the brim of the pelvis in the ovario-pelvic ligament, becomes tortuous, and enters the broad ligament to be distributed to the ovary : it supplies an offset to the Fallopian tube, and another to the round ligament ; and a large branch anastomoses internally with the uterine artery. ' The SUPERIOR HEMORRHOIDAL ARTERY, the continuation behind the rectmn of the inferior mesenteric (p. 318), di\'ides into two branches near the middle of the sacrum. From the point of division the branches are continued along the rectum, one on each side, and each ends in about three branches, which pierce the muscular layer of the gut three inches from the anus ; they terminate opposite the internal sphincter in anastomotic loops beneath the mucous mem- brane, and anastomose with the middle and inferior htemorrhoidal arteries. The MIDDLE SACRAL ARTERY arises from the back of the aorta just before its bifurcation (fig. 148, h) and descends along the middle of the last lumbar vertebra, the sjicruni, and the coccyx. The artery gives small branches laterally, opposite each piece of the sacrum, to anastomose with the lateral s;icral arteries, and to supply the nerves, and the bones with the periosteum. Sometimes a small branch is furnished by it to the lower end of the rectum, to tiike the place of the middle liaamorrhoidal artery. The middle sacral veins end in the left common iliac. Dissection (fig. 149, p. 401). To dissect the nervej? of the pehis, on the right side, it will be ncccssiiry to detach the triangular ligament with the urethra from the bone; and to cut through, on the right side, the fore jiart of the recto-vesical fascia and levator ani, together with the visceral arteries, in order that