EXPOSURE OF THE CRANIAL NERVES. r,31 and recur- rent ; Jklow the foramen of exit fi'Oiu the skull, tlie cranial nerves have D'^lj^^^tion been fur the most part denuded by the dissection of the internal nerves in carotid ; but the intercommunications of the vagus, hypoglossal, = sympathetic, and first two spinal nerves, near the skull, are to be traced out more comi)letely. The larger part of the spinal accessory has been sufficiently laid of spinal " ,. . 1.1 1 accessory: bare already ; but its small part is to be traced to the vagus close to the skull, and onwards along that trunk. The chief part of the glosso-pharyngeal has also been dissected ; of giosso- but the oftsets on the carotid, and others to the pharynx in front of I'l'^O-'igeal; the artery are to be defined. On the pneumo-gastric-trunk the student will find an enlargement of vagus; close to the skull (f/anglion of the trunk), to which the hypoglossal nerve is intimately united. From the ganglion proceed two branches (pharyngeal and laryngeal), which are to be traced to the parts indi- cated by their names, especially the first which enters the pharyngeal 15]';^,!'^^'*''''"' plexus. The task of exposing the ramifications of the branch of the vagus, and tho.^e of the glosso-pharyngeal ami sympatlietic in the plexus, is by no means easy, in consequence of the dense tissue in which they are contained. Two or more cardiac offsets of the vagus, ^q!^"^'' one at the upper and another at the lower part of the neck, may be recognised readily. Lastly, the dissector may prepare more fully the recurrent branch coursing up beneath the lower end of the common carotid ; by removing the fat around it, offsets may be seen passing to the chest and the windpipe. Only the first, or the deep part of the hypoglossal nerve remains to be made ready for learning ; its comniunicatious witli the vagus, sympathetic, and the spinal nerve are to be shown. A dissection for the sympathetic will be given farther on (p. 636) ; °[,^^j™Pf' but its large ganglion near the skull (upper cervical) should be part, cleaned, and the branches from it to the pharyngeal plexus should be pursued beneath the carotid artery. The ninth, tmth, and eleventh cranial nerves (glosso-pharyngeal, pneumo-gastric, and spinal accessory) leave the cranium together by nerves, the jugular foramen, from which circumstance they were formerly grouped together as one nerve—the eighth nerve of Willis. Outside the skull the nerves take different directions to their destination ; thus the glosso-pharyngeal is inclined forwards to the tongue and pharynx over the internal carotid artery ; the spinal accessory back- wards to the sterno-niastoid and trajiezius muscles over the internal jugular vein ; and the pneumo-gastric nerve descends to the viscera (jf the thorax and abdomen lying in the carotid sheath for a considerable distance. The GLOsso-i'HARYNHBAL NERVE (figs. 225,1 and 226,') is tlie smallest of the three trunks. In the j ugular foramen it is placed some- nerve what in front of the other two, and lies in a groove in the hinder border of the petrous part of the temporal bone. In the aperture of g^^J^gj^^";,, exit the nerve is marked by two ganglionic swellings, the upper one foramen, being the jugular, and the lower the petrosal ganglion.