34 DISSECTION OF THE UPPER LIMB. and au- terior. Two circum- flex arteries; anterior; posterior, its ofTsets. One circura flex nerve, whicli ends In deltoid: branches, articular; posterior; anterior. Infraspi- natus : origin. insertion. Tolations, arrived cat. In clearing the fat from the space a branch of the nerve to the teres minor muscle is to be sought close to the border of the scapula, where it is surrounded by dense fibrous ti.ssue. Archiug outwards in front of the humerus is the small anterior circumflex artery, which should also be cleaned. The CIRCUMFLEX ARTERIES arise near the termination of the axillary trunk (p. 24) ; they are two in number, and are named anterior and posterior from their position to the humerus. The anterior branch (fig. 7, p. 23) is a small artery, which arises from the outer side of the axillary and courses outwards beneath the coraco-brachialis and biceps muscles, and ascends in the bicipital groove to the articulation and the head of the humerus ; it anasto- moses with small offsets of the posterior circumflex. The posterior circumflex a/rtery (fig. 13, a), much larger than the anterior, winds backwards through a quadrilateral space between the humerus and the long head of the triceps, in company with the circumflex nerve, and ends in large branches, in which it anastomoses with the acromio-thoracic artery. Branches are given from it to the shoulder-joint, to the teres minor, the long head of the triceps, and the integuments. It anastomoses with the anterior circumflex artery round the neck of the bumerus and with branches of the superior profunda artery in the substance of the triceps. The CIRCUMFLEX NERVE (fig. 13,^) leaves the armpit with the posterior circumflex artery and bends round the humerus, beneath the deltoid muscle, in which it ends. Many large branches enter the deltoid ; and one or two filaments pierce the fore part of the muscle and become cutaneous. Branches. As the nerve passes backwards it gives an articular filament to the under-part of the shoulder-joint. Behind the humerus it splits into two parts, an anterior and a j^osterior. The posterior paH furnishes (1) a branch to the teres minor, which has a T—Hi'-h {j'^'^^i'^^^rm ffWf11"'F; ^T"" it. (2) a few twigs to the back 5^ of the deltoid, and (3) cutaneous branches which turn round the edge of the muscle. The anterior part passes round the humerus with the posterior circumflex artery, and enters the fore part of the deltoid muscle, a few twigs passing through the muscle to the skin over it. The INFRASPINATUS MUSCLE (fig. 13, b) occupics the infnispmous fossa of the scapula, and extends to the upper end of the humerus. The muscle arkcs from the lower surface of the spine of the scapula, from the dorsal surface of the bone below that proce.s.s, except at the neck and the narrow area along the axillary border where the teres muscles are attached, and from a special fascia covering it. Its fibres converge to a tendon, which is inserted into the middle impression on the great tuberosity of the humerus, and joins with the tendons of the suprasiiinatus and teres minor. The fleshy fibres arising from the spine overlie the tendon of the muscle. A part of the muscle is subcutaneous ; but the upper portion is concealed by the deltoid, and the lower angle by the latissiiiius