DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 281 Inferior or deep epigastric arteiy: relations! in wall of abdomen. Branches: pnbic joins obturator; cremas- teric ; muscular; cutaneous. Epigastric veins. Circumflex iliac artery offsets, muscular, the abdomen beneath tlie cartilage of the seventh rib. Descend- ing in the sheath of the rectus, it soon enters the substance of the muscle, and anastomoses in it witb the epigastric artery. Branches are given to the neighbouring muscles and the overlying integument. The DEEP EPIGASTRIC ARTERY (fig. 106, a, p. 287) arises from the e.xternal ilia;c about a quarter of an inch above Poupart's ligament; it ascends in the sheath of the rectus, and above the umbilicus divides into branches which enter that muscle, and ana.stomose with the superior epigastric. As the artery courses to the rectus it passes beneath the spermatic cord (or round ligament of the uterus), and on the inner side of the internal abdominal ring ; and it is directed obliquely inwards across the lower part of the abdomen, so as to form the outer boundary of a triangular space along the edge of the rectus. It lies at first beneath the transversalis fascia ; but it soon perforates that mem- brane, and enters the sheath of tlie rectus over the semilunar fold of Douglas, The branches of the artery are numerous, but small in size :— a. The pt/ftic branch is a small artery, which runs transversely behind Poupart's ligament to the back of the pubis, where it anasto- moses with the similar branch of the opposite side, and with an offset from the obturator artery (fig. 107,/, p. 294). The size of the anastomosis with the obturator artery varies very much, but it is often so large that the obturator artery is derived wholly or in part from the deep epigastric through the enlargement of its pubic branch, giving rise to the commonest form of an abnormal obturator artery. b. A cremasteric branch is furnished to the muscular covering of the cord. c. Muscular branches are given from the outer side of the ai-tery to the abdominal wall, and anastomose with the intercostal and lumbar arteries ; others enter the rectus. cl. Cutaneous offsets pierce the muscle, and ramify in the integu- ments with the anterior cutaneous nerves. Two epigastric veins lie with the artery; they join finally into one, which opens into the external iliac vein. The DEEP CIRCUMFLEX ILIAC ARTERY arises from the outer ^ side of the external iliac, opposite, or a little below the deep epigastric. It runs at first over the iliacus, close behind Poupart's ligament, in a fibrous sheath at the junction of the iliac and transversalis fascifc, and then along the inner margin of the iliac crest to about the middle, where it ends bj' anastomosing with the iliac branch of the ilio- lumbar artery. Branches. Near the front of the iliac cre.«t a branch (fig. 106, h, p. 287) ascends between the internal obliqne and transversalis muscles, supplying them, and anastomosing with the epigastric and lumbar arteries.