DISSECTION OF THE PERINEUM. 256 Dissection. Take lirst iscliio-rectal fossa. Tlinii examine anterior half of perineum. Superficial fa.scia. Dartoirt tissue. Superficial vessels and nerve.s. Dissection of tlie muscles. Sphincter vagina- : origin Dissection. The steps of the dissection are much the same in both sexes, and the same description will serve, generally, for the male and leinale perineum. First, the dissection of the i.schio-rectal fossa is to be made. Afterwards the muscles, vessels and nerves of the posterior half of the perineal space are to be examined. (See description of the male iierineuin, pp. 237 to 243.) Next, the skin is to be taken from the anterior lialf of the perineal space, as in the male ; and tlie transverse incision in front is to be made at the anterior part of the vulva. The attachments of the superficial fascia are then to be looked to, and the cutaneous ves- sels and nerves are to be traced beneath it (p. 244 et seq.). Superficial fascia. The description of this I'ascia in the male will serve for the like part in the female, with these modifications:— that in the female it is interrupted in the middle line, and is of less extent, in conse- quence of the aperture of the vulva ; and that it is continued for- wards through labia majora to insuinal region. Fig. 95.—VnNons Plexuses op the G-enital Organs, and Opening of the Vagina (Kobblt). Sphincter vaginte muscle. Clitoris. A. B. c. Nyrapba. the the In Bulb of the vestibule. b. Venous plexus continuous with veins of the clitoris. c. Dorsal vein of the clitoris. the labia the super- ficial I'ascia contains involuntary muscular fibres, like the dartos tunic of the scrotum, as well as fat. The SUPERFICIAL PERINEAL VESSELS and NERVES, and the INFKRIOR PUDENDAL NERVE have the Same arrangement as in the male (p. 245) ; but they are distributed to the labia instead of to the scrotum. Dissection. The labia and the superficial fascia are then to be removed, to follow the sphincter muscle around the opening of the vagina. Two other mu.scles are exposed at the s;ime time, viz., the erector clitoridis lying along the ramus of the ischium, and the transversus perinei passing across the perineum to the central pdnt. The SPHINCTER VAGIN^: (bulbo-cavernosus ; fig. 95, a) is a partially orbicular muscle around the orifice of the vagina, and corresponds to the ejaculator urintc in the male. Posteriorly it is attached to the cential point of the perineum, where it blends with the sphincter ani and transveraus muscles ; and its fibres are directed forwards on