96 DISSECTION OF THE UPPER LIMB. Anterior ligament. Posterior ligament. the humenus. The fibres diverge, and are in.serted in this waj' :— O.^vK^io^^'Tlieimteiifir, wliich are the strongest, are fixed to the edge of the ,»:iJv|^process: the ijosterior are attached to the side of the iosl&nJTt- olecranon ; and a few middle fibres join ajjand passing tran.sversely ' ' over the notch between the olecranon and thej;oronoid process. The ulnar nei've i.s in contiict with the ligament; and vessels enter the joint by the aperture beneath the transverse band. The anterior ligament is thiii, and its fibres are separated by intervals in which masses of fat are lodged. By its upper edge the ligament is attached to the front of the himierus, and by its lower to the front of the coronoid process and the orbicular ligament of the radius. The brachialis anticus muscle covers it. The x>osterior ligament is mucli thinner and looser than the anterior, and is covered completely by the triceps muscle. Superiorly it is attached to the humerus above the fossa for the olecranon ; and inferiorly it is inserted into the olecranon. Some few fibres are transverse between the margins of the fossa before mentioned. Dissection. Open the joint by an incision across the front near the hiunerus, and disarticulate the bones, in order that the articular surfaces inay be seen. The synovial membrane of the joint passes from one bone to another along the deep surface of the connecting ligaments. It is Icontinued downwards on the inner surface of the orbicular ligament, and serves for the joint of the head of the radius with the small sigmoid cavity of the ulna. Articular surfaces. The articular surface of the lower end of the humerus is divided into two parts for the bones of the forearm. That for the radius, on the outer side, forms a rounded eminence (capitellum) which is confined to the front of the bone. The surface in contact with the ulna (trochlea) is limited internally and externally by a prominence, and hollowed out in the centre. On the front of the humerus above the articidar surface are two depressions which receive the coronoid process of the uhia and the head of the radius during flexion of the joint; and on the posterior aspect is a large fossa for the reception of the olecranon in extension of the joint. On the end of the ulna the articular surface of the great sigmoid cavity is narrowed in the centre, but expanded above and below (fig. 40). A median ridge, which is received into the hollow of tlie trochlea, extends from the upper to the lower end of the fossa ; and across the bottom of the cavity the cartilage is wanting over a small space between the coronoid and olecranon processes. The head of the radius presents a circular depression with a raised margin, which plays over the caj)itelluin of the humerus. Movement. This joint is like a hinge in its movements, per- mitting only flexion and extension. lai flexion, the bones of the forearm move forwards, each on its own articular surface, so as to leave the back of the humerus uncovered. Tlie movement is checked hy the meeting of the arm Dissection. Synovial membrane. Lower end of the humerus: two articu- lar surfaces, and three fossse. Upper end of the ulna. Head of the radius. Kinds of motion : bending;