DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. 422 and middle. Jfucoiis membmne. Vessels are large. Arteries. Veins. the middle line. At the neck of the uteni.s they are arranged in a transverse direction. The middle or intervening set of fibres are more indistinct than the others, and have a less determinate direction. The mucous lining of the uterus is continued into the va^na at one end, and into the Fallopian tubes at the other. In the body it IS thin and soft, of a reddish-white colour, smooth, and closely adherent. In tlie cer^dx it is stronger, and presents the folds before referred to. The blood-vessels of the uterus are large and tortuous, and occupy canals in the uterine substance in which they communicate freely together. The arteries are furnished from the uterine, vaginal and ovarian vessels (p. 398 et seq.) and tLe veins correspond with the Fig. 156.—Interior of the Uterus, with a Posterior View of the Broad Ligament and the Uterine Appendages. a. Body, ami b, neck of the uterus. c. Cavity of the body, and d, of the neck. e. Fallopian tube, and /, its trumpet-shaped end. g. The fimbria attached to the ovary. h. Ovary. i. Ligament of the ovary. Ic. Parovarium. Nerves. Lympha- tics ; two sets. Hound liga- ment ends in groin; attachment to uterus, arteries ; they are of large size, and form plexuses in the uterus, which communicate with the vaginal plexus on the one hand and the ovarian on the other. The nerves are derived from the sympathetic (p. 405), and are very small in projjortion to the size of the uterus. Lymphatics. One set accompanies the uterine vessels to the glands on the iliac artery. Another set issues from the fundus, enters the broad ligament, and accomj)anies the ovarian artery to the glands on tlie aorta : the last are joined by lymphatics of the ovary and Pallopian tube. Round ligament of Hie utents (p. 394). This firm cord supports tlic uterus, and is contained partly in the broad ligament, and jiartly in the inguinal canal. It is about five inches in length, and is attached to the upper eud of the uterus close below and in front of the Fallopian tube. A process of the peritoneum