DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. 468 relfttioiis Left coni- 111011 Clll'O- tid: relations in the thorax. Left sub- clavian artery: course and relations in the chest. The gi eat reins are :- Vena cava superior: formed by innominate veins; course; relations; branches. The artery is cro8.sed by the left innominate vein, and lies lieliind the upper ])iece of the sternum, and the origins of the sterno-hyoid and steruo-thyroid inuscles. At first it rests on the trachea, but as it ascends it is placed on the right side of the air- tube. To its right is the innominate vein of the same side. Usually no lateral branch arises from this artery. Left common carotid artery. The common carotid artery of the left side of the neck is longer than the right by the distance between the arch and the top of the sternum. In the thorax the artery ascends obliq^uely to the left st-jmo- clavicular articulation, but not so close as the innominate to the first piece of the sternum and the origin of the depressor muscles of the hyoid bone and larynx. In this course it passes beneath the left innominate vein, and the remains of the thymus gland. At first it lies on the trachea, but afterwards inclines to the left of that tube, so as to be placed over the cesophagus and the thoracic duct. To its outer side is the left vagus, with one or more cardiac branches of the sympathetic nerve. The LEFT SUBCLAVIAN ARTERY ascends to the neck through the upper aperture of the thorax, and then curves outwards between the scaleni, where it has the same relations as the vessel of the right side. The trunk is directed almost vertically from the arch of the aorta to the level of the first rib. In the thorax it is deeply placed, near the spine. To its inner side is at first the trachea, and after- wards the oesophagus with the thoracic duct. On its outer side it is invested by the left pleura, and in the hardened specimen its position is represented by a shallow groove in the lung, in which it rests. The left innominate vein crosses in front of the vessel as it enters the neck. Somewhat anterior to the artery, though running in the same direction, are some of the cardiac nerves. Veins. In addition to the cardiac vehis, there are the superior and inferior cavae, and the pulmonary veins;—the former are the great systemic vessels which return impure blood to the right auricle of the heart; and the latter convey pure blood from the lungs to the left auricle. The SUPERIOR or descending vena cava (fig. 170, /, and fig. 171) results from the union of the right and left innominate veins, and brings to the heart the blood of the head and neck, upper limbs, and thorax. Its origin is placed behind the junction of the first costal cartilage of the right side with the sternum. From that spot the large vein descends to the pericardium, perforates the fibrous layer of that bag about one inch and a half above the heart, and ends in the right auricle. On its outer surface the vein is covered by the pleura, and the i.hrenic nerve is in contact with it. To the inner side are the innominate artery and the ascending aorta. Behind the vein is the root of the right lung. ■ • ■ ■ a When the cava is about to perforate the pericardium it is jomect posteriori V by the large azygos vein ; and higher up it receives small veins from the pericardium, and the parts in the mediastinum.