43 BICEPS MUSCLE. The INTERNAL CUTANEOUS BRANCH OF THE MUSCULO-SPIRAL one from NERVE, becoiniug subciitaneoiis in the upiDer third, winds to the ^"rai";"' Ijack of the ami, and reaches nearly as far as the olecranon. The INTERCOSTO-HUMERAL NERVE, a branch of the second inter- and inter- costal (p. 13, and fig. 4), perforates the fascia near the axilla, and h°,me"ral. ramifies on the inner side and posterior surface of the arm in the upper half. The size and distribution of this nerve depend upon the development of the small internal cutaneous and the offset of the muscido-spiral. The DEEP FASCIA of the arm is a white shining membrane, which Aponeurosis surrounds the limb, and sends processes between the muscles, of Over the biceps muscle it is thinner than elsewhere. At certain points it receives accessory fibres from the subjacent tendons : thus, receives ac- in front of the elbow an offset from the tendon of the biceps joins it; fro,n°"^ and near the a.xilla the tendons of the pectoralis major, latissimus tendons ; dorsi, and teres major send prolongations to it. At the upper part of the limb the fascia is continuous with that disposition of the axilla, and is prolonged over the deltoid and pectoral muscles to the scapula, clavicle, and chest. Below, it is continued to the and below; forearm, and is connected to the prominences of bone around the ell)ow-joint, especially to the supracondylar ridges of the himierus, forms inter- so as to gi\'e rise to the intermuscular septa of the arm. se^ta"'""^ Dissection. The muscles and vessels of the arm mil next be dissected ; the limb is still to lie on the back, but the shoulder is to be raised by means of a small block; and the scapula is to be fixed in such a position as to render tense the muscles. The inner surface of the arm is to be placed towards the dissector. The aponeurosis is to be reflected from the front of the arm by Dissection an incision along the centre, like that through the skin ; and it is "lu^^'es, to be removed on the outer side as far as the outer supracondylar ridge of the humerus, but on the inner side rather farther back than the corresponding line, so as to lay bare part of the triceps of vessels, muscle. In raising the fascia the knife must be carried in the direction of the fibres of the biceps muscle; and, to prevent the displacement of the brachial artery and its companion nerves, fasten them here and there with stitches. In front of the elljow is a hollow containing the brachial vessels ; of and into this the artery shoidd be followed, to show its ending in eibow! °^ the radial and ulnar trunks. Muscles on the Front op the Arm. There are only three Position of miLscles on the front of the arm. The one along the centre of the of tte'ann" limb IS the biceps ; and that along its inner side, reaching about half-way down, is the coraco-ln-achialis. The lirachialis anticus lies beneath the biceps. Some muscles of the forearm are connected to the inner and outer condyles of the humerus, and to the ridge above the outer condyle. The BICEPS muscle (fig. 18, p. 45, and fig. 7, p. 23) forms the nieops prominence seen on the front of the arm. It is wider at the middle than at either end ; and the upper end consists of two tendinous pieces of difterent lengths, which are attached to the