■140 DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. Dissection of inlerunl mamjniiry vessels. Triangularis sterni; insertion relations; Internal mammary artery courses through thorax to abdomen. the pleural sacs. To bring into view the triangularis sterni muscle and the internal mammary vessels, the left half of the sternum with the cartilages of the true ribs, except the first and seventh, are to be taken away with the intervening muscles ; but the two ribs mentioned are to be left untouched for the benefit of the dissectors of the abdomen and of the head and neck. Small arteries to each intercostal space and the surface of the thorax, and the intercostal nerves are to be preserved. If the piece of sternum and the costal cartilages aie divided and removed carefullj' these can be shelled off the subjacent structures without injury to them. The surface of the triangularis sterni will be apparent when the loose tissue and fat are removed. The TRIANGULARIS STERNI (fig. 160) is a thin muscle beneath the costal cartilages. It arises internally from the side of the ensiform process, from the back of the sternum as high as the third costal cartilage, and, usually, from the inner ends of the cartilages of the lower two or three trae ribs. Its fibres are directed outwards, the upper ones also ascending consider- ably, and are inserted by fl^eshy slips into the true ribs except the first and last, at the junction of the bone and cartilage: some of the fibres frequently end in an aponeurosis in the in- tercostal spaces. In front of the muscle are the rib- cartilages and the internal intercostals, with the internal mammary vessels and intercostal nerves. Behind, it lies on the pleura. Its lower part is continuous with the transversalis muscle of the abdomen (fig. 160, b). The size of this muscle varies greatly, and one or more of the upper slips are frequently wanting. Action. The triangularis sterni assists in depressing the anterior ends of the ribs, and acts with the interosseous part of the internal intercostals in.expiration. The INTERNAL MAMMARY ARTERY is a branch of the subclavian, and enters the thorax beneath the cartilage of the first rili. It is continued through the thorax, lying behind the costal cartilages and aljout half an inch from the sternum, as far as the sixth intercostal space; here it gives externally a large muscular branch (viusculo- phrenic), and then passing beneath the seventh cartilage, enters the sheath of the rectus muscle in the wall of the abdomen. In Fig. 160.—View from Behind of, a, Trianoularis Sterni Muscle.