DISSECTION OF THE KOOT. 204 Plaiitai' nerves also two. Internal iier\'e to three toes and a half; muscular branches ; digital nerves are divided, ex- cept first, and give muscular branches, cutaneous and articu- lar offsets. External plantar to one toe and a half; has super- ficial and deep parts; branches to nuiscles; two digital brandies, one single, one divided. Distribution like others. llie Plantak Nehves (fig. 77) are derived from tlie bifurcation of the posterior tiljial trunk behind tlie inner ankle. They are two in number, and accompany the plantar arterie.s ; but the larger nevva lies with the smaller blood-vessel. The INTERNAL PLANTAR NERVE (') courses between the .sliort flexor of the toes and the abductor hallucis, and giving but few muscular offsets, divides into four digital branches (fig. 75, '\ \ \ for the supply of both sides of the inner three toes, and 'half the fourth; it resembles thus the median nerve of the hand in the distribution of its branches. Mmailar offsets are given by the trunk to the flexor brevLs digitorum and the abductor hallucis ; and a few superficial twiys perforate the fascia. The four digital nerves have a numerical designation, and the first is nearest the inner border of the foot. The branch (") to the inner side of the great toe is undivided, but the others are bifurcated at the cleft between the toes. Muscular branches are furnished by two of these nerves before they reach the toes; thus, the first supplies the flexor bre\is hallucis ; and the second gives a branch to the innermost lumbrical muscle. -Digital nerves on the toes. Each of the outer three nerves, lieiiig divided at the cleft between the toes, supplies the contiguous sides of two toes, while the first belongs altogether to the iimer side of the great toe : all give offsets to the integuments, and the cutis beneath the nail, and articular filaments are distributed to the joints as in the fingers. The EXTERNAL PLANTAR NERVE (fig. 77, ■■^) is spent chiefly in the deep muscles of the sole of the foot, but it furnishes digital nerves to both sides of the little toe, and the outer side of the fourth. It corresponds in its distribution Avith the irlnar nerve in the hand. It has the same course as the external plantar artery, and divides at the outer marghi of the flexor brevis digitorum into a superficial and a deep portion ;—the former gives origin to the two digital nerves ; but the latter accompanies the arch of the plantiir artery into the foot, and will be dissected afterwards (p. 210). While the external plantar nerve is concealed by the .short flexor of the toes, it gives muscular branches to the aljductor minimi digiti and the flexor accessoriiis. The digital branches of the external plantar nerve (fig. 75) are two. One (") is undivided and is distributed to the outer side of the little toe, gi\ang offsets to the flexor hvevis minimi digiti, and oftentimes to the intero.sseous muscles of the fourth space. The other (^) bifurcates at the cleft between the outer two toe-s, supplying their collateral surfaces, and communicates in the foot witli the last digital branch of the internal plantar nerve. On the sides of the toes the digital nerves liave the same dis- trilmtion as tho.se from the other planbir trunk, and end like them in a tuft of fine branches at the extremity of the digit.