OBVIOUS STRUCTURE OF THE LIVER. 349 Obvious structure of the liver. The substance of the liver Lobular consists of small masses called lobules, together with vessels which **''"<^'^""'> are cnncernecl both in the production of the secretion, and in the nutrition of the organ. The whole is surrounded by a fibrous and encased i)y , two coats. a serous coat. Serous coat. The peritoneum invests the liver almost completely, Serouscoat, and adheres closely to the fibrous coat. At certain spots intervals exist between the two, viz., in the fissures occupied by vessels, along where the line of attachment of the ligaments, and at the surface touching ' the gall-bladder. The fibrous covering is very thin, but it is rather stronger where Fibrous the peritoneum is not in contact with it. It invests the liver, and is continuous at the transverse fissure with the fibrous sheath into the (capsule of Glisson) surrounding the vessels in the interior. When the membrane is torn from the surface, it will be found connected with fine shreds entering into the liver. Size and form of the lohules. The lobules (fig. 132, I) constitute Lobules of the proper secreting substance, and can be seen either on the'^'"^''^™' exterior of the liver, on a cut surface, or by means of a rent in the mass. As thus observed, these bodies are about the size of a size and pin's head, and measure from ^th to -^th. of an inch in diameter. "PP"'"''"!'''': Closely massed together, they possess a dark central jioint; and form; there are indications of lines of separation between them, though they are to some extent united together. By means of transverse and vertical sections of the lobules, their form appears flattened on the exterior, but they are many-sided in the interior of the liver, position to They are clustered around the smallest divisions of the hepatic vein, to which each is connected by a small twig issuing from the centre, something like the union of the stalk with the body of a small fruit. Vessels of the liver. Two sets of blood-vessels ramify in the Vessels in liver:—One enters the transverse fissure, and the branches are directed transversely in spaces (portal canals) where they are enveloped by areolar tissue. The other set (hepatic veins) runs from the anterior to the posterior border of the liver for the most part without a sheath. The ramifications of these difterent vessels are to be followed in the liver. The ca2)siile of Glisson is a layer of areolar tissue, which envelops Capsnie of the vessels and the ducts in the transverse fissure, and is continued on their branches in the portal canals. In this sheath the vessels ramify, and become minutely divided before their termination in the lobules. If a transverse section is made of a portal canal, the vessels will retract somewhat into the loose surrounding tissue. The portal vein ramifies in the liver like an artery ; and the Portal vein blood circulates through it in the same manner, viz., from trunk to branches. After entering the transverse fissure the vein divides occupies into large branches ; these lie in the portal canals or spaces, with 1?°''''' ofl'sets of the hepatic artery, tlie hepatic duct, and the nerves and lymphatics (fig. 132, p). The division is repeated again and again