469 THE INNOMINATE VEINS. The INNOMINATE VEINS are t.wo in nunibpr, riglit. iiiul left ; and iimoniinuto each is formed near tlie inner end of the clavicle by the junction of the subclavian and internal jugular veins. Below, they are united in the superior cava. The trunks differ in length and direction, and in their relations tr. surrounding i)arts (fig. 171). The right vein is about one inch long, and descends almost riyht, vertically, on the right side of the innominate artery, to its junction with the opposite vein. On the outer surface the plenra covers it, and along it the phrenic nerve is placed. The left iwm is nearly three inches in length, and is directed left; obliquely to the right, along the upper border of the arch of the aorta. It crosses behind the sternum, and the remains of the thymus gland ; and it lies on the three large branches of the aortic arch, as well as on the nerves descending over the arch. The tributaries of the veins are nearly alike on the two sides, their Each receives the vertebral and the internal mammary of its o\vii side, and occasionally the inferior thyroid, though these veins more often blend into one trunk Ijelow, which opens into the junction of the two innominate veins or into the left. Tiie left vein also is joined in addition by the superior intercostal, and some small thymic and pericardial veins. Occasionally tlie innominate veins are not united in tlie vena cav.a, but .Sometimes descend separately to tlie heart, wliere each has a distinct opening in the Hiey ojien right auricle. When such a condition exists, the riglit vein takes the course :""'I«™''''ly of the upper cava in front of Die root of tlie riglit lung ; but the left vein h'eart ' descends in front of the root of the left hing, and turning to tlie hack of the heart, receives the cardiac veins, before it opens into the right auricle. A cross branch generally connects the two above the arch of the aorta. This occasional condition in the adult is a regular one at a very early period of the growth of the fcetns ; and the two vessels are also persistent in some mammalia. Cliaiir/e of the two veins into one. The changes taking place in the veins How two during fa>tal growth, to produce the usual arrangement in the adult, concern are dianged the trunk on the left side. The following is an outline of them. First a "ne, cross branch is formed between the two trunks, and this enlarging gives rise to the left innominate vein. Then the left trunk below the cross branch dis- appears at its middle, and undergoes transformation at each end :—At the upper end it becomes converted into a part of the superior intercostal vein, and eoro- At the lower end it remains pervious for a short distance as the coronary .sinus • """"y sinus and the small oblique vein opening into the end of that sinus in the adult i.s a remnant of the trunk as it lay beneath the heart. In the adult there is a trace of the occluded vessel in the form of a small fibrous band in the vestigial fold of the pericardium (p. 451). The INFERIOR OR ASCENDING VENA CAVA enters the right Vena cava auricle as soon as it has pierced the diaphragm. No Ijranches join the vein in the thora.x. Tiie PULMONARY VEiN.s are two on each side, upper and lower. Fom imi- They i.ssue from the liilum of the lung, and end in the left auricle : their po.sition in regard to the other vessels of the root has been noticed at p. 449. The right veins are longer than the left, and lie beneath the Rixlit veins right auricle of the heart. The superior receives its roots from