DISSECTION OF TFTE FACE. 556 Ill'}- are therefore iiaiiied iiiiiji,r lai't;!' and small: Risorius mnscle: .T!uccinat,or muscle: insertion at corner of the mouth ; parts in con tact with it use on aperture, on cheek, in expelling air. Orbicular muscle of lips includes (Hires of liuccinator. longer and larfjer Mian Uie oilier ; tli and niinor. Til.; zyi/omaticUK major arises hum tlie ouler part of tlie malar bone, and is inserted into the skin and mucous menil.raiie at the angle ol the mouth. The zyfjomuticus minor arises from the malar bone in front of the major, and blends with the elevator of the upper lip. Tlii.s muscle is often absent. Action. The large muscle draws up\\'ards and backwards the corner of the mouth, as in laughing ; and the small one assists the levator labii superioris in raising the upjier lip. The RisoRios MDSCLE (fig. 185, 501) is a thin bundle of fibres, sometimes divided into two or more part>, wliich arises externally from the fa.sciaover the masseter muscle, and is connected internally with the apex of the depre.ssor anguli oris. Action. It I'etraets the corner of the mouth in smiling. The BUCCINATOR (fig. 203) is the flat and thin muscle of the cheek, and occupies the interval between the jaws. It arises from the outer surface of the alveolar borders of the upper and lower maxillae, as far forwards in each as the first molar tooth ; and in the interval between the jaws behind it is attached to a tendinous band known as the pterj'go-maxillary ligament. From this origi.i the fibres are directed forwards to the lij^s, where they pass into the orbicularis ; most of the upper fibres descend to the lower lip while many lower ones ascend to the upper lip, a decus-sation taking place at the corner of the mouth. The highest and lowest fibres enter the corresponding lip. ■ On the cutaneous surface of the buccinator are the diflerent ' muscles converging to the angle of the mouth ; and crossing the upper part is the duct of the parotid gland, which perforates the muscle ojjposite the second upper molar tooth. Intern;illy the muscle is lined by the mucous membrane of the mouth, and ex- ternally it is covered by a fascia (bucco-pharyngeal) that is con- tinued over the pharynx behind. By its intermaxillary origin the buccinator corresponds with the attachment of the superior constrictor of the pharynx. Action. By one muscle the corner of the mouth is retracted, and by the action of both the aperture of the mouth is widened trans- versely. In mastication the cheek is pressed against the arches of the teeth and food cannot accumulate in the interval, while the comer of the mouth is fixed by the orbicularis. In the expulsion of air lioni the mouth, as in whistling, the muscle is contracted so as to jirevent Imlging of the cheek ; but in the use of a blow-jiipe it is stretched over the volume of air contained in the mouth, and maintains a continuous stream by its contraction during expiration. The ORBICULARIS ORIS is mainly formed by the prolongation of the filires of the levator and depressor aiigulis oris and buccinator muscles. The buccinator fibres lie next to the mucous membrane.