230 DISSECTION OF THE LEG. plantar, and interos- seous liga- ments. Lateral union : synovial sacs. Great toe separate. Anterior ends. Tarsus and metatarsus .Joint of .irreat toe separate from rest: synovial .sac. Form of hones. Motion up and down, and lateral motion. .Joints of four outer toes; dorsal liga- ments ; the Iwse of one metatarsal bone to the next. The flaniar ligaments (fig. 88) are similar to the dorsal. The interosseous ligaments are .short transverse fibres between the contiguous rough lateral surfaces: they may he afterwards seen by forcibly separating the bones. Lateral union. The four outer bones touch one another late- raUy ; the second metatarsal lies against the internal and external cuneiforms ; and the fourtli is in contact internally with the outer cuneiform. The articulating surfaces are covered with cartilage ; and their synovial cavities are offsets of these serving for the articulation of the same four metatarsal with the tAr.sal bones. The metatar-sal bone of the great toe, like that of the thumb, is not united to the others at its base by any inter- vening bands. The distal ends of the five metatarsal bones are jmited by the transverse metatarsal ligament (p. 210). Tarsal with metatarsal bones. These articulations resemble the Hke parts in the liand, as there is a separate joint for the great toe, and a common one for the four outer nietatar.sjils. Articulation of the great toe. The articular ends of the bones are encased l)y a capsule, and are proA-ided with an upjier and a loicer longitudinal band to gi\-e strength to the joint: the lower liand is placed lietween the insertions of the tendons of the tibialis anticus and peroneus longus. A siujple sijnovial sac serves for the articulation. The articxdar surfaces are oval from above down, curved inwards, and constricted in the middle ; that of the metatar.sal bone is excavated, and the other is convex. Movement. There is an oblique movement of the metatarsal bone down and in and up and out, like that of the internal cuneiform witii the navicular bone ; and this will contribute a little to inver- sion and ever.sion of the foot. The joint ])0.ssesses likewise slight abduclorv and addnctory movement. Articulation of the four outer toes. The three outer tai-sal bones of the distal row correspond with four metatar.sals,—tlie middle cunei- form lieing opiiosite the second metatar.-al bone, the external cunei- form touching the third, and the cuboid carrying llie outer two bones. The surfaces in contact are tipped witli cartilage, and have longitudinal dorisal, plantar, and lateral ligaments, with some oblique in the .sole. The dorsal ligaments (fig. 90) are thin bands of fibres, which are Fig. 90.—Dorsal Lioaments UNITING THE TaRSUS TO THE Metatarsus, and the Metatarsal Bones to each other BBHINT) (Bourgert).