TITR RIGHT VENTIUCLE. iiair.i'cl 'mn.tciili 'pfpillf^rcs, wliich give alXacliiiU'iil' In t.lir lilllc teiulinous cords of tliu valve of tlie auriculo-veiitrifular o])eiiiiiy;. The auricnh-reiUricular orifice is situate in the base of tlu^ Oijimmm;; ventricle, and liehind the riglit half of the sternum, on a level la||'i".io':" with the fourtli iiitercosbil space. It is oval in shape, and jiosiiion, measures about four inches in circumference, being slightly larger li^^"'-"'"" than the corresponding ajierture of the left side. Fi.xed around the opening is a large mendjranous valve, wliich is ;,'naniiMi projects into the cavity of the ventricle. At its attached margin the I'.'usp'id valve is undivided : but its lower part is notched, so as to form ^'"'™' three pendent cusps or tongues, whence the name tricuspid is gi\'en to it. Into the cusps are inserted small fibrous bands—the chordao Cusps: tendina), which unite them to the muscular wall of the ventricle. The three cusps are thus placed ; one {manjinal) is against the nmi-fjiiml; anterior wall of the ventricle ; posteriorly, another (septal) touches .scpUii; the septum ; and the third {infundibular), the largest and most iiifuinii- niovealjle, is placed to tlie left, l)etween the auriculo-ventricular opening and the infundilHilum. The tricuspid valve consists of a duplicature of the lining mem- stnictmo of brane of the heart, enclosing fibrous tissue. The central part of each tongue is strong, while the edges are thin and notched ; and between the main pieces there are often thinner intermediate points. The chorda: tendinw, which keej) the valve in place, ascend from ullaclimnit the musculi papillares in the intervals between the cusps, and are Jl^^onis; connected in eacli .space with the two pieces of the valve bounding it. They end on the surface of the cusps turned away* from the opening, a few reaching the attached U])i)er niaigin ; but the greatei' numljer join the central thickened part, and the thin edge and point of the cusp. The papillary muscles are collected into two principal group.s, iiiviiiiinry an anterior sending its tendons to the marginal and infundiljular cusjjs, and a posterior, to the marginal and septal cu.s])s. In the interval lietween the infundibular and sei)tiil segments of the valve the tendinous cords are small, and spring from the septum. As the blood enters the cavity the valve is raised so as to close the opening into the auricle ; and its protrusion into the latter cavity during the contraction of the ventricle is arrested l)y the small tendinous cords. The closure of this valve assists in producing the first sound of the heart. The mouth of the pulmonary artery will be seen when the Pnimonnry incision in the anterior wall of the ventricle is prolonged into it. The opening is circular, with a diameter of about an inch. It sizi^-ui.i occupies the summit of the funnel-shaiied portion of the ventricle, I'""''''"" = and is placed opposite the up])er edge of the third costal cartilage of the left side, close to its junction with the sternum. Pulmonary valve. Guarding the orifice of the pulmonary artery its vahc „r IS a valve consisting of three; semilunar or sigmoid flaps a riyht and left anterior, and a posterior. Each flap is attaclied to the side of the vessel l)y its convex border, and is free at the oi)posite edge, in the centre of which there is a slightly thickened nodule—the