160 DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. Anterior crural nerve divides into two parts. From its snperllcial part arise— middle cutaneous ; internal cutaneous, which lias anterior and posterior branches; nerve to pectineus; branches to sartorius. The deep part gives off branches to rectus, to vastus extemus, to crureus. and to vastus intemus: the vastus extemus muscle in company with the nerve to the same and anastomoses with the iipper external articular arteiy ; a small offset courses over tlie muscle with a nerve to the joint. The ANTERIOR CRURAL NERVE (fig. 59) derived from parts of the second, third and fourth lumbar nerves supplies the muscles, and most of the integuments of the front of the thigh, and the integuments of the inner side of the leg. Soon after the trunk of the nerve leaves the abdomen and enters the thigh immediately external to the common femoral artery it is flattened, and is divided into superficial and deep divisions. A. The SUPERFICIAL DIVISION gives off the middle and internal cutaneous nerves, and branches to the sartorius and pectineus muscles. The middle cutaneous nerve perforates the fascia lata, sometimes also the sartorius, about three inches below Poupart's ligament, and extends to the knee (p. 141). The internal cutaneous nerve sends two or more smaU twi^s through the fascia lata to the integument of the upper two-thirds of the thigh, and then divides in front of the femoral artery, or on the inner side, into anterior and posterior branches. Sometimes these branches arise separately from the anterior crural trunk. The anterior branch is directed to the inner side of the kuee. As far as the middle of the thigh it lies over the sartorius, but it then pierces the fascia lata, and ramifies in the integuments (p. 141). The -posterior branch remains beneath the fascia lata as far as the knee. While underneath the fascia the nerve lies along the inner border of the sartorius, and joins in a plexus, about the middle of the thigh, with offsets of the obturator, and nearer the knee, with a branch of the internal saphenous nerve. The nerve to the pectineus (fig. 57,^, p. 147) is slender, and is directed inwards beneath the femoral vessels to the anterior surface of the muscle : sometimes there are two branches. Two or three branches to the sartorius arise in common with the middle cutaneous nerve. B. The DEEP DIVISION of the anterior crural nerve furnishes branches to the several heads of the quadriceps extensor muscle, and one cutaneous nerve—the long, or internal, saphenous. The branch to the rectus enters the deep surface of the muscle ; from this branch a twig is sent to the hip-joint. The nerve to the vastus externum divides into two or more parts as it enters the muscle. From one of these an articular filament is often continued do-miwards to the knee-joint. Two or tliree branches to the crureus pass into the anterior surface of the muscle ; and from the most internal a long twig descends to the subcrureus and the kuee-joint. The nerve to the vastus intemus (fig. 62,*, p. 165) is nearly as large as the internal saphenous, in common with which it often arises. To the upper end of the vastus it furnishes one or more branches, and is then continued as far as the middle of the thigh, where it ends in offsets to the muscle and the kuee-joint.