343 OBVIOUS STRUCTURE OF SPLEEN. Veisels, himvhatics, and nerves. The arteries ami veins have been Veiseia and described (pp. 332 et seq.); and the lymphatics pass to the cCEliac ghwds. The nerves are furnished by the soLir plexus. THE SPLEEN. The spleen is a vascular spongy organ of a bluish or purple Consistence colour, sometimes approaching to grey. Its texture is friable, and " ' easily broken under pressure. The viscus is somewhat elliptical in shape, and is placed obliquely Form and behind the great end of the stomach. Its size varies much. In the position, adult it measures commonly about five inches in length, three orgj^eaud four inches in breadth, and one inch to one inch and a half in thick- ness. Its weiclit lies between four and ten ounces, and is rather weight. Fia. 129.—Thb Spleen, seen fkom the Right. less in the female than the male. Its relations are described on p. 306. At the outer or phrenic aspect it is convex towards the ribs. On surfaces are the opposite side a longitudinal ridge separates an anterior or ga.stric ^J'stric'^' surface from a narrow internal or renal surface, both of which are and renal, concave. Just in front of the ridge is a groove, or more commonly a series of small depression.s, where the branches of the vessels enter : this part is called the hilum of the spleen. The anterior border is thinner than the posterior, and is often Borders and notched. Of the two extremities, the lower is more pointed than '''' the upper. Small masses of splenic substance, or accessory spleens (spleniculi), Sometimes varying in size from a bean to a moderate-sized plum, are found sp^eeus!^ occasionally, near the hilum of the spleen, in the gastro-splenic omentum, or in the great omentum. Steuctdee. Enveloping the spleen are two coverings, a serous Two coats and a fibrous, and the spleen itself is formed of a network of fibrous ^"aterial.'''' or trabecular tissue, which contains in its meshes the splenic pulp. Throughout the mass the blood-vessels and the nerves ramify. It has no duct.