DISSECTION OF KKONT OF FOREARM. 60 boundarius: contents of the spane and their position to one another lymphatic glands. Superficial group contains five muscles Pronator teres : origin by two heads : insertion; relations; ami Ihe outer muscles of the forearm, ancl is triangular in shape, with the wider part towards the humerus. It is bounded on the outer side by the supinator longus muscle, and on the inner side by the pronator teres. The aponeurosis of the limb is stretched over the space ; and the bones, covered by the brachialis anticus and supinator brevis, form the deep boundary. Contents. In the hollow are lodged the termination of the brachial artery, with its veins, and the median nerve ; the musculo- spiral nerve ; the tendon of the bicep.s muscle ; and small recurrent vessels, with much fat. These several parts have the following relative position :—The tendon of the biceps is directed towards the outer boundary to reach the radius; and on the outer side, concealed by the supinator longus muscle, is the musculo-spiral nerve. Nearly in the centre of the space are the brachial vessels and the median nerve, the nerve being internal; but as the artery is inclined to the outer side of the limb, they soon become distant from one another about half an inch. The brachial artery divides here into two trmiks, radial and ulnar ; and the recurrent radial and ulnar branches appear in the space, the former on the outer, and the latter on the inner side. Two or three lymphatic glands lie on the sides of the artery, and one below its point of splitting. Muscles on the Front of the Forearm (fig. 24). The muscles on the front of the forearm are divided into a superficial and a deep group. In the superficial group there are five muscles, which are fixed to the inner condyle of the humerus by a common tendon, and lie in the undermentioned order from the outer to the inner side :— (1) pronator radii teres, (2) flexor carpi radialis, (3) palmaris longus, (4) flexor carpi ulnaris ; and deeper and larger than any of these is (5) the flexor sublimis digitorum. The deep group will be met with in a subsequent dissection (p. 67). The pronator radii teres (fig. 24,') arises from the inner condyle of the humerus by the common tendon, from the ridge above the condyle by fleshy fibres (fig 17, p. 44), from the fascia over it, from the septum between it and the flexor carpi radialis, and by a second tendinous slip from the inner edge of the coronoid proce-ss of the ulna. It is inserted by a flat tendon into an impression, an inch in length, on the middle of the outer surface of the radius (fig. 36, p. 86). The muscle is superficial except at the insertion, where it is covered by the radial artery, and some of the outer set of muscles, viz., supinator longus and radial extensors of the wri.st. The pronator forms the inner boundary of f lie triangular space in front of the elbow ; and its inner border touches the flexor wirjii radialis. By gently separating the muscle from tlie rest, it will l>e fovuid to lie on the brachialis anticus, the flexor sublimis digitorum, and the ulnar artery and the median nerve, the small deep head of origin intervening between the artery and nerve.