DISSECTION OF THE PTBRY^GOID REGION. 610 Nerves. External pterygoid: insertion, relations; use of both muscles, of one muscle. Internal pterygoid: origin ; insertion ; contiguous parts; upwards and downwards: sometimes the artery is placed beneath the muscle as in fig. 218. The veins, which form a large plexus between the muscles, may Ije taken away. Position of nerves. Most of the branches of the inferior maxillary nerve are seen in this dissection, (fig. 219 and fig. 222, p. 616). Thus, the masseteric and posterior and middle deep temporal nerves appear between the upper border of the external pterygoid and the skull, while the buccal nerve, with the anterior deep temporal nerve, passes through the fore part of the muscle between its two heads. Issuing from beneath the lower border of the muscle are the large inferior dental and lingual nerves, the latter being the anterior of the two ; and coming out behind the condyle of the jaw is the auriculo-temporal nerve. The small posterior dental branch of the superior maxillary nerve is also to be found, lying with the artery of the same name on the hinder part of the upper jaw. The EXTERNAL PTERYGOID MUSCLE (fig. 218, ^) is triangular in shiipe, and arises by two heads, which are separated hy an interval opposite the spheno-maxillary fossa. The upper head is the smaller, and is attached to the fore part of the zygomatic snrface of the great wing of the s^Dhenoid bone ; the lower head springs from the outer surface of the external pterygoid plate. From this origin the muscle runs backwards and outwards to be inserted into the hollow in front of the neck of the lower jaw-bone, and into the interarticular fibro-cartilage of the joint. Externally the pterygoid is concealed by the temporal muscle and the lower jaw ; and the internal maxillary artery usuallj' lies on it. Its deep surface is in contact with the internal pterygoid, the inferior maxillary nerve and its branches, and the internal lateral ligament of the jaw. Through the interval between the heads pass the buccal and anterior deejj temporal nerves in a common stem and the internal maxillary artery, when the latter is placed beneath the muscle. The parts in contact with the borders of the external pterygoid have been enumerated above. Action. If both muscles contract, the jaw is moved directly forwards, so that the lower dental arch is placed in front of the upper ; but if one muscle act alone (say the right), the condyle of the same side is drawn forwards, and the grinding teeth of the lower jaw are moved obliquely to the left across those of the upper. By the alternate action of the two muscles the trituration of the food is mainly effected. The INTERNAL PTERYGOID MUSCLE (fig. 2IS,') crosses the direc- tion of the external, and is nearly parallel to the ramus of the jaw. It arises in the pterygoid fossa, mainly from the inner surface of the external pterygoid plate, and by a small sliji from the outer surface of the tuberosity of the palate bone and the superior maxilla in front of the pterygoid process. The fibres descend to be inserted into a rough mark on the inner side of the ramus of the lower jaw, extending from the inferior dental foramen to the angle. On the muscle are placed the inferior dental and lingual nerves, the inferior dental vessels, and the internal lateral ligament of the jaw.