526 DISSECTION OF THE BACK. offsets to tlio neck. Vessels and nerves. Erector spinie is single below, divided above; superficial tendon; origin. Ilio- costalis: insertion. Acces- sorius: origin; insertion. Cervicalis ascendens: origin; insertion. Longissimus dorsi: double insertion ; is continued to neck by trnnsver- salis colli, dorsi) from the inner side of the longissimus, and to divide longi- tudinally the part of the tliick aponeuro.si.s springing from the lumbar spines, so as to separate the erector from tlie suhjacent nailtitidu.s spinsD. From the longi.ssimus, a.s from the ilio-costalis, a fleshy piece (transversalis colli and trachelo-mastoid) is continued into tlie neck. Between the longissimus and the multifidus spintB are the internal branches of the posterior divisions of the dorsal and lumbar nerves, with oflsets of the intercostal and lumbar vessels. Erector Spin^e. This is the muscular mass on tlie side of the spine, extending from the lower part of the sacrum to the head. It is single and pointed below, attains its greatest size in the loins, and over the thorax becomes divided into secondarj- portions to which the special names are given. Its prolongations to the neck and head are very slender. On its posterior surface, in the lumbar and sacral regions, is a strong flat tendon of origin, from which most of the flesliy filn-es spring. The muscle arises internally Irom the lower two or three dorsal, and all the lumbar and sacral spines ; externally from the posterior fifth of the iliac crest at the inner aspect ; and inferioily from the lower part of the back of the sacrum. Below the last rib it divides into the ilio-costalis and longissimus dorsi; and in the thoracic region the spinalis dorsi is given ofi' from the inner side of the latter part. The ILIO-COSTALIS or sacro-lumbalis is derived from the outer and superficial part of the common mass of the erector in the loins. Its fibres end in six or seven tendons, which are inserted into the angles of as many of the lower ril)s. It is continued to the upper ribs and the neck by the two following muscles— The ACCESSORIDS (musculus accessorius ad ilio-costalem ; fig. 190, d) arises by a series of tendinous and fleshy slips from the angles of the lower six ribs internal to the insertion of the ilio- costalis ; and it ends in tendons which are inserted into the remain ing ribs in a line with the ilio-costalis, and into the transverse process of the seventh cervical vertebra. The CERVICALIS ASCENDENS is a muscular slip prolonging the accessorius into the neck ; it arises from fom- ribs, viz., the sixth, fifth, fourth, and third, and is inserted into the posterior tubercles of the sixth, fifth, and fourth cervical vertebrlB. The LONGISSIMUS DORSI is the largest of the pieces resulting from the division of the erector spinee, and has two sets of insertions into the vertebrje and riljs. Internally it gives off a series of fleshy and tendinous bundles to the accessory processes of the lumbar vertebrse, and the transverse processes of all the dorsal vertebrae : externally it is attached by thick fleshy slips to the transverse processes of the lumbar vertebrte, and the middle layer of the fascia lumborum, and by thin flattened processes t« the ribs, except the fir.sttwo or three, between tlie tuberosity and angle. Its muscular ]jrolongation to the neck is united with the uijper fleshy fibre.s, and splits into the two following pieces :— The TRANSVERSALIS COLLI (fig. 191, b) arises from the transverse