THE SUPRARENAL BODIES. 357 Part in the kidney (fig. 136, h). Near the kidney tlie ureter is Ureter (liliited into a funnel-shaped part called the j^elvis. It begins in the ti'.o kui "ey^ sinus of the kidney by a set of cuji-shaped tubes, named calices or ims calices, ivfundibula (c), which vary in nunil)er from seven to tliirteen. Each which cup-shapc'd process embraces the rounded end of a pyramidal mats, papUia. and receives the urine from tlie apertures in that projection : some- times a calyx surrounds two or more papillaj. The several calices are united together to form two or three larger tubes ; and these are finally blended in the pelvis. Structure. The chief part of the wall of the ureter is composed of Three coats a muscular coat, in which there is an outer layer of circular, and an ''° "■'•^''^''^ inner layer of longitudinal fibres. This has an external investment fibrous, of fibrous tissue, and is lined by mucous membrane. ai'cfmucous. The calices resembles the rest of the duct in having a fibrous, a The calices muscular, and a mucous coat. Around the base of the jmpilla the eoa"'''™" outer coat of the calyx is continuous with the enveloping tunic of the kidney; and at the apex the mucous lining is jsrolonged into the uriniferous tubes through the small openings. Vessels. The arteries are numerous but small, and are furnished Vessels, by the renal, spermatic, internal iliac, and inferior vesical. The veins corresjaond with the arteries. The lymyhatics are received into those of the kidneys. Lymphatics. THE SUPRARENAL BODIES. These small bodies (tigs. 134 and 135) have received their name Suiirareuai from their position in regard to the kidney. Their vessels and nerves '^"1'''"''' = are numerous, but they are not provided with any excretory duct. One body is situate on tiie upper end of each kidney, with an "o duct, inclination to the inner side, and, without care, may be removed • with the surrounding fat, which it resembles. Its colour is a brownish-yellow. Both bodies are rather triangular in shape, and colour; flattened, but with the upper angle rounded off, and the base or "'"^ '^°'™' lower part hollowed where they touch the kidney. The right suprarenal is more definitely triangular than the left, and is often spoken of as cocked-hat shaped, while the left is larger from aljove downwards, and is somewhat 23yramidal. Tliey are each somewhat flattened, and their two surJ'aces look outwards and forwards, and backwards and inwards respectively. On the anterior surface of each is a fissure, termed the hilum, where the vein is,sues. Hilum. In the adult they measure about one inch an a half in depth, and Size and rather less in width ; and the weight of each is between one and two "'^'k'"^- drachms, but the left is commonly larger than the right Areolar tissue attaches the suprarenal body to the kidney ; and Relations, the vessels and nerves retain it in place. Tbe relations to surround- ing parts are nmch the same as those of the upper end of the kidney. Thus each rests on the diaphragm, as it clothes the vertebrae on both sides ; while in front of the right suprareiuil is the liver externally, and the inferior vena cava internally ; and in front of the left the pancreas, stomach and spleen, from below upwards. On the inner side of the