•113 INTERIOR OF THE URETHRA. can readily measure its length by passing a probe into it, and on opening it, it will be found that its blind extremity is somewhat dilated. Along its wall, on each side, is placed the common seminal and by its duct (/), which terminates on or within the margin of the mouth ejacuiato'-y of the sac; and if bristles are introduced into the common senunal ducts, duct behind the prostate, they will render the ajiertures evident. Small glands open on the surface of the mucous membrane lining the utricle, which is the remains of the luiited lower ends of the foetal ducts of Midler, and represents the uterus and vagina in the female. On each side of the central crest is an excavation, which is named Prostatic the jyostatic sinus (fig. 154, /). Into this hollow the greater num- '^n'floor." ber of the ducts of the prostatic glands open; but the aj)ertures of some are seen at the back of the central eminence. The MEMBRANOUS PART OF THE URETHRA (fig. 154, g) is three- Membran- quarters of an inch in length, and intervenes between the apex of i""^ • the prostate gland and the bidb (k) of the corpus spongio.9um uretlircB. In its interior are slight longitudinal folds. This is the dimensions; narrowest piece of the whole tube, with the exception of the outer orifice, and measures rather less than a quarter of an inch across. It is the weakest of the three portions of the canal, and is supported parts by a thin stratimi of erectile tissue, by a thin layer of unstriated circular fibres, and outside all by the constrictor urethrte muscle. The SPONGY PART (fig. 154, i) reaches to the end of the penis. Spongy It is about six inches in length, and its strength depends upon a ' surrounding material named the corpus spongiosum lu-ethrte. The average size of the canal is about a quarter of an inch in dimensions; diameter, though at the vertical slit (meatus urinarius), by which it terminates on the glans penis, the tube is smaller than elsewhere. On a cross section it appears star-shaped, but in the glans as a vertical slit. Two dilatations exist in the spongy portion ;—one is two diiata- along the floor close to the triangular ligament, being contained in one'iiTbulb the bulb or bulbous jjart of the urethra, and is named the sinus 0/o"e in glans; the bulb; the other is an elongated hollow, situate in the glans penis, and is called the fossa navicularis (w). There are many small pouches or lacunas (0) in the canal as far lacunse, back as the membranous part, which have their apertures turned towards the outer orifice of the urethra. One of these, larger than one larger the rest, lacuna magna, is found generally immediately within the "'"tl ""^ meatus, in the roof of the fossa navicularis. The duels of Gow^ier's glands (fig. 154, h) are two in number. Ducts of and terminate, one on each side, on the floor of the urethra near the cowper?^ bulb ; but their openings are generally too small to be recognised. Mucous lining of tlie urethra. The mucous membrane of the Mucous urethra is continued into the bladder, as well as into the ducts"'™'*'™'"'! opening into the canal, and joins in front the tegumentary covering of the glans penis. It is of a reddish colour in the spongy and colour; membranous portions, but in the prostate it becomes whiter. In the spongy and membranoiLS parts it is thrown into longitudinal folds; folds during the contracted state of the penis.