358 DISSECTION OF THE ABD0MI5N, rifjlit capsule, beside Uie vena cava is the solar plexus ; and internal to the left are the aorta, with the ccetiac axis, and the solar plexus. Obvious structure. A vertical section of a fresh suprarenal body shows it to be formed of an external or cortical layer, and an internal or medullary substance. The whole is surrounded by a thin fibrous capsule, which sends processes into the interior, and along the blood-vessels. The cortical part is of a deep yellow colour, and firm. It forms about two-thirds of the thickness of the whole body, and in the section appears striated perpendicularly to the free surface of the organ. The medullary part is dark brown or nearly black, and very Soft and puljjy. If the specimen is not fresh, it may look as if the cortical part enclosed a cavity. Blood-vessels. Numerous arteries are furnished to the suprarenal bodies. Generally there are three vessels, one directly from the aorta, and one each from the diaphragmatic and renal arteries. Their small branches penetrate the organ at many spots of its circum- ference. The veins are for the most part collected into one long trunk, which issues by the hilum, and opens on the right side into the vena cava, on the left into the renal vein. Other smaller veins pass out through the cortex to the renal vein and the vena cava. Nerves. The nerves are very numerous and large, and come from the solar plexus. Lymphatics. Lijmphatics are superficial and deej) ; both join those of the kidney. Consists of two parts, fi brous capsule. Cortical and medullary parts. Aiteries. Veins. Nerves. To see tlie diapliragm. Define arches. Diaphragm situalion and form ; origin at tlio circum- ference ; THE DIAPHKAGM WITH AORTA AND VENA CAVA. Dissection. The student will now clean, first the diaphragm, then the large vessels and their branches, and afterwards the deep muscles of the abdomen. For the dissection of the diaphragm it will be necessary to remove the peritoneum, defining especially the central tendinous part, and the strong processes or pillars which are fixed to the lumbar vertebra). While cleaning the muscle the student should be careful of the vessels and nerves on its surface, and of others in and near the pillars. The right kidney and suprarenal will be drawn downwards or thrown over to the left in cleaning the diaphragm, but their vessels should be preserved. On the right side two aponeurotic bands or arches near the spine, which give attachment to the muscular fibres, should be dissected ; one curves over the internal muscle (psoas) ; the other extends over the external muscle ((piadratus lumborum), and will be made more evident by separating it from the fascia covering the muscle. The DIAPHEAGM or midriff (fig. 137, A p. 360) forms the vaulted movable partition between the thorax and the abdomen. It is fleshy externally, where it is attached to the surrounding ribs and the spinal column, and tendinous in the centre. The oriyin of the muscle is at the circumference, and is alike on both sides. Thus, it arises on each side by fleshy slips from the inner surface of the ensifomi process and the six lower rib cartilages ; from