STRUCTURE OF THE TONGUE. (183 ajsertures leading into recesses of the mucous membrane. The umler surface, free only in part, gives attachment to the mucous Lower membrane and to the different lingual muscles connected with the hyoid bone and the jaw. In front of the muscles the mucous membrane forms a lold in the middle line, termed the frcenum lingiuc; and on each side an irregular ridgti—plica Jimhriata (better seen in infants), runs forwards and inwards about midway between the frreuum and the margin of the tongue towards the tip. Kach border of the tongue is joined opposite the lateral groove lioiiii'is. above mentioned by the fold of mucous membrane descending from tlie soft palate, and known as the anterior pillar of the fauces. Behind this fold, the root of the tongue is attached on each side to the wall of the pharynx ; but in front the margin of the body is free. The free border ia thick and rounded in its hinder part, where it ia marked by vertical ridges and furrows, and becomes gradually thinner towards the tip. PapilLjE. On the dorsum of the tongue are the following kinds Kinds of of papillae; the conical and filiform, the fungiform, and the ^'''i''""-'' circumvallate. A hand lens may conveniently be used iu the examination of them. The conical and filiform papilla; are the numerous small projec- cunicni tions which cover the anterior two-thirds of the dorsum of the ^^"""'^ • tongue. They taper from the base towards the free extremity, where they are provided with smaller secondary papillae; and many of them, especially towards the sides of the organ, have their epithelial covering produced into long hair-like processes, whence the name filiform is given to them. Towards their limit behind they are arranged in lines parallel to the lateral grooves, and on the sides they form vertical rows. The fungiform papillae are less numerous but larger than the fungiform; preceding set, amongst which they are scattered, especially at the tip and sides of the tongue. They are wider at the free end than at the part fixed to the tongue, and project beyond the conical papilla;. Their surface is covered with small simple papillre. The circumvallate papillm are much larger than the foregoing, cir,;umvai- and are placed at the junction of the middle and posterior thirds of the tongue. Their number varies from seven to twelve. One, larger than the rest, is situate immediately in front of the foramen cx'cum, and the others are disposed in two rows (one on each side) parallel to the lateral groove, so as to form a figure like a widely- spread letter V. Each papilla is attached by a constricted stem, which is surrounded by a groove; its wider end or base projects beyond the surface of the tongue, and is covered witli small simple papilloe. Around the groove the mucous membrane forms a slightly prominent fold, which is also beset with secondary papillse. Structure. The tongue consists of two symmetrical halves Parts found separated by a fiibrous layer in the median plane. Each half is made up of muscidar fibres with interspersed fat; and entering it are