DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. 138 nucl nerves. The ui'teries from the femoral. Oiieexterual pudie artery; anotlier beneath the fascia. Superficial epiga.stric. Superficial circumflex iliac. Veins join the saphe- nous. JInguinal glands: two sets, which receive different lymphatics. Cribriform fascia is an areolar membrane over saphenous opening: relation to femoral hernia. A .small nerve, the ilio-ingmnal, is to be sought on the inner side of the saphenons vein, close to the pubis ; and a branch of the genito-crural nerve may be found a little outside the vein. Superficial Vessels. The small cutaneous arteries at the top of the thigh are the first branches of tlie femoral trunk, they pierce the deep fascia (fascia lata), and are distributed to the integuments and the glands of the groin and neighbourhood. The SUPERFICIAL EXTERNAL puDic ARTERY (superior ; fig. 54, b) crosses the spermatic cord in its course inwards, and ends in the integuments of the penis and scrotum, where it anastomose.s with offsets of the internal pudic artery. Another external pudic branch (deep; p. 149) pierces the fixscia lata at the inner border of the thigh, and ramifies also in the scrotum. In the female both branches supply the labium pudendi. The SUPERFICIAL EPIGASTRIC ARTERY (c) passes ovcr Poupart's ligament to the abdomen, and communicates with branches of the deep epigastric artery. The SUPERFICIAL CIRCUMFLEX ILIAC ARTERY frequently arises in common with the foregoing and is the smallest of the three branches ; appearing as two or more pieces at the iipper part of the thigh near the iliac crest, it is distributed in the integuments : it supplies an ofi'set with the external cutaneous nerve. A vein accompanies each artery, having the same name as its com- panion vessel, and ends in the uj)per part of the saphenous vein, with the exception of that with the deep external pudic artery-: these veins will be noticed directly. The SUPERFICIAL INGUINAL GLANDS (e) are arranged in two lines. An upper set lies across the thigh, near Poupart's ligament; and a lower set is situate along the side of the saphenous vein. In the lower or femoral group the glands are larger than in the upper, and the lymphatic vessels from the surface of the lower limb enter tliem. The upper or inguinal group is joined by the lymphatics of the penis, by those of the surface of the abdomen, and by those of the buttock. The glands vary much in number and size ; and not unfrequently some of the longitudinal set by the side of the vein are blended together. Cribriform fascia^ Beneath, and to the inner side of, the internal saphenous vein there is a thin layer of areolar ti.ssue, which is some- times described as a special deeper layer of the superficial fascia. Thi.s stratum is continued across the aperture in the deep fascia (saphenous opening; fig. 54, /) through which the vein dis- appears ; and being there perforated by many large lymphatic vessels, as well as by the saphenous vein, the name cribriform fascia has been given to this part. The cribriform fascia is closely united to the outer margin of the saphenous opening ; and it is also ad- herent to the subjacent crural sheath of the vessels in the aperture. In a hernial protrusion through the saphenous opening, the cribri- form fascia is stretched and pu.slied forwards by the tumour, and forms one of the coverings.