BRACHIAL PLEXUS. 26 the thoracic side of its artery, and receives corresponding tlioracic exieiitiuKi and shoulder branches. Opposite the suliscapular muscle it i.s'•^''^i'""'*; joined externally hy a large vein, which is formed by the union of the vense comites of the brachial artery ; and near the clavicle the cephalic vein opens into it. Dissection. The continuity of the axillary with the sul(cla\'ian Di.sscciinn artery will now Ije displayed by removing the nuddle third of the ^[exi'is clavicle and the subjacent portion of the subcla\dus muscle and cleaning the vessel beneath the bone. After this the dissector will follow out the Itranches of the brachial plexus, cut through the pectoralis minor near its insertion into the coracoid i)rocess, and turn it towards the chest, l)ut without injuring the thoracic nerves. The axillary veasels are next to be ligatured, divided below the second rib above the ligature, and to be drawn down with hooks, care being biken to preserve the loop of communication bet^veen the external and the internal anterior thoracic nerves ; and their thoracic branches may be removed at the .same time. A dense fascia is to be cleared away from the large nerves of the plexus. The BRACHIAL PLEXUS (figs. 7 and 8) results from the interlace- Nuivcs ment of the anterior branches of the lower four cerviail nerves and jj'i'jjij'iaf the larger part of the first dor.sd ; and a slip is added to it aljove plexus, from the fourth cervical nerve. It is placed successively in the Us situation neck and the axilla, and ends opposite the coracoid process in the nerves of the limb. The part of the plexus above the clavicle is de,scriljed in the dissection of the heiid and neck. The part ami rela- below the clavicle has the .same relations to .surrounding muscles as the axillary artery ; and in it the nerve-trunks are disposed as follows :— As the plexus enters the axilla it con.sista of three cords, inner, The uerves outer, and po.sterior, which lie together in a binidle on the outer side of the artery. Beneath the pectoralis minor the three cords "lound ilic emljrace the vessel, being placed as their names indicate—the first inside, the second outside, and the third behind the artery. Near the lower edge of the small pectoral muscle, the cords divide to form the large nerves of the lindi. The branches of the plexus below the clavicle ari.se from the Immulies: .several cords in the following way (fig. 8) :— The outer cord furnishes one anterior thoracic l)ranch (eat), the outer cord; nuisculo-cutaneous (mc), and the outer head of the median nerve (m). The inner cord gives origin to a second anterior thoracic nerve inner cord ; (iat), the internal cut;ineous (ic), the nerve of Wrisberg (w), the inner head of the median (m), and the ulnar nerve (u). The iwsterior cord furnishes the subscapular branches (si, s2, and posterior s3), and ends in the circumflex (c) and mu.sculo-spiral (nis) trunks. Only the thoracic and subscapular nerves are ex])osed to their Tlie follow- termination at present ; the remaining nerves will be .seen in the ;;ow"'vif ™ subsequent di.s.sections. The anterior thm-ack Ranches (fig. 6, » and 2, p. 21, and tig. 7, two anterior p. 23), two in number, are named outer and inner, like the cords "'o^'cic: from which they come.