THE ARYTENOID MUSCLES. 91 part of the posterior surface of the arytenoid cartilage. On its hinder surface lie the aryteno-epiglottiilean muscles ; and the laryuf^eal mucous membrane covers it in trout in the space lietween tlie cartilages. Action. It draws together the arytenoid carlilage.s, rendering ii.se. narrower the opening of the glottis. The ARYTENO-EPIGLOTTIDEAN MU.SCLE.S (a) are tWO small bundles AryLnni)- which cross obliquely from one side to tlie other on the back of the ^^^^"nuis- arvtenoid muscle. Eacli arises from the outer and lower part of the posterior surface of one arytenoid cartilage, and passes to the x: upper part of the outer border of the cartilage of the opposite side, where a few of the fibres are inserted, but the greater number turn round this border and end in the aryteno-epiglottidean fold of the uiucous membrane, some reaching the margin of the epiglottis. A slip is also prolonged into the thyro-arytenoid muscle. The ending of the muscle will be seen later when the ala of the thyroid cartilage has been removed. Action. These muscles Ijring together the tijjs of the arytenoid use. cartilages, and depress the epiglottis, thus assisting to close the upjier aperture of the laryn.x in swallowing. Bissection. The remaining muscles (tig. 246, p. 692) will be Di.ssectiou brought into view by removing the greater part of the right ala of °/^J"ei;™''' the thyroid cartilage, by cutting through it a quarter of an inch from the middle line, after its lower cornu has been detached from the Remove half cricoid, and the crico-tliyroid muscle taken away. By dividing ne.xt caiUbge. the thyro-hyoid membrane attached to the upper margin, the loose piece will come away on separating the subjacent areolar tissue from it. By the removal of some areolar tissue, the dissector will define Po.siiion or interiorly the lateral crico-arytenoid muscle; above it, the thyro- arytenoid muscle ; and still higher, the pale fibres of the aryteno- epiglottidean and thyro-epiglottidean muscles in the fold of mucous membrane between the epiglottis and the arytenoid cartilage. On cleaning the fibres of the thyro-arytenoid near the front of the larynx, the top of the sacculus laryngis with its small glands will appear above the tleshj- fibres. Tlie LATERAL ClUCO-ARVTENOID MUSCLE (tig. 246, •') arisCS from Lateral the upper border of the cricoid cartilage at the side, and is directed ,I;l-yt°'„oia backwards to be inserted into the fore part of the muscular process of '""sciu: the arytenoid cartilage. It is concealed by the crico-tliyroid muscle and the thyroid cartilage, and its upper border is contiguous to the succeeding muscle. Action. It rotates inwards the arytenoid cartilage, opposing the use. posterior crico-arytenoid muscle, and bringing one vocal cord to the other, so as to narrow the glottis. The THYRO-AUYTENOID MUSCLE (fig. 246, 'j e.xtends from the thyroid Thyro-ary- to the arytenoid cai'tilage ; it is thick below, but thin and expanded nui'sct above. The muscle arises from the thyroid cartilage near the middle line, for about the lower half of its depth, and from the crico-thyroid Y Y 2