THE SPINAL CORD AND ITS MEMBRANES. 616 Anterior surface, liow known. Dissection to see con- stituents of cord. Furrows of tlie cord are anterior median, posterior median, Fia. 197. —Membkanes of the Spinal Cord laid open, to show the lower end of THE Cord with the Fildji Terminale. IX. Dura mater, and b, the fiWrous band fixing it to the coccy.v. c. Pointed lower end of Hie cord (conu.s nieduUaris). d. Filum terminale of Ibo cord. of tlie limbs are attaclied. There are, therefore, two enlarf^ements on it, viz., cervical or brachial, and lumbar or crural ; the one in the neck reaches from the first cervical to the first dorsal vertebra ; the other is smaller, and is on a level with the eleventh and twelfth dorsal vertebra;. In the upper enlargement the greatest thick- ness is from side to side ; but in the lower swelling the measurement from before backwards nearly eq^uals the transverse. While the pia mater remains on the cord, the anterior surface is distin- guished from the posterior by the cen- tral fibrous band and by the anterior spinal artery ; as well as by the irregular line of the anterior nerve- roots, which approach the middle towards the lower end. Dissection. For the examination of the structure the student will re- quire a piece of fresh cord which has been hardened in spirit and formalin, since the cord which is obtained from the body at this period is not fitted for the purpose of dissection. Supposing the pia mater with the roots of the nerves removed on one side, the student will be able to observe the following divisions of the cord. Sulci of the cord (fig. 198). The anterior median fissure occupies the middle line of the front of the cord in its whole length, and pene- trates about one-third of the thickness of it. It is lined by a fold of the pia mater, and is deepest towards the lower end of the cord. White medullary substance bounds the fis- sure ; and at the bottom of it the white fibres are transverse, and are separated by apertures for blood- vessels. Along tlie back of the cord, also in the middle line, there is a narrow groo\e, from whicli a process of the pia mater called the posterior