273 SHEATH OF RECTUS. haa crosa tendons: use on tiunk, in common with that of the opposite side ; and the external process springs from the pubic crest. Becoming wider towards tlie tliorax, the rectus is inserted by three hirge fleshy and tendinous ahps into insertion tlie cartihi.'es of the fifth, sixth and seventh ribs, the outermost sfip cartilages; usually e.xt'ending to the bone of the fifth rib. Some of the inner fibres are often attached to the eusiform process. The muscle is con- tained in an aponeu- rotic sheath, except above and below; and its fibres are interrupted at intervals by tendi- nous lines—the inscrip- tiones tendinece. Action. It will draw down the thora.'c and the ribs, or raise the pelvis, according as its fixed point may be below or above. Besides im- parting movement to the trunk, it will diminish the cavity of the abdomen, and com- press the viscera. Sheath of the rectus (d). This sheath is derived from the splitting of the aponeurosis of the internal oblique at the outer edge of the rectus. One piece passes before, and the other behind the muscle; and the two unite at the inner border so as to com- plete the sheath. In- separably blended with the stratum in front of the rectus is the aponeu- rosis of the external oblique; and joined in a similar manner with that behind is the aponeurosis of the transversaUs. The anterior layer of the sheath adheres closely to the tendinous inter- sections of the muscle. The sheath is deficient behind, both at the upper and lower end dedcient , ., • 1 1. 4.T above and of the muscle. Above, the muscle rests on the ribs, without the below. intervention of the sheath, which is fixed to the margin of the thorax. Below, at, or somewhat above, a point midway between the D.A. T on abdomen. Its sheath: Fig. Conjoined tendon. 102.—The Rectos Mcsolb of the how formed Abbomen. The muscle is dissected on the right side, and left in its sheath on the left. Close above the pubes the pyramidalis is exposed. A. Rectus. B. Internal oblique. 0. Poupart's ligament. D. Anterior layer of the sheath of the rectus.