TIIK CWTTY OK TIIK MOCTIl. riic TOXSII. is an oval bnily, ,,[' \aria!ilr size, jjlaccd alHUc llic: Tuiisil is ii'iit of the tongue, in a recess lielwrcu the anleiitJi- and [loslerior Jim",'.-'!',!- ]>illars of tlie sol't pahite. Kxt<-inally it is cnvere.l liy the siipei ini'= eonstrictdv ninsch-, aiid is a litth' almv,. tlie an.^lc oT tlie hiwer jaw. Tile surl'aee of tlie tonsil is marked hy a])ertures, wliieli h'iKl into stnirtuiv. cnpts, or recesses, lined Ijy nuieoiis nieniln'ane. Its sulistanee consists mainly of lymphoid tissue, jiartly dilfused, anil paitly collected into follicles set round the walls of these recesses. A similar riuiryiiK.-.-.l collection (/f lymphoid tissue stretches across the posteriijr wall of the pharynx, between the openings of the Eustachian tube, and is known as the pltitrjiiKjial tonsil. The aiicr)r.s of the tonsil are nium-rous, and are derived from the Vu.ssmIs, facial, lingual, ascending pharyngeal and internal maxillary bram hes of the external carotid. Its reins have a plexilorm arrangement on anancn-s the outer .side. Ncrrcs are furni.shed to it from Ihe fifth and glosso- pharyngeal. Its Iumphatics ]oin the dee[i cervical glands. The JIUCOL-S .MEMBH.VNE OF THIC rH.MtVX.X is CoIlliniUlUS in front .Miu-,H,s with the lining of the nose, mouth and laryn.x. A fold encloses the "!^";^™'!'" muscles and glands of the soft jialate, from which the membrane' descends on each side over the tonsil to the tongue. It is also ].ro- longed by the Eustachian tube to the tympanum ; and below, it is continued int., the (esophagu.s. It is provided with numerous u'la,.ls; mucous glands m the up],er part of the ],harynx, and on both sur- faces, l,ut especially the ui^per, of the soft palate. Another collec- tion of glamls (arytenoid) is enchi.se.l in the fold of mucous mem- brane bounding the opening of the laryn.x on each .side. The epiti„.i,„„, epithelium is columnar and ciliated above the soft palate, but scaly and stratified Ijelow that part. The aosoi.HAGus. This tube is much smaller than the pliaryn.x, negh.ni,,.- ami the walls are flaccid. It .-onsisls of two layers of muscular hbre.s, with alining of mucous membrane. The crternal !a„er is tTo i-u-,.,. tormed of longitudinal fil^res, which begin opposite the cricoid "f rartilag^ by three bundles, an anterior and two lateral; the Ibrmer ou'rfo,,- IS attached to the ridge at the back of the cartilage, and the other ^itiuiii);il, .join the inlerior constrictor. The internal layer is formed of circuhir a„.i i,„„.,- 11 hres, which are continuous with those of the inferior constricl.jr ilie structure of the a>s(,phagus is described more fullv in the uis.sectioii of the thora.x. The CAVITY ,H.' THio MouTii. The cavity of the ni.,utli extends .M.uil,. from the lips m front to the anterior pillars of the fauces behind Its boundaries are partly os.seous and parllv muscular, and its si/e dq^ends upon the position of the lower jaw-bone. When the lower f.,n„, jaw IS moderately removed from the uj.per, Ihe iiioutii is an oval cavity wn 1 the loliowiiig boundaries. The roof, concave, is consti- t ted by he hard and .soft palate, and is limite.l in front and on the tl r T H 1 'surrounded archol the lower teetli ; and beneath that body is the sub- g al gland on eacdi side. I^ach lateral l.nnalar, consists of the cheek and the ramus of the lower jaw ; and in i,; ,.ear the .second