210 DISSECTION OF THE FOOT. iiinsculnv and anterior perforating offsets: first, second, third, fonrtli digital; junction with Inner plantar; distribution on the toes. Ending of tlie dorsal artery of the foot; its digital branches, on the digits. Kxt'^rnal jilantar nerve ends in the deep muscles: like ulnar nerve. Disacctioii. Transverse tuetn tarsal ligament. coiiLiguous .sides of two toe.s. They give fine offsets to tlie iiitero.s.sei, to some lunibricales, and tlie adductor transversxis ; and at the point of division they send small communicating branches—anterior perforating, to join the interosseous arteries on the dorsum of the foot (p. 184). The first digital runs on the outer .side of the little toe, supplying the flexor hrevis minimi digiti, and distributes small arteries to the integuments of the outer border of the foot. The second belongs to the sides of the fifth and fourth toes, and furnishes a branch to the outer lumbrical muscle. The tldrd is distriluited to the contiguous sides of the fourth and third toes, and emits a branch to the third lumbricalis. The fourth, or most internal, corresponds with the second inter- osseous space, and ends like the others on the third and second digits ; it may assist in supplying the third lumbricalis. The last two are joined by suj)erficial digital branches of the internal plantar at the root of the toes. On the sides of the toes the disposition of the arteries is like that of the digital in the hand (p. 72). They extend to the end, where they luiite in an arch, and give offsets to the sides and ball of the toe ; and the artery on the second digit anastomoses at the end of the toe with a branch from the dorsal artery of the foot. Near tlie front of the first and second phalanges they form anasto- motic loops beneath the flexor tendons, from which the phalangeal articulations are supplied. The DORSAL ARTERY OP THE FOOT (fig. 79, e) enters the sole at the posterior part of the first (inner) metatarsal space, and ends by inosculating with the plantar arch. By a large digital artery it furnishes branches to both sides of the great toe and half the next, in the same manner as the radial artery in the hand is distributed to one digit and a half (p. 80). The digital branch (/) extends to the front of the first inter- osseous space, and divides into collateral branches (/i) for the contiguous sides of the great toe and the next. Near the head of the metatarsal bone it sends inwards, beneath the flexor muscles, a digital branch (g) for the inner side of the great toe. The arteries have the same arraugement along the toes as the other digital branches ; and that to the second digit anastomoses at the end with a branch of the plantar arch. The DEEI- PART OF THE EXTERNAL PLANTAR XERVE (fig. 79, '') accompanies the arch of the artery, and ends internally in the adductor obliquus hallucis. It furnishes branches lo all the interossei, to the transversus adductor, and to the outer three lumbrical muscles (Brooks). This nerve corresponds with the deep portion of the ulnar nerve in the hand. Dissection. It will be needful to remove the transverse adductor muscle to see a ligament across ihe heads of the metatarsal bones. The TRAN.SVER8E METATARSAL LIGAMENT is a strong fibrous band, like that in the hand (p. 81), which connects together all the