THE MOVEMENTS OF THE LOWKI! .IA\V. filS the tciiiporiil hone, and is larger than that on tiie J^iw. It includes the deep oval hollow formed hy the part of the glenoid Ibs.sii in front of the CJlaserian tissure, and the convex surface, known as the articular euiincnee, which I'oi'nis the anterior lioundary of (he hollow. Movements of the joint. The lower jaw has up an,l down, hirward and backward, and oblique movements. In depre>^svng the jaw, as in opening the mouth, the condyle J|;,»l>™;['« moves forwards till it is placed under the convexity of t-lie articuhu- how comiyle eminence ; but the interposed concave fibro-cartilage gives security to the joint. Even with this provision, a slight degree more of sudden motion mav throw the condyle off the prominence of the temporal bone into the zygomatic fossa, and give rise to dis- nisioc-at,,..,. location. In this movement the fore and lateral parts of the ciipsule are tightened ; and the tibro-ciirtilage is drawn forwards with the condyle bv the external pterygoid muscle. AVhen the jaw is elevated and the mouth closed, the condyle and ^^^l^- the fibre cartilage glide liack into the glenoid fossa ; and the posterior part of the capsule is stretcheil. During the horizontal movements forwards and bachvards of the {^™'^,!;'J;J"'' jaw the condyle is placed successively opposite the front and back inineuipiit. of the temporal articular surface ; and the fibro-cartilage always follows the condyle of the jaw, even in dislocation. Excessive motion forwards would be prevented by the coronoid process of the jaw striking against the zygomatic arch ; and the backward movement is checked by the external lateral ligament and by the meeting of the condyle with the postglenoid proce.ss of the temiHiral bone. The oblique movement is produced by the condyle of one side o^'^i^i^'^,^^^ advancing on the articular eminence, while the other remains in i,ow the glenoid fossa. If the right condyle advances, the chin moves I'rodiicetl. to the left side, and the grinding teeth of the lower jaw are carried obli(iuely to the left and forwards across the upper set. By the alternate action to opposite sides the food is triturated. Dissection. The condyle of the jaw is next to be disarticulated |^,.'ifjf;:J:i°" and drawn forwards with the attached external pterygoid mu.scle, maxiiiai-y so as to allow the inferior maxillary nerve to be seen (tig. 222, p. 616). AVhile cutting through the joint-cjipsule, the dissector must be careful of the auriculo-temporal nerve close beneath. On turning forwards the pterygoid mu.scle, and removing some fat and veins, the dissector will find the trunk of the inferior maxillary nerve. The ma.sseteric, temporal, and buccal I'l'a'iches . of the nerve should be traced to a common origin close below the foramen ovale of the si)henoid bone. The dental and lingual nerves should be cleaned beneath the muscle ; and the auriculo- temporal nerve followed forwards with care from the back of the articulation to its origin from the trunk. The small chorda tympani is to be found joining the back of the lingual nerve near the skull.