DISSECTION OP THE THIGH. 146 Crural ring situation aiul form ; bounilaries. Crural seiitum; Femoral hernia : delinitioii; first vertical, next forwards, and then upwards. How it is" to be pushed back. The cniml ring is the upper opening of the crural canal. It is on a level witli the base of Gimbernal's ligament, and is larger in the female than in the male. Oval in shape, its greatest measure- ment is from side to side, in which direction it equals about half an inch ; and it is filled by a lymphatic gland. The structures around the ring are the superficial and the deep crural arch in front, and the pubis covered by the pectineus muscle behind. Internally is Gimbernat's ligament mth the conjoined tendon; and externally (but within the sheath) is the femoral vein. Septum crurale. That part of the subperitoneal fatty layer which is placed over the abdominal entrance to this crural canal has been named crural septum from its position between the thigh and abdomen. The situation of the septum is now visible, but its characters will be ascertained in the dissection of the abdomen. Femoral Hernia. In this kind of hernia there is a protrusion of intestine into the thigh beneath Poupart's ligament. And the gut descends in the crural sheath, being placed on the inner side of tlie vein. Course. At first the intestine takes a vertical direction in its progress from the abdomen, and passes through the crural ring, and along the crural canal as far as the saphenous opening. At this spot it changes its course, and is directed forwards to the surface of the thigh, where it becomes elongated transversely ; and shoidd the gut protrude still farther, the tumour ascends on the abdomen, in consequence of the resistance being less in this direction than on the front of the thigh. The winding course of the hernia may suggest to the dissector the direction in which attempts should be made to replace the in- testine in the abdominal cavity. With the view of making the bowel retrace its course, it will be necessary, if the protrusion is small, to direct it backwards and upwards ; but if the hernia is large, it must be pressed down first to the saphenous opening, and afterwards backwards and upwards towards the crural canal and ring. During the manipulation to return the intestine to its cavity, the thigh is to be raised and rotated inwards, in order that the margin of the saphenous opening and the other structures may be relaxed. Scarpa's triangular space. Triangular space. This hollow is situate on the front of the thigh, and lies beneatli the superficial depression seen near Poupart's ligament. Dissection (fig. 57, p. 147). The sjjace will appear on remov- ing the fascia lata near Poupart's ligament. The muscular boundaries on the sides may be first dissected, and the muscle on the outer side (sartorius) should be fixed in jdace with stitches. Afterwards the remains of the crural sheath are to be taken away ; and the femoral vessels are to be followed downwards as far a.s the sartorius .seek iitrve.s, muscle. On the outer side of the vessels cle<in the divisions of the Clean out Scarpa's space, Follow vessels,