INTERNAL OBLIQUE MUSCLE. 269 Parts covered by the external oblique (fig. 99). Beneath the external Parts^^^ muscle are the internal obliciue, with parts of the ribs and mtercos a muscles. At the lo^ver part of the abdo„>en the muscle conceals obhque. the spermatic cord and the branches of the lumbar ple.xus m the '^SHnTKhL oblique muscle (fig. 99, A) is fleshy at the side .nterna, and aponeurotic in front, like the preceding ; but its fitees (except the lowest) ascend across those of the external oblique. The muscle from the outer half of Poupart's ligament, irom the anteiw ori^m rom two-thirds of the crest of the iliun, (fig. 47, p. 113), and from the tendon of the transversalis muscle (fascia lumborum, c) in the interval between that bone and the last rib. The fibres diverge on the abdomen to their destination :-The upper ones ascend, and insertion have a fleshy insertion into the cartilages of the last three ribs, ^.^^ where they join the internal Intercostal muscles of the lowest two Unea alba, spaces. The remaining fibres pass forwards, with varying degrees of obliquity, to end in an aponeurosis. ^ . The aponeurosis of the muscle extends from the thorax to the AP-eurosu pelvis and is broader above than below. For the most part it is encioso split to encase the rectus (as will be seen when that muscle is If^^^^ exposed) • but in the lower half of the space between the umbilicus below; and pubis it is undivided, and lies altogether in front of that muscle. Alon" the middle line the two layers are united together, as well as with "those of the opposite side, in the linea alba. Superiorly the aponeurosis is arranged in the following manner :-for a short attaclnnontB distance before it divides, it is fixed to the ninth costal cartilage; an.l the posterior of the layers into which it divides continues this attachment along the eighth and seventh cartilages to the ensilorm process ; while the anterior is prolonged over the che^, blending with the aponeurosis of the external obli(Hie. Inferiorly its fibres become more distinct and are inserted into the front of the pubis, and and polvis. into the pectineal line for half an inch behind the attachment of Gimbernat's ligament. This lowest part of the aponeurosis is blended with that of the underlying transversalis to form what will be described as the conjoined tendon of the two muscles. Relations. The muscle is covered by the external oblique muscle, r^rts m^^.^^^ It is attached on all sides, except between Poupart's ligament and i„t„niai the pubis, where it arches over the spermatic cord, and has the obiiciue. cremaster muscle continuous with it. The parts covered by the internal oblique will be seen when the muscle is reflected. Action. Both muscles depress the ribs, and assist in forcing back U»eof both the viscera of the belly after they have been protruded by the descent of the diaphragm. One muscle may incline the body laterally ; and contracting with of one. the opposite external oblique (the fibres of the two having the same direction), it will rotate the trunk to the same side. The CREMASTER MUSCLK (fig. 100, d) is a muscular slip which Ues Cremaster along the lower borJer of the internal oblique, and is naiucd from its suspending the testicle. The muscle is attached botli at the inner and