308 DISSECTION OF THF: ABDOMEN. Inmsverse meso-colon its ascend- ing layer; descending layer and mesentery ; in pelvis; along front of abdomen, Small and large bags : behind. At the great curvature they meet again, and give rise to the great omentum or epiploon (g om). After descending to the lower part of the ahdomen, they bend backwards and ascend to the transverse colon, which they enclose in the same way as the stomach ; and they are then continued lo the posterior abdominal wall, forming the transverse meso-colon {mc). (It should at once be pointed out, ' lest the student be misled, that the layers of the great omentimr in front of the transverse colon are usually adherent to one another, and not separated by intervals, as represented in fig. 114, for tlie purpose of clearness.) Opposite the anterior border of the pancreas these two layers, which have been followed over the transverse colon, part company,—the one passing upwards, and the other down^\'ards.* The ascending layer is continued upwards in front of the pancreas and diaphragm, and is then reflected on to the posterior surface of the liver, where it covers the part called the Spigelian lobe, and passes into the hinder layer of the small omentum. This layer, however, cannot be traced in the present stage of dissection. The descending layer immediately passes off along the superior mesenteric vessels to the small intestine (jejunum and ileum), forming the mesentery {m). From the root of the mesentery, this layer descends over the lower end of the aorta and the promontory of the sacrum to the pehds, where it partly invests the viscera of that cavity. Thus, it covers the upper part of the rectum and is reflected forwards therefrom to the bladder in the male, or the uterus in the female, forming a pouch between the two ; and after covering the upper part of the bladder, it passes off at the front and sides to the abdominal wall, forming the fossae before noticed in the inguinal region (p. 292). Lastly, having left the bladder, the membrane is continued upwards, lining the anterior w-all of the abdomen and the under- surface of the diaphragm, nearly as far as the spine ; there it is reflected over the upper surface of the liver, and. then, turning round the lower border to the under-surface, it joins the anterior layer of the small omentum. In the foregoing account it will be seen that two vertical circles have been traced, which surround distinct cavities in figure 114. The portion of the membrane which forms the circle behind the liver and stomach is known as the small sac of the peritoneum; while the part in front of those organs, which is much more e.\tensive, * In the fcctus lit an early ])crio(l tlie reflected portion of the great onientiim is continued up to the .spine ; and while the a-scending layer passes upwai'ds over the pancreas as explained in the text, the posterior or de.scending layer surrounds the transverse colon before passing into the mesentery, thus forming a transverse moso-colou distinct fronj the gre.at omentum. The front of the transverse meso-colon then becomes adherent to the opposed part of the great omentum, so that the two are united in a single jirocess, and the colon appears to be enclosed between the omental Iayei-s. Occasionally ti-aces of the fecial condition are met with in the adult.