216 thrown into folds named ligaments,— mucous, Riul alar. Synovial pouches: two behind and one before. Ai'ticular fat: below patella, use; above the patella. Dissect Internal ligaments. Ligamelits within the capsule. DISSECTION OF THE LEG. of serous membranes, and sends a pouch betAveen the tendon of tlie pophteus and the external fil)ro-cartilage and the head of the tibia • It IS also reflected over the strong crucial ligaments at the back of the joint. There are three named folds of the synovial membrane. One in the centre of the jomt is the mucous ligavient (a), which contiuu.s small vessels and some fat, and extends from the interval between the condyles to the fat below the patella. Below and on eaclx side ot the patella is another fold—aZa,- liqament (6 and c) which is continuous with the former below the patella, and is placed over a mass of fat: the inner (b) is prolonged farther than the outer bv a semihmar piece of the synovial memln-ane. At the back and front the articulation pouches are prolonged beneath the tendons of muscles. Beliind there are t^^•o, one on each side, between the condyle of the femur and the tendinous head of the gastrocnemius. On the front, the sac projects under the exteiLSor niuscle one inch above the articular surface; and if it communicates with the buraa in that situation, as is usually the case, it will reach two inches aljove the joint-surface of the feniur. When the joint is bent there is a still greater length of the serous sac above the patella. Fat around the joint. Two large masses are placed above and below the patella, a:nd a smaller iiuantity of fat surrounds the crucial ligaments. The infrapatellar mass, the largest of all, fills the interval between the patella with its ligament and the head of the tibia, and gives origin to the ridges of the synovial membrane. From it a piece is continued round the patella ; but it is larger at the inner margin than at the outer, and o\'erhangs the inner perpendicular fticet'"'of that bone. This infrapatellar pad adapts itself to the varying shape and extent of the angular interspace between the bones and the liga- mentum patella3 in the movements of the joint. The suprapatellar pad is interposed Ijetween the common extensor tendon and the femur round the top of the .synovial .sac, and is larger on the outer than the inner side. Dissection (fig. 83). The ligamentous structures within the capsule will be brought into A-iew, while the limb is still in the .same position, by throwing do^\-n the pateUa and its ligament, and clearing away the fat behind it. In this step the student must be careful of a smaU transverse band which connects anteriorly the interarticular fibro-cartilages. The remains of the cajjsule and other ligaments, and the synovial membrane, are next to l)e cleared away from the front and "back of the crucial ]iganient.s, and from the fibro-cartilages. While cleaning the posterior crucial ligament, the limb is to be jjlaced flat on the tul)le with the patella down, and the student is to be careful of a band in front of the ligament from the external fibro-c^irtilage, or of two bands, one before and the other behind it. Ligaments icithin tlie capsule. The ligamentous structures within the caiisule consist of the central crucial ligaments, and of two plates of fibro-cartilage on the head of the tilna.