9i Synovial metnVirauu. Surface of humerus; of scajjula. Q W 0€ i I^'nds of ^ ( movement. Flexion and extension are accom- ])anied by rotation of scapula. Checks to movements, Abduction. Adduction. Circum- duction. DISSECTION OF THE UPPEll LIMP.. The synovial mmihmne Hues tlie articular surface of the capsule aud IS coiitiuued tlirougli tlie aperture on the inner side to join the bursa beneath the subscapular muscle. The membrane is reflected around the tendon of the biceps, and lines the upper part of the bicipital groove of the humerus. Articular surface, {{^g. 38). The convex articular head'of the humerus is about three times as large as the hollow of the scapula, and forms rather less than the half of a sphere. The head of the bone IS supported on a short neck, which is joined to the shaft at an obtuse angle. The glenoid fossa of the scapiUa is oval in form with the larger end down, and is very shallow. Its margin is slightly more prominent below than above. Movements. The looseness of the capsule, the shaUowness of the glenoid cavity and its smalluess as compared with the extent of the articulating head of the humerus aUow of the nioveinents. of this joint being both free and extensive. There is the common angular motion in four directions, with the circular or circmnductory ; and in addition a movement of rotation. • In the swinging to aud fro uiovenient, the carrying forwards and inwards of the humerus constitutes flexion; and the uio\iiig it backwards and outwards, extension. Flexion is freer than extension, as the scapula follows the humerus, undergoing a rotation upwards, so that the whole range of movement of the arm in this direction is much greater than that taking place in the reverse articulation. In extension the scapula is similarly rotated downwards, the lower angle approaching the vertebral column. Flexion of the humerus upon the scapida is checked by the twisting of the capsule, and by the meeting of the small tuberosity of the former bone with the coraco-acromial arch. FytPTigj^j^^ ig limited mainly by the coraco-liumeral ligat^tppt^ JAiduction "and adduction. In abduction, the arm is moved outwards away from the body ; and in adduction, it is brought downwards to the side. These movements, Like the foregoing, are accompanied, aud their range is increased by rotation of the scapula. When the limb is abducted, the head of the humerus glides downwards in the glenoid ca\dty, and projects beyond it against the lower part of the capsule, which is stretched ; while the great tuberosity sinks beneath the acromial arch, which sets a limit to the movement. In this condition a little more movement down of the head, either by muscles depressing it or by force elevating the farther end of the lione, will throw it out of place, giving rise to dislocation. In adduction, tlie head of the humerus rises in the socket, and the coraco-huineral ligament being lightened checks the movement. In circumduction, the humerus passes in succession through the four different stiites aljove mentioned, and the limb describes a cone, the apex of which is at the shoulder and the base at the digits.