THE SACRAL NERVES. 401 If the the \-i.scei'a iii;iy \k- drawn from l-lie sidu of tlie pelvis, liladder is still distended, let the air escape from it. By mecaiis of the foregoing dissection tlie sacral nerves may be fomid as they Lssiie from the sacral foramina. The dissector should follow the first four into the .Scleral plexus, and some liranclies from the third and fourth to the viscera. The last sjicral and the cocc\'geal nerve are of small size, and will lie detected coining through the coccj-geus muscle, close to the coccyx : these are to be dissected with care ; and the student will suc- ceed best liy tracing the connecting filaments which pass from one to anotlicr, beginning above with the offset from the fourth nerve. Opposite the lower part of the rectum, bladder, and vagina is a large plexus of the .sympathetic (pelvic plexus), which sends branches to the viscera along the arteries. This plexus is generally de- stroyed in the previous dissection ; but if any of it remains, the student may trace the offsets dis- trilnitcd from it, and its communicating branches with the spinal nerves. Sacral spinal nerves (figs. 149 ; 1.50, p. 40:3). The anterior primary branches of the sacral nerves are live in numlier, and decrease rapidly in •size from above down- wards. Issuing by the first four Fro. 149.—The S.\cr.\l Nkrves and Plkxus (altered from Henle). Urinary blaiUler. 0. Rectum. c. Levator aui. d. Coccygetis. Serves : il and 5?. Fourth and fifth lumbar nerves, giving rise to the lunibo-sacral cord. 1 S to 5 Five sacral nerves. 1 c. Coccygeal nerve. 1. Upper gluteal uerve. 2. lirancli to lev.ator ani. 3. liianch to the bladder. 4. Branch to coccygeus. 5. Branch to the perineum. 6. Comnion branch of 4 S, 5 S, and 1 <; for the back of the coccyx. The sympathetic chain lies on the front of the sacrum, just outside the plane of section. Sacral nerves ara five: apertures on the front of the .sjicrum (the fifth nerve excepted), they receive .short filaments of eoninuinication from the gangliated -"■d ot the sympathetic. The first three nerves and i)art of the ourth enter the sacral plexus, but the fifth ends on the back of ilie coccyx. D.A. DD most cuter plcKus.