DISSECTION OF THE ORBIT. 644 Dissection. Find len- ticular L'linirlion, and roots. Clean eyeball. Sejiarate nerves. Third nerve as it enters orbit ; its upper branch, lower branch. Na.sal nerve. General course to the face. In the orbit. Branches. Long root of lenticular ganglion. For the use of the nuLscle, see the de.scription ol' the inferior oblique (p. 650). Dissection (tij^. 228). The superior rectus nmscle is next to be divided about the middle and turned backwards when a branch of the third nerve to its under surface will be found. At the same time the nasal nerve and the ophthalniic vessels will come into view as they cross inwards above the optic nerve ; these should be tiaced forwards to the inner angle, and backwards to the posterior part of the orbit. By taking away the fat between the optic nerve and the external rectus, at the back of the orbit, the student will find ea-sily fine nerves {ciliary) with small arteries lying along the side of the optic nerve ; and by tracing these ciliary nerves backwards, he will be guided to the small lenticular ganglion (the size of a pin's head). The dissector should find then two branches from the nasal and third nerves to the ganglion : the nasal branch is slender, and enters the ganglion behind ; while that of the third nerve, short and thick, joins the lower part. The eyeball is to be fully exposed by dissecting off its investing fascia (capsule of Tenon), which will be seen to send processes around the several muscles inserted into the sclerotic. Lastly, the student should separate from one another the nasal, third, and sixth nerves, as they pass between the heads of the external rectus muscle into the orbit. The THIRD NERVE is placed highest in the wall of the cavernous sinus; but at the sphenoidal fi.'^sure it descends below the fourth, and the two superficial branches (frontal and lachrymal) of the ophthalmic nerve. It comes into the orbit between the heads of the outer rectus, having previously divided into parts. The u-ppcr division (fig. 228, ^) is the smaller, and ends in the under surface of the levator palpebrae and superior rectus muscles. The lower division supplies the internal and inferior recti and the inferior oblique muscles, and will be dissected afterwards (p. 648). The NASAL BRANCH OB' THE OPHTHALMIC NERVE (fig. 228,1) enters the orbit between the heads of the external rectus, lying between the two parts of the third nerve, and is then directed obliquely inwards to reach the anterior of the two internal orbital canals. Passing through this aperture with the anterior ethmoidal artery, the nerve appears in the cranium at the outer margin of the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone. Finally, it enters the nasal cavity by an aperture at the front of the cribriform plate ; and after passing behind the nasal bone, it issues between that bone and the cartilage, to end on the outer surface of the nose. /li the orbit the nasal crosses over the optic nerve, but beneath the superior rectus and levator palpebras muscles, and lies afterwards below the superior oblique ; in this part of its coui-se it furni.shes the following branches :— The branch to the lenticular ganglion (°) is about half an inch long and very slender, and arises as soon as the nerve comes into the orbit: this is the long root of the lenticular ganglion.