THE I'OSTKllIOK TIUANCIULAU SPACE, with the portion of the suhehivi.n artery and some 57t) plexuses, ■""BL^ctiir'lv Uie '1:^- the cerv.a, faseia and .he fat between the sterno-mastoid and trapezius museles, the posterun- trian.de of the neck will be displayed. In the execut.on o tins somewhat dilHcult task the .student should proceed cautiously, to avoid iniurincr the numerous nerves and vessels m the space. Seek tirst the small on,o-hyoid muscle (tig 210^, winch crosses Vu,a^^^^^^_ the space obliquely about an inch above the clavicle, '""l; into two smaller triangles, occipital and supra clavuular (lig. 20J). Close to or beneath the upper border of the muscle lie the slender nerve and vessels to it : the nerve is derived from the ansa hypoglossi, and the artery from the suprascapular Above Uie omo-hyoid muscle will be found the branches of the Nerves cervical plexus, together with the spinal accessory nerve ; the lattei „,no-i.yoid; will be recognised bv its piercing the .sterno-iiux.stoid muscle 1 he .M-eater number of the branches of the cervh.'al plexus descend to the shonhler ; but the small occipital and great auricular nerves ascend to the head, and the superficial cervical branch is directed forwards over the sterno-mastoid muscle. Below the omo-hyoi.l find the large subclavian artery and the vessels brachial i>lexus, which have a deep position, and run downwards and outwards. Al.so the following vessels and nerve are to be further cleaned, viz., the suprascapular ve.s.sels behind the clavicle ; the transverse cervical vessel, which is higher m the neck, taking an outward direction beneath the omo-hyoid muscle ; and, lastly, the small branch of nerve to the subclavius muscle, which lies about the middle of the space between the clavicle and the omo-hyoid. i • i ,^ .. Underneath the trapezius, where it is att^iched to the clavicle ^^..^^^ define the uppermost digitation of the serratus magniLS muscle ; and behind the brachial idexus, towards the lower part of the space, the mid.lle scalenus muscle appears. Through the scalenus isstte two .ml nen.es muscular nerves ; one, the long thoracic, formed by two or three seulenus. roots, for the .serratus magnus ; the other smaller, and higher up, for the rhomboidei. Limits of the spare. The space is bounded in front by the sterno- Bou.ulunes. mastoid mu.scle ('), and behind by the trapezius (-i). Its ba.sc corre- .sponds with the middle third of the clavicle, and its apex is at the skull. In its floor are several muscles, which are placed in the following order from above downwards, viz., splenius capitis, levator, anguli scapulce ("), and middle scalenus {') ; and at the lower and outer angle, somewhat beneath the trapezius, lies the ujiper part of the serratus magnus. Covering the space are the structures already examined, viz., the skin and siiperlicial fascia, the platysma over the lower half or two-thirds, and the deep fascia. The small oinodiyoid muscle (") cros.ses the space near the clavicle, is divide,! so as to divide it into two, a lower or supraclavicular triangle, and Jj^y-™"" an upper or occipital (tig. 209). The supraclavicular triangle is the smaller, and contains the sub-