DISSECTION OP THE UPPER LIMB. 30 nerves of siib- seapularis. Subscapu- laris: of tlie coracoid 'process at its upper anrl inner part is also seen (lig. 11, F). Dissection, Disscctioil. By the separation of the serratus from tlie suh- scapiilaris tlinre comes into \'iew a thin fascia, which helougs to the latter miusele, and is fixed to the lione round its margins ; after it has heen observed, it ma)' be taken away. In cleaning the muscle, the short, uppermost, subscapular branch, of the posterior cord of the brachial plexus will be found entering its upper part under cover of the axillary vessels, and a branch from the lowest sub- scapular nerve will be seen to enter its lower, or axillary, border. The subscapularis muscle i.s to be followed forwards to its inser- tion into the hiimerus ; and the axillary ve.ssels and nerves, with their offsets to the muscles, should be well cleaned. The SUBSCAPULARIS MUSCLE (fig 11, a) lies beneath the scapula, and is for the most part concealed by that bone when the limb is in its natural position. It arises from the con- cave ventral surface of the scapula, except near the upper and lower angles, and over the neck ; and a thick portion of the muscle is attached in the groove along the axillary margin of the bone : many of the fleshy fibres spring from tendinous septi which are fixed to the ridges on insertion; the surface of the scapula (fig. 10). The muscle is insei-ted by a tendon into the impression on the small tuberosity of the humerus, and by fleshy filu'es into the bone for nearly an inch below this ]iart (lig. 17). relations; By one surface the muscle forms a part of the posterior wall of the axilla, and is in contact with the axillary vessels and nerves, and the serratus magnus. B\- the other it rests against the scapula and the shoulder-joint ; and between its tendon and the root of the coracoid process is a bursii, which generally communicates with tbe svnovial ca-\dty of that joint. ' The loAver border of the muscle projects beyond the scapula, and Fro. 11.—View op the Subscapularis and THE Surrounding Muscles. Subscapularis. Teres major. Latissimus dorsi. SeiTatus magnus. Omohyoid. Pectoral is minor. Bicepp. H. Coraco-bracbialis. a. Suprascapular artery. I. Suprascapular nerve, separated from tlie artery by the supra- scapular ligament.