PARTS BENEATH THE COMPLBXUS. 529 The coniplexus is concealed by the splenius and trapezius, relations; Along the inner side is the seniispinalis muscle, with the liga- meiitum iiucIieb. Beneath it are the small recti and obliqui muscles, the semispiiialis, and the posterior cervical nerves and vessels; and the cutaneous offsets of two or three of the nerves perforate it. The comple.xus may be regarded as the cranial prolongation of use. (he seniispinalis muscle. Action. Both muscles will move the head directly backwards. Dissection One will draw the occiput down and backwards towards its own side, nen'esof Dissection, of vessels and nerves (fig. 192, p. 531). In the neck the neck; the nerves and vessels will be brought into view by detaching the complexus from the occipital bone and the spines of the vertebrae, and carefully raising it from the subjacent parts. Beneath the muscle are the ramifications of the cer\'ical nerves, and the deep cervicid and other vessels, surrounded by dense connective tissue. Each nerve, excejjt the first, divides into an inner and an outer inner and branch. Dissect out first the inner branches, which lie partly over and partly bene;ith the fibres of the semispinalis muscle (fig. 192, g). The external branches are very small, and are given off between the outer transverse processes close to where the trunks appear ; they are to t^™'"=''es; be looked for outside the comple.xus, entering the muscles prolonged from the erector spinse and the .splenius. The small first nerve is the most diiiicidt of the set to find : it is first nerve a short trunk, contained in the interval between the recti and obliqui muscles near the head, and ^vill be best found by looking for the small twigs furnished by it to the muscles around. The deep cervical artery is met with on the seniispinalis muscle; and the a part of the vertebral artery will be found in contact with the first vessels: nerve ; and the occipital artery will lie visible crossing the occipital bone. Opposite the thorax the dorsal 7i6i'V6S wjid vessels will b6 rsadily nerves and displayed on the inner side of the longissimus dorsi muscle, on the the dorsal removal of a little fatty tissue from between the transverse pro- region; cesses. External and internal branches are to be traced from each nerve and vessel into the muscles : some of the former have been seen in the interval between the ilio-costalis and the longissimus dorsi. The two branches of the lumbar nerves and vessels are in the in tiie ium_- sarae line as the dorsal ; but the inner set are diflficult to find. bar region.' The sacral nerves are placed beneath the niultifidus spina), and will be dissected after the examination of that muscle. Posterior Primary Branches of the Spinal Nerves. The Posterior spinal nerves, with a few exceptions in the cervical and sacral spina/''' groups, divide in the interverteliral foramina into their anterior and "erves. posterior primary branches. The posterior supply the integuments and the muscles of the back, and are now to be learnt. In the neck. The posterior primary divisions of the cervical in the neck nerves are eight in number, and issue between the transveise pro- cesses ; but those of the first and second, which begin on the neural M M