660 DISSECTION OF THE PACE. the liack, and f'loiii the luiiiliar and lateral gacral below. They are distributed after tlie following plan :— ?o'the''ve"t"e" ^'^ '^'^'^^^ artery enters tlie spinal canal Ijy the intervertehi'al fora- bnu men, it divides into two branches, upper and lower. From the point of division the branches are directed, one (6) upwards and the other (c) downwards, behind the bodies of tlie two contiguous vertebra), and join in anastomotic loops with an offset of the intra- by loops: spinal artery abo\'e and below. From the loops ofl'sets [d) are furnished to tlie periosteum and to the bodies of the vertebrae. Anastomotic twigs connect the arches across the vertebrae, iiiifiacen- The intraspinal vessels produce also a central longitudinal " ■ artery (c), like that on the front of the spinal cord, which lies on the bodies of tlie vertebras, and is reinforced at intervals by offsets from the loo]is. lutraspinai The intraspinal veins (fig. 201) consist of two anterior longitn- Urge.'^'*' dinal vessels, which extend the whole length of the spinal canal ; of veins inside the bodies of the vertebrae ; and of a plexus of veins beneath the neural arches. Aiiterior The anterior longitudinal veins (b) are close to the bodies of the aiemi"Iod'ies Vertebrae, one on each side of the posterior common ligament ; and of vertebiw. they are irregular in outline, owing to certain constrictions near the intervertebral foramina. They receive, opposite the body of -each vertebra the veins (c) from that bone ; and through the interverte- bral foramina they have branches of communication (o) with the veins outside the spine in the neck, the dorsal region, the loin i and the pelvis. Veins of the Veins of the bodies of the vertebne. Within the channels in the bodies of the vertebrae are large veins, which join on the front of the bone with veins in that situation. Towards the back of the vertebra they are united in an arch, ffoni which two trunks issue by the large apertures on the posterior surface. Escaped from the bone, the trunks diverge to the right and left, and open into the longitudinal veins. Posterior ^^1,3 posterior spinal veins form a plexus between the dura mater spinal veins , , , « , 1 ,1 ■ ^ -j ^ t are in con- and the arches of the vertebrae. A large vein may be said to lie on archesi"' each side of the middle line, which joins freely with its fellow, and witli the anterior longitudinal vein by lateral branches. Offsets from these vessels are directed through the intervertebral foramina, to end in the veins (a) at the roots of the transverse processes. Section V. DISSECTION OF THE FACE. Directions. After the dissections of the perineum and of the back have been completed, the body will be turned on to the back and will remain in that position. First dissect The worker on the liead and neck will first dissect the face, face.