CHAPTER VIII. DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. Section I. THE WALLS OF THE THORAX. Clean walls of muscles. Preserve nerves, Termination of the costal cartilages. Form in general; on a cross section. Bissection. The dissection of the thorax will he commenced on the fourteenth day of the dissection of the body, after the removal of the upper limbs. In the first place the sternum, ribs and costal cartilages with the intervening structures, will be carefully cleaned, so that the walls of the chest may be examined, but the lateral and anterior branches of the intercostal nerves issuing between the ribs and cartilages should be carefully preserved. The portions of the pectoralis major and minor, serratus magnus, rectus abdominus, and the ex- ternal and internal oblique muscles of the abdomen, will be taken away, at the same time noting again the extent of their attachments ; the insertion of the scalenus posticus will also be cleaned off the second rib. The origin of the sub-clavicus from the first costal cartilage need not be removed. Finally, by arrangement with the dissectors of the abdomen and head and neck, the body will be turned on to either side for a few minutes to complete the cleaning of the ribs and intercostal muscles as far back as the transverse processes of the vertebrtB. The chest wall. The costal cartilages will now be clearly seen ; the upper seven ribs join the sternum, the sixth and seventh being close together at the lower end of the gladiolus, and the eighth, ninth and tenth cartilages terminate by articulation with the lower border of the cartilage above. Some distance from their anterior ends, the seventh, eighth, ninth and tenth cartilages will be observed to send up a short process to articulate with a similar one passing downwards from the cartilage above. The extremity of the eleventh rib cartilage is free, and commonly forms the lowest point of the chest wall. The twelfth rib is often not more than two inches or so in length. Form. The form of the chest is irregularly conical, with the apex above and the base below; and it may appear afterwards, shoidd the student find the lungs collapsed, that it is only partly filled by the contained viscera, but during life the whole of the space is occupied by the expanded lungs. It is flattened on the sides, and on