DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 336 General dis pusition of nerves. Two largo centres, epigastric and hypo- gastric. How to lay- bare solar plexus, and the semilunar ganglia. Follow the ending of the vagus nerves. Solar plexus: appearance and extent; SYMPATHETIC AND VAGUS NERVES. Sympathetic Nerve. In the abdomen, as in the thorax, the syniimthetic nerve consists of a gangliated cord on each side of the vertebral column, and of jirevertebral centres or plexuses, which furnish branches to the viscera. The chief prevertebral plexuses in the abdomen are the epigastric or solar and the hypogastric. The epigastric plexus is placed behind the stomach, and supplies nerves to all the viscera above the cavity of the pelvis : it is continued downwards to the hypogastric plexus by the aortic plexus (p. 319). The hypogastric plexus dis- tributes nerves to the pelvic viscera, and has already been noticed at its commencement (p. 319). The knotted or gangliated cord will be met with in a subsequent stage of the dissection ; and only the great solar plexus with its offsets is to be now examined. Dissection. To denude the ejngastric plexus, the following dissection is to be made: The air should be let out of the stomach and duodenum ; tlie portal vein, the common bile-duct, and the gastro-duodenal artery are to be cut through near the pylorus ; and the stomach, duodenum, and pancreas are to be drawn over to the left side. On raising the liver, the vena cava appears ; this is to be cut across above the junction of the renal veins with it, and the lower end is to be drawn down with hooks. Beneath the vein the dissector will find the large reddish semi- lunar ganglion of the right side ; and mixed up with the nerves of the plexus are numerous lymphatic glands (coeliac glands), with a dense tissue, which require to be removed with care. From its inner part he can trace the numerous nerves and ganglia around the ccEliac and superior mesenteric arteries, and the secondary plexuses on the branches of those arteries. From the outer part of the ganglion offsets are to be followed to the kidney, the suprarenal body, and the diaphragmatic arteries. At its upper end the junction with the large splanchnic nerve may be seen; and deeper than the last, one or two smaller splanclinic nerves may be found as they issue through a fissure of the diaphragm, and enter the coeliac, renal and supra- renal plexuses. The student should then trace the ending of the pneumo-gastric nerves on the stomach. The left nerve will be found at the small curvature in front, near the oesophagus; and the right nerve will be seen at a corresponding spot on the opposite aspect. Branches from the right nerve are to be followed to the plexus of the sympa- thetic by the side of the coiliac axis; and from the left, to the hepatic plexus. The epigastric or solar plexus is a large network of nerves and ganglia, which lies in front of the aorta and pillars of the diaphragm, and behind the pancreas and inferior cava: it fills the space between the suprarenal capsules of opposite sides, and sur- rounds the coeliac axis and the suijerior mesenteric artery. The