DISSECTION OF THK PTERYGOID REGION. f.l8 and t'ncinl iiervo. Inferior dental is between pterygoid muscles, then in the and supplies branch to mylo-hyoid, dental branches to grinding and cutting teeth, brauch to lower lip. Dental artery has an incisor and labial branch. Lingual nerve courses to the tongue; no branch hero. Chorda tympani joins lingual, filaments pa-ss between the otic ganglion and the beginning of the auriculo-tt'mporal nerve. /. Branches to the facial nerve. Two considerable l)ranches pass forwanls roimd the superficial temporal artery to join the upper trunk of the facial nerve. The INFERIOR DENTAL (') is the largest of the branches of the inferior maxillary nerve. In its course to the canal in the lower jaw, the nerve is placed behind and external to the lingual, and lies at first beneath the external pterygoid muscle ; it after- wards rests on tlie internal pterygoid, and near the dental foramen on the internal lateral ligament. After the nerve enters the bone, it is continued forwards beneath the teeth to the foramen in the side of the jaw, and ends at that spot by dividing into an incisor and a mental branch. Only one offset (to the mylo-hyoid muscle) leaves the dental nerve before it enters the boue. Its branches are :— a. The mylo-hyoid nerve arises near the dental foramen, and is continued along a groove on the inner aspect of the ramus of the jaw to the cutaneous surface of the mylo-hyoid, and to the anterior belly of tlie digastric muscle. b. The dental branches arise in the bone, and supply the molar and bicuspid teeth. If the bone is soft, the canal containing the nerve may be laid open so as to expose these minute branches. c. The incisor branch is small and continues the direction of the nerve onwards to tlie middle line, furnishing offsets to the canine and incisor teeth, below which it lies. d. The mental or labial branch which issues on the face beneath the depressor of the angle of the mouth has been described on page 564. The INFERIOR DENTAL ARTERY, after entering the lower jaw, has a similar course and distribution to the nerve. Thus it supplies offsets to the bone, dental branches to the molar and bicuspid teeth, and ends anteriorly in an incisor and a mental bi-anch. The incisor branch is continued to the symjihysis of the jaw, where it ends in the bone ; it furnishes twigs to the canine and incisor teeth. The mental branch, issuing by the mental foramen, ramifies in the structures covering the lower jaw, and anastomoses with the branches of the facial artery. The LINGUAL or gustatory nerve (8) is concealed at first, like the others, by tlie external pterygoid muscle. It is then inclined forwards with a small artery over the internal pterygoid, and under cover of the side of the jaw to the tongue. The remainder of the nerve will be seen in the dissection of the submaxillary region (p. 623). In its course beneath the jaw the nerve does not giv.e off any branches, but the following communicating nerve is received by it. The chorda tyni'pan.i (") is a branch of the facial nerve, and leaves the tympanum by a special aperture close to the inner end of the Gliiserian fissure. Appearing from benwith the upper