428 DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. and trans- verse pro- jn-ojections first Motion. Sacro-sciatii 1 iganients are two: gi'eat, and small; apertures formed by them; Illo-lumbar ligament: The lateral ligament passes oix each side between th representing tlie transverse processes of the last sacral and coccygeal ^'ertebrse. Movement. While the coccyx remains unossified to the sacrum a slight antero-posterior movement %yin take place between them. ' Two SACRO-sciATic LIGAMENTS pass from the side of the sacrum and coccyx to the hinder border of the hip-ljone, across the .space between those bones at the back of the pelvis : they are named great and small. The great or looderior ligament (fig. 158, a) is attached above to the posterior inferior iliac .spine, and to the side of the sacrum and coccyx ; and Ijelow to the inner margin of the ischial tuberosity, sending forwards a prolongation {falciform lorocess) along the ramus of the ischium. It is wide at the sacrum, and gets narrower towards the lower end; but it is somewhat expanded again at the tuberosity. The svudl or anterior liga- ment (fig. 158, is attached in- ternally by a ^^'ide piece to the border of the sacrum and coccyx, where it is imited with the origin of the j^receding band. The fibres are directed outwards, and are inserted as a narrow band into the ischial spine of the hip-bone. Its deep surface is blended with the coccygeus ; and it may be looked upon ;is being a fibrous jjortion of that muscle. Above it is the large sacro-sciatic foramen ; and below it is the small foramen of the same name, which is bounded by the two ligaments. By their jjosition these ligaments convert into two foramina (sacro-sciatic) the large sacro sciatic excavation in the dried bones : the openings, and the structures they give passage to, have lieen described with the buttock (p. 124). Use. The sacro-sciatic ligaments, by holding down the lower part of the sacrum, serve to prevent that bone from rotating at tlie jitcro-iliac articulation, under the influence of the weight pressing on its upper end in the erect position. The iLio-LUMBAR LIGAMENT is a strong triangular band, which springs by its narrow end from the extremity of the transverse process of the fiflli lumbar vertebra. Directed outwards and some- what backwards, it spreads out to be inserted into the iliac crest for about an inch, opposite the back part of the iliac fossa. To the ui)per border of the ligament the anterior layer of the fascia Fio. 158.—Saoro-sciatio Ligaments. a. Large, and b, smalL