DISSECTION OV THE BDAIN, 7C0 roof; uiiil floor. Septum lucidum: position, form, and attacli- ment.s: is a double partition, containing fifth ventricle. Dissection.. Fifth ventricle. Dissection. Fornix position and form. Uppnr sur- face and liordors. a curve with the convexity outwards. 7w tlie rouf are contained the fibres pa.ssing from the hinder end of the corpius callosum down- ward.s and outwards into the temporal lobe, together with the pro- longation of the caudate nucleus and tlie tajiiia .'feniicircularis ; and at the anterior extremity is a i)rominence called the amygdaloid tubercle. The floor is formed mainly by a long curved eminence— the hippocampus major (l), along the inner margin of which is a thin band prolonged from the fornix—the taenia hippocampi (d), while to its outer side lies the tapering fore part of the eminentia coUateralis (k). The choroid plexus {h) is continued downwards along the inner side of the taenia hippocampi to the lower extremity of this cornu. Dissection. If the student has a separated hemisphere and opens the descending horn of the lateral ventricle as already described, he will be able, by placing the handle of the scalpel in the dentate fissure below, to demonstrate that the hippocampus major is an infolding of the brain wall corresponding to that hollow. The SEPT0M LUCIDUM (figs. 274, 275, 6) is j)laced vertically between the two lateral ventricles, beneath the anterior half of the corpus callosum, to which its upper border is attached. It is triangular in shajie, with the base turned downwards and forwards, and fixed to the rostrum of the corpus callosum. The posterior border is oblique, and joins the fornix. Its surfaces look into the lateral ventricles, opposite the head of the caudate nucleus. Although often so thin as to be translucent, the septum lucidum consists of two lainince which enclose a space—the fifth ventricle. Each lamina is composed of ■white substance, with a thin layer of grey matter internally ; and the ependyma of the lateral ventricle covers its outer surface. Dissection. The fifth ventricle will be exposed Ijy cutting through the piece of the corpus callosum which remains in the middle line, and detaching the anterior half from the septum lucidum. The FIFTH VENTRICLE (vent. of the septum) is a narrow slit in the fore part of the septum lucidum, where this is deeper. Posteriorly and above, the laminae of the septum are united to a varialile extent. Like the septum, it is larger in front than behind. This cavity has not any epithelial lining. Dissection. The fornix is to be next examined. To lay bare this body the posterior part of the corpus callosum should be detached with care from it, and thrown backwards ; and the septmn lucidum should also be removed from its upper surface. The FORNIX (fig. 275, c) is a thin white layer bcneatli the corpus callosum, which, projecting on each side into the lateral ventricle, forms part of the floor of that cavity. Its central part or body is triangular in shape, with the ba.se turned backwards ; and it is con- tinuous with the rest of the brain by processes named crura, or inllars, in front and behind. The upper surface of the body has the septum lucidum attached to it along the middle line in front; and behind, its median part