378 DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. Sacro- genital fold Contains unstriiied muscle. Middle Para-vesioal fossa. Transverse vesical fold. Distended bladder. Bladder in the child. False liga- ments of the bladder. Outline of the fascia of the pelvis. Steps to define the pelvic fascia: in the pelvis, degrees by the bowel when distended, which is styled th„ pan^redal TOSSQ/t The para-rectal fossa is limited in front by a fold (tlie sacro- gemtalfold) which passes from the front of the sacrum on either side on to the seminal vesicles or cervix uteri, as the case may be. It is a strong fold containing fibrous and some unstriped muscular tissue. In front of and above the sacro-genital fold along the wall of the pelvis will be seen a fold produced by tlie ureter as it pa.«ses downwards to the lateral angles of the bladder. The slight hollow between the sacro-genital fold and the ureter is spoken of as the middle fossa of the pelvis. In front of the ureter is a hollow on either side of the empty bladder which is appropriately named the 2Mra-vesical fossa. In the male the vas deferens will be seen passing downwards along the side of the pelvis towards the back of this fossa. " Passing outwards from the upper part of the bladder when empty, across the pelvic floor on to the side of the pelvis at the fore part of the para-vesical fossa, is a fold (the transverse vesical fold) which passes over the brim of the pelvis towards the internal abdominal ring and often corresponds to the course of the superior vesical artery. From the summit and upper surface of the bladder the peritonemn is reflected on to the wall of the pelvis and abdomen leaving the front and lower part of that organ entirely uncovered by peritoneum. When the bladder is distended and rises into the abdomen a part of this uncovered surface is in contact with the anterior abdominal wall above the pubic bones, and the bladder may be opened through it without injury to the peritoneum. It should be pointed out that in the child the bladder is only accommodated to a small extent in the pelvis and its anterior surface is in contact with the anterior abdominal wall above the pubis, having no peritoneal investment in front. The reflectives of the peritoneum on to the walls of the pelvis are commonly described as the false ligaments of the bladder, but it is not a satisfactory terminology. The superior fahe ligament is the peritoneum covering the uraches which extends from the summit of the bladder to tlie anterior abdominal wall. The lateral false ligaments are the peritoneal reflections on each side from the bladder to the pelvic wall ; and the posterior false ligaments are simply the 25eritoneal coverings of the sacro-genital folds. The pelvic fascia. Lining the wall of the pelvis is a thin fascia (pelvic), which covers the obturator internus and pyriformis muscle.", and sends a process inwards to support the viscera. Dissection. To bring into view the pelvic fascia, the external iliac vessels, and the psoas (if this has not been removed in the dissection of the lumbar plexus), are to be taken away on the left side of the body. The obturator vessels and nerve are to be cut through on the same side ; and the peritoneum being detached from the wall of the pelvis, tlie fascia will be seen on scraping away with the handle of the scaliiel a quantity of fat. The fascia is strong in part but is thin towards the back and in this part the student