DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 266 disposition iibove and below. itelations. Lines on the aponeu- rosis ; apertures in it; abdominal ring. Use of both muscles, acting from pelvis, and thorax ; one muscle acting ; influence on abdominal cavity. In the linea alba the aponeuroses are united. External abdominal ring: form anil .situation ; size ; middle line of the aponeuroses of opposite sides. Above, it is thin, and is continued over the thorax to the pectoralis major muscle. Below, its fibres are stronger and more distinct than above, and are directed obli(|uely downwards and inwards to the pelvis ;—some of them are fixed to the front of the pelvis ; and the rest are collected into a firm band, Poupart's ligament, between the pubic spine and the iliac crest (p. 267). Relations. The muscle is subcutaneous. Its posterior border is unattached between the last rib and the iliac crest, but it is usually overlapped by the edge of the latissimus dorsi, e.Kcept for a short distance below. At the outer part of the aponeurosis in the front of the abdomen is a curved white line, the linea semilunaris, marking the outer edge of the rectus muscle (fig. 97) ; and crossing between this and the linea alba are three or four somewhat irregular lines— the linea; transversa. Numeroiis small apertures in the aponeurosis transmit cutaneous vessels and nerves ; and near the pubis is the large opening of the external abdominal ring (fig. 97), which gives passage to the spermatic cord in the male, aud to the round ligament in the female. Action. Both muscles, taking their fixed point at the pelvis, will bend the trunk forwards ; but with the spiue fixed, they will draw down the ribs. If they act from the thorax they will elevate the pelvis. Should one muscle contract, it will incline the trunk to the same side, or raise the pelvis, according as the upper or the lower attach- ment may be movable ; or if the trunk is prevented from being bent, it will turn the thorax to the opposite side. The external oblique also acts powerfully with the other broad muscles in flattening the wall and diminishing the cavity of the abdomen, and in forcing up the diaphragm during expiration by means of pressure transmitted through the abdominal viscera. Direction. Besides the general arrangement of the aponeurosis over the front of the abdomen, the student is to examine more minutely the linea alba in the middle line, the external abdominal ring with the fascia prolonged from its margin, and the thickened border named Poupart's ligament. Linea alba. This white band on the front of the abdomen marks the place of meeting of the aponeuroses of the opposite sides. It extends from the ensiform process to the pubic symphysis, and is wider above than below. It is perforated here aud there by small apertures, which allow pellets of fat to protrude sometimes. A little below the centre is the umbilicus, which now projects beyond tiie surface, though before the skin was removed a hollow indicated its position. External abdominal ring (fig. 97 and fig. 98, c). This opening is situate near the pubes, between the diverging fibres of the aponeu- rosis. It is somewhat triangular in form, with the base at the pubic crest, and the apex directed upwards and outwards. The long measurement of the aperture is about an inch, and tlie transverse about half an inch.