BOUNIJAIUKS 0\-' TlIK TVMl'ANrM. 806 teiuiJoral branches uf the exlernal carotid. Its nerrr.s are ik-rive<l Nerves, from the auriculo-temporal branch of the filth iicrve, and enter llie auditory pa.s?age between tliu Ijone and tiie cartihi aw. Middle Ear. The chief ])artof the iui(klie ear is tlie tympamini Miiiaic ran- or dnun, a cavity containing air, which is interposed Ijetween the fyll,'','^,,',,',',,, e.Kternal auditory canal and tlu' laliyrintb or internal ear. The space is traversed by a cliain ol' small bones, with which s])ecial muscles and ligaments arc connected. It communicates in i'ront with the pharynx by a canal named the Eustachian tube ; and Eustacliian behind, it is prolouLred into a scries of excavations in the mastoid 1 11 1 -111 1. 11 1 1 'I'l'' iniisLoid part ol the temporal bone—the mastoul ceils. Small vessels and cells, nerves ramify in tlie'cavity. Dissection. The tympanic cavity .should be examined in b(.ith a Uissectioii dried and a recent bone. On the dry temjxjral bone, after removing most of the s(juamous to ojien it in portion by means of a vertical cut of the saw through the root of bone,'^ the zygoma and the Glaserian fi.ssure, the tympanum will be brought into view by cutting away with the bone-forceps some of the ujijjcr surface of the petrous portion, and the anterior part of the meatus auditorius. In the recent bone prepare the ilissection as above, but without f'" 1 . . . 1 .,11 • rneont uoiic. doing injury to the meinbrana tympaiu, the chorda tympani nerve, and the chain of bones with its muscles. The TYMPANUM has the form of a very short cylinder, which is Tympamim: placed oliliquely, so that its end-surfaces (the inner and outer walls f"''"' of the tympanum) are nearer to the median pdaue in front than behind. The circumference of the cylinder is somewhat irregular, and interrupted at jxirts ; in it a roof, a tloor, and an anterior and a posterior wall are distinguished. The cavity measures about half 'i""'f'3ions. an inch from above down and from before back. Its breadth may be given as one-sixth of an inch ; but it is wider above and behind than at the lower and fore parts ; and it is narrowest in the centre, owing to the projection towards the cavity of the promontory on the inner wall, and of the tympanic mendirane externally. The Miner boimdary of the tympanum (tig. 29G) is formed by the imiei'wall outer wall of the o?seous labyrinth, by the parts of which the con- formation of this surface is maiidy determined. Occu]iyiiig the greater part of the inner wall is a rounded eminence called the is markoil by promontury {pr) -, this becomes narrow behind, and its surface is l"'o'"°"''°''y marked by two or three minute grooves which lodge the nerves of and grooves; the tympanic plexus. Above and below the narrowed eiul of the promontory is an aperture : both lead into the labyrinth. The upper aperture (/o) is semicircular in shape, with the con- enostra vexity upwards, and is named fcuedm oi-alis: it oi)ens into the"™''"' vestibule, and into it the inner bone (stapes) of the chain i.-> fixed. The lower ajierture, fenestra rotunda (fr), is rather triangular in fenestni form, and is situate within a funnel-shaped hollow : in the macerated ' bone it leads into the cochlea ; but in the recent state it is closed by a thin membrane—the secondary membrane of the tympanum. Arching above the fenestra ovalis on this wall is a ridge of "f ^ atiueducl uf