THE CaiCO-THYBOID MUSCLE. 089 The student will find it advantageous to study a museum prepara- tion of the laryngeal cartilages as described in the next section (pp. 698 to 704) before beginning the dissection of the larynx. The Larynx is placed in the middle of the neck, in front of the situation pharynx, and in the resting condition opposite the fourth, fifth and sixth cervical vertebrae. It i.s however very moveable, its connections varies, permitting especially a considerable degree of elevation, M'hich comes into play in the act of swallowing. Its fomi is pyramidal, the base being turned upwai-ds and attached Fonu; to the hyoid bone, while the apex joins the trachea. In length it ".ml 'limen- measures, in the male, about an inch and three-quarters ; in width, nmieV" at the top nearly as much, and at the lower end one inch ; while the greatest depth from before backwards is about an inch and a half. In the female, the average length is an inch and a half, and in fomale the depth one inch. Before the age of puberty the larynx is "'"idii'id. relatively very small. On each side the larynx is covered by the depressor muscles of Relations, the hyoid bone, the carotid vessels, and the lateral lobes of the thyroid body. The front projects beneath the skin in the middle line of the neck ; and the posterior surface is covered by the mucous membrane of the pharynx. Muscles. The stemo-thyroid and tliyro-hyoid muscles, which, Muscie.s, together with the stylo-pharyngeus and inferior constrictor of the pharynx, move the larynx as a whole, are frequently called the extrinsic muscles of the larynx. The intrinsic muscles are six pairs extrinsic and one single muscle. Of these, one paii-ed muscle is exposed on and the side of the larynx ; two pairs and a single muscle are seen at the back ; and the rest are concealed l)y the thyroid cartilage. Directiom. On one side of the larynx, say the right, the" muscles Directions, may be dissected, and on the opposite side the nerves and vessels ; and the superficial muscles, which do not require the cartilac^es to be cut, are to be first learnt. Dissection. The lai-ynx l^eing extended and fastened \nth pins. Dissection tlie dissector may clear away from the hyoid bone and the thyroid cartilage the following muscles, viz., omo-hyoid, sterno-hyoid, sterno- thyroid, thyro-hyoid, and inferior constrictor. Along the side, between the thyroid and cricoid cartilages, the of ti.e crico-thyroid mu.scle (fig. 245, >) will be recognised superficial To denude the posterior muscles (fig. 244), it will be necessary to tiirn over the larynx, and to remove the mucous membrane coverin- it On the back of the cricoid cartilage the dissector will find the posterior crico-arytenoid muscle (c); and above this, on the back of the aryte- noid cartilages, the arytenoid muscle (b) wiU appear, with the crossing iascicuh oi the aryteno-epiglottidean muscles (a) on its surface. The CRico-THYKOiD MUSCLE (fig. 245, 1) is fan-shaped, and is crico- separated by a triangular interval from the one on the opposite side It ™ from the front and the lateral part of the cricoid cartilage '; origin • and Its fibres radiate to be inserted into the lower cornu, and the inserti n • lower border of the thyroid cartilage as far forward, as a quarter of Y y