16 DISSECTION OF THE UPPEK LIMH. Remove fat of axilla. Follow vessels. Clean back of .space. Trace nei\'es of plexus, and on inner wall. at the lower border on the right side, but at the upjier border on the left side. In the groove at the upper border, between the pectorali,s major and the deltoid, a small vein, flu; ccplialic, will be .seen, and subjacent to this a small artery, the deiscending or humeral hranch of the acromio-thoracic, will lie found running downwards. The fascia and the fat are then to be taken from the axilla, without injury to the numerous vessels, nerves, and gland.= in the space. The dissection will be best executed by cleaning fir.st the lai'ge axillary vessels at the outer part, where these are about to enter the arm, and then following their branches which are directed to the chest, viz., the long thoracic under cover of the anterior boundary of the armjiit, and the subscapular along the jDosterior boundary. With the latter vessels the middle and lower subscapular nerves will be found, and just below them at their origin, turning backwards near the humerus, are the jiosterior circumflex artery and the circumflex nerve. Some arterial twigs entering the axillarj^ glands should also be traced out. In taking away the fascia and fat from the muscles at the back of the space, the small internal cutaneous branch of the niusculo- spiral nerve (fig. 4^) should be looked for near the great vessels. The nerves of the brachial plexus about the axillary vessels in the outer part of the space are then to be defined. The smallest of these, which is commonly destroyed, is the nerve of Wrisberg ; it lies close to the hinder edge of the axillary vein, and joins with the intercosto-humeral nerve. Finally, when cleaning the serratus magnus muscle on the rilis, the student will seek on its surface for the posterior or long thoracic nerve (fig. 6 p. 21) which runs down longitudinally towards the back part of the muscle. The posterior offsets of the intercostal nerves crossing the axilla Avill also be cleaned. THE AXILLA. .Sitnation and foitn of the armpit. Bonndarles anterior wall ; jiosterior wall. The axilla is the hollow between the arm and the chest (fig. 4). It is somewhat pyramidal in form, ^vith its apex directed upwards to the root of the neck. The space is larger near the thorax than at the arm, and its boundaries are as follows :— Boundaries. In front and Ijchind, the space is limited by the muscles pa.ssing from the trunk to the upper limb. In the anterior wall are tlii! two pectoral muscles, but these take unequal .shares in its construction : the pectoralis major (a*) extends over the whole front of the space, reaching from the clavicle to the edge of the anterior fold ; while the pectoralis minor (b) corresponds only to about the middle third of the wall. In the posterior wall, from above dowiward.s, lie the sub- scapularis (f), the latissimus dorsi muscle (d), and the teres major (k) muscles. The free margin of this wall, or the posterior fold, is formed by the latissimus dorsi and tores major muscles, and is ♦ The letters ftiul figures refer to tig. i.