723 TRE MIDDLE CEREBRAL ARTERY. 3. The pm'ciiiiml is a considerable vessel lyiiii,' more or less in rivi!uii«ii. tlie calloso-niarginal sulcus and distributed to tlie para-central and priBCuneate convolutions as well as to the upper part of tlie callosal. 4. The artery of the corims callosum is a small vessel directed Aitci-y of backwards in the callosal sulc\is, and distributed to the corpus nii'ii'simi, callosum and the lower part of the callosal convolutions. C. The MIDDLE CERHBRAL ARTEUY (fig. 257,4, and fi''. 259) is the Jliil'"'' largest branch of the carotid, and ramifies over the outer surface of the arti'iy: hemisphere. Entering the fissure of Sylvius, it divides into four or five large cortical branches, which issue therefrom and supply the coiiicai whole of the parietal lobe, together with the neighbouring parts of the frontal and temporal lobes. As tlie vessel enters the fissure of Sylvius it gives olf the antero- ^""l central lateral set of central arteries, wdiich are the largest of their kind and pass upwards through the anterior perforated area to the central Antmo- nuclei, supplying chiefly the lenticular and caudate nuclei of the set.'"' corpus striatum and the intervening white matter of the internal capsule. The origin of the cortical branches will be seen by opening out Cmtiiial the.fissiu-e of Sylvius, as in fig. 259, and they are named as a™"^^^''^''^ follows :— 1. External orbital. 2. Inferior e.xternal frontal. 3. Ascending frontal. 4. Ascending parietal. 5. Parieto-teniporal. 6. Temporal. 1. The external orbital is distributed to the outer part of the under, oxtenmi or orbital, surface of the frontal lobe. orbital, 2. The inferior external frontal are two or three small branches inferior which pass to the lower part of the outer surface of the frontal f^Pf^ lobe. 3. The ascendinfj-frontal is a considerable vessel lying more or less ascondiny in the pre-central sulcus and distributed to the adjoining parts of ° the cortex. 4. The ascendimj-imrietal branch, like the foregoing, passes a-sccndint' upwards ; it is partially received into the post central sulcus, and is P""'"''''' distributed to the cortex in its neighbourhood. 5. The jparieto-temporal are, usually, two large terminal vessels from pai-ioto- the middle cerebral which emerge from the back part of the Sylvian a™'""'"'' fissure to pass to the outer surface of the back part of the parietal, tlie front of the occipital, and the contiguotis portions of the temporal convolutions. 0. The temimral branches are two or three in number : they lomi.oi-ai emerge from the lower part of the Sylviau.to the anterior part of /. the temporal lobe, and to the whole of its otff er'surfacc as far l)ack'"^7*'^"^ as the preceding vessels. On comparing figs. 258 and 259, it will thus l)e seen that the 3 A 2