DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. 16(5 Branches to imisc-les of tlie tliij;h join Ireely. Its BRANCHES iire numerous to the suiTounding muscles on the front and back of tlie tlu<,'h, and maintain frt other vessels of the thit External circninllex. Inti'riial circumHex ends on back of tliigh ; supplies liip joint and muscles. Three per- forating branches: first: second; third and the ending is a fourth. Anasto- motic branches. "Profunda vein. Cut tlirough adductor brevls. ee anastomoses with _h ; through these communications the blood finds Its way to the lower part of the limb when the chief artery IS obliterated either above or below the origin of the profunda. The named hmnches are these :— 1. The external circumflex artery (fig. 62, e) has been described in the dissection of the i^rts on the front of the thigh (p. 159). 2. The internal circumflex artery (Hg. 62, d) arises from the inner and posterior part of the profunda, and turns backwards between the psoas and pectineus, but above the adductor brevis. Opposite the small trochanter it ends in ascending and transverse branches, M-hich have been seen in the disisection of the buttock (p. 123). It also supplies offsets on the inner side of the thigh, viz. : An articular artery which enters the hip-joint through the notch in the acetabulum ; and two muscular branches at the border of the adductor brevis ;—one ascends to the obturator and the superficial adductor muscles : the other, which is larger, descends with the deep division of the obturator nerve beneath the adductor brevis, and ends in this and the largest adductor. 3. The ixrforating arteries, three in number, pierce the ten- dons of some of the adductor muscles close to the linea aspera of the femur : they supply muscles on the back of the thigh, and wind round the bone to end in the vastus externus and crureus (p. 133). The first (fig. 62, /) begins opposite the lower border of the pectineus, and perforates the short and great adductors. The second (g) arises below the middle of the adductor brevis, and passes through the same muscles as the preceding. The third (h) springs from the deep femoral trunk below the adductor brevis, and is transmitted through the adductor magnus. From the second or third perforating vessel a medullary artery is supplied to the femur. The terminal branch of the profunda (fourth perforating) pierces the adductor magnus near the aperture for the femoral artery. 4. Muscular or anastomotic branches {i) to the back of the thigh (three or four in number) pass through the adductor magnus at some distance from the linea aspera, and end in a chain of anasto- moses in the hamstrings (p. 134). The PROFUNDA VEIN results from the union of the different branches corresponding with the offsets of its comijanion artery. It accompanies closely the artery of the same name, to which it is superficial, and ends above in the common femoral vein. Dissection. To bring into view the remaining muscles, viz., adductor magnus, obturator externus, and the insertion of the psoas and iliacus, the adductor brevis is to be cut through near the pelvis, and thrown down. Then the investing layer of ftiscia and areolar tissue is to be removed from each muscle. After the adductor magnus has been learnt, def.ach a few of its upper fibres to examine the obturator externus.