185 NEBVBS OF FRONT OF LEG. tendon of tlie extensor hallucis, and throwing outwards tlie external lialf of it, the different sheaths of the ligament, the attachment to the OS calcis, and the origin of the extensor brevis digitoriun from that boue may be observed. The anterior tibial and mnsculo-cutaneous nerves are now to be follow up followed ui^wards to their origin from tlie external i)opliteal; and a small branch to the knee-joint from the same source is to be traced through the tibialis anticus. Nerves of the Front of the Leg. Between the fibula and Nerve.s of the peroneus longus muscle the external popliteal nerve divides into 'J,'J; f™"' the musculo-cutaneous and anterior tibial; and from the beginning of the anterior tibial nerve, or the end of the popliteal trunk, a small branch called the recurrent articular is given off. The RECURRENT ARTICULAR BRANCH takes the COUrse of the RreuiTCiit. artery of the same name through the tibialis anticus muscle, in which most of its filjres end. A small twig may be followed to the knee-joint. The musculo-cutaneous nerve is continued between the extensor Muscuio- longu.s digitorum and the peronei muscles to the lower third of the "^"^''''^''s leg, where it pierces the fascia, and is distributed to the dorsum of the foot and the toes (p. 176). Before the nerve becomes cutiineous supplies it furnishes branches to the two larger peronei muscles. peronei. The anterior tibial nerve (fig. 69, p. 181) is directed beneath Anterior the extensor longus digitorum, and reaches the tibial artery in the u.'e artery"' lower part of the upper third of the leg. From this spot it takes the same course as the vessel along the leg and foot to the first interosseous space (p. 182). In the leg it lies for the most part in front of the anterior tibial vessels, but on the foot it is generally external to the dorsal artery and terminates between the first and second toes (p. 177). Branches. In the leg the nerve supidies the anterior tibial branches to muscle, the extensors of the toes, and the peroneits tertius. On the '""sclesl dorsum of the foot it furnishes a considerable branch to the short extiensor ; this becomes enlarged, and gives offsets to the articu- lations of the foot. Muscles on the Outer Side of the Leg (fig. 67 and fig. 74, External p. 192). Two muscles occupy the situation, and are named peroneal '""scie.s of from their attachment to the fibula ; they are distinguished as long and short. Intermuscular processes of fascia, which are attached to the fibula, isolate these muscles from others. The peroneus longus (fig. 67 and fig. 74, g), the more superficial p.,,oneus oi the two muscles, passes into the sole of the foot round the outer 'o"g»s: border. It arises from the outer tuberosity of the tibia by a small onvin from slip, from the head, and the outer surface of the .shaft of the fibula the iibuia; lor two-thirds of the length, gradually tapering downwards (fig. 68, p- 179), and from the fascia and the intermuscular septa. Inferiorly] It ends in a tendon which is continued through the external annular ligament with the peroneus brevis, lying in the groove at the back ot the external malleolus ; and it pa8.se8 finally in a separate sheath below the peroneus brevis along the side of the os calcis, and through the groove in the outer border of the cuboid bone, to the