289 EXTERNAL OR OBLIQUE HERNIA. the scrotuui, it has the additional coverings of the superficial fascia and the skin. In a herniii which has passed tlie external abdominal ring, the seven in coverings from without inwards are therefore the following :—the ■"' ' skin and superficial fa.scia, the spermatic and cremasteric fascise the infundibuliform fascin, the suljperitoneal tis.sue, and the peri- tcnieum or hernial sac. Two of the coverings, viz., the peritoneal iiow i)ro- (lUCG(l and subperitoneal, originate as the gut protrudes ; ljut the rest are ready formed round the cord, and the intestine slips inside them. The difl'erent layers become much thickened in a hernia tliat has existed for some time. Diagnosis. If the hernia is small, and is confined to the wall of Howtotiia- the belly, it gives rise to an elongated swelling along the inguinal ° canal. If it has proceeded farther, and entered the scrotum, it forms a flask-shaped tumour with the large end below, and the narrow neck occupying the inguinal passage. Should a hernia of this kind liecome strangulated, the seat of stricture: stricture is jdaced usually at the internal abdominal ring, and may where 1)6 produced either by a constricting fibrous Ijand outside the narrowed neck of the tumour, or by a thickening and contraction of the peritoneum itself at the inner surface of tiie neck. Division of stricture. In division of the stricture, with the view of To relieve, avoiding the surrounding vessels, the cut is directed upwards on the front and mid-part of the hernia. Varieties of external hernia. There are two varieties of oblique Two inguinal hernia that may be mentioned (congenital and infantile), in addition to the ordinary acquired type above described ; they are distinguished by the condition of the peritoneal covering. Comjenital hernia. This kind is found for the most part in the Congenital infant and the child, though it may occur in the adult male. In it• the tube of peritoneiam (processus vaginalis), which receives the testicle in the foetus, remains unclosed and the intestine descends into iiow con- a sac already formed for its reception. stitnted. Infantile or encysted hernia is much rarer than congenital, and infuntiio cannot be distinguished from the common external hernia during' life. It was first recognised in the young child, and received its name of infantile from that circumstance ; but it may be met with at any period of life. This form of hernia occurs when the iVutal processus vaginalis of imw con- the peritoneum is closed only in the neighbourhood of the internal abdominal ring, instead of being obliterated from that point down to the testicle, so that a large serous sac will be situate in front of the spermatic cord, and may occupy the inguinal canal. With this state of the peritoneum, should an external hernia with its coverings descend along the cord in the usual way, it will pass behind the unobliterated sac, like a viscus in a serous membrane. In tins way there will be two sacs, an anterior (the tunica vaginalis) containing serum, and a posterior enclosing the intestine. An infantile hernia is first recognised during an operation by