lil- 1 to THE INFERIOR MAXTT,LARV NRRVI?. 617 The \XTERiOR I'Airr receives ueuvly all Ihe fibres of the motor Anterior root of the nerve, and furnishes branches to three of the muscles ol the jaw, viz, temporal, masseter, and external rterygoid, an.l the buccal branch to the check (Hg. 219, p. 611). . , • ,• The deep temporal branches (hg. 219 and tig. 222, ") are three in ^i^^;;-^ number, and enter the deep surface of the temporal muscle ; the bnuK-hcs, middle, which is the largest and supplies the greater part of the midaic, muscle, leaves the anterior division of the trunk and ascends close to the bone, above the upper border of the external pterygoid ; the posterior is usually conjoined with the masseteric nerve, and enters post.r.or, the hinder part of the muscle ; and the anterior is given oil from |;;;<i^^._^_. the buccal nerve in front of tlie external pterygoid. , i ■ The masseteric branch C') takes an outward course alx.ve the Masseiou... external pterygoid muscle, and through the .sigmoid notch, to the under surface of the masseter muscle, in which it can be followed to near the anterior border. As this branch passes by the ai'ticul; tion of the jaw it gives one or more twigs to that joint. The nerve to the external pterygoid generally arises ui common with the buccal nerve, and enters the deep surface of its muscle. ptery-oid. The buccal branch ('), longer and larger than the others, is mainly Buccal^ a sensory nerve to the cheek. It is first directed forwards beuveen ,^,,,01.^. the heads of the external pterygoid muscle, and then descends beneath the coronoid process and the insertion of the temporal muscle towards the angle of the mouth. After perforating the pterygoid, it gives off the anterior deep temporal nerve ; and on the surface of jin^^s oir the buccinator it divides into branches which form a plexus with temporal, the buccal branches of the facial nerve, and are finally distributed to the skin and mucous memlirane of the cheek. The POSTERIOR PART of the inferior maxillary nerve divides into Posterior three branches—auriculo-temporal, inferior dental, and lingual interior (fig. 21!)). A few of the filires of the motor root join the dental >"«''>"»iT- neVve, and are conveyed to the niylo-hyoid and digastric muscles. Th'e AURICULO-TEMPORAL NERVE (fig. 222, •") ari.ses from the trunk A'j^^j™;^;- near the base of the skull, usually by two roots which embrace the middle meningeal artery. In its course to the surface of the head, it is first directed backwards beneath the external pterygoid muscle a.s far as the neck of the jaw, and then upwards with the superficial li.'s iiem-ath temporal artery in front of the car. Its ramifications on the head ' are described at page 504. In tlie part now dissected its branches ■^'"^'^^^J^'^P'''''' are the following :— a. Brandies to the meatus auditorius. Two offsets are given to the meatus from the nerve beneath the neck of the jaw, and enter that tube lietween the cartilage and bone. h. Articular branch. The branch to the joint of the jaw ari.ses .ioi"'-"f near the same spot as the preceding, or from the branches to the meatus. c. The inferior auricular branch supplies the tragus and adjacent part of the pinna. (/. Parotid branches. These small filaments ramify in the gland, purotid; (Jommunicating branches with the otic gamjlion. One or two J;°;i',;',';'^;;"*^