254 ill lenc'liiiig thfi staff, and in nm- ning knife along staff. Parts to be avoided are rectum, pudic vessels. artery of bulb, recto- vesical fascia, and acces- soiy pudic arterj'. Directions. DISSECTION OF THE PBRINUEM. haemorrhoidal vessels and nerve lying acros.s the ischio-rectal fossa, and possibly the superficial perineal vessels and nerves, wiU be cut in this first stage of the operation. In the subsecinent attempt to reach the staff, when the knife is introduced into the front of the wound, the hinder part of the triangular ligament and constrictor urethra, and the fore part of the levator ani will be divided ; when the knife is placed within the groove of the staft^ the membranous i)art of tlie urethra will be cut with tlie muscular fibre about it. Lastly, as the knife is pushed along the staff into the bladder, it incises in its progress tlie membranous portion of the urethra, part of the prostate with large veins around it, and the neck of the bladder. When the last two parts are being cut, the handle of the knife is to be raised, and the blade depressed ; and the incision is to be made downwards and outwards, in the direction of a line from the urethra through the left lateral lobe of the prostate, above the level of the ejaculatory duct. Parts to be avoided. In the first incision in the ischio-rectal fossa, the rectum may be cut if the knife is turned inwards across the intestine, instead of being kept jmrallel with it; and if the gut is not held out of the way with the forefinger of the lei't hand. The pudic vessels on the outer wall of the ischio-rectal fossa may be wounded near the anterior part of the hoUow, where they approach the margin of the triangular ligament; but, posteriorly, they are securely lodged inside the projection of the ischial tubero.-?ity. While making the deeper incisions to reach the staff, the artery of the bulb lies immediately in front of the knife, and will be wounded if the incisions are made too far forwards ; but the vessel must alraosrt necessarily be cut, when it arises farther back than usual, and crosses the front of the ischio-rectal fossa in its course to the bulb of the urethra. In the last stage of the operation the neck of the bladder should not be incised to a greater extent than is necessary for the extraction of the stone, lest the recto-vesical fascia separating the perineum from the pelvis should be divided, and the abdominal cavity opened. Too large an incision through the prostate may wound also an unusual accessory pudic aitery on the side of that body. Directions. When the di.«section of the perineum is completed, the Haps of skin along the under surface of the penis and the two halves of the scrotum are to be stitched together ; all the parts are to be carefully wrapped in tow containing preservative, and the body will be turned on its lace for dissection of the back. On the third day of this dissection the worker on the abdomen will examine the different layers of the lumbar fascia, and the posterior aponeurosis of the transversalis made in conjunction with the dissector of the head and neck.