502 DISSECTION OF THE HEAD. Occipito- froiitalis. Occipital part: origin and ending. Frontal part: how at- tached. Aponeu- rosi.s: its attach- ment, and rela- tions. Prolonga- tion to ear. Use of an- terior and posterior belly. Vessels of tlic scalp. former nerve lies by the side of the arterj', and the latter about midway between this vessel and the ear. The occiPiTO-FRONTALis MUSCLE (fig. 185, ', *) covers the greater part of the vault of the skull, and consists of anterior and posterior fleshy parts with an intervening aponeurotic tendon. The posterior part, or the occipitalis arms from the outer half or more of the upper curved line of the occipital bone, and from the mastoid portion of the temporal bone. The fibres are about one inch and a half in length, and ascend to the aponeurosis. The anterior 2)art, or the frontalis Q), forms a thin layer which covers about the lower two-thirds of the frontal bone. Its fibres are paler than those of the occipital part, and spring from the aponeurosis some distance below the line of the coronal suture. They descend to the eyebrow and root of the nose, where they interlace with the fibres of the orbicularis palpebrarum, corrugator supercilii and pyramidalis nasi muscles (tig. 203, p. 553), and terminate in the subcutaneous tissue. Some fasciculi are frequently attached to the nasal bone internally, and to the external angular j)rocess of the frontal bone on the outer side. The light and left muscular portions meet at the lower part of the forehead. The tendon of the occipito-frontalis, or the epicranial aponeurosis, covers the upper part of the cranium, and is continuous across the middle line with the like structure of the opposite half of the head. In front, it sends a pointed process downwards for some distance between the two muscular portions ; and behind, it is prolonged between the posterior bellies, to be attached to the occipital bone along the highest curved line. From its lateral margin the upper auricular muscles arise. Superficial to the aponeurosis are the vessels and nerves of the scalp and a small quantity of fat, which is traversed by numerous short fibrous bands uniting it closely to the skin. Its deep surface is connected to the pericranium only by a loose areolar tissue devoid of fat, so that the scalp moves freelj' over the skull. By making a transverse incision through the aponeurosis above the ear and separating it from the pericranium towards the side of tlie head, it will be seen to be joined l)y a thin membrane, which springs from the skull along the superior temporal line, and descends, closely united to the deep surface of the attollens aurem muscle, over the temporal fascia to be attached to the pinna of the ear. Action. When the anterior belly contracts it raises the eyebrow, smoothing the skin at the root of the nose, and wrinkling trans- versely that of the forehead ; and continuing to contract, it draws forward the scalp. The posterior belly will move the scalp back- wards ; and the bellies acting in succession can CJirry the hairy scalp forwards and liackwards. COTANEOUS ARTERiEfj. The arteries of the scalp (fig. 186) are furnished hy the internal and external carotid trunks, and anastomose freely over the side of the head. Only two small branches, the supraorbital and frontal, come from the internal