675 MECKEL'S GANGLION. and dividing the internal carotid artery ; and it is to be pursued on the surface of the temporal Lone, beneath the ganglion of the fifth nerve, to the hiatus Fallopii. Its junction with the facial nerve wiU be seen witli the dissection of that nerve. The branches of the ganglion to the nose will be found entering Seek the outer surface of tlie detached mucous membrane opposite the spheno-pahxtine foramen, with con'esponding arteries. One of these nerves (naso-ijalatine), dissected before in the membrane of the septum, is to be isolated, and to be followed forwards to wliere it enters the floor of the nose. The branches of the internal maxilhiry artery with the nerves are to be cleaned at the same time. Fig. 239.—Nerves op the Outer Wall of the Nose and op the Palate. 1. Olfactory tract. 2. Olfactory bull) giving branches to the nose. 3. Third nerve. 4. Fourth nerve. n. Fifth nerve. 6. Nasal nerve of the ophthalmic. 7. Meckel's ganglion. 8. Vidian nerve. 9. Large palatine nerve. 10. Small palatine nerve, tt Nasal branches. The SPHENO-PALATINE or Meckel's ganglion (fig. 239,2) lies in the spheno.ma.xillary fossa, close to the spheno-palatine fora- men, and is connected with the branches of the superior maxillary nerve to the palate. The ganglionic mass is somewhat triangular in form, and of a reddish grey colour. It is situate, foi' tlie most part, behind tlie branches (spheno-palatine) of the superior maxilhiry nerve, so as to surround only some of their fibres ; and it is prolonged posteriorly into the VicUan nerve. Meckel's ganglion resembles the other ganglia in connection with the fifth nerve in having sensory, motor, and sympathetic ofi'sets or roots connected with it. The miANCHES of the ganglion are distributed chiefly to the nose and palate, but small offsets are given to the pharyn.x and the orbit. Other oflsets or roots connect it with surrounding nerves. X X Ganglion of Meckel : situation and cnnnec- tioii witli II ftil nervo ; compo.si- tinn : brandies.