8 DISSECTION OF THE BACK. Parts beiieatli luti.ssimus. Second muscular layer. Levator anguli scapuliB: relation.s and use on scapula, on the neck, Rhomboid muscles. Small muscle. Large muscle : origin; insertion ; relations. In llie, interval between tlie la.st rib and tlie iliac crest the latifssiiniiti is adherent to the ajjoneurosis of tlie traiisver-siili.s abdominis luuscle, and .should not be detiiched from it. Parts covered by the latissimus. The latissimus dorsi lies on the erector spinas, the serratus posticus inferior, the lower rib.s with their intercostal muscles, and the lower angle of the scapula, with parts of the rhoniboideus major, infraspinatus, and teres major muscles. Nearer the humerus it turns round the teres major, and is placed in front of that muscle at its insertion. In passing from the chest to the arm, the latissimus forms part of tlie posterior boundary of the axilla. The Second Layer of Muscles (fig. 3, c, d, e), comprising the elevator of the angle of the scapula, and the large and small rhomboid muscles are now to be examined, as well as the posterior belly of the omohyoid muscle, the suprascapular artery and nerve, and the transverse cervical artery and its branches, already referred to (p. 7). The LEVATOR ANGULI SCAPULA (fig. 3, c) arises by tendinous slips from the posterior tubercles of the transverse processes of the upper four cervical vertebrae. The fibres form an elongated muscle, which is inserted into the base of the scapula between the spine and the superior angle (fig. 12, p. 32). At its origin the levator lies beneath the sterno-mastoid, and, at its uisertion, beneath the trapezius, where it meets the serratus magnus muscle ; the rest of the muscle appears in the posterior triangular space of the neck. Beneath it are some of the other cervical muscles. viz., splenius colli and cervicalis ascendens-. ' Action. The muscle raises the angle and hinder part of the scapula, and depresses the acromion; but in combination with the upper fibres of the trapezius, which prevent the rotation down of the acromion, it shrugs the shoulder. When the shoulder is fixed, the neck can be bent to the side by the levator. Ehomboidei muscles. The muscular layer of the rhomboidei is attached to the base of the scapula, and consists of two pieces, large and small, which are usually separated by a slight interval. The RHOMBOiDEUS MINOR (fig. 3, d) is a thin narrow band, which arises from the spines of the seventh cervical and first dorsal vertebrae, and the ligameutum nuchas, and is inserted into the base of the scapula, opposite the smooth surface at the root of the spine (fig. 12). The RHOMBOIDEUS MAJOR (fig. 3, e) is much larger than the preceding muscle. It arises from the spines of four or five dorsal vertebras below the rhoniboideus minor, and from the supraspinous ligaments ; and its fibres are directed outwards and downwards to be inserted into the base of the scapuhi between the spine and the lower angle (fig. 12). Sometimes Uie upper iibres are not fixed to the scapula directly, but end on a tendinous arch passing down the bone. The rhomboidei are for the most part covered by (he trapezius and latissimus ; but a portion of the larger muscle is subcutaneous near the scapula.