DISSECTION OF THE LEG. 22fi Eversion. Condition of foot in standing; effect of inversion. Astragnkis with navicular bone: dorsal ligament. To lay bare tliecal- caneo-navi- cular liga- ments. Intenial and and the arch increased ; the toes are moved inwards ; and the outer border of the foot sinks, turning the .sole in In eversion the above movements are reversed In the ordinary mode of standing the foot is everted to the utmost, or nearly so, by the weiglit of the bodv ; if then inversion 18 practised, the inner side of the foot is raised from the ground and the part is supported on its outer edge. ' Astragalus with the navicdlar bone. Tlie head of the astragalus is received into the liollow of the navicular bone, and is united to it by a dorsal ligament ; but the place of plantar and lateral ligaments is supplied by strong bands between the os calcis and the navicular bone. The iistragalo - navicular ligament (fig. 87, cl) is attached to the astra- galus close to the articulation, and to the dorsal surface of the navicular bone : its attachments will be better seen when it is cut through. Dissection. The e.vternal ligament of the articulation may be seen on the dorsum of the foot in the hollow between the os calcis and the navi- cular bone, and if the tendon of the tibialis posticus be removed, the internal ligament will be exposed, covering the head of the astragalus on the inner side and below. The internal or inferior calcaneo- navicular ligament (fig. 89, c, p. 227) is attached behind to the inner and fore parts of the sustentaculum tali of the OS calcis, and in front to the inner extremity and lower border of the navicular bone. This ligament is Fio. 88.—Plantar Ligaments OP THE Foot (BouRQERy). partly fibro-cartilaginous ; its inner pxtenial ligament. Synovial sac. SnrfncBs of bone. 1. Long plantar ligament. 2. Inner part ot the short plantar ligament. 3. Tendon of the peroneus longus muscle. side is crossed by the tendon of the tibialis posticus muscle; and its deep surface forms part of the .socket for the head of the astragalus. The external calcaneo-navicular ligament (fig. 87, c) is placed outside the head of the astragalus, and is about, three-quarters of an inch deep. Behind, it is fixed to the upper part of the os calcis, between the articular surfaces for tlie cuboid bone and astragalus ; and in front it is iii-serted into the outer side of the navicular"bone. The synovial cavilg of this articulation is continued backwards into the joint between the front of the os calcis and the astragalus. Articular surfaces. The head nf the astragalus lias Ihree convex articular surfaces, a large one in front, elongated transversely and broader externally than internally, for the navicular bone ; a narrow oldique surface below for the os calcis; and a small intermediate