SrDB VIEW OF THK PKLVIS. 881 iscliial spine. This line corresponds in its liiiiiliT jiart, to the origin of the recto-vesie.ll fascia from the obturator fascia ; Init in front, the levator ani extends upwards between the two laniinao of fascia. The disposition of this part of the fa.scia will lie better seen after the hip-bone has been taken away. Dissection. To obtain a side view of the pelvis(tig. 143, p. 382), it will now be necessary to remove the left hiij-bone. The obturator "'' ... , .... ^ 1 1 1 T 1 ili'tllfh la.scia and great sacro-sciatic ligament are nrst to be detached, and ixscin, then the bone is to be sawn through, about three-cpiarters of an saw bone, inch outside the symphysis pubis in front, and at the articulation with the sacrum behind. After the bone has been pulled somewhat away from the rest of the ])eh'is, the ischial sjiine, with tlie recto- vesical fascia attached to it, may be cut ofl' with a bone-forceps ; and the loose piece of the hip-bone may then be removed Ijy cutting and divide thi'ough the fibres of the iliacus and pyriformis muscles, and any ''"f''P'"''**- other structure that may retain it. A block is afterwards to be placed beneath the peh'is. The Then blow bladder is to be moderately distended with air through the ureter, aJd'^cnst'cnd and the urethra is to be tied. Some tow is to be introduced into other parts, the rectimi, also into the vagina if it is a female jielvis ; and a small piece is to be placed in the pouch of peritoneum between the bladder and the rectmn. After the viscera are thus made prominent without distension, the ischial sjjine and the recto-vesical fascia should be raised with hooks, while the levator ani (d) and coccygeus (c) muscles below it are cleaned. Parts closing the pelvis below, fn addition to the recto- Outlet of vesical fa.scia, the following parts close the pelvic cavity on each dasedby .side, between the sacrum and the pubic symphysis. Behind, the student will meet with the pyriformis passing through pyriformis, the great sacro-sciatic foramen, with the gluteal \'essels and ner\'e gJus°and' (fig. 142, (J a and s(j n) above it. Next comes the coccygeus muscle snero scintic (fig. 143, c) on the small sacro-sciatic ligament, between the ischial spine and the coccyx ; one border of this muscle is contiguous to the with vessel pyrifonnis, the other to the levator ani: and Ijetween its upper border and the pyriformis lie the great sciatic and pudic nerves, with some other branches of the sacral plexus, and the sciatic ancl pudic vessels. The greater part of the pelvic outlet is closed by by levator the levator ani (d), which extends forwards from the coccygeus to the symphysis pubis. It meets its fellow behind, but the mu.scles mi'i by of opposite sides are separated in front by the urethra, with the Hga!lfe',',t.'' vagina in the female ; and the interval between them in front is closed by the triangular ligament of the ]K'rineum (h). The coccYGEDs muscle (fig. 143, c) is Hat and triangular, and Coccysjeus: has much tendinous substance mixed with its filires. It arises from origin; the upper part of the inner surface of the ischial spine (fig. 139, p. 369), and some fibres are attached to the adjoining part of the obturator fascia. Widening as it passes inward.s, tiie muscle is insertion; inserted into the side, and the contiguous anterior surface of the coccyx, and into the side of the lowest piece of the sacrum. The inner surface looks to the pelvis, and is in contact with the relations'of surfaces