DISSECTION OP THE EAB. 812 Arteries are branches of carotids. From internal maxillary, middle meningeal, posterior auricular, ascending pharyngeal. internal carotid. Nerves from several sources. Dissection to prepare the nerves: outside tympanic cavity, and inside cavity. Tympanic nerve Blood-vessels. The arteries of the tynipanuiu are furnished from the following branches of the e.\terual carotid, viz., internal maxillary, middle meningeal, posterior auricular, and ascending pharyngeal; and some offsets come from the internal carotid in the temporal bone. The vews join the pterygoid plexus, and the large meningeal and pharyngeal branches. The internal maxillary artery su|)plies an anterior tym})anic bratich (tig. 297, d), which enters the cavity through the Gla-serian fissure, and gives an offset to the membrane of the tympanum. The middle meningeal artery also sends fine twigs to the upj)er part of the tympanum through small apertures in the roof of the cavity. The stylo-mastoid branch of the posterior auricidar artery, entering the lower end of the aqueduct of Fallopius, gives twigs to the back of the cavity, and the mastoid cells. One of this set, posterior tympanic (fig. 297, e), anastomoses with the tympanic branch of the internal maxillary arter}', and forms a circle around the membrana tympani, from which offsets are directed inwards. Other branches from the ascending pharyngeal, or from the inferior j)alatine artery, enter the fore part of the space by the Eustachian tube. One or two minute branches of the internal carotid artery reach the anterior wall of the tympanum from the carotid canal. Nerves. The lining membrane of the tymi^anum is supplied from the plexus (tympanic) between Jacobson's and the sympathetic nerve ; but the muscles derive their nerves from other sources. Crossing the cavity is the chorda tympani branch of the facial nerve. Dissection (fig. 300). The preparation of the tympanic plexus will require a separate fresh temporal bone, which has been softened in diluted hydrochloric acid, and in which the nerves have been hardened afterwards in spirit. The origin of Jacobson's nerve from the glosso-i^haryngeal is first to be sought close to the skull ; and the fine auricular branch of the pneumo-gastric may be looked for at the same time (p. 633). Supposing the nerve to be found, the student should place the scalpel on the outer side of the Eustachian tube, and carry it back- wards through the vaginal and styloid processes of the temporal bone, so as to take away the outer part of the tympanum, but without opening the lower end of the aqueduct of Fallopius. After the tympanum has been laid open, Jacobson's nerve is to be followed in its canal ; and the branches in the grooves on the surface of the promontory are to be jiursued ;—two ol' these, arching forwards, pass to the sympathetic on the carotid artery and to the Eustachian tube ; and two others are directed upwards beneath the tensor tympani muscle. The course of the chorda tympani nerve can be seen on the preparation used for the muscles. The tympanic branch of the glosso-pharyngkal nerve (fig. 300,^; nerve of Jacobson) enters a special aperture in the