281 THE EPIDIDYMIS. Fio, 104.—Vertical Section op the Testis to show the arrangement op the Septa and Seminal Tubes. tubes iiiea.sure six inches ; and they join the excretory duct at intervals of about three inche.?. The EXCRETORY DDCT receives the vasa cflerentia from the upper part of the gland, and extends thence to the urethra. Its first part is in contact with the testis, is very flexuous, and forms the epididymis; the re- mainder is comparatively straight, and is tlie vas deferens. The EPIDIDYMIS (fig.s. 103, b, and 104, /t) extends in the form of an arch along the outer side of the testis, at the back from the upper to the lower end, and receives its name from its situation. Opposite tlie upper part of the testicle it presents an enlarged portion or head, the globus major (g); and at the lower end of that organ it becomes more pointed or tail-like—globus minor (i), before ending in the vas deferens. The intervening narrow part of the epidi- dymis is called the body (h). The epididymis is attached to the testis, most closely at each end, by fibrous tissue and by the retlection of the tunica vaginalis, tlie globus major also being attached by the vasa efferentia. The epididymis is formed of a single tube, bent in a zigzag way, the coils of which are united into a solid mass by fibrous tis.sue. After the removal of the serous mem- brane and some fibrous tissue this part of the tube may be uncoiled ; it then measures twenty feet or more in length. The diameter of its canal is aboutth of an inch, though there is a slight diminution in size towards the globus minor ; but it increases again as it approaches the vas deferens. The VAS DEFERENS (fig. 104, 7c) begins opposite the lower end of the testis, at the termination of the globus minor of the epididymis. At first tlie duct is sliglitly wavy, but afterwards it becomes for the most part a firm, round, and direct tube ; near its termination it is enlarged again and sacculated, as will be seen later. Excretory duet in two parts. Epi'lidymia consisting of head, tail, and body; how fixed ; a. Lobes of the testis. 6. Septa between the lobes. c. Tubuli recti. d. Mediastinum testis. e. Rete testis. /. Vasa efferentia. g. Globus major. h. Body, and i, globus minor of the epididymis. k. Vas deferens. I. Vas aberrans. Horizontal Section. II. Rete testis, in section. o. Finer septa. formed of p. Epididymis, cut across. coiled tube ; r. Media-stinum, cut across. length and size. Vas deferens: