330 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. Its anterior surface is for the most part concave, corresponding to the stomach ; but at its upper border, in front of the vertebral column, it forms a projection {omental txiberositij, His) opposite the small curvature and lesser omentum. Its inferior surface is in contact with the duodeno-jejunal flexure and coils of tlie jejunum, as well as sometimes at its left extremity with the splenic flexure of the colon. Its posterior surface rests on the vena cava, the termination of the right renal vein, the aorta, the solar plexus, the pillars of the diaphragm, the left kidney, and the lower part of the left sujjrarenal body with the renal and suprarenal vessels. The splenic vein and the beginning of the vena portse lie also behind it, and are often somewhat embedded in its substance. Relations to Projecting above the pancreas, where it crosses the aorta, is the cceliac axis, from which the splenic artery runs to the left along the upper border (fig. 123) ; while on the right side the hepatic artery and the first part of the duodenum lie above it. At the lower border is the third part of the duodenum ; and the superior mesenteric vessels emerge between the two, usually passing in front of a portion of pancreatic substance {lesser pancreas) (fig. 122) which extends more or less over the Iront of the fourth part of the duodenum, occasionally even reaching into the root of the mesentery. The common bile-duct lies between the duodenum and the head of the pancreas for a short distance behind, and wiU be traced out later. antorioi' surface, inferior, posterior. Stomacli bed. THE STOMACH BED (fIG. 122). With the stomach lifted well up and the parts behind it exposed, the student will realise the character of the hollow in which it lies to the left of the vertebral column. The floor of the stomach bed (Birmingham) is formed (I) internally by the diaphragm covering the vertebral column and (2), further outwards and above, by the gastric surface of the spleen. Below this is (3) a portion of the left supra- renal body resting against the crus of the diaphragm, and, it may be, (4) a small part of the left kidney above the pancreas (tig. 121). Below these is (5) the gastric surface of the pancreas, which, in passing to its prominent anterior border, forms the commencement of a shelf supporting the stomach below ; and the shelf is completed by (6) the transverse meso-colon passing forwards and downwards from the anterior border of the pancreas to (7) the transverse colon. This shelf is itself supported by the small intestines below the transverse meso-colon. Variations The shape of the body of the pancreas is much determined by the imi'posilion pressure of the stomach above and that of the small intestines below, of the When the stomach is low and distended the pancreas becomes pancreas. ^^j^^^j^^j ^^^^ pushed down on the left kidney. On the contrary, when the stomach is high up and the small intestines distended, the pancreas becomes pushed up and its anterior border more prominent.