742 DISSECTION OF THE BRAIN. of the pons to the uuclcr part <jf the eerohral hemisphere of the same side, near the inner margin. In tlie natural position the two pednnck's 00014)7 the ojiening in tlie tentorium cerebelli. Each is about Ihree-iiuarters of an inch hnig, and widens as it approaches the cerebrum. Crossinjj; its lower surface is the optic tract ; and between the crura of opposite sides is the interjmluncular space, which contains the posterior perforated space, tlie corpora albicantia, and the tuber cinereuni with the infuudibuluni. Com posed of Htrudure. The peduncle consists of a superficial (lower) layer of three paits. fiiji'eSj the crusta, continued from the longitudinal fibres of the pons, a prolongation of the reticular formation and of other parts termed the tegmentum, and an intermediate stratum of grey matter— the substantia iiiyra. Dissection Dissection. For the present, the main coubtituents of the crus cerebd*^'"^ cerebri may be made out; but various accessory parts will be referred to later. If the students are working with two In-ains, the cut surface of the crura should be examined on the preparation in which the pons and cerebellum have been removed, the fibres of the crusta should be dissected forwards to their entry to the cerebrunr and sections should be made of the tegmentum as far forwards as through the anterior corpus quadrigerainum. If only one brain is used the right crus only should be examined. The optic tract should be divided, and the fibres continuous with the pyramid of the medulla oblongata should be raised as far as the junction of the crtis with the hemisphere. In this proceeding the siib.stantia nigra (fig. 264, g) will appear ; and beneath it will be seen the tegmentum. Finally a block of this crus should be removed beneath the qmidrigeminal bodies, but leaving them behind, taking care not to transgress the middle line into the left crus. Crusta. The crusta (fig. 269) is composed of coarse bundles of white fibres, ascending from the pons to the cerebral hemisphere, where they enter a layer of white fibres termed the internal capsule, which will be subsequently seen. The continuation of the pyramidal fibres of the medulla oblongata (pyramidal tract) occupies the central part only of the crusta ; and the lateral parts consist of fibres which have already been traced into the pons. Those on the inner side of the crusta pass from the frontal lobe of the hemisphere, the outer ones from the occipital and temporal lobes, whilst fibres from the fronto- parietal regions, with the pyramidal tract, occupy the intermediate station. H,.i,stn>,tia The substantia nigra (lig. 260) is a layer of dark grey matter which sei)arates the crusta from the tegmentum. In transverse sections it is seen to be convex towards the crusta, and thicker at the inner than at the outer side. The tegmentum is united internally with the like structure of tlie opposite side below; but liigher up, the two are separated by the cM-ey matter of the posterior perforateil space. It consists of a reciicular formation continuous with that of the pons, together witli a considerable bundle of fibres derived from the cerebeUum (superior Ti«mniituin.