359 THE DIAPHRAGM. two aponeurotic arches between tlie last rib and the spinal column,— one being placed over the quadnitus lumboruni, and the other over the psoas muscle ; and, lastly, i'rom the lumbar vertebrae by a thick muscular piece or pilhir. From this extensive origin the fibres arc directed inwards, witli diQcrent degrees of obliquity and length, to insi^rtion of ' , , ...... .' , lll)iu.s into a the central tendon ; but some have a peculiar ilisposition m the eentnil pillars which will be afterwards noted. The abdominal surface is concave, and is covered for the most Parts in^^ part by the peritoneum. In contact with it on the right side are the ti,e i,„dei- liver, kidney and supra renal ; and on the opposite side, the stomach, spleen, kidney and supra renal ; in contact also witli the pillars are the pancreas and the solar plexus with the semilunar ganglia. The thoracic surface is covered by the pleura of each side and the peri- and witli cardium. At the circuui Terence the fleshy processes of origin alternate with like parts of the transversalis muscle; but a slight interval oftonier. separates the slip arising from the ensifurni process from that attached Intervals in to the seventh cartilage, and a second s[iace comes between the fibres from the last rib and the arch over the quadratus hunborum muscle. These apertures mark the situation between the three parts of which Apertures, the diaphragm is essentially formed, viz., sternal, from the ensiform cartilage, costal, from the costal cartilages, and vertebral, from the vertebra) and the tendinous arch over the psoas muscle. The interval between the vertebral and costal parts near the last rib is occasionally large, and through it a communication between the abdominal and thoracic cavities may take place and altdominal viscera be found in the thorax. iStrudure. The muscle is convex towards the chest, and concave Vault: to the abdomen. Its vault reaches higher on the right than the left side, and is constantly varying during life in respiration. In the condition of re.st, as met with after death (state of expiration), the oxtont up- central portion is about opposite the xiphi-steriial articulation ; on the right side it rises to the level of the tifth, and on the left side to the sixth chondro-sternal articulation. Special parts of the diaphraym. The following named parts are Special now to be noticed more fully, viz., the central tendon, the pillars, examil^ed!' the arches, and tlie apertures. The central tendon (cordifoim tendon) occupies the middle of the Central diaphragm (fig. 137), and is surrounded by muscular fibres: the''"'"'""' large vena cava pierces it. It is of a pearly white colour, and its tentliiious fibres cross indifl'erent directions. In form it is compared to a trefoil leaf; of its three lobes or segments the right (c) is the likcMi trefoil largest, and the left (a) the smallest. The pillars (crura) are two large muscular and tendinous processes Two pillars, ((/ and e), one on each side of the abdominal aorta. They are narrow anil tendinous below, where they are attached to the upper lumbar witiiairii vertebrae, but large and fleshy above ; and between them is a tendinous ' arch over the aorta. In each pilhir the fleshy fibres pass upwards and forwards, diverging aiTnngement from each other ; the greater number join the central tendon without rach"™ "'