DISSECTION OF THE BllAlN. Dissection. Grey lamina. Corpus callosum end.s below in two bands, and.'extends into hemi- sphere. Vallecula Sylvii. Anterior perforated space. Olfactory lobe lies in olfactory sulcus. Olfactory bulb. Olfactoiy tract: roots, outer and inner. but in tlie fcetus it is hollow, and the posterioi' lobe opens into the third ventricle tliroiigb the inriuidibulum. Dissection, To see the lamina cinerea and the anterior end of the corpus callosum, the hemispheres are to be gently separated from each other in front. The LAMINA CINEREA (fig. 268, m) is a thin concave layer of grey substance, which gradually tapers upwards from llie tuljer cinereuni to the termination of the corpus callosum. This sti-itum closes the anterior part of the third ventricle between the two central hemi- spheres, and is continuous laterally with the anterior perforated space. In consequence of its great thinness, this structure is often broken through in removing the brain. The CORPUS CALLOSUM (n), bent downwards in front, is continued horizontally backwards in the longitudinal fissure to the lamina cinerea, and ends by two white narrow bands—the jJeduncks of the corpus callosum (or sub-callosal convolutions), which are continued along the edge of the lamina cinerea on each side to the anterior perforated .spot. The anterior bend of the corpus callosum is known as the genu (fig. 274, p. 757), and the recurved portion is known as the rostrum; but this, with the other parts of the corpus callosum, will be seen to more advantage later. Vallecula Sylvii and anterior perforated space. The vallecula Sylvii is a depression between the optic commissure and tiie fore part of the temporal lobe of the hemisphere, which lodges the upper end of the internal carotid artery. Externally it leads into the Sylvian fissure, and in front it is bounded by the diverging roots of the olfactory tract. The floor of the fossa is formed by a layer of grey matter which is perforated by the central branches of the anterior and middle cerebral arteries, thus giving rise to its name as the anterior fcrforated space. The olfactory lobe consists of an elongated nerve-like part which is named the olfactory tract, and a terminal expansion in front —the olfactory bulb. It lies in a groove (olfactory sulcus; fig. 272, p. 750, ol) on the surface of the inner orbital convolution of the frontal lobe of the hemisphere. The olfactory bulb (fig. 268, o) is an oval mass, of a greyish colour, and nearly half an inch in length, which rests on the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone. From its under surface the olfactory nerves arise. Tlie olfactory tract is a prismatic band, about an inch long, the up])er edge of which is received into the olfactory sulcus. It is attached by its base, where it is somewhat expanded, to the frontal lobe close in front of the anterior perforated space ; and from this part two diverging white streaks, the inner and oiUer olfactory roots, proceed to neighbouring convolutions. The external root passes along the outer margin of the anterior perforated si>ace, and across the beginning of the Sylvian fissure, to the anterior extremity of the temporal lobe. The internal root, not always visible, bends inwards, and joins the lower end of the subcallosal convolution. By raising