THE DIGASTRIC MUSCr,E. (iOl artery is now seen. Placed ou the outer side of tlie artery, the vein ends below by uniting with the subclavian to form the inn.inunate trunk. Its proximity to the carotid is not equally close throughout, for at the lower part of the neck there is a space is do«. to between the two, in which the vagus nerve is seen crossing (on the .^^^..^.^ right side only) the .subclavian artery. Sonietimes the vein overlaps except the artery to a considerable extent. ^' °" ' The lower part of the vein is marked by a dilatation or sinus. Near its ending it becomes contracted, and is provided with a .single or double valve. . i , , In this part of its course the vein receives the superior and mauciios. middle thvroid branches. , . , Feculicu-iHes of the carotid. The origin of the artery on the right i^Werences side may be above or below the point stated. jMention has been artery" made of the dilference in the place of bifurcation, and of the fact that the common carotid may not be divided into two. As a very in aivisio... rare occurrence, instead of one there may be two trunks issuing from beneath the hyoid muscles. Dissection. The dissector may next trace out completely the nissceimn. trunk of the external carotid (fig. 217, p. 603), and follow its branches until they disappear beneath different parts. Afterwards he may separate from one another the digastric and stylo-hyoid muscles, which cross the carotid, and define their origin and insertion. The DIGASTRIC MUSCLE (fig. 213, p. 589) consists of two fieshy Uia^^t;;^^ bellies, united by an intervening tendon. The posterior, the twubeiiies, larger of the two, arises from the diga.stric fossa on the inner side of "the mastoid process ; while the anterior belly is fixed to the depression by the side of the symphysis of the lower jaw. From the.se attachments the fibres are directed to the intervening tendon, which is surrounded by fibres of the stylo-hyoid, and is united by an |viiic;ii ay^^ aponeurotic ex])ansion to its fellow and to the body and part of tcuion:" ' the great coniu of llie hyoid bone. The arch formed by the digastric is superficial, except at the P^^i^'™ posterior end, where it is beneath the steruo-mastoid and splenitis " "'' muscles. The posterior belly covers the carotid ve.ssels and the accompanying veins and nerves ; and is placed across the anterior triangular space of the neck in the position of a line from the mastoid process to the fore part of the hyoid bone. Along its ' lower border lie the occipital artery and the hypoglossal nerve, the former passing backwards, the latter forwards. The anterior belly rests on the mylo-hyoid muscle. The muscle forms the lower boundary of a space between it,, tlie The muscle jaw, and the lia.se of the skull, which is subdivided into two by the spa"."*" stylo-maxillary ligament. In the posterior portion are contained foi'tani the parotid gland ('"), and the vessels and nerves in connection " with it; in the anterior, are the submaxillary gland ("), with the facial and submental vessels, and deeper still, the nuuscles between the chin and the hyoid bone. Action. The lower jaw being moveable, the muscle depresses Use. ninu