DISSECTION OF THE FACE. 662 In tlifi fnco the iniLseli's form Uiren groups. Muscles of uose. Pyraniidalis nasi: Compre.ssor naris : Common elevator of wing of nose and upper lip: Dilator of nostril: Mdsci,es of the Face (fig. 203). The .superficiiil muscles oi the lace are disposed in three groups : one ol' tlie nose, another of the eyelids and eyebrow, and a third of the aperture of tlie mouth. One of the muscles of mastication, viz., the masseter, is partly displayed at the hinder ])art of the face covering tlie ramus of the lower jaw. Muscles of the Nose (Hg. 202). These muscles are the following; iDyramidalis nasi, compre.ssor nari.s, levator labii superioris alteque nasi, dilator naris, and depressor aloe nasi. The PYRAiiiDALis NASI (fig. 202 1), is a small Hcsliy slip that covers the nasal hone, and appears to be a continuation of the innermost part of the frontalis muscle. Its fibres are attached above to the skin of the forehead ; below, they end in the aponeurosis of the compressor muscles over the cartilaginous part of the nose. Its inner border meets the muscle of the opposite side. Action. This muscle draws down the skin of the centre of the forehead, and produces transverse wrinkles at the root of the nose. Compressor naris. This muscle (fig. 202-'') is not well seen till after the exami- nation of the following one, by which it is partly concealed. Triangular in shape, it arises by its apex from the upper maxillary bone near the anterior nasal aperture. The fib res are directed inwards, spreading out at the same time, and end in an aponeu- rosis, which covers the cartilaginous part of the nose, and is continued into the opposite muscle. Action. It stretches the skin over the cartilaginous part of the nose, and depresses the tij") of the organ. The LEVATOR LABII SUPERIORIS AL.(EQUE nasi (tig. 202 "-, and fig. 20B) is placed by the side of the nose, and arises from the nasal process of the upper maxillary bone, in front of the attachment of the orbicularis. The fibres jia.-^ down- wards, and the most internal are attiiched l)y a narrow slij) to the ala of the nose, while the rest are inserted into the adjoining part of the skin of the upper lip. Near its origin the muscle is jiartly concealed by the orbicularis jialpebrariim, but in the I'est of its extent it is subcutaneous. Its outer border joins the elevator of the upper lip. Action. This muscle raises the upper lip and wing of the nose, forming wrinkles in the overlying skin. Dilatator naris. In the den.«e tissue on the outer aide of the nostril are a few muscular fibre's, both at the fore and Iwck part of Fio. 202.—Muscles op THE NosB 1. Pyramidalis nasi. 2. Common elevator of the nose and lip. 3. Comi^ressor naris. 4 and 5. The two slips of the dilatator naris. 6. Deijressor aire nasi. 7. Naso-labial .slip of orbicularis oris.