DISSECTION OF THE NECK. covers triangle ; Dissection. External jugular vein cresses side of neck to subclavian. Cervical fascia. Part behind sterno- mastoid muscle sends a process around omo-hyoid. The lower part of the muscle is more c]o.sely united to the skin than tlie u]iper, and coveivi the e.xlernal jugular vein as well a.s the lower part of the posterior triangle. At fir.st the fibres of the muscle are thin and scattered, but they increase in strength a.s they ascend. The oblique ilirection of the fibres should be noted, because in venesection in the external jugular vein the incision is to be so made as to divide them transver.sely. Tlie action will be found with the de.scription of the remainder of the mu.scle (p. 579). Dissection. The platysma is to be cut across near the clavicle, and to lie reflected forwards as far as the incision over the sterno- mastoid muscle, but it is to be left attached at that spot. In raising the muscle the student must be careful of the deep fascia of the neck, and of the external jugular vein, with the superficial descend- ing branches of the cervical plexus, wliich are close beneath the platysma, and which he should dissect out. The EXTERNAL JUGULAR VEIN (fig. 210,«p. 576) begins just beliind the angle of the jaw by the union of the posterior division of the temporo-maxillary with the posterior articular vein (fig. 211, p. 582). Descending beneath the jilatysraa to the lower part of the neck, it there pierces the deep cervical fascia to open into the subclavian vein. Its course down the neck will be marked by a line from the angle of the jaw to the middle of the clavicle. Beyond the sterno-mastoid muscle the vein is dilated, and the swollen part {sinus) is limited by two pairs of valves,—one being situate below at the mouth of the vein, and the other near the muscle. Small superficial branches join the vein, and an ofltset connects it with the anterior jugular vein. Its size and the height at which it crosses the sterno-mastoid muscle, are ^'ery uncertain. The DEEP CERVICAL FASCIA, like the aponeuroses in other regions of the body, consists of a superficial layer which surrounds the neck continuously, and of processes that are prolonged inwards between the muscles. In some bodies this fascia is thin and indistinct. In its extent round the neck the membrane encases the sterno- mastoid, and has a difl'erent disposition before and behind that muscle. As now seen passing backwards from the muscle, the fascia continues over the po.sterior triangular space, and encloses the trapezius in its progress to the spines of the vertebra. At the lower part of the neck it is attached to the clavicle, and is perforated by the external jugular vein and the cutaneous nerves. After the superficial layer has been removed near the cla^'icle, a deep jirocess may be observed surrounding the omo-hyoid muscle, and passing downwards behind the clavicle, to be fixed at the back of that bone, and the anterior end of the first rib. POSTERIOR TRIANGULAR SPACE. ti-?angu?ar This space (fig. 210), having the form and j)osition before noted space of 13 about eight inches in length. It contains the cervical and brachial the neck. ° °