782 DISSECTION OF THE CEREBELLUM. itoor. Floor; objects ill it. are a median groo\'e, fasciculus teres, aiiditDiy striii', middle peduncle of the cerebellum a lateral process of the cavity extends outwards over the surface of the restiform hody. The roof of the space is formed above by the valve of Vieussens mth the superior peduncles of the cerebellum, and by the inferior medullary velum and nodule of the inferior vermiform pro- cess ; below by the reflection of the pia mater from that process to the medulla oblon- c;ata. Between the valve of Vieussens and the inferior medullary velum the ven- tricle forms an angular recess, the apex of which is directed towards the medullary centre of the worm. The floor of the ventricle (tig. 286) is constituted by the posterior surface of the meduUa oblongata and pons, and is greyish in colour. Along the centre is a median groove, which ends below, near the point of the calamus, in a minute hole—the aper- ture of the canal of the cord. On each side of the groove is a spindle-shaped elevation, the fasciculus s. eminentia teres {ft). This eminence reaches the whole length of the floor, and is pointed and well defined below, but less distinct above. Its widest part is opposite the centre of the ventricle. Crossing the floor on each side, at the lower border of the pons, are some white lines — the auditory stricc (a st), which vary much in their arrangement: they issue Fig. 286.—Back of Medulla Oblon- gata AND Pons, showing the floor OP THE FOURTH VlCNTEIOLE. /. Fillet. sp. Superior. vip. Middle, and i]). Inferior peduncle of tlie cerebellum; attached to tbe superior peduncle on the left side is the half of the superior me- dullary vehiin, covered hy the lingnla. ; //.. Fasciculus tei'cs. fs. Superior fovea. Ji. Inferior fovea, rt st. Auditory striu.-. rh. Resliforin body. cL Clava. Crossing the restiform body of the right side, below the auditory stria;, is the lingula. from the median groove, and pass outwards to the auditory nerve. The fasciculus teres is limited externally by two small depi-essions the sujjerior and inferior fovea, separated by the auditory strias. superior an.i The superior{ fs) is the broader, and is connected to the lower one inferior by a faint groove. The inferior foveas (fi) is well marked, and has the form of the letter V inverted. Tlie triangular portion between the two branches is of a darker colour than the surface on each side, fdVna,