503 CDTANEOUS ARTERIES. carotid; while three, viz., the superficial temporal, the occipital, and the posterior auricular, are derived from the external. The SUPEAORBITAL AKTERV leaves the orbit through the notch Supraorbi. in the margin of tlie orlsit, and is distributed on the forehead. ^^'*-<"'y' Some of its Ijranches are superficial to the frontalis and supply the skin ; while others lie beneath the muscle, and supply it, the pericranium, and the bone. The FRONTAL ARTERY is close to the inner angle of the orbit, Frontal and is much smaller than the preceding. It ends in branches for the supply of the muscles, integuments, and pericranium. The SUPERFICIAL TEMPORAL ARTERY (c?) is one of the terminal Superficial branches of the external carotid. After crossing the zygoma 5;^'"^°''''' immediately in front of the ear, the ves.sel divides on the temporal I'ascia into anterior and posterior branches. The anterior branch runs forward with a serpentine course to anterior aiui the forehead, supplying muscular, cutaneous, and pericranial offsets, and anastomoses with the supraorbital artery ; this is the branch that is opened when blood is taken from tlie temporal artery. The iMsterior branch is larger than the other, and ascends to the posterior top of the head, over which it anastomoses with the artery of the opposite side. Its offsets are similar to those of the anterior division, and communicate behind with the occipital and posterior auricular arteries. Occipital artery. The terminal part of this artery, Occipital appearing between the trapezius and sterno-mastoid muscles, "'■'''"y- divides into large and tortuous branches, which spread over the back of the head. Communications take place with the artery of the opposite side, with the posterior branch of the temporal, and with the posterior auricular artery. Some offsets pass deeply to sup])ly the occipitalis muscle, the pericranium, and the bono. The POSTERIOR auricular artery (/) appears in front of the Posterior mastoid process, and divides into two branches. One (mastoid) is artery.''"' directed backwards to supply the occipitalis, and anastomoses with the occipital artery. The other (auricular) supplies the retrahent muscle, the back of the pinna, and the superficial structures above the ear : offsets from it also pierce the pinna to be distributed on the o]iposite surface. The Veins of the exterior of the head generally correspond to the Veins of the arteries in their course, and communicate freely together, as well as with the sinuses in the interior of the skull by means of small branches named emissary, and with the veins of the diploij of the cranial bones. The frontal vein is of large size, and descends to the inner end of the eyebrow, beneath which it is joined by the smaller supraorbital vein: the resulting vessel is known as the angular vein, and it forms the commencement of the facial trunk. The temporal vein descends to the temporo-maxillary trunk ; the posterior auricular vein to the external jugular ; and the occipital veins join the deep veins at the back of the neck. Cutaneous Nerves (fig. 186). The nerves of the scalp are Nerves of furnished from cutaneous offsets of both cranial and spinal nerves.