175 SDPERFICIAL MARKINGS OK LEG. patella is inserted ; and on eacli side of this the tuberosities of the bone are superficial. The internal tuberosity is a uniform rounded 25romineuce ; Init the external forms a marked projection at the outer and fore jiart of the knee. Below, the tibia ends on the inner side of the ankle in the internal malleolar projection. On the outer side of the leg the lower half of the fibula may be felt with ease, but the upper half with more difficulty in consequence of the prominence of the muscles of the calf. The head of this bone and iiio may be recognised Ijelow the knee ; and the lower end forms the jjj^^^'" malleolus on the outer side of the ankle-joint. At the sides of the ankle are the prominent malleoli, the external AnUie-ioint. being nearer to the heel ; and when the joint is extended, the head of the astragalus can be felt lielow the tibia. Muscles mid vessels of the lecj. On the back of the leg is the swell B(!liiii(i aro of the calf: this is formed by the gastrocnemius and soleus ^fgfa,',!''" muscles, and therefrom descends the firm band of the tendo tendo Achillis, by which those muscles are connected with the heel, ^chillis. Between the tendon and the edge of the tibia, but nearer the former, is placed the superficial part of the posterior tibial artery, vessels. In front, between the tibia and fibula are the flexor muscles of the Line of ankle and the extensors of the toes, amongst which the anterior tibial'"' tibial artery lies deeply, and the i)osition of the vessel is indicated a'-teiy. by a line from a point midway between the head of the fibula and the projection of the external tuberosity of the tibia to the centre of the ankle-joint. Prominences of the foot. At the inner border of the foot, about Inner an inch and a half in front of the internal malleolus, is the tim'foo"^ tubero.sity of the navicular bone ; while one inch and a half further forwards is a slight depression marking the articidation between the internal cuneiform and the metatarsal Ijone of the great toe. About the centre of the outer border of the foot is the tuberosity of the Onter fifth metatarsal bone. A line along the dorsum of the foot, from the centre of the ankle-joint to the interval between the inner two Artery, toes, will lie over the position of the main artery. Position. The limb is to be raised to a convenient height by Position of blocks beneath the knee, and the foot is to be extended in order ""^ that the muscles on the front of the leg may lie put on the stretch. Dissection. To enable the dissector to raise the skin from the ^>^}^« tlie front of the leg and foot, one incision .should be made along the middle line from the knee to the toes, and this should be intersected Ijy cross cuts at the ankle and the root of the toes. After the flaps of skin are reflected, the cutaneous vessels and Seek the nerves are to be looked for. At tlie up])er and inner part of the "en-es^n" leg are some filaments from the gi'eat saphenous ner\'e ; and at the the'leg outer side others, still smaller, from the external popliteal nerve. Perforating the fascia in the lower third, on the anterior aspect, the nuisculo-cut^meous nerve will be found, the branches of which should be pursued to the toes. On the dorsum of the foot is a venous arch, which ends laterally on ti,e foot in the saphenous veins. On the outer side below the malleolus '"'V and nerves;