DISSECTION OP THE INGUINAL REdlON. 286 As the vessel extends backwards it gives lateral oll'sets, which and anasto- siipply the neighbouring muscles, and comnnmicate on the one side with the ilio-lumbar, and on the other with the gluteal artery. The deep circumflex iliac vein is formed by the junction of two circumflex collateral branches, and crosses the external iliac artery nearly an inch above Poupart's ligament, to open into the external iliac vein. Section II. HERNIA OF THE ABDOMEN. The lower part of the abdominal wall, which has been reserved J^'^s^i^'"! on the left side of the body, should now be dissected for inguinal hernia. Dissection. The integuments anil the aponeurosis of the external The dissec- oblique having already been reflected, the necessary dissection of groin." the inguinal region will be completed by raising the internal oblique muscle as in fig. 106. To raise the internal oblique muscle, let one incision be made across Keflect^ the fleshy fibres from the iliac crest tqwards the linea alba ; and obl'i™io. after the depth of the muscle has been ascertained by the layer of areolar and fatty tissue beneath it, let the lowest fibres be carefully cut through at their attachment to Poupart's ligament. By lifting up the muscle cautiously, the student will be able to separate it from the subjacent transversalis so that it may be turned inwards on the abdomen. The separation of the two muscles just mentioned is often difiicult in consequence of their lowest fibres being blended together, but a branch of the deep circumflex iliac artery serves as a guide to the intermuscular interval. The cremaster muscle is next to be divided along the cord, and Cut the to be reflected to the sides. Let the dissector then clean the surface '^^^^'^ of the transversalis muscle, without displacing its lower arched j^cent paru. border, and define with care the conjoined tendon of it and the internal oblique to show its exact extent. The transversalis fascia and the spermatic cord should also be nicely cleaned. Crossing the interval below the border of the transversalis muscle show the are the deep epigastric vessels, which lie close to the inner side of the y'^g^'efg''"^ internal abdominal ring, but beneath the transversalis fascia. A small piece of the fascia may be cut out to show the vessels. Inguinal Hernia. A protrusion of intestine or other organ situation through the lower portion of the abdominal wall near Poupart's heinfa!""'^ ligament (answering to the inguinal region) is named an inguinal hernia. The escape of the intestine in this region is favoured by predis- the deficiencies in the muscular sti'ata, by the passage of the sper- n^^Jlfai'iy. niatic cord through the abdominal parietes and by the existence of fossiJB on the inner surface of the wall. The gut in leaving the abdomen either passes through the internal Course it abdominal ring with the cord, or is projected through the part of