DIVISIONS OF THE COUD. 547 . I'orwavils iii'arly to tlic icntri' nf the ' iicvvous sulistaiicr til' llu' li.^lil imil U:lt. posterior surface of tlie curd enter iii the tlic latcml, grooves another .nnl i>"«- ^, ti'tior iiitr seen in the upper '(liate. hair of the conl lietwi'eu the riu! cord is Jivided into mfdutn septum extenil nieilnlla, se[iaratin.<,' ih halves. Vessels ol' the septum. The laltritl furmw (ti^'. 198, (/) is a shallow groove alon line of attachment of the fasciculi of the posterior roots. Between the posterior median and the lateral slight furrow, the posterior intermediali', may f)e part of tlie cord (fig. 108, c). Divisions of this C'ohu. Each median sulci is divided into tw(j hy tlie lateral furrow (fig. 198, (?) ; the part in front of that groove and the posterior roots of the nerves is called the antero-lateral column («) ; and the part hehind, the posterior column (')). The antero - lalerdl riihniiu (lig. 198. «) includes rather more than two-thirds of the half of the ord, extending backwards to the posterior roots of the nerves, and gives attach- ment to the anterior nerve roots (/j). This part of the cord is sometimes de- scribed as consisting of anterior and lateral columns, the two being sejia- rated by the anterior roots of the nerves. The posterior colmnn (tig. 198, //) is situate between the lateral farrow (</), with the posterior roots of the nerves, and the posterior median septum. In the cervical region, the posterior intermediate sulcus(t') marks oil a small inner portion, which is named the posterior iiiedian colmnn (c); and the remainder is then distin- guished as the posterior e.dernal column (b). A narrow central i>iece, the i-om- viissure of the cord, unites the halves between the anterior median fissure and the posterior median septum. Composition of the cohd (lig. 198). Horizontal sections of Coid con- the cord in the cervical, dorsal, and lumbar regions, show more (lis-,l,^,'l^vhitT^' tinctly its division into halves, with the commissural or connecting i"""''"'- piece between them, and the varying ]iroportion of its grey ami white matter in the ditferent parts. Tlie cuts demonstrate the existence of a mass of grey matter in the interior, which isarrnnged in the form of two crescents (one in eacli half), united by a cross jiiece, and surrounded by white substance. N" N 2 Fio. 198.—A Section ok the Si'iNAL Cord in thk Ckkvical Kkoion to show its composi- tion AND divisions. In tub MIliDLK link BKLOW IS TUB Anteiuor Median Fissure, AND ABOVE AllE THE POSTERIOR Median (jKoove and Sei'TCm. tl. Tlie lateral sulcus. e. Tlie posteilor inl.oniicdiiitc sulcus. Colli in ns : a. Antero-lateral. b. Po.sterior extpnial. e. Posterior median. jiostfirior coliiinn, with nu'dian and e.\lorn.'d parts, Oompositiun,: y. Grey cre.sconl, surrounded liy wliite (ibres. h. Grey transver.se comini.ssure, and t, canal of tlio cord in it. Posterior, and k. anterior and coin- root of a nerve entering the grey niissnre. crescent.