510 DISSECTION OF THE HEAD. How to lire- serve the briiiii. Examiiia- tiou of it. Directions. Dura mater in base of skuU : it.s prolonga- tions, and connec- tions to bone. Tentorium corebelli: taken readily from the skull in tlie two hand.s. In doing thi.s eonie large veins, passing from the hinder part of the cerebral hemisiihore to the attached margin of the tentorium, will be broken through, as well as small ones from the portions of the brain in the posterior fossa of the base of the skull. Preservation of the brain. After removing some of the mem- branes from the upper part, and making a few apertures through them on the under surface so that the liquid may have free access, the brain may be hardened by immersion in a 5 per cent, solution of formalin in water. Wrap the brain up in a piece of calico, and then place it upside down in a suitable vessel, on the bottom of which some cotton-wool or tow has been spread, and let it be quite covered with the liquid, and insert a little tow or cotton wool between the cerebellum and the occipital lobes. Examination of the brain. At the end of two or three days the dissectors should e.xamine the other membranes of the brain and the vessels as described in Section 1 of The Brain. As soon as the vessels have been learnt, the membranes are to be carefuUj' removed Irom the surface of the brain, without detaching the different cranial nerves at the under surface. The brain may then remain in the preservative liquid till the dissection of the head and neck has been completed, but it should be turned over occasionallj' to allow the fluid to penetrate its substance, and a little extra formalin added from time to time as fully directed in the Section referred to. Directions. After setting aside the brain, the anatomy of the dura mater, and the vessels and nerves in the base of the skull should be proceeded with. For this purpose raise the head to a convenient height, and fasten the tentorium in its natural position with a few stitches. The dissector should be fni-nished with the base of a dried skull wliile studying the following parts. Dura mater. At the base of the cranium the dura mater is much more closely united to the bones than it is at the top of the skull. Here it follows the different inequalities of the osseous surfaces and sends processes through the several foramma, which join for the most part the pericranium, and furnish sheaths to the nerves. Beginning the examination in front, the membrane will be found to send a prolongation into the foramen crecum, as well as a series of tubes through the apertures in the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone. Through the sphenoidal fissure it joins the peri- osteum of the orbit; and through the optic foramen a sheath is continued on the optic nerve to the eyeball. Tn the sella turcica the dura mater forms n recess which lodges the pituitary body, and behind the dorsum sellte it adheres closely to the basilar process of the occipital bone. From the latter part it may be traced into the spinal canal through the foramen magnum, to the margin of which it is very firmly united. The tentm-ium cercbdli is the process of the dura mater which is interposed in a somewhat horizontal position between the small