DISSEOTrnN OF TRR NRCK. 604 anil nerves. Its branches are anterinr, jjosterior, anil ascend- clianges in origin and in number. Branches now seen are— Superior thyroid has tliese ofl'sets ; the hyoid branch, to sterno- mastoid muscle, to larynx. to crico- thyroid menibrani!. Accompany- ing vein. ma.xilliUT \-ein lies on it, and 1.1ie anterior division of Ihi.s trunk Irwiuently runs wiLli the artery beneath tlie diga.stric niiLscle. Near the beginuiii-; it iss cro.s.sed by the facial and lingiuil veins joining the internal jugular vein. Nerves are dir(!cte(l from behind forwards o\-er and under the artery. At the lower border of the digastric the hypoglo.s.sal lie.s o\-er the vessel, and above that muscle it is cro.s.sed by the two di\'isions of the facial nerve. Three nerves lie beneath it—begin- ning below, the small external laryngeal; a little higher, the- superior laryngeal ; and near the angle of the jaw, the glcsso- pharj'ngeal. The BRANCHES of the external carotid are numerous, and are classed into anterior, imterior, and ascendiiuj sets. The anterior set comprises branches to the thyroid body, the tongue, and the face, viz., the superior thyroid, lingual, and facial arteries. In the posterior set are the occipital and posterior auricular branches. And the ascending set includes the ascending pharyngeal, .super- licial temporal, and internal maxillary arteries. Besides these, the external carotid gives other branches to the neighbouring muscles and to the parotid gland. The arrangement of the branches of the carotid may be altered by their closer aggregation on the trunk. The usual number may be diminished by two or more uniting into one; or it may be increased by some of the secondary ofl'sets being transferred to the parent trunk. Directions. All the branches, except the ascending phar\-ugeal, lingual and internal maxillary, may now be examined ; but those three will be described afterwards with the regions they occupy. The SUPERIOR THYROID ARTERY (e) arises near the great cornu of the hyoid bone, and passes beneath the omo-hyoid, sterno-hyoid and sterno-thyroid muscles to the thyroid body, to which it is dis- tributed chiefly on the anterior aspect. This arterj' is superficial in the anterior triangle, and furnishes ofl'sets to the lowest con- strictor muscle of the pharynx and to the muscles beneath which it lies, in addition to the following named branches :— a. The hyoid hranch is very small, and runs inwards below the hyoid bone : it supplies the muscles attached to tliat bone, and anastomoses with the vessel of the opposite side. h. A sterno-viastoid branch descends in front of the sheath of the common carotid artery, and is distributed chiefly to the muscle from which it fcikes its name. c. The superior laryngeal artery pierces the membi'ane between the hyoid bone and the thyroid cartilage, with the superior laryngeal nerve, and ends in the interior of the larynx. d. A small crico-thyroid hro.nch is jjlaced on the membj-ane be- tween the cricoid and thyroid cartilages, and comnuuiicates with the corresponding artery of the ojiposite side, forming an arch. The superior thyroid vein commences in the larynx and the thyroid body, and crosses the end of the common carotid artery to open into the internal jugular vein.