(!79 THE FACIAL NERVE IN THE TEMPORAL BONE. Dissection. Each studmt may now work on his own side. The nisseetion J ^ .1,1 , -i of nerve 111 trunk of the nerve is to be tound as it leaves the styio-masioici ti,p i^gjie, foramen, and from this point it is to be followed upwards through the temporal bone. With this view, the side of the skull should be sawn through ^-ertically between the meatus auditorius extemus and the anterior border of tlie mastoid process, so as to open the lower part of the aqueduct of Fallopius from behind. The nerve will be then seen entering deeply into the substance of the temporal bone ; and it can be followed forwards by cutting away with the bone- forceps all the bone projecting above it. In this last step the cavity of the tympanum will he opened, and the chain of bones in it exposed. The nerve Ls to be traced onwards along the inner side of the mui iu tympanum, until it becomes enlarged, and bends suddenly inwards 2""" ' , to the meatus auditorius internus. The surrounding bone m to be removed from the enlargement, so as to allow of the petrosal nerves being traced from it; and the internal meatus is to be laid open, to see the facial and auditory nerves in that canal. The course of the chorda tynipani nerve (branch of the facial) of diortla across the tympanum' will be brought into sight by the removal of the central ear bone, the incus. This nerve may be also followed to the facial through the wall of the cavity behind, as well as out of the cavity in front. The remaining branches of the facial nerve in the bone are very and other , branches. minute, and are not to be seen except on a fresh piece of the skull which has been softened in acid. The student may, therefore, omit the paragraphs marked with an asterisk, until he is able to obtain a part on \\'hich a careful examination can he made. The FACIAL NERVE (Hg. 240, '), traverses the internal auditory Facial nerve meatus, and entering the aqueduct of Fallopius at the bottom of that hollow, is conducted througli the temporal bone to the stylo-mastoid winds foramen, and the face. In its serpentine course through the bone, jg,'°porai the nerve is first directed outwards to the inner wall of the bone, tympanum ; at that spot it bends backwards, and is marked by a is marked ganglionic swelling—geniculate ganglion, with which several small Ivhich^'givS nerves are united. From this swelling the nerve is continued at off twigs, first backwards and then downwards through the arched aqueduct, to the aperture of exit from the bone. The hranclm of the nerve in the bone serve chieKy to connect it with other nerves ; but one suijplies the tongue, and another the stapedius muscle, but the branches marked thus * will not be seen except on a specially prepared part as described on p. 812. * Connecting branches unite the facial with the auditory and Bianchos glosso-pharyngeal nerves, with Meckel's ganglion, and with the ]Z""o^ lingual branch of the inferior maxillary nerve. * Union with the auditory nerve. In the bottom of the meatus to auditory, the facial and auditory nerves are connected by one or two minute filaments. Connecting branches of the genic^llate ganglion. From the con- vexity of the swelling on the facial nerve three small branches