THE OPTIC THALAMUS. 760 separate buudles, between which the grey matter is continued fioni the caudate to the lenticular nucleus. On the outer side of the external aqmde, separating it from the Claualrui... niedulhuy substance of the convolutions of the insula, is a third portion of grey matter, which appears, in sections, as a slightly wavy grey line: this is named the daiistrum (fig. 278, cl; and fig. 279), and it represents an enlarged and well-defined fifth layer of the cerebral cortex. The T/EXiA SEMiciRCDLARis (fig. 275, /) is a narrow whitish Ta>iiia sm.ii- haml of longitudinal hbres, which lies along the groove between the caudate nucleus and the optic thalamus. In front, the baud becomes broader and joins the pillar of the fornix ; hehind, it is continued with the tail of the caudate nucleus into the roof of the descending cornu of the lateral ventricle, at the lower end of which it joins the amygdaloid nucleus. Dissection. The anterior commissure is next to be exposed in Anterior ■ , , , , , -1 • 1 -r. it.- ii, commissure: Its course through the cerebral hemisphere, lor this purjMse the ^.^^^^^1^1^ remaining fore part of the caudate nucleus, the white fibres, and to sUow it; the lenticular nucleus, on the right side, must be successively scrajied away with the liandle of the scalpel, and the rounded Viand traced outwards from the spot where it is seen at the front of the third ventricle to the medullary centre of the tempore-sphenoidal lolie. The ANTERIOR COMMISSURE is a round bundle of white fibres its form, about as large as a crow-quill, which is free only for about an eighth of an inch in the middle of its extent, where it lies in front of the position, pillars of the foniix (fig. 279). Laterally, it passes outwards beneath the corpus striatum, lying between the lenticular nucleus comse, mid and the grey matter of the anterior perforated space, and curving backwards, spreads out in the white substance of the temporal lobe eiirliiiK. above the descending cornu of the lateral ventricle. The OPTIC THALAMUS (fig. 277, 6) is an bval-shaped body which optic takes part in hounding the lateral and third ventricles. Its upper surface is marked by a shallow ohlique groove, which corresponds iipppr to the edge of the fornix. The part of the surface inside the ' groove is in contact with the velum intei-positum ; but the nan-ower outer part is free in the floor of the lateral ventricle, and is covered by the ependyma of that cavity : at its anterior end it forms a slight prominence known as the tuhercle of the optic thalamus. Externally this surface is bounded by the taenia semi- circularis, which separates it from the caudate nucleus. The inner inm-r surface is for the most part free, forming the lateral wall of the : third ventricle, but near the middle it is united to the one of the opposite side liy the middle commissure (ci). Along the line of junction of the upper and internal surfaces is a narrow white streak—the -pineal stria (/), which springs behind from the stalk of the pineal body, and ends in front by joining the anterior piHar of the fornix. The under surface is concealed, except at its hindmost part, by the crus cerebri, the tegmentum of which joins the thalamus ; and surfaces; D.A. 3 D