DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. 1S6 Cut the rectus, and display thi'ee deep heads of extensor: deliue vastus externus; separate ei-ureus and vastus internus, beginning below, and expos- ing bare surface of bone. Vastus externus is thin at the origin; ends in common tendon : parts in contact with the surfaces. Vastus internus arises from femur and adductor tendons: femoris, iliacus, and eartorius ; but in the rest of its extent it is superfiuial. It conceals l;)ranche.9 of the external circunitiex artery and anterior crural nerve, and rests on the crureus and vasti. The ui^per tendon of the rectus reaches farthest on the anterior surface ; Avhile the lower tendon is most extensive on the posterior aspect of the muscle. Dissection. To see the remaining muscles, cut across the rectus near the lower end and raise it without injuring the branches of vessels and nerves beneath (fig. 59). The muscular mass eo\ ering the shaft of the femur is to be thoroughly cleaned, and its three l^arts defined in the following way :— The division between the vastus externus on the outer side and the crureus in front is readily made in the situation of some vessels and nerves, which descend along the anterior border of tlie vastus externus. To separate the vastus internus from the crureus, the lower end of the rectus must be turned do^vn as far as possible, when a cleft will be evident in the subjacent tendon above the inner part of the patella. From this interval the di\'ision may be easily carried upwards between the two muscles, but at the upper end some fleshy filjres generally need cutting to complete the separation. If the vastus internus be turned inwards off the crureus, a large part of the inner surface of the femur wiU be seen to be fi-ee from muscular attachment. The VASTUS EXTERNUS has a narrow attachment to the femur in comparison with its size (fig. 60, and fig. 61, p. 158). It takes origin from the upper half of the femur, by a piece from half an inch to an inch thick, which is attached to the root of the neck of the femur, and the fore and outer parts of the root of the great trochanter; then along the outer side of the gluteal ridge, and the upper half of the linea aspera; and lastly from the contiguous external inter- muscular septum. Inferiorly most of the fibres of the muscle end in a flat tendon, which blends with those of the other portions in the common tendon, but the lowest fibres of all are inserted directly into the outer border of the patella. The vastus externus is the largest part of the quadriceps, and produces the prominence on the outer side of the thigh. Its cutaneous surface is aponeurotic above, and is partly covered by the rectus, tensor vagina3 femoris, and gluteus maximus muscles. The deep surface rests on the cnireus, and receives branches of the external circumflex artery and anterior crural nerve. The VASTUS INTERNUS (figs. 58, E, p. 151) also ha.s a narrow origin from the lower part of the anterior intertrochanteric line and from the inner surface of the femur (figs. 60 and 61) along the linea aspera, from the upper jaart of the internal supra-condylar ridge, and, in the lower half of the thigh, from the front of the tendons of the adductor longus and magnus. The fibres join an aponeurosis which blends in the common tendon, and is also attached directly to the inner margin of the patella reaching lower tlian the \"astus extei'iius.