367 TRIBUTARIES OF INFERIOR VENA CAVA. it is internal to its companion artery, ami lies between the psoas and position to pectineus muscles ; but as it ascends it gradually passes behind the artery. The veins opening into it are the epigastric and circumflex iliac tributarie.s. and a puhic branch from the obturator vein. Tlie COMMON ILIAC VEIN (p) ascends by the side of its accompany- Common ing artery, the right almost \-ertically, and the left obliquely, to the 'fon';i cava: front of the body of the filth lumbar vertebra (the right hall), where it blends with its fellow in one trunk—the ^ ena cava. The riyht vein is the shorter, and lies at first behind, but after- difTei-ence in wards outside the artery of the same name. The left is internal to '^-filjons"? and below the artery of its own side, and crosses beneath the right common iliac artery to the commencement of the vena cava. Each vein receives the ilio-lunibar branch ; and the common iliac triijiitaries. of the left side is joined l)y the middle sacral vein. The INFERIOR or abcending vena cava (m) collects and conveys vena cava to the heart the blood of the lower half of the body. Taking origin "'f'*'''"'"- opposite the fifth lumbar vertebra, lower than the bifurcation of the aorta, this large vein ascends on the right fide of the arterial trunk, extent; and reaches the heart by perforating the diaphragm. Its relations relations; to surrounding parts have been already noticed (p. 320), but the description may be again referred to, as the position of the branches of the aorta to it can be better seen now. Tributaries. The cava receives parietal branches (lumbar and receives diaphragmatic) from the wall of the abdomen and the diaphragm ; ' and visceral branches from the testicle, the kidney, the suprarenal from , , 1 ii 1- abdomen, body, and the liver. The veins belonging to the stomach, the intestinal canal, the except those spleen, and the pancreas, are united to form the vena portaj (p. 334) ; apparatus." and the blood contained in those vessels reaches the cava by the hepatic veins, after it has circulated through the liver. The spermatic vein (o) enters the abdomen by the internal Spermatic abdominal ring, after forming the spermatic plexus in the cord. At first there are two branches in the abdomen, which lie on the sides of the spermatic artery ; but these soon join into one trunk. On the left side it opens into the renal vein at a ends differ- right angle, and there is generally a small valve over the aperture ; an°d" on the right side it enters the inferior cava below the renal vein. '< As the vein a<'cends to its destination, it receives one or more branches from the wall of the abdomen, and the fat about the branches: kidney. In the female the corresponding vein {ovarian) has the same ending vein in the as in the male, and it forms a plexus in the broad ligament of the uterus. Valves are absent from the vein and its branches, but commonly there is one at its union with the renal. The renal or eraulcjcnt vein (n) is of large size, and joins the vena Renal vein; cava at a right angle. It commences by many branches in the kidney ; and the trunk resulting from their union is superficial to position to the renal arterv. '"''^''y'