G92 DISSECTION OF THE LARYNX. COll.Si.'il.S of outer aiul inner parts: some fibres ft cm aryte- noid carti- lage to \ ocal cord ; relations ; Tliyro. epiglotti- dean muscle: membrane. The fibres are directed backwards with different inclina- tions :—The external (••) ascend somewhat and are imerted into the outer border of the arytenoid cartilage. The internal fibres f) are horizontal, and form a thick bundle which is inserted into the margins of the vocal process and the lower part of the outer surface of that cartilage, whilst a few of the deepest fibres of the muscle pass from the outer surface of the vocal process of the arytenoid cartilage to be inserted into the true vocal cord. The outer surface of the muscle is covered by the thyroid cartilage ; and the inner surface rests on the vocal cords, and on the ven- tricle and pouch of the larynx. Action. The thyro-aryte- noid draws forwards the arjle- noid cartilage, and causes the cricoid to move forwards and downwards, thus opposing the crico - thyroid muscle, and slackening the vocal cords. It also moves inwards the fore part of the arytenoid car- tilage with the true vocal cord, so as to place the latter in the position necessary for vocali- sation. The short fibres pass- ing from the arytenoid carti- lage to the vocal cord will tighten the fore part, and relax the hinder part of the cord. The THYRO-EPIGLOTTIDEAN MUSCLE is a thin layer which varies much in its develop- ment in diflerent bodies. Its fibres arise from the thyroid cartilage in conjunction with the outer part of the thyro- ai^tenoid, and are directed upwards, covering the outer surface of the saccule of the larynx, to be inserted into the margin of the epiglottis and the aryteno-epiglottidean fold with the aryteno- epiglottidean muscle. The whole of the muscular fibres p;issuig from the arytenoid and thyroid cartilages to the epiglottis are sometimes described together as the depressor oj tlie cimjlottis. Fio. 246.—Internal Muscles of tue Larvnx. 1. Crico-thyroid detached. 2. Posterior orico-arytcnoid. 3. Lateral crico-arytenoid. 4. Tbyro-arytenoid, superficial part. 5. Depressor of the epiglottis, consist- ing of fibres of llie aryteno-epiglottidean muscle and others given off from the thyro-arytenoid. 6. Thyro-hyoid, cut. 8. Deep part of thyro-arytcnoid.