140 DISSECTION OP THE THIGH. Cutaiiooiis nrtei'ies. Cutaiieou: ller^■es. a similar way. When this arrangement exists three lai-ge veins will be present on the front of the thigh, near the saphenous opening. On the side of the knee the veini receives a communicating bi-anch fromi the deep veins Some unnamed cidaneous arteries ax-e distributed to the integuments along with the nerves; and the superficial branch of the anastomotic art«ry(p. 154) accomjjanies the saphenous nerve and its branches near the knee. Nerves. The cutaneous nerves of the thigh are derived from branches of the plexus^ and in greater inner than the outer iimiaual state. External cutaneous, 55.—Cutaneous Nerves ON THE FkONT op THE Thigh. 1. 2. 3. 4. 5. External cutaneous. Middle cutaneous. Internal cutaneous. Internal saphenous. Patellar branch of saphenous. Genito-orural. Ilio-inguinal. Ilio-hypogastric on the belly. number side. Ilio-inguinal. This nerve is smaU, and reaches the surface by passing through the external abdomiual ring (fig. 55, ^) ; it supplies the scrotum, and ends on the adjacent part of the thigh, internal to the sajjhenous vein. GenitOtCSP.iiaj;-. The crural branch of this nerve from the first and second lumbar nerves, pierces the fascia lata near Poupart's ligament (fig. 56, ") rather external to__ _the_Jijia_xi£—thf femoral artery. After or before the nerve has become superficial it com- municates with the middle cutaneous nerve ; aud it extends on the anterior aspect of the thigh as far as midway between the knee and the pehis. Occasionally this branch is of Large size, and takes the place of the external cutaneous nerve on the outer side of the limb. CUTANEOUS nerve and third lumbar the outer aspect of i). At first it is posterior, and anterior branches. The EXTERNAL from the second nerves ramifies on the limb (fig. 55, contained in a prominent ridge of the fascia lata on the outer margin of the thigh, where it divides into an anterior and a jjosterior branch. The posterior branch subdivides into two or three others, which arch backwards to supply the integuments half-way down the outer side of the thigh. The anterior h-anch appears on the fascia lata about four inches from Poupart's ligament and is continued to the knee below the