MUSCLES OF THE EYELIDS. 653 that ciperture (fig. 202), to which the above name ha.s hceii given : they are seldom visible without a lens. The (udcnur slip "ni''r.or a>Hi ("') pa.sso.s fi-om the cartilage of the aperture t(i the integuuieut of (he margin of the nostril ; and the podcrior (») arising from the ujiper jawbone and the small quadrate cnrtilages, ends ahso in the integuments of the nostril. Actimi. The fibres enlarge the nasal opening by rai.sing and us.-, everting the outer edge. The DEPRESSOR AZM NASI (fig. 202") wiU be Seen if the nj.per "''i^- lip is everted, and the mucous membrane is removed by the side of the frEcnum of the lip. It arises below the nose from the incisor fossa of the superior maxilla, and ascends to he inserted into the .septum narium and the posterior part of the ala of the nose. Orbicularis iialpebrarutii (palpebral portion). Orl)icnlaria palpebrarum (orbital portion). Comigator .siipercilii. Internal tar-sal ligament. I'yramidalis nasi. J,evator labii snperioris altcqiie nasi. Levator labii .supcrioris Levator angiili oris. Depres.sor labii inferioris. Depressor an^nli oris. Attoleii.'i aiirein. Attraliens aurem. Masseter (deep part). ZygoniaticMi.s minor (too large). Zygomaticiis major. Masseter (su]terncial ]>art.s; some cutaway). Huccinator. Fig. 203.—Diagram of the Muscles op the Face. Action. By drawing down and turning in the edge of the dilated nostril, it restores the aperture to its usual size. Mdscles of the Eyelids. The muscles of the eyelids and eye- brow are four in number, viz., orbicularis iialpelirarum, comigator supcrcilii, levator palpebrje superioris. and ten.sor tarsi * : the two latter are di.s.sected in the orbit, and will be then described. The oRBiCDLARis PALPEBRARUM (fig. 203) is the sphincter muscle closing the opening between the eyelids. It is a flat and thin layer, which e.xtends from the margin of the lids beyond the circumference of the orl)it. From a dill'erence in the characters of the fibres, a division has been made of them into two parts—outer, two parts, or orbital, and inner, or palpebral. Kour mu.scles of eyelids and brow. Orbiculari.s palpebra- * Tlie tensor tarsi muscle is sometimes desorilicd us jjiirt of llie orbicularis.