313 LIGAMENTS OF THE IJVEK. cross lines). The other end of the fold i.'S wide, and is connected with the intestine. LiGAMExNTS OF THE LIVER. On the Upper surface of the liver is i-«ritoueai^^ the suspensory ligament ; and along the back there is a wide the liver: process which is divided into coronary, and right and left lateral ligaments. The susneiisoni or falciform liqament extends from before backwards fiilciform between the upper convex surface ot the liver and the parietes ot the abdomen. Its lower border is concave, and fixed to the liver ; while the upper border is convex, and is connected to the abdominal wall on the right of the linea alba, and to the under-surface of the diaphragm. In its free anterior border or base is the remains of the umbilical vein, which is named the round Uijament of the liver. The coronaru liqament is placed at the back of the right lobe of eoronaiy the liver, and is composed of two layers which are separated liy an interval (fig. 114). The superior layer passes from tlie liver to the diaphragm; but the inferior layer (fig. 131, id, p. 346) is reflected over the front of the kidney and inferior vena cava. This layer becomes continuous round the Spigelian lobe with the posterior layer of the small omentum. The riijU lateral ligament (fig. 131, rll) is a small fold at the right rigia hitenil end of the coronary ligament, formed by the meeting of the two • layers for a shoi't distance. The left lateral ligament, larger than the foi-egoing, is a triangular left^Iateral fold of peritoneum, with a free edge tiu-ned to the left. It is °" ' ' attached by its anterior border to the liver above the margin of the lel't lobe, and by its posterior border to the diaphragm in front of the oesophageal opening. At its right end the upper layer is con- tinued into the left side of the falciform ligament, and the lower layer into the front of the small omentum. Folds of the spleen (fig. 115). These are the gastro-splenic .splenic omentum and the lieno-renal ligament, the formation of which has ab'eady been exi^lained. Accessory peritoneal folds and fossae. Minor peritoneal folds and fossa3 should be looked for in the neighbourhood of the duodeno- jejunal flexure and about the crecum ; also the lower surface of the pelvic meso-colon should be examined for the mouth of a small pouch {intersigmoid} that someiimes exists there. Two ]30uche3 are often Duodenal found in the neighbourhood of the duodeno-jejunal flexure. One, to the left of the upper part of the flexure, looking downwards, is called the superior duodenal fossa, and another, along the left .side of the Suiierior, last (fourth) part of the duodenum looking upwards, is called the inferior duodenal fossa. K para-duodenal fossa is occa.sionally found infi'rior, to the left of the last part of the duodenum on the posterior paia. abdominal wall, being produced by a fold raised by the inferior mesenteric vein. Himning up behind the ctecum or the beginning of the ascending Uetro-colic colon there is often a retro-colic fold, producing a pouch on one or both sides of it, more commonly on the inner side. A very constant