380 and over pyriformis. Pelvic fascia divided into three parts, viz. :— Obturator fascia: attach- ments ; relations. Fascia of pyriformis. Reoto- vesical fascia later. DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. upper end of the thyroid foramen, where it hounds tlie aperture through which the vessels and nerve issue. A portion of the bone IS then to be cut out behind the foramen, and extendinf; into the small sciatic notch, as in the iigure ; and tlie obturator internus muscle IS to be carefully separated from the fascia and taken away Lastly, by turning back the pyriformis muscle and the great sciatic nerve, a thin piece of the fascia covering those structures will he exposed m the great sacro-sciatic foramen {fpy). The PELVIC FASCIA is a thin membrane which covers the deep surface of the muscles bounding tlie cavity, and may be described m three parts. Two of these are parietal and line the wall of the pelvis,—one covering the obturator internus muscle is named the obturator fascia, and the other extending over the pyriformis muscle is the fascia of the pyriformis. The third portion of the fascia is reflected inwards from the wall of the pehds on the upper surface of the levator ani and enters into the formation of the floor of the pelvis, and supports the rectum and bladder, whence it Ls known as the recto-vesical fascia. The obturator fascia (fig. 142) invests closely the pehic portion of the obturator internus muscle, and is fixed to the bone aromid the attachment of the fleshy fibres. Thus, it is attached above to the ilio-pectineal line of the hii>bone between the sacro-iliac articu- lation and the upper end of the obtiu-ator foramen ; at the latter spot it joins the obturator membrane over the edge of the muscle, so as to form the floor of the canal transmitting the obturator vessels and nerve ; and in front it is fixed to the body of the pubis, following the border of the niuscle. Below, it is inserted into the inner side of the inferior ramus of the puliis, and the ramus and tuberosity of the ischium in conjunction with the falciform process of the great sacro-sciatic ligament. 'Behind, it is fixed to the hip-bone along the anterior margin of the great sciatic notch ; and between the ischial spine and the tuberosity, it is united with the great sacro-sciatic ligament, where the obturator internus issues from the pehas. From the inner surface of this membrane the recto-vesical fascia is given ofl", along a curved line extending from the ischial spine to the upper and inner part of the obturator foramen (fig. 142, * *). Above this line the obturator fascia bounds the cavity of the pelvis at the side, and is in contact with the peritoneum ; while below, it looks into the ischio-roctal fos.sa, except over a small space in front, where it is closely united witli the pubic origin of the IcA'ator ani (I a). The fascia of the pyriforviii (fpy) is very thin, and is continued backwards from the hinder part of the obturator fascia to the sacrum, passing over the front of the sacral plexus and the pyriformis muscle, but beneath the internal iliac vessels, by whose gluteal, sciatic and jnidic branches it is perforated. The recto-vesical fascia may now lie seen in ]iart l)y looking into the pelvis ; and the student may notice a whitish line extending from the lower part of the pubis, close to the symphysis, to the