THE Si'INAL CORD AND ITS MEMBRANES. 548 The com. iiiissure: the grey piiit, witli its central canal lined by epithelium the white part. The half of cord. The grey crescent. Posterior coniu: its parts. Anterior corim. [ntcr- metliale process. White substance. Fig. 199.—Outlinis op the G-rey Substance in the Spinal Cord, near this Mimdle op THE Dorsal Region (Lock- hart Clarke). The commissure consists of two ]iarts, viz., a transverse band of grey matter (fig. 198, h), with a white stratuni in front. The grey transverse band (■posterior or yrey commissure) connects the oppcsite crescents, and is placed ratlier nearer the front than tlie back of the cord. In its centre is tlie shrunken canal of the spinal cord (tig. 198, i), which is best seen in the fu3tu.s. It reaches the whole length of the cord, and a cross section shows it as a round spot. Above, the ciinal opens on the Hoor of the fourth ventricle ; and below, it is continued into the filiini terniinale. It is lined by a columbar ciliated epithelium, and is obstructed by a granular material near the upper end. The anterior or white commissure is best marked opposite the cerwcal and lumbar enlargements on the cord, and is least developed in the dorsal region. Lateral half. In the half of the cord, as in the commissure, grey and white portions exist; the former is elongated from before backwards, being crescentic in shape, and is quite surrounded by white matter. The grey matter (fig. 198 y), has its extremities or comua directed towards the roots of the nerves, and the convexity to the middle line. The crescentic masses in the opposite halves of the cord are united by the grey commissure. Taking a cross section of the dorsal region as an example : the posterior cornu is long and slender (fig. 199), and reaches nearly to the surface along the lateral fissure. It is rather narrow at its base {cervix,'), and enlarged towards its extremity {caput, '), where it is surmounted by a semi-transparent layer which has lieen named the substantia gelatinosa (3). Thei'e is also on the inner side of the cervix of the posterior cornu a special portion of grey matter containing nerve-cells, the posterior vesicular column of Clarke (**), which is most developed in the lower dorsal region. The anterior cornu (fig. 199) is shorter and thicker than the posterior, and projects towaids the anterior root« witliout reaching the surface. Its end has an irregular or zigzag outline. A third smaller projection of the grey matter is seen in the upper part of tlie dorsal region of the cord, on the outer side of the crescent, between the anterior and posterior horns : this is known as the intermediate process (Gowers) or the lateral cornu (fig. 199.) The white substance of tlie cord is composed chiefly of niedullat«d nerve-fibres disposed in longitudinal bundles, which are enclosed by irregular septa of connective tissue prolonged from the pia mater on 1. Caput cornu posterioris. 2. Anterior cornu. 3. Substantia gelatinosa. 4. Central canal of the cord. 5. Posterior commissure. 6. Intermediate process. 7. Cervix cornu posterioris. 8. Posterior vesicular column.