THK INTERVERTEBRAL DISCS. 49o ill eacli lamina, and run obli([uely between two vertebra) ; but tlie direction is reversed in alternate layers (fig. 180). This ari'ange- ment is best seen in the thicker discs between the lumbar vertebriB ; and it may be demonstrated by dissecting layer after layer. The central luilpy jwrtion of the di.sc (fit;. 182, b) is verj' soft, and, being tightly confined by the surrounding laminie, it projects when two vertebrae and the interposed mass are sawn through. Placed nearer the back than the front of the disc, it is more marked in the loins and neck than in the dorsal region. It has a yellowish colour, and is deficient in the stratiform arrangement so consjjicuous in the circumferential part. Tlie surfaces of the vertebrce in contact with the disc have a cartilaginous covering, whicli may be seen by cutting the inter- vertebral substance from the bone. Over the centre of the osseous surface it Ibrms a continuous layer, but it is wanting towards the circumference. The discs are thicker between the lumbar and cervical, tlian between the upper and middle dorsal vertebrte ; and in the loins and neck, where the spinal column is conve.x forwards, they are deepest at the anterior edge, being wedge-shaped. The thickest piece of all, and the most wedge-shaped, is between the fifth lumbar vertebra and the sacrum. The total thickness of the discs amounts to about a fourth of the length of the moveable part of the spinal column. Use. The intervertebral discs form the chief bond of union between the several bones of the column ; and mainly by reason of their strength, displacement of the vertelu'se is a rare occurrence. In the movements of the spine the vertebrae revolve around the central pulpy portion of the disc ; and the extent of the move- ment between two segments of the column is limited by the circumferential laminar jiortion of the discs. Through their wedge-shaped form the discs are chiefly instru- mental in gi\ang rise to the convexity of the spine in the loins and neck ; and by their elasticity they moderate the efl'ect of jars or shocks transmitted through the column. Ligaments of the neural arches and procesbes. The articular processes of the vertebra) are connected by synovial joints with surrounding cajisules; the neural arches are united by yellow ligaments ; the .spinous processes have one band along their tips and others in the intervals between them ; and some of the transverse processes are joined by fibrous bands. innci' part of pulpy substiiiicc, situation wliere liirgest. Curtilage covering bones. Tliicliiiess Fio. 182.—Horizontal Section of AN Iniervertebral Diso. a. Laminar external part. b. Pulpy central substance. Tliey bind bones firmly together, but permit movemer.t; render column convex. Several liyamenls of the arch and processes.