of iiiitUiU' and inO'iiur miiiLilion. THE SYMl'ATHl'rrir NERVl^. to hviu-Ihem into view -.-TIil- jugular vein liaving l.e.u cut Uirou-h, tl.e upper yanglion will be seen by raising the caiolul artery and the trunks of the vagus and hypo-gh.ssal nerves, and by cutting through the branches that unite these two to the loo], between the lirst and second spinal nerves. The several branches of the ganglion are to be traced upwards on the carotid artery, inwards to the pharynx, down- wards along the neck, and outwards to other nerves. The dissector has already seen the middle ganglion on or near the inierior thyroid artery, and its branches to spinal nerves, and along the neck, are now to be traced. To obtain a view of the inferior ganglion the greater part ot the first rib is to be taken away, and the subclavian artery is to be cut through, internal to the scalenus anticu.s, and drawn aside, without, however, destroy ing the tine nerves that pass over it. It is supposed that the clavicle has been removed. The ganglion is placed close above the neck of the first rib ; its branches are large, and are easily followed outwards to the vertebral artery and the sj^inal nerves, and downwards to the thorax. The SUPERIOR CERVICAL GANGLION is the largest of the three, and S;>r^;;'„"^ of a reddish-grey colour. Fusiform in shape, it is as long as the noar skull, second and tldrd cervical vertebrae, and is placed on the rectus capitis anticus major muscle, beneath the internal carotid artery and the beneath contiguous cranial nerves. Branches connect the ganglion with other nerves ; and some are distributed to the blood-vessels, the pharyn.x, and the heart. Gonnectinri branches unite the sympathetic with both the spinal and ^^J^^^^^S the cranial nerves. With the spinal nei'ves. The four highest spinal nerves have ^^^^ branches of communication with the upper ganglion of the sym- pathetic ; but the ofl'set to the fourtii nerve may come from the cord connecting the upper to the next ganglion. With the cranial nerves. Near the skull the lower gangli.m of the vagus and the hypoglossal nerve are joined by branches ol the sym- pathetic. Another offset from the upper part of the ganglion ascends an<ljn^ to the jugular foramen, and divides into two filaments wliich join fonuncn; the petrosal ganglion of the glosso-pharyngeal and the root-ganglion of the vagus. Communications are formed with several other cranial nerves by means of the ascending otfset from the ganglion into the carotid ,kuii. canal (p. 018). Branches for >listrUmtion. The branches of this set are more Branciie.s. numerous than the preceding, and the nerves are generally of larger .size. The ascending branch, prolonged from tlie upper part of the To intmial ganglion, accompanies the internal carotid artery and its branches. Near the skull it divides into two pieces which enter the canal lor the carotid, one on each side of that vessel, and are conliuued to the eyeball and the pia mater of the brain, forming secondary ^^•'>jjj'^jo"' plexuses on the ophthalmic and cereViral arteries. In the carotid ,|,;,.viw;