CARPO-METACARPAL ARTICQLATIOISTS. 103 Carpal and metacarpal joints. motion : bending liy the transverse ligament, wliich was seen in the dissection of the liand (p. 81). Union op the Metacarpal and Carpal Bones. The meta- cjxrpal hones of tlie fingers are articuhited witli tlic carpal hones after one plan ; hut the lione of the tliumh has a se])arate joint. The metacarpal bone of the thumb articuhites witli tlie trapezium ; t],^^ tjjg and the ends of the hones are encased in a capsular ligament tli'imb. (fig. 41, which is lined by a simple synovial mem- brane. The thumh - joint pos- sesses angular movement in opposite directions, with opposition and circumduc- tion, thus :— Flexion and extension. When the joint is flexed, the metacarpal hone is brought in front of the palm ; and as tlie move- ment proceeds, the tliunih is gi-aduaUy turned towards the fingers, passing into the state of oppositimi. In this " ' nnd opposi- way the thumb may be " ■ • - - • made to touch the palmar surface of any or all of the fingers, the phalanges of the latter being somewhat bent at the .siime time. Exten- sion of the joint is very free, and liy it the meta- carpal bone is removed from the palm towards the outer border of the forearm. Abduction and adduction. By these movements the thumh is and lateral Fio. 44.—Posterior Lmambnts op the Wrist, and Carpal and Metacarpal Bones (Bourqery). 1. Posterior radio-carpal. 2. Carpo - metacarpal capsule of the thiinib. 3. 3. Transverse bands between the bases of the metacarpal bones. extending; placed in contact with, or removed from the forefinger. motion. i'ue metacarpal bones of the fingers receive longitudinal bands Joints of from the carpal bones on both aspects, thus :— fingers The dorsal ligaments (fig. 44) are two to each, except to the bone imve dorsal of the little finger. The bands of the metacarpal bone of the fore- finger come from tlie trapezium and trapezoid : those of the third metacarpal are attached to the trapezoid and os magnum ; the bone of the ring finger receives its bands from the os magnum and unciform ; and to the fifth metacarpal bone tliere is but one ligament from the unciform. The palmar ligaments (fig. 41), usually one to each metacari)al and palmar bone, are weaker and le.ss constant than the dorsal. These liga-= ments may be oblique in direction ; and sometimes a band is diAaded between two, as in the case of a ligament passing from the trapezium to the .second and third metacarpals. One or more maybe wanting