shciith on the rectum anrl on prostate. The pros- tate plexus, Fascia in the female. Ligaments of the fascia anterior ligaments, and lateral of tlie bladder; ligament of rectum. Contents of the pelvis, and outline of their position. Take away fascia, and clean vessels. DISSECTION OP THE PELVIS. The sheath on the rectum encloses the lower three inches of the intestine and gradually becomes very thin towards the anus : it is separated from the intestine by a layer of fat. On the prostate the sheath is thinner than on the rectum, and very closely adherent ; it is continued downwards to the apex of that body, where it passes into tJie upper layer of the triangular ligament of the urethra: between it and the proper investing capsule of the prostate are the 2yrostate plexus of veins and some small arteries. In the female the fascia has much the same arrangement a.« in the male ; but the vagina perforates the membrane, and receives a tube from it, like the prostate. The true ligaments of tlie bladder are two on each side, anterior and lateral, and are portions of the recto-vesical fascia. The anterior (or puho-prostatic) reaches from tlie back of the pubis to the fore part of the prostate and the neck of the bladder; it is a narrow white band, and encloses muscular fibres of the bladder. The lateral ligament is the side piece of the fascia, which is fixed to the upper border of the prostate gland, and to the side of the bladder close above the vesicula seminalis ; from it an oflfset is continued inwards behind the vesicula seminalis, so as to join a like piece from the other side, and form a sheatli for those bodies. On each side of the rectum is a strong wide piece of the recto- vesical fascia, which is attached externally to the ischial spine of the hip-bone, and supports that viscus like the bladder. RELATIONS OF THE VISCERA IN THE MALE. Directions. If the student dissects a female pelvis, he will pass on to page 390 referring to this section for the description of the rectum, iDladder and other parts. Contents and jmsition (figs. 144 and 145). The viscera of the male pelvis are—the rectum, the bladder with the prostate and first part of the urethra, the lower ends of the ureters, parts of the vasa deferentia, and the vesiculse seminales. The rectum (fig. 145, k) lies at the back of the pelvis, and takes a curved course in the hollow of the sacrum and coccjrx, round the end of which it bends backwards as the anal canal (Symington). The bladder (a) is placed in the concavity of the rectum, its neck being surrounded by the prostate gland (6) ; and the urethra, after per- forating the prostate, curves forwards to the penis. The ureter (h) descends by the side of the rectum to the lateral angle at the hinder part of the bladder on each side ; and the vas deferens (/) and vesicula seminalis (g) are between the bladder and rectum on each side. Some of these organs are partly invested by peritoneum, as already described. Dissection. All the recto-vesical fascia, except the anterior true ligament of tlie bladder, may be taken from the prostate and rectum. The obliterated hypogastric cord from the internal iliac artery should be followed forwards along the l)]adder from the back of the pelvis; and tlie branches of the s;inie artery to the bladder should