ACTION 111' rill': hi.\i'iiii.\(i.M is only a thirkmed [lii-ci' iil' I In- r.-isi;iii c()\HM iiiL; thai mhisi-Il', and fxlonds IViiin tin' lii-sl lumbar transvorsu pnice-s lu I,he last rili. Ajiniiiri's. 'I'iioic; luv llircc lart,'(' o|K'iiin,L;s ; (Hic carh Inr the. aoila, A|i.Tt,iin's lliu vena rava, and Llic a'Sn]iha,i;ils ; w illi s(inir snialkT lissiii'iis lor iiurvt's and vcsst-ls. The opuiiini,' lor tlic aovla (/,■) i.srallu-r l>L'liinil than in tlic diiiidiia.L;in, I'm- Uiu lor it is siluale bclwueu llic iiiUars ol' Uie muscle and tlie s]iinal '"" ''' ' . , 111 it's cuiilinus. column : it tiausinits the aorta, llii; thoracic duct, and llie laige azy^'os Vein. 'J'lic opening I'or the a)so])lia;;us and the pneumo-i;astric nerves (i) ForKnHut, is ahove and slit^htly to tlie left of the aortic aperturi' : it is placed in the muscular ])art of the iliuphra,L;m, and is hounded hy the fibres of Ihe pillars as ahove exjilaiued. The opcMiing for the vena cava (foi'amen ipiadralum ; h) situate between the middle and ri^^dit divisions (d' the central tendon ; and its margins are attacheil to tlie vein by tendinous fibres. There is a lUsnir ( )) in each i)illar for the three siilanchnic nerves ; Fissures in 11 1 ' 1 • 1 1 ,• 1 11 ■ 1 i'"' I'illiii's. and through that m the lelt erus the small azygos vein also passes. Aclinit of tint (Uaiilu-miin. By the contraction of the niusciihir libres Uso in . . 1 1 • 1 1 • 1 • 1 i'cs]jir;Uion. Ill inspiration tlie temlon, ]iarticularly its lateral parts, is moved downwards, anil the arch of the diaphragm lessened. During relaxa- tion in expiration, the centre of the muscle is elevated, and the height of the vault increased owing to the elasticity of the lungs, and tile pressure of the viscera below, which are forced iqnvards by tlie action of the abiloininal muscles. In forced expiiation the muscle neigljt in reaches as high as the fourth rib on the right side, and tlie lifth on oxpinitiim. the left, close to tlie sternum. In the descent of the dia|ihragm, the parts of the tendon move ('""inil imrl une(|ually, in consei|ueiice of diU'en-nces in their relations, and in icnst, ; the length ami direction of the lleshy libres connected with them. Thus, the central loln', above which the luiart is placed, moves least; while the lateral lobes, which are below the lungs descend more freely. It is estimated that the central lobe of the tendon moves left part lllfist. ■rago downwards in full inspiration about two-lifths of an inch, the right a" lobe twice as much, and the left lobe one inch, (llassel licscmi in . ' InU iiis|iiiii- Keitli IS ol opinion that an important part ol the action ol the linn. crura, tiie libres of which pass into the central part of the tendon, is t(; render tense, ami de])ress the attachi-d fibrous pericardium, and to exerci.se a jmll u|)oii the aorta of the lungs, which are liekl to the upper surface of the tendon of the diaphragm hy the broad liganii-nt of the lung. With the movement of the diapliiagm the size of t he cavities of mteet on the alidomen and thorax an^ altered. By its descent the tlmrax IuXiml""'^ is enlarged anil the abiloinen diminished; and the viscera in the on vi.scern, iqiper jiait of the latter cavity, viz., liver, stomach and spleen, are partly moved from beneath the ribs. By its ascent the cavity of the lln.rax is le.s.seiied, and that of the abdomen is restored to its former size; and the di.splaced vi.scera return to their usual ]ilace. By the contraction of the libres the aperture hir the lesophagiis will iirertmcs.