535 SUBOCCIPITAL TRIANGLE. outer part of the inferior curved line of the occipital bone for about attncii- an inch, as well as into the surface below it. ' Tlie muscle is covered by the coniplexus, and, at its insertion, by relations; the obli(iuus superior. It lies over the posterior arch of the atlas and the ligaments attached to that part of the bone, Action. By the action of both muscles the head will be drawn and "so. backwards. One rectus acting alone will rotate, as well as extend the head, turning the face to the same side. The RECTOS CAPITIS POSTICUS MINOR (fig. 192, B) is a small fan- Rectus po.s- shaped muscle, lying to the inner side of the preceding. Arising close to the middle line from a slight roughness on the posterior arch of the atlas, it is inserted into the inner third of the inferior attach- curved line of the occipital bone and an impression below this. ' ' This muscle is deeper than the rectus major, and lies over the pos- relations ; terior occipito-atlantal ligament. The two small recti correspond to the interspinal muscles between the other vertebroe. Action. The rectus posticus minor extends the head. and use. The OBLIQDUS CAPITIS INFERIOR (fig. 192, c) is the strongest of obiiauus the suboccipital muscles. It ari.tes from the spinous process of the axis below the rectus posticus major, and is inserted into the lower attach- and back part of the transverse process of the atlas. ments; The inferior oblique is concealed by the coinplexus and trachelo- relations; mastoid muscles, and is crossed by the great occipital nerve. Action. This muscle turns the face to the same side, by rotating and use. the atlas on the axis. The OBLIQDUS CAPITIS SUPERIOR (fig. 192, d) arises from the obiiquus transverse process of the atlas above the insertion of the pre- *"'P'"''°'' • ceding muscle, and is directed upwards and inwards to be inserted attacli- into the outer part of the space between the curved lines of the • occipital bone. The origin of the muscle is beneath the trachelo-mastoid, and its relations insertion beneath the coniplexus. In the interval between these it is covered by the splenius. It lies over the vertebral artery and the insertion of the rectus posticus major. Action. With its fellow the upper oblique will assist in carrying and use. backwards the head. By the action of one muscle the head will be inclined backwards, and to the same side. Suboccipital triangle. This name is given to the small space which is bounded below by the obiiquus inferior muscle, by the iween the rectus posticus major on the inner side and above, and by the niuscies: obiiquus superior on the outer side. It is covered by the corn- plexus ; and its floor is formed by the neural arch of the atlas, with the posterior occipito-atlantal ligament. In it are seen a small contents, part of the vertebral artery, and the posterior branch of the sub- occipital nerve issuing Ijelow the artery and lying upon the posterior arch of the atlas. The contents of the sub-occipital traingle should be fully displayed . before the following parts are studied. The HOTATOREs DORSi are eleven short muscular slips in the Rotatores dorsal region beneath the multifidus spina;, from which they ' "