THK INTIUNSIC MtlSCr,RS OK THE TOXnUR. fiS7 Its fibres are collected into flatteneil bundles, so as (,o allow the fibres in passage between them of the ascending fibres of tlie genio-glossus. iin""*; Action. By the contraction of the fibres of the two muscles the "se. tongue is made narrower and rounder, and is increased in length. The SUPERIOR LiNGUALis (fig. 242, a) is a very thin layer of Supei-iioiai oblique and longitudinal fibres close beneath tlie submucous tissue = on the dorsum of the tongue. Its fibres arise from the frajnuni epiglottidis, and from the fibrous tissue along tlie middle line ; from this attachment they are directed obliiiuely outward.s, the anterior becoming longitudinal, to the margin of the tongue at which they end in the submucous fibrous tissue. Action. Both muscles tend to .shorten the tongue ; and they will use. bend tiie point upwards. The INFERIOR LINGUALIS (fig. 243, d) is much stronger than the Lower preceding, and i.s placed on the under surface of the tongue, between 'ing"a>'s: the hyo-glossus and genio-glossus. The muscle arises beliind from origin ; the fascia at the root of tlie tongue ; and the fibres are collected into a roundish bundle : from its attaclied surface fasciculi are continued eiuiinK; upwards through the transverse fil)res to tlie dorsum ; and at the anterior third of the tongue, where the muscle is overlaid by the stylo-glossus, some of the fibres are applied to that muscle and dis- tributed with it. Action. This muscle shortens tiie tongue, and bends the ape.x use. downwards. The intrinsic perpendicdlar fibres are found near the border Peqjendicu- of the fore part of the tongue, and can be seen only in trans\'erse • sections. They pass from the submucous tissue of the dorsum downwards and somewhat outwards, decussating with the cortical and transverse filn-es, to the under surface. Action. By their contraction these fibres flatten and render uso. broader the part of the tongue in which they occur. Medullary port ion of the toni/ue. The central part of the tongue, .Mwiuiia of which is thus named, is paler in colour and softer than the cortex. It is composed mainly of the bundles of the transverse muscle cross- ing the lamina3 of the genio-glossus internally and the perpendicular fibres e.xternally, together with intersjjersed fat. The mucous membrane of the tongue is a continuation of that lining Mucous the mouth, and is provided with a stratiBed scaly epithelium. It Its e"liZ''' invests the greater part of the tongue, and is reflected off at diflerent points in the form of folds. At the epiglottis are three small glosso-qmjlottidean f<,lds, connecting this body to the root of the Folds tongue ; tlie central one of these is calle.l the frmnum of the epiglottis. It IS furnished with nuiuerous glands, and lymphoid crypts and folucles. The crypts are depressions of the mucous membrane, which are sui- Ly.n„i,oi,i rounded by lymphoid follicles in the submucous tissue ("the lingual t07isil"), like the arrangement in the tonsil ; they occupy the dorsum of the tongue between the circumvallate papilla) and the epiglottis where they form a stratum close beneath tlie mucous membrane