85 SUPERFICIAL MUSCLES. ligament, to be inserted into tlie base of the metacarpal bone of insertion ; the index finger. Along its outer border lies the radial nerve. Action. The long e.xtensor straightens the wrist and abducts the and usa. hand ; it can also bend the elbow-joint. If the hand is fixed in climbing, it will act on the hnmerus like the long supinator. The EXTENSOR CARri RADIALIS BREVIOR (c) is attached to the Extensor outer condyle of the humerus by a tendon common to it and the r^'if^ng three following muscles, viz., common extensor of the fingers, brovior: extensor of the little finger, and ulnar extensor of the wrist; it takes origin also deeply from the external lateral ligament of the origin; elbow-joint. The tendon of the muscle is closely applied to the preceding, and after passing with it througli the same compartment of the annular ligament, is i7iserted into the base of the metacarpal insertion; bone of the middle finger. Concealed on the outer side by the two preceding muscles, th IS parUs extensor rests on the radius and two of the muscles attached to it, viz., supinator breviei^aud pronator teres. Along its inner side is the common extensor of the fingers ; and the extensors of the thumb issue between the two. Each radial extensor has usually a bursa beneath the tendon, close to its insertion. Action: This muscle acts in the same way as its fellow. and use. The EXTENSOR COMMUNIS DIGITORUM (d) is single at its origin, Common but is divided below into four tendons. It arises from the common o^''?"^'"' , 1 I. i_ n . T p iiiisers: tendon, Irom the rascia, and from aponeurotic septa between it and the adjacent muscles. At the lower part of the forearm the muscle origin; ends in four tendons, which pass through a compartment of the annular ligament with the extensor indicis, and are directed along division into the back of the hand to their insertion into the second and third [inlona ■ phalanges of the fingers. ' On the fingers the tendons have the following arrangement. On insertion the dorsum of the first phalanx each forms an exi)ansion with the t'*" tendons of the luinbricalis and interosseous muscles (fig. 29, p. 75). • At the lower part of that phalanx the expansion divides into three parts (fig. .35, n) ;—the central one is fixed into the base of the second phalanx, while the lateral pier.es unite, niid are inserted into thp, ha.se of the last phalanx. Opposite the first two articulations of each finger the tendon sends down lateral bands to join the capsule of the joint. On the fore and little fingers the expansion is joined by the special extensor tendons of those digits. This muscle is placed between the extensors of the wrist and foiations of little finger, and conceals the deep layer. On the back of the hand the tendons are joined by cross bands (l), thinnest between the index finger tendon and its neighbour, and strongest between the'6 ^ . ring finger tendon and its collateral tendons, so that they prevent &^<^«< ? i5 " the ring finger being raised if the others are closed. ^"^^3^^ Action. The muscle .straightens the fingers and .separates them use, from each other. It acts especially on the first phalanges, the two ""r^''" interphalangeal joints being extended mainly by the interosseous and lumbricales muscles.