338 DISSECTION OP THE ABDOMEN. gastro- epiploic, duodenal, and cystic. Ending of large splanchnic nei've, small, and smallest. Ending of left vagua and right. Two otlier plexuses—riiy/t^ gastro-epiplotc and imwreatico-ditxidmial, correspond in distribution with the branches of each art«ry. A cystic plexus passes to the gall-bladder with the artery. The remaining offsets of the plexus, viz., superior and inferior mesenteric, aortic, and spermatic, have been already noticed (p. 319) ; but the derivation of the superior mesenteric and aortic plexuses from the epigastric centre can now be seen. Ending of the splanchnic nerves. The large nerve perforates the crus of the diaphragm, and generally ends altogether in the semi- lunar ganglion. The small nerve comes through the same opening in the diajihragm as the iireceding, and joins the coeliac jDlexus. The smallest nerve, which is often absent, passes into the supra- renal and renal plexuses. Ending of the vagus nerve. The pneumo-gastric nerves pass on to the stomach :— The left nerve divides into branches, which extend along the small curvature, and over the front of the stomach and sends offsets to the hepatic plexus. The right nerve is distributed to the posterior surface of the stomach near the upper border ; it communicates with its fellow, and gives branches to the coeliac and splenic plexuses. removal op the stomach and other viscera. Definition. Separate and Wow up the stomach. Form, size, and divisions. Left end, and right. Dissection. The oesophagus should be cut through as it pierces the diaphragm and the stomach, duodenum, pancreas and spleen are to be removed by cutting through the vessels and nerves left passing to them. the stomach. The stomach is the dilated part of the alimentary tube between the oesophagus and the small intestine, into wliich the masticated food is received. Dissection. The stomach and duodenum must be blo^ni up moderately with air, and the surfaces cleaned; but, previously, let the student detach the spleen and put it aside. Form and divisions. The stomach is rather pyriform in shape, and in its natural condition strongly curved with its surfaces looking, one upwards and forwards, and tlie otlier downwards and backwards. Its size varies much in different bodies, and is sometimes much diminished by a constriction to the right of the centre : when it is moderately distended, it is about twelve inches long and four wide. There are two ends, two orifices, two surfaces, and two borders or curvatures to be examined. The left end is called the fundm, and projects upwards to the summit to the left of the end of the otsophagus (fig. 110, p. 301). The right or pyloric end is much smaller, and tapers to the duodenum. The stomach is usually narrow and cylindrical a