DISSECTION OF THK ABDOMEN. 320 Aorta lies oil fiont of spine: parts arouiifl. Vena cava inferior: extent ; relations; is by the side of the aorta, except above. Arteries crossing it, and vein. its upper end of the vein can be better observed after tlie dissection of the vessels of the liver. The AORTA (fig. 138, p. 363) enters the abdomen between the pillars of the diaphragm, and finally divides into the common iliac arteries opposite the fourth lumbar vertebra. At its beginning the vessel lies somewhat to tlie left of the middle line; and it commonl}' inclines slightly inwards as it descends. In the abdomen the aorta is covered at first by the pancreas, then by the third part of the duodenum, and for a short distance below that hy tlie peritoneum. Beneath the pancreas it is crossed by the splenic vein above the superior mesenteric artery, and by the left renal vein below that vessel; and the solar and aortic plexuses of the sympathetic lie along its anterior surface throughout. It rests on the lumbar vertebrse, with the pillars of the diaphragm embracing it at the beginning. To its right side is the vena cava. Its relation to other deep parts cannot be examined at present. Tlie INFERIOR VENA CAVA begins opposite the fifth lumbar vertebrae by the union of the common iliac veins, and reaches thence to the heart. The venous trunk is placed on the front of the vertebral column, to the right of the aorta (fig. 138). It lies close to the aorta, and is concealed by the duodenum and pancreas as high as the crus of the diaphragm ; but above that spot it is inclined away from the tartery, and ascending in front of the diaphragm, is embedded in the back of the liver for about an inch and a half. Lastly, it leaves the abdomen by an aperture in the tendinous centre of the diaphragm, on the right of, and higher than the aortic opening. Its relations with vessels are not the same as those of the aorta. Beneath it are the right lumbar, renal, capsular, and diaphragmatic arteries ; and crossing over it below the Iddney is the right spermatic artery. iSuperficial to it beneath the pancreas is the beginning of the portal vein. REMOVAL OF THE INTESTINES. Dissection. The jejunum, the ileum, and the whole of the large intestine, as far as tlie lower part of the pelvic colon, are now to be removed. Place two ligatures on the jejunum, one at the duodeno- jejunal flexure and another an inch further on, and divide the bowel between them. In the same way divide the lower jjart of the pelvic colon between a double ligature. The whole of the intestine between these points is then removed by cutting through its peritoneal attachment close to the bowel wall. Care should be taken not to cut into the bowel, and in removing the transverse colon the arteries of the st(nnach must be avoided. After removal, ligature the ileum about six inches from the ileo- colic junction and divide it above the ligature. Proceed then in the following manner :— 1. Cut off the upper four inches of the jejunum and the lower four inches of the ileum above the cut, .and put them a.side in a tray in water.