500 DISSECTION OF THE HEAD. Incisions. Muscles of the ear. Dissection of upper muscles, of posterior muscle. Attrahens aureni muscle. Attollens ain-em muscle. Retraheus aurem con- sists of two or three bundles. Use of ear muscles. along the upper Lorder of the zygomatic arch and along tlie upper margin of the orbit as far as the root of the nose. A second incision should pa.ss from the root of the no.se, over the skull in the middle line to the external occipital protuberance behind. Tlie flap of .skin .should be reflected up\vard.s from below in front of the pinna and then be turned downward.s behind that part as far as the superior curved line of the occipital bone. Extrinsic Muscles of the Ear. Three muscles pa.¥s to the auricle from the side of the head. Two are aljove it,—one elevat- ing, the other drawing it forwards ; and the third, a retrahent muscle, is behind the ear. There are other special or intrinsic miiscle,s of the cartilage of the ear, which Avill be afterwards noticed. Dissection. If the auricle be drawn downwards by hooks, the position of the upper muscle will be indicated by a slight prominence between it and the head. By cleaning the slight ridge thereby produced, and removing a little areolar tissue, a thin fan-shaped layer of pale muscular fibres will come into view, the anterior portion of wdiich is the attrahens, while the posterior is the attollens aurem muscle (fig. 185). On drawing forwards the ear, a ridge marks the situation of the posterior muscle, and the retrahens miiscle must be sought beneath the subcutaneous tissue. It consists of rounded bundles of fibres, and is stronger and deeper than the others. The ATTRAHENS ADREM (fig. 185, is a small fan-shaped muscle which arises from the fore part of the aponeurosis of the occipito- frontalis. Its fibres are directed downwards and backwards, and are inserted into a projection on the front of the rim of the ear. Beneath it are the superficial tempoml vessels and nerves. The ATTOLLENS AUREM (fig. 185, has the same form as the preceding, though its fibres are longer and better marked. Arising also from the tendon of the occipito-froutalis, the fibres converge to their insertion into the inner or cranial surface of the pinna of the ear—into an eminence corresponding with a fossa (that of the antihelix) on the opposite aspect. The RETRAHENS AUREM (fig. 185, 1') consists of two or three roundish but separate bundles of fibres, which are stronger than those of the other muscles. The bundles arise from the root of the mastoid process, and pass almost horizontally forwards to be inserted by tendinous fibres into the lower part of the ear (concha) on its cranial aspect. The auricular branches of the posterior auricular artery and nerve are in contact with this muscle. Aclimi. The three preceding muscles will move the outer ear slightly in the directions indicated by their names ; the anterior drawing it upwards and forwards, the nnddle one upwards, and the posterior backwards. Dissection. The mn.scular fibres of the occipitalis behind and of the frontalis in front are now to be cleaned according to their direction (fig. 185) and then the superficial vessels and nerves dis- played in the following manner (fig. 186, p. 505).