389 THE URETHRA. and tlie base surrounds the neck of the bladder and the common seminal duets. The iirostate is enveloped by a sheath obtained from the recto- it is con- vesical ihacia (p. 349), and the prostatic plexus of veins surrounds luZh^"'' it. Through the gland the urethra takes its course to the perineum ; and the common seminal ducts pierce it obliquely to open into tlie urethra, as will be seen in the examination of the organ after its removal from the body. The size of the prostate varies much ; size may and in old men it may acquire a considerable magnitude. increase. The VESICUL/E SEMixN'ALES (fig. 145, (/) are two small sacculated Seminal bodies, each about two inches long, between the base of the bladder : and the rectum. Each is pyramidal in form, and has the larger their end turned upwards towards the ureter, while the smaller touches relations, the prostate. Along the inner side is the vas deferens. At the prostjite gland the vesiculse approach one another, only the vasa deferentia intervening; but higher up they diverge, and enclo.se a triangular space at the ba.se of the bladder. The vesiculce are and si.eatl. contamed in a membranous sheath, which is derived from the recto-vesical fascia, and is lined by involuntiiry muscular fibres. The VAS DEFERENS, or the e.xcretory duct of the testis (figs. 144 Vas and 145,/), in its course to the urethra enters the abdomen by the internal abdominal ring, and crossing the obliterated hypogastric artery, is directed downwards along the hinder part of the bladder to the base of the prostate, where it forms the common seminal or coi.rse • ejaculatory duct by joining with the duct from the vesicula nnites ivith seminalis. The position of this tube to the external iliac artery has been noticed ; on the bladder it jiasses internal to the ureter and the vesicula of the same side. By the side of the vesicula the duct is much enlarged, and is saccidated. Dissection. The prostate being cleaned the membranous and spongy parts of the urethra will now be cleanly laid bare on the left side l)ut not opened. /c'^'',^'!f''™f'' '^^■'^I'^toiy passage for the urine and semen Urethra- (hg. 144), and reaches from the bladder to the end of the penis In length it measures about eight inches, and presents one or two length • curves according to the state of the penis. At first the canal is cnrves •' directed do^^^nvards and forwards through the triangular ligament of the perineum to the root of the penis, forming a large curve with the concavity to the pubis. Thence to its termination the urethra is contained in the penis ; and while this body remains pendent the canal forms a second ben.l with the concavity downwards : but If the penis ,s rai.sed the tube makes but one curve. The canal is divi.,ion. divided into three parts—prostiitic, membranous, and .spongy tngth IS about one inch and a quarter, and in (he erect posture of the body It descends nearly vertically to the triangular ligament. The membranous part (c), about three-quarters of an inch long, Mem- intervenes between the ape.x of the prostate and the lower surface = ot the triangular ligament. It slants forwards in the erect posture to the lower part of the triangular ligament; and as the bull, of