DISSECTION OF THE HANB. 69 it einls hy anastomosing with the posterior interosseous and carpal arteries. Branches. Nuiueroiis offsets are given to the deep muscles. I'^/usaiiur' One long branch, median (/), accompanies the median nerve, ^i»a^-x which it supplies, and either ends in the tle.xor suhlimis, or is con- ' tv^^ittH tinned beneath the annular ligament to the palmar arch. Above the middle of the forearm the rimlidlary arteries of the medullary to 1. , , ■ r ^i. 1 tbe bones, radius and ulna arise from the vessel. Where it is about to pass through the interosseous membrane and carpal, it furnishes twigs to the pronator quadratus ; and one branch is continued beneath that muscle to anastomose with the anterior carpal arteries. The ANTERIOR INTEROSSEOUS NERVE (fig. 27, ~) is derived from Anterior the median, and accompanies the artery of the same name to the JIJ,r';™end*s'** pronator quadratus muscle, the under-surface of which it enters. pronator. Branches are given by it to the Hexor loiigus pollicis and to the outer part of the He.xor profundus digitorum muscles. Dissection. The attachment of the biceps and brachialis anticus Dissection, to the bones of the forearm may be now cleaned and e.xamined. The insertion of the brachialis anticus takes place by a broatl thick Insertion of tendon, about an inch in length, which is fi.xed into the inner and ,,,',^T„!,"! '" Jower parts of the rough impression on the front of the coroiioid process of the ulna. Insertion of the biceps. The tendon of the bicejjs is inserted into Insertion of the rough hinder part of the tuberosity of the radius, a bursa separating it from the fore part of the prominence. Near its / 9 ^ attachment the tendon is twisted, so that the anterior surface be- / conies external. The supinator brevis muscle partly surrounds the' insertion. Section V. THE PALM OF THE HAND. Dissection (fig. 27, p. 72). The digits should be well sepa- Dissection, rated and fixed firmly to a board with tacks, and the skin reflected from the palm of the hand by means of two incisions. One is to be ciirried along the centre of the palm from the wrist to the fingers; Clean small and the other is to l)e made from side to side at the termination of ii'Misiie, the first. In raising the inner Hap, the small palmaris Ijrevis muscle will be seen at the inner margin of the hand; and its insertion into the skin may be left till the muscle has been learnt. In the fat the ramifiaitions of the palmar branches of the median •-'■ace and ulnar nerves are to be traced. nen'e.r"'' The student shoidd remove the fat from the palmaris mascle, and Duiine the from the strong palmar fascia in the centre of the hand; and he Ja^da" should take care not to destroy a fibrous band (transvei-se ligament) which lies across the roots of the fingers. When cleaning the fat