780 INTERNAL STRUCTURES, White centre consists of radiating, commis- sural, aiitl collateral libres. Dentate body: situation, anil structure. Other yrey masses. Superior peainicle: origin. and destination the ui^pcr suifact' on the left side. This dissection may he accomplished by placing the scalpel in the horizontal fissure at the circumference', and carrying it inwards as far as the upper vermiform process, so as to detach the anterior and po.s- terior lobes of tlie upper a.«pect. If the corpus dentatum does not at first appear, thin slices may be made anteriorly till it is reached. The iiiedullary centre of the cerebellum forms a large oval ma.ss in each hemisphere, but is flattened and narrow in the ndddle between tlie vermiform processes. The lateral part contains the grey corpus dentatum, and is continued in front into a large stalk-like pro6e.ss, which becomes divided into the three peduncles. From its surface, as already stated, oflsets are furnished to the diUerent lobes and lamince. The white centre is composed mainly of the fibres of the peduncles radiating to the cortical grey matter ; but there are in addition, as in the cerebrum, commissural fibres between the two hemispheres, which are most developed at the fore part of the superior vermiform proces.s, and at the back close to the median notch, as well as a system of association-fibres uniting the landnfE beneath the sulci. The cor2}ns dmtatum is situate in tlie inner part of the whilt? mass of the lieniispliere, and resembles the nucleus in the olivary body of the medulla oblongata. It measures about three-quarters of an inch from before back, and consists of a plicated cap.side, which when cut across by <i sagittal section about a third of the vay across the cerebeilum from the middle line outwards, appears as a thin, wavy, greyi.sh-yelloM- line: it is open at the fore and inner part, and encloses a core of white substance. Through its aperture issue a band of fibres to join the superior peduncle. Between the two dentate bodies, embedded in the central white matter, are some smaller portions of grey substance, the chief of which is an oval mass on each side, nearly half an inch long, lying close to the middle line in the fore part of the superior vermiform process, and known as the roof-nucleus from its relation to the foiu-th ventricle (fig. 274). Peduncles of the ceeebellum (fig. 282, p. 773). These are three in number on each side, an upper C) passing to the cere- brum, a middle (") to the pons, and an inferior (") to the medulla oblongata. _ _ The superior pedimcle {inoce&ms ad cerehvmn ; hg. 2/< <, p. .bo) directed forwards, and disappears beneath the corpora quadri- "emina. It is rather flattened in shape, and forms part of the roof of the fourth ventricle. The processes of the two .sides are united by the superior medullary velum, or the valve ol ^ leus- sens (k). Its "fibres are derived mainly from the interior of t he dentate body, but a few are added from the white centre of the hemisphere and the worm. Beneath the corpora quadrigennna the superior peduncle enters the tegmentum of the cms cerebri, and crosses the middle line decussating with the one ot the is