387 URINARY BLADDER. to tlie anal passage. This part of the bowel is supported by the triangular ligament of the urethra, and by llie levatores ani and external sphincter muscdes. In front of this part are the jjrostate, the membranous part of the rolations urethra, and the bulb of tlie corpus spongiosum urethraj. The avomid-^'* levatores ani muscles descend on its sides, and unite beneath it, supporting it as in a sling. Sometimes the lower half of tlie rectum soin.-iiincs is very much enlarged, especially in women and old men ; and in ^l^ll^i that condition in the male it rises up on each side of the prostate. The anal 2>a>isaye or canal (Symington) leads downwards and An.ii caiuii. backwards from the lower end of the rectum to the anal opening. Its length varies from half an inch to one inch, being shorter wlien the bowel is distended. It is surrounded by the internal and e.vternal sphincter muscles, and is compressed laterally in the intervals between defsecation, so that its side-walls are in contact, and the lumen has the form of a median slit. The URINARY BL.VDDER (vesica urinaria; figs. 144 and 145, a) BltirldCT is is the receptacle for the urine, and is situate in the fore uart of the '" i""'^''* pelvis. ,MMi,ly, When the bladder is contracted it is flattened, and of a triangular form, and lies against the anterior wall of the pelvis ; but when distended it becomes rather egg-shaped, with the larger part and projeots towards the rectum, and the ape.x to the abdominal wall. In distension during life it is slightly curved forwards over the pubic bones, and projects above them ; and if its a.vis were prolonged Axis, forwards and backwards, it would touch the abdominal wall a variable distance (according to the distension) above the jiubic .symphvsia in front, and the lower end of the sacrum liehind. The position and form of the bladder are not the same in Position in early life as in the adult. In the new-born child it rises much above the brim of the pelvis into the hypogastric region of the abdomen, and has little or no basal surface, sim]dy tapering down to the urethral orifice which is the lowest part and is opi)osite the upper border of the .symphysis pubic (Symington). During early years the bladder rapidly sinks, but it is only after pubeity that Its final position is atUained. At all tinie.s its anterior .surface is uncovered by peritoneum. In the adult the bladder is fur the most ])art contained within in tin-,ul,ilL. the space enclo.sed by the pelvic bones, and the base iiroiects backwards. Funn. In the empty condition the bladder is somewhat Hattened Fonn. from above downwards, and triangular in outline, presenting an upper surface with a ]>osterior bcnxler and two lateral borders converging in front at the apex or summit, a basal surface oppased to the rectum, and an anterior surface ojjposed to the pubic symphysis. The organ is maintained in position by the recto-vesical fascia and tlie peritoneum, as already described (pp. 378 and 384) The relations of the moderately full bhidder are as follows :— The summit or apex is rounded, and from it three ligamentous ApexluiH ihvtivi cordd C C 2 from it.