821 THE AUniTORY NRRVK. The SACCULE (fig. 305, «) is a smaller and rounder cyat than the utricle, in front of which it is placed, in the hollow of the fovea heniispherica. It communicates with the utricle through the ductus endolymphaticus, and is continuous below liy a short and small passage {canaiis reuniens; c) with the canal of the cochlea. Like the other .s<ie, it ])0.s.seBses a macula (h) and otoliths whore the nerves enter. The dudm endolym2)haticus is a fine tubular offset of the mem- branous labyrinth, which occupies the aqueduct of the vestibule, and ends in a dilated blind extremity (sacciis endolymphaticus), embedded in the dura mater on the posterior surface of the petrous portion of the temporal bone. In the vestibule the duct divides into two small liranches, one of which joins the saccule, and the other the utricle. For an account of the minute structure of the membranous labyrinth, reference must be made to a work on microscopic anatomy. Nerve of the Labyrinth. A special nerve, the eighth cranial or auditory, is distributed to the labyrinth. Entering the internal auditory meatus with the facial nerve, it divides into an upper smaller, and a lower larger piece, each of which again subdivides into three branches. At the bottom of the meatus, the upper piece is marked by a ganglionic swelling—the intiimescentia (jan- (jlioformis of Scarpa. The upper division of the nerve sends its Ijranches to the macula of the utricle (fig. 306, c), to the aiiipidla of the superior vertical semicircular canal, and to the ampulla of the external pemicircular canal. From the loii:er division of the nerve proceed an oft'set to the saccule (a) and a slender branch to the ampulla of the posterior vertical semicircular canal (b) ; but the greater part is destined for the cochlea. Each of the branches of the auditory nei-ve breaks ip into a bundle of filaments, which pass through minute apertures of the lamina cribrosa, to reach their special part of the membranous labyrinth. The nerves of the semicircular canals enter the ampulla) on their outer flattened side, and end in the crista acustica ; while those of the sacs end in the respective macula). Saccule has coni- munications with utricle aud cochlea; macula anil otolilhs. Endo- lymphatic duet auil sac ; it ojjHns into saccule and utricle. Fig. 306.—DiSTiiincTiON op Neiives TO THE MkmBRANOUS LaBYRINTH (Huesohet). (/. Nerve to the saccule. b. Nerve entering the aini)ullary enlargement on the posterior serai- circular canal. c. Nerve entering tlie utricle. The nerve to the coolilea is not repre- sented. Auditory nerve divides into two parts; upper lia.s i;au;^lio:i, and .fuiiplies utricle, superioraud external canals ; lower gives branches to saccule, poslerinr canal, and cochlea; cndiu); of vestibiilnr branches :