THE FOURTH VENTRICLE. 781 opposite side. The fibres are then connected with the red nucleus of the tegmentum, and are continued with the longi- tudinal tegmental fibres to the optic thalamus. The valve of Vieussens, or superior medidlary velum, is a thin translucent wliite layer whicli enters into the roof of the upper part of the fourth ventricle (fi<,'. -217, k). It is narrow in front, but widens behind, wliere it is continued into the medullary centre of the worm. On each side it joins the superior pedimule. Near tlie lamina quadrigemina the fourth nerve is attached to the valve : covered i).v and its upper surface is covered liy four or five smaU transverse grey ridges, constituting the lingula. The middle peduncle (proce.ssus ad pontem), commonly named Jii.uiio the crus cerebclli, is the largest of the three processes. Its fibres l"'''"'"''''- begin in the lateral part of the hemisphere, and are directed forward to the pons, of which they form the ti-ansverse fibres. The inferior 2Jeduncle (processus ad medullam) passes dovrawards inferior to the medulla oblongata, where it is known as the restiform body. JJfg',,™^,!^ Its fibres begin chiefly in the laminae of the upper surface of the hemisphere. It will be better seen when the fourth ventricle has been opened. Dissection. One other section (fig. 277) must be made to Dissectimi. expose the fourth ventricle. The cerebellum still resting on its under surface, let the knife be carried vertically through the centre of the vermiform processes ; and then the structure of the worm, as well as the boundaries of the fourth ventricle, may be oljserved on separating the lateral portions of the cerebellum. Structure of the Wm-m (fig. 274). The upper and lower vermi- Vennifonn form processes of the cerebellum are united in one central piece [j'^f ot],^,- which connects together the hemispheres. The structure of this parts, connecting piece is the same as that of the rest of the cerebellum, viz., a central white portion and investing laminaj. Here the branching appearance .of a tree (arbor vitce) is best seen, in con- se(iuence of the laminte being more divided, and the white central stalk being thinner and more ramified. The FOURTH VENTRICLE (fossa rhoml(oidalis) is a space between Fourth the cerebellum and the posterior surface of the medulla oblongata = and jjons (Kg. 274). It has the form of a lozenge, with the points placed upwards and downwai'ds. The upper angle reaches as high form nnd as the ujiper border of the pons ; and the lower, nearly to the level • of the lower end of the olivary body. Its greatest breadth is lu-eadth: opposite the lower edge of the pons ; and a transverse line in this situation would divide the hollow into two triangular portions— upper and lower. The lower half has been named calamvK scrip- calamus torius from its resemblance to a writing pen. scnptonus. The lateral hoxmdaries are more marked above than Ijelow. For Boundaries about half way down the cavity is limited on each side by the™*'"'''' superior peduncle of the cerebellum, which, projecting over it, forms part of the roof ; and along the lower half lies the eminence of the restiform body, with the clava of the funiculus gracilis (fig. 286, cl) at the inferior extremity. At the lower border of the lateral