ARTICtJLATlOl^S OF THE SACRUM. 427 Section IY. ligaments of the pelvis. The sacrum is joined at its base to the last lumbar vertebra, at Outline of its apex to the coccyx, aud laterally to the two hip-bones. And the fat'jo'i^'''"' hip-bones are connected together at the symphysis pubis in front. Union of pieces of the sacrum and coccyx. So long as Li-aments the pieces of the sacrum and coccyx remain moveable they are °l\rate articulated as in the other vertebras by an anterior and a posterior ' common ligament, with an intervertebral disc for the bodies, and l>y ligaments for the neural arch and processes. After the sacral vertebrse have coalesced, only rudiments of the and joined, ligaments of the bodies are to be recognised ; and when the pieces of the coccyx unite by bone, their ligaments disappear. LuMBo-SACKAL ARTiCDLATiON. The base of the sacrum is Sacmm articulated with the last lumbar vertebra by ligaments similar to ui^baf * those uniting one vertebra to another (pp. 492 et seq.); and by one vertebra, special ligament—the lateral lumbo-sacral. Dissection. For the best manner of bringing these different Dissection, ligaments into view, the dissector may consult the directions given for the dissection of the ligaments of the vertebrte (pp. 492 et seq.). The commo7i ligaments for the bodies of the two bones are an By liga- anterior aud a posterior, with an intervening fibro-cartilaginous sub- "^"ther'' stance. Between the neural arches lie the ligamenta subflava, and vertebra, between the spines the supra- and interspinous bands. The articular processes are united l )y capsular ligaments with synovial membranes. The lateral lumbosacral ligament is a variable bundle of filjres, and by a which reaches from the under surface of the tip of the transverse 'S' process of the last lumbar vertebra to the lateral mass at the base i^and. of the sacrum. Widening as it descends, the ligament joins the fibres in front of the sacro-iliac articulation. Sacro-coccygeal articulation. The sacrum and coccyx are Union of united at the centre by a fibro-cartilage, and by an anterior and coccj""'"^ a posterior ligament. There are also lateral and interarticular ligaments on each side. Dissection. Little dissection is needed for these ligaments. Dissection. Wlien the areolar tissue has been removed altogether from the bones, the ligaments will be apparent. The anterior ligament (sacro-coccygeal) consists of a few fibres that An anterior pass between the bones in front of the fibro-cartilage. ""'^ The posterior ligament is wide at \{& attachment to the margin of a posterior the lower opening of the sacral canal, but narrows as it descends to be inserted in the coccyx. The fibro-cartilage resembles that l)etweeii the bodies of the other with a nbro- vertebraj, and is attached to the surfaces of the bones cartilage. Interarticular ligaments. The cornua of the sacrimi and coccyx a band do not usually form jointe, but are united by a ligamentous band ItSl^r on each side. amcuiar,