DISSECTION OP THE UPPER LIMB. 92 Section VII. LIGAMENTS OF THE SHOULDER, ELBOW, WRIST, AND HAND. Directions!. Directions. The ligaments of the remaining articulations of the limb, which are still moist, may be examined at once ; but if any of them have become dry, they may be softened by immersion in water, or with a wet cloth, while the student learns the others, of 'exteruai Dissectioil. For the preparation of the external ligaments of ligaments of the shoulder-joiiit the tendons of the surrounding nuLscles, viz., shoulder. subscapularis, sujiraspinatus, infraspinatus, and teres minor, must be detached from the capsule ; and as these are closely united with the cajjsu^le some care will be needed not to injure it. The Shoulder-Joint. This ball and socket joint (fig. 38) is formed between the head of the humerus and the glenoid fossa of the scapula. Enclosing tlie articular ends of the bones is a fibrous capsule lined by a synovial membrane. A ligamentous band (glenoid ligament) deepens the shallow scapular cavity for the reception of the large head of the humerus. The bones are but slightly bound together by ligaments, for, on the removal of the muscles, the head of the humerus may be drawn from the scapula for the distance of an inch. The capsular ligament (fig. 14, p. 36) encloses the articular portions of the bones. It is much thickened above, and is thin below. The surrounding tendons are closely adherent to it above, in front and behind. By the one end it is fixed around the articular surface of the scapula, where it is connected with the long head of the triceps. "By the other the ligament is fixed (fig. 38) to the neck of the humerus close to the articular surface above, but at a little dis- tance down the bone below ; and its attachment is interrupted between the tuberosities (6) by the tendon of the biceps muscle, across which fibres are continued, covering in the groove (fig. 14). On the inner side there is an aperture in the capsule, below the coracoid process, through which the synovial membrane of the joint is continuous with tlie bursa beneath the tendon of the suliscapularis. The following muscles surround the articulation ;—above and behind are the supraspinatus, infraspinatus, and teres minor ; below are the long head of the triceps and the lower part of the subscapu- laris ; and in front it is covered by the last-named muscle. On the upper part of the capsule is a tliick band of fibres—the coraco-humeral or ffc-^fffl/ fif(fig. 14, % which siirings from the outer side of the coracoid process of the scapula, and widening over the top of the joint, is attached to the great tuberosity and margins of th° bir'Y'^"^ irrniu^g Dissection DlSSectlOIlT To see the interior of the articulation cut away the Btn^cV^rw. posterior part of the capsule, leaving its attachments to the liunierus Shoulder- joint, outline of. Looseness. Capsular ligament: attach' ments aperture; nuiscle.s around acce.ssory band.