DISSKOTION OK TIIR PITAIiVNX. Go of tlie diii'crent struclures lyiiifr ugaiiist (hf pliaryii.^'cal wiill iVom one anotlier and make out tlieir relations IVom llie I'resli point ol' view. Tlie niarijins of the inferior and middle constrictor muscles are to lowiTami be defined. Beneath tlie lower one, near tlic laryn.\, will be found "ti-uao,.;'"'' the recurrent nerve with companion vessels ; between the inferior and middle are the superior laryngeal nerve and vessels ; and the stylo- pharyngeus muscle disappears beneath the npper border of the middle constrictor. To see the attachment of the sujierior constrictor to the lower jaw upper con- aiid tlie i)terygo-nia.\illary ligament, it will be necessary to cut thiough tlie internal pterygoid ninscle. Above the upper fibres of this constrictor, and near tlie base of the skull, are two small muscles of the palate (f and h) entering the pharyn.x : one, tensor palati, lies close inside the internal pterygoid muscle ; and the other, levator palati, is deeper and larger. The Pharynx is a portion of the alimentary canal wliich gives rimrynx: ])assage to both food and air. It is j.laced behind the nose, mouth and larynx, and extends from the base of the skull to the lower ,.xi,,.nt; border of the cricoid curtilage of the laryn.x, where it ends in tlie oesopliagus on a level with the lower part of the si.xth cervical vertebra. In form it is .somewhat conical, with the dilated jiartfonn; upwards ; and its length averages about lour and a half inches, but i.MigUi ; varies according to the position of the head and the degree of elevation of the larynx. The tube of the jdiaryn.v is incomplete in front, wiiere it com- is .m inco,,,. nuuucates with the cavities above mentioned, but is clo,sed above,' behind, and at the sides. Below, it opens into the gullet. On each .vlations; •side of It are placed the trunks of the carotid arteries, with the internal jugular vein, and the accompanying cranial and sympathetic nerve.s. Behind it is tlie spinal column, covered by muscles, viz., longi colli and recti cai)itis antici. In front, the pharyii.v is uniterl to the larynx, the liyoid bone, atud,. the tongue, and the bony framework of the nasal foss;e. which form the boundaries of its cavity in this direction. Behind and at the ,u„i con- sides. It lias a .special muscular wall, and is only united by very loose connective tissues to suiTonnding parts. At tlie upj.er Jnd the bag IS comjileted by a fibrous aponeurosis which fixes it to the base of the .skull ; ami the whole is lined by 7nuc(nis membrane. The nponcuro,is of attachment is seen at the upper part of the Apn„H,u-o.si.s pharynx, where the muscular fibres are absent, to connect the tube to the base of the .skull, and to complete the posterior boundary Su],eriorly it is fi.xed to the basilar process <,f the occipital, and the petrous part of the temporal bone ; but inferiorly it becomes thin and IS lost III the layer of connective ti.ssue between the muscular and mucous strata. On this membrane .some of the fibres ,,f the su]ierior constrictor muscle terminate. The MascLEs of the pharyngeal wall are arrangi.l in two layers- Musoh.s i„ an outei' comprising the three constrictors, the fibres of which run t"'"'"yor.s. more or less transversely to the direction of the tube, and an inner