THK INTERNAL CAIIOTIP ARTKUY. (i27 portion in the uuck and the temporal bone remain to be dissected. The teniiiual branches of the carotid are examined with the lirain. Dissection (fig. 225, p. 628). For the disphiy of tlie cervicjU ^/-^t;-'., part of Uie artery there is now but little dissection required. By the neck ; detaching the styloid process at the root, and throwing it forward witli its muscles, the internal carotid artery and thejuguhxr vein may be followed upwards to the skull. Only a dense fascia conceals tliem ; and this is to be taken away carefully, so that the branches of the nerves may not be injured. In the fascia, and directed forwards over the artery, seek the glosso-pharyngeal nerve, and its branches near the skull, and the small pharyngeal branch of the vagus lower down ; still lower, the superior laryngeal branch of the vagus, with its external laryngeal ollset, crossing beneath the carotid. Between the vein and artery, close to the skull, will be found the vagus, hypoglossal, and sympathetic nerves : and crossing backwards, over or under the ami of^tiio vein, the spinal accessory nerve. External to the vessels the loop of nerves the first and second cervical nerves over the transverse process of the atlas is to be defined ; and from it branches of communication are to be traced to the large ganglion of the sympathetic beneath the artery, and to the vagus and hypoglossal nerves. The dissection of these nerves from tlie carotid vessels at the base of the skull is a difficult operation in consei^uence of the strong investing tissue. Ascending to the cranium, on the inner side of the carotid, the ascending pharyngeal artery will be met with. The INTERNAL CAROTID ARTERY (fig. 225, cl) springs from the internal bifurcation of the comimm carotid trunk. It extends from the upper carotui. border of the thyroid cartilage to the base of the skull; then through enters the the petrous portion of the temporal bone ; and lastly along the base of the .skull to the anterior clinoid process, where it ends in branches for the brain. This winding course of the artery may be divided its course into three portions—one in the neck, another in the temporal bone, and a third in the cranium. Cervical part. In the neck the artery ascends almost vertically throngh from its origin to the carotid canal, and is in contact with the ' pharynx on the inner side. The line of the common carotid artery would mark its position in the neck. Its depth from the surface varies like that of the external carotid ; and the digastric muscle may be taken as the index in this ditl'ereiice. Thus, below that less deep muscle, the internal carotid is overlapiied by the sterno-mastoid and covered by the common integuments, fascia, and platysma, and is on the same level as the external carotid, though farther back. But above that muscle, the vessel is placed deeply beneath the external but very carotid artery and the ])arotid gland, and is crossed by the styloid' process and the stylo-[iharyngeus muscle. AVhile in the neck, the internal carotid lies on the rectus capitis anticus major muscle, which rests on separates it from the vertebrte. lectu.s. ViAii. The internal jugular vein accompanies the artery, being position of contained in a sheath with it and jilaced on its outer side. s s 2