BRACHIAL ARTERY. 47 covered only by the iiitegiimeiits and the deep fascia ; but at the bend of the elbow it uecomes deeper, and is crossed by the pro- longation from the tendon of the biceps. Posteriorly the artery has the following muscular connections (fig. 20, p. 49):—While it is and inside the humerus it is placed ©¥e¥ the long head of the triceps (f) """*<=lo»>^ j for two inches, but separated partly by the musculo-spiral nerve , and profunda vessels, and-«¥»r the inner head (g) of the same »v ffoJc muscle for about an inch and a half. But when the vessel passes • to the front of the bone it lies on the insertion of the coraco- brachialis (c) and on the brachialis anticus (h). To the outer side are the coraco-brachialis and bicei)s muscles (c and b), the latter overlapping it. Veins. Venaj comites lie along the sides of the artery (fig. 20, d), with veins, encircling it with cross branches, and the median-basilic vein crosses over it at the elbow. The basilic vein is near the artery, on the inner side, above; but it is superficial to the fascia in the lower half of the arm. The nerves in relation with the artery are the following :— ""'l with The internal cutaneous (fig. 20, ~) is in contact with the vessel until it perforates the fascia about the middle of the arm. The ulnar nerve {*) lies to the inner side as far as the insertion of the coraco-brachialis muscle ; and the musculo-spiral is behind for a distance of two inches. The median nerve (fig. 20, i) is close to the vessel throughout, but alters its position in this way :— as low as the insertion of the coraco-brachialis it is placed on i the outer side, but it then crosses obliquely oxau, or occasionally / under, the artery, and becomes internal about two inches above > the elbow-joint. TJmunuil position. The bracliial trunk occasionally leaves tlio inner Deviation border of the biceps in the lower half of the arm, and courses along the in position; interniuscnhir septum, with or without the median nerve, to near the inner condyle of the humerus. At this spot the vessel is directed to its ordinary po.sition in front of the elbow, beneath the upper fibres of the pionator teres, which has then a wide origin. In this unusual course the artery lies behind a projection (supracondylar process) of the humerus. Musmlar covering. In some bodies the bracliiid artery is covered by an in muscular additional slip of origin of the biceps, or of the brachialis anticus muscle. <=o^'cring. And sometimes a slip of the brachialis may conceal, in cises of high origin of the radial, the remainder of the arterial trunk continuing to the forearm. High division. Instead of a single trunk, there may be two vessels in Artery the lower part, or even the whole length of the arm, owing to an un- usually high origin of one of the arteries of the forearm, more frequently the radial. Fasa aberraiitia. Occasionally a long slender vessel passes from the Al)urrant brachial or the axillary trunk to the radial, rarely to the ulnar artery. vessels. Brandies spring both externally and internally from the brachial its brandies artery (fig. 18). Those on the outer side, muscular, supply tbe ^^^^^^^^^^ coraco-brachialis, biceps, and lirachialis anticus, as well as the lower part of the deltoid ; those on the inner side are the superior and inferior profunda, the medullary artery of the humerus,