477 THE TUAOHKA AND liRONCIH. at the base, and passing downwards in the venti-icular wall, enter the lower liart of the septum, in which they ascend to the central tihro-cartilage. d. Similar looped fibres pass from the outer wall of the right ventricle anil of riglit throuyli the septum to the fibro-cartilage. vontriele; c. The figure-of-8 fibres pass from the front of the right ventricle through ijaure-of-S the septum to the back of the left, and from the front of the left to the back of the right, the two sels decussating in the septum. Endocardium. Lining the interior of the cavities of the heart is a thin Liiiini,' membrane, which is named endocardium. Id is continuous on the one hand "{■"'t"''™','.!',.^ with the lining of the veins, and on the other wiih that of the arteries. ° "'" ' Where the membrane passes from an auricle to a ventricle, or from a ventricle to an artery, it forms duplicatures in which fibrous tissue is enclosed, thus giving rise to the valves ; and in the ventricles it covers the tendinous cords, and the projecting muscular bundles. The thickness of the membrane is greater in the auricles than in the ventricles, and in the left than in the right half of the heart. THE TRACHEA AND LUNGS. Dissection. To see fully the pieces of the air-tube iu the root of the lung, it will be necess;iry to divide the bninches of the pulmonary artery and the pulmonary veiii.s. And when the upper part of the arch of the aorta is turned to one side, the dissector will be able to clear away the bronchial glands, the nerves, and the connective tissue from the part of the tracliea in the thorax, and from the branches into which it bifurcates. The TRACHEA, or windpipe, reaches from the larynx to the Ti-aeb™ lungs, and lies on the front of the spinal column. The tube begins opi)osite the sixth cervical vertebra ; and it ends commonly at the ends iu lower border of the fourth dorsal vertebra by di\'iding into two pieces (bronchi), one for each lung. In the thorax (fig. 163, p. 448) the trachea is situate with the its relations gi'eat vessels in the superior mediastinum ; and its lower end is thorax usually inclined somewhat to the right side. Here it is covered by the left innominate vein, by the arch of the aortii, with the origins of the innominate and left common airotid arteries, and by the cardiac plexus of nerves. Behind the airtube is the cusophagus, wliich projects to the left above the arch of the aortal. On the right side are the pleura, the vagus, and the innominate artery for a short distance, after this has passed over the trachea ; and on the left side lie the left subclavian artery, and the recurrent branch of the vagus. The BRONCHI, or the branches of the airtube, are contained in the lironclii lie roots of the lungs, and are surrounded by vessels, glands and nerves, orthehmgs; Near the lung each is divided into as many primary pieces as there are lobes. In their structure and form the bronchi resemble the are like the windpipe, for tliey are round and cartilaginous in front, but flat, '" and muscular and membranous beliind. Their position behind the other pulmonary vessels has been described at p. 449. The right bronchus is about an inch in length, and is larger than Tiio right the left; it also forms a more direct continuation of the trachea, 'y"''" from which circumst^rnce a foreign body in the airtube is more likely to enter this bronchus. It passes oblicjuely outwards, on a