19 PECTOBALTS MAJOR. forms the anterior fold of the lioUow. Covering it are the integu- ments, with the mamma and tlie thin dee]i fa.seia, as M-ell as tlie l)Iatysnia close to the clavicle. Tlie U])per border is adjacent to tlie/, ; deltoid muscle, the cephalic vein, and a small artery l.ving l)etween^"e^J:^tc. -/T^s, the two. Between the clavicular and sternal origins is a narrow interval, which corresponds to a de]>ression on the surface. Tin; parts lienealh the pectoralis major will he .seen sulwequeiitly. Adion. If the humerus is hanging, the muscle will move Usr: flexp.s, forwards the linih until the elhow reaches the front of the trunk, 'n, ' and will rotate it inwards. When the linih is rai.sed, the pectoralis depresses and adducts it iimi iuicincts (draws it to the side of the liody) ; and acting with other muscles ■ inserted into the humerus, it may dislocate the head of that Lone when the lower end is raised and fixed, as in a fall on the elbow. Supposing both limbs fixed, as in climbing, the trunk will be rai.s..s rii«. raised by both mu.scles ; and the lower fibres can elevate the ril)s in laborious lireathiiig. Dissection (Hgs. 6 and 7). The great pectoral muscle is to be cut DLs.spction. across now in the following manner :— Divide the clavicular part of the muscle and find the subjacent Cutciavi- bi'anches of nerve and artery. In refiecting the cut piece of the of thV""' muscle, press the limb against the edge of the table, for the Pectoral. luiil)ose of raising the clavicle and rendering tight the fascia att.ached to that lione. Carefully remove the fat, and a piece of fascia prolonged from the upper border of the small pectoral muscle, (the membranous costo-coracoid sheath) will be .seen close to the ela\-icle, covering the axillary vessels and nerves. The cephalic vein is to be defined as it crosses inwards to the Trace axillary vein. A branch of a nerve (the extmuil antmor thoracic), '■'"^^f^'^"'^ and the acromio-thoranc vessels, perforate the fascia over the axillary trunks, and are to be followed to the clavicular part of the pectoral muscle. A second branch of the external anterior thoracic nerve, with accompanying arteries, will be found passing downwards over the upper border of the pectoralis minor into the sternal part of the major mu.scle. These nerves and arteries should now be cleaned. The remaining i)art of the pectoralis major may then be cut about Divide tim its centre, and the pieces thrown inwards and outwards. Any fat °/ coming into view is to be removed; and the tendon of the pectoralis IS to be followed to the humerus. In raising the pectoralis major note will be taken of a small nerve {internal anterior thornric), which usually pierces the minor muscle to enter the lower part of the major. Insertion of the pectoralis major. The tendon of the pectoralis Tend,,,, of consists ol two layer.-, anterior, and posterior, at its attachment to the bone ;—the anterior receives the clavicular and upper sternal fibres; and the posterior gives attachment to the lower ascendin.^ thoracic fibres. The tendon is from two inches to two inches and a halt wide, and sends upwards one expansion over the bicipital groove to the capsule of the .shoulder-joint, and another downwards to the lascia of the arm (see humerus, fig. 17, p. 44). c 2