DISSECTION OF THE LEG. 178 Anterior anmiliir ligament : upper, horizoutal band, lower, Y-shaped band ; sheaths differ in each. External annular ligament. Muscles on the front of the leg and foot. Tibialis anticus: origin; insertion ; are tlien to be cleaned as liigh as the knee, as they lie deeijly between the muscles. The ANTERIOR ANNULAR LIGAMENT (fig. 67 and fig. 70, p. 183) consi,sts of two pieces, upper and lower, which confine the muscles in their position, the former serving to bind the fleshy bellies to the bones of the leg, and the latter to keep down the tendons on the dorsum of the foot. The upper part (horizontal hand) is above the level of the ankle- joint and is attached laterally to the bones of the leg; it possesses one sheath with synovial membrane for the tibialis auticus. The lower part is situate in front of the tarsal bones. It is attached externally by a narrow piece into the upper surface of the OS calcis, in front of the interosseous ligament; and internally it is thm and widened, having a variously defined thickening at its upper part where it passes to the internal malleolus, and another below where it blends with the fascia on the inner side of the foot; the latter in this place being deep to the tibialis auticus tendon. In view of its single stem externally and the two diverging thicken- ings internally, this portion of the anterior annular ligament is often called the Y-slmped band. Beneath this part of the liga- ment there are the three sheaths: an inner one for the tibialis anticus ; an outer for the extensor longus digitorum and peroneus tertius; and an intermediate one for the extensor hallucis. Separate synovial membranes line the sheaths. The EXTERNAL ANNULAR LIGAMENT is i3laced below the fibula, and is attached on the one side to the outer malleolus, and on the other to the os calcis. Its lower edge is connected by fibrous tissue to the sheaths of the peronei muscles on the outer side of the os calcis. It contains the two lateral peronei muscles in one com- partment ; and this is lined by a synovial membrane, which sends two offsets below into the separate sheaths of the tendons. The Muscles on the Front of the Leg (fig. 67 and fig. 69, p. 181) are four in number. The large muscle next the tibia is the tibialis anticus; that next the fibula, the extensor longus digitorum ; while a small muscle, apparently the lower end of the last with a separate tendon to the fifth metatarsal bone, is the peroneus tertius. The muscle between the tibialis and extensor digi- torum, in the lower part of the leg, is the extensor proprius hallucis. On the dorsum of the foot only one other muscle appears, the extensor brevis digitorum. The TIBIALIS ANTICUS reaches the tarsus : it is thick and fleshy in the upper, but tendinous in the lower part of the leg. It arises from the outer tuberosity, and the upper half of the external surface of the tibia (fig. 68) ; from the contiguous part of the interosseous membrane ; and from the fascia of the leg, and the intermuscular septum between it and the extensor longus digitorum. Its tendon begins below the middle of the leg, and passes beneath both pieces of the annular ligament, where it is surrounded by a synovial sheath, to be inserted into the internal cuneiform bone, and the metatarsal bone of the great toe.