THE FNEUMO-GASTRIC NERVE. 63H reach tlie thorax, the. vagus descends almost vertically courses to ' " tlio thorax. the spinal acces.sory, and .swells into a ganglion nearly an inch long (gang, of the trunk). This ganglion lies between the internal carotid" artery and jugular vein, and communicates with several nerves. To between the internal jugular vein and the internal and common carotid arteries ; and it enters that cavity, on the right .side, by cro.ss- ing over the subclavian artery, but beneath the innominate vein. * The (/cuu/lion of the root (jugular ganglion ; fig. 226,**) is ol' greyish colour, and I'lom it small branches in the jugular foramen ari.se. The ganglion of the trunk (") is cylindrical in form, reddish in colour, and nearly an inch in length ; it communicates with the hypoglossal, spinal, and sympa- thetic nerves. All tlie intrinsic fibres of the trunk of the nerve enter the ganglion, but those de- rived from the spinal accessory nerve ('') pass over the ganglion without being connected to it. The branches of the pneunio- gastric nerve arising in the neck maybe divided into tho.se uniting it with other nerves, and those distributed to the several organs. * Connecting brunches (fig. 226) arise from the ganglia of the root and trunk oi the vagus. * From the ganglion of the root. The auricular branch (Arnold's nerve,') is the chief offset, and crosses the jugular fossa to enter an aperture near the root of the styloid process ; it traverses the substance of the temporal bone. Fig. 226.—Diagram up the Ninth, Brannhes Tenth, and Eluventii Nekves. A. Pons. B. jMediiUa oblongati. 1. GI0S.S0 pharyngeal nerve. 2. Vagus. 3. 3. Spinal accessory. 4. Jugular ganglion. .'1. Petrosal ganglion. 6. Tympanic nerve. 7. .Auricular branch. 8. Root-ganglion, anti 9, Trunk- ganglion of vagus. 10. Branch joining the petrous and upper ganglion of the vagns. 11. 8mall part of spinal accessory. 12. Large part of spinal accessory. 13. Pharyngeal, and 14, superior laryngeal branch of vagus. to unite witli others; auricular branch; and is distributed to the outer ear. Its farther course will be described with the anatomy of the ear (page 814). * One or two short filaments unite this ganglion with the small "iUi el6V(?ntli part of the spinal accessory nerve ; and a branch from the upper symia- ganglion of the sympathetic enters it. Occasionally there is an J'l'-JjJ^'. offset (^°) to join the petrosal ganglion of the glosso-pharyngeal nerve. From th<: ganglion of the trunk. Coniniunicaling filaments pass twuiith,