DISSECTION OF FRONT OF FOREARM. 68 are bent. of thumb origin fleshy belly, and ends in tendons wliicli, passing beneath the insertion; annular ligament, are inserted into the last phalanges of the fingers (fig. 32, p. 78). The portion of the muscle furnishing the tendon to the index finger is separated from the rest by a layer of areolar tissue, and arises chiefly from the interosseous membrane, parts Lying over the muscle are the ulnar vessels and nerve, the around it; g^^pgj.flgjfi] flexor of the fingers, and the flexor carpi ulnaris. The deep surface rests on the vilna and the pronator quadratus muscle. The ou^ter border touches the flexor longus poUicis and tlie anterior interosseous vessels and nerve, use on Action. The muscle bends the joints of the fingers and the wrist; wrfs't"' but it does not act on the last phalanx till after the second has been moved by the flexor sublimis. How lingers The fingers are usually bent in the following order :—fii-stly, the articulation between the first (proximal) and the middle phalanges ; secondly, the last phalangeal joint; and thirdly, the metacarpo- phalangeal. Long flexor The FLEXOR LONGUS POLLicis (fig. 26, b) arises from the anterior surface of the radius below the oblique line (fig. 25), as low as the pronator quadratus, and from the outer part of the interosseous membrane ; it is also joined in most cases by a distinctslip arising in cominon with the flexor sublimis digitorutnjBlLhei' J^OTSJ^hjdultmial '""condyle of till'' bnmems nTlTie" cm'oiioig' process of the ulna. The ][leshy~flbres descend to a tendon, which is continued beneath the insertion; annular ligament, and is inserted into the last phalanx of the thumb, parts above The greater part of the muscle is covered by the flexor sublimis digitorum ; and the radial vessels rest on it for a short distance and beneatii below. It lies on the radius and the pronator quadratus. To the ''^' inner side is the flexor profundus digitorum. use. Action. This muscle is the special flexor of the last joint of the thumb, but it also aids in bending the other joints of that digit and the wrist. Pronator The PRONATOR QUADRATUS (fig. 26, d) is a flat muscle cover- quadratus -^g ^j^g igyf^y fourth of the liones of the forearm. It arises from the anterior surface of the ulna, where it is widened by a somewhat linear and partly tendinous origin, and is inserted into the fore and inner parts of the radius for about two inches (fig. 25). is deep in The anterior surface is covered by the tendons of the flexor position; jj^yggieg of ti^e (ligit^s^ and by the radial vessels ; and the posterior surface rests on the radius and ulna with the intervening membrane, and on the interosseous vessels and nerve. Along it^ lower border is^tlie arch formed by the anterior carpal ixrteries. " Action. The end of the radius is moved iinvards over the ulna by this muscle, and the hand is pronated. Anterior in- The ANTERIOR INTEROSSEOUS ARTERY (fig. 26, c) is continued on teroRseous ^-^^^ f^,^,^, interosseous membrane between the two flexors or " in the fibres of the flexor profundus digitorum,Jilljt_reaches aix. aperture in the mcmln-ane near the .Ujipcr l>order of the pronator. quadxajais. At that .spot the arter^WWS from the front to the back of the limb, and descends to the back of the carpus, where