702 DISSECTION OP THE LARYNX. ami liitoral [jiii'ls ; relations. Crico- thyi'oid joint : movements. Crico- arytenoid joint aud ligament: movements, Rliding and rotation. Arytenoid and capitulum, above to the lower border of the thyroid cartilage (see fig. 212, p. 587). The lateral part is thinner, and is continued upwards beneath the ala of the thyroid cartiUige, to end in a thickened border, which is attached behind to the vocal process of the arytenoid cartilage, constituting the inferior thyro-arytenoid ligament in the true vocal cord. The central part of the membrane is partly exposed between the crico-thyroid muscles, and small apertures exist in it for the passage of vessels into the larynx. The lateral part is separated from thyroid cartilage by the thyro-arytenoid and lateral crico- arytenoid muscles. The deep surface of the membrane is lined by the mucous membrane. The crico-thyroid articulation is formed between the inferior comu of the thjToid and the lateral ai'ticular facet of the cricoid cartilage. A capsular ligament, which is thickest behind, and lined by sjmovial membrane, surrounds the articulation. This joint allows of a slight degree of gliding movement backwards and for- wards, and of a rotatory movement around a transverse axis, by which the front of the cricoid cartilage is raised or depressed. Grico-arytenoid articulation. Between the cricoid and arytenoid cartilages there is a syno%'ial joint surrounded by a loose capsule. To the inner side of the joint there is a well marked crico-arytenoid ligament, which passes from the upper border of the cricoid cartilage near the middle line to the adjacent part of the base of the arytenoid and prevents the latter cartilage being drawn forwards over the cricoid. The arytenoid cartilage glides upwards and inwards, or downwards and out- wards, to a slight extent on the oblique articidar facet of the cricoid; but its prin- cipal movement is one of rotation, by which the vocal process is carried inwards and somewhat downwards, approximating the vocal cords and narrowing the glottis, or outwards and upwards, enlarging the glottis. Between the apex of the arytenoid cartiLoge and the capitulum there is sometimes a synovial joint, but the two cartilages are most frequently united by connective or fibro-cartilaginous tissue. The thyro-arytenoid ligaments have been examined with the vocal cords (pp. 695 and 696). Fio. 249.—View of the Vocal Cords and Crico- thyroid Ligaments. 1. True vocal cord. 2. Posterior crico-arytenoid muscle. 3. Cricoid cartilage. 4. Arytenoid cartilage. 5. Saoculus laryngis. 6. Lateral part of the crico- thyroid membrane.