DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. 394 and side. Round ligament. Falloiiian tube. Ovary, and its ligament. Vagina: extent and form ; length; axis: relations. Bladder resembles tliat of the male; differences in the two sexes. the To ecacli side are attacheil the broad ligament with the Fallopian tube, the round ligament, and the ovary. The round or suspensory ligament (n) is a fibrous cord about five inches long which is directed forwards and outwards to the internal abdominal ring, and then through the inguinal canal to end in the groin (see p. 277). This cord lies over the obliterated liypogastric and the external iliac artery ; and it is surrounded by peritoneum, which accompanies it a .-^hort way into the canal. The Fallopian tube (m), about four inches long, is contained in the upper or free border of the broad ligament. One end is con- nected to the uterus close to the fundus, while the other is folded round the ovary. At the uterine end the tube is of small size, but at the op])osite extremity it is dilated like a trumpet, and fringed (fig. 146), forming the corpus fimbriatuvi: one of the fimbria} is attached to the upper part of the ovary. The OVARY (l) is oval in form, but rather flattened, and very variable in size. It forms a projection at the back of the Ijroad ligament, and is invested by the peritoneum except along one (the attached) border. In the natural condition it lies nearly vertically against the side wall of the pelvis, and is embraced by the outer part of the Fallopian tube : the direction of its free border varies. Its lower end, which is directed somewhat forwards, is attached to the uterus by the special fibrous band already noticed, about one inch and a half in lengtb, the ligament of the ovary. The VAGINA (fig. 146 and fig. 147, i) is the tube by which the uterus communicates with the exterior of the body. It is com- pressed from before backwards, being slit-like in section from side to side ; and its length is about three inches. As it follows the bend of the rectum, it is slightly curved ; and its axis corresponds below with that of the outlet, but higher up with that of the cavity of the pelvis. In front of the vagina are the base of the bladder, and the urethra; and behind it is the rectum, but the peritoneum inter- venes between the two for a short distance at the upper end. It is transmitted through an opening in the recto-vesical fascia, wbicli sends a sheath along the lower lialf of the tube ; and the levator ani lies along the side external to this. The upper end receives the neck of the uterus by an aperture in the anterior wall; and lower end, the narrowest part of the canal, is encircled by sphincter vaginaj muscle. A large plexus of veins surrounds vagina within its sheath. In children, and in the virgin, external aperture is partly closed by the hymen (p. 255). The BLADDER (fig. 146 and fig. 147, h) is jilaced at the fore part of the pelvis, in front of the vagina, and in contact with the back of the 2Hil)ic bones. Its positions and relations .so closely resemble those of the bladder in the male body, as to render unnecessary a separate description of them (p. 387). The chief differences in the bladder of tlie two sexes are tlie following :— In the female the bladder is more globular than in the male, and the transverse often exceeds the longitudinal measurement. the the the the