THK LEFT VENTRICLE. 463 opening between the two. In tlie frt'tusonly a very small quantity i" lu tus. of blood pas.se.s through the lungs ; and the left auricle receives its pure blood from the inferior vena cava through the right auricle by the a]iertun' in the septum (foramen ovale). Dissection. The left ventricle may be opened by an incision iiow to along both the anterior and the posterior surfaces, near the .septum ; ventricle the.se are to be joined at the ape.x, but are not to be extended upwards so a.s to reach the auricle. On raising the triangular flaii the interior of the cavity will be visible. The CAVITY OF THE LEFT VENTRICLE is longer and more conical Form or left in shape than that of the opposite ventricle ; and it is oval, or almost circular, on a transverse section. The rtjjcc of the cavity reaches the apex of the heart. The base Ai>cx. is turned towards the auricle ; and in it are the openings into the Huso with aorta and the left auricle. openings. The tcall of this ventricle is much thicker than that of the right, Wall, and the anterior boundary is formed lor the most jjart by the inter- ventricular septum. Its surface is irregular, like that of the right ventricle, in con- innersnr- sequence of tlie pirojection of the columnse carneas; but near the jj"™ aorta the surface is smoother. There are three kinds of fleshy columns eoUimns, in this as in the right ventricle. The large musculi papilUuvs give and some attachment to the tendinous cords of the auriculo-ventricular valve, ™'y and are more strongly marked than on the right .side : they are arranged in two great bundles, which spring from the riyht and left .sides of the cavity. The left aiiricnlo-ventricular openimj is placed beneath the orifice i.eft anri- of the aorta, but close to it, only a thin fibrou.s band intervening ^J.'j'y between the two. It is rather smaller than the corresponding tmo': aperture of the right side, being about three inches and a half in fo,™ circumference, and it is longest in the transver.se direction. It is size; furnished with a membranous valve (mitral) which projects into the ventricle. The mitral valve is stronger and of greater length than the tri- Mitral cuspid, and has also firmer and more tendinous cords ; it takes its name from a fancied resemblance to a mitre. Attached to a fibrous ring round the aperture, it is divided below by a notch on each side into two pieces. Its segments lie one before the other, with their edges directed to the sides, and their surfaces towards the front and back of the cavity. The anterior, or aortic cusp, of the aortic ensp; valve intervenes between the auricular and aortic opening.s, and is larger and looser than the imslmoi- or marginal The mitral resembles the tricuspid valve in its structure and stmciure- office. Its segments consist of thicker and thinner parts ; and in the notches at the sides there are also thinner pieces between the two piinuiry segments. The chords tendinas ascend to be attacl.ment attached to the valve in the notches between the tongues; and = they end on the segments in the .same way as in the tricuspid valve. Each of the large papillary muscles acts on both portions of the valve.