N^e ^<b«rt^vflLl«.e.-.-3.4.5-. l) ^ 116 DISSECTION OF THE BUTTOCK. Tlie .sacral nerves iu'b uiiiterl beneath gluteus: cutaneous ofl'sets. Gluteu.s inedius arises from liip-boue, and inserted into tro- chanter : relations; Sacral 3^ USB with limb hanging, both limbs fixed, in standing on one leg. and walking. Detach gluteus niedins to see gluteal vessels and nerve. Gluteal artery is 11 divided into 11 two: /| superficial [and deep I parts; NERVES. Tlie externalj3iecesj)f tlie posterior i^rimary branches of the firsfrTIiree sacral nerves, after passing outwards beueatli the niultifirius spiuDe, are joined to one another by loops on the surface oF tlift-grp.n.t, sn.r.rn-si'.iatir ligament._ Two or three cutaneous offsets are derived from this inter- communication, and pierce the fibres of the gluteus maximus to be distributed on its surface as already seen. The GLUTEUS MEDius (tig. 48, a) is triangular in form, with its base at the iliac crest, and apex at the femur. It arises from the outer surface of the ilium between the crest and the superior curved line above, and the middle curved line below (fig. 47); and many superficial fibres come from the strong fascia covering the front of the muscle. The fibres converge to a tendon, which is inserted into an impression running downwards and forwards across the outer surface of the great trochanter, extending from the tip l)ehind to the root in front (fig. 61, p. 158). The superficial surface is concealed in part by the gluteus maxi- mus ; and the deep is in contact with the gluteus minimus, and the gluteal vessels and ne^X^ The anterior Ijorder lies over the gluteus minimus, and is in con^a^ with the tensor fasciae femoris. The posterior is contiguous 4«- the pyriformis, onlj' the superficial part of the gluteal vessels intervening. A small bursa is interposed between the tendon of insertion and the trochanter. Action. The whole muscle abducts the hanging femur ; and the anterior fibres rotate the limb inwards. Both limbs resting on the ground, the muscles assist in fixing the pelvis. In standing on one leg this gluteus -nill aid in balancing the pelvis on the top of the femur, and will draw the body over to the same side. In walking the fore part of the muscle acts in rotating the pelvis over the fixed limb. Dissection. The gluteus medius is now to be detached from the pelvis, and partly sej)arated from the gluteus minimus beneath, so that the gluteal vessels and the superior gluteal nerve may come into view. The two chief branches of the artery—one being near the upper border of the gluteus minimus, and the other lower down —are to be traced beneath the fleshy fibres as the reflection of the gluteus is proceeded with ; and the main piece of the nerve is to be followed forwards to the tensor fascia femoris muscle. The branches of the artery and nerve to the gluteus medius will lie cut in removing that muscle. The GLUTEAL ARTERY is the largest l)ranch of the internal ilinc, and issues from the pelvis above the pyriformis muscle, where it at once divides into superficial and deep parts :— The suiierficial jmrt (fig. 48) enters the under surface of the gluteus maximus and ramifies in that muscle. Some terminal twigs pass inwards over the sacrum, and others are given to the integuments. The deep jiart 50, a, p. 122) is the continuation of the artery, and subdivides into two pieces which run between the two smaller