SCAPULAR VESSELS AND NERVES. 0 Action. From the direction of their fibrus Loth rhoinboidei will J^™,',;^],,,,^ draw the Ijiuse of the scapula upwards and backwards, so as to depress the acromion. In combination with the trapezius they with oiluns. carry the scapula directly back ; and acting with the serratiis magnus, they serve to fix the scapula. The OMOHYOID MUSCLE consists of two fleshy bellies, anterior j^'^'y"™'' and posterior, which are united by an intervening tendon. Oidy omohyoid: the posterior half is now seen. The muscle arises from the upper border of the scapula behind Ijj'j'iYj',,,,^!. the notch, and from the ligament converting the notch into a foramen, mition; The fibres form a thin, riband-like muscle, Avhich is directed for- wards across the lower part of the neck, and ends anteriorly in a tendon beneath the sterno-mastoid muscle. This belly is partly reliitions. placed beueath the trapezius, and is partly superficial in the posterior triangular space of the neck, where it lies above the clavicle and the subclavian artery, and crosses the l)rachial plexus and the suprascapular nerve. Action. The use of the muscle will be considered in the neck. The SUPRASC.VPULAR ARTERY is a branch of the subclavian, and Snjira- is directed outwards through the lower part of the neck to the urt,'',!y'.'' upper border of the scapula. It runs behind the clavicle, and crosses the suprascapular ligament in front of the posterior belly of the omohyoid nuiscle, to enter the supraspinous fossa. Its termi- nation on the dorsum of the scapula will be seen in the dissection of the shoulder (p. 38). Before entering the fossa it gives off a swpra-acromial branch, which perforates the trapezius muscle, and oiisct. ramiKes over the acromion. The SUPRASCAPULAR NERVE is an offset of the brachial plexus Supra- (tig. 8, p. 2(5), and inclines downwards beneath the omohyoid muscle nm'e!"' to the notch in the upper border of the scapula, through which it passes into the supraspinous fossa (p. 38). The TRANSVERSE CERVICAL ARTERY', also a branch of the sub- Titoisv(Msi' chivian, has the same direction as the suprascapular, towards aHm'y" the upper angle of the scapula, but is higher than the clavicle. Crossing the upper part of the space in which the subclavian artery lies, it passes iyyualji.the trajjezius, and divides into two branches : <iividi>s into superficial cervical aud posterior scapular. a. The s:u!perficial cervical branch is distributed chiefly to the miperncini under-surface of t he trapezius, though it furnishes offsets to the levator " anguli scapula) aud the cervical glands. b. The 'posterior scapular branch crosses under the levator anguli postwioi- scapulae, and descends along the base of the scapula beneath the rhomboid muscles. When these muscles are divided, the artery will be seen to furnish branches to them, and to give snudl anasto- motic twigs to both surfaces of the scapula. This branch arises very frequently from the third part of the subclavian trunk as a separate artery from the superficial cervical. The suprascapular and transverse cervical veins have the same Accoinpmiy- course and branches as the arteries above described ; they open into the external jugular, near its junction with the subclavian vein.