SUPBKIOR PROFUNDA ARTERY. 53 are fibrous processes continuous with the investing a])oneurosis of the arm, which are fixed to the ridges leading to the condyles of the humerus, separating the muscles of the front and back of the limb, and giving attachment to the fleshy fibres. The internal is the stronger, and reaches as high as the coraco- an imior l>rachialis muscle, from which it receives some tendinous fibres. Tlie brachialis anticus is attached to it in front, and the triceps behind ; the ulnar nerve and the inferior profiuula and anastomotic vessels pierce it. The external septum is thinnei', and ceases at the deltoid muscle, .nn outer. Behind it is the triceps ; and in front are the brachialis anticus and the muscles of the forearm (supinator longus and extensor carpi radialis longior) arising above the condyle of the humerus: it is pierced by the musculo-spiral nerve and the accompanying vessels. Bissection. To follow the suiwrior profunda vessels and the Dissection vmsculo-s'piral 7ierve, the middle and outer heads of the triceps a[,d'','Jerve. should be cut across over them, and the fatty tissue should be removed. The trunks of the artery and nerve are to be afterwards \ 1 I followed belsjat- the outer head of the triceps to the front of the - ■''^ humerus. The \'eins may be taken away. To trace out the branches of the nerve and artery which descend to the elbow and the anconeus muscle, the triceps is to be divided along the line of union of the outer with the middle head. The SUPERIOR PROFUNDA branch of the brachial artery (see Supeiinr fig. 19, p. 46) turns to the back of the humerus with the musculo- PJ'tery"'''' spiral nerve between the inner and outer heads of the triceps ; in this position it supplies branches to the triceps and deltoid muscles, hos behind and is continued onwards in the groove in the bone to the outer ''""i"- part of the arm, where it divides in to its terminal offsets {anterior and ■posterior). One of these, which is very small, courses on the musculo- spiral nerve to the front of the elbow, anastomosing with the recurrent radial branch ; while a larger one descends along the intermuscular septum to the elbow, and joins the anastomotic and posterior inter- osseous recurrent arteries. Branches. Besides the terminal ofi'sets of the vessel, a consider- supplies able branch descends to the elbow in the inner head of the triceps, ji'jns'an.asto. supplying the muscle, and communicating with the inferior profunda and anastomotic branches of the brachial artery. One slender twig ol™ow; accompanies a branch of the musculo-spiral nerve, and ends in the anconeus muscle below the outer condyle of the humerus. Two or more cutaneous offsets arise on the outer side of the arm, cutaneous and accompany the superficial nerves. oiisots. The MUSCULO-SPIRAL NERVE (fig. 4,-' p. 15) is the largest trunk Musculo- of the i>osterior cord of the brachial plexus (p. 25), and is continued l^'i',™!;"""'^ along tlie back and outer part of the limb to the hand. In the arm the nerve winds witli the superior profunda artery beneath the triceps muscle. At tlie outer aspect of the arm it is continued between the to outer side brachialis anticus and supinator longus muscles to the external con- oft-'""!"". <lyle of the humerus, in front of which it divides into the radial and