CHAPTER IV. DISSECTION OF THE LOWER LIMB. ♦ Section I. THE FRONT OF THE THIGH. Position. During tlie dissection of the front of the thigh the body Position of lies on the back, with the buttocks resting on the edge of the table, and with a block of suitable size beneath the loins. The lower limb should be stretched out on the table, slightly Hexed at the knee and rotated outwards to make e\ident a hollow at the top of the thigh. Surface-marldny. Before any of the integument is removed from Objects on the limb, the student shoidd observe the chief eminences and hollows ''^"'^ on the surface of the thigh. The limit between the thigh and abdomen is marked, in front, by Limit.s of the firm band of Poupart's ligament reaching from the anterior above.''^'' superior spine of tlie ilium to the pubis. On the outer side, the separation is indicated by the convexity of the iliac crest of the hip- bone, which subsides behind in the sacrum and coccyx. Internally is the projection of the pubis, from which the bony margin of the subpubic arch may be traced backwards, forming the inner boundary of the limb, to the ischial tuberosit}'. On the anterior aspect of the thigh, and close to Poupart's liga- hoIIow of ment, is a slight hollow, corresponding with the triangular space of j,^"'',"^? Scarpa, in which the larger vessels of the limb are contained ; and extending thence obliquely towards the inner side of the limb, is a slight depression marking the situation of the femoral artery beneath. Groove over The position of the arterial trunk is marked by the upper three- fourths of a line drawn from the centre of the interval between the symphysis pubis and the anterior superior iliac spine to the inner condyle of the femur. At the outer side of the hip, from three to four inches below and Position behind the anterior part of the iliac crest, will be recognised the tj'ol^ai'tpr well-marked projection of the great trochanter of the femur. In a thin body the head of the femur may be felt by rotating the limb Head of iiio inwards and outwards, while the thumb of one hand is jjlaced in f""""'- front in the hollow below Poupart's ligament, and the fingers behind the great trochanter. At the knee the outline of the several bones entering into the Bony fornmtion of the joint may be traced with ease. In front of the orkne""^