DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. 412 divided, as already stated (pp. 389 and 390) into prostatic niemln-aiious and spongy parts. How to open Dissectioil. To open the uretlira, let the incision through the prostate be continued onwards to tlie extremity of the penis" alon" the dorsal surface, passing as accurately as possible in the septum between the two corpus eavernosum. The prostatic part (figs. 153 and 154) is nearer the anterior than the posterior surface of the mass surrounding it. It is one dimensions inch and a quarter in length, and is the widest portion of the urethral canal. Its form is spindle-shaped, for it is larger in the s iape; middle than at either end. Its transverse measurement aUhe neek diameter. ^^^^ bladder is nearly a third of an inch ; at its centre a line or two more ; and at the lower end rather less than at the beoinnin<r the uretlira. Prostatic part: Fig. 153.—Section throuoh the Bladder, Peostate, and Urethra, to SHOW THE VeSIOULA PrOSTATIOA AND THE CoMMON SeMINAL DuCT. ft. Bladder. h. Prostate. c. Prostatic part of urethra. d. Vesicula seminalis. e. Vas deferens. /. Common ejaculatory duct. g. Uterus niasculinns ; above this is the middle lobe of the prostate. On tiie Hoor Separating the prostatic portion of the urethra from the bladder is a crest: jg ^.j^g eminence known as the uvula vesicas. Beginning half an inch below this is a central longitudinal eminence of the mucous lining of the prostatic urethra (fig. 154, rf), about three-quarters of an inch in length, and larger above than below, which is prolonged towards the membranous part of the canal, and is named crest of tlic urethra (verumontanum, caput gallinaginis) : it is formed of erectile substance, with a framework of elastic and muscular tissues. lu the crest of the mucous membrane, near its posterior extremity, is in the crest the opening of the litems masciUinus or utriculus (sinus pocularis i» a pouch, jjj. ^.esicula prostatica). Ve.siciila The uterus inasculinus (lig. 153, g) is a blind pas-sage directed theprostate" backwards in the prostate, from a quarter to half an inch, passing beneath the middle and between the lateml lobes. The student