119 SCIATIC AND PDDIC VESSELS. e. Mmcidar brandies enter the gluteus niaximus, the upper muscular; gemellus, and obturator internus; and by means of a branch to the quadratus, which passes with the nerve of the same name beneath the gemelli and obturator internus, it gives offsets to the liip-joint and the inferior gemellus. d. Anastomotic branch (tig. 48). Varying in size, this artery is ^"^^'°"|| directed outwards along the lower border of the pyriformis to the root of the great trochanter, where it anastomoses with the internal circumflex and first perforating arteries. The INTERNAL PUDic ARTERY (fig. 48) belongs to the perineum Pndic and the genital organs : it is smaller than the sciatic, internal to'"''^'"^ which it lies. Only the small part of the vessel which winds over crosses tlie ^thejschial spine is seen on the back of the pelvis, for it enters the J.^Jj'jJJ'.' 7 perineal space through the small sticro-sciatic foramen, and is there ^r^aJTrc distributed. A ''^ It supplies a small bi-anch over the back of the sacrum, which offsets. ' anastomoses with the gluteal and sciatic arteries ; and a twig from it accompanies the nerve to the obturator internus muscle. The veins with the sciatic and pudic arteries receive tributaries veins, corresponding with the lu'anches of those arteries at the back of the pelvis, and open into the internal iliac vein. Nerves. The nerves appearing at the back of the pelvis, below Nerves come the pyi-iforniis, are derived from the plexus {sacral j)lexus) formed pieTus!"^'^*' within the pelvis by anterior branches from the lower two lumbar and the upper four sacral nerves; the largest are furnished to p)arts beyond the gluteal region, but some are distributed to the muscles at the back of the pelvis. The INFERIOR GLUTEAL NERVE is larger than the superior, and inferior 1 '2. arises from the upper part of the sacral plexus (fig. 49, i g). The gluteus'" short trunk is directed backwards below the pyriformis, and divides mixinms. into numerous branches which radiate upwards and doAvnwards, and enter the gluteus maximus midway between its origin and insertion. The SMALL SCIATIC (fig. 48) is a cutaneous nerve of the back Small of the thigh. It springs from the second and third sacral ner\'es cuwneous' ^ ^ (fig. 49, s s), and takes the course of the sciatic artery as far as the nerve; lower border of the great gluteus, where it gives many cutaneous In-anches. Much diminished in size at that spot, the nerve is continued along the back of the thigh bene;ith the fascia, and ends below the knee in the integiiments of the back of the leg. ends in the The branches distributed to, or near the buttock, are the ''"^' following :— The ascending or gluteal cutaneous branches (fig. 46) turn upwards ascending round the border of the gluteus niaximus, and are distrilnited to the skin over the lower third of the muscle. The descending cutaneous branches (fig. 46,-) supply the integu- ""(1 nients of the upper third of the thigh at the inner and posterior aspects. One of these branches (fig. 48), which is larger than the taiche"' othei-s, is distributed to the genital organs, and is named j??/m"o)\i„r,.rir,r pwlendal; as it coui-ses to the perineum, it turns below the pu^e""!"'