POPLITEAL NERVES AND BRANCHES. 12!) anastomosing witli the otiier vessels on the articulation, and Avith the recurrent branch of the anterior tibial artery ; it sends an oflset beneath the ligament of the patella to join a twig from one of the internal branches. The internal artery ramifies over the front of the internal internal tuberosity of the tibia, and anastomoses with the upper internal and lower external articular branches, and with the superficial branch of the anastomotic artery. 5. The azygos branch enters the joint through the posterior liga- And one ment, and is distributed to the ligamentous structures, the fat, and artery.' the synovial membrane of the interior. The POPLITEAL VEIN (fig. 53, h) originates in the union of the Popliteal anterior and posterior tibial venae comites, and has the same extent and relations as the artery it accompanies. At the lower border of i>osition to the popliteus muscle the vein is internal to the arterial trunk "''''^''^' between the heads of the gastrocnemius, it is superficial to that vessel ; and thence to the opening in the adductor mngnus it lies to the outer side of, and close to, the artery. It is joined by branches branches, corresponding with those of the aiterj-, as Avell as by the short saphenous vein. The Popliteal Nerves (fig. 51, p. 126) are the two large Popliteal trunks derived from the division of the great sciatic in the thigh "w"'''' (p. 133), and are named internal and external. Each furnishes innnr .mil cijianeous and articulax nft'nrt.fi) hut only thn . innnr -Qaie_SJlPplies ""ter- branch(^to muscles. The INTERNAL POPLITEAL NERVE (~) is larger than the extenial. Internal and occupies the middle of the ham : its relations are similar to nerve'f those of the artery, that i.s to say, it is partly superficial, and partly covered by the gastrocnemius. The nerve is continued to the back of the leg, where it is called •posterior tibial; the name popliteal is retained only to the lower border of the popliteus muscle. Its position to the vessels has been already noticed, branchesi The branches arising from it are the following ;—- . a. Two small articular tioigs (fig. 53,") are furnished to the knee- two joint with the vessels. One accompanies the lower internal articular artery to the front of the articulation, and is the larger ; the other takes the same course as the azygos artery, and enters the back of the joint with it. ) b. Muscular brandies arise from the nerves between the heads of four the gastrocnemius. One is furnished to each head of the gastro- ™"scuiar; cnemius, and the outer of these usually supplies the plantaris. Another descends beneath the gastrocnemius, and enters the pos' terior surface of the soleus. And a fourth penetrates the popliteus at the anterior aspect, after turning round the lower border. c. The tilrial communicating branch (fig. 71,", p. 188) is amdone cutaneous offset to the leg and foot. It lies beneath the fascia, and the'tiWar' between the heads of the gastrocnemius, as far as the middle of the leg, where it becomes superficial, and unites with the peroneal com- u °' \^ i municating branch of the external popliteal, to form the short ^^"^ '^^ -^Wr saphenous nerve (p. 187). Se^kti\^ ivo-vJ*. D.A. ' K