DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 326 Appendix opens into cteciim. Bidges in the Cfficum; how formed. Four strata in the wall of the gut. Serous coat difl'ers along the intes- tine. Two layers of fleshy fibres; longitudinal in three bands, Ijosterior, anterior, and internal; and circular. Submucous coat as in small gut. Mucous coat is without folds and villi. Tubular glands, The opcnimj of the appendix into the cajcuin {d) is placed below that of the ileum. The mucous membrane partly closes the aperture and acts as a valve. Folds or ridges are directed transversely in the interior of the gut, and correspond with depressions on the outer surface : these folds result from the doubling of the wall of the intestine, and the largest enclose vessels. Dissection. Portions of the transverse colon and the pelvic colon should be examined to show the disposition of their coats, in the same way as the pieces of small intestine, after the whole piece of large intestine has been slit open and washed clean. Structdre of the colon. The coats of the large are similar to those of the small intestine, viz., serous, muscular, fibrous, and mucous. Serous coat. The peritoneum does not clothe the large intestine, throughout, in the same degree. It usually surrounds the caecum, but covers only the front and sides of the ascending and descending colon (p. 302). The transverse colon is encased like the stomach, and has intervals along the borders, where the transverse meso-colon and the great omentum are attached. The muscular coat is formed of longitudinal and circular fibres, as in the small intestine. The longitudinal fibres may be traced as a thin layer over the sui-face, but most are collected into three longitudinal bands, about a third of an inch in width. One of these bands is placed along the posterior or attached margin of the bowel, the other two are on the anterior and inner sides respectively. On the vermiform appendix the fibres form a uniform layer, but they are continued thence into the bands on the caecum and colon, and ou the rectum the anterior and internal bands become united. When the bands are divided the intestine elongates,—the sacculi and the ridges in the interior of the gut disappearing at the same time. The circular fibres are spread over the wliole surface, but are most marked in the folds projecting into the intestine. At the end of the rectum (to be afterwards seen) they form the band of the internal sphincter muscle. The fibrous or submucoiis coat resembles that of the small intestine. It will be e.xposed by removing the peritoneal and muscular coverings. The mucous coat, which may be examined on opening the intestine, is smooth, and of a pale yellow colour ; and it is not thrown into special folds. The surface is free from villi ; and by this circum- stance the mucous membrane of the large can be distinguished from that of the small intestine. This difference in the two portions of the alimentary tube is well marked ou the ileo-colic valve ; for the surface looking to the ileum is studded with villi, while the surface conlinuous with the mucous lining of the large intestine is free from those eminences. Glands. The mucous membrane is thickly beset with very small