770 niitcrior luul jtosterior emls ; piilvinar; external geniculate lioily ; structure. Dissection of fornix. Origin of fornix. Dissection Midbmin. DISSECTION OF THE BKAIN. on the outer side it is separated from the lenticular nucleus by the posterior limb of the internal capsule (fig. 278, wp). The anterior end of the optic thalamus bounds the foramen ol ilonro The posterior end is much larger, and projects above the superior quadrigeminal body (fig. 277, h) and crius cerebri, being covered by the pia mater : Ijehind and internally it forms a con- siderable prominence called the imlvinar ; and below and outside, appearing at present as if it were a part of the optic thalamus, there is a smaller oval elevation named the evAernal geniculate body (fig. the 'section that has been made on the right side (fig. 278), the optic thalamus is seen to be composed of dark grey matter ; but it appears white on the upper surface, the grey subsUnce beinc^ here covered by a thin medullary layer. A faint white line, whicdi bifurcates in front, divides the grey mass into three portions —a small anterior, a larger internal and an external nucleus. Dissection. The origin of the fornix in the optic thalamus may now be followed out. As a preparatory step the anterior commissure, the front of the corpus callosum, and the commissure of the optic nerves should be cut along the middle line, so that the fore parts of the hemispheres can be separated from one another. On the left hemisphere the anterior pillar of the fornix is to be traced do^rawards through the grey matter of the third ventricle to the corpus albicans, and thence upwards into the optic thalamus. This can readily be done by following do^ni the pillar of the fornix and scraping away the overlying soft grey sul^stance The ANTERIOR PILLAR OF THE FORNIX is jomed below the foramen of Monro by the fibres of the taenia semicirciilaris and pineal stria, and then curves downwards and backwards in front ot ihe optic thalamus, through the grey matter of the third vent_r.e e, to the corpus albicans. Here it makes a turn like half of be fiaure 8, furnishing a white envelope to the grey matter of that body Finally it ascends to the fore part of the optic thalamus, m the anterior nucleus of which its fibres end. The ascending band from the corpus albicans into the optic thalamus is commonly named the bundle of Vicq d'Aeir. The bodies lying behind the third ventricle, viz., the coipoia .padrigemina, the pineal body, and the posterior commissure may be next examined. , „ . Dissection. All the pia mater should be carefvilly removed fi^m the surface of the auadrigeminal bodies^ especially on tbe right side on which they are to be seen. The posterior part of the hemispJere of the same side may be taken a.^ay if this has not been done already. . .i .,i„,,,: The constricted portion of the brain between the optic th ila above and the pons and cerebellum below is known as ^^ ^fT, cerebri or „phalon, and occupies, when W - skull, the aperture of the tentorium cerebelh. The <^oi.^^l pa^t o the me.sencephalon is formed by a layer which is marked on the .surface by four eminences-the corpora quadi-^germna, an<l,i.