669 VESSELS OP THE FACE •inasloniosewitli the transverse facial branch of the superficial temporal ■irterv From the inner side are given the following branches :— Tl'.e inferior labial branch (t) runs inwards beneath the depressor I,.^.•ior an-uli oris muscle, and is distributed between the lower hp and chhi ; it communicates with the inferior coronary, and with the mental branch of the inferior dental artery. Coronary branches (r and s). These are one for each lip {superior Two form an and i>iferior), which arise togetber or separately from the tac.al, ^ and are directed inwards between the orbicuhir muscle and the ;;;;;;; mucous memlirane of the lip to inosculate with the corresponding branches of the opposite side. From the arterial arches thus formed offsets are supplied to the structures of the lip. From the arch in the upper lip a branch is given to each side of the septum brand, to narium,—artei-y of the scjjtnm. , , ■ i The lateral nasal branch 0') arises opposite the ala nasi, and Lateral passes beneath the levator lubii superioris alseque nasi to the side brancii. of the nose, where it anastomoses with the nasal branch of the oiihthalmic artery. , , , The angular branch (a) is the terminal twig of the facial artery at a_; Jjar the inner angle of the orbit, and joins the nasal branch of the ophthalmic artery. The FACIAL VEix commences at the root of the nose in a vein Facial vem named the anyular. It then cro.sses over the elevator of the upper lip, and, separating from the artery, courses beneath the large ;j;™y^f™'" zygomatic muscle to the side of the jaw. Afterwards it has a short ' course in the neck to join the internal jugular vein. Tributaries. At the inner side of the orbit the angular vein -^^^^^^^l receives veins from the upper eyelid {superior palpebral) and from the side of the nose. Below the orbit it is joined by veins from the lower eyelid (inferior palpebral), as well as by a large branch, anterior internal maxillary or deep facial vein, that comes from a ple-xus in the pterygoid region, and thence on to its termination by veins corresponding with the branches of the artery in the face and neck. The TRANSVERSE FACIAL ARTERY (fig. 204) is a branch of the Transverse superficial temporal, and appears on the face at the anterior border facial artery, of the parotid gland. It lies by the side of the parotid duct, with branches of the facial nerve, and distributes offsets to the muscles and integuments ; some branches anastomose with the facial artery. Dissection. The parotid gland in front of the ear may be next Jj^I',rotid displayed. A .strong fascia covers the gland, and is connected g|'a„'i'.'° " above to the zygomatic arch and behind to the cartilage of the parotid ear, but is continued in front over the masseter muscle. The fascia is fascia, to be removed, so that the gland may be detached slightly from the parts around. The great auricular nerve will be seen ascending to the lobule of the ear ; and three or four small lymphatic glands Parotid ^, r c j-i 1 1 lymphatic rest on the surlace oi the gland. glands. The Parotid fig. 213, p. 589) is the largest of the salivary p,,roti.i glands. It occupies the space between the ear and the lower jaw, B'""'!: