DISSKCTTON OF THE NKCK. Cords-nf llin Iimdiiiil jilcxiis. Branclioj in tlio neck an':— Norvos of scaloni anrl louKiis colli Nei'VR of rliomboids. Nerve of serratiis. Nerve of siihelaviiiR. Suprascaini- lar nerve. Offset to the phrenir. Cervical plexus. Arrange- ment of the nerves. Its offsets arc snper- llcinl; to form tlio! outer cord of the plexus : the posterior divisions of the three trunks by their union give ri.se to the posterior cord; while the large anterior division of the lower trunk is continued as the inver cord. The three cords accompany the suLclaviaii arterx-, lyiii" to its acromial side, and are continued to the axilla where the nerves of the limb arise. Brandies. The branches of the plexus may be classed into those above the clavicle, and those below that bone. Those of the upper set end mostly in muscles of the lower part of the neck and of the scapula ; while the lower set consists of the branches to the upper limb, with which they have been described. Branches above the clavicle. Branches for the scaleni and lonffus colli muscles. These small twigs arise from the nerves close to the intervertebral foramina, and are seen when the anterior scalenus is divided. The bra,vch for the rhomboid muscles (fig. 216, rh) springs from the fifth nerve, and perforates the fibres of the scalenus medius ; it is directed backwards beneath the levator anguli scapulae to its destination. Branches are given usuallj' from this nerve to the levator anguli scapulaj. The mrve of the serratus (pt), the posterior, or long, thoracic nerve, arises from the fifth, sixth, and generally also the seventh, nerves near the intervertebral foramina. Piercing the fibres of the scaleniLs medius lower than the preceding branch, the nerve is continued downwards behind the brachial plexus, and enters the serratus magnus muscle on its axillary surface. The nerve of the suhcka'ius muscle (se) is a slender branch, which arises from the trunk formed by the fifth and sixth nerves, and is directed downwards over the subclavian artery to the deep surface of the muscle ; it often sends a twig to the phrenic nerve at the lower part of the neck. The suprascapular nerve (sjjs) is the largest of these branches, and arises from the trunk of the plexus foi-med by the fifth and sixth nerves. It is destined for the muscles on the dorsum of the scapula, and has lieen dissected with the arm. Occasionally an oftset from the fifth cervical truTik joins the phrenic nerve on the anterior scalenus muscle. The CERVICAL plexus, formed by the upper four cervical nerves, lies beneath the upper half of the sterno-mastoid muscle, and on the middle scalenus and the levator anguli sciipulaj. Each nerve entering the plexu.s, except the first, divides into an ascending and a descending branch, and these unite with corresponding parts of the adjacent nerves, so as to give rise to a series of arches. From the.se arches or loops the difi'erent branches arise :— The branches are superficial and deep. Those of the superficial set are again subdivided into ascending and descending, and have been described with the ]iosterior triangular space of the neck ()). 578). The ascending liranches may be now seen to siu-ing from the union of the second and third nerves; and tlie descending, to tjike origin from the loop between the third and fourth nerves.