38 DISSECTION OP THE UPPER LIMB. relations ; Dissection of supra- scapular vessels. Supra- scapular artery ends in infraspina- tus and subscapular and supra- spinous offsets. Vein. Suprascapu- lar nerve: branches, muscular and articu- lar. Posterior scapular artery. Dorsal sca- pular artery, Tlie muscle is concealed by the ti'apezius aiitl the acromion .process ; and it rests upon the scapula, the suprascapular vessels and nerve, and the shoulder-joint. Its tendon joins that of the infraspinatus at the attachment to the hunieru.s. Action. It comes into use with the acromial portion of the deltoid in raising the limb and supporting the joint. Dissection (Kg. 22, p. 52). The vessels and nerves on the dor.sum of the scapula can be traced by detaching from behind forwards the supraspiiiatus and infraspinatus nutscles, so as to leave a thin layer of the fleshy fibres with the ramifying blood-vessels on the surface of the bone. In the supraspinous fossa are the supra- scapular vessels and nerve, which are to be followed beneath the acromion to the infraspinous fossa; and entering the infraspinous fossa, beneath the teres minor muscle, is the dorsal Ijranch of the subscapular artery. The anastomosis between these vessels should be pursued in the fleshy fibres and cleaned. The SDPRASCAPULAR ARTERY (a) is derived from the thyroid axis of the subclavian trunk (p. 9). After a short course in the neck it crosses over the suprascapular ligament, and passing beneath the supraspinatus muscle, ends in the infraspinous fossa, where it gives offsets to the infraspinatus muscle and the scapula, and anastomoses with the dorsal branch of the subscapular artery and the posterior scajiular of the subclavian. Before entering the supraspinous fossa, it gives a small branch to the ventral surface of the scapula ; and beneath the supraspinatus it furnishes offsets to that muscle, the bone, and the" shoulder-joint. The companion vein of the suprascapular artery joins the external jugular vein. The SUPRASCAPULAR NERVE (') Is a branch of the brachial plexus (5tli and 6th cervical nerves ; fig. 8, sps., p. 26).^ At the upper border of the scapula, it enters the supraspinous fossa beneath the suprascapular ligament. In the fossa it supplies two branches to the supraspinatus; and. it is continued beneath a fibrous band to the infraspinatus muscle, in which it ends. The nerve gives some articular filaments to the shoulder-joint, and other offsets to the scapula. The POSTERIOR SCAPULAR ARTERY rims along the base of the scajjula beneath the rhomboid muscles, furnishing offsets to them and to the surfaces of the bone. It has been more fully noticed with the dissection of the back (p. 9). The DORSAL SCAPULAR ARTERY (&) is a branch of the subscapular (p. 24), and, after giving off its infrascapular oft'sct, turns I'ound the axillary border of the bone opposite the posterior of the two space.s between the teres muscles. Entering the infraspinous fossa beneath the teres minor, it supplies that muscle and the infraspi- natus, and anastomoses with the suprascapular and posterior scajnilar arteries. It sends a considerable branch downwards between the teres muscles, towards the lower angle of the bone.