ptSSBCTION OF THE TONGUE. G84 Denne septum, hyo-glossal iiicmbnine, and inferior lingualis. Fibrous structures of tongue. Septum. Hyo-glossal membrane. Submucous layer. Muscles in each half: two kinds. Extrinsic: number. Dissection of palato-, stylo-, and hyo-glossuR the lingual vessels and nerves. The tongue is enveloped by mucous membrane ; and a sjtecial fibrous layer attaches it to the hyoid bone. Bissection. To deiine the septum, and the membrane attaching' the tongue to the hyoid bone, the tongue is to be placed on its dorsum ; and, the remains of the right mylo- and genio-hyoid muscles having been removed, the genio-glossi muscles are to be cleaned, and drawn from one another along the middle line. After separating those muscles, and cutting across their intercommuni- cating fibres, the edge of the septum will appear. By tracing the hinder fibres of the genio-glossus muscle towards the hyoid bone, the hyo-glossal membrane will be arrived at. On the outer side of the genio-glossus muscle is the longitudinal bundle of the inferior lingualis, which will be better seen subse- quently. Fibrous tissue. Along the middle line of the tongue is placed a thin lamina of this tissue, forming a septum ; the root of the tongue is attached by another fibrous structure, the hyo-glossal membrane ; and covering the greater part of the organ is a submucous layer of the same tissue. Se-ptum. This structure forms a vertical partition between the two halves of the tongue (fig. 243, b, p. 686), and extends from the base to the apex, but does not reach to the dorsum. It is thicker behind than in front, and is connected posteriorly with the hyo-glossal membrane. To each side the transverse muscle is attached. Its disposition may be belter seen subsequently on a vertical section. The hyo-glossal viembrane is a thin but strong fibrous lamina, which attaches the root of the tongue to the upper border of the body of the hyoid bone. On its under or anterior surface some of the hinder fibres of the genio-glossi are inserted, as if this was their aponeurosis to attach them to the hyoid bone. The submucous fibrous stratum of the tongue invests the organ, and is continued into the sheaths of the muscles. Over the posterior third of the dorsum its strength is greater than elsewhere ; and in front of the epiglottis it forms bands in the folds of the mucous membrane in that situation. Into it are inserted the muscular fibres which end on the surface of the tongue. MoscLEB. Each half of the tongue is made up of extrinsic and intrinsic muscles. The former or external are distinguished by having only tlieir termination in the tongue ; and the latter, or internal, by having both origin and insertion within the organ—that is to say, springing from one part and ending at another. The extrinsic musdes (fig. 242) are the following : palato-glossus, stylo-glossus, genio-glossus, hyo-glossus, chondro-glossus, and pharyn- geo-glossus. Only the lingual endings of these, except in the case of the chondro-glossus, are now to be studied. Dissection. After the tongue has been firmly fa.stened on its left side, the extrinsic muscles nuiy be dissected on the right half. Three , of these muscles, viz., palato- (d), stylo- (u), and hyo-glossus (c), come together to the side of the tongue; and, to follow their radiating