707 THE VEllTKBUAL VESSRLS. The VEitTEiiiiAL AUTEHY liiis liceii SUCH iit its origin in tlic lower Vrridinii part of the neck (p. 503) ; and its termination is described with the noi'i'*: "' vessels of the brain. Entering, usually, the foramen in the sixth i-oursr; cervical vertebra the arteiy ascends through the corresponding foramina in the other vertebra;. Finally, the vessel winds hack- wards round the upper articular process and crosses the neural arch of the atlas, piercing the posterior occipito-atlantal ligament and the dura mater, to enter the skull through the foramen magnum. In its course upwards the artery lies in front of the anterior trunks of ii'iiiiion lo the cervical nerves, except the first, which crosses on the inner side. The vessel is accompanied bv a \ ein, and by a plexus of nerves of vein, .and ■ iirrvcs are the .?ame name. wini it ; In the neck the artery furnishes small twigs to the surrounding branches, muscles, the spinal canal, and the spinal cord. The vertebral vein begins on the neural arch of the atlas by the Vertebral union of a considerable offset from the intrasinnal venous plexuses with other branches proceeding from a network between the muscles in the suboccipital region. It is also joined by the emissary vein leaving the skull through the posterior condylar foramen when that aperture is present. In the neck, the vein forms a jilexiis around eourso; the artery in the foramina of the transverse processes ; and it termi- nates below by emptying itself into the innominate trunk. iMniinf;; In this course it is joined by branches from the internal and bianciics. external spinal veins ; its other tributaries are noticed at p. 594. The vertebral plexus of nerves is derived from the inlerior cervical ViTtc-brai ploxus of iuxery, aiiu com- municates with the spinal nerves which it crosses. ganglion of the sympathetic. It surrounds the artery, and com- nerves. Section XVIII. LIGAMENTS OP THE VERTEBRiE AND CLAVICLE. Directions. On the remaining part of the spine, the ligaments Directions, connecting the cervical vertebra) to each other and to the occipital bone are to be learnt. Dissection. Disarticulate the last cervical from tiie first dorsal Dissection, vertebra. Then remove altogether the muscles, vessels, nerves, and areolar tissue and fat from the cervical vertebi oo. By sawing through the occipital bone, so as to leave only an osseous ring behind the foramen magnum, the ligaments between the atlas and the occipital bone can be more easily cleaned. The COMMON LIGAMENTS attaching together the cervical vertebra; Common are similar to those uniting the bones in other parts of the spine, vSiXlc'' viz., an anterior and a posterior common ligament, bands between the laminse and spines, capsular ligaments lined by synovial mem- brane for the articular processes, and an intervertebral disc between the bodies of the bones.