194 DISSECTION OF THE LEG. Flexor digitorum: origin ; enters amuilar ligament part is snperflcial below soleus : use, with foot free, and lixed. Tibialis posticus: origin ; insertion; muscles and vessels in relation with it; use, with foot free, and fixed; in standing, in rising up. Aponeurosis over the muscle. The FLEXOR liONGUS DIGITORUM (Hexor peifomns, fig. 74, e) arises from the inner division of the posterior surface of the tihia (fig. 73), extending from the atUichment of the soleus to about three inches from the lower extremity, and from the aponeurosi.s cover- ing the tibialis posticus. Its tendon enters a compartment in the annular ligament, which i.s external to the sheath of the tibialis ; and it di^'ides in the sole of the foot into tendons for the last phalanges of the four outer toes. The muscle is narrow and pointed above, where it is placed beneath the soleus ; but in the lower half it is in contact with the fascia, and the posterior tibial vessels and nerve lie on it. The deep surface rests on the tibia and the tibialis posticus. Action. The muscle bends the farthest phalangeal joints of the four smaller toes, and then extends the ankle. If the toes are in contact with the ground, the flexor helps to raise the heel in walking ; and to move back the tibia in the act of rising from stooping. The TIBIALIS POSTICUS (fig. 74, d) occupies the interval between the l)ones of the leg, but it crosses over the til^ia below to reach the inner side of the foot. The muscle arises (fig. 73 and fig. 68, p. 179) from the interosseous membrane, except about one inch below, from an impression along the outer part of the posterior surface of the tibia extending from the external tuberosity to the middle of the bone, from the inner surface of the shaft of the filnila, and slightly from the aponeurosis covering it. In the lower part of the leg the muscle is directed beneath the flexor digitorum; and its tendon, entering the imier space in the annular ligament, reaches the inner side of the foot to be inserted into the navicular and other bones, as will be seen later (p. 212). The tibialis is concealed by the aponeurosis before mentioned, and is overlapped by the neighbouring muscles ; but in the lower part of the leg it is placed between the tibia and the long flexor of the toes. On the muscle are the posterior tibial vessels and nerve. The upper end presents two pointed processes of attachment—that to the tibia being the higher—and between them the anterior tibial vessels are directed forwards. Action. Its action on the movable foot is to depress the fore part and outer side, and carry the toes inwards, producing the movement in the tarsal joints known as inversion (p. 225), and to extend the anlde-joint. The toes resting on the ground, it will aid the muscles of the calf in raising the heel in the progression of the body. In standing, the muscle can raise the inner border of the foot with the tibialis anticus, so as to throw the weight of the body on the outer edge. As the body rises from stooping, the tibialis draws back the bones of the leg, with the soleus. The aponeurosis covering the tibialis is attached externally to the inner border of the fibula ; but internally it joins the flexor longus digitorum without Ijeing attached to bone : it may lie regarded as