DISSECTION OF THK NECK. 706 milieus iniiHir is biiiieuth preceding: use. Dissection of inter- transver- sales. Inter- transverse mnscles; number and attach- ments ; relations; Cervical nerves in their fora- mina give anterior and pos- terior branches. First two nerves differ: anterior and posterior branches. The. RECTUS CAPITIS ANTicus MINOR (g) IS a small flat mviscle, which arises from the front ol' the lateral mass of the atlas at the root of the tiaiisver.se process, and is inserted into the basilar process of tlie occipital hone hehinrl the last muscle, and half an inch from it.s fellow. The anterior primary branch of the suboccipital nerve emerges between the borders of this muscle and the rectus capitis lateralis. Action. Tt hel]is in bending; forwards the head. ■'. Dissection. The small intertransverse muscles will come into view when the other muscles have been removed from the Iront and back of the transverse processes. By tracing towards the spine the anterior primary branches of the cervical nerves, the intertransver- sales will be readily seen in front of and behind tliem. After the muscles and nerves have been examined, the tips of the transverse processes may be cut off to lay bare tbe vertebral artery. The INTERTRANSVERSE MUSCLES are slender fleshy slips in the intervals between the transverse processes. In the neck there are si.v pairs on each side—the first being between the atlas and axis. One set is attached to the anterior, and the other to the posterior tubercles of the transverse processes. The anterior primary divisions of the corresponding spinal nerves issue between these muscles ; and the posterior primary divisions lie to the inner side of the hinder muscles. Between the atlas and the occipital bone the rectus anticus minor and rectus lateralis represent . intertransverse muscles. Action. By approximating the transverse processes these muscles bend the spinal column laterally. Cervical nerves at their exit from the spinal canal. The trunks of the cervical nerves issue from the spinal canal through the intervertebral foramina, except the first two, and bifurcate into anterior and posterior primary branches. The anterior primary branch passes outwards between the inter- transverse muscles, and joins with its fellows in the plexuses already described. The posterior 'primary Immch turns to the back beneath the posterior intertransverse" muscle and the other muscles att^iched to tlie posterior parts of the transverse processes ; in its course it lies close to the bone between the articular processes of the vertebra. Peculiarities in the first two. The first two nerves leave the spmal canal above the neural arches of the atlas and axis, and divide at the back of the neck into anterior and posterior branches. The anterior primanj branch of the first or suboccipital lurve ha-s been examined (p. (536). The anterior branch of the second nerve, after perforating the membrane between the neural arches of the first and second vertebra;, is directed forwards outside the vertebral artery, and between the two intertransverse muscles of the first s])rtce, to join the cervical plexus. The posterior primanj brandies of the first two nerves are describeil in the ilissection of the back.