629 THE INTERNAL .lUUl'LAU VEIN. Nerves. Tlie imeumo-i^astric is contained in the slicatli at the of neiAVs. back between the artery and vein, l)ein.^ paralhd to them ; and the sympathetic, also running hingitudinally, lies lieliind the slieath ot the vessels. Crossin;? the artery superficially, from below iqiwanls, are tlie hypoglossal, which sends its descending lirancli downwards along the vessel ; next the jiharyngeal branch nf the vagus ; and lastly tlie glosso-pharyngeal. Directed inwards beneath the carotid are the pharyngeal offsets of the upper ganglion of the sympathetic and the superior laryngeal nerve, the latter furnishing the external laiyngeal branch. Close to the sknll, the cranial nerves of the neck are inter- posed between the artery and the vein. Around the carotid entwine branches of the sympathetic and otl'sets of the glosso-pharyngeal nerve. The cervical portion of the artery remains much the same in size to the end, though it is sometimes very tortuous ; and it usually does not furnish any branch. The PART IN THE TEMi'OiiAi, BONE is described on jiage 682. Tlie INTERNAL JUGULAR VEIN is continuous with the lateral sinus of the skull, and extends from the jugular foramen nearly to the first veTn rib. Behind the inner end of the clavicle it joins the subclavian tojoins sub- form the innominate vein. As far as the thyroid cartilage the vein accompanies the internal is outsider carotid, but below that point it is the companion to the common carotid artery ; and it lies on the outer side of eacli. Its contiguity to the artery is not eiiually close throughout, for near the skull there is a small interval between them, containing the cranial nerves ; and at the lower part of the neck there is a larger intervening space, in which the pneunio-gaslric nerve, with its cardiac branch, is found. The size of the vein remains much the same from the skull to the i^ilarged liyoid bone, where it is suddenly increased owing to the junction of ^,Qp(,. a number of tributaries corresponding to branches of the external carotid arteiy. Its lower dilatation and its valve have been before referred to (p. (iOl). The following tributarka ojien into the internal jugular, viz., the imuiciies inferior petrosal sinus close below the skull, the pharyngeal, lingual, facial and superior thyroid veins near the liyoiil bone, and the middle thyroid vein opposite the lower part of the larynx. The ASCENDING PHARYNGEAL ARTERY (fig.225, (j) is a long slender A.sciMuliug branch of the external carotid, which ari.ses near the liegiiining of Ji,'.".',.y'°"" that ve.ssel. It runs ujjwards between the internal carotid artery and the pharynx to near the base of the skull, where it ends in ends at pharyngeal and meningeal branches. Its olt'sets are numerous, but' small;— a. Prevertebral branches pass to the longus colli and recti autici bianchus muscles, supplying also the nerves and lym|ihatic glands of this teiiraT^*^' region. 6. Phanjwjeal branches supply the wall of the jiharynx, the soft pliaiynya'. palate and the tonsil. The highest of these, one of the terminal branches of the artery, ramifies in the superior constrictor, the Eustachian tube, and the levator and tensor palati muscles: tiiis