SURFACE-MAnKING OF FOREARM. 55 On cncli sitle of tlie iwliii oC llie liaiul is ii Livj^'e i)riijecti()n ; the .suriiioc^ of external of these (thenar) is tbriued liy nuiscles of the thmnb, and j,";],','! the internal (hypothenar) by nmseles of the little linger. At the upper end of the latter the prominent pisiform bone is easily felt ; and towards the outer side of the wrist, below the end of the radius, the tuberosity of the scaphoid bone is to be recognised. Between the muscular eminences is the hollow of the palm, which is pointed towards the wrist. Two transverse lines are seen in the palm, but neither reaches completely across it; they result from the bending of the fingers at the metacarpo phalangeal articulations, but the lower one is nearly half an inch above the three inner joints when the fingers are e.^itended. The position of the superficial palmar arch of arteries is marked Position of by the middle third of a line drawn across the palm from the root .^'reU™ of the thumb when that digit is placed at a right angle to the hand ; the deep palmar arch is about a finger's breadth nearer the wrist. Transverse lines on the palmar as|)ects of the thumb and fingers Surface or correspond to the articulations of the phalanges ; but while the '"'K*-'"^' middle and lower ones are a little above the two interphalangeal articulations, the upper one is fully half an inch below the metacarpo- phalangeal joint. Dissection. With the limb lying Hat on the table, an incision Dissection is to be carried through the skin along the middle of the front of the the'skhi'.* forearm, as far as an inch beyond the wrist ; and at its termination a transverse one is to cross it. Tlie skin is to be reHected carefully from the front and back of the forearm, without injury to the numerous superficial vepsels and nerves beneath ; and it should be taken also from the back of the hand by prolonging the ends of the transverse cut along each margin to a little Ijeyond the knuckles. The whole of the forefinger should have the integument removed from it, in order that the nerves may be followed to the end. The sujterficial vessels and nerves can be now traced in the fat : Seeic the they have the following jiosition, and most of them have been partly vessds'and dissected :—along the inner side, with the ulnar veins, is the con- "^^^^^'^ tinuation of the internal cutaneous nerve ; and near the wrist there ' is occasionally a small oH"set from the ulnar nerve. On the outer side, with the radial vein, is the superficial part of the musculo- cutaneous nerve. Close to the hand, in the centre of the forearm, and inside the tendon of the flexor carpi radialis, which can be rendered tense by extending the wrist, the small palmar branch of the median nerve should be sought beneath the fat. On the ulnar artery, close out- side the pisiform bone, a small palmar branch of the ulnar nerve is to be looked for. Near the middle of the back of the forearm the large external behind, cutaneous branch of the musculo-spiral nerve is to be traced onwards ; and offsets are to be followed to this surface of the limb from the nerves in front on either side. On the posterior part of the hand is a plexus of superficial veins, nud on the Winding back below the ulna is the dorsal branch of the ulnar