THE sriNAI, ACCESSORY NKllVE. Tracheal an,l cesophacjeal hranche. spring from it as it ascends in the ^'--ijea.^ neck ; and ne,-.r the hirynx some fihunents are furnished to the inferior cunstrictor muscle. Un the left mle tlie recurrent nerve arises in the thorax, o],pos.te L.'it__^_^^ the arch of the aorta ; in the neck it lies Iwtween the trachea and ,K,,ve. oesophagus, as on the right side, and is nu)re frequently behind the inferior thyroiil artery. The SPINAL ACCE.S.SORY NERVK courses through the jugular tora- Wev«"th men with the pneumo-gastric, but is not marked by any ganglion. The nerve is composed of two parts, a smaller one, accessory to Uaj uo the vagus, and a larger, spinal part, which have a .lifferent origin and distribution. . The part accessory to the vayu. (bulbar part; tig. 226,") arises from A.<^ry the medulla oblongata, and ends by joining the pneumo-gastric out- . side the skull. In the foramen of exit it lies close to the vagus, and is connected to the upper ganglion of that nerve by one or two filaments. Below the foramen it passes over the lower ganglion of U^ow _^ the vagus, and blends with the trunk beyond that ganglion. It gives distinct offsets to join the pharyngeal and superior laryngeal branches of the pneumo-gastric ; and other fibres are continued into the cardiac and recurrent laryngeal branches. The spinal part (fig. 226,'-^), which takes its origin from the spmal l-j;'. cord is much larger, and is connected with the smaller piece while passing through the jugular foramen. Beyond the foramen tiie nerve iu the n.ek (fia 2213 -) takes a backwanl course through the sterno-inastoid, and across the side of the neck to end in the t.apezius : at first it is con- emsses^to cealed by the jugular vein, but it then pas.ses either over or under that vessel. The connections of the nerve beyond the sterno-mastoid have been already examined. The nerve furnishes muscular oflsets to the .sterno-mastoid and to supplies the trapezius. The HYPOGLOSSAL NERVE, issuiiig from the cranium by the i^weiau anterior condylar foramen, is at first deeply placed between the internal carotid artery and the jugular vein (fig. 225,''). It next comes f.n-ward between the vein and artery, turning romul the outer side of the vagus to which it is closely united. The nerve now descends in the neck, and becomes superficial below the digastric muscle in the anterior triangular space (p. 602) ; from this spot it is directed forwards to the tongue and its muscles (p. 625). Connecting branches. Near the skull the hypoglossal is united to i.jand.es the lower ganglion of the vagus by filaments crossing between the Vagus, two nerves as they are in contact. A little lower down the nerve is joined by offsets from the jy^JP""^,^,, sympathetic and the loop of the first two spinal nerves. spinal'' The branches for distribution have been met with in the foregoing ^'^'^j;™^' dissections. Thus, in the neck its descending branch supplies, in muscU«. common with the spinal nerves, the depressors of the hyoid bone. In the submaxillary region it furnishes branches to one elevator (genio-hyoid) of the hyoid bone, to the extrinsic muscles of the