OPENING INTO THE (ESOPHAGUS. OIU apei-ture is unobstructed, but in tliu act of deglutition it is closed by the approximiition of the lateral folds and liie lower part of the epiglottis. The OPENING INTO THE QisoPHAOUs (o) is the narrowest part of BuKiimingof the pharynx, and is opposite the cricoid cartilage and the sixth "''"'''''"f^"''- cervical vertebra. At this .spot the mucous membrane in the ajsophagus becomes paler than in the pharynx ; and the point at which the pharynx ends is marked externally by a .4ight contraction, and by a change in the direction of the muscular hbres. The CAVITY OF THE PHARYNX is divided into three parts, which Snbriivi.sion differ in their function with regard to the transmission of the food H^ryll^ ""^ and air. The upper or nasal 2Mrlion- is limited below by the soft ""s"'- palate and its posterior pillars ; it gives pnssage only to air, and is always open. The middle or oral jiortion extends downwards to ("■"!. the aperture of the larynx, and is traversed by both food and air ; it is open when breathing through the mouth, but closed when breathing solely through the nose, the aperture of the larynx then corresponding to the interval between the posterior pillars. The third part being behind the larynx is termed laryngeal, and only and inryn- traiismits food ; its walls are naturally in contact, except during the tio'ils.'™' act of deglutition. The SOFT PALATE (velum pendulum palati ; q) is a moveable Soft p„i,-itB structure between the mouth and tiie pharynx, which can either ilUtf-"'^ close the opening of the mouth, or cut off the comnumication with the nose, according as it is depressed or elevated. In the usual smfaees; position of the soft palate (the state of relaxation) its anterior .surface is concave, and is continuous with the roof of the mouth ; \\hile the opposite surface is convex and turned to the pharynx. The upper border is fixed to the posterior margin of the hard boi-dor.s; palate ; and on each side it joins the pharynx. The lower border from it IS free, and is produced in the centre into a conical pendulous part '"'"s^'""I"' —the uvula (p). Along its middle is a .slight ridge, indicative of the original separation into two halves. Descending from the soft palate on each side of the fauces are Arolms or the two folds of mucous membrane before referred to, containing ' muscular fibre.s, and named the arches or pillars of tlie soft palate ov fauces. The anterior pillar (i) springs from the anterior surface •'^"tfrior; of the soft palate near the base of the uvula, and reaches to the side of the tongue rather behind the middle ; and the 2Msterior (u), posterior, longer than the other, is continued from the lower border of the velum to the side of the pharynx. As they diverge from their origin to their termination, they limit a triangular .space in which the tonsil lies. The soft palate consists of an aponeurosis, wiih muscles, vessels Consti- nerves, and mucous glands; and the whole is enveloped by the v,:,,'™ mucous membrane. Dissection. Some of the muscles of the palate are readily Dissect displayed, but others require care in their dissection. The two principal muscles of the soft palate-lhe elevator and levator an,l tensor tm