DISSECTION OF FRONT OF FOREARM. 64 Siipei-ficial flexor of lingers: origin from three bones of limb; insertion; relations; use on Angers, on elbow and wrist. Ulnar artery ends in palm of hand. Course in upper half and rela- tions to muscles : in lower half; relations to muscles: near the inner condj'le of tlie humerus, and turned to one side. Small branches of the ulnar artery and median nerve may he seen entering the under-surfaces of those muscles. For the present the pronator teres may be left uncut. The FLEXOR suBLiMis DiGiTORUii (^flexor perforatu,s, fig. 24,'') is the largest of the superficial muscles, and is named from its position A.«-/»f^'c_ to another flexor in the deep set. It arises in common with the foregoing muscles from the inner condyle of the humerus and the intermuscular septa, also fiom the internal lateral ligpnient-. nf the elliow-joint and the inner margm of the coronoid process of the nina, and by a thin layer from the oblique line of the radius, as well as frequently from the anterior border of that bone for a distance of one or two inches below the insertion of the pronator teres (fig. 25). Below the middle of the forearm the muscle ends in four tendons, which are continued beneath the annular ligament and through the hand, to be inserted into the middle phalanges of the fingers (fig. 32, p. 78), after being perforated by the tendons of the deep flexor. The flexor sublimis is in great part concealed by the other muscles of the superficial group ; and the radial vessels lie on the attachment to the radius. Along the inner border is the flexor carpi ulnaris, with the ulnar vessels and nerve. The tendons of the muscle are arranged in pairs before they pass beneath the annular ligament of the wrist, the middle and ring finger tendons being anterior, and those of the index and little finger posterior in position. On dividing the condylar and coronoid attachments the muscle will be seen to cover two deep flexors (flexor profundus digitorum and flexor longus pollicis), the median nerve, and the upper part of the ulnar artery. Action. The flexor bends first the middle and then the proximal joints of the fingers ; but when the first phalanges are fixed by the extensor of the fingers, the superficial flexor moves the second phalanges alone. After the fingers are bent the muscle will help in flexing the wrist and elbow-joints. The ULNAR ARTERY (fig. 26, g) is the larger of the two branches coming from the bifurcation of the brachial trtmk, and is directed along the inner side of the limb to the palm of the hand, where it forms the supei-ficial palmar arch, and supplies most of the fingers. In the forearm the vessel has an arched direction : and its depth from the surface varies in the first and last parts of ite course. In the upper half the artery is inclined obliquely inwards from the centre of the elbow to the inner side of the limb. It courses between the superficial and deep muscles, being covered by the pronator teres, flexor carpi radialis, palmaris longus, and flexor sublimis. Beneath it lies on the brachialis anticus for a .short distance, and afterwards on the flexor profundus (c). In the lower half it has a straight course to the pisiform bone, and is covered l)y the integuments and fascia, and 1iy the flexor caqii ulnaris. To the outer side are the tendons of the flexor •sublimis. Beneath it is the flexor profundus (c).