211 THE INTEROSSEOUS MUSCLES. metatarsal bones at their anterior extremity. A thin fascia covering tlie interoisseous muscles is attached to its hinder edge. It is con- eeixled hy the adductor transversus hallucis, and \>y the tendons, vessels, and nerves of the toe.s. Dissection. To complete the dissection of tlie last layer of Dis.sect iiie muscles, the Hexor lirevis minimi digiti may he detached aiicl oTmuscles thrown forwards. Dividing tlien tlie metafcirsal ligament l)etweeu the liones, the knife is to he carried directly hackwards for a .short distiince in the centre of each interosseous space, except tlie first, in order that the two interosseous muscles may be separated from each other. All the interossei are visible in the sole of the foot. The fascia co\-ering tlie muscles should be taken away if any remains, and the branches of the external plantar nerve to them should be dissected out. Fourth Layer of Muscles (fig. 79). In the fourth and List Fomth layer of the foot are contained the interosseous muscles, and the lnuZ"Js. tendons of the tibialis posticus and peroneus longus. The IXTERO.SSEOUS MUSCLES (fig. 79) are situate in the intervals interossei. between the metatarsal bones : they consist of two sets, planUir and dorsal, like the interossei in the hand. Seven in numlier, there are three plantar and four dorsal ; and two are found in each space, except the innermost. The plcmtar mtisde.'i (o) are slender fleshy slips, belonging to the Thrt^o i.hui- outer three toes. Each arises from the under and inner surface of outer toes"" the corresponding mettitar.sal bone (fig. 76, p. 201) ; and is mserkd partly into the tibial side of the base of the first phalanx of the same toe, and partly by an expansion to the extensor tendons on the dorsum of the phalanx. These muscles are smaller than the dorsal, and are placed more in the sole of the foot. The dorsal muscles (i), one in each space, arise by two heads Four dor.sal froni^the lateral surfaces of the liones between which they lie, bones.'"""' (fig. 76), and are inserted like the others into the side, and on the dorsum of the metatarsal phalanx of certain toes. Thus, the inner two mu.scles belong to the second toe, one to each side ; the next belongs to the outer side of the third toe; and the remaining one to the outer side of the fourth toe. The interossei are crossed by the external planUir vessels and Kelatioiia. nerve, and their digital branches ; and they lie beneath the adductor transversus hallucis and the metatarsal ligament. The posterior perforating arteries pierce the hinder extremities of the dorsal set. Action. Like the inteiussei of the hand (p. 81), they will Use as contnlnite to the bending of the metatarso-phalangeal joints, and straighten the two interplialangeal joints. e"fensors- They can act also as abductois and adductors of the toes. Thus, as acUUie-' tlie plantar set will bring the three outer toes towards the second toe ; and the dorsal iimscles will abduct from the middle line of the second toe,—the two attached to that digit nuiving it to the rhdit lid lett of the said line. o o „ ai P 2