DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. 496 Arliciiliu' liavo capsulo niirt synovial sac. jrotion ill the joints. Yellow ligaments of tlie lamiuie : extent; attach- ments ; tliickiiess. Ligaments of spines: supraspi- nous : anrl inter- spiiious. Inli^r- transverso ligaments. Joint:i of ai-Hcular processes. Between the articulating proces-ses there is a moveable joint, in which the bones are covered with cartilage, and are snrronnded by a capsular Ktjamaii, enclosing a synovial mcmbrcme. Tlie capsules are loosest in the cervical, and strongest in the lumbar region. Moi-emeiit. In these gliding joints the articular proces.ses of the vertebra move to a limited extent over one another, tlie direction of the motion being determined by the form and inclination of their surfaces. The kinds of movement permitted in any portion of the column are thus dependent upon the characters of the joints between the articular processes. The movements are freest in the cervical region, and least exten.sive between the upper dorsal vertebra3. By their overlajipiug, the articular processes also help in giving security to the spine ; and in dislocation of the vertebras they are generallv broken off. Ligaments of the arches. The liga- menta subflava (fig. 183) are small rhomljoidal sheets of yellow elastic tissue, which close the intervals between the neural arches at the back of the spinal canal from the axis to the sacrimi. In each interval there are two ligaments, a right and a left, which meet in the middle line, and extend from the root of the spine to the articular processes. They are attached above to the anterior or deep surface of the laminas of one vertel)ra, and below to the upper border and posterior surface of the laminae of the next. They are thin in the neck, and strongest in the loins. Ligaments of the spines. Along the tips of the spinous proces.ses of the doLsal and lumbar vertebroe is a longitudinal l)and of fibres (fig. 184, 1)—the supraspinous ligament. It is thickast in the lumbar region and consists of superficial fibres which pass over three or more spine.s, and deep fibres which unite adjoining bone.s. Many of the back muscles arise from it on each side. In the same regions, there are also membranous interspinous ligaments (fig. 177, '"') reaching from the root to the tip of the spinous i>rocesses. They arc Ihicker and broader in the lundiar than ill the dorsal part of the column. In the, neck the place of the supraspinou.s and inter.spinous ligaments is taken by the ligamentum nuchfc ()). 6). Ligaments of the transverse processes. In the loins the inta-- transverse ligaments are thin moinbranous bands in the intervals between the processes. In the dorsal region there are rounded Fia. 183.—An Inner View op THE Neukal Arches op the Vertedrjb, with their Inter- posed LiGAJlIENTS (BOURGERV). 1 and 2. Ligamenta subflava.