224 Open the ankle-joint Synoviiil san. Surfaces of the bones in the .joint. Kinds of motion. Flexion: moving bone : state of ligaments. Extension moving bone ; state of ligaments : .slight lateral motion. Dissection for the joints of the foot. A.stragnlns with OS ciilcis by DISSECTION OF THE LEG. Dissection. Dividing the ligaments of the ankle-joint, .separate the astragalns troni the hone.s of the leg, to .see the oaseou .sm-faces entering into the joint. The _^novial membrane of the .joint line.s the capsule, and i.s simple lu Its arrangement; but the cavity is continued upwards for a short distance hetween the til)ia and fihula Arhcalar surfaces. On the tibia there are two articular surfaces, one of which corresponds with the end of the shaft, and tlie other with the malleolus. On the filaila the surface of the malleolu.s which IS turned to the astragalus is covered with cartilage The astragalus has an upper articular surface, wider before than behind and trochlea-shaped, which is in contact with the end of the tibia; and on its sides are articular impressions for contact with the malleoli, of which the outer is the larger. Movements. Only the mo\'enients of flexion and extension are permitted in the ankle, except slight lateral movement in half extension; m the former movement the toes are raised towards the tore part of the leg ; and in the latter, they are pomted towai-ds the ground. Inflexion the a,stragaliLs moves backwards so as to project behind ; and the motion is arrested by the wide anterior part of the a,stragahis being wedged in between the malleoli. The posterior ligament is stretched over the projecting astragalus, and the posterior and middle pieces of the external lateral, and the posterior part of the internal lateral ligament, are made tense. In extension the astragalus moves forwards over the end of the tibia, and projects anteriorly. A limit to the movement is imposed by the meeting of the astragalus with the tibia behind. The lateral ligaments are partly made tight as in Hexioii, for instance, the anterior piece of the external, and the fore and middle portions of the internal. When the joint is half extended, so that the small hinder part of the astragalus is Ijrought into the arch of the leg-bones, a slight movement of the foot inwards and outwards may .sometimes"be obtained ; but if the foot is forcibly extended, the portions of the lateral ligaments attached to the astragalus prevent this lateral movement by their tightness. Dissection. The joints of the foot will be demonstrated by removing from both the dorsum and the sole all the soft parts which have been examined. Between the dill'erent tiirsal bones bands of ligament extend, which will be defined by removing the areolar tissue from the intervals between them (fig. 87). It will be more advantageous for the student to clean all the ligaments before he proceeds to learn any, than to prepare only the bands of one articulation at a time. Articulation of the astragalus and os calcis. These bones form two joints, and are kept together by a strong inlero.sseons ligament; there are also thin bands on each side and behind.