BLADDER AND URETHKA IN FEMALE. 425 into the mucous lining of the uterus, but at tlie outer end it joins i'' contiim- the peritoneum. ous with The hlood-vesscU and nerves are furni.slied from those supplied to vILT""' the ovary and uterus. THE BLADDER, URETHRA, AND RECTUM. Bladder. The peculiarities in the form of the female bladder Anatomy of have been detailed in the description of the relations of the viscera ''''"W"-- of the female pelvis (p. 394). For a notice of its structure, the anatomy of the male ))ladder is to be referred to (p. 409). Dissection. To prepare the bladder, distend it with air, and Preparation remove the peritoneal covering and the loose tissue from the = muscular fibres. After the external anatomy of the bladder and urethra has Ijeen o„en it. learnt, they are to be slit open along the fore part, as described in the dissection of the male jsarts. Urethra. The length and the relations of the urethra are Uretiun- given at p. 395. length; " The average diameter of the urethra is rather more than a quarter size; ot an inch, and the canal is enlarged and funnel-shaped towards the neck of the bladder ; near the external aperture is a hollow in the floor. In consequence of its not being surrounded by resistant it can be structures, the female urethra is much more dilatable than the , corresponding pa.ssage in the male. ' • Stmcture Like the urethra of the male, it consists of a mucous Tube like coat, which IS enveloped by a plexus of blood-vessels, and bv muscular fibre. ^ The muscular layer extends the whole length of tlie urethra. Its Muscular fibres are circular, corresponding with those in the prostatic enlarge- ™f of"-- ment of the other sex, and continuous above with the middle lam- " ' of the bladder. In the perineal ligament this stratum is covered Dy the fibres of the deep transverse muscle. The mucom coat is pale except near the outer orifice. It is Mucous marked by longitudinal folds; and one of these, in the floor of the canal, resembles the median crest in the male urethra (v 412) Around the outer orifice are some r,uuom follicles; and towards tl e , inner end are tubular mr^cous glands, the apertures of whicli are » arranged m lines between the folds of the membrane lies^'cSZe'itf t?"" °' '°"«'t^^dinal elastic and muscular tissues Submucous lies Close beneath the mucous membrane, as in the male "ssue. dist^'nJh?!'?" -.i^^' ""'^f P'^P'"'"^ examination by Preparation cii.tcmling It with tow, and by removing the peritoneal covering °f''=<^"""- the tw?ir ''''T ''''''''''' i« ^i""!'-^-' «-tum like uie two .sexes; and the student may use the descriiHion in the'""^"f"'" Section on the viscera of the male pelvis (p. 417 et seq.). INTERNAL MUSCLES AND LIGAMENTS OF THE PELVIS. Two muscle.^, the pyriformis and obturator intenuis, have their Two ougin within the cavity of the pelvis. muscloa.