DISSECTION OF THE BACK. 520 Cutaneous nerves liow derived. In the nouk Second and tliii'd nerves. The trape- zius. Dissection. Divide trapezius. Clean spinal accessory nerve and parts in poslerior triangle. Lignmentum nuchiE. Cutaneous Nerves. The tegumentary nerves of the back are derived from the posterior primary hraiiches of the spinal iierve.s, whiuli divide amongst the deep muscles into two pieces, inner and outer. Arteries accompany the greater nuniljer of the nerves, bifurcate like them, and furnish cutaneous offsets. Cervical nerves (fig. 2, p. 4). In the neck the nerves are derived from the ijiner of the two branches into which the posterior trunks divide: they perforate the trapezius, and supply the neck and the back of the head. They are four in number, and come from the second, third, fourth, and fifth nerves. The hranch of the second nerve is named great occipital, and accompanies the occipital artery to the back of the head, where it has already been seen (p. 506). The hranch of the third cervical nerve supplies a transveree offset to the neck, and then ascends to the lower jjart of the head, where it is distiibuted near the middle line, internal to the great occipital nerve, with which it usually communicates. The position and attachments of the trapezius in the neck should be carefully made out and the student may read the description of the muscles on pages 4 to 6. Bissectioil. On the second day the trajjezius and latissimus dorsi muscles are divided longitudinally and the parts thrown outwards and inwards. The trapezius is divided about two inches from the middle line, but before dividing it the student should make out the spinal accessory nerve in the posterior triangle of the neck as it passes downwards and outwards to the imder surface of the muscle ; the nerve being looked for at the posterior border of the steruo-nia.stoid about the junction of the ttjjper with its middle third. Parallel with, but below, the spinal accessory, and comnjunicating with it beneath the trapezius, will be found branches of the third and fotirth cervical nerves. The branches of the siqierficial cervical artery to the under surface of the trapezius will also be cleaned and after the reflection of the inner part of the muscle the dissector should clean the splcnixts, and the upper part of the levator anguli scapulas, and define the things beneath the clavicle, viz., the posterior belly of the omo-hyoid mu!3cle (fig. 210, p. 576) with the suprascapular nerve and vessels, as well as the transverse cervical vessels, and the small nerves to the levator anguli scapulas and rhomboid muscles. If the trapezius be detached along the middle line, the ligamentum nuchas, from which it takes origin, will be brought into view. The ligamentum nuch.e is a narrow fibrous band which extends from the spinous process of the seventh cervical vertebra to the external occipit^il protuberance. From its deep surface a thin layer of fibres, which forms a median partition l>etweeii the muscles of the two sides of the neck, is sent forwards to be attached to the external occipital crest and to the other cervical spines. Dissection. On Ihe third day after the latissimus dorsi has been divided, the dissector of the head and neck is to examine the