THE PERICARDIUM. ir.i cava, it gives prolongations along the vessels, the strongest of whieli is on the aorta. Below the pericardium is united to the central tendon of tlie AttjicOi. diaphragm, and e.xtends a little over the muscular tissue, especially diaijiiragin ; on the left side. For the most part it can be readilj' separated from the diaphragm, but in the median part of the central tendon it is Krndy adherent, and the intimate association of the diaphragm, the back part of the periavrdium and the roots of the lungs through the ligamentum latum pulmonis .should be noticed." The inferior vena cava pierces the pericardial attachment below, and, imme- diately entering tlie lower part of the right auricle, does not receive a sheath from the pericardium. In front, tlie pericardium is loo.sely connected to the back of the .sternum in the superior to sternum; mediastinum through tlie sterno-pericardial ligaments already noticed. The extent of its investments of the ve.s.sels entering or leaving the heart will be better seen when it is ojiened. It can now be seen that it is thickest at the ujiper part, and is formed of fibres cro.>^sii)g in diflerent directions, many being longitudinal, lo fascin of and it can be traced up on to the large vessels at the opening of tlie thorax, and by pulling upon it, it will be seen that it is connected with the fascia at the root of the neck. Dissection. The pericardium should now be ojieiied by a longitudinal incision running its whole length from tlie front of the aorta, and liy a cross cut passing from the front of the mot of one Inng to that of the other. Tlie seroics sac consists of parietal and visceral parts, which are Shiqu.s continuous with one another along the great vessels. The parietal 'fbroii''" ''* part lines the filjrous iiieinbraue, with which it is inseparably united, and the included portion of the diaphragm ; while the visceral part covers the heart. It is reflected around tlie and covers pulmonary artery and aorta, enclosing them in one sheath, but''™''' not passing between them. The passcige, through which the finger disiicsiUon should be pa.ssed from side to side behind the aorta and pulmonary vessels; artery within the sac, is called the transverse sinus of the 'pericardium. tr.n).sver.~-e The superior vena cava and the four pulmonary veins are only covered ' by the seroas membrane on the front and sides, and are in contact with the fibrous layer behind. If the apex of the heart be lifted upwards to the right, at the back of the left auricle the serous membrane will be seen to form a blind pouch between the pulmonary vein.s of the two sides. This pouch is known as the oblique sinus of the 'pericardium, oijiiqno In front of the root of the left lung the serous layer forms a '*'"'"'' small triangular fold, the vestujial fold of tlw pericardiuni (Mar.shall), vestigial between the pulmonary artery and the ujiper pulmonary vein. This includes the remains of a left superior cava which existed in the f(etu.s, and, like the oblique sinus, can be seen by lifting the heart over to the right side. Thet'es-se/sof the pericardium are derived from the aorta, the internal Vessels, mammary, the bronchial, the (esophageal and the phrenic arteries. * See a paper by Keith on " Tlie Nature of tlio Mammalian Diaphiagm and Pleural Cavilics."—Journal of Anal, and Phys., vol. x.\.\i.\., l!)Or>.