DTSSEOTION OP THE EYE. Iris is vas- cular and muscular; situation ; form; attaclimeiit anterior siu-face; posterior surface. The pupil. convex, as required for vision at near distances. Tliu ciliaiy muscle is therefore the mmdc of acmmmodation. The IRIS (fig. 289, c) is avascular and muscular structure, about half an inch in diameter, tlie vessels of which are continuous with those of the choroid coat. Its position and relations may be observed in the different dissections that have been prepared. Placed -within the ling of the ciliary muscle, it is suspended in Front of the len.s (fig. 288, /), and is pierced by an aperture for the transmission of the light. It is circular in form, is varionsly coloured in different persons, and is immersed in the aqueous humour. . By its circmnference, it is connected with the choroid coat, and by the ligamentum pectinatum with the cornea. The anterior sirrface is free in the aqueous humour, and is marked by lines converging to- wards the pupil. The posterior surface is covered with a thick layer of pigment (fig. 291), to which the tenn uvea has been applied. The aperture in it (fig. 289) is the pu'pil of the ej-e; this is slightly internal to the centre, and is nearly circular in form ; but its size is constantly varying (from -sLth to ^rd of an inch) by the contraction of the mus- cular fibres, according to the degree of light acting on the retina. Fig. Membrane of the pupil in the foetus: 291.—Enlargbp Representation op the Parts of the Eyeball on One Side Opposite the Lens : the Letters refer TO THE Same Parts as in Fig. 288. d. Cornea. e. Ciliary muscle, radiating fibres. /. Iris. Lens. Posterior chamber. Ciliary part of the retina. Circular bundle of the ciliary muscle. Front of vitreous body. Canal of-Petit. Canal of Scbleram. Inner end of ciliary process. Suspensory ligauient of the lens. 9- i. 3- m n. o. r. s. t. Membrane of the pupil. ]n the foetus the aper- ture of the pupil is closed situation; time of dis- appearance. Component structures. Sphincter ami dilator of pupil. by a vascular transparent membrane, which is attaclicil to tlie edge of the iris and divides into two distinct chambers the space ni which the u-is is suspended. The vessels iu it are continuous behind witli those of the ins and the case of the lens. About the eighth mouth the vessels become impervious, and at the time of birth only fragments of the structure remain. Structure. The stroma of the iris is composed of connective ti,s.sue, the fibres of which are directed for the most part radially towards the pupil. In it are involuntary muscular fibres both circular and radiating, together with pigment-cells ; and vessels and nerve.'^ ramify through the tissue. • n i\ ■ Muscular fibres. The sphincter of the pupil (fig- 290, d) i.s a narrow band about i^th of an inch wide, which is close to the pupil, on the posterior aspect of the iris. The diMor of the puptl (e)