293 FEMOBAL HBRNFA, project above th« pubic bones. The peritoneum is to be detached iioUuth from the inner surface of tlie flap, and from the iliac fossa. Tlie I'^it""""'" layer of subperitoneal fatty tissue is to be separated in the same mul fat, way, and in doing this the spermatic vessels and \'as deferens will come into view as they meet at the internal abdominal ring to form the spermatic cord. iJeneath these the external iliac \'essels are to and dean be cleaned, with some lymphatic glands lying along them, and the ' ^"^"'^ geuito-crural nerve on the artery. (In the female the round liga- ment of the uterus is seen entering the internal abdominal ring round the epigastric artery ; while the ovarian vessels cross the external iliac trunks above this dissection.) Any loose tissue remaining is to be taken away to show the beginning of the crural sheath around the femoral vessels, and the interval (crural ring) on their inner side (tig. 107). Afterwards the transversalis and iliac fascitB are to be traced to Poupart's ligament, to see the part that each takes in the formation of the crural sheath. Anatomy of femoral herxia. The membranes concerned in Anatomy femoral hernia are the peritoneum, the suliperitoneal fatty layer, the °[njct,„.es. transversalis and iliac fascise lining the interior of the abdominal cavity, with the sheath on the femoral vessels to which they give origin at Poupart's ligament. The peritoneum lines the inner surface of the abdominal wall, Peritoneal whence it is prolonged without interruption into the iUac fossa and the pelvis ; and its thinness and weakness are apparent now it is detached. The subperitoneal fat extends as a continuous layer beneath the Subperi- toneal fat peritoneum, but is thickest and most fibrous at the lower part of ' ' the abdomen, where the iliac vessels pas.s under Poupart's ligament. -At that sjjot it extends over the upper opening of the membranous sheath around the vessels, and covers the space of the crural ring internal to the vein. The part of this layer which stretches over the crural ring is forms sep- named the septum crurale; and a lymphatic gland is generally attached to its under-surface. The tra^isversalis fascia has been before noticed (p. 275). At Transver- Poupart's ligament it joins the iliac fascia outside the situation of the external iliac artery ; but internal to that spot it is continued downwards to the thigh in front of the femoral vessels, and forms the anterior part of the crural sheath. The iliac fascia covers the ilio-psoas muscle, and lies beneath the Hi"'' fascia, iliac vessels.. At Poupart's ligament it joins the transversalis fascia external to the iliac vessels ; but behind the vessels it is prolonged into the posterior part of the crural sheath. The crural sheath is a loose membranous tube, which encloses the siieatli on femoral vessels as they enter the thigh, and is obtained from the vesse'is. fasciaj lining the abdomen. Its anterior half is continuous with the transversalis fascia, and its posterior is derived fronj the iliac fascia and the pubic fascia of the thigh. The sheath is not entirely fiUed