POSTERIOR TIBIAL ARTERY. 195 constituting a fibular origin of that muscle. Fibres of the flexor longus h.allucis arise from one surface of the membrane, and of the tibialis posticus from the other. The POSTERIOR TIBIAL ARTERY (fig. 74, e) IS OUe of the vessels Posterior resulting from the bifurcation of the jiopliteal trunk (p. 126). It artet^; oxtend.s from the lower border of the popliteus muscle to the lower extent; edge of the internal annular ligament, where it ends in internal and e-rternal plantar branches for the sole of the foot. At its origin the artery lies midway lietween the tibia and fibula course; but a.s it approaches the lower part of the leg it gradually inclines inwards ; and at its termination it is placed behind the tibia, in the centre of the hollow between the heel and the inner ankle. For the upper two-thirds of the leg the vessel is concealed by two parts cover- muscles of the calf, viz., gastrocnemius and soleus ; but in the a"^i bejmv™ lower third, as it lies between the tendo Achillis and the inner edge of the tibia, it is covered only l)y the integuments and the deep fascia. At its termination it is placed beneath the annular ligament. For its upper half the trunk lies over the tiliialis posticus, but afterwards on the flexor digitorum, and on the lower parts be- end of the tibia and the ankle-joint. On the outer side is the flexor hallucis. Under the annular ligament, the artery is placed between the between tendons of the common flexor of the digits and the special flexor of i'^?!""'' , ankle ; the great toe. Vente comites closely surround the vessel. The posterior tibial veins; nerve is at first internal to the artery ; but after the origin of the nerve; peroneal artery it crosses to the outer side, and retains that position throughout. This arteiy supplies branches to the muscles and the tibia, and a brandies :- large peroneal trunk to the outer side of the leg. a. Muscular branches enter the deep layer of muscles, and the Muscular, soleus ; and an ofl'set from the branch to the soleus pierces the attachment of that nmscle to the tibia, and ascends to the knee-joint. 6. The medullary artery of the tibia arises near the beginning of Medullary the trunk ; penetrating the tibialis, it enters the canal on the posterior ^° surface of the bone, and ramifies in the interior. c. Cutaneous offsets appear through the fascia in the lower half Cutaneous, of the leg. d. One or two small internal malleolar branches ramify over the internal inner malleolus. malleolar. e. A communicating branch arises opposite the lower end of the Commuui. tibia, and passes outwards beneath the flexor longus hallucis, to unite in an arch with a corresponding offset of the peroneal artery. Sometimes there is a second loop between these vessels superficial to the flexor hallucis (fig. 74,/). Peculiarities. If tlie posterior tibial artery is smaller than usual, or size of absent, its deficiencies in the foot will be supplied by a large communicating tibial may branch from the peroneal artery, which, in these cases, is directed inwards at the lower end of the tibia, and either joins the small tibial vessel, or runs alone to the sole of the foot.