98 DISSECTION OF THE UPPER LIMB. ublique ligament. Tile oblique ligament (fig. 39, 3) is a slender baud above the interosseous memljraue, the fibres of which have a direction opposite to those of the nienibi-ane. By one end it is fi.xed to the lower end o|__the__coronaid_ptacyss, and by the other to the "radius below The lower end after. Kind of motion of radius: pronation, .supi nation ; axis Of motion; use of ligaments; in fracture motion teaUe the tuberosity. The ligament divides into two tlie'space ai>6ve the interosseous membrane. Oftentimes this band is not to be recognised. The lower radio-uluar articulation cannot be well .seen till after the examination of the wrist-joint. Movement of the radius. The radius moves forwards and backwards upon the ulna. The forward motion, directing the palm of the baud backwards, is called pronation ; and the back- ward movement, by which the palm of the hand is turned to the front, is named supination. In pronation, the upper end of the bone rotates within the band of the orbicular ligament -without shifting its position to the ulna. The lower end, on the contrary, moves over the ulna from the outer to the inner side, describing nearly half a circle ; and the shaft crosses obliquely that of the iilna. In supination, the lower end of the radius turns Ijackwards over the ulna; the shafts come to be placed side by side, the radius being external; and the upper end rotates from within out in its circular band. In these movements the radius revolves round an axis, internal to the shaft, which is prolonged upwards through the neck and head of the bone, and downwards through the styloid process of the idna. The upper end of the lione is kept in place by the orbicular ligament; the lower end by the triangular fibro-cartilage ; and the shafts are united by the interosseous litrament, which is tightened in supination, and relaxed in pronation. In fracture of either bone the movements cease; in the one case l iecanse the radius cannot be moved unless it is entire ; and in the other because the broken ulna cannot support the re\'ohing radius. THE WRIST-JOINT. Dissection. Dissection. To see the ligaments of the wri.st-joint, the tendons and the annular ligaments must be remo\'ed from l>oth the front and back ; and the fibrous structures and the small ves.sels should be taken from the surface of the ligaments. Bonnsform- The AVrist-Joint (radio-carpal articulation; fig. 41). The .johit""' lower end of the radius, and the first row of the carpal bone.s, united by except the pisiform, enter into this joint. Four ligaments connect the bones, viz., anterior and posterior, and two lateral. The ulna is shut out from the articulation by a piece of fibro-cai'tilage. external The e.dernal lateral ligament is a short band, which passes lateral, fi^om the styloid proce.ss of the radius to the outer part of the scaphoid l)one.