r.HANOHKS OK THE ABDOMINAI. AORTA. acc'iiiniiiiiiied I13' tlie .■ipcriiiatic vein, :ui(l tlie s]ieiiiiatic plexus cil' nerves. In the I'letus licfure the testicle leave.s th(^ abduiueii the cnnditioii in spermatic artery is very .^Imrt, but tlie vessel elongates as tlie testis is reinoveil From its original position. In the I'eniale the corresponding arter}' (nmriioi) descends into the i" Uio pelvis to end in the ovar}' and the uterus. The piiridal hnmclics oi the aorta are the dia[ihragniatie, lumliar, liranclios . . , , It) w:lll of and midille sacral. aiiiioim n. The iluiphragmatic (oVtc/cs (inferior phrenic ; lig. 138, a) are infoiior frequently united together at their origin, or with the c(eliac'''"'""^' axis. They course upwards along the posterior part of tlie under com-si) of surface of the diaphragm, the left artery passing behind therigi,'t,; oesophageal opening, and the right behind the vena cava. Each ends in two branches :—One (internal) pa.sses onwards towards the iiistribu- front of the diaphragm, and anastomoses with its fellow, and with the superior phrenic and musculo-phreiiic branches of the internal mammary. The other (external) is larger, and is directed outwards to the side of the muscle, where it communicates with tlie intercostal arteries. Branches. Small offsets to the suprarenal body from the external .small division of tliis artery are named superior citpsular. Some twigs are given by the left artery to the oesophagus, and by the right to the vena cava. On the nnder-surface of the diapliragm are two branches of ouut the internal maiiimary artery of the thorax, one, superior phrenic, iiiaphmgrn. accompanies the phrenic nerve, and ramihes over the middle of the mu.scle ; the other, lausculo-phvaic, appears opposite the ninth cartilage, and supplies the up[ier costal slips of the diaphragm. The other jiarietal brunches of the aorta, viz., lumbar and middle sacral, are not learnt in this stage : the former will be examined after the lumbar plexus (p. 374), and the latter in the pelvis (p. 400). The co.MMON ILIAC ARTERY (fig. 138, (/) is directed downwards Common and outwards from the bifurcation of the aorta, and divides into artery: two large trunks opposite the fibro-cartilage between the last lumbar nxtnntanil vertebra and tlie sacrum ;—one of these {external iliac) su]i])lies the lower limb, and the other {internal iliac) enters the pelvis. Placed relations; obliquely on the vertebral column, the vessel measures about two inches in length. It is covered by tlie peritoneum, and is crossed by branches of the sympathetic nerve, and sometimes l)y the ureter. It is accompanied by a vein of the same name. Usually it does usually no not furnish any named brancli, but it may give origin to the '^''^"ciies. ilio-liinibar artery. On opposite sides the vessels have some dilferences. The rifjIU artcnj lius the vena cava to its outer side above, and Hiin'rcnccs near its termination touches the psoas mu.scle. Tlie companion vi4n l-i.-ht ' " [p) is at hrst beneath, but becomes external to the artei'y at the u]iper part ; and beneath the right artery also is the left common iliac vein. The left arterij is crossed by the sujiorior haiinorrhoidal v'lLoi.