716 DLSSECTIOK OF THE BIIAIN. Sdudivisions of the encephalon. Before the description of the meiiibraiies and vessels is given, the chief subdivisions of the encephalon may be shortly noticed. Kiimlai °^ '^^^'^ cranial or encephalic mass of tlie nervous system (fig. 268, inas.s. P- 741), consists of cerebrum or great brain, cerebellum or small brain, pons, and medulla oblongata. Each of these parts has the following situation and subdivisions :— uWoi!.''iVi "^^^^ medulla oblongata, or bull) of the spinal cord (fig. 268, «), lies in the groove between the halves of the cerebellum, and is divided into two symmetrical parts by a median fissure. To it several of the cranial nerves are united. Pons Viuolii The pons Varolii (d) is situate above the medulla oblongata, and is marked along tlie middle by a groove, wliich indicate.-; a and its separation into halves and which lodges the basilar artery. Above it pniiuectioiis. large processes (crura cerebri, /) connecting it to the cerebrum; and on each side it is united to the cerebellum by a similar white mass. Cerebellum. The cerebellum (6), or the small brain, is separated into two hemispheres by a median groove ; and its surface is marked by concentric laminaj. Cerebrum, The cerebrum (?• and |)), or the large brain, is divided into two hemispheres by a longitudinal fissure in the middle line ; and each and its great hemisphere presents a deep transverse cleft—tlie fissure of Sylviits. The surface of the hemispheres is convoluted. ^ Weight of The average weight of the brain in the European male is about ' 49 oz. ; in the female about 44 oz. Three. Membraxes OP THE Brain. The Coverings of the brain (meninges) ■ are three in number, viz., dura mater, arachnoid, and piamater. The dura mater is a firm fibrous investment, which separates and supports the different parts of the brain, and serves as an internal periosteum to . the cranial bones. The pia mater is the most internal layer; it is OAO-C l^r adherent to the brain substance and contains the ramifications of the r»ft,«»v vessels of the brain. The arachnoid, which is interposed between the other two, is the membrane that is seen when the brain is removed from the cranial cavity. Besides enveloping the brain, these membranes are prolonged on the cord into the spinal canal. Only the cranial part of the last Uura mater, two will be now noticed. For the description of the cranial portion of the dura mater, see pp. 507 et seq. Arachnoid The ARACHNOID is a Very thin filirous membrane, which envelopes membrane: ^^^^ loosely, and is separated from the dura mater by the interval named the subdural i-pace and from the pia mater by the sub- arachnoid space. Its outer surface is free and smooth and in the natural slate is in close apposition to the dura nniter. The inner surface is attached to the pia mater by numerous fine cords and relaiionn bands, wliicli cross the subarachnoid space. The membrane covers to suiei; ^j^^ convolutions and laininno of the large and small brain, bridging over the sulci between them, and at the under surface or base of the brain it stretches across from side to side between the cerebral