DISSECTION OF THE PERIKEUM. 250 Tiaiiiiverse ligiuiiont. Deep lnin.s\'erse muscle. Use of constrictor. Circular libres of urethra, from the prostate to the bulb : Cowper's glands: situation, size, and structure; leugth and tenninatiou of the duct: they vary in size. Dissection of vessels and nerve. I'udic artery: course and ending. uix-tliraj where they are interrupted in .some ca.ses by a small median tendon. At the anterior border of the muscle there is a short fibrous band stretching across between the inferior rami of the pubic bones, and bounding, with the sub-pubic ligament at the lower margin of the symphysis, an oval opening, through wliich the dorsal vein of the penis enters the pelvis. The hindmost fibres of the constrictor are connected with the central point of the perineum, and are sometimes described separately as the transversus jJerinei profundm. Action. This muscle acts as a sphincter in narrowing the membranous part of the urethra, and ejecting the contents of the tube. It may also aid in producing erection of the penis by com- pressing the veins of the corpora cavernosa, which are surrounded by its fibres. Involuntary circular fibres within the constrictor muscle surround the urethra from the bulb to the prostate, and form a layer about ^th of an inch thick ; they are not fixed to bone, and are con- tinuous above with the circular fibres of the j^rostate. This layer is a portion of the large involuntary muscle, of which the prostate contains the chief part, surrounding the beginning of the urethra. Action. This involuntary layer assists in forcing forwards the urine and the semen. The glands of Cowper will be found by cutting thiough some of the hinder fibres of the constrictor mu.scle. They are situate behind the membranous part of the urethra, one on each side of the middle line, and close above the bulb. Each gland is about the size of a pea, and is made up of small lobules. They are hard to the feel and can often be located by grasping a portion of the surrounding muscle in the forceps before its removal. Connected with each is a minute duct, an inch or more in length, which perforates obliquely the wall of the urethra(corpussiiongiosnm), and opens into the canal about three-quarters of an inch in liont of the triangular ligament. Its aperture in the ordinary state does not admit a bristle. These bodies are sometimes so small as to escape detection, and they ajipear to decrease in size with advancing age. Dissection. The studeut should now trace out on the right side the pudic vessels with their remaining brsmches, and the dorsal nerve of the penis. From the point of its divisicm beneath the cms into two branches (dorsal of the penis, and cavernous), the artery is to be followed backwards along the bone ; and the nerve will be found by the side of, but deeper than the artery. The iNTERNAi; PUDIC AKTERY has already been dis.sected in the posterior half of the perineum (p. 242). At the front of the ischio- rectal fossa it penetrates the base of the triangular ligament, and then runs forwards close to the edge of the hip-bone (fig. 94, a), in a cjinal formed by the tendinous origin of the constrictor urethra?. About half an inch behind the symphysis pubis it pierces the inferior layer of the ligament, and immediately divides into the arteries of the corpus cavernosum and the doreum of the penis. It is accomiMnied by