AZVGOS VEINS. .spinal braiieli to tlii' vertebra and Hie s]iiiial cord. See viis.sKLs OF THK SI'I.N.M, CANAL (p. 549). The intercoMal vein closelj' resembles tlie artery in its cour.se and inturcostal branching. Near the head of the rili it receives a contributing dor.sal branch, and then join.s an azygos vein. Bronchial veins. A vein i.s.sues from the root of each lun.t;, and v,.in oftho ends on the right side in the large azygos \-ein, and on the lel't in the superior azygo.s vein of its own side. The surERioR intercostal artery of the stdiclavian trunk Si.|"'nc.i- descends over the neck of the first riii, e.vternal to the cord „f the sympathetic, and supplie.s a branch to the first intercostal sui,],ik,.s two space : continuing to the second space, which it supplies in like "l"'"'" manner, it ends by anastomosing with the upper aortic intercostal. Its intercostal offsets divide into anterior and posterior branches, which are distributed like the intercostal branches of the aorta. The AZYGOS VEINS are two in number on the left side and one on Tiin.oaz.v-o.s the right, and receive branches corresponding to the ofisels furnished by the descending thoracic aorta. The right ov large azyyos (tig. 174, p. 481, and fig. 175, •', p. 486) Lnr«o begins in the right ascending lumbar vein on the right side of the rMft'si.'ie"" spine in the abdomen. It enters the thorax through the aortic"'''' opening of the diajihragm, and ascends on the right side of the aorta and tlioracic duct, o\'er the intercostal arteries and the bodies of the vertebrcc. Opposite the fifth rib the vein arches forwards above the root of the right lung, and enters the superior cava as and joins this vessel pierces the ijericardium. Its valves are lew and very ""P'^^'™'' incomi)lete, and the intra.spiual and intercostal veins may be™™' injected through it. Branches. In this vein are received :— brandies 1. Eight lower intercostal veins of the right side. .ioiningit. 2. Eight superior intercostal vein bringing blood from the second and third spaces. 3. Left lower azygos vein, bringing blood from the lower three or four spaces of the left side. _ 4. Left upper azygos vein bringing blood iVoni the fourth, fifth, sixth, and seventh spaces of the left side. 5. Eight bronchial vein. 6. Small tcsophageal, mediastinal, and vertebral veins. By means of the right azygos vein the inferior vena cava communicates with the superior, .so that lilood can reach the heart from the lower half of the body if the inferior cava were obstructed The left lower az>jgos rein (fig. 175, ') begins in the abdomen in L.a low.n- tlie ascending lumbar vein of the left side of the vertebral column Enter.ng the thorax along the aorta, or through the eras of the wi„s in diaphragm, the vein ascends on the left of the aorta as hi-rJi as the "''domon, ninth or eighth dorsal vertebra, where it crosses beneath that ve.s.sel onds in and the thoracic duct to end in the right azvgos. It receives the three or four lower intercostal veins of thj left side, and .some oesophageal and mediastinal branches. inanoi.Ps. The left npper azygos vein (fig. 175, is formed by oflsds from i„.a „„„.., 1 I 2