142 DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. Ilio-tibial band. Apertures in fa.scia. Connected with bone at upijer part of thigh, difl'ereuce at lower part. Bands on sides of patella; outer stronfr, inner weak. Replace flaps of skin. Sajilienous opening: situation and no defined boi-der on inner side; on outer side the falciform margin, It in stronge.st on the outer aspect of the limb, where it receive.? the iiLsertion of the tensor vagiiioe feinori.s, and mo.st of the glutens niaximus muscle. Thi.s thickened part {ilio-tibial band) is attached above to the hip-bone, and below to the outer tuljerosity of the tibia and the outer side of the patella, and helps to keep the knee-joint straight in standing, as explained on p. 113. Numerous apertures exist in the fascia for the transmission of the cutaneous nerves and vessels ; and tlie largest hole is near Poupart's ligament, to permit the passage of the internal saphenous vein. Processes prolonged from the deep surface form septa between, and fibrous sheaths around, the several muscles. Two of the pro- cesses are larger than the rest, and are named outer and inner inter-muscular septa of the thigh ; they are fixed to the femur, so as to limit on the sides the extensor of the knee. The position of these partitions is marked by white lines on the surface. At the top of the thigh the fascia is fixed to the prominent borders of the pelvis. Thus, it is connected externally with the iliac crest, and internally with the body of the pubis and the margin of the pubic arch. Behind, it is joined to the lower end of the sacrum and coccyx ; and in front, to Poupart's ligament between the pubis and the iliac crest. Behind the knee-joint the fascia passes un- interruptedly to the leg ; but in front of the articulation it blends with an expansion from the extensor muscle, and is continued over the joint and the patella, though separated from that bone by a bursa, to be inserted into the heads of the tibia and fibula. On each side of the patella is a band of almost transverse fibres (retinaculum), which is attached to and supports the knee-cap. The outer, thick and strong, is continuous externally with the ilio- tibial band, and joins the insertion of the vastus externus at its attachment to the patella : it guides the patella outwards when the joint is bent. The inner baud, of slight strength, is fixed to the patella lower than the other, and unites with the insertion of the inner vastus. Directions. The flaps of skin which were removed from the front of the thigh, to follow the cutaneous vessels and nerves, are to be now stitched together to keep moist the subjacent parts ; and the saphenous opening is to be learnt. The SAPHENOUS OPENING in the fascia lata (fig. 54, /, p. 137), is an oval aperture, which is situate rather internal to tlie middle line of the thigh. It measures about half an inch in width, and one inch and a half in length. Its upper extremity (superior cornu) is at Poupart's ligament; and its lower extremity (inferior cornu) is distant from that structure aljout one inch and a half, and presents (when dissected) a well-defined margin. Internally, the saphenous opening has not any distinct margin, for the membrane here (called the jjK&tc imiion of the fascia lata) is continued outwards over the subjacent muscle (pectineus), and behind the femoral vessels, to form the back of the crural sheath. Externally, the fascia lata (iliac inrtion) forms a semilunar border, when detached, the concavity of which is turned downwards and