652 DISSECTION OF TIIK OKBIT. and temporal olfsets. Orbitalis muscle. Dissection iu spheno- maxillary fossa; Superior maxillary nerve. in floor of orbit. Infraorbital vessels. Upper max- illary nerve passes to face through infraorbital caniil. Its branches are—to orbit; to the nose and palate; to the liinder teeth and cheek ; The temporal hravch ascends in a groove in the bone on the outer wall of the orbit, and after being joined by a filament from the lachrymal nerve, passes into the temporal fos.-a tlirougli the temporal canal in the malar bone : it is then directed upwards between the temporal niu.scle and the skull, and perforates the temporal fascia near the orbit (p. 50-1). Orbitalis muscle. At tlie lower and outer angle of the orbit this thin layer of nnstriped muscle is .sometimes well seen. The fibres cross the spheno-maxillary fissure, being attached to the edges, and are pierced by the temporo-malar nerve. Dissection. The contents of the orbit liaving now been removed, with the exception of the temporo-malar nerve, which is to be preserved if possible, the whole of the outer wall is to be cut away and the greater wing of the sphenoid chipped away so as to open up the siiheno-maxillary fossa. Only an osseous ring should be left round the su-perior maxilkmj division of the fifth nerve where it issues from the skull through the foramen rolundum, and the exposure of the nerve as it crosses the fossa to pa.ss on to the floor of the orbit will be completed by removing the fat. In the fossa the student seeks the following oft'sets,—the orbital branch entering the cavity of the orbit, branches to Meckel's ganglion which descend iu the fossa, and the posterior dental branch along the back of the upper jaw. To follow onwards the nerve in the floor of the orbit, the contents of the cavity having been taken away, the bony canal in which it lies must be opened to its termination on the face. From the infraorbital canal the anterior and middle dental branches are to be traced downwards for some distance in the bone. The infra- orbital vessels are prepared with the nerve. The SOPERIOK MAXILLARY NERVE (fig. 231) commences at the Gasserian ganglion, and leaves the cranium by the foramen rotuu- dum. The course of the nerve is almost straight to the face, acrcss the spheno-maxillary fossa, and along the orbital plate of the upper maxilla through the infraorbital canal. Issuing from the canal by the infraorbital foramen, where-it is concealed by the elevator of tlie npper lip, it ends in iulraorbital or facial branches wliich radiate to the eyelid, nose, and upper lip. After the nerve comes to lie on the floor of the orbit it is called the INFRAORBITAL NERVE. Branches.—a. The orbital or temporo-malar brandi {*) has already been described. b. The spheno-palatine brandies (•'') descend from the nerve in the fossa, and supply the nose and the palate; they are con- nected with Meckel's ganglion, and Avill be dissected with it (Section XIII., p. G73). c. The postenor dental branch (•'■) leaves the nerve near the upper jaw. It enters a canal in the maxilla, and supplies branches to the molar teeth and the lining membrane of the antrum ; near the teeth it joins the middle dental nerve. Before entering the canal