525 PARTS OF THE ERECTOR SPIN^E. small branches from the external divisions of the posterior cervical nerves to the pieces of the muscle are to be looked for. As the ERECTOR SPiNiE is displayed in the dorsal and lumbar J)ef\un off- . . . 1 -1 i i 1 sota from regions, two prolongations from it to tlie cervical vertebra) ana mo erector the head are to be defined :—One, a thin narrow muscle, tlie cervi- calis ascendms, is continued beyond tlie ribs from tlie outer piece of the erector (ilio-costalis), ami is to be separated from the muscles around. The other is a larger ofiset of the inner piece {longissimus dorsi) of the erector muscle ; single at first where it is united with the fibres of the longissimus, it is divided afterwards, like the splenius, into a cranial part (traclielo-mastoid) and a cervical part (traiisversalis colli). The serratus inferior is to be detached from the spines and thrown outwards, when fine nerves will be found entering it like spinie those to the upper muscle. The superficial layer of the fascia lumborum is also to be removed, and the areolar tissue is to be cleaned from the surface of the large mass of the erector spinffi which now comes into view. Opposite the last rib is an inter- muscular interval, which divides the erector spinre into an outer piece (ilio-costalis), and an inner (longissimus dorsi). By sinking lUo- the knife into this interval the ilio-costalis may be turned out- wards, and the longitudinal column of muscle forming the outer j)art of the erector spinm will be defined. Its parts are named, from below upwards— 1. The Ilio-costalis. 2. The Musculus aecessorius. 3. The Cervicalis ascendens. The ilio-costalis is a thick mass below, passing on to the lower ribs, and as it is turned outwards the fleshy slips of the aecessorius will be uncovered, as tliey are attached to the angles of the ribs, and from this part its prolongation into the neck as the cervicalis ascendens can be readily made out. In preparing the ilio-costalis Vessel.s and muscle, the e.xternal branches of the dorsal nerves with their accomjianying arteries will appear. The attacliments of the longissimus dorsi and its prolongation f,ongissimus upwards as the inner longitudinal column of the erector spinm are • then to be traced out. The parts of this column are named, from below upwards— 1. The Longissimus dorsi. 2. The Transveraalis colli. 3. The Trachelo-mastoid. Externally the longissimus has thin muscular slips of insertion outer into about the lower nine ribs, and thicker processes passing to the transverse processes of the lumbar vertebras; the latter may be shown by raising the outer border of the muscle, and clearing away the fat between it and the middle layer of the fascia lumborum. Internally the longissimus is inserted into the transverse ])rocesses of the dorsal, and the accessory processes of the lumbar vertebras by and inner rounded tendons ; and to see these it will be necessary to detach a '"""'''■'''ns; thiu tendinous and muscular portion of the erector mass (spinalis spinalis ^ dorsi;