THE TRANSVEKSO-SFINALES AND THE SEMISPINALIS. The POSTERIOR URANCHES OF THE LUMBAR ARTERIES divide, like Lumbar the fovegoiiiir, into internal and external pieces, as soon as they reach the interval between the erector and nudlilidns spine. Each divide also gives also a spinal branch to the spinal canal. The internal branches are small, and end in the nmltifidus spins: inner and The external branches supply the erector sjjinaj; and offsets are outur continued to the integuments with the superficial nerves. brancii«s. Veins. The occiintal veins communicate usually with the lateral Occipital sinus of the skull through the mastoid foramen, and pas.s l)eneatli the complexus to enter the deep cervical vein. The deei) cervical vein is of large size, and liesides receiving the l^eep cervi- occipital veins, cominunicates with the other deep veins of this anll\)i"xn.s region, forming the posterior plexus of the neck. It passes for-"!.'''"^'^ wards with its artery between the transverse processes, and joins the vertebral vei:i. The vertebixd vein begins above the neural arch of the atlas by BoKinning the union of an ofiset leaving the si)inal canal with the artery and brai'veir'"" branches from the above-mentioned plexus. The dorsal and lumbar veins agree in their liranching and Dorsal and distribution with the arteries they accompany, and end in the corresjionding trunks of the thoracic and abdominal wall. In contact with the spinous processes and lamina3 of the vertebra) and deep is a deeper set of veins (dorsal spinal), which anastomose freely together, and comnuinicute through the ligamentji subflava with the veins in the interior of the spinal canal. Transverso-Spinales. Occupying the vertebral groove by the Tran.sverso- side of the spinous proce.s.=ses is a long muscular mass, which extends ''l"""'<'^ = from the lower part of the sacrum to the axis. This is composed of slijjs which are directed obliquely from transverse or articular arrange- processes to spinous processes, and are therefore designated collec- lively transverso-spinales. The .slips differ in length, and form three layers, which are described as separate muscles, vi^., a su])erficial stratum of long slij^s, confined to the cervical and dorsal and sub- regions—the semispinalis; a middle portion, with slips of inter- mediate length—the multijidus spince ; and a deep set of very short fasciculi, present only in the thoracic region—the rotatores dorsi. The semispinalis and multifidus are only to be sejiarated with difficulty ; but the rotatores are more distinct, and are included in the next layer. The semispinalis consists of .slips which jmss over four or five Semispinaii.s vertebra;, and it is subdivided into the following two parts, but the uito ''^'"^ separation between them is not always distinct. The semispinalis dorsi is thinner than the upjier part; it arises semispinalis from the transverse processes of the dorsal vertel>ra) from the sixth to the tenth, and is inserted into the spines of the last two cervical and the upper four dorsal vertebr£e. The semispinalis colli (fig. 192, «) arises from the transverse and semi.spi- processes of the upper six dorsal vertebroe, and is i7iserted into the spines of the cervical vertebr£B above the last, except into the atlas. The insertion into the massive spine of the axis is much the largest.'