THE DELTOID. 31 is contiguous to the teres major, the latissinms dorsi, and the long head of the tricejis. The subscapular artery runs along this l)order, and its dors;il branch, as well as tlie posterior circumflex artery and the circumflex nerve, turn backwards below it. Action. It rotates the humerus inwards, and when il, is rai.sed n.sc. it de])resses that bone. Dissection. The subscapularis is to l)e .separated from the Dissection •scapula, except that a thin layer of fibres, in which the ves,sels lie, is to be left on the bone. As the muscle is raised, its tendinous ])rocesses of origin, the connection between its tendon and the cap- sule of the shoulder-joint, and the bursii are to be ob.served. A small arterial anastomosis on the x'enti'al surface of the scapula is to be dissected out of the fle.shy fibres. The INFRASCAPULA.R ARTERY is an offset of the dor.sal branch of small infia- the subscapular -i-essel (p. 24), and ramifies on the ventral surface artery." of the scapula. Pa.ssing beneath the subscapular muscle, it forms an anastomosis with small twigs of the suprasciipular and posteiior sciipular arteries. Position. The examination of the muscles on the dorsal surface Position of of the scapula may be next undert^iken. For this purpose the limb is to he, turned over ; and a l)lock, which is deep enoxigh to make the .shoulder prominent, is to be placed between the scapula and the arm. Dissection. The skin is to be removed from the prominence of Dissection the shoulder, down to the middle of the outer side of the arm. shouWer. After its removal some small cut<uieous ner\'es are to be found in the felt : the upper of these descend over the acromion; and a larger branch comes to the surface about half-way down the posterior border of the deltoid muscle. Superficial nerves. Branches of nerves, siqmuwwmial, descend Cutaneous to the surface of the .shoulder from the cerviciil ])lexus. A cutaneous branch of the circumflex nerve (tigs. 13 and 23) turns forwards with a small companion artery from beneiith the posterior border of the deltoid, and supplies the integuments covering the lower two-thirds of the muscle. Dissection. The fat and f ascia are now to be t;iken fi-oni the Dissection fle.shy deltoid, its fibres being made ten.se for the purpo.se. Be- m»sc\^''^ ginning at the anterior edge of the muscle, the di.ssector is to carry the knife upwards and downwards, following the direction of the coarse muscular fasciculi. As the posterior edge is approached, the cuttiueous ner\-e and vessels escaping from beneath it are to l)e dis,sected out. At the .same time the fascia may be remove<l IVom the back of ihe scapula, so as to denude the muscles there. The DELTOID MUSCLE (fig. 13 F,) is triangular in form, with Deltoid the base at the scapula and clavicle, and the ajjex at the humerus. '■ It arises from the whole length of the lower ))()rder of the spine of the scapula, the origin being aponeurotic towards the vertebral border of the bone and blending with the dense fascia over the origin iufra.spinatus muscle, from the outer edge of the acromion (fig. 12),