504 DISSECTION^ OF THE HEAD. Supraorbital nerve : its two cuta- neous and palpebral branches. Snpratrocli- lear nerve: palpebral branch. Temporal nerves: of superior maxillary ; inner angle of the orbit is the snaall supratrochlear of inferior maxillary, its auricular branch; and of facial nerve. Po.sterior auricular,' nerve liaa The half of the head in front of the ear receives branches from the three trunks of the fifth cranial nerve, and twig.s to tlie muscles from the facial nerve. The skin of the hinder part of the head is supplied by spinal nerves (anterior and posterior primary branches); and close behind the ear, there is a muscular offset of the facial or seventh cranial nerve. The SUPRAORBITAL NERVE (fi-g. 186), comes from the first trunk of the fifth nerve, and escapes from the orbit with its companion artery. It is placed at first beneath the orbicularis palpebrarum and frontalis muscles, and here gives offsets to these as well as to the pericranium. In the orbicularis a communication is established between this and the facial nerve. Finally the nerve ends in two cutaneous branches. The inner of these soon pierces the frontalis, and reaches upwards as high as the parietal bone. The outer branch is of larger size, and perforating the muscle higher up, extends over the head as far as the ear. As the nerves escapes from the supraorbital notch it furnishes some paljMbral filaments to the ujsper eyelid At the NERVE (fig. 186), from the same trunk. It ascends to the forehead close to the bone and, piercing the muscular fibres, ends in the integument. Branches are given from it to the orlncularis and corrugator supercilii, and some palpeln-al twigs enter the upper eyelid. The SUPERFICAL TEMPORAL NERVES are derived from the second and third trunks of the fifth nerve, and from the facial nerve. The TEMPORAL BRANCH OF THE SUPERIOR MAXILLARY NERVE (second trunk of the fifth) is a slender twig (fig. 186), from the temporo^alar nerve, which j)erforates the temporal aponeurosis about a finger's breadth above the zygomatic arch. When cuta- neous, the nerve is distributed on the fore part of the temple, and communicates with the facial nerve, also sometimes with the next. The AURICULO-TEMPORAL NERVE (fig. 186, accompanying d), a branch of the inferior maxillary (third trunk of the fifth), makes its appearance with the temjjoral artery in front of the ear. As soon as it emerges from beneath the parotid gland, it divides into two terminal branches. The posterior is the smaller of the two, and supplies the integument above the ear. The anterior branch ascends verti- cally to sujjply the skin as far as the upper limit of the temporal fossa. The nerve also furnishes an auricular branch (upper) to the fore ])avt of the ear above the auditoiy meatus. The TEMPORAL BRANCHES OF THE FACIAL NERVE are directed upwards over the zygomatic arch and the temporal aiioneurosis to the orbicularis palpel)raruni, corrugator supercilii and frontalis muscles : they will be described with the di.sscction of the facial nerve. The POSTERIOR AURICULAR NERVE (lig. 186) Hes behind the ear with the artery of the same name. It arises from the facial nerve close to the stylo-mastoid foramen, and ascends in front of the mastoid i)rocess. Soon after the nerve becomes superficial it