392 Meso- salpunic. Meso- ovniium ; ligament of the o\'ary; ovario- pelvic ligament; round liga- ment. Use descrip- tion of male pelvis for muscles and fasciae. Then clean the viscera of the female pelvis. Helations of the rec- tum, and anal canal. Utenis: form and situation ; DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. and above the ovary is caUed the Tmso-salpinx and the short fold attaching the ovary is the meso-ovarmm. Passing from the lower and inner end of the ovary to the upper part of the uterus behind IS a well-marked band—the ligamenl of the ovary; and a fold con- taining the ovarian vessels will be seen connecting the ovary to the pelvic wall oyer the external iliac artery ; this is tlie ovarvj.pdvu ligament, or the suspensory ligament of the ovary. Finally in front of the broad ligament a fibrous cord-the roimd ligament of the nterus—can be traced from the uterus over the pelvic brim to the internal abdominal ring. The false ligaments of the bladder are substantially the same as in the male (p. 378). The so-called posterior false ligament is Identical with the utero-vesical fold of peritoneum and contains the superior vesical vessels. Directions. The instructions for the removal of the hip-bone and for the distension of the viscera, as well as for the dissection of the fascia and muscles of the pelvis given on page 378 should now be followed, and after the student has learnt the muscles and the fascia, which are nearly alike in both sexes, as described on pages 380 to 384, he will make the following special dissection of the viscera of the female pelvis. Dissection. On taking away the recto-vesical fascia and much fat the viscera will come into view. To maintain the position of the uterus, fasten it up with a piece of string passed through the upper end. The reflections of the jiieritoneum on the viscera°are to be preserved ; and a piece of cotton-wool is to be placed between the rectum and the uterus. The obliterated cord of the hypogastric artery is to be followed on the bladder ; and the ureter is to be traced forwards by the side of the uterus to the bladder. Afterwards the urethra, the vagina, and the rectum are to be cleaned and separated a little from one another at the lower part of the pelvis; but the arteries on the rectum are to be preserved. The RECTUM is not so curved in the female as in the male, and is generally larger. Descending along the front of the sacrum and coccyx to the anus, its relations are similar to those of the rectum in the male (p. 386). It reaches an inch and a half in front of the tip of the coccyx, and has the vagina in front, and in contact with it; the connection between the two being consideraUy stronger Ijelow than above. Inferiorly it ends in the anal- canal, which inclines backwards, away from the vagina so as to leave between the two a space which corresponds, on the surface of the body, with the perineum between the anus and the vulva. The levatores ani are on the sides, and unite Isehind the rectum in front of the coccyx, and the sphincter muscles surround the anal passage as in the male. The UTERUS (fig. 146 and fig. 147, o) is rather 23yriform in shape, and flattened from liefore backwards. Unless enlarged, it lies below the brim of the pelvis, between tlie bladder and the rectum ; and it is supported by its ligaments. Its wider end is free and