DISSECTION OF THE NECK. fiOO Nltimtioii. Parts covering it, beneatli it, ftnrt ou its sides. Position of veins, of artpries, of nerves to carotid. Brandies none. Intcninl jugnlar vein internal branches. The course of the artery is along the .side ol' the trachea and larynx, grailiially diverging from the ve.s.sel on the oi3i)o.site side in cuiiswjnence of the increa.siiig .size of llie laryn.x ; and its direction is marked hy a line from the sterno-clavicular articulation to a jioint midway lietween the angle of tlie jaw and the mastoid process. Contained in a .sheath of cervical fascia with the internal jugular \ein and the pneumo-gastric nerve, the common carotid artt^ry ha.s the following connections with the sirrrounding parts :—As high a.s the cricoid cartilage the vessel is deeply placed, and is concealed by the common coverings of the skin, platysma, and fasciaj; and by the muscles at the lower part of the neck, viz., sterno-mastoid (sternal origin), sterno-hyoid, omo-hyoid, and sterno-thyroid. But from the cricoid cartilage to its termination the artery is more superficial, being covered only by the sterno-niastoid and the common investments of the neck. Tlie vessel rests mostly on the longus colli and scalenus anticus muscles, but close to its ending on the rectus capitis anticus major. To the inner side of the carotid lie the trachea and larynx, tbe ojsophagus and pharynx, and j:he thjToid body, the last over- lapping the vessel by the side of the larynx. Along the outer side of the carotid sheath is a chain of lymphatic glands. Veins. The large internal jugular vein lies on the outer side of the artery, being closely applied to it in the upper part of its course, but separated from it below by an interval about half an inch wide : on the left side the vein is nearer to the artery below and is even sometimes placed over it. One or two superior thyroid veins cross the upper end of the arterial trunk ; and opposite the thyroid body another small vein (middle thyroid) is directed backwards over the vessel. Near the clavicle the anterior jugular vein passes outwards in front of the artery, but is separated from it by the sterno-hyoid and sterno-thyroid muscles. Arteries. An offset of the superior thyroid artery to the sterno- mastoid Descends over the upper part of the sheath ; and the inferior thyroid crosses behind it near the lower border of the cricoid cartilage. Nerves. The descendeus cervicis branch of the hyjjoglossiil lies in front of the artery, crossing from the outer to the inner side, and is joined there by the communicating branches from the cervical plexus. The pneiuno-gastric lies within the sheath behind and between the artery and the vein. The sympathetic cord and its branches rest on the spine behind the sheath. AU the nerv&s above mentioned have a longitudinal direction ; but the inferior or recurrent laryngeal crosses obliquely inwards beneath the sheath, towards the lower end of the artery. As a rule, the common carotid artery does not furnish any collateral branch, thotigh it is very connuon for the superior thyroid to spring from its upper end. At the terminal bifurcation into the two carotids the artery is slightly bulged. The INTERNAL JUGULAR VEIN exteuds u])wanls to tlie base of the skull, bttt only the part of it that accompanies the common carotid