DISSECTION OF THE BEAIN. 720 rmiN 111 wliite Ijodies—tlie corpora albiccmtia (e) ; and lliun a prominent rniragi'cyisli mass, called tuber cinereum [h). From the tuher cinereum a ccrobii, conioa! process, the infundihulnm, descends to the pituitary body in the sella Turcica of the sphenoid bone. Anterior to the tuber cinereum are tlie converging optic tracts with their commissure (i). In front of the commissure lies a thin greyish layer—lamina cinerea {m): and still farther forwards is the great longitudinal fissure between the hemispheres, with the white corpus callosum (?t) in the bottom of it. At the inner end of the Sylvian fissure is a depre.ssion termed the vallecula Sylvii (1), at the bottom of which is seen another spot perforated by vessels—the anterior jierforated space. Olfactory Lastly, in front of the anterior perforated space, and resting on " the surface oi the frontal lobe of the cerebral hemisphere, is the elongated process of the brain (o) named the olfactory lobe, from which the olfactory nerve-filaments spring. This process is frequently called the olfactory nerve, but its true nature as a lobe of the cerebrum is shown by its position and structure, as well as by its condition in the lower animals, in which it is generally of large size. Deiiiiitioii. Tlie CRANIAL NERVES take Origin from the encephalon, with one exception, the spinal accessory, and pass through apertures in the wall of the cranium. Origin is The origin of a nerve is not determined by the place at which it apparent appears on the surface, for fibres or roots may be traced deeply into the brain-substance. Each nerve lias therefore a superficial or appa- rent, and a deep or real origin. With respect to the superficial attachment there cannot be any doubt; but the deep origins, in consequence of the difliculty of tracing the roots, are matters for the most part outside the ]wssibilities of Real is from ordinary dissection. When the roots are followed into the encephalon, grey matter, ^j^^y gj^^-gr masses of grey substance, containing nerve-cells, which are looked upon as nuclei of origin in the case of motor nerve fibres or of termination in the case of sensory, or aft'erent, fibres. Classifica- The cranial nerves are enumerated as forming twelve pairs. ^wei«,nirs According to this arrangement (Sa3mmering'.s) each trimk is con- simmer- sidered a'separate nerve, although it may be associated with others m the foramen of exit. Designation The Several nerves may be designated first, second, thml, and so forth : this numerical mode of naming applies to all. But a second name has been derived for some of the nerves from inmcof the parts to which they are supplied ; as instances of this noineii- part, clature the terms pneumo-ga.stric and hypoglossal may be taken. A different appellation is given to others, in consequence of the orfnnetion. function conferred on the part to which they are distributed, as the terms auditory, oculomotor and olfactory express. In this way two names may be employed in referring to a nerve :-one being numerical," the other local or functional, as is exemplified below Oifactoiy The FIRST or OLFACTORY NERVES are about twenty fihu.jenls uerves. ^^^jji^i, from the under surface of the olfactory bulb (hg. 260, )