41 SUPEEFICIAL VEINS OF ARM. cutaneous pu t of tlie musculo-cutaneous nerve will be recognised. See tig. 16. On the inner part of the limb the nerves to the surface are more ap'l numerous. Taking the basilic vein as a guide, the internal cuta- \imh° neons nerve of the forearm will be found by its side, about tlie middle of the arm ; and a little external to this nerve is a small cutaneous offset from it, which pierces the fascia higher up. Finally follow down the small nerves which have been already met with in the dissection of the axilla, viz., the intercosto-humeral, the lesser internal cutaneous (nerve of Wrisberg), and the internal cutaneous of the niusculo-spiral. Superficial fascia. The snbcutaneous fatty layer forms a con- Superficial tinuous investment for the limb, but it is thicker in front of the ^"'^ elbow than in the other parts of the arm. At that spot it encloses the superficial ve.ssels and lyniiiliatics. Cutaneous Veins. The position and relations of the vein.s in supeificiai front of the elbow are to be attentively noted liy the dissector, because the operation of venesection is practised on one of them (fig. 16). The MEDIAN VEIN of the forearm divides into two branches, Jlefiimi internal and external, rather below the bend of the elbow; and at its point of division it is joined by an offset from a deep two vein. The internal branch {median-basilic) crosses to the inner 'J™"'^'"'" • border of the biceps, and unites with the ulnar veins to form the basilic vein of the inner side of the arm. The external branch {median-cephalic) is usually longer than the other, and by its junction with the radial vein gives rise to the cephalic vein of the arm. The MEDIAN-CEPHALIC VEIN is directed obliquely, and lies over median- the hollow Jjetween the biceps and the outer mass of muscles of the ™P'"'"«=: forearm; beneath it is the trunk of the musculo-cutaneous nerve. This vein is altogether removed from the brachial artery, and is •usually smaller than the median-basilic vein. If opened with a lancet it does not generally yield much blood, in consequence of its position in a hollow between muscles rendering compression of it very uncertain and difficult. The MEDIAN-BASILIC VEIN is more transverse in direction, and median- larger than the preceding ; and it' crosses the brachial artery. It is firmly supported by the underlying fascia, the aponeurosis of the arm, strengthened by an oft'set from the biceps tendon, inter- vening between it and the brachial vessels. Branches of' the internal cutaneous nerve lie beneath it, and some twigs of the same nerve are placed over it. The median-basilic is the vein on which the operation of l)lood- Vene.section. letting is commonly performed. It is selected in consequence of its usually hu-ger size, and more superficial position, and of the ease with which it may be compressed ; but, from its close proximity to the brachial vessels, the spot to be opened should not be immediately over the trunk of the artery. The BASILIC VEIN, commencing as before said, ascends near Basilic vein.