517 CRANIAL NERVES. and ends in the face below the orbit. And the last, or the inferior maxillary nerve, passes through the foramen ovale to reach the lower jaw, the lower part of the face, and the tongue. The small root of the fifth nerve, lying in the same tube of the smnii root, duni mater as the large one, passes beneath the ganglion without communicating with it, and joins only one of the three trunks derived from the ganglion: if the ganglion be raised, this root will be seen to enter the inferior maxillary nerve. Those branches of the ganglion which are unconnected with the Difference in small or motor root, viz., the ophthalmic and superior ma.villary, yle roots'^ are solely nerves of sensibility ; but the inferior nuixillary, which is compounded of both roots, is a nerve of sensibility and motion. It will moreover be subsequently seen that the fibres of the motor root are almost entirely confined to that part of the inferior maxillary nerve which supplies the muscles of the lower jaw, and that the larger branches of the nerve are wholly sensory in function. The ophthalmic nerve is the only one of the three trunks which Ophthalinic needs a more special notice in this stage of the dissection. It is OTbit";"" continued through the sj)henoidal fissure and the orbit to the fore- head. In form it is a flat band, and is contained in the wall of the cavernous sinus below the third and fourth nerves. Near the orbit it divides into three branches, frontal, naxal, and lachrijmal. In this situation it is joined Ijy filaments of the cavernous plexus supplies of the sympathetic, and gives a small recurrent filament (fig. 189, t) inits course, to the tentorium cerebelli. The SIXTH or abducent nerve (fig. 189, ") enters the orbit Sixth nerve through the sphenoidal fissure, and supplies one of the orbital muscles. It pierces the dura mater behind the body of the sphenoid bone in the wall of the inferior petrosal sinus, and crosses the space of the cavernous sinus, to gain the outer wall with the other nerves. In the sinus the nerve is placed close against the outer side of joins sym- the carotid artery ; and it is joined Ijy one or two large branches ■'"'■hetio. of the sympathetic nerve surrounding that vessel. The SEVENTH or facial and the eighth or auditory nerves Seventh and (fig. 189,7) pass togetlier into the internal auditory meatus, the J;!*;.'^^',' facial being the smaller and higher of the two. At the bottom of skull to- the meatus they separate ; the facial nerve courses through the S'*"""'- aqueduct of Fallopius to the face, and the auditory nerve is distributed to the internal ear. The ninth or glosso-pharyngeal, the tenth, pneumo-gastric Ninth, or VAGUS, and the eleventh or spinal accessory nerves (fig. 189,8) p;i.ss through the middle compartment of the jugular Ibramen. nerves pass The glosso-pharyngeal is external to the other two, aiul has a distinct opening in the dura mater. The spinal accessory nerve foramen, ascends through the foramen magnum and, together with the vagus, enters an aperture in the dura mater close to the occipital bone. The twelfth or hypoglossal nerve (fig. 189, ") is the motor Twelfth ner\'e of the tongue, and consists of two small pieces, which pierce IS in cavern- ous sinus;