811 MUSCLES OF THE OSSICLES. insertion ; Thi! TENSoii TYMPANi (fig. 29<J, h) i.s the lar},'iT of ^1'*^. . muscles of the tynipanuiu, and takes the shqie of its contauiiiif,' J"'"!"""- lube, which must l e hiiil ojieii to see it completely. The mu.scle arises in front from the cartilage of the Euslachiau tube and the (niiiin : posterior e.\tremily of the great wing of the si)hen(ii(l bone, and it also receives tibres from the surface of its liony canal. Posteriorly it ends in .a tendon which is retlected over the end of the corhleari- form process, and is inserted into the inner border of the handle of the malleus near its base. Action. The muscle draws in- wards the handle of the malleus towards the inner wall of the tympanic cavity, and tightens the mendirane of the lymiianum ; and as the long ])rocess of the incus is moved inwards witli the malleus, the base of the stapes will be pressed into the fenestra oralis. The STAPEDIUS (fig. 299, i) is lodged in the canal hollowed in the interior of the pyramid. Arising inside the tube, the muscle ends in a small temlon, which issues at the ajiex of the pyramid, and is inserted into the back of the head of the stapes. Action. By directing the neck of the stapes backwards, the muscle raises the fore part of the base out of the fenestra ovalis, diminishing the ])ressure on llie tiuid in the vestibule ; and sup- po.sing it to contract simul- taneously with the tensor, it would prevent the sudden jar of the stapes on that fluid. Mucous SIEJlIiRANlC 01'' THE TYMPANUM. The mucous lining of the tympanic cavity adheres clo.sely to the wall ; it is continuous with that of the pharynx through the Eustachian tube, and is prolonged into the nia.stoid cells through the antrum. It forms part of the membrana tympani, and of the secondary armTii;!;- niendjrane in the fenestra rotunda; it is reliected also over theenvity; chain of bones, the muscles, ligaments, and chorda tymi>ani nerve. In the tyinpanum the membrane is thin, not very vascular, and secretes a watery fluid ; but in tlie lower end of the Eu.stachian tube it is thick and more vascnlar, and is provided with numerous glands. Slaimilius contaiimil ill Ijyraiiiicl; Fio. 299.—Plan of the Ossicles of „se. THE TyMI'ANUM in POSITION, WITH Til El a Muscles. ((,. Ciivily of tlie tympanum. b. Membrana tympani. c. Eustachian tube. d. iMalleu-i. e. Incus. /. Stapes. </. Laxator tympani iiiiiscle, some- times described. /(. Tensor tymjiaiii. i. Stapedius. Lining r,f tymiHinnni: