llEMdVAL OF TIIK iiUAIN. Hows Ijiirkwards in it. The cerebral veins oiieu cliicliy at tliu posterior part of the ciuial, and they lie I'or some distanee against tlie wall of the sinus hel'ore they perforate the dura mater ; tlieir course is directed i'rom l)ehin<l forwards, so that the current of tlie Idood in them is opposed to that in the sinus : this disposition of the veins may he seen on the left side of tlie brain, wliere the parts are undisturbed. DiRECTIONa. Before the rest of the dura mater can be examined, liireclidiis the brain must be taken from the head. To facilitate its removal, oi bniiii. let tbe head incline backwards, while the shoulders are raised on a block, so that the brain may be separated somewhat from the base of the skull. For the division of the cranial nerves a sharp scalpel will be necessary; and the nerves are to be cut longer on the one side than the other. Removal of the Brain. As a first .step cut acro.ss the anterior Mode of part of the l'al.\ cerel)ri, and the ditferent cerebral veins entering the a,'i°i''paVts"' longitudinal sinus ; raise and throw backwards the fal.x, but leave''"t i" CtiSHlOIl. it uncut behind. Gently lift u]) the frontal lobes and the olfactory bulbs of tlie large brain. Ne,\t cut through the intenial carotid Anterior artery (fig. 189) and (he second and third verves, ■which then n'„n'(«, appear, together with some veins descending from the brain ; the large second nerve is placed on the inner, and the round third nerve on the outer side of tbe artery. The brain is now to be supported in the left band, and the pituitary body to be dislodged with the knife from the hollow in the centre of the .sphenoid lione. A strong horizontal process of the ncNt tliu dura mater (tentorium cerebeUi) then comes into view at the back '' ' of the cranium. Along its free margin lies the small fourth nerve, which is to be cut at this stage of the proceeding. Make an incision through the tentorium on each side, clo.se to its attachment to the temporal bone, without injuring the i)arts underneath : the following nerves, which will be then visible, are to be divided in succession. Near the inner margin of the tentorium is the fifth j nerve, consisting of a large and snudl root ; while nearer the median ]ilane is the slender sixth nerve. Below the fifth and somewhat e.xternal to it, are the seventh and eicjhth nerves entering the internal auditory meatus, the former being anterior and the smaller of the two. Directly lielow the foregoing are the ninth, tenth and eleventh nerves in one line :—of the.se the ujjper small piece is the ninth or the glo.sso-pharyngeal ; the flat band next below, the tenth or pneumo-gastric ; and the long I'ound nerve ascending from the spinal canal, the eleventh or spinal accessory. The remaining nerve near the median plane is the tvxlfth, which consists of two small pieces. After dividing the nerves, cut through the vertebral arteries as vessels, and they wind round the medulla oblongata. Lastly, cut acro.ss the spinal cord as low as possiide, as well as the roots of the s])inal l.i.stiy, tim nerves that are attached on each side. Then on placing the first two fingers of the right hand in the sjiinal canal, the short upper portion of the cord may be raised, and the whole brain may be