242 USB Oil vectiiiii. Arteries of the space. Pudic nrtery: posterior part ill ibssa; depth and relations. Branches :- Inferior hsemorrhoi- dal. . Muscular offsets. Veins. Nerves of the space. Pudic nerve divides into three parts: inferior hiPmorrhoi- dal; perineal; DISSECTION OF TMK PERINEUM. pelvic a.spect of the muscle is tbe recto-ve.sical fascia. Along the Junrter border is placed the coccygeiLs. Admu. It compresses the lower part of the rectum durin- the act of defoecation. " Tliis niuscle will be more fully seen and examined in the dissection ol the pelvis (p. 382). Arteries (fig. 92). Tlie pudic artery, with its inferior hemor- rhoidal branch, and other small offsets of it, are now visible. The INTERNAL PTJDic ARTERY is derived from the internal iliac in the pelvis, and in its course to the genital organs distributes oftsets to the perineum ; one portion will be laid bare in the posterior, and the other in the anterior half of the perineum. As now seen, the vessel enters the hinder part of the ischio-rectal fossa, and courses Ibrwards along the outer wall at the deptli of one inch and a half at the back, but of only half an inch in front. It contained in an aponeurotic sheath formed by the obturator fascia. The usual companion veins lie by its side ; and two nerves accom- pany it, viz., the dor.'^al nerve of the penis, which is above it, and the - perineal branch of the pudic nerve which is nearer the surface. Its offsets in this part of its course are the following The inferior hmmorrhoidal branch arises as the artery enters the ischio-rectal fossa, and is directed inwards across the space to the anus, dividing into branches which supply the skin and fat, the levator ani and sphincter muscles, and the lower end of the rectum. On the gut it anastomoses with the other hemorrhoidal arteries. In a well-injected body cutaneous branches may be seen to run forwards to the anterior part of the perineum, and to communicate with the superficial perineal artery. Other offsets turn upwards round the edge of the gluteus maximus to the integument of the lower and inner part of the buttock. Small muscular brandies cross the front of the ischio-rect-al fossa, and supply the anterior part of the levator ani muscle. Veins accompany the arteries, and have a like course and ramifica- tion : the pudic veins end in the internal iliac. Nerves (figs. 91 and 92). The nerves seen at this stage of the dissection are the three divisions of the pudic trunk, a branch of the fourth sacral nerve, and the perforating cutaneous offset of the sacral plexiLS. The PUDIC nerve is derived from the sacral i^lexus, and lies over the small sacro-sciatic ligament with the artery in the buttock. In the small sacro-sciatic foramen the nerve breaks up into the three following brandies, which enter the perineum:— The inferior hmmorrlwidal branch crosses the ischio-reclal fossa, and reaches the margin of the anus, where it terminates in offsets to the integument and the sphincter muscle. Other cutaneous offsets of the nerve run forwards over tlie fossa, and communicate with one of the superficial jJerineal nerves, and with the inferior pudendal (of tiie small sciatic) on the margin of the thigh. The i)erineal branch is the largest of the three dinsions, and runs