DISSECTION OF THE THORAX, 456 the surface of the heart, hut tlieir aiia.stoinoseR Cnrdiac veins. Coronary sinus: extent: venis join- ing it; valves. Large coro- nary vein. Smnll coro- nary vein. Posterior cnrdiac voin.s. Anterior cnrdiac veins. (fig. 1G7) differ in tlicir arraiigemc-iit the most jjart collected into one large connnunicate on are very fine. The VEINS OF THE HEART from the arteries, and are for trunk—the coronary sinus. The coronary simm (') will he seen on raising the heart to he placed in the sulcus hetween the left auricle and ventricle. Ahout an inch in length, it is joined at the left end by the (jreat cardiac vein (^); and at the right end it opens into the right auricle. It is crossed hy the muscular fibres of the left auricle. Inferiorly and at its right end it receives posterior cardiac branches from the hack of the ven- tricles (I), and at its left extremity another small vein {"), the oblique vein (Marshall), which descends to it along the back of the left auricle. On slitting up the sinus with the scissors the openings of its different veins will be seen to be guarded by valves, with the exception of the oblique vein ; and at its right end is the Thebesian valve of the right auricle which will be seen later when the auricle is opened. The left coronary or great cardiac vein (■*) begins in front near the apex of the heart, ascends in the inter- ventricular groove, and then turns to the back in the sulcus between the left auricle and ventricle, to open into the coronary sinu.s ('). It receives branche.«, mainly from the left side of the hcnvt, in its course ; and its ending in the sinus i.s marked by a double valve. The right coronary rein (^) is of small size, and runs in the hinder part of the right auriculo-ventricular groove to the right end of the coronary sinus. The posterior cardiac veins (fl) ascend on the back of the left ventricle to the coronary sinus ; and one larger vessel, the middle cardiac vein, lies in the posterior interventricular furrow. The anterior cardiac veins are three or four in niunber, and rum Fig. 167.—Back Veins and (Marshall). OF THE Heart with its THE Coronary Sinus. Right auricle. Left auricle, with the appendi.x, Coronary .sinus. Oblique vein. Right coronary vein. Left or great coronary vein. Postei'ior cardiac veins ; the larger one on the right is the miildle cardiac vein.