DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. 132 use on knee and liii)- joints, on pelvis, nnd femur. Seniitenili- nosus is attaclied to pelvis and tibia ; parts In contact with it; use on knee and liip- 'oints, on the pelvis. Semimem- branosus reaches from pehis to tibia; parts around it; peat sciatic nerve and on the adductor magiuis nniscle. On the inner side are the semitendinosus and seminienibranosas as far as the liam. Its tendon giyas an ofiFset to the deep fascia of the limb. Action. It can Ijend the linee if the leg-bones are not fixed, and afterwards rotate out the tibia ; and the long head will extend the bent hi]i-joint when the knee is straight. The leg being supported on the ground, the long head will assist in balancing and erecting the pelvis; and the short head ^vi\l draw down the femur so as to Ijend the knee in stooping. The SEMITENDINOSUS (fig. 53, E) is a slender muscle and receives its name from its appearance. It arises from the tuljerosity of the r ischium with the long head of the biceps, and hy fleshy fibres from K^^^X the tendon of that muscle. Inferiorly it is inserted into the inner surface of the tibia, close below the gracilis, and for a similar extent (fig. 68, p. 179). . This muscle, like the biceps, is partly covered l)y the gluteus maximus. About its middle an oljlique tendinous intersection may be oljserved. It rests on the semimembranosus, and on the internal lateral ligament of the knee-joint. The outer border is in contact with the biceps as far as the lower third of the thigh. As the tendon turns forwards to its insertion, an expansion is continued from it to the fascia of the leg ; and it is attached, with the gi-acihs, on a level ^\dth the tubercle of the tibia, the two being separated from the internal lateral ligament by a bursa. Action. If the leg is movable, the muscle bends the knee and rotates inwards the tibia. Supposing the knee-joint straight but the hip-joint bent, the femur can be depressed, and the hip extended by tliis and the other hamstrings. Should the limbs be fixed on the ground, the muscle will assist in balancing the pelvis, or in erecting the trunk from a stooping posture. The SEMIMEMBRANOSUS MUSCLE (fig. 53, e) is tciidinous at both ends, and receives its name from the menibraniforin appearance of the upper tendon. The muscle arises from the upper and outer impression on the ischial tuberosity (fig. 47, p. 113); and it is inserted l)elow into the inner and hinder part of the head of the tiliia (fig. 73, p. 191), and from this position one fibrous expansion is sent outwards across the back of the knee-joint to the outer side of the external condyle of the femur, forming thereliy the strongest part of the posterior ligament, and another proceeds downwards as a fa.«cial investment over the back of the iiopliteus muscle (fig. 52, p. 128). The muscle is thick and ileshy below, where it bounds the popliteal simce. On it lies the semitendinosus, which is lodged, together with the long head of the biceps, in a liollow in the upper tendon ; and l)eneath it is the adductor maguus. Along the outer border is first the great sciatic, and then the internal po])lit-eal nerve. Between its tendon and the inner head of the gastrocnemius is a large bursa. The insertion of the muscle above described will be dissected with the knee-joint (p. 214).