651 ACTION OF TflE OBLIQUE MUSCLES. therefore cause the front of the eye to be directed downwards aud outwards. The inferior obli(|iie would similarly turn the front of the eye upwards and outwards. In consi'quenoe of their transverse direction, these muscles would also tend to rotate the eyeball around its antero-posterior a.\is, the superior oblique depressing, and the inferior obli(|ue elevating the inner end of the horizontal meridian of the eye, but movements of this nature take place only to a very limited extent during life. The oblique muscles are believed to act mainly in controlling the and with tendency of the superior and inferior recti to rotate the eyeball and ^JJ^/nf^rjo,. turn it inwards. Thus, to move the eye directly upwards, the superior lecti. rectus and the inferior oblique are used, while the inferior rectus and superior oblique co-operate in directing the eye downwards. Dissection. To expose the small tensor tarsi muscle, the remain- Seek tensor ing poi'tion of the paljiebral fascia is to be separated from the margin of the orliit ; but the lids must be left attached at the inner side by means of the internal tarsal ligament. On clearing away a little areolar tissue in the neighbourhood of the inner commissure, after the lids have been placed across the nose, the pale fibres of the tensor tarsi will be seen. The TKNSOR TARSI MDSCLE arises from the crest of the lachrymal Tensor tarsi bone, and slightly from the bone behind the crest. Its fibres are "™'''^''' ■ pale, and form a very small flat band, behind the internal tarsal ligament, which divides like that structure into a .slip for each eye- lid. In the lid the slip lies by the side of the lachrymal canal, and insertion; blends with the fibres of the orbicularis along the free margin of the tarsus. Action. The tensor tarsi draws backwards the inner canthus of use. the eye and compresses the lachrymal sac, after it has been dilated by the orbicularis palpebrarum in the act of winking. Dissection. A small nerve, the orbital branch of the superior Trace oiTset maxillary trunk, lies along the lower part of the outer wall of the maxiiiary"^ orbit, and is now to be brought into view by the removal of the eye- n>=i'v«- hall and its muscles. This nerve is very soft and easily broken, and is covered, as it enters the orbit through the spheno-maxillary fissure, by pale fleshy fibres (orbitalis muscle). Two blanches, temporal and malar, are to be traced forwards from it ; and the junction of a filament of the lachrymal nerve with the former is to be sought close to the bone. The outer wall of the orbit may be cut away bit by bit, to follow the temporal branch to the surface of the head. The TEMPORO-MALAR Or ORBITAL BRAKCH of the superior maxillary Orbital nerve arises in the spheno-maxillary fussa, and divides at the back of the orbit into malar and temporal branches, which ramifv on the maxillary face and the side of the head with companion vessel.s. nene. The wator branch is directed forwards through the canal of the its malar same name in the malar bone to supply the skin of the upper and outer part of the clieek, where it communicates with the malar branches of the facial nerve.