63 RADIAL ARTERY. process of the radius. This vessel is smaller than the ulnar artery, though it appears in direction to be the continuation of the bi'acliial trunk. It is partly deep and partly .superficial ; and where it is 0 I superficial, it can be felt beating as the pulse near the wrist iluring life. * ' In iLs uj^yer half the vessel is placed under cover of the supinator RoLitions to longus (8) ; and it rests succe.ssively on the followingnuisclcs .-—the Ill'npperV''' A*' tendon of the biceps ("), the fleshy supinator brevis, the pronator •>alfJ^ 49mc"v(rCT^ teres (''), and part of the thin, radial origin of the fle.Kor .subliniis(«). ° J *f^'^. In its lower half the artery is .superficial, being covered only by iti lowoi- "^'T''^- the integuments and the deep fascia. Here it is jjlaced in a hollow °f ^'"'^ between the tendons of the supinator longus (8) and flexor carpi 3«<J< •Wu^ . radialis and it lie,s, in this i)art, from above down on the origin of the flexor sublimis, on two muscles of the deep group, viz., flexor longus poUicis and pronator quadratus, and lastly on the end of the radius. Veins. Yenso coniites lie on the sides, with cross branches over tovein.-i; the artery. Nerve. The radial nerve is on the outer side of the artery in the to nerve, upper two-thirds of the forearm, but is separated from the vessels by a slight interval near the elbow. la the lower third the nerve passes backwards and becomes superficial behind the tendon of the supinator longus. Branches. The radial artery in this part of its course furni,shes Branches : many unnamed nuiscular and cutaneous oflsets, and three named branches, viz., recurrent radial, superficial volar, and anterior carpal. a. The radial recurrent (fig. 24) is the first branch, and supplies rartial re- the muscles on the outer side of the limJj.N^Its course is almost ; transverse to the supinator longus, bfetHitrth which-it terminates in that muscle and the two radial extensors of the wrist. One oflfset ascends beneath the supinator, and anastomoses with the superior profunda branch of the brachial artery. h. The mjjerficial volar branch (fig. 27, c, p. 72) is very variable superncinl in size, and ari.ses near the lower end of the radius. It is directed ^'"'""^' towards the palm of the hand, across or through the mass of muscles in the ball of the thumb ; and it either ends in those miLScles, or joins the superficial palmar arch. c. The anterior carpal branch is very small, and will be seen iix.flnkikit / A the examination of the deep muscles. Arising rather above the '""'P"'' - end of the radius, it passes transversely inwards at the lower border of the pronator quadratus, and anastomoses with a similar branch from the ulnar artery. From the arch thus formed offsets are given to the carpus. PeculiarUies of the radial artery. Sometimes tlie radial arises higli in tlie variations arm, an<l its course tlien is close to the bracl.iai artery, along ti.e e<lge of the of the biceps muscle ; and ui passing the bend of tlie elbow it is occasionally sub- cutaneous, i.,- above the deep fa.scia, and liable to injury in venesection. In the torearm the artery may likewise be subcutaneous, and superBcial to the supinator longus muscle. Dissection. To bring into view the flexor sublimis digitorum, Dissection tlie llexor carpi radialis and palniaris longus must be cut throuch of,«<"'0'- " ""fo" sublimis.