DISSECTION OF THE BRAIN. 756 Cut ilowu to smaller oval centre of tlm heniispliere. Reflect callosal con volution. Cingulura. Eepeat dis- section on right side to show coUosal fibres. The larger oval centre is deeper. Corpus callosum: situation, extent and form: anterior and posterior ends ; fibres transverse; a few longi- tudinal. Dissection The student will now proceed to examine the parts in the interior of the hemisphere, carrying tlie di.s.section from ahove downwards. Dissection, Supposing l)oth hemispheres entire, the left is to be cut off to the level of the calloso-marginal sulcus. When tliis has lieen done, the surface displays a white central mass of a .semi-oval shape (centrum ovale minus) sending proce.sses into the convolu- tions, and surrounded hy an irregular grey mai'gin. In a fresh brain this surface would be studded with drops of blood escaping from the divided vessels. Next, the callosal convolution is to be divided transversely about the middle, and the two pieces, taken in the hngers, are to be thrown backwards and forwards. On its under surface will be .seen a thin baud of white fibres, the cingulum or covered band of Reil, which bends downwards before and behind the corpus callosum. A similar dissection is to be carried out on the opposite side ; but in this case the student should insert his fingers into the calloso-marginal sidcus and pceZ off the marginal convolution, and again he should do likewise with the callosal convolution. He will find that the parts tear in the direction of the central white fibres, and in this way he will obtain a good idea as to how the fibres of the corpus callosum diverge into the convolutions above its level. Finally both hemispheres are to be removed to the level of the corpus callosum. Now a much larger white surface comes into view (centrum ovale majus), and the white masses in the two hemispheres are seen to be continuous, across the middle line, through the corpus caUosum. The CORPUS CALLOSUM reaches from one half of the cerebrum to the other, and forms the roof of the lateral ventricle in etich hemisphere (fig. 279, p. 768). Its central part, which is exposed in the longi- tudinal fissure, is narrow, and measures about three inches in length from before backwards. It is nearer to the anterior than to the posterior end of the cerebrum, and is somewhat arched from before backwards. On each side its upper surface is free for a short distance beneath the callosal convolution, from which it is separated bv the callosal sulcus. In front^ the corpus callosum is bent downwards, fornung the genu and rostrum ; and behind, it ends in a thickened part named the s2;Ze?iwm (fig. 274). The fibres of the corpus callosum are for the most part directed transversely, but on its upper surface there is a somewhat irregid:u-, narrow longitudinal Ijand on each side close to the middle hue (the supra-callosal convolution or the strire longitudinales). Between the two bands is a median groove or raphe. Farther out there may be seen other longitudinal fibres belonging to the cingulum, if that has not been completely removed. The longitudinal stria, are prolonged downwards in front, and are connected witli the sub-callosal convo- lutions or the peduncles of the corpus callosum. Dissection. In order to see the thickness of the corpus callosum, and to bring into view the parl« in relation with it^ under surface,