564 DISSECTION OF THE FACE. Ijowor 'livision of the nerve lias nlsn branclios. Buccal to corner of moutli. Supra- maxillary between month anrl chin. Infra- maxillarj' to n(!cl<. upwards to the inner angle of the orbit to supply the muscle-s, and to join the uash] and infrantroclilear brunches of the ophthalmic nerve. The CERVico-FACiAL is smaller than the upjier trunk, and distri- butes nerves to the lower part of the face and the upper part of the neck. Its highest branches join the lowest offsets of the temporo- facial division, and thus complete the network on the face. This trunk, while in the parotid, gives twigs to the gland, and is united three sets of with the great auricular nerve. The terminal branches distributed from it are buccal, supramaxillary, and inframaxillary. The buccal branches pass forwards towards the angle of the mouth, giving offsets to the buccinator muscle, and terminate in the orbicularis oris. On the buccinator they join the buccal branch of the inferior maxillary nerve. The suframaxillary branches course forwards over the lower jaw to the middle line, and supply the muscles of the lower lip and chin. Beneath the depressor anguli oris these branches of the facial join the offsets of the mental branch of the inferior dental nerve. The inframaxillary branch lies below the jaw, and is distributed to the platysma muscle, and forms communication with sensory branches from the second and third cervical nerves. Dissection. The levater labii superioris muscle is now to be cut through, and the upper part removed so as bo expose the terminal branches of the infraorbital nerve. The Infraorbital Nerve (fig. 205) is the continuation of the superior maxillary division of the fifth nerve. It emerges on the face through the infraorbital foramen under cover of the levator labii superioris, and at once divides into terminal branches which radiate to the eyelid, the nose, and the upper lip. The palpebral branches are usually two small twigs which pass to the lower eyelid. The lateral nasal branches are directed inwards, and supplj- the skin of the side of the nose. The labial branches are three or four larger nerves, which, descending to the upper lip, supplying the skin of the face between the orbit and the mouth, as well as the mucous membrane of the upper lip, and their ramifications, take part in the infraorbital plexus, just describe<l. Dissection. The depressor labii inferioris and anguli oris muscles will next be removed so as to expose the mental nerve as it issues from the foi-amen in the lower jaw. The Mental Nerve (fig. 205) is derived from the inferior dental nerve within the lower jaw, and issues through the mental foramen beneath the depressor anguli oris muscle. It gives an offset down- wards to the skin of the chin, but the greater part of the nerve ascends beneath the depressor labii inferioris muscle, to be dis- tributed to the inner and outer surfaces of the lower lip. Its branches communicate with the supramaxillary branches of the facial nerve. Infra- orbital nerve. Palpebral, lateral nasal and labial branches Mental nerve.