580 DISSECTION OF THE NECK. ii.sceiKliiig, descouiliiif; branch. Brancli of facial iiei've to the iiecl;. Dissection. Cervical fascia in front of stemo- mastoid. Intermus- cular .strata. neclc. Beneath the platysma it divide.? into an njDper and a lower hranc'h :—■ The upjicr branch ijerl'orate.s the platsyma, and ends in the skin over the anterior triangle, extending about half way down the neck. While heneath the platysma this liranch joins the facial nerve. The loiver branch likewise passes through the platysma, and is distributed to the integuments below the preceding, reaching as low a.s the sternum. The INFEAMAXILLARY BRANCH OP THE FACIAL NERVE (p. .564) pierces the deep cervical fascia, and divides into slender offsets which pass forwards beneath the platysma, and form arches across the .side of the neck (fig. 205), reaching as low as the hyoid bone. Most of the branches end in the platj^sma, but a few filaments perforate it, and reach the integuments. Beneath the muscle there is a communication between this branch of the facial and the upper division of the superficial cervical nerve. Dissection. Cut across the external jugular vein about the middle, and throw the ends up and down. Afterwards the super- ficial nerves of the front of the neck may be divided in a line with the angle of the jaw, the anterior ends being removed, and the posterior reflected. The great auricular nerve may be cut through and the ends reflected. The part of the deep cervical fascia iu front of the sterno- inastoid is stronger than that over the posterior triangle, and has the following arrangements. Above, it is fixed to the base of the lower jaw, and is continued over the parotid gland to the zygoma. A thickened baud passes backwards from the angle of the jaw to the sheath of the sterno-mastoid, and holds forwards the anterior border of that muscle. Above this, a deep process is .sent inwards from the hinder margin of the ramus of the jaw, between the parotid and submaxillary glands, to the styloid pi-oce.5s, giving rise to the stylo^axillary ligament. In front, the fascia is attached to the body of the hyoid bone ; and below, to the sternum. Its lower part forms a dense white membrane, which near the manubrium becomes divided into two layers, one passing in front and the other behind that bone, so as to enclose a small space above it containing a little fat and the transverse branch of communication between the anterior jugular veins. Layers of the membrane are prolonged l.ietween the muscles ; and that beneath the sterno-mastoid is continuous with the .sheath of the cervical vessels. One of these, beneath the sterno-thyroid muscles, descends in front of the great vessels at the root of the neck to the arch of the aorta and the pericardium. anterior triangular space. Anterior This space (fig. 211, p. 582) contains the carotid vessel.^ and their triangular ij,.a,iehes, with many nerves ; and it corresponds with the hollow on the surface of the neck in frnni of the sterno-mastoid muscle.