DISSECTION OF THE LEG. 184 which gives interos- seous, and per- forating. First inter- osseous. Anterior tibial veins. outer border of llie foot, where it divides into twigs that inosculate ■\vitli the metatansal, e.xtern.il plantar, and anterior peroneal arteries : it supplies offsets to the extensor muscle beneath which it lies. Metatansal, b. The metatarsal branch (fig. 70) takes an arched course to the outer side of the foot, near the base of the metatarsal bones and beneath the short extensor muscle, and anastomoses with the external plantar and tarsal arteries. From the arch of the metatarsal branch three dorsal interosseous arteries are furni.shed to the three outer metatarsal spaces : and the external of these sends a branch to the outer side of the little toe. They supply the interosseous muscles, and divide at the cleft of the toes into two small dorsal digital branches. At the fore part of the metatarsal space each interasseous branch is usually connected with the corresponding digital artery in the sole of the foot by means of the anterior perforating twig; and at the back part of each space a small branch, posterior perforating, comes from the plantar arch. c. The first dorsal interosseous artery arises from the main trunk as this is about to leave the dorsum of the foot; it extends forwards in the space between the first two toes, and is distributed like the other dorsal interosseous offsets. The A2JTBRI0R TIBIAL VEiN.s have the same extent and relations as the vessel they accompany. They take their usual position along the artery, one on each side, and form loops aroimd it by cross branches ; they end in the popliteal vein. The branches they receive correspond with those of the artery ; and they com- municate with the internal saphenous vein. Dissection. To examine the extensor brevis digitorum on the dorsum of the foot, cut through the tendons of the extensor longus and peroneus tertius below the annular ligament, and throw them towards the toes. The hinder attachment of the muscle to the os calcis is to be defined. The EXTENSOR BREVIS DIGITORUM arises from the anterior extremity of the os calcis at its upper and outer -p&vi, and from the lower band of the anterior annular ligament. Over the metatarsal bones the muscle ends in four tendons, which spring from as many fleshy bellies, and are inserted into the four inner toes. The tendon of the great toe has a distinct attachment to the base of the first phalanx ; but the rest are united to the outer side of the long extensor tendons, and assist to form the expansion on the first phalanx (p. 180). The muscle lies on the tarsus, and is partly concealed by the tendons of the long extensor. Its inner belly crosses the dorsal artery of the foot. use. Action. Assisting the long extensor, it straightens the four inner toes, separating them slightly from wich other. Cut through Lissectioil. The In-anchas of artery and nerve which are br^vLs*"^ beneath the extensor brevis will be laid bare by cutting across that muscle near its front, and turning it upwards. and annular dividing the lower band of the annular ligament over the ligament; o o Divide extensor longus. Extensor brevis digitorum: sends ten- dons to four inner toes ; relations;