DISSECTION OF THE BUTTOCK. lU clean parts beneath, remove origin, and dissect out sacral nerves. Parts covered by gluteus at its origin and inser- tion : and by the intervening piece of the muscle. be ascertained Ijy the fascia and some vessels beneath it. When this intermuscular layer is arrived at, the outer jiiece of the gluteus may be at once thrown towards its insertion ; but the_iiLueiL4Jiece is to be carefully raised, and the branches of the inferior gluteal nerve, and of the gluteal and sciatic arteries entering its deep surface, are to be cleaned. The loose fat is then to be taken away from the hollow between the pelvis and the trochanter, without injuring the vessels and nerves ; and the several muscles are to be cleaned, the fibres of each being made tense at the time of its dissection by rotating the femur. The vessels, nerves, and muscles, which are to be defined may be ascertained by referring to the enumeration below of the parts beneath the gluteus. In removing the areolar tissue from the ischial tulierosity and from the great trochanter, a bursa over each prominence of bone may be observed. Lastly, the fibres of the muscle are to be detached at their origin ; and the inner piece may be removed entirely by cutting through the vessels and nerves that enter it. In doing this the sacral nerves are to be dissected out of the fleshy fibres, and to be followed to the surface of the great sacro-sciatic ligament, where they will be afterwards seen. Parts beneath the gluteus (fig. 48). At its origin the gluteus ma.ximus rests on the pelvis, and conceals part of the ilium, sacrum and coccyx, also the ischial tulierosity with the origin of the ham- string muscles (l) and the great sacro-sciatic ligament (k). At its insertion it covers the upper end of the femur, with the great trochanter, and the origin of the vastus externus (i). Between the muscle and the trochanter is a large, loose synovial membrane ; between it and the vastus externus is another synovial sac ; and occasionally there is a tliird over the ischial tuberosity. In the hollow between the pelvis and the femur the muscle conceals, from above downwards, the undermentioned parts (fig. 48) :—First, a portion of the gluteus medius (a) ; and below it the pyriformis (b), with the superficial branch of the gluteal vessels between the two. Coming from beneath the pyriformis are the inferior gluteal nerve sujDiilying the gluteus maximus, and the large {^) and small sciatic nerves, with the sciatic vessels, which descend to the thigh between the great trochanter and the ischial tuberosity ; and intern al to the sciatic are the pudic vessels and nerve, and the nerve to the obturator internus muscle, which are directed inwards through the small sacro-sciatic foramen. Still lower down is the tendon of the obturator internus muscle (d) with a fleshy fascicxilus—the gemellus (c and b)—above and below it. Next comes the quadratus femoris muscle (g) with the upper part of the adductor magnus (h) ; at the upper border of the ([uadratus, and deep to it, is the tendon of the obturator externus ; and at the lower border, I)etween it and the adductor, issues one of the terminal branches of the internal circumflex artery with it.s veins.