DISSECTION OP THEi BRAIN. 76fi Lining ot cavity. Grey matter of the ventricle. Corpus striatum, structure. Dissection. Caudate nucleus shows in lateral ventricle : veins on surface. Lenticular nucleus is only seen in sections; surrounded by white capsule. (lepl'e.^sioll opposite the infundibulum, where the cavity at an early period of foetal life was prolonged into the pituitary body. The cpendyma lining the ventricle is continued into the neigh- bouring cavities through the different apertures of communication, and its epithelium is continued over the choroid plexuses in the roof. Grey matter of the ventricle. A stratum of grey matter forms the lower part of the wall of the ventricle. Portions of this layer appearing at the base of the brain constitute the posterior per- forated space, the tuber cinereum and the lamina cinerea. It also extends into the corpus albicans, foi'ming the nucleus of that body. At the fore part of each optic thalamus it covers the pillar of the fornix, and ascends to the septum lucidum. In the middle of the space it reaches from side to side, and forms the middle or soft commissure {d). The CORPUS STRIATUM is the large grey body a part of which has been seen in the floor of the lateral ventricle. The grey matter composing it is incompletely divided into two masses—catidate and lenticular nuclei, by a layer of white fibres, named the internal capsule ; and it has received its name from the striated appearance of this layer. The caudate nucleus, as already seen (fig. 275, e), is intraventricular in jjosition, whilst the lenticular is extraveiitricular and requires further dissection to expose it. Dissection. To show the composition of the corjjus striatum, the upper part of that body and of the optic thalamus should be sliced oft" horizontally on the right side, until a view resembling that in fig. 278 is obtained. The superficial anatomy of the corpus striatum and optic thalamus may be studied on the left side at the same time by comparison. The caudate or intraventricular nucleus (fig. 277, a) is a long pyriforni mass of reddish-grey substance which projects into the lateral ventricle. Its larger extremity or head (fig. 278, cn) is turned forwards, and forms the fioor and outer wall of the anterior cornu of the ventricle. The middle tapering portion is directed backwards and outwards, along the outer side of the optic thalamus, beneath the body of the ventricle, and ends in the tail {fig. 278, cn'), which bends downwards and is prolonged in the roof of the descend- ing cornu of-the cavity nearly to its anterior extremity. Numerous veins run over the surface of the caudate nucleus, and they may be seen to join a larger vessel (vein of the corpus striatum) which lies along the groove between the caudate nucleus and the optic thalamus. The lenticular or &ctraventricular nucleus is entirely surrounded by white matter, and is placed opposite the bottom of the fissure of Sylvius, corresponding to the Island of Reil on the exterior. It appears lens-shaped in horizontal section (fig. 278, In), but triangular, with the base turned outwards, when cut transversely (fig. 279, p. 768). Internally, it is separated from the caudate nucleus and optic thalamus by the internal capsule (fig. 278, im to i^p); and externally and below, it is bounded by a thinner white layer- named the external capsule (ec).