118 DISSECTION OF THE BUTTOCK. inseHion ; relations in foramen, in biitloclc; liise witli j femur Iiang- I ing, and I raised ; bdtli limbs on ground, only one. Dissect out the chief vessels and nerves, and mus- cular branches. Tlie vessels come from the iliac. Sciatic artery: conr.se and ending branches;— coccygeal; branch lo sciatic nerve ; from tlie front of tlie .sacrum between and outside tbe second, tViird, and fourth foramina, and leaves tliat ca\'ity through the great sacro-sciatic foramen to end in a rounded tendon, which is inserted into the upper edge of the great trochanter of the femur (fig. 60, p. 157). The muscle occupies the greater part of the sacro-sciatic foramen, and divides the vessels and nerves passing through that aperture into two groups :—Above it are the gluteal vessels and the superior gluteal nerve ; and below it the sciatic and pudic ve.ssels and nerves, and some otlj^r branches of the sacral plexus. Its vmiar border is contiguous 4e. the gluteus medius ; and its lower, the superior gemellus. Like the other rotator muscles in this situation, it is covered liy the gluteus maximus, and by the gluteus medius at the insertion ; it rests on the gluteus minimus, which separates it from the hip-joint. Its tendon is united by fibrous tissue to that of the obturator and gemelli. Action. The pyriformis rotates out the femur when that bone is in a line with the trunk ; but if the hip-joint is bent it abducts the limb. Both limbs being fixed, the muscles balance the pelvis, and help to make the trunk erect after stooping to the ground. In standing on one leg, besides assisting to support the trunk, the pyriformis turns the i'ace to the oj^posite side.^ Dissection. The pyriformis may now be cut across and raised towards the sacrum, to allow the dissector to follow upwards the sciatic and jjudic vessels, and to trace the accompanying nerves to their origin from the sacral plexus. A small nerve to the obturator internus (fig. 50, °) and gemellus superior is to be sought for in the fat at the lower border of the plexus jjassing over the spine of the ischium on the outer side of the internal jjudic artery. A branch to the quadratus and inferior gemellus (") may be foimd by raising the trunk of the great sciatic nerve ; hut this will be followed to its termination after the muscles it supplies have lieen seen. Sciatic and Pudic Vessels. The arteries on the back of the pelvis, below the pyriformis muscle, are branches of the internal iliac, which will be described in dissection of the pelvis. The SCIATIC ARTERY (fig. 48) supplies the buttock below the gluteiil. After escaping from the pelvis below the pyriformis, it descends M'ith the small sciatic nerve over the gemelli and obturator internus muscles, as far as the lower border of the gluteus maximus ; in its course the artery gives oft' many branches with the superficial offsets of its companion nerve ; and, much reduced in size, it is continued with tliat nerve along the back of the thigh. In this course it furnishes the following branches :— a. The coccygeal branch arises close to the pelvis, perforates the grefit sacro-sciatic ligament and the gluteus maximus, and ramifies in this nuiscle, and on the l)ack of the sacrum and coccyx. b. The branch to the iirent .sciatic nerve (comes nervi ischiadici) is very slender, and entering the nerve near the pelvis, ramifies in it along the thigh.