DISSECTION OP THE ABDOMEN. 261 bSLT'"" , ? hypogastric branch i^ierces the aponeurosis of the external obhqxie muscle above the abdominal ring in one or two pieces, and is distributed to the skin of the lower part of the abdomen , IWO-INGOINAL NERVE becomes cutaneous through the extei nal plexus. abdominal ring, and descends to the teguments of the scrotum and ol the upper and inner part of the thigh Cutaneous Vessels. Cutaneous "vessels run with both sets of nerves on the abdomen. With the lateral cutaneous nerves are branches from the intercostal arteries ; and with the anterior cutaneous are offsets from the internal mammary and epigastric vessels. In the groin are three small superficial branches of the femoral artery, viz., pudic, epigastric, and circumflex iliac both lateral The LATERAL CUTANEOUS ARTERIES have the same distribution as the nerves they accompany. The anterior or chief offsets are directed towards the front of the abdomen, and end about the outer edae of the rectus muscle. ° cStaneouf . ^'^'^ ^^™RiOR CUTANEOUS ARTERIES are irregular in number and in position, like the nerves. After piercing the sheath of the rectus, they run outwards with the nerves towards the other set of branches! femSai Branches of the common femoral artery. Three cutaneous artery three offsets ascend from the thigh between the lavers of the sunerficial branches: ^ - i • /■ • . i • " tascia, and ramify m the integuments of the genital organs and lower part of the abdomen. The beginning of these vessels appears in the dissection of the thigh (p. 138). ^udi?^' The superficial external pudic branch crosses the spermatic cord,'to which it gives offsets, and ends in the integuments of the under-p'art of the penis. epfgaftric! "^^^ superficial epigastric branch ascends over Poupart's ligament near the centre, and is distributed in the fat nearly as high as the umbilicus. circumflex The superficial circumfiex iliac branch lies below the level of Poupart's ligament, and sends only a few offsets to the abdomen. Veins. The companion veins to these arteries join the internal saphenous vein of the thigh. ^[suinai The LYMPHATIC GLANDS OF THE GROIN are three or four in number, and lie along the line of Poupart's ligament. They are jjlaced between the strata of the superficial fascia,, and receive lymphatics from the abdominal wall, from the gluteal region and perineum, from the upper and outer portion of the thigh and from the superficial ducts enter parts of the genital organs. Their efferent ducts pass downiwaids to abdomen. , , \ tUe .saphenous opening in the thigh to enter the abdomen. JxterimT" Dissectiou of the Muscles. The surface of the external muscle oblique of the abdominal wall (figs. 97 and 98) is now to be freed from fascia muscle. o„ jjjjigg ^jjg Precautions. It jg not advisable to begin cleaning this muscle in front, because there it has a thin aponeurosis, which may be taken away with the fat. Beginning the dissection at the posterior part, the student is to cany the kuii'e obliiiuely upwards and downwards in the direction of the fibres. 'J'he thin aponeurosis before referred to