DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. 130 External popliteal nerve: course and ending branches, articular, peroneal communi- cating, and lateral cutaneous of leg. Ai-ticular nerve of the obturator. Lymphatic glands around the artery. The EXTERNAL POPLITEAL NERVE (peroneal; fig. 51,") lies along the outer boitmlary of the ham, and is at first concealed by the edge of the biceps muscle ; becoming superficial, it is continued over the outer head of the gastrocnemius, following the hinder border of the biceps tendon, until it is below the head of the fibula. There it enters tlie fibres of the peroneus longus, and divides beneath that muscle into two—musculo-cutaneous and anterior tibial. Its branches are articular and cutaneous :— a. The articular nerve, arising high in the space, runs with the upper external articular artery to the outer side of the knee, and sends a twig along the lower articular artery : both enter the joint. ^ h. The i^eroneal communicating branch (fig. 71, p. 188) soon pierces the fascia, and descends over the outer head of the gastro- cnemius to join the tibial communicating from the internal popliteal in the short saphenous nerve. c. One or two lateral cutaneous branches aiise either in common with the preceding or separately, and supply the skin of the outer side of the leg, reaching nearly to the external malleolus. The ARTICULAR BRANCH OF THE OBTURATOR NERVE (fig. 53, ') perforates the adductor magnus (p. 164), and is conducted by the popliteal artery to the back of the knee. After supplying filaments to the vessels, the nerve enters the articulation through the posterior ligament. The POPLITEAL LYMPHATIC GLANDS are situate round the large arterial trunk. Two or three are ranged on the sides ; while one is superficial to, and another beneath the vessel : they are joined by the deep lymphatic vessels, and by the superficial set with the external saphenous vein. THE BACK OP THE THIGH. bickofth" Dissection (fig. 53). After the popliteal space, the student thigh. may proceed with the dissection of tbe back of the thigh. The piece of skin between the buttock and the ham should lie di^-ided cutane"'.- middle line and reflected to the sides. In the fat on the nerves; outer side of the limb fine ofi'sets of the external cutaneous nerve of the thigh may be found ; and along the middle some filaments from the small sciatic nerve pierce the fascia, clean Eemove the deep fascia of the limb, taking care of the small nerves!'Striatic ner\'e and its artery^ Lastly, clean the hamstring muscles ; trace the arteries from tlie front of the thigh, wliich perforate the muscle to get to the back; and clean the branches of the great .sciatic nerve to the muscles, niusc'ies n MuscLES. The muscles behind llie femur are flexors of the back of knee-joint. They reach from the jjelvis U) the bones of the leg, thigli: jj„(| j^j.g nfiji^e(j hamstrings from the cord-like appearance on the sides of the ham. They are three in number, ^nz., biceps, semi- eituation. tendinosus, and semimembranosus. The first of these lies on the outer, and the other two on tlie inner side of the popliteal space.