676 DISSKCTION OF THE HEAD. Nnsnl brrinclii's iiic— superior iinsal, imso- jwlatine. Palatine branches are tliree. Large nerve has branches to nose; small: and external palatine. Pharyngeal branch. Orbital brandies. Unitins! branches, to liflli. and to facial and aympa- throiit?li the Vidian. Branches to the nose. The nasal branches, from three to five in number, are very small and soft, and pass inwards tlirough the spheno-palatine foramen ; tliey are distributed in tlie nose and the roof of the moulli. ]. The superior nasal branches ramify in the mucous membrane on the two upper spongy bones, and a few filaments reach the back part of the septum nasi. The itaso-palatine nerve (fig. 238,p. 672), crosses the roof of the nasal fossa to reach the septum, on which it descends to near the front of that partition. In the floor of the nose it enters a special canal by the side of the septum, the left being anterior to the right, and is conveyed to the roof of tlie mouth, where it lies in the centre of the anterior palatine fossa. Finally, the nerves of opposite sides are distributed in the mucous membrane behind the incisor teeth, and communicate with one another. On the septum nasi filaments are supplied by the naso-palatine nerve to the mucous membrine. To follow the nerve to its termination, the canal in the roof of the mouth must be opened. Branches in the palate. The nerves of the palate, though connected in part with the ganglionic mass, are the continuation of the spheno-palatine branches of the superior maxillary nerve (p. 652). Below the ganglion they are divided into three—large, small, and external. 1. The large or anterior palatine nerve (fig. 239, ^) reaches the roof of the moutb through the largest palatine canal, and coirrses for- wards nearly to the incisor teeth, where it joins the naso-palatine nerve. While in the canal, the nerve furnishes two or more filaments (inferior nasal, t) to the membrane on the middle and lower spongy bones ; in the roof of the mouth it supplies the mucous membrane and glands, and gives an ofi"set to the soft palate. 2. The small or posterior palatine nerve ('") lies in the smaller canal, and ends below in the soft palate, the uvula, and the tonsil. 3. The external palatine nerve is very small, and descends in the canal of the same name to be distributed to the velum palati and the tonsil. The pharyngeal branch is a minute twig whicli is directed througli the pterygo-palatine canal to supply the mucous membrane of tbe pharynx near the Eustachian tube. Branches to the orbit. Two or three in number, these ascend through the spheno-maxillary fissure, and end in the periosteum and orbital muscle (p. 652). It will be necessary to cut through the sphenoid bone to follow these nerves to their termination. Connecting branches. The ganglion is united, as before said, ^^^th the spheno-palatine l)ranches of the fifth nerve (fig. 239, '), receiving sensory fibres through them ; and through the medium of the Vidfan, wliich is described" below, it communicates with a motor nerve (facial), and with the sympathetic nerve. The Vidian nerve (") passes backwards through the Vidian canal, and sends some small filaments through the bone to the membrane