521 THE FASCIA LUMBORUM. luiiihar fascia between the last rib and tlie liip lionc, in i oni]inny witii the workei' on tlie alKh)ineii. In the region referred to ai'e portions of tlie extcn-iial and internal iii'IIiki oblique muscles in the wall of the abdomen. Define the ])osterior oL,ijiJii'„' border of the external oblique (fig. 98, p. 265). Internal to this the aponeurosis of the transver.salis muscle (iascia hunboruni, p. 272) apjieans, and perforating it are two nerves : one, the last dorsal, with an artery near the last rib ; and the other, the iliodiypogastric, with its vessels close to the iliac crest. Three layers of the fascia lumborum are to be demonstrated, to siiow jiassing from the aponeurosis of the transversalis to tlie s])iiial column. The superficial layer is already exjiosed, being fornu^d postiTior, maiidy by the aponeurosis of the lati.ssinnis dorsi. To .see the middle layer, which pa.sses beneath the erector spinre to tlie trans- verse proces.se.s, the first layer is to l>e divided, with the attached portion of the latissimus dorsi, by a horizontal incision carried outwards from the third lumbar spine. On raising the outer middle, border of the erector spinoo muscle, which comes into view, the .strong middle process of the fa.scia will be apparent. After cutting in the same way through this prolongation, another .mil nnterior. muscle, the quadratus lumborum, will be seen ; and, on raising its outer border, the thin deepest layer of the fjiscia will be evident on the al)doniinal aspect of that muscle. The FASCIA LUMBORUM or LUMBAR APONEUROSIS OCCUpieS the Lumlwr interval lietween the last rib and the iliac crest, and extends inwards to the spine. It is formed mainly by the posterior tendon u'-msvLsaTis of the transver.sjilis mu.scle of the abdominal wall (fig. 101, c, ti'"'loii, ]i. 271), but its superficial part receives im]]ortaiit accessions from two of the muscles of the back. If the tendon of the transversalis be followed inwards, it will lie found to divide at the outer edge of the (piadratus lumborum into two layers, which enca.se that muscle ; and the ])osterior of these again splits, oi' gives off a superficial proces.s, at the outer margin of the erector sjiinte. There are thus in the lumbar aponeurosis three layers of membrane, consist.s of forming with the vertebrae two sheiiths, the one of which encloses = the quadratus lumborum, and the other the multifidus and erector spinaj muscles. The anterior layer is thin, and passes on the abdominal surface anterior, of the quadratus lumborum to be fixed to the front of the tran.s- verse proce.s.ses of the lumbar vertebr83 near their tips. The middle layer is the direct continuation of tlie transver.salis and middia tendon, and lies between the quadivitus lumborum and the erector spinas muscles; it is fixed to the extremities of the transverse Ijrocesse.s ; processes. The posterior or superficial layer is the thickest, and is al-taclied posterior to internally to the spines of the lumbar vertebroe. In this layer are processes, united the ajiououroses of the lati.ssinnis dorsi and .serratns posticus inferior muscles, with only a small offset of the tendon of the transversalis. Directions. The structures in the floor of the posterior triungle