642 THE SPINAL CORD AND ITS MEMBRANES. to (luni miitm'; mimliDi' and . attaolimeiit of points. Vessels and nerves of dura mater: ■ of arach- noid ; of pia mater. Dissection of roots of nerves, and the ganglion. and ends below on the jjointed e.xtremity of the cord, Internally it is united to the pia mater. E.vternally it ends in a series of tri- to dnm°""' tooth-like projections {d), whicli are fixed at intervals into the dura mater, each being about midway between the aper- tures of the roots of the spinal nerves. There are twenty or twenty- one denticuhitioihs, of which the first is attached to the dura mater opposite the margin of the occipital foramen, and the last, opposite the twelfth dorsal or the first lumbar vertebra. Vessels and nerves of the viembrane. The spinal dnra mater ha-s but few vessels in comparison with that in the skull, as it has not the same periosteal office. Filaments of the sympathetic and spinal nerves are furnished to the membrane. The arachnoid has no vessels ; and proof of its containing nerves in man is yet wanting. The mater has a network of vessels in its substance, though this is less marked here than on the l)rain ; and from them offsets enter the cord. In the membrane are many nerves derived from the sympathetic and the posterior roots of the spinal nerves. Dissection. The arachnoid membrane is to be taken away on one side ; and the nerve roots are to be traced outwards to their transmission through apertures in the dura mater. One of the offsets of the dura mater, which has been cut off some length, is to be laid open to expose the contained ganglion. The student should define the ganglion, showing its bifid condition at the inner end (fig. 196, &), and should trace a bundle of threads of the posterior root into each point. The anterior root, consisting also of two bundles of threads, is to be followed over the ganglion to its union with the posterior root beyond the ganglion. SPIN4.L Nerves. There are thirty-one pairs of spinal nerves; and each nerve is constructed l.)y the blending of two roots (anterior and posterior) in the intervetebral foramen. They are divided into groups corresponding with the regional subdivisions of the spinal column, viz., cervical, dorsal, lumbar, sacral, and coccygeal. In each group the nerves are the same in number as the vertebrae, except in the cervical region, where they are eight, and in the coccygeal region where there is only one. The cervical nerves from the first to-the seventh pass out above the several vertebrae; and the eighth is below the last cervical vertebra; the succeeding nerves are placed each below its corresponding vertebra. Each nerve divides into two primary branches, anterior and posterior ; the former of these is distributed to the front of the body and the limbs ; and the latter is confined to the hinder part of the trunk. Roots, RooT.s OF THE NERVES (fig. 196). Two I'oots (anterior and posterior!"' posterior) attach the nerve to the spinal cord ; and these unite together to form a common trunk in the intervertebral foramen. The posterior root is marked by a ganglion, but tlie anterior root is aganglionic. Trunks of spinal nerves. Number and groups Relation of nerves to vertebriE. Primary divisions.