592 DISSECTION OF THE NECK. bem,,,,a,Kl lastly l.yM.e anterior sral.nus. Behind and l.el.nv tlu- artery ar. the pleura and lung. iV)sitfonor Veins. ^ ^elow the level of the artery, and separated from it In- tlie anterior scalenus niu.scle, lies the arch of the subclavian vein theTuC" ./"■'ff ^''^r'' °'' ^''^ ^''"^''""^ •1^^'^™^'^ I'^'renic nerVe. Above the vessel, in the interval between the scaleni, are placed the large cerAacal nerves ; and the trunk formed by the last cervical and tirst dorsal nerves is behind the arterv. Ti,i,.i„art Third Part. Beyond the scalenus the artery traverses the clavicular part of the posterior triangular space (fig. 210) and i« u «.,per. nearer the surface than in the rest of its cour.se : this part of the vessel IS enclosed in a sheath of the deep cervical fascia, which it receives as it pas.ses from between the scaleni. It is coinparativelv Paru cover-superKcial in the greater part of its extent, for it is covere'd " ' only by the integuments, the platysma, and deep fascia ; but near Its termination the vessel gets under cover of the clavicle and sub- clavuis muscle, and the suprascapular vessels cross in front of it andbeneaii,. In this part of its course the artery rests on the surface of the first rib, which is interposed between it and the pleura ; and the in.sertion of the scalenus medius is behind it. Positmiiof Veins. The siibcla\-ian vein ai^proaches the artery, not being separated by muscle, but lies commonly at a lower "level. The external jugular vein cro.sses it near the scalenus muscle ; and the suprascapular and transverse cervical tributaries, which enter the jugular, sometimes form a plexus over this j^art of the artery, arte?"'''^'\''«»'''«^^- The large nerves of the brachial plexus are mostlv above the artery, but the lowest trunk is still behind and close to it, and the small nerve to the subclavius crosses it about the middle. Superficial to the cervical fascia lie the descending cutaneous branches of the cervical plexus. Peculiarities Peculiarities. The artery may spring as a separate trunk from of origin, (.]^g q£ ^jjg a,OTta, in which case it takes a deeper course than usual to reach the interval between the scaleni muscles, level anil The level of the arch formed by the subclavian artery in the course. j^g^j^ varies in different subjects, and occasionally the vessel pierces, or even passes in front of the scalenus anticus muscle. Branches of ORIGIN OF BRANCHES. The chief branches of the subclavian subclavian: . e ■ , r,,, , artery are lour m numlier. Three of these arise from the first part from first, of the arterial trunk :—one {yertchxtl) ascends to the head ; another [internal mammary) descends to the chest; and the remaining one (thyroid axis) is a short thick trunk, which furnishes branches inwards and outwards to the thyroid body and the shoulder. The,se arise commonly near the inner border of the scalenus anticus muscle, so as to leave an inter^'al at the beginning of the trunk free from offsets. This interval varies in length from half an inch to an inch in the greater number of cases ; and its extremes range from less than a quarter of an inch to an inch and three quartei-s. In some instances the branches are scattered over the first part of the artery. second, On the right side the fourth branch {superior intercostal) arises beneath the anterior scalenus from the second jiart of the artery,