CHAPTER VII. DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. Section I. Definition and situa- tion. Boundaries beliind and before: below. Contents. THE CAVITY OF THE PELVIS. Bissection. For the convenience of examination the pelvis should now be detached from the rest of the trunk by cutting through the disc between the third and fourth lumbal' vertebral and severing the soft parts and ligamentous tissues as required. The lower limbs will already have been removed. The cavity of the pelvis is the part of the general abdominal space situate below the brim of the true pelvis. ; Boundaries. The space is surrounded by the firm ring of the pehic bones : it is bounded behind by the sacrum and coccyx, with the pyri- formes muscles and the sacro-sciatic ligaments ; and laterally and in front by the hip-bones covered by the internal obturator muscles. Inferiorly, or towards the perineum, the cavitj' is limited by the fascia passing from the wall to the viscera, and by the levatores ani and coccygei muscles : it is only in this direction, where the bounding structures are to some extent moveable, that the size of the space can be aj)preciably altered. Contents. In the pelvis are contained the urinary bladder with, the beginning of the urethra, the lower end of the large intestine or the rectum, and some of the generative organ.s, according to the sex. The viscera are supplied with vessels, nerves, and lymphatics ; and the serous membrane is reflected over them. THE PERITONEUM, THE PELVIC FASCIA AND MUSCLES OF THE OUTLET. Directions. The student will now in a good light make a detailed examination of the cavity of the pelvis and of its lining peritoneum. *FosSiE OF THE PELVIS (fig. 141). The pelvic colon terminates in tlie rectum at the back of the pelvis ojiposite the third sacral vertebra, and at that point the bowel ceases to have a mesentery. Tlie peri- The peritoneum invests the sides and front of the rectum in its o euni. upper third, and then, leaving its .sides, continues down the front of the middle third of the bowel, when leaving it altogether, it is reflected on to the upper jiart of the soininal vesicles and thence on to tlie upper surface of the liladder in the male, or on to the upper * For tlie subjoined description the Editor is much indebted to work of Dixon and Binninghani.