DISSECTION OF THK FACE. 506 in tlie columiia nasi below the level of the anterior end of the septal cartilage, being attached totliis and to its fellow of tlie opposite side by librous tissue, and reaches nearly to the superior maxillary bone. Aiiiieiuingc's of tlie eye. Eyebrow. THE APPENDAGES OF THE EYE. The Appendages op the Eye include tlie eyebrow, the eye lid. Eyelids. Upper larger. Shape of margin. Papilla. Punctum. Hairs and apertures. Eyelashes. Apparatus for the tears. Dissection. Apertures in eyelids. and the lachrymal apparatus. The eyehmv (.siipercilium) is a curved eminence just above the eye which is placed over the orbital arch of the frontal bone. It consists of thickened integuments, and its prominence is in part due to the subjacent orbicularis palpebrarum and corrugator supercilii muscles. It is furnished with long coarse hairs, which are directed outwards, and towards one another. The e^jelids (palpebras) are two movable semilunar folds in front of the eye, which can be approached or separated over the eyeball. The upper lid is the larger and more moveable, and descends below the middle of the eyeball when the two meet; it is also pro\ided with a special muscle to raise it. The interval between the open lids is named the iMlpchral fissure. E.xternally and internally they are united by a commissure or canthus. The free border of each lid is somewhat thickened, and pre.-ents a narrow surface which meets the opposite lid when the aperture is closed, and is bounded towards the eyeliall by a sharjj smooth edge ; but at the inner end, for about a quarter of an inch from the commissure, it is somewhat thinner and more rounded. At the .spot where the two parts join is a .small white eminence (fig. 207), the jmpilla lachrymalis ; and in this is the punctum lachrymule, or the opening of the canal for the tears. This margin is provided anteriorly with the eyelashes, and near the posterior edge with a row of small openings of the Meibomian glands ; but both the cilia and the glands are absent from the part of the lid which is internal to the opening of the punctum lachrymale. The eyelashes (cilia) are two or more rows of curved hairs, which are fixed into the anterior edge of the free border of the lid ; they are largest in the upper lid, and diminish in length from the centre to the sides. The cilia of the two lids are convex to one another, and cross when the lids are shut. Lachrymal Apparatus (fig. 207). The lachrymal gland, puncta, canals, and sac, with the nasal duct, constitute the apparatus by which the tears are formed and conveyed to the nose. Dissection. A bristle or blunted pin should be introduced into each lachrymal canal through the ijunctum. The lachrymal sac will appear on the removal of the internal tarsal ligament and of the areolar tissue from its surface as it lies on the lachrymal bone. The prolongation from the internal tarsal ligament over the sac should be defined and understood before its removal (^J. 568). The pimcta larhnimnlia ('), one on each lid, are the openings of the lachrymal canals. Each is situate on the free margin of the lid, about a quarter of an inch from the inner canthus, and at the summit of the jjapilia lachrymalis.