DISSKCTION OF THK PTERYGOID REGION. COS coii.-iist.s of two layers; muscle iieiirly siili- ciitaiieous; lies on the ,jaw; To see surface of temporal muscle. To see the iusertiou. Origin of temi)oral iimscle; insertion; relations; process mid ramus of the lower jaw, extending from the angle behind to the level of the .second molar tooth in front. The .superficial fibres arc inclined downwards and backwards, and fonii a layer that can be readily separated from the deeper portion of the muscle, in which the fibres run nearly vertically. The lower part of the masseter is covered only by the integu- ments, with the platysma and fascia ; but the upper is partly con- cealed by the parotid gland, and is crossed by Stenson's duct, and by the transverse facial vessels and branches of the facial nerve. The anterior border projects over the buccinator muscle, and a quantity of loose fat resembling that in the orbit is found beneath it. The muscle covers the ramus of the jaw, and the masseteric nerve and artery entering its deep surface. Action. It raises the lower jaw with the internal pterygoid in the mastication of the food. Dissection. To lay bare the temporal muscle to its insertion, the following dissection is to be made :—The temporal fascia is to be detached from the upper border of the zygomatic arch and removed from the s\rrface of the muscle. Next, the arch is to be sawn through in front and behind, so as to include all its length ; and is to be thrown down (without being cut off) with the masseter still attached to it, by separating the fibres of that muscle from the ramus of the jaw. In detaching the masseter, its nerves and vessels, which pass through the sigmoid notch of the lower jaw, will come into ■\'iew, and should Ije dissected out of the muscle. The surface of the temporal muscle may be then cleaned. And to expose its termination, let the coronoid process be sawn off by a cut passing from the centre of the sigmoid notch to the last molar tooth, so as to include the insertion of the muscle. Before samng the bone let the student find and separate from the muscle the buccal vessels and nerve issuing from beneath it anteriorly. Lastly, the coronoid process should be raised and the fat remo^•ed, in order that the lower fibres of the temporal muscle and their contiguity to the external pterygoid beneath them may be seen. The TESiroRAL muscle (fig. 218, ^) arises from the fascia covering it, and from the bones forming the irmer wall of the temporal fossa (p. 506), reaching upwards to the semicircular line on the side of the skull, and downwards to the infratemporal crest on the great wing of the .sphenoid bone. From this extensive origin the fibres converge to a tendon, which appears on the outer surface of the muscle, and is imcricd into the borders and inner surface of the coronoid process, as well as into a groove on the front of the ramus of the lower jaw, extending downwards nearly to the last molar tooth. Behind the posterior border of the tendon are the masseteric vessels and nerve, and in front of it the buccal vessels and nerve: the last ner\ e occasionally perforates some of the fibres of the muscle. Action. All the fibres contracting, the muscle will raise the mandible and jiress it forcibly against the upper jaw. The hinder fibres acting alone can retract the lower jaw after it hiis been moved forwards by the external pterygoid.