528 DISSECTION OF THE BAQK. Helatioiis of erector in lumliar and dorsal regions; and in neck. Use of both erectors, of one muscle, and of portions in neck. Muscles of fifth layer. Dissection of complexes, Complexus: origin; insertion ; tendinous inter- sections ; Relations of tlus erector spince. The erector spinas is concealed Ity tlie nuLscles of llie layers already examined. It lies over the semispiiialLs and nmltilidus spinas muscles, portions of the ribs and external intercostal muscles, and the levatores costarum. In the loins it is contained in the aponeurotic sheath of the fascia lum- borum, and in the thoracic region a similar sheath is formed for the muscle by the vertebral aponeurosis with the ribs and dorsal vertebrae. The tendon of origin is united over the sacrum with the posterior layer of the fascia lumborum; and from its outer border in this part some fibres of the gluteus maximus arise. The prolongations of the muscle in the neck lie between the splenius and levator anguli scapulae on the outer side and the com- plexus on the inner side, the trachelo-mastoid being next to the complexus. The cervicalis ascendens is attached to the transverse processes in a line with the splenius colli, and immediately behind the middle and posterior scalene muscles. Action of erector spince. These powerful muscles draw backwards or extend the spine, and come into play in bringing the column into, and in maintaining the erect position. The parts inserted into the dorsal vertebrae will be to some extent inspiratory muscles, since the dilatation of the thorax is aided by extension of the verte- bral column ; but the slips inserted into the ribs will draw down- wards these bones, and may thus act in forced expiration. The muscle of one side acting alone will incline the .si3ine laterally'. The cervical prolongations have a similar action upon the neck and head. Fifth Layer of Muscles. In this layer are included the comj)lexus, the seniispinalis, and the multifidus spinae ; and most of the vessels and nerves of the back are to be learnt with this layer of muscles. Dissection. To display the complexus (fig. 191) it will only be necessary to turn outwards the cervical prolongations of the erector spinae muscle, and follow down the slips of origin to the dorsal transverse processes. The semisjsinalis and multifidus are now partly seen below the complexus, lying between the erector spinse and the spines of the vertebrae. The COMPLEXUS (fig. 191, d) is internal to the prolongations from the longissimus dorsi, and converges towards its fellow of the opposite side at the occipital bone. Narrow at its lower end, the muscle arises by tendinous slips from the transverse processes of the upper six dorsal and seventh cervical vertebrae, and from the articular processes of the succeeding cervical vertebrae as liigh as the third : it is also joined in most cases by one or two slips from the lowest cervical or upper dorsal spines. The fleshy fibres pass upwards to be inserted into an impression between the curved lines of the occipital bone, which reaches outwards nearly two inches from the external occipital crest. The inner part of the complexus, having two He.shy bellies with an intervening tendon, is often described separately as the bivctiter cervicis. Another tendinous intersection crosses the cutaneous surface of the muscle near the upper end.