674 DISSECTION OF THE HEAD. Dissection of palatine and nasal branches ; body of ganglion; Vidian nerve. contained in osseous canals which require to be opened. The branches are first to be sought, and these are then to be followed to the ganglion and the main trunk. Dissection. The left hall" of the head is to be used for the dis- play of Meckel's ganglion and its branches ; but the students will derive advantage from tirst attempting the dissection on the remains of the right side. To lay bare the branches to the palate, detach the soft parts in the roof of the month from the bone, until the nerves and vessels escaping from the posterior palatine canals are arrived at. Cut oft", with the bone forceps, the posterior part of the hard palate to a level with the vessels and nerves ; and cleaning these, trace offsets behind into the soft palate, and follow the main pieces forwards to the front of the mouth. Take away, without injury to the naso-palatine nerve and vessels (already found), the hinder portion of the loose piece of mucous membrane detached from the septum nasi ; and separate the mucous membrane from the outer waU of the nasal fossa, behind the spongy bones, as high as the spbeno-palatine foramen. In reflecting for- wards' the membrane, vessels and nerves will be seen entering it through the foramen ; but these may be left for the present, and directions for their dissection will be subsequently given. When the lining membrane of the nose has been removed behind the spongy bones, the palatine nerves and vessels will appear through the thin translucent palate bone, and may be readHy reached by breaking carefully through the latter with a chisel. Afterwards the tube of membrane containing the palatine vessels and nerves beinc opened, these are to be foUowed down to the soft palate and the roof of the mouth, and upwards to the gang]^on which is close to the body of the sphenoid bone. To bring Meckel's ganglion fully into view, it will be necessary to saw through the overhanging body of the sphenoid bone, to cut away pieces of the bones surrounding the hollow in which it lies and to remove with care the enveloping fat and the periosteum. The oanglion then appears as a flattened reddish-looking body from which the Vidian and pharyngeal nerves pa.ss backwards. Besides these branches, tire student should seek two large nerves from the. top of the ganglion which join the superior maxillary trimk, and smaller offsets to the floor of the orbit. To trace backwards the Vidian branch to the carotid plexus and the facial nerve, the student must lay open the Vidian canal in he root of the pterygoid process ; and in doing this he must define the small pharyngeal branches of nerve and artery which ^re ^^^^^'^ to the Vidian, and lie in the pterygo-palatine canal. At the back oi the Vidian canal, a small branch from the nerve to the plexus on the nternal carotid artery is to be looked for. Lastly, 1- -J of the Vidian nerve (large superficial petros.il) is to be ^f^^l the skull through the dense tissue in the foramen laceiurn alter Jutting away the apex of the petrous portion of the ten.poral bone,