513 CAVERNOUS SINUS. tV NERVE OPHTH. NEHVE eup. MAX. NERVE placing the liantlle of the scalpel in the opening thus made, the extent of the space will be defined. A probe or a l)low-}iipe will be required, in order that it may be passed into the different sinuses joining the cavernous centre, and these should then l)u opened up. B. The CAVERNOUS sinus, which has been so named from the CavemouH reticulate structure in its interior, is situate on the side of tiie body of the sphenoid lione. This space, resulting from the separation of the two layers of the dura mater, is of an irregular shape, and extends from the sphenoidal fissure to the tip of the petrous portion of the temporal bone. The layer of dura mater bounding the sinus externally is of Ims nerves some thickness, and contains in its suljstauce the third and fourth w„ii""^' nerves, with the ophthalmic and superior maxillary trunks of the fil'th nerve : these lie in the order given from above downwards. The cavity of the sinus is larger behind than before, and is contnina traversed by a network of slender fibrous cords. Through the ™™^y and space winds the trunk of the internal carotid artery surrounded by "ei've ; the sympathetic, with the sixth nerve running forwards on the outer side of the vessel; but all " ' ^""^ these are bound to the outer wall of the sinus, and sej^arated from int. car. art.' the blood in the space by a thin nerve' lining membrane. The cavernous sinus receives the ophthalmic veins from the 188.—Transveksio Section op tnbntaries 1 .. 1 , . 1 , THE Caveunous Sinus (aftek orbit through the sphenoidal Langer). muiiica- fissure, and some inferior cerebral veins. It communicates with its fellow of the opposite side by the intercavernous sinuses, and with the pterygoid plexus outside the skull through the foramen ovale and the foramen lacerum. The blood leaves the chamber by the superior and inferior petrosal sinuses. The INTERCAVERNOUS SINUSES are two vessels wdlich pass trans- Intercavem- versely in the sella turcica between the right and left cavernous "ireuTar sinuses, being placed one in front of, and the other behind the ■'>inus. pituitary body. To the venous ring thus formed around the pituitary body the name of Circidai- sinus has been given. The SUPERIOR PETROSAL SINUS (fig. 187,/) lies in a groove in the Superior upper edge of the petrous part of the temporal bone, and extends i"^''™'*'''- between the cavernous and lateral sinuses. Small veins from the cerebellum are received into it. The INFERIOR PETROSAL siNu.s (fig. 187, h) is larger than the i„renor superior, and lies in a gi'oove along the line of junction of the i"'''"™"'- l)etrous part of the temporal with the basilar process of the occipital bone ; it is joined by small veins from the cerebellum, and one from the internal ear. This sinus passes through the anterior cumpartinent of the jugular foramen, and ends in the interna] jugular vein.