351 THE GALL-BLADDER. Lymphatics of the liver are siipevficial and deep. The superficial Lympim- of tlie upper surface in part join tlie lymphatics of the thorax by suporficini, piercing the diapliragm, and enter the anterior mediastinal glands ; those of the under surface mainly join the deep lymphatics issuing at the portal fissure. The deep lymphatics accompany both sets of vessels in the liver ; and deep, those with the ijortal vein descend through some small glands in the lesser omentum and end in the coeliac glands ; while those accompanying the hepatic veins pass through the diaphragm, and enter the glands of the posterior mediastinum. Nerves come from the sympathetic and Nerves, the pneumo-gastric, and ramify with the hepatic artery. THE GALL-BLADDER. The gall bladder (fig. 131, g b, p. 346) is the receptacle of the bile. It is situate in a depression on the under surface of the riglit lobe of the liver, and to the right of the quadrate lobe. It is pear-shaped, and its larger end (fmidus) is directed forwards beyond tlie margin of the liver; while the smaller end (neck) is turned in the opposite direction, and bends downwards to terminate in the cystic duct by a zigzag part. In length the gall-bladder measures three or four inches, and in breadth rather more than an inch at the widest part. It holds from an ounce to an ounce and a half. By one surface it is in contact with the liver, and on the opposite it is covered by peritoneum. The larger end touches the abdominal wall opposite the cartilage of the ninth rib (fig. Ill, p. 303), where it is contiguous to the transverse colon. The neck is in contact with the duodenum. Structure. The gall-bladder posses.ses a peritoneal, a fibrous and muscular, and a mucous coat. The serous coat is stretched over the under or free surface of the gall-bladder, and surrounds the fundus. The fibrous coat is strong, and forms the framework of the sac ; intermi.ved with it are some involuntary muscular fibres, the chief being longitudinal, but others circular. Dissection. The gall-bladder should now be slit open and washed out to show its lining. The mucous coat is marked internally by numerous ridges and intervening depressions, which give an alveolar or honeycomb Gall Bladder: situation; form; size; relations. 1.33.—G.\LL-BLADDER AND ITS Duct. Gall-bladder. Cystic duct. Ridges in the interior. Common bile-duct. Common bepaiic duct. Structure of wall. Serous coat. Fibrous and muscular stratum. Mucous layer is alveolar on surface;