27 BRACHIAL PLEXUS. 'I'lic uiikr nerve livtmt'H over tlic axillniy urU'i-y, lo I lie uiidiu'-„„(,,,,. surface of the great loectonil imiscle in which it ciids. On Qw. inner .side of the ve.ssel it coinninnicates witli tlic. I'dllowiuf; lirancli. The iiinur iierui; couwh forwards lietween tlie artery and \'ein, and luul inmr. after reciMvinf,' the offset from the outer, ends in many liranciies to tlie under-suri'ace of tlie ])uctoralis minor. Some twij^'s enter tlie great pectoral muscle after jiassing either tlirouj^li llie ]ic( |,(iralis minor or above its border. Tlic nuycaintlar nervea are three in number, and su]i]>lv tht'Tlmw siih- nuLscles bounding tlie axilla behind ' «™l>i'i">-: The uiriier nerve is the smallest, and enters liie uiipei' part of tlie, insulwcn- , V . , ' 111 pnlnriM, sulmcapidans muscle. Tile middle or long .lubmipillar nerve acconijianies the subscapular liiUsHinms artery along the posterior wall of the axilla, and supplies the'""' latissimus d(nsi muscle (fig. 7). The lower mh.tcajmlar nerve gives a brancli (o (he lower part of ami imiw the subscapularis mu.scle, and ends in the teres major. Another branch of the j)lexus, the yoderior or lony tho7-acic nerve or ■nerve to the Herratun, lies on the inner side of the axilla (fig. G, 0- Itari.ses above the clavicle from the fifth, sixth, and seventh cervical nerves fig. 8, pt), and de.scends behind the axillary ve.s- .sels to reach the (juter surface of the serratus niagnus muscle. The i.ATissiMUS Donsi MUSCJI.K (fig. 7) may be examined as far as it enters into the jjosterior wall of the axilla. Arising from the back of the trunk (p. 7), and crossing the lower angle of the scapula, the mu.scle ascends to be innerted into the bottom of the, bici])ital groove, by a tendon insiiiiioii. one inch and a half in width, in front of the teres major ; at the lower border aponeurotic fibres connect the two, but a burea intervencH between them near the insertion (fig. 17, \). 44). Dissection. To lay bare the serratus magnus, the arm is to lu' iiissueiioii drawn fnmi the trunk, so as to separate the scapula frcmi the thorax, "{^^jj," The nerves of the brachial plexus should be included in a ligature so as to hold them together, and cut through opjiosite the third rib ; and the fat and connective tissue should be cleaned from the muscular fibres. The smiUATLs MA^i^•us muhci-h (tig. !j) extends from the side iscmiins inugiins: ""1,1 Vm. 9.—TiiK Skriiatus Maunus.