DISSECTIOK OF THE ARM. 62 humerus along a narrow ami of imior liead ; direction of the fibres ; insertion; relations ; Fig. 22.—Dissection of the Dorsal Scapular Vessels and Nerve, and of the Triceps Muscle. Muscles : A. Long head of ti-iceps. B. Outer head, with a bit of whalebone beneath it to mark the extent of its attachment down the luimerus. c. Inner head. 1). Anconeus. E. Supinator longus. F. Extensor carpi riidialis longior. o. Teres major. Two inter- musc.iilnr Hoptu: long head pas.ses the and adduct the arm. The INTERMUSCULAR SEPTA attachment extending from the root of the large tuberosity to the spiral groove. The inner head (c), fle.shy and wide, arises from the posterior surface of the humerus below the spiral groove, reaching laterally to the intermuscular septa, and gradually tapering up- wards as far as the inser- tion of the teres major. From the different heads the fibres are directed vdth varying degrees of inclina- tion to a wide common tendon above the elbow. Inferiorly the muscle is i7iserted into the end of the olecranon process of the ulna, and gives an expan- sion to the aponeurosis of the forearm. Between the tip of the olecranon and the tendon there is some- times a small bursa. The triceps is super- ficial, except at the upper part where it is overlapped by the deltoid muscle. It lies on the humerus, the musculo-spii-al nerve, the superior profunda vessels, and the articulation of the elbow. On the sides the muscle is united to the intermuscular septa ; and the lowest fibres are con- tinuous externally with the anconeus—a muscle of the forearm. Action. All the pieces of the triceps combining in their action will bring the ulna into a line with the humerus, and extend the elbow-joint. As the shoulder it can depress the raised humerus. H. Teres minor. I. Infraspinatus, cut across. J. Supraspiuatus, cut through. Arteries : a. Suprascapular. b. Dorsal scapular. c. Posterior cir- cumflex. Nerves: 1. Suprascapuhir. 2. Circumflex. should lie carefully noticed. Th.