623 THE LINGUAL VESSELS AND NERVE. fibres acting alone raise the hyoid bone and protrude the tongue ; wliilc the anterior retract the tip of the tongue. The LINGUAL ARTERY (fig. 217,/, p. 603) ari.ses from the e.xternal Ung.ul carotid opposite the great cornu of the hyoid bone. At hr.^t it is n^.u^ io directed forwards above the hyoid bone, and then upwards beneatli „^„^,,,^,° the hyo-glossus to tlie under part of the tongue (hg. 224) ; it ends at i;yo-^^_^_ tlie anterior border of that muscle in the sublingual and raiune " branches. Before it reaches the hyo-glossus, the artery iorins a small loop, with its conve.xity upwards, which is crossed by the hypoglossal nerve ; and tlie digastric and stylo-hyoid muscles also he over the vessel, but are separated from it by the hyo-glossus. The trunk rests ou the middle constrictor and geuio-glossus muscles. Its branches are :— a. A small hijoid branch is distributed to the muscles at the upper its branches border of the hyoid l)one ; it anastomoses with its fellow of the opposite side, and with the hyoid branch of the superior thyroid bone; artery of tlie same side. 6. The dorsalis linguw branch arises beneath the hyo-glossus to^l^^jk^^f^. muscle, and ascends to supply the xlorsal part of the substance ot the tongue and the tonsil. The tibres of the hyo-glossus must be divided to see it. c. The sublingual branch springs from the final division ot the to tl'^esub- artery at the edge of the hyo-glossus, and is directed outwards to the ^^^.^ gland of the same name. Souie ottsets supply the gums and the con- tiguous muscles, and one continues behind the incisor teeth to join a similar artery from the other side. d. The raiime branch (fig. 224,») is tlie terminal part of the lingual totbe^>^ub. artery, and e-xtends forwards along the outer side of the genio-glussus "tongue, to the lip of the tongue where it ends. Muscular ollsets are furni.shed to the substance of the tongue of the same side. This artery is very tortuous, and is embedded in the muscular fibres of the tongue. The lingual artery is accompanied by two small vena, comites, but JJ'j.'jS""' the largest vein of the tongue is the raninc, which lies external to the artery of the same name, and, after being joined by sublingual branches, passes backwards over the hyo-glossus muscle witli the hypoglossal nerve. These veins end in the internal jugular. The LINGUAL NERVE (fig. 224, ') has been followed in the pterygo- Lingual maxillary region to its passage between the ramus of the lower jaw and the internal pterygoid muscle (p. 618). In the submaxillary region the nerve is inclined inwards to the side of the tongue, across the along side of mucous membrane of the mouth and the origin of the superior con- strictor muscle, and above the deep part of the submaxillary gland. Lastly it is directed forwards below the Whartonian duct, and along the side of the tongue to the apex. Branches are furnished to the gives branches surrounding parts, thus :— Two or more offsets connect it with the submaxillary ganglion, near the gland of that name. Further forwards one or more branches descend on the hyo-glossus to twelfth to unite in a loop with twigs of the hypoglossal nerve.