331 CCELIAC ARTERY AND BRANCHES. CCELIAC AXIS AND PORTAL VEIN. A short branch of the aorta—the cccliac axis—furnishes arteries to the stomach and duodenum, the liver, pancreas, and spleen : it sub- divides into Ihiee primary branches—coronary, hepatic, and splenic. The veins corresponding to the arteries (except the hepatic) are collected into one trunk—the vena portte. Dissection. The vessels have been in part laid bare by the previous dissection, and in tracing them out fully the student should spare the nerve-plexuses around them. Supposing the liver well raised, he may first follow to the left side the small coronary artery, and show its branches to the oesophagus and the stomach. Artftries of viscera. Veins. How to dis- sect coeliac axis, and branches, coronary, Common bile-duct. Portal vein. Hepatic artei-y. Coronary artery. Splenic artery. Gastro-dnodenal artery. Superior pan- / creatico-duo- denal artery. Gastro-epi- ploica de.vtra artery. Superior mesenteric vein. Colica de.xtra artery. Anterior border of pancrea.s. Inferior mesenteric vein. Colica media arteiy. Superior mesenteric artery. Fia. 123.—The Pahoreas and the Blood-ybssels in Relation with it. (From a specimen in the Charing Cross Hospital Museum.) Next, the hepatic artery, ^vith the portal vein and the bile-duct, may hepatic, be traced to the liver and the gall-bladder ; and a considerable branch of the artery should be pursued beneath the pylorus to the stomach, duodenum, and pancreas. Lastly, the splenic artery, which and splenic, lies along the upper border of the pancreas, is to be cleaned ; and its branches to the pancreas, stomach, and spleen should be defined. In doing this one student should hold aside the stomach and spleen whilst the other does the dissection. The veins will be dissected for the most part with the arteries ; Veins, but the origin of the portal trunk is to be made out beneath the pancreas, and in front of the vena cava. The CcELiAC Axis (fig. 124, p. 333) is the first visceral branch Cieiiac axis of the abdominal aorta, and arises close to the upper margin of the tilree'foi-''''' opening in the diaphragm. It is a short thick trunk, about half an 'owing :— inch long, which projects above tlie upper border of the pancreas,