405 SYMPATHETIC NERVE. The vesical plexus contains large offsets, with many white-fibred to the or spinal nerves, and passes forwards to the side and neck of the bladder. It gives one ple.xus to the vesicnla seminalis, and another to the vas deferens. The prostatic plexm leaves the front of the pelvic ple.xus, and to the pro- supplies the substance of the prostate. At the front of the prostate "J'"' an offset (cavernous) is continued onwards to the dorsum of the penis, to supply the cavernous structure. On the penis the cavernous nerves join the pudic nerve. In the female there are the following additional plexuses for the offsets in supply of the viscera peculiar to that sex :— r fenuaio, Ovarian jylexus. The chief nerves to the ovary are derived from to tiie the renal and aortic plexuses, and accompany the o^'ariall artery; > but the uterine nerves supply some filaments to it. Vaginal nerves. The nerves of the vagina are large, and are not to the plexiforui, but consist in greater part of sjiinal nerve-fibres; they '• end in the lower part of the tube. The uterine nerves are furnished to the uterus with only a small and to the admixture of the spinal nerves ; they ascend along the side of the uterus, and consist of long slender filaments without ganglia or coiiiiiuinications. The Fallopian tube receives its branches from the uterine nerves. Some few ner\'es surrounding the arteries of the uterus are plexiform and ganglionic. The LYMPHATIC GLANDS OP THE PELVIS fomi one chain in front Chain of pel- of the sacrum, and another along the internal iliac vessels : their s'li'ds; efferent ducts join the lumbar glands. Into these glands run the deep lymphatics of the penis, of the genital organs in the female, lymphatics and the lymphatics of the viscera and wall of the pelvis. entering tliem. Section II. ANATOMY OF THE VISCERA OF THE MALE PELVIS. Directions. The rectum with the bladder and the bodies at Its base, VIZ., the vesiculce seminales, and the prostate gland, are now to be taken bodily away for examination. Dissection. In order to remove them from the pelvis the Take ont student should carry the scalpel round the pelvic outlet, close to the osseous boundary so as to detach the eras of the penis from sepamte uie bone, and the end of the rectum from the parts around. When •""'^t'Um; the viscera are removed, the rectum is to be separated from the other organs; but the bladder, the penis, and the urethra are to remain united. Aft.r the bladder has been distended with air, the areolar tissue clean the IS to be removed from its muscular fibres. The prostate gland ancl the vcsiculse seminales are then to be cleaned ; and the duct of tlie latter, with the vas deferens, is to be followed to the gland Any integument left on the penis is to be removed. and penis