820 DISSECTION OF THE KAR. The moin- braiious labyiiiiUi consists of utricle, saccule, seniiciiciihiv canals, and coclilear canal. Dissection of them in i fresh bone. Utricle: .situation, and form ; macula. and otoliths. Semicircular canals : not free in cavity; have ampul lie, which receive the nerves. Membranous Labyrinth (fig. 305). Lodged in the vestibule are two meiubrauous sacs, the utricle and saccule from the former of which tubular olfsets are continued into the semicircular canals. These, together with the canal of the cochlea and the organ of Corti, which have been referred to aliove, make up the membranous labyrinth. Tlie sacs and their prohuigations are immersed in the perilymph, and are them.selves filled with a fluid called the endolym'ph. In thein the ramifications of the auditory nerve are distributed. Dissection. The delicate internal sacs of the ear, with their nerves, cannot be dissected except on a temporal Iwne which has been softened in acid, and afterwards put in spirit. The previous instruc- tions for the dissection of the osseous labyrinth will guide the student to the situation of the membranous structures within it, but the surrounding softened material must be re- moved with great care. The UTRICLE (fig. 305, d), or the common sinus, is the larger of the two sacs, and is situate at the posterior and upper part of the vestibule, opposite the fovea hemiellip- tica in the roof. It is trans- ■^•ersely oval in form, and con- nected with it posteriorly are three looped tubes, which occupy the seniicii'cular canals. At the fore part of the sac is a thickened and more opaque part of its wall—macula aciw- tica (e), where the nerves enter; and opposite this, in the interior, is a small mass of calcareous granules or otoliths. The MEMBRANOUS SEMICIRCULAR CANALS ((/) are about one-third of the diameter of the osseous tubes, along the convex border of which they lie, being closely attached to the periosteal lining of the bony wall ; and the remaining space is filled l>y perilymph. Each is marked at one end by an ampulla, which is relatively of large size and nearly fills the osseous wise. Two are blended at one end, like the canals they occupy, so that they comnumicite with tlie utricle by five openings. At each ampullary enlargement there is a transverse projection {crista acudica) into the anterior of the tube ; and at that spot a branch of the auditory nerve enters the wall. Fia. 305.—Petroos Bonk partly re- moved TO SHOW THE MeMDUANOUS Labyrinth of the Left Side in PLAGE (BrESOHET). a. Saccule. 6.. Its macula. c. Ductus i-euniens. d. Utricle. e. Its macula. /. Ampullary enlargement of the ex- ternal semiciicular canal, g.