523 SERBATI POSTTCI MUSCLES. SeiTati are two in number. nio upper the smaller; After removing the loose areolar tissue beneath the rhomboids the thin serralus posticus superior muscle will be laid bare. The seiratus posticus inferior has Ijeen already displayed by the reflection of the latissinius dorsi. The muscles of the third layer are the two serrati muscles. They are very thin, and receive their name from their toothed attachment to the ribs. Their origin from the spines of the vertebrae is aponeurotic. The SERRATUS POSTICUS SUPERIOR (fig. 190, a) arises from the ligamen- tum nuchse, and from the spinous processes of the last cervical, and upper two or three dorsal vertebrcB, with the .supra- spinous ligament. The fleshy fibres are inclined downwards and outwards, and are inserted by slij^s into four ribs, from the second to the fifth, e.xter- nal to their angles. The muscle rests on the splenius, and is covered by the rhom- boidei, except at its upper border. The SERRATUS POSTI- CUS INFERIOR (fig. 3, G, p. 5) is wider than the preceding muscle. Its aponeurosis of origin is inseparably united with that of the latissimus dorsi, and with the fascia luniborum, and is con- nected to the spinous processes of the last tw.o dorsal and upper two or three lumbar vertebrse. The fleshy fibres ascend somewhat to be inserted into the last four ribs outside their insertion; angles, each succe-ssive piece extending further forwards than the one below. This muscle lies on the ma.ss of the erector spinsB; and with relations, the upper border of its tendon the vertebral aponeurosis is united. Action. Both serrati are ins])iratory muscles. The upper one raises the ribs into which it is inserted ; while the lower one draws attach- ments ; relations. FiQ. 190.—Part of the Third and Fourth Layers of the Muscles of the Back. origni; A. Serratus posticus superior. B. Splenitis capitis, c. Splenius colli. D. Continuation of the ilio-costalis. E. Longissimus dorsi. F. Spinalis ilorsi. Use of serrati.