DISSECTION OF THE LEO. 218 flexion, in which the tibia is being drawn back over the femur. This use ^vill be exeni]ilifiud by ciittrug across the posterior (in anotlier joint or iu another dissection) and h-aving entii-e tlie ante- rior ; when this has been done, the articular surfaces of the tibia can be carried nearly altogether behind the condyle.s of the femur. Semilunar The two interarticular or semilunar fibro-cartilages (fig. 84) partly .ure tlvo.™ 0" each side the articular surface of the til>ia. Common They are thick at the convex margin, where they are united bv ciiaiacteis. f^]^^,^^ ^he capsule, and are thin, sharp, and free at the concave edge; they are hollowed on the upper surface, so as to assist in giving depth to the fossaj for the reception of the condyles of the femur, Init are flattened below. luserted into the tibia at their extremities, they are coarsely fibrous at their attach- ment to the bone, like the crucial ligaments; and they become cartilaginous onh^ where they lie between the articular surfaces. The .syno- vial membrane is reflected over them. The internal fibro-cartilage (a) is oval in form, and is less sharply cur\ed than the ex- ternal. In front it is attached liy a pointed end close to the anterior margin of the head of the tibia, in front of the anterior crucial ligament. At the back, where it is much wider, it is fixed to the inner lip of the hollow behind the spine of the tibia, between the attachment of the other cartilage and the posterior crucial ligament. External The external fihro-cartikuje (b) is nearly circular in form, and is cuiaHn''" ^'oiinected to the bone within the points of attachment of its fellow, lorm: Its anterior part is fixed in front of the spine of the tibia, close lo the outer articular surface, and opposite the anterior crucial ligament which it touches ; and its posterior extremity is inserted behind and between the two osseous points of the spine. This fibro-cartilage is less closely united to the capsule than the internal, for the fore jiart is in the centre of the joint, and the tendon of the jjopliteus muscle separates it behind from that membrane. The outer fibro-cartilage is provided with two accessory liands, one in front, the other behind, its trans- The anterior or transverse ligament (r) is a narrow band of fibres \ersean(l Jjetweeu the semilunar cartilages at the front of the joint. Some- times it is very small or even absent. FiQ. 84.—The Fibho-oartilages of THE Knee-Joint. View of the Head op the Tibia with the fibro-oartilages attached ; the Crucial Lioaments have been oct THROUOn. a. Inner, and h, outer semilunar fibro-cartilage. 0. Transverse, and d, ascending or posterior band (out) of the external cartilage. e. Posterior, and /, anterior crucial ligament.