THE SUPINATOR BREVIS. 89 arises from the middle third or more of the ulna lielow the origin; anconeus, along the ulnar side of the extensor of the met;icai-]3al hone (fig. 36) ; and from the_jiiterosseou8 membrane below, for about an inch. Its tendon, passing through a distinct sheath in the ■ annular ligament, deeply grooving the radius, is directed along the dorsum of the thumb to be inserted into the base of the last insertion; phalanx. The belly of the muscle is covered by the extensor carpi iilnaris relations; and the extensors of the fingers, but the tendon becomes .superficia. close to the wrist. Below the annular ligament its tendon cro.sses the extensors of the wrist and the radial artery. Action. It first extends both phalanges of the thuml), and »n'l "sc. then helps in mo\ing backwards the metacarpal bone and the hand. The EXTENSOR INDICIS (indicator ; h) arises on the inner .side of iiuiicator the lastmuscle from the ulna for two or three inches (fig. 36), usually below the middle and from the ln:ma:—part of the internsseons jneijikraiie. Near the wrist the tendon becomes free from muscular origin; fibres, and passing beneath the annular ligament with the common extensor of the fingers, is applied to, and blends with the external insertion; tendon of that muscle in the expansion on the first phalanx of the forefinger. Until this muscle has passed the ligament it is covered by the superficial layer, but it is afterwards subajjoneurotic. Action. The muscle can point the forefinger, even when the three and use, inner fingers are bent; and it will help the common extensor of the digits in drawing back the hand. Dissection. To lay bare the supinator brevis, it will be necessary Dissection to detach the anconeus from the external condyle of the humerus, brovis!"'''"'^ and to cut through the supinator longus and the radial extensors of the wrist. After those muscles have been divided, the tte.shy fibres of the supinator are to be followed forwards to their insertion into the radius ; and that part of the origin of the flexor profundus digitorum which lies on the outer side of the insertion of the brachialis anticus, is to be removed. The SUPINATOR BREVIS (d) surrounds the upper part of the Origin of radius, except at the tuljerosity and the front of the bone Ijelow it. ^.'Sr-"'"' It arises from the external margin of the ulna for a distance of two inches, as well as from a depre.ssion below the small sigmoid cavity ; also from the, orbic.nlar ligament of the radius and the external lateral ligament of the elbow-ioint. The fibres pass outwards and forwards, and are inserted into the upper third or more of the radius, outi inscr-V \ cxce])t at the fore and inner parts, reaching downwards to the ■^'^ insertion of the jn-onator teres, and forwards to the oblique line of the bone (fig. 25, p. 61 ; and fig. 36). The supinator brevis is concealed altogether at the posterior and external aspects of the limb 1)y the muscles of the superficial layer ; and anteriorly the radial vessels and nerve lie over it. The lower overlying border is contiguous to the extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis, only and con- the posterior interosseous vessels {a) intervening. Through the "fX'''