DISSECTION OF THE HEAD. 508 Inner siu-face and struc- ture. Processes. Falx cerebri: form and attach- ments ; borders; sinuses in it. Superior longitudinal sinus: situation and endin&r; its interior ; veins open- ing into it. is then to be rai.sed on tlio right .side towards the top of the head ; and the veins connecting it with the brain may be broken through. The inner surface of the dura mater is free and sinooth, being sejjarated from the arachnoid (the second of the coverings of the brain) by the cavity known as the subdural space, although tlie two membranes are in the natural condition closely applied to one another. The fibrous tissue of wliich the dura mater is composed is so arranged as to give rise to two strata, an external (or periosteal) which adheres to the bones, and an internal (or meningeal) which is lined by an epithelium similar to that on serous memljrane^. At certain spots these layers are slightly separated, and form thereby the spaces or sinuses for the passage of the venous blood. Moreover, the innermost layer sends processes between different parts of the brain, forming the falx, tentorium, &c. The falx cerebri (fig. 187, p. 512) is the median sickle-shaped process of the dura mater, which dips in between the hemispheres of the large brain. Its form and extent will be evident if the right half of the brain is gently separated from it. Narrow in front, where it is attached to the crista galli of the ethmoid bone, it widens beliind, and joins a horizontal piece of the dura mater named the tentorium cerebelli. Its upper border is convex, and is fixed to the middle line of the skull as far backwards as the internal occipital protuberance ; and the lower or free border is concave and turned towards the central portion of the brain (corpus callosum), with which it is in contact interiorly. In this fold of the dura mater are contained the following sinuses :—the superior longitudinal along the convex border, the inferior longitudinal in the hinder j)art of the lower edge, and the straight sinus at the line of junction between it and the tentorium (fig- 187). The SUPERIOR LONGITUDINAL SINUS (fig. 187, b) extends from the ethmoid bone in front to the internal occipital protuberance behind. Its position in the convex border of the falx will be made manifest by the escape of blood through numerous small veins, when i^ressure is made from before backwards with the finger along the median part of the dura inater. Bissection. The sinus is now to be opened by cutting into it from above along the middle line and by detaching the dura from the bone down to the internal occipital protuberance behind. When the sinus is opened it is seen to be narrow in front, and to widen behind, wliere it ends in a dilatation termed the torcular Herophili on one side (more frequently the right) of the internal occipital protul)erance. Its cavity is triangular in form, with the apex of the space turned to the falx ; and across it are stretched .small tendinous cords—chorda; U'illisii—near the openings of some of the cerebral veins. Frequently small Pacchionian bodies project into the sinus. The sinus receives small veins from the substance of the skull and dura mater, and larger ones from the brain ; and tlie blood