ANATOMY OF THE LUNGS. 479 pigment, upon the surface of the lung; and by inflating a portion of the organ, the cellular structure may be seen. The se\'eral lobules are united together by connective tissue without fat; and each is attached to a terminal branch of the airtube, and receives offsets of the pulmonary' vessels. Tlie lung is invested by the pulmonary pleura, except at the Serous hiluni, where the vessels enter. The serous membrane is thin and ti-ansparent, and is closely attached to the lung-substance by means of a fine layer of subserous areolar tissue, which is continuous with the interlobular tissue. Both the pleura and the suljserous tissue and sub- are very elastic, so that in the collapsed state the surface of the lung is still smooth. Arrangement of the airtube and pulmonary artenj entering the lung. Relation of It has already been seen that in the root of the lung the pulmonary bronchus artery lies at first in front of the bronchus ; but before entering the organ the artery crosses over, and gains the posterior surface of the airtube. On the left side the artery passes backwards above the on left side, undivided bronchus ; but on the right side the bronchus gives off and on right, the branch {epiarterial bronchus) to the upper lobe of the lung before it is crossed by the arterial trunk, which therefore runs between the upper and middle divisions of the airtube. From this arrangement it would appear that the lower half of the left bronchus and the two lobes of tlie left lung are represented on the right side by the continuation of the bronchus below the artery and by the middle and lower lobes of the lung ; and that the upper lobe of the right lung with its division of the airtube liave no representiitives on the left side. Bronchial branches in the lung. If the primary divisions of the Airtubes in bronchi be followed into the lung, they will be found to give off '""^' secondary branches ; and these, together with the smaller offsets of the air-passages, divide for the most part dichotomously, that is mode of evenly into two. The branches of the airtube within the lung are ^'■"'"^'^'ne; known as the bronchia or bronchial tubes, and difler from the bronchi in being circular in section. Tlieir structure resembles that of the structure; bronchi; but the pieces of cartilage are irregular in shape and occur on all sides of the tube, and the nuiscular tissue is proportionately greater in amount and completely surrounds the canal. The ultimate bronchial tubes are al)out half a line in diameter ; and and ending, each leads to a group of somewhat funnel-shaped dilatations {infundibula), which are beset with air-cells and form the lobules of the lung. Vessels of the lung. Two sets of ve.ssels are furnished to the Vessels are lung, viz., the pulmonary, wliich bring blood to the lung to be''™ aerated, and then return it to the heart and the smaller bronchial, which convey the blood destined for the nutrition of the lung. The pulmonary artery divides like the bronchus, and within the Pulmonary lung Its branches run usually on the i)osterior surface of the "'''"y' bronchial tubes, which they accompany to the lobules. The arterial branches do not anastomose together ; and they end in the capillary network of the air-cells.