616 DISSECTION OF THE HEAD. llia.snctlon of tliiril iiiiU fuiifDi uorvcs ; of fifth nerve. Third nerve passes to orbit. Fourtli nerve in tlie wall of sinus. Fifth nerve has two roots. Large root, Cavum Meclcelii, and Gasse- rian gang- lion on it; gives three brandies. Dissection. The third and fourth nerves, and the ophthalmic trunk of the fifth nerve, lie in the outer wall of the cavernous sinus ; and to see them, it will he necessary to trace them through the dura mater towards the orhit. Afterwards the student should follow outwards the roots of the fifth nerve into the middle fossa of the skull, as in fig. 189, taking away the dura mater from them, and from the surface of the large Gasserian ganglion which lies on the fore part of the petrons portion of the temporal bone. From the front of the ganglion arise two other large trunks beside the ophthalmic, viz., superior and inferior maxillary, and these should also be traced to their apertures of exit from the skull. If the dura mater is removed entirely from the bone near the nerves a better view will be obtained. Some of the nerves may have been injured by the previous opening of the left cavernous sinus, and if that be so, the dissectors should jointly examine the right side. The THIRD or oculomotor nerve (fig. 189, ^) is destined for the muscles of the orbit. It enters the wall of the cavernous sinus near the anterior clinoid process, and is placed at first above the other nerves ; but when it is about to enter the orbit through the sphenoidal fissure, it sinks below the fourth and part of the fifth, and divides into two branches. Near the orbit the nerve is joined by one or two delicate filaments from the cavernous plexus of the sympathetic. The FOURTH or trochlear nerve (fig. 189,") courses forwards to one muscle in the orbit. It is the smallest of the cranial nerves, and pierces the dura mater at the free edge of the tentorium, close behind the posterior clinoid process. In the wall of the sinus it lies below the third; but as it is about to pass through the sphenoidal fissure it rises higher than all the other nerves. While in the wall of the sinus the fourth nerve is joined by twdgs of the sympathetic. Fifth or trifacial nerve (fig. 189, Tlds nerve is distributed to the face and head, and consists of two parts or roots—a large or sensory, and a small or motor. The large root of the nerve passes through an apertvu'e in the dura mater into the middle fossa of the base of the skull, where it immediately enters the Gasserian ganglion. The hollow wherein the ganglion is lodged is known as the Cavum Meckelii. The Gasserian ganglion, placed in a depression close to the apex of the petrous part of the temporal bone, is flattened, and about half an inch wide. The upper suriace of the ganglion is closely united to the dura mater, and presents a semilunar elevation, the convexity of which looks forward. Some lilaments from the plexus of the sympathetic on the carotid artery join its inner side. Branches. From the front of the ganglion proceed the three following trunks :—The ophthalmic nerve, the first and highest, is destined for the orbit and foreliead. Next in order is the superior maxillary nerve, which leaves the skull by the fornnien rotundum,