70] LIGAMENTS OF THE LARYNX. ligcament. The posterior surface is entirely covered by closely and fidlierent mucous nienibrane, and is for the most part concave ; but 1'°''''°"'" • at the lower end tliere is an elevation known as the tubercle or cushion of the cjtujlottis. To the sides the aryteno-epiglottidean folds .sides; of mucous membrane are united. After the mucous membrane has glands in it. been removed from the cartilage, its substance will be seen to be excavated ))y numerous pits, which lodge mucous glands. In tlie adult the liyaline cartilages of the larynx are commonly Ossiiicution to a greater or less extent (in old persons sometimes completely) c,i,.ij'|„g"f''^' converted into bone. The ossification begins in the thjnoid and cricoid cartilages at about twenty years of age, the deposition of osseous matter in the former taking place first in the neighbourhood of the inferior cornu, and tlience extending along the inferior and posterior borders; while in the cricoid two or three bony spots appear near the arytenoid articular surface on each side, and spread through the upper part of the cartilage. The arytenoid cartilages ossify later, from below upwards. The tendency to ossification is more marked in the male than in the female. Ligaments of the Larynx. The larynx is connected by extrinsic Ligaments ligaments with the hyoid bone above and the trachea below. Other i^fryJix ligaments unite together the cartilages, sometimes with joints. Union of the lanjnx icith the hyoid hone and the trachea. A loose Toliyoid elastic membrane (thyro-hyoid) extends from the thyroid cartilage to t,°"i,^"'' the hyoid bone ; and a.second membrane connects the cricoid cartilage with the trachea. The thyro-hyoid memhrane (fig. 247, L, p. 695) is attached on the one Thyro-liyoid hand to the upper border of the thyroid cartilage ; and on the other = to the upper border of tlie hyoid Ijone. Its central part, extending from the body of the hyoid bone to the margins of the notch in the median and thyi-oid cartilage, is of some thickness, but its lateral parts are thin j,arTsI^ and ill-defined. It ends behind in a rounded elastic cord on each side (lateral thyro-hyoid ligament), uniting the extremity of the great cornu of the hyoid bone to the superior cornu of the thyroid tiCyro^hyoid cartilage : this band frequently contains a small cartilaginous or ofign^"'' osseous nodule (cartilage triticea). contains The superior laryngeal nerve and vessels perforate the lateral part'"K"- of the membrane : and a synovial bursa is placed between its central ° " part and the posterior surface of the body of the liyoid bone. The memljrane joining the lower border of the cricoid cartilage Ciico. to the first ring of the trachea, crico-tracheal ligament, resembles n™m'bn!no the fibrous layer joining the rings of the trachea to the other. Union of the cricoid and thyroid cartilages. These cartilages are united by a membrane in front, and a synovial joint on each side. The crico-thyroid membrane (fig. 249, ") occupies the space Crico- between the thyroid, cricoid, and arytenoid cartilages ; and its right ",e^™ijrauo- haK is now visible. It is of a yellow colour and is formed mainly of elastic tissue. By its lower border the membrane is fixed to the upper edge of the cricoid cartilage, reaching back to the articulation with the arytenoid. Its central part is thick and strong, and is attached mediiii.imri,