DISSECTION OF THE BRAIN. nucleus in floor of fourth ventricle. Tenth nerve below ninth nucleus benejith fourth ventricle. Eleventh nerve in two pieces ; accessory fron\ medulla oljlongata, spinal from corrl. oblongata by five or six filaiaents close below the facial nerve, in the groove between the olivary and restiform bodies. Deep origin. Directed liackwanls through tlio medulla oblongata, the fibres join a main nucleus beneatli the inferior fovea in the floor of the fourth ventricle. A considerable bundle of libres pas.ses to the faaciculuH solilarius in the medulla and upper part of tlie cord, and some motor fibres spring, with others of the vagus, from tlie nucleus ambiyuus in the medulla. The TEKTH, VAC4UR or PNEUMO-GASTRic NERVE (*) issues by il number of filaments (twelve to filteen) from the medulla oblongata in a line with, and Imlow the glossso-pharyngeal. Deej) oric/iii. Taking a similar course in the medulla oblongata to the roots of the ninth nerve, the fibres of the vagus reach their main nucleus beneath the calamus scriptnrins of the fourth ventricle. Other fibres pass to the fasci- culus solitarius, and others spring from the small nucleus ambiguus in the medulla. The ELEVENTH or SPINAL ACCESSORY NERVE consists of tvvo parts —accessory to the vagus, and spinal. The accessory or bulbar ixu-t is of small size, and is formed by the union of slender filaments continuing the line of the glosso-j>haryn- geal and vagus nerves along the medulla oblongata, as low as the first cervical nerve. After communicating with the spinal part in tlie jugular foramen, it passes into the vagus nerve outside the skull. The spinal -part is firm and round, like the third or the si.x.th nerve, but only a small piece of it can now be seen. It arises by a number of fine filaments from the lateral column of the spinal cord as low as the sixth cervical nerve. As the nerve ascends along the side of the cord it lies between the ligamentum denticulatum and the posterior roots of the spinal nerves, witli the upper of which it may be connected. It enters the skull by the foramen magnum. Both from Deep nrigiii. The fibres of both accessory and spinal parts have been one nuele\is. traced inwards to an elongated column of cells reaching from the lower third of the olivary body to the level of the fifth cervical nerve, and situate, in the spinal part of its e.xtent, in the outer jjart of the anterior horn of the grey matter, and, in the medulla oblongata, behind and to the outer side of the hypoglossal nucleus. The ninth, tenth, and eleventh nerves convei^e below the crus cerebelli, and rest on tlie fl(jcculus. From that spot they are directed outwards to the jugular foramen. The twelfth or hypoglossal nerve 0 appears on the front of the medulla oblongata, where it is attached by a series of filaments (ten to filteen) along the groove between tlie pyramid and tlie olivary body, in a line with the anterior roots of the spinal nerves. Tlie filaments of origin unite into two bundles, which pierce the dura mater separately, and unite at the outer part of the anterior condylar foramen. nucleus near Deep origin. The roots of the nerve can be followed through ^^^^ '^'^^^^ centralcmu.1 oblongata to a nucleus, whicli is placed in front of the central canal below, •""'/?",'""' and extends upwards into the lower part of the fasciculus teres m the fourth ventricle. . . , ventncle. Twelfth nerve troni front of medulla oblongata: