THE INTEROSSEOUS MUSCLES. 61 adductor obliquus and the fle.xor brevis poUicis, where it divides artery of into the two collateral branches of the thumb; these are distributed thumb; like the arteries of the superficial arch (p. 72). e. The radial digital branch of the index fiiujer (d) (arteria artery of radialis indicia) is directed over the first dorsal interosseous V'^ muscle (j), and beneath the adductors of the thumb, to the radial side of the forefinger. At the lower border of the adductor trans\'ersus (d), this branch is usually connected by an offset with the superficial pabnar arch ; and at the end of the digit it imites with the branch furnished to the opposite side by the ulnar / artery. / The DEEP PART OF THE ULNAR NERVE (") accompanies the deep Deep braneli arterial arch as far as the muscles of the thumb, where it tf^rminntpg "Jnar in offsets to the two adductors. Branches. Near its origin the nerve furnishes branches to the muscular muscles of the little finger. Li the^jjalm it gives oft'sets to all_the palniar jiuddorsal_mterosseoi^^ muscles, and to the inner-two. lundjrical muscles besides the terminal "branches before men- tioned. The TR^U^SVERSE METACARPAL LIGAMENT is formed by crOSS fibres Transverse imiting the palmar ligaments of the metocarpo-phalangeal articida- metacarpCs tious of the fingers, and serves to bind together the heads of the inner four metacarpal Ijones. To its upper border the fascia cover- ing the interosseous muscles is attached. The ligament should now be taken away to see the interosseous muscles. - The INTEROSSEOUS MUSCLES, SO named from their position seven inter-p<^^ between the metacarpal bones, are seven in number. Two muscles JJ^uscies iC occupy each space, except the first, where there is only one. They '"""'^ ^/akuJt-dl ■ arise from the metacarpal bones, and are inserted into the first ^ V *" ^ phalanges of the fingers and the expanded extensor tendons. They divided into are divided into palmar and dorsal ; but all are seen in the palm of g^J.^"'}'' the hand, though the former project more than the others. The palmar muscles (fig. 33), three in number, are smaller than Palmar go the dorsal, and have each a single origin from the side of the ringl'in'd metacarpal bone of the finger to which it belongs. The first is I'ttlo lingers. placed on the ulnar side of the index finger, the second and third on the radial side of the ring and little fingers respectively. The doi-sal muscles (fig. 34), one in each s^jace, arise by two Dorsal: two heads from the lateral surfaces of the metacarpal bones between fln'^'.^'one which they lie. The first (aliductor indicis) is inserted on the eadrt'o""'' radial side of the index finger, the second on the radial and the i^.^u'iHgers. thud on the ulnar side of the middle finger, and the fourth on the ulnar side of the ring finger. Both sets of muscles have a similar termination (fig. 29, Common p. 75): the fibres end in a tendon, which is inserted into the side bithset" of the first or metacaqjal phalanx, and sends an expansion to join the extensor tendon on the dorsum of the bone. Action. They bend the metacarpo-phalangeal joints by their Action as attachment to the first phalanx, and extend the two interphalangeal "xtonsors'^ joints through their union with the exten.sor tendon. ' '