255 PEIllNRUM OF THR FKMALB. Section II. PERINEUM OK THE FEMALE. The perineunx in the female diflV-rs from that in the male more Pe.— in the external forn. than the internal anatomy. On the surlace ,t , eei„l as Jedal parts distinguishing it, vi.., the aperture the vagma P-- and the surrounding vulva, M occupy the position ol the scrotum in the male. ,,,i,l,lle Apoitures ^iurface-markv,HI.-External onjans of cjeneration In ti e i^^^^^^^^ J line there are the aperture of the anus and the cleft of the vuU a vuha. wliich are separated from one another by an interval of about an inch The anus is situate a little farther back than in the male. The cleft or rima of the vulva is bounded at the sides ^y the labia najora, two prominent folds, thick and rounded in front but becoming thinner as they pass backwards, which correspond to the scrotum of the male. The labia are formed externally by skin, which is provided with scattered hairs, and internally by mucous membrane. They are united in front and behind in the anterior and .^wl^eonv Misterior commissures. , • , . AVithin the rima, at the fore part, is the clitoris, Irom which two ciito.is. folds of mucous membrane, the labia minora or nymphw, extend i.,ten.,>i backwards, one on each side of the aperture of the vagina. At its anterior end each nympha divides into two smaller folds, the outer of which unites with the one of the opposite side so as to form a kind of hood over the front of the clitoris-the prceputium clitoridis, P;«P;;ce a,..I while the inner one, much shorter and thinner, is attached to the clitoris, back of the clitoris in contact with its fellow, the two constituting the fnenulum clitoridis. Enclosed by the labia minora, and between the clitoris and the Vestibule, orifice of the vagina, is a median recess about an inch and a half deep, which is called the vestibule. At the hinder part of theOpenmgof vestibule is the orifice of the urethra {meatm urinariiis), surrounded by a slight eminence, about an inch behind the clitoris, and near the aperture of the vagina. The orifice of the vagimi varies much in size; and in the child Ai.;jrt.m'or and virgin it is often partly closed behind by a thin semilunar fold of the "mucous membrane—the hymen. After the destruction cf IIy^';|^«jj;'"' the hymen, small, irregularly shaped projections, the carunr.ida: myrtiformes, are found in its place. At the back of the rima, within the posterior commissure of the l"^'^^'^^" labia, is a narrow transverse fold of the integument called the nnvicniaris. fourchettc or frwnulum pudendi; and to the interval between the i'raiiiulum and the commissure the name fossa navicidaris is given. Deep boundaries. The deep boundaries of the perineum are alike Boumiaries in both sexes; but in the female the outlet of the pelvis is larger both .sfxes. than in the male.