DISSECTION OF THE NECK. 696 bnindics. Laif,'e lymphatic vessels from the left side of the head ajid neck, and from the left upper limli, open into the npi)ev part of the duct, and sometimes separately into the veins (i"). "^^^"^ ANTERIOH PRIMARY BRANCHES OF THE CERVICAL NERVES *" ■ spring from the common trunks in the intervertebral foramina, and appear on the side of the neck between the intertransverse muscles. Immbei'"^^^^^^ nerves are eight in number, and are equally divided between ' the cervical and brachial plexuses ; the Tipper four being combined in the former, and the remaining nerves in the latter ple.xus. Close to their origin they are joined by offsets of communication from the sympathetic cord. Fir.st two To this general statement some addition is needed for the first rest? nerves, the peculiarities of whicli will be noticed later. Fig. 215.—Diagram op the Ending op the Rigut Lymphatic Duct and THE Thoracic Duct in the Veins. 1. Upper vena cava. 2. Right, and 3, left innouiinate vein. 4. Left, and 5, right internal jugular. 6. Left, and 7. right subclavian vein. 8. Thoracic duct. 9. A lymphatic trunk joining the right lymphatic duct, as this is about to end in the subclavian vein. 10. A lymphatic trunk opening separately into the left subchivian vein. Uracliial BRACHIAL PLEXUS (Hg. 216). The lowcr four cerviciil nerves ])\p.\\xs, j^jjj ^jje larger part of the first dorsal are blended in this plexus ; irvtMierve^s. and a fasciculus is' added to them from the lowest nerve entering the cervical plexus. Thus formed, the plexus reaches from the neck to the axilla, where it ends in nerves for the upper limb. Only the part of it above the clavicle can now lie seen. In the necic the nerves lie at lirst between the scaleni muscles, opposite the four lower cervical vertebra;, an<l afterwards in the posterior triangular space. The arrangement of the nerves in the ple.xus is as follows :— Disimsitio.i The iifth and sixth nerves unite near the vertebnu, forming an of nci viw in (nt?^.'; the Seventh remains distinct and constitutes