DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. 152 Hartoi'ius: origin; course over tlie thigh ; insertion; relations of the first or obliqne portion, of the middle, and of the lower part; use, the limb free, and fixed; standing on one leg. Divide the sartorius, show apo- neurosis, and dissect the nerves The SARTORIUS (fig. 58, a), is the longest muscle in the body, and extends from the pelvis to the leg. It arches over the front of the thigh, passing from the outer to the inner side of the limb, and lies in a hollow between the extensor on the one side, and the adductors on the other. ' Its origin is tendinous from the upper anterior iliac spinous process of the hip-bone, and from aliout half the interval between this and the inferior process (fig. 47, p. 113). The fibres constitute a riband-like muscle, which ends in a thin tendon below the knee, and is iiiserted into the inner surface of the tibia (fig. 68, p. 179) —mainly into a slight depression by the side of the tubercle for an inch and a half, but also, by its upper edge, as far back as the internal lateral ligament of the knee-joint. From the lower part of the tendon also is an extension into the fascia of the leg. The muscle is superficial throughout, and is perforated by some cutaneous nerves and vessels. Its upper part is oblique, and forms the outer boundary of Scarpa's triangle ; it rests on the following muscles (fig. 58) ; iliacus (b), rectus (d), and adductor longus (g), as well as on the anterior crural nerve and the femoral vessels. The middle portion is vertical, and lies in a hollow between the vastus internus (e) and the adductor muscles, as low as the opening for the femoral artery ; but beyond that aperture, where it bounds the popliteal space, it is placed between the vastus with the great adductor in front, and the gracilis (h) with the inner hamstrings behind. The femoral vessels and their accompanying nerves are concealed by the middle portion of the muscle. The lower tendi- nous part (I) rests on the internal lateral ligament of the knee-joint, being superficial to the tendons of the gracilis and semitendinosus, and separated from them by a prolongation of their synoWal bursa : from its upper border there is an aponeurotic expansion to join that from the extensor over the knee; and from its lower border is given ofi' another which blends with the fascia of the leg. Below the tendon the long saphenous nerve appears vnth vessels; and piercing it is the patellar branch of the same nerve. Action. The tibia and femur being free to move, the muscle bends the knee and hip-joints over which it passes, giving rise to rotation inwards of the tibia, and outwards of the femur. With the limbs fixed, the two muscles will assist in bringing forwards the pelvis in stooj)ing; and when standing on one leg the muscle will help to rotate the body, so as to turn the face to the opijosite side. Dissection (fig. 59). The sartorius is to be turned aside, or cut through if it is necessary, to follow the remaining part of the femoral artery. Beneiith the muscle is an aponeurosis between the adductor and extensor muscles ; this is thin above, and when it is diWded the long, or interna], saphenous nerve will come into view. Parallel to the saphenous nerve above, but outside it, is the nerve to the va.stus interims muscle, which sends an ofiiset on the surface of the vastus to the knee-joint: the latter may be traced now, lest it should be