THE OKBICUI.AIUS ORIS. B57 and are conliniicd across from side to side. Those <if the elevator and depressor muscles, havinf,' crossed at the corner of the luoulh, HUBuli oris, turn inwards in the opijosite lip, in front of the biu.'cinator fibres, and are inserted into the skin, for the most jiart crossing the middle line and decussating with the filjres entering on tlie other side. A compact superficial I'ascicnUis at the red margin of the lip is formed solely liy buccinator fibres. In the upper lip there are also two slips" arising, the one (naso-lahiul, fig. 202) from the hinder part of imso-iabiiii the septum narium, the other (incisive) from the outer part of the and incisive incisor fossa of the superior nia.\illa, and directed outwards to the corner of the mouth ; while in the lower lip there is a similar incisive slip attached to the incisor fossa of the inferior maxilla. To see these attachments, the lip must be everted and the mucous membrane carefully raised. Towards the free mai'giu in each lip there are fibre.s directed ob- special liquely from the skin to the mucous membrane, between the fasciculi li,,™"'^ of the orbicularis : they constitute the muse, labii proprins. The inner margin of the orbicularis is free, and bounds the aperture of the mouth ; the outer edge bl^atds with the dillerent muscles that elevate or depress the lips ai^el the angle of the mouth. Between the orbicularis and the mucou.? inembrane in each lip are the coronary artery and the labial glajids. Action. The buccal portion of'the muscle flattens the lips »">l against the teeth, turns inwards the red margin, and gives a linear form to the aperture. The superficial ])ortion, derived from the muscles of the angle of thejnouth, brings the lips together both vertically and horizontally, 'so as to diminish the size of the opening, and causes the free edges (jf the lips toi>rotrude. , The LEVATOR .MENTI (levator labii inferioris) i.s a small muscle Elevator of on the side of the frajnum of the lower lip, which is opjiosite the ' dejiressor of the ala of the no.se in the upper lip. When the lip has been everted and the mucous mendii-ane removed, the muscle will be .seen to arise from the incissor fossa of the lower jaw, and to descend to its insertion into the integument of the chin. Its position is internal to the depressor of the lip and the attachment of the orbicularis. Action. It indents the skin of the chin opjiiisite its insertion, use. and a.ssists in raising the lower lip. The principal Vessels of the Face (fig. 204) are the facial and tran.sverse facial arteries with their accompanying vein.s. The arteries are branches of the external carotid ; and the facial vein is received into the internal jugular trunk. The FACIAL AKTERY (fig. 204, (j), a branch of the carotid, i^'aeial emerges from the neck, and crosses the base of the lower jaw immediately in front of the masseter mu.scle. From this point the artery ascends in a tortuous manner, near the angle of the mouth and the side of the nose, to the inner margin of the orl)it, where it aniustomoses with the terminal branches of the ophthalmic artery, course The cour.se of the vessel is comparatively superficial in the mass of fat of the inner part of the cheek. At fir.st it is concealed by the