DISSEOTION OK THE ABDOMEN. 356 Fibrous coat sends iu offsets. Blood- Yessels. Branching of tlie renal artery. Vein agrees witli artery. Nerves. Lymphatics, Ureter: office; length; size varies; and relations. Occasion- ally double. bunealli tlie pressure of the fiuf^er. In the injected kidney red points (Malpighian bodies) are scattered through the cortex, giving it a granuhir appearance. Tlie kidney has a fibrous tunic or capsule, whicli is connected to the ghindular substance by fine processes and vessels, and is readily detached from it by slight force. At the inner margin of the kidney it sinks into the sinu.i, where it sends processes on the enter- ing vessels, and becomes continuous with the outer coat of the excretory duct. BLOOD-VE.SSELS. The artery and vein di.stributed to the kidney are very large in jjroportion to the size of the organ they supply. Ecnal artery. Before reaching tlie kidney the renal artery divides into four or five pieces ; and these in the sinus break up into smaller branches, which enter the organ between the papilla?. They run in the processes of cortical .sub.stance that separate the pyramids, being surrounded by sheaths from the fibrous capsule, and undergoing farther subdivision, until they reach the bases of the pyramids. Here the branches form arches, from which the minute offsets to the secreting structures are given off. Some twigs are supplied to the capsule of the kidney ; and these anastomose with the subperitoneal branches of the lunabar arteries. Renal vein. The larger branches of the vein spring from arches like those of the artery, and take a similar course through the cortical septa to the sinus. In the neighbourhood of the hilum all are commonly united into one trunk, which joins the inferior cava. Nerves. The ramifications of the sympathetic nerve may be traced to the smaller branches of the artery. The absorlents are superficial and deep. Both unite at the hilum of the kidney, and join the lumbar glands. The URETER is the tube by whicli the fluid excreted in the kidney is conveyed to the bladder. Between its origin and termination the canal measures from fourteen to sixteen inches in length. Its size corresponds commonly with that of a large quill. Near the kidney it is dilated into a funnel-shaped part, named pe'vis; and near the bladder it is again somewhat enlarged, though the lower aperture by which it terminates is the narrowest part of the tube ; but this part of it will be studied later. In its course from the kidney to the bladder the ureter is close beneath the peritoneum, and is directed obliquely downwards and inwards along the posterior wall of the abdomen to the pelvis. At first the ureter is placed over the psoas, inclining on the right side towards the inferior vena cava ; and about the middle of the muscle it is crossed by the spermatic vessels. Lower down it lies over the common or external iliac artery, being beneath the pelvic colon on the left side, and the end of the ileum on the right side. Lastly, it inclines forwards below the level of tlie obliterated hypogastric artery to reach the base of the bladder. Sometimes the ureter is divided into two for a certain distance.