777 THE CEREBELLUM —LAMIN.K AND SUr.CL Upper Surface. On the upijev aspect tlie cerebellum is rai.sed in the centre, and sloped towards the sides (fig. 284). There is not any median sulcus on this surface ; and the hemispheres are united by a median part—the siqierior vermiform process. Separat- ing the upper from the under surface, at tlie circumference, is the horizontal /ksiire, which extends from the middle, or jMiiiline, peduncle in front to the median notch behind. The UNDER SURFACE of the cerebellum is convex on each side, where it is received into the lower fossre of the occipital bone ; and the hemispheres are separated by a median ho]\o\v—vallecula (fig. 285), which is widest in front where it lodges the upper end of the medulla oblongata ; the hinder end of the vallecula is con- No iifWVH ou llic uppi'i- .siirliico; halves joined by upper worni. Horizontal llssiire. A hollow below, which is called valley, Flocculus. KlocouUis. Pre-graciii! sulcus. Inter-gracile sulcus. Posl-Kracile sulcus. Horizontal fissure. Back part ciftlie vallecula. Fig. 285.—The Under Surface of thk Ckrkbkli.u.m with tuk Mkdulla Removed. The cliief sulci are distinguished as in lig. 284. tinned into the notch at the posterior liorder, and receives the fal.K cerebelli. At the bottom of the groove is an elongated mass named the inferior vermiform process, which corresponds to the central part uniting the hemispheres above. The two vermiform processes constitute the general conimi.ssure of the halves of the cerebellum. Lajiin/E and Sulci. The superficial part of tlie cerebellum is coniposed of grey sukstance, and is marked by concentric laniiiuu or folia, which have their free edges towards the surface, and run in a curved direction with the concavity turned forwards. The laniinaj are separated by sulci, which are lined liy pia mater, and are of variable depth. Only a small number of the lamiuaj appear ou the surface, for many others are placed on the sides of the larger processes, and are concealed within the deeper sulci. The and contains lower worm. Surface loliated. Uetweeu folia are sulci. Many folia are hidden.