(Ml TiiK i,Acniiv:\fAr- oland. the eye are six muscles—tour slraiglit and two obli(|ue ; and there is also an elevator of the upper eyelid in the cavity. The nerves in the cavity are numerous, viz., the second, third, several era- fourth, oiihthalmic of the fifth, and tlie si.xth, together with the small ; teniporo-nialar branch of the superior maxillary nerve, and oflsets of the symjiathetic : their general distribution is as follows :—The second nerve entei's the eyeball; the third supplies all the muscles their distri- of the cavity but two ; the fourth enters the superior oblique ; and '"'t'^" : the sixth is spent in the external rectus muscle. The fifth nerve supplies some filaments to the eyeball with the sympathetic, but the greater number of its branches pass through the orbital cavity to the and .some face. The ophthalmic vessels are also contained in the orbit. vessels. The LACHRYMAL GLAND (fig. 227, f) .secretes the tears, and is L.iciirymal situate in the hollow on the inner side of the external angular process oJiter p.art of the frontal bone. It is of an oval form, something like a small of orbit, almond, and measures about three-quarters of an inch in its longest diameter, which is directed transver.sely. From its fore part a thin accessory piece projects beneath the upper eyelid. The upper surface is convex, and in contact with the periosteum, to which it is connected by fibrous bands that constitute a ligament for the gland; the lower surface rests on the eyeball and the external rectus muscle. The gland has from eight to twelve very fine ducts, which open on Ducts open the surface of the conjunctiva in a curved line above the outer part behind of the upper eyelid, and a little in front of the fornix. eyii'iid. The FOURTH NERVE (fig. 227, ') is the most internal of the three Fourth nerves entering the orbit above the muscles. In the cavity, it is directed inwards above the levator palpebrse to the superior oblique suppiie.s muscle, which it pierces on the upper, or orbital surface. superior mu .. , , oblinue. The OPHTHALMIC TRUNK ot the filth nerve as it approaches ophthalmic the sphenoidal fissure, furnishes from its inner side the nasal branch, gives three and then divides into the frontal and lachrymal branches ; the first passes into the orbit between the heads of the external rectus, but the other two lie, as before .said, above the muscles. Tlie/ro)i/aZ nerve (fig. 227, =) is close to the outer side of the fourth Frontal as it enters the orbit, and is much larger than the lachrymal branch. In the cour.se to the forehead the nerve lies along the middle of the divides into orbit ; and after giving off from its inner side the supratrochlear ^nd siipnv"' branch {■>), it leaves the cavity by the supraorbital notch. Taking the trochlear, name supraorhifal, it ascends on the forehead, where it is distributed. This nerve frequently divides into its two main branches (p. 504) while still within the orbit. While in the notch the suptftorbital nerve gives one or two palpebral Palpebral filaments to the upper lid. lilaments. The supratrochlear nerve {') passes inwards above the pulley of tiie 8,,,,^. U])per oblique muscle, and leaves the orbit to end in the eyelid and trochlear forehead (p. 504). Before the nerve turns round the margin of the ''™'"^''' frontal bone, it sends downwards a twig of communication to the infratrochlear branch of the nasal nerve. D.A. fji iji