DISSECTION OF THE UPPER LIMB. CHAPTER II. DISSECTION OF THE AXILLA. Section I. The wall of the chest and the axilla, which are described in this Time foi' Section, are to be dissected in six days, so that the senior student may be I'ree to begin work on the thorax. FcsiTioN. The body is lying on the back, the thorax rai.sed to a Position of convenient height by a block, and the arm, being slightly rotated ' outwards, is to be placed at a right angle with the trunk, a long board being passed under the shoulders from side to side for the support of the arms when they are drawn out from the body. Sdeface-marking. On the front of the chest is seen the pro- Smfiice- .,-11 HI T inai'KiiiH. minence of the mamma, large m the lemale, but small and rudi- mentary in the male, with the nipple iirojecting from it near the ^ centre. In the male the nipple is placed most frequently over the ° fourth intercostal space, sometimes over the fifth rib, and occasionally "iw''''' at a still higher or lower level. Its position in the female varies greatly with the development of the mamma. Between the arm and the chest is the hollow of the axilla, iix the Armpit, outer part of which the large vessels and nerves of the limb are lodged. The extent of this hollow may be seen to vary much with the position of the limb to the trunk ; for in proportion as the arm is elevated, the folds bounding it in front and behind are carried upwards and rendered tense, and the depth of the space is dimi- nished. In this part the skin is of a dark colour, and is furnished with hairs and large sweat-glands. If the arm is forcibly raised and moved in different directions, Head of the while the fingers of one hand are placed in the armpit, the head of the humerus may be recognised. On the outer side (jf the limb is the prominence of the shoulder : Shoulder ,. Til ■■ 1 !• arch of bone, and immediately above it is an osseous arch, which is iormed in front by the clavicle, behind and externally by the spine and the acromion process of the scapula. Continued downwards from intemms- about the middle of the clavicle is a sli<;ht depression between the pectoral and deltoid muscles, and by pressing the fingers into this hollow the coracoid process of the scapula can be made out. A second groove, extending outwards from the sternal end of the