268 DiSSBCTION OF THE ABDOMEN. Triangular fascia. Dissection to expose internal oblique. its base directed outwards, which is named Gimhertmt's ligament (fig. 97 and 98). ^ direction, -j^ ^^^^^ Poupart's ligament joins the fascia lata of the thigh; and so long as this membrane remains uncut, the band is curved with its convexity downwards, especially when the limb is cont^cJ'wiHi ^''^'^'''^^'^ °^ tr^^iik- The outer half of the ligament is obUque, it. and is firmly united mth the siilijacent iliac fascia; its inner half is placed over the vessels passing from the abdomen to the thigh. Triangular fascia. From the insertion of Gimbernat's ligament into the pectineal line, some fibres are directed upwards and inwards to the linea alba, where they blend with the other tendons. As the fibres ascend, tliey diverge and form a thin sheet, to which the above name has been given (fig. 97). Dissection. The upper part of the external oblique is now to be taken away, on both sides of the body, to see the parts beneath. It may be detached by carry- ing the scalpel through the digitations on the ribs back to the free border, and then through the insertion into the iliac crest. The muscle is to be thrown forwards as far as practicable, after the nerves crossing the iliac crest are dissected out; but in raising it care must be taken not to detach the rectus muscle from the ribs above, nor to cut through the tendon of the internal oblique at the iipj^er j^art. By tlie removal of the fiitty tissue the underlying internal oblique muscle, with some nerves issuing tlirough it below, will be ex])osed. At the lower border of tlie internal oblique, where it springs from the deep surface of Poupart's ligament, it will be seen that the fibres are prolonged down upon the spermatic cord. These fibres consti- tute the cremaster mnscle, and should be defined. Tliey consist of fleshy loops which descend through the exlernal aluloininal ring. Internal to the cord they become tendinous, and are easily taken away. Fig. 99.—The Parts uKNKATn the KxTERNAL Oblique Muscle. A. Internal oblique muscle. B. Latissinius dorsi, cut. c. Part of the hinder tendon of transversalis muscle. D. Poupart's liganieut. E. External, v, internal intercostals. the Clean the cremaster.