95 LIGAMENTS OK THK ELBOW-JOINT. Rotation. There are two kinds of rotatory inoveineut, viz., in and out ; and in each the humerus revolves around an axis pa.ssing from the centre of tlie head tlirou-h the shaft to the lower end of the hone. In rotation in, tlie great tuberosity moves forwards and inwards, the head of the bone glides backwards in the glenoid cavity, and the hinder xm-t of the capsule is rendered tense. In rotation out, the movements of the parta of the humerus are reversed, and the front of the cap- sule is stretched. The movements are stopped by the tightening of the cap- sule, assisted by the muscles on the back and front of the joint respectively. Kutation; ok ir Dissection of the elbow- joint. THE ELBOW-JOINT. Dissection. To make the necessary dissection of the ligaments of the elbow, the brachialis anticus must be taken away from the front, and the triceps from the back of the joint. The muscles connected with the outer and inner condyles of the hmnerus, as well as the supinator brevis and the fiexor profundus digitorum, are to be removed. With a little cleaning the four ligaments — anterior, posterioi', and two lateral—will come into view. The interosseous membrane between the bones of the forearm will also be prepared hy the remo\'al of the muscles on both surfaces. The Elbow-Joint (fig. 39). In this articulation the lower end of the humerus is received into the hollow of the ulna, so as to produce a hinge- like arrangement; and the upper end of the radius assists to form the outer part of the joint. Where the bones touch, the surfaces are covered with cartilage ; and they are imited by the following ligaments :— The external lateral ligament is a roimdish fasciculus, which is External attached by one end to a depression below the outer condyle of J^'^^g^j. the humerus, and by the other to the orbicular ligament roimd the head of the radius. A few of the posterior fibres pass backwards to the external margin of the olecranon. The intei-nal lateral liijaineiit is triangular in .shajie. It is pointed Internal at its upper extremity, and is coimected to the inner condyle of ugul^int Fig. 39.—The Ligaments op Bones THE Elbow-Joint, and of fonning the THE Radius and Ulna elbow-joint. (Bourgeky). 1. Capsule of the elbow-joint. 2. Oblique ligament. 3. Interosseous membrane. 4. Aperture for blood-vessels. 5. Tendon of the biceps.