74 DISSECTION OF THE HAND. Dissection of the flexor tendons. Divide annular ligament and open 'JVyv.iA©^ sheaths. . Synovial sac . surrounds tendons. Superficial flexor tendons in the hand; insertion; slit for the deep flexor. Dissection. Tendons of deep flexor the first jilialanx, and, after uniting witli tlie digital nerve on the back of the finger, is continued to the dorsum of the last phalanx. Dissection. The tendons of the flexor muscles may next be followed to their termination. To expose them, the ulnar artery should be cut through below the origin of the deep branch ; and the sujjerficial volar branch of the radial having been dixdded, the palmar arch is to be thrown towards the fingers. The ulnar and median nerves are also to be cut below the annular ligament, and turned downwards. A longitudinal incision is to be made through the centre of the annular ligament without injuring the muscles that arise from it, and the pieces of the ligament are to l)e thrown to the .sides. Finally, the sheaths of the fingers may be opened in order to show the insertion of the tendons. Flexoe Tendons. Beneath the annular ligament the ten- dons of the deep and superficial flexors are surrounded by a large and loose syno\dal membrane, which projects upwards into the forearm and downwards into the hand, and sends an ofi'set into the digital sheath of the thumb, and usually one into that of the little finger (fig. 28). The syno- vial sheath belonging to the ten- don of the flexor longus polUcis is often sejjarate from the rest. Flexor sublimis. The ten- dons of the flexor sublimis are superficial to those of the deep flexor beneath the ligament; and all four are nearly on the same level, instead of being arranged in pairs as in the forearm. After crossing the palm of the hand they enter the digital .sheaths (figs. 29 and 30) ; and ejicli is wscrted by two processes into the margins of the middle phalanx, about the centre. As it enters the .sheatli, the tendon of the flexor sublimis conceals that of the flexor profundus ; but opposite the lower half of the first phalanx it is split for the piissage of the latter tendon. Dissection. To see the tendons of the deep flexor and the lum- Ijrical muscles, the flexor sublimis must be cut through above the wrist, and thrown towards the fingers. Afterwards the syno^^al membrane and areolar tissue should be tiiken away. Flexor profundus. At the lower border of the annular liga- ment the tendinous mass of the flexor profundus is divided into foiir pieces, though in the forearm only the tendon of the index finger is Fio. 28.—Synovial Sheaths op THE Flexor Tendons.