MUSCLES OF THE MOUTH. 555 mouth, the depressors of the lower Up and of the angle of the mouth, the zygoniiitic and risorius muscles, and a wide muscle of the cheek closing tlie space lietween the jaws (the buccinator). Lastly, an orbicular muscle surrounds the opening, but it is largely composed of fibres of the preceding muscles. The LEVATOR LABii suPERioRis extends vertically from the Eie™tj>^^^of lowei' margin of the orbit to the orbicularis oris. It arises from the upi>er ma.xilla above the infraorbital foramen and from the innermost part of the malar bone, and is inserted into the skin of the upper lip, its fibres interlacing with those of the orbicularis. Near the orbit the muscle is overlapped by the orbicularis palpe- brarum, but below that spot it is subcutaneous. By its inner side relations: it joins the comuion elevator of the ala of the nose and upper lip ; and to its outer side lie the zygomatic muscles, the small one joining it. Beneath it are the infraorbital vessels and nerve. Actio7i. By the action of this muscle the np'lJer lip is raised, use. and the skin of the cheek is bulged below the eye. The DEPRESSOR LABII iNFERiORis is opposite the elevator of the upper lip, and has much yellow fat mixed with its fibres. The nuiscle has a wide origin from a depression on the front of the lower jaw, reaching from near the symphysis to a little beyond the mental foramen ; ascending thence it is inserted into the skin of the lower lip. Its inner border joins in the lip the muscle of the oppo- site side ; and its outer is overlajiped by the depressor anguli oris. Action. If one muscle contracts, the half of the lip of the same use side is depressed and everted ; but by the use of both nmscles, the whole lip is lowered and turned outwards, and rendered tense at the centre. The LEVATOR ANGDLI ORIS has well-marked fibres, and is partly Elevator of , , .. . . . . . p , 1 . the angle concealed by the levator labii superioris. Arising horn the canine fossa of the upper jaw below the inffaorbital foramen, its fibres descend towards the angle of the mouth, where they are superficial to the buccinator and are partly inserted into the skin, but the greater ^J',!^^;?^^'''' number are continued into the orbicularis of the lower lip, and sweep round below the mouth to the opposite side of the middle line. Action. This muscle elevates the corner of the mouth, and acts "se. as an antagonist to the depressor. The DEPRESSOR ANGULI ORIS is triangular in shape. It arises from ^f''P^g"g°'' the obli(pie line on the outer surface of the lower jaw ; and ascending to the angle of the mouth, a few of its fibres are there inserted into the skin, but the greater number decussate with those of the ^^^i^l^'^j"^;^ elevator muscle and pass into the upper part of the orbicularis, and sweep round above the mouth to the opposite side of the middle line. The depressor conceals the mental branches of the inferior dental vessels and nerve. It is united at its origin with the platysma niyoides, and near its insertion with the risorius muscle. Action. The angle of the mouth is drawn downwards by it, as use. is exemplified in a sorrowful countenance. The ZYGOMATIC HDSCLES are directed obliquely from the malar zygomatic hone towards the angle of the mouth and the upper lip. One is '"^