THR SACBO-ILIAC LIGAMENTS. 429 luml)onim is attached ; and its posterior surface is covered by the (juadratus lunibonun. Use. T]ii.s ligament supports the upright moveable portion of use. the .siiinal column, and resists the tendency of the last lumbar vertelira to slip forwards over the inclined base of the sacrum. Sacro-iliac articulation. The irregular surfaces by which union of the sacrum and the hip-bone articulate are covered with cartilage 'S'l':''"" '""l and are maintained in contact by anterior and posterior .sacro-iHac ligaments. Inferiorly the bones are further connected, without being in contact, by the sti'ong sixcro-sciatic ligaments. Dissection. To see the jMsterior ligaments, the mass of muscle To dissect at the back of the sacrum is to be removed on the side on which ''K"- the hip bone remains. The thin anterior bands will be visible on the removal of some areolar ti.ssue. The small sacro-sciatic ligament will be brought into view by removing the fleshy fibres of the coccygeus; and the large ligament has been dissected with the lower limb. The anterior mcro-iliac ligament consists of a few thin scattered Anterior fibres between the bones, near their articular surfaces. ligament. The posterior sacro-iliac ligament is very strong, and consists of Posterior bundles of fibres which pass obliquely from the rough part of the liB^'iie'it: inner side of the ilium above the auricular surface to the depressions on the back of the first and second pieces of the sacrum. A distinct band, longer and more superficial than the rest, runs from the «special posterior superior iliac spine to the third and fourth pieces of the band, sacrum ; it is named the long ■posterior ligament. Articular cartilage. This may be seen after the sacro-sciatic and A layer of ilio-lumbar ligaments have been examined, by opening- the articula- o" tion and separating the bones. It covers the articular surfaces of both .sacrum and ilium, but is much thicker on the sacrum. Its surface is generally uneven ; and the intermediate cleft is .some- times partly interrupted by transverse fibres uniting the two layers Mechani^n. There is scarcely any appreciable movement in this Use of joint articulation, owing to the tightness with which the two liones are bound together by ligaments, and the irregular form of the articular surfaces, which are consequently unable to glide over one another In the erect posture the sacrum is suspended between the two hii)- to render bones by the thick posterior sacro-iliac ligaments, and the upper Pf'^;'? arch of the pelvis is thereby rendered le.ss rigid than would be the " case If It were formed of continuous bone. The sacro-iliac articula- tion thus serves to give elasticity to the pelvis, and to diminish the enect of shocks pa.ssing to the spine. .J.^'T («ympl>y«i« pubis ; fig. 159, «). The two Sy„n>l.ysis pnbic bones are united by an interpubin disc, by ligamentous fibres "'"'i^- m h-ont and above, and by a strong subpubic ligament The anterior pubic ligainent is composed of interlacing fibres Anterior which are mixed with fibres of the tendon of the external oblidue "«•■""'■'>*• muscle. ^ There is not any definite posterior band; but the periosteum is Fewiibros tnickened by a few scattered fibres. behind