07 UNION OF RADIUS AND ULNA. find foreai'iu ; and the posterior and internal lateral ligaments are stretched. In extension, the nlna and radius move on tlie articixlar surface exteiuiing. of the humerus until they come into a line with the arm-bone. This movement is checked by the anterior ligament, and the muscles on the front o£ the joiiit. Unio2s- of the Radius and Ulna. The radius is connected Radius is with the ulna at both ends by means of synovial joints and sur-■i™';"'"''' rounding ligaments; and the shafts of the bones are united l)y interosseous ligaments. Upper radio-ulnak articulation. In this joint the head of at tiie ii])i)cr the radius is received into the small sigmoid cavity of the ulna, and is kept in place l)y the following ligamentous band :— The annular or orbicular liga- ment (fig. 40, a) is al)out one- third of an inch wide, and is .stronger l)ehind than l)efore ; it is ]ilaced aroimd the prominence of the head of the radius, and is attached to the anterior and pos- terior edges of tlie small sigmoid cavity of the ulna. Its upper border, the thicker, is connected with tlie ligaments of the elbow- joint; but the lower is free, and is ap])lied around the neck of the radius. In the socket formed by this ligament and the cavity of tlie ulna the radius moves freely. The synovial viembrane is a prolongation of that lining the elbow-joint; it projects inferiorly between the iieck of the radius and tlie lower margin of the annular ligament. LiGAJIENTS OF THE SHAFTS OF THE BONES. The aponeurotic Union of tlie Stratum connecting together the bones nearly their whole length' consists of the two following parts :— The interosseous membrane (fig. 39, 3) is a thin filu'ou.s layer, which interosHoous is att^ichcd to the contiguous margins of the radius and " ulna, and forms an incomplete septum between the muscles on the front and back of the forearm. Most of its fibres are directed obliquely f. . do}vnwards and ijimiitls. though a few on the posterior surface have <*• '(o^o^""'] Ic^ an opposite direction. Sujieriorly, the memlirane is wanting for a is deiicient^- OV^'i coiLsiderable .space, and through the interval the po.sterior inter-'/.^^ T^; osseous vessels pass Imckwards. Some small apertures exist in it , / " " for the p,as.sage of vessels ; and the largest of these (<) is about two Jo-tr^^ K inches from the lower end, through which the anterior intero.sseous artery turns to the back of the wrist. The memliraue gives attachment to the deep muscles. D.A. Fio. 40.—View of the Orbicdlab Ligament {a), which retains THE Upper End of the Radius synovial AGAINST THE Ulna. membraiiu.