664 DISSECTION OF THE FACE. Orbital oi- exteniiil, nttiicliej intiu'imlly; forms cou- ceutric bundles. Internal or palpebral part. attached at botli ends. Ciliary bundle. Belations. Use of inner and outer fibres. Corrupator supercilli inserted into skin: Muscles of the men tit. The orbital fibres are tlie be.st marked, and are fixed only at the inner side of the orbit. Above the internal tarsal ligament (which is the .short fibrou-s band at the junction between the two eyelid.s, stretching iVom the ixdjjebral fissure to the inner marj^du of tlie orbit) the fibres are attached to tlie nasal process of the superior inaxillaiy and to the internal angular process of the frontal bone ; and, Ijelow the ligament, to the orbital margin of the superior maxillary bone. From this origin the fibres are directed outwards, giving rise to ovals, which lie side by side, and increase in size towards the outer edge of the muscle, where they project beyond the margin of the orbit. Some of the peripheral fibres spread upwards to the skin of the forehead, and others downwards to that of the cheek. The palpebral fibres, paler and finer than the orbital, occupy the eyelids, and are fixed at both the outer and inner sides of the orbit. Internally they arise from the upper and lower margins of the internal tarsal ligament: externally they end in the much smaller external tar.sal ligament, by means of which they are attached to the malar bone, and a few may blend -with the orbital part of the muscle. Close to the cilia, or eyelashes, the fibres form a small pale bundle, which is sometimes called the ciliary bundle. The muscle is subcutaneous : and its circumference is blended above with the frontalis. Beneath the upper half of the orbicularis, as it lies on the margin of the orbit, is the corrugator supercilii muscle with the supraorbital vessels and nerve; and beneath, the lower half is a portion of tlie elevator of the upper lip. The outer fibres are joined occasionally by slips to other contiguous muscles below the orbit. Action. The palpebral fibres cause the lids to approach each other, shutting the eye ; and in forced contraction the outer com- missure is drawn inwards. In closing tbe eye the lids move unequally—the upper being much depressed, and the lower slightly elevated and moved horizontally inwards. When the orbital fibres contract, the eyebrow is depressed, and the skin over the edge of the orbit is raised around and brought inwards in front of the eye, so as to protect the ball. Elevation of the upper lip accompanies contraction of the outer part of the orbicularis, owing to the associated action of the levator labii superioris and zygomatic muscles. The CORRUGATOR SUPERCILII (fig. 203) is beneath the orbicularis, near the inner angle of the orbit. Its fibres arise from the inner part of the superciliary ridge of the frontid bone, and are directed outwards between the bundles of the orbicularis to be inserted into the skin above the inner half of the eyebrow. It is a short muscle, and is distinguished by the clo.sene.ss of its fibres. Action. It draws inwards and downwards the mid-part of the eyebrow, wrinkling vertically the skin near the nose, and stretching that outside its place of insertion. Muscles op the Mouth (fig. 203). Tiie muscles of the mouth and lips include the elevators of the upper lip and of the angle of the