AORICLK OV THE EAR. o71 back of the lielix. The muscle is mixed with much fibrous tissue, but it is well seen when that tissue is removed. Dissection. The remaining skin should now be ren^oved from Ciean_^ihe the pinna, and the muscles cleaned off to expose the cartilage : m doing tbis the lobule of the ear, which consists only of .skin and fat, will disappear as in fig. 208. w, .^m „ The cartilage of the pinna (fig. 208) resembles much the external Urt.w^e ^ ear in form, and presents nearly the same parts. The rim ot the of external helix subsides posteriorly about the middle of the pinna: while "'i'^- anteriorly a small process projects from it, and there is a fissure near the projection. The part of the cartilage forming the fossa o' the helix ends on a level with the lowest part of the concha m a c^eitaent pointed process which is separated from the antitragus by a deep notch. The antihelix is continued below into the antitragus. On the posterior aspect of the concha is a strong vertical ridge of '''■'inferiorly the cartilage is fixed to the margin of the external ^,^;\»tupper auditory aperture in the temporal bone, and forms a portion o( the meatus; meatus auditorius ; but it does not give rise to a complete tube, for at the upper and hinder part that canal is closed by fibrous tissue. In the piece of ciirtilnge forming the outer end of the meatus >ts fissures, are two fissures (of Santorini): one is directed vertically beneath the base of the tragus ; the other passes from before backwards in the floor of the meatus. Some ligaments connect the pinna with the head, and otherspa.ss Ligaments; from one point to another of the cartilage. xtrinsic The external ligaments are two bands of fibrous tissue, anterior and posterior. The anterior fixes the fore part of the helix to the root of the zygoma. The posterior passe.s from the back of the concha to the ma.stoid process. The chief special ligament crosses intrinsic, the interval between the tragus and the helix, and completes the opening of the auditory meatus. Vessels and nerves of the auricle. The arteries of the auricle are derived from the superficial temporal {ant. auricular branches) and the posterior auricular branches of the external carotid. The veins have a corresponding termination. The skin of the pinna is supplied on the outer surface mainly by the auricular-temporal branch of the inferior maxillary nerve, on the inner surface in the upper part by the small occipital, and in the lower part, together with the outer aspect of the lobule, by the great auricular nerve. The auricular branch of the vagus also reaches the back of the concha. The muscles are supplied by the posterior auricular branch of the facial nerve.