DISSECTION OF THE NECK. roliilioiis; Thyro- hyoid muscle: Thyioit] Ijody consists of t,wo lobes and a cross l)iece. Relations and extent of lobes. Middle lobe or pyramid. Accessory glands. ateniu-hyoid, and is inaeded into the oT)lique line on the side of the thyroid cartilage, where it meets the tliyro-liyoid muscle. The inner border touches its I'ellow below, while the outer reaches over the carotid artery. The superficial surface is for the most part covered by the preceding hyoid muscle.s ; and the deep surface is in contact with the lower part of the common carotid artery, the traclieii, the larynx, and the thyroid body. A transverse, tendinous line frequently crosses the muscle near the sternum. Action. Its chief use is to draw domiwards the larynx after deglutition, but in conjunction -with the following muscle it can also act on the hyoid bone. Like the sterno-hyoid it participates in the movement of the chest in laborious breathing. The THYRo-HYOiD MUSCLE (fig. 211, *)forms a continuation of the sterno-thyroid. Arisimj from the oblique line of the thyroid cartilage, the fibres ascend to the anterior half of the great cornu, and the outer pait of the body of the hyoid bone. On the muscle lie the omo-hyoid and the sterno-hyoid ; and beneath it are the sujjerior laryngeal nerve and vessels. Action. It draws up the larynx towards the hyoid bone, as in swallowing. The sterno-thyroid and thyro-hyoid together fix the thyroid cartilage for the action of the intrinsic muscles of the larynx. Dissection. The sterno-hyoid and sterno-thyroid muscles should I now Ije raised and the thyroid gland cleaned as it overlies the larynx and trachea. The muscles should not be divided but should be rendered slack for the pui'pose required by bending the neck for- ward. Care should be taken not to injure the vessels of the gland, and the inferior thyroid vein should he cletmed as it runs down the front of the trachea. The THYROID BODY (fig. 212 and fig. 213,13, p. 589) is a soft reddish mass, which embraces the upper part of the trachea. It consists of two lateral lobes, united by a narrow piece across the front of the windpipe. The connecting piece, from a quarter to three-quarters of an inch in depth, is named the isthmus, and is placed o\&v the second, third, and fourth rings of the trachea. Each lobe is somewhat conical in shape, with the smaller end upwards, and is about two inches in length. It is interposed between the windpipe with the larynx and the sheath of the common carotid artery, and is covered by the sterno-thyroid, sterno-hyoid, and omo-hyoid muscles. The extent of the lobe varies ; but usually it reaches a-s high as the middle of the thyroid cartilage, and as low as the sixth ring of the trachea. From the upper border of the thyroid body, a conical jirocess, known as the ■pyramid, often ascends towards the hyoid bone, to which it is attached by a fibrous band. The pyramid genendly springs from the inner part of one of the lateral lobes, seldom from the isthmus ; and it is sonletimes connected to the hyoid bone by a slip of muscle, the levator (jlunduloi thijroidcm. Detached portions of