VENOUS SINUSES OF CRANIUM. hraiu (cereliulhim) and the posterior part of the large liraiii (cere- bniiu). Its upper .surface i.s rai.?ed along the middle, whore it is joined smmce.s, liy the falx cerebri, and is sloped laterally for the support of the back jiart of the cerebral henusplieres. Its under .surface rests on the small brain, and is joined by the falx cerebelli. The anterior concave margin is free, except at the ends where it clse-s, is fixed by a narrow slip to e;ich anterior clinoid proce.ss. The posterior or convex e{lge is connected to the following bones:— the occijtital (transverse groove), the posterior inferior angle of the parietal, the petrous portion of the tempoi-al (upper border), and the posterior clinoid proce.s.s of the sjihenoid. Along the centre of the tentorium is the straiglit sinu.s ; and in and tlie ° , 1 , T • 1 • Sinuses in it. the attixched eilge are the lateral and supermr petrosal sinuses on each side. The falx cerebelli has a corresponding position Ixdow the ten- Fuix torium to the falx cerebri above that fold. It is much smaller *' than the falx of the cerebrum, and will appear on detaching the tentorium. Triangular in form, this fold is adherent to the internal occipital crest, and projects between the hemi,si)heres of the small brain. Its base is directed to the tentorium ; and the contains apex reaches the foramen magnum, on each side of which it gives si'iuis.''^"' a small slip. In it is contained the occipital sinus. The SINDSES are channels for venous blood between the layers of Sinuses of the dura mater. They are arranged in two groups, the one com- prising the sinu.ses that converge towards the internal occipital protuberance, while the other is formed by the cavernous sinu.ses on the sides of the body of the sphenoid boue and the canals opening into these. A. The superior longitudinal sinus has been described at p. 508. Superior The INFERIOR LONGITUDINAL SINUS (Hg. 187, c) resembles a small vein, and is contained in the lower border of the I'alx cereljri at g'^,',],"!.,'""' the posterior i)art. It recei\^es blood from the falx and the large brain, and ends in the straight sinus (rf) at the edge of the tentorium. The STRAIGHT SINUS (fig. 187, d) lies along the junction of the stmiylit falx with the tentorium, extending from the ternunation of the preceding sinus to the internal occipital protuberance, where it is continued into one of the lateral sinuses, generally the left. Its form is triangular, like the superior longitudinal. Joining it are the inferior longitudinal sinits, the veins of Galen (which will be seen to be cut or torn oH'short) from the interior of the cerebral hemispheres, and .some small veins from the uj)per surface of tlie cerebellum. The OCCIPITAL SINUS (fig. 187, y) is a small canal in the falx Occipitni cerebelli, which reaches from the torcular Herophili to the foramen magnum and collects the blood from the lower occipital fossEC. This sinus may be double. The LATERAL SINUSES, right and left, are the channels liy which Lateral most of the blood passes from the skull. Each extends from the = internal occipital protuljerance, along the winding groove on the