20.5 SECOND LAYER OF MUSCLES. Dissection (fig. 77). To complete the prepcaration of the second Lay bare layer of inu.scle.s, the abductor halhicis .should be detached from the j^iyCTof OS calei.s and turned inwards. The internal plantar nerve and ""••■icles. artery, and the superficial portion of the external phxntar nerve, are to be cut across and thrown forwards; but the external plantar artery and the nerve with it are not to be injured. All the fat, and the loose tissue and fascia, are then to be taken away near the toes. Second Layer of Muscles (fig. 77). In this layer are the Muscles of tendons of the two fiexor muscles at the back of the leg, viz., flexor l^^°y'^ longus digitorum and flexor longus hallucis, which cro.ss one another. Connected with the foi'mer, soon after it enters the foot, is an accessory muscle; and at its division into tendons for the four outer toes the fleshy huubricales are added to it. The tendon of the flexok longus digitorum (fig. 77, b), enters Tendon of the foot beneath the annular ligament, and there lies on the internal o°"toe1''^'" lateral ligament of the ankle-joint. In the foot it is directed obUquely towards the centre, where it is joined by the accessorius dividesinto muscle and a .slij) from the tendon of the flexor longus hallucis, and divides into tendons for the four outer toes. Each tendon enters the sheath of the toe with and beneath a these pierce tendon from the flexor brevis (e). About the centre of the first ^endmlr- phalanx the tendon of the long flexor (f) passes through the other, and goes onwards to be inserted into the base of the ungual phalanx. Uniting the flexor tendons with the two nearest jihalanges of the toes are short synovial folds, one to each, as in the hand ; and the description of the sheaths on p. 75 should be referred to. to tendons; Action. It flexes the last phalangeal joint, and comlunes with use. the short flexor in bending the first and second joints. If it acted by itself it would tend to bring the toes somewhat inwards, in con- sequence of its oblique position in the foot. The LUMBRicALES (fig. 77, D) are four small muscles between Four lum- the tendoiLS of the flexor longus digitorum. Each arises from two ^ricales: tendons with the exception of the most internal, which is connected attachment only with the inner side of the tendon to the second toe. Becoming flexor^ tendinous, they pass upwards on the tibial side of the four outer and exten- toes, and are inserted into the expansion of tlie extensor tendons on the dorsum of the first phalanx ; but they often end partially in an attachment to the side of the first phalanx. The muscles decrease in size from the inner to the outer side of the foot. Action. These smaU muscles assist in flexing the metatarso- phalangeal joints ; and through their union with the long extensor tendon they may aid that muscle in straightening the Uvo inter- phalangeal joints. The ACCESSORIUS MUSCLE (fig. 77, A) has two heads of origin :— Flexor nc- One IS mostly tendinous, and is attached to the outer surface of the <^essorius OS calcis, and to the long plantar ligament; the other is large and fleshy, and springs from the inner concave surface of the bone (fig. 76, p. 201). The fibres end in aponeurotic bands, which join i«.ioined the tendon of the flexor longus digitorum al:.out the centre of the longus"-'"''