272 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. fascia liimborum. All the fibres are directed to the anterior aponeurosis. The aponeu- Its anterior aponeurosis is widest in the centre, and narrowest at rosis piissos ii ■% 11 • • boiiind tne ujjper end. Internally it is continued to the linea alba, passing rectus, ex- beneath the rectus as low as midway between tlie umbilicus and the lower part, pubis, and in front of the muscle below that spot. Its attachment below to the pelvis is nearly the same as the internal oblique ; for it is fixed to the Iront of the pubis, and to the pectineal line for Fibres to about an inch. Some of the fibres end on the transversalis fascia, fascia."'''" ^^^^ '''I'e connected beneath Poupart's ligament with a thickened band of that fascia which is called the deep crural arch (fig. 97, p. 263). Use. Action. The transversalis muscle draws downwards the lower ribs, and diminishes the abdominal cavity, compressing the viscera and forcing upwards the diaphragm. Atpeivis Conjoined tendon. The aponeuroses of the internal oblique and conjoined trailsversalis muscles are united near their attachment to the pubis, tendon. and give rise to the conjoined tendon. The aponeurosis of the internal oblique extends about half an inch along the pectineal line, while that of the transversalis reaches an inch along the bony ridge and forms the greater part of the conjoined tendon (fig. 102 and fig. 105, p. 286). Posterior The posterior aponeurosis of the transversalis, or the fascia lum- aponeurosis. -[^qj^qj ^^^^ jg described in the deep dissection of the back, and it is siifficient here to state that it consists of three layers: an anterior, attached to the front of the roots of the lumbar transverse process ; a middle, attached to their tips; and a posterior, attached to the spines of the same vertebra. The transversalis is chiefly continuous with the middle of these layers and only slightly with the others. Relations of Relations. Superficial to the transversalis are the two muscles before examined; and beneath it is the thin transversalis fascia. Its fleshy attachments to the ribs alternate with like processes of the diaphragm; and the highest slip joins the lower edge of the triangularis sterni muscle. The lower border of the transversalis is fleshy in the outer, but tendinous in the inner half, and is arched above the internal abdominal ring. Expose Dissection. Eemove the aponeurotic layer from the rectus muscle pyramidalis °^ right side, make a longitudinal incision through the tendinous sheath, and turn it to each side. As the sheath is reflected, its union with three or more tendinous bands across the rectus will have to be cut through ; and near tlie pubis a small muscle, the pyramidalis, will be exposed. The dissector should leave the nerves entering the outer border of the rectus. Leave the ^'^ ''^'^ ^^^^ ^^^^ 0^ '''^'^ body the rectus should not be laid bare left side. below the umbilicus, in order that the special dissection of the parts concerned in inguinal hernia may be made on this side. Rectus "^'"^ RECTUS MUSCLE (fig. 102, a) extends along the front of the muscle: abdomen from the pelvis to tiie cliest. It is narrowest below, wliere origin from it arises from the pelvis by two tendinous processes :—one, the pubis; internal and smaller, is attached to the front of the symphysis pubis