CHOROID COAT. 793 into processes {■prllari< iif the iris in- lixjami'nltim '/wcHnatiuii iridts) wliich are j)artly reflected on lo llie front of tlie iris, und juirtly join the sclerotic and clioroid coats. In the liealtliy condition the hlood-vessels do not permeate the no vessels; cornea, but cease in cajiilhary h)0])s at the circumference. Numerous immy tine brandies of tlie ciliary nerves ramify in its substance. nerves. VASCuixiR Coat of the Eyeball (fig. 289). The ne.xt cover- Viiscuiar ing is situate within the sclerotic, and is formed in large part^ of lav'i.'ont''^" blood-vessels ; the muscles of the interior of the ball also belong to this coat. It is constructed of three jiarts,—a jiost erior (choroid) correspond- Conipo- ing with the sclerotic, an anterior (iris) opposite the cornea, and an intermediate ring (ciliary muscle) on a le\X'l with the union of the sclerotic and cornea. Dissection. Siijiposing the cornea of an eye cut through circidarly Disseciiou a.s before directed, it will be necessary to take away the sclerotic to choroia'" lay bare the choroid coat. With the point of the scalpel or with portion, a shut scissors, detach the fore part of the sclerotic from the front of the choroid by breaking through a soft whitish structure uniting them. Then, the eye being put into -water, the outer coat is to be removed by cutting it away piecemeal with the scissors ; in taking it off, the slender vessels and nerves beneath are to be preserved. The white ring round the eye in front, which comes into view during the dissection, is the ciliary muscle. For the jiurpose of obtaining a front view of the ciliary pro- To sliow cesses, which are connected with the anterior termination of the "rocMs"? choroid coat, let the cornea be removed as before on another eyeball. Detach next the fore part of the sclerotic fi'om the choroid ; and after three or four cuts have been made in it toward.s the oi)tic nerve, the resulting llaps may be pinned out, so as to support the eye in an upright position (fig. 289). On removing with care the by an iris, taking it away from the centre towards the circumference, the ""''•'"'"r ciliary i)rocesses beneath will bo disi)layed. A posterior view of nw\ a jios- the processes may be prepared on another ball by cutting through it circularly with scissors, about one-third of an inch behind the cornea, so that the anterior can be removed from the posterior half; on taking away the portion of the vitreous ma.ss adherent to the anterior part of the ball, and washing oft" the pigment from the back of the iris, the small processes will lie made manifest. By means of the last dis.section the interior of the choroid coat may be seen. If a vertical sagittal section is made of another eyeball (fig. 290), To make a it will show the ciliary pi-ocesses in their natural ].osition, and will ^'^fi™' demonstrate the relative situation of all the parts. This section, which is made with ditticulty, should be attempted in water with a large .sharp knife, and on a surface of wax or wood, after the cornea and sclerotic have been cut with scissors. When the eye has been divided, the halves should remain in water. The CHOROID COAT (fig. 288, /)) is a thin membrane of a dai'k Cimrohi: colour, and extends from the optic nerve to the fore part of the ^'xti'i't;