707 CILIARY VKSSELS AND NKHVES. consists of Inuulk's of fibres which hc^iii at the outer bonhT of l-he iris, and <'n(l iiituniiiliy in the si)hineter. Action. Eiilavgeinout of the i)upil is ud'ected by shortening of the riidiuting fibres ; mid diminution, by eontraetion of the circular ring. The niovenients of the iris are involuntary, and regulate the admis- sion of liglit into the ball. The 7«(/""'"' "1 l''^" "''^ ■'^ paitly interspersed in Ihe substance of the membrane, and partly collccteil into a thick layer on the pos- terior aspect, the above-mentioned uvea, which is conlinuous witli the pigmentary stratum of the retina. The colour of the iris depends upon the nature and quantity of tlie interspersed pigment. Tlie arteries of llie iris (fig. 292, B) have a looped arrange- ment ; they are derived chielly from the long and the anterior ciliary branches (d), but some come from the vessels of the ciliary proce.s.ses. On arriving at the ciliary mu.scle, the long and anterior ciliary arteries form a circle (e) round the margin of the iris ; from this ring other anasto7notic iiranehes are directed towards the pupil, near which they join in a second arterial circle (/). From the last circle capillaries run to the edge of the pupil, and end in veins. The veins resemble the ar- teries in their arrangements in the iris, and terminate in the veins of the choroid coat. The nerves of the iris are the terminal branches of the How Ihi^y .ict. pigment.. I<'l(i.2y2. —DlSTKIliUTION OV TUK NkRVKS .\Ni) Vhsskt.s ok tue litis. A. Half of the ii is showing the nerves. {I. Nerves entering tlie membrane, anil uniting in a plexus. //. Within it. (Kolliker.) I). Half of the iri.s with a plan .of the Vuins, vessels. <l. Ciliary arterie.s. (•. Arch of vessels at tlie onter edge of the iri.s. /. Inner circle of vessels in the iri.s. I/. Sphincter of the pupil. Nervi;s of Uie iris. ciliary nerves ; they divide into liranches which accompany the blood vessels, and commiiiiii ale with one another so as to form a ]ile.\us which gets gradually liner towards the jiupil (fig. 292, a). Ciliary vesssels and nerves (fig. 2S+9). The ciliary arteries are offsets of the ophthalmic, and supply the choroid, the ciliary processes, and the iris. Tliey are classed into posterior and anterior, and two of the first set are named long ciliary ; but the}' will not hv. seen witliout a special injection of the ves,sels of the eye. ThQ posterior ciliarij arteries {tj) pierce tlie schn-otic coat around and close to the oj)tic nerve, and running tVn'wards on the Arlei'irs of the niidilli^ coat: posterior ciliary,