512 DISSECTION OF THE HEAD. occipital, parietal and temporal Loues, to the jugular foramen, oift'v""™ it ends in the internal jugular vein. The siuiLS of the right sU\aH° siilti is generally larger than the left, and Legins at the torcular Herophili behind, forming, usually, the continuation of the superior longitudinal sinns. The left lateral sinus is mainly prolonged from the ending of the straight sinus, but it is also joined by a branch from the lower end of the superior longitudinal sinus, which crosses obliquely in front of the occipital protuberance. In .some cases this arrangement is reversed, so that the torcular Herophili and the larger lateral sinus are placed on the left side; and occasionally the torcular Herophili forms a common place of the meeting (confluence) of the superior longitudinal, the straight and the two lateral sinuses. and tribii- The lateral sinus is joined by some cerebral and cerebellar ^•einf=. tanes. ' a. Torcular Herophili. b. Superior, c. Inferior longi- tudinal sinus. d. Straight sinus. e. Lateral sinus. g. Occipital sinus. /. Superior, and h. Inferior petrosal sinus. and, opposite the upper edge of the petrous portion of the temporal bone, by the superior petrosal sinus. It communicates with the occipital veins through the mastoid foramen, and often with the deep veins of the neck through the posterior condylar foramen. Subdivision The jugular foramen is divided into three compartments by j'nt'iiar fibrous bands. Through the posterior opening the lateral sinus foramen. passes; through the anterior the inferior petrosal sinus: and through the central one the ninth, tenth, and ele\'enth nerves. Dissection. Lissection. The dissectors should first examine the cavernous sinus on the left side. Cut through the dura mater by the side of the body of the sphenoid bone from the anterior to the posterior clinoid proce.ss, and internal to the position of the third nerve ; behind the clinoid proces.s, let the knife be directed inwards for about half the width of the basilar part of the occipital bone. By