DISSECTION OP THE PERINEUM. and iheir fS^t does Uut occupy, however, the whole of the '}'t^rval betweeu the pelvic boues ; for on eacli side is a space the l-fon. ^scIuo-rectal fo...a, iu which is contained much loose fat, S She vessels and nerves for the supply of the end of the "ut Dissection Dissectioil (fig. 91, p. 239 and fig. 92, p. 241). The workers on the two .sides should dissect in conjunction displaying the muscles on the one .side and the nerves and vessels on the other. The skin is to be raised from this part of the perineum by the following cuts --One is to be made across the perineum at the front of the anus, and is to extend rather beyond the ischial tuberosity on each side. A second IS to be carried across in the same direction a little behind the tip of the coccyx, and ibr the same distance. The two transverse cuts are to be connected by carrying the knife along the mid-line, and around the anus. The flaps of the skin thus marked out are to be raised and thrown outwards from the middle line : in detaching the skin .sphhX' ^""^ "i^-i'g™ °f tlie anus, the superficial fibres of the sj^hincter muscle. muscle may be injured if care be not taken, for they are close to the skin without the intervention of fat. The dissector should trace the external sphincter backwards to the coccyx, and forwards for a short distance beneath the skin, and define a fleshy slip on each .side in front and behind to tlie subcutaneous fattv layer. hi'cwnhv' "^^"^ ''^''^ ^° ^^^■i'^g "1*0 ^iew the ischio-rectal hollow the isciiio-" between the side of the rectum and the tuberosity of the hip-bone rectal fossie. Qn the left side the fat is to be cleaned out of it without reference to the vessels and nerves, but on the opposite side a special dissection is to be made of them (fig. 92). To take out the fat fi-om the left fossa, begin at tlie outer margin of the sphincter ani, and proceed forwards Dissection and backwards. In front the dissection should not extend farther i^scbio.rectai than a finger's breadth in front of the anus, while beliind it should lay bare the margin of the gluteus maximus. On the inner side of the hollow the levator ani (sometimes very pale) is to be exposed by the removal of a thin layer of areolar tissue (anal fascia). On the outer boundary the pudic vessels and the accompanying uerves should be denuded: they lie in a canal formed by fascia, and at some distance from the siu'face. .^deffeeii '^'^ necessaiy to clean the muscidar fibres vessels anil when following the vessels and nerves. If the student begins at the uencs. j]jg sphincter, he will find the inferior ha'morrhoidal vessels and nerve, which he may trace outwards to tlie pudic trunks ; some of the branches, which join the superficial j^erineal and inferior pudendal nerves, are to be followed forwards. In the posterior angle of the space seek a small offset of the fourth sacral nerve, and external to it, branches of the perforating cutaneous nerve from the sacral plexus, with small vessels, turning round the border of the gluteus. Near the front of the fossa is the superficial perineal artery with a nerve ; and the last, after communicating with the ha;mor- rhoidal nerve, leaves the fossa. A second perineal nerve, with a deeper position, may be found at the front of the hollow. The iscHio-UKCTAi. fossa (hg. 91) is the interval between the