733 TIIK MEDUr.LA OBLONGATA. lias then a yiv.yisli uoluur, wlieiicu llie uaiue tvJierctduiii cinercura is also giveu to it. The funiculas cuncatns i.s the prolongation of tlio posterior column of the cord, and forms a awQWing—liiberculam cunmtaiii (lig. 2(52, cl), opjiosite the lower extremity of the fourth ventricle. The restiform body is the largest of the ])rominence» of the medulla olilongata, and appears to be the continuation of the funiculus of Rolando and the funiculus cuneatus. It inclines outwards above, and enters the hemi- sphere of the cerebellum, of which it constitutes the iiderior peduncle. On the back of the medulla oblongata, the inner margin of this body forms the latcr.d boundary of the lower part of the fourth ventricle. The funiculus gracilis (pos- terior pyramid) lies by the side of the posterior median fissure, and is the smallest of the parts of the medulla oblongata. It ends above in an enlargement termed the clava (fig. 2tj2, cl), which bounds the lower point of the fourth ventricle. On the anterior surface of the medulla oblongata there may be seen, more or less distinctly in different subjects, a set of fibres crossing transversely to the res- tiform body over the upper half of the pyramid and the olivary body. These are the superficial arciform fibres. Stuucture. The fibres of the several columns of the spinal cord enter the medulla oblongata below, where they undergo a partial re-arrange- ment and are partly continued Cuiu'uttj runiciilus ami tubercle. Hf.sti foiin 1)0(1 V. Siipcrllcial urei f'oiin Fig. 262.—MeIjULLA UliLUNOATA AND Pons from iseuinu. /(J. Funiculus gracilis. cl. Clava. fe. Funiculus cuneatus. ct. Cuneate tubercle. JR. F^uniculus of Rolando. rb. llestiform body. a St. Auditory strirc. ft. Fasciculus teres. sp. Superior peduncle (cut). mp. Middle peduncle (cut). ip. Inferior peduncle (cut). onwards to the cerebrum and cerebellum, being joined by other fibres which take theu' origin in the bulb, and they partly end in the grey substance of the medulla oblongata. The course of the fibres can only be shown to a very small extent by dissection, and for the complete study of the arrangement of the fibres, as well as of the grey matter, it is necessaiy to examine sections of diifercnt parts of the medulla oblongata. Dissection. In tracing out groups of fibres in the hardened brain the student will use the knife very little, but he will find that by liitin-nal structure of tllGflulllL ubloni-'atii. DIsst'clinii to tinw pyramid.