507 INTEBNAL PARTS OF THE HEAD. wlucli IS w.terted mto Uie margins fuul uuht surface! of llie coroiioul msprtmii, jiiofess 01 the iowei'jaw. On tbe ciitaiieous .surface is the temporal fa.scia, witli the parts n'lations. snperticial to that membrane ; and concealed by tlie muscle are the deep temporal vessels and nerves which ramify in it. The insertion of the muscle will be seen, and its action explained, in the dissection of the ]itery^'oid region. Section II. rNTEllNAL PARTS OF THE HEAD. Dissection. The skull is now to be opened liy the workers on Dis.sectioii both sides of the head acting jointly, but before .sawing through sJ^jj/J''"'''^^ the bone the dissector should detacli the temporal muscle nearly down to the zygoma ; all the remaining soft parts are to be divided by an incision carried round the skull, about one inch above the margin of the orl)it at the forehead, and about the same di.stance above the protuberance of the occipital bone behind. The cranium is to be sawn in the same line as the incision Precautions through the soft parts, Imt the saw is to cut only through the ti',rou^ii'the outer table of the bone. The student will know when he has reached the diploe by the material on the saw becoming red. The inner table is then to l>e In-oken through with a chisel, in order that the subjacent membrane of the brain (dura mater) may not be injured. The skullcap is next to be forcibly detached by inserting the hooked part of the handle of the chisel between the cut surfaces of bone in front and pulling the shell of bone off backwards. The dura mater will then come into view. The DURA MATER is the mo.st external of the membranes investing Bum mator; the brain. It is a strong, fibroius structure, which serves as an internal periosteum to the bones, and supports the cerebral mass. Its outer surface is rough, and presents, now the bone is separated aprenrnnco from it, numerous small fibrous and vascular processes ; but those sv'irface!^ are most marked along the line of the sutures, where the atl^ich- ment of the dura mater to the bone is more intimate. Ramifying on the exposed part of the membrane are branches of the large meningeal vessels. Small granular masses, Pacchionian bodies, are also seen close to paci-iiicmiaii the middle line. The nund)er of these bodies is very variable ; 'JO'l''-"'^- they are seldom found before the third year, but generally after the seventh, and they increase with age. The .surface of the .skull is frequently indented by those bodies, especially on the back l>art of the jiarietal bone. Dissection. For the purjiose of seeing the interior of the Cut l1irou^!li dura muter, divide this mcmljrane with .scissors clo.se to the margin of the skull, except in the middle line before and behind, where the superior longitudinal sinus lies. The cut mendirane