398 supply spinal bniiiclies. Gluteal artery : small oflsets. Branches of anterior part. Upper vesical. Lower vesical or vaginal. Middle hiemor- rhoidal. Hypogastric trunk. Obturator artery courses across pelvis: oflsets in jjelvis ; iliac branch, pubic btancli. DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. superior and inferior: they correspond in situation with the lumbar arteries, and form a chain of anastomoses by the side of the apertures ui the sacrum. These arteries supply the pyriformis and coccygeus muscles, and anastomose with each other, a.s well as with the middle sacral. A spinal hranch enters each aperture in the sacrum. ^ The gluteal artery {^iq. 148, m) is the continuation of the posterior division of the internal iliac, and is destined for the gluteal muscles on the outer surface of the hip-bone. It is a short, thick trunk which leaves the pelvis through the great sacro-sciatic fcramen above the pyriformis muscle, with its accompanying vein and the superior gluteal nerve, passing between the lumbo-sacral cord and the anterior division of the first sacral nerve, or sometimes between the anterior divisions of the first and second sacral nerves, as in fig. 148. In the pelvis the artery gives small hranclus to the con- tiguous muscles, viz., iliacus, pyriformis, and obturator, and a twi- to the hijj-bone. ° B. The BRANCHES of the anterior division of the internal iliac artery are the following :— The superior vesical artery is the imperfectly obliterated portion of the foetal hypogastric artery. It divides into three or four branches, which ramify over the apex and body of the bladder : the lowest of these is sometimes called the middle vesical branch. The inferior vesical artery often arises in common with the branch to the rectmn. It is distributed to the base of the bladder, the vesiculaj seminales, and the prostate. A small oflFset from this artery, or from the upper vesical, is furnished to the vas deferens, and is known as the artery of the vas deferens. The vaginal artery (fig. 147, e) of the female takes the place of the inferior vesical of the male. It descends on the vagina, and ramifies in its wall as low as the outer orifice ; while, superiorly, it communicates with the lower branches of the uterine artery. This branch is often given ofl:' by the uterine artery. The middle hmmorrhoidal artery (fig. 148, ij commonly arises from the inferior vesical (or vaginal), or from the pudic trunk. It is spent on the anterior and lower part of the rectum, and anastomoses with the other hsemorrhoidal arteries. The preceding arteries sometimes arise in common with the superior vesical, and the trunk of origin is termed the hypogastric trunk. The obturator artery (fig. 148, h) is directed forwards below the brim of the pelvis to the aperture at the top of the thyroid foramen ; passing through that opening it ends in two branches, which ramify on the membrane closing the thyroid foramen, beueAth the obturator externus muscle. In the pelvis the artery luis its coiu- IJanion nerve above, and vein below it ; and it there gives rise to :— An iliac branch which enters the iliac fossa to supply the boue and the iliacus muscle, and anastomoses with the ilio-lumbar artery. A pubic brandi (fig. 107, /, ]i. 294) ascends on the ])osterior asjiect of the pubis, and communicates with the correspontling