CONTENTS OF AXILLA. 17 thicker and more prominent than the anterior, especially near the arm. On the inner wall of the axilla lie the first five ribs, with their innor wall; intervening intercostal muscles, and the part of the serratus magnus (c) taking origin from those bones. On the outer side the space outer wall ; has but small dimensions, and is limited by the humerus and the coraco-l)rachialis and biceps muscles (g and h). The apex of the hollow is situate between the clavicle, the upper apox ; margin of the scapula, and the first rib ; and the forefinger may be introduced into the space for the purpose of ascertaining the upper lioundaries, and the depth. The base of the pyramidal fossa is baso. turned downwards, and is closed by the thick aponeurosis reaching from the anterior to the posterior fold. Contents of the space. In the axilla are contained the axillary contents of ves.sels and the bracliial plexus of nerves with their branches ; "le space, some branches of the intercostal nerves ; together with lymphatic glands, and a large quantity of loose areolar tissue and fat. Position of the trtmlcs of vessels and nerves (fig. 4). The large Position of axillary artery (a) and vein (6) cross the outer portion of the ^"^^f^i^. space in passing from the neck to the upjier limb. The part ^ "^'"^"' of each vessel now seen lies close to the humerus, reaching beyond the line of the anterior fold of the armpit, and is covered only by the common superficial coverings, viz., the skin, the fatty layer or superficial fascia, and the deep fascia. Behind the vessels are the subscapularis (f) and the tendons of the latis- simas and teres muscles (d and e). To their outer side is the coraco-bracliialis muscle (q). On looking into the space from below, the axillary vein (b) lies vein; on the thoracic side of the artery. After the vein has been drawn aside, the artery will be seen to nerves, lie amongst the large nerves of the upper limb, having the median trunk (1) to the front and outer side, and the ulnar (S) and the small nerve of Wrisberg (5) to the inner side, the internal cutane- ous (2) to the inner side and somewhat in front, and the musculo- spiral (*) and circumflex nerves beneath it. This part of the artery gives branches to the side of the chest and the .shoulder. The vein receives some branches in this .spot. Position of the branches of vessels and nerves. The several branches Situation of of the vessels and nerves have the undermentioned position with ^"""'''"'^ = raspect to the boundaries of the axilla. Close to the anterior fold, and concealed by it, the long thoracic in front; artery runs to the .side of the chest. Taking the same direction, though nearer the middle of the hollow, a small external mammary artery and vein are occasionally present. Passing down the posterior wall, within the free margin of the boimul; told m contact with the lower edge of the subscapularis muscle, are the subscapular vessels and nerves (d); and near the outer, humeral, end of the subscapularis the posterior circumflex vessels (e) and the circumflex nerve bend backwards beneath the laree trunks. ° U.A.