473 THE CARDIAC NERVES. viz., tlie cardiac nerves of the sympathetic in the nock, tlic cardiac brandies of the trunk of the vagus in both the neck and cliost, and the cardiac offsets of the recurrent branch. The branches of tliis lialf of the ple.xus are distributed mostly to bmnclies to tlie riglit side of tlie heart, and pass downwards l)efore and behind !,'f,'y pi"™;.;. the right branch of the puhnonary artery ; tliose in front run on the trunk of the pulmonary artery to end in the right coi'onary plexus (p. 457) ; and the nerves behind supply the right auricle of the lieart. Offsets are sent laterally on the brancli of the artery to the root of the lung. ' " «? " I'oot (tt lung. The left half of the ])lexits lies close to the ligament of the arterial Left part: duct, and rather on the left of the trachea. In it are collected the "T'^'* ■,. uic nerves of the symimthetic ganglia of the left side of the neck, except the highest, and numerous and large branches of the left recurrent nerve of the vagus. Nerves descend from it to the heart around the left branch and offsets end the trunk of the pulmonary artery, and after sup])lying branches to i|li,'.j/pfi,°™s the left auricle, terminate in the left coronary plexus ([). 4.")"). A considerable offset is directed forwards by the side of the ligament to the superficial cardiac plexus ; and some nerves reach the left .nui in root anterior i)ulmonary ple.xus by coursing along the branch of the pulmonary artery. Termination of the three cardiac branches of thr siimixdhetic nerve otlier car- of the neck (upper, middle, and lower). '''"c mirves. On the right side there may be only two cardiac nerves entering Tho right the thora.x, for the highest nerve is often blended with one of'""'"j,*'"'' the others. These nerves pass beneath the subclavian artery to the right half of the deep plexus ; and they communicate with the liranches of the recun-ent laryngeal nerve of the vagus. On the left side the highest cardiac nerve lies over the arch of the One left aorta, and ends in the superficial cardiac plexus ; it may give a ™pertieiai • branch beneath the arch to the deej) plexus. Only one other nerve, "tiiers the middle cardiac, is usually seen entering the left side of the deep pie'xn^'' ])lexus, as the lower one generally blends with it. OPENING OF THE AORT.V AND STRUCTURE OF THE HEART. Dissection. The aorta having been cut across, the student will examine its interior as it .springs from the heart. The opening of the aoHa i.s anterior to that of the auricle, and A..Mi,. „p close to the seiitum. This aperture is round, and rather smaller'"'^- than that of the pulmonary artery, measuring slightly less than an sizean,! inch in diameter. ' pnsiiion; In its interior is a valve of three .semilunar or sigmoid flaps, valve, wdiich are thicker and stronger than the corresponding parts in the pulmonary artery, but have a like .structure and attachment 401). The projection in the centre of each valve, the corims Arantii, is better marked. Opposite each valve the coat of the aorta is l>ulged as m the jiulmonary artery, though in a greater degree, and forms