THE ANATOMY OF THE KIDNEY. 353 derived from the hepatic plexus, and entwine around the vessels. The lymphatics follow the cystic duct, and join the lymphatics on lymphatics. the under surface of the liver. THE KIDNEYS AND THE URETERS. Dissection. The student will now return to the abdomen, and thoroughly clean up the kidneys and the suprarenal bodies and their ve.ssels, removing the fat and enveloping areolar tissue, which is parti- cularly strong at the upper part of each kidney where it passes on to the diaphragm. Care should be taken not to injure the suprarenal bodies, which somewhat resemble the fat. After the anterior surface of the left kidney has been examined, its vessels will be cut through about an inch from the hilum, and the kidney, with the upper four inches of the ureter, removed for separate examination. The parts behind the kidney will then be cleaned, taking care of the anterior divisions of the last dorsal and first lumbar nerves as they cross outwards over the quadratus lumboruiu muscle. The KIDNEYS have a characteristic form (Hg. 134 and fig. 135, Kid>>ey: p. 354), resembling an oval with one side (the inner) somewhat ' hollowed out, and they are compressed from before backwards. With the special form above mentioned, each kidney is of a deep Colour; red colour, and has an even surface. Its average length is about four size; inches ; its breadth two and a half inches ; and its thickness rather more than one inch ; but the left is commonly longer and more slender than the right kidney. Its usual weight is about four ounces and weight, and a half in the male, and rather less in the female. The left kidney is slightly heavier than the right. The up2)er extremity or i^ole, of the kidney is broader than the Extremi- lower, and is in contact with a suprarenal body. The lower pole is ' more pointed. The outer border is convex ; but the inner is excavated, and is imrders. marked by a longitudinal fissure—the hihm. In the fissure the Contents of tilQ IISSl-11^0 * vessels are usually jilaced so that the divisions of the renal vein are in front, the ureter behind, and the branches of the artery between position. the two. On the vessels, the nerves and lymphatics ramify; and areolar tissue and fat surround the whole. The fissure leads into a hollow named the dnus, in which the vessels and the duct are Sinus. contained before they pierce the renal substance. For the purpose of distinguishing between the right and the left To distin. kidneys, let the excavated margin be turned inwards, with the ureter from'ieft*'' or excretory tube behind the other vessels ; and let that end of the viscus be directed downwards, towards which the ureter is naturally inclined. The surface markiny of the kidneys has been described on p. 306. They lie opposite the last dorsal and the upper two or three lumbar vertehrso ; the right kidney being somewhat lower than the left. Both overlie the twelfth rib in tiieir iipper part; the Position, upper pole of the right kidney reaches above that i-ib and the upper pole of the left commonly overlies the eleventh rib.