569 APPENDAGES OF THE EYE. vertical fold of the mucous memhvane-plica semUunaris, resting ^l^^^ on the inner part of the eyeball. Blood- vessels of the eyelids. The arteries of the eyelids are Arteries of furnished by the palpebral and lachrymal branches ol the oph- thalmic artery :— i r , , The palpebral arteries, one for each eyelid, run outwards from palpebral tlie inner canthus, lying l^tween the tarsal plate and the orl)iciilar muscle, and aniistomose e.xternally with the lachrymal artery. From each arch branches are distributed to the structures of the lid. The terminal portion of the lachrymal artery perforates the «nd lach.y- palpebral fascia at the outer part of the orbit, and, after having • given small oftsets to the upper eyelid, divides into two branches which comi)lete the palpebral arches. The veinsof thelids open into the angular, facial and temporal veins. Veins. The nerves of the eyelids are supplied Iroin the ophthalmic and Nerves of superior maxillarv divisions of the fifth and the facial nerves. The branches of the ophthalmic nerve which give offsets to the from iiftb, upper lid are the following : lachrymal, at the outer part; siijJra- orbital, about the middle ; and supratrochlear and infratrochlear at the inner side. In the lower eyelid there are usually two palpebral branches, inner and outer, of the infra-orbital branch of the superior maxillanj nerve. Branches of the facial nerve enter both lids at the outer side, and seveutli and supply the orbicularis muscle they communicate with the offsets of the fifth nerve. THE EXTERNAL EAE. External Ear. The outer ear consists of a broad, projecting i'a^'j^t»^o[ part, named the pinna or auricle, and of a tube—meatus auditorius externus, leading inwards to the middle ear, from which it is separ- ated by the tympanic membrane. The pinna may be now examined, but the meatus will be de.scribed with the anatomy of the ear. The PINNA or auricle (fig. 208) is an uneven piece of yellow fibro- Texture and cartilage, which is covered with integument, and is fixed to the margin pin„„ of the meatus auditorius externus. It is of a somewhat oval form, with the margin folded and the upper end larger than the lower. The surface next the head is generally convex ; and the opposite Sjirfacc excavated, but presenting the following elevations and depressions, fo'ssne and In the centre is a deep hollow named the co?ic7iffl, which is wide above eminences, but narrow below ; it conducts to the meatus auditorius. In front of the narrowed part of the hollow is a projection of a triangular shape—the tragus, which has some hairs on the inner surface ; and on the opposite side of the same narrow end, rather below the level of the tragus, is placed another projection—the antitrcujus. The prominent rim-like margin of the ear, which extends into the Mar concha, is called the helio:; and tlie depression internal to it is the (jroove or fossa of the helix. Within the helix, forming the hinder and upper boundary of the concha, is the large eminence of the antihelix, which presents at its upper and fore-part a triangular depression, the fossa of the antilielix. "in.