BRANCHES OF THE OTIC GANGLION. 081 using iniicli care in removing the latter. When, some loose areoliir ti.s8iie Jia.s been cleared away, the internal jiterygoiil muscle (6) comes into view, with the trunii of the inferior maxillary nerve above it; and a liranch descending from that nerve to the internal pterygoid muscle. If the nerve to tlie pterygoid be taken as a guide, it will lead to the ganglion. To complete tlie di.s.section, saw vertically through the j.etrous i"d«iii.e part of the temporal Ijone near the inner wall of the tympanum, the ZZ^lu" bone being supported while it is divided. Taking off some mem- lJ™'"'l'>.->i. brane which covers the ganglion, the student may follow backward.s a small branch to the tensor tympani muscle ; but he sliould open the small tube that contains the mu.scle, by entering it Ijelow through the carotid canal. Above this small branch there is another minute nerve (small suiterficial petrosal), which issues from the skull, and joins the back of the ganglion. A small twig is to be sought from the front of the ganglion to the tensor palatl muscle ; and other minute filaments to join the sympathetic nerve on the large meningeal artery and the chorda tympani. The OTIC GANGLION (Arnold's gauglion ; fig. 241) is a small reddish OUcgan- body, which is situate on the inner surface of the inferior ma.xiUary f,',ner'si<?"of nerve close to the skull, and surrounds the origin of the nerve to '"'''':',?'" inc internal pterygoid muscle. By its inner surface the ganglion is in contact with the Eustachian tube, and at a little distance behind lies the krge middle meningeal artery. In this ganglion, as in the .Structure, othere connected with the fifth nerve, filaments from motor, .sensory, and .sympathetic nerves are blended. Some twigs are furnished by it to muscles. Gonnccting branches—roots. Tlirougli its connection with the Hmn.iios nerve to the internal pterygoid, the otic ganglion receives iibres from ^^^'^ both the small and large roots of the inferior maxillary nerve, so that It may be said to derive its motor and sensory roots from the hfth. Its sympathetic root comes from the plexus on the middle sympa- meningeal artery. The ganglion is farther joine.I behind hy the small superficial petrosal nerve (•'), through which fibres are conveyed hcv^uii,, to It from the facial and glosso-pliaryngeal nerves. One or two ninUi, sliort branches pass between the ganglion and the beginning of tlie auricuio- auriculo-temporal nerve ; and a filament descends to the clior.la ailll'dionia tyipaui. tympani. lirmches to muscles. Two muscles receive their nerves through Jirandics to the otic ganglion, viz., tensor tympani and tensor palati. The nene '^^^^^ ' to the tensor tympani (^j i.s directed backwards to gain the bony 'y'"l«>"i camil lodging the muscle. The branch for th> fmsor palati («) arises i'.'aiLu."""' Irom the front of the ganglion, and enters the outer surface of its muscle. The fibres of the-^e branches are derived mainlv from the internal pterygoid nerve. 'The nerve of the internal pterygoid muscle (J-) arises from the inner N.'. v.M^f side of the inferior maxillary nerve near the .skull, and penetrates ^^^l^^ui tlie deep surface of the muscle. This nerve is formed almost entirely ' ' by an offset from the motor root of the fifth.