76 DISSECTION OF THE HAND, ongm, insertion, relations, and use. Tendon of long flexor of thumb ; its insertion. Dissection of deep arch, and of muscles of thumb and little linger. Five mus- cles to thumb. Abductor: attach- ments, relations, and use. Dissection. ligament ; ^fi^t^gftwospringing each from a single tendon, while the iimer tw^^S^^onnected each with two tendons. They are directed to the radial side of the fingers, to be inserted into the ex- panded extensor tendon on the dorsal aspect of the metacarpal phalanx (fig. 30, c). These muscles are concealed for the most part by the tendons and vessels that have been removed ; but, as already seen, they are ^subcutaneous for a short distance between the processes of the palmar fascia. Action. The lumbricales assist in bending the metacarpo- phalangeal joints, and, bj' their insertion into the extensor tendons, they straighten the interphalangeal joints. Tendon of the flexor lo7igus pollicis. Beneath the annular ligament this tendon is external to the flexor profundus ; and in the hand it inclines outwards between the outer head of the flexor breads and the adductor'obliciuus pollicis (fig. 31), to be inserted into the last phalanx of the thumb. The common synovial membrane surrounds it beneath the annular ligament, and sends a prolongation, as before said, into its digital sheath. Dissection (fig. 31). The deep palmar arch with the deep branch of the ulnar nerve, and some of the interosseous muscles, will come into view if the flexor profundus is cut above the wrist, and thrown with the lumbricales muscles towards the fingers ; but in raising the tendons the student .shoidd preserve the fine nerves and vessels entering the inner two lumbrical muscles. The short muscles of the thiunb and little finger are next to be prepared. Some care is necessary in making a satisfactory separation of the diflerent small thumb-muscles ; but those of the little finger are more easily defined. Short Muscles of the Thumb (fig. 31). These are five in number. The most superficial is the abductor pollicis (a) ; and beneath it is the opponens pollicis (b), which will be recognised by its attachment to the whole length of the metacarpal bone. To the inner side of the last is the short flexor (c); below this and below the tendon of the long flexor is the adductor obliqims (c') ; and the wide muscle coming from the third metacarpal lione is the adductor transversus (d). The ABDUCTOR POLLICIS (a) is the most superficial muscle, and is about an inch wide. It arises from the upper part of the annular ligament on the outer side, and from the tuberosity of the sctiphoid bone ; and it is inserted into the Ijase of the first phalanx of the thumb at the radial mnrgiiij^si^nding a slip to join the tendon of the extensoi- luBgua ]if.il1ii'iH._^g5_!_'_':^"—/•"'gi^-— The muscle is subcut;ineous, and rests on the opponens polhcis ; it is joined at its origin l)y a slip from the tendon of the palmaris longuSjjmdjnSn^ o.ssis metacai-pi pollicis. IrfwreT^he abductor pollicis moves tlie thumlnn fho direction of its radial border away from the index finger. Dissection. The opponens pollicis will be seen on cutting tl.roUKh tlie abductor. To separate the muscle from the .short