VESSELS AND NERVES OK THE PELVIS, 896 Tlie boHG is of loBB extent, and iH in contact with tlic vagina aixi tlic n(!(:lc of till; iit<ii'iiH. 'I'lie va«a defercntia, vi-Bicidoa Beniinaleo and proflalc are almelit. 'J'lie URKTKK liiiB a loiigf!!' course, in tlie female tiian in tlie male Oiiusi! of jH-lvit) ijefore it reacIiCH llie l)la<ldei'. Aft<;r crossing tlie internal iliiic vessels, it passes hy the neck of llie uterus to its destination. Tlie i;nCTnnA (fig. 140 and (ig. 147, a) is aliout (jiie indi and a Undlira: half long, anrl hy its position corresjionds to the prostatic and l>-iii{tli; meiiihranous portions of the male passage, although it represents only the up[)er half of the prostatic uretlira. It is sitiu-ite in front poHition ami of tli<i vagina, an<l descrihes a slight curve, with the concavity'^""""' forwards, helow the symidiysis jiuhis. Its external opening {mi'.alm urinariun) is placed within the vulva 2.0.')). In its course to the surface it i« enihedded in the tissue of the reUtloiiH. vagina wall, and perforaUis the triangular ligament of the perineum, where it is surrounded hy lihres of the deep transverse muscle, and a layer of circular involuntary fihres (p. 2.08). A plexus of veins surrounds the urethra as well as the vagina. VEHSKLK AND NERVEH OK THE PEI,VIH. In the pelvis are contained the internal iliac vessels and their VPHwinand hraiiches i(> the viscera, the sacral plexus of nerves, and the sym- ['/'"■^"."f pathetic nerve. This section is to he used by the dissectoiu of hoth the male and female j)elvis. JJirectimH. Thu internal iliac vessels are to be dissected on the right side. The air should he previously let out of the bladder ; and this viscus and the rectum, with the uterus and the vagina in the female, should be drawn aside from their situation in the centre of the jielvis (fig. 148). Dissection. The loose tissue and fat are to be removerl from To <li»Bect the trunk of the vessels, as well as from the branches of the arteries that leave the pelvis, or supply the viscera; and the cord of the" 'obliterated hypogastric artery is to be traced on the bladder to the umbilicus. AVith the vessels are offsets of the hypogastric plexus of nerves, neneii, though these will probably not be seen ; but in dissecting the veasels to the blatlder and rectum, visceral branches of the sacral spinal nerves will now come into view. The veins may be removed veinK. in a general dissection. When the vessels have been prepared the bladder may again be distended, and the viscera replaced. The INTERNAL ILIAC ARTERY (fig. 148, </, p. 397) is One of IiiUriu.1 the trunks resulting from the division of the common iliac artery, = and furnishes branches to the viscera and wall of the pelvis, to the organs of gftneration, and to the limb. In the u<lult the vessel is a short trunk of large cajiacity, which »iz.!nn.i mea8ur(!S from an inch to an inch and a half in length. Directed • 'lownwards tfjwards the great sacro-sciatic foramen, the artery terml- termination; nates generally in two divisions (anterior and posterior), from which