DISSECTION OF THE KRAIN. 72S of fibres. iiiuli across, iiiul lies on tlie olivary eminence of tlie sphenoid bone, situation, within the circle of Willis. It is ])laced in front of the tuber cine- reuni; and ])a.ssing beneath it (in this position of the brain) is the thin lamina cinerea. nrrangement In the Commissure each tract is resolved into three sets of fibres with the following arrangement :—The outer fibres, few in number, are continued straight to the temporal .side of the eyeball of the same side. The middle, the most numerous, decussate with the corresponding fibres of the other tract,—those of the right tract being continued into the inner part of the left nerve and passing to the nasal portion of the opposite eye, and vice versa. The most internal fibres are continued across the back of the commissure into the tract of the other side back to the brain without entering the eye, and are not visual fibres. Trunk of The optic nerve extends Irom the commissure to the eyeball, and is about one inch and a half in length. It leaves the skull by the optic foramen, where it receives its sheaths from the dura mater and arachnoid and crosses the orbit to end in the retina. Origin of tlie The THIRD or OCDLOMOTOR NERVE (■') is round and firm, and is ■ attached by a series of filaments along an oblique groove on the inner side of the crus cerebri, near the posterior perforated space, and close in front of the pons Varolii. deep in mis Deep origin. The fibres of tlie nerve traverse the crus in their course cerebri. from a nuclear origin in the grey substance in the floor of tlie aqueduct of Sylvius beneath the anterior corpus quadrigeminum. * Fourth The FOURTH or TROCHLEAR NERVE (*) cannot be followed back- nerve from -(ygji-dg at; present to its origin. It is the smallest of the cranial cerebellum : J- ° ,. n , nerves, and emerges on the ujiper surface of the crus behind the posterior corpus quadrigeminum through the valve of Vieussens (fig. 277, ^, p. 765). The nerve appears at the base between the cerebrum and cerebellum on the side of the crus cerebri, and is directed forwards to enter an aperture in the free edge of the tentorium cerebelli near the posterior clinoid process. nucleus in Beep origin. In the valve of Vieussens the nerve crosses to the opposite floor of Hide, decussating with its fellow, and then arches round the aqueduct of afueduct Syl^'us to reach its nucleus in the floor of that canal, immediately behind the nucleus of the third nerve. Fifth nerve The FIFTH or TRioEMiNAL (*) is the largest of the cranial nerves, roots"" consists of two roots, ganglionic or sensory, and agaiiglionic or motor, which are separate to beyond the ganglion, both issuing The nerve emerges from the side of the ]3ons Varolii, nearer the from pons, ^^pp^, t,ii(. lower border. The small or aganglionic root is the higher, and is separated from the large root by one or two of the transverse bundles of the pons. Both roots pass outwards through an aperture in the dura mater, above the petrous part of the temporal bone into the cavum Meckelii, as ali-eady described, p. 516. * The position of the nuclei of this and the following nerves is roughly shown on lig. 287, on p'. 783.