THE OSSEOUS COCHLEA. 817 For the like dissection in the recent state, a softened bone should >«<-eni ' bone; be used. The coc/iZea (fig. 303) is conical in form, and is placed alnicst form and horizontally in front of the vestibular space. The base of this body ' is turned to the meatus auditorius internus, and is perforated by small apertures ; while the apex is directed to the inner wall of the tympanum, opposite the canal for the tensor muscle. Its length is size ; about a quarter of an inch, and its width at the base is about the same. Eesembling a spiral shell, the cochlea consists of a tube resvnibies« wound round a central \mYt or a.xia ; but it differs from the shell in fii'somH"" having its tube subdivided by a ]>artition. respects. The cmis or modiolus (fig. 303, a) is the central stem which Central supports the windings of the spiral tube. Conical in shape, its size ax's^"^ Fio. 303.—Section through thk Cochlea (Bkeschkt). a. Branches of the auditory nerve, /. Hiatus or lielicotreina. containeil iu the canals of the axi.s. s.t. Scahi tynipani. b. Enlarged upper enil of the axis. s.v. Scala vestibuli. c. Septum of the cochlea. s.m. Scala media or canal of the c. Membrane of lleissnor. cochlea. diminishes rapidly towards the last half turn of the tube, but it is conical, enlarges at the tip of the cochlea, forming a second small cone (b), which is bent. The axis is perforated by canals as far as the con- and porous, tracted part of the last half-turn, and the central one is larger than the others ; these transmit vessels and nerves in the fresh state. The spiral tube forms two turns and a half round the stem, and a spirnl terminates above in a closed extremity named the cupola. AVhen ,'"ono'i,',°fi*''' measured along the outer side, it is about one and a half inch long, forms2J Its dianu^ter at the beginning is about one-tenth of an inch, but it diminishes gradually to half that size towards the opposite end. ment; Of tlie coils that the tube makes, the first is much the largest ; coils, this projects towards the tympanum, and gives ri.se to the eminence of the promontory on the inner wall of that ca\-ity. The second tu rn is included within the first coil. Tlie last half-turn Ijends sharply round, and presents a free margin (6)—the edge of the axis. D.A. 3 G