DISSECTION OF THE BRAIN. 758 the cavity on the right side, as much of the corpus callosum as forms the roof of the space is to be removed. A part of tlie ventricle extends down into the tenqjoral lobe towards the ba.se of the brain ; and to open it, a cut is to be; carried outwards and down- wards, through the substance of the hemisphere, along the course of the hollow ; and the best way to do tliis is to remove the part.s with a scalpel, piecemeal, carefully following the descending horn of the ventricle until the parts are displayed as in fig. 275. nrniii con- VENTRICLES OF THE Brain. Five ventricles are described in the ventricles ■ '' ^^^'^^^ ''^''^ subdivisions of one large central cavity, and these are lined throughout by a thin membmne named the ependyma, which is covered by epithelium, for the mo.st part ciliated. They are the two lateral ve7ilricles, one in each cerebral hemispbere, the third ventricle close to the base of the brain between the two hemispheres, and t\\& fourth ventricle between the cerebellum and the back of the pons and medulla oblongata (fig. 274). lifth is Tlie fifth ventricle is a small space between the layers of the septimi from others ^Lif^Wmib and has not any lining of ependyma (fig. 275 6.) Lateral The LATERAL VENTRICLE (fig. 275) is a narrow space which ventricle. extends nearly the whole length of the hemisphere, and sends a process downwards into the temporal lobe. The cavities of the two sides approach one another in front, where they are only separated by the thin septum lucidum ; and below the hinder part of that partition, each communicates with the third ventricle by an aperture known as the foramen of Monro (fig. 274). At the back there is a wider interval between them. The roof of the .space is formed in its whole extent by the fibres of the corpus callosum passing outwards to the convolutions; in the floor are numerous objects which will be enumerated in connection with the several parts of the ventricle. Sab<iivision. The ventricle consists of a central part or lody, and three processes or cornua, anterior, posterior, and middle or descending. Body The body is beneath the parietal lobe of the hemisphere, and extends from the foramen of Monro to the spleniuni of the corpus callosum. It is somewhat arched, with the convexity upwards, and in its floor are seen the following parts, proceeding from without objects in inwards (fig. 275):—!, the hinder portion of a pyrifonn mass of ca-ey matter forming a part of the corpus striatum (caudat« nucleus ; e), 2, a slender white band—the tasnia sen.icirculans (/), 3 a narrow part of the optic thalamus (</), 4, a vascular fringe of the pia mater-the clioroid plexus (/i), and 5, a thin white layer— the lateral part of (be fornix {(). It is bounded internally for a .nesiai linnt. short distance in front by the hinder pari, of the septum lucidnm (?.), and behind this by the meeting of the fornix and corpus callosum. Anterior Tlie anterior cornu projects forwards, with an inclination down- wards and outwards, into ti.e frontal lobe. In the floor are the boundaries, large anterior extremity {head) of the emulate nucleus and the rostrum of the corpus callosum ; its anterior boundary is formed ..^ the genu of the latter body ; and internally it is separated from tlie cavity of tlie opposite side by tlif septum luculum.