DUODENUM AND PANCREAS DISSECTED. 3il ring, which assists in closing the opening. If this membrane and the submucous layer are removed from the pyloric part of the stomach, the ring of muscular fibres (sphincter of the pylorus) will be more perfectly seen. With the aid of a lens, the surface of the mucous membrane, when On the sur- weU washed, may be seen to be covered by shallow depressions or oTaiveou'''* alveoli (fig. 127), which measure from Tjihyt'i to rJuth of an inch their size, across. Generally hexagonal or polygonal in outline, the hollows shape, become larger and more elongated towards the small end of the appear- stomach ; and near the pylorus the margins of the alveoli project, and become irregixlar. In the bottom of each depression are the apertures of minute tubular glands. Blood-vessels. The arteries of the stomach are derived from the Arteries; branches of the creliac axis, and have been seen to form an arch along each curvature (pp. 332 et seq.). From these arches branches pass to both surfaces of the stomach, and after supplying the muscular coats divide in the submucous layer into minute vessels which enter the substance of the mucous membrane. The veins have a corresponding veins; arrangement, and pass to the portal system (p. 334). Lymphatics, The lymphatic vessels proceeding from the stomach lymphatics; run with the blood-vessels, and have a few small glands coTinected with them along the two curvatures. Nerves. The nerves are derived from the pneiimo-gastric and and nerves, sympathetic, and can be followed to the fibrous coat: small ganglia have been observed on them. THE DUODENUM AND PANCREAS DISSECTED. Dissection. The duodenum will now be washed and its mucous surface examined. The commencement of the valvulte conniventes one or two inches from the pylorus will be noticed, and the opening of the biliary and pancreatic ducts examined. The aperture of the common Idle and j}ancreatic ducts (fig. 128, e) Opening of is a narrow orifice, from three to four inches below the jiylorus, and '^''<'-''"<=t: situate in a small prominence of the mucous membrane, at the where inner and posterior part of the duodenum. A probe passed into the bile-duct will show its oblique course (half an inch or more) under the mucous coat. Occasionally the pancreatic duct opens by a distinct orifice. Structure of the common bile-duct. The bile-duct consists of an Two coats external, strong fibrous layer, and of an internal mucous coat. On the surface of the inner membrane are the openings of numerous branched mucous glands, which are embedded in the fibrous coat; giauds. some of them are aggregated together, and are visible with a lens. The coats of the duodenum are like those of the rest of the small intestine (pp. 321 et seq.), but Brunner's glands should be noticed. The Glands of Brunner are small compound bodies, similar to the Glands of buccal and labial glands of the mouth, which exist in the duodenum. They are most numerous for a distance of one or two inches near