^«ral?ouX C'S'^^nvvf. wxM^^ ^ ' 1 THE ARACHNOID AND THE IMA MATER. 717 lieinisplieres, so as to leave a consiJerable space bt'iieatli it. Superiorly, it is prolonged into the median fissure between the cerebral liemi- s])heres a.s far as the falx cerebri, but does not reach to the bottom of tlie cleft. The arachnoid forms tubular sheaths on the nerves leaving the sheatlis on ^ cavity of the cranium which enter the apertures in the dura mater, and then terminate in a free edge ; but around the vessels passing to ami vessi'ls / or from the brain, the membrane joins the dura mater. ' The subarachnoid space is tilled by a watery Huid named ccrebro- Submactii- spinal. The space varies greatly in size at different parts. Over the Ji'irifis'i'iT" convolutions and prominences of the brain the arachnoid approaches extent: the pia mater closely, and the interval between them is very small; r. r' but opposite the sulci and depressions of the surface the space is expanded. The largest cavity {cisterna viagiui) is between the cere- bellum and medulla oblongata, wliere the arachnoid is reflected from the one to the other, being widely .separated from the pia mater which follows the surfaces. Byanarorture in the pia mater at the depth three large of this space the suliaraclnioid space is placed in communication *^*V , with the fourth and, ultimately, with the otlier ventricular cavities ' ' of the brain. Another considerable subarachnoid space {cisterna . ^ husalis) exists between the cerebral hemisplieres in front of the pons oAjo"^-^ with extensions outwards into the fissures of Sylvius and backwards to the cistenia magna ; and a third extends tlie whole length of the corpus callo.sum, in tlie great longitudinal fissure. The PIA MATER closely invests the brain, following all inequalities Pia mater of the surface, and dips into the sulci of the cerebrum and cere- bellum. It jilsojends a large process, namgd the velum interpositum, fonn.s velnm into tlie interior of the cerebrum, and from this vascular processes po'^jinu , | known as tlie clioroid plexuses project into some of the ventricles of the ""<l rf>n'ni<l brain. Two similar fringes, the choroid plexuses of the fourth ventricle, ' ''"''''^' .similarly project into that cavity between the cerebellum and medulla oblongata. The pia mater consists of a network of vessels, formed by the structure, ramifications of the arteries and veins entering into, or issuing from the nervous substance, the intervals between the vessels being closed by connective tissue so as to form a continuous meralirane. From its deep aspect minute and very numerous vessels pass into the brain perpendicularly to the surface ; and these can readily be seen as fine How to hair-like processes projecting from the membrane when a portion of vessels" it is stripped from the brain substance under water or when a piece of tlie freshly removed membrane is floated out in a dish. Vessels and nerves. The arachnoid has no vessels, but various Vessels and anatomists have described minute branches of some of the cranial X'mbraL..?. nerves in the membrane. The sources of the vessels of the pia mater are given below, and its nerves, which are probably destined for the vessels, come from several cranial nerves and the sympatlietic. Dissection. First follow out the arteries at the ba.se (fig. 257, Dissection p. 719), let tlie brain be upside down, and remove the araclmoid membrane. Having displayed the trunks of the vertebral arteries (i^)