283 VESSELS OF THE ANTERIOR ABDOMINAL WALL. Dissection of the abdominal wall renewed. The dissection of Dissection^ the anterior abdominiil wall will now be resuiueil. By raising the stump of the spermatic cord IVoiii over the pubis towards the internal abdominal ring, a fibrous band below Poupart's ligament, the deep crural arch, will appear : it passes inwards to the pubis, and is to be defined with some care. The remain in''vessels of the abdominal wall, viz., the deep epi- and of the 1 vessels in gastric and circumflex iliac, and the ending of the internal niammarj' the'waU of artery, are to be next dissected. The epigastric and mammary aMomen. arteries will be found on raising the outer edge of the rectus, one at the upper end, and the other at the lower. The epigastric, with its earliest branches, may be traced hy removing the transversalis fascia from it near Poupart's ligament. The circumflex iliac artery lies behind the outer half of Poxipart's ligament, and should be pursued along the iliac crest to its ending. DeeiJ crural arch (fig. 97, p. 2G3). Below tlie level of Poupart's Deep crural ligament is a thin band of transverse fibres over the femoral vessels, which has received the name deep crural arch from its position and resemblance to the superficial crural arch (Poupart's ligament), attach- This fasciculus of fibres, beginning about the centre of the ligament, is prolonged inwards to the pubis, where it is widened, and is inserted into the pectineal line at the deep aspect of the conjoined tendon of the broad muscles of the abdomen. It is closely connected with the front of the crural sheath.* Vessels in the Wall of the Abdomen. On the side of the Vessels in ... abdominal abdomen are some of the intercostal and lumbar arteries with the wall. nerves. In the sheath of the rectus lie the deep epigastric and internal mammary vessels. And running along the crest of the ilium is the circumflex iliac branch. The intercostal arteries of the lowest two spaces issue Intercostal T -1 1 1 1 T • T 11 arteries, between the corresijondmg ribs, and enter the abcrominal wall between the transversalis and internal oblique muscles: they extend forwards with the nerves, supplying the contiguous muscles, and forming anastomoses with the internal mammary, epigastric and lumbar arteries. Lumbar arteries. The anterior branches cfr the lumbar arteries supply the muscles in the hinder part of the abdominal wall, and anastomose with the foregoing arteries above, with the circumflex iliac and ilio-lumbar arteries below. The highest artery accom- panies the last dorsal nerve below the twelfth rili, and is distributed with the nerve. From the lowest lumbar artery a branch passes to the integuments with the iliac part of the ilio-hypogastric nerve. Internal MAMMARY ARTERY. The abdominal branch of this Superior vessel is called the superior epigastric, and enters the wall of artery'"^'" * Sometimes this structure is a firm distinct baud, which is joined hy .some of the lower filn-cs of the aponeurosis of the external oblique. At other times, and this is the most common arrangement, it is only a thickening of the transversalis fascia, with fibres added from the tendon of the transversalis muscle.