ARTICULAR SURFACES IN THE KNEE-JOINT. 219 The posterior or ascending band (d), tliicker and stronger than the posterior other, springs from the back of the outer tibro-cartihigt', and is '' inserted into tlie funiui', either as a single band (fig. 83, d), wlieii it is generally in front of the ]>oslrerior crucial, or as two bands —one being before, and the other behind that ligament. U.fe. The fibro-cartilages deepen the sockets of the tibia for the u.se of iibro- reception of the condyles of the femur, and fill the interval between '^'"'''''"i;'^''' the articular sui-faces of the bones at the circumference of the joint; they distribute the pressure of one bone on the other over a larger surface, and cause the force of .shocks to be diminished in transmis- sion. In fl.exion and extension they move forwards and backwards in flexion with the tibia over the femoral condyles. During Hexion they slon recede somewhat from the fore part of the joint, and surround the narrow parts of the condyles ; but in extension they are flattened out on the surface of the tibia. Of the two cartilages, the external moves the most in consequence of its being less attached to the capsule. In rotation the fibro-cartilages follow the condyles of the femur, and in rotn- and glide over the tibial articular surfaces, the external moving • more than the internal. The acce.ssory bands in front and behind serve to retain in place use of the le.s3 fixed external fibro-cai-tilage ; thus the anterior ligament bamlT"^ keeps forwards the front of that cartilage in flexion, and the posterior secures the back of the sauie from displacement in rotation. Articular surfaces of the bones. The end of the femur is marked Surfaces of by a patellar and two tibial surfaces. Tlie patellar is placed in the nuddle abo\-e the othei's ; it is on fenuir, hollowed along the centre, with a slanting surface on each side, the I'oteiinr outer being much the larger of the two. The surfaces for contiict with the tibia, two in number, occupy ana tibial: the ends of the condyles, and are separated from the patellar im- ch.-iracters pre.ssion by an oblique groove on each side. At the lower part of = each is a somewiuit llattened surface, which is in contact with the tiljia in standing; while behind there is a more convex portion, which touches the tibia in ttexion. The inner condyle of the fenuir is curved in its anterior third, peculiarities the concavity being directed outwards and backwards ; this has °'' been named the "oblique curvatui'e." Along the concave margin of the curve is a .semilunar facet, which touches the peri^endicular surfiice of the patella in extreme Hexion. On the head of the tibia are two slight articular hollows, the Articular inner being the deeper and larger, which rise towards the middle ti'to""" of the bone, on the points of the tibial si)ine. The joint-surface of the patella has the following marks. Close Subdivision to the inner edge is a narrow perpendicular facet, and along the °'i;jf°^;,'';,f lower border Ls a similar transverse mark. Occujiying the re.st of imtJiUi." the bone is a squarish surface, which is subdivided l)y a vertical and by two transverse lines into three pairs of facets—upper, middle, and lower. The transverse lines are fainter than the vertical. Movements of the joint. The chief movements of the knee are two Kinds of moveinont.