DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 344 ne'iriy^'"^ P^^'^^oneal coat encases tlie spleen, covering the complete. Surface except at the hilum and the ridge behind. It is closely connected to the subjacent fibrous coat. find^"u''°''* '^^^ fibroiis coat (tunica propria) gives strength to the spleen, and forms a complete case for it. At the hilum this investment passes into the interior with the vessels, to which it furjiishes sheaths; and if an attempt is made to detach tliis coat, numerous fibrous processes will be seen to be connected with its deep surface. Its colour is whitish; and it is made up of areolar and elastic tissues. wards pro cesses, structure. Interior of spleen, disposition of fibrous tissue to form an areolar structure. Pulp of spleen. Malpigliian bodies. Splenic artery: ending; no anasto- moses. Vein begins by open spaces; branches anastomose. Lymphatics Nerves. Bissection. The spongy or trabecular structure will best appear by washing and squeezing a piece of fresh bullock's spleen under water, so as to remove tbe inner gruraous-looldng material. The trahecular tissue (fig. 130) forms a network through the whole interior of the spleen, similar to that of a sponge, which is joined to the external casing, and forms sheaths around the vessels. Its processes or threads are white, flattened or cylindrical, and consist of Bbrous and elastic tissues, with a few muscular fibres. The interstices communicate freely together, and contain the pulp of the spleen. The splenic pulp is a soft red-brown mass, ■which is lodged in the areolae of the trabe- cular structure, and consists in great part of blood. In a fresh section small whitish spots (uVth of an inch in diameter) may be seen scattered amongst the dark pulp: these are the Malpighian corpuscles of the spleen— lymphoid nodules attached to the small branches of the artery. Blood-vessels. The larger branches of the splenic artery are surrounded by sheaths of fibrous tissue in the trabeculaj; but the smallest branches leave the sheathing, and break up into tufts of capillaries, which are said to open into the fine meshes of the spleen substance. There are few or no anastomoses between the arterial branches in the organ. The splenic vein is sup]30sed to begin in the meshes of the splenic pulp by open channels. The small branches resulting from the union of these radicles anastomose freely together, and unite into tninks larger than the accompanying arteries, which issue by the hilum of the spleen. Lyvipliatics and nerves. Tlie lymphatics are superficial and deep, and, leaving the organ at the hilum, traverse small glands lying along the .splenic vessels on their way to the cceliac glands. The nerves come from the solar plexus, and surround the arteiy and its branches. Fia. 130. —Trabecular Struoture op the Spleen of the Ox.