ARTICULATIONS OP THR CARPUS. 101 inovcint'iit. traiisvei'se bands ; as well as by small interosseous ligaments at the upper part of the contiguous surfaces. JThejiisifann^qne is articulated to the front of the pyraniidfil by soparatu a distinct capsule and minovial sm: It has furtln-r two special liya- 'iff'."'""'-'* Tneiils ; one or these is attached to the process oi the unciform, and bom', the other to the base of the fifth metacarpal Ijone. The BONES OF THE SECOND ROW (fig. 43) are connected together sucoiui row- in the same way as those of the first, viz., by a dorsal (i) and a palmar liand of fibres from one bone to another. Bet ween the con- tiguous rough surfaces of the several bones are in- terosseous ligaments, one in each interval. Movement. Only a small degree of gliding motion is permitted between the different carpal bones of each row, in consequence of the flattened articular surfaces, and the short ligaments uniting one to another ; and this is less ill the .second than in the first row. One row with another (transverse carpal joint ; fig. 43). The two rows of carpal bones are con- nected by an anterior and posterior, and two lateral ligaments. The anterior lii/ament ( p) consists of strong fibres, which for the mo.st part con\-prgp frnpi t.liP tlir,.o bones of the first row to The TransvprsH 43.—Ahticulations op the Carpal *■'"'''"'■i°'"'' = Bones, the Joint between the Two Rows BEING Opened Behind. a. Scaphoid bone. b. Semilunar. c. Pyramidal. d. Dorsal trans- verse hands between those bones. e. Trapezium. f. Trapezoid. g. Os maynum. i. Dorsal trans- verse bands joining the bones. k. E.vternal lateral ligament of the inter- carpal joint. I. Internal lateral ligament. 2). Anterior liga- ment. anterior. _ h. Unciform. magiiuiu ~i>ostenm- ligcmienf is thinner and looser; and its .strongest fibres posterior, are transverse. Of the lateral ligaments the external (k) is the better marked, and and lateral extends between the trapezium and scaphoid bones ; the infernal (I) ''t!'""'""''- passes from the pyramidal to the unciform bone. Dissection. After the division of the lateral and posterior liga- Dissection. ment.s, the one row of bones may be separated far enough from the other to allow the articular surfaces to be seen. Articular surfaces. The three bones of the first row, viz., Form of scaphoid (a), semilunar (b), and pyramidal {c), together form an arch with its concavity turned downwards, while externally the scaphoid presents a convexity to the second row. The lower arti- cular surface has a corresponding form, the os magnum and unciform