225 ARTICULATION OF ASTRAGALO.S AND OS CALCI.S. The posterior ligament (fig. 87, a) consists of a few fibres between the lione.s, where they are grooved by the tendon of tlie fle.\or hallucis ; the internal lujament is a small band passing from the internal tubercle of the astragalus to the sustentaculum tiili ; and the external lujament (b) is connected to the sides of the asti'agalus and OS calcis, near the middle piece of the e.\ternal lateral ligament of the ankle-joint. The interosseous ligament (fig. 87, c) consists of strong vertical and oblique fibres, which are attached above and below to the depressions on the opposed surfaces of the two bones. This band extends across between the bones, and its depth is greatest at the outer side. In a subsequent stage of the dissection (p. 228) the articular lioslerior, iiiteinal, extenml, and interos- soous liga- ments. Articular .surfaces: Fio. 87.—View ok tuk Dorsal Ligaments op the Taiisus. a. Posterior, l>, external, and c, intercsseous ligaments between astra- gal us and OS calcis. (L Astragalo-navicular. c. External calcaneo-navicular. /. Internal, and g, upper calcaneo- cuboid ligaments. h. Dorsal naviculo-cuboid band. i, k, I, Dorsal external, middle, and intenial naviculo-cuneiform longi- tudinal bands. //. Dorsal transverse bands between the cuneiform and cuboid bones. surfaces of the bones will be seen, viz., one behind the interosseous ligament, and one in front of it, with two synovial cavities. synovial Movements. It is between the astragalus and os calcis that the important movements of the foot known as inversion and eversion i«tw«"iras. chiefly take place. The motion is one of rotation about an oblique axis, which is directed from the upper and inner part of the head^^^o""' of the astragalus, backwards, downwards, and outwards to the lower motion, and outer part of the posterior extremity of the os calcis. Supposing the astragalus fixed between the malleoli, and the rest of the foot free to move, then in inversion the outer part of the os calcis moves inversion, forwards and downwards, and the sustentaculum tali in the opposite direction, while the anterior end of the bone is carried somewhat inwards. As a result of this, aided by corresponding movements of the anterior tarsal bones, the fore part of the foot is depressed,