594 DISSECTION OF THE NECK. Vortebml vuiii, 1111(1 braiiclios. Internal iiiamiiiary iirtery iu the necli. Thyroid axis divides into three. Supra- scapular artery. Transverse cervical artery: offsets, size and ending vary. Inferior thyroid artery gives laryn- geal offset, and ascciid- iiig cervical liiancli. The vertebral vein issue-s witli its accoiui}anying artery, to which it is here superficial, and descends over the subclavian ai'lery to join the iuiioininate vein ; it receives the deep cervical rein, and the branch {anterior vertebral vein) that accompanies the ascending cervical artery. 2. The internal mammanj artery leaves the lower part of the sub- clavian artery, and coursing downwards beneath the clavicle, and on the outer side of the iimouunate vein, enters the thorax between the cartilage of the first rib and the pleura. As the artery dis- appears in the chest, it is crossed superficially by the phrenic nerve. The vessel is distrilnited to the walls of the chest and abdomen ; and its anatomy has been learnt with the dissection of those parts (see p. 440). 3. Ihijroid axis. This is a short thick trunk (fig. 213) which arises from the front of the subclavian artery near the anterior scalenus muscle, and soon divides into three branches—one to the thyroid body, and two to the back of the shoulder. a. The suprascapular branch courses outwards across the lower part of the neck, behind the clavicle and subclavius mu.scle, to the superior border of the scapula, and entering the supraspinous fossa is distributed on the dorsimi of that bone. The connections of this artery have been more fully seen in the dissection of the back. b. The transverse cervical branch, usually larger than the preceding, takes a similar direction, though higher in the neck, and ends beneath the border of the trapezius muscle iu superficial cerviail and posterior scapular branches as already traced. In its course outwards through the posterior triangular space, this branch crosses in front of the anterior scalenus, the phrenic nerve, and the brachial plexus, but usually behind the omo-hyoid. Some small offsets are supplied by it to the parts in the posterior triangle. In many bodies the transverse cervical ve.<sel is of small size, and ends as the superficial cervical artery, while the posterior scapular branch arises separately from the third, or even from tin- second part of the subclavian trunk (fig. 213). c. The inferior thyroid artery is the largest oflset of the thyroid axis. Directed inwards with a flexuous coiu-se to the thyroid body, this branch passes beneath the common carotid arteiy and the accom- panying vein and nerves, and in front of the longus colli muscle, to the side of the trachea. Behind the lateral lobe of the thyroid body it crosses either in front of or behind the recurrent nerve, and divides into branches which enter the lower part of the gland, and communicate with the superior thyroid and its fellow. Near the larynx an inferior laryntjeal branch is directed upwaixls with the nerve of the same name, and other offsets are furnished to the trachea and lesophagus, and to the neighbouring muscles. The ascending cervical branch is directed upwards between the origins of the scalenus anticus and rectus capitis anticus major, and ends in branches to those muscles and the posterior triangle of the neck. Some small spinal off'sets enter the spinal ciinal through the intervertebral foramina.