745 FISSURKS, SULCI AND CONVOLUTIONS. the olfactory lolie from its sulcus, the dorsal ritlge will bu seen to olfactory become eiiliirged at its posterior end, forming the olfactory tubercle. " Position of the part. Now that the base of the cerobruiu has Position r been studied, the brain should be turned over for the exaniiiiatioii of exalnino the upper part. Something should then be placed beneath the fore "iMwr part, part, in order that it may be rai.sed to the same level as the back ; and a rolled-up clotli should loosely encircle the whole, lo support ihe hemispheres. THE FISSURES, SOLCI AND CONVOLUTIONS OF THE CEREBRAL HEMISPHERE. Upper Surface of the Cerehhum. Viewed from above, the Cereiinim is cerebrum is ovoidal in form, and the upper surface is convex in ai',ovo''aii(l accordfince with the shape of the .skull. A median lomjitmHiml fissure divides it inconijdetely into halves, divideil into At the front and back the hemisplieres are i[uite separated by it; but medinn" at the middle and under parts tliej' are united by connecting bodies, 'issure. the largest of which is the white corpus callosum. The falx cerebri is lodged in the fissure. Each hemisphere is larger in front than behind, altliough the lleniisplicro greatest breadth is placed Ix'hind the middle. Its outer surface is convex and applied to the skull, and the inner is flat and rests against tlie falx cerebri. Tiie surface of the hemisphere consists of (''■""J' °" ,, , 1 s 1 • 111 siirfiice, giey matter (cortex ol the cerebrum), and is marked by tortuous nmrkeii by eminences separated by grooves. The eminences are named convolu- tio'Ms''aMa tions or (jijri; the grooves are eithery(s.si()r.s or sulci. furrows. (jrooves arc of two kinds. The greater number are su])erficial Furrow.s are depressions which carry inwards the grey cortex and only indent the ""^"'"•'•'''•^ central white substance, and are called sulci; a few, however, ])eiietrate more deejily, and are the result of folds involving the whole thickness and of both grey and white substance of the heniisiihere, so as to affect the '^°™P'"''°- form of the cavity (lateral ventricle) contained within or to give rise to eminences projecting on its v.-all. Tiiese hollows are distinguished as fissures. Tlie convolutions and sulci, especially the smaller ones, vary in Convoln- difl'erent brains, and they are not exactly alike even in the two J^™'^ ^'"'y' liemisplieres of the same cerebrum. Their general arrangement or plan is, however, sufficiently constant, and there will seldom be plan i.s much difiiculty in recognising the several parts referred to in the ""fo'"'- following description. Inteulodar Sulci and Lobes of the Hemisphere. The outer Division or surface of the hemisphere is divided into regions, or groups of con- sp"Jro."'" volution.-*, known as the lobes of the cerebrum, by means of some of the most constant fissures or sulci, aided by lines prolonged from these. The interlobar sulci are three in numbei', vi/,. :— The fissure of Sylrius (fig. 270, s) begins at the vallecula Sylvian Sylvii, whence it extends transversely outwards across the under surface of Ihe hemisphere, separating tlie frontal and temijoral lobes.