127 POPLITEAL ABTERY AND BRANCHES. tlie heads of tlie gastrocnemius, and is covered only by the fascia hita and the integuments. Beneath it is the femur, with the posterior ligament of the knee-joint. In contact with the vessel, and somewhat on the outer side at I'°;;'J:™; hrst, lies the popliteal vein, .so that on looking into the space, the arterial trunk is almost covered ; but in the interval between the heads of the gastrocnemius, the vein and its branches altogether conceal the artery. In the lower part of the ham the short saphen- ous vein (fig. 53, i, p. 131) and the muscular branches of the artery are also superficial to the popliteal trunk. More superficial than the large vessels, and slightly external to them in position, is placed the internal popliteal nerve, which, with its branches, lies over the artery, like the vein, between the heads of the gastrocnemius. In the bottom of the hollow the small obturator nerve runs on the artery to the joint. Dissection. To see the deep part of the artery, the inner head of the gastrocnemius should be cut through and raised. On remov- yastrocne- ing the areolar tissue the vessels and nerves will appear. The / lower articular branches of the vessels and nerve are now brought ^^-■■''-< c^^x Vcw^W into view ;—the inner artery is below the head of the tibia, and \/e>'-< l^- the outer, higher up, between the femur and the fibula, each with a vein ; and a companion nerve. Beijond the ham. "While the arteiy is beneath the gastrocnemitis Artery be._ sinks deeply into the limb ; here it is crossed by a small muscle— ' tlie plantaris (c), and the ending is concealed by the soleus (b). It rests on the popliteus muscle. Both the companion vein and the internal popliteal nerve change position of their position to the arteiy, and gradually cross over it, so as to ^,erve."' lie on its inner side at the lower border of the popliteus. Sometimes the artery bifurcates as high as the back of the knee-joint; and High then the anterior tibial artery may lie beneath the popliteus muscle. divi.sion. Branches (figs. 52 and 53) are furnished by the artery to the Brandies of surrounding muscles, to the integuments, and to the articulation ;— "■''■eiy- those that belong to the joint are five in number, and are called ~fj^^ <i>^g»(«- articular, viz., two superior, inner and outer ; two inferior, also inner and outer ; and a central or azygos branch. 1. The muscular branches are upper and lower. The upper set. Muscular three or four in number, arise above the knee, and end in the semi- membranosus and biceps muscles, communicating with the per- (l '•i'xcX forating and muscidar branches of the profunda. The lower set (sural) are furnished to the muscles of the calf, viz., gastrocnemius, ^ soleus, and plantaris. 2. The cutaneous or superficial sural branches descend to the skin and cuta- ^ of the calf of the leg : they are usually three in number, one in the middle line, and one over each head of the gastrocnemius. 3. The superior articular arteries arise from the popliteal trunk, Articular one from the inner and one from the outer side, above the condyles a™"ive? of the femur ; they are directed almost transversely beneath the hamstring muscles, and turn round the bone to the front of the joint, superior