168 DISSECTION OP THE THIGH. parts aroimd; Obturator externus origin; insertion. The adduc- tors cover it; and it touclies hip-joint. Use. Detach obturator. Obturator artery divides into two: inner, and outer branch. Branches of the nerve. fibres are fixed into a special triangular surface of bone in front of and below tlie trochanter (fig. 61). These muscles occupy the interval beneatli Poupart's ligament between the ilio-pectineal eminence and the anterior superior iliac spinous process ; and below the pelvis the mass covers the capsule ol tlie hip-joint, a large bursa intervening. On the front of the psoas is the common femoral artery, and between the two miLscles lies the anterior crural nerve. The pectineiis and the internal circumflex vessels are contiguous to the inner border, and the sartonus and vastus internus touch the outer edge. Action. These muscles act as flexors of the hip-joiut; and the use of the psoas on the spinal column will be given with the description of the muscle in the abdomen. The OBTURATOR EXTERNUS (fig. 62, f) is triangular in form, with the base at the pelvis and the apex at the femur. The fibres of the muscle take origi7i from the outer surface of the obturator membrane for the inner half, and from the bony circumference of the thyroid foramen for a corresponding extent,—the bony attachment being an inch wide opposite the Ijody of the pubis, and reaching inwards to the adductor brevis and maguus (fig. 47, p. 113). The fibres are directed backwards and outwards to he inserted by a tendon into the pit at the root of the great trochanter. This muscle is concealed by the pectineus, and adductor brevis and magnus. It covers the obturator membrane and vessels, and is pierced by the deep part of the obturator nerve. As it winds Ijack it is in contact with the lower surface of the hip-joiut. The insertion of the muscle has been seen in the dissection of the l3uttock (p. 123). Action. The muscle is an external rotator of the thigh, and to a slight extent an adductor and flexor of the hiij-joiiit. Dissection. By detaching the obturator muscle from the pelvis, the branches of the artery of the same name will be seen beneath its fibres. The deep part of the nerve may be followed Ijack to the foramen at the same time. A better ^dew will be obtained if this dissection is deferred till after the limb is removed. The OBTURATOR ARTERY is a branch of the internal iliac within the pelvis, and enters the thigh through the top of the thyroid foramen. In the aperture the artery diWdes into two branches, which form a circle on the obturator membrane ben&ith the muscle :— The internal branch runs along the inner half of the membrane, and furnishes offsets to the obturator externus and the upper ends of the adductor muscles. The external branch descends close to the outer edge of the foramen, and after giving a branch inwards to join the loAver end of the preceding, is continued to the ischial tuberosity and the muscles arising therefrom. Offsets pass to both obturator muscles ; and an articular twig is given to the hip-joint. The nerves to the obturator e.xternus come from the deep por- tion of the obturator, and enter the posterior surface of the muscle.