150 DISSECTION OP THE THIGH. as tlie artery, and is similarly named ; its position to that vessel, however, is not the same throughout. Benesith Poupart's ligament it is on the inner side of the arterial trunk, and on tlie .same level, and is supported on the pubis Ijetween the psoas and pectineiLs nftcvwaids nmscles; but it soon winds behind the artery, and is plnr.ed ^^'""^ M'^Pffl tiTiP. iiinin t,rim1^. n.iirl its rlpcp .l,.ivnick In this space it receives the internal saphenous and deep femoral veins, and a small branch running with the deep external pudic artery. DEEP PARTS OP THE FRONT OF THE THIGH. Muscles on tlie front of the thigli. Vessels. Nerve. Take the fascia from the front of the tlii''h. Follow out sartorius, and lix it, and pre- serve nerves in contact with it. Dissect the adductors. and clean the extensor nuiscle. Dissect tensor of fascia. The muscles on the front of the tliigh are to be learnt next: they are the sartorius and the extensor of the knee ; and at the upper end of the thigh is the small tensor of the fascia lata. Four muscles are combined in the extensor, viz., rectus, crureus, vastus externus, and vastus internus. The external circumflex branch of the profunda artery lies amongst the muscles and supplies them with l)ranches ; and a' large nerve, the anterior crural, furnishes offsets to them. Dissection. To proceed with the deep dissection, the limb is to be retained in the same position as before, and the flaps of skin on the front of the thigh are to be thrown aside. The fascia lata is to be cut along the middle line of the thigh and knee, and to be reflected to each side nearly to the same extent as the skin. Over the knee-joint the student is to note its attiichment to the edges of the patella, and its imion with a prolongation from the tendon of the extensor muscle of the knee. In raising the inner piece of the fascia, the narrow sartorius muscle should be followed to its insertion into the tibia ; and to prevent its displacement it should be fixed with stitches along both edges. Care should be taken of the small nerves in contact with the sartorius, viz., a plexus beneath it at the middle of the thigh from the saphenous, internal cutaneous and obturator; two branches of the internal cutaneous below its middle—one crossing the surf;ice, and the other lying along the inner edge of the muscle; and the trunk of the long saphenous nerve escaping from beneath it near the knee, with the ijateUar branch of the same perforating it rather higher. Internal to the siirtorius some strong muscles (adductors) are inclined downwards from the pelvis to the femur. The student is to lay liare the fore part of these muscles (Kg. 58) ; and Ijeneath the most superficial (adductor longus), near where it touches the sartorius, he is to seek a lirancli of the oliturator nerve to the plexus Iiefore mentioned in the middle of the thigh. On the outer side of the sartorius is tlie large extensor of the knee, in cleaning which the knee is to be bent, to make tense the fibi-es. The smaller muscle at the upper and outer part of the thigh (tensor fascite femoris) is also to be cleaned ; and a strip of the fascia, cori'esponding with the width of the muscle, should be left