INTERIOR OF THE BLADDER. •Ill closed by <a small elongated prominence behind, uvula vesica, occa- with tin) sioned by a thickening of the subniucoii.s nuiscnlar and fibrous layers. This eminence is i^laced over the middle lobe of the pro- state ; and from its anterior end a slight ridge is continued on the floor of the urethra. About an inch and a half from the orifice of the urethra, and Openings of ratlier more than that distance apart, are the two narrow openings of the ureters (fig. 1.54). The tubes perforate the wall of the bladder obliquely, lying in it for the distance of three-quarters of an inch, so that the reflux of fluid through them towards the kidney is prevented as the Ijladder is di.stended. Each terminates by a slit-like opening in a prominence of the subjacent muscular fibres. Trigone. Triangular surface. Immediately behind the orifice of the Ti ■igone of urethra is a smooth triangular .surface, which is named trigone ^^'^ ' (trigonmn vesicte ; fig. 154, a). Its ape.x reaches the prostate, and its base the ureters. Its boundaiies may be marked out by a line how on each side from the urethra to the ureter, and by a transverse''""'"''^'^" one, behind, between the openings of the ureters. This surface part corre- corresponds with the triangular space externally at the base of the eK™iny. bladder, between the vesiculoe seminales and vasadeferentia. Over it the mucous coat is more closely united to the muscular, so as to prevent the accidental folds occurring as in the other parts of the empty bladder. Dissection. The arrangement of the fle.shy fibres of the ureters To expose will come into view on the removal of the mucous memljrane from uretcrr °' the lower third of the bladder. E7iding of the fibres of the ureter. As soon as the ureter pierces Muscnlm- the outer and middle coats of the bladder, its longitudinal fibres are "raters! thus disposed :—the more internal and strongest are directed trans- versely, and join the corresponding fibres of the other urine tube ; while the remainder are continued down over the triangular surface, and blend with the submucous layer of the bladder fiJires. niood-ves.mh and nerves. The source of the vesical arteries, and Arteries; the termination of the veins, have been detailed. The vessels are veins; disposed in greatest number about the base and neck of the bladder. Most of the nerves distributed to the bladder, though supplied from nerves of the pelvic plexus of the sympathetic, are derived directly from the spinal nerves. The lymphatics enter the glands by the side of the Lymphatics, internal iliac vessels. THE URETHRA AND PENIS. Urethra (fig. 1,54). The tube of the urethra extends Urethra: from the neck of the bladder to the end of the penis, and has i™,';[t""'' an average length of about eight inches ; but it is shorter by one inch during life. It is .supported by the prostate, the triangular ligament, and the spongy structure of the penis. The tube is '}''■'"''"'" into parts.