THE OMENTA. ^ uei ^^^ ^ 1 tl,e immediate neiglibomliood VrtiTextUng n-om transverse assure to eo,ae,.u. tttodenum is much thicker, and encloses the »^epat:c arte^ portal vein, common bile-duct, and nerves and lymphatics ot the ''lie yreat ov..Uu.n (fig. 114, y o.,) is the largest fold of the peri- ^^^^ tonln and results fron. the meeting of the two layers wh.ch leave h .^at curvature of the stomach and the first part ot the duodenum, fonnat.on •. The sheet thus formed descends in front of the intesUne, extending Ir her on the left side than the right, and at the lower part of ^h abdomen is doubled backwards to join the transverse colon. The aouoiueu 1= , 1 . .1 «mrp fcavitv of the small cavity; fold therefore enclose.s the lower pail ot a space 1^=1^ ^^,, .ije adult sac^ which originally extended to its lower border ; but in the adult Te anterior and posterior portions of the omentum ai-e usually closely adherent, and the su.all sac seldom exists below the transverse '° Between the layers of the great omentum, especially near the ..tomach, are some branches of vessels, minute nerves, and a variable duantity of fat; but over the greater part ot their extent the layers fusion of are inseparably united, and the resulting membrane is veiy thin, and in places cribriform. Dissection. Divide the part of the great omentum belovv tl e cav.t.^o^ ston,ach, and the cavity of the small sac of the on.entum will be opened, and the hand may be introduced to ascertain its extent. In flont it is bounded by the anterior part of the great omentum the boun.iav.es stomach, the small omentum, and the Spigelian lobe (hg. 131, hl) oi the liver Behind it are the posterior part of the great omentum, the transverse colon and meso-colon, the pancreas, the lelt kidney and suprarenal capsule, and the diaphragm. To the right it extends as and oxtcnt. far as the inner border of the duodenum (second pait), and to the left as far as the spleen. Between the duodenum and the liver it opens into the general cavity or large sac by the foramen of The/orameu of Wimloio is bounded in front by the right portion no«n,,a™ of the small omentum, containing the he]iatic vessels ; below are the or Winsiow. same vessels and the first part of the duodenum ; above is the caudate lobe of the liver ; and behind, the inferior vena cava. The cjastro-splenic omentura (fig. 115, cjs om) reaches f™ra the Oastro- stomach on the left side to the spleen, and is continued below into o,no,a,nn. the great omentum. Between its layers are the gastric branches of the splenic vessels. Folds ON the large intestine. The disposition of the peritoneum Pj|r.tonoai round the several portions of the colon has been explained in giving