DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. •178 level with Ihe fifth dorsal vertebra, behind the upper cava and the right pulmonary artery ; and the azygos vein arches above it. .and r"> ^^^^ '"^^ bronchus is about two inches long, and reaches to the ti'ous."" level of the sixth dorsal vertebra. It is directed obliquely down- wards below the arch of the aorta, and crosses behind the corre- sponding pulmonary artery. It lies in front of the oesophagus and descending thoracic aorta. Remove tlie Dissection. The lungs are now to be removed from the bodv by cutting through the bronchi and the small vessels of the root, heart anf/ "^^^ remains of the heart and pericardium are then to be taken peiTciirdhim. away; the inferior cava is to be divided, and the pericardium is to be detached from the surface of the diaphragm : in remo^oag the pericardium, the dissector should be careful not to injure the structures contained in the interpleural space in front of the spine. Surface of PHYSICAL CHARACTEHS OP THE LUNG. The surface of the lung smooth; suiooth and shining, and is invested by the pleura. Through the bV^obuies covering the mass of the lung may be seen to be divided and small into small irregularly shaped pieces or lobules. On looking closely at it, when a piece of ijuhnonary pleura is pulled away from its substance, minute cells will be perceived in it. Colour The tint of the lung varies with age. In infancy the colour is a age^^ "^'^^ pale red ; but in the adult the texture becomes greyish, and presents here and there dark grey spots* or lines of pigment, the shade of which deepens with increasing age, and becomes even black in old Accidental people. After death, the colour of the jjosterior border may be bluish-black from the accumulation of blood. Consistence. To the touch the lung is soft and yielding, and on a section the pulmonary substance appears like a sponge; but the lung which is deprived of air by j)ressure has a tough leathery feel. Slight Crepitation, pressure with the thumb and finger drives the air from the con- taining spaces through the piilmonary structure, and produces the noise known as crepitation. If the lung contains serum or mucus, a frothy red fluid will run out when it is cut. and elasti- The texture of the lung is very elastic, this elasticity causing the organ to contract when the thorax is opened, and to expel air that may be blown into it. Specific The specific gravity of the lung varies with the conditions of dilatation and collapse, or of infiltration with fluid. "When the pulmonary substance is free from fluid, and filled with air, it floats in water; but when it is quite deprived of air it is slightly heavier and weight than Water, and therefore sinks. The weight of the lung is of the lung, j^^j^g^gg^^ gj,g(^t|y |^,y j-j^e quantity of foreign material contained in its texture ; ordinarily it ranges from sixteen to twenty-four ounces, the right lung being about two ounces heavier than the left. In the male the lungs are larger, and, together, they are about twelve ounces heavier than in the female. Lung con- Ohvious STRUCTURE OF THE LUNG, The substance of the lung lobules, and is composed of small polyhedral masses or lobules, which are hollow, t^eseof"'''- and again subdivided into minute vesicles called the air-cells. The ^' lobules are visible as little polygonal areas, marked by the lines of