345 REMOVAL OF THE LIVER. REMOVAL OF THE LIVER Dissection. The liver should now be removed from the abdo- men, iu order that it may be more particularly examined. Begin in front by cutting througli the round and falciform ligaments. Then, drawing the liver downwards, cut througli the long left lateral liga- ment and the short right one, and the upper layer of the coronary ligament, taking care not to cut tlie diaphragm. Beyond the upper layer of the coronary ligament there is an area over which the posterior sm-face of the liver is not covered by iieritoneum, but is simply bound to the diaphragm by areolar tissue, and from which it can be separated by the handle of tlic scalpel. The inferior vena cava, as it leaves the liver to pierce the diaphragm, will now be exposed, and it must be cut across. Finally, the lower layer of the coronary ligament will be divided, and the liver will come away with a portion of the inferior cava embedded in it, as that vessel had been divided akeady before its entry into the liver. THE LIVER. The liver secretes the bile, and is the largest gland in the body, qniceof the Its duct opens into the duodenum with that of the pancreas. Dissection. Preparatory to examining the liver, the vessels at the Clean under surface should be dissected out (fig. 131, p. 346). This ^fj^^''°" proceeding will be facilitated by distending the vena cava and vena surface; portse with tow or cotton-wool, and the gall-bladder with air through its duct. The several vessels and the ducts are then to be defined, and the gall-bladder is to be cleaned. On following outwards the left branch of the portal vein to the follow loft . longitudinal or antero-posterior fissure, it will be found united vena'portiE. anteriorly with the round ligament (c) or the remains of the umbilical vein, and posteriorly with the thin fibrous remnant of the ductus venosus (rf). The LIVER is of a red-brown colour and firm consistence, and Colour and weighs commonly in the adult from three to four pounds. Trans- ,,,g,g),t. ' versely the gland measures from ten to twelve inches ; from li-ont to measure- back between six and seven inches; and in thickness, at the right luonts. end, about three inches, but this last measurement varies much with the spot examined. Tlie natural shape of the liver when within the body is very fo""™ diflerent from the form it assumes when removed and placed on a removed fiat surface, unless it has been previously hardened in situ. As already described (pp. 304 et seq.) the liver has five surfaces, of which the anterioi-, superior and right have already been examined, while the posterior and inferior can now be fully seen. The inferior and posterior surfaces are farther subdivided into lobes by fissures which contain vessels, and marked by fossaj and impressions. The peritoneal ligaments are described at p. 313. The Inferior Surface (fig. 131) is rendered irregular by fissures J"ff[j,°'' and fossa;; and a longitudinal sulcus separates it into a large right