DISSECTION OF THE BRAIN. Orbihvl sulcus and L'Vri. Olfactory sulcus. Pniietal sulci are intra- patietal, which has ascHuding and hori- zontal parts. Orbital lobule (fig. 272). TLe oihital lobule k siilxlivided hy a Y- or H-sbapetl orbital sulcus (orli) into three convolutions, named internal (lo), anterior (ao), and posterior (po), orbital, which are the continuation respectively of the superior, middle, and inferior frontal convolutions. On the internal orbital convolution is a longi- tudinal groove—olfactory sulcus (ol), for the recep- tion of the olfactory lobe. Sulci and convolu- tions OF THE PARIETAL LOBE. In the parietal lobe there are two named sulci; and four convolu- tions are distinguished. The intra2)arietal sulcm (tig. 270, ip) begins close to the posterior bi-anch of the fissure of Sylvius, aboitt midway between the upturned extremity of this and the lower end of the sulcus of Rolando. It first ascend.s, running nearly parallel to the lower half of the latter sulcus, and then is directed backwards to the hinder limit of the parietal lobe, where it often becomes continuous with the supe- rior occipital sulcus. Com- monly, also, it ends in a forked manner in a sulcus, {anterior occvpital), which passes from above down- wards at the front of the occipital lobe. The upper, or horizontal, part of the intraparietal sulcus is fre- quently interrupted by one or two cross gyri. The lower, or vertical part, is often distinguished is mostlv continuous with the and post- central. Convolu- tions : ascending parietal Fig. 272.—Orbital Lobule and Island OP Reil. orb. Orbital sulcus, ol. Olfactory sulcus. ar. Anterior, er. Superior, and pr. Posterior sulci of Reil, the last opened by the removal of tlie temporal lobe. 10. Internal. AO. Anterior, and po. Posterior orbital convolutions. 0. Central lobe or island of Reil. IF, AF, and Ai'. Lower part.s of the inferior frontal, ascending frontal, and ascending parietal gyri, constituting opercula. APS. Anterior perforated space. as the inferior postcentral sulcus, and following one The superior postcentral sulcus (ptc) continues the direction of the ascending ]iart of the intraparietal sulcus, and ascends behind the upper half of the furrow of Rolando. It gi-nerally opens into tlio intraparietal sulcus at the spot where the latter is directed backwai-ds. The ascendimj parietal convolution (ap) is placed opposite the