DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 292 Other nhdomiiuil lieriiife arc femoral, obtimitoi', sciatic. Dissection to open abdomen. Cords on the abdomi. Dal wall. Three inguinal fossiE: e.xternal, internal, and middle. Situation of fennnnl lu^niin. DisKe(;tion of the parts concerned. Dividi' wall. hernia. It should be rememhered that the narrowed neck is at tlie iip]ier end and not in tlie centre of the swelling. Othkr Forms of Hernia. At each of the other apertures in the parietes of the abdomen, a piece of intestine may be protruded, so as to form a hernia. For instance, there may be femoral hernia below Poupart's ligament, with the femoral vessels ; obturator hernia through the thyroid foramen, with the artery of the same name ; and sciatic hernia through the sciatic notch. The femoral hernia, as the most important, wiU be noticed presently ; but the student will refer to special treatises for detailed information respecting the herniie. Dissection. The abdomen is now to be opened to see the cords and depressions on the posterior surface of the wall. A transverse cut may be made through the umbilicus across the front of the abdomen ; and on holding up the lower half of the wall, three prominent fibrous cords, the urachus and the obliterated hypogastric arteries, will be seen ascending to the umbilicus from the pelvis. Cords on the abdominal ivall. In the middle line is the urachus, which reaches from the summit of the bladder to the umbilicus ; on each side is the obliterated hypogastric artery, extending from the side of the pelvis to the umbilicus ; and a little external to the last, near Poupart's ligament, is a less marked prominence of the pei-ito- neum caused by the deep ejjigastric artery. Fossw. With this disposition of the cords, three hollows {inguinal fossce) are seen near Poupart's liganxent, one internal to the obliterated hypogastric artery, another outside the deep epigastric artery, and the third between the two. The exiernal fossa corresponds by its lower and inner part to the internal abdominal ring, opposite which there is often a slight depression or dimple of the j)eritoneum, and i.< the place where an external inguinal hernia begins to protrude. The internal fossa is between the oljliterated hypogastric artery and the tirachus ; its outer part is opjjosite the external abdominal ring, and is the seat of the commoner (inferior) variety of internal hernia. The middle fossa is the smallest, and is placed behind the inguinal canal; in it the superior variety of internal hernia leaves the abdo- minal cavity. In some bodies the obliterated hypogastric artery is close to, or behind, the epigastric artery ; and in that case the middle fossa will be wanting. FEMORAii Hernia. In this hernia the intestine leaves the abdomen below Poupart's ligament, and descends in the membranous sheath around the femoral vessels. Only so much of the structures will be described here as can be now seen ; the rest have been noticed fully in the dissection of the thigh (pp. 143 et seq). Dissection. The dissection for femoral hernia is to be made on the left side of the body. The lower portion of the abdominal wall is to be divided from the umbilicus to the ])ubis, the cut bi-ing made on the left side of the urachus, and care being taken not to injure the bladder, which may