775 FIBRES OF THE UERKBUUM. wliich pass I'rom Ijefore backwarils, uniting together parts of tbi same hemisphere. The chief bands of this system which the student can recognise are the following : The fornix, the ttcnia semicircularis, the pineal stria, the longitudinal stria of the corpus callosum, and the cingulum. Other fibres pass in the medullary centre between adjoining and more distant convolutions, describing arches beneath tlie sulci: these are known as the association-fibrci. uu-ux. Dissection. The dLssectur may now make a trans\-erse section of the remains of the left hemisphere at the fore part of the optic i'ei'ltilmiar thalamus, when the form and relations of the lenticular nucleus imcleiis, and the claustrum, together with tlie position of the anterior commissure, will be apparent (fig. 279). Cuts should also be made into the geniculate bodies to show the yiiieuiatc . bodies, grey nuclei witliin them. Bv dividing transversely the left half of the midbi'ain through ami mesen- J o ■ uuplialoii. Fig. 283.—Tu.vnsvkrse Section ok thk Ui'i'nu Paiit of tuk Miuuiiain ( A FTK It () HHRSTEIN KK). the superior (juadrigeniinal body, there will be seen the grey matter of that eminence, the crusta and tegmentum separated by the sub- .stantia nigra, the red nucleus of the tegmentum, and the grey matter of the Sylvian a(|Ueduct (fig. 283). Finally, if the student has been working with two brains, he should make a longitudinal section through the remains of the Loiinitmli- pons, medulla and crus, passing a shade to the left of the middle line, and on exanimiiig the cut surface below the floor of the fourth ami \n<m; ventricle and below the grey matter in the Hoor of the remains of the Sylvian aqueduct he will see a small, longitudinally ruiniing, band of white fibres coming wp from the deeper parts of the meduUii. This is the posterior longitudinal bundle, which chiefly posterior consists of fibres runnin" between the motor nuclei of the medulla, i""o'i;"i'i"' pons and midbrain.