6G0 DISSECTION OK THE PHAKYNX. Seven aper- tures, viz.— Posterior uares. Eustachian tube cartilagi- nous part; pharyngeal opening ; construc- tion. Fauces. Isthmus of the fauces. Upper opcTiiuK of larynx. On I'iii.sing the soft palate, tlie opening into the month-—isthmus faucinm (h) is exposed, honnded laterally liy a mucous ibid which descends to the tongue and is named the anterior pillar of the fauces ; while between the anterior and posterior pillars on each side is a hollow containing the tonsil (k). Next in order, below the mouth, conies the aperture of the larynx (n) with the epiglottis projecting above it. Lowest of all is the opening (o) from the pharynx into the ossophagus. The apertures into the pharynx are seven in number, and have the following position and boundaries :—• The posterior openings of the nasal fossct (choana;; g) are oval in form, and measure abotit an inch from above downwards, but only half an inch across. Each is constructed in the dried skull by the .sphenoid, with the vomer and palate bones above, by the palate below, by the vomer internally, and by the internal pterygoid plate on the outer side. The Eustachian tube (f) is a canal, partly osseous, partly cartila- ginous, by which the tympanic cavity of the ear communicates with the external air. If the mucous membrane be removed from the tube on the right side, the cartilaginous part is seen to be nearly an inch long. It is fixed above to a groove betv/een the petrous part of the temporal and the sphenoid bones, and ends in front by a wide opening on the inner side of the internal pterygoid plate, on a level with the posterior extremity of the inferior spongy bone of the nose (fig. 237, p. 670). Its ojiening in the pharynx is oval in form, and the inner margin projects forwards, giving rise to a trumpet-shaped mouth. This part of the tube is constructed of a triangular piece of yellow fibro-cartilage, which is bent downwards on each side so as to enclose a narrow space. The inner portion is larger than the outer, and increases in breadth from behind forwards. On its outer side the tube is completed by fibrous tissue. The cartilage is covered on its inner side by mucous membrane, and through the tube the mucous lining of the cavity of the tympanum is continuous with that of the pharynx. The space included between the root of the tongue and the soft palate is called the fauces. It is wider below than above ; and on each side lies the tonsil. The ISTHMUS FADCIUM (h) is the narrowed aperture of communtca- tion between the mouth and the pharynx. It is bounded above by the soft palate, below by the tongue, and on the sides by the anterior pillars of the soft palate. Its size Varies with the movements of these parts, and it can be closed by the meeting of the soft palate and the tongue. . . The APERTURE OF THE LARYNX (n) is Wide in front, where it is bounded by the epiglottis, and pointed behind between the arytenoid cartilages. The sides are sloped from before backwards, and are formed by folds (aryteno-epiglottidean) of the mucous membrane extending between the arytenoid cartilages and the epiglottis. Behind it is limited by the cornicula laryngis, and by the arj-tenoid muscle covered by mucous membrane. During respiration this