THE DUODENUM. ^'^^T tubular glands or crypts of Lieberkliim, like those of the «nmll intes- tine ; and lymphoid nodules (solitary glands) are scatiereci o^ ei uie lymphoid whole of the large intestine, but are most abundant in the ccecum nodules, and vermiform appendix. . Vessels and nerves. The distribution of the vessels and nerves in Vessels, the wall of the large intestine is the same as in the small. and iym- The absorbent vessds, after leaving the gut, join the lymphatic P • "lands along the side of the colon. RELATIONS OF THE DUODENUM AND PANCREAS. Dissection. The student should moderately inflate the stomach Remove^ and duodenum from the cut extremity of the latter, and remove he ^ the loose peritoneum and the fat: while cleaning them, he should lay duodenum, bare the larger vessels and nerves. The stomach should be turned upwards, and the pancreas traced and from the spleen on the one side to the duodenum on the other with duct. (Bcr ]22, p. 329), and the parts behind the stomach cleaned of their fat and peritoneum, care being taken not to injure the vessels and nerves. By pulling forwards the duodenum, the common bile-duct may be found behind, between the intestine and the head of the pancreas ; and some of the pancreas wiU afterwards be removed, to show its duct entering the duodenum. Duodenum (figs. 121 and 122). The first part of the small intes- Duodenum: tine, or the duodenum, begins at the pyloric end of the stomach, and extent; crossing the spinal column, ends at the duodeno-jejunal flexure on the left side of the second lumbar vertebra. It makes a curve round ^^^»^^^^'} the head of the pancreas, and is placed mainly in the right epigastric and umbilical regions of the abdomen. From its winding course round the pancreas it is divided into four portions (flg. 121, \\ ^ divi.sion. and ■*). It may be roughly marked on the surface of the body by a surface parallelogram formed by the middle line internaUy, the right lateral line externally, the transpyloric line above and a line mid- way between the transpyloric and intertubercular lines below; it being remembered, of course, that the duodenum begins to the right of the middle line. The first portion is dkected backwards and a little upwards, and Fj^^t P^rt is is free and movable like the stomach. It measures about two inches js ' in length, and is directed backwards from the pylorus to near the movable, upper end of the right kidney. Above and in front are the liver and gall-bladder ; below is the head of the pancreas ; and behind it are the common bile-duct, the portal vein, and the gastro-duodenal artery with a portion of the head of the pancreas (lig. 123, p. 331). The second or descending portion, about three inches in length, SecmuUinrt descends in a groove along the right border of the head of the Jind^nxed. pancreas to the level of the third lumbar vertebra, and is fixed almost immovably by the peritoneum and the pancreas. In front of it are the liver and transverse colon ; behind it are the inner border of the kidney, the ureter, and the renal vessels ; and on its inner side