DISSECTION OP THE PELVIS. 404 Pudic. Perforating cutaneous. Brancli to pyriformis. Branch to obturator iutemus. Brancli to quadratus. Sympathetic In tlie pelvis. The gan- gliated cord joins that of opposite side below in a loop; offsets of the ganglia, to the spinal ner\'es, to the pelvic plexus and the vLscera. Pelvic plexuses ; situation: how formed: onsets to tlie viscera of the male, viz., to the rectum: thigh, and arises befoie the foregoing (with which it i.s often con- nected) from the second and third sacral nerves. e. The fudic nerve (p) supplies the perineum and tlie genital organs. It arises from the third and fourth sacral nei-ves, and courses over the small sacro-sciatic ligament, in company with its artery, to the small sacro-sciatic foramen. /. The perforating cutaneous nerve (pc) arises from the fourth, or the third and fourth, sacral nerves, and passes backwards through the great sacro-sciatic ligament to the skin of the buttock (p. 112). g. The branch to the pyriformis (py) is usually given off from the second sacral nerve, and enters the anterior surface of its muscle. h. The nerve to the obturator internus (oi) springs from the front of the part of the plexus formed by the union of the lumbo-sacral cord with the first sacral nerve. It leaves the pelvis with the pudic artery, and winding over the ischial spine and through the small sacro-sciatic foramen, enters the perineal surface of the muscle : it gives a branch to the superior gemellus. i. The nerve to the quadratus femoris and inferior g&inellns (q) arises from the front of the plexus below the preceding. Sympathetic Nerve. In the pelvis the sympathetic nerve con- sists of a gangliated cord, and of a plexus on each side. The Gangliated cord (fig. 149) lies on the front of the sacrum, internal to the series of apertures in that bone. Inferiorly it con- verges to its fellow, and is united with it by a loop in front of the coccyx, on which there is often a median ganglion {gang, impar). Each cord is marked by ganglia at intervals, the number varying from three to five : from them branches of communication pass outwards to the spinal nerves, and some filaments are directed inwards in front of the sacrum. The connecting branches are usually two to each ganglion, grey and white, and are very short. The internal branches are small, and communicate around the middle sacral artery with the branches of the opposite side. From the first, or first two ganglia, some filaments are furnished to the pelvic plexus ; and from the terminal loop ofl'sets descend o^"er the coccyx. The Pelvic plexuses (lateral inferior hypogastric) are two in number, right and left, and are continuous wth the lateral pro- longations of the hypogastric plexus (p. 319). Each is situate by the side of the bladder and rectum in the male, and by the side of the uterus and vagina in the female, and is joined by oflsets of the third and fourth sacral nerves. Numerous ganglia are found in the plexus, especially at the points of union of the spinal and sympathetic nerves. Offsets. From each plexus offsets are furnished along the branches of the internal iliac artery to the viscera of the pelvis, and the genital organs ; these form secondary plexuses, and have the same name as the vessels on which they are placed. The inferior hmmorrhoidal plexus is an oftset from the back of the plexus to the rectum, and joins the sympathetic on the superior hDemorrhoidal artery.