20 DISSECTION OF THE UPPER LIMB. Parts covered by the musclo. Pectoralis minor: origin ; insertion; relations ; Dissection of axillar)' sheath and costo-co- racoid fascia. Costo-cora- coid mem- brane conceals snbclavius, and .joins sheath of vessels. Axill.irj' sheatli strongest i front. Clean the vessels. Parts covered by the %Kctoralis. The great pectoral muscle covers the pectoralis minor, and forms alone, above and below that iiin.scle, the anterior boundary of the axilla. Between the pectoralis minor and the clavicle it conceals the subclavius muscle, the sheath con- taining the axillary vessels, and the branches perforating that sheath. Below the pectoralis minor it lies on the side of the chest, on tlie axillary vessels and nerx-es, and on the biceps and coraco-braohialis muscles near the humerus. The PECTORALIS MINOE (figs. 6 and 7) is also triangular in shape, and extends from the thorax to the shoulder. It arises from the third, fourth, and fifth ribs, immediately external to their cartilages, by tendinous slips which are blended with the aponeuroses in the intercostal spaces. The fibres converge to their insertion into the anterior half of the coracoid process of the scapula, at its upper and inner part (fig. 10, p. 29). This muscle assists the pectoralis major in forming the anterior wall of the axilla, and near its insertion it lies over the large vessels and the accompanying nerves. The upper border is separated from the clavicle by a triangular interval. The lower border projects beyond the pectoralis major close to the chest; and along it the long thoracic vessels lie. The tendon of insertion is united with the coraco-brachialis and short head of the biceps. Action. It draws the scapula forwards and downwards ; and in laborious breathing it becomes an inspiratory muscle, taking its fixed point at the shoulder. Dissection. Supposing the clavicle raised by pressing back- wards the arm, as before directed, the tube of fascia around the axillary vessels will be demonstrated by making a transverse cut below the costo-coracoid membrane so that the handle of the scalpel can be passed beneath it. Then, by dividing the mem- brane itself near the clavicle and raising the lower border of the subclavius, this muscle will be seen to be encased by fa.?cia, which is attached to the bone lioth before and behind it. ■, , • , The costo-coracoid membrane or ligament is a firm band which is attached on the inner side to the first rib, and on the outer side to the coracoid process of the scapula. Between these points it is inserted into the under-surface of the clavicle, enclosing the sub- clavius muscle (fig. 6 d). The fascia that encases the small pectoral muscle is joined to the membrane above, and, in addition, the deep stratum of the membrane, beneath the subclavius muscle, is blended with the front of tlie axillary sheath. The sheath of the axillarv vessels and nerves (e)* is a funnel- shaped tube, prolonged from the fascia covering the scalen. muscles , in the lower part of the neck. It is strongest near the subclavius muscle, where the costo-coracoid band joins it. Ihe anterior part of the .sheath is perforated by the cephalic vein {e) the acromio- thoracic artery («), •'^■hI the anterior thoracic nerves (i and -). Dissection. After the costo-coracoid membrane 1- 1... has been ex- The letters and figures refer to fig 6. In fig. 7 the parts are named.