DISSKOTION OF TMK NUf'K. 002 Stylo-liyiiiil iniisrli- : uisi't t ion ; SUlTOllllds ilijiasti'ic li'iiil(ni ; ;;nrv(' in llic iiiiti'iinr IriiiiiL'lt': hnuirhc line lo li.vnid iiiiisolps IS .joinea witli cervical ncivf's. External carotid artery ; extent ; conr.se anil (lirectinn. Parts sniier- llcial to it, llial lioiic ami (ipeiis tlie nioutli. Tf llie jaw lie fixed, ilic twri liellies acl.iiii,' lo>,'eUiM' will elevittc (lie livoii] bdiie. 'J'hc sTYLo-iivoiD MUscr,K (lig. -li l, H, ]i. (i-24) is lliiii and sk-iidcr, and lies iiiiinediatLdy al>ove the jxjst.erior lielly of l.lie digiisti'ic. It iiriseis from the )i(jst(iri()r surl'iice of the styloid process near llie liasc, and is inserted info the outer part of flie liody of the hyoid l>oiie. Tlie nuiscle has the .same velation.s as the po.sterioi' bidly of the digastric ; and its Hi-sliy Klires are usually perforated by the tendon of that miis(de. Action. This mu.side elevates the hyoid bone in swallowiuL;, and with the posterior belly of the digastric, ])Tevents the lione being carried forwards by Ihe elevators. The HYPOGLOSSAL NERVE (twelfth cranial) (fig. 224,appear.? in the anterior triangle at tlie lower edge of the digastric inttscle, \vhere it hoolcs round the occipital arteiy ; it is then directed Forwards to the tongue beneath the tendon of that muscle, and disa]i])ears in front under the niylo-hyoid. In this course the nerve jiasses over the two carotids ; and near the great cornu of the hyoid bone it also crosses the lingual artery. From this part arise the de.sceitdiug liranch, and a small muscuLtr offset to the thyro- hyoid. The dcscendeim (vrr7ci.s branch leaves the trunk of the hypoglos-sal as it turns round the occipital arteiw, and descends on the front of, or more fref|ttently within, the carotid sheath to Ijelow the middle of the neck, where it is joined by the communicating branches of the cervical nerves so as to form a single or double loop (ansa ccrricis) with the concavity turned upwards. The descending branch gives an offset to the anterior belly of the omo-hyoid ; and from the loop branches j)roceed to the posterior belly of the omo-hyoid, to the stemo-hyoid and sterno-thyroid muscles : sometimes anotlier offset is continued to the thorax, where it joins the phrenic and cardiac ner\'es.* The EXTERNAL CAROTID ARTERY (fig. 217, d) springs from the bifurcation of the common carotid opposite the thyro-hyoid mem- brane, and furn'i.shes branches to the neck, and face, and the outer part of the head. From the place ol' origin it ascends in front of the ma-stoid proce.ss, and ends just bel(3W the neck of the lower jaw in the inlernal ma.xillary and su])erHcial temporal branches. Tlie artery lies at first in front of the internal carotid, but it afterwards inclines somewhat backwards and liecomes superficial to that ves.sel. Its ]iosition would be marked with suilicient accuracy by a line from Ihe front of the meatus of the ear bi the cricoid cartilage. At first the external carotid is overlain by the ,s(erno-ma.«toid, and by the common coverings of the anterior triangular .space, viz., the skin, and ihv superficial and dee]) fa.sciiC with the platy.sma. P.ut above the levcd of a line from the mastoid ]n-oce.ss lo the hyoid ♦ I'.ntli the tlesceiiding and tlio tliyro-hyoiil l)ranclios of the liypoglos-sal arc erimijosed nf fibres whicli ]ia.ss from tlio first and .socniid cervical nerves into tiie trunk of the nerve near the base of the skull.