DISSECTION OF TRK NEOK. 578 Occipit 111 triangle contains nerves and lympliaties also spinal ac(;essoi'y nerve. Nerves of the eervicnl plexus that ascend, viz.— Small occipital. Great auricnlar .supplies facial, anricular, and mastoid branches. Superlicial cervical nerve. Nerves that descend are nsnally three b.'iinclics. The occipital triangle is harger than the supraclavicular. Its boundaries in front and behind are the stemo-nnustoid and the trapezius, and below the posterior belly of the omo-hyoid muscle. In it are contained chiefly the ramifications of the cervical plexus ; and a chain of lymphatic glands lies along the stemo- mastoid nuiscle. The spinal accessory nerve is directed obliquely across this interval from the sterno-mastoid muscle, which it pierces, to the under surface of the trapezius ; and a communication takes place between it and the .spinal nerves in the .space. Superficial Branchei? of the Cervical Plexu.s. These nerves emerge from beneath the sterno-mastoid muscle about the middle of its hinder border, and are thence directed both upwards and downwards. The ASCENDING SET (fig. 210) are three in number. Viz., small occipital, great auricular, and superficial cervical. The small occipital nerve (fig. 20.5, p. 562) comes from the second, and in most cases also from the third cervical nerves, and is directed upwards to the head along the posterior border of the sterno-mastoid muscle. It perforates the fascia near the skull, and is distributed between the ear and the great occipital nerve, as already seen. Occasionally there is a second cutaneous nerve to the back of the head. The great auricular nerve (fig. 205) is derived from the second and third cervical nerves. Perforating the deep fa.scia at the pos- terior border of the sterno-mastoid muscle, the nerve is directed upwards between the platysma towards the lobule of the ear, and ends in the following branches :— The facial branches are sent forwards to the integuments over the jiarotid, and a few slender filaments pass into the gland to join the facial nerve. The auricular branches ascend to the external ear, and are chiefly distributed on its cranial aspect, but one or more reach the lower part of the outer surface. On the pinna they communicate with branches furnished from the facial and pneumo-gastric nerves. The mastoid branch is directed backwards to the skin over the mastoid j)rocess, where it joins the posterior aivricular In-anch of the facial nerve. The superficial cervical nerve (fig. 205, '■*) arises from the cervical plexus in common with the preceding, and turns forward round the sterno-mastoid muscle aliout the middle. Afterwards it pierces the fascia, and ramifies over the anterior triangle. There may be more than one branch to represent this nerve. The descending set of branches (fig. 210) are derived from the third and fourth nerves of the plexus, and are directed towards the clavicle over the lower part of the triangular sjiace. Their number is somewhat uncertain, but usually there are about three near the clavicle. The most internal branch (sternal) crosses the clavicle near its inner end; the middle branch {clavicular) lies about the middle of