DISSKCTION OK TllK SUBMAXILLARY REGION. 620 luoniiil it ; Dissection to deliicli mylo-liyi.)i(I. Tu see deep muscles saw the jaw, fasten touyiie, and cut mucous membrane. Dedne nerves, tlic iipposile side, in ii iiiwliiui riiiilu; beUveen llu; liyoid Ijonc mid t liu Jaw. On tli(i cutanemi.s suilacu lie the autenor helly of llie digastric niuscleand Hit; subniaxillaiy gland, the facial artery with its subnientid offset, and the mylo hyoid nerve and artery. Tlie fibres of llie muscle are frec^ueiitly defic-ieut near the jaw, and allow the genio- hyoid to be seen. Only the posterior border is unattaclied, and round it a piece of the submaxillary gland winds. The parts in contact with the deep stirface of the muscle will be shown alter the undermentioned dissection has been made. Actiun. The niylo-hyoid assists the digastric and genio-hyoid in depressing the lower jaw or in elevating the hyoid lione ; but its principal action is to raise the floor of the mouth and press the tongue against the palate, as in the first stage of deglutition. Dissection. To bring into view the muscles beneath the mylo- hyoid, and to trace the vessels and nerves to the suljstance of the tongue, the .student should first divide the facial vessels on the jaw, and remove lliein with the superficial part of the subma.viilary glaml; but he should be careful to leave the deep part of the gland which turns beneath the raylo-hyoid, because the small submaxillary ganglion is in contact with it. Ne.xt he should cut through the small branches of vessels and nerve on the surface of the mylo- hyoid ; and delaching that muscle from the jaw, .should turn it down (as in fig. 224, p. 624), but without injuring the geiiio-hyoid muscle beneath it. Ai'terwards the bone is to be sawn through at the symphysis, with- out injuring the muscles beneath it, the soft parts covering the jaw having been first cut. The loose ramus of the jaw (for it has been sawn in the dissection of the pterygoid region) is to be raised to see the parts beneath, and it may be fastened u]3 with a stitch ; but it should not be detached from the mucous membrane of the mouth. The ajje.v of the tongue is now to be well pulled out of the mouth over the upper teeth, and fastened with a stitch to the .septum of the nose, and the scalpel should be passed from below upwards between the sawn surfaces of the bone, for the purpose of dividing a strong band of the mucous membrane of the mouth ; and it should be carried onwards along the middle line of the tongue to the tij). By means of a stitch the hyoid bone may be histened down, to make tight the muscular fibres. All the fat and areolar tissue cover- ing the parts under cover of thejaw are to be removed, and in doing this the student is to take care of the WharUmian duct, of the hypo- gh)ssal nerve and its branches, wh'ich lie on the hypo-glossus muscle, and especially of its small offset ascending to the stylo-glossus muscle ; also of the lingual nerve nearer thejaw. Between the lingual nerve and the deep part of the subnuixillary gland the dissector .should seek the small submaxillary ganglion with its oUsets ; and he .should endeavour to separate from tlie trunk ol the lingual the small chonhi tym])ani nerve, and to define the oifset from it to iho sub- ma.xillary ganglion.