DISSECTION OF THE PHARYNX. 662 on left, palato- pliaryiigeus, azygos UVUliE, and iialiito- kIossus. Aponeurosis of palate. Nine mns- cles in it. Elevator muscle ari.ses outside pharynx, and is lost in velum; relations. tensor, are very plain. These have already Ijcen partly dissected ; but to loUow tlieni to tlieir termination, let tlie upper attachment of llie pharynx ov the right side, and the part of the superior constrictor which arises from the internal pterygoid ])late he cut through. The levator will he fully laid hare hy the removal of the mucous mem- brane and a few muscular fibres covering its lower end. The tendon of the tensor pilati should be followed round the hamular process of the internal pterygoid plate ; and its situation in the palate beneath the levator should be made evident. The position of the Eustachian tube with respect to those muscles should also be ascertained. 0?i. the left side, the mucous membrane is to be raised with great care from the posterior surface of the soft palate, to obtain a view of the superficial muscular fibres. Immeiliately beneath the mucous covering are some fine transverse fibres of the palato-pharyngeus muscle ; and beneath them, close to the middle line, are the longi- tudinal fibres of the azygos uvulre. A slender muscular bundle contained in the ridge of mucous membrane descending from the extremity of the Eustachian tube is to be exposed and traced to its junction with the palato-pharyngeus. On the right side, a deeper set of fibres of the palato-pharyngeus is to be followed beneath the levator and azj'gos muscles. The mucous membrane should next be removed from the muscular fibres contained in the arches of the palate, and the muscle fibres should be followed upwards and downwards. In order to see those in the anterior fold, it will be necessary to take the membrane away from the anterior surface of the palate. If the part is not tolerably fresh, some of the paler fibres may not be visible. A2Mneurosis of the soft imlate. Giving strength to the velum is a thin but firm aponeurosis, which is attached to the hard palate. This membrane becomes thinner as it descends in the velum ; and it is Joined by the tendon of the tensor palati muscle. The MUSCLES OF THE SOFT PALATE are, on each side, an elevator and tensor, which descend from the skull, with the palato-glossus and palato-pharyngeus, which act as depressors, aud a small median azygos muscle. The LEVATOR PALATI (fig. 233, A ; 234, is a thick roundish muscle which is partly situate outside the pharynx. It arises from the under surface of the petrous portion of the temporal bone close in front of the carotid foramen, and from tiie lower border of the adjacent cartilaginous part of the Eustachian lube. Entering the pharynx above the superior constrictor, the fibres of tlie nuiscle spread out in the soft palate, where they join along the middle line with tho.se of the nuiscle of the opposite side. The belly of the muscle rests against the lower border of the Eustachian tube ; and the expanded part is embraced by two layers of fibres of the jialato-pharyngeus (4). Action. It raises the soft palate from the tongue, so as to enlarge the fauces ; and by bringing the hinder part of the velum into