364 Surfaces. Anterior of riglit kidney, DISSECTION OP THE ABDOMEN. Their anterior surfaces look somewhat outwards, and are more convex than the posterior, which, latter, look partly inwards and are moulded on the posterior abdominal wall. In well-preserved specimens the anterior surfaces are distinctly facetted by the pressure of the overlying viscera; the distinctness of the ridges indicating the extent of the moulding that the kidney has undergone. Tlie position of the overlying parts has already been studied, and the extent of tlie contact with the subjacent kidneys is diagraramati- cally shown in the accompanying figure (135). A large part of tlie anterior surface of the right kidney is in contact with the liver, and its limit below and internally is usually defined by a well-marked ridge. The whole of this surface is covered by peritoneum except at the upper and inner angle, where the suprarenal body overlaps the kidney. The lower end of the kidney usually presents a well-defined surface looking downwards of left kidney. Posterior surfaces. Right Kidnev. Fio, Left Kidnky. 135.—Diagram of the Rklations of the Anterior and Octkr asi'kcts of the kidneys. I.V.C. marks the surface in contact with the vena cava. and forwards, where it is impressed by the ascending colon. The duodenum lies, to a variable extent, over the inner part. The spleen above and the descending colon below usually give rise to distinct impressions on the outer margin of the left kidney; tlie suimarenal body, along tlie inner border above, reaches down as far as the liilum ; the pancreas extends across in front of the hilum us far as the splenic impression, and a small part of the anterior surface of the kidney above this is usmilly in contact with the stomach. The lower half of the anterior surface below the pancreas presenlfi a large surface, upon which lie coils of the jejunum. The POSTERIOR SURFACE of eacli kidney presents an inner area, where it lies against the psoas muscle and the cms of the diaphragm as these parts clotlie the sides of the bodies of the vertebra;, and an