STRUCTDRE OF OVARY. 423 accompanies it in the inguinal canal, and remains pervious sometimes for a short distance. The ligament is composed of unstriated muscular fibres, derived how formed, from the uterus, together with vessels and areolar tissue. OVARIES AND FALLOPIAN TUBES. Ovary : position; form and colour; dimensions and weight. Connec- tions. Ovary (fig. 156, h). The ovaries are two bodies, corresponding with the testes of the male. They are contained in the broad liga- ments of the uterus, one in each. Each ovary is of an oval form, and somewhat compressed in one direction. It is of a whitish colour, with either a smooth or a scarred surface. Its volume is varialde ; but in the virgin state it is about one inch and a half in length, half as much in width, and a third of an inch in thickness. Its weight varies from one to two drachms. The ovary is placed at the back of the broad ligament, and is attached to that membrane by one margin, where the vessels enter the organ at the liilum. The other margin and both surfaces are free. One end (the upper in the natural position) is rounded, and is connected with one of the fimbria) {g) at the mouth of the Fallopian tube. The o^jposite extremity is narrowed, and is fixed to the side of the uterus by a fibrous cord,—the ligament of the ovary (t), below the level of the Fallopian tube and round ligament. Structure. The ovary consists of a stroma enclosing small sacs named Graafian v&sicles, which con- bvin the ova, and the whole is surrounded by a fibrous tunic. The peritoneum invests it except at the attached margin. The fibrous coat is continuous with the contained stroma. Some- times a yellow spot (corjjus luteum), or some cicatrices, may be seen in this covering. Stroma (fig. 157), The substance of the ovary is spongy, vascu- stroma; lar, and fibrous. At the centre the fibres radiate from the hilum towards the circumference. But at the exterior is a granular material (cortical layer) which contains very many small follicles, about T^th of an inch in size—the nascent Graafian vesicles. The Graafian vesicles or ovisacs (fig. 157) are round and transparent sacs, containing fluid, and scattered through the stroma of the ovary below the corliciil layer. During the child-bearing period some are larger than the rest (a) ; and of this larger set ten to tliirty, or more, may be counted at the same time, which vary in size from a pin's head to a small pea. The largest are situate at the Fia. 157.—Ovary during the CiiiLD-BKARiNa Period Laid Ope.s (Faure). a. Graafian vesicles in different stages of growth. b. Plicated body remaining after the escape of the ovum. Structure a fibrous coat; Graafian vesicles, number and size.