790 CHAPTER XT. DISSECTION OF THE EYE. Situation of the eyeball; suiTomidinK slieath. Parts in front of it. The disseo- tion to be made on the eye of the ox. Detach the miiPclp.s. Form of the ball. Position of optic nerve. Diameter. Composi- tion ; number of coats, and central parts. Dissection. The ej'eball is the organ of vision, and is lodged in the orbit. Sitpported in that hollow on a mass of fat, it is surrounded by muscles which imjjart movement to it; and a thin membrane (tunica vaginalis oculi or cajjsvJc of Tenon) isolates the liall, so a.'' to allow free movement. Two lids jirotect the eye from external injury, and regulate the amoimt of light admitted into the interior ; and the anterior or exposed surface is covered by a mucous membrane {conjunctim). Directions. In the absence of specimens of the human eye, the structure may be learnt on the eye of the pig or ox. Let the student procure half a dozen eyes of the ox for the purpose of dissection. One or two shallow basins will be needed ; and some wax or tallow in the bottom of one, or in a deep plate, will be useful. Dissection. To see the general form of the ball of the eye, and the outer surface of the external coat, the attachments of the different muscles are to be taken away ; and the loose mucous membrane is to be removed from the front. The hall of the eye (fig. 288) consists of two parts, which differ in appearance, viz., an opaque white posterior portion (sclerotic), form- ing about five-sixths of the whole, and a smaller tran-sparent piece (cornea) in front; these two parts are segments of different sized spheres, the anterior belonging to the smaller spliL-re. To the back of the eye the optic nerve is attached, rather to the inner side of the axis of the ball ; and around it ciliary ve.ssels and nerves enter. The antero-posterior diauieter of the ball amounts to nearly an inch (i^ths), but the transverse measures an inch. i The organ of \ ision is composed of central transparent parts, with enclosing memln-anes or coal.s. The coats, placed one within another, are named sclerotic, choroid, and retina. The transparent media in the interior are lilcewise three, viz., the lens, the aqueous humour, and the vitreous body. Dissection. To obt.ain a general idea of the structures to be di.«secto(l, the student may destroy one eyeball by cutting through it circularly ; he will then be able to recognise the arrangement of the parts inentioued above, with their strength and appearance, and will be better ]ire]iared to follow the directions that ai-e after- wards given.