DISSECTION OF THE BACK. 530 thoy divide into two except llrst. External branches are small. Internal branches: some give cutaneous oflsets. Second ascends to head. Third supplies neck and head, First ae.rve ends in muscles. Dorsal nerves. Outer branches to erector spiuoi: lower ones become cutaneous. Inner branche.' to transverso- spinales: upper ones reach surface. arches of the atlas and axis, ajipear above those arches. AH, except the first, divide into internal and external branches. The external branches are vei-y small, and end in the splenitis, and iu the muscles prolonged from the erector spinae. The internal branches (fig. 192) are larger than the external ; they are directed towards the spinous processes, the lower three jiassing beneath the semispinalis, and the upper four over that muscle. By the side of the spines cutaneous branches are furnished to the neck and the head from the nerves that are superficial to the semispinalis : these cutaneous offsets ascend to the surface through the splenius, the complexus, and the trapezius muscles, and are distributed as already seen (p. 520). In their course the nerves supply the surrounding muscles, viz., complexus, semispinalis, multiiidus spinse, and interspinales. The cutaneous branches of the second and third nerves reach the head, and require a separate notice. That of the second nerve (fig. 192,2) named greai occipital, appears beneath the inferior oblique muscle, to which it gives offsets, and is directed upwards through the complexus and trapezius to end over the occipiut (p. 506). The branch of the third nerve (fig. 192,^), becoming superficial near the middle line, gives an ofl'set upwards to the lower part of the occiput, internal to the preceding. This nerve usually joins the great occipital twice, viz., beneath the complexus and superficial to the trapezius. The posterior primary division of the suboccijntal or first spinal nerve (fig. 192,i) is very short, and appears in the interval between the recti and obliqui muscles. In passing from the spinal canal it is placed between the posterior arch of the atlas and the vertebral artery. From its extremity branches radiate to the surrounding muscles, viz., one to the upper part of the complexus, another to the rectus posticus major and minor, and two short branches to the obliquus superior and inferior: the offset to the last muscle joins the inner branch of the second cervical nerve. Occasionally the first nerve gives a cutaneous branch to the occiput. In the dorsal begion. The posterior primary divisions of the dorsal nerves, twelve iu number, appear between the transverse processes, and bifurcate into internal and external branches. The external branches increase in size from above doA\nwards, and pass beneath the longissimus dorsi to the interval between that muscle and the ilio-costalis, distributing ofl'sets to the several divisions of the erector spinae. The branches of the npjyer si,v or seven nerves end in these muscles ; but the lower five or sir, after reaching the interval between the longissimus and ilio-costalis, are continued to the surface through the serratus and latissiuius muscles, nearly in a line with the angles of the ribs. The internal branches are larger above than below, and sui)ply the tiansverso-.spinales muscles. The upper six or seven are directed inwards between the semispinalis and multifidus spinse, and become cutaneous by the side of the spinous processes, after perforating the