37 LIGAMENTS OP SCAPULA. the hinder half, and above to the line on the under-surface of tlie clavicle, which extends outwards from the tubercle before mi;ntioned. The two pieces of the ligament are in apposition behind, but are usually separated by an interval in front. Use. Both pieces of the ligament support the scapula in a state Use of liga- of rest. They serve also to restrain the rotator}' movements of that bone; thus, when the acromion is rotated down, the motion is checked by the trapezoid band, and when upwards the conoid piece. AcROMio-CLAVicuLAR ARTICULATION. The articular surfaces of Joint with the clavicle and acromion process of the scajjula are connected' together by a capsule, which is thick above (superior ligament), but capsule, very thin below. An interarticular fibro-cartilage is sometimes present at the upper libro-carti- part of the joint; and occasionally it forms a complete septum. If the fibro-cartilage is perfect, there are two synovial cavities in the and .synovial joint; if it is imperfect, there is only one. The joint should be opened to see the cartilage and the synovial sac. Movements. This articulation allows the scapula to change its Use of position in relation to the clavicle when the former bone is moved, either in gliding over the surface of the thorax, or in being rotated with the elevation and depression of the arm. Scapular Ligaments. The special liyaments of the scapula are Ligaments two in number, and extend fronr one point of the bone to another. °^ scapula. 1. The SUPRASCAPULAR LIGAMENT (■*) is a narrow band stretching supra- acro.ss the notch in the uisper border of the bone. By one end it is ^"'P''''"^' attached to the base of the coracoid process, and by the other to the^ \bcm LiiP border behind the notch. It converts the notch into a foramen, through which the suprascapular nerve passes. 2. The CORACO-ACROMIAL ligament (") is triangular in form, and coraco- extends transversely between the acromion and the coracoid process. ' Externally it is inserted by its apex into the tip of the acromion ; and internally, where it is much wider, it is attached to aU the outer border of the coracoid process, reaching backwards to the capsule of the shoulder-joint. The ligament consists usually of two lonned of thickened bands, anterior and posterior, with a thinner intervening' part. It forms part of an arch above the shoulder-joint, which pre- use. vents the head of the humerus being displaced upwards. Dissection. The supra-splnatus muscle should now be laid bare, Dissection, the acromion process sawn through, and turned aside with the outer end of the clavicle. A strong fascia will be seen to cover the sur- face of the supraspinatus muscle, and is to be taken away after it has been observed. The SUPRASPINATUS MUSCLE (fig. 13, a) has the same form as the Supraspina- hollow of the bone which it fills. It arises from the surface of the supraspinous fossa of the scapula, except over the neck, from the o"S'n; upper side of the spine of the bone, and from the fascia covering its surface. Its fibres end in a tendon, which crosses over the shoulder-joint, and is inserted into the upper impression on the insertion; great tuberosity of the humerus.