322 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. at the attached side where the vessels enter: at this spot the peri- toneum is reflected off to foiTa the mesentery, and a space exists between the serous layers like that at the borders of the stomach. The muscular coat is constructed of two sets of fibres, a superficial, longitudinal, and a deep, circular. The fibres are pale in colour, and are not striated. longitudinal The longitudinal fibres form a thin covering, which is most marked at the free border of the gut. The circular fibres are much more distinct than the others, and give the chief strength to the muscular coat. These circular fibres are best exposed by again turning the specimen and stripping off the mucous membrane and the subjacent submucous tissue in one piece. Dissection. The long length of small intestine should now be opened to show the mucous coat, but the gut should be cut along the nearly complete. Muscnlar coat is foi nieil by a and a cir- cular layer. Show mu- cous coat. JIucous coat: thickness ; folds ; villous surface, and glands. Valvulsc conni- ventes; form ; size and depth ; how formed B B.'A "SoLiTAKr Gland " OP THE Small Intes- tine, ALSO KNLARGED, COVERED BY VlLLI (Boehm). Fio. 118.—A. A Piece of Mucous Membrane enlarged, with its Villi AND Tubules. Part of a Peter's Patch is also repkesented with the Follicles (a), each having a EiNG OP Tubes at the Circum- ferenob. line of attachment of the mesentery, so as to avoid Peyer's gland."; on the opposite side. Mucous coat. Tlie lining membrane is thicker and more vascular at the beginning than at the ending of the small intestine. It is marked by numerous prominent folds (valvulm conniventes); and the surface of the membrane is covered with small processes (villi) like the jjile of velvet. Occupying the substance of the mucous coat are numerous glands. The valvular conniventes are permanent ridges of the mucous membrane, M'hich are arranged circularlj- in the intestine and project into the cavity of the tube. Crescentic in form, they extend round the intestine for half or two-thirds of its circum- ference, and some end in bifurcated extremities. Larger and smaller folds are met with, sometimes alternating; and the larger are about two inches long, and one-third of an inch in depth towards the centre. Each is formed of a doubling of the mucous membrane, which encloses a prolongation of the submucous coat, with vessels between the layers.