650 DISSECTION OF THE ORBIT. insei'tiou. Between heads of outer rectus. Use of all; inner and outer, upper and lower, and two ad,jacent. Common tendinous origin of the recti. Dissect inferior oblique. Lower oblique muscle: ongin ; course; insertion ; relations. Ar.tlon of oblique muBclcs: alone, between the two lieads. All the muscles are directed forwards, the lower ones also obliquely outwards, and have a tendinous insertion into the ball of the eye about a ([uarter of an inch from the cornea, and in front of the greate.st transverse diameter of tlie ball. Between the heads of origin of the external rectus, the different nerves before mentioned are transmitted into the orbit, viz., the third, the nasal branch of the fifth, and the sixth, together with the ophthalmic veins. Action. The four recti muscles are attached to the eyeball at opposite sides in front of the greatest transverse diameter and are able to turn the j)upil in opposite directions. The inner and the outer muscles move the ball liorizontally around a vertical axis, the former directing the pupil towards the nose and the latter towards the temple. The dipper and lower recti elevate and depress respectively the fore part of the ball around a transverse axis; but as the muscles are directed obliquely outwards, the upper muscle turns the pupil upwards and inwards, and the lower muscle turns it downwards and inwards. By the simultaneous action of two adjacent recti, the ball will be moved to a point intermediate to that to which it would be directed by either muscle singly. Dissection. By opening the optic foramen, the attachment of the recti muscles will be more fully laid bare, and they will be seen to arise from a tendinous ring which passes above, outside and inside the optic foramen, and bridges across the sphenoidal fissure from below the inner and outer sides of the foramen, the two fibrous bands meeting below at a small spicule of bone on the iipper margin of the great wing of the splienoid. To dissect out the inferior oblique muscle, let the eyeball be replaced in its natural position ; then by seijaratiiig from the facial aspect the lower eyelid from the margin of the orbit, and removing some fat, the muscle will appear beneath the eyeball arching from the inner to the outer side : if the external tarsal ligament be divided, it may be followed upwards to its insertion into the ball. The INFERIOR OBLIQUE MUSCLE (fig. 230, h) is placed near the anterior margin of the orbit, and differs from the other muscles in being directed across, instead of parallel to the axis of the orbit. It arises from the superior maxillary bone immediately outside the opening of the nasal duct. From this spot the muscle passes owt- wards between the inferior rectus and the bone and then between the eyeball and the external rectus, to be inserted into the sclerotic coat between the outer and upjier recti. The borders of the muscle look forwards and backwards, and the posterior receives its branch of the third nerve. The insertion of the tendon is near that of the superior obli(iue muscle, but rather closer to the optic nerve. Action of the oblique mmcles. Tlie superior obli((ue acting alone would draw the hack of the eyeball upwards and inwards, and