s\r, DI15SECTI0N OF THE EAE. termination by live openiuKS; one end dilated ; form and size ; they are named superior vertical, posterior vertical, hy the ampulla, wtile inner is joined wth the Tibrous membrane lines the labyrinth. and contains a flnid. Cochlea: dissection for it in dry the contiguous ends of two are blended together so as to give only- five openings into that cavity. Each is marked Ijy one dilated extremity, called the ampulla. When a tube is cut across it is not circular, but is compressed laterally, and measures about -^th of an inch, though in the ampulla the size is as large ngain. From a difference in the direction of the tubes, they have been named superior vertical, posterior vertical, and horizonttil. The superior vertical canal (a) crosses the upper liorder of the petrous part of the temporal Ijone, and forms a projection on the surface. Its outer end is marked the following. Tlie posterior vertical canal(b) is directed backwards from its junction with the preceding towards the posterior surface of the temj)oral bone ; it is the longest of all, and has its ampulla at the lower end. The horizontal canal (c) has sej)arate apertures, and is the shortest of the three. Deeper in position than the superior vertical, it lies in the substance of the bone nearly on a level with the fenestra ovaUs ; its dilated end is at the outer side close above that aperture. Lining memhram of the osseous labyrinth. A thin fibrous peri- osteal membrane lines the vesti- bule and the semicircular canals, and is continuous with the fibrous process in the aqueduct of the vestibule. On the outer wall of the ca^dty it stretches over the fenestra ovalis ; and in front it is prolonged into the cochlea through the aperture of the scali vestibuli (fig. 301, g). The space between the periosteum and the membranous labyrinth is occupied by a thin fluid—liquor Cotunnii or perilymph, which also fills the scaloe of the cochlea. Cochlea. This part of the osseous labyrinth has a position anterior to the vestibule, and has received its name from its resemblance to a spiral shell. Dissection. To obtfiin a view of the cochlea it will be needful to cut or file away the lione between the promontory of the tympanum and the internal auditory canal on the prejiaration before used for displaying the vestibule ; or this section may be made on another temporal bone in which the semicii-cular canals are not laid bare. Fio. 302.—Representation op the Semioircular Canals, enlarged. and of the two a. Upper vertical. b. Posterior vertical c. Horizontal canal. d. Common opening vertical canals. e. Part of the vestibular cavity. /. Opening of the aqueduct of the vestibule.