CONTENTS OF THE ANTERIOR TRIANGULAR SPACK. S81 Dissection. To .lefiue the anterior triangular space an.l it« Oij-c^^^^^^^^ contents, take away the deep fascia of the neck and the suhjacent t,i„„gie. fat, but withont injuring or displacing tlie several parts. First clean the surface of the muscles below the hyoid bone, leaving untouched the anterior jugular vein. The trunks into which the large carotid artery bifurcates are to be followed upwards, especially the more superticial one (external carotid), the branches of which are to be traced as far as they lie in the space. lu removing the sheath from the vessels, as they appear from beneath the muscles at the lower part of the neck, the «;;;*J;j"!5i- di.ssector should be careful of tlie small descending branch ot the hypoglo.ssal nerve on the surface of the artery. In the sheath between the vessels (carotid artery and internal jugular vein) will be found the pneiimogastric nerve, and behind the sheath lies the svmpathetic nerve. ' Clean the digastric and stylo-hyoid muscles, which cross the '^;>;;,^^.^,.^^ space in the direction of a line from the mastoid process to the nerves, hyoid bone (fig. 209, p. 573), and. beneath them look for several nerves. Thus, crossing the carotid arteries just below the digastric is the hypoglossal nerve, which gives off its descending branch in front of the artery, and further forwards a smaller offset to the thyro-hyoid muscle. Under coyer of the muscles, and taking a similar direction between tifff two carotid arteries, are the glosso- pharyngeal nerve and the'. stylo-pharyngeus muscle. Directed HpimU^^^ downwards and backwards front beneath the same muscles to the ' sterno-nuustoid is the spinal accessory nerve. On the inner side of the vessels, between the hyoid bone and J^'^l^;!*!™' the thyroid cartilage, the dissector will find the superior laryngeal nerve ; and by the side of the laryn.x, with the descending part of the superior thyroid artery, the small external laryngeal branch. Clean then the submaxillary gland close to the )ja.se of the jaw ; CMran^^Uiml, and on partly displacing it from the surface of the mylo-hyoid t,';'',„yio. muscle, the student will e.xpose the small branch of nerve to that ''yoW. muscle with the submental branch of the facial artery. The interval between the jaw and the mastoid process has been already cleaned by the removal of the parotid gland in the dissection of the facial nerve. Limits of the space (fig. 211). Behind, is the sterno-mastoid lioun.lui-ies. muscle ; and in front, the boundary is formed by a line from the chin to the sternum, along the middle of the neck. Above, at the base of the space, are the lower jaw, the skull, and the ear; and below, at the apex, is the sternum. Over this space are placed the skin, the superficial fascia with the platysnia, the deep fascia, and the ramifications of the facial and superficial cervical nerves, together with the anterior jugular vein. Muscles in the svace. In the area of the triangular interval, as Conients c.f it is above defined, are seen the larynx and pharynx in part, ami many mascles converging towards the hyoid bone, some being above and .some below il. Below are the depressors of that bone, viz., onio-hyoid, sterno-hyoid, and sterno-thyro-hyoid (~ to ') ; and aliove