DISSECTION OF THE POPLITEAL SPACE. 12fi supBrticial imd deep boiiiidaries ; gi-eatest width and deptli; contents. Popltieal artery: extent; only a small part in .space The part in the ham: course and relations; Stretclied over the cavity are the fa.scia lata and the integuments. In the deep boundary, or the floor, are the following structures :— the surface on the back of the femur included between the supra- condylar (popliteal surface), the posterior ligament of the knee- joint, and part of the popliteus nuiscle wdth the upper end of the tibia (fig. 52, p. 128). The popliteal space is widest and deepest inmiediiitely above the iemoral condyles. (Above and below it communicates, beneath the muscles, with the back of the thigh and leg.) In the hollow are contained the popliteal vessels wdth their l)ranches, and the ending of the external saphenous vein ; the pop- liteal trunks of the great .sciatic nerve, and some of their branches ; together with lymphatic glands, and a large quantity of fat. The small sciatic nerve and its vessels are placed superficially in the ham ; and a branch of the obtu- rator ■ nerve lies on the artery in fne bottom of the space. The POPLITEAL ARTERY (fig. 51«, andfig. 52)is the continuation ofthe superficial femoral,and reaches fi-om the opening in the adductor mag- nus to the lower border of the pop- liteus muscle, where it terminates by bifurcating into the anterior and posterior tibial arteries. A portion of the artery lies in the jjopliteal space, and is not covered by muscle ; but both above and below, it is concealed by the muscles bounding the hollow. The description of the artery may be conveniently divided into two |)arts—one reaching to the lower limit of the ham, and tlie other being beneath the gastrocnemius. As far as tlm hum the vessel is inclined obliquely from the inner side of the Mm)) to the interval between the condyles of the femur, and is then directed along the middle of the sjiace over the knee-joint. The ark^ry is overlain by tile belly of the semimembranosus muscle to within an inch of the internal condyle ; but thence onwards it is situate Ijetween Fig. 51.—View op the Poplitkal Space (Quain's Arteries). 1. Popliteal vessels. 2. Internal popliteal nerve. 3. External popliteal nerve. 4. Semimembranosus muscle. 5. Semitendinosus muscle. 6. Biceps muscle. 7. 8. Inner and outer beads of the gastrocnemius muscle. Tbc super- ficial vein on the gastrocnemius is tbe sbort sajjbenous, which enters the popliteal.