DISSECTION OP THE PKRINEUM. 246 Two siipiT- liciiU jjeri- neal: exlenial and iiilerual; distributed to scrotum and penis. Muscular branches. Inferior pudendal nerve ends in scrotum. Dissection of muscles of the urethra and penis, and of their nerves. Three muscles over tri- angular ligament. Central point, where muscles join. Erector penis: origin ; insertion : The supjiUFiciAL pekine.^l nekvks, two iu number, are naiuL-d external and internal: both arise in the ischio-rectal fossa from the perineal division of the pndic nerve (p. 242). TJie external branch is continued forwards, beneath the super- ficial fascia, with the artery of the same name to the back of the scrotum. While in the fossa the nerve gives inwards an offset to the integuments in front of the anus ; and this communicates with the inferior hremorrlioidal nerve. The internal branch passes under the transverse muscle, and accompanies the other to the scrotum. The snperficial perineal branches communicate with one another, and the external is joined by the inferior pudendal nerve. At the scrotum they are distributed by long slender filaments, wliich reach as far as the under sm'face of tlie penis. Other muscular branches of the perineal nerve will be afterwards examined (p. 248). The INFERIOR OR LONG PUDENDAL NERVE Is a branch of the small sciatic. It pierces the fascia lata about one incli in front of tlie ischial tuberosity, and enters beneath the superficial fascia of the perineum, to end in the outer and fore parts of the scrotum. Commimications take place between this nerve, the inferior hsemorrhoidal, and the outer of the two .superficial perineal branches. Dissection, ^or the display of the muscles, the superficial fascia, as well as the vessels and nerves of the left side, must be taken away from the anterior half of the perineal space. Afterwards a thin aponeurotic layer is to be removed from the surface of the muscles. Over the middle line lies the ejaculator urinae, or hulho- cavernosus ; along the outer edge of the space is the erector penis, or ischio-cavernosus ; and behind, passing obliquely between the other two, is the transverse muscle. On the right side the student should seek the branches of the perineal nerve to the muscles. Muscles (figs. 92 and 93). Superficial to the triangular ligament, in the anterior half of the perineal space, are tlie tliree muscles, viz., the erector penis, the ejaculator urinaj, and the transversus periuei. Another muscle of the urethra is contained between the layers of the triangular ligament, and will be subsequently seen. Central point of the perineum. Between the urethra and the rec- tum is a small transverse tendinous septum, to the centre of which this name has been applied. It is placed about one inch in front of the anus, and in it the muscles acting on the rectum and urethra are united. Its development varies' greatly in difl'erent bodies. The ERECTOR I'ENis (ischio-cavemosus) is the most external of the three muscles, and is narrower at each end t han in the middle. It covers the crus penis : and its fibres arise from tlie ischial tuberosity farther back tlian the attachment of the penis, and from the bone on each Bide of the crus (p. 251). In front, the muscle is inserted into an