DISSECTION OF THE LARYNX. 700 Arytenoid cartilages : situation and form ; base: apex; surfaces, internal, anterior or extenial, and posterior. Fibrccarti- lages of Santorini. Fibro-carti- lages of Wrisberg. Epiglottis fonn and position ; surfaces, anterior, the Lroad part of tlie cartilage is slightly excavated in the middle, and is limited on each side by a convex articular facet lor the arytenoid cartilage, which slopes downwards and outwards. In front of that spot, the border descends rapidly as it passes forwards to the middle line. The two ARYTENOID CAETiLAGES (c) are placed one on each side at the back of the larynx, on the upper border of the cricoid carti- lage. Each is pyramidal in shape, is about half an inch in depth, and offers for examination a base and apex, and three surfaces. The base has the form of an elongated triangle, with one of the angles (the postero-internal) rounded off. Its anterior extremity is thin and tapering, and gives attachment to the inferior thyro- arytenoid ligament, whence it is named the weal process. The external angle is thick, and projects backwards and outwards, form- ing the muscular process, into which the crico-arytenoid muscles are inserted. On the under aspect of the muscular process is an oval, concave articular facet, sloped downwards and outwards, for the cricoid cartilage. The apex of the cartilage is directed backwards, and is surmounted by the cartilage of Santorini. The inner surface is narrow, especially above, and flat; and it is covered by the mucous membrane. The anterior or outer surface is the largest and irregular, being convex above and concave below. It is marked near the upper end by a tubercle, and lower down, at the junction of the middle and lower thirds, by an oblique ridge. This surface gives attachment to the superior thyro-arytenoid liga- ment and the thyro-arytenoid muscle. At its posterior aspect the cartilage is concave and smooth, being covered by the arytenoid muscle. Cartilages of Santorini, cornicula or capitula laryngis. At- tached to the apex of each arytenoid cartUage is the small, conical fibro-cartilage of Santorini, which is inclined backwards and inwards. The aryteno-epiglottidean fold is connected with it. Cdneiform cartilages. Two other small fibro-cartilaginous bodies, one on each side, which are contained in the aryteno- epiglottidean folds, have received tliis name. Each is somewhat elongated in form, like a grain of rice ; it is situate obliquely in front of the capitulum of the arytenoid cartilage, and its place in the fold of the mucous membrane is marked by a slight whitish projection. These cartilages are often absent. The epiglottis (iig. 248, a) is single, and is the largest of the pieces of yellow hbro-cartilage. In form it resembles an ovale leaf, with the stalk below and the blade above. Its position is behind the tongue and in front of the orifice of the larynx. During respiration it is phice.l vertically ; but during deglutition it t^ikes an oblique direction over the opening of the larynx. The anterior surface is covered in its upper part by mucous membrane, wliicli forms the three glosso-epiglottidean folds (p. 687) between it and the tongue ; its lower part is attached to the hyoid bone by fatty tissue containing glands, and by the hyo-epigloltidean