70 DISSECTION OF THE HAND. digital vessels and nerves; and expose digital sheaths. Cutaneous palmar nerves, one from median, the other from ulnar. Palraaris breris is a cutaneous muscle; Palmar fascia. Its central part ends in a piece for each finger, and in the skin. Dissection. Depp ending of the jileceH of fascia. from the palmar fa,9cia he will recognise, opposite the clefts between the lingers, the digital vessels and nerves, and must be especially careful of two, viz., those of the inner side of the little finger and outer side of the index finger, which appear higher up in the hand than the rest, and are more likely to be injured. By the side of the vessels and nerves to the fingers four slender lumbricales muscles are to be exposed. Lastly, the skin and the fat may be reflected from the thumb and fingers by an incision along each, in order that the sheaths of the tendons with the collateral vessels and nerves may be laid liare. Cutaneous palmar nerves. Small twigs are furnished to the integu- ment from both the median and ulnar nerves in the hand ; and two branches descend from the forearm. One is the offset of the median nerve (p. 67) which crosses the annular ligament; it extends to about the middle of the palm, and is united with the palmar branch of the ulnar ; a few filaments are furnished to the ball of the thumb. The other palmar branch is derived from the ulnar nerve (p. 66), and has been traced on the ulnar artery to the hand ; it is distributed to the upper and inner part of the palm. The PALMARis BREVis (fig. 2^, h) is a Small flat muscle, about an inch and a half wide, tlie fibres of which are collected into separate bundles. It arises from the palmar aponeurosis, and its fibres are directed transversely to their insertion into the skin at the inner border of the hand. This muscle lies over the ulnar vessels and nerve. After it has been examined it may be thrown inwards with the skin. Action. It draws outwards and wrinkles the skin of the inner side of the palm. The PALMAR TASCIA or aponeurosis consists of a central and two lateral parts ; but the lateral, which cover the muscles of the thumb and little finger, are so thin as not to require a special notice. The central part is a strong, white layer, which is ijointe.d at the wrist, but expanded towards the fingers, where it nearly covers the palm of the hand. Above, the fascia receives the tendon of the palmaris longus, and is connected to the annular ligament; and below, it ends in four processes, which are continued downward.'^, one for each finger, to the sheaths of the tendons. At the point of separation of the pieces from one another some transverse filjres are l^laced, which arch over the luml)ricalis muscle and the digital vessels and nerve appearing at this spot. From the pieces of the fascia a few superficial longitudinal fibres are prolonged to the integument near the cleft of the fingers. Dissection. Now follow one of the digital processes of the fascia to its termination. First remove ihe superficial fil.re.s, and then divide the process longitudinally by inserting the knii'e beneath it opposite the head of the metacarpal bone. Ending of the jirocesses. Each process of the fa.'?cia sends back- wards an offset on each side of the tendons, wliich is fixed to the