THE BASK OF THE BRAIN. 725 on the under surface, tlie memljrane bnundinf,' tlie opening,' inti) tlie fourth ventricle will he taken away : therefore the position, size, and limits of that opening between the back of the medulla obhnifjata and the cerebellum should be now noted (p. 781). When the surface has been cleaned, the brain is to be reiilaced in Repiacn in the formalin liquid, but it is to be turned over occasionally, so that all the parts may be hardened. A little additional formalin may be added from time to time to maintain the strength of the solution. The remaining Sections on the brain will be taken after tlie dissection of the bead and neck is completed. Section II. GENERAL SURVEY OF THE BASE AND THE ORIGIN OF THE CRANIAL NERVES. Directions. Now that the student enters upon the systematic Transfer dissection of the brain he is recommended to transfer the hardened spint. preparation from the formalin solution to methylated spirit in order to avoid the inconvenience that arises from a close examination of specimens recently taken from the former licj^uid. For convenience sake a general survey of the base of the Tlie tasr; of BRAIN will be made first so that the student may be familiar with the names of the parts, although the structures mentioned will be examined again later. Beginning behind on the lower, or anterior, surface of the medulla oblongata (fig. 2(il, p. 732) is the anterior median fissure in the middle line ; on either side of this are two elongated eminences, the anterior jniramids (1) ; external to the pyramid below the pons Varolii is the Parts of tim oval olivary body {o) ; external to this is a narrow band, which, if traced downwards, appears to become continuous with the lateral tract (2) of the spinal cord, and beyond this, passing upwards into the cerebellum, is a large mass at the postero-external part of the medulla known as the restiform body (3). Emerging from the groove between the anterior pyramid and the olive are the roots of the twelfth nerve and in front of the restiform body a large number of nerve roots appear which belong to the ninth, tenth, and eleventh nerves. In front of the medulla the lai'ge mass of the fons (fig. 268 d, p. 741) passes across, and lying in the outer and back part of this is a con- voluted piece of the cerebellum, the flocculus (c). Immediately in Enumora ' front of the pons are two large white masses, the peduncles of the ^1,°"^°^ cerebrum or crura cerebri (/),one belonging to each hemisphere ; and Pnrts between them is a small area perforated by vessels, which is named the imterior ^nrforated space (cj). Crossing the peduncle is the optic tract; and between it and the inner part of the hemisphere is a fissure leading into the lateral ventricle. In front of the-posterior perforated space are seen two rounded