DISSECTION OF THE LEG. 180 insertion into bonus of llie foot; rolatious in tlie log; be use on foot, free, and fixed; on tlie leg. Peronens brevis is attached to fibula, and fiftli metatarsal bone; relations; use on foot, free, and fixed ; on the leg. sole of the foot. Its position in the foot and its insertion will described later on (p. 212). In the leg the muscle is immediately beneath the fiuscia, and lies on the ])eroneus brevis. Beneath the annular ligament it is placed over the middle piece of the external lateral ligament of the ankle with the peronens lirevis, and is surrounded by a single synovial membrane common to both. The extensor longiis digitorum and the soleus are fixed to the fibula in front of, and behind it respec- tively. Action. With the foot free, the muscle extends the ankle ; then it can depress the inuer, and raise the outer border of the foot in the movement of eversion. When the foot rests on the ground, it assists to lift the os calcis and the weight of the body, as in standing on the toes, or in walking. And in rising from a stooping posture it draws back the fibula. The PERONEUS BREVIS (fig. 74, h) reaches the outer side of the foot, and is smaller and deeper than the preceding muscle. It arises from the outer surface of the shaft of the fibula for about the lower two-thirds, extending upwards by a pointed piece in front of the peronens longus (fig. 68), and from the intermuscular septum on each side. Its tendon passes with that of the peronens longus beneath the external annular ligament, and is placed next the fibula as it turns below this bone. Escaped from the ligament, the tendon enters a distinct fibrous sheath, which conducts it along the tarsus to its insertion into the tuberosity at the base of the metatarsal bone of the little toe on the outer side. In the leg the muscle projects in front of the peronens longus. On the outer side of the os calcis it is contained in a sheath above the tendon of the former muscle ; and each sheath is lined by a prolongation from the common synovial membrane behind the outer ankle. Action. If the foot be unsuj^ported, this peronens extends the ankle and moves the foot upwards and outwards, everting it. If the foot be supported it is able to raise the heel, and to bring back the fibula as the body rises from stooping. Section V. THE BACK OF THE LEG. Position. For the dissection of the Imck of the leg, the limb is to be placed on its front, with the foot over the side of the dissecting table ; and the muscles of the calf are to be put on the stretch by fastening the foot. Tai<n.iway Bisscctioil. For the removal of the skin, one cut should be the skin. .^j^^^^g jj^^ middle of the log to the sole of the foot, where a transverse incision is to be carried over the heel. The two resulting