567 THE LACHRYMAL APPARATUS. The lachrymal canals (canaliculi ; fig. 207, ' and lead from the punc.a, a.Kl convey the tears to the Lu.hrynuil sac. From tlie nuu-in of the lid, each canal is directed vertically lor ahout one- sixteenth of an inch, and then henda inwards following the course of the internal tar.sal ligament. Internally the two canals converge, and they open into the lachrymal .sac, rather above its nudclle, either separately or by a common orifice. The lachnimal sac and nasal duct extends from the inner side ot the orbit to 'the nose, and convey the tears into the latter cavity. They form one tube, of which the upper dilated end is the sac, and the lower part the duct. The sac is placed in the hollow formed by the nasal process ol the superior maxillary and the lachrymal bones. In front, it is crossed by the internal tarsal ligament of the eyelids ; and behind, it is covered by an expansion derived from that band, which is tixed to the lachrymal crest. If the aponeurotic covering be re- moved, the mucous lining will appear. Into the outer side of the sac the lachrymal canals open. The duct is the narrower part of the tube, and is about half an inch long. It is entirely surrounded by bone, and inclines slightly outwards and backwards as it descends. In the nasjil cavity it opens into the fore part of the inferior meatus, where its opening is guarded by a small fold of the mucous membrane. Within the bone, the duct has a fibrous coat lined by mucous membrane, which is continuous with that of the nose below, and, through the canals, with the conjunctiva above. Structurk of the Eyelids. Each lid consists fundamentally of a filirous plate attached to the lione by ligaments. Superficial to this framework are the integuments with a layer of fibres of the orbicularis palpebrarum, and beneath it the mucous lining of the conjunctiva. The upper lid includes also the tendon of the levator paljiebrfe. Vessels and nerves are contiiined in the lids. Dissection. The student should now examine the structure of the lids. The bit of tow or wool may remain beneath the lids ; and the palpel)ial part of the orbicularis muscle is to be thrown inwards by an incision around the margin of the orbit. In raising the muscle care must be taken of the thin membranous palpebral fascia beneath, and of the vessels and nerves of the lid. Orbicularis paliMhrarmn. The palpebral fibres of this muscle form a pale layer which reaches the free edge of the eyelids, and a thin stratum of areolar tissue jvitbout fat unites the muscle with the skin. Cimiils for the tears. Ri'ceiitacle of the tears. Situation of the sac, or dilated part. Canal leading to the nose: Fio. 207.—TnK Eyklids anu Lachrymal ArPARATUS. L Puncta lacbrynialia. 2. Upper, anil 3, lower laclirymal canal. 4. Caruncula laclirymalis. 5. Lachrymal sac. (i. Na.sal (Inct. its opening. Stnu'tiire of the duct. Different parts in eyelids. Dissect lids. Layer of orbiculari!^.