NERVES OF THE FOREARM. d. dorsal cutaneous nerve of the hand (ti'j;. 23, p. 57) Icnvos Uie cutimr! tnmk about two inches above the end oftlie iihia, anil passes obliquely ""-'vo of backwards beneath tlie flexor carpi ulnaris ; perforating the aponeu- hand."' roeis, it is distributed on the back of the hand and fingers (p. 58). The MRriTAN NF.RVK (fifT. 26. 1) leavcs the hollow of the elbo^y Median lietwecn the heads of the pronator teres, and runs in the middle Tine of the limb to the hand. It is placed beneath the flexor t^TOlaoup'r sublimis as low as two inches from the annular ligament, where it of^Mclos. becomes superficial along the outer border of the tendons of that muscle. Lastly, the nerve passes beneath the annular ligament to the palm of the hand, and its position in this part may be marked on the surface by the tendon of the palmaris longus. It supplies the muscles on the front of the forearm, and furnishes a cutaneoiTS oftset to the hand. Muscular offsets leave the trunk of the nerve near the elbow, and n supplies/ are distrilnited to all the superficial muscles except the flexor carpi '''"»<' I ulnarisin addition the nerve supplies the deep layer of muscles ""cept'onoj through its interosseous branch (p. 69), except the inner half of"''"''""'''" the flexor profundus digitorum. The cutaneous palmar branch (3) arises in the lower fourth of the and a branch forearm; it pierces the fascia near the annular ligament, and crosses i'"''" °^ over that band to reach the pahii (fig. 15, p. 39). The RADIAL NERVE is the smaller of the two branches into which Radial nerve the musculo-spiral divides at the elbow. This nerve is placed alon" ^° forearm, the outer border of the limb, imder cover of the supinator longus and on the outer side of the radial artery, to the junction of the middle and lower thirds of the forearm, where it becomes cutaneous at the posterior border of the supinator tendon. It finally it ends on divides into two branches, which are distributed on the dorsum of of f's the hand and digits (fig. 23). No muscular ofi-set is furnished by the nerve. Dissection (fig. 26). To examine the deep layer of muscles it Dissection will be necessary to draw well over to the radial side of the forearm of <ieop the pronator teres, to detach the flexor sublimis from the radius, and to remove its fleshy part. A thin layer of fixscia, which is most distinct near the wrist, is to l)e taken away ; and the anterior interosseous vessels and nerve, which lie on the interosseous mem- brane, and are concealed by the muscles, are to be traced out. Over the bones at the lower end of the forearm the arch of the show carnal anterior airpal arteries may be defined. arch. Deep Orodp of Mdscles. There are three deep muscles on the Three mns- Iront of the fore;irm. One, covering the ulnar, is the deep flexor of "le the fingers ; a second rests on the radius, the long flexor of the " thumb ; and the third is the pronator quadratus, ^vhlch lies beneath the other two, over the lower ends of the bones. The FI,E.XOIl PROPUNDDS DIGITORUM (flexor perforans, fig. 26, c) Deep flexor ame.5 Jrom the anterior and inner .surfaces of the ulnar for three-""e"'" = fourths of the length of the bone (fig. 25, p. 60), from the inner half <""'8'" = ol the interosseous ligament for the same distance, and from the aponeurosis of the flexor carpi ulnaris. The muscle has a thick F 2