3 0 2 THE TEMPORAL CONVOLUTIONS. 75S of it is the parieto-occipit<il, and below tlie calcariiie fissure. Small irregular sulci divide it into secondary gyri. The uncinate or fifth temporal convolution, (u) extends'from tlie Unuiiiato posterior extremity of the hemisphere behind to the Sylvian fissure in front, being bounded by the calcarine and hippocampal fissures above, and by the uollateral fissure below. It is somewhat narrowed in the middle, where the callosal convolution joins it, and enlarged in front and behind. At its fore part is a small piece {uncus) bent backwards over the lower end of the dentate fissiu-e, and from this feature the convolution derives it name. The posterior part of the convolution, that which is limited above by the Ungmil calcarine fissure, is often described as the linyual convolution. uaion's. The fourth temjmral, or occvpito-teirvporal, convolution (eot) lies i'"oiiitli ^ between the collateral fissure and the third temporal sulcus (it). Svouilion. This is frecinently not distinct from the third temporal convolution, which forms the outer margin of the temporal lobe in the greater part of its extent. At the bottom of the dentate fissure, the grey cortex of the hemisphere ends in a projecting notched margin, which is named Dentate the/a«cw( clentata or the dentate convolution (fd). This will be better gyms, seen subsequently. Structure of the convolutions. Each convolution is continuous Fonn and with the general mass of the hemisphere on the one side and is con'voh" ° free on the other, wliere it presents a summit and lateral surfaces, I'o'is; which are covered by pia niatei'. A cross section will show it to con.sist of a layer of cortical grey substance on the surface, which Krey is continued at the bottom of the sulci from one eminence to another, and of a white medullanj part in the centre, which appears as a and while process of the large medullary mass forming the greater part of the part.". "'^ substance of the hemisphere. On examining closely the section of a convolution in a fre.sh specimen, the cortex may generally be seen to structure of consist of three grey, and of intermediate white, layers arranged alternately, covered externally by a thin white stratum, which is most marked over the fore part of the uncinate convolution. If a portion of the cuneate lobule be taken it will be found that the fourth layer of the cerebral cortex is particularly distinct as a white line running in the grey matter. INTERIOR OF THE CEREBRUM. Each cerebral hemisphere consists of white and grey substance, outline of the white forming the larger portion of the mass (medullary centre • •of the hemisphere), while the grey matter is chieHy disposed in a superficial layer (cortex) which covers the medullary centre, except nieduliary over the region on the inner side whence the corpus callosum issues ; '^""'^' but at the lower part of the hemisphere there are other collections cortical •of grey matter more or less surrounded by the medullary substance. grey'^'iJiases; In each hemisphere is an elongated cavity, named the lateral ventricle, which comnmnicates with another median .space—the ventricles. third ventricle, placed close to the base of the brain.