DISSECTION OK THK THOKAX. 482 two lel't one right. Pericardial branches. Esophageal branches. Mediastinal branches. Intercostal arteries: number; course to intercostal sjjaces; right longer. The anterior branch occupies intercostal space witli vein and nerve. Offsets. Anasto- moses. I'ostcrior branch turns to the back. There are t.\vo arteries for the left lung (superior and inferior), whicli arise from the front of the aorta at a short distance from each other. The artery of the right lung arises in common with one ctf tlic left bronchial arteries (superior), or from the first intercostal artery of tlie right side. b. Tlie 2^er{cardial branches are some irregular twigs, which are furnished to the posterior part of the pericardial hag. c. The esophageal branches are four or five in number, and ramify in the gullet, forming anastomoses with one another; above, they communicate with branches of the inferior thyroid artery ; and below, with twigs of the coronary artery of the stomach. d. Small mediastinal branches (posterior) supply the areolar tissue and the glands in the interpleural space. e. The intercostal arteries are nine on each side, and pass to the same number of lower intercostal spaces. Branches are supplied to the upper two spaces from the intercostal artery of the subclavian trunk. These vessels arise from the posterior part of the aorta, and run outwards on the bodies of the vertebras, beneath the cord of the sympathetic nerve, to the intercostal spaces, where each divides into an anterior and a posterior branch. In this course the upper arteries have a somewhat oblique direction ; and as the aorta lies on the left of the spine, the right vessels are the longer, and run also beneath the oesophagus, the thoracic duct, and the large azygos vein. Many twigs are supplied to the bodies of the vertebraj. In the intercostal space, the anterior branch, the larger of the two, continues onwards between the muscular strata to the front of the chest, wdiere it ends by anastomosing with an intercostal branch of the internal mammary artery (p. 441). At tirst the artery lies in the middle of the space, beneath the pleura, and resting on the external intercostal muscle ; but near the angle of the rib it ascends to the upper boundary. Accompanying the artery are the intercostal vein and nerve,—the vein being commonly above, and the nerve below it; but in the upper spaces the nerve is, at first, higher than the artery. Branches are furnis-hed to the intercostal muscles, and to the ribs. Near the angle of the rib a larger {collateral) branch is given off, which runs forwards along the lower border of the space, and joins in front a branch of the internal mammary ; and about the middle (from front to back) of the intercostal space a superficial twig arises, to accompany the lateral cutaneous nerve. The highest artery of the aortic set of intercostals anastomoses with the superior intercostal branch of the subclavian artery. The lowest two are continued in front into the abdominal wall, where they lie between the internal oblique and transversiilis muscles, and anastomose with the epigastric and lumbar arteries. Thi^ posterior branch turns liackwards between tlie vertebra and the superior costo-transverse ligament, and is distributed in the back. As it passes the intervertebral foramen it furnishes a small