DISSECT10N_ OF THE ABDOMEN. 288 floor, and roof. Canal in tUo female. Internal abdominal ring: situation, form and margin; relations^; parts trans- mitted through it. External abdominal ring: situation. The intes- tine, follow- ing the course of the cord, has cover- ings of the peritoneum and fat, transver- salis fascia. crcmaster, spermatic fascia, superflcial fascia and skin; fnscia derived from the e.\ternal oblique behind the external abdominal ring (fig. 97, p. 263). Its floor is formed (1) by the meeting of the transversalis fascia with Poupart's ligament, and (2) by tlie fibres of Poupart's ligament inserted into the pectineal line (Gimberuat's ligament). Its roof \a formed (1) by the meeting of its anterior and posterior walls, and (2) by the lower arched borders of the internal oblique and transvei'salis. In the female, the canal has the same boundaries, but is usually somewhat longer and narrower. In that sex it lodges the round ligament. The internal abdominal ring (fig. 106) is an aperture in the transversalis fascia, which is situate midway between the symphysis pubis and the anterior superior iliac spine, and half an inch above Poupart's ligament. It is oval in form ; and its longest diameter, which is directed vertically, measures about half an inch; the fascia at its outer and lower parts is stronger than at the opposite sides. Arching above and on the inner side of the aperture is the lower border of the transversalis muscle (d), which, is fleshy in the outer but tendinous in the inner half. Below is Poupart's ligament, which separates the aperture from the external iliac artery. On the inner side its limit is best marked, being formed by the deep epigastric vessels. This opening in the transversalis fascia is the inlet to the inguiaal canal, and through it the cord, or the round ligament, passes into the wall of the abdomen. An external hernia enters the canal at the same spot, and all the protruding parts receive as a covering the prolongation (infundibuliform fascia) from the fascial margin of the opening. The external abdominal ring (fig. 97) is the outlet of the inguinal canal, and through it the spermatic cord reaches the surface of the body. This aperture is placed in the aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle, near the crest of the pubis ; and from the margin a prolongation (spermatic fascia) is sent on the parts passing through it (p. 267). Course and coverings op an external, or oblique hernia. A piece of intestine leaving the abdomen with the cord, and passing through the inguinal canal to the surface of the body, will obtain a covering from every stratum of the wall of the abdomen in the groin, except from the transversalis muscle. It therefore receives its investments in this order :—As the intestine is thrust forwards, it carries before it first the peritoneum and the subperitoneal fat, and enters the tube of the infundibuliform fascia around the cord. Still increasing in size, it is forced downwards to the lower border of the internal oblique muscle, where it has the cremasteric fascia applied to it. The intestine is next dii-ected along the front of the cord to the external abdominal ring, and in passing through that o]jeiiing receives the investment of the inter- columnar or spermatic fascia. Lastly, as the hernia descends towards