DISSECTION OF FRONT OF FOREARM. 62 Long palmar muscle lies ovur annular ligament and joins fascia of palm; Flexor carpi ulnaris : origin by- two heads ; insertion : adjacent parts ; Course and extent of the radial artery. Situation in the forearm. fissi&t in hringing forwards tlie lower end of theradiu.s in pronation. Still continuing to contract, it bends the elbow. The PALMARis LONGUS (fig. 24,^) is .sometimes absent, or it may pre.sent great irregularity in the proportion between the fleshy and tendinous parts. It arises, like the preceding muscle, from the common tendon, the fascia, and the intermuscular septa. Its slender tendon is continued along the centre of the forearm ; and piercing the aponeurosis, it passes over the annular ligament to end in the palmar fascia, jsjidiiigJL§li£_to_thejd:)ductor muscle of the thumb. The palmaris is situate between the flexor carpi radialis and ulnaris, and rests on the flexor sublimis digitorum. Action. Eendering tense the f)almar fascia, the palmaris will afterwards bend the wrist and elljow, like the last muscle. The PLEXOR CARPI ULNARIS (fig. 24,7) arises by a narrow slip in common with the other muscles from tbe inner condyle of the humerus, from the intermuscular septum between it and the flexor sublimis digitorum, and by a broad aponeurosis from the inner margin of the olecranon and the posterior border of the ulna for the upper two-thirds of its length (fig. 36, p. 86). The fibres pass down- wards and forwards to a tendon on the anterior aspect of the muscle in the lower half, some joining it as low as the wrist. The tendon is inserted into the pisiform bone, from which fibrous bands pass on to the hook of the unciform and to the base of the fifth metacarpal bones representing the distal part of the tendon (the pisiruncifonn and pisi-metacarpal ligaments). Also a process passes inwards from the tendon near its insertion on to the face of the anterior annular ligament covering over the ulnar arter)' and nerve. One su.rface of the muscle is in contact with the fascia ; and its tendon, which can be felt readily through the skin, serves as the guide to the ulnar arter3^ To its radial side are the palmaris and flexor sublimis digitorum muscles. 'RTien the attachment to the inner condyle has been di\'ided, the muscle will be seen to conceal the flexor profundus digitorum, tbe ulnar nerve, and the ulnar vessels ; between the attachments to the condyle and the olecranon the ulnar nerve enters tlie forearm. Action. The wrist is bent, and the hand is drawn inwanls by the contraction of the muscle. The RADIAL ARTERY (fig. 24,'^) is 0116 of the vessels derived from the bifurcation of the luacliial trunk, and extends to the palm of the hand. It is placed first along the outer side of the forearm as far as the end of the radius ; next it winds backwards below the extremity of that bone ; and finally it enters the palm of the hand through the first interosseous space. In consequence of this cir- cuitous course, the artery will be found in three diflerent dissections, viz., the front of the forearm, the liack of the wrist, and the palm of the hand. In the front of the forearm. In this region of the limb the position of the artery will be marked on the surface by a line from the centre of the hollow of the elbow to the fore part of the styloid