7fi2 DISSECTION OF THE BRATN. Tii'iiin Along tlie inner margin of the hippocampus is the tcmia hippo- i,i,,,,ocnn,pi. ^.^^^jj^^ (flg_ 276, (■), "'liicli is the prolonged posterior pillar of the Fornix ; this en'ls below by joining the recurved pari of the uncinate convolution. DisscLtioii. Dissection. To e.xamine more i'ully the hipi)Ocanipus, the hinder portions of the corpus callosiun and fornix should be divided in the juiddle line, and the posterior part of the right hemisphere should be drawn away from the rest of the brain. When the pia mater has been removed from the inner side of the hippocamj)us, and this projection has been cut across, its structure will be seen. Stnip.turo The hippocampus is co\'ered on the ventricular surface by a '"WO- ti^in medullary layer, with which the toenia blends. On its opposite surface is the hollow of the hippocampal, or dentate, fissure of the exterior of the brain, which is lined by grey substance. Beneath the taenia hippocampi the grey matter projects in the form of a notched ridge, the fascia dentata, or deiitate convohdion, which is external to the cavity of the ventricle (p. 755). Collateral The EMINENTIA COLLATERALIS (fig. 275, Ic), is the triangular, eminence, giig^tly convex surface occupying the floor of the posterior and descending cornua of the lateral ventricle to the outer side of the formed by hippocampi. It lies over the collateral fissure of the under surface fissiSe.™^ of tlie hemisphere, and its extent varies greatly in different subjects. Amygdaloid The AMYGDALOID TUBERCLE is a variable eminence due to a col- tubercle and iggj^jQj^ fjf gpey mdttev, aimjgdaloid nucleus (fig. 279, p. 768), on luicieus. ^^^^^^ side'of the uncus, with the cortical layer of which it i.s continuous. Great trans. TRANSVERSE FISSURE OP THE CEREBRUM. By drawing the verse fissure ggpamted part of the right hemisphere away from the crus cerebri and the optic thalamus, and replacing it, the dissector will com- prehend the position and boundaries, on one side, of the great cleft of the brain. is beneath This fissure lies beneath the fornix and splenium of the corpus reaciies"'base callosum, and above the optic thalami and corpora quadrigemnia oTbrain. (fig. 274, p. 757) ; and in the dissected brain it opens into the lateral ventricle along the edge of the fornix on each side, from the foramen of Monro to the extremity of the descending cornu. The slit opening into the lateral ventricle {choroidal fissure) is bounded by the edge of the fornix with the tajnia hippocampi above and by the optic thalamus and crus cerebri below. A fold of Pia n.ater pia mater (velum interpositum) projects into the transverse fissure beneath the fornix (fig. 276, cj), and forms lateral fringes—the choroid plexuses, which appear in tlie ventricles along the margin.s of the slit. In the natural state the fissure is separated from the cavity of the ventricle bv the epithelium of the ependyma being continued over the choroid j.lexns, and therefore does not exist as a complete fissure except in the dissected .specimen. Parts in ti,e The student is now (.. return to the examination of Ihe parts m ;fthe centre of the luain, vi/., the fold of pia mater and it-s vesse s, with the third ventricle. Afterwards the corpus striatum and optic thalamus will be studied.