DISSKOTION OF DEE? VESSELS AND NERVES OK NECK. 630 iiiul niL'iiiii- Directions concerning small branches of tlie nerves. Dissection to ojien jugular foramen. Follow spinal accessory and pneumo- gastric; afterwards glosso- pharyngeal and its branches. Lraiicli is sometinies large and furnishes the inferior paktine ai tery instead of the facial. c. Small ineniv(ieid hrunches enter the skull throu^^h the foramen lacerum, the jugulur foramen and the anterior condylar foramen. These arteries are seldom injected. The pharyngeal veins form a plexus which empties itself into the internal jugular trunk. Dissection of the cranial nerves in the neck. By the time this stage of the dissection has been arrived at, the condition of the parts will not permit the tracing of the very minute filaments of the cranial nerves in the jugular foramen, and the parts described in the paragraphs marked with an asterisk cannot be seen at present. After- wards, if a fresh piece of the skull can be obtained, in, which the bone has been softened by acid and the nerves hardened in spirit, the examination of the branches marked thus* may be made. * In the jugular foramen. Supposing tiie dissection of the internal carotid to be carried out as it is described at page 682, let the student cut across with care the jugular vein near the skull. Let him then remove bit by bit with the bone forceps, or with a scalpel if the part has been softened, the ring of bone which bounds externally the jugular foramen, proceeding as far forwards as the osseous crest between that foramen and the carotid canal. Between the bone and the coat of the jugular vein, the small auricular branch of the pneumo-gastric nerve is to be found ; it is directed backwards to an aperture near the styloid process. * Trace then the spinal accessory and pneumo-gastrir. nerves through the foramen, by opening the fibrous sheath around them. Two parts, large and small, of the spinal accessory nerve should be defined ; the latter is to be shown joining a ganglion on the vagus, and applying itself to the trunk of that nerve. A communication between the two pieces of the spinal accessory is to be found. On the pneumo-gastric is a small well-marked ganglion {ganglion of the root), from whicli the auricular branch before referred to faikes origin ; and Irom the ganglion filaments arc to be sought passing to the^smaller portion of the spinal accessory nerve, and to the ascending branch of the upper cervical ganglion of the sympathetic. * Next follow the glosso-pharyngeal nerve through the fore part of the foramen, and take away any bone that overhangs it. This nerve presents turn ganglia as it passes from the skull (fig. 226, p. 633) ; one (jugular), which is scarcely to be perceived, near the upper part of the tube of membrane containing it; the other, much larger (petrosal), is situate at the hinder border of the petrous portion of the temporal bone. From the lower one, seek the small nerve ot Jacobson, which enters an aperture in the crest of bone between the iuaular foramen and the carotid canal, and another filament of com- munication with Ihe ganglion of the .sympathetic. Sometm.es the dissector will be able to find a filament from the lower ganglion to join the auricular branch of the pneumo-gastric, and another to end in the ganglion of the root of the pneumo-gastric nerve.