DISSECTION OF THE ARM. 42 Cephalic vein. Superficial lymphatics and glands. Superficial nerves. External cutaneous nerves■„ , two from musculo- spiral; and mus- culo-cuta- neous. Internal cutaneous nerves, large and small the inner border of the biceps muscle to the middle of the arm, ■where it jDasses beneath the deep fascia, and is continued into the axillary vein. In this course it lies to the inner side of the brachial artery. The CEPHALio VEIN is derived chiefly from the external branch of the median, for the radial vein is oftentimes very small; it is continued to the shoulder along the outer side of the biceps, and sinks between the deltoid and pectoral mu.scles to open into the axillary vein near the cla^^cle. The superficial lymphatics of the arm lie for the most part along the basilic vein, and enter the glands of the axilla. A few lym- phatics accompany the cephalic vein, and end in the upper axillary glands. One or more superficial lymphatic glands are commonly found a little above the inner condyle of the humerus. CuTAUEODS Nerves (fig. 15). The superficial nerves of the arm appear on the inner and outer sides, and spread so as to cover the surface of the limb. With one exception (intercosto-humeral), all are derived from the brachial plexus, either as distinct branches, or as ofl:sets of other nerves. On the outer side of the limb are branches of the musctilo-spiral and uiuscido-cutaneous nerves. On the inner side are two internal cutaneous nerves from the j)lexus, a third internal cutaneous from the musculo-spiral, and the intercosto- humeral nerve. The EXTERNAL CUTANEOUS BRANCHES PF THE MUSCULO-SPIRAL NERVE are two in number, and appear at the outer side of the about the middle. The upper small one turns forwards with the cephalic vein, and I'eaches the front of the elbow, supplying the anterior part of the arm. The loioer and larger pierces the fascia somewhat farther io^yu, and, after supplying some cutaneous filaments to the back of the arm, is continued to the forearm. The MUSCULO-CUTANEOUS NERVE pierces the fascia in front of the elbow ; it lies beneath the median-cephalic vein, and divides into branches for the forearm. The INTERNAL CUTANEOUS NERVE perforates the fascia in two pieces, or as one trunk that divides almost directly into two. Its anterior branch passes beneath the median-basilic vein to the front of the forearm ; and the posterior winds ov^the inner condyle of the hvimerus to theliack of the foretirm. Tronic} A slender offset of the nerve pierces the fascia near the axilla, and reaches as far, or nearly as far, as the elbow; it supplies the integuments over the Ijiccps muscle. The NERVE OF Wrisbero (small internal cutaneous) appears behind the preceding, and extends to the interval between the olecranon and the inner condyle of the humerus, where it ends in filaments over the back of the olecranon. The nerve gives oflsets to the lower third of the arm on the inner and posterior surfaces and Joins above the elbow the posterior branch of the larger internal cutaneous nerve.