579 FRONT OF THE NKOK. that bone ; and tlie external {arromial) turns nwv tlu^ claviculiir attachment of the trapezius to the acroniinn. All are disti'ilmteil tn |-,he skin of the chest and shoulder. Derived from the descending set are one or two pusterior cutaneous Posterior nerres of the ned; which ramify in the integunieni covering the el,tii',"'o,|s. trapezius above the scapula. The lyniphatic glands lying along the sterno-mastoid (glanduUu Lymiiiiaiiu concateiiatfc) are some of the deep cervical c/lands, and are continuous 7'!,"."^''^"' through the lower part of the posterior triangular space with the glands of the axilla. A chain of superficial cervical filands accom- panies the external jugular vein ; and close to the skull, over the apex of the jjosterior triangular space, are one or two small sub- occipital glands ; while farther forwards, resting on the insertion of the sterno-mastoid, there are two or three small mastoid glands. FRONT OP THE NECK. Directions. Having displayed tlie chief structuies in the posterior triangle, the student will expose those in the anterior. Dissection. The skin over the front of the neck is to be turned forwards to the middle line. Beneath the skin is the superficial to r.ii.si; fat, containing very fine offsets of the superficial cervical nerve. To define the platysma muscle, remove the fat which covers it, to siiow carrying the knife downwards and liackwards in the direction of '''"'J'"'""- the fleshy fibres. Platysma myoides. The anterior part of the platysma, viz.. Anterior from the sterno-mastoid muscle to the lower iaw, covers the greater i';"} °^ ... 11 platy.sniji; portion ot the anterior triangular space. At the base of the jaw it i„.sertion is iHS«r/erf between the symphysis and the inasseter muscle; while into,jiiw. other and more posterior fibres are continued over the face, joining the depressor anguli oris and risorius, as far as the fascia covering the parotid gland, or even to the cheek-bone. The fil)res have the same aj^pearance in this as in the posterior Crossing of half of the muscle, but they are rather stronger. Below the chin the inner fibres of op]iosite muscles frequently cross for a short distance, but those of them which are superficial do not always belong to the same side in different bodies. Action. The hinder part of this muscle draws tlie corner of t he Uso on mouth downwards and outwards ; the fore ])art is used in swallow- ing, and carries forwards the skin of the u]iper part of the neck, '[J f™"""- thus facilitating the upward movement of the larynx. AVhen the muscle contracts forcibly, the skin of the upper jiavt of the chest and shoulder is also raised. Dissection. Raise the platysma to the base of the jaw, and uis.section. di.ssect out beneath it the branches of the superficial cervical nerve, and the cervical branch of the facial nerve. Clean also the deep fascia of the neck, and tlie anterior jugular vein which is placed near the middle line. The SUPERFICIAL CERVICAL NERVE has just been traced from its Snperiinni origin in the cervical plexus to its position on the deep fascia of tlie P P 2