769 TREATMENT OF SCIRRHUS AND CANCER. formed many years after the appearance of the disease, that is, at a period in which it was capable of producing its degeneration, we find among the operations not followed by return, there are fifty-two performed more than five years after the development of the disease. * * * In spite of the transformation in similar tissues attacked by the cancerous affection, there are immense differences as to its termination. The lips afford the proof. Of six hundred and thirty-three men affected with cancer, one hundred and sixty-five were attacked in the lip, that is -p^. Of two thousand one hundred and forty- eight cancerous women, there were only fifty-four cancers of the lip, one and half hundredth. Ot one hundred and sixty-five men, one hundred and eleven were operated on with cutting instruments, twelve by caustic. Of the one hundred and fourteen operations there were fifteen returns, or about one-eighth, when the documents readied me. Of thirty-four lips of women, twenty two were operated on, and one of them with caustic, seven returned, or one-third. The difference in the frequency of the dis- ease must evidently be referred to the use of the pipe, and especially those called ^e-gueule, (dudeen of the Irish,) which workmen and men of that class constantly n Tf !i,dl.rerenCe- °f the Cause accounts for the difference of the results The the dls®as.e la men \s les,s in proportion, because the greater number of can- croid diseases of the lip produced and kept up by an external cause are not true wncers; and yet the symptoms, the characters of the disease do not make known its Cancers in the tongue are also more frequent in men than in women ; but the pro- portion of success we have just mentioned no longer exists here. In both sexes cancers !' Vhe have a termination equally sad. Of six hundred and thirty-three cancers ■ observed in men, eighteen had been developed on the tongue; of two thoSon f terfnetf “d i cancers m women> two only attacked that organ ; nine operations were performed, three by caustic, six with the knife; eight men and July one woman r Sum mDe °Peratl°nS’ thl’ee Were Perked since less than a year ; si/died afte“ its I sevemt !»m°UrS °f.thC breast we have the lowing resultsOf two hundred and cannot give^e residt005 Pe!’fol;med within less than two years ; I and four r y ?died TJmain 7 ^ ed and. four‘ 0f these two hundred | tbe whoeTmberone himdted IT operation; eighty-seven had a return, 8 ooeratpH L c hundred and nine, or more than half. Twenty-seven were I operated on in the first year of the appearance of the disease. 7 ° m the , l„°Weyerr’ l Were ?,alIed on t0 draw a practical inference, a rule of conduct from 1 5 ; —* IraVe collected> 1 should hesitate to make it, for I believe there Lei,? h should sav^hat dfeaSef- as wel1 as m other things; but if it were absolutely requisite, I st; advantageous* not to CeratelncludinS those of the lips, it would be s hon, and at present l d °S however, ■wish to put myself in this situa- extirnation nfra nt. would confine myself to the following conclusions, first, that the I IiereTs no SJES?hw" d-°“ T am8t.the Pr°gress of the disease ; r, cancerous buttons „ P °runng the operation from the first, if it were not for the >■! -'ancerous onrans ' hnt -ancers 0 J le s)ln : third, that it was not necessary to extirpate J. Client’s life fn danger.’’-(pe45^-58e)]ffim0rrhagieS’ CaUSed bj tbe lllceration> Put the nT*16 trea*ment f°r effecting dispersion is precisely the same node* wherfn \ glV^n> (Par/ for getting rid of hardening. This 9 rue;i; T Wlt 1 ,the.£reatest care, is easily dangerous; for ft ’iolent rpinod- • i ' ( J^persod by it, and the continued employment of £ disease into onen on ^ 1 h^onstltPtioni and favours the passage of the p ettimr snare flW Wlfn thif. treatment, that is, leeches, blood! u often!nJand soothm^rfn"! 7 reaiedies acting on the lymphatic system, welling! there can °|! !1Ca?tl0"* liaTe effected the dispersion of scirrhous ! -Ws mode of treat!em '7 °* the correctness of the diagnosis. ; ' emoval is impossible 'ind'Tfcan on 7 aPPty in those cases where ress> as in such r-i ! -lG cancer has been very tedious in its pro- minent the disc!! exPe™nce has proved that with this palliative f enience, whilst b m"1!6*? *or man7 years without particular incon- ■ 3 xtent. y i ac ive treatment it may be urged on to a frightful V°L. n.