930 AMPUTATION THROUGH THE FINGERS AND TOES. (a) 7.kno, above cited, p. 1ST. wound are to be kept together with several circular straps round the loot,, and a simple covering (a). , 2733. Amputation through the metacarpal hones is performed in exactly the same way as that through the metatarsal bones, already mentioned. Of the above modes of proceeding it must be decided which shall be followed, for the removal of some or all the metacarpal bones, except that of the thumb. For amputating through the metacarpal bone of the thumb, a flap must be made on the volar surface, the soft parts on the back of the hand, divided correspondently with the base of the flap ; then those in the space between the bones divided, and the meta- carpal bones sawn off. fin amputating through the metacarpal bones, and specially if only the head ol tPe bone be cut off, as commonly practised, when the whole finger is to be removed, as the other fingers fall readily together, and do not produce the deformity which am- putating at the knuckle does, it is better to cut through the bone with nippers than with a saw. b Liston observes:—'‘In using the forceps, the flat side is applied towards the trunk, so that the surface which is left may be perfectly smooth. One great advantage gained by employing the forceps is, that the palm can be left entire, the hand is much less deformed, the palmar arch is in general not interfered with, and the haemorrhage s accordingly more trifling.” (p. 365.) I do not think the palmar arch is more safe with the nippers than with the saw, as the soft parts require equal separation in both.—J • * • &.J VI.—AMPUTATION THROUGH THE FINGERS AND TOES. (Amputatio Digitorum Manus et Pedis, Lat.; Amputation der Finger und Zehen, Germ.; Amputation des Doigts et des Orteils, Fr.) 2734. Amputation through the phalanges of the fingers is only indi- cated when some particular advantage is to be gained by keeping the stump, as in amputating the fore part of the second phalanx ; in all other cases, disjointing the phalanx is to be preferred. In the toes, am-, nutation must be restricted to that of the first joint of the great toe, because, by preserving the ball of that toe, advantage is gained over dis- imputation of the phalanges, by means of sharp nippers, performed in the earliest times -P or with the chisel, recommended by Heliodorus, Padlls ^ginlta - Albucasis, and subsequently by many other writers, both within and without: t ioiut is entirely discarded; and in general, the disjointing of the phalanx is pafe Cdran Guthrie, Samuel Coop^. Langenbeck, Ave.ull, Rust, Ma^aicn*^ T \.fger agree in preserving the phalanx, and as to the advantage of ampu a Jon, they differ from each other in regard to its application to a single finger. us ^ onlv with the amputation through the second phalanx of the fore- and ring-hng forbids*it on alHhe phalanges of the two middle-fingers. Langenbeck the firstand second phalatx ot the fore- and ring finger, and on the first of Aeth^b and httle finger, a'veriee, on the other hand employs it only for the finger. Jaeger thinks it may be performed at the second phalanx; of the tour S with much advantage to the patient, especially the further forward* £oiie. ^ 1 J from experience that with the phalanges of the three outer fingers which can be a into the palm, better resistance can be produced. „h the Langenbeck, Zang, Rust, and Jaeger, are all m favour of amputatio g first phalanx of the great toe. . . , nr0. 2735. In amputation through the phalanges, the skin having bet F nerlv drawn back, a circular cut is made with a scalpel, the s 'in < -■ drawn back, the tendons and periosteum divided, sawn through, an bone to slwn through. If the skin on the back of the finger be o^ much destroyed, or the phalanx too thick and broad, as that of the g h flap may be made on the palmar surface, by thrusting the kni L 1 jt 21) dividing the soft parts on the back with a seni.c rcul r^ which Is better thin a dorsal’ flap, or than a flap before and beh.nd, on the side. (Langenbeck, Zang.) . - ■