SOFT POLYPS. 726 up, effusion takes place, which, according as the albuminous or cruoric par of the blood prevails, exhibits, in various proportions, the white, brain-like., gray, or reddish, brownish, even blackish colour, or all these together. 2306. Art can do little against medullary fungus. The strongest escharotics are unable to restrict its growth. The only remedy which dis-. covers the possibility of cure is the early, complete removal of the part, 01 the amputation of the limb on which it is seated, and the employment of such remedies as may improve the constitution. This practice, how- ever, is but in the rarest cases crowned with success, as the disease either recurs in its original seat or in some other organ, and makes quick progress. The time when it reappears is various ; sometimes the fungous mass quickly shoots forth from the operation wound; sometimes during the first stage of scarring; at other times after the wound has been some time healed. 1 XVI.—OF POLYPS. (Polypi, Lat.; Polypen, Germ.; Polypes, Fr.) 2307. Polyps are unnatural growths arising from the surface of mucous membranes, and in reference to their nature, form, size, and mode oi production, very different from each other. They are commonly divided into Soft Polyps ( Schleim-Blasen-Poly pen. Germ.; Polypes mous, risicu- leux ou muqueuses, Fr.) and Hard Polyps (Fleiscli-Polypen, fibrose Polypen, Germ.; Polypes durs, charnus oufibrcux, Fr.) 2308. The Soft Polyp consists of an homogeneous soft tissue, containing in its cells a mucous fluid which escapes when squeezed, and thus may bet) very much diminished in size, leaving only a slimy skin remaining. Iis surface is covered with a very thin process of the mucous membrane lining the cavity in which it is developed, and so intimately connected with die polyp itself as not to be separable from it; some minute vessels and nerves^ are spread upon its surface, but very few of either are found in its interior.a its colour is grayish white, or yellowish; it is commonly attached by% stem ; its form varies and depends on that of the cavity in which it is developed ; it in general grows quickly, enlarges in a moist, and diminishes< in a dry atmosphere. Usually several of them exist at the same time,a but cause no other inconvenience than blocking up the canal in which t eji have been formed. 2309. The Hard Polyps have a more or less red or bluish appcaranc according to the quantity of blood-vessels branching in them, an ‘ covered with a shining skin, which is tolerably firm. The arteries a run in the middle of the stem and of the polyp itself, whilst the veinsi Wj superficial. Their surface is either smooth or furrowed, and cleft, w 1 doubtless depends on the rending of the enclosing skin. Their lntenD? consists sometimes of an homogeneous, fleshlike, very vascular substaflpqp in which case it is called a Fleshy Polyp (Fleiscli-Polyp, Germ.); 80 times of a very thick cellular tissue divided into lobes by fibrous j and hence it is named a Fibrous Polyp (fibrose Polyp, Germ.) base of the polyp is usually narrow, and its form bean-shaped ; some it is attached at a single point, and sometimes has several roots, ant are not always superficially connected with the mucous membra" often penetrate deeply into its substance. These polyps grow slov, >, ^ form depends little on that of the cavity in which they are conta ,