COMMON CAROTID ARTERY. 235 inch and a half long: the cellular tissue, m.platysma nv/oides, and external cervical scia, is to be divided in the two cuts. A director is then to be carefully thrust under the •rual portion of the sterno-mastoid muscle, which should be cut through three lines om the upper edge of the collar-bone, together with the internal cervical fascia. The ip is turned somewhat upwards, and held back with a blunt hook. The cellular tissue then to be divided, and, if there be much fat, it must be removed partly with the issors, forceps, or bistoury, so that the vessels, with their sheath, behind the collar- ue, and on the outer edge of the m. sterno-hyoideus, may be brought into view. These siuscles are to be inclined with the handle of the knife towards the wind-pipe, and the , jeath, opened with the greatest care, and without any violence, as the delicate walls of r| e thoracic duct, which lies close behind the sheath, are torn with the slightest violence, e isolation and tying of the artery is effected in the way already described. 1439. If the aneurysm be higher up, the tying of the carotid artery must ij 3 effected below the part at ivhicli the m. omo-hyoideus crosses. A cut is to 1 made through the skin and m. platysma-myoides, in an oblique direc- m along the inner edge of the m. sterno-mastoideus, commencing at the 1 p of the cricoid cartilage, and terminating an inch from the sternal end 'the collar-bone. When the edge of the sterno-mastoid muscle is exposed, must be separated carefully from the sterno-hyoid muscle, and drawn ttwards ; the omo-hyoid muscle then appears crossing over the vessels of neck, and the carotid artery, jugular vein, and pneumo-gastric nerve \ ’tclosed in their sheath, with the descending branch of the hypoglossal | :rve upon it. The omo-hyoid muscle is now to be drawn outwards and r»wards, the thyroid gland inwards, and the jugular vein with the fore- (igerofthe left hand outwards, and there kept (1). The sheath is now to opened, immediately where it covers the carotid artery, either with a rector, or, if carefully raised with the forceps, with the scalpel held flat, , what is best, with some careful strokes of the scalpel. The artery ould now be separated from the surrounding parts with the handle of the ife, to an extent sufficient for passing around it the ligature with I eschamps’ needle. 4s the swelling up of the jugular vein often renders the isolation of the artery very ficult, this may be facilitated by applying compression on the vein above, with the gen For the purpose of not injuring the important surrounding parts in isolating i tying the artery, it is to be borne in mind that the jugular vein lies on its outer side? 1 upon it; the pneumo-gastric nerve between the vein and artery, and the sympathetic •ve behind them. As important varieties in the course of the vessels of the neck, in inexion with this operation, it must be remembered that the division of the carotid ery often takes place deep in the bottom of the neck, and that the vertebral artery ses from the aorta, or the subclavian ascends along the side of the carotid, and close und it. If the artery be laid bare, as proposed, to a great extent, two ligatures must applied, and the artery tied at the upper and lower part of the exposed portion (a). (1) Asti.ey Cooper (J>) observed in his first operation for carotid aneurysm, that ?e m.0tl0.r‘of the internal jugular vein produced the only difficulty in the operation, as ter the different states of breathing, it sometimes presented itself to the knife tense l distended, and then as suddenly collapsed.” (p. 3.) This, however, is not always case, as in an instance mentioned by Hodgson where the carotid artery was tied fbr punous aneurysm, the result of wounding the vessel with a penknife, “ the jugular n aaorded no trouble m the operation; it was not even seen.” (p. 332.j And in ' C-r T)rfion> Dr- John Brown, of Meath (c), for wounded carotid by a penknife Jne‘“ , dl“ aPPear, nor was it a source of the slightest inconvenience in the ope- ,on* ^p. o05.) 1 *° ,he il "■»*' tied «s done by 1440. If the carotid be tied above the crossing of the m.omo-hmideus ich is only possible when the aneurysm is seated in the branches of ^5 Hodoson, above cited. Med.-Chir. Trans., vol. 00 Dublin Hospital Reports, vol. i. (d) Cyclopaitl. of Tract. Surgery, vol. i. p. 262,