108 TREATMENT OF Samuel Cooper states (a) that he has seen two instances of prolapsed womb in maiden! I in the course of seven or eight years. Ramsbotham l.as known it twice in unmarried I girls about twenty years of age. And other cases are related by Mauriceau, Sav iakr, 1 M(4)RUllLSV(&) mentions, that he had observed “prolapse of the womb to be in [ one village as it were, endemic, in almost all the women who had borne one or two I children “ and when i s cause was subsequently ascertained ,t was found that the mid- 1 wife of the place, who had never been instructed, put all the women, as soon as hey had the slLhtest labour pain, into the labour-chair, which was her only- mode of assistance and let them go on and strain, till either the birth were effected or the woman | assistance, auu lei m 6 . cauge of proiapse }s not likely to occur in this couSry! !ur women beingV in the recumbent posture instead of on the labour-chair; bU(5^ D^generr^orq accompanied with increased size of the neighbouring organs within hebelly may! although rarely, cause prolapse of the womb, as dropsy, or hardening of he ovaries of which an interesting example is mentioned by Kuhn (c). . | Clarke observes that11 procidentia uteri and separation between the bones of t le I rtf whi^Se dllSd by the use’of a pessary, astringent injections sea the vcL[)in , . « , means above mentioned, the fresh I many ^similar cases, w hidi recovered, but that the “ progress of such cases towards health is always exceedingly slow. ] .. , 1 1272 The prognosis of prolapse of the womb depends on its degr<* and causes • it is, however, always doubtful in reference to a radical cure. The symptoms may be very dangerous, especially if the prolapse ha J °T27? Setreament consists in the return of the prolapsed womb, and in Zreturn is unaccompanied wit', difficulty; Madder and rectum, must be pushed back with tlm ffi-rs bladder and W u pelvis. In complete prolapse the S XnerLllv more difficult, especially in fa. persons and may be reduction is generally more difficult, especia..-., — a T impOh * nnninrif miict hp made, iu the horizontal position. irT ffie attempts T^pSement must be made in the horizontal position Ca;Stt ti „ j.ump raised ; warm bathing, bleeding, relaxing applications, a !! nf Sin" remedies, having been previously resorted to; and the the use o ,» be carefully made, so as not to increase the symptoms. TC+ho womb prolapse during pregnancy, it must be returned as quickly as ossffile PIf this cannot be done without efforts which may be dangerou possible {4.) i feared that in the increasing size of the woJXtactonlation’may be so prevented as to cause gangrene ; in winch * 01 (n) Surgical Dictionary, Seventh Edition, p. 1838. (ii) Cited at head ot this article. (c) Allgcm. Medic. Annalen, part ii. p. Altenburg, 1812. 841.