TYING INTERNAL MAMMARY AND VERTEBRAL ARTERIES. 249 (2) Not only do weakness and numbness occur when the axillary nerves are injured, lout even gangrene has happened in the case mentioned by White, of Manchester (a), in which three of the nerves were tied in, and in Desault’s case (6), in which the whole |ixillary plexus was included in the ligature.—J. F. S.] 1458. The tying of two branches of the subclavian artery, to wit, the internal mammary, and the vertebral artery have yet to be mentioned. 1459. The internal mammary artery may be tied without much [difficulty in the second, third, or fourth intercostal space ; in the first, its nearer position to the edge of the breast-bone renders its tying more lifficult. In either of the just-named intercostal spaces, a cut made from die edge of the breast-bone, and on the upper edge of the lower rib, s carried outwards, and a little upwards towards the lower edge of the jipper rib, so that its whole extent occupies an inch and a half, and by its termination, just below the under edge of the upper rib, it is Secured from injuring the intercostal artery. The skin, cellular tissue, bd aponeurosis of the great pectoral muscle are to be divided, and also (he muscle itself. There still appear some layers of cellular tissue, and peneath them the ligamenta nitentia ,■ these are to be divided with some light strokes of the knife, as well also as some fibres of the intercostal juuscles hereupon seen, with which usually a small arterial branch is cut [hrough, and must be at once tied. A thin layer of cellular tissue still kovering the artery is now to be carefully divided, the artery isolated from he accompanying vein, and a needle carried round it, from within out- yards.. In the third and fourth interspace the artery lies upon the fibrous ppansion of the in. triangularis sterni; so that, in carrying round the eedle, there is no fear of wounding the pleura (c). Velpeau’s practice of making a cut three inches long, parallel to the side edge of the •east-bone, and which must be deepened to get at the artery, is unfitting. On the mtrary, I have very frequently found the artery by a cut, commencing on the side Ige of the breast-bone, and running directly in the middle of the costal interspace, lore frequently than m the way just described. " 1460. lot the possible case of tying the vertebral artery, Dietrich (d) as proposed two modes of treatment, according as the artery is to be loked for between the atlas and dentate vertebra, or between the atlas nd occipital bone. In the former case, the head of the patient being inclined to the opposite ide and a little forwards, a cut is to be made two fingers’ breadth from he lobe of the ear, or one finger, behind the mastoid process, beginning . .an inch above the latter, and carried for two inches along the outer inder edge of the sterno-mastoid muscle. From the upper fourth of the ? Jngth ot this cut, a second is to be carried backwards, and oblinuelv ' irf’ t0 the eX-en! °[ aU inch- After dividing the skin, some ellular tissue appears in both cuts, which should be divided, and then in ! nd Seen th.e °uter and 7hinder edge of the sterno-mastoid muscle; { 'he " *hnf, SeC°nd’ the m. splemus covered witli aponeurotic expansion. ssue r,d; SrV 0 ?e deePened, through the aponeurotic and cellular t which 6 SeH CUt the1AbreS °f the m- sPUnius ^e to be divided, mscie a sZ V ' ^7 '7 be wounded’ After the division of this ime lirrht Znb urot,o layer appears, which must be divided with nd nerves °f Z a»d under it pass some branches of arteries Part and nrt ¥»18tant with blunt hooks holds the edges of the wound (,,■> ’ j °W a Ia>'er of fat appears, in which the vertebral artery is v>) a*1; 4" chtaSiSTW; pTsIs.1 ■gj S,™H8Lbove cited’p- 89,