41 TREATMENT OF OMENTUM. Key (a) advises, that “ the omentum should be unfolded before it is divided by the knife ; otherwise the cutting off the omentum in a mass prevents all the vessels being seen, and when returned into the abdomen they bleed profusely.” A case of this kind happened to him, in which he cut off “ a large portion of omentum with one stroke of the knife, securing the bleeding arteries before returning it to the mouth of the sac. In four hours after the operation blood of an arterial colour began to ooze from the sac, and soon increased in quantity to alarm the dresser. He used pressure and cold to no purpose. Her pulse began to falter, and her face was bedewed with a cold perspiration ; and in this state I found her, when early on the following morning I was called to see her. It was evident she had lost a very large quantity of blood, and had she not been possessed of an unimpaired constitution, she could not have supported the loss. I opened the sac, removed the coagulum with which it was filled, and was pro- ceeding to look for the bleeding vessels of the omentum, when I fortunately observed the haemorrhage had suddenly ceased. The only ill effect of the haemorrhage was the disturbance of the adhesive process, and the consequent suppuration in the sac, as she ultimately perfectly recovered.” (p. 43, note.) When necessary to remove omentum I generally tear it off as far as possible, and afterwards cut through the part which will not tear. I have rarely had occasion to apply any ligatures. Sometimes if the omentum be left, it sloughs; I have seen this happen two or three times without any inconvenience. Astley Cooper (b) mentions a case in which both omentum and intestine were returned into the belly, and after the operation the patient complained of severe pain in the belly ; the ligatures on the wound in the scrotum were removed ; on the following day a small portion of gangrenous omentum protruded, more and more gradually descended, till the whole which had been protruded appeared in the wound, sloughed, and the patient recovered, (p. 44.) Hewett has recently (c) given a good account of some cases in which the omentum nad formed a complete bag around the intestine in strangulated rupture. Although Richter has been stated to have had cases of this kind, yet it appears that he merely notices their existence without mentioning any particular instance, and IIey’s cases can- not be admitted as belonging to this class. Hewett states that “these sacs have been round m the three most common forms of hernia; but it is in the umbilical hernia they nave been generally observed; the relative situation of the intestine and the omentum m the abdominal cavity will easily explain the fact. Complete omental sacs were round in four cases out of thirty-four operations for strangulated hernia, performed at Georges Hospital in 1842-43; of these four cases two were femoral, one inguinal and one umbilical. The formation of these sacs is attributed by Richter to the firm agglutination of the margins of the omentum which has surrounded the bowel. In this n^cn‘tl0*n °rI?iICHTER’S’ which does not aPPear t0 be applicable to the majority of cases, the two following explanations of the manner in which these sacs are 'in some P^ses thZth th6 added i-Hrsf, the gut, completely enveloped by the omentum, L ® if j , “£h tbc n°g’ and Ae omentum thus disposed round the intestine becomes S i V °f the nGck of tbe be™ial sac; this omental pouchfs subsequently distended by the intestine, and thus forms a complete lining to the hernial becomes a°lteredI1i?)=f/0Ch 6 takcs Place- and the portion of omentum which is protruded lymph - but whl n tl'^ KT’ a'ld ,US f° ds brmly Unlted toeacb other by tbe effusion of into which thp'm'11 £bd°mmal cavity’m the neighbourhood of the ring, the fold, spaces into whie n T ba* bcen drawu may 110t be agglutinated; they will thus leave Jr vblcb a knuckle of intestine may insinuate itself, pass through the rin^s 't may happen^thft^J^'1 Tu th® alt?red ™ass of omentum which is in the hernial sac. xdween the folds of the tbree Portlon* of Sut may slip into the different spaces left louchec « , , f the omentum, and subsequently form for themselves separate n^ wMch ;ITn thePharate fCS’ with narr™ »e«ks, may be thus found in the omental in one case the Sa°‘ • °.nce fol'med, these sacs may attain an immense size. it its broadest part;0 The ^ T ^ "\ ^ deven incbes ia circumference • ? ‘ /he omentum m whicli a sac has been formed, may in the course of •fTym^hofby fdeVoSn of fit’ b“e a’tered in structure, either by thVeffusion .Iteration of „L .: p0Sdlon.o.f ,fat> whlch takes place in the walls of the sac. By this lterefin Y* “T”1™ lat, W1 cry great^ifficuS6 ** * These m aU °P?rati°n’ become the' source "of he hernial sac or the two I; lta sacs may either lie loose in the cavity of sac, or the two sacs may have contracted more or less extensive and firm (a) Cooper’s Hernia, above citeil. (,J) Above cited. (c) Observations 0n the Omental Sac* which are sometimes found in Strangulated Hernia? com- pletely enveloping the intestine ; in Med.-Chir i raris. vol. xxvii. 1844.