TYMPANITIS. 495 £ lith ascites, the belly soon acquires as regular distension as at the end of H ,Teo-nancy, on striking the belly nothing more is felt than a slight, deep, : all fluctuation ; the quick distension of the womb, the bowels violently lirust up against the diaphragm, in consequence of which there is diffi- ic tulty of breathing, and even danger of suffocation ; the feet generally well. A considerable quantity of water is not unfrequently passed, from o ime to time, often periodically by the vagina, with symptoms of threat- ning abortion. The birth, however, usually occurs at the due time, and t fter the discharge of the proper waters. The seat of this dropsical ■iccumulation is either between the womb and the foetal membranes, is etween the chorion and amnion, often probably in a proper sac; or « iere may be a very considerable collection of the liquor amnii. The V lacenta also may be affected with hydatids during pregnancy. An biydatidous degeneration of the ovum may even produce an accumulation | f water in the womb, and render the diagnosis extremely difficult (a). / : 1929. The causes of dropsy of the unimpregnated womb are, closing of s le mouth of the womb by spasm, its stopping up or growing together, and if>. diseased condition of the secretion of its inner surface. The removal of U: ie water is effected either by the use of the remedies specially employed | )r dropsy, which act upon the kidnies, the alimentary canal, and the Kpsorbing vessels; or if the mouth of the womb be closed, by warm 2i r steam baths, softening injections, or by the introduction of a female | hheter into the mouth of the womb when it is stopped up with plugs ■!' : lymph, and the like. If there be adhesion of the mouth of the womb, 0 ie above-mentioned remedies are useless; if the symptoms be severe, as 1:. hen dropsy of the womb accompanies pregnancy, danger of suffocation, arid the like, paracentesis uteri is required. 1930. This operation, when the mouth of the womb is closed, is -c erformed as already described, {par. 1823,) or between the navel and the ibes, the bladder having been previously emptied and a belly-band •plied ; or above the vaginal portion of the womb, in the fluctuating part the tumour, with a trocar (5). j J931. In distension of the alimentary canal with air, ( Tympanitis,') the h jeration of paracentesis has been proposed by some Surgeons, if the ■ment be idiopathic and not a symptom of any other disease, if it have Busted three or four days, have withstood all remedies, and the patient be pceedingly restless and distressed ; the pulse strong and quick, not small 1 d soft; and there be general heat over the whole body unaccompanied i coldness of the limbs. Other practitioners have decidedly opposed |ch treatment. J l In Pe.r[<>™ing the operation a long thin trocar with a canula perforated ■ the sides, is thrust into the middle of a line drawn on the left side from nth?/rd of sec0nd uPPer false rib t0 the front iliac spine, to the pth ot four or five inches, which directly opens the colon descendens. r.tain??r iuwl1thdrawn> wllilst the canula is held in, and the air eadv di? t ? b°-n eSCapes’ after which the tube is to be removed as nlAuh |ted'i l l.ePaUent should take but the smallest quantity of lice of?! ,? 7 a llUle 1Ced almond milk> and his thirst quenched with ot Seville orange, sugared, and kept in his mouth, or with a cool ’Anatorni« n.nTT clted.-CRuvEr.n.Kn, Kgaale. , ly,,!"10 en general, vol. i. p.2.-<0. S**0*1-".) niasert. ) rorriiuja Uteri gravldi. Heidelb., 1821. (6") Si-arpa, above cited. — Devilliehs ; in Journal de Medecine, par Sedim.ot, vol. xliii. loi2(