393 FOREIGN BODIES IN THE RECTUM. iifhmmation, and swelling of the inner wall of the rectum, extending to |e‘neighbouring parts and to the bowels, violent fever, tympanitis, and ~ like The "danger is always great, and the foreign body must be 'moved as quickly as possible. The removal is often exceedingly ■ dicult, on account of the seat and form of the foreign body, and the Uo-ree of inflammation and spasmodic contraction of the sphincter. itr Abscesses by the side of the rectum are occasionally formed by hard substances, Such have been swallowed, making way through its wall. Brodie (a) mentions an Stance in which a very large abscess was found; it was opened, and sticking across it His a lon»- fish-bone, which he extracted. Green tells me another instance of a ' iiale in^whom the abscess was so distended with pus, that when punctured it flew ■ross the room; from it part of the pelvis of a snipe was removed. JiBut still more serious consequences than abscess occasionally happen when a foreign fa dy remains fixed in the rectum ; it may cause complete closure of this gut, as in a iiise which occurred to Coulson. The woman, previously in good health, was thirty- tsiir years of age, and between the fourth and fifth month of her pregnancy, when she s.: is attacked with sickness, constipation, pain, and distension of the belly. These 1 mptoms increased in severity, faecal matter was rejected from the stomach, the belly Lcarne more distended, and no relief from the bowels could be obtained, injections srfiich were attempted to be thrown up the rectum, being immediately expelled. She lladually sunk, and on the ninth day from the commencement of the attack, died. On & emitnation, the colon was found exceedingly distended, especially its descending part, n d between three and four inches from the anus, a foreign body, believed to be a small > rtion of fish-bone, found adherent to the lining membrane of the rectum, and in this : nation pressed on by the gravid womb. Immediately below the bone, the gut was com- jtely closed to the extent of three inches. The preparation is in the College Museum.] I 1752. When the position of the body in the rectum has been ascertained •r the introduction of the left forefinger oiled, a pair of polypus or stone- -Srceps are to be introduced upon it, the foreign body seized and withdrawn. |4he removal may be always facilitated by injecting oil into the gut. In vio- iiint inflammation, blood-letting should be resorted to, and in spasmodic smtraction of the sphincter, suppositories, with the addition of extract of Stlladonna or hyoscyamus. In a case in which the size of the foreign body ias very great, a pair of forceps with a movable lock were employed, so hat each blade could be separately introduced (b). In case of a very tangible body, as glass and the like, in which danger was dreaded from j3 pieces, the hand of a child was employed for its removal (c). The »e of the various anal specula can render easy the grasping foreign . jxlies; but the force accompanying the use of these instruments, renders iiem dangerous, if there be much inflammation. In these cases it is ';2tter to cut through the sphincter ani, and thereby relieve the obstrue- >ion which prevents the removal of the foreign body. (DELrEcn.) Marchettis (d), in a case in which a swine’s tail, with the thick end upwards, «1 been introduced into the rectum, used a hollow tube, which protected the inner tembrane of the rectum from injury. i ?8TANCE (c) mentions the case of a man who fell on an inverted blacking pot, and id the whole of it forced up the rectum■ Attempts were made for an hour and a half dilate the sphincter, and remove it with forceps, but in vain. The small end of an iron ■istle was then introduced, till it touched the bottom, and being held there firmly, was ruck with a flat iron. At the second blow, the pot was broken into several pieces, T w<re rL‘rnoved piece by piece with the forceps, or with the fingers. Next morning aboured under severe intestinal inflammation, with incessant vomiting and excru- ' °VCT ^,e whole belly; and he died at night. The pot was two inches and ' e eiE *ths at the brim, an inch and a half at its base, and two and an eighth in depth. £ £?) fcondon Med. Gm, f yd ‘’jEssERsciiMUvr; in \c) Nolet* Vf - vol.vii. p. 27. 1836. W a ether, above cited, m Mora no, above cited. (rQ In Morand. (c) London Medical Gazette, 1820. vol. iv. p. 18.