VA11IC0CELE. 296 recur very frequently, at intervals of two or three months, for as many years betlen sixteen and two or three and twenty. I do not believe it will have usually the r«ul,s stated - but it is a most troublesome and annoying complaint, compiling the patieai to keen himself completely at rest, and is not very easily controlable Keeping the bowls free and avoiding excitement of all kinds, bodily or mental, with a cool dressing, and supporting the testicles with a suspensory bandage, is almost all that can lie done, aud that not of much benefit. Usually after a time it is outgrown, and the disposition to it ceases^—J. F. S.] . . JKH 1535 The causes of varicocele are various, though in some cases often not at all determinable. For the most part it depends on weakness of the spermatic veins, produced by great congestion in consequence of venerul 1 * or from long-continued libidinous appetite, or alter excesses, OlianiMii, — — ** r :x ii . previous inflammation of the testicle, from obstructed return of the blood In persons of sedentary habits, in swellings and costiveness of the bowels, from a truss pressing the spermatic cord, from particular employm*! and so on. The disease occurs more frequently on the left than on tfagfl rio-ht side, the ground of which is to be sought for in various causes (lg Sometimes it is accompanied with hemorrhoidal inconvenience Ihel disease is most commonly noticed in young persons, from fifteen to tbfrM years of age, rarely in older people. In many cases, however, the ®t«*» lo«y of this disease is quite obscure, and it is indeterminable what the above-mentioned causes have on its origin. The complaint, often renmuM in a slight degree stationary, although, on account of the mode of_h™n| and employment of the patient, its increase is on every ground to $ fe f i?Mmt derive this disease from pressure of the sigmoid flexure of the color, ™ the an obstacle, as the two streams do not take the Xo^eencharged^-'Ch it,°as well* by he enlargement of the swelling are produced swellings of he ^ the purse, inconvenience from its weight, and not unfrequently co^ able pain, especially on long-continued standing, or any o t and even the impossibility of walking without a suspender. ~ there is also a greater secretion of the scrotal skin Where a of the disease, with violent pain and speedy wasting of the test been observed, (Pott, A. Cooper,) it appears to depend less on cocele than on another and indeed traumatic influence iti 1537. The treatment of varicocele must principally depend and when this is known, it must be removed according to ■ cause, and when this is kiiowu, re , the pursbl general rules laid down. In a trifling degree of the disease, in F ^ may be supported by means of a well-fitting suspender ;; and hyt! Sed use, during the day, of cold astringen application of solution of alum, aromatic decoctions, frequent washings wi • ~j{nerali. dies or with cold water and spirits of wine, or h J ^ t( IIoffm., naphtha, and so on ; even blisters may be appliedl to 1 tim, incmae"the contractility of the part. The pa,tent must at the same (a) UtLi’Ecii, Precisclcmentaire, vol. in. p 266.