841 PARTS OF THE NOSE. to the upper lip in a groove previously made there: the wound on the nose is to be united with the twisted suture. In the so-called bottle-nose, or in that form in which the nose is turned up and the bridge resembles a saddle, the cuts should be made, according to Dieffenbach, as in the former case, only that both cuts should equally descend to the free edge of the wide nostril. The lower edge of this flap 1 should be made raw, the upper and middle part separated from the under- lying cellular tissue, so that its undermost part alone remains connected and serves for nutrition. The flap thus separated, is usually so movable’that it may be drawn down to the upper lip, where it must be fastened with the interrupted suture to the part made raw, and the cleft on the middle of the nose must be united with the twisted suture. If the flap cannot be brought sufficiently down to the lip, the cartilaginous part of the tip and of the column of the nose must be so far cut transversely till the lowest part of the flap can be united to the corresponding part of the upper lip. The upper part of the flap must be attached also on both sides with in- sect-pms to the tip of the nose. When it has perfectly healed, the tip of ? be -ept d°Wn tovvards tl,e uPPer lip with pieces of sticking ' If t {Tft ?’ S° t mt the neW sePtum be llot very much stretched It the deficient column cannot be supplied by the preceding method a corresponding piece must be formed by two cuts from the whole thickness of the upper lip, of which the red part has been cut off, the entire pfece UP’ • u eCl t0 tbe tip °P tlie nose’ and tlie wound in the lip brought n I ho0 n ‘er H I1® tWuSted SUture' This turning up of the flap by wlifch lihiehU-°USlSUlfaCe 3ecoraes outermost is better than twisting Hie flap twhich is always violent; and the mucous membrane soon assumes he h appearance of the external skin (Fkicke, Dieffenbach Liston ‘ a f a flar^of its whol C?|n.d,,tl0n °f the upPer lip do not admit the formation of V of? ? -h thickness, a corresponding strip of skin must be cut out liSS I ■*? <&.<■» »'Sed ; having thus reduced the wound of the tin to a sirS inl? lgej .h« removed it, and I reunited it by means of a pin and waxed* thread Tl I0n’ hy this loss of substance, Med down,'being no longer fixed, w ^ b^Weh5,d 1,0 JP6 advantage thus gained has since continued J elaSt,c,t^ of Us cartilage. i a"d the teeth mdXS20pr^^8h^8^2^hP08ed by g?ngrene of the left fte®*8’ GENSouL(i) cut away all the aTtadnuILro thrown out during the healing J the projecting part of the jaws dissected ,m ' s?ar and integuments, chiselled ' art of the neck, and one inch of that of tlie »Lni ° lnc \es °f the skin of the upper ■nnutures and adhesive strans ti,„ r ■, °11 tk’, and brought the edges together with Vistula which was elfly coverS] ^ ^ thUS removed- *eavinf a small saliva,y |,(«2?0,iwo. CIiniq“e <,0S HflPitaux de I-yons, No. I.—Journal Hebdomadaire (*) Ibid., p. 44th de Medecine, vol. vi.