^t. ii. p. 750. — Hodgson, above cited, p. 303.— III.—OF ANEURYSM OF THE BRACHIAL, ULNAR, AND RADIAL ARTERIES. 1461. Aneurysms of the brachial artery, and its branches, are almost always consequent on wounds, and occur most frequently at the bend of the arm, after a wound of the artery in bleeding. In these aneurysms therefore compression is commonly employed with the best results. [“ I do not recollect,” says Astley Cooper, “ to have seen a case of aneurysm from isease in the brachial artery.” (p. 78.) Hodgson observes:—“I have never seen an aneurysm in the ami which was not produced by accidental violence.” (p. 389.) Liston (a) also speaks of the rarity of spontaneous aneurysm at the bend of the elbow; and says:—“ I have treated but one such case in the person of an old ship’s-carpenter. While at work, as usual, he felt something snap in his arm, a pulsating tumour was soon after noticed, and it had attained, during four months, fully the size of a hen’s egg, and was evidently, in part, made up of solid matter. The brachial artery was tied, and avery thing went on favourably.” (p. 181.)] 1462. If the aneurysm be seated in the trunk of the brachial artery, at the bend of the arm, or in the ulnar (1), radial (2), or interosseal artery near the bend, it is sufficient to tie the brachial artery (b). But if it be ituated in the middle of the fore-arm, in the region of the wrist, it is necessary to tie the artery near the aneurysmal sac, because the free nastomosis on the back of the hand, is sufficient to support the aneurysm iy the reflux of the blood (c). The free anastomosis of the arteries of the arm always renders it advisable to under- ke.tying the artery near the sac, because in many cases the regurgitation of the blood mtinues the growth of the sac, and causes its bursting {par. 1423.) In an aneurysm iriginating from wound of the artery, in the middle of the arm, when the sac does jiot extend far upwards, the opening of the sac is to be effected according to Hunter’s irst plan. [(1) Astley Cooper had seen “ only one case of aneurism of the ulnar artery from isease; it was seated where the artery dips under the pronator radii teres and flexor nuscles of the hand.” The artery was tied above the swelling with great difficulty, • ind “ the patient died from the constitutional irritation resulting from this operation.” p. 81.) (2) Liston says he has “ secured the radial and ulnar arteries in all parts of their nurse for small aneurysms.” (p. 187.) In the College Museum there is a preparation ® >f aneurysm of the radial artery an inch above the origin of the superficial volar )ranch. Astley Cooper mentions acase in which William Cooper, formerly Surgeon '■ it Guy’s Hospital, “in performing this operation, (tying the radial artery,) found the ipper portion of the radial artery obliterated, and that the aneurism was supported by egurgitation from the hand, from the free anastomosis with the ulnar artery.” (p. 81.)] 1463. In aneurysm upon the back or front of the hand, tying one or >ther of the large arteries of the fore-arm does not, on account of the extensive communications which the ulnar and radial arteries have with !ach other in the hand, prevent the blood flowing back with sufficient ' lower to keep up the aneurysm. If in this case pressure be insufficient or curing the aneurysm, the sac must be opened, and the artery tied above mu below ; and if this be not possible, one of the principal arteries of the ore-arm must be tied, the sac opened, and the bleeding arrested by iressure. The same rules must be followed in wounds of the arteries of ] he fore-arm and hand (d). Th<I br,acI!ial artery may be tied in any part of its course, from arm-pit to the bend of the elbow. Its tying, therefore, must be con- n), £™ctical Surgery, 1838. Second Edit. 8vo. '«>»x £:tVr!ei1' P-38l.-H.oux, Nou- Walthf.ii, above cited, p. 58. mens de Mcdecine Opcratoire, vol. i. (c) Hodgson, above cited, p.394. (d) Scarpa, above cited, p. 407.