461 DROPSY OF THE JOINTS. fl recollect seeing a case of the elder Travers’s in St. Thomas’s Hospital, in which m suppuration of the mucous sac upon the knee-cap came on very rapidly, and extended fc around the front and sides of the joint. The patient suffered severe symptoms of con- ;titutional excitement, and I must confess I thought the suppuration was within the g. itself; he however thought otherwise, and directed the swelling to be freely opened; 4- a large quantity of pus escaped, and the symptoms of irritation soon subsided. Union A ! of the skin with the parts beneath did not, however, take place very quickly, and when all was quiet, the introduction of a probe, which ran along freely immediately beneath the skin, showed that Travers’s opinion was correct. She recovered perfectly, and with full use of the joint in a comparatively short time. Irritation of the inside of these dropsical sacs by poking with a probe, setons or injec- tions, are on no account to be resorted to, as the very probable consequence will be severe inflammation, terminating in gangrene of the sac and neighbouring parts, and high institutional disturbance. i Occasionally it happens after the mucous sac on the knee-cap has suppurated, and either burst or been opened, that it takes on a fistulous character, and two or three or no re little wounds ulcerate through the skin, which are very plaguing to the patient, indvery troublesome to heal. Under these circumstances it will be found very advan- ageous to stuff in a little red precipitate powder, and apply ointment of the same with a oandage, keeping the patient at rest at the same time.—J. F. S.] II.—OF DROPSY OF THE JOINTS. (Hydrops Articulorum, Hijdrathrosis, Lat.; Gelenkivassersucht, Germ. ; Hi/drarthrose, Fr.) 1875. Dropsy of a joint is a collection of serous fluid within the capsular J ligament, by which it is distended into a swelling, soft, bounded by the at- tachments of the ligament yielding to the pressure of the finger, but without ■retaining any impress, distinctly fluctuating, little or not at all painful, and '1 >P°n which the skin is unchanged. The swelling does not entirely cor- n -espond with the whole extent of the joint, but is greatest where the cap- Bular ligament is most yielding and little covered. Thus, for instance, a fi.welling at the wrist-joint is especially distinct on its fore and hind sur- i ace, but is scarcely perceptible on its sides ; at the ankle-joint it is most ■remarkable on the front 5 at the shoulder it confines itself to the front, k md projects most distinctly between the deltoid and great pectoral muscle. Im the knee-joint, where the disease most commonly occurs, the swelling k-appears in front and at the sides, when very large projects most on the in- 1 me, is divided into two parts by the knee-cap and tendon attached to it, |ond extends upwards beneath the muscles of the thigh. The knee-cap is t brust forward, is veiy movable, and after being pressed down, again rises vhen the pressure is removed. When the leg is bent, the swelling on the ■ • ides is larger and more tense; when the leg is extended, the fluctuation is more distinct. The movements of the limb are little interfered with in ; dropsy of the joint. 1876 The disease in general is slowly developed. Its causes may be -Mx ernal violence bruisings, sprains, catching cold, rheumatic or arth- | i;‘C at™’ cartilage-like bodies in the joint, and metastasis, whereby a | low inflammatory condition and disproportion between the secretion |i-ffa7orptlon of syn°™a is produced. The collected fluid does not iseU-?K common synovia, except that in long continuance of the ’1 ease it becomes more consistent, viscid, and of a tawny colour. Miifiekened1 iilcer^toil^'or^i of. j°'.nt are organically altered, swelled up, i irmed in fS “Actions of mucus, or pus, are I > Heated droosv of «,; ♦ ondition, which has been by some described as com- j} 11 » requires only particular attention, if the disease which had