REMOVAL OF SCROTAL TUMOUR. 808 i.< t middle was twenty-two inches and a half. The weight of this enormous mass was the principal source of inconvenience.” The operation was performed on the 29f/i Novem- ber, 1844. After making a puncture into the elastic part of the tumour with a trocar, through the canula of which nothing but a little blood came out, and the patient being . - placed in the position for lithotomy, “ with a large broad-backed bistoury, O'FEKRAiX-tri made in the perinceum two straight incisions meeting at an angle, salient towards.- s < the anus. Keeping close to the tumour, the incisions were carried rapidly rounds *>i its under and lateral surfaces, exposing on the right side the covering of the testicle, and on the left a bunch of cylindrical convolutions as large as the finger. * * * Their v I uniform blue colour, solid feel, and entire absence of gaseous contents, at once con- ■ vinced us that it was an enormous varix of the cord of the left side. The tumour beings id • uow detached as far as possible laterally and underneath, was allowed to descend to a I nearly horizontal position, in order to complete the operation in front. Two straight 1 incisions carried downwards from the groins, were made to meet at an angle, so as <-r- to include a portion of integument capable of covering the urethra, and fitting into the < incisions previously made. The tumour was now rapidly detached, and the cord being sd held, was cut across. A few strokes of the bistoury completed the separation of this 1 enormous mass from the body of the patient. The vessels of the cord and a few small * subcutaneous branches were now secured, and the patient was put to bed. The loss of blood was very inconsiderable, not exceeding perhaps four ounces.” The operation - ft was completed in eight minutes. After a few hours the flaps of integument were w brought together with sutures. About nine days after the operation the patient was : attacked with erysipelas, which spread down the thighs, upwards over the body to the • t nd face, and after about seventeeen days subsided com- « shoulders, then over the scalp and . pletely. Shortly after he had a fit of acute rheumatism, from which, however, as well as the general consequences of the operation, he rapidly recovered. On examination of the tumour, “ a loose capsule of cellular tissue enveloped the morbid growth. _ A section carried through its middle showed that the whole was perfectly solid, and with- out the slightest appearance of a cyst. The cut surfaces reminded us strongly of the section of the larger varieties of fibrous tumour of the uterus; whitish, with the slightest possible tinge of yellow. The substance appeared to consist of a number of lobules, separated by lines of condensed cellular tissue, and marked here and there by * minute granules of calcareous deposit. The greater number of bloody points presented ■' j bv the section, however, distinguished its appearance from that of the fibrous tumour ot H y ^ « 1 1 » 1 1 a. 1,1 „ A ^..^’.4-,- « tlno intern1!*- the uterus. Some of the lobules almost resembled in density' a section of the interver iue uterus. uumv ui tuv ‘''ou.eu * -j tebral substance Others more elastic appeared to have undergone a change approacn- - .I.- t— „e riioanco This imnrpssinn was confirmed by Hr. ffl ing the character of encephaloid disease. This impression was confirmed by ur. Houston, who found that it presented under the microscope the mixture of fibres and cells, characteristic of malignant structure. It was in these situations that the decep- tive feeling of a cyst had previously existed. The left testicle was, after a cata search, found to occupy the position mentioned by the patient. It was atrophied, du otherwise unchanged, and lay enclosed in its moist and polished tunica vaginalis, i cord above it was lost in the tumour.” In the very remarkable case related by Bennett (a), the disease had “nine or ten years before, in the form of a swelling on each side of the groin, '' ■ - - • - ’ ’ ’ ’ united and formed one mass gradually increased in size, descended, and, he says, united and forme . entirely covering the penis." The tumour has been gradually increasing ro , time, and has now reached to the insteps. The weight of the tumour, so lax be ascertained, was about ninety-six pounds avoirdupoise, and the size, by - measurement, was found to be as follows :—The length from the crest of the /> the base (bottom) of the tumour, two feet five inches; circumference of the upper t - just below the pubes, twenty one inches; of the centre, four feet; of the just below the urethra, four feet eight inches. The tumour was at some parts smoot at others had a wrinkled appearance, excepting at the lower part ot Us rig*' - which was tuberculated and livid; the general colour, however, was a dirty V* ated sub- operation was very callous to the touch, except at the upper part about the pubes, an.d ? * „ib- below. The tumour was composed, as appeared on cutting into it, of an mail ion stance, about the consistence of cartilage, and of a similar white colour, no op was^perfonnej: have been noticed, that the scrotum was only secondarily. not primarily affected.] ^ fa) Case of enormous Tumour of the Scrotum Southern Pacific Ocean ; in Lomion Med* in a Nafive of the Island of Tahiti, (Otahcito.) zette, vol. tin. P. 101. 1831-