966 OF EXARTICULATION OF THE FINGERS. head, of the metacarpal bone, for the purpose of cutting through the anterior ligamen-.B from above, so that it remains attached to the phalanx, together with the transvers' i® metacarpal ligament with which it is connected. In extirpating the first metatarsal bone, the foot must be so placed as to rest on itr* ■ outer edge ; the operator then thrusts a long narrow bistoury on the inner side of theta m. extensor longus pollicis, so that its point may come out at the inside of the tendon otm| the m. flexor pollicis, and then cuts out a flap, the base of which corresponds to the hinoi joint of the metatarsal bone, and its tip to the front joint of that bone; the rest of the.! operation is performed as on the metacarpus. X.—OF EXARTICULATION OF THE FINGERS, AT THEIR JUNCTION^ WITH THE METACARPAL BONES, AND AT THEIR OWN JOINTS. (Exarticulatio Digitorum Manus, Lat.; Ablosung der Fingerglieder aus ihrer Verbindum j mil den Mittelhandknochen, und miter sich, Germ.; Disarticulation des Doigts, Fr.) 2821. All that has been said in regard to exarticulation of the toesj from the metatarsal bones, applies to amputation of the fingers at their junction with the metacarpus. In exarticulation of the middle and ring-fingers, Dupuytren (a) cuts off the head o the metacarpal bone obliquely with a saw. In younger persons, in whom ossification J is incomplete, the head of the bone may, according to Lisfranc, be cut off with i knife. . i Barthet.f.my (b) thinks that inflammation, gangrene, and suppuration occur after exarticulation of the fingers from the metacarpal bones, in consequence of the strangu-t lation of the underlying cellular tissue by the palmar aponeurosis, and therefore proposes - after extirpating the finger, to separate the processes of the aponeurosis, which is easily« done; and by which, whilst the tension of the aponeurosis is got rid of, these bae symptoms are more certainly prevented. 2822. In exarticulation of the joints of the fingers from each other, if, the state of the parts permit, the following is the best mode of proceed- ingAn assistant draws out the diseased finger from the healthy fingers, held in a state of pronation, and holds them firmly. The operator, with his left thumb and finger, grasps the diseased joint and bends it, whilst with the other hand he carries a straight narrow bistoury, holding it as in making a longitudinal cut, a line below the projection which is formed by the head of the upper phalanx, in a horizontal direction from the left to _ ■ . • i 1 • i l 1 _ * . X 11 ^ L « 14.. 1 I « rvn n t C O I1CCIU VAX bliv ^ i w. j — — the right side, with a stroke into the joint. The lateral ligaments are then divided, the diseased phalanx pressed much downwards, the blade ol the knife carried to the palmar surface, forwards, and close to the bone, where by cutting obliquely a flap is formed. If two flaps have to be formed, a semilunar cut is to be made on the dorsal surface of the joint, the skin drawn back, the joint cut into, an the lower flap formed as in the former case. This mode of proceeding however, unsatisfactory, because the upper flap is very thin, its dissection painful, and after the cure the scar is in the middle, and thus most exposed to external violence. Less suitable is Lisfuanc’s (c) method of forming the flap, by thrusting the knife through the palmar surface, cutting into the joint from above downwards, and througa the skin on the dorsal surface. , . For the purpose of producing, by adhesion of the tendon of the flexor muscle, tn mobility ofthe first phalanx, after the removal of the second, Lisfranc (d) prev.oady makes a longitudinal cut of half an inch on the palmar surface, winch wounds the fn) Sabatier, above cited, p. 534 (b) Journal Universel des Sciences Mcdieales. rAmputationdan.Ues ArticulationsdMPhsl^ laSq. 211 in Revue Modicale. 1823; vol i. p. (,'•)’ M- moire sur un Nouveau Precede pour (d) Ibid., above cited, p. 236.