414 TREATMENT OF PARALYTIC RETENTION. 1788. The treatment of paralytic retention consists in emptying tli bladder of its urine, and in restoring its contractile power. The remedies which answer to the latter indication are useless without attention to tli former. 1789. Emptying the bladder by means of the catheter, must be pei formed so frequently, that all distension from the collecting of the urin must be prevented. The catheter may be either introduced afresh asofte as necessary, or an elastic catheter may be left in, which in all caseswher* the patient is not under immediate observation, is the most fitting, as tli urine often collects again with great quickness, and therefore the bladde again becomes greatly distended. The introduction of the catheter is h these cases always unattended with difficulty, and generally in ashorttim: the patient may learn himself to pass it. If the bladder be weak, tli urine sometimes only Hows through the catheter, when pressure is matleo the belly. This indisposition of the urine to pass by the catheter, may lea- to the mistake that the instrument is not in the bladder («)• The cathete must be continued till the urine pass through it, and between it and tin urethra, in a strong unbroken stream ; and if even the patient should voi his urine without the catheter, it should be frequently ascertained by intrc ducing it, that no urine be retained in the bladder. 1790. The remedies which answer the second indication are, cold bath ing of the pubic region and perinceum; cold applications, cold injections int the rectum; rubbing volatile salves on the perinceum, and on the regioi of the bladder. Internally should be given arnica, oleum animate Dippeli cantharides to the amount of a grain daily with camphor and gum-arabic tincture of cantharides up to fifteen or twenty drops, with almond milk And in addition to these general strengthening baths, galvanism, elec, tricity, and blisters upon the sacrum. When the patient can again him. self discharge his urine, he must not dare to allow the least disposition t. void it to pass unsatisfied. 1791. In the quickly occurring paralytic retention, where gout o rheumatism are in play, warm sulphur baths, fomentations of aromati herbs with wine and vinegar, rubbing in oil of juniper, particularly o the inside of the thighs ; cupping and easily digestible diet are to b , used. If violent inflammatory symptoms be present, leeches are to b applied to the perinceum. The introduction of the catheter, necessfflf «! it be, is generally difficult on account of the contraction of the neck o bladder. . 1792. If paralytic retention have existed for some time, and be accom panied with an inflammatory condition, it must, according to circumstance* be treated antiphlogistically with blood-letting, clysters, diluting, shg . I astringent drinks, as alum milk, and the like. If the disease be incurau » as frequently it is in very old persons, and if it have long existed, j rwtJfiTit should alwavs use a catheter for emptying his bladder. The treatment of this ailment must consist in the gradual extension