URINARY STONE. 512 be required, the cyst is to be laid bare by a simple cut through the ski * opened, and so much of it removed as can be done without wounding th | spermatic cord ; some lint is to be put into the wound, the suppuratu 31 destroys the rest of the cyst, and the wound heals by granulation. Fourth Section.—FORMATION OF STONY CONCRETIONS IN THE |l FLUIDS OF THE BODY. 1979. In the various fluids of the body, especially in the urine, bi> spittle, and faces, when they are retained, or when their properties a altered by individual constitution, disease, mode of life, influence of clitnafa or of food, in regard to their quality and quantity, hard, stony concretio may be formed by the union of the several constituents, or by the produ. tion of new substances. Sometimes there may be a foreign body aroui which the constituent parts of the fluids are deposited so as to incrust . The phenomena which these concretions produce, are different accordm to their seat, their form, and their quantity. The treatment consists ■ their solution or removal. At present merely the stony concretions in the urine are to be considered. I—OF URINARY STONE. Beverovich, J., De Calculo renum et vesica; liber singularis; cum epistolis et a sultationibus magnorum virorum. Lugd. Batav-, 1638. Tenon, Recherches sur la nature des Pierres ou Calculs du Corps humain; in Mel de l’Acad. des Sciences, 1764, p. 374. Scheele, C. W., Untersuchungen des Blasensteines; in Sehwedischen Alihan lungen, vol. xxxvii. 1776. Austin, William, M.D., On the component parts of the Stone in the Urinary Bladdu London, 1780. Link, H. F., De Analysi Urina; et Origine Calculi. Gottiug., 1788. Walter, F. H., Anatomisches Museum, vol. i. Berlin, 1796; with five plates. Wollaston, W. IL, M.D., On Gouty and Urinary Concretions ; in Phil. Trans., v lxxxvii. p. 886. 1797. Pearson, George, M.D., Experiments and Observations to show the composition a: properties of the Urinary Concretions; in Phil. Trans., vol. lxxxvin. p. 15. l i Fourcroy, Examen des Experiences et des Observations de M. Pearson ; in AnnaM de Chimie, vol. xxvii. p. 225. in Mel Guyton ; in same, p. 294. Fourcroy, Observations sur les Calculs urinaires de la Vcssie de l’Homme, de la Socicte Me'dicale, vol. ii. p. 64. 1799. Des Calculs urinaires de l’Homme ; in his Systbme des Counaissanc Chimiques, vol. v. p. 5U1. Paris, 1801. . Fourcroy, Sur le Nombre, la Nature, et les Caracthres distinctifs d^ d.TOre materiaux qui forment les Calculs, les Bczoards et les diverses Concrcti Animaux; in Annales du Muse'e d’Histoire Naturelle, vol. l. p. 93. Ians. • Brande, William, On the differences in the structure of Calculi, which ariseiJk their being formed in different parts of the Urinary Passages ; and oni the■ fflccts u> are produced on them by the internal use of solvent medicines ; in 1 hil. Ira xcviii. p. 223. 1808.