SUPPLY OF DEFECTIVE 840 cases in which there are only single defects, to wit, of the wings and sides ol the nose, of the ridge and septum, which must be managed by transplant- ing the skin from the neighbouring parts. 2545. Attempts to supply defects of the icings of the nose from the< skin of the cheek had no satisfactory result; hence Dieffenbach prefers, the skin of the forehead. After paring the edges of the stump of the.* nose, a sufficient flap of skin is separated from the forehead, the side oi; the nose cleft, the flap twisted to that side, and fixed with twisted sutures.-* The neck of the flap is for a time healed into the cleft on the side of the nose ; but after the scarring is complete, it is removed. The wound or I the forehead is brought together with the twisted suture. When only a narrow portion of the wing of the nose is deficient, Dieffenbach cut! off the edges, as in the operation for hare lip, and brings them together with insect-pins If a large piece be wanting, he cuts out a corresponding portion frcm the healthy sidi so as to make both sides of the nose alike, and then fastens up both wounds. If thcH cleft be pretty broad and high, Difffenbach lengthens the cut from the point of the triangle through the wing to the bridge of the nose, and cuts out a piece from it anc the septum. If the wound heal by the first union, he cuts out a corresponding pieci from the other side of the nose. I, |fL' Ifti !'■ 12 - r |l If j. srR!l 2546. If the side edge be wanting as well as the icing of the nose, £ flap corresponding to its extent must be cut out of a piece of paper, and a like flap cut out of the skin of the forehead. Care must be taken that j the part of the flap, which is to be put into the upper part of the defect, should correspond to it, but the lower part of the flap which corresponds to the opening of the nostril must be made rather broader, and so much longer, that its edge may be folded in, to prevent the contraction of its edge. and°the narrowing of the nasal aperture (a). . 2547. If the bridge of the nose have sunk in, by the destruction ot the- bones, but the tip still stand up, a scalpel should be thrust between thes eyebrows, and the nose cleft throughout its middle to the tip. The adhe- sions which draw down the sides of the nose to the skin of the cheek must then be divided, so that the sides can be drawn up. An oval piece ot sticking plaster must be fitted between the edges of the wound to give the model of a good bridge. The plaster is then fixed on the lower part ot the forehead, and cut round in such way that one cut shall pass into t w cleft made in the nose, but the other only to the left eyebrow, and here a strip is left for nutrition. The flap is now separated, twisted round, fitted into the cleft, and fastened with the twisted suture. As this flap, after healing has a misshapen form, Dieffenbach has proposed overpiam* ing, or underhealing the frontal flap; in doing this, the operation to a first performed precisely as in inhealing, and when this is done and the scar ring complete, pieces of the transplanted skin must be cut out, an edges of the wound brought toget her by the twisted suture. 1 lie ext j- must be repeated till the whole of the inserted piece of canon has w* removed, and the edges of the original nose-stump united over tne maining thickened cellular tissue. , ifw),en 2548. The deficient columna narium may be variously replaced. ^ the column be wanting, the nose itself be very large, so that by remo'a,,oW portion it will not be disfigured, and the upper lip from being too • Sr beset with scars, is unfit for making the reparation, then a of five lines broad and about an inch long, must be cut out of the I ^ the nose, and with its neck attached to the tip. turned round, * (n) 7,kis, above cited, p. dlf>. flit