493 DROPSY OF THE WOMB. tiny idea that it can ever be dispensed with; and where we are confident that great suf- , iring must lead to early death. Perhaps this may be regarded as too limited a view of „ tie value of extirpation, but it is, I think, the correct one. In such cases, if the diay- qsis excludes the belief that there are serious adhesions, or malignant and solid growths jabmplicating the tumour, and, if the patient strongly desires it, the operation is defen- ! ble. In all other examples, it can only rest on the patient’s own views of her future - rospects, and on a calculation of chances. She might live many years, and without m inch suffering; she may die in a few years, after great suffering; she determines, lerefore, being courageous, and probably strongly urged by her Surgeon to run the |' sk of immediate death, for the hope of immediate and radical cure. Whether she has - me wisely to submit to such a hazard, a successful operation can scarcely prove; that S (he has happily secured her safety, through imminent peril, such an operation does -ove.” (p 64S.) f i On the other hand, Southam (a) says:—“ The operation is perfectly justifiable when vtie patient’s sufferings are such as to make her life a burden to her; when the symp- ins of structural lesion of any important organs are absent; and when the constitution suffering merely from functional derangement consequent upon pressure of the ■ - mour on the neighbouring parts. On the contrary, it ought not to be attempted when I e well-known characteristics of malignant action are present; when the tumour is •lid, uneven, and has been of rapid growth ; when the glands in the vicinity are en- ,rged, and hard knots can be felt in different parts of the abdomen, or when there is > stinct evidence of other organs being similarly implicated. Still less should it be un- •rtaken until the Surgeon, by varied and repeated examinations, is convinced of the •:c rastence of the disease. Nor must the rules, which direct us as to the propriety of . berating in other diseases, respecting the condition of the sexual organs, and the fitness the patient s constitution to undergo so severe an operation be overlooked.” (p. 241.) The number of times which a patient may bear tapping is almost incredible • three , : ur, and five times are by no means unfrequent. fj Schmucker (b) mentions a woman of forty-five, on whom he operated twentv-nine u-nes in four years ; Ford (c) forty-one times in four-and-a-half years ; Schmucker (d) another woman, sixty years old, fifty-two times in four years. Mead (e) sixtv-five •■nes m sixty-seven months ; Callisen (/) one hundred times ; in Dartford church- .rd lies the body of Ann Mumford, &c. Her death was occasioned by a dropsy for 4 pich, in the space of three years and ten months she was tapped one hundred and )-five tunes. She died 14th May, 1778, in the 23rd year of her age” (q) But ca?e exceeds all, a woman who, he says was tapped six hundred and iy ve times in the course of thirteen years. Whether these cases were ascites or SrH Wg,eiT ,S r0t mentired' The (iuantity of water ^awn off, varies of course ' rdfore t£ehS1ne ° aCCUmulatT; a,nd whet.her the taPPinS be repeated frequently, d tefore the belly has recovered its former size. In the second case, recited above <m Schmucker, the quantity had been reduced to five pints; and in the greater num- r of these operations, three or four quarts only was the quantity withdrawn Asti fv Jhe smallest quantity he had removed was eight quarts, and the largest «’s Muienm >’Dd‘f ^ °Vanan dl'°pS>'’ the C>'st of Wch is now in St. Tho- vss Museum. Stoerck took away twelve gallons and a half. “The nronm-tim, •*7 ge?’ “y*. Astley Cooper, “ from twenty-five to thirty-two pints ” Id*374 1 nnrl ;«upon the whole, I believe, a fair estimate.] 7 P ’ CP’ 3'4)) and I “°™8 a,S0 *• —“ «f«rence «*»•—> ■» »->»«. -UEHUS ; in Heidelberg. Annalen, vol. i. • Ievin ; in same. fi?ut ThS °Perated successful I y by the large incision on a large tumour which i K With the unr ’ C0atamlno nine and a half pints of purulent fluid, so cK con v.val £Jd notbe atIS “h,ft ft °f ft11™ a“d ‘be intestines, that fts re- Ihequently st muSit witbft ^ dl^harged the pus, he filled it with charpie, and !< 'w'0,Vf' citerl> vol. ii. p.202. CO Chirurg. Ilodiern, vol. ii. p 55. 4 leihcal Communicationsr'vol.ii o P’S >K n’li'°.0F]BR’S ctures, vol. ii. p. 374. I > w*>^vc ei,o<t, p. 187. ' ' W. do In boo. Med. d'Emulatlou, vol. ii. *t!) Medical Works, p. 394 1815. ’ ' "* (0 Caspar’s Woclienschrirt, vol. i. p.513. 1833.