294 TREATMENT OF VARIX. . , , . , „ T W1 pomino- to an end. Unfortunately, at last it came.” A patient judge what fear I Fad of it commg to an cn^^ ^ ^ Jwere removed on the sixth, was operated on by hm U£ature’s on the following day, the tied parts being scarred, and the other two, w t g • > nipht, however, he was attacked with and the patient free from p • . nausea aud vomiting; and on the following intermitting shivenngs aceomp j • j extended next day up the thigh, and where morning the leg was livid spots appeared the ligatures hadbeen “PgjJ ,th^“e Srious, had continual tremors, and weak on diiierent face had become purple, the lips dry, and he quick pulse. On ttejcmte 7 snots appeared on the inside of the arms, and was very comatose . large I PP limb which had been operated on ,he liad been tied had not been perfectly obliterated, (pp. 442, 43). j l been tiea nau. uui uecu y*.*- , 1532 Lateral compression of the vein (according o reschets practice in Varicocele) has been performed by Sanson (a) by means of forceps between which a pair of metal plates, fifteen lines long .covered with leather, which compressed the vein, raised up in a.fold ofsk.msvfa cientlv to prevent the blood circulating through it. The forceps are to be frequently applied at different places, so that no slough should be formed^ A plug* of blood is thus produced, which stops up the vein. 1533 In reviewing these different modes of treatment for the radica curi of mriritmusfbe remembered that in all those accompanied^ wound of the vein, there is danger of venous inflammation arising,!' nc 1 sOTeadswidely^and causes death. This is the more important, as persons> who are subiect to varix have, for the most part, accompanying gouty or rhja SlitSlns stoppage, and fulness in .he in the venous system at the same time, whence they are the more tn.posai to such inflammations ; so that it must not be “V^^diUons “‘often nf the causal relations of varix to such general diseased conditions, it oueu beiot^s‘‘‘the relative well-being of the patient, and never6 be nndemhe, without careful review of the patient’s general condition and never wi^ “ important reason, and pressing demand. -In old persons i has . J benefit. Puncture is least dangerous; but, in regard to its h radical cure, very uncertain. Tying and .nets,on most• frilly dangerous inflammation; less so do extirpation a ,. • )gam. threads. But even in the latter seemingly triflmg proving, mation of a very severe degree may ensue, though less after ^ introduction of the needle or thread, (Kun, Fricke,) than i - vdn aJ the same time, (Davat, Franc and others ) in ^ lation through it is entirely arrested. In this respect the sir pression of the vein, after Sanson’s plan, deserves especial notice, if observation should prove the certain closure of the vein thereby. i;f 1 1 I (a) Gazette Medicate, 1836. Feb. Hamburg. Zeitsch., vol. ii. pt. ii. P -’>0’ l a»R,‘-ps ^ isch. Kupfertaf., pi. ccclxxxvi.