FOREIGN BODIES IN THE NOSTRILS, MOUTII, 380 First Section.- -OF FOREIGN BODIES INTRODUCED INTO THE BOD' ! FROM WITHOUT. 1723. What relates to foreign bodies, which in various ways com plicae | wounds, has been already treated of, {par. 306 and 338,) both as regan i their effect, and the necessity, and the kind and mode of their remove I Here only will be considered those which penetrate into the open caviti of our bodies. I.—OF FOREIGN BODIES IN THE NOSTRILS. 1724. Foreign bodies which get into the nostrils, are retained, either 1 . the swelling which they undergo, as beans, peas, and the like, which chi | dren frequently thrust into their nose; or, if they do not themselvi i enlarge, are enclosed by the swelling of the mucous membrane of tl 1 nostrils, which they set up. 1725. The removal of these foreign bodies is not very difficult if then be not much accompanying swelling ; it is often, however, rendered easie by the softness which most of them acquire as they swell up. For the removal, curved, dressing or polypus forceps are used ; and if they canix , be got out whole, we endeavour to break them to pieces. When, in gun-shot wounds of the face, balls remain lodged in the nostrils, they i general so quickly produce violent swelling and inflammation that it is impossible to g them out. In many cases they may remain till discharged by suppuration. But if, b their presence, violent symptoms are produced, they must be removed; and if, c account of the peculiar form and size of the foreign body, the opening of the nostri offer much obstacle, it may be necessary to slit up one or other of them, and after tl removal of the foreign body, to reunite them by the application of a stitch. _ ^ The position and size of foreign bodies is often such that they cannot be seized wit- ! the forceps; in these cases Dupuytren (a) advises that they should be pushed bacM wards, so as to drop into the mouth, which is the way they generally take if left aloe for a time to escape of their own accord. . . [ A sti.f.y Cooper used to mention an instance of a ball having been received in tu frontal sinuses, which for a time remained quiet, but at last its weight caused ulceration • it descended through the nostrils, and, passing through the floor of the nose into tb mouth, caused severe bleeding from the palatine artery.—J- T- S.j II.—OF FOREIGN BODIES IN THE MOUTH. 1726. Foreign bodies which remain sticking in the inside of the cheeks- in the tongue, or in the palate, may cause severe pain, difficulty in swa lowing, and very considerable swelling of the tongue. lhey can b easily discovered by careful examination, and removed with the forceps? If allowed to remain, they are generally soon got rid of by suppuration.- [I have very recently operated on a ease in which a piece of tobacco-pipe, an ’lic[\an a half long, had been lodged in the cheek for ten months, without the patient bem aware of it. He had fallen with his pipe in hand, and wounded the outside ot ^ cheek ; much swelling ensued, and after a few weeks the wound healed, but he coni , open his mouth completely nor without pain. Twice during the following twelvemo the swelling, which still remained, became very painful, increased, and suppnra The last time he came to me, and the piece of pipe was readily discovered, run from half an inch behind the angle of the mouth horizontally back towards tne ^ of the jaw, the mouth could not be opened more than half an inch, and each 1 jaw was depressed he had great pain at the angle of the jaw. I cut upon the scar, ^ was very apparent, but had some little difficulty in detaching the end of the pip*-. ^ scar had probably sunk into its hollow; this done, however, it was easm i ■ with dressing forceps, like a dirk from its scabbard, and was evidently smeau ^ mucoid secretion from the sides of the cavity, which it had made for itseit. ^ (n) Blessures par Armes d<- guerres ; publ. par. Maux et Taillarp, vol. ii. p- ■>v ft