TUMOURS ON NERVES. 765 useless, and escharotics act injuriously. The removal consists in laying bare the swelling, and where it protrudes from the nerve, and is separable from it, in cutting it off. If tliis be not possible, or the tumour spring from the nerve itself, then the nerve must be cut through, first above, and then below the tumour, and the intermediate portion, together with the swelling, removed. Small swellings on the nerves of the skin may be taken away with the corresponding piece of skin. In large tumours of principal nerves, as in the case of the ischiatic nerve which I have mentioned, amputation is the only remedy. [I am doubtful whether the following cases mentioned by Cheselden (a) be tumours on the small branches of nerves; but the symptoms scarcely permit them to be con- sidered any other“ Immediately under the skin, upon the shin-bone, I have twice seen,” says he, “ little tumours, less than a pea, round and exceeding hard, and so painful that both cases were judged to be cancerous; they were cured by extirpating the tumour. But what was more extraordinary was a tumour of this kind under the skin of the buttock, small as a pin’s head, yet so painful that the least touch was insup- portable, and the skin for half an inch round was emaciated; this, too, I extirpated, with so much of the skin as was emaciated, and some fat. The patient, who before the operation could not endure to set his leg to the ground, nor turn on his bed without exquisite pain, grew immediately easy, walked to his bed without any complaint and was soon cured.” (p. 136.) There is in the Museum at St. Thomas’s a fine example of a tumour in the popliteal nerve of a man, which caused such severe pain and tenderness, with occasional spasm, in the limb, that amputation was performed by Astley Cooper. The tumour is about the size of a walnut, whitish and hard, and of a somewhat scirrhous character; it seemed to have formed amid the cords of the nerve, which do not appear to enter it, but are expanded over its surface. Liston (6) observes, that “these tumours (of nerves) vary in structure; they consist a cheesy or albuminous deposit in the neurilema; sometimes they are hard, fibrinous or earthy, or again, their section presents a brainlike and bloody mixture.” And he mentions a case in which the tumour, soft and bloody, was situated “ in the popliteal space, grew rapidly to the size of a cricket-ball, and impeded the motions of the limb. n pursuing the dissection, the tibial nerve was found intimately connected with the growth, the fibnlla stretched upon its sheath, and entering into its substance. The nerve r“ ^across above and below, and the whole mass extirpated unbroken and entire 1 he removal of the tumour from the ham, with at least three inches of the tibial’ fin„.e’ was no.t fo.r arj instant followed by the slightest deprivation of either sensation or fhe frn°f TJT ln theJ.™b and foot” Wllilst in tllc hospital, a tumour was found on hnt !e i 01 the same «“gh 1 an inflammatory swelling took place there and suppurated the n,?-Inp rema'ned- “Within six months after the wound in the ham had healed in thf wLretUJ?er -Wlt r an ei?ormously swollen limb, and a large elastic morbid mass The nr-)a-CkiP*art °f lt; fl'°m t lIS a bleeding fungus was protruded, and he soon died and “T S0ft ?nd bloody 5 the one from the fore part of the thigh ovoid fibrinouf tbifr * ^ \ ®gg’ mv0. ved the antenor C1'ural nerve, and was apparently character if dlseased-structure, which was reproduced in the popliteal space, had all the occasionalfunyus h&>natodes. (pp. 350, 351.) Tumours not malignant have been occasionally removed from nerves with success. fleSeTi/lhere con7.e“ient to notice the formation of Tumours on the extremities of the have jfn wbicb occasionally, though rarely, occur, and I do not recollect to “ither W f rC hr* two,or tbree sueh cases- At an indefinite period after amputation become paln^and^houir^'• beaded’ ^ beginS’ without any aPParent cause, to 1 conicaf form ’tE d gb ll had previously been well shaped, it now begins to assume s generally a i’ittu v® bo,ne sti.ck.s out covered only by the scar, which Pitched J . andtbe sk"! above u 1S extremely tender and painful, when •oneproiecte hnXf L(i? ln n0t,nng t},U.R condition> says Sometimes, Z spiculumof )f thcPlimh ttl ' iT 7’ generally taking the direction of the artery, rein, and nerves ’ound beoCfToen,mphiEated With,the b°^ deposit5 aad sometimes 1 Imve >nd connected w th i mnLiF ’ Wlt.havery sh?.r? P°lnt> takb‘g aa oblique direction, ;o,irce of great^ ufferir to ;E0CCa!J0I,]ngTm0^id changes in its fibres! and being a P-eatly enfai iod -It pabent> ,In a11 such stumps I have found the nerves generally firrnly adherent g'^mf tbem a gangliouic appearance, and picula of brae” fn ?aiV t *EUrfaCC °f the s‘umP> and frequently in union with ^ foe two cases which I have had the opportunity of ^enth EUitten™maf. Ul° HUman C°dy' 8v°' W Practical Surgery. Fourth Edition, 1846. (c) Med.-Chir. Trails., vol. xvi.