385 BODIES IN THE (ESOPHAGUS. 1735. Thin and pointed bodies, needles for example, may penetrate 2 walls of the oesophagus and gradually make their way through neighbouring parts, so that they often reappear at very distant rts. This more frequently occurs when the bodies have passed into 3 stomach, and then travel through the different organs, sometimes companied with no pain, but at other times with great pain. i 1736. When the foreign body can neither be pulled up nor thrust down o the stomach, if it produce urgent symptoms, and be not very low in ft 3 oesophagus, or if it be of such kind that its descent into the stomach i juld be productive of great danger, then it must be removed by cutting #i;o the oesophagus ( (Esophogotomia.) This operation is always one of Mi most difficult and dangerous, though under the circumstances it must ti held to be the only means of relief, and by observing certain rules, is Mich facilitated. The parts of which injury is to be feared are the ; t'otid artery, the internal jugular vein, the recurrent nerve, and the thy- b Ideal arteries. ■JJallisfx (a), as well as Benjamin Bell and Richerand, only allow cesophagotomy t den the foreign body can be felt externally, and in the contrary case will have an e ining made in the windpipe to prevent the danger of suffocation. According to AlisG (6), however, the operation may be undertaken, if nothing be felt externally, if .y the place be known where the body is situated. In these cases also the mode of ^ration laid down by Vacca Berlinghieri may be safely performed. ■ As the more serious symptoms which occur when a foreign body sticks in the pha- ! x or oesophagus, depend, on the pressure it makes upon that part of the air-tube to rgich it is opposite, I think it would be advisable to perform tracheotomy in prefer- PjP' to the difficult and dangerous operation of cutting into the oesophagus. This mode t r treatment has been successful, as in the case of the boy who attempted to swallow :e pistoles wrapped in a piece of cloth, mentioned by Habicot (c). The packet * the narrow part of the pharynx, and he was almost suffocated. Attempts to > ust it down were made; but in vain. Habicot, therefore, to relieve the most urgent I cut *nto the windpipe ; the difficulty of breathing, the swelling and blueness tbe lace ceased immediately ; and the money then thrust down with a leaden sound * 0 “e stomach, was passed by stool a few days after.] ' - ^■ccorc^no jo Verduc-Guattani, the operation is to be per- ’ med Y1 following manner. The patient having been placed in an I f n-ehair, or laid upon a table, and his head properly held by an assistant, i ut from two and a half to three inches in length must be made verti- 1 |ly through the skin and cellular tissue, upon the leftside of the air-tube l>ween the larynx and the collar-bone. Then, the assistant having drawn F the wound sunder with blunt hooks, and the blood beino- ,0r 'v*th a moist sponge, it must be endeavoured to dig under the «?e ot the thyroid gland with the handle of the scalpel, and keeping still tne one side of the air-tube, and using the blade of the knife as little I !*• *, e’. esophagus is to belaid bare, and so cut into that the rif" n° y ,may be removed with a pair of straight forceps, without m tL 'e eC£es th.e wound. If the foreign body be a little distant iv sni ?pemno> a Pair °f curved forceps must be used for its removal, well aUn fJ?!86 8 •D?US1t be immediately taken up during the operation, U through6 hyr0ldeal arteries> if they come in the way, before cutting- !"n^|hi,Lh a cut.is made through the skin, close to the middle of j ned by the division’ dlvl*10P of the cellular tissue in the triangular space : e- ami the Isonho^fi thJS,muscle ,belore ,ts insertion into the hreast- and collar- Btribed. 1 J lUC bare and cut into, is manifestly less safe than that just ! ®y*tema Chinirgim vol. ii. p 421 o Vfpm A' r,A1* , (°i Operationen, vol.ni. p.40. ^OL. ii { ' M • de 1 Acad- dc Chir., vol. xii. p. 243. Edit, in 12mo. 2 C