IN THE CESOPIIAGUS. 387 y rries up as high as the upper edge of the thyroid cartilage. lie now e , titles with long strokes the m. platysma-myoides and cellular tissue, and Kcends deeply into the cellular space between the windpipe and ceso- agus within, and the deep vessels and nerves without, which are covered the sterno-mastoid muscle, and the assistant, standing on the patient’s ;ht side, draws inwards the parts on the inside of the wound with his o gers or with a blunt hook, and the operator, with the fingers of his left i-iiimi thrust in more deeply draws outwards the parts on the outside of the i'.iund, and with the point of his finger covers the vessels and nerves. ; fete m. omo-hyoideus is then seen running obliquely outwards and down- Si .rds in the upper half of the wound, which, a director having been intro- id ced beneath, must be divided. The cesophagus now appears, and is >! ..own by its position behind the windpipe and larynx, its round fleshy V -face, its movements and hardness in the attempts to swallow. If the ! reign body form a projection, it must be immediately cut upon; but ooder contrary circumstances, the knife is to be carried boldly in the 0 ddle of the wound parallel to the axis of the cesophagus, into it, and an s gening made about half an inch long, from which immediately some icus and spittle flow out, and in which, by the contraction of the cular fibres, the mucous membrane becomes visible. A button-ended v toury is now introduced upon the forefinger, and the wound enlarged ii liciently upwards and downwards to admit the introduction of "the .-•ceps. It is better to enlarge the wound upwards rather than down- , rds, as wounding the superior is less dangerous than wounding the erior thyroideal artery. Every bleeding vessel must be immediately 1 ; :en up during the operation. J 1741. No precise rules are laid down for the removal of the foreign i ly; it must depend on the delicacy of the touch, manual dexterity | ,1 thought of the operator upon the moment, to determine how the 11 acuities may be best overcome. Curved and pretty strong polypus- . ceps, with double curves, are in general most convenient, and a ncient number of them, of various form and size, must be in readiness. (. EGIN.) lJ!LAffter thr rem0?1 °f ,the forei> bodJ> quick union should r , at according to the usual mode, with dressings; the edges of the und are to be brought close together with sticking plaster, and the head t inclined a little backwards and to the right side. For the first eight ,s the patient must be supported only with nourishing clysters and baths • ' t6n w;.th gelatinous substances in small quantities by the mouth at the p^ients tormenting thirst must be quenched with Seville orange 1 SU1g,ar’ (Par• 473>) and taken into the mouth. But according -*egin, should the wound unite neither by sticking plaster and still l„f ’ £?>“ i" ‘b* condition of the walls Jthe tte mo„ be? and 80 O".agglutination/as if, orfina^wfunds Ii Srf„rat5CSbbUt'f8'* f‘°uld be br<>“gbt together, covered JS t th a Scn?rT° , 'V1 7?!’ a,rf wa*,inS '««' compresses, • °my te*™?k T ^ ?,.the pat,e"t subjected t0 iophal some „o?S, ? ? ,,".caPablIlly to want of rest and so » "is by —