556 STONE IN THE BLADDER; alone be extracted in this way from men, and the enlargement of tin 1 urethra is best effected by increasingly thick elastic sounds. When tin urethra has been sufficiently enlarged, the patient must hold his water bend himself forwards, and as the sound is withdrawn quickly, the sinal ts stone escapes with the stream of urine, or is extracted by a peculiar pai ; of forceps (1). For enlarging the female urethra, Weiss’s dilator i: < used (2). Forceps of this kind had been formerly proposed by Sanctorius and Severing? and Hunter’s forceps had been employed for the same purpose (a). Astley Cooper’ forceps (b) are especially applicable. According to him such little stones are alway lodged in a sac of the bladder behind the enlarged prostate gland, and are ffequentl; notBdiscovered, if in sounding, the point of the instrument be not directed towards tb< rectum, or the front of the rectum pushed up by the finger introduced into it (3). [(1) Brodie, for this purpose, directs the introduction of “ a bougie, or a metalli.. sound, of such a size as the urethra will admit without inflammation being induced: I Every day, or every other day, according to circumstances, introduce one a little larger ■ and thus you may dilate the urethra gradually, until it is a good deal larger than iti! natural size. * * * When this process has been carried as far as it can be, let thi patient drink plentifully of diluting drinks. It may be worth while even to give some of the compound spirit of juniper or other diuretic, at the same time, and the calculw t will probably, some time or other, be carried by the current of urine into the dilated urethra or, “ once daily introduce a large bougie into the urethra and bladder, and there let it remain ; then let the patient drink plentifully of barley water, or toast anc water, or weak tea, so that the bladder may become loaded with urine. When the patient can bear the distension of it no longer, let him place a vessel on a chair, stand- ing, and leaning forward over it; on the bougie being withdrawn, the urine will follow in a full stream, and the calculus may probably accompany it.” (pp. 281, 82.) (2) In the female the urethra being short will easily dilate of itself, and even per- mit the passage of a stone weighing an ounce, as in a case mentioned by Astley: Cooper; and, “ unless a stone be extremely large,” he says, “ it should be removed by dilatation of the urethra, which may, by a speculum or pair of forceps, be opened sum ficiently in a few minutes for this purpose. The advantage attending this mode of extracting a stone is, that the passage again contracts, and the urine is afterwards retained. In the first case in which I performed this operation in Guy’s Hospital, having used sponge tent, the patient perfectly recovered in a very few days.” (pp. 301, 302.) This is not, however, always the case, for sometimes the urethra is long before it recovers its tone, and consequently during that period there is a tiresome inconti- Liston (c) saysThe best mode of extracting foreign bodies from the female bladder is to widen the urethra gradually by means of the screw dilator, then, by the in- duction of a straight blunt-pointed knife, to notch the neck of the bladder sligb y towards each ramus of the pubes, so as to divide the dense fibrous band encircling it; the dilatation is continued, and in a few minutes the finger can be admitted, stone then can be readily grasped by a pair of forceps ; and it is astonishing how large a body may be removed by these means.” (p. 525.) (3) The urethra forceps, commonly called Cooper’s, were the invention ot -n the instrument-maker, which Brodie considers objectionable, as “ it is difficult explore with it every part of the bladder, and in opening the blades the neck ot u bladder is always painfully dilated;” and he prefers another instrument afterwards invented by the same maker, and “ composed of two pieces of steel, one sliding longi- tudinally in a groove of the other. The extremity which enters the bladder is curvet, but not in the manner of the common catheter, the curve being more abrupt am <- curved part considerably shorter. When the forceps is to be opened the sliding pa is drawn towards the handle, and thus the blades, in being separated, are sti11 Kepi parallel to each other; they are closed by an opposite movement. ,, ’ r,„i should be laid on his back, and it is generally better that Ins pelvis should besuppo by a thick cushion, so that it may be higher than his shoulders. The first step of the operation is to introduce a silver catheter, and thus empty its contents. From fiv' ounces of tepid water are then to be injected into the bladder, so as to distend it. n ^ rately If any considerable portion of the water should escape, the injection sho (a) Leroy, above cited. (70 Medico-Cliirurg. Trans., vol. w. p. 359, pi. vi. (c) Practical Surgery. 1820.