665 AND OF THE LABIA ; OPERATIONS. size, either natural, or it may deviate more or less from its natural state, j its vessels may become varicose, and the like. Syphilitic affections not unfrequently give rise to considerable enlargement of the clitoris. I have seen an instance in which it was about two inches long; it became hard, and its natural structure was completely destroyed; and the same happens in scir- rhous degeneration of the organ, 2188. 'When the clitoris is of very great length, nothing is left but to cut it short; and if otherwise degenerated, to remove it down to the healthy part. The patient being held by assistants in a proper posture, and the labia separated, the clitoris should be taken with the fingers or forceps, drawn forwards, and the excess, or the degenerated part, cut off with a bistoury, or scissors, at one or more strokes. The bleeding, which a; if the vessels be large is very great, must, as far as possible, be stanched by tying, by cold water, by styptics, and by pressure against the arch of the pubes. If there be no bleeding, the surface of the wound must be dressed with dry lint, covered with a compress, and this fastened with aj !■* bandage. Some moistened linen should also be placed between the \t\mjmphce, and some wads of lint in the vagina, to prevent it growing ■together and narrowing. The after-treatment is conducted on the ordinary rules. The case of an idiot, cured by the removal of the clitoris, is related by a physician of iBerlin (a). 2189. The labia may, like the clitoris, either from original formation, >r as consequence of continued inflammation, syphilitic sores, and the like, ohttain such size as to cause difficulty in walking, and interruption to Ircoition ; and, by their continued irritation, excoriations, and even deep Milceration, may be produced. With enlargement of the labia the vessels ■rommonly become varicose, the labia themselves quite hard, and the a discharge of the urine may be more or less completely prevented. ii For enlargement of the labia from elephantiasis see Birrel (b) ; also Monod (c). H [Enlargement of the labia to such size as to need removal with the knife, is not, so I far as I am aware, at all common. But great increase in the bulk of the ni/rnphce, in iwhich also the prepuce of the clitoris participates, is of very frequent occurrence in fl-lromen of the town. In St Thomas’s Museum there is an instance of one ni/mpha r iemoved by Astlev Cooper, which is as big as two fists, and has a very whimsical ■ ustory attached to it. The disease merely consists of a large development of tou°h. ■ ellular tissue within the double skin; and in general is not very vascular.—J. F. S.] 2190. It is rarely possible, except when the enlargement of the labia i-Uesults from continued irritation, or venereal affection, and has not yet i ttained any considerable size, by proper treatment for the removal of y he irritating cause, or of the syphilis, to be of any use. If the enlaro-e- I nent be consequence of the congenital formation, or if accidental, but Have ong continued, and the structure of the labia be considerably wtered, their removal with the knife or scissors is the only remedy. The ii patient is to be placed in the same posture as for shortening the clitoris, *jne enlarged or degenerated labium is to be taken hold of with the rangers of the left hand, drawn a little forwards, and with a convex • oury, or with curved scissors, at one or more strokes, the de^ene- 6 or e"larged labium is to be removed. The wounded surface °must ly examined, and if any degeneration remain, it must be U lth the forceps and cut off. The bleeding is to be stanched by >'■ vii. p. j [J.J5-um' VoN 'v ai.thkr s Journal, (&) Edinburgh Medical and Surgical Journal, n n .• , . c • vo1-xxiii- P- ~ ’7- 1 W2.j. W lJullet.in (le la Societe Anatomique, Sept. 1835, p. 12.