MEDULLARY FUNGUS IN THE TESTICLE. r17 $ various authors; the Pulpy Testicle of Dr. Baillie) ; and Fungus hcematodes of Hey 11 and Wardrop, which is the Fungoid Disease of Asteey Cooper. Walshe’s views in respect to medullaryand scirrhus forming but one genus, rt; are much the same as Carswell’s, but they differ in regard to Colloid, or Jelly-like x Cancer, which Walshe holds as a distinct species, whilst Carswell considers it merely •) a variety of his scirrhoma. “ A single genus of formations represents,” says Walshe, (p “ the subdivision of Infiltrating Growthsthis genus is Cancer. It comprehends some 01 important species agreeing in essential characters, both as respects their natural simili- tude and their dissimilitude to Non-infiltrating Growths, (p. 4.) To our countryman, at the late Dr. Young, belongs in reality the merit of having been the first to unite scirrhus |j (Carcinoma scirrhosum) and encephaloid, {Carcinoma spongiosum,') as species of a genus, I L cancer or carcinoma ; but his example has been very slowly followed. English writers! with the exception of Mr. Travers, more keenly perceptive of the differences than of emthe analogies of these products, have almost to the present day continued to define cancer • - xs ulcerated scirrhus, and separate encephaloid completely therefrom, under the titles tffi&iof medullary sarcoma, fungus hcematodes, fungoid disease, &c. Nevertheless, opinion ad been silently undergoing a change among us; we had been gradually learning to ecogmse the practical truth and importance of Dr. Young’s nosological arrano-ement i when Dr. Carswell deprived us of all excuse for wavering by satisfactorily proving da te justness. But this is not all; the inquiries of Laenneg, followed by those of several , >f his contemporaries and successors, distinctly established the close alliance of another DGnorbid formation, originally described by that acute observer under the title of tissue uwv matiere colloide, to scirrhus and encephaloid.” Differences of opinion have been y;jield as to the relationship of these. “ I some few years past ventured,” says Walshe a-fi'to assign to colloid the rank of a species in juxtaposition with scirrhus and encenha- oid. t he additional experience I have since acquired, has still more fully convinced 1 line of the correctness of the views on which this arrangement was founded ” (nn 7 § \ ■ fence he divides Cancer, or Carcinoma, into the three species, ENCEPHALoirTor’soft •: -ancer; Scirrhus, or hard Cancer; and Colloid, or jelly-like Cancer (p. 10.)] 2293. So long as the swelling is small, it usually causes no incon- 'emences, but with its enlargement becomes more sensitive; sometimes a (Tiolent pain shoots through it, and in general when ulceration takes place 8 severe pain is produced. The neighbouring glands swell often to con- 4 lderable size.. Sometimes these glandular swellings occur when the (ifrigmal swelling is still small, and sometimes not, although it be very ; arge; they appear also in parts which have no immediate connexion by Means of the absorbents with the originally diseased part. The fungous ■ ructure appears only to be found in the original tumour. In mortTad- ■ anced stages of the disease, the powers are depressed by the often recur- ring bleedings, and the copious flow of ichor, and at last the patient sinks ■ m the.colhquative symptoms. The continuance of the disease is un- I! however, usually proceeds more quickly than cancer. I . y , .lh,f disease may occur in every organ of our body ; it has been Ji served in the ball of the eye, on the limbs, in the female^reast on the •rolid, on the thyroid gland, on the testicle and the ovary ; in the liver in?Jhm«S’in I’eart. inthe mL’oi" bats and ln 1 ‘‘ ^,n. *iese different seats of the disease the symptoms differ Jie de°r I™’ WhlC5 eSpecial,7 aPplies t0 the eye-ball. Oft heather eases h“ “ ““ — >0“ « 2295 land^itseT me(Iullary funV™ begins either with swelling of the thumi an oval nr ? a FI?' in C?nse(P,ence op which the testicle '>sticTnn^ • / / ro,inded form> and it is difficult to distinguish the observed iTtW^ fV°rmf,each ot.hfr- Neither irregularity nor change 1 general nrpnt l T+T -the !®stlcIe > the hardness, however, is at first general great, but the nn in un ti , , . y aiwideralil^T/’l *Hlt tIie tlddi,n§’‘ When the tumour has increased aerably, it becomes softer, and the feel of its containing fluid is ex-