411 URINE. I P The patient died five months and eleven days after the operation during which j p’ ,he urinary fistula remained. Death was caused by gradual wasting. On dis- I oi the kidney was found expanded into a cellular sac the mucous membrane of a ureter thickened, and completely closed below with coagulable lymph (/>). M779. The treatment of Ischuria ureterica, when accompanied with llent pain and inflammatory symptoms, consists only in the employment ■antiphlogistic remedies, blood-letting, soothing clysters, bathing, stoups, el the like. In the contrary condition, shaking motions, as riding, and •?>n vomiting may be successfully employed, in order to favour the } <cent of the stone in the ureter. (1780. When the urine is retained in the bladder, various symptoms {, -ur according to the degree and duration of the collection. The patient f ]s a constant urging to void his urine, but is unable to do so ; there is ; io-ht and tension at the lower part of the belly, and in the penncEum ; i wellino- rises above the pubes, elastic and at times fluctuating, ascends it entimes up to the navel, and even still higher, generally in the middle the belly, but sometimes more to one side than the other. As the *■ dder enlarges, especially from above downwards, so it thrusts down its Ij ;e,' forcing it against the perincemn, presses upon the vagina and in | n upon the rectum, where on examination with the finger introduced i] o the gut, it is felt as a compressible elastic swelling. Sometimes the t .dder is but little distended, on account of the peculiar rigidity of j coats. In fat persons the swelling is not so distinctly felt as in d n ones. u in important symptom which is rarely wanting, and which may be perceived even i /ery stout persons, is the dull sound perceived on percussion from the sword-like 0 tilage down along the white line, and from the iliac spine of one side to that of the a er, in the region of the bladder, by which, as well as by the shriller abdominal | nd in the neighbourhood of the bladder, the extent of that organ can be ascertained. 1 other important pathological sign is the fluctuation of the fluid in the bladder, ?. ich is perceived when, with one finger in the rectum or vagina, and the other hand © ced over the region of the bladder, it can be produced and felt by the alternate je ssure of one or other (Pignb.) ’ 1781. If the urine be not passed in the usual way, the distension of the 7 (dder becomes greater, and the result of the disease varies. The bladder ii .y burst by partial gangrenous destruction (1), and the urine be poured it Ih into the neighbouring cellular tissue, in which case either urinary 'mice are formed, or death ensues as the consequence of gangrenous u lammation of the bowels. The bladder may be violently inflamed, and • ; inflammation spread over the abdominal intestines. Sometimes, when « i bladder has attained its greatest distension, the ureters are also consi- rably distended up to the kidneys, which on account of the oblique itrance of those canals into the bladder, has been doubted by some (jrsons. From the decomposition of the urine, and its reaction upon the ■fide organism, severe fever arises, with speedy sinking of the powers, 'tremely quick pulse, dry tongue, coma and delirium ; the perspiration i the whole body has an urinous smell; all the excretions are altered ; en there is watery vomiting with an urinous smell, and the patient soon »• Sometimes the urachus opens, and the urine flows out through the vel (2). T) Bursting of the bladder from retention of urine either without or with gangrene >f very rare occurrence; I have never seen nor had personal knowledge of such a (6) London Medical Gazette, vol. xix. p 883. 1837.