TREATMENT 297 ?oid all exertion, constant standing, and walking; and especially lie ust properly, regulate his living. In most cases, however, the inconve- ence of the patient is only lessened, and a check given to the progress r the disease. 1538. In the more advanced state of varicocele, if it cause considerable convenience or be connected with rupture, various modes of treatment ive been proposed with a view to the radical cure, as extirpation of e varicose vessels, tying all (1), or a single bundle of the swollen lins (2), tying the spermatic artery (3), carrying through threads or ;edles, or a simultaneous surrounding of the latter with threads (4), cision of a part of the purse or its inclusion in a ring (5), the en- eathing of the skin of the purse (6), and the continuance of pressure by eans of a compressor or a pair of forceps (7). (1) According to Celsus the superficial veins were cauterized with a pointed iron, d the whole bundle of deep veins tied and extirpated. In the same way have Pare, bister, Petit, Cumano, Key, and others, proceeded with some modification, in lich they have only removed the veins, or even the testicle itself. (2) Charles Bell considered the separate tying of one or more venous strings suffi- ;nt. The veins are to be laid bare by a longitudinal cut through the skin and neral scrotal covering, one of the largest venous strings grasped with the fingers, oarated and tied with a thread. When this disease is very large, two and even three •ings must be tied; and the wound closed. The ligatures separate in a few days. Delpech (a) divides the skin by a cut of two inches long, parallel to the spermatic rd, cuts through the m. cremaster and sheath with the forceps and bistoury, raises e vein from the rest, isolates it, passes under each a piece of thick soft German ider, and then puts a single ligature on the latter. The ligature is only to be drawn i as merely to bring the walls of the vein together, and prevent the flow of blood rough it; whereupon great swelling of the varicose vein ensues. The wound is to lightly filled with lint and covered with a softening poultice. The ligature is to be noved on the third day. Delpech has noticed, after the performance of this opera- m, the restoration of the function of the testicle. Tavignot’s subcutaneous ligature in the way already mentioned, {par. 1432.) (•3) Maunoir, (6), Brown (c), Amussat (d) and Jameson (e), have tied the spermatic tery successfully, but Graefe (f) without success. According to Maunoir, the t should be made half an inch long, below the abdominal ring in the course of the rd, its sheath opened, the artery separated, a double ligature applied, and the ssel divided between them. If the varicocele exist in such degree that simultaneous '""ning of the spermatic cord and testicle expand the scrotum to a large swelling, this ceding is more difficult, and it would be better to make, close above the external dominal ring, a cut two inches long, obliquely upwards and outwards, to cut through b outer walls of the inguinal canal, to open the sheath of the exposed spermatic cord th a shallow incision, and carefully to separate the artery. In this case it must not overlooked that the spermatic artery also divides below the external ring (g). (4) According to Fricke a part of the purse should be grasped with the left hand, that one of the expanded veins may be found between the fingers, upon which with !s xunmoii needle the skin and vein are to be pierced obliquely, and a thread intro- “ced which is to be tied upon the skin. This operation, which may be repeated on e or two other veins, is easily performed and little painful. The purse should be pt horizontal and supported on a pillow. If, on the next day, redness of the skin ' d sensibility of the testicle occur, the thread is to be withdrawn. The swelling adually subsides, and the veins are converted into solid strings, free from pain. According to Kuh (A) every single vein of the plexus, on both sides of the purse, is be grasped with the fingers and perforated with a needle, each needle to be en- eathed in a proper cork, and the purse supported with compresses or a suspender. .«) Memorial lies Ilopitaux du Midi, 1830.— lrnalvoN Graefe u. Wai.tiier, vol. xvii. p. 329. . .. ..... million^ rui. Am. p, d Nouvolle Mi-diode de traiter le Sarcocole, * avoir recours a l'extirpation du testicule. etc. extirpation du testicule, etc. "eve, 1820.—Journal von Graefe und Wai.- vol. iii. p. 360. (c) New York Medical and Pliys. Journal, 1824, March. (d) La Clinique des Hopitaux, vol. iii. No. 82. Medical Recorder, 1825, April, p. 271. /) Klini8clier Jaliresbericlit, 1822. tfl) Dietrich, above cited, p. 448. (/i) Above cited, p. 52.