BY VARIOUS INSTRUMENTS. 859 scissors made by onr clever instrument-maker, G chick, which have the perfect edge of a bistoury, and with proper strength. 2605. Scissors are specially employed to a certain extent for cutting off disorganized parts, for instance, in torn or bruised wounds, to remove the loose flesh in misshapen flaps ; in gangrene, to takeaway the half-separated sloughs and the like; in very luxuriant fungous growths of flesh ; but especially for cutting off very soft or yielding parts which have no sup- porting point, as in cutting the freenum linguce, cutting off excrescences from the mouth, refreshing the edges of harelip, for cutting out a portion of the thickened vaginal tissue in operating on hydrocele by incision, and the like. 2606. Scissors are distinguished according to their form. a. Straight Scissors, of which the blades are made pyramidal and run to a point; the point of one blade being pretty sharp, and that of the other somewhat rounded, jo. Scissors curved toivards the surface of their blades, (Cooper’s i scissors,) or the blades curved at a?i angle. These are used for removing growths with necks, luxuriant granulations and the like, or when they have to act in a cavity, y. Scissors curved towards their edge in an arch or at an angle. The use of the latter (kneed scissors, or Richter’s scis- sors) have the advantage of being used with more power, and their blades are not so very much drawn back, in cutting («). . ^07. In using scissors, the thumb and ring-finger are to be passed into the rings of their handles, and that handle held with the fore and middle finger, in the ring of which is the ring-finger. In this way more power is gained than if the middle instead of the ring-finger be put in one nng. The blades of the scissors having been opened, and passed several ' times between the fingers of the left hand, the parts to be divided are made tense, and then whilst the blades are brought together, the escape | ot the part from them must be prevented. 2608. As regards the division of soft narts bn stahhinn it , (a) Percy, Memoirs aur lea Ciseaux a incision. Paris, 1784.