332 TKEATMENT OF SPASMODIC treatment, the avoidance of all heating food and drink, frequent use of , gentle purgatives, and clysters several times a-day, steam-baths of hot water decoction of chervil, infusion of elder flowers, cold hip-bath, whole or half bathing, application of leeches, narcotic injections, suppositories of opium, hyoscyamus and belladonna, a dram of acetate of lead, a dram I of extract of belladonna with six drams of fat, according to Dufuytiien s Description, opiate ointment; also, a salve, composed of equal parts of lard expressed juice of houseleek, nightshade, and sweet almonds. *1 These remedies, indeed, relieve the patient, but are nearly always inefficient for the cure and even commonly for assuaging the complaint (1). Any » attempts to enlarge the anal orifice with bougies, according to Boyek and others, increases the pain and contraction. Beclard (a) has, how- ever employed masses of lint, of gradually increased thickness, to cure the spasmodic contraction of the rectum without fissure According to Seeaporte (b) the bougie should be smeared with belladonna ointment. ^ prefers this to cutting, and does not object to touching the fissure at the same time with caustic, by which the pain is suddenly got rid of : he men- tions instances in which cutting was of no service. According to Bpshe c) all purgatives should be avoided, as they always irritate ; a lmseed cl,, er daily together with careful cleansing of the parts, is preferable. If the M disease be slight, the application of lead ointment may be sufficient, and m violent spasm, extract of belladonna at the same time. In superfioa fissures, lunar caustic should be used, and with it a dressing of lmt sprad with one part of extract of belladonna, and seven parts of ung. rosat. (2)J According to Pag en (d) the parts should be smeared with a mixture e ■ n^prate and extract of moncecia; and Bretonneau (e) recom-|j of opiui f il tanv i jiave in some instances, effected a cureat smeared with tine «**-£ t°uc r er t >y 1 agcertaine(| by0experience, that spasmodic contraction of the. T and little excrescences about the female urethra, after Ilia jam “iTmovai of wtoh the most severe symptoms of difficulty to-** ivater quicklyf-Mda I SedruU^whicflsoLn useless, if too iongdelayed till to** mentioned changes of the rectum have occurred (3). (Prsf fl one case, in which the spasmodic contraction of ^ ^ , M- i ISM D 109 (rf) Gazette Medicale, vol. vUi. P- /„) Bulletin des Sciences Med., 1825, p. l»». jA J (fc) Revue Medicale, vol. h. P- HO. ^ Tbousseau; in same. No. 36. (c) Above cited, p. 137.