490 LARGE AND SMALL OPERATIONS tapping, but at other times fatal inflammation soon comes on. Only extremely rare instances does the puncture produce a radical cure (a). Ft tunate results have indeed been published of cutting into, injecting thesa and the like, but in the greater number of cases the result has been unsu cessful (1). The same also applies to extirpation, which, however, if t radical cure be undertaken in degenerated, hypertrophied ovary, vvh the position and attachments of the swelling are well made out ($ may be considered as the operation most to be depended on, and frequent performance with success does away with Boyer’s (6) dou of the possibility of carrying it into practice. In like manner, in drop of the ovary without other degeneration, the operation of openii the wall of the belly with a small cut, drawing out the cyst wh< emptied, and carefully cutting it off, after putting a ligature around itsstei (King, West, Jeaffreson,) appears preferable to all the other metho proposed for a radical cure, and is supported by the successful cases pu lished, as well as the fact, that such tumours, often even when of gre size, contract no adhesions with the peritonceum. On the other han it has been objected that although this operation at the first glan appears safest and easiest, as only a small cut is required, and t bowels are subjected to less serious influences, these advantages may outweighed by the difficulty of drawing the large mass through a sm: wound so as to reach and tie its stem ; whilst the large cut puts the patie in no greater danger of inflammation than the small one, and k the advantage of getting at the stem with certainty, and of drawing o the tumour without danger. This objection cannot be assented to, as - dropsy of the ovary, unaccompanied with other degeneration and adhesiot the smaller cut presents indisputable advantages, and therefore the advi is good, always to make first a small cut between the navel and the pubt so as to ascertain if there be any adhesions (c) (3). (1) The puncture of an hydropic ovary through the vagina, cutting into thecae, ® the various kinds of injection, are always followed, according to Cai.lisen, with a k (2) ^Martini, in one instance, found it impossible to draw out the tumour to « 1)£lS0 Cc) ^ rr.3) As to the preference of the small over the large operation, or thf contrary, mn must depend upon the character and size of the diseased ovary, and which can . decided in the course of the operation. It would seem, however, onl} r^as01*‘ ’ r making the exploratory cut for the purpose of ascertaining whether t ic tuim from adhesions, first to attempt its removal by the small cut, and afterward it, if necessary. , , .. . The results of the published cases of both the small and large operati .j, as far as possible, collected by Phillips, Jeaffreson, and up to the (July 1846) by T. Safford Lee, who has recently received the Jacksoni P , a very able paper “ On Tumours of the Uterus and its Appendages, not ) P hut from which he has kindly furnished me with the most perfect accoun tained: which, however, is only perfect comparatively, as one of the P°^"' , believed to have operated on the greatest number of cases in this town at press- not made known the results of his experience . h;ch t It appears from Phillips’s (/) table, that of the forty-five cases in ^ large cut and the removal of the tumour entire was practised, the mini _ntents cases was only eighteen ; whilst of the twenty-five in which as much o succeede 4i,n cnn wore withdrawn as was nossible, and the small cut only used, tic cases was only rigmeen ; miusioi uic ““ , ; , the sac were withdrawn as was possible, and the small cut only used, tic ■ ^ (n) BoYFn, Traite des Maladies Chirurgicales, mandois; in Journ. de Midec., par V°W B-Sniite des Maladies China*.*., V GO Sys?ema bhimrglai, vol. ii. n. 71. - Van- Se'nei vol.i p 473 1843.-bovTHA«, ^ (/) Meu.-Cliir. Trans., vol. xxvii. p. 4i3. 1S44.