913 REPORT OF AMPUTATIONS THROUGH THE THIGH. peratioq. 1839 t continued. .Edward Moore, aged 27 (tailor), admitted June 4. Disease or Accident. Opera- tion. ■Elizabeth Harley, ■1 aged 15, admitted f May i8. |iarles Walder, d 21 (labourer), dmitted June 5. iry Hutchins, . *ed 48, admitted 4“g-1. M nes Lee, aged U (ostler), ad- ** died May 7. h Dowles, . d 50, admitted m • '• 18*0 • ird Berry, 13, ndmitted 31, 1839. Parker, 7 (labourer), ded Jan. 22, JL. II. Ulceration of cartilages, with suppuration in left knee-joint, and external I abscesses not communi- cating; after a fall two years since. 1 July 10. Fungoid tumour on upper part of calf of left leg, about the size of orange. Ulceration of cartilages of right knee, with sinuses; had had amputation Performed through the leg seven years since; two years ago fell and bruised his stump; the I knee has swollen since, 1 and abscesses formed about it, during his stay here. These have been opened, and continued discharging. Necrosis of right thigh-bone , just above the articular | surface of condyles, and communicating with si- nuses opening above the I knee-cap and on the inner coo.lyle. Ha, had disease in the knee-joint for forty yotirs; hot three year, "K° received „ blow on t ,‘L. °rVCr Urt "< ‘lie thigh from a boot. Aug. 21. Oct. 2. Remarks. June 19. Abscesses around, but not j communicating with the right knee-joint; syno- vial membrane thick- ened, soft, and jelly-like, spotted with red ; disease i began with a fall sixteen months since. Necrosis in head of right June 30. shin-bone, and partial destruction of the joint- cartilages ; at other parts the synovial membrane of the three bones adhe- rent at the corresponding surfaces. Dis- charged. Died. Sept. 10. Oct. 12. With two oblique flaps ; eleven ligatures applied. Aug. 27. Suffered great agony at operation and for an hour after, on which account forty drops of lau- danum given ; this quieted him, and the wound was left open for nine hours ; two small vessels then tied, and the edges brought together with eight pins and twisted suture ; these removed at sixty-eight hours, and the edges found generally united ; in their place adhesive straps applied. In about a montli the wound healed, and the scar began to draw in. With two flaps, oblique, upwards and inioards ; six arteries tied; the stump left open nine hours till glazed, then all remaining clots removed, and another vessel tied ; the edges of the wound bought together, and fastened with five pins and the twisted suture; these were removed at ninety-six hours, and adhesive straps applied. Some weeks after, when the wound had healed, the scar contracted and drew in, so that there was a cleft appearance of the face of the stump. With two oblique flaps; in making the front one a large abscess was penetrated, whence much pus escaped; lost much blood, and ten vessels were tied, and afterwards the sac of the abscess was dissected out; flaps left open, and another vessel taken up ; nine hours after the clot re- moved, another vessel tied, and the flaps brought together with seven pins and twisted suture; these were removed at sixty-nine hours, but not much union. On the next day his bowels were disturbed, and therefore beef tea changed for arrow root and a little meat; and in the evening had pain at pit of stomach and nausea. On the daV Pad a shivering fit. Sores formed on the buttocks, hips, sides of the chest, and shoulders about a month after, most of which healed; but early in October psoas abscess appeared in right groin,, under which he sunk. tW,1 lulPzont°l JlaP?! thirteen arteries were I Nov. 23 lied, the femoral was tied two inches above the edge of the flap, but the lower end bled after- wards, and requ,red tying, when the flaps were brought together, ten hours after, with six pins and the twisted suture; these wero removed at seventy-two hours, and adhesive straps then put on. She wont on without a bad symptom. With circular cut, and cut on each side of the I March 17 skin ; the muscles did not retract in the least • 1840 ‘ nine arteries w-ere tied, and the vein also, as It bled very freely; bleeding recurred during the afternoon, and threo more vessels were taken D,d ™-y "'“'I. and the wound healed in twenty-six days. Six weeks after had a severe attack or acute rheumatism in the right wrist and afterwards his heart was attacked; hc re^ covered after a month. n'ith two oblique flaps • twenty-one vessels were In „. taken up, and the flaps brought together at ' Dlc' once. Recovered, without any untoward symp. Oct. la. Soft anchylosis of viglrt | knee-joint and necrosis m head of shin-bone 1 communicating with » sinus. Compound fracture of left Jan. 22 fc fracture Twenty- I or Iott thigh, and severe two hours °rt,,c »ki" “ accld“‘- SvnrnlK°n ,mVin« be°n mn ov,c.r. b>’“ *tcam-cairingc whilst fallen on the nfil yesterday, at 0 p.m Jan. 10. WT/A two oblique Jlaps fnmnpfil «*»!-. :• r ~~ jiujjb ; nine nrtcrlcH nnd tim femoral vein wore tied ; nine hours after SET nnd'thennPR 'T ole?"Bod- “‘her six vessels live plaster.8 fl“p,‘ br0UBht l°8clllL'r with udho- h.™ vertical flap, . the femoral artery was aftenlnX'm!,kinK ll“> inne/flup ; nndTwn^B tho fem°ra! vein, the deep femoral, nnd two small arteries. Me did not loso two mclr!n0nf" 8 oft l1100'1 ’ bul tla' operation de- pressed him considerably ; and ho sunk rapidly March 17, Jan. 22. Three hours md u-half after