PROGNOSIS OF SCIRRHOUS BREAST. 7S6 performed ; hence sometimes hardening of the breast remains for a long ; while without any inconvenience till the time when the menstrual functior t begins to be disturbed, on which the passage into ulceration quickly takes t place. 2464. The prognosis of scirrhus of the breast rests on the general circumstances above mentioned. The only remedy is it-s removal, and the earlier this is done, the better the constitution, and if menstruation be still . * regular, the more favourable may the result be expected to be. Where the scirrhus is already in the state of concealed cancer, the nipple much drawn in, the skin less free and movable, the general health affected, ; »- menstruation irregular or entirely ceased, the result of the operation is a indeed doubly doubtful; it is, however, the only remedy to prevent certain . breaking. If the scirrhus be already ulcerated, if it be immovably con- ■ nected with all the pectoral muscles, if there be also hardening of other'll organs, no cure is indeed to be expected from the operation; it may,' « however, in so far, in such case, be considered as a palliative, as the patient is at least free from the great inconvenience attendant on the destruction ii of a scirrhous tumour by ulceration. I have not noticed quicker pro- o - gress of the disease after the operation, but on the contrary, considerable t K relief for a long while. The operation is easy when there is only a single t P movable knot to be taken away, but more difficult when the swollen arm- x ' pit-glands have to be removed, which also render the prognosis more- » unfavourable. It is self-evident that the general circumstances already mentioned, which contraindicate the operation for cancer apply here also. I It must not be overlooked in deciding upon the removal of a scirrhous breast, that in the cases where cancer has been very slowly developed and accompanied witli no great pain, that after the operation the ulceration again proceeds even quickly, and thus the operation only hastens the fatal result. Before the operation is performed, an issue should be made in the arm of the affected side, and allowed to discharge properly, and the generally irregular state of the alimentary canal should be put right. [The question as to the propriety of removing a scirrhous breast is most important j and one about which there has been great difference of opinion. Brodie states that “ the late Mr. Cline, sen., and Sir Evebard Home, both men of great experience and sound judgment, would scarcely ever consent to the removal of a scirrhous tumour of the breast under any circumstances; whereas, he has known other very experienced bur- geons who were in favour of an operation, even in the great majority of cases. Ami, not ° i i .i i .i • i• rt' _c _ • • aiw. Knt lie has "TAJ V/ TTT_.IV. X LA AU<U»I '*** 1 ~ ' v C J J ~ . I _ _ only has there been this difference of opinion between different individuals, but he has bn/rnrn ibo /->{* tlm Cnnut in/lixrwlliol fllffnr fit rllfforPllt nPTMOfls. ' ( D* * 9»>« J known the opinion of the same individual to differ at different periods.”—(p-1934 Proof sufficient this to show the importance of reviewing carefully this point o practice. _ ^ .. The general recurrence of cancer after the operation, as more especially shown oj Leroy d’Etiolle’s statistics, has been already mentioned (par. 2408 note); let us now see how it applies to cancer in the breast. « Having a vague recollection of hearing Sir Astley Cooper mention the very smai^ number of cases in which cancer of the breast did not recur after the numerous <4)er^ tions he had performed for its extirpation, I took the opportunity of inquiring of my lions lit; IlUU pci ivn 1UCVA IKfL HO V.AWI |HAIAV/11, A IWU VJAT- VjqiUl IU1I 1 AJ "'T - 1 friend Buanshy Cooper, whether he could afford me any positive information ot ^ uncle’s experience on this poiut. His reply is:—*• I cannot find anything relating to query you put to me, respecting the statistics of his (Sir Astley's) success, bu a recollection of something like your own impression, that he acknowledged not than nine or ten out of the hundred extirpations he had performed did not retur , generally within three years at farthest.” . _ ;s pcr- b Biiodie says“ In the larger proportion of cases in which the pperaUo P formed, the patient is not alive two or three years afterwards; and in a gn. rt 1 ii a «r I ft is