828 EXTIRPATION OF CANCEROUS WOMB. of the ligament, and if it be not divided with a very sharp bistoury. This part may be compressed with the finger, torn, and even a thread carried round it with a much- curved needle. The ligaments of the womb should always be cut through gradually, so that the divided parts may be kept close to the external pudic aperture. Roux has extirpated two cases of cancerous womb in this way. Both died on the second day. 2529. It is superfluous to speak particulai’ly of the difficulty of this operation, and of the dangers which may follow it. Of all the cases men- tioned in the preceding paragraphs, the whole excepting Sauter’s, Blun- dell’s and Recamier’s, had a quickly fatal result, and even in these three cases the consequences were not permanent. Sauter’s patient had a vesico-vaginal fistula, and died four months after of exhaustion and con- sumption ; Blundell’s died within the same year of cancer of the vagina, and Recamier’s patient can scarcely stand or walk, so doubtful is the permanent result. But without it, according to our present knowledge, those who suffer from cancer of the womb, are certainly doomed to a most painful death. Of the several modes of practice described, that of Reca- mier seems to be the best. Gendrin (a), after having collected all the known cases of extirpation of the womb, proposes the following mode of extirpating the womb, by which he endeavours specially to ensure stanching the blood, and lessening the painful dragging in bringing down the womb, as he considers that nearly in all the cases which have died in the first two days, death has not been caused by the inflammation, but by the depression of the powers from the pain in dragging down the womb during the operation. The patient is placed as in the operation for the stone, and a wooden gorget intro- duced into the vagina for the purpose of pressing aside any excrescences at the neck of the womb, and fixed at the highest part of the vagina on the right edge of the neck of the womb. Upon this gorget a bistoury wrapped in linen to within six lines of its tip, the extremity of which is covered with wax, or a pharyngotome is pushed to the upper part of the vagina six lines deep from below upwards, and from behind forwards, so as to pass into the broad ligament of the womb. A blunt-ended hernial knife is now car- ried into this little opening and enlarges it from above downwards m the wall ot tne vaqina to the length of eight or ten lines according to the extent of the disease. Alter removing the bistoury and gorget, the hand is passed into the vagina, and the torc- fincer into the wound; the uterine artery is found along this cut in the upper third oi the’vagina, six lines in front, at the bottom of the triangular space forming theboun- dary of the connexion between the vagina and bladder. The parts are to be separa either along the cut or further up, where it is distant at least ten lines from so as to get at the womb in the broad ligament. A ligature can then lie passed rem the womb either with a blunt, curved, aneurysmal needle, or what is easier yi n thickish leaden thread, to which a ligature is attached and held by its outer end- be not possible to get hold of the artery alone, it may be compressed with the wad the vagina by a plate of lead. The same is to be done on the left side. A button-cnoc bistoury very concave on its cutting edge is now passed into the cut on the iei- - with which the wall of the vagina is divided horizontally to the: right; the must be supported by the right forefinger, introduced half its length into L 9 j;. and the handle managed with the left hand. The front wall of the vagina ■ vided and both the side cuts connected. If the operation be performed h'gn “P’ vaaina and peritonamm may be divided together, before and behind, by two ,ral'.A cute I f the peritoneum be not at the same time divided, a pharyngotome is deeply into one of the two side cute at the back of one broad ligament through t / ^ tonlum. which after having been previously stripped off as far as P0^1^ . and ;s to be divided with the hernial knife, first behind and afterwards bifo > in doing this the whole left hand must he employed for using the knife m ’ 'i"^hich A doulfle hook or a pair of hook forceps are now fixed in the body of the i ™ E ^ must be drawn gently down, without bringing it into the v«lva. The having been passed into the vagina, is pushed into the cavity of the teiij, ^ 0f knife carried behind the right ligament of the womb, which is I,!alk hI! ded from the womb being drawn to the left by the hook, and the broad ligament di („) Observation* et Hcmarques sur VExtirpation ile EUterus; in Journal General <ie Mrdecine, p 18Z9. Oct. ,.91. ; JP*" r j